{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__tweedale___cosmic_christ.pdf","mytitle":"Cosmic Christ","mylang":"de"}
THE COSMIC CHRIST
by
VIOLET TWEEDALE
AtttiiOI' (Jf .. MELLOW SHEAVES ..
RIDER & CO., Paternoster House
Paternoster Row, London, E.C. 4
To
My beloved husband I dedicate this
book, with gratitude for the great
intellectual help his deep studies pro-
vide me with, and the strong moral
support he has given me through a
long wedded life of perfect com·
panionship.
VIOLET TWE!DAU.
17th March, 1930.
FOREWORD
THE COSMIC CHRIST
THE Archbishop of Canterbury, speaking in Canterbury Cathedral
on the evening of 22nd December, 1929, said, in his New Year
message to the nation :
" In many ways the foundations of the Christian faith are being
undermined. The public outlook is dominated by the marvellous
success and range of the material civilization which science has
built up.
" The immensity of the universe which science has opened out
before our eyes makes it hard to believe that, even if there is any
place for a personal God within it, this tiny planet, only one of
millions, can have been the scene of His Incarnation."
The Primate deals with the main object of this book, wherein
we seek to present the Cosmic Christ as a universal Being Who,
as Lord of the Solar system, is not concerned exclusively with
"this tiny planet".
We contend that there is overwhelming evidence of this, and
we produce all that can reasonably be included in a work of one
volume. We have striven to show the Christ in His Cosmic
significance, thereby removing the very natural reluctance to accept
Jesus, the Christ of the three years' ministry in Palestine, as the
Divine Son of God.
We claim, by means of historic facts, to reveal Him as the
Solar Logos, the Light of the World, Who was from the Beginning
the supreme manifestation of God, Who directs .and governs the
universe. A Being unconnected with what we term time and
space, and Who has manifested through all the great civilizations
of antiquity and in all the sacred Scriptures we possess.
Our contention is that "the immensity of the universe" and
II
FOREWORD
the Cosmic Christ are in close relation, and that "the founda-
tions of the Christian faith are being undermined" because of
the poor and stultified conception of His universality and sublimity
which is offered to the world by the churches.
By dwarfing and confining the existence of the Christ to a
short life lived only two thousand years ago, and practically
ignoring His sublime work in the evolution of humanity, our
theologians render it wellnigh impossible for modern intelligence
to accept the offering of Christology as given forth to-day.
"The immensity of the universe which science has opened
out before our eyes" is certainly a great achievement, but it is
empty and devoid of life. Without the spiritual relationship
which is its complement t~e universe remains quite meaningless.
Science is the history of man's growth up into God, and God's
descent from eternity into man's understanding. When the two
unite science will gain the revelation of heavenly things and
the intelligent usc of earthly things. Spiritual knowledge <llld
material facts must evolve separately, until science becomes great
enough to blend the two into a balanced and perfect· whole.
VIOLET TWEEDALE.
12
CONTENTS
C:.HAl'TER l'AGII
I THE COSMIC CHRIST
II COSMOS
lll INDIA AND THE CHRlSTOS 41
IV THE STAR OF THE EAST : ZOROASTER, IRANIAN PROPHET 59
V CHINA AND THE TAO 80
VI ABRAM--cREATOR-FATHER 95
VII EGYPT AND THE COSMIC CHRIST • I I 3
VIII THE AKASHIC RECORDS OR THE BOOK OF GOD • 135
IX BIBLES : THE BRITISH BIBLE 146
X THE BLESSED VIRGIN OF ALL TIME 16<}
XI THE SUFIS: THE TEACHING GIVEN BY GOD TO HIS ANGELS 186
XII GREECE : THE GODS AND MEN 199
XIII MITHRAISM AND THE MICHAEL REVELATION • 216
XIV THE MICHAEL-MASS • 235
XV PALESTINE IN A.D. I 253
XVI "Lo! I AM WITH YOU ALWAYS" • 270
13
THE COSMIC CHRIST
CHAPTER I
THE COSMIC CHRIST
THis book is written in deep earnestness and in the simplest
language that can be employed in dealing with so vast a subject.
Our aim is to unfold to our fellow men the true sublimity and
grandeur of the Being Whom we term the Cosmic Christ. The
Being Who is worshipped by many as simply Jesus of Nazareth,
a S~viour sent by God to die for our sins two thousand years ago
in Palestine.
This simple teaching has ceased to have any meaning for modern
thinkers.
To many this undoubted fact may seem extremely reprehensible,
yet it is a sign of progress, not decay. It is a revolt against the
stultified presentation of the Christ which the Church offers, a
presentation which produces only a weary lack of interest and
which is nothing short of a world-wide calamity.
Yet there exists such an immeasurable mass of knowledge that
can be given out concerning the historical passage of the Christ
throughout the ages up to the present day, that a swift interest,
quickening to a vivid reality, could be effected within a very short
space of time in the Cosmic Being Who is termed the Light of
the World.
Such an appellation has no meaning when confined to the three
years' ministry two thousand years ago.
Our endeavour is to represent this Supernal Being as a Cosmic
Deity, Whose manifestations can be traced from "The Beginning".
When that conception is accepted Christology is lifted out of the
15
THE COSMIC CHRIST
narrow confines of the Biblical student and emerges as an
enthralling and wholly satisfying history of man's evolution and
the splendid civilizations through which He has lived and learned
under divine guidance.
Narrow dogmas fall away and are replaced by an enormously
enhanced view of our past and future, and our present slow
emergence into the world of spiritual life, which is so pre-eminently
essential if we are to live in a balanced state of human existence.
The present chaos is due to our unbalanced condition and our non-
understanding of true values. Thus the spiritual life is crushed
out of our world by the weight of a dense materialism.
We give the result of many years of study, and we claim for
it that, though many must continue to hold opposite views to
those we set forth, no human being can know more than we do
of the grand general sweep of spiritual evolution.
This may sound an arrogant claim, as the sum of knowledge
on any given subject must be infinite, but there does come a
limit to human investigation, and we have found that limit
reached in the various books written by the greatest authorities
on spiritual evolution, past and present.
We have searched for new truths, new lights. We have found
none. They know no more than we do.
We have therefore no hesitation in giving expression to certain
conclusions which we believe have never been laid before the public.
Conclusions vary considerably, but what for us at this epoch
represents fundamental truth remains the same though often
veiled. The treatment of that truth is subject to variation.
Broad views, narrow views, superficial study, predetermined con-
clusions, fanatical obsession, scepticism and credulity-all are
brought into play according to the mental equipment of the
writers in dealing with the Divine Father and Son in history.
Outside the flood of literature poured over the world upon
this all-important subject we set forth to answer an urgent ques-
tion constantly presented and never logically answered.
What is that question? It is this :
"How near can I get to the truth of who or what is the
Christ?" If it is true that He is the divine Son of the Absolute,
then the presentation by the Church of so sublime a Being
J6
THE COSMIC CHRIST
seems miserably inadequate. We are given His brief life-story
of thirty-three years, from Bethlehem to Calvary: this having
taken place only two thousand years ago. We are told of His
resurrection and ascension, and that, having accomplished our
salvation, He stands now betwixt God and Christians. Is there
nothing more to tell us of One "Whose goings forth have been
from of old, from everlasting"; Who claimed for Himself 11
1 am ·
He Which was, is, and Wl1ich is to come"; Who prayed ~~Glorify
Thou Me with the glory which I had with Thee before the
world was"?
Where can we find any evidence of the everlastingness of this
Divine Being? Jesus, the Christ. "The same yesterday and
to-day, yea and for ever".
The Church celebrates Advent. The word Advent signifies
the pre-existence of the Christ, but upon the nature, the activities
of that pre-existence, the Church is silent.
The earnest student feels strongly that there is something
lacking here. He does not desire to turn aside, as multitudes
do, saying, "The Church's presc::ntation of that three years'
ministry by One Whom they announce to be the Divine Son
of God is utterly unsatisfying and stultifying. I cannot believe
that so sublime a Being, as such a title denotes, came to earth
for the first time two thousand years ago in the body of a
Jewish carpenter. If there is any truth in this story, then there
must be something more to it. Something is being withheld
which would make it more probable. What of the mighty
civilizations that flourished thousands of years B.c.? Had they
no Christ? Who taught them the marvellous knowledge they
possessed? What of the sacred Scriptures of the world, other
than the British Bible, which teach the same fundamental Christ
truths? Who inspired those scribes who wrote Bibles thousands
of years B.c.? Had they no Christ? If it be true that the
Being Who walked the earth in Palestine was the real Christ,
then it is impossible for the ordinary intelligence of to-day to
limit Him to Western Christianity. To dwarf so mighty a
subject is childish. If the Christ is a reality, then traces of
Him must exist throughout the world. Of -such traces the clergy
say nothing.,.
B
THE COSMIC CHRIST
The foregoing roughly states what multitudes are saying and
thinking to-day. Is there any way out of their difficulties?
These multitudes want an intelligent faith. They want to form
a conception of the Christ that is in keeping with the stupendous
claims made for Him. Is there anything to be learned and
taught of this Divine Being? Can we in any measure restore
to Him in the hearts of men some, at least, of that cosmic
grandeur which the Church omits?
There is a vast amount to be learned, provided the mind is
wide enough to hold it, and never was the time so ripe for an
international and cosmic outlook upon life. The moment has
come to ·sweep the mind clear of its mouldy, cobwebbed dogmas,
to cleanse the windows of the Soul and admit the broad beams
of spiritual truth which will revolutionize the life and show the
Cosmic Christ to be what He is-a supernal glory filling the
universe. The Cross with the dead Saviour must give place to
the living immanence of the Light of the World.
In order to find Him He must be searched for with "the
whole heart" in every faith, in all history. The folly, so childish,
of supposing that one book and one church can contain the
Son of God must go, with much else that is cramping the
spiritual life and dwarfing its Divine Inspirer.
"In the day that ye seek Me with your whole heart ye shall
find Me," is God's message to the world.
" Your whole heart."
If that heart be not big enough to admit a universal in place
of an exclusive Christ the search will be in vain. The Light of
the World is for every soul, for all nations, all peoples.
When found, He will disclose Himself as the mighty Cosmic
Lord Who came forth from the spiritual sun of the universe,
Who has guided humanity from the beginning onwards. The
seeker will find Him to be Alpha and Omega Which is and
Which was and Which is to come.
" I am the first and the last and the living One. I was dead
and, behold! I am alive for ever more."
In the following chapters we will set forth a little of what
can be gleaned from history, tradition, the great sacred books
of other peoples and that spiritual lore which has passed orally
18
THE COSMIC CHRIST
through countless ·ages. We may sometimes use the statements
of science, but only to translate them into what is conceived to
be their spiritual meaning and significance.
The real forces of history are not material but psychological.
The meaning of events is of consequence. The material facts,
as such, are· of little importance.
Lord Haldane wrote :
" The way to the truth lies in idealism. The finite and the
infinite appear in the end to be no longer independent existences.
The higher comes out as the most real, and it is always the more
spiritual that appears as the highest. The belief that the more
experience is spiritual the more it is real has influenced me
through the course of life during more than fifty years."
That has also been the experience of others, and with the words
of so great and profound a thinker to fortify us we need not
attempt to curb our idealism, nor shall we fear to spiritualize
materialistic conceptions when it is necessary to pit one against
the other.
One cannot explain the spiritual in terms of matter, and the
outside world is intelligible only in terms of consciousness which
is not matter, though it works through matter.
Of the cosmic life of the Christ science takes no note, though
historians are forced to record the evidence of His teaching in
the great civilizations B.c. and the sacred literature of all lands.
Science does not yet concern itself with the spirit. The pre-
existence of physical life interests it, but not the life urge which
sustains the continuity of living organisms. A few scientists
still called eminent are convinced that the grave is our end, but
it is only fair to state that the younger men, who are more
mod~rn and alive, are strongly inclined to recognize a Creator,
sustainer and law-giver, though, owing to undeveloped spiritual
life in themselves, they are chary of expressing actual reliance
upon Deity.
Some of us may resent this attitude, but the better way is
to use in our own studies the findings of science and illuminate
its dry bones with our own light. Those of us who have sought
the light know that it can be found.
We repudiate any desire to attack the churches, as we believe
19
THE COSMIC CHRIST
them to be of great comfort to many and a national necessity of
the present. At the same time we are compelled in our studies
to do more than regret many of their shortcomings.
With the Catholic Church we hold but one bond of accord:
its reverence for Mary, Mother of Jesus, the Christ. Conse-
quently we believe this lack of reverence to be a serious de-merit
in the national Church. We do not subscribe to the Catholic
worship of Mary, believing, as we do, that our worship is due
solely to the Father and the Son.
We claim for ourselves liberty of belief and we do not seek
to curtail that of others.
We lay little stress upon organized religions, believing that
the time for them is passing. No truthful observer can deny
that all churches collectively are in slow decay and that Church
attendance declines yearly. This state we attribute to the grow-
ing power of the Christ Spirit in the hearts of men where the
true spirit of guidance is to be found.
Average Christians who are immersed in breadwinning and
the cares of a family accept unquestioningly the narrow view
of Christ, and undoubtedly the narrow view is all that multitudes
of the mentally undeveloped can digest.
They think of Jesus as heralded by the Old Testament Prophets.
They look at the Nativity in Bethlehem as an exclusive gift to
usher in Christianity: an exclusive code of ethics preached by
Jesus which later was embodied in the Church. Why God
required the death of His Son to save us from our sins is to
them "what no man can understand". They leave it at that,
and at their stage they are right. We have never heard any
satisfactory explanation given out from any pulpit. Each soul
must work out the problem individually. It can be done.
The earnest seeker very soon discovers· a curious change that
seems to have come about only in the last twenty years. Doubts
as to the existence of God and the divinity of Christ are largely
confined to orthodox churchgoers and many of the clergy. Dean
Inge is reported to have said :
"Modern astronomy has destroyed the hope of a place called
Heaven. With it must go the physical resurrection of Jesus."
Being unorthodox, we believe that astronomy has added gloriously
20
THE COSMIC CHRIST
to the power of God and our conception of the Kingdom of
Heaven. Believing Christ to be divine, we see no difficulty over
the resurrection. If, as is proved overwhelmingly, ordinary men
and women can return after death, show themselves and com-
municate with their friends, how simple it must have been for
the Christ to do likewise and assume any body He pleased.
Where lies the crux of this matter? One accepts or rejects
according to faith and the belief, Divine or human. The Kingdom
of Heaven we believe to lie beyond the reach of astronomers.
Christ says it "lies within".
The unorthodox, spurred on by their own apostasy and
unhampered by worn out dogmas, have satisfied themselves once
for all, and the two parties, orthodox and unorthodox, have
actually changed sides, though the latter retain freedom of
thought. They feel that the Omniscient God understands how
greatly one soul differs from another. The mental world of
each individual necessarily differs in many respects from that
of every other individual.
After a long lifetime of patient study of the world's sacred
Scriptures and the profound works of learned humanity we have
come to the conclusion that the divine attribute for which we
have most to be thankful is the Omniscience of the Absolute :
the universal conscience of the one and only God "in Whom we
live and move and have our being".
When all is said and done, if we can but hourly live in that
belief, what need have we for any other teaching? We will be
on the Way, in the Truth, and living the Life.
The unorthodox have delved very deeply in search of hidden
treasure which they believed to exist, and have discovered it to
be the Christ within, the divine Spirit of guidance of the one
God Who is Spirit. It is in the light of this guidance that the
unorthodox strive to live, and for that reason "the Practice of
the Presence" is the one vitally important religious office in life.
Thus study, devotion and a keen desire to unveil the mystery
of Jesus the Christ result in the discovery of a mighty Cosmic
Being Who has always been at work in the WQrld amongst all
peoples. We see in the incomplete picture of Jesus of Nazareth
the last and greatest manifestation of the Cosmic Christ, but,
21
•
THE COSMIC CHRIST
nevertheless, scarce a breath in the life of One to Whom time
is non-existent, Who always has been, and ever is, "I am", and
Who can be found in no one book but must be spiritually
apprehended.
There are many who believe Christ to be a mythical Being,
but scepticism brings to the surface many strange paradoxes.
One belief is rejected and at once another is called for, to replace
it. The human mind, when used, abhors a vacuum.
Those who reject the three years' ministry of the Christ
in Palestine two thousand years ago discover that something is
required to replace Him. or else how can one account for the
growth and steady persistence of Christianity up to the present day?
How can it be accounted for? Why has it not died out long
since? Agnostics tell us it has not a leg to stand on. Then
what upholds it? Strange mystery! Wipe out that short
ministry, not a word of which Christ Himself recorded.
Appa~ently He did not even keep a diary. Remember the
omissions of countless things we want to know : the contradic-
tions in the script and the uncertainty as to who the scribes
were who, sixty or seventy years after the tragedy of the Cross,
bethought themselves to make a record. The ruthless raking
out of what is termed Higher Criticism and the sheer lack of
what we to-day call reliable evidence. What remains?
A steady, unshaken continuity, for which millions have lived
and died, standing on the impregnable Rock of Ages against
every and any attack.
If any man asks to see a miracle in being, here is one. A
vast and growing spiritual impulse with all the world in opposition
to it, with the practice of the teaching absent from amongst us,
with the Sermon on the Mount untried, surely such undeniable
truisms make it only stranger that the Ideal of the Christ known
to us by hearsay, or by spiritual revelation which so few are able
to receive, was actually fought for in Parliament and at the first
rejection of the Prayer Book brought the packed "House" to tears.
What, save a threat to their Ideal of the living Christ, could
cause this strange stirring of the stagnant pool of the collective
spirit? Certainly not the Deposited Prayer Book in itself, com-
piled by man and used in the disused churches. Not over the
22
THE COSMIC CHRIST
book, but over the threatened Ideal for which it stood, was the
battle set.
Surely it is strange that this untried Christianity, this Christ
of Whom men know so little, should be the living spirit of
guidance in the lives of multitudes who never enter a church
or speak of religion.
· Such are seekers who have found, who have knocked and seen
the door open, who have proved to themselves beyond a shadow
of doubt that the Cosmic Christ lives and is alive for evermore.
This is "the kingdom that cometh without observation". This
silent, spreading influence of spirituality that is too vast, too
dynamic, to be contained in any one religion or book.
So it seems that one may scorn and neglect the life of the
Spirit, but, like the theory of ether to the scientist, it is a necessity,
unless one moves automatically through life, simply animated by
"The Breath" and learning nothing more than do the cattle in
the pastures. This tired, jaded world calls out for the Spirit
to help it to understand the dark maze of current events.
The word "Christos" represents the collective aggregation of
the many messengers who have been sent to earth to guide and
instruct infant humanity.
So far as the remotest whisper of history makes itself heard
there has ever been a bearer of that divine torch in the world.
We ·send missioners to convert the heathen. What is needed
is not conversion, but an unveiling of the One God Who lies
buried under ages of priestly ritual heaped upon Him.
The author of "Christ of the Indian Road" is unveiling the
universal Christ in the land of his adoption.
There is abundant evidence to show that always the One Being
has overshadowed or ensouled the mighty Initiates of the past
and has sent them to teach "The Word" which was from the
beginning, though expressed under many different aspects and
through many different forms.
There has never been any division of the Godhead, though
manifestations there have been in plurality. In the Godhead there
is one-ness for evermore. Plurality of manifestation was given
to suit the needs of the world.
The Initiate teachers who were sent to us established great
23
THE COSMIC CHRIST
doctrines that have swayed vast numbers of humanity for
thousands of years up to the present day. They wait to be
drawn into the fold of the Cosmic Christ, where they rightly
belong: the fold He had in mind when He spoke of His "other
sheep".
St. Paul, in I Corinthians, x, says: "Moreover, brethren, I
would not that ye should be ignorant how that all our fathers
were under the cloud and all passed through the sea and were
all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea. And did
all eat the same spiritual meat and did all drink the same spiritual
drink, for they drank of that spiritual Rock that followed them,
and that Rock was Christ."
Here Paul emphasizes the fact that the spiritual teachings and
sacraments have always been the same, given forth from the
beginning by the Rock of Ages.
In Proverbs we read how the great Initiate Solomon is instructed
of the Lord. In Chapter VIII he repeats the teaching. From
verse twenty-two onwards there is a perfectly clear account of
the everlastingness of the Cosmic Christ and His one-ness with
His Lord and Father.
" The Lord possessed me in the beginning of His way before
His works of old."
In Solomon's time the works of the Lord were already very
old, before the creation of man, here described as "The highest
part of the dust of the world".
The chapter is as wonderful as any in the Bible. Studied
carefully in conjunction with the New Testament teachings the
natural similarity becomes apparent. The Christ of the Cosmos
taught the Word and was faithful to it.
St. Paul, in I Colossians (twentieth century Bible), says:
" Christ is the very incarnation of the invisible God. First-
born and head of all creation. For in Him was created all that
is in heaven and on earth, the visible and invisible-angels and arch-
angels and all the powers of heaven. All has been created
through Him and for Him. He was before all things, and all
things unite in Him."
As St. Peter told the men of Israel :
" The very guide of life you have put to death."
24
CHAPTER II
COSMOS
" In the Beginning God created the heavens and the earth."
SIR }AMEs }EANS, our greatest astronomer, sees no reason against
supposing that the whole universe may have been created or
come into being at the same instant. All astronomers agree
that this earth was originally a part of the sun. Modern science
also accepts the occult teaching that our solar system was originally
evolved from the Saturnian nebula. Kronos, the God of time,
or Saturn, is our oldest god: the one with whom time began.
Throughout the whole universe we find the law of reincarna-
tion in operation. Ancient worlds are sunken in slumber (Pralaya)
to awaken again in new and improved form after a vast period
of time. Before becoming the Earth we know this globe had
passed through three incarnations.
In occult cosmogony we call the first of those incarnations
Saturn.
"And the earth was without
was upon the face of the deep.
upon the face of the waters."
form, and void and darkness
And the Spirit of God moved
This Saturnian nebula, the first beginning of our planetary
system, was in darkness and without form, but the great Creators
belonging to the supreme Hierarchy, named in the Bible the
Elohim, were already at work upon it.
We may think of those lofty Beings as God in action. In the
singular as divine universal principle. In the plural as divine
power in action through the Elohim Hosts.
It was the Elohim who gave of their essence to the primeval
Saturn and inspired it with warmth. Thus the first beginning
of humanity was evolved in darkness and heat. The heat that
THE COSMIC CHRIST
now pulses in our blood was given to the rudimentary forms of
humanity on ancient Saturn.
" And God divided the light from the darkness."
The dark night of Saturn came to a close when the Spirit of
God moved over the face of the waters and a star of light, a· fiery
globe, was born and the solar period began.
During seven periods (days) of vast duration the plans of the
Absolute were carried out by His supernal Hierarchy of angelic
builders working under the lordship of the Light of the World.
The occult records take us back to a primeval past called "in
the Beginning". This appears to have been a period of time
during which our earth was being slowly prepared for its destined
scheme of evolution. Matter was slowly built up in the way
in which the Divine Architect ordained, and we are witnessing
to--day, after millions of years, the evolution of spiritual chemistry
and physics, for even in the minutest particle of the world the
substance is permeated with the Christ Spirit. Science is now
constantly held up by fear of crossing the border from the exoteric
to the dreaded esoteric. " Let us keep our feet on solid earth,,.
has always been its cry, but it is even now passing through the
borderland of the seen to the unseen.
We, on the contrary, look upon the march of events and
humanity in such a way that what takes place in the physical
world must be looked upon as effects and manifestations,
the true causes of which are to be sought in the spiritual
world.
As an example-why is our world becoming more and more
a race of sun-worshippers? Everyone who can afford to do so
now chases the sun. We get vita glass fixed in our windows.
We take sun baths and have sun rays administered. Sun traps
and sun parlours are common. House agents specialize in sun,
for everyone wants it. Holiday-makers in the past did not go
about half-naked in order to get tanned, nor did they sit in the
sun till the skin blistered, as thousands do to-day. Ridiculous as
this may appear, it has a deep significance. This craving for the
sun we attribute to the growing power and nearness of the Solar
Logos, Who is drawing all men unto Himself and in Whom we
will eventually become absorbed. We came forth from the sun,
26
COSMOS
and the time will come when, in spiritual bodies, we will return
to the sun, after this globe has served its purpose.
Meanwhile the great Spirit of the sun, our life-giver, is drawing
humanity nearer and nearer to Himself : now in objective mani-
festation; later to dawn upon us in spiritual realization.
In our prehistoric past we, or rather our globe, formed a part
of the sun. Here we are in agreement with the findings of
modern astronomy. Earth and sun originally formed one body.
Man at that period lived under entirely different conditions
from those we know of now. His organism, an etheric embryo,
was fitted for the world he then inhabited. Needless to say, he
possessed no physical body or physical senses. He might be
termed little more at that sun period than the seed scattered by
his Creator; ·seed tended and nourished by heavenly beings termed
the Spirits of Wisdom.
Another stage followed in which the earth was being prepared
for its severance from the sun. Its destiny was decreed. A man-
bearing star poised alone in the heavens.
Then came the time .when the sun and earth actually separated.
This earth of ours was known of old as the ancient moon, and
for long ages it was in a fluid and vapoury condition. Slowly
it solidified, and what is above spoken of as the ancient moon
broke away from it; earth, sun and moon existed as three separate
globes in the heavens.
During these earliest beginnings sex did not exist. Fertilization
took place from without and was showered upon our earth by
the great Sun Beings, the manifested Sons of God.
During those first ages the Cosmic Christ and His Angels
worked upon the fashioning of our globe, as we hope to prove
later on. Not once only has He descended to earth, but from
the earliest beginnings of these primitive times His guidance has
been manifested.
Later still, before what is termed the Lemurian epoch, He
withdrew with His mighty servants and returned to His kingdom,
the Sun.
Henceforth and up to the time of the Palestine incarnation
man's progress was effected through the messengers of God :
Spiritual Beings who had arrived at an advanced stage of evolu-
27
THE COSMIC CHRIST
tion in former worlds and who incarnated in our world and
became Christ ensouled.
The foregoing and what follows we term esoteric teaching. There
is nothing new in it. No other teaching is so ancient, but it has
been guarded knowledge, not offered to the materialist, but freely
given to the ·students of heavenly lore who have thrown themselves
open to the forthflowing of the Inner Light.
Institutional Christianity could not be expected to accept our
statement that the Cosmic Christ is the great solar Deity. It
would say "God sent Christ to us two thousand years ago straight
from heaven."
We hbld that God is everywhere, not excluding the sun, which
He has appointed to be our life-giver. To those of us who believe
the Cosmic Christ to be the ruler of this globe, the sun, owing
to its functions, would be the natural sphere from which the
Christ would broadcast upon our earth His spiritual forces. It
must always be remembered that the sun we see is but the
objective manifestation of the great Spiritual Sun behind it.
Again, the angelic world, though freely spoken of in the Bible
and Prayer Book, is not a subject which seems greatly to interest
the Church, and science ignores its existence; therefore no cor-
roboration of our statements can be expected from either quarter.
The future of the Church may, however, be changed by the entry
of the new Archbishop and Dean of Canterbury, both of whom
we know to be intolerant of the heavy dead hand of dogma
and materialism. We know that one has said, '' The Christ
attracts, the Church repels," and the other has written, " The
impatience of a parson." Both men have the vision without
which "the people perish". Although it may appear as if the
Spirit world was now a thing of the past, it is really still with us,
working and making fruitful, and, if we choose, we can find it
at work tending the seed for all future time, the seed which
we know as "the Spirit of the Lord filling the whole
earth".
We will pass on to a later period, to what is called the Lemurian
epoch. Lemuria was destroyed through volcanic fire and seismic
convulsions. It lay south of the present Asia, and east of what
is now termed Africa, and north of Australia.
28
COSMOS
Humanity then had little resemblance to its present form.
The earth was still a half-watery structure. Though shone on
by the sun, the earth men could not see the heavens, as the sense
organs were not developed. The fertilizing forces, pouring upon
earth from the spiritual sun beings, acted upon the sexless human
powers from without.
It was during this third stage that the Divine Ego first entered
into man, and at this stage sexual reproduction began and those
great beings who had governed the still undivided forces of earth
withdrew once more to the sun. The great moon forces went
forth with the separated moon, and this globe hung alone in the
heavens, leaving primitive man influenced, as he still is, by the
spiritual forces of sun and moon.
To some it may seem strange that the great ones who guided
infant humanity in Lemuria, and later on in Atlantis, should
have destroyed their own work, but it must be remembered that
the lives were not destroyed. Only the very imperfect forms
containing the lives were swept away as being failures. Tradi-
tion tells us only a few of the most advanced entities were
preserved and passed on to Atlantis.
Clairvoyantly, or in the spirit, Jeremiah (iv) records:
"I beheld the earth and, lo, it was without form and void,
and the heavens and they had no light. I beheld the mountains
and, lo, they trembled and all the hills moved slightly. I beheld
and, lo, there was no man and all the birds of the heavens were
fled." This vision may possibly refer to the great catastrophe
of Lemuria.
The great Atlantean period followed and was succeeded by the
post-Atlantean epoch in which we are still living. Atlantis ended
through flood and submergence, but, as was the case in Lemuria,
a few of its more advanced inhabitants were saved, and, led by
divine leaders termed Manus, they spread abroad over the earth,
through Africa, Asia and Europe.
During these primeval ages men lived in close touch with
heaven-sent beings, who dwelt with them as guides and instructors.
They were the first sent Initiates, and their true home was Venus
and Mercury. Both these planets being spiritually in advance of
us. Bees and wheat were sent to us from Venus, and other
29
THE COSMIC CHRIST
stable means of physical sustenance which are still in use
amongst us.
It would be well here to divest ourselves of the childish belief
that because our stars and planets are unfitted to be physical man·
bearers they are consequently uninhabited. When we part -from
our physical bodies at death those of us who believe in immortality
hope to continue our lives in rarified bodies suited to more spiritual
surroundings. We are accustomed to note that nothing in our
ken is wasted by Nature, therefore it is probable that the Creator
peoples His worlds with beings suited to the various conditions
of existence under which they have to live. There are men
alive to·day amongst us whose intellectual and instructional capacity
is so unusual that their origin is impossible to account for. When
their heredity and educational past is inquired into there is
nothing even remotely hinting at a great inherited past. We
do not think deeply upon such questions as whence come and
whither bound, but we read their books and listen to their lectures
and say "how marvellous they are".
They are no more marvellous to.day than they were in days
of old. We still require beings with super brains to push us
along and instruct us. When we leave school our real education
begins, at least for those of us who "fall upon'' every scrap the
super brains throw to us. No wonder that it is said "the
.scientists are the happiest men on earth". Sir Francis
Younghusband, ·scientist and explorer, in his "Life in the Stars",
develops the theory of stellar influence upon our earth in a
profoundly interesting and convincing manner.
The instructors of old taught the science of metallurgy, how
to smelt and mould metals; also the use of fire for other pur-
poses. In our present and so-called advanced civilization is
there any known or imagined human being who could, without
instruction, have produced iron and steel from certain earths dug
out of the ground? Is there any genius in our time great enough
to have discovered, unaided, the workings of the Solar system
or devised the Egyptian calendar in use to.day? A dozen names
of nineteenth and twentieth century discoverers may leap up in
our minds without the question being answered. From whom
did they derive their inspiration? Why did we not think of
30
COSMOS
these discoveries ourselves? Why must we always wait for a
genius to come along? Talent copies but the genius creates,
and is derived straight from the Creator. It is quite conceivable
that the Great Ones Who watch over us decided when we were
ready to use, let us say "steam", so they sent those into incarna-
tion whom we at the time called The Marquis of Worcester,
Sir Samuel Morland, and Watt, to instruct us, all three having
been previously instructed in earlier worlds.
The art of spinning was taught to us in Atlantean days by
those who had reached a high grade of knowledge in a previous
evolution, and later followed a primitive form of worship, the
knowledge of a Supreme Being Whose symbol was represented
in the sun-the Cosmic Christ.
These different stages in our evolution were all carried out
by lofty spiritual entities working· under the guidance of that
same Sublime Being Who, throughout the universe, exists as
vitally to-day as He always has existed, and always will exist.
Both creation and wisdom, the cause of all things, were established
from everlasting in the Divine Mind which conceived all that
·followed.
The great Initiate, Solomon, took reincarnation for granted,
and being one who was so constantly in touch with his divine
instructor it is logical to suppose that his beliefs had a sure founda·
tion. In the "Book of Wisdom" he tells us :
" I was a witty child and had a good spirit. Yea, rather,
being good, I came into a body undefiled."
Again he tells us :
" I called upon God, and the Spirit of wisdom came to me.
I preferred her before sceptres and thrones, and esteemed riches
nothing in comparison of her."
The soul is always feminine in sacred and occult literature.
Eve, Isis, Mary, are constantly spoken of as "Wisdom, the world's
soul. Intuition, the female Principle of Life."
" I loved her above health and beauty, and chose to have
her instead of light, for the light that cometh from her never
goeth out."
Solomon goes on to detail some of the marvels communicated
to him:
31
THE COSMIC CHRIST
·'To know how the world was made and the operation of the
elements : the beginning, ending and midst of the times : the
alterations of the turning of the sun, and the change of seasons :
the circuit of years and the position of stars: the natures of living
creatures and the furies of wild beasts: the violence of winds
and the reasonings of men: the diversities of plants and the virtue
of roots, and all such things that are secret or manifest, them I
know."
It was through such Divine teachers that the men of old learned
the secrets of the universe and passed them on orally to their
worthy successors. The knowledge has never been lost. Now
that the Christ is more vitally with us than ever before, there is
a slow filtering through of spiritual science undreamed of by
our forefathers, and this same "Spirit of Wisdom" is available
for those who ask for it with holy purpose.
Solomon in wonderful language tells us what the attributes
of "The Spirit of Wisdom" are:
" For in her is an understanding spirit : holy, one only, mani-
fold, subtle, lively, clear, undefiled, plain, not subject to hurt,
loving the thing that is good, quick, ready to do good, kind to
man, steadfast, sure, free from care, having all power, over-
seeing all things, and going through all understanding pure and
most subtle spirits....
" She is the breath of the power of God, and a pure influence
flowing from the glory of the Almighty; therefore can no defiled
thing fall unto her. For she is the brightriess of the everlasting
light, the unspotted mirror of the power of God and the image
of His goodness.
" And being but one she can do all things, and remaining
in herself she maketh all things new, and in all ages entering
into holy souls she makcth them friends of God and prophets.
"For God loveth none but him that dwelleth with Wisdom.
For she is more beautiful than the sun, and above all the order
of stars; being compared with the light she is found before it."
The mystery of who Solomon was is only known to the few
outside the Sufi schools, the Jesuits, and the inner schools of
esotericism, but with the mystery of the Blessed Virgin it is
gradually being unveiled to true seekers, though it cannot be
3~
COSMOS
divulged here. Incredulity is a hindrance to spiritual progress,
and where no foundation exists only incredulity could result-fronl'
giving strong meat to spiritual babies.
A study of Solomon's Proverbs, viii, is very enlightening:
"The Lord possessed me in the beginning of His way, before
His works of old. I was set up from everlasting from the begin-
ning or ever the earth was.,
These words show that the Beginning period was an established
fact before the work of Creation began.
"When there were not fountains abounding with water:
before the mountains were settled: before the hills, was I brought
forth. Whilst as yet He had not made the earth : whilst He
prepared the heavens, I was there. When He set a compass upon
the face of dte depths : when He appointed the foundations of
the earth, then I was by Him."
Rudolph Steiner says: "It is not only a learned error but a
farce when some book on history is considered as even approach-
ing the value of the Old Testament, for the Old Testament
portrays in mighty pictures the descent of man from divine
heights and at the same time historical experiences are connected
with these cosmic events. All this is contained in Old Testament
history, and above all it corresponds exactly with the events in
evolution."
Let us try to make somewhat clearer the position in the universe
of the Second Person in the Trinity-the Son.
Firstly, let us think of Him as the totality of the Solar system,
and the Sun of the seven sacred planets: Jupiter, Venus, Mars,
Mercury, Saturn, Moon, and Sun.
He expresses the life of God, and His immediate servitors are
the Seven Spirits before the Throne-by some schools called
the seven heavenly men.
The body of expression of each of the Seven Spirits is one of
the sacred Planets.
We must try to think of the relationship of the Son of the
Father to the Sun, as similar to man's relationship to the body
through which He functions. He animates the entire solar
system, and eventually the spiritual light will be seen and felt
beyond His immediate sphere of influence.
33
THE COSMIC CHRIST
The sun, the objective body of His manifestation that we study
as a blazing mass of incandescent fire in the sky, is no more
than the outward symbol of the three great cosmic centres,
The central spiritual Sun,
The Heart of the Sun,
The physical Sun.
The sun is heart-shaped,1 and the words "the Heart of the Sun"
must be conceived as meaning more than a point situated in
the interior recesses of the solar body. It has a deeply occult
connection with the nature of the solar sphere. The Sun holds
a position analogous to the nucleus of life at the centre of the
Atom. Science now tells us that the Atom is the universe in
miniature. Occultists have long taught this; also that the human
heart corresponds with the sun. In catholic symbolism the Sacred
Heart illustrates beautifully this mystery of the Trinity in Unity
seated in the physical body.
For those students who have had the patience to wade thus
far through this book we will develop the above statements and
try to elucidate them. There is an enormous amount of informa-
tion now available, but it is not desirable to complicate what is
at its simplest an abstruse subject.
Man is the creation of the thought of the Absolute. He is
material, spiritual, male, and female. He is thus an individualized
Son of God; a minute replica on the lowest plane of being of
the Creator; the Son, appointed by the Father to breathe into
man the breath of life. ·
The Cosmic Christ is Himself evolving into an even greater
cosmic Entity through the sun and the seven sacred planets. The
creative Thought of God is always in action in the tens of millions
of suns and constellations revealed to us by the unaided eye and
the telescope, and their incalculable millions of sentient existences
who are all moving onwards to some unfathomable future not
to be visioned until the human consciousness has expanded to
an unimagined extent. It is only a rough outline of the history
of the heavens that can be disclosed to the inner vision of the
student.
1 A1ic:c Bailey in "Cosmic Fire", 1182, and Esoteric Schools
34
COSMOS
The Cosmic Christ or Solar Logos is the sum total of all evolu-
tions, of which there are several, within the entire solar system.
He manifests through Light:
" I am the Light of the World."
He manifests through Heat :
" I am come that ye might have more abundant Life."
The Body of the Cosmic Christ must be thought of as radiant
electric fire :
" Our God is a consuming fire."
The sun is the kernel and matris of all in the solar system, and
from its sphere of influence manifestations are poured down
upon us.
The Chri-st Body consists of vibrations thrilled through with
Deity, absolute intelligence, universal consciousness, and the con-
crete manifestation of universal energy.
It is this universal consciousness that brings so near to us the
Christ, "nearer than hands or feet". It is this all knowing attribute
that "numbers the hairs of our heads and the grains of sand
on the shore". Myriads of people never think of Hitn, yet no
one could exist a second without Him. Verily "in Him we live
and move and have our being". Those who reject Him are the
children of the shadows.
The Pleiades are the centre around which our solar system
revolves, and the tiny little Electra in the heart of the "Seven
Sisters" has a very special relation to this earth. Alcyone, a name
coming to us from prehistoric ages, is the foundation and real
c.entre of the astral system of which our sun forms a part. Modern
astronomy indicates that "the sweet influence of the Pleiades" is
the centre of the revolving systems of the universe.
"From God, the Originator, the Creator; from God, the
Former, the Fashioner, the Sustainer of the Cosmos; from God,
the Head, the Source, the centre of all things, proceed to the
circumference of the immense circle of the universe the powers
divine, that bring forth from the chaotic swirl of the spiral
nebulz, the order, the arrangement, the form and beauty, the
organization, and the life in its manifold unveilings of the
Cosmos."1
1 Our Race Quarterly.
35
THE COSMIC CHRIST
The whole cosmos is contro1led, guided and animated by an
endless series of Hierarchies of sentient Beings, each having a
certain mission to perform. Though in the church service we
join with "Angels, Archangels, and all the company of heaven"
in praise of the one glorious Name, we do not think often of
the Angelic Host in our daily lives. Many are sceptical as to
Guardian Angels and the powers of our solar Angels, yet they
are sent to us as Guides, companions, and Friends.
The time must come when our idea of the Cosmic Christ will
be incomparably greater than anything we at· present imagine,
and a recognition of the Spiritual and Angelic guidance of
humanity will enable us to come to the truths lying behind sense
appearances. As Rudolph Steiner says :
"When St. Paul became clairvoyant before Damascus he could
recognize that That which had formerly been in the Cosmos has
passed over into the Spirit of the earth."
There are only four Archangels mentioned in the New Testa-
ment: Raphael, Gabriel, Uriel, and Michael. Older religions
mention seven : the seven immortal Prest"rvers of the universe
who form the members of the divine company of heaven, personi-
fications of God. In the early races to add a new god to the
divine Pleroma was, to the wise, but to enlarge the conception
of the supreme qualities of the Eternal.
The seven planetary Spirits rule over the seven sacred Planets.
They are called by several different names:
The seven spirits before the Throne,
The seven Logoi,
The Lords of the seven rays,
The seven builders,
Heavenly men or Archangels.
They are included in the radiant Christ aura. In themselves
they contain the three major principles : Will, Love-wisdom,
Intelligence.
Each one rules and is the Logos of a planet and has his
primary colour and keynote.
Each one presides over a ray, of which there are seven. Each
of these seven Rays of Light differentiates into seven, making
36
COSMOS
the forty-nine aspects of the Logic psychic nature, or the forty-
nine Fires.
We are taught that "all these spiritual Essences are individual-
ized self-conscious Entities, and the 'Fiery Lives' are real and
conscious vital Existences. Thus we see the Logos manifesting as
One Unity, yet Three in One. We see the three-fold Unity
differentiating into the seven great Lives, containing within
themselves all lesser lives."
Each one, as a Logos, or Word, is responsible for the gradual
building up and spiritualizing of a centre of knowledge in the
world and a love of God. There are seven such centres, each
organized according to the needs of the different peoples and
their evolutionary age.
Into each centre has been inbreathed, inspired, the sacred
Scriptures which have the Cosmic Christ and coming Saviour
for their underlying foundation.
As president or ruler over one or other of the seven rays,
each Logos is directly linked with us on earth. We are all
born on one or other of these rays up and down which the
angelic messengers of God are continually passing.
The Rays may be tabulated as follows :
Initiate. Ray of Devotion (Spiritual Wisdom, Power),
Poet. Ray of Art. (Imagination),
Philosopher. Ray of Knowledge. (Thought),
Priest. Ray of Religion. (Emotion),
Ruler. Ray of Ac:tion. (Impulse),
Merchant. Ray of Trade. (Sensation),
Physician. Ray of Healing. (Vitality).
Many people who have distinguished their Ray, pursue it
exclusively, but an all-round development is the better part.
A great school of occultism in the United States tabulates the
Rays somewhat differently :
Three Major Rays-
Ray of Will and Power,
Ray of Love or Wisdom,
Ray of active Intelligence.
37
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Four Minor .Rays-
Ray of beauty, harmony, art, rhythm,
Ray of concrete knowledge or science,
Ray of abstract Idealism,
Ray of ceremonial order or organization.
From the central Spiritual Sun, through the seven sacred
Planets, down to earth and to man, runs the golden road trodden
by the Great Ones of God.
Here may be mentioned the fundamentals of Astrology.
Rudolph Steiner, who did more than any man living to glorify
the Christ and set before us His true position in the Cosmos, writes
of a misconception that does great harm to Christianity. He says:
" Literary works appear in which great pains are taken to
show that the Gospels can be understood through an astrological
interpretation. The greatest opponents of the Gospels employ
this astrological interpretation in such a manner that the way,
for example, taken by the Archangel Gabriel from Elizabeth to
Mary is supposed to signify nothing more than the progress of
the sun from the constellation of Virgo to another. This, in a
sense, is correct, but . . . people are induced to make belief that
the Gospels present only allegories in the place of definite cosmic
relations. The truth really is that in the Christ the whole Cosmos
finds expression, and therefore one can express the life of the
Christ by connecting its separate events with the cosmic relations
which work into Earth existence unceasingly through the Christ.
" A right understanding of this matter will thus lead to a full
recognition of the Christ having lived on earth, whereas the above-
mentioned error, if it were true, would mean that the Christ life
in the Gospels is expressed by cosmic constellation-s, and shows
that it was only a matter of constellations being treated allegoric-
ally, and that there was no real earthly Christ at all".1
This misconception has obtained a firm hold upon the English
speaking races, and arises out of the failure of the churches to
express the fullness of the Christ and His Cosmic life. Isaac
Newton pointed out that the Christian festivals are determined
upon an astronomical basis, and to this is added the fact that
1 " The Spiritual Guidance of Mankind."
•
COSMOS
Virgo is a constellation whose assumption into the Sun's bright~
ness corresponds with the feast of the Assumption of the Blessed
Mary, ever Virgin, on August the fifteenth.
All humanity is really impressed, influenced, and governed by
strong planetary attractions. There is the terrific sway over us
of the Planetary Logos under whom we stand, and who presides.
over our special ray. A clever modern Astrologer can always
draw out a fairly good horoscope by shrewdly guessing at the ray
on which the subject stands, and one can generally spat a Mars,
Mercury, or Saturn man at a glance; but there is an unknown
influence which may ruin the best drawn horoscope.
It is understood that somewhere in the solar system is another
planetary scheme, not belonging to our scheme, which has a strong
interplay with ours, and which powerfully a.ffects different groups
of beings here.
With this scheme our planetary Logoi are in harmonious vibra~
tion. Again there is the strong pull of what is termed our Polar
opposite.
When an earnest desire to know more of heavenly things enters
the heart of man he is led to the discovery that there is a western
esoteric tradition which rests upon the Cosmic Christ as the axis
of humanity. The knowledge he gathers brings with it a brilliant
enlightenment.
The first effect of this knowledge is to clear right away all the
puerile difficulties that assail the workers on "Higher Criticism",
and the sceptics in the Church. No sooner is the true perspective
reached than all doubts and questionings fall into their proper
place, as parochial vapourings, as the natural uneasiness of the ill~
instructed or totally ignorant seekers after truth, who have not
known where to look for the Christ, and shrink intellectually
from the stultified, limited Saviour presented to them by our
orthodox teachers.
When it is once realized, as unquestionably as research and
spiritual aspiration can make for absolute certainty in this world
and this stage of our evolution, that the Cosmic Christ belongs
to the whole world and not to western Christianity alone, then
one begins to sense a great unfoldment of His Mighty power and
sublimity.
39
THE COSMIC CHRIST
When it is discovered that there is but one God supreme in
the. universe, and that this universe is manifestly operating under
natural law; that creation is the manifestation of the Creator of
the heavens and earth; that there is no division in the Godhead,
but manifestations earthward there are in plurality; that plurality
of manifestation is given to suit the needs of humanity, then it
will be seen more clearly that the revelation of that sublime
Sun Spirit we call the Christ is the revelation to the whole earth,
the Creator incarnate in the Cosmos.
It cannot be too strongly emphasized that no view which fails
to locate Christ in all the sacred Scriptures of the world can
approach a conception of His all-embracing reality. The parallels
existing between so-called pagan and Christian beliefs and practices
must be read for what they are--demonstrations of the one divine
Teacher, Who prepared humanity for His coming incarnation on
earth. If Christianity is to depend upon a belief in certain miracu-
lous events related in the British Bible, then an ever-increasing
number of reverent and spiritually minded people will say that
they do not believe in such a Christianity.
Cease to limit the divine workings from the beginning; cease
to limit Christ to the God to Israel; see in Him the Saviour-
Teacher of the whole earth; unveil Him in the sacred Bibles of
all lands where He has revealed Himself under a multiplicity of
names; then a Cosmic understanding will dawn upon the world,
infinitely more inspiring than our present conceptions, and more
worthy of the nature of the Great Quest.
CHAPTER III
INDIA AND THE CHRISTOS
No country is so rich as India in the teachings of the Christos.
The literary remains of these divine Ambassadors are only begin-
ning to be known in the West. They are of very early date and
show traces of an advanced civilization. They are of such
enormous length and the number of sacred books is so immense
that we can only glance at a few. There are accounts of the
sacred writings extending back for thousands of years, besides
which there are many secret books treasured by some of the
schools of India which never have been allowed to be translated.
The Canon of the Upanishads is, for instance, not closed, and
the future may add to the admitted books.
Between 2,ooo and t,soo B.c. an Aryan race led by a divine
Manu (spiritual leader) descended from the Western Himalayas
into Northern India and gradually spread over the country. They
brought with them the elaborate Sanskrit language, and founded
capital cities on the Ganges, the excavations of which are now
beginning and are expected to reveal the oldest civilization yet
discovered. In a district of Sind and at Harappa on the Ravi River
relics of a civilization at least a thous<1nd years older than the
earliest Aryan invasion have been found, and show traces of
contact with Sumeria.
These people were originally refugees from the destruction of
Atlantis. The flower of that great civilization was preserved
and sent forth under a divine guide to spread the Christ light
elsewhere. They received the name of Hindu from Hind, the
quarter in which they first settled in India. A great Aryan
mitiator named Rama had established a vast civilization in Imn
previous to this descent into India, and the Hindu brought with
him a cultured and civilized life which showed a highly moral
41
THE COSMIC CHRIST
condition. Rama is remembered as a great teacher and guide of
the highest morality. uThe great example" he is called.
They also brought with them the Vedic religion and produced
the sacred verse of the Vedas, and the legends or history on which
the two grand epics, the Mahabharata and the Ramayana were
later founded.
Before the advent of the Hindus there were, and still remain,
traces of aboriginal races gradually to be absorbed by the cultured
invaders, but a_s time passed the Vedic system became corrupt,
and about 6oo B.c. the influence of the Buddha began to make
itself felt and gradually established its sovereignty over the whole
country.
Some hundred years after the Christian Era Buddhism gave
way to a revival of Hinduism in an elaborate form, which should
be called Brahmanism, and which represents the modern
Hinduism.
In the eleventh century, A.D., the first Mohammedan invasio_n
took place, and the great Mogul Empire was established in the
fifteenth century A.D. After but two centuries it began to fall
before a revival of Hindu power, and in the eighteenth century the
British influence spread over the length and breadth of the land.
Through this brief, rough survey we see how infinitely complex
and strange is the civilization of the Indian Empire. To the
European the interiors of the temples present nothing but hideous
idols with many faces, and arms brandishing skulls and sabres,
but above all these creatures of his imagination, above all these
deities the Eastern has placed a supreme Master, alone, solitary,
creator and uncreate, the Master of the universe, Brahm. No
statue is ever raised to Him but a single mystic word represents
Him-Aum-the heavenly thought which is the foundation of
every religion on the face of the earth.
According to Brahmanic traditions civilizations on our earth
began fifty thousand year-s ago, but at present we will give a brief
sketch of the three periods of divine teaching, the Vedic, Epic,
and Puranic, surviving in the sacred books called the Veda. The
second period from the epic poem the Ramayana and the
Mahabharata. The third period from the works known by the
names Puranas and Tantras.
INDIA AND THE CHRISTOS
The Rig Veda is the oldest literary document existing, written
about 2,000 years B.c. The great epic poems called Ramayana arc
supposed to be much later, perhaps 300 B.c.
Nothing could be grander or simpler than the Vedic religion
which shows us the root ideas of esoteric teaching. The word
Veda means knowledge, and the savants of Europe have found
in these sacred books a profoundly religious and metaphysical
system. " That the spiritual man need not be a recluse, that
union with the Divine Life may be achieved and maintained in
the midst of worldly affairs, that the obstacles to that union lie
not outside us but within us, such is the central lesson of the
great Hindu scriptures."
The Vedic poet exalts Savitri, as the great sun, the creative
power which animates and brings into being the solar system.
India personifies, as divine warrior, the power of the sun in
atmospheric life, the winds, storms, thunderbolts. Varuna repre-
sents the Majesty of the sky. It is He who has set the heaven
and earth on their foundations; none can approach Him, but He
is omniscient : the sun is His eye, the heaven His garment, the
tempest His breath.
With the symbolism of Agni, divine fire, as the Cosmic Being
we meet with the heart of esoteric foundation.
" Our God is a consuming fire," says the British Bible. Says
the Vedic hymn : " He is not only the terrestrial fire of sun and
lightning, His real home is the invisible heaven."
The Vedas attach the utmost importance to prayer, and the
immortality of the soul is affirmed in the loftiest language.
" There is an immortal part of man : this it is, 0 Agni, that
Thou must warm with Thy rays, enflame with Thy fire, carry
it across the world of the godly in the glorified body Thou hast
formed."
" Where is the soul born?" asks the Vedic poet. The reply
is : " There are some that come back to us and return, which
return and come back again."
Here is the doctrine of reincarnation which later was to play
so large a part in Brahmanism, Buddhism, Egypt, and the philoso-
phies of Pythagoras and Plato.
The principles of Christ teaching are even more apparent in the
43
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Veclas than in the other sacred books of India by reason of their
simple lofty ethics. One of the Divine attributes of the Cosmic
Christ has always been His pure simplicity of doctrine. How
beautiful is this Vedic hymn to our God who is a consuming
fire, the Solar Logos :
" 0 Agni ! Sacred fire! Purifying fire! Thou who sleepest
in wood and mountest in shining flames on the Altar, Thou art
the heart of sacrifice, the fearless aspiration of prayer, the divine
spark concealed in all things, and the glorious soul of the
sun."
The Mahabharata is a resume of the history of Aryan India
before Brahmanism was definitely inaugurated. Below d1e poetical
exaggerations of these books can be discerned the powers of the
ascetics of the white race who sought to control the exegeses of
temporal power by the might of spiritual power.
It was a mighty Son of God, a divinity incarnate and Christ-
filled, Who created Brahmanism; His name was Krishna.
Krishna was said to be the eighth incarnation or Avatar of
Vishnu (first Principle of the Hindu Trinity). His history and
teachings appear in the Hindu epics known as the Mahabharata,
with its supplementary writings known as Harivamsa, the
Pancharata and Bhagavad-Gita. These compose the mighty Hindu
eptc.
The Bhagavad-Gita, that exquisite fragment interpolated into
the great poem of the Mahabharata, and which the Brahmans
regard as one of their most sacred books, contains the doctrines
of Krishna. It is carried in the pocket of thousands of the
English-speaking races, who treasure it as a precious Bible.
Edouard Schure writes :
" It is impossible to affirm by positive documents that a real
personage is hidden beneath the myth of Krishna . . . yet it is
impossible to explain a character like that of Krishna by saying,
as do the majority of Europeans, 'it is an old nurse's tale added to
a solar myth'. Such is not the foundation of a religion which
lasts thousands of years, gives birth to a wonderful poetry and
several mighty systems of philosophy, resists the attacks of the
Mongolian and Mohammedan invasions, the English conquest, and
even in its decadence retains the sentiment of its lofty origin lost
44
INDIA AND THE CHRISTOS
in the mists of time. There is always a great being at the birth
of a mighty institution. Considering the dominant role of
Krishna's personality in epic and religious tradition, his human
side on the one hand, and on the other his constant identification
with God in manifestation, we are compelled to believe that he
was the creator of the Vishnu cult which gave Brahmanism the
virtue and prestige which it attained."
Krishna taught two organizing principles : the immortality of
the soul through progressive existences by reincarnation, and the
corresponding one of the Trinity or of the divine Word revealed
in man.
Krishna was born of a virgin named Devaki through Immacu-
late conception. The legend of Krishna enables us to grasp from
its very source the idea of the Virgin Mother, the "Mary God",
and the Trinity, with its profound metaphysical significance,
though the churches have lost the key of its mysteries.
In Book V, Chapter II, the Vishnou-Pourana, after relating the
conception of Krishna by Devaki, adds : " No one could look at
Devaki by reason of the light in which she was enveloped. The
gods (angels), invisible to mortal eyes, were continually singing
her praises, since Vishnou (Holy Spirit) was embodied in her
person. They said: 'Thou art the infinite and subtle Prakriti
(Life) who formerly bore Brahma (Brahm-Supreme God, must
not be confused with Brahma, who over His existence to Brahm)
in her womb; thou was afterwards goddess of the Word, the
energy of the Creator of the universe, and the Mother of the
Vedas (wisdom); thou eternal being comprising in thy substance
the essence of all created things; thou art one with creation; thou
wast the sacrifice whence proceeds all that the earth produces;
thou art the Word which by friction engenders fire (this has a
very profound significance, meaning more than the conjunction
of male female creative power); thou art the light whence springs
the day; thou art humility, mother of true wisdom; thou art the
politics of kings, mother of order; thou art desire from which
love is born-from thee proceeds all that exists; thou hast
descended to earth for the salvation of the world. Have pity
on us, 0 Goddess f Show thyself favourable to the umverse.
Be proud to bear the God Who upholds the World."
45
THE COSMIC CHRIST
This eulogy (not given in full) will be better understood by
Catholics than by Protestants, who have failed to give honour to
the Mother of God and thereby have greatly dishonoured them~
selves. Some of the several schools of Krishna~Vaishnava insist
upon the worship of the Infant Krishna with a related Madonna
worship.
The Brahmans identified the Mother of Krishna with the
universal substance and the female principle of Nature. They
made of her the second person of the Trinity. The Father-
eternal masculine; the Mother--eternal feminine; and the Son-
creative Word. In other terms: Intellectual principle-plastic prin~
ciple-productive principle.
It is just to recognize that this primitive idea sprang from
India two thousand years before the Cosmic Christ manifested
in Palestine.
The Indians believe that the great Avatars, or Christs, took
human incarnations for the purpose of regenerating the race and
lifting it out of material conditions. Other Avatars are promised
from time to time as they are needed.
The Bhagavad.Gita promise, which is held sacred, says:
" Although I am above birth and rebirth or law, being the
Lord of all there is, for all emanateth from Me-still do I will
to appear in My own universe and am therefore born so by My
Power and Thought and Will. Whenever the world declineth
in virtue and righteousness, and vice and injustice mount the
throne, then come I, the Lord, and revisit My world in visible
form and mingle with men, and by My .influence and teaching
do I destroy the evil and injustice and •re-establish virtue and
righteousness. Many are the times I have thus appeared-many
are the times hereafter when I shall come again." (Bhagavad-Gita,
Part IV.)
This promise was kept two thousand years ago, about two
thousand years after it was made. T~day there is a nearly
universal belief that the Lord's next coming is at hand.
Krishna is regarded by his worshippers as the Saviour of man-
kind, inspiring love and devotion to a degree impossible in the
case of an abstra~t Deity. There is the personal relation akin to
the true Christian's love for the Christ of Palestine. Some Hindus
46
INDIA AND THE CHRISTOS
pray Krishna to intercede for them with the Supreme Being,
and, when remonstrated with by the missioners for the absurdity
of the proceeding, often reply that it is no more absurd than the
missioners' teaching that prayer t9 God should be made through
Jesus the Mediator when Jesus is equal to and one with the
Father.
Krishna was born in a cave during a time when a reigning
king ordered all young infants to be killed. He was given into
the hands of a herdsman in order to save his life, and he spent
his early youth herding sheep. His fellow·herdsmen called him
"The Radiant".
Later Krishna withdrew for seven years to the solitudes of
Mount Merou, there to meditate on the way of salvation for men.
When the seven years had elapsed Krishna felt himself so iden·
tified with God that he might claim to be His Son.
Krishna began teaching and gathering disciples, amongst
whom was Arjuna, who became passionately devoted to the
Master.
Krishna taught the doctrine of the immortal soul, its rebirths
and mystical union with God. The body, envelope of the soul
which makes therein its dwelling, is a finished thing, but the
indwelling soul is invisible, eternal. (First Book of Bhagavad·Gita.)
His disciple exclaimed: "Lord, thou art our Master, thou art
the Son of Mahadeva (God). Wheresoever thou leadest we will
follow. Why did we not see thee sooner? It is Mahadeva
speaking in thee."
Krishna replied : " Your eyes were not opened . . . you are
my elect; you know the goal. The crowds see only a portion of
the path. Now let us go and preach the way of salvation to
the people."
At eventide the multitudes gathered round him, and what he
preached more particularly to them was love to one's neighbour
and the Sermon on the Mount.
The scene of the epic is a field of battle where Arjuna, the
beloved disciple and warrior prince, seeks to destroy a usurper
who oppressed the land. He fights for the deliverance of his
nation and to restore peace. The contest wrings his heart and
he is torn betwixt love of kindred and duty to his people. Finally
47
THE COSMIC CHRIST
he learns the lesson : how to perform duty regardless of self, to
do the best he can and leave in God's hands the issue. Arjuna
is the type of the struggling soul of the disciple, and Krishna is
the Logos of the soul. The divine lesson points to the one goal.
Though paths to it are many, they finally merge in unity.
After many adventures and escapes from those who sought
to slay him, Krishna felt that his mission was at an end and
needed only the final seal of sacrifice. He ceased to avoid his
enemies and set out for a lonely spot. None of his disciples
guessed his purpose save two.
"Master, do not forsake us."
"I know where thou goest; as we have loved thee, gtve us
leave to follow thee."
Krishna replied :
" In my heaven love shall be refused nothing. Come I"
" The earth is far behind and heaven is dumb," the disciples
cried. " Wherefore hast thou brought us to this wilderness?''
" Pray," answered Krishna, "if thou wishest the earth to draw
near and heaven to speak."
" With thee heaven always is at hand, but wherefore is it now
to leave us?"
" The Son of the Most High must die, pierced by an arrow,
for the world to believe his message," replied Krishna.
" Explain this mystery to us."
"You will understand after my death. Let us pray."
For seven days they prayed and the face of Krishna was
transfigured.
On the seventh day, at sunset, a band of archers invaded their
retreat.
The holy women entreated Krishna to defend himself. Krishna
continued, on his knees beneath a cedar, praying.
At first the archers sought to rouse him by insults and by
hurling stones. Then they Rung themselves on him and bound
him to the tree.
Krishna offered no resistance and, when the first arrow pierced
him and the blood gushed forth, he cried : ·
" The Sons of the Sun are victorious."
When the second arrow pierced him he cried :
48
INDIA AND THE CHRISTOS
" My radiant Mother, grant that those who love me enter with
me into thy Light."
As the third arrow pierced him he simply uttered the word :
" Mahadeva."
So with the Name of God upon his lips he gave up the spirit.
The sun had set and a mighty storm arose and beat down
upon the earth. The murderers fled.
The Disciples buried the body of Krishna in the holy town of
Dwark.
" After Krishna there passed a powerful radiation of the solar
Word through the temples of Asia, Africa and Europe. In Persia
we have Mithras, in Egypt Horus, wn of Isis and Osiris, in
Greece Apollo, god of the Sun and the Lyra, Dionysos who roused
souls to life.
u Everywhere the solar God is a Mediatorial God and the light
is also the Word of Life. Then is it not from this life-giving
Word of Life that the Messianic idea springs forth? In any case
it was by Krishna that this idea entered the ancient world. It
is by Jesus, the Christ, that it is to shed its rays throughout
the whole earth.
" He Who is ceaselessly creating the worlds is threefold. He
is Brahma, the Father, Maya, the Mother, and Vishnou, the Son.
Essence, substance, life. Each contains the two others, and all
three are one in the Ineffable."
In the Upanishads, called the holy Bhagavad-Gita, is contained
the science of the supreme Spirit. It is written by an unknown
Scribe who teaches the Sermon on the Mount in a hundred
different forms.
There are several cheap and good pocket-editions, and students
should never be without a copy. It has been said that in time
the Holy Scriptures of India will dominate the world of literature.
Maeterlinck is reported to have said that the Mahibharata in time
will become the Bible of Humanity.
"The Word, which was from the Beginning is given forth
in lofty language and absolute clarity. The Christ of the universe
has never inspired a greater Bible than this.
It is the Light by which all the mystics have lived for thousands
of years, in which uthe practice of the Presence" is constantly
49
D
THE COSMIC CHRIST
enjoined, and the vital necessity for meditation upon the Supreme
is made the corner stone of the divine life of contemplation.
The injunctions given for the practice of meditation are to-day
being followed in all religious communities. Myriads of devotees
all over the world are advancing spiritually on these lines, fol~
lowing the advice of their earthly teacher, and in most cases
unaware of the source from whence it originated. We have
nothing earlier than the following :
" He who has attained to meditation should constantly strive
to stay at rest in the Supreme, remaining in the solitude and
seclusion, having his body and his thoughts under conrrol, without
possessions and free from hope. He should in an undefiled spot
place his seat firm, neither too high nor too low, and made of
Kusa grass, which is covered with a skin or cloth. There, for
the self's purification, he should practise meditation with his mind
fixed on one point, the modifications of the thinking principle
controlled and the action of the senses and organs restrained.
Keeping his body, head and neck firm and erect, with mind
determined and gaze directed to the tip of his nose, without
looking in any direction, with heart at peace and free from fear,
the Yogee should remain, his thoughts controlled and heart fixed
on Me. The devotee of controlled mind who thus always bringeth
his heart to rest in the Supreme reacheth that tranquillity, the
supreme assimilation with Me."
This is simply what Christ again taught in Palestine four
thousand years later. He taught us to seek privacy and "rest in
the Lord".· To be "free from hope" surely means ceasing to
ask and being willing to listen to that inspiration from within
which is the voice of the Spirit. Concentration is urged, just
as it is t~day.
How interesting it is that a scribe writing thousands of years
ago should speak of "when in ancient times". We do not know
how old these holy books really are. All we know is that they
existed millenniums before the Palestine drama.
" As a single sun illuminateth the whole world, even so doth
the One Spirit illumine every body.
" I am the Ego Which is seated in the hearts of all beings. I
am the beginning, the middle, and the end of all existing things."
so
INDIA AND THE CHRISTOS
(Our bodies are the temple of the living God. I am Alpha
and Omega.)
"I am the same to all creatures. I know not hatred or
favour, but those who serve Me with love dwell in Me and I
in them. I accept the offerings of the humble soul who in his
worship with a pure heart offereth a leaf, a flow'!r, or fruit, or
water unto Me.
" He who living in this world and before the liberation of the
soul from the body can resist the impulse arising from desire
and anger is a devotee and blessed. The man who is happy
within himself, who is illuminated within, is a devotee, and,
partaking of the nature of the Divine Spirit, he is merged in it.
"When in ancient times the Lord of creatures had formed man-
kind and at the same time appointed His worship, He spoke and
said: ' With this worship pray for increase and it shall be for
U '"
yo .
(Be fruitful and multiply.)
" Be thou free from worldly anxiety and the desire to preserve
present possessions, self-centred and uncontrolled by objects of
mind or sense.
"Seek an asylum in mental devotion which is knowledge, for
the miserable and unhappy are those whose impulse to action is
found in its reward."
(Be careful for nothing. Lay not up for yourselves treasures
on earth. Your reward is in heaven.)
" I am the origin of all. All things proceed from Me. Believing
Me to be thus, the wise gifted with spiritual wisdom worship Me.
Their very hearts and minds are in Me, enlightening one another,
and constantly speaking of Me they are full of enjoyment and
satisfaction. To them, thus always devoted to Me, who worship
Me with love I give that mental devotion by which they come
to Me. For them do I, out of My compassion, standing within
their hearts, destroy the darkness which springs from 1gnorance
by the brilliant lamp of spiritual discernment."
(In Him we live and move and have our being.)
Let us glance at Buddhism, a term applied to the philosophy
of Gautama Buddha, who founded it in 6oo B.c. His followers
number roughly three hundred millions in China, Japan and
51
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Thibet, whilst only about ten million survive in India, the land
of its founder.
Gautama taught, as did Krishna, that when the spirit is almost
extinguished a new messenger is sent to revive the truth. Gautama
is one of that long line of Christs, or Christ-ensouled teachers,
Avatars of Divinity, who come to save the world from falling
into total darkness. Christians regard Buddha as a heathen
teacher, though they are forced to concede that his teachings
were amazingly akin to those of Jesus, the Christ, being filled
with wisdom and purity. The Buddhists, on the other hand,
freely acknowledge Jesus, the Christ, as a Divine Avatar sent to
teach the heathens in the- West. They regard Him as a Western
Buddha.
Like Jesus, the Christ, Gautama came as a teacher without
temples or churches or creeds, and, like Him, he unwittingly
became the founder of a great church with dogmas, creeds, ritual,
priests and ecclesiastics. It seems that wherever dogma and ritual
supplant the pure, simple "Word" the living faith hurns low.
It ever has been so and ever will be so. In the East as in the
West.
Professor Jackson says :
" The element in Buddhism which more than any other gave
it an advantage over all surrounding religions and led to its
surprising extension was the spirit of universal charity and sym-
pathy that it breathed as contrasted with the exclusiveness of
caste. In this respect it held much the same relation to
Brahmanism that Christianity did to Judaism. It was a reaction
against the exclusiveness and formalism of Brahmanism, an
attempt to render it more catholic and to throw off its intolerable
burden of ceremonies. Buddhism did not abolish caste, but only
declared that all followers of the Buddha who embraced the
religious life were thereby released from its restrictions in the
bosom of a community who had all equally renounced the world.
High and low, the twice-born Brahmin and the outcast were
brethren. This was the very way that Christianity dealt with
the slavery of the ancient world."
Max Muller writes:
"The Buddha addressed himself to all castes and outcasts. He
52
INDIA AND THE CHRISTOS
promised salvation to all, and he commanded his disciples to
preach his doctrine in all places and to all men. A sense of
duty, extending from the narrow limits of the house, the village
and the country to the widest circle of mankind, a feeling of
sympathy and brotherhood to all men, the idea, in fact, of
humanity, were first pronounced by Buddha."
The religious equality of all men was the new teaching.
Neither the doctrines of reincarnation nor the law of Karma,
rendering to every man according to his deeds, were new ideas
in the religion of Buddha. He is sometimes accused of preaching
Nihilism, or nothingness, simply because he forbade speculation
regarding the nature of the Absolute, holding that only when
Nirvana (absorption in the Divine) was reached could the answer
to such questions be grasped by the human mind. He held
that the only spirit in man was the animating reflection or mani-
festation of the One Spirit-the Absolute.
We do not propose to go more deeply into the teachings of
Gautama Buddha, for so many of the doctrines enforced in his
Scriptures were practically ~epeated, with a slight change in the
phraseology of the British Bible, many centuries later. We will
quote two parallel pas~ges to emphasize this fact.
BUDDHIST
Hatred does not cease by hatred at
any time; hatred ceases by love. This
is an old rule. (Dhammapada 5·)
Let us live happily then, not hating
those who hate us. Amongst men wlwl
hate us let us dwell free Irom hatred.
. (Ibid 5·)
Let a man overcome anger by love,
let him overcome evil by good. Let
him overcome the greedy by liberality,
the liar by truth. (Dbammapada 223.)
Him I call indeed a Brahmana who,
though he has committed no offence,
endures reproach, bonds and stripes,
who has endurance for his force and
strength for his army. (Dbammapada
399·)
CHRISTIAN
Ye have heard that it was said
"Thou shalt love thy neighbour and
hate thine enemy", but I say unto you
"Love your enemies and pray for them
that persecute you''. (St. Matthew,
Chapter v. 43·
If thine enemy hunger feed him,
if he thirst give him to drink, for in
so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire
upon h1s head. Be not overcome of
evil, but overcome evil by good.
(Romans, Chapter xii.)
For this is acceptable if for conscience
towards God a man endureth griefs,
suffering wrongfully. For what glory
is it if, when re sm, and are buffetted
for it, ye shal take it latiently? but,
if when ye do well an suffer for it
ye shall take it patiendy, this is accept·
able with God. Peter, Chapter ii, 19)
It is true of the Buddha, as it is true of his great successor,
Jesus the Christ, that he did not come to destroy the earlier law
53
THE COSMIC CHRIST
and the Prophets, but to fulfil them. Buddha, as a mighty Christ-
sent Being, was a spiritual liberator who laboured to perfect the
doctrines he found in existence.
The serious student of the great faiths of the world will find
them all preparatory. The Christ-ensouled Beings who came into
the world to stir the stagnant pools were roadmakers sent to
prepare the way of the Lord. As some facet in the great heavenly
jewel of spiritual knowledge grew dim, one or other of the cosmic
Avatars was sent to flood it once more with light and give the
fading and dimmed truth back to the world.
Gautama Buddha spoke not of the creation· nor of the means
by which sin and death entered the world. He never represented
himself to be a Saviour able to take upon himself the sins of the
world. He knew of the One approaching who was to bring to
man a knowledge of the indwelling Christ, and through that
ever living enshrinement forgiveness and deliverance were to be
gained.
Buddha sought to remove from men's minds that a callous
God suffered evil and sent a visitation of sickness.
" By one's self the evil is done," he preached; " by one's self
one suffers. Purity and impurity belong to one's self; no one
can purify another. Rich is he in the best of wealth, the wealth
that is the fruit of the Path, the wealth of those who are ever
seeking the highest of the attainments."
Gautama preached unsparingly that what we sow we reap, and
the final destiny of mankind, Nirvana. The return to the Father
and to that state of perfection when there shall be no more "going
out" from His house.
Let us try to find out what is being done to unveil the Christ
in India.
Mr. John Hoyland, a missioner with sixteen years' experience,
throws considerable light upon the subject1 in the Nineteenth
Century Magazine, June, 1929. He writes:
" The position of the Christian missionary in India has entirely
changed during the past fifteen years. Before that time it was
still possible for him to stand before the people as the representa-
t The Presentation of the Christian Message in India
54
INDIA AND THE CHRISTOS
tive of a high culture and of a successful world order,
as well as of a religious system which claimed innumerable
conquests in every part of the world and in every relation of
life.
"The War changed all that. To-day the missionary finds that
he can accomplish nothing unless in his contact with educated
Indians he is willing from the start to adopt an attitude of teach-
ableness and humility to confess that Western civilization has
failed to establish a world order which can be regarded as
Christian, as stable, as genuinely beneficial."
To quote the words of Dr. Garfield Williams, which
are eminently true : " At the end of the War the Westerner
had for the educated Indian hardly a shred of reputation
left."
The Indian Social Reformer, a Hindu-edited paper of very
enlightened views, writes:
" The Christian missionary has no chance of getting a
hearing now unless he distinguishes between Christ and Chris-
tianity."
The late Mr. Gokhale, the most distinguished of all Indian
statesmen, said :
" I am more interested in religion than in politics, and I intensely
revere Jesus, but He is handicapped by His connection with the
West."
Another distinguished Indian has said : " India rejects
Christianity but accepts Christ."
Mr. Holyand goes on : " India is prepared to accept Christ
but not Christianity, therefore it behoves the Western represen-
tatives of Christ first of all to learn from India the right setting
in which he shall endeavour to paint before her a portrait of
his Master which shall teach her to love and follow Him better
than we have loved and followed Him in the West. . . . We
must endeavour to comprehend how our Master, Who was Him-
self an Easterner, in an Eastern environment can be made most
.Eastern and least Western in His appeal to those Easterners who,
once they are given a chance, are going to understand Him better
than we do.
"One of the main tasks of the missionary is that of training
55
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Christians for the fulfilling of this great duty, the finding of
the Eastern Christ."
India is very blest in possessing certain outstanding spirits in
incarnation who unveil the Christ to those ready to open the
lotus petals of their hearts to the Divinity within. These out-
standing men are all natives of India and are naturally better
adapted to the work than the poor and narrow British missioner
who has no real conception of universality in dealing with such
a subject as the Christ of the universe. However adorable to
them is the Christ of Palestine, the three years' ministry
can have litde or no appeal to so vast a nation, to such a multi-
plicity of gods and creeds all thrown off in the past millenniums
from the Tree of Life.
To Kipling we owe the vast untruth that "East is East and
West is West and never the twain shall meet."
His star has already been seen in the East, and men in the
East were worshipping Him millenniums ago, whilst Britain was
a rough country peopled by beings hardly removed from the
animals they hunted. The East and West have their special
missions to fulfil, but the goal is one, and in time a universal
religion will overlay the many partial expressions of religion.
When we find an English missioner with years of experience
stating that India will accept the Christ but not Christianity
we feel that the work of the universal has begun, for Christianity,
as practised in our land, is not what any conscientious person
would try to implant elsewhere. To unveil the Christ in His
multiplicity of manifestations throughout His creation should be
the missioner's work, and to use the sacred Scriptures of India
in conjunction with our Bible and to point out their similarity
of doctrine and that the later Bible is but a continuation and
consummation of their earlier one ought not to be so hard a task.
We know that this is being done in several cases, but to use
exclusively our Bible and condemn theirs is hardly the way to
the Christ.
The great outstanding figure in the spiritual life of India is·
Rabindrinath Tagore, a universal nationalist and a master of
wisdom. His books make a wide appeal to the West and are
extensively read; his poetry is exquisite.
56
INDIA AND THE CHRISTOS
"THE SMALL"
" What is there but the sky, 0 Sun, which can bold thine image?
I dream of thee, but to serve thee I never can hope,"
The dewdrop wept and said;
" I am too small to take thee unto me, great Lord,
And thus my life is all tears.
I illumine the limitless sky,
Yet I can yield myself ud to a tiny drop of dew,"
Thus said the Sun an smiled;
" I will be a speck of sparkle and fill you,
And your tiny life will be a smiling orb."
Tagore does active and splendid work in his Shanti Niketan
School. He is thus described by the great Indian scientist,
Mr. Bose:
" His great personality silently permeates the whole atmo~phere
of the school and inspires every member of the Institution with
the divinity and nobility of his character. When he is in the
school he meets the boys twice a week regularly in the Temple
and speaks to them simply and in his own homely way on the
great ideak of life."
Here are translations of the Mantras which are chanted in
unison by the scholars morning and evening and which wonder-
fully express the universal religion :
"Thou art our Father. May we know Thee as our Father.
Strike us not. May we truly bow to Thee.
0 Lord, our Father, take away all our sins and give us that
which is good.
We bow to Him in Whom is the happiness.
We bow to Him in Whom is the good.
We bow to Him from Whom comes the happiness.
We bow to Him from Whom comes the good.
We bow to Him Who is good.
We bow to Him Who is the highest good.
Shanti, Shanti, Shanti Hari Om."
The evening mantra runs thus :
"The God Who is in fire, Who is in water, Who inter-
penetrates the whole world, Who is in the herbs, Who is in the
trees, to that God I bow down again and again."
57
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Other great spiritual leaders are the Anagharika Dharmapala,
leader of Buddhism in India and England; the Sadhu Sundha
Singh; the Sadhu Crishta Singh; the Swami Paramananda, whose
centre of learning is in California; the Swami Yogananda, whose
centre of spiritual activity is in Western America.
The two latter have extremely important preparatory work to
do for the Cosmic Christ and the sixth race, which is already in
nucleus-the Flower of humanity.
Rabindrinath Tagore says :
"He whose spirit has been made one with God stands before
man as the supreme flower of humanity. There man finds in
truth what he is, for there the light is revealed to him in the
soul of man as the most perfect revelation for him of God; for
there we see the union of the supreme will with our will, our
love with the everlasting love.''
The Sufis, who claim origin from the Beginning, unite the
whole world in the following words :
" And to God belongeth the East and the West, and whither-
soever ye turn there is the Face of God."
ss
CHAPTER IV
THE STAR OF THE EAST
ZOROASTER, IRANIAN PROPHET
IF we look for the traditional cradle of our race a star overhangs
the Orient.
The course of evolution cannot be more clearly traced than
in observing the various creeds, in the past up to the present day,
which have formed the spiritual' preoccupation and guidance of
Humanity.
These creeds or religions ·slip imperceptibly into one another,
overlapping as the ages roll on, and we find as we study them
that the one is invariably derived from the other. Adjustments
to suit diverse climes and nations are made, though names of
divine rulers are changed and modes of worship altered. Coming
as they all do from the one Source, this is to be expected. The
solar Word was from the beginning.
The failure in our time to accept reincarnation has done much
to mystify our historians. They cannot fail to trace strong
similarities betwixt many of the great beings in ancient history
who crop up from time to time as powerful leaders or gods, but,
as they are differendy named in different centuries, confusion
naturally arises. The occult student traces the spiritual being from
one epoch to another and finds him incarnate under one name
in one civilization and again incarnate under another name a
hundred or perhaps a thousand years later.
The confusion as to who built the Great Pyramid is a case
in point. If we choose we can say Enoch was the master Builder,
because he can be identified with several other claimants bearing
different names, and those different entities can each claim, by
comparison of dates, sacred titles, etc., to be identified with Enoch.
59
THE COSMIC CHRIST
In the building of the Great Pyramid, which common sense at
once shows to be fundamentally non-human work, it is probable
that several great ones were employed, or, as the centuries passed
in its construction, one sublime entity returned several times under
different identities to see the work completed.
It ought clearly to be understood that seven consecutive epochs
of civilization have been planned for us by the Creator, and that
since Atlantean days and the destruction of that great continent
four of those civilizations have run their course and exhausted
their utility in evolution. The fifth is our own, and two more
are to follow. The first of these consecutive epochs of civilization
was the ancient Indian. It was followed by the Asiatic, the
Iranian, or, as it is often called, the ancient Persian; the Egypto-
Chaldzic was the third, and was followed by the Grzco-Roman.
Our own civilization, dating from about the twelfth century, now
shows signs of mf"rging into the sixth epoch, the nucleus for its
higher evolutionary status being already installed in the West of
the United States, America.
The seventh epoch we are not concerned with at present.
In dealing with these ancient civilizations we must always bear
in mind the difference between men as they were then and men
as they are to-day, after millenniums of earthly experience. In
olden times their abilities were very different and their powers
of observation mainly drawn from a sort of dim clairvoyance.
They were all influenced by the strong spiritual streams of pre-
Christian times which their great spiritual teachers directed,
streams which met together two thousand years ago when a
totally new dispensation was ushered in with the coming down
to earth of the Cosmic Christ.
The first great stream poured out upon India and reached
its height during the incarnation of the Boddhi-Sattva, Gautama
Buddha. The second stream is what we are about to consider,
that which streamed over Asia and inspired the teachings of
Zoroaster. The third stream inspired the old Hebraic people.
Divine revelation in its application to humanity came through
Christ-ened instructors, one of the greatest of whom was
Zarathustra or ZorQaster.
The historical Zoroaster was really a being who took the name
6o
THE STAR OF THE EAST
and imparted the teachings of a very much earlier holder of that
name. It is the original Zoroaster with whom we deal. The
One Great Sun Spirit used and inspired him, and his mission was
to infuse into his people a spirituality which would counteract
their strongly material outlook upon life. He had to make clear
to the ancient Persian that in man was a conflict between light
and darkness and the former must ultimately prevail. Those
powers he named the Spirit of Light, the Aura of the Sun,
Ormuzd. On the other hand he represented the darkness of
materialism as Ahriman, working powerfully wholly to engross the
Soul. They had to· be taught that behind the absorbing sense
world there existed a spiritual world of light.
The Zoroastrian Bible, the Zend·Avesta, like our Bible, is a
collection of documents of widely different ages.
One portion, the G~thas, are infinitely superior and totally
distinct in character from the rest of the Avesta and from th:
Veda. They deal with the worship of the Creator of Nature.
The order of Nature played a large part in Zoroaster's pre·
conceptions, and the glory of the Creator was stamped indelibly
upon his religion. The omniscience of God is everywhere insisted
upon, and it survived into the Magian theology. The date of
the Zend·Avesta cannot be accurately determined, but modern
scholars place the date of the great Iranian prophet about 2,500 B.c.
Pliny says he lived a thousand years before Moses, which date
accords with that suggested by modern Orientalists. The Zend
name for the prophet is Zarathustra. Zoroaster is the later Greek
form; in it is contained the word "star".
Some say he was born in Baktria, others say Teheran, and
at the time of his birth ancient Iran and Persia were inhabited
by nomad tribes descended from the pure white race. All
worshipped the Sun and made the sacrifice of fire on altars of
turf.
Zoroaster is of special interest to students and lovers of the
Cosmic Christ, for all esoteric schools teach, and all tradition
affirms, that he it was who through many incarnations prepared
his body for complete Christ·ensoulment and was born into
Palestine as Jesus of Nazareth. He was one of the greatest
Sufis of whom we have an historical account, and the Prophet
61
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Daniel based his teaching largely on that c£ the Iranian Prophet
with whom he had been associated in a former life. Let us
remember that the Magi who were led by a star to the birth-
place of Jesus of Nazareth were Zoroastrian Priests. This priestly
tribe carried on the faith after the Prophet's death and exist to
this day.
The Zend Scriptures state that at an early age Zoroaster came
under the dominion of a ·great one named Vahumano, whom the
Kabalists, Gnostics and Rosicrucians of the Middle Ages identified
with that mysterious divine being, Melchisedek, the Initiator in
after-years of Abraham.
Vahumano was the Patriarch and Priest of the Sun, and the
holder of a tradition which could be traced back to Atlantis. He
taught his disciple all he knew of the divine wisdom, promising
that he should become an apostle of Ahura-Mazda, the aureole of
the omniscient, the living Spirit of the universe.
In the Zend-Avesta Vahumano explains to Zoroaster that the
chosen race of Aryans had fallen under the yoke of the Turanians.
They worshipped Ahriman and were in subjection to him.
"Who then is Ahriman ?" asks the youth Zoroaster.
I append Schure's translation of the answer. He adopts the
Greco-Latin names as being more familiar to our ears.
"There are spirits beyond number between heaven and earth,"
said the Patriarch. " Their forms are innumerable and, like the
boundless heaven, so has unfathomable hell its various degrees.
There is a powerful archangel named Adar-Assour, or Lucifer,
who plunged into the Abyss in order to carry the devouring fire
of his torch to all living creatures. He is the greatest example
of pride and desire, seeking God in himself and in the depths
of the abyss. But even in his fall he retains a memory of divinity,
and some day he may wear again his crown, his heavenly star.
Lucifer is the Archangel of light. Ahriman is not Lucifer, but
his shadow, his reverse side, leader of the hordes of darkness.
Frenziedly attached to the earth, he denies heaven and knows
only the forces of destruction. It is he who has degraded the fire
altars and revived the serpent worship, he who propagates envy
and hatred, vice and oppression, and all furious passions. He
rules over the Turanians, he incites their evil genius. He it is
62
THE STAR OF THE EAST
who must be fought and overthrown to save the race of the
pure and strong.
" ' But how,' asks Zoroaster, ' ca.n I fight the invisible one
who weaves his plots in darkness?'
" By turning your face to the sun that rises behind Mount
Hara Berezaiti. You will see the sun rise every morning above
the rock peaks. By day pray to the Lord of the Sun to manifest
Himself to you. By night await Him and attune your soul to
the stars like a lyre. You will have to wait long, for Ahriman
will seek to bar the way. But one night in the peace of your
soul another sun will rise, more brilliant than that which flames
above Mount Berezaiti-the Sun of Ahura-Mazda. You will
hear His voice and He will reveal to you the law of the Aryans."
Zoroaster spent ten years dwelling in a cave at the edge of
a cedar forest, and Vehumano's herdsmen fed him on buffalo
milk and bread, and he was clothed in sheep-skins. Years passed,
so say the Persian records, before he heard the voice of Ormuzd
and saw his glory. Meanwhile he suffered a series of the most
terrible temptations.
Finally the time came when he felt that the unnameable Cosmic
Power was about to be made manifest to him by means of the
language in which the gods speak to men. " And the Lord of
spirits, the King of Kings, Ormuzd, the solar Word, then appeared
to him in human form. Clothed in beauty, strength and light,
He shone upon His fiery throne, which was supported on either
side by a winged bull and lion. Around Him, in three glorious
semi-circles, stood seven Cherubim with golden wings, seven
Elohim with azure wings, and seven Archangels with purple wings.
From moment to moment a blaze of light issued from Ormuzd,
penetrating all three spheres, and the Cherubim, Elohim and
Archangels shone like the God Himself with the dazzling white-
ness of snow and then reassumed their former colours."
And Zoroaster heard a voice, vast as the universe, which said :
" I am Ahura-Mazda, who created thee. I have chosen thee.
Hear now my voice, 0 Zarathustra, best of men. I will speak
with thee by day and by night and reveal to thee the living word."
Zoroaster had fallen with his face to the ground. When he
awoke he retired to the darkest corner of his cave.
63
THE COSMIC CHRIST
From now onwards Zoroaster heard the voice of Ormuzd con-
tinually, both by day and by night. Sometimes it was as if an inner
voi~ spoke to him, sometimes he was shown glowing symbols
which were like the living thoughts of God. Ormuzd instructed
him concerning the creation of the world and the manifestation
of the living Word in the universe, the hierarchies of cosmic
power, the necessary combat with Ahriman, spirit of evil and
destruction, and how to vanquish him by prayer and the fire
sacrifice. He taught him how to fight demons with vigilant
thought and the Turanians with consecrated arms. He told him
of the love of man for the earth and of the earth for man who
cultivates her, of her joy in being fertilized and in the splendours
of her harvests and of her secret forces which are poured forth
upon the family of the labourer. The whole of the Zend-Avesta
is one long conversation between Ormuzd and Zoroaster.
'' What is the thing which gives most pleasure to the earth?"
"When a pure man walks upon her!'
" What is the next most pleasurable thing to her?''
" When a pure man builds a house where there is a fire,
where there are cattle and fine flocks, where there is a woman
and children. In such a house is abundance of righteous-
ness."
Zoroaster is said to be the divine teacher who first taught his
people agriculture and how to live the family life; also he was
the first great Sufi who, through his knowledge of the religion,
God taught His Angels to raise the status of woman from slave
to man's helpmate.
Ormuzd condemns violence and injustice, but upholds courage
as man's primary virtue. We feel, in the thoughts of Zoroaster,
the constant presence of the invisible world and of the cosmic
hierarchies, but the attention is fixed upon action, upon the con-
quest of the earth through spiritual discipline and exercise of the
will.
The Prophet made a practice of recording his inner revelations
upon a sheep-skin with a ,.,,ooden pen charred in the fire, using
the sacred characters which Vahumano had taught him. Later
his disciples took down his thoughts from dictation, and so the
Zend-Avesta came into being, first written upon skins of animals
~
THE STAR OF THE EAST
like the Koran and kept in a sacred ark in the cedar forest-a
record of the cosmogony, the laws, the prayers and the ceremonies
of the Zoroastrian religion.
When Zoroaster returned, after ten years, to his native tribe
his people recognized him. A warlike flame burned in his eyes
and his voice had a tone of sovereign authority. He convoked
the people to incite them to war against the Turanians and
announced to them the revelation that he had received the living
Word of Ormuzd. This Word, the Zend-Avesta, became the
animating centre of his work. Purification, labour and combat
were the three disciplines it taught. Purification of the spirit and
the body by prayer and the fire sacrifice, fire being known as "the
son of Ormuzd", the first breath of God. Labour upon the earth
and the cultivation of sacred trees, cypress, cedar and orange,
labour crowned by love with the spouse for priestess at the fire-
side. Combat against Ahriman and the Turanians. The life of
the Aryans under Zoroaster was a perpetual armed watch, a cease-
less struggle, softened and made rhythmic by labour in the fields
and by the joys of the domestic hearth. The hymns of Ormuzd
were chanted at the daily fire sacrifices. Progress was made step
by step. On every place of conquered land Zoroaster built a
camp, the germ of a future city.
After forty years of fighting the King of the Turanians was
killed and his fortress taken by the Aryans. Zoroaster crowned a
new king and instituted the religion of Ormuzd at Baktra. Having
now accomplished his task, he desired to retire to his mountain
cave to learn from Ormuzd the future destiny of his race and
to transmit his knowledge to his followers. He ordered his three
foremost disciples to rejoin him at the mountain in a month's
time to receive his last instructions, for he desired to end his life
on the Mount where he had first heard the voice of Ormuzd.
He knew that there God would speak to him again. Before he
left the world he gave this recommendation to his people as
conclusion of the Zend-Avesta:
"Let those who have listened to me contemplate not Ahriman,
the appearance of things and shadows, but the primal Fire, the
Word, Ahura-Mazda, that they may live. Those who listen not
will repent at the end of time."
6s
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Ahura-Mazda, the aureole of the sun, represents the Crown of
divine spirits who created the sun and who form his aura, of
which Ormuzd is the animating essence. This spiritual aura is
the living soul of the sun in Zoroastrian thought.
When Zoroaster reached the cave it was snowing upon the
mountains, and the herdsmen who had accompanied him made
a fire and left him alone. The aged and weary Prophet fell into
deep thought, looking back upon his life and striving to pierce
the future. The task was ended. The Aryans were free. He
cried out to his God :
" Let me at least know what is to be the future of my race."
Then Zoroaster heard the rolling of thunder; the mountain
trembled, and the Voice of God sounded.
Zoroaster fell fainting to the ground, but soon he beheld Ormuzd
in all His glory but without His Angels. The three sacred animals,
the bull, the lion and the eagle, supported the throne, and the
voice of Ormuzd rolled through space and echoed in his heart,
saymg:
"Why desirest thou to know that which pertains only to thy
God? No prophet can know all the thoughts of the divine Word.
Do not doubt Ahura-Mazda, 0 Zoroaster, best of men, for I carry
in My scales the destinies of all beings and thine own also. Thou
wouldst know the destiny of thy race? Behold then what the
peoples of Asia will make of the three animals who uphold My
throne."
The blazing vision vanished and 7..oroaster was transported in
spirit into the future.
He saw plains and mountains rapidly unrolled at his feet like
the pages of a great book. He saw the Caspian Sea, the Taurus
Mountains, the Caucasus, and the Persian Gulf. He saw a horde
of Turanians retake the fortress of Baktria and profane the temple
of Ormuzd. On the banks of the Tigris he saw proud Nineveh
arise, palaces, towers and temples. A gigantic winged bull with
a human head, symbol of power, looked down upon the town
whilst the pure Aryans fled north. Then he saw a still greater
c1ty arise on the banks of the Euphrates, Babylon, with its mighty
walls and pyramids. Finally Zoroaster saw the winged lion
marching victoriously at the head of an army of Medes and
66
THE STAR OF THE EAST
Persians, which destroyed the people and the priests even within
the Sun temple on the banks of the Nile.
The Prophet awoke with a cry of horror.
" If such is the future of the Aryans, the race of the pure and
strong, I have fought in vain. If this is the truth I will gird
on my sword, which has hitherto remained free of the stain of
~blood, and will plunge it up to the hilt in the blood of the
Turanians.,
Then the voice of Ormuzd arose :
"Stay thy hand. Stay, Zoroaster. Thy hand shall never again
grasp a sword. Thy days are ended. Climb to the mountain-top,
where the sun can be seen rising above the peaks of Berezaiti.
Thou hast seen the future through human eyes, thou shalt now
see it through the eyes of the Gods. On the heights the justice
of Ormuzd reigns and the Angel of victory awaits thee."
So Zoroaster climbed the mountain and seated himself,
exhausted, to await the dawn. A great shuddering seized the
body of the old man.
" It is death," said the voice of Ahriman from out the dawn.
"It is resurrection," said the voice of Ormuzd in the sky.
Then Zoroaster beheld an arch of light which stretched across
the sky, and his soul swept out of his body as though on the
wings of an eagle, and he rushed across it.
When the three disciples sought to rejoin their Master he was
nowhere to be found. In the cavern there remained only his
pilgrim's staff and the golden goblet which he used for pouring
fermented liquor on the fire. On the mountain-top there was no
trace of him. They searched everywhere in vain.
Thus was translated that great soul we speak of as Zoroaster.
His work was continued by the Magi in Chaldea and Assyria,
twin civilizations that played an important part in history, giving
birth also to a massive and colossal art, gigantic animals and
giants such as are preserved in our museums, also huge temples.
Rudolph Steiner writes :
"We have seen how the people had to develop little by little,
from generation to generation, from the time of Abraham, so as
to bring forth later as their flower the human being in whom
6']
THE COSMIC CHRIST
could be contained the individuality of Zoroaster. We have seen
how all the qualities peculiar to the Hebrew people, qualities which
had to become more and more intensified in the course of their
descent from one generation to the next, were based entirely on
the principle of physical inheritance. The character of the mission
of the old Hebrew people differed from that of others in that
it had to inherit certain qualities which could only be attained
by physical inheritance and which had gained in intensity from
the oldest generation of the time of Abraham down to Jesus."
Steiner1 goes on to show that the most important of all the old
intermediaries for the incarnation on earth of the Cosmic Christ
was Zoroaster.
" In order that he might become what he was to be, at that
time a body had to be prepared containing an extract of what
had been given to a whole people, a people who had to give to
humanity the qualities which can only be communicated through
physical inheritance. The most essential thing in the Hebrew
people was the duty of developing in successive generations from
father to son those qualities which had to be inherited in a con-
tinually increasing form till they finally appeared in their highest
and best form in the body which was derived by inheritance from
Abraham and Solomon, and which was finally occupied by
Zoroaster. We have a great deal more to learn before we shall
be able to understand the full mission of the old Hebrew people.
This necessitates that we should learn how the qualities needed
for the body of Jesus were more and more ennobled in the course
of the descent from generation to generation. It had to be made
as perfect as possible for the fulfilment of its world historical
mission, for that mission which could only be carried out if all
that pertained to the body of the Solomon-Jesus Being was as
perfect as possible in itself as regards these qualities."
The Prophet Daniel was the vital thread that carried on the
Zoroastrian teachings after the translation of the Iranian Seer,
and students should study carefully-with its Messianic prophecy
of the investiture of the Son of Man with dominion over the
earth-the Seventh Chapter of Daniel. These last chapters,
written in the first year of Belshazzar's reign, are descriptive of
1 "The Christ Impulse and the development of the Ego-consciousness"
68
THE STAR OF THE EAST
what may be termed the earthly career of the Cosmic Christ and
His physical ancestry and dominion over the earth. Lest the
student should be puzzled over the identity of One, "The Ancient
of days", Who has mystified so many, we may state that advanced
occultism identifies "The Ancient of Days" with "The Lord of
the World". We give the explanation of one who is a great
Bible student but not an occultist, the Rev. Pascoe Goard.1
" What a beautiful name this is. Who is this and why is
He so-called? Let us observe closely that this Daniel literature
was written in a strange land and for the information of a stranger
people. Therefore the name Jehovah is not mentioned. God is
referred to as the most high, as the God of my fathers, as the
God of Heaven, but not as Jehovah. The Jehovah name was
not used by Daniel at the Court of the Babylonian and Persian
Monarchs. 'The Ancient of days' is another descriptive title for
Jehovah, the God and King of Israel. He declares ' I am the
first and with the last.' That is to say, He created and formed
Israel, as we read most clearly in the Isaiah literature. He was
literally El Shaddai, the Father God of Israel. He travelled all
the pathway of the ages with Israel, never for a moment separating
His Presence from them; although the manifestation of that
Presence was for a period withdrawn, He is still with the last
of them at the end. None other has been with Israel for more
than a generation of human life, for all others have been men
and mortal. He has been with them from the beginning, there-
fore He is called 'The Ancient of Days'."
Daniel writes :
" I saw in the night visions and, behold, one like the Son of
Man came with the clouds of heaven and came to 'The Ancient
of days', and they brought him near before him.
"And there was given him dominion and glory and a kingdom."
The Son of Man was brought before "The Ancient of days"
to be invested with "dominion and glory and a kingdom".
This is the King of David's line Who is to be invested with
the supreme kingly authority on earth. "His dominion is an
everlasting dominion which will not pass away and His kingdom
that which shall not be destroyed".
\ "National Message and Banner", l9th June, 19.19
THE COSMIC CHRIST
\\"hy this latter form of expression regarding the kingdom?
"His kingdom that which shall not be destroyed". It is manifestly
a reference to the setting up of that kingdom by the God of
Heaven referred to in Daniel, Second Chapter : " And in the days
of these kings shall the God of Heaven set up a kingdom which
shall never be destroyed. . . ."
The Son of Man shall be invested by "The Ancient of days"
with the kingdom which the God of Heaven set up "in the days
of these kings".
In this connection it is well to remember that "these kings"
are listed and numbered so that there shall be no error.
It is at the close of the fourth kingdom that "The Ancient of
days" comes. He gives to the Son of man a kingdom, "and His
kingdom that which shall not be destroyed".
The Angel Gabriel tells to Mary what that kingdom is and
who shall receive it.
" God shall give unto Him the throne. of His father, David,
and He shall rule over the House of Jacob for ever, and of
His kingdom there shall be no end."
Jesus, speaking of this matter, said : " A certain nobleman
went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and
to return."
We take th;s to refer to the Son of Man : the physical
embodiment of the Cosmic Christ through Zoroaster, Abraham,
David or Solomon, Jesus of Nazareth.
Occultists would not say that the Being brought before "The
Ancient of days" or "Lord of the World" was God or Christ.
They would read the vision to refer to Zoroaster, who was
designed to be the Son of Man, Jesus, who rendered up his body
to the Christ. Let it be remembered that Daniel was a strong
follower of Zoroaster and an advanced occultist. It is inconceivable
that he would credit a vision which placed God or Christ before
"The Ancient of days" to be invested. Even so as great
a Being as "The Lord of the WorldH is hut a servant of the
Absolute.
If what we might term the lack of morality in Solomon causes
the Jesus genealogy to seem strange, let us remember that individual
human beings at a definite stage of their evolution do not always
70
THE STAR OF THE EAST
display in their outer life the germs of qualities they are to transmit
to their descendants. Great men have great faults, perhaps because
of the great forces latent within them.
Though the children of Israel were oppressed and afflicted by
the fierce Chaldean and Assyrian kings, yet they were never
destroyed, and there arose up in their midst the great Isaiah,
Ezekiel and Daniel. The Chaldean priests and Magi, preaching
the Zoroastrian tradition, gave to the Hebrew religion much of
their wisdom and cosmogonal data.
The Magi were those who studied that divine science which
leads to a participation in the attributes of Divinity Itself. Magic
is based on the innner powers in man's soul. It is occult
psychology. The Magi learned to work from the heart and to
manipulate that energy which streams from the Heart of the
Spiritual Sun. In old days they were essentially Christ's servants
and Christ-ened men.
We read that Nebuchadnezzar made Daniel "Chief of the
governors over all the wise men (magi) of Babylon", and his
influence over the Jewish people carries with it the ineffaceable
Zoroastrian imprint.
For over three thousand years the priesthood had been power-
less to restrain kingly ferocity. In amazement they beheld the
taming by Daniel of the tyranny of Nebuchadnezzar.
They had heard the prediction of the fall of Babylon. They
recalled the death of Belshazzar and the writing on the wall.· " In
that night was Belshazzar, King of the Chaldeans, slain, and
Darius the Median took the Kingdom."
He set the Prophet above "the presidents and princes because
an excellent spirit (Zoroastrian 'good thought') was in him, and
the King sought to set him over the whole realm."
It was after the ordeal of the den of lions that Darius wrote:
" I make a decree that in every dominion of my kingdom men
tremble and fear before the God of Daniel, for He is the living
God and steadfast for ever, and His kingdom that which shall
not be destroyed, and His dominion shall be ever unto the end."
So "Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius and in the reign of
Cyrus the Persian".
THE COSMIC CHRIST
The ancient Iranian language called Old Persian comes to us
from the wonderful rock inscriptions of the Ach~menian kings
of Persia, and especially the great one of Darius I at Behistun.
On this Darius tells the history of his campaigns with constant
reference to the deep religious faith that sustained him.
Darius concentrated his creed in the following lines:
" A great God is Ahura-Mazda who created this earth, who
created yon heaven, who created man, who created welfare for
man, who made Darius King, one King of many, one Lord of
many " (Elvend inscription).
Under the reign of the great Darius, the Aryan aristocracy and
Zoroastrianism flourished, Ahura-Mazda, greatest of gods, was
worshipped, and the Magi were firmly established as a sacred
caste.
The Mohammedan extension of the seventh century drove out
the depositaries of the traditions from their ancient haunts. When
fanatical hordes of savage Arabs, disciples of a prophet of a different
order to Zoroaster, swept over Persia, the larger part of the Avesta
was lost, and about twelve hundred years ago a party of exiles
landed in India on the Gujarat coast and were hospitably received
by the Rajah. They were the Pilgrim fathers of Zoroastrianism,
and to-day they are represented by the Parsis who have produced
many notable men and women. Zoroaster House has just been
opened in London as a meeting-place for all followers of the
Iranian sage from East and West.
We will now turn back to the pure and simple teaching of
Zoroaster, as set forth in the Gathas or hymns which form the
central part of the Avesta, and we will quote from "The treasure
of the Magi", a study of modern Zoroastrianism, by the late
Professor J. Hope Moulton, one. of our greatest Orientalists, who
has given us a book of unique interest.
In I9I7 the ship in which he was returning to England was
torpedoed in the Gulf of Lions. Dr. Moulton was one of
twenty-five souls who escaped in a boat, which, owing to storm,
only reached Corsica after four days' buffeting, but of the twenty-
five souls God called twelve, amongst them Dr. Moulton, before
land was sighted. A few days previously he had written:
" Only He can know whether service here or service yonder is
72
THE STAR OF THE EAST
better for any individual for the supreme interests of His
Kingdom...
A mere handful of men exist who are competent to deal with
the Zend-Avesta.
Zoroaster taught the doctrine of Personal Immortality which
the Prophet did not invent and a momentous step is taken in the
history of religion. . . . This doctrine may have been in the
revelation of Sinai; it was a thousand years after Zoroaster when
Jesus drew the inference for the first time.
Side by side with the ethical rewards and punishments for the
individual stands unshakable optimism. If God is just and
Almighty He cannot tolerate the victory of wrong except as a
means towards a greater triumph of right.... " If God is just
and Almighty . . ." and how did Zoroaster know that? Whence
did the Sage of Iran receive his axiom in an age when men had
not even realized the preliminary doctrine that God is one? How
did his conviction of God's justice and omnipotence come to him?
No one can now say. Zoroaster taught that everything pouring
out from the Sun into Cosmic space came from the great
Hierarchies centred in the Sun and was ascribed by Zoroaster
to the Spirit Ahura-Mazda or Ormuzd. Steiner says: " That
Spirit who carried the forces of His Being from the centre point
of the Sun into the periphery was everywhere opposed to the
abnormal spirits of the different Hierarchies, which in their
totality form the kingdom of Ariman. Zoroaster pointed out the
connection of the Light of Ormuzd streaming from the Sun and
the kingdom of Ahriman embedded within it. That which is
hurled against the light in opposition he represents as darkness.
The individual light imprisoned within is darkness." The
essence of the Zoroastrian Initiation was that the connection
between the earthly part of man and the sun life was revealed.
Two fine stanzas may be quoted :
" He that in the beginning thus thought, ' Let the blessed
realms be filled with lights,' he it is that by his wisdom created
Right. Those realms that the Best thought shall possess thou
dost glorify, Mazda, by thy Spirit, which, 0 Ahura, is ever more
the same.
"I conceive of thee, 0 Mazda, in my thoughts that thou the
73
THE COSMIC CHRIST
First art also the Last, that thou art Father of Good Thought,
for thus I apprehend thee with mine eye, that thou
didst truly create Right, and art the Lord to judge the actions of
life."
There is c1 very striking parallelism throughout, in that "Good
Thought", like "Spirit", is found in men-the Divine within us.
The theological implications are too obvious to need stating.
Truth, Order, Right, the Reign of Law-such a conception of
God's Being is not likely to be under-valued by those whose
Theology has been drawn from the New Testament and illumin-
ated by modern scientific discovery. "Good thought" reminds us
of the Logos idea, coming nearer indeed to the Christian doctrine
of the spirit of God. That "dominion" belongs to God and is
to be realized at the end of all things when His victory is com-
plete is, of course, a fundamental principle of Zoroaster and of
Jesus. Piety, Salvation, and Immortality are gifts of God, but
He always gives Himself.
We will now briefly consider Zoroaster's doctrine of evil and
see how far he is open to the charge of Dualism. Much turns
on our understanding of one of his great passages.
" Now the two primal spirits, who reveal themselves in vision
as Twins, are the Better and the Bad in thought, word, and
action. And between these two the wise ones choose aright, the
foolish not so. And when these twain spirits came together in
the beginning they established Life and not Life, and that at
the last the worst existence shall be to the follow·ers of the Lie,
but the Best Thought to him that follows Right. Of these twain
spirits he that followed the Lie chose doing the worst thing,
the holiest spirit chose Right, he that clothes him with the massy
heavens as a garment. So likewise they that are fain to please
Ahura-Mazda by dutiful actions."
We may take the "Twins" as a spiritual metaphor. What is
probably conceived of it the logical eternity of Good and Evil
as an obverse and reverse which cannot be conceived of apart.
Zoroaster is manifestly concerned here with the tremendous fact
of choice. Free will is the pivot of his whole theology.
"When thou, Mazda, in the beginning did'-st create beings
and men's selves by thy thought, and intelligences, when thou
74
niE STAR OF niE EAST
didst make life clothed with body, when thou madest actions and
teachings whereby one may exercise choice at one's free will."
By far the most fundamental doctrine of Zoroaster's is that
which takes us down to the springs of action and makes Thought
of equal importance with Word and Deed-of greater import-
ance we should say, since Good Thought is enthroned where Good
Word and Deed do not appear.
Let us note that this great Prophet, dated by Pliny at one
thousand years before Moses, is here preaching what we: call to-day
"New Thought." " Thoughts are things." " How to discipline
Thought." " Thought Control." " Thought the Foundation."
We: are to-day only beginning to learn that Good Thought pro-
duces good words and actions and Bad Thoughts the reverse.
This is a fine example of how the Cosmic Christ teaches us
from one age to another. Each one of His great Messengers
gives supreme emphasis to one particular facet in the great jewel
of divine Life.
Centuries pass, the great fundamental gets dim with age,
when, lo f the divine workers who watch over us send forth a
fresh Christ-impulse to be caught up by the ready. Zoroaster
condemned violence and cruelty, arrogance, and above all, false-
hood. His great triad is Thought, Word, Deed.
Zoroaster spoke of "seeing the Sun at midnight", meaning by
this that when not looking at the physical sun one might see
the beings associated with the Sun that work into the physical
body the forces from the sun that build the different portions of
the human brain. The sun forces work upon the complicated
lobe structures of the brain behind the human face. " Amshas-
pands" is the name Zoroaster gave his pupils for these beings.
The Amshaspands are the beings who arouse the cosmic forces so
that the human brain could come into being and also the upper-
most nerves of the spinal cord with the exception of the lower
twenty-eight pairs of nerves. Further, he showed that from twenty-
eight groups of entities "Izods" proceed currents which construct
the spinal cord with its twenty-eight lower pairs of nerve strands.
The physical and etheric bodies are thus built up from currents
which proceed from cosmic beings.
We now reach a point which to us is of supreme importance.
75
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Have we anything in Zoroaster's words to support esoteric teach-
ing and tradition, both of which affirm that he was eventually
destined to furnish a physical body for the Cosmic Christ? Had
the great Prophet any knowledge of the great destiny awaiting
him?
He teaches of "The Bridge of the Separator". The separation
between the good and the bad is done before the Bridge is
passed.
Zoroaster promises his people to recount their wrongs in
Paradise:
"Before him who shall separate the wise and the unwise
through Right, his prudent counsellor, even Ahura-Mazda."
He is to act himself as his people's advocate at the Judgement,
and he is himself to be their guide across the Bridge.
" Those whom I impel to your adoration, with all these will
I cross the Bridge of the Separator."
There is a still more exalted function for him:
"The action, the word, and the worship by which I will give
for thee Immortality and Right, 0 Ahura-Mazda, and the
dominion of Welfare."
He will be judge at the last by the message he gives; the
thought is like that of John xii, 28. There is a sacred formula
in Kathie dialect, in which the community declares that Zoroaster
is to be both Lord and Judge hereafter. It is explicitly stated in
another verse :
" If by reason of these things the better part is not in sight
for the soul, then will I come to you all as the judge of the
parties twain, whoni Ahura-Mazda knoweth that we may live
according to the Right.
"Mazda, who will be Lord at the resurrection, appoints the
Prophet to be Judge."
. We read also of an Angel of Judgement, "followed by
treasure-laden Destiny (Karma) who shall render to men severally
the destinies of the two-fold award."
By his teaching of the truth Zoroaster clearly claims to be
amongst "those who will deliver".
" Let the revelation of Good Thought be confirmed unto me,
the future deliverer should know how his own destiny shall be.
76
THE STAR OF THE EAST
" Then let them seek the pleasure of Mazda . . . making
straight the paths for the Ieligion of the future deliverer which
Ahura ordained.
"Teach us that way of Good Thought, 0 Ahura~Mazda, of
which thou didst speak to me, whereon, a way well made by
Right the selves of the future deliverers shall pass to the reward
that was prepared for the wise, of whic.h thou art determinant,
0 Mazda.
" So may we be those that make this world advance.
"Let the helper hear the ordinances, he that is created to bring
deliverance".
After the passing of Zoroaster there is a long strange silence.
During a dozen centuries his footsteps are lost in the sands of
time.
Dr. Spooner makes an interesting suggestion which orientalists
accept as extremely probable: That Gautama the Buddha was
"The Iranian Monk". Cakya Muni, Gautama's title, is regarded
as "Iranian Silentiary", and Zoro:tster was said to have been a
Silentiary Monk for years.
The Buddha's special mis~ion brought to men the doctrine
of compassion and love. He lived in the fifth to the sixth century
before our era. For those who have no belief in reincarnation,
the dates of these two sublime teachers require some adjustment.
Of Zoroaster it can be said that pointing to the Sun he spoke
to his followers in words such as these : " In the sun there lives
the great Spirit Ahura~Mazda, Who will one day come down
to earth." " For the beings out of the region of the Archangels
who guided Zoroaster pointed to the great Sun~leader who had
not at that time come down upon e:uth but had only begun
His journey thither, iri order later on to enter directly into the
earth evolution." So writes that great seer, Rudolph Steiner.
We will close by quoting Moulton's beautiful reference to the
coming of the Zoroastrian priests-the Magi-to the birthplace
of Jesus of Nazareth, Whom they associated so closely with their
Christ-ensouled leader Zoroaster, the Prophet of Iran.
Dr. James Hope Moulton was asked by the Indian National
Council of the Y.M.C.A. to go to India in order that he might
77
THE COSMIC CHRIST
use his ripe Iranian scholarship in lecturing to the Parsis on
Zoroastrianism. He received from that community everywhere
proofs of the warmest possible friendship. In Bombay they placed
at his disposal a large theatre and have since published his lectures
in both English and Gujarati.
Why did the Y.M.C.A. invite a church of England clergyman
to lecture on the religion of Zoroaster to the Parsis? Firstly
because Zoroaster preached a perfectly pure faith and proclaimed
the coming Christ.
Secondly, because the Parsis, claiming to be Zoroastrians, had
fallen from the pure faith, and required to be reminded that the
proclaimed Christ of Zoroaster actually came two thousand years
ago, and is now with us. There is no strai~hter road the missioner
can take to Christ than through Zoroaster.
To us this is doubly natural, as we believe ~hat the Cosmic
Christ, the lofty Sun Spirit, appeared in the human form of the
great Iranian Prophet to give to humanity the great ideal for
human life on earth.
Few people amid the congregations assembled in Europe's
churches at Christmas to listen to the story of the coming of
the Magi, have any idea who the Magi were. Such details the
pulpits do not deal with, yet how interesting they make the Christ
story.
James Hope Moulton, a truly Christ-ened soul, wrote as follows :
"Nineteen hundred years ago, according to a story that is lov·
ingly repeated all over the world every Christmastide, a company
of Ea~tern priests found the goal of a long journey in the Holy
City. ~Far away in Media, it may be, as they watched the skies
for tokens of the future which they believed to be written therein,
they had seen a star their practised eyes discerned to be new. It
was the Angel of some great one newly born. In visions of the
night it was expounded to them that they should seek a king
in Jerusalem and offer treasure in worship. Directed thence by
the interpreters of prophecy, they set forth on the south road when
the night fell, and the star rose as they started and moved to
its low culmination, so that as they drew near to the hill on which
was the City of David they saw it hang like a golden lamp over
the place where their Saoshyant, the 'Future Saviour' lay. And
78
THE STAR OF THE EAST
so they entered in and did reverence before the manger over which
their eyes seemed to see the Glory that was lost when the first
man sinned. They gave Him gifts of their own country's treasure.
But it was not material gold, and frankincense, and myrrh, that
the Angels saw as the Magi opened their caskets. They saw the
pure gold of a great Prophet's unshakable faith in God-the frag-
rant incense of his powerful prayer-the myrrh of self-denial and
upward striving that sought to provide an anodyne for the woes
of men. And in this-the purest offering that the Gentile world
had to give-they recognized a divine manifestation that in every
nation he that feareth God and worketh righteousness is acceptable
to Him.
"Nineteen hundred years ago--and still there are Magi minister-
ing before the sacred fire, and chanting the same hymns that were
hoary with antiquity even when their ancestors chanted them every
sunrise as they travelled towards Bethlehem. But very few indeed,
priests or people, have set foot on that pilgrim road. Like the
Jews, though with more excuse, they missed their Saviour when
He came, and languidly they look for another who may come
some day. Forgetful of their Prophet who longed 'to convert all
living men' to his high views of God and of duty, they cling to
caste privileges, and a justifiable pride in their small, well educated,
and progressive community. But the gold of pure faith is dim
with incrustations of ceremonial and materialist indifference to
religion. The incense is stale, the myrrh has only availed to dull
the smart of sin. The fire may burn enthroned and crowned and
venerated in shrines that none but a born Parsi can enter, but
where it should kindle in men's hearts it flickers and burns low.
Yet the treasure is there still, and when they shall turn to the Lord
the veil shall be taken away. We hear Zoroaster's own vo1ce
calling upon his forgetful people to learn a new song.
'' See how fmm far upon the eastern road
The star-led wizards haste with odours sweet;
0 run, prevent them with their humble ode,
And lay it lowly at His blessed feet;
Have thou the honour first thy Lord to greet,
And jom thy voice unto the angel quire,
From out His secret altar touched with hallowed fire. ••
79
CHAPTilt v
CHINA AND THE TAO
Wr. will now turn our attention to some of the earliest activities
of the Cosmic Christ in other parts of the world. Though our
Bible means so much to us we must remember how narrow is
the ground it covers, and that it is mainly a history of the Jews
into which nationality Jesus of Nazareth was born.
Early religion in China is prehistoric, but there is evidence of
the worship of God in heaven and spirits on earth inhabiting all
nature. About 2,000 to 3,ooo years B.c. there flourished a great
Chinese civilization, the traces of which remain in the exquisite
handicraft of the Celestials and a tradition of lofty intellectual
attainment.
As this exalted faith began to show signs of decay, the Solar
Logos of our system sent a divine messenger named Laotzu, a
man of extraordinary lovableness and attractiveness, which all
his students instantly experience. In studying his life and teach-
ings the mystic instantly recognizes an immanence, a stirring of
the spiritual depths, which they can only explain as being a proof
that Laotzu was profoundly Christ-ensouled.
Dwight Goddard and Henri Borel write of him thus :
" An interesting fact in regard to the thought of Laotzu is
this : Although for two thousand years he has been misunder-
stood and derided, to-day the very best of scientific and philo-
sophic thought which gathers about what is known as Vitalism,
is in full accord with Laotzu's idea of the Tao. Every reference
that is made to-day to a cosmic urge, vital impulse, and creative
principle, can be said of the Tao. Everything that can be said
of Plato's Ideas and Forms and of Cosmic Love as being the
creative expression of God, can be said of the Tao. When
8o
CHINA AND THE TAO
Christian scholars came to translate the Logos of St. John, they
were satisfied to use the word Tao."
What is the Tao?
Let us quote Laotzu's own words:
"There is no beginning or end to the Tao. The Tao cannot
be heard; what can be heard is not It. The Tao cannot be
seen; what can he seen is not It. The Tao cannot be expressed
in words; what can be expressed in words is not It. Do we
know the formless which gives form to form? In the same way
the Tao does not admit of being named.
"The great Tao has no bodily form, but It produces and
nourishes heaven and earth. The great Tao has no passions, but
It causeth the sun and moon to revolve as .they do. The great
Tao has no name, but It affects the growth and maintenance of
all things. I do not know Its name, but I make an effort, and
call It the Tao."
To translate the word Tao is almost impossible. Approxima-
tions are "Nature, Way, the fundamental reality of the universe".
Westerners would call it God.
Laotzu is supposed to have been born 6o4 B.c. Whilst the
second I5'1.iah was preaching his radiant promises, Laotzu was
preaching the Sermon on the Mount, and Buddha, otherwise
known as Siddartha, "The understanding that comprehends air",
was preaching ir.. India reincarnation and Nirvana (absorption in
the Divine), a religion palpitating with love for all, a life one with
universal intelligence and cosmic consciousness. Zoroaster was
also in Persia, preparing for that terrific ensoulment awaiting
him on the Jordan. Laotzu belonged to that wonderful period
when the Cosmic Christ was speeding forth a mighty new impulse
which was to herald His coming.
Laotzu held the position of custodian of the secret archives
of the State of Chew. We have two hundred and forty-eight
Chinese words written by him and given out five hundred years
after his death. The Tao, the Bible of the Taoist religion, is
attributed to him, though some students say it was compiled
after his death.
As we would naturally expect from a Christ messenger, one
who was preparing the way of the Lord, Laotzu's teaching is in
8x
F
THE COSMIC CHRIST
accordance with the Mighty One of Nazareth. It will be seen
in the few translations to follow that they at once call to mind
the teachings of the New Testament.
Two thousand years previously there had ruled over China a
divine King whose name has come down to the present day as
"The Yellow Emperor". Nothing is known of his rule, but he
is supposed to have given the name "The Celestials" to his people.
He is said to have founded a civilization of high perfection in
which all the objects in coll)mon, everyday use were exquisite.
The Kingdom of China in ·those days was one great temple of
art and beauty: now it has sunk to its lowest ebb, whilst the
whole of its vast surface is undergoing transformation.
Here are a few excerpts from the philosophy of Laotzu :
" He who knows the Tao does not care to speak about it.
He who is ever re<t'tly to speak about it does not know it.
"These two things, the spiritual and the material, though we
call them by different names in their origin, are one and the
same.
" It is the way of Heaven not to strive, and yet it knows how
to overcome; not to speak, and yet it knows how to gain a
response; it calls not, and things come of themselves; it is slow
to move but excellent in its designs.
" Cast off your holiness; rid yourselves of sagacity, and the
people will benefit a hundredfold. Renounce your schemihg and
abandon gain, and thieves and robbers will disappear.
" If you would take, you must first give. Those who know
do not speak, those who speak do not know.
" Do nothing by self-will, but rather conform to the Infinite
Will, and everything shall be done for you.
" All things in nature work silently. They come into being
and possess nothing. They fulfil their functions and make no
claim. He that is empty shall be filled. He that is worn out
shall be renewed. He who has little shall succeed. He who has
much shall go astray.
" He who, conscious of being strong, is content to be weak,
he shall be the paragon of mankind. Being the paragon of man-
kind, virtue will never desert him. He returns to the state of
a little child.
CHINA AND THE TAO
" He who is great must make humility his base. He who is
high must make lowliness his foundation.
" Be gentle and you can be bold; be frugal and you can he
liberal. Avoid putting yourself before others, and you can become
a leader of men.
"The best soldiers are not warlike. The best fighters do not
lose their tempers. · The greatest conquerors are those who over-
come their enemies without strife.
" He who strives his utmost after tenderness can became even
as a little child.
" Amongst men reject none. Amongst things reject nothing.
This is called comprehensive intelligence.
"To rest in weakness is strength. The mind directing the body
is called strength. To the good I would be good. To the not
good I would also be good in order to make them good.
" Requite injury with kindness.
" The Sage never affects to do anything great, and therefore he
is able to achieve great results. Use the light that is in you to
revert to the natural clearness of sight. Then the loss of the body
is unattended with calamity. True words are not fine; fine words
are not true.
" Birth is not a beginning; death is not an end."
We would draw special attention to the words "Use the light
that is in you'' as betokening a knowledge of the Divine indwelling
Christ Spirit.
Becoming as little children as a desirable state to be attained
is typically Christian. It will be seen that whilst the outward
forms of the sacred writings of the world are various, the inward
sense of all is the same.
James Freeman Clarke puts it clearly:
"From those and similar statements it would appear that
the philosophy of the Tao is that of Absolute being or the identity
of being and not being. In this point it anticipated Hegel by
twenty-three centuries. It teaches that the Absolute is the source
of being and not being Qust as Zoroaster's Ahura-Mazda is that of
Spenta Mynuish and Angro-Mynuish). Being is essence, not being
is existence. The first is the neumenal, the last the phenomenal."
" On the positive side," writes Dr. Martin, " the thought of
83
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Laotzu was that a man should aim to possess that inward deep
morality of the Spirit which makes him indifferent to rules and
spontaneously guides him to what is right. Just as Jesus in His
discussion with the lawyer took the ground that he who has
the spirit of love to God and love to man in his heart has that
out of which all good actions will spontaneously flow, so Laotzu
held that there is in every man the Tao, th«~ divine spirit which
has its counterpart in the external world as the basis of nature's
order and harmony, and in devotion to which the incomplete
achieves completion, and the ideal of perfection, realization."
"Tao is the sense of heaven and earth. One begat two" (the
Father and the Son). "Two begat Three" (Father, Son, and Holy
Spirit). " Three begat millions. And Millions return again int(l
One."
There we have the Divine Trinity and creation in a few words
dated centuries before the British Bible was collected together.
Like the great One who came after, Laotzu "was despised and
rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief'.
He told himself that "to withdraw into obscurity is the way to
heaven", and he made up his mind to disappear off the face of
the earth.
He reached the frontier, and the Captain of the garrison
arrested the old man and ordered him to write out his philosophy
before going forth into the unknown.
Laotzu undertook the task demanded of him, and wrote the
book which is the whole Taoist religion.
Being liberated, the aged messenger of Christ walked out
through the gates and was nevei: seen again.
Probably he knew The Way.
Again, like the great One who was his follower, his memory
was revived after a long forgetfulness, save for a handful of
disciples who treasured his memory and lived by his faith.
To-day he is worshipped with sacrifices throughout the land
of China, and the priesthood have spun a dense grey web over
his Christhood.
Confucius or K'ung the Master.
The educated man of to-day, if asked what he knows of
84
CHINA AND THE TAO
Confucius, would probably reply : " He was the first teacher to
give us the Golden Rule."
Certainly he was the first known master to do so. Hillel,
president of Jerusalem about 30 B.c., said: "Whatever is not
pleasant unto thee do not unto thy fellow men. This is the
substance of the law and the prophets; all the rest is but com·
mentary thereon. Go and reflect on it." (Talmud.) Hillel died
when Jesus was about ten years old.
Here is a translation given by Allen Upward:
Asked about perfect virtue, the Master, Confucius, answered:
" It is, when you go abroad, to behave to everyone as if you
were receiving a great guest, to employ the people as if you
were assisting at a great sacrifice, not to do to others as you would
not wish do12e to yourself, to have no murmuring against you in
the country and none in the family."
The date of birth of Confucius is given as 551 B.c., and it is
certain that he knew the venerable Laotzu. Their teachings,
though on one lofty level, were different. Laotzu gives the impres.
sion of a far deeper spirituality and direct divine inspiration;
Confucius was more concerned in China's mighty past, in reviving
the work of her old sages, and he invariably placed deeds before
words.
Though born poor and forced at first to earn his living as a
government official, he was by birth an aristocrat, and his descent
has been traced to the famous Yellow Emperor who, two thousand
years previously, had established the Chinese era of marvellous
attainments. He was related to the ducal house that was then
in power, and he might have risen to high social position had
he not refused to countenance behaviour he considered to be
wrong.
Much of his teaching is on good statesmanship, and his mind
was essentially that of a statesman, though he lived the life of
a poor missioner after resigning his government post.
Like his Christ Master, he had no home, but to.day he is deified
with two thousand temples to his worship. His influence over
China is as the Christ influence here. Of himself he announced
that he was no founder of a faith, but only a transmitter. His
chief delight was in reviving the literary achievements of his
ss
THE COSMIC CHRIST
country'·s great past, and he wrote but little himself, saymg: " I
am come not to destroy but to preserve."
Luckily, his great disciple, Mencius, spread his teachings
widely, though many years after his death.
We will quote some of the sayings of Confucius :
" I am not one who was born in the possession of know~
ledge: I am one who is fond of antiquity and earnest in study."
When asked what his wishes were, he replied:
" In regard to the aged, to give them rest. In regard to friends,
to show them sincerity. In regard to the young, to treat them
tenderly."
Confucius rarely addressed his followers, and when pressed
to do so, he retorted :
".Does heaven speak? The four seasons pursue their courses,
and all things are produced, but does heaven say anything?"
The following are some of the Master's teachings on government
which to us to-day read like a council of perfection:
" Let there be sufficiency of food, sufficiency of military equip-
ment, and the confidence of the people in their ruler."
A disciple asked : " If it cannot be helped, and one of these
must be dispensed with, which of the three should be forgone
first?"
The Master answered :
"The military equipment."
The disciple again asked: " If it cannot be helped, and one
of the remaining two must be dispensed with, which of them
should be forgone ?''
The Master answered :
" Part with food. From of old death has been the lot of all
men, but if the people have no faith there is no stability."
Asked about government, the Master said:
" To govern means to rectify. If you lead with correctness,
who will dare not to be wrrect? Let your desires be good, and
the people will be good. The relations between superiors and
inferiors is like that between the wind and the grass. The grass
must bend when the wind blows across it."
A disciple asked in what way should one act 10 order that
he may govern rightly. The Master answered:
86
CHINA AND THE TAO
"Let him honour the five excellent and banish the four bad
things, then may he govern rightly."
Asked what he meant by the five excellent things, he replied :
"When the person in authority is beneficent without great
expenditure. When he lays tasks on the people without their
repining. When he desires without being covetom. When he
maintains a dignified ease without being proud. When he is
majestic without being fierce."
Asked what he meant by the four bad things, he answered:
" To put the people to death without having instructed them
-this is called cruelty. To require from them suddenly the
full tale of work without having given them warning-this is
called oppression. To issue orders as if without urgency and
when the time comes to insist on them with severity-this is called
injury. And generally speaking to give to men and yet to do
it in a grasping way-this is called acting the part of a mere
official.
" He who exercises government by means of his virtue may
be compared to the north polar star, which keeps its place and
all the stars turn towards it."
Here is one of the Master's sayings that might have been
written for the present day:
"Anciently, men had three failings which now, perhaps, are
not to be found. The high-mindedness of antiquity showed
itself in a disregard of small things. The high-mindedness of
to-day shows itself in wild licence. The stern dignity of antiquity
showed itself in grave reserve. The stern dignity of the present
day shows itself in quarrelsome perverseness. The stupidity of
antiquity showed itself in straightforwardness. The stupidity of
the present day shows itself in deceit."
How interesting and instructive it is to read of this sage,
living five hundred years before Christ came to Palestine, yet
speaking to his followers of "antiquity".
Antiquity must have meant to a man of his mental calibre and
spiritual status an age lying very far back in the womb of time.
It helps us to realize what vast ages have passed in our evolution,
and how many great civilizations arose and crumbled, leaving little
or no trace of their existence.
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Those who left their records graven on stone must in future
survive for millenniums after our paper records are dust.
Here is a delightful remark applicable to to-day :
"Hard is the case of him who will stuff himself with food
the whole day without applying his mind to anything. Are there
not gamesters and chess players? To be one of these would
still be better than doing nothing at all.
" Hold faithfulness and sincerity as first principles.
" When you have faults do not fear to abandon them.
" Let the will be set on the path of duty. Let every attain~
ment in what is good be firmly grasped. Let perfect virtue be
accorded with. Let relaxation and enjoyment be found in the
polite arts.
" When a country is well governed, poverty and a mean condi~
tion are things to be ashamed of. When a country is ill governed,
riches and honour are things to be ashamed of."
.._
Confucius laid down to his disciples the dictum that they should
"recompense injury with justice and return good for good".
Of no ancient sage do we have fuller information than we
possess of Confucius.
He died in 479 B.c., lamenting the failure of his life, but soon
after his death his ardent disciples gathered together his teachings
and doings, and his fame and merit sprang into new life.
Duke Ai caused a temple to be built, where sacrifices and
offerings should be presented to the sage from generation to
generation, and now the law requires that there shall be a temple
to him in every prefecture, su~prefecture, district and market
town, in the land.
Whilst China had an Emperor, it was his custom to go every
year to Pekin to do homage to Confucius: "Ancient teacher,
perfect sage, in virtue equal to heaven and earth, whose doctrines
embrace both time past and time present. Thou didst digest and
transmit the six classics and didst hand down lessons for all
generations."
His lineal representatives rank next to the Imperial House.
China is a country that supports nearly one~third of the human
race, and on an area equal to half that of the United States, a
country with twenty~five hundred miles of coast-line, and three
88
CHINA AND THE TAO
immense river valleys, aggregating six thousand miles: a country
that has witnessed the rise and fall of successive civilizations, the
oldest of which antedates the Pyramids and the Sphinx.
It is a country whose industry is world renowned, and symbol-
ized by the gigantic wall-twelve hundred miles long, twenty-five
feet high, surmounted by a parapet on which six horsemen can
ride abreast. It was built twenty centuries ago, yet its masonry
still commands the admi1ation of the world.
Dr. Alfred Martin writes: "We of the Occident are altogether
too apt to think of the Chinese as a barbarous or semi-civilized
people, remarkable for the peculiar arrangement of their hair,
their yellow skin, and slanting eyes, their opium, debauchery, and
dirt. We forget that China has her centres of culture and refine-
ment, as well as her slums, and that she is no more to be judged
by the denizens of those degr:-~ded districts than is America by
the population of the corresponding quarters of her great cities.
"Let it be remembered that if China has her coolie cooks,
and laundry folk, and salmon canners, she has also her magnificent
men, of the stamp of Li-Hung-Chang, who has immortalized him-
self in the American heart by his touching memorial to General
Grant. Men of the stamp of Minister Wu who fairly electrified
an immense audience in Carnegie Hall by his candid discussion,
in a memorable address, of the relative merits of Confucianism
and Christianity. Men like Prince Pung Kwang Yu, author of
a most scholarly and exhaustive essay on Confucianism read at
the world's Parliament of Religions. Men of the calibre of the
Regent, Prince Ch'un, who, on behalf of the infant Emperor, on
the 2nd of December, 1908, inaugurated a new era in Chinese
history, issuing a decree in his Majesty's name, requiring all his
subjects, on pain of extreme penalty, to assist in the gradual
rehabilitation of the empire.,
For some years China has been working out her destiny in
bitter pain. The disintegration of the old and corrupt is
struggling with the agonizing birth-pangs of a new revelation.
Her old love of peace and desire to remain aloof from other
nations, pride in her ancient title of "The Heavenly Kingdom",
have rendered her unfitted to resist the inevitable encroachment
of evolution.
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Out of the ruin, bloodshed, and misery of the present, a new
life will arise. Her young men have dreamed dreams, and will
become torch·bearers. Out of the present conflicts will emerge
the necessary conditions for the rule of the new race which has
long been evolving out of the old. In the Chinese scriptures it
is written:
" God is the parent of men. He is compassionate and unwearied
in blessing. He inspects kingdoms and makes no mistakes.
Clear-seeing and intelligent, He dwells with men in all their
actions."
Ought it to be a difficult task to unveil the Cosmic Christ in
Chin~? Surely not, for His divine impulse has been poured
out on the land for millenniums. There is yet another religion
in China, the Buddhist, and out of the pure Christ aphorisms of
the thJ"ee-the Tao, Confucianism, and Buddhism-how marvel-
lously the Logos is given forth I
The Persian scriptures ask:
" Have the religions of mankind no common ground? Is
there not everywhere the same enrapturing beauty, beaming forth
from many hidden places? Broad indeed is the carpet which
God has spread, and beautiful the colours He has given it. There
is but one lamp in this house, in the rays of which, wherever I
look, a bright assembly meets me.
"The paths to God are more in number than the breathings of
created beings."
It seems to us that to try to teach China a new religion is a
hopeless and insulting task. China knew Christ millenniums before
we did. He spoke through Laotzu six hundred years before He
came to Palestine, and taught him what he knew of profoundest
wisdom.
" How do I know that the universe is coming to full perfection
through life?
"The witness is in life itself." (Laotzu.)
He gave to Confucius the Golden Rule, and armed with these
few words but little more would be required of any missioner
who was willing to preach the universal Christ, and to make full
confession of the crying need of the West for the same teaching.
No country should seek to coerce or teach another state or
90
CHINA AND THE TAO
people without this understanding. Each has its own national
soul, and should be free to express God in its own way.
The Book of Wisdom says of the Christ:
" I came out of the mouth of the Most High and covered
the earth as a cloud. I dwell in high places, and my Throne is in
a cloudy pillar. I alone compassed the circuit of heaven and
walked in the bottom of the deep. In the waves of the sea
and in all the earth and in every people and nation I got a
possession."
The cruelty of the Chinaman has become a proverb. The
old sacred symbols have grown into priestly monstrosities over
which the eternal peace of the Buddha, "The Blessed One", broods
everlastingly.
The exquisite handicraft of the Chinaman is known and valued
by the whole world. No other nation can approach it. To those
of us who are clairvoyant there is a marvellous revelation to be
obtained by sitting in the silence with an old and exquisitely-
carved figure or chessman held in the hand. All over England,
in great houses and in little abodes of ancient peace tucked away
in a fold of our "green and pleasant land", are to be found
fragments of "The Heavenly Kingdom". "The Celestials" sold
for "a song" a work of art that had taken years to execute, yet
could be carried in a small pocket. The pioneers of our race,
sailors and merchantmen, penetrating into far Cathay, brought
home such treasures in thousands a hundred to two hundred years
ago. To-day they repose in cabinets of Chinese lacquer or under
glass cases. They are so common, no one counts them of much
worth, yet no other nation could reproduce them. Chinese art
is a something quite apart and unique.
It is doubtful if many people trouble to-day to read the news
from China in the daily papers. We 3 re all weary of the civil
war which is rending the country. The rival troops are massed
for battle, but as often as not an unrehearsed fraternization of the
opposing forces averts the clash. It is never safe to take Chinese
wars for granted. Yet, though we can now as a nation take
but a faint interest in these events, they are really of stupendous
int~rest to the whole world. The dissolution of the husk is
liberating the life. China elected to live alone and has produced
91
THE COSlvHC CHRIST
no fruit. She must die to live again in greater strength for the
ultimate benefit of the whole world.
The souls of the nation arc at war with each other. Not
"against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers,
against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual
wickedness in high places". God is manifesting. " In Time's
great revolutions all must pass again into the void from which
they came, until another play He stages for the soul of man".
China's mighty past ensures a mighty reincarnation.
One, and only one, great lesson Britain learned from the Great
War; that was that, after all the agony and bloody sweat, all
the irreparable loss of life and treasure, no one country could
honestly claim victory. We saw the mighty laid low; we saw
thrones fall like ninepins; we saw the flower of the land, high
and low, mown down like grass, and for eleven years it has
been our portion to lie low and lick our wounds.
That is the lesson China is learning now. The utter futility of
war. The cycles of life soar to a giddy height then slowly recede
into a period of brooding quiet, but "as in Adam all die, even
so in Christ shall all be made alive". China is being prepared
for a mighty new unfoldment which will arise over the ash~s of
the West. The new day of the East is approaching.
" Let us adore the supremacy of that spiritual Sun, the God-
head Who illumines all. Who recreates all, from \Vhom all
proceed. To Whom all must return. Whom we invoke to
direct our undertakings aright in our progress towards His holy
seat".
So saith the Hindu Scriptures.
We have said that China has three great religions--Taoism,
Confucianism and Buddhism-and we will say a few words
upon the latter faith, which found its way into China m a
peculiar manner.
About 123 B.C. a celebrated Chinese general penetrated with
his army beyond the borders of Turkestan so far as Baktra.
From thence he brought back to China a golden image of the
Buddha. Later on, about 65 A.D., a mission was sent to discover
its origin.
This mission originated through a dream or vision that came
92
CHINA AND THE TAO
to the Emperor Ming-ti. He saw a golden messenger float through
the palace. The figure was resplendent as the sun and spoke
to the Emperor thus:
" Buddha bids you send to the Western countries to search
for him and to obtain books and images."
The Emperor obeyed the command, and his mission returned
after some years, bringing with them books and images from
the Indian frontier. They were accompanied by two Masters,
Saddharma and Kasyapa Matanga, who began at once· to translate
the Buddhist books into Chinese and to inaugurate the Buddhist
religion.
The worship of Kwan-yin, a development of Buddhism, is
common in China. The "down-looking god", or god of mercy,
is represented as a female with the child upon her knee. The
Chinese everywhere invoke her aid, and she possesses as elaborate
a rirual as does the Blessed Virgin in Europe.
The advent of Buddhism caused a great spiritual activity. Its
fundamental thoughts, its vast hope, the belief in the mercy of
the "all-glorious and ~ternal One", and the promise of rest in
the hereafter, formed the wisdom and piety which may become
incarnate in men. It was expressly taught that Buddha-"the
enlightened one"-was only one in a succession of mighty
teachers: the one who came as His predecessor, the "Rightly
Come". Great order, power and benevolence are leading thoughts
in his system, and there are temples in China called the Great
Benevolence or Loving-kindness temples.
" The man who foolishly does me wrong, to him I will return
the protection of my ungrudging love," says Gautama. " Render
good for evil," says our Bible. The evil principle Buddha called
"The Lord of this World," and the words of the Christ will
be remembered: "The Lord of this World cometh and hath
nothing in Me."
Many foreign teachers came to China, and they all brought
books and translated them, and temples and monasteries sprang
up all over the country. There were intervals of reaction and
persecution, but there was a spiritual activity abroad which had
never before been equalled in the land.
The great Orientalist, Professor Samuel Beal, asks: " What
93
THE COSMIC CHRIST
was the origin of this?" Partly it resulted from an enthusiasm
derived from the foreign teachers, but principally from the system.
The secret of the power of the Buddhist doctrine lies in this,
that it is an utterly unselfish one; it teaches us from Buddha's
example that the greatest good and happiness a man can enjoy
is to do good to others. The thought of self is evil. The love
of others than ourselves is the end of religion.
These thoughts are not Chinese, they are not Indian; they are
universal. They are the Word Which was from the beginning,
and how apt and familiar they are to us who belong to the
modern world of to-day.
" All that we are is the result of what we have thought. It
is founded on our thoughts, it is made up of our thoughts.
If a man speak or act with an evil thought pain follows him
as the wheel foJlows the foot of the ox that draws the carriage."
What are these words, written seven hundred years before
Christ, but the foundation of the great "New thought movement"
flooding our world of to-day?
"As a man thinks so he is. Thoughts are things. Mind
control. The power of thought."
Study circles abound. Lectures pour out by the million, books
are produced by the thousand, and their contents are embodied
in these few words given forth by Buddha. We urge all students
to read, mark, learn and inwardly digest the Dhammapada, which
contains the cream of all the philosophies that have since been
given to the world.
Where, from whence, originates this sublime knowledge?
Professor Beal says: "They must be looked for in that neigh-
bourhood where in the early beginning there was a knowledge
of truth as it came from the Source of Truth, and which, though
dimmed by the accretions of time, still survive to give some faint
light and hope to nations that sat in darkness and under the
shadow of death."
94
CHAPTER VI
ABRAM-CREATOR-FATHER
CllEATOil. Father. That is the meaning of the name Abram,
the Father of a great nation.
Records tell us that from five to ten thousand years ago there
were men living upon our earth of a mental and spiritual altitude
far ·surpassing any man living to-day. The Christs or Divine
Messengers of the pre-Christian ages were many. They passed
away when their missions were fulfiQed as silendy and mysteriously
from the ken of man as Moses from Pisgah.
We will deal in this chapter with the oldest-known great civiliza-
tion that our excavators have as yet unearthed, that of the
Sumerians: a civilization that had done its evolutionary work
and was falling fast into decay when Father Abram was called
out of its fading greatness by Jehovah, in our Bible translated
"The Lord", but Who later on, in the time of Moses, asserts
His one-ness with the Cosmic Christ.
It is well to glance roughly at this mighty civilization governed
by Priest-Kings, as it serves to show us what was going on in the
world thousands of years before our Bible history commences
and how much the Cosmic Christ had by then actually accom-
plished in His spiritual and creative guidance of humanity.
The first chapters of Genesis deal briefly with the first creative
epochs and the propagation of sex as we know it, after which
we are abruptly plunged into quite an advanced state of civiliza-
tion. V..'e read of agriculture, and city buildings, musicians,
performers upon the harp and organ, cattle farming, artificers
in brass and iron, etc., and all this thousands of years before
Abram lived in Ur of the Chaldees or the Flood took place.
Biblical Metallurgy seems to stretch back to earliest times. In
Genesis ii we read of the "land of Havilah, where there is
gold, and the gold of that land is good".
95
THE COSMIC Cl-IRIST
Professor Turner states, in his "Metallurgy of Iron,, that "we
can only conjecture as to the period in which iron was first
extracted from its ores and applied to the use of man". Iron
is reduced to a metallic state from ore. Meteoritic iron is not
found in sufficient quantities to be commercially useful, and
Moses tells us of the "iron furnace", proving that pure iron
was then in use and that in his time civilization was in an
advanced state.
We are far too prone to think of the Bible Patriarchs as
wandering nomads who lived in a semi-savage state, whereas
they lived in an age behind which stretched great Empires, with
stone-built cities and extensive foreign trade. Kingdoms like
that of Sumeria, which was falling fast to ruins as the Babylonian
kingdom superseded it:, but which was known to have derived
its greatness from a former age of progress hidden in the womb
of time.
Who taught primitive man how to mine or quarry iron ore?
Who taught him how to extract the iron from the ore and pre-
pare it for the blast furnace? Can any unprejudiced person assert
that there are men alive to-day clever enough to evolve this know-
ledge, without instruction or hint, out of their own mind stuff?
We assert that in the early dispensation primitive men were
provided with Christ-ensouled teachers, who taught them agricul-
ture, metallurgy, the science of the heavens and the first form
of divine worship, which shows signs of being the future and
last f()rm of divine worship, namely, Sun worship: the giver
and sustainer of all life, the Spiritual Abode of the Solar Logos,
the Cosmic Christ.
We are accustomed to the calm, matter-of-fact manner in which
the early writers speak of their intercourse with Spiritual Beings,
and we desire to emphasize the active personal part the Cosmic
Christ took in the evolutionary progress of His creation and
what a disastrous mistake we make in ignoring the fact that we
also live in the presence of the Divine. No part lives to itself
or dies to itself. If the Christ withdrew His active participation
in our lives everything would lapse into chaos.
In the present time we are very greatly retarded by our
deliberate ignoring of the spiritual side of life in everyday events
96
ABRAM-CREATOR-FATI-lER
and our habit of developing our scientific discoveries in complete
oblivion to their spiritual origin.
Sir J. H. Jeans writes that "everything points with over-
whelming force to a definite event, or series of events, of creation
at some time, or times, not infinitely remote. The universe can-
not have originated by chance out of its present ingredients".
In the ambit of such an authority it is not unreasonable to
ask why we do not follow the way of the Ancients and strive
to regain that close, daily contact with the Creator which obtained
in the days before He incarnated in Palestine. There are not
lacking many who have already done so to their infinite spiritual
and material benefit. Our materialism is costing us very dear
and is, in plain language, rank stupidity. The timid scepticism
of the caveman is out of place in our stage of evolution.
There are those who believe Abram to be a mythical person.
Why should he be mythical?
It is quite obvious to the student that some great entity was
required to lead Ben Israel and that some great being answered
the call, name him what you please. The: man answered and
did his work under the DiviJ1e Spirit of Guidance. Evidence
of history demands a presence such as his, and that presence
we call Abram.
The name Abram comes from the Sanscrit root Brahm,
which means the Creator, and from his descendants, who
were called Ben Israel, sprang· three great religions-]udaism,
Christianity and Islamism.
Abram was the first to bring the knowledge of mysticism
from Egypt, where he was initiated in the most ancient order
of esotericism, which has ever been a possession of the Sufis, the
oldest esoteric school existing.
On his return he chose to establish as a centre the ancient
City of Mekkah, with the idea that some place must be the
world centre, Mekkah being a town held as a sacred place of
pilgrimage long ages before Mohammed's time.
The family of Jesus of Nazareth is traced in the ancient tradi-
tions from the family of Isaac, and Mohammed came from the
family of Ishmael.
9.7
G
THE COSMIC CHRIST
The story of the Great Sacrifice is first given to us in the life
of Abram and his son, Isaac, and was repeated in 1914, when
countless fathers and mothers gave their only sons, a willing and
unquestioning surrender to the ideal of the nation. Abram
gave to us the first lesson in sacrifice, later to be carried out
to the bitter end by the Lamb of God, the only Son of the
Father.
Through the patience of scientific research history is being
thrust farther and farther back into the womb of time. The
excavations in Ur of the Chaldees have brought to light a civiliza-
tion that flourished there several millenniums "before Abram
was" : a civilization that many authorities suspect to have laid
the foundations of Egypt's greatness.
A small book, entitled "The Sumerians", by Leonard Woolley,
tells us much, but not nearly enough of these discoveries. The
book is far too modest in its scope and says nothing of the
glorious and laborious work of its author and his wife. The
discoveries are of the deepest interest to those striving to unveil
the work of the Christ in our world. We will quote from
the author of "The Sumerians" who tells us that :
" By the second millennium B.c. the formula used by Meso-
potamian kings to show that their power extended over the whole
land of the two rivers was 'King of Sumer and Akkad'. It
was about that period and in Ur of the Chaldees that Abram,
father of the Hebrew people, was born. He married his half-
sister, Sarai, and migrated, with his father and a following of
about seven hundred peopie, up the Valley of Haran, in the
north-west of Mesopotamia.
"There Terah, the father, died, and his son, with his nephew,
Lot, obeying a divine command, moved west and east into
Canaan and settled in Sichem.
"From there Abram was driven by famine into Egypt.
Finally he pitched his tents at Mamre, near Hebron, which
continued to be the headquarters of his family and tribe till he
died.
" Jews and Christians alike accept Abram as the type of
perfect faith and true religion, 'The friend of God'. Later, Jews
and Mohammedans select Abram as the incarnation of perfect
98
ABRAM-CREATOR-FATHER
wisdom, and not only the leader and Father of Israel, but the
bearer and teacher of those profound esoteric truths of the Sufis
which he gave to Mekkah and which live to-day in the closely-
guarded Islamic schools. The name Abram means also 'High
Father', and, according to the British Bible, he was the restorer
of the primitive belief in One God."
The late Sufi Master, Inayat Khan, writing of him, says:
"Abram's life does not only make him a Prophet, but a Master
at the same time. He was a mystic; he gave counsel to those
who came to him in need. He examined them, treated their
minds, healed their souls, according to their needs. The most
remarkable thing one notices in him, he lived the life of an
ordinary human being, one with his fellow-men in their times
of pleasure and sorrow.
"The Lord said unto Abram: 'Get thee out of thy country
and from thy kindred and· from thy father's house unto a land
that I will show thee. And I will make of thee a great nation,
.and I will bless thee and make thy name great and thou shah
be a blessing.'
" So Abram departed, as the Lord h.ad spoken to him."
Here we are shown how the Christ chose from out the multi-
tudes of His people a man who was destined and capable of
making important history and who was sufficiently advanced
spiritually to be in· actual communication with his guide and
God. This is a typical example of how the Solar Logos worked
in the world of his fashioning. The Old Testament is rich in
such examples, and for those whose minds are bent on learning
something of their Creator before His incarnation in Palestine
there is no better recorder than our Bible of His constant activities
and actual presence in the midst of His creation.
We have been taught to think of Abram as a primitive
bedouin, though Genesis xiii informs us that he "was very rich
in cattle, in silver and in gold", and it is interesting to learn
what manner of life he presumably lived before he left his native
place and became a tent-dweller.
His existence was that of a sophisticated citizen in a community
which had reached the height of its culture two thousand years
before his birth. We are used to remarking casually, "Christ
99
THE COSMIC CHRIST
lived about two thousand years ago", and we talk of "the time
of Christ, as if we were dealing with ancient history. Here we
are dealing with a Christ activity which took place seven thousand
years ago, the Sumerian civilization, out of which Christ called
His servant Abram at least four thousand years ago. Our
failure to realize the pre-existence of the Christ is a tragic limita-
tion in the mental attitude of to-day.
From the first we discover that the Sumerians were a highly-
civilized people "who derived their culture from an even further
back and, as yet, unknown source". Their oldest historic cities
lay to the extreme south of the Persian Gulf. "This ancient
civilization which has been brought to light throws into insig-
nificance those of Egypt and Greece."
At the time of Abram's departure it had passed its zenith
and was slipping into death, according to the evolutionary decree
which governs the rise and fall of nations when their usefulness
is exhausted. " By 1900 the Sumerian Empire had passed away,
and even the race was fast disappearing, but Abram, living in
Ur, so far from being a primitive bedouin accustomed only to
the wide spaces of the desert and the stern traditions of a nomad
tribe, was the heir of an age-long civilization sharing the complex
life of a great trade centre."
At Harran he would have found the chief worship directed
to Nannar, the Moon God, who was the patron Deity of Ur.
Later ·this God has been identified with Jehovah; one of the
earliest and greatest manifestations of the Cosmic Christ. It is
instructive to note that the mountain on which the Lord pro-
claimed His laws to Israel bore the name of the Moon God,
Sinai, "'The Mount of the Moon God".
There has been much confusion of thought betwixt the Moon
God Jehovah and Lucifer the Light Bringer, Son of the Morning.
The issuos are, however, irrelevant to our subject.
."This picture of Abram as essentially a city-dweller who
only at the Call of God adopted the nomad life gives particular
interest to the discoveries which throw light upon the Ur of his
day.
" In 1900 a.c. many of the buildings erected by the king:
of the Third Dynasty of Ur, who reigned betweeri 2350 ano
100
ABRA~f---CREATOR-FATHER
2330 B.c., were still standing, and those of them which had
been destroyed by the Ebmire invasion, which brought that
Dynasty to a disastrous end, had been· rebuilt by the rulers of
Isin and of Larsa. Fortunately most of the temples in that area
of the city which we have excavated hitherto belong to the one
or to the other of those periods, and we were therefore able to
form a very fair idea from their extant ruins of the background
against which Abram passed his earlier years."
Here is a description which Major Woolley gives of a dwelling-
house such as Abram probably inhabited :
" They were built of brick. Burnt brick for the lower pe~rts
of the walls and mud brick above, the whole plastered and white-
washed and standing two storys high.
"From the entrance one passed through a little lobby, where
was set a jar of water for the washing of feet, into the paved
central court around which the house was built. An outside stair-
case led up to a wooden gallery running round the walls of the
court, from which access was gained to the upper rooms. The
nearly-flat roof of tht" house projected inwards, with wide eaves
to protect the gallery.
" There was a reception-room for guests, servants' qunters
and kitchen; under the stairs was a lavatory with pipes. There
was also a private chapel. In the rooms were chairs and tables
Nith barred legs and ornamental arms. Beds, with string or reed
mattresses stretched on wooden frames, had high head-pieces
elaborately decorated with carvings of flowers, birds or gods.
Clothes were stored in clay or wooden chests. A wealth of
feeding vessels were used, made of clay or copper or, for rich
families, of silver. In such houses as these of twelve or fourteen
rooms a family might live a comfortable and very civilized life,
a material existence quite on a par with the highly·developed
social and intellectual life of the time.
" Whatever might be the father's business, it would be con-
ducted in accordance with a most elaborate system of commercial
laws and precedents. The mother would enjoy a degree of
independence unknown at any later date in the East, and might
be engaged in business on her own account. The sons, in a
school Jttached to one of the temples, would be taught reading,
101
THE COSMIC CHRIST
writing, arithmetic and geometry, and might advance to the higher
sciences of medicine, astrology or law.
"The oldest royal graves of Ur, with their wealth of rich
furniture, are older than the first Dynasty of Egypt.
"The Egyptians traced back their historical beginning to Menes,
before whom came darkness and the demi-gods, and the discoveries
of archzologists have justified their belief. For the Sumerians
their first Dynasty at Ur came at the end of a period of civiliza-
tion whose duration was to be reckoned in thousands of years,
and, though recent excavations have carried us back but a little
way into the legendary period, yet they do substantiate in principle
the Sumerian contention. The graves belong to a civilization
already old, if not decadent."
Since the above was written important new evidence of the
Babylonian tradition dating the Biblical Flood. at about 2000 B.c.
has come to light. There is a breach in the finds which cor-
responds well with the Flood tradition. So far, Major Woolley
has only made preliminary investigations, but he has established
the existence of two similar civilizations which must have been
separated as the result of a catastrophe caused by a flood of quite
unprecedented dimensions. He has also adduced evidence that
indicates a continuity between the civilization which existed before
the Flood and that which succeeded it.
In the pamphlet issued by the British Museum, entitled "1929:
Antiquities of Ur", we read:
"In the King lists" (drawn up by Sumerian scribes about
2100 B.c.) " the Flood is merely noted as an historical fact; in
literature it gave rise to the legend of Uta-Napishtim, who, warned
by a god of the coming disaster, built an ark and embarked
on it with his household and his domestic cattle, and so survived
when the town of Shuruppak, where he lived, and 'all the earth',
i.e., all the Euphrates Valley, were overwhelmed by the waters.
He saw the destruction of his world, then, as the flood began
to abate, sent out a dove, which three times returned, and later
a raven, which, finding foothold in the shallow waters, did not
come back, and at last the ark grounded and Uta-Napishtim came
forth and offered sacrifice to the gods. The story is, in sub-
stance and sometimes in phrasing, reproduced by the Noah
102
ABRAM-CREATOR-FATHER
story in Genesis, which . must go back to the Sumerian
original.
"The figures of 'a ram caught in a thicket' are amongst the most
remarkable objects which the cemetery at Ur has yet produced."
Our thoughts naturally turn to the "Ram caught in a thicket"
w_hich Abram was bidden to sacrifice in place of his son Isaac.
The ram in the Ur exhibits in the British Museum is·a very
beautiful object. The Reece is of shell and lapis lazuli, the legs
of gold, the belly of silver. The animal is "rampant", and marks
on the forelegs show that it was originally chained to the tree
which has leaves of gold and golden trunk and boughs. Other
marks show that the ram bore some object on· its shoulders.
The "Ram caught in the thicket" of Ur antedates the Ram
of Abram by about a thousand years.
Some profound symbolism lies here, but what it is no scientist
can say, though it is impossible to doubt the specific lines upon
which their private thoughts are bound to run.
We give a pure guess at the symbolic meaning.
The tree to which the ram is chained is the Tree of Life.
The ram is known to symbolize perfect strength in creation. It
could break its bonds if it desired to do so. It bore on its back
the cross of sacrifice. Five thousand years ago, in a hymn to
the Unity of God, the Egyptians wrote: "He is Horus of the
living souls, the living God of the generations yet to come. He
is the creator of every animal under His names of Ram of the
sheep, God of the goats, Bull of the cows. . . . He is the God
of those who rest in their graves.,
Osiris-the manifested Christ of the Egyptians-was sym·
bolized as a Ram, and in our symbolism of to-day in many of
our churches we see embroidered a lamb or ram bearing a cross
upon his back. The Lamb of God. We therefore take the
Ram of Ur to symbolize the Cosmic Christ sacrificing Himself
on the Tree of Life.
A thousand years later we read of the Ram of Abram,
which teaches the same lesson : the Sacrifice of the Cosmic Christ
for the salvation of humanity. It seems to us that, from all we
have learned of Sumerian civilization, the Sumerians were well
instructed in this crucial fact in the evolution of the world.
103
THE COSMIC CHRIST
We have not touched upon the Badarian culture south of the
Fayum, said to pre-date dynastic epochs, nor have we touched
upon the Indus civilization, said to be older than Sumer, for
so little is yet known of them. We are told that about 3000 B.c. a
catastrophe overtook the cities of the Indus basin and destroyed
a brilliant people and culture. It must also be remembered that
men were chipping flints and hunting food in parts of England
hundreds of years before the great Ice Age. The maximum date
for the dawn of the Paholithic Age is given at 125000 B.c. At
Abram's time a few wild men were hunting many wild beasts
in Great Britain. They were cave-dwellers of the rudest.
Berossus, writing in the fourth century B.c., describes a race
of monsters, half-man, half-fish, led by a "great One" named
Oannes. He came from the Persian Gulf and, settling in the·
coast towns of Sumer, introduced the arts of writing, agriculture
and metallurgy. " In a word," he declares, "all the things that
make for the amelioration of life were bequeathed to man by
Oanncs, and since that time no further inventions have been
made."
\Vho was this instructor who wore the symbol of the fish
which runs right through Christology up to the present day,
when pious ladies embroider the fish in silk as a church decoration
representing the initials of the Christ? Who was Oannes; from
whence did he come? He is referred to as "the culture god"
who "came out of the Persian Gulf to instruct the people how
to grow cereals and fruit-trees, to build houses and temples and
frame laws, to cultivate the art of letters".
From whom did those people derive their tradition of creation
and the Flood? They could only have been taught in these
e-arly beginnings by divine instructors, manifestations of the Solar
Logos, Christ-ensouled Manus from some ancient world already
far advanced e'er our little earth was objcctivized by the Absolute.
The call of Abram from Ur of the Chaldees was an initial
event of Divine purpose stretching forward to the coming of the
Cosmic Christ to Palestine.
"Your father Abram rejoiced to sec :uy day, and he saw
it and was glad," said Christ.
\Ve cannot but hetieve that "The Lord" \\'ho called out
104
ABRAM-CREATOR-FATHER
Abram was one of His great manifestations, at that period
spoken of as El Shaddai, meaning the God Father of the
Abramic race. He it was Who came to Abram and Sarai
and made known to them the great covenant system from the
beginning to the end. Commenl:ing from "The Call", prophecy
sweeps majestically forward down through all the intervening
a.ges, embracing in its constantly widening scope all the develop-
ments of the seed of Abram, Isaac, Jacob, down to to-day.
The whole message of prophecy is ''spoken of God in the mouth
of His Holy Prophets".
Many prophets have made their contribution, but God, the
great Prophet, is one. " In Him is no variableness, neither
shadow cast by turning."
In Genesis xiv we come upon the most mysterious figure
in Bible history-Melchizedek, King of Salem, Priest of the Most
High God. Who was Melchizedek? Many students identify
him with Christ. What were the words he spoke to Abram?
"Blessed be Abram of God Most High, ·possessor of heaven
and earth.''
Abram, replying, says:
"I have lifted up my hands unto Jehovah, God Most High,
possessor of heaven and earth."
Here it seems clear that the God of Abram, Jehovah, is
the same Being as "God Most High" of Melchizedek. Again,
when Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet
"God" IPanifesting as Jehovah, we are told:
" And they saw God and did eat and drink."
We know that no man has seen the Absolute, but throughout
history there have been undoubted manifestations of Divinity,
the Christ or His messengers.
The God whom "the people~· saw was the Great God mani-
festation of Ben Israel, }ehovali, and they partook of the Lord's
Supper: the same feast that Melchizedek administered to Abram,
and foreshadowing the time when the Cosmic Christ, walking the
earth as man, would administer the bread and wine once more.
St. Paul refers to this in I Corinthians, Chapter x: " Moreover,
brethren, I would not that ye should be ignorant how that all
our fathers were under the cloud and 311 passed through the sea.
105
THE COSMIC CHRIST
And were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea.
And did all eat the same spiritual meat. And did all drink the
same spiritual drink. For they drank of that spiritual Rock that
followed them, and that Rock was Christ."
In Genesis xvii we read that " Jehov:th appeared to Abram
and said unto him: 'I am God Almighty. Walk before Me
and be thou perfect, and I will make My covenant between Me
and thee.' "
. A terrific claim, truly, but to be contrasted with the words
of the Christ in Palestine: "I and the Father are one. Be ye
perfect even as your Father in heaven is perfect."
What religion was Abram reared in before he left Ur of the
Chaldees?
We must remember that when we read of the Stellar Mythos,
the Stellar Lunar Mythos, the Solar Mythos, that each corresponds
to a different stage in evolution and that they were understood
of old in a very different sense from what they now are. The
Stellar Mythos was to the ancients the rule over them of the
seven planetary Logoi. The Lunar Mythos was the rule of the
Female Principle, the Queen of Heaven, the Immaculate Virgin
Mother. The Solar Mythos came into force when the power
of the Solar Logos was paramount for the time being. At a
certain period the Mother is done away with as primary, and the
Father takes place as supreme. The Priest Initiates were men
who had come down from other and more spiritually-advanced
worlds, and took their guidance straight from the fountain-head.
The scientists of to-day exclude from their calculations all
recognition of divine beings as having any connection with the
stellar world. To them, Sun, Moon and Stars are lifeless objects
moving in a lifeless world, but the Ancients, in closer touch
with reality, knew better. Sun, Moon and Stars, to them, were
the kingdoms of Angelic beings who were in close touch with
this earth and were in active governance of it. The stars, to
the Ancients, were not mere points of light, but something
spiritual streamed forth that they referred to by names, names
which we even now to a great extent still use, though we under-
stand little of their meaning. What our scientists called myths
Io6
ABRAM-CREATOR-FATHER
were, to them, realities, and in time these lost realities will be
restored to us again.
In the City of Ur the Moon Goddess was worshipped through
two sublime creators; the Parents of all lesser gods were fre-
quently invoked. They were the Father, the Son, and their
various manifestations. Here is a Chaldean hymn:
"Merciful One, begotten of the universe, who founds his illus-
trious seat amongst living creatures. Long-suffering Father, full
of forgiveness, whose hand upholds the lives of mankind. Lord I
Thy diversity is as the wide heavens and fills the sea with its
fear."
In the Chaldean creed the Lunar Deity took precedence of
the Solar Deity, but later on Sun-worship spread, receiving a
strong impetus from the great Semetic ruler, Sargon, 3Moo B.c.,
who by many students is identified with Cain.
Esoteric teaching has always held that our Sun is the objective
manifestation of the Solar Logos or Cosmic Christ. In ancient
papyre it is written :
"From the body of the Sun, man's earth came, and into the
body of the Sun it shall be absorbed when the consummation of
all things cometh."
The origin of the earth has only lately been discovered by us,
yet the ancients knew it thousands of years B.c. The age is
beginning to dawn on us which will establish the truth of our
earth's ultimate destiny, as stated above. Masonry contains all
esoteric truths from the Beginning, but extremely few masons
understand anything of their craft.
In Ur every object in nature was regarded as the abode of
the indwelling spirit of life which controlled its actions and its
relationship to man; a belief which many of us hold in the present
day.
A vast host of spirits were grouped in a hierarchy of the spirits
of earth and heaven. Here is a Chaldean prayer for protection:
"Oh, Spirit of the heaven, exorcise thou. Oh, Spirit of earth,
exorcise thou. In heaven who is supreme? Thou alone art
supreme.
" On earth who is supreme? Thou alone art supreme."
The oldest Sumerians believed that life after death continued
107
THE COSMIC CHRIST
in surroundings as like as might be to those in this world. The
Royal tombs that have been unearthed are underground houses
in which the dead king was laid with his crowd of courtiers and
servants. All that he used on earth, down to his musical instru-
mentsf are placed in the tomb.
Thus we find that four thousand years B.c. the belief in
individual mortality was held with that conception of the imme-
diate next state now so prevalent amongst our own thinking
masses. The next plane is held to be very similar to this plane,
save for the absence of physical bodies.
In every important town in Ur there stood a Tov.:er of Babel,
or "Zuggurat". This tower belonged to the sacred enclosure, and
on its summit was the Holy Shrine, reached by a flight of steps
leading from earth to "The Hill of Heaven". The only build-
ing existing now which bears the faintest resemblance to the
"Zuggurat" is the great temple of learning erected by the late
Rudolph Steiner dear Basle, in Switzerland.
The Sumerian capital city was Eridu, situated on a fresh-water
lake with an outlet into the Persian Gulf. The fact that stone
was used for building purposes points to the Sumerians originating
from a land where stone was commonly worked, or possibly they
were in asscciation .with the Egyptians, the greatest stone-workers
in history.
The "Zuggurat" was faced with stone, and a polished marble
was built into the tower, which had a marble stairway. At the
top was the holy of holies, consecrated to the Priests who per-
formed initiations and other sacred rites.
Marble and granite were imported in large quantities, and
gold and copper-headed nails were used. We are told of Sumerian
cities which contained libraries, works on medicine, drawing,
grammar, arithmetic and astronomy. The remains of one great
library has been found which was in being seven hundred years
before the birth of Abram.
Gold and silver were extensively used for temple decorations,
also the emerald, topaz, Chalcedony, onyx, crystal and jade. The
rulers of the land were Priest-Kings, and the material and spiritual
were not dissevered as they are with us, but were complementary
to each other and used in conjunction, which accentuated their
loS
ABRAM-CREATOR--FATHER
power to an unlimited extent. They understood the folly of
working with the most powerful portion of a human being shut
off and kept out of action, as is our practice to--day.
The great Sumerian civilization had a widespread effect in
Western Asia in enlightening backward peoples who contracted
to work for them, and later on they founded colonies which
stimulated abroad the growth of culture.
About 2123 B.c. the famous Hammurabi came to the throne.
The ancient Sumerians were superseded by Semetic invasions, and
the Semite adopted the old Sumerian life and culture and language.
What is of spedal interest to us is that Hammurabi was not
regarded as a god but as the chosen of God, a Christ·sent ruler.
Mackenzie, in his "ancient civilizations", says:
" The rise of Babylon to first place amongst the cities of
·Southern Mesopot\lmia has primarily a dynastic significance . . .
its rise to prosperity was in no small measure due to the genius
and far-seeing mind of Hammurabi, who was a great statesman
and a great soldier. Under his rule Babylon became the London
of Western Asia.,.
Abram knew something of this great civilization. When he
left Ur of the Ch.aldees and journeyed forth at Jehovah's com·
mand the glory of Sumeria had faded out.
The Hittites, "Sons of Heth", of the Old Testament were
coming into power: a strong northern people, from whom
Abram purchased "the Cave of Machpelah" and a field in which
to bury his dead.
" And Abram \veighed of Ephron the silver which he had
named in the audience of the Sons of Heth, four hundred shekels
of silver, current money with the merchant."
The Hittites address Abram thus: "Hear us, my lord.
Thou art a mighty prince amongst us."
It is probable that he was a contemporary of the great
Hammurabi, whose glorious dynasty was brought to a close in
1926 B.C.
When we read the concluding words in Major Woolley's litde
book we begin to see why "The Lord called Abram out of Ur of
the Chaldees. He was an Initiate and a mighty Prince, and his was
the world·wide work of bringing the Light from East to West.
'09
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Later on came Moses, "learned in ali the wisdom of the
Egyptians", another great Initiate who lived in the high tide of
a great civilization. The Christ referred no less than four
hundred times to the Old Testament, and St. Luke xxiv records
His words spoken after His resurrection.
"These are the words that I spake unto you whilst I was yet with
you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law
of Moses and the Prophets and in the Psalms concerning Me."
Luke goes on to say :
" Then opened He their understanding that they might under·
stand the Scriptures."
Major Woolley concludes thus :
"It is in the more abstract realm of ideas that the Sumerians
have most obviously and most directly contributed to the develop-
ment of Western civilization through the Hebrew people. Not
only did the Semites adopt ready-made those stories of creation
and the Flood which, viewed as history or as parable, have
affected the Christian even more than the Jewish religion, as it
owed not a little of its origin to the Sumerians. So was it
throughout the period of the Kings and the captivity brought
into close contact with the Babylonian worship, which was taken
over from Sumer, and, partly by its precept and partly in opposi-
tion to it, attained to higher growth. The laws of Moses were
largely based on Sumerian codes, through those same codes which
lay at the bottom of the great codes of Hammurabi, and so from
the Sumerians the Hebrews derived the ideals of social life and
justice which informed all their history and have by Christian
races been regarded in theory, if not in practice, as criteria for
their own customs and enactments.
" The difficulty lies not in recognizing the fact, but in estimating
the importance of the debt which the modern world owes to this
race so recently rescued from oblivion."
Hammurabi, in the introduction to his laws, states that he
received them directly fiom the Great Sun God, Who to us is
the Cosmic Christ. Some of these laws bear a striking resemblance
to those of "The Book of the Covenant". (Exodus xx.)
Let it be remembered that the Christians took over the British
Bible from the Hebrew people.
JlO
ABRAM-CREATOR-FATHER
We believe it to be a book which must always present insuper-
able difficulties to its readers until it is clearly understood that
the Cosmic Christ manifested Himself in diverse places and
under diverse names to the whole human family. White, black,
brown, red and yellow-all go to make up the sum total of the
human race.
Man would never have succeeded, unaided, in crossing the deep
chasm between instinctive animalism and self-conscious humanity.
Only has he done so through the guidance of the Christ-ensouled
teachers who have moulded him from generation to generation,
from century to century, throughout the millenniums.
This same Christ is the first and last link in a chain that runs
unbroken throughout the Bibles of the world, and under Him is .
that chain of ageless Beings chosen and choosing to make the
great sacrifice in the sacred cause of humanity: to prepare the
way for that supreme manifestation of God incarnate in the Son
of Man who came to reveal the Absolute, for :
"No man has seen God at any time. The Only begotten Son
Which is in the bosom of the Father, He hath declared Him."
There can be no more instructive and fascinating study than
that of tracing the workings of the Cosmic Christ through the
ages. We see the slow rise of mighty civilizations under the
guidance of Christ-filled Beings. Millenniums pass: Decay sets in.
The cosmic plan has been worked out, and death supervenes for
all that was material in the mighty structure.
The great temples are left to crumble, or are pillaged by an
invading host of younger souls. The slain bodies return to
Mother Earth, and the spirits of the slain, they also have their
period of obscurity during which the world knows them no more
till the call to rebirth sounds, and they carry back to earth their
God-inspired knowledge and light the torch of truth for some
other civilization growing up in another part of the globe.
How likely it is that those who are labouring amid the ruins
of Ur of the Chaldees once inhabited those fallen cities five
thousand, perhaps ten thousand, years ago. The work of uncover-
ing these ancient glories had to be done for the enlightenment
of posterity and for the unveiling of the Christ Power on earth.
Those who lived there in a prevtous life would feel the urge
Ill
THE COSMIC CHRIST
and inspiration to surmount the many difficulties, and in the
deepest sense their hearts would be in their toil whilst they worked
out their individual Karma.
We will end with a fragment of a Chaldean hymn used before
the time of Abram :
"Father, long-suffering and full of forgiveness, whose hand
upholds the life of all men. First-born, omnipotent, whose heart
is vastness. And there is no one who may fathom it. In heaven
who is supreme? You alone! You are supreme. On earth who
is supreme? You aloneI You are supreme. As for you ! Your
will is published in the heavens, and the angels bow their faces.
As for you! Your will is published on earth, and the spirits
below kiss the ground."
Here is a very beautiful prayer of Nebuchadnezzar:
" You have created me. Let the fear of your divine power
in my heart give me what seems goOd to you, since you alone
maintair. my life."
From the oldest book in our Bible we take the following words,
spoken by our Lord to Job:
"In the ages of faith before the day when men were too proud
to weep or pray." When men did not scorn to make use of
their inborn powers of clairvoyance and clairaudience, and were
not ashamed to listen in the silence to the voice that spoke from
the Kingdom of Heaven which they knew to be within. "Gird
up now thy loins like a man, for I will demand of thee and
answer thou me. Where wast thou when I laid the foundations
of the earth ? Declare if thou hast understanding who laid the
corner stone thereof when the morning stars sang together and all
the Sons of God shouted for joy. Out of whose womb came the
ice and the hoary frost of heaven? Who hath gendered it?
Canst thou bind the sweet influence of the Pleiades or loose the
bands of Orion? Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his season,
or canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons?"
Mazzaroth stands for the twelve signs of the Zodiac. The
reference to the sweet influence of the Pleiades points to the centre
star of the group, Electra, the importance of which occultists
understand.
Ill
CHAPTER vII
EGYPT AND THE. COSMIC CHRIST
LEIBNITZ tells us that there is an eternal philosophy which con-
stitutes the primordial link between science and religion and the
final unity of the two.
This link we accept as the Cosmic Christ operating from the
Beginning, throughout the millenniums and on into our future
state.
The incarnation in Palestine we accept as the nadir of divine
manifestation. This is the end of a finished process by which
Deity condescend~ to us step by step until at last He has taken
upon Himself our form and become life of our life.
Having thus condescended, to our limitations, He addresses
Himself to lead us upwards, step by step, to the higher manifesta-
tions, even to the highest, until we are in truth "filled with the
fullness of God".
For us He has outgrown the cradle. The Cross is empty.
The grave is tenantless.
He is risen.
We follow to the Mount of Ascension, from whence a cloud
receives Him.
The history of the world and of humanity is the evolution in
time and space of this central cause, this final end we term the
Cosmic Christ.
Unfortunately the grandiose conception of the Absolute and
His manifesting Son has faded into a pale uncertainty in our
day. Since the stately, divine-filled life of ancient Egypt the Gods
-the Christ-filled messengers of the Supreme-have sunk beneath
the horizon, and even their Head, the Life-giver, the Sun in the
heavens, has lost His divine significance. Our spiritual outlook
has degenerated into exclusiveness and formalism. Longstanding
113
H
THE COSMIC CHRIST
and ignorant prejudice still regards the older religions as not
entitled to our veneration. God and His mighty angels have
become to us mythical Beings. The Christ, manifesting through
Jesus of Nazareth, is to many as questionable as Osiris, the
Egyptian manifestation of God, yet despite the widespread doubt
their names remain indelibly graven on the tablets of history.
A,ll outside our own stultified religious tradition and its Jewish
stock is still stigmatized as pagan and heathen. The orthodox
system is still blind to the fact that in all great religions beneath
the undeveloped mind of the dumb-driven multitude and the gross
externals of the priesthood there arc to be found deep springs,
pure and undefiled-the very mystery of godliness itself.
Though the divine-sent teachers remained on earth no longer
than the time required to impress upon primitive man the eternal
verities, their spirit remains vivid, though latent, in mankind.
From whence sprang the original tendency of all these fathers?
Where seek for their derivation ? Max Muller, the great
Orientalist, writes :
"The time has not yet come, it probably never will come,
when we shall be able to assert anything about the real beginnings
of religion in general. We know a little here, a little there, but,
whatever we know of earlier religion, we always see that it pre-
supposes vast periods of an earlier development."
More than twenty-five centuries ago the question arose which
nation of the world was the oldest, and Psametik of Egypt, in
whose long reign literature flourished, is recorded by Herodotus
to have attempted the answer and failed. To-day the uncertainty
is as great. We know not whether the Sahara or the sea may
cover the remains of a myriad of forgotten races. Whether Egypt
be the oldest link with the buried past we know not. All we
do know is that Ur of the Chaldees and Egypt afford the oldest
history yet established.
It has been said that the Egyptians and Hindus are of the
same race and have their mysteries in common : that both
countries were peopled at the same time from Thibet, which is
the highest table-land on the globe, and that the word Ararat
is identical with Arhat-spiritual attainment. Such statements
cannot be verified.
EGYPT AND THE COSMIC CHRIST
Egypt has no rude nomad or tribal history, and we read m
an Egyptian papyrus five thousand years old :
" Beware of producing crude thoughts. Study till thy words
are matured."
There is no sign of youth in this aged admonition written
centuries before a word of the British Bible was penned.
About seven thousand years ago there was a reigning Dynasty
in Egypt and a capital where was worshipped a Deity called
"The Father of Beginnings".
" He shineth, then the land exulteth,
CreatoJ: of all 2ood things.
He careth for the state of the poor.
He maketb His might a buckler.
He is not sraven in marble.
His abode 1s not known.
There is no building that can contain Him.
Thy law is established in the whole land.
Unknown is Thy name in heaven.
He manifesteth not His forms,
Vain are all representations."
This is a Nile hymn composed long before any known prophet
uttered his voice in Israel.
Here is a hymn to Osiris, written two or three centuries earlier:
" All men are in ecstasy. Hearts in sweetness. Bosoms in
joy. Everybody is in adoration. Everyone glorifies His good-
ness. Mild is His love for us. His tenderness environs hearts.
Great is His love in all bosoms. Sanctifying, beneficent is His
name. Veneration finds its place. Respect, immutable for His
laws. The path is open, the footpaths are opened. Both worlds
are at rest. Evil flies, and earth becomes fecundant. Peaceable
under its Lord. Justice is confirmed. By its Lord who pursues
iniquity."
Jesus the Christ as quoted by St. John says: "Moses gave you
circumcision. Not that it is of Moses but of the Fathers." Who
are the Fathers? Abram was before Moses, and one of llis
descendants is named in connection with the first fruit offering
(Deut. xxvi), " An Aramean ready to perish was my father, and
he went down into Egypt and sojourned there few in number,
and he became there a nation," but the Fathers of Memphis,
ns
THE COSMIC CHRIST
the relics of which capital city are now ruined remains, were
long before Abram.
Who was Osiris whose name has come down to us as the chief
of the Egyptian Pantheon? Was he a myth?
Grant Allen, writing as a pure materialist in "The Evolution
of the Idea of God", says "No". He believes that the original
Osiris was a real historical king of This by Abydos.
Even in Pyramid times the Osirian religion was complete in
all its doctrines. Its extreme antiquity and its strong affinity
with Jewish and Christian dogma make it of great scientific
importance. 'I'hree deities are associated with it: Osiris, the
Father; Horus, the son or immediate reincarnation of the Father;
and Isis, the Virgin Mother.
Plutarch tells the story of Osiris, and the Pyramid texts of
Sakkara date from about 2625 B.c. They consist of the legend
of Osiris and a series of prayers and hymns, but by references
to perished works and still earlier events these documents of
religious literature are probably as ancient as the Vedic literature
of India.
Osiris was worshipped as a Sun God in Egypt, but we also
recognize him as an historical personage, for he was one of
the greatest divine kings or Christ·ensouled messengers who, in
archaic times, governed and taught the people. As the humanity
of Jesus, the Christ, is to-day gradually becoming merged in
His divinity, so it was in Egypt with Osiris. He was recognized
as divine and worshipped as such.
The name Horus is intermingled with that of Osiris. How do
they stand to one another? Their relationship can be clearly
understood by referring back to two thousand years ago-the
Christian nativity. God, the Son incarnating as Jesus the Christ,
whilst He is at the same time but another aspect of God, the
Father.
Horus was born at Christmas time. He is called the Saviour,
the only begotten Son of the Father, the Holy Child, the beloved
Son of .the Father, the Lord of Life, and his image in December
was exhibited just as the infant Bambino is to this day exhibited
in Rome. He symbolizes the return of new life, of reincarnation,
of being reborn in the cycle of earthly phenomena. He is the God
II6
EGYPT AND THE COSMIC CHRIST
of light, and the son, or reincarnation, of Osiris, and his Mother Isis,
known by the titles of Immaculate Virgin, Star of the Sea (Marie),
Queen of Heaven, and the intercessor.
We have dealt with Isis in the chapter dedicated to the Blessed
Virgin.
To return to Osiris. He was also born at the winter solstice, of
an immaculate virgin. He was called King of Kings and Lonl
of Lords, and his birth was proclaimed by angels announcing
"The Lord of all the earth is born". Our materialistic readings
of allegoric lore have been utterly misleading. Krishna in India
and Osiris in Egypt were historically the greatest messengers of
the Cosmic Christ that have ever visited the earth, though they
may have been paralleled or surpassed in prehistoric ages. Who
can assert or deny that Osiris was the Cosmic Christ? What we
do know is that he was the traditional forerunner of the Supreme
Being we call Jesus the Christ. He is the Sun in a semi-human
form, and the author of natural life. He is the spirit of the
visible Sun and the emanation of the invisible Supreme. In
his relation to man he is the Redeemer.
Is it likely that a people who had been for long ages so highly
civilized would have been satisfied to worship in so grandly
elaborate a ritual a mere myth, an imaginary being? If we are
to assert that Osiris was but the figment of the astute brain of
the priesthood, then logically we must assert a similar belief for
the Christ life in Palestine.
We have often cause to lament the stern materialism of the
scientists and historians. Not that we deny them the right to
think as they please, but the one-sided view which shuts out the
spiritual world makes study so very complicated. In place of
a natural explanation the materialist has to elaborate the most
complex and far-fetched theories to account for his discovery,
and in the end he probably does not even satisfy himself.
We therefore welcome the beautiful and common sense words
of J. G. Frazer in "The Golden Bough"1 upon the "origin of
Osiris". So eminent an authority upon Oriental religions ought
to settle the doubts of all the open-minded. He writes:
1 Volume II, page 158
THE COSMIC CHRIST
.. We have still to ask how did the conception of such a
composite deity originate? . . . Was it a result of brooding over
the mystery of external nature? Was it the attempt of a rude
philosophy to lift the veil and explore the hidden springs that
set the vast machine in motion? That man at a very early
stage of his long history meditated on these things and evolved
certain crude theories which partially satisfied his craving after
knowledge, is certain; from such meditations of Babylonian and
Phrygian sages appear to have sprung the pathetic figures of
Adonis and Attis, and from such meditations of Egyptian sages
may have sprung the tragic figure of Osiris.
" Yet a broad distinction seems to sever the myth and worship
of Osiris from the kindred myths and worships of Adonis and
Attis. For while Adonis and Attis were minor divinities in the
religion of western Asia, completely overshadowed by the greater
deities of their respective pantheons, the solemn figure of Osiris
towered in solitary grandeur over all the welter of Egyptian gods,
like a pyramid of his native land lit up by the last rays of the
setting sun when all below it is in shadow. And whereas legend
generally represented Adonis and Attis as simple swains ...
Osiris uniformly appears in tradition as a great and beneficent
king. In life he ruled over his people, beloved and revered for
the benefits he conferred on them and on the world; in death
he reigned in their hearts and memories as Lord of the dead,
the awful judge at whose bar every man must one day stand
to give an account of the deeds done in the body, and to receive
the final award. In the faith of the Egyptians the cruel death
and blessed resurrection of Osiris occupied the same place as
the death and resurrection of Christ hold in the faith of Christians.
As Osiris died and rose again from the dead, so they hoped
through him, and in his dear name, to wake triumphant from the
sleep of death to a blissful eternity. That was their sheet-anchor
in life's stormy sea; that was the hope which supported and con-
soled millions of Egyptian men and women for a period of time
far longer than that during which Christianity has now existed
on earth.
" In the long history of religion no two divine figures resemble
each other more clearly in the fervour of personal devotion which
u8
EGYPT AND THE COSMIC CHRIST
they have kindled, and in the high hopes which they have inspired,
than Osiris and Christ. . . .
" And if Osiris and Christ have been the centres of the like
enthusiastic devotion, may not the secret of their influence have
been similar? If Christ lived the life and died the death of a
man on earth, may not Osiris have done so likewise? The
immense and enduring popularity of his worship speaks in favour
of the supposition, for all the other great religions or semi~religious
systems which have won for themselves a permanent place in
the affections of mankind have been founded by individual great
men, who by their personal life and example exerted a power of
attraction such as no cold abstractions, no pale products of the
collective wisdom or folly could ever exert on the minds and
hearts of humanity. Thus it was with Buddhism, with
Confucianism, with Christianity and with Mohammedanism, and
thus it may well have been with the religion of Osiris.
"Certainly we shall do less violence to the evidence if we
accept the unanimous tradition of ancient Egypt on this point
than if we resolve the figure of Osiris into a myth pure and
simple. And when we consider that from the earliest to the latest
times Egyptian kings were worshipped as gods both in life and
in death. there appears to be nothing extravagant or improbable
in the view that one of them, by his personal qualities, excited a
larger measure of devotion than usual during his life, and was
remembered with fonder affection and deeper reverence after his
death, till in time his beloved memory dimmed, transfigured, and
encircled with a halo of glory by the mists of time, grew into
the dominant religion of his people. At least this theory is
reasonable enough to deserve serious consideration. If we accept
it we may suppose that the mythical clements which legend
undoubtedly ascribed to Osiris were later accretions which
gathered about his memory like ivy about a ruin."
The majority of our great Egyptologists insist on their belief
th.ar "Egypt from whence all sprang" is the one home of primitive
man. The Exodus spread all over the world when the ancient
Egyptians had worked out their stellar Mythos which was carried,
North, South, East, and West. A. Churchward writes in his
great book, " The signs 'and symbols of Primordial man :
ll9
THE COSMIC CHRIST
" The contents of this book will prove the very origin of all
our signs and symbols (Freemasonry) and how these have been
brought on through the stellar, lunar, and solar Mythos to the
Christian doctrines, proofs whir.h are founded on facts, all written
on stone or papyri, that are open to all to read if they so desire."
In the above we fully concur, but we would go farther and
seek to explain why the stellar Mythos came first, to be followed
later by the lunar and solar Mythos.
Manetho conclusively establishes the ages of time that have
elapsed since Egyptian astronomers began to record time, and the
great Pyramids were built. He states that " The Pyramids were
built at the end of the reign of the Gods and Heroes at the time
of the Stellar Mythos."
This period we take to be the reign or constructive period of
the seven Planetary I..ogoi and their hosts, preparing the way
for the Solar Logos, their fountain·head of the solar system.
Manetho states : " The Gods and Heroes were not human, nor
ever had been human."
Churchward goes far along the lines we strive to follow, for
he writes:
"The followers of Horus (the Son) were the stellar Mythos
People, in the same sense as Christians are followers of Christ.
. . . Then the stellar Mythos people, who had divinized the
elemental powers, seven of which had been given stars on high,
termed 'The seven glorious ones', these were the Gods and Heroes.
The stellar Mythos people whose cult lasted 258,270 years at
least ... had reached a high stage of evolution, eschatologically
and astronomically, which probably has never been surpassed. It
was these people who built the Great Pyramid in Egypt, the
great Pyramid and temples in Central and South America, and
other parts of the world, where we now find the remains of their
former greatness.
"The Pyramids were built during the stellar Mythos when
the old wise men of Egypt had worked out the Astral Mythology
which wa~t then carried all over the world, as witnessed by the
ancient remains, huge and magnificent buildings, which once
flourished in a high state of civilization, critically proven by the
similarity of the buildings, identical signs and symbols, and frag-
l20
EGYPT AND THE COSMIC CHRIST
ments of ancient writings, Egyptian Hieroglyphics which can only
he deciphered now by the wisdom of old Egypt.
"The Titanic monuments of a forgotten past found in Central
and South America and some parts of Asia, like the African
ruins of Zambesi, the great Pyramids, lead most men to exclaim
"Who were those old builders? Whence came they? By what
lost art did they chisel those perfect edges and angles? By what
means did they move those ponderous masses to such perfect
adjustment and a marvel of delicate workmanship? Overwhelm-
ing in their grandeur are those scattered remains.
'' The Egyptians had three forms of the boat of souls, one
in the stellar, one in the lunar, and one in the solar representation,
at three different stages of the Mythos.
" The Sun, Moon, and seven stars are frequently grouped
together on the Assyrian Monuments. The Chinese call the Sun,
Moon, and seven stars the nine lights ·of Heaven. The same
grouping is observed in the nine Pyramids of the Mexicans--one
for the Sun, one for· the Moon, and seven small ones for the
seven stars. The three Pyramids of Gizeh answer to those of
the Sun, Moon, and seven stars elsewhere. The Great Pyramid
is in itself a sign of seven, comprising, as it does, the Square
and the Triangle in one figure. Its name, Khuti, means also
the 'Seven Glorious Ones', as well as Light. It was designed
by the Har-seshu, or servants of Horus (The Son) which were
the seven Khuti in the stellar Mythology, who had been the rulers
in the celestial heptanomes before they became the seven servants
of the Solar God."
Gerald Massey writing of the Egyptian Ritual says of Horus :
" He is the living soul of Ra (God) in heaven. Horus was the
only one of the seven great spirits born of the Mother who was
chosen to become the only begotten Son of God the Father
when He rose up from the de~d. This is he Who says in the
Ritual, 'I am the bright One in glory \Vhom Atum-Ra (God)
hath called into being and my origin is from His eye. Verily,
before Isis was I grew up, and waxed old and was honoured
beyond those who were with me in glory'.
" Those who were with Him in glory were the seven great
Spirits, the Khuti or 'Glorious Ones', and amongst these Horus
UI
THE COSMIC CHRIST
became the divine heir of all things, the Son of God who claims
to have existed before Isis, His Mother, and was the 'manifestor
for the Holy Spirit Ra in all things'."
Egypt will always furnish an inexhaustible world for the
scientists and students to work in. Though hundreds of learned
books have been written upon her remains, there is room for
hundreds more, and the deeper we plunge into her antiquities
the more we find ourselves forced off the solid ground of
materialism and compelled to deal with what is termed the super-
natural. We can get nowhere without being confronted by the
question, "Were these builders Gods or men?" and the moment
we discard the theory of Gods we are brought to a standstill.
Thero is only one way to deal with the great Egyptian civilization,
and many others, if any headway is to be made, any conclusions
conformable with what we know are to be reached. That way is
to accept the spiritual as the component part of the material and
accept the overwhelming evidence that Gods as divine instructors
did come down and work with men on earth.
Who built the Pyramids is always an unsolved problem to
those who discard the Gods.
The British Israel National Mt~ssage and Banner, in one of its
many profoundly interesting and illuminating articles, says: 1
" The great Pyramid could not have been built by mortal man
except through divine revelation, and the preponderance of evi-
dence points to Enoch. Besides that, there exist several traditions,
the Coptic and the Hermes, that tell us that Enoch was the
builder of the Great Pyramid."
In Genesis v we read that Enoch lived for three hundred and
sixty-five years, "and Enoch walked with God and he was not,
for. God took him".
In Hebrews ii we read : " By faith Enoch was translated that
he should not see death, and was not found because God had
translated him, for before his translation he had this testimony
that he pleased God."
In the "Encyclopedia Britannica'" we find, under the title
uEnoch", a valuable synopsis of the Rook of Enoch (Abyssinian)
1 3rd August, 1929
J2l
EGYPT AND THE COSMIC CHRIST
and the Book of the Secrets of Enoch (Slavonic). In both books
we read that God instructed Enoch in the fundamental laws of
the universe, in the wisdom of astronomy, and in the measure-
ments of the earth. God also informed Enoch of His plans
regarding mankind and the time of their existence here ripon earth
for a period of seven thousand years. He also indicated to Enoch
the various events which shall bring about His predestined plan of
redemption for His people and the time those said events should
occur.
God told Enoch of the coming of the Deluge and His intention
to call out a people peculiar and holy unto Himself, that He would
~nd them a Saviour at the end of four thousand years to redeem
them from their sins, and that at the end of six thousand years
that Saviour would return to rule over His people for one
thousand years.
The Book of Enoch is considered the most valuable of the
so-called non-canonical books; several of the Church Fathers con-
sidered it part of the sacred Scriptures, for it is referred to in
Jude in the fourteenth verse.
In the Book of Jubilees we read in the fourth chapter regarding
Enoch:
" He was the first one from amongst the children of men that
are born on earth to learn writing and knowledge and wisdom.
And he wrote the signs of heaven according tQ the order of their
months in a book, that the sons of men might know the time
of year according to their separate months. He was the first
to write a testimony, and he testified to the children of men con-
cerning the generations of the earth and explained the weeks of
the jubilees, and made known to them the days of the years
and arranged the months and explained the sabbaths of the years
as we made them known to him. And what was, and what will
be, he saw in a vision of the night, and, as it will happen to the
children of men in their generation until the Day of Judgment,
he saw and learned everything and wrote it as a testimony and
laid that testimony on the earth 011er all the children of men and
for their generations.,
These words are said to denote that Enoch was the builder
of the Great Pyramid.
THE COSMIC CHRIST
"All scholars agree that the Great Pyramid w:ts built by
'Khufu', a king of the Fourth Dynasty. Herodotus tdls us that
'Khufu' wa~ the man who compelled the Egyptians to stop all
idolatry whilst the Pyramid was being built. Considering all that
we know of Enoch and about 'Khufu' comparing abo the time
that Enoch lived, the time of the dating of the corner stone, and
the time that Egyptologists assign to the reign of 'Khufu', it is
very probable that Enoch and 'Khufu' are one and the same
person."
"Khufu's" date is about thirty-two centuries B.c. This falls
exactly within the time defined by the position of the northern
corner-stones of the Pyramid, 3223 B.c. to 3173 B.c.
Coptic accounts of Egyptian history have proved to be very
reliable, and they give Enoch the credit for being the builder of
the Pyramid, 30 also does the Hermes's tradition. The Grecian
God, Hermes, is identical with the Egyptian Moon-God, Thoth, the
god of wisdom, of measurements and of prophecy, who was con-
sidered as holding the office of scribe to the gods, also called the
Lord of Divine Words. He is said to be the author of the
Hermetic Books, forty-two in number, which deal mostly with
the subjects of cosmography, astronomy, astrology, and the
horoscope. We can trace the origin of this mystical god, Thoth,
back to Sesosteris or Sothis of the Third or Fourth Dynasty, after
whom the Sothic cycle was named.
The year of Enoch's birth coincides with the year of Sothis,
after whom the cycle was named, and, as Enoch was the first man
to whom were revealed the secrets of the universe, occupying
the same function as Hermes-Thoth, Sesosteris, or Sothis--it
appears that Enos and Sothis are identical. As we have also
established the probable identity between Enoch and "Khufu",
it also appears that the three names belong to one and the same
person. If, further, we compare the words Khuti and "Khufu",
the one meaning Light, the other meaning Light-giver, it seems
that the identification is almost complete, that Sothis, the measurer,
was Enoch, the Light-giver, "Khufu,.
The Egyptians believed that Enoch returned after one thousand
four hundred and sixty-one years after his birth as the mysterious
Melchisedek, King of Salem, Prince of Peace : he who was
124
EGYPT AND THE COSMIC CHRIST
without mother, without father, without descent, having neither
beginning of days nor end of life, but made like unto the Son
of God".
"The context of the books from which we quote seems to
establish Enoch as the originator of the signs of the zodiac and
the groupings of the other constellations; the Hebrew names of
those stars give us another revelation of God's plan of salvation.
Upon no other basis than divine inspiration can the difficult,
imaginary figures surrounding the constellations be explained. All
authorities agree that the naming and the grouping of the con-
stellations is of antediluvian origin and is absolutely supernatural,
not human. The grouping of the twelve signs of the zodiac into
precisely thirty degrees each requires a knowledge of exact
mathematics.
" Here is a question for the evolutionist to answer. If ma11
has been evolved from a primate to his present state how is it
that man, five thousand years ago, could divide the sidereal circle
into twelve sections of thirty degrees each when, according to our
text-books on physics, the circular motion of the heavenly bodies
was not perceived until the time of the Greek philosophers, and
that knowledge was again lost for two thousand years, until the
beginning of modern astronomy in the fifteenth century?"
The confusion of names probably arises from the different
incarnations of the same divine instructor.
Little as we know of Enoch, it is enough to suggest strongly
that he was one of those in close touch with the Cosmic Christ,
the Light of the World.
In Egypt, as in India, Chaldea, Greece, Phoenicia, the: ideas of
Deity were expressed by multiples, three, four, seven or more
Gods symbolizing the powers and properties of the one and only
God. These Gods had all the qualities and attributes of the one
supreme and were overshadowed by the One.
"0, God Ani " (Spiritual Sun) "Thou resident in the
agglomeration of Thy divine personages."
Certainly there were the initiate: priests of the temples who gave
to the people a simplified wisdom religion, such as they were
capable of receiving. Moses was initiated in Egypt and well
versed in all the mysteries.
THE COSMIC CHRIST
It is here that the symbolical and astronomical meaning of that
"mystery of mysteries", the Great Pyramid, must be sought.
Moses utilized his knowledge of the cosmogony in symbols, such
being more accessible to the minds of his people than the abstruse
doctrines taught in the sanctuaries. He understood the danger
and futility of giving strong meat to babes, hence he veiled his
knowledge as he veiled his face when he had communed with his
God and descended from Sinai.
" Moses wist not that the skin of his face shone . . . and he
put a veil upon his face." (Exodus .xxxiv.)
The esotericism of Egypt was that of the whole world at one
time, and its glories were the result of that grand Christ impulse
that swept over our litde star from about 5000 B.c. up to the time
of the drama in Palestine.
From the divine Osiris comes Masonry, with its close relation-
ship to Solomon, his temple, the construction of the temple, and
the biblical Hiram who is "The Sun God. The Architect,.
To the multitudes Osiris was the Sun in the heavens, but for
the instructed he was something much greater.
" Glory to thee, 0 Sun. Divine child. Thy rays carry life to
the pure and to those ready. The Gods" (Sons of God. Angels)
" who approach thee tremble with joy and awe. Thou art the
first-born, the Son of God. The Word.,
Do those words read like a laudatory hymn to a myth?
In truth it is a perfect and simple praise, given to the Cosmic
Christ in His manifestation as Osiris. Does this detract in any
way from the dignity of Christ as an ideal or of Jesus the Christ
as divine man? On the contrary it shows Him forth as the ever-
present, ever-creating divine ruler. Head of all that long line of
Sons of God who were and are eternal symbols of the personified
Sun in its mystical significance as life-giver and sustainer.
The great Gods were not myths. They were symbolized in
order that the eternal verities might be understood by the multi-
tude.
The immortality of the Spirit was strongly inculcated in the
Egyptian neophites, and they were commanded never to forget the
Christ within, the inner God or seventh principle-Divine Spirit.
This vital teaching is only now being slowly restQred in the
126
EGYPT AND THE COSMIC CHRIST
Christian churches. It is being far more strongly inculcated in the
mass of New Thought teaching, coming originally from America
and now flooding Great Britain.
Here are some rules of instruction for the Egyptian student:
" Never desire or seek revenge. Be always ready to help a
brother, even at the risk of your own life.
"Bury every dead body. Honour your parents. Respect old
age. Protect the weak. Bear in mind the hour of death and
the resurrection of a new and imperishable body."
From the above it will be seen that "The Word" in the thirty-
three years' ministry of the Cosmic Christ was very similar to
what He taught in Egypt 4000 B.c.
One of the earliest symbols of the Cosmic Christ and one in
use in the present day is the figure of a lamb carrying a flag and
often with the Cross as a background. Our Lord is addressed in
our Prayer Hook as "0 Lamb of God that taketh away the sins
of the world".
The Bull, the Ram and the Lamb have been venerated by all
the nations of antiquity. The former probably symbolized the
power of Life-giving. The latter signified sacrifice. In an
Egyptian hymn to Osiris he is thus addressed :
" King of eternity, great God, risen from the waters that were
in the beginning, strong hawk, King of Gods, Master of souls,
king of terrors, Lord of Crowns, Thou that art great in Hres,
that dost appear at Mendes in the likeness of a ram, monarch
of the circle of Gods, King of Amenti (Hades), revered of Gods
and men. Whoso knoweth humility and reckoneth deeds of
righteousness thereby knows he Osiris."
Osiris is slain by the serpent even as Jesus the Christ was put
to death by the principles of evil. Osiris is represented as crucified
in the vault of heaven with arms outstretched. He descends into
hell even as Jesus the Christ does, but, as in the Palestine drama,
he rises again and, conquering the "old serpent", robs him of his
power. He becomes the judge of souls, as it was said of the
Christ who was ordained to be the judge of the quick and the
dead. All over the world the same story is told. The name of
the Saviour varies, but the subject is always the same. There
127
THE COSMIC CHRIST
is the archaic version of the Christian nativity, God the Son
reincarnating as Jesus Christ, whilst He is at the same time but
another aspect of God the Father. Then the death of the redeemer
upon the Cross as an atonement for the sins of humanity.
Why is the significance of this historical fact ignored by the
Christian churches? \Vhy not take the words of the Cosmic
Christ to be true when they are supported so overwhelmingly by
historical evidence from all parts of the world : Egypt, Persia,
India, China, Mexico, Great Britain, Scandinavia, Thibet, Babylon,
Peru, Greece, etc. " I am Alpha and Omega. I am He that liveth
and was dead, and, behold! I am alive for evermore, Amen; and
have the keys of hell and of death." " Heaven and earth shall
pass away, but My words shall not pass away."
The manifestations of the Cosmic Christ, descending from the
spiritual world to the physical, required millenniums, and its primal
cause lies in the arcana of our planetary system. The Spirit which
spoke to the world in the name of Christ is closely related to the
ruling star of our system, the Sun. His being is rooted in the
immensities.
Let us now turn to the Egyptian Horus. In "Monumental
Christianity" (Rev. J. Lundy) there is a representation of Isis and
the infant Horus on her knee. She gazes with pride into her
son's face, and on the back of her seat is graven a cross.
Osiris is slain by the serpent of evil and becomes Lord of the
life beyond the grave and judge of all souls, but Horus, his son
or immediate reincarnation, is the redeemer who in turn bruises
the serpent's head. Osiris is the setting sun. Horus the rising
sun. The Egyptians spoke of the sun sinking westward as going
to Osiris and the land of rest. The dead slept with Osiris as the
dead are now said to sleep in Jesus.
Horus was symbolized by the sun's disc, and how beautiful is
the prayer of Queen Nefer Thii of the Eighteenth Dynasty, given
to us by Sir Erasmus Wilson :
" Thou disc of the Sun. Thou living God. There is none
other beside thee. Thou giveth health to the eyes through thy beams.
Creator of all beings. Thou goest up from the eastern horizon
of the heavens to dispense life to all that thou hast created. Thus
they behold thee and they sink to sleep when thou settest. Grant
128
EGYPT AND THE COSMIC CHRIST
to thy son, who loveth thee, life in truth that he may live with
thee in eternity."
The Egyptian priests wore a sun disc on their mitres, and to-day
we find the sun disc on the Roman Catholic Monstrance, with
the Sun (Son), the invisible God, veiled from the eyes of the
profane and rayed around with gold.
Now what of Isis, whose name is always associated with· that
of Osiris. She is but one of the immaculate virgins to be found
in all great religions the world over.
The Egyptian initiates represented her as the virgin mother,
nourisher of man. She is sister and wife of Osiris, the two
characters answering to the personified symbol of the earth, both
she and the son being the progeny of the Father, because the
earth is fecundated by the sun. To-day in the Catholic Church
the Blessed Virgin Mary is the daughter, spouse and Mother of
God.
Dr. Budge writes: "Isis was the great and beneficent god-
dess and mother whose influence and love pervaded all heaven
and earth and the abode of the: dead. She was the personification
of the great feminine creative power which conceived and brought
forth every living creature and thing.''
We, who believe in the existence of heavenly beings, have no
hesitation in believing that the Virgin Mother of the world at
times took form as did her divine Son. She it was who, ac<;ording
to esoteric tradition, brought corn to Egypt from Venus; hence
she was named "Lady of bread", "Lady of abundance". T~e
Romans deified her as Ceres, and the Greeks identified her with
Demeter, who was called "the mother of the ears of corn".
Greek and Roman artists depicted her with a wreath of corn
on her head.
Right on, up to the present day, the serene and saintly form
of the Virgin Mother of the world is immortalized with mys-
terious sanctity, and the replica of Isis with the sacred child Horus
may be seen to-day in a myriad churches as Madonna Mary
holding in her arms the infant Christ.
Frazer writes1 of the worship of Isis in Egypt:
" Indeed her stately ritual, with its shaven and tonsured priests,
1 "Golden Bough". Volume 11. page 118
129
I
THE COSMIC CHRIST
its matins and vespers, its tinkling music, its baptisms and asper-
sions of holy water, its solemn processions, its jewelled images of
the Mother of (:;.od, presented many points of similarity to the
pomps and ceremonies of Catholicism."
Churchward says : " The Osirian religion is at least twenty
thousand years old, and may be fifty thousand for aught any
Egyptologist knows to the contrary. This has been proved by
the recent discoveries at Abydos, showing that the Osirian doctrines
existed there in all their glory and perfection more than fifteen
thouliand years ago."
Ages before our present knowledge of stellar photography the
following was written on ancient papyri:
"Then God, seeing that they sought Him not but longed
after material pictures and attractions, sent forth His Edict unto
each one of the Suns and commanded them to emane worlds,
and when the Suns heard this edict of God they prepared them-
selves to do His bidding, and every sun that was in the universe
sent forth from his bosom a choir of planets. Thus began the
solar system that exists, each sun being the centre of the planets
which he evolved and every planet revolving around that centre
from whose glowing bosom he had birth. Many and various
were the planets evolved, according to the nature of the suns
from which they came, according to the manifold existences which
God foresaw would be produced henceforth, wherefore the earth-
sun is called Parent of the Earth of man. From the body of the
sun man's earth came, and into the body of the sun it shall be
absorbed when the consummation of all things cometh. When
the planets were evolved from the sun they were sent forth at first
in gaseous vapour, immense, revolving spheres projected into
space, but bound by laws unto the parent star. When this vapour
subsided and condensed they became mighty spheres of water,
whirling ever in their appointed c~rcles and proceeding along their
regulated paths. When ages and ages rolled into the gulf of
ages and ages, and ages and ages vanished into the abyss of time,
the sphere became solidified with earthly particles and ceased to
be a watery globe, and thus as years revolved on years and the
forces of Nature exercised their powers and heat contended with
130
EGYPT AND THE COSMIC CHRIST
cold, and vapour with solid, there were volcanic changes and
fiery revolutions and many deluges. Then the earth gradually
assumed its present shape, having been the grave of successive
generations until the race that now exists upon it assumed unto
themselves living developments."
From this papyrus, written thousands of years ago, we discover
that the ancients knew of our "latest discoveries".
We learn that there was a revolt in the heavenly places long
ages before our earth was ejected from the sun. Our old esoteric
teaching, that eventually we are to be re-absorbed by the sun,
is plainly stated, and the suns are referred to as active powers
and intelligences who created the Plaflets with their "choirs" or
hosts. We are told of the laws which bound the Planets to their
Suns, the birth and death of many generations, and finally the
Egyptian scribe states that the Egyptians have assumed unto them-
selves "living developments" (Divine Teachers).
They knew that the soul of Humanity was open to Angelic
forces. They knew that they were in communion with Divinity.
All this heavenly intercourse we have lost, and, though we know
that eventually it must be regained, we are still buried intellectually
under a dense morass of materialism. Of all great civilizations
of the past, Egypt has d~~ most to teach us. From her we have
most to regain from the knowledge that was ours when we wore
Egyptian bodies and dwelt upon the banks of the Nile.
So immense is the spiritual knowledge, so overwhelmingly
great their book of ages graven in stone (how wise the gods were
to give them so enduring a medium of recordance), that only the
concentration of a lifetime c:.1n serve to scratch the surface.
Egyptologists are Egyptologists and nothing more. There is no
time to be anything else, and the work is absorbing. No life-
time suffices to do more than gather up a few fragments from
out the colossal remains.
Yet! we have to regret that no real attempt has yet been made
to join the spiritual impulse of Egypt to the West and to teach
the British something of the Christ-work in ancient times. It
would be Church-work were anything to be hoped for from thai
131
THE COSMIC CHRIST
crumbling institution. Astronomers continue to record wonderful
..discoveries" through stellar photography and mathematics, all of
which were common knowledge thousands of years B.c. But
whilst they condescend to accept the findings of the ancient
astronomers (for example, the fact that our earth was once con-
tained in the Sun) they do not always acknowledge the source
of their discoveries and they reject the spiritual connection betwixt
heaven and earth, which was the main feature of Egyptian life
for thousands of years.
This failure to accept the spiritual side of Egyptology (though
it is generally recorded), added to the determination to treat as
pure myth the stupendous Christ impulse which formed so glorious
an accompaniment to the lives of those favoured people, is deeply
to be deplored. This materialistic attitude might be excusable
if there was any ambiguity in the knowledge to be gained, bur
there is none. The Book of the Dead is a marvellous and beautiful
Bible, and the stone records are so clear and concise for those
trained to read them (and to whom we owe a debt of gratitude
for having passed them on to us) that the presence of the Cosmic
Christ and all His workings can he attributed to no other source.
Egyptian eschatology reads like a grand rehearsal of that final
incarnation in Palestine which, though outwardly simple, was to
bring to birth a new dispensation, carrying with it the fullness of
the divine indwelling spirit.
The Egyptians named Menes as their first leader on the physical
plane to be recognized as a human teacher. In earlier times the
gods themselves guided the Egyptian nation, and by gods they
meant beings who had preceded men in evolution. These beings
belonged to the Moon period before its separation from the Earth,
and only at the end of this Earth's evolution will we have arrive9
:u the stage which those beings had reached at the end of the
Moon period. It is understood that those of us who have advanced
ra.day beyond the spiritual laggards of our race will in a future
evolution be used in a like manner.
In Egypt there were also spiritual directors who were at a less
elevated stage of development than the gods, and they assisted in
bringing the people to a definite stage in evolution, and we of
the present were the people of that period. In our age we are
132
EGYPT AND THE COSMIC Cl-IRIST
actually living in a revival of Egyptian civilization, and the dis-
coveries made to-day are revivals of what was familiarly known
during that epoch. In our modern science live the forces of
ancient Egypt and Chaldea, and the power of the Cosmic Christ
is working in it. The majority living to-day have still to reali7.e
that in Palestine Jesus the Christ \Vas the earthly expression of
a definite connection between the Cosmos and the forces of man,
and He brought to man what was needed for his future develop-
ment. He pointed mankind the way back to the spiritual world.
Above all is it necessary for us to realize quite clearly that
Christianity is no mushroom movement inaugurated two thousand
years ago. Christianity has always existed, and always will exist,
simply because there is only one Son of God, the Cosmic Christ.
There is only one religion in the world, Christ~ianity, simply
because there has never been any other Initiator save the Great
Solar Spirit by Whom this earth was made and to Whom it
wholly belongs.
Through our dim understanding we draw lines of demarcation
betwixt those whose understanding is not on the exact level oi
our own. We think of them as above or below, as Christian or
heathen, but in our sense of the term the heathen does not exisr
and the Christian has yet to be made. The life of the Christ,
representing the whole universe, penetrates all evolution, and
humanity stands but at the beginning of that evolution to-day.
The new inspiration, so urgently needed to-day, is that there
is but one Christ, one humanity, one world (so far as we are
immediately concerned), a Trinity of supreme power. This world
and all in it are but fragments of His body of Power; "God is
said to be in all things by essence, but by His own essence", and
when the truth is realized, when we touch the ultimate reality,
that the world and all in it are nothing more nor less than a minor
manifestation of Christ, that in truth nothing exists save and out-
side the Christ, then will dawn in the hearts of men an idea of
the Christ incomparably greater than anything which we have so
far conceived.
Through the ages we have lived in the divine Presence and
we have not known it. We have li\'ed in the dynamic wholeness
of things and in integral relations with reality, yet we have lxen
133
THE COSMIC CHRIST
innocent of the fact, simply because in our ignorance we have
persisted in severing the natural from the supernatural. Let us
cease echoing the childish demand "Give us proof" and remember
that there is nothing of the smallest importance that can be proved.
Proof can only be experienced individually. It cannot be passed
on. Life orientates towards the Divine, and evolution is simply
adjustment towards that Ideal. To some this Ideal must yet be
crude, but to others it may he Cosmic, the Spirit of the universe
and the Light of the \Vorlc.l.
CHAPTER VIII
THE AKASHIC RECORDS OR THE BOOK OF GOD
THE Akashic Records are little understood. What are they?
Where are they located?
Collison says : " There exists in the hidden world that which
is called the Akashic Record, a kind of cosmic cinematograph. In
this record everything that has happened lies reposing, and it is
for us to waken it up to life. When we do this we become, for
the time being, one with the picture on the record and have a
true experience of the event or the person we are trying to find
in the spiritual world."
Let us strive to simplify a complex subject. Roughly speaking,
the Akashic Records are the indelible history of the world and
all in it from the Beginning. No act, however great, however
trivial, that is performed on this earth but has its spiritual proto-
type graven on the everlasting Record, which 1s sometimes called
"The Memory of God".
Alongside the words "The Memory of God" let us place the
words "The Omniscience of God".
What does this mean ? Not a sparrow falls to the ground
without our Creator knowing it. The very hairs of our heads are
numbered.
In these two magnificently simple yet pregnant statements we
are o;hown the meaning of the all-consciousness of the Divine.
We can conceive of the Creator knowing and understanding the
birth of the solar system and the immensity of space which is
paralleled by that of time. We can conceive God as the creator
of Betelgeux, the largest known star, which can comfortably hold
twenty-five million suns within it.
Not so simple is it for us to conceive of universal Divine
consciousness including the infinitely minute and humble.
135
THE COSMIC CHRIST
The Biblical words bring home to us what this all-embracing
consciousness, untramelled by space and time, mu~t be. Thought
out to its logical conclusion, this world and all within it
IS WITHOUT PAST, PRESENT, AND FUn'RE!
We exist in the ever-existing mind of God. "In Him we live
and move and have our being." Is it strange that there is some-
thing to be read in the mind of God, faintly though it be reflected
to our spiritual vision?
Is it conceivable that any thought of the Creator, great or small,
can fail to be In Being?
As the Creator permeates and is expressed in and through
Creation this eternal memory necessarily resides in all humanity.
The memories we habitually use in our own recollections of
past events are the faintly whispered echoes, the fleeting glimpses
of the Divine records.
We all have the power of memory. Some of us more, some
of us less. This power is but one of the many, teaching us that
"in Him we live and move and have our being". The vehicle
through which memory functions may be destroyed, but, though
the man has lost his memory, the events he once recorded are
still preserved in the Book of Life, the Akashic Records.
Let us try to realize that everything that happens in this physical
world has its counterpart in the spiritual world. Nothing happens
here without leaving its spiritual traces.
For simplicity's sake let us think of the Akashic Records as
a gigantic gramophone record upon which this world's events are
faithfully reproduced. This is as near to the material as we can
reduce the subject.
Akasha is, however, not material. Some students seek to trans- .
late the word into Ether, the invisible agent required by the
scientist. It will, however, only be in the next, the fifth round
of evolving humanity, that the fifth element, Ether, the gross
body of Akasha, will become a familiar fact of nature, just as
air is familiar to us now.
During our next round those higher senses, the growth and
development of which Akasha subserves, will be susceptible of
136
THE AKASHIC RECORDS
complete expansion. At present there is a partial familiarity
with that permeability which carries on its bosom the Akashic
Records.
The majority living to-day only know what can be heard,
tasted, touched, smelt, and se~n. There are only five responses
open to man as he contacts the vibrations. As study and concen-
tration are persevered in, a time comes when higher rates of
vibration open up. When he can use the mind itself, not only
as the unifier of all the five senses, but as a sixth sense also.
Through the mind the soul realm is cognized, just as through
the senses the objective world is contacted. Later on the man
depends no longer on the organs of sense. The intuition can be
developed into a usable organ for direct apprehension.
An intuitive flash uprushes-is noted and is analysed. Imagina-
tion, the handmaiden of the eternal memory, speaks, and the
Akashic Records are impinged upon. Later they are under-·
standingly read. Then comes the knowledge of what the Akashic
Records really are.
The Divine mind in age-long creative operation. Universal
intelligence. Omniscience. The Logos.
The universe is still in the making. Creative evolution never
rests in the eternal mind, which is translated on earth by the
universal Christ of the Cosmos.
Where are the Akashic Records situated? The answer ts:
" Everywhere in space."
If this be so, how can we contact them?
When we look within ourselves we find that of which we
speak as "I am". This "I" is distinct from all other objects in
the world and, when spiritually apprehended, it forms the con-
necting link with the Great "I am" of the universe. If Jesus,
the Christ, is the most momentous Figure in the evolution of
Humanity, if, as we believe, the Cosmic Christ has His source in
the Absolute, in God Himself, then there must be some close
connection between what is fundamental in man and this same
Cosmic Christ. What is that connection?
The realization of our one-ness with God. That we came
forth from God and that, if we choose, our divine source can
be made manifest in os. The divinity latent in all mankind
137
THE COSMIC CHRIST
takes the form of a special manifestation in Christ, Who "was
from the foundation of the world".
Dion Fortune writes : " The record of every action performed,
or feeling felt, or thought conceived, is preserved as an image
in the reflecting ether, which is really the memory of the planetary
spirit. It is as if a mirror retained impressions like a photographic
plate. These images are not stored in any haphazard fashion,
but obey the same law of association of ideas as do our own
subconscious memories. These things which occur in sequence
are linked together, so that if one thing is recovered by conscious-
ness all those connected with it tend to be drawn into consciousness
also."
Before going further in pursuit of procedure, let it be stated
that there are people in this world who have a natural-born
faculty for reading the Akashic Records. Probably a certain
number who read this book will, for the first time, realize that
they have accomplished the feat and rejected it on the common
misunderstanding of the word "Imagination".
Some persons are born with the power but have no idea how
to use it or what it means. They are constantly mystified and
often bored by sudden visions in full waking consciousness which
obviously belong to bygone times and in which they have little
or no interest.
We know a master plumber and electrician, a hard-working
tradesman, who is liable to such glimpses into the Records at
any moment.
Sitting down, resting after his day's work, he has described to
us what happens to him. Suddenly the air in front of him is
rent as a curtain might be. Through the rent he sees a scene
strange to him, with human beings performing various actions.
On one occasion, when he asked of one of these beings, clad
in armour and carrying a pike, what this vision was intended to
convey to him~ the man's face faded out and the face of his
dead father was superimposed. This the seer understood to
mean that he was witnessing his father in a former life or incarna-
tion. He was reading the Akashic Records.
On another occasion he was motoring out in the country to
superintend a big piece of work he was carrying through. At the
138
THE AKASHIC RECORDS
time he was in a deep state of depression and dreaded the condi-
tions he would find. He had been accused of certain acts of
which he was absolutely innocent, and as he drove along he was
pondering on life's injustices and wondering how he could right
himself in the eyes of his wealthy employers.
Suddenly lifting his head, he was startled to see written on the
sky before him the words "Your tribulations are at an end".
The words proved to be true. On arriving at his destination
he found that all his troubles had been cleared up, and the injustice;:
under which he had laboured was fully recognized and com-
pensated for.
We are recording here the case of a very strong, natural-born
seer. What he sees has no connection with astral visions, though
they also come to him at times. They are pictures of the moment,
such as a shipwreck which he vividly witnessed whilst sitting at
home. The next day he read the account of the wreck, which
confirmed in all particulars his vision of the previous day.
It must be realized that the figures seen in the Akashic Records
are, as it were, still in action, but not physical action. What the
seer witnesses arc the spiritual forces, which are behind and prompt
the physical action.
Those who have witnessed the apparition, let us say of
Catherine Howard in Hampton Court Palace, have r~..ad the
record of the tragedy. The real Catherine Howard has most
probably reincarnated, returned to this world with no recollection
of her former life-a merciful dispensation of God, for how many
of us could bear to remember the long trail of suffering and misery
through which we all have passed in our many lives and through
reons of time ?
Such apparitions, often accompanied by some violent emotion,
such as crying or screaming, are records on the cosmic cinemato-
graph, no more wonderful than the gramophone record in our
room of some dead and gone great singer's voice. Very shortly
we will reproduce the form of the singer as he or she emits the
VOICe.
There are those who question the great powers of the late
Rudolph Steiner to read the Ak.ashic Records as he did. The
powers of the plumber are no less wonderful. The difference lies
139
THE COSMIC CHRIST
in the lives and aims of the two men. The plumber must con-
centrate upon his shop and his workmen. Steiner lived for and
concentrated on nothing else but the life of the Cosmic Christ
which he has given to us. His enormous body of followers are
drawn from all parts of the world, and all are seeking the Cosmic
Christ he discloses. His passing has so stimulated his followers
that he is obviously working even more powerfully from the other
side than he did from this. Curious anomaly! Steiner is ignored,
if not scorned, by orthodoxy, yet no teacher has ever presented to
the world the Christ in so grand and glorious a light.
There are readers of the Akashic Records who come to it in
another way.
We all know that there are thousands of students all the world
over who specialize on one particular period in history and often
on one particular historical figure. With one student it might
be the time of the Pharaohs, with another it might be Napoleonj
or, if inclined to the Higher Criticism, it might be St. Matthew
or St. John's Gospel.
These students live out a long life entirely engrossed in their
own special subject. They are literally saturated with it. The
St. John student throws every ounce of his brain-power into the
life of the Saint. The Gospel and Revelations he knows by heart,
and every word is weighed and pondered over with fervid interest.
Gradually the scribe who wrote the Gospel and Revelations arises
up in the mind's eye of the student. As the traces of everything
that happened to tht Saint are preserved in their prototype in the
spiritual world and can be observed there, this living ·script is
actually read by the student as a clearly-defined picture. The
accessories of the great writer group themselves. The ardent
student, bearing all his mental faculties on John and his work,
actually enters the life through becoming at one with that Divine
permeation saturating all creation.
Of this Divine mind the student is a fragment, and deep down
in his being stirs the God-contact that links him with his Maker.
There wells up within him, in connection with his subject,
what he may call imagination, but, if he is abreast of to-day's
Psychology, he will recognize this imagination as the great creative
force in man from which all great discoveries have originated.
140
THE AKASHIC RECORDS
He has placed himself in the Spirit of John, and gradually he finds
he knows a surprising amount concerning him and his life. He
wakes up to the fact that a great deal of his information is not
to be found in any written records. He is suddenly aware of some
interesting incident concerning John, but he is quite unable to trace
the source of his information. He simply knows certain details,
and knows them to be true, but he has no evidence to adduce
regarding them. If he has never suspected the existence of the
Akashic Records he reluctantly lays his discoveries aside; he dare
not include them in the treatise he is writing. He can only
treasure them in his heart. In this world a vast amount of priceless
knowledge is lost owing to the ignorant materialism of the seeker.
Again there are certain aids which from another cause make
the reading of the Akashic Records comparatively easy. A student
who is profoundly interested, let us say, in the ancient Egyptians
was probably one himself, as indeed the majority of us once were.
He would quite naturally, through deep concentration upon hi~
subject, arouse in his own depths the memory of his former
incarnations and rush right into his early home life on the banks
of the Nile, though he might be wholly unaware of the fact that
he had formerly been an Egyptian. The permanent atom within
his heart that persists through all his lives carries with it his
eternal memory and easily yields to his deep interest in his former
land.
Indeed, this eternal memory within us, without being asked,
is constantly allowing its knowledge of the past to escape and
flash across the bridge betwixt the subconsciousness and the
ordinary waking consciousness. When we travel to-day in a
country where once we lived in ages past the eternal memory,
stimulated by familiar scenes, often hints to us that we have been
there before. We are naturally attracted in our present lives to
lands we have formerly known, and, if we happen to be blest
with time and inclination for study, we will probably read the
eternal memory without being aware of it. Simply by dwelling
continuously upon one epoch we will drift into the eternal store-
house of world events and gravitate to that particular country in
which our thoughts are centred.
A typical case is that of the author of "Gotama the Man",
141
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Mrs. Rhys Davids, who is acknowledged to be our greatest
authority on Buddhism and whose knowledge as an Orientalist
is unrivalled. This book clearly sets forth that its author has
been in contact with the mind of the Buddha. It is worthy of
note that so eminent a scholar has unveiled this power openly
before the scientific world.
Again, it must not ·be forgotten that there are beings on the
other side who are eager to establish contact with the student,
and constantly do so. The other side, indeed the whole spiritual
life, is so vitally interblended with this life of ours on earth that
an enormous amount of activity is. ceaselessly taking .place, though
most of us are quite unaware of the fact. That "Cloud of
witnesses" of which we read is not simply composed of idle
spectators, like an audience in a cinema enjoying the pictures.
They are active participators in the affairs of earth, and if it
were pointed out to some of them that they are earthbound
they would assuredly reply: " We desire to be. We are helping
in such and such work." Or it might be: "We are looking
after our own people till the time comes for them to join us."
The condition of consciousness of such discarnate souls seems very
similar to that of their incarnate existence. It is very rarely that
through a medium they display any knowledge of the angelic
beings that work amongst us here and who are free of other
planes besides ours.
A man who, let us say, is writing a book upon the atomic
structure of the Globe may quite unconsciously be writing under
control. If he is mediumistic (a suggestion most scientists would
indignantly repudiate) he will be easy prey for the prowling
physicist on the other side who is searching for a kindred spirit.
Without passing under complete though unconscious control
such as the above, a vast amount of information can be dropped
into the mind of the writer simply on the principle of wireless
when the operator and receiver are en rapport.
There are really numerous ways in which the student can
contact with the past, some more subtle than others, some more
difficult than born clairvoyance employs, but the more surely it
is grasped that the possibility really exists the more constantly
will facilities open out.
THE AKASHIC RECORDS
The most formidable obstacle that exists (excluding rank
materialism) is the still prevalent belief that what we call imagina·
tion produces only nonsense. One would suppose that ordinary
common sense would long since have shown us that imagination
is the foundation of every great discovery that has ever been
made. Even if you want to make a simple box you must first
imagine the type of simple box you require.
When we see something passing that is unfamiliar to us our
first instinct (bred from the sad limitations we inherit or acquire
and which we refuse to abandon) is to dismiss the whole affair
as imagination, to us synonymous with nonsense. No wonder
that we do not progress in our mental and spiritual life with
greater rapidity when we persist in rejecting and crushing out
every delicate little tendril put forth by the tree of Divine life
within us.
There are innumerable people in our midst who quite obviously
have nothing to do with the West though born into European
bodies. Some of those have become famous through their services
to Eastern peoples, the peoples with whom they have been con-
nected in previous incarnations. Three names widely known in
contemporary history leap to the mind :
Arabia Lawrence. Gertrude Bell. Lord Lloyd.
Both men have found no difficulty in passing as Arabs when
dressed as such in the desert. Lawrence, a scorner of Western
civilization, has always been one with the tribes he led. To the
average Englishman he has always been a mystery; to the student
of originals and fundamentals his ancestry is plain enough.
Lord Lloyd is cultured to his finger-tips and a keen and
exceedingly clever diplomatist, but his lithe movements and the
Orient, stamped indelibly upon his whole personality, proclaim
unmistakably his origin. To the British Government his know-
ledge of Eastern psychology is of the utmost value.
Gertrude Bell's personality gave no clue to her Eastern extrac-
tion. She looked typically English and was born English, yet the
West was powerless to hold her, and she literally gave her short
life to Irak. Whilst still young she returned to the love of her
heart, to her old environment.
In studying her life one finds the strongest confirmation of her
143
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Eastern ongm in her sway over the native mind, in the total
absence of fear when penetrating amongst w_ild peoples who had
never seen a white man or woman, and her easy mastery of
Eastern dialects. She moved unconcernedly amongst those who
through many lives had been akin to her. She understood them
and loved them.
These three examples must formerly have held dominant posi-
tions in the East in their immediately past incarnations. All three
were intimate associates in this life and certainly were closely
related in the past. The Lords of Karma had work for them
which necessitated Western bodies. One can see quite plainly
what that work is and how fitted they are to perform it, though
one has completed her task and has gone across, probably only
for the short rest she required and would not take on this plane.
Gertrude Bell reached the only ultimate she knew by drawing
spirit into body, by elevating body into spirit, mind into soul,
and mingling in service of love a perfect alliance with the utmost
strength of mind.
East is East and West is West, but the High Gods ordain that
the twain shall ultimately meet in friendship, peace and under-
standing. The ultimate fusion is being brought about by such
servants as Lloyd, Lawrence and Gertrude Bell, and their work
is thr.ir offering upon the common altar of humanity.
Thousands of less well-known men and women are working
out the evolution of the world under the guidance of the Cosmic
Christ and His army of angels, amongst whom stand the Lords
of Karma. With even a slight knowledge of a certain number
of these men and women it will be seen that they are graded by
the great Ones who keep the Book of God and read it with
dearer eyes than do we who still see through a glass darkly.
The eternal Records point the direction in which the chosen
servants must return to those lands with which they were familiar
in their former lives.
In the early days of this world the important events were
handed down from one generation to another orally, and for long
a certain clairvoyance was natural to all peoples, and all took
place under the guidance of spiritual Beings.
As humanity fell deeper and deeper into the trough of
144
THE AKASHIC RECORDS
materialism the spiritual faculties receded into the background,
and only pow are we beginning to reclaim what was lost.
Every day new students are seeking to read the Akashic Records.
They are delving into prehistoric times and finding that they are
more easily read than those of a later era.
Where no record, other than the Akashic, exists there are no
complications; no preconceived impressions blur the untrammelled
vision of the seer.
Again, to quote ·Dion Fortune : " Although all records are
readily available in the reflecting ether for such as can read therein,
it is the exceeding richness of the material which baffles our
researches; we might seek for days and weeks and, while recover-
ing much that was of interest, fail to locate that which we sought,
unless we had some definite starting-point."
The laws of revelation and unfoldment pass through many
phases, many degrees, on their way to the perfect knowledge of
the great fulfilment of the purpose in creation. Assuredly all
the past will live again in that perfection of consciousness which
is comprised in consciousness of spirit in body, mind in soul, and
soul in mind. We must pass from the merely personal into th~
universal spirit before we can hope to know the mighty life of
humanity in God in all the devious past as well as the present
and future.
The history of the universal life is writ in the Scriptures of
the world. In the perfect ·state all the imperfect states will be
justified in their evolutionary contribution to the mighty whole,
and all true judgment depends upon our relations between intel-
ligence and revelation. Those who find and live with the
unmanifested must assuredly become one with the Manifest in
past, present and future. When this union is attained it will
then be as natural to abide in the omniscience of Divine conscious-
ness as to live in the objective world of men.
145
K
CHAPTER IX
BIBLES
THE BRITISH BIBLE
WE do not intend to add to the mass cf literature dealing with
the Bibles of the world. Most of the public libraries contain
good translations of British, Indian, Chinese and Persian sacred
Scriptures, and the reader to whom they are new will be repeatedly
struck by the fundamental similarity of the teaching. It is
impossible to avoid the belief that they all derive from the same
source.
In pursuit of our object-tracing the Cosmic Christ from the
beginning onward through history, from prehistoric times up to
the present-we will only touch upon significant points bearing
upon our object as we glance through the British Bible.
This book is the history of Israel. It begins with an account
of "the Creation" and ends with the Gospels and Acts of the
Apostles, after the Jews had rejected and crucified the Messiah.
The Bible only deals with a small portion of the East. The
Canons of the Old and New Testament were taken over from
the Jews by the Christian Church, and so extraordinary and com-
pelling were the spiritual experiences they contained that criticism,
so easily and so ruthlessly applied, has utterly failed to stamp out
their message of a creative and redemptive God.
The British Bible continues to be the ever-increasing "best
seller" in the world; it contains the key to the mystery of the
Cosmic Christ.
" I am Alpha and Omega," meaning ever present, never absent,
from the dawn of Creation to the end. That is why we speak
of the Cosmic Christ. Because of that claim maintained through-
out the Bible.
BIBLES: THE BRITISH BIBLE
•' I am the first and the last. Before Abram was, I am."
Could that possibly mean : " I came two thousand years ago
for only thirty-three years to speak to the people in Palestine.
I was then called Jesus of Nazareth. I preached to them for the
first time, and that was the only message I ever gave?"
Throughout the New Testament we are shown that Jesus the
Christ possessed an intimate knowledge of Old Testament history.
''Your father Abram rejoiced to see my day, and he saw
it and was glad."
Then said the Jews unto Him: "Thou art not fifty years old,
and hast thou seen Abram ?"
Jesus said unto them: "Verily, verily, I say unto you, before
Abram was, I am."
Here we have the Christ's clear statement that He had been
in close touch with Abram, probably when He led him out
of Ur of the Chaldees, 4000 B.c. Also we get a glimpse of His
everlastingness from the beginning.
No one can hope to understand Christianity who has no know-
ledge of the Old Testament. The revelation therein presented to
us is the free self-manifestation of a Personal God.
The Biblical chronology of the Old Testament is still uncertain.
The Abram narratives belong to two dates: one to the ninth
and eighth centuries B.c., the other to the age of the Exile. Thus
our first written history of Abram dates about twelve hundred
years after he lived. Therefore we are dealing with tradition,
not history, in the case of the patriarchs.
In every book is vividly present God's divine ambassador at
work upon the human soul. The Hebrew does not attempt to
teach that God is. He writes of what to him is a proven certainty.
The Old Testament is a text-book of religious experiences. The
scribes, in glowing, ardent enthusiasm, write of the Living God
and record their personal knowledge of Him.
What really matters is not what their religion was but what
it became.
The rough impression one gets on first reading over the Old
Testament is that these people thought of nothing but God and
a religion. God is mixed up 111 all their wars and all their
household affairs.
THE COSMIC CHRIST
How did this seemingly intimate relationship with God come
about?
By revelation. Through the actual presence of Christ-ensouled
rulers and guides and by Angelic. ministry.
· The testimony to this divine dominance of the timeless God
is so clear, so quietly matter-of-fact as to leave no room for
doubt.
We ask this sceptical age why this should not be so? We
have many grades of human life on earth, all of which
serve a purpose of either utility or warning example. We
know that ours is not the greatest power of action in the
umverse.
If we have any logical intelligence we must concede as many
varieties of beings above man, namely, the Angelic Hosts, all of
whom also serve a purpose; and above them presides the highest
of all the orders of intelligence. Then let us remember that the
Christian dispensation of the Old Testament is not our dis-
pensation.
It came before the Christ revelation in Palestine. That revela-
tion opened before us a new dispensation: the reign of the
Divine Spirit.
God manifesting in Spirit replaced God manifesting through
a multiplicity of Christ teachers.
We have mounted one more hill in our long pilgrim~ge. The
visitation of Angels is replaced by the Christ Spirit sweeping
through all humanity.
Our bodies have become temples of the Living God.
This the Christ promised and foretold in rhe Gospels. In the
Acts of the Apostles it was experienced.
In the Old Testament prophecy it was given forth that God's
kingdom was coming on earth. An attitude of keen expectancy
was created. The power of the Spirit would draw all nations
together from the ends of the earth.
In the spiritual restlessness of to-day we see the prophecies being
fulfilled by the powers of the Spirit working in the hearts of men
and stirring the stagnant pool of religious paraphernalia out of its
drugged slumber.
•' Behold! I make all things new.,
148
BIBLES: THE BRITISH BIBLE
The rays of truth stream on us from different angles; some are
material, some spiritual, but all testify to the same Inspirer.
" God, having of old-time spoken unto the fathers in the
prophets by divers portions and in divers manner, hath at the
end of these days spoken to us in His Son."
In the Third Chapter of Genesis we read of what is supposed
to be the fall of man.
We have dealt elsewhere with this mystery, which we doubt
not has a profoundly mystical meaning, but for courageous, clear
thinking on this difficult subject we have met nothing so fine
as an explanation given by the Rev. L. B. Ashby, Rector of
Dickleburgh.1 From what we know of his writings we can only
say that, if his church is not always full, those who "sit under
him" are utterly unworthy of so great a privilege.
Here we have a modern interpretation. In another chapter
we have given the interpretation of a great mystical writer of
fifty years ago.
Of this third chapter the Rev. L. B. Ashby writes:
"This is popularly supposed to contain an account of what is
called 'the fall of man from a state of primitive perfection'. As
a matter of fact it contains nothing of the sort. What it does
describe is the moment when mankind reached the stage in his
development at which he became for the first time conscious of
right and wrong, or, in other words, became a moral being,
responsible for his actions (which he had not been hitherto), and
this is obviously a step upwards and not a step downwards.
"It is a great pity that the Book of Genesis should have had
thrust upon it a theory of which it is perfecdy innocent and which
is a stumbling-block to intelligent people. This theory is that
man, as he originally came forth from the hands of God, was in
body and soul more perfect than any men have ever been since,
and that from this state of primitive perfection he fell. For
this fantastic statement St. Paul (misinterpreted), St. Augustine
and Milton are almost entirely responsible. There is not one word
in Genesis to assert that mankind began in a state of perfection.
On the contrary, it describes him as being in exactly the same:
condition as he is shown to us by science. Adam (who, of course,
1 Morning ,Post, 2nd February, 1929
149
THE COSMIC CHRIST
stands for mankind) is described as belonging to the animal
kingdom. . . . He is shown to us as living in close fellow-
ship with the animals, unclothed, and subsisting. as they do, on
the natural fruits of the earth, doing no kind of work. Likt>
them, he is non-moral; he had been forbidden to eat of the
tree of the knowledge t · good and evil, and therefore does not
as yet know right from wrong any more than the animals do.
Like them, he can experience neither shame nor remorse. . . .
But Genesis tells us (and here again it is scientifically quite
accurate} that this creature-man alone of all the animal creation
was furnished with a mind which was capable of coming in due
course to think rationally. He was 'made in the image of God'
-he was endowed with the beginnings of that intelligence and
freedom of will which are qualities of God. And this is where
he was differentiated from the.beasts, which have never developed
these powers.
" The inevitable result of being rndowed with human intelligence
,was that he should presently come to perceive the difference
between right and wrong. This fact is expressed in Genesis by
saying that he proceeded 'to put forth his hand and eat of the
tree of the knowledge of good and evil' and that immediately he
did so 'his eyes were opened and he knew that he was naked'.
Consequently he began to experience (what no animal experiences)
a sense of shame, so that 'he hid himself from the presence of
God'. The ascent of man had begun. . . . The only kind of
'fall' described in Genesis iii is a fall from a lower to a higher
state of consciousness, which, if it is a fall at all, is suspiciously
like a fall upwards. . . .
" The fall of man \Vas a direct result of his beginning to ascend.
The alternatives for him were, either to remain on the non-
moral level of the animals and never rise at aiL or to rise with
the attendant danger of being liable to fall. God placed the nobler
alternative within his reach, viz., that he should rise, even though
he might fall; for it is better, is it not, to rise, even if you fall,
than never to rise at all?
" This is the fact which the Book of Genesis sets forth in the
form of a poetic story or allegory.
"The Bible was not written to teach physical science; it was
150
BIBLES: THE BRITISH BIBLE
written to tell the story of the spiritual Odyssey of mankind, and
when it is dealing with this, its own proper subject, it is an
incomparable text-book of accurate moral and spiritual history,
if only people will abstain from making it say what it does not say."
What can we know of the Absolute?
" No man hath seen God."
We regard God as pure Spirit, and if we are asked what spirit
is we can only reply that it is a name we give to certain non-
human demonstrations which are outside the power and jurisdic-
tion of human beings. We take spirit to be omnipotent,
omniscient and omnipresent, the perfect intelligence and love in
which we have our being. Spirit (God) is revealed to us in the
changeless laws governing the universe and in nature, which
also is a divine objective expression.
But we are told that God has revealed Himself to us in the
British Bible. It is asserted that He has revealed Himself in vari6us
offices.
We are now beginning to understand that the One God has
now been known in different parts of the world by different names.
There is not a multiplicity of Gods but a multiplicity of names
through which the Absolute has manifested Himself through that
mighty Sun Being, the Cosmic Christ.
Let us here acknowledge our deep indebtedness to "The British
Israel Movement,.. This is the only body of biblical students
that has thrown a dear light upon the pre-cxiatence of Christ.
By their unique knowledge of every book in the Old and New
Testaments they trace the workings of the Christ from the begin-
ning up to the present. Thus they bring before the public an
infinitely wider and nobler conception of the divine sovereignty
of the universe than has ever before been attempted.
Those who care to studv the Old Testament will find that the
following wiU clarify their understanding. The Bible is the mo~t
misunderstood, the most misrepresented Book, the most revolu-
tionary book. It is full of mysteries which few try to unravel.
Let us begin with the multiplicity of names by which the One
God was known through the Cosmic Christ. We will quote
from Henry Proctor, F.R.S.L.: 1
1 National Messa¥~ and Bann~r, 25th February, 1928
151
THE COSMIC CHRIST
The Bible gives the following, amongst other~:
Elohim (Genesis i, 1), Mighty Ones (Creators),
Jehovah (Genesis xi, 4), Eternal (ever living),
El Elyon (Genesis xiv, 20), Most High,
Jehovah (Jeremiah xxii, 14), Provider,
Shaddai (Exodus vi, 2), All Sufficient,
Jehovah-Nissi (Exodus xvii, 15), Protector,
Jehovah Shalom (Judges vi, 24), Peace,
Jehovah Shammah (Ezekiel xlviii, 35), Presence,
Jehovah Tsidkenu (Jeremiah xxiii, 6), Our Righteousness,
Abba Father (Romans viii, 15). .
Elohim means Mighty Ones: the Trinity concerned in the
Creation : the Father who created all things through Jesus Christ.
" For in Him was created all that is in Heaven and on earth, the
visible and the invisible, all has been created through Him and
for Him" (Colossians i, 14-16) (Twentieth Century New Testa·
ment). The Spirit-the dynamic Power-is seen also "Brooding
upon the face of the waters" to bring all things into being
(Genesis i, 2).
The next in Biblical order is Jehovah·Yahwe-the self-existent
one; Eternal; Ever-living; Alpha and Omega, the first and the
last.
El Elyon-of whom Melchizedek (King of Righteousness) was
Priest who brought out bread and wine, a foretaste of the Lord's
Supper, and blessed Abram, saying:
" Blessed be Abram by El Elyon,
Creator of Heaven and earth,
And blessed be God most High,
Who bas handed over your foe&."
(Genesis xiv, 20}--MOFFATT.
Jehovah-Jireb-the Lord the Provider. The first and greatest
of all His provisions is symbolized in Genesis xxii, 8, " God will
Himself provide the lamb." This was done when He gave us
"The Lamb of God, which taketh away the sins of the world,.
" Shall He not freely with Him freely give us all things?" " By
God shall supply all your needs."
1)2
BIBLES: THE BRITISH BIBLE
El Shaddai was the name in which God made Himself known
in very early ages. It occurs many times in the Book of Job,
which is believed to be the oldest book in the Bible. It is usually
translated "The Almighty", but "All sufficient" would be better.
It means the God of the Breasts, from Shad, a breast. It indicates
that God dwelt with them as a mother with her children, giving
them all that they needed to sustain life just as a mother does
her babe, giving of her very sustenance. " For as a Mother
comforteth her children, so comforteth the Lord them that fear
Him " (Isaiah lxvi, 13). " As one whom her mother comforteth,
so will I comfort you " (Isaiah xlii).
As Jehovah-Nissi-the Lord my banner. "He is our defence
against foes of every kind." " And when the enemy shall come
in like a flood, the Spirit of Jehovah l~fts up a standard against
him, and puts him to flight." " The shield of faith quenches all
the fiery darts of the evil one."
He is also Jehovah-Shalom-the God of Peace. He is our
Peace. He sets us free from all anxiety, saying : " Be anxious
for nothing, but let your requests be made known unto God with
thanksgiving." "Do not be troubled about to-morrow. To-morrow
will take care of itself. The day's own trouble is quite enough
for the day." (Matthew vi, 34HMoffatt).
Jehovah-Shammah-The Lord is there-is cognate in meaning
with Emmanuel-God with us. That, however, is for the old
dispensation, we have something much better. He who dwells
with us now remains with us. " I will inhabit, and walk about
in them " (II Corinthians vi, 16). " He is never so far off as
even to be near; closer is He than breathing, nearer than hands
?r feet."
In Jeremiah xxiii, 6, Jesus is called Jehovah·Tsidkenu-The
Lord our Righteousness. He who knew no sin, was made sin
for us, that we might be made the Righteousness of God in Him.
" Him who never knew sin God made to be sin on our behalf
(II Corinthians v, 21), that we through union with Him might
become the righteousness of God."
Two other comforting names of God are :
Jehovah Rophi-The Lord my Physician, Jehovah Rophekha
-in which He decle;-es : " I am thy Physician" : a promise to
153
THE COSMIC CHRIST
the individual believer, fulfilled to every one who believes in
Him.
For another name of God-Agape-Love, and " He that
dwelleth in love dwelleth in God and God in him.u And the
blessed outcome of this abiding is that " He that dwelleth in
the secret place of Elyon (the Most High) shall abide under the
shadow of Sha.ddai; and because thou hast made Jehovah, who is
my refuge, even Elyon thy habitation, there shall no evil befall
thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling , (Psalm
xci, 10).
For He put~ you in charge of His angels,
To guard you wherever you go,
To lift you in their hands
Lest you trip over a stone.
(Psalm xci, u, 12.)
But the power and efficacy of all these names are concentrated
in the name of Jesus, which in Hebrew is "Ya Shua", the salva~
tion of Jehovah. The name of Jesus is exalted above every name
-for God raised Him to the very highest place, and gave Him
the name which stands above all other names, so that in adoration
of the Name of Jesus every knee should bow in Heaven, on earth,
and under earth, and that every tongue should acknowledge Jesus
Christ as Lord, to the glory of God the Father. Phil. ii, 9--
twenrieth century.)
In many ages Jesus has been the Revealer, and manifested of
the Father, for :
" No man has ever yet seen God. God th~ only Son, who is
ever with the Father, He has revealed Him." (John xviii, 2o-
twentieth century.)
The student will discover that all these names represent mani-
festations of the Supreme Spirit we call Christ, Son of God.
The Jehovah manifestation of Deity has caused more perplexity
~md misunderstanding than any other in the Bible. The casual
reader looks upon Jehovah as merely a tribal God, but the serious
student is compelled to a different conclusion.
The Old Testament student is faced by the fact that Jehovah is
God over all this collection of Books, God over Israel, and God
Almighty over all this B.c. Dispensation. Not only is omnipotent
1)4
BIBLES: THE BRITISH BIBLE
Deity claimed for Him, but the claims He makes for Himself
are synonymous with the claims made in the New Testament
by the Christ.
Genesis xvii : " Jehovah appeared to Abram and said unto
him: 'I am God Almighty, walk before me and be thou perfect
and I will make my covenant between Me ~nd thee.' "
Isaiah xliv: " Thus saith Jehovah, the King of Israel and his
Redeemer, Jehovah, Lord of Hosts: I am the first and I am the
last, and beside Me there is no God. I know not any.,
In the above we learn that Jehovah is the only God and that
He is king of Israel, Redeemer and Saviour, which titles we
know are Christ's.
This document belongs to the oldest sources J and E of the
Old Testament (Jehovah Elohim), date about 700 B.c.
Though the rule or manifestation of Jehovah was established
about 1491 B.c. over Israel, when the nation was organized,
Jehovah appears as far back in prehistoric times as the beginning
of man as a sentient being. Jehovah, translated Lord God,
"breathed into man the breath of life, and he became a living
1
,
sou .
Betwixt this first period lie millenniurns, for we know that
when Jehovah called Abram out of Ur of the Chaldees He called
him out of a very high state of civilization, as is shown in
the chapter headed the Sumerians.
When Jehovah manifests to Moses in the burning bush, He
announces Himself as: " I am the God of thy father, the God
of Abram, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob."
" And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God."
After this : " The Lord commands Moses to deliver the
Israelites out of the hands of the Egyptians, and on Moses asking
what holy name he shall use to gain the allegiance of the people
he is t" liberate, the answer is: And God said unto Moses : ' I
am, that I am. Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel :
"I am hath sent me unto you." ' " It will be remembered how
often Christ referred to Himself as "I am".
Throughout all these Old Testament books we have strong
evidence that the Cosmic Christ was at work amongst those
turbulent and undeveloped Hebrews who in Egypt had been a
155
THE COSMIC CHRIST
horde of miserable slav.es, yet were destined to be used for a
great divine purpose.
Who else could "The Lord and Jehovah" have been, save
the Christ who was from the beginning?
The Rev. Pascoe Goard says :
"The matter seems i:o be sufficiently plain. Our Lord is
Jehovah incarnate. Jehovah is Himself not incarnate."
We echo that, going on Biblical evidence, and there is none
other : it is perfectly plain.
Canon Vernon Storr writes:
" If the Christian story is true and God Himself took human
personality as the medium of His completest self-revelation, that
one fact justifies us in believing that at special creative moments
in history He called or selected for a special task a Moses here, a
Paul there, and by His indwelling Spirit showed them a deeper
vision of Himself and His pur,IX>ses."
Again he writes:
" It is interesting, too, to note that none of our sources limits
the power of Yahweh (Jehovah) to the land of Israel. Yahweh
called Abram when he was in Ur of the Chaldees and is with
him in Egypt. He brings forth the Hebrews from Egyptian
bondage, and Jethro, the Priest of Midian, says: 'Now know I
that Jehovah is greater than all Gods.'
" Perhaps the most interesting verses concerning Abram arc
found in the fourteenth chapter of Genesis. For the first time is
mentioned that most mysterious name, Melchizedek.
"We read of a meeting between two Initiates, Abram and
Melchizedek, King of Salem, a Priest of the Most High God.
Melchizedek brings forth bread and wine and administers the
Lord's Supper, foreshadowing the time that in the prosecution
of His great work Jehovah should become incarnate.
" Melchizedek blesses Abram, saying : ' Blessed be Abram
by Elohim, the Most High God, possessor of heaven and earth.'
Abram's reply to the King was: 'I have lifted up my hands
to Jehovah God Most High.' "
" The achievements of the Prophets stand, a conception of
God which is the basis of all our modern thought about God.
We bow in wonder before it. We see in it evidence of a divine
xs6
BIBLES: THE BRITISH BIBLE
revelation. We say that these Prophets were taught by
God."1
The Bible is a book of prophecies, their purpose being to show
forth to future generations the divine plan for the redemption
of the world nationally and spiritually.
" In the light of the prophecies there has not been a .single
generation from Abram to this day which has been without
the full instructions regarding that divine plan in its fullness.
It was fully revealed to Abram. It was made clear to Isaac.
It was manifestly known to Jacob in the greatest detail, 'to the
utmost bound of the everlasting hills'. It was made known to
Israel by Moses, wa·s rehearsed to them in Psalm and address by
David, was written upon in fullest extent by Solomon, formed
the basis of the major and minor prophets, was the foundation of
the Gospels, and the mainspring of the work and ministry of our
Lord, was the theme of the Acts of the Apostles and of the
Epistles, and formed the glorious finale Qf the Book of Revelation. "2
Prophecy is not confined to the Old Testament. The New
Testament takes up the story from the beginning, when the mighty
Angel, Gabriel, made the annunciation to Mary, the Mother of
Jesus of ~azareth.
The whole world at that time was looking for the coming
of the "Sun of Righteousness with healing in His wings", just
as, quite unconsciously recognizing that to the healthy the strong
rays of the sun are health-giving, we are all seeking the sun.
A physiological fact with a spiritual application, for we are really
preparing for the rays of the Sun of Righteousness who is to
bring healing to a stricken world.
The way of the Lord had been prepared, and we can trace
His gradual descent to earth. Centuries before His coming the
ancient Britons or Druids were worshipping Christ under the
name Yezu, for whose coming they looked.
The great religion of Zoroaster was founded amongst the Israel
peoples, and preached the coming of the great Sun Spirit : the
great Aura or Ahura-Mazdao. The Indian wise men spoke of
Vishva Karman and Osiris was the Egyptian Deity with Horus,
His son. Even as far back as Atlantean times the Initiates spoke
1 Vernon Storr 2 Pascoe Goard
'57
THE COSMIC CHRIST
of "The Coming One", and post-Atlantean cultures felt the
drawing of the great cosmic Force nearer and nearer to the earth.
The last to warn men of the divine immanence was John, the
Baptiser. He said :
" And of His fullness have all we received grace for grace."
"Who are these 'We all', and who is John the Baptist?" asks
Rudolph Steiner.
The answer is : " He was, as Christ Himself declared to us,
Elias come back again; he belongs to the great leaders of men of
the post-Atlantean times."
" We have all of His fullness partaken grace for grace."
What does this fullness mean? It is what the Greek Initiates
called the Pleroma, and by that meant the fullness, the totality,
of the highest hierarchies who had their dwelling place on the
sun. That means that what worked as spiritual force through
those hierarchies-the creative power, the Logos, the Word, the
Sun which was from the Beginning, through whom all is made
that was made, who was united with the Father, and with the
Holy Spirit-that is what is meant by the fullness-the fullness
of love, of power, the highest unity in three, that is the Christ.
In order to show humanity the pathway back to the Spiritual
world, the Cosmic Christ descended upon earth, and promised
men to remain with them unto the end of the world. Had the
Christ not come, what could we ever have known of the spiritual
life?
Jesus of Nazareth and the Cosmic Christ were two separate
entities until in his thirtieth year the former yielded up his body
to the great ensoulment at the baptism by John. This has always
been taught in esoteric circles, but now it is being taught from
many pulpits and is growing into a recognized fact.
Surely a long preparation must have been required in order to
fit the Nazarene to serve the Christ as a bodily tabernacle.
Tradition, esoteric teaching, and a careful study of that old
Persian culture of Zoroaster, prepare us to accept Him as the
chosen one to render up His body to the Christ incarnation. The
esoteric teaching of to-day speaks of this Zarathustra, who was
pure enough to be born on earth as Jesus of Nazareth, and who
is now serving "on the other side", as the Master Jesus,
I 58
BIBLES: THE BRITISH BIBLE
Esoteric teaching has the right to claim as much creden~~c: as
the printed Bible. It is derived from oral tradition, and many
Christian sects such as the cssenes, and Rosicrucians, who flour-
ished during the Christian Era, and who are still in being. Neither
the Church nor the masses has the faintest idea how many secret
societies exist to-day who have never permitted the thread of know-
ledge to break from the foundations B.c. up to the present. It
is those great though secret fraternities that keep the lamp trimmed,
and are preparing for further revelation before the end of the
Manvantara. Esoteric teaching was the foundation of Christianity,
not the Bible as many suppose. So far as is known the writers
of the Gospels had no writtcn records to guide them except
those of the Jewish literary contemporaries of the Christ. The
primitive church had no cohesive theology, no stereotyped tradi-
tion, and the cult of Mithraism, which so closely resembled
Christianity, continued to be widespread for the first few hundred
years.
The germs of Essenism and Gnosticism were in the church
from the earliest days, and it must be remembered that only the
Old Testament writings were in the hands of the men who wrote
the New Testament, and they knew nothing of the word "Bible".
The name "Bible" only began to be applied to the collection in
about Boo A.D. Before that the title generally used was "The
Books".
Jesus the Christ often quoted from the Jewish Scriptures, a
collection of books termed the Septuagint, translated into Greek
from the dead Hebrew tongue. Paul calls the old dispensation
the old covenant, and that phrase came into general use among
the early Christians as contrasted with the Christ dispensation
which they called the new dispensation.
When the Epistles and Gospels came into the hands of the
disciples they were not at once considered sacred, but gradually
their value was established and the need for a collection of these
writings for use in church was felt.
By whom were the Gospels written? From the documents
themselves we can gee no direct informacion. The New Testament
is a collection of books. Twenty-seven are by nine different
authors: thirteen ascribed to Paul; five to John, son of Zebedee;
I 59
THE COSMIC CHRIST
two to Peter, two to Luke; one each to Matthew, Mark, James
and Jude. The author of one is unknown.
There is no trace in any of them of the consciousness on the
part of the author that he was contributing to a collection of
sacred writings.
The thought that they were to be preserved and gathered into
a book which was to be handed down through the coming centuries
as an inspired volume does not appear to have entered the minds
of the writers.
In the books of our Bible reference is frequently made to
writings of a sacred character, of which we know nothing. They
are lost. Casual references are made to historical writings com·
posed by seers :md prophets, accredited by the biblical writers as
authoritative utterances of divine truth. They were suffered to
perish.
It is not strange that to-day we find scripture origins so
baffling, ·so utterly confusing to trace. The one certainty we
do possess on the origin of our Bible is that during the first
four or five hundred years no one set any particular value upon
the writings. Their survival was left to mere chance, and no
jurisdiction was applied to translations. Hundreds of sacred
scriptures which to us would have been priceless have simply
disappeared.
About two hundred years after the Resurrection a collection
of the sacred writings was made. It consisted of two parts.
The first contained the four Gospels; the second the Acts, thirteen
Epistles of Paul, one of Peter, one of John, and the Revelation.
At that period there were books in circulation not now included
in our Bible, such as "The Gospel according to the Egyptians,
the Shepherd of Hermas", etc. Lists of those considered holy
began to be compiled. The earliest list we have is anonymous,
dated 170. Irenaeus (2oo) made a list, also Clement of Alexandria
(18o), and Tertullian (2oo). These men were the greatest
authorities during the first two centuries. They all disagreed.
Coming to the third century we find other great scholars
struggling with the problem, and the criticism which has raged
ever since was as strong in the second hundred years as it is
to-day.
BIBLES: THE BRITISH BIRLE
Origen (250) made three lists. The authentic, the non-
authentic, the doubtful. He is doubtful of some in our
collection.
Some eminent theological professors have asserted that the Canon
of the New Testament was finally setded "during the first half
of the second century, within fifty years after the death of the
Apostle John".
This is quite untrue.
Eusebius (34o) had a list agreeing mainly with Origen.
Cyril of Jerusalem (386) includes all our books except the
Apocalypse and no others.
Athanasius (365) and Augustine (430) gave lists identical with
ours.
When the two councils of Hippo and Carthage confirmed this
judgment of the two great Fathers last named, the Canon of
the New Testament was practically settled.
There was, however, a wide toleration left, and writings which
we do not receive remained in the collection for a long period.
The three oldest manuscripts of the Bible now in existence are
the Sinaitic, the Vatican, and the Alexandrian Bibles, dating from
the fourth and fifth centuries. The Sinaitic and Alexandrian
contain some doubtful books, showing that even in the fifth
century the Canon was not clearly defined.
During the Reformation the great majority of the Reformers
came to a decision, not seriously disputed since that period.
The original New Testament writings which came from the
hands of the Apostles we do not possess. No manuscript is now
in existence which was written during the first three hundred
years. It .is from Greek manuscripts dating back to the fourth
century that our New Testament is derived. The books are held
to be nearly all written by Apostles. The exceptions are said
to be the Gospels of Mark and Luke, Acts of the Apostles, Epistle
to Hebrews. The authors of these lx>oks, though not Apostles,
are· held by the critics to be written by scribes who were in close
relations with Apostolic men, and therefore reflect their
thought.
We wish to emphasize the great difficulty of the Lower and
Higher Biblical criticism. The former deals with the immense
161
L
THE COSMIC CHRIST
difficulties of the existing script. The second deals with the
equally difficult task of discovering who the scribes were.
A big library produced by the thousands of human beings who
have devoted their lives to the subject, though exhibiting remark-
able erudition, leave~ the great subject still open. It is likely to
remain so, for we are all tree to follow any one of the great
critics we prefer.
From the fact that the Gospels stand first in the New Testa-
ment collection, it has been supposed that they were written first.
This is not so.
It is certain that several of the Episdes were written before
any of the Gospels, and one Gospel, that of John, was written
later than any of the Epistles except the three brief ones by
the same author. The earliest of the New Testament books are
Paul's letters to the Thessalonians.
We are apt to think that probably the many lost books con-
tained vital and precious truths that the world needs, and the
supposition adds to our sharp regret over the utter carelessness
of the early Christian scribes. Providence has, however, saved
for us a goodly collection of this Hebrew literature, and the value
of these remains consists not in any infallibility of phrase or
inerrancy of statement but in a clear record of that increasing
purpose of the Absolute which runs through all the ages.
Professor E. Odium, who has done so much to throw light
upon the value of the Bible, says :1
" •In thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed.'
Remarkable words I The promise was made to the man of whom
Jehovah said : ' 1 have called him alone.' It was told this man
that after some hundreds of years, the promises would begin
to have their fulfilment. Has the promised blessing been fulfilled?
. . . At the end of the three hundred or four hundred years
a new nation was born in a day-in the day they crossed from
Egypt to Sinai, under their divinely appointed leader, Moses.
This nation was given a moral law and a national law, and for
forty years went to the wilderness school. ... Thus a nation,
the seed of promise, was launched amongst the then existing
nations of the earth and its chief characteristic was that of moral
1 National Messagt: anti Baflner. November md, 1929.
162
BIBLES : THE BRITISH BIBLE
law. This was the basis of the Abramic call, of the covenants
with Isaac, Israel, and the twelve patriarchs. From and through
this Israel nation came the Law, Prophets, Apostles, the Christ,
and the Scriptures. Through these, the nations, all the nations
of the earth, have been and are being blessed. What about the
nations during the past two thousand five hundred years? In
that time neither Israel nor Judah, until the last century, did
much world national blessing. . . . How about all the nations
of the earth during these long ages? Let us see. In that time
many religions became manifest. . . . All these religions had
their origin in Western Central Asia. Here is a goodly list of
these religions :
" Shintoism,
" Brahmanism,
" Buddhism,
" Parseeism, or Zoroasterism,
''Mohammedanism.
" To these may be added Confucianism.
" During the long centuries, these religions have undoubtedly
uplifted the Asiatic nations to a wonderful extent. Were it not
for these moral and religious systems, beliefs, and teachings,
humanity would have destroyed itself, and any remnants left
would have been the mere tattered rags of humanity.
" These Asiatic religions have saved humanity from destruction.
"Who were the founders of these religions, and amongst what
peoples did they upspring ?
"Shintoism is the old-time Judaic monotheism of the Hebrew
people. The Japanese are descendants of Abram and are heirs
of the promise. So far Shintoism has blessed the millions of
Japan; that far has the seed of the patriarchs been a blessing
according to promise.
"Buddhism came from Western Nepaul in the Himalayas, from.
the heart of an Israel people known as the Sakyas. Buddha was
known as Sakya-Muni, or the Saxon teacher. The outstanding
King of these people who honoured Sakya-Muni was Asoka,
a Saxon or Israelite.
" Zoroaster came from the heart of the Israel or Saxon exiles
163
THE COSMIC CHRIST
in the region of the Araxes where the Sak·Galuths were at the
time of Zoroaster, and Vishtaspa, an Israel King, protected him
and became his disciple. Here again we find the seed of Abram,
the heirs of promise, giving to the world a religion of blessing.
"Mohammed was of the Edomite and Ishmaelite people.
Ishmael and Edom were the descendants of Abram and of
promise, or of the Covenants. . . . This religion has been a
system of ethics which is immeasurably beyond paganism.
" Brahmanism came directly from the midst of the Israel and
Keturah peoples of India. . . . Brahmanism is a great uplift to
its people to.day.
" Add to these the religion of Israel and Judah, and we have the
chief religions of humanity to.day. They are all Asiatic in their
origin, and all are the children of Western Central Asia, the
ancient home of Israel and the other Abramic peoples during
their long ages of struggle, exile, scattering, wanderings, and
national upbuilding.
"Thus we see, so far as we can learn, that in Abram's seed
all the nations of the earth have b~n blessed."
We are interested to read and most gladly welcome this wide
view of the universality of the Christ teaching, and we look upon
such human teaching as the wise interpretation of the Bible.
There is no straining over origins, but certain biblical records
are taken, proved historically, and interpreted spiritually. Surely
that is the way the books of the Bible ought to be dealt with.
For two pence a week in the National Message and Banner
more historical facts can be learned of the Bible than from any
other source extant.
The disciples received from the risen Christ the esoteric teach·
ing which they handed on to those worthy to receive it. Only
as time passed and Death got busy amongst the old followers
did it seem to have occurred to some of them that some sort
of record, however incomplete, should be made.
For about forty to fifty years after the crucifixion the Christian
communities used oral tradition, and what they received directly
through Christ's teaching. The apostles had retired into the desert
and formed a small settlement where they would be safe from
persecution and in peace receive the divine teachings.
64
BIBLES : THE BRITISH BIBLE
Tradition says that Christ visited them there for fifty years.
Probably He never forsook them whilst one of His faithful who
had followed Him on earth remained in a physical body. It was
only after the last had departed that it occurred to the younger
followers that some records ought to be written down. Trained
in the esoteric traditions of not casting pearls before swine, their
task was extremely limited and difficult. The above facts ought
to be remembered by those who scoff at tradition.
One, the most important point of all for the student to bear
in mind, is that it is quite certain the Cosmic Christ did not rely
upon the written word to spread His light.
The other sacred scriptures of the world tell us of His Cosmic
activities amongst other mighty civilizations, and gradually, as
we study, we see quite plainly that His spiritual might could
never have been expressed or contained in a book.
He is to be known through the Spirit and not by the letter,
and no clear conception of His Majesty can be formed so long as
He is limited to the West. To comprehend Him He must be
given cosmic reality, and His creative activities must be recognized
as from the Beginning and not fettered down to the three years'
ministry.
There is nothing more left for the orthodox to say of the
Nazarene. Every particle of information that can be extracted
from the Bible has been given by a multiplicity of writers to
the world hundreds of times, and every year fresh books on the
same theme pour from the Press.
The history of Christ cannot be written. All that can be
done is to trace His creative evolution through the a:ons up to
the time when it pleased Him to ensoul the body of the Nazarene
at the Jordan baptism. Significantly enough, two out of the four
Gospels begin with this event.
The history of Jesus of Nazareth is the record of many incarna-
tions unknown to the orthodox, and culminating in the Palestine
life. Let no one dream that it was an ordinary physical body
that ultimately enshrined the Christ, or that no preparations were
required for so signal an honour.
The Christ manifestation descending from the spiritual world
to earth required millenniums, and had its primal cause in the
r6s
THE COSMIC CHRIST
arcana of our planetary system from whence the Absolute sped
Him forth.
The genealogy of the Master, Jesus, was of profound import-
ance. He was the product of a long process of selection, and the
heredity of His body was of a special and exceptional nature, of
a perfection and purity worthy to contain the Light of the World.
The solar Word, the Son of the Father, could never have
incarnated in the womb of a woman, or in the body of a child.
Is it conceivable that so mighty a Spirit could have passed through,
according to ordinary human biology, the period of gestation in
the womb, which runs through animal evolution up to the ninth
month?
Mary, Mother of the Master Jesus, was a unique incarnation
to be written of later; a being harmonized and refined enough
to bear a man wellnigh divine, who was later to walk the earth
as the Christ.
Schure writes thus:
" Moses, the prophet of Sinai, the mighty scribe of Genesis,
represents earthly history from the beginning of the world. This
is the whole past. Elijah represents Israel and all its prophets, the
foretellers of the Christ. This is the present. The Christ Himself
is the translucent, radiant incarnation of the Solar Logos, the
creative Word, which has sustained our word from its foundation
and now speaks through man. This is the whole future.,
The strenuous labours that are expended upon the origins of
the New Testament, the years that are devoted to translations
and fragments that are still existent, are heartbreaking, for, when
all that the deepest· erudition can possibly accomplish has been
accomplished, the result is of no real value whatever. All the
collective criticism of the world has failed to touch the living
Christ. He remains where He always has been; nothing has
been added, nothing subtntcted. He lives outside criticism.
The weary student wonders for the hundredth time why Christ
never wrote a word that has come down to us. Why did not
He select His biographers and see to it that they did not contradict
each other? Why has the Church been left to the mercy of St.
Paul, who never saw Christ in the flesh?
What an impenetrable mystery for those who do not recognize
166
BIBLES: THE BRITISH BIBLE
the universality of the· Lord of Life, the World Saviour1 How
many thousands cry out yearly, considering the terrific import of
the subject to us all, " Why, oh, why have we not one single
manuscript written in Aramaic, the language of Jesus of
Nazareth?" If they ever existed, they are now all lost. It does
seem hard that we have only Greek translations of the originals
and scribes who only began to write the life and sayings of Jesus
many years after His death.
No student can fail to think such thoughts. The most devoted
followers must lament, if only in secret, the bald facts and the
scanty information we possess.
To those who think of the Christ as the solar Lord of the
universe, such sad regrets do not apply.
Venerated and worshipped as the chosen emissary of the
Absolute who decreed to manifest Himself in this manner, the
lack of detail, the many contradictions in the British Bible are
of no moment, simply because this Bible of ours contains but a
fragment of what there is to be known, through numerous other
sources, of His cosmic activities.
The fragmentary facts found in human records would have
been utterly inadequate as a foundation upon which to build the
Christ Power. Only the torch of the eternal Spirit, lightening
the darkness as He trod the appointed heavenly paths leading
through the ages to the earth, have kept the hope alive, the faith
undiminished, the vision unblurred.
From one tiny flame one might.light the lamps of the whole
world, yet take nothing from that flame.
By the Light of the World the souls of all humanity will yet
be illumined and aflamed with His Spiritual penetration of
humanity's heart. Even now, with our weak understanding of
the Power within, it is possible to revivify the atoms of which
we are composed by quiet commune with the God within. Thus
can the physical body be kept alive whilst it is needed as a scabbard
for the sword of the Spirit.
After all is said, and done, and written, what can it really
matter what men think of the Christ and the Creator, for such
stupendous mysteries are in Being, and can do with us as they
will. When the hour in our evolution arrives we will under-
167
THE COSMIC CHRIST
stand. Those who now see through a glass darkly will find their
vision cleared. Meanwhile, though we may not know that our
lives are hidden in Christ, we do know that they can be taken
from· us at any moment and that we are powerless to hold them.
We do know unerringly that, call it what we please, an unseen
force exists that can crush us as easily as we can crush a fly.
Still the groping purblind mind of the old student pores over
what he is pleased to call Higher Criticism, and so spiritually
unenlightened is he that he thinks his labours matter to humanity,
whilst in his shrouded soul and all around him shines the awful
Majesty of God.
Let us strive to give a true value to the work of those who
from sincere motives seek to prove to us the non-existence of
Christ. What are they, after all, but so many ants labouring in
the dark to discredit the Solar Logos, the Sun of Righteousness,
whom they seek to damn or glorify by means of a book. How
can any sentient being believe this to be possible?
What cares the sun what anyone down here thinks?
If the Being of the Christ is sheer delusion, why continue to
waste time in attempting to prove His unreality?
If it is suspected that, after all, He may exist, then why not
try to find Him in a realm big enough to express Him-in the
spiritual realms of the universe, in the Christ individuality hidden
in the heart of every child of God?
" The Kingdom of Heaven is within."
168
CHAPTER. X
THE BLESSED VIRGIN OF ALL TIME
IN lightly sketching the Divine Female Principle through the
reons we cannot do better than adopt the name by which she
is familiarly known to-day to all the civilized world-The Blessed
Virgin.
We can trace her from the foundations of this world as the
shadowy "Lilith". From earliest creation when man, a dual being,
stood alone, male and female-again after ages have passed comes
the separation of the sexes, and we read of Adam and Eve. Passing
on through prehistoric reons, we learn that Eve, even as Lucifer,
must descend into the material world, and we come to that profound
mystery "The Fall". We can read of Eve in the Garden of Eden,
or as Mary, Queen of Heaven, standing on a crescent moon and
her head haloed round by twelve stars.
We can see her depicted as the Virgin Isis with the infant
Horus in her arms. Later she is depicted as the Blessed Virgin
holding the infant Jesus. Later still, after she is risen, she appears,
and establishes an earthly sanctuary at Lourdes.
As Queen of Heaven, "The Intercessor", by which name she
was known in Egypt, we find her to-day worshipped by millions
of devout Catholics. As with the Cosmic Christ, the perfect proto-
type of man, so with the divine Eve, perfect prototype of woman.
Both can be traced to be of cosmic origin. Both can be followed
down the evolving ages to the Palestine drama, only two thousand
years ago. Both still actively serve the Absolute in His majestic
designs in Cosmos. The poinr we here desire to accentuate is
that thousands of years before the coming to earth of Christ,
the Immaculate Virgin Mother was worshipped all over the globe
in all civilizations great and small which rose and fell B.c.
Those who would trace the descent of man from the heavenly
Iti9
THE COSMIC CHRIST
places down to earth, and in his laboured pilgrimage back to the
realms of the Father, will find their studies incomplete unless Mary,
the Mother of God, be included in the divine quest.
It would be as futile for any human being to attempt to write
a life of the Blessed Virgin as it is to attempt to write a life
of Christ. Cosmic Beings do not lend themselves to biographers.
All that can be attempted is to extract from the enormous mass
of information available, certain salient facts drawn from these
mighty lives as they pass from the celestial down through the
various planes of being, till finally their evolutionary and zonic
flight brings them through vast periods of time to earth. From
thence we see them ascend again to the heavenly places from
whence they originated. To-day we have ample evidence of their
triumphant survival.
Needless to say the Blessed Virgin is not known to orthodoxy
till she appears as the Mother of Jesus, the Christ. The numerous
manifestations of the Immaculate Virgin Mother, holding in her
arms the Redeemer, that preceded her manifestation in Palestine
are ignored. Why this should be so we do not pretend to know.
The student finds the chain unbroken and the inference inescap-
able.
In unveiling and determining these facts we see that the
male and female in creation are spiritually presented to us as
the Cosmic Christ and the Immaculate Virgin Mother. Perfect
man and perfect woman. The Protestant wing of the State
Church emphasizes the Christ. The Catholic Church emphasizes
the Blessed Virgin, and it is significant to note that the Anglo-
Catholic wing of the State Church is growing rapidly, and inclin-
ing more and more to the old esotericism and Virgin worship.
The female Principle is strongly in the ascendant, materially and
spiritually.
We know that sex cannot be determined before birth, and that
at birth no matter what sex the child is pronounced to be, every
individual is as originally created-a dualism. "For the man is
not without the woman, nor the woman without the man in the
Lord."
On the lower planes woman's position all over the world is
being revolutionized with :1mnmg rapidity. Her advancement
170
THE BLESSED VIRGIN OF ALL TIME
is being forced upon her by the failure of man to evolve as
rapidly and his determination to thwart and remain ethically
backward.
What the Great War did to emancipate women is an old story
not yet read by man. Straws show the way the wind blows.
The State Church still bars women out of the pulpits, though the
bareheaded woman has forced her way into the cathedrals and
defies St. Paul and the Chapters. The House of Lords still
refuses the peeress in her own right a seat on the red benches.
These absurdities--notwithstanding the fact that woman's stake
in the country now exceeds that of man by a million. She now
holds the destiny of this mighty Empire in the hand which affixes
the X, formerly the symbol of her martyrdom.
No one likes the chaotic period of transition through which we
are passing, but it is best to recognize our helplessness as the
Divine will of evolution sweeps on relentlessly. We are all straws
blown hither and thither by the breath of the omnipotent law-
giver.
It is wisest to face the truth and not make heavy weather over
what we cannot control.
To-day sex is often hard to determine. For no known cause
children are being born who may be called either male or female.
In women one constantly sees the male painfully over-emphasized.
In many men the instinct is to develop the female side and
obliterate the male. Women now use the razor, and men the
beauty-parlour.
Our legal enactments are strained to the utmost and often fail
to meet the case in the endeavour to cope with chaos. Our male
and female intellectuals, greatly daring, struggle in the face of a
scandalized or indifferent world to gain moral or immoral freedom
and the abolition of all sex distinctions. The Home Secretary
issues orders, full of "sound and fury, signifying nothing". The
waves of evolution refuse to recede at his bidding.
What deductions can be drawn from the drastic changes swirling
around our defenceless heads? In ages to come we may see (in
future reincarnations) humanity bi-sexual. It may be decreed that
we are to return to man's original state, but probably by then we
shall be inhabiting some other planet. Meanwhile the balance
171
THE COSMIC CHRIST
will be slowly readjusted as humanity toils slowly up-hill out of
the dense materialism in which it has wallowed. Amongst a multi-
plicity of changes, that concerning sex is the most prominent
and contains ample food for the thoughtful mind to dwell upon.
The Christ command is· for man to love man. Gradually love
will become more psychic and spiritual, and man will draw to
himself the lower beings of this earth. Man, in becoming
Christ-ened, will so mature this earth-body that again it will be
drawn into the bosom of the Father and become reclothed with
the Sun. Christ, the spiritual sun, has given the impulse, and
the earth and the sun will again unite as one body.
Let us now turn backwards to a brief survey of uThe Fall",
which has received so many interpretations. I will quote that
great mystic Anna Kingsford :
" In creating man God creates one whole and perfect being,
formed in two distinct parts: Adam, the earthly, exterior man,
and Eve, spiritual and interior man, his soul and living mother.
These two are joined together by God, in perfect union, as one
creature and made for the time indispensable to each other. Adam,
as the manifested personality or man, is not complete as a man
having manhood until Eve, the soul of woman, is added to him
as helpmate and guide. By the addition of her the two natures
become one humanity. From this state of perfection Humanity
falls, for Eve, the ·soul, withdrawing her steadfast gaze from the
proper object of her regard, namely, her Spirit, God, fastens them
on things below, things earthly and material, which are to her
forbidden fruit, since her nature is spiritual. Beholding this fruit
and finding it pleasant to the eye, she puts forth her hand and
plucks it, and gives of it to her husband, Adam, to eat with her.
This is ever the history of sin. The exterior personality cannot
of itself sin, for it is not a responsible being. Sin is of the soul,
and it comes of the soul's inclination to the things of sense.
The sin consummated, the result is inevitable. Adam and hi.s
wife, the man and his soul, hear the voice of the Lord God
speaking through their conscience. Sensible that they are no
longer clad in purity, they Ry to hide from the Divine Presence.
Having rejected God and no longer looking up to Him as her
172
THE BLESSED VIRGIN OF ALL TIME
Lord and King, the soul, Eve, falls under the sway of Adam,
the body. He rules her, and her desire is unto him, and hence-
forth Matter has dominion in them over Spirit. The garden of
perfection is lost and the world for them becomes a wilderness.,
Let us here remember that no one on earth knows the meaning
of "The Fall". We can only surmise and form our own theory.
One fact emerges. The tradition of "The Fall", persisting through
the ages, has made the life of woman a martyrdom, but the
ascendancy of man has been weighed down by the immobility
of woman. In his flight towards Paradise his sins, in the form
of the sufferings imposed on woman, have held him down and
still bind him to earth.
Disdaining the law of equilibrium, we. have permitted one half
of humanity to ascend too high and have left the other half to
drop too low.
Upon so profound a mystery who can dogmatize? but the
mystics are in agreement with Genesis and accord long ages to
the separation of "SCX. The woman Eve obviously stands alle-
gorically for the female Principle, and as such she would have
"form" in the celestial world. We believe that in the later
Palestine drama she touched earth exactly as the Son-the Christ
-did. The Soul of the immaculate Virgin of the World ensoul~d
the body of Mary of Bethlehem, who gave birth to /~sus of
Nazareth.
In Genesis we read of the Female Principle Eve in the Garden
of Eden. Eve stands for woman collectively, Adam for man col-
lectively. Even official Christianity no longer speaks of them as
single individuals. The most logical and general belief is that
"The Fall" is the allegory of sex division and procreation as we
now know it;- a fall from the spiritual into the material, as all
humanity is destined to seek the depths before and after long
ages, retracing its steps once more upwards.
In Revelations we read of the "woman clothed with the sun
and moon under her feet and upon her head a crown of twelve
stars". This we take to be prophetic of woman's final triumph.
The woman receives her crowning recognition, being divinely
assured that, notwithstanding the fall of the soul, she shall yet
crush the serpent's head. To materialism God said : " I will put
173
THE COSMIC CHRIST
enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and
her seed. She shall crush thy head. Thou shalt lie in wait for
her heel." Here we see the soul triumphant in knowledge
attained through the experiences gained in her long evolutionary
stages from generation, degeneration to regeneration.
By reason of creation God, the One, becomes God the many.
The material conception of the creation and the high Gods who
served the Father through time hides the true symbolism of Eve,
as Maria, as the soul of the world, the Mother of God, the eternal
feminine "male and female created He them".
What are we to say of "the Divine Mother", who comes down
to us from the very earliest ages? Thousands of years B.c. we
find her worshipped and glorified with her infant Redeemer in
her arms. No civilizations, great or small, that flourished and
died in numerous parts of this world have been without her.
The Book of Genesis had nothing to do with her memory in
these far-off times, ages before the Bible was written. Is it not
obvious that some mighty spiritual impulse was at work saving
the chain that has never yet broken from the mystery of Eden
up to the present-day mystery of Lourdes? How vain to tell u·s
all this is ignorant superstition. Certainly the great historians of
the world would smile at so futile a statement. John Oxenham
writes:
" What is Lourdes? God only knows I I doubt if any human
intelligence can understand· it, still less explain it. Lourdes is
to-day, without question, one of the great facts and factors in
the spiritual life of France and of Europe. . . . Lourdes is a
spiritual radio-active force which shoots its vitalizing sparks broad-
cast through a morally, mentally and spiritually-darkened world
with ever-increasing intensity and benefit. For myself, I believe
Lourdes to be a genuine revelation of the goodness of God to a
world which, every day, stands more and more in need of it."
May it not also be said that in the rank apostasy and agnosticism
of France the Christ and His Mother have founded a refuge
where the cast-out faithful of Catholic Europe may still find a
home and the Presence?
Let us remember that the miracle of Lourdes arose through
the Blessed Virgin appearing twenty times to the ~sant girl,
174
THE BLESSED VIRGIN OF ALL TIME
Bernadette Soubirous, in 1858. For four years a commission, not
composed of ignorant priests but of the cleverest scientists in
France, sat and made exhaustive inquiries. In 1862 judgment
was given. The matter was declared absolutely genuine. The
Blessed Virgin triumphed and established her mighty temple of
healing prayer in the heart of Europe.
To-day, as we write, nine hundred sick are starting, full of
faith and hope, on a pilgrimage to Lourdes. They are attended
by many "Handmaidens of the sick", composed of gendewomen
who socially occupy some of the highest positions in the land.
They are met by the stretcher-bearers, gentlemen of the highest
rank, who devote their lives to this work and take the place
of a police force. All are consecrated to the work of the Blessed
Healing Virgin.
Thousands of sceptics visit Lourdes anticipating an orgy .of
superstition. They leave asking, as John Oxenham asks: "What
is Lourdes? God only knows."
The name Eve drops out of history with the story of "The
Fall", but the soul of "woman clothed with the sun" arises in
her stead. In earliest ages she rises majestically above the horizon
of life under many difierent names, under many veils. Mother
of God, Star of the Sea, the Morning Star, Queen of Heaven,
the Intercessor, and always as the Immaculate Virgin Mother.
Upon her majestic temple in Egypt it is graven of her:
" I am everything that hath been, that is or that will be, and
no mortal hath ever yet removed the veil that shades my divinity
from human eyes."
Verily the Mother of the World, whose venerable age is here
recorded, 4000 years B.c., the Immaculate Virgin Isis with the
infant Saviour Horus in her arms. In the "Book of the Dead"
of the Egyptians the souls journey painfully towards the light in
the barque (womb) of Isis. The dead were placed before the
judge, who weighed their merits. If he were proved worthy
he again became one with Osiris, the high Sun Being. The Sun
was the centre of Egyptian thought; not the visible sun, the eye
of Osiris, but the spiritual sun· it symbolized. The great Kepler
wrote in inspiration : " l have thought deeply on this Solar system.
175
'fHE COSMIC CHRIST
It has revealed its secrets to me. I will bring the sacred ceremonial
vessels of the Egyptians into the modern world." Meanwhile,
from the beginning of its civilization, Aryan humanity worshipped
the Sun, the life-giver, the male Principle, and beside this visible
fire they conceived of its soul, the female Principle, "clothed with
the Sun". Again we find it in Persia in the religion of Zoroaster
as Mithras, male fire; Mitra, female light.
This mighty companion of man and Mother of God is not
only of earthly but of heavenly nature, the Soul of the World.
In Babylon she is worshipped as lstar, mother of the sun-god
Tammuz. To the Syrians she is Ashtoreth, to the Mexicans she
is Chimalma. In Yucatan she is Chiribirias. To the Druids she
is Ceredwyn. To the Buddhist she is Maya, and Maya is also
Mary, the Mother of the Christ and the Messianic Age. To the
Pha:nicians she is Astarte. To the Greeks, Aphrodite. To the
Western world ·she is Marie, Lady of Eden, goddess of the Tree
.of Life, Mary, Mother of God, and before the separation of the
sexes she was the power of the Moon before its complete separation
from this earth.
In different parts of the globe great messengers were spreading
similar teachings. Lao-Tzu, in China, was emerging from the
esotericism of Fo-Hi. Everything that can be said of Plato's
ideas and forms and of cosmic love as being the creative expression
of God can be said of Lao-Tzu. The last Buddha, Sakya Mouni,
was teaching on the banks of the Ganges, and in Italy the Etruscan
priesthood sent to Rome an Initiate possessed of the Sibylline
Books.
These divers teachers had one common end in view. One
mighty spiritual current was passing through the whole of
humanity : a current that could only have had one source, a
divine source, of which seers and prophets were the messengers.
Many wise men of to-day, in their scorn and contempt for
the wise men of old, dismiss the Christ and the Blessed Virgin
as mere solar and lunar myths. They tell us that Christianity
is only a survival of pagan sun-worship and that, arising from
some pagan superstition, the Blessed Virgin is somehow connected
with the Moon; probably because we call the Sun "he" and the
Moon "she". Anyway, according to them, it is all pagan
I'!fJ
THE BLESSED VIRGIN OF ALL TIME
nonsense, for did not Gibbon write in his "Decline and Fall of the
Roman Empire" :
u The Romans, as ignorant as their brethren of the real date
of His (Christ's) birth, fixed the solemn festival to the 25th
December, the Hrumalia, or Winter Solstice, when the pagans
annually celebrated the birth of the Sun?"
King, in his "Gnostics and Their Remains", writes : " The
ancient festival held on 25th December, in honour of the birth-
day of 'The Invincible One', was afterwards transferred to the
commemoration of the birth of Christ."
Canon Farrar writes : " All attempts to discover the month
and day of the nativity are useless. No data whatever exist to
enable us to determine them with even approximate accuracy."
(Life of Christ.)
We do not wonder that Canon Farrar is defeated, like every-
one else, over the date of the nativity. Being a sound churchman,
he would be the last to associatt> the Christ, the Son, with the Sun
-this earth's life-giver. Besides, does he not set out to write
a life of the Christ? As simple to write a life of the Absolute I
We wonder, did it ever dawn upon him that Jesus of Nazareth
and the Christ were two separate entities up to the thirtieth year
of the Nazarene's life, when he gave up his body at the Jordan
baptism to be ensouled by the Cosmic Christ or Solar Logos?
It would not· occur to us to fix a birthday for so supreme a
Being, as we doubt His ever having had one. We believe that
He always has existed and is alive for evermore. We do regard
Him as a celestial Being, so we gladly assent with the pagans
that the return of the Sun at the Winter Solstice, when the sign
Virgo is rising above the horizon, very properly celebrates the
birth of Jesus, a great entity Himself, Who was destined for an
end no less glorious than to receive unto Himself the Solar Logos,
our hope of glory.
The Romans celebrated the Ludi Seculores, an annual cere-
mony held on 25th December and known as Natalis Solis lnvicta,
birthday of Sol, the Invincible. The same date was assigned
to the coming of the Christ, to the Egyptians as Osiris.
Numerous other countries celebrate the same date. Christ always
has been associated with the sun, and we fail to understand
177
THE COSMIC CHRIST
why the orthodox should ignore the tradition, which is also so
closely connected with the Blessed Virgin.
Christianity has been correctly defined as "a symbolic synthesis
of the fundamental truths contained in all religions'', but, like
its founder, it has been crucified between two thieves: supersti-
tion, a distorter of spiritual perception, and materialism, the
antithesis of spiritual perception.
The exclusion from worship and recognition of the Divine
Hierarchy, the Divine Spirits and manifestations of God, has
dwarfed and mutilated our faith, and it has been left to the
Catholic Church to keep alive the knowledge of the Divine
feminine, the Blessed Virgin.
We are told that those crazy and weird old astrologers "believed
that the seven sacred planets, sun, moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars,
Saturn and Jupiter, reflected in the skies the Seven Spirits burning
as lamps before the Throne, described in the Book of Revelations".
They were mad enough to believe "that each human soul came
into the world bringing with it some special vibration from one
or other of these planets, some touch of flame from the great
lamps burning ~ver about the feet of God".
We are persuaded that this world and all in it is inherendy
spiritual and that the keynote of Christianity lies in the words
"My kingdom is not of this world". To search for it outside the
celestial realms of spirit can only bring failure and disappointment.
We read in the Solar Myths the eternal Verities. Osiris, Krishna,
Buddha, Jesus, and many other Christs were not mythological
beings, nor was the life of one plagiarized from the other. They
were celestial manifestations taking their source from the sun,
the vitalizing centre of the physical system. Their lives were
derived from the solar phenomena, as indicated in the zodiacal
planisphere. The history of spiritual man and woman is written
in the stars, and the heavens are their historians tdling the glory
at once of male and female and their maker, God.
The Immaculate Virgin Mother of the world has always been
represented as giving birth to the many Christ incarnations, and
this, it might be thought, would signify to the most material
that no Christ ever incarnated by way of the flesh.
The real divine spiritual man never dwells in the womb of
178
THE BLESSED VIRGIN OF ALL TIME
the earthly mother. What is born on earth as the fruit of the
womb is a physical body and immaterial soul imbued with
reincarnating life. St. Paul says: " What you sow is not the
body that is to be; it is a mere grain of wheat, or some other
seed; God gives it a body as He pleases. What is sown ts
mortal; what rises is immortal." 1
St. John teaches that we owe our real hirth to God; not to
human blood or to any impulse of the flesh or of man.
Jesus said: " What gives life is the spirit; flesh is of no avail
at all."
The Cosmic Christ never dwelt in the womb of the Blessed
Virgin. Immaculate conception took place when He became one
with the Father at baptism by John, the Baptizer.
The first ·sermon preached by the Nazarene carpenter was begun
by the appropriation to Himself of the claim "The Spirit of the
Lord is upon me".
There was always the action of the spirit, the Shadow of
Christ.
"I have filled him with the Spirit of God in wisdom and in
understanding and in knowledge and in all manner of work-
manship to devise cunning works, to work in gold and in silver
and in brass."2
Thus works the agent in Creation. The Angel of the Lord.
What a simple and perfect description of a divine messenger sent
to infant humanity. Thus the Cosmic Christ at special times in
history selected for special tasks certain beings to prepare the
way of the Lord, and by His ensouling Spirit showed them a
deeper vision of Himself and His purposes.
The divine Spirit of creation has completed the generation of man,
making him spiritually "in the image of God, male and female".
Suth is the Son of God, having power because in Him the
soul dominates body, and body has no will of its own apart
from spirit.
Adam represents man. Eve represents woman and manifesta-
tion, which is, by generation, always twain and partakes of
the nature of the generators. Thus it is dual. The first person
in the Godhead is Father-Mother. The Son 1s also dual, the
prototype of both sexes..
1 Moffatt's translation. 2 Exodus xxxi.
179
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Later on the various names of God appear in Scripture as
separate threads spun into one strong line of truth regarding one
Central Personality.
Eve is the spiritual helpmate, generative substance, female
Principle of humanity : as Psyche, soul, she has two aspects,
earthly and heavenly. The forbidden fruit stands for the fall
from innocence into generation, and consequently the conscious-
ness of man ceases to reside in the soul and takes up its abode
in the body. Until redeemed from the thraldom of matter man
does not again become fully vitalized. To find the soul-female
wisdom-is the first step to finding Christ. As the Catholic
Church puts it, "Mary brings us to Jesus".
Now let us bear in mind two profoundly important facts.
We are writing for earnest students who belong to no one
particular church but to the church of All-the Church of Christ.
From this celestial community no spiritual being may be excluded.
Those who have attempted the work find that they can trace
the Cosmic Christ from the beginning up to the present day,
and only thus can man in his earthly existence receive the form
of Christ on this side and comprehend the might of His present
spiritual impulse. This he finds to be the only thing that really
matters, and he understands the meaning of these difficult words
"to die in Christ". He discovers that heaven, earth and man
move together upon a God-appointed way; the earth, with its
kingdoms and the celestial Hierarchies stretching into infinity,
evolve through one simultaneous and continuous Power, which
can only be understood as an indissoluble whole.
To such students, who are bound to the dogma of no church,
the old and ignorant prejudices concerning the Blessed Virgin
must be a thing of the past, if they ever existed.
A celestial Being so closely bound up in evolution with creation
and the Christ may not be ignored, except it be with grave spiritual
loss to ourselves. Mary's life and Christ's life are fused in one
sublime spiritual result: the Divine incarnation in Bethlehem.
Two reasons can be given for this want of reverence which
is shown outside the Catholic Church for the Blessed Virgin:
prejudice against the beliefs of a church to which we do not
belong; secondly, though Jesus the Christ welcomed both sexes
180
THE BLESSED VIRGIN OF ALL TIME
by the same title-children of God-though He showed divine
pity for the weak and fallen woman, and though His never-to-be-
forgotten words are graven indelibly on the human conscience,
yet the Church (Catholic excepted) has steadfastly based its con-
duct towards women upon the narrow and Oriental attitude of
St. Paul, rather than upon the lofty humanity of Christ.
In contrast to the conceptions of woman's organic and intel-
lectual inferiority which predominated in Semitic ·and Roman
Society, the teaching of the Christ flashed like a summons for
deliverance. His kingdom is promised to whoever-man or
woman-shall observe His commandments. The divine principle
of equality is written in the Gospels, but, though the Church
continues to pay lip service, it has failed utterly to follow the
Christ life and is now dying of its own utter failure and arrogant
assumption of male superiority.
It will be appropriate here to give the correct translation of
those horribly harsh words wrongly attributed to the Christ when
addressing His Mother: "Woman, what have I to do with thee?"
The correct translation is : " What to me and to thee, woman?"
meaning: u What difficulty does this present to me and what
should it present to thee, who knowest who and what I am?
My hour for action has not quite come."
The word "woman" in Hebrew is Aishah and refers to the
position of the Blessed Virgin as Mistress of the House of Nazareth.
What could show more triumphantly the Christ will than the
spectacle we now behold of woman, triumphant over all the cruelty
and injustice of the past, and despite the Church's determined
attitude of male superiority that is humiliating to feminine dignity?
The inferiority of women erected into a religious dogma has
its repercussion through the centuries. Women will never now
ask for equality in the Church. The day has passed for that.
Women are now organizing their own churches, and those who
do not care for show prefer the Registrar's office for the marriage
ceremony. We affirm that this is deplorable, but who can honestly
deny that the blame lies with the Church?
Let us turn back two thousand years to the Nativity and to
Mary, the Mother of Jesus.
181
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Those who realize something of the sublimity of the Cosmic
Christ will agree that the woman who gave birth to Jesus of
Nazareth, later to give up His body to the Christ, could have
been no ordinary being.
Always the way of the Lord was prepared and always was
the coming of a great Being expected. In the ancient mysteries
the Christ was spoken of as "The Coming One". Initiates in
Egypt, Asia, all over the world whispered of "the approaching
Christ". For centuries He had been heralded, and His coming
was led up to by the whole of precedent evolution. A net~
work of invisible threads attaches this divinely~appointed event
to all our planetary past.
There was a Cosmological, as well as social and moral, reason
for the coming of the Messiah to this world. Humanity, having
touched the depths of material evolution, had begun to turn upon
the upward arc; a re~ascension towards spiritual heights was due
in order to fulfil human destiny. A tremendous impulse was
needed to give humanity a realization of its heavenly origin and
divine goal. The manifestation of the Cosmic Christ descending
from the spiritual world through etheric and astral planes to the
physical is bringing about this result. T~day we can clearly see
that the words spoken by the Christ to His Apostles, "Heaven
and earth shall pass away, but My words shall not pass away,"
refer to the indwelling of the divine spirit in immortal man
and upon the living unity that is deathless betwixt humanity and
God. No criticism of the Bible or any of its discrepancies has
had the faintest effect upon Christ's work upon earth.
Is it probable that the body of an ordinary woman was chosen
to give birth to Jesus of Nazareth? and who was He before He
reincarnated on earth to fulfil His tremendous destiny, that of
yielding up His body in His thirtieth year to the Christ?
So mighty a Being as the Solar Logos could not take on directly
a human body. An entity was required who was an old soul:
one who had reached a lofty stage of spiritual advancement and had
gone through many incarnations. Even at birth there was no being
sufficiently advanced to receive so terrific an ensoulment without
further purification. An adult body was necessary to contain the
human Archetype who wa~ from before the beginning of the world.
182
THE BLESSED VIRGIN OF ALL TIME
We are told that the child to whom the Blessed Virgin gave
birth-the child who was called Jesus of Nazareth-was the great
Prophet Zoroaster. He it was who in former times on the plains
of Iran had proclaimed the Solar Logos, the Cosmic Christ, to
the world under the name of Ahura-Mazda. Always amongst
the Zoroastrians the tradition had persisted that their Prophet
and Master would reappear upon earth as Saviour and he would
come from the Sun.
This is the tradition, this the esoteric teaching which has come
down through the ages, and there is much Scriptural evidence in
support of this belief.
Who was the great spirit held worthy to be the Mother of
Jesus-the Christ?
We believe her to be a physical incarnation of the Mother
of the World, just as we believe the Nazarene held the physical
incarnation of the Cosmic Christ, allegorically her son throughout
the ages. The female Principle who at the beginning of creation
was Eve, man's helpmat~, and who all down the ages as the
Immaculate Virgin has held the infant Saviour in her arms, took
physical incarnation as Mary of Bethlehem and bore a child.
chosen for a divine mission, who came to her from a divine
world.
Matthew gives us the genealogical tree of Joseph to prove that
Jesus can trace his descent from David. The world will always
be divided in thought over the immaculate conception.
Joseph may have been chosen as the father of Jesus in the
flesh, but the eternal was his heavenly father in the spirit. The
immaculate conception, in our belief, took place when at baptism
the Christ ensouled Jesus, Son of Mary.
Our conception of the mystery of Christ and the Blessed
Virgin has nothing to do with aught but simple inspiration. We
set forth what we believe to have been given us by spiritual guidance,
and we pass it on for those who are pursuing the same quest.
If we can conceive of other worlds peopled by living entities
that existed long before the birth of our world it will be easier
for us to comprehend those leaders of our young humanity. By
means of the qualities which they had acquired in primordi:tl
times they developed their power still more in working for us.
183
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Such teachers are again coming back to this world and are
working under the guidance of the Cosmic Christ.
The power of the Blessed Virgin is daily becoming more pro-
nounced on earth, and the Saints, such as the great female mystics
whom we read of to-day. Joan of Arc, the little Flower of
Liscaux, and countless others are working under her to aid
humanity.
Though profoundly loved and venerated in the Catholic Church,
in which men as well as women are her worshippers, there are
no Anglo-Catholic churches now that do not possess a Lady
Chapel, in which her gracious image with the Saviour in her
arms is worshipped. What in ignorant times was called idol~
worship is now understood to be concentration upon a divine
object, so that the wandering mind can be held at a fixed point
in prayer. The kingdom of the World Mother is expanding all
over the globe, and thousands in every country who have never
belonged to the Catholic Church are seeking her help as a great
healing power.
" The Catholic Church has never hesitated in making Mary
the true natural Mother of the whole person of Christ, the Mother
of God."
The sharp cleavage comes here between the orthodox and the
unorthodox. We who come under the latter category accept the
Biblical statements. All four Gospels designate the moment in
which Christ took flesh and became man on earth. However
much they may differ in other particulars, all four agree to the
moment at which Christ takes up His abode in the great Initiate,
Jesus of Nazareth. That moment is the Baptism by John.
St. Thomas Aquinas, in his "Summa", says: •
" Christ was conceived from Mary the Virgin, who supplied
the life matter in such wise as to produce similarity of kind,
and therefore He is called her Son. On the other hand, Christ,
in His human nature, was conceived from the Holy Ghost as
from the active principle, but not in such wise as to produce
similarity of kind as a son is born from his father, and therefore
Christ is not said to be the Son of the Holy Ghost."
The Abbot of Buckfast, from whose book, "The Divine
Motherhood.,, we quote, says:
184
THE ~LESSED VIRGIN OF ALL TIME
" The reason why the Holy Ghost, through the operation in
Mary's womb, did not produce an offspring in the similarity of
kind, as does a human father, is given by St. Thomas in the
same paragraph. The Son of God, though becoming incarnate,
existed before the incarnation. In His own existence He had
perfect similarity of nature and kind from the eternal Father, the
first person of the Trinity. Therefore He was Son already, the
only-Begotten of the Father.
" Becoming incarnate through the operation of the Holy Ghost
could not make Him Son of the Holy Ghost, as such a relation
of parentage already existed with the Father. But it made Him
truly the Son of Mary, because Mary, and Mary alone, gave Him
a true similarity of nature in humanity, as the Eternal Father,
and the Eternal Father alone, had given Him similarity of nature
in divinity through the eternal filiation of the Word. The Eternal
Father and Mary are the true parents of Jesus Christ.,
The cleavage now becomes clearer, but we place on record
the fact that no great world-wide movement, such as the worship
of the Blessed Virgin Mary, could have arisen under any but
divine guidance. It is of profound significance to note the satis-
faction of a church which is conscious of having made the interests
of the Soul and her divine life its supreme object.
We doubt many true Catholics outside the Priesthood having
fathomed the great mystery of her progress (the state of the Soul)
whilst undergoing the Cosmic experience indispensable to such
evolution, from Eve to Virgin Mary.
We believe the Christ to be Himself the possessor and giver
of the Holy Ghost, Which we prefer to name the Divine Spirit.
We believe that Christ and the Blessed Virgin existed before the
Palestine incarnation and that He was the Son of God. We
believe that the Blessed Virgin, as World Mother and female
Principle, was also from the beginning and that her power as
a celestial protector will become more and more pronounced as
the ages roll on until the glorious day comes when the perfect
balance of sex is consummated.
ISs
CHAPTER XI
THE SUFIS
THE TEACHING GIVEN BY GOD TO HIS ANGELS
THE history of the great civilizations before Christ occupies a
very brief period in the history of man as a whole.
Gordon Childe, in "The Most Ancient East", writes: "We
are apt to be so dazzled by the perfection of the art revealed
in the newly·discovered tombs that the whole civilization looks
like a miraculous child for which a foreign divine parent must
be sought."
We suggest that it really would be simpler to give the credit
for these wonders to the "Divine Parent" to whom it is due.
It is not as if He were "far to seek". His work is so obvious
that only scientific diffidence and a strange love of complicated
unreason bars the way to an honest acknowledgment of divine
ongms.
Donald Mackenzie, in his "Ancient Civilizations", is caught
in the same fog. He tells us that the spread of culture is mainly
due to "teaching". No natural law impelled widely·separated com·
munities to make the same discoveries and achieve spontaneously
and independently the same degree of progress.
It is strange that when common sense can bring a man thus far
it comes to a halt and leaves him dangling, more especially as
·it is not difficult to discover who the "teachers" were who
developed these "widely-separated communities".
Here we would draw attention to the great fallacy which it
is too late now to remove but which does so much to stultify
the Cosmic Christ and draw men's minds away from His true
creative Majesty. We refer to the use of B.c. (before Christ),
which asserts that no Christ was known till two thousand years
ago.
x86
THE SUFIS
Thus we have to talk and write of civilizations thousands of
years "before Christ", which can only signify to the thoughtless
and unlearned that in these early days Christ was unknown.
Scientists are, however, perfectly well aware of the fact that
so similar is the teaching all the world over from the Beginning
that the only conclusion is that it all originated from the same
source.
We wish now to draw the attention of students to the greatest,
yet least known, of this world's civilizing movements--The
Sufis.
No man can be said to have originated Sufism. No one knows
who was the first Sufi. The claim is made that it had no
beginning.
It is the oldest esoteric school in existence and the parent of
lll others.
If we knew more of the secret history of Abram we might
gain enlightenment as to its origin, but, as to his connection with
Sufism, all we know is that he established it in Mekka and the
most advanced masons were then Sufis, as they are in our world
to-day, though it must be remembered that masonry in ancient
days was very different from what it has become now.
For instance, the Freemason of to-day will. as often as not
assert that the eighteenth degree is a High Church degree, whereas
it was in existence thousands of years before churches were
founded, and the ritual was used by Sufis long before Egypt was.
Those Sufis who are Freemasons to-day are aware that the only
ritual known to them, as Sufis, is the ritual of Freemasonry,
though in former days Initiations had to be gained by the
acquirement of very profound knowledge.
In one all-important point Sufism can claim to be unique.
Up to this day it teaches the pure Christ doctrine, untinged by
Paulism. The love for, and knowledge of, God, Who ts one
and co-equal with the Christ, is its mainspring.
It is the oldest and most carefully-guarded esoteric school
existing, and there are no dogmas or ceremonials connected with
it, though a Sufi is free to make use of any ritual or ceremony
that he thinks suitable to his purpose. Sufism has always striven
to keep strictly to the leadership of the Cosmic Christ in its
187
THE COSMIC CHRIST
universality, avoidance of dogma and the priesthood. It dis-
tinguishes between Christianity and the Christ·teachings, the
latter being one with Sufism.
In its comprehensiveness the Sufi movement cannot be called
a religion. It is a universal faith, the apex of which surmounts
and embraces all religions. The God of the Sufi is the God
of all people. The Master of the Sufi, his Saviour, is that Spirit
Who is recognized as the perfect in humanity. He, behind all
different names and forms, idealized by different people, sees one
and the same Spirit, Who claims : " I am Alpha and Omega."
No other great movement has kept clear of the priesthood and
ceremonial or kept its purity unvitiated by creeds, ritual and
dogmas. It is a system of mysticism in the loftiest meaning of
the term, and as such its characteristic is half-religious, half·
philosophical.
From out the womb of creation it emerged, surviving the
mighty spirits of nature that rent the world with earthquake,
flood and fire, surviving as the kernel of peace which nothing
can shake.
Quietism is the inner and essential characteristic of the true
Sufi, and because of this mystic Quietism, this "hiding in the
Sacred Heart", there is little known or heard of the Sufis. What
has ever existed and can never die has no need of propaganda;
therefore it is often spoken of as the inner doctrine of Islam,
the underlying mystery of the Kur'an.
Certainly it was the kernel of the faith taught by the Arabian
Prophet, but Abram planted it in Mekka nearly three thousand
years before Mohammed was born, and Mohammed's chief disciple
and friend was a noted Sufi Initiate.
That is but the exoteric interpretation. Sufism, in itself, is
very much more, and the old Sufi will tell you that "the seeds
of Sufism were sown in the time of Adam, fermented in the
time of Noah, budded in the time of Abram, and began to
develop in the time of Jesus, and produced pure wine in the time
of Mohammed". He will tell you that Jesus (not the Christ)
was the greatest Sufi, as in his former incarnation he was
Zarathustra (Zoroaster}, the great Persian Initiate King. He will
add that all the great divine instructors have been Sufis first and
t88
THE SUFIS
adherents of other exoteric faiths afterwards. He will end by
assuring you that the word Sufi is akin to Sophia (wisdom)
and means also purity, and is simply the teaching given to His
Angels by God.
Certain it is that no faith could be purer and less contaminated.
Sufis are found most numerously in Persia, where they were
gathered into a great school of esoteric instruction by the last
Zoroaster who ruled in the Medo-Persian Empire in the time of
the Prophet Daniel, whose teaching was in line with his own.
Sufis also abound in Egypt, Turkey and Arabia. They are to
be found in the ranks of every religion on earth.
A Sufi may outwardly be an earnest Christian or Hindu. He
may be a regular communicant at his parish church, yet at the
same time he may be an ardent Sufi. Sufism is the inner life
to be lived in quietism. It is essentially esoteric, though it is
clothed in an exoteric body.
It is quite incorrect to say that the Sufis are Mohammedans,
though the Prophet himself was a Sufi and thousands of his
followers were Sufis also. There are numerous proofs that Sufi
teachings existed for centuries before his advent in the lands
Mohammed conquered.
The only ground for the above mis-statement is that
Mohammedanism is not the religion of the Prophet Mohammed,
because he only professed to preach the religion of his predecessors,
the Jews and Christians, both those faiths being in the faith of
Islam. The Sufi schools being established in Baghdad and Mekka
in Abram's time, the idea of the Prophet was not to limit
the benefits of Abram's faith to his own people, but to extend
it to the world. This has been the means of converting to a
high form of culture and of civilization millions of the human
race who would otherwise have remained sunk in barbarism
or would not have been roused to that Brotherhood which Islam
not only preaches but practises.
There is no faith so misjudged and ignorantly written of as
Mohammedanism. One of our great authorities--Professor G.
W. Leitner-who knows Arabic, has attended a mosque-school
at Constantinople and has associated with Mohammedans in
Turkey, India7 and elsewhere, writes:
IB9
THE COSMIC CHRIST
" To walk with God, to have God with us in our daily life
with the object of obtaining the 'peace that passeth all under-
standing', to submit to the Divine Will, this we, too, profess to
seek, but in Mohammedanism this profession is translated into
'practice and is the corner stone of the edifice of that faith.
" In one sense Mohammedanism is like, and in another sense
unlike, both Judaism and Christianity. To walk with God, to
have God ever present in all our acts, ·is no doubt what the
prophets of both these religions taught, and in that sense they
were all Mohammedans, or, rather, Muslims, namely, professors
of the faith of Islam. But, so far as I know anything either of
Judaism or Christianity, the system preached by Mohammed was
not merely imitative or eclectic; it was also inspired-if there be
.such a process as inspiration from the source of all goodness.
Indeed, I venture to state, in all humility, that if self-sacrifice,
honesty of purpose, unswerving belief in one's mission, a mar-
vellous insight into existing wrong and error, and the perception
and use of the best means for its removal, are amongst the
outward and visible signs of inspiration, the mission of Mohammed
was inspired. The Christianity also which Mohammed desired
to restore to its purity was the preaching of Christ as distinguished
on the one part from the mystic creed of St. Paul and the out-
rageous errors of certain Christian sects known to the Arabs."
Here can be clearly traced the pure Sufi influence which con-
cerns itself alone with the one and only God with Whom the
Cosmic Christ was one.
That Mohammed was an inspired teacher, a Christ-ensouled
messenger, we do not doubt, and it is a deplorable fact that even
some of our scholars have misrepresented the great Arabian
Prophet and used second-hand reports from the opponents of the
faith he preached. Professor Leitner further says: "I cannot
conclude better than by insisting on the fact that the Jewish,
Christian and Mohammedan religions are sister faiths, having a
common origin, and expressing a hope that the day will come
when Christians will honour Christ more by also honouring
Mohammed."
We have quoted the most reliable authority on Mohammedanism
because it is so akin to the Christ teachings, yet so shockingly
190
THE SUFIS
misrepresented; we will go on to show how clo~ly related to both
are the Sufi teachings.
The Sufi message was borne to the Western world by the late
Pir-0-Murshid Inayat Khan, who answered the call by leaving
India for America in 1910. A continuous and unbroken tradition
of mystical doctrine has been carried down through the millenniums
by a series of dead Pirs (Initiate teachers) to the living director
who forms the last link of the chain, until he, too, passes away
and is succeeded by one of his disciples.
The last great living director of the Sufi movement passed over
in 1927, having, for the time being, accomplished the work required
of him. No other religious movement can claim an unbroken
line of Initiate teachers from time immemorial. Notice to pass
on to another plane is always given, with full time to impart
necessary knowledge to the successor.
Latterly the movement has gained new life through the coming
in of many Orientals of culture and education, and it is making
great headway in Asia and Africa. Europeans and Americans
who have studied and understood the great Sufi poets, and who
have come in contact with the Master lnayat Khan, have found
that which is perfectly satisfying to their souls.
In response to the world demand of the time, the Master, before
his passing, gave Sufism a universal form, thus giving body to
the soul of wisdom which has been conceived for millenniums in
the heart of the inner cult of the ancient Sufis. He writes in
his book, "The Unity of Religious Ideals", to be got at Sufi
Book Depot, 54 Above Bar, Southampton :
" The Sufi Movement is purposed to work towards unity.
Its main object is to bring humanity-divided, as it is, into several
different sections--closer together in the deeper understanding of
life. It is a preparation for a world service, chiefly in three
directions. One direction is the philosophical understandi.ng of
life; the other direction is bringing about brotherhood among
races, nations and creeds; and the third direction is the world's
greatest need, which is the religion of the day. Its work is to
bring to the world that nature's religion which has always been
th'e religion of humanity: to respect one another's belief, Scripture,
Teacher. The Sufi message is the re-echo of the same Divine
191
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Message which has always come, and will always come, to
enlighten humanity."
Here is the form of service introduced by the Sufi Master for
the use of the Sufi movement :
" In the service of the universal worship a Christian service,.
a Moslem, a Buddhistic, a Hindu service-all services are included.
Therefore the blessing of Christ is given from the altar to the
seeker for Jesus Chrisfs blessing; the one who seeks for the bless-
ing of Moses to him the blessing of Moses is given; the one
who seeks the benediction of Buddha for him is the benediction
of Buddha; but those who seek the blessing from all those great
ones who have come at different times, they are blessed by all."
On the altar are placed the Scriptures of the Hindus, the
Buddhists, the Zoroastrians, the Hebrews, the Christians, and the
believers in Islam. Upon the altar arc candles representing all
the different religions of the world.· The different candles which
are lighted mean our adherence and respect to all the different
teachers, religions and Scriptures. It teaches us one light and
many lamps. It is not the lamps which are to be taken first
to the mind. It is the light which should be taken to the heart.
It is this religion of unification which Jesus Christ came to'
teach; the teachings of Moses and the efforts of Mohammed were
all towards this one object. All that Buddha has taught, all that
Krishna has said, sums up in one thing, and that is-it is one
Light that is the Divine Light, and it is the Guidance that comes
from that Light which becomes the Path for humanity to tread
upon.
There is no priesthood in the sense in which priesthood is
understood. There is only priesthood to conduct the service and
to answer the need of a priest which is always in our daily life.
Those ordained in the Sufi movement are called Cherags and
by other names. There is no distinction of woman or man.
The worthy soul is ordained, by this showing an example to
the world -that in all places-in church, school, in the Houses
of Parliament, in the court-it is woman and man together who
complete evolution. At the same time every Sufi is a priest, a
preacher, a teacher, and is a pupil of every soul he meets in the
world.
THE SUFIS
The universal worship, therefore, is the religion of the future,
which brings to humanity the Ideal of the Unification of Religion,
the Ideal of getting above the sectarianism, the limitedness of
communities of groups. A few were ready, a~d found in universal
worship peace for their souls. There is a Summer School held
yearly at Suresnes, outside Paris, and there flock men and women
from all parts of the world to listen to the message given out
by advanced Sufis who were associated with the Master during
the brief time he moved amongst us.
The present writer had the honour of knowing Pir-0-lnayat
Khan and studying the teachings given out by him in lectures
and writings, and it was a blessed experience, never to be forgotten.
We have all read of beings called "Masters", but few of us have
ever met a Master face to face and so verified the existence of
such beings. There was no mistaking Murshid (Master) lnayat
Khan for other than he was, and it was profoundly interesting
to see "the Life" lived.
Though it was perfectly obvious that only a Master could
live "the Lif~", it was often disheartening to realize the vast gulf
separating the Master from the pupil, yet it became apparent
that he represented the standard to which we all must eventually
attain.
In his personal appearance the Murshid was beautiful to look
upon. The clear, olive, Eastern face was delicately-featured and
lit up by glorious, dark eyes. His form reminded one of Kipling's
words, "a lance at rest", and his exquisite gentleness and courtesy
were never broken. When lecturing he wore a long, yellow
robe and round his neck the symbol of the Sufi movement-a
heart with wings, the heart between soul and body forming a
medium between 'Spirit and matter.
For a few years he moved unostentatiously amongst us, and
when asked why he had come to the West his reply was :
" A few were ready. I came to gather them."
It seemed, to his small body of disciples, that very few were
ready, yet again there was about him something strongly suggest-
ing a mystery we were not intended to fathom. We all felt
that he would not use a physical body for any length of time
and that there was just enough of the rer~l Master expressed upon
193
.N
THE COSMIC CHRIST
this plane to make him intelligible to us. There were times when
he vacated his physical body and left it in charge of a Chela.
Many of us could detect the change, slight though it was, and
presumably he only came to the West to renew old friendships
that had existed in past lives and forge another link in an ageless
chain.
Though he passed freely through the world of men, only those
who came into actual touch with him recognized his greatness,
and historians of to-day will have no more to say of him than
had the historians two thousand years ago to say of Jesus the
Christ.
Such Beings can only be estimated spiritually, and serve to
show us that a man's true being, his inner activity, his personality,
his individuality, cannot be present in the world, which, according
to the evidence of his senses, is all around him. Man. is endowed
with the possibility of leading an inner life which is quite inde-
pendent of his external life. This possibility confronts us in
every hour of our waking life. As regards our eyes and ears,
we have something in common with other men. Every one has
his special joys and sorrows, troubles and cares, hopes and ideals.
In truth they form a separate kingdom, hidden from the physical
sight of others. This, men carry through the world as an
independent inner life. If a man chooses to keep his inner life
as a ~pecial world for himself alone we can penetrate no further.
There are those who lead the inner life and are immediately
translated, by means of this inner existence, into a different state
of consciousness from that they possess in the life they lead in
and with the external world. This was certainly the case with
the Sufi Master. He had other work to do in other spheres of
which we knew nothing. Nor could we follow him. Anyone
with even a faint perception of that spiritual life surrounding us
could sense that lnayat Khan was one of those Beings who belong
to all spheres and who pass through time and space at the
bidding of the Great Ones. They are Beings whose home is
the universe and who have consecrated their life to infant
humanity to help it mount a step or two in its age-long pil-
gnmage.
Owing to its treasured quietism and the belief that has always
194
THE SUFIS
been held that Sufism is never to be used for proselytizing, being
that pure Theism which God will impart to the ready, Sufism
is but little known in the West save through the exceeding rich-
ness of its literature.
It is the Sufi poets who present the world with Sufism in its
purest and richest forms. Many of Persia's greatest poets have
consecrated their verse almost entirely to the elucidation and
elaboration of the Sufi doctrines, and, as one of the great Christ
impulses of the world, it is deeply interesting to note how diverse
and how perfectly adjusted are the great teachers to the nature
of their work.
Sir John Malcolm was surprised in Persia, as Rosen was in
Constantinople, by the knowledge which the common people
had of the great Persian poets. He says: " I was forcibly struck
with this fact during my residence in Persia. I found several
of my servants well acquainted with the poetry of their country,
and when I was at lspahan I was surprised to hear a common
tailor who was repairing one of my tents entertain his com-
panions with repeating some of the finest of the mystical Odes
of Hifidz."
Those of the West who study the Sufi Poets become enthusiasts.
Many of our great Orientalists have written of them in glowing
terms. Professor Hastie, Principal of the Church of Scotland
College, Calcutta, and Professor of Divinity at Glasgow University,
writes thus :
"JeHileddin Rumi (A.D. 1207-1273) is now universal~y recognized
by those who know as the greatest of the Persian Mystical Poets.
This supremacy has been unanimously accorded to him for more
than six centuries by unnumbered myriads of his own disciples
and followers in the Oriental world who have been wrapt in
devoutest admiration of the great Master to whom they have owed
the highest joy and inspiration of their spiritual life. And at
last, in our own Western world, the great scholars of Europe,
looking at him without personal or national bias and through the
clear, cold light of the new time, have come more and more ·as
with one voice to join in this chorus of praise. . . . Jelaleddin
is now rising upon our literary horizon in all his native splendour
-his name appropriately signifying 'The Splendour of the Faith'.
195
THE COSMIC CHRIST
It would be doing no one wrong to rank Jelaleddin with
Shakespeare, with Wordsworth, and Keats and Shelley, with
Goethe and Heine."
This eulogy, which may appear exaggerated, is almost surpassed
by the most learned Historian of Persian Poetry and author of
seven great volumes on Arabic Literature-the Austrian, Baron
Von Hammar-Purgstall-v.·ho says:
" Jelaleddin Rumi is the greatest mystical Poet of the East,
the oracle of the Sufis, the nightingale of the contemplative life,
the author of the Masnavi and the Founder of the Mevlevi, the
most famous Order of Mystical Dervishes. As founder of this
Order, as the Legislator of the contemplative life, and as the:
interpreter of heavenly mysteries, he is highly revered, and, as
such, he has to be estimated by quite a different standard from
that which applies to those poets whose inspiration has not soared
like his to the vision of divine things, to the primal Fountain of
Love and L~~ht. . . . The Masnavi is the Text Book of all
the Sufis, irom the banks of the Ganges to the shores of the
Bosphorus. These outbursts of highest inspiration deserve to be
more closely considered, as it is from them that we see shining
forth as in clear splendour the essence of Oriental mysticism, the
cardinal doctrine that all is One-the view of the ultimate unity
of all being-anrt giving with it direction and guidance to the
highest goal of perfection by the contemplative Way of Divine
Love. On the wings of the highest religious enthusiasm the Sufi,
rising above all the outward forms of positive religions, adores
the Eternal Being, in the completest abstraction from all that is
sensuous and earthly, as the purest Source df Eternal Light.
J«laleddin thus soars, not only like other lyrical poets, such as
Hafiz, over suns and moons, but even above space and time,
above the world of creation and fare, above the original contract
of Predestination, and beyond the last judgment, into the Infinite,
where. in eternal adoration he melts into one with the Eternal
Heing, and, infinitely loving, becomes one with the Infinite Love,
ever forgetting himself and having only the great All in his
view."
We have quoted the eulogies of two great scholars-dozens
have written similarly-in order to convey some idea of the
196
THE SUFIS
fervour of adoration the Sufi possesses for his Maker, an adoration
which is almost incomprehensible to the West and which fires even
the cold and cautious heart of the Western scholar and critic.
It is a something lx>rn and inherited in the Sufi, and that
wondrous power of love of God makes it conceivable that Sufism
was indeed the religion God taught to His Holy Angels. Such
fervour of love is indeed a potent imtrument in the hands of a
teacher, a magnificent inspiration to fire the latent spirit of the
pupil.
Jelaleddin "sought for the healing hand of Jesus" and it purged
his inner sight and enabled him to see all the world again in
the Light and Love of God.
The divinely-inspired Sufi poets of the East are the messengers
of God who are pringing us the Light. Ex orient Lux.
The Christ chose an Eastern body, and from the East has come
His Light, but faintly reflected upon us as yet, but destined in
the fullness of time to blaze in full glory from the Sacred Heart
of the whole world.
In the last book the great Sufi Master Pir-0-Inayat Khan
gave to us, it is written :
''The Sufi message is the answer to the cry of humanity
to-day. . . . Our movement is busy rendering service to God
and humanity without any intention of forming an exclusive
community but to unite in this service the people of all different
religions.
"This movement, in its infancy, is commencing its work, but
its culmination will he a world movement. It is the world
message and that religion which will be the religion of the whole
humanity."
When asked if there would ever be a new messenger, the Sufi
Master replied : " Yes! in nine hundred years. The message
Murshid came to give will be three hundred years growmg,
three hundred years at the zenith, and three hundred years
declining. Then a new messenger will come."
He also said to his Western disciples:
" If there is anything I 3sk of you it is this. You only in the
world know of the Voice that comes to the ears of my heart,
for it is this Voice which has brought you closer to me. It is
197
TilE COSMIC CHRIST
this Voice which holds you with me. You know whose voice
it is, though it is expressed in my words. I wish this Voice to
reach to the end of the world. I wish this Voice to spread wide.
I wish this Voice to btcome audible to the hearers and visible
to the readers who may be ready to hear and read it."
We will conclude with a translation of a beautiful passage
from the Masnav1, descriptive of the upward progress of the soul:
" I died from the mineral and became a plant. I died from
the plant and reappeared as an animaL I died from the animal
and became a man. Wherefore then should I fear? When did
I grow less by dying? Next time I shall die from the man That
I may grow the wings of the angels. From the Angel, too, must
I seek advance. All things shall perish save His Face. Once
more shall I wing my way above the Angels. I shall become
that which entereth not the imagination. Then let me become
naught, naught for the harp-string Crieth unto me : ' Vcrily unto
Him do we return'."
xg8
CHAPTER XII
GREECE
THE GODS AND MEN
"THE twilight of the Gods" is a condition little understood to-day.
It is extremely difficult for us, who through the workings of evolu-
tion have descended into the depths of the material world, to
believe that the Gods ever had in~ercourse with man. They
are still regarded by the majority of our historians as mythical
beings, creatures of ignorant, superstitious minds, though those
who write of events taking place before our era are constantly
compelled to state amazing facts which they cannot account for.
Sightseers gazing upon the Apollo Belvedere and the statues
of other great Gods and Goddesses are, of course, told by "The
Man from Cooks", who is taking them round, that no such person
as Apollo ever existed. We have always been interested in the
group stupefaction this statement produces and the awful questions
that follow. So many want to know who the model was and
why he was called a god. Could this wonderful being have been
only a myth, and if he was a myth where did the conception
come from?
Yet if we decide to reject the intervention of the Gods in
human destiny we will find very much more than the Apollo
and the Pyramids that we cannot account for. No amount of
Darwinism can help us, for Darwin never attempted to deal with
our spiritual evolution, and pinned his faith firmly on the amceba
and the ape, omitting to explain to us why, after all these
centuries have rolled by, no ape has ever become a man. For
very many years we have striven in zoos and in private establish-
ments to "get a move on'', but the ape remains ape and refuses
to learn our language, note a fine sunset, or furnish us with
the missing link.
199
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Darwin was an honest materialist who is gradually being
superseded as our knowledge increases. In his day Psychology
was in its earliest infancy.
Our "stay put" state of mind is largely attributable to our
inability to realize that men of the past were very different,
mentally and physically, fwm what we are to-day. What was
man before "Jehovah poured into man the living breath and he
became a living soul"? (We use the original word which is
Jehovah, not God.) Before receiving his soul man would hardly
have reached the ape level of intelligence. Man received the great
"I am" which sets so wide a gulf betwixt him and the ape. This
was the gift the God-sent Jehovah gave to man.
A moment's thought would suffice to impress upon us the
immensity of this Bible statement. A God who could represent
the Cosmic Christ in such a terrific capacity must be a very great
Being.
We read the translation, "and God breathed into man". The
translators appear to consider God and Jehovah to be one and
the same Being. In the days of Moses men thought of Christ
when they spoke of Jehovah. Moses is bidden by Jehovah to
direct the people of Israel to the Christ by His name, "I am".
Jehovah had come to reflect the Christ to humanity before the
Christ descent and to prepare the way of the Lord.
Let us glance for a moment at the national organization of
Israel under Jehovah and Moses and the wonderful first forty
years of the life of the n:nion. The Rev. W. Pascoe Goard
writes: 1
"There is nothing like it elsewhere in the \Vorld's history.
. . . For inst.:mce, the sudden arrival of the fully organized nation
upon the stage of world history. The facts explain many things
connected with the sudden appearance of this nation amongst the
nations of the world which, without this explanation, would
fail of being understood.
" For in.stancc, the sudden arrival of the fully organized nation,
its perfection in monotheism and the worship of the true God,
its perfection uf law and its administration, its perfection of every
department of n:Hional life. Other nations h:1vc t:tkcn ages for
1 National Mt';~agr ,m,f R.mrzu, 24th August, 1929
200
GREECE: THE GODS AND MEN
the development of their systems none of which has ever attained
the perfection of this.
" In order to bring about this re~ult we see a nation forty
years in intensive traini11g in the rvi/demess. They were literally
shut up with God. They had no international intercourse. They
were shut off from Egypt; they were rebuffed by the nations of
Palestine; they could not pass to the Euphratean nations unless
the road through Palestine were open to them, and even the
road to Palestine was closed to them, as ttie history of the period
so clearly shows and later diplomatic correspondence, centuries
after the event, confirms. They had neither manufactories for
trading purposes, nor commerce. They built no cities nor even
houses. Their clothes and shoes were miraculously preserved.
They had no agriculture, but were miraculously fed with Manna
from Heaven. What a weary time for a whole nation one would
be apt to exclaim.
" Not so! It was a national school intensely mastering the
problems of life. They were mastering the fact of God and the
Presence of Jehovah in their midst. They were a nation at school
and were attending to only this one thing. Out from that one
school came the greatest political economists the world has ever
known. Out from that school came the most tremendous system
and masters of theology ever known, a race prepared and trained
to rule."
Is it not time that we learned the truth about Jehovah and who
He really is? The subject concerns us very deeply. Some time
we will be compelled to master these spiritual facts or fall back
in evolution with the "failures and laggards". Micah sums up
the character of Jehovah thus : " He hath showed thee, 0 man,
what is good. And what doth Jehovah require of thee, but to
do justly and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?"
We know what the majority of people would answer if asked
their opinion of Jehovah. We have heard Him spoken of as "a
mere tribal God. A blood~thirsty brute posing as a God. A
pure myth conceived of by some old Jew". Well! We cannot
have it both ways. Either we believe in these accounts of the
evolution of man through the instrumentality of the Gods or we
do uot. The vast, the overwhelming, majority of us reject them
201
THE COSMIC CHRIST
in toto, but go to church, at any rate those who still cling to
respectability do, :tnd are very good friends with the parson, who
probably docs not think any better of Jehovah than they do.
Materialism is to blame. There arc those who believe that the
Lord Buddha died from eating too much pork.
The Lord Buddha failed through giving strong meat to babes,
as many another great reformer has failed since.
Christ died on the cross because the meat He gave was too
strong for the Jews. They looked on it as the forbidden flesh,
and it killed the earthly body of Jesus, the Christ, who lived
on it Himself and offered it to others.
In thinking of Jehovah as the God of the Old Testament, we
must remember his mission, to teach barbarous and undisciplined
1osts how to prepare for the coming Christ. A tremendous
endeavour had to be undertaken, and success could only be achieved
by taking the most strenuous means.
The pivot round which turned the Old Testament religion was
the formless God •'I am", or Jehovah. He says to His servant,
the initiate Moses : " Say to the people, I am the I am." Man
has to learn to think of the formless Christ within him as "I am".
When Jehovah called upon Abram to come out of Ur of the
Chaldees, to be the Father of Israel and carry the Christ Light
from East to West, the Twilight of the Gods had already set
in, and they were becoming hut 3 sacred memory. The great
"I am" springing from spiritual sources developed the sense of
personality as the Gods faded out beyond our life's horizon.
Comparatively few people take the trouble to learn all they
might regarding the grand scheme of Evolution conceived of
and being worked out by the Cosmic Christ, and we accept very
little of all we can know regarding the spiritual Lords working
under Him. Roughly, we may term these angelic beings Sun
Gods.
If we would understand the Gods, we must take a really wide
view of the Cosmos, and grasp the fact that this is not the only
globe in which the Absolute is interested. Even if we look no
farther afield than our solar system we must remember how
much it contains, and how little we know of its contents.
Astronomers tell us much of the emptiness of these mighty globes,
20~
GREECE: THE GODS AND MEN
meaning that they contain no human beings. Occultism believes
that they arc all inhabited by beings, some above, some below us
in evolution, and sees no reason against believing that non-physical
beings occupy the stars and planets, suns and moons, and carry
out the will of the Creator in a God-appointed way.
We have good reason lo believe that this earth owes much to
certain advanced beings who left their own realms to instruct
our infant humanity. Some occupied human bodies; others helped
us to advance by working on etheric levels in the days before
earth-men were endowed with self-consciousness, and could only
respond to spiritual impact by a vague clairvoyance and clair-
audience. In old Atlantean days the primitive, half-evolved men
could understand and profit by the companionship of their spiritual
teachers. They had not attained to self-consciousness.
At the destruction of Atlantis, many of these teachers reincar-
nated in more highly developed beings and became the leaders
of the great schools of initiation. Later they were often honoured
as Gods. Gradually the close connecting-link existing betwixt
man and the ancient Gods was severed, because humanity became
less and less fitted as it progressed in self-consciousness for this
communion. Man had to learn to work out his own salvation.
It should be clearly understood that the Gods had to withdraw
from the world they had helped to construct. Those Gods who
from Atlantcan times had incarnated in the bodies of the most
advanced human beings were compelled to withdraw, as they could
only touch the physical plane by using the most highly evolved
bodies. So it came to pass that such entities, in whom were
hidden the divine Spiritual, appeared again on earth in a unique
manner. They became the leaders and Initiators in the great
esoteric schools, and the custodians of the mysteries, public
religion for the masses, and the secret religion for those who were
ready. Theirs was the duty of carrying on the secret wisdom and
preparing the way for the Christ. ·
Let it be remembered that man had come to earth from the
spiritual world. He had existed in the old Saturn, in darkness
and warmth, whilst he was little more than a germ. When God
commanded the light, he lived on the Sun in a fluid form suitable
to his environment. He had lived on the earth when the Sun cast
203
THE COSMIC CHRIST
it out, and it became a vaporous waste. He was on earth when
the Moon parted from earth, and earth, sun, and moon, hung
as three separate globes in the heavens. He had survived the
destruction of Lemuria by fire, and the destru·crion of Atlantis
by flood and ice, and led by the Manus (divine shepherds) he had
fared forth over the hardened surface of the globe to form the
nucleus of these great civilizations we have enumerated.
We have very roughly described what is open to all men to
know-the grand design of the Cosmic Christ, the solar Word,
and Lord of Creation; and we have traced His Word which was
from the beginning, as it was spoken forth by the great Sun Gods
who came down to do the bidding of the Supreme-"Him ·about
whom naught may be said,..
When we turn to the great Greek civilization we see the spiritual
life brought down to the physical plane. It is so totally different
from all other great civilizations that one can find no connecting
link with it in past or present. There is no gentle subsidence of
the old into the new. There is a sharp cleavage which seems
to cut across the laws of evolution. We plunge into a world of
Gods and Goddesses amid whom mingle the greatest philosophers,
poets, prose writers, and dramatists the world has ever known.
We find such a wealth of stupendous intellect expending itself over
a few hundred years that no historians attempt to account for such
a welter of genius such as this world has never known before or
since. What makes this fourth age, the Grzco-Latin civilization,
so utterly bewildering to the modern mind is the fact that what
to· most of us is pure mythology was to those giant intellects pure
reality.
Materialism has no clue whatever to the mysteries of Greece.
The man of to-day is an ignoramus who knows nothing of Homer,
and Hesiod, Plato and Pythagoras, yet they are always shrouded
in the mystery of the Gods. To think of Greece is to think of
a multiplicity of Gods, to walk in Greece is to walk amongst
them. There is no escape. Even to-day, though the Gods of
Greece are at least four thousand years old, they meet one at
every street corner. After a week in Greece the mystery has
become profound. How is one to believe that the glorious
temples, the divinely beautiful statues represent nothing but pure
204
GREECE: THE GODS AND MEN
hallucination? How did it come to pass that such in:'measurably-
gifted people suffered from such colossal delusions?
Such are the problems confronting the materialist, and naturally
he drops them as utterly unsolvable. Not so the occultist. In
the Gr~co-Roman civilization we find the Cosmic Christ pouring
down upon the Greek world a powerful incarnation of divine
beauty, and its harmonious expression in civilization and art.
The work of Greece was the perfect realization of the divine
through the human in the form of beauty. The Greece of Homer
and Hesiod, of Pindar and the great lyric poets, of Phidias and
Praxiteles, of Aeschylus and Sophocles, of Empcdocles, Heraclitus,
Pythagoras and Plato, who make up her soul, can be explained
neither by her soil, race, nor age, but only by the superhuman
inspirations that called the Greek Soul to life.
In this Epoch men first spoke of conscience between the time
of two tragic poets, Aeschylus who was born in the sixth century
a.c., and Euripides born in the fifth century B.c. There is no
mention of conscience previous to this. The intellectual soul
and mind are being developed. In each epoch one part of the
human soul was evolved. In the Egyptian-Chaldean the sentient
soul was developed. In the Gr~co-Latin epoch was developed
the mind, soul, higher Manus, or higher feeling.
To Greece we owe our arts, philosophies, and sciences. We
live to-day in the reflection of her ideals. yet we know nothing
of their origin and historical significance. From earliest times the
Greeks were cognizant of the direct and close communion exist-
ing between the outer life of the world and the inner life of
the soul. The Cosmos and the human soul they looked upon
as an organic whole, yet there were two distinct religions. The
first corresponded to the visible world, the second was the religion
of the mysteries, corresponding to the inner world of the soul.
Schure w:rites: "There was the secret religion of the mysteries
and the public religion of the Olympians, the first for the initiates,
the second for the masses; they did not contradict but explained
each other reciprocally. The secret religion was the foundation,
the internal organism of the outer religion which in its turn was
the coloured surface~ the plastic expression of the. former on the
physical plane.
THE COSMIC CHRIST
" The Hellenic genius summed up its conception of the universe
in four great gods, who are eternal Cosmic Forces-Zeus, Poseidon,
Pluto and Dionysus. These gods are found again in the consti-
tution of man who re-creates them by reflecting them, and who
could not comprehend them if he did not contain all four within
himself.
" To the Greek Zeus was the astral aura of the world : Poseidon
the etheric body: Pluto the physical body. Thus were reve~1led
the cosmic and human Trinity. The essential thing was still
lacking : the organic principle, the creative Spirit which unites
the parts, inspires them with breath, and causes life to circulate
through them. The 'self', the consciousness was lacking. For
the Greek cosmic self whence the human self proceeds, the god
in action in the universe was Dionysus."
Thirteen centuries before the Christ came to Palestine and
five centuries before the birth of Homer there appeared in Greece
a divine Initiator who heralded the coming Messiah, Orpheus,
son of Apollo.
He was called "Father of Mystics. Melodious Saviour of
men. Immortal Orpheus thrice crowned in hell, on earth, in
heaven, moving amongst the constellations and the gods, a star
shining upon his brow."
He is regarded as the ancestor of poetry and music, and he
bore a seven stringed lute, each string of which corresponded
with one of the seven principles of man.
To Orpheus is attributed the spirit of beauty which he passed
on to the whole of Europe, the melody of which has never ceased
to reverberate across the world.
He represented th~ divine eternal feminine, Eve, Isis, nature,
which he glorified in the name of God who interpenetrates nature,
and who is destined to shine forth over a divine humanity. He
was said to have passed twenty years in Egypt with the Priests
of Memphis, and after having been initiated in all the mysteries he
returned to Greece under an initiate name, Orpheus, or Arpha.
A Phrenician word composed of "Aour", light, and "Ropha=",
healing. He who heals by light.
The name of Orpheus has so much allied with it that we may
fairly imagine it to have been borne by a line of hierophant~,
:w6
GREECE: THE GODS AND MEN
and to have been made sponsor for the mysticism of a cycle.
What Orpheus is said to have known must constitute the body
of learning of a whole period at least. A list of his writings
is too voluminous to quote, and covers every sort of subject;
few of them remain to us. Plato quotes some fragments show-
ing that there were Orphic collections in his day.
Orpheus founded the mysteries of Dionysus and spread the
worship of this god throughout Greece. He taught the Olympians
about the gods of the sky, Zeus, Apollo, etc., but to his disciples
and initiates he taught the most profound and moving things,
the hidden powers of Dionysus, whom he disclosed as the mighty
generator who passes through all the kingdoms of nature to incar-
nate, and to fulfil himself in man. He taught of the uncreate
Virgin, and the Divine Child destined to universal dominion
whom the souls of the universal world will recognize as their
divine model.
Anyone can read the guide-book account of Apollo. We are
concerned with deeper things more suited to the student mind.
We will quote the great occultist Dr. Steiner. His words will
be understood by those who are ready for advanced teaching.
"Once upon a time there was a primeval teacher in the civilized
parts of Europe, a primeval teacher who in this sense was a
primeval Bard, rhe pioneer of all the ancient Bards and Minstrels.
He taught on the physical plane by means of music, and he
taught in such a way that something was thereby communicated
to the sentient soul which was like the rising and shining of a
sun. What tradition retained concerning the great teacher was
given to the Greeks who were influenced by him from the
West, as they were influenced in a different way from the East.
This was embodied in their conception of Apollo, who was a
Sun God, and at the same time the God of music. This figure
of Apollo dates back, however, to that great teacher of primeval
times who put into the human soul the faculty which appears
to-day as the faculty of clear thinking.
"The Greeks tell of a pupil of this great teacher of humanity.
How could such a being have a pupil? In these bygone time:
when this being worked in the manner described he was not
encompassed in the physical organization, he transcended that
207
THE COSMIC CHRIST
which walks the earth as a physical man. It became necessary
in the Gr~co-Latin period that he should descend again to the
human stage, and make use of all the faculties that are in man.
Yet though he made use of all the human faculties he could
not quite descend. He still had to hold something back. His
incarnation in Greece was such that although he completely filled
the whole human form, yet as a man dwelling in that form
something within him extended far beyond it. He had a soul
which extended beyond his body.1 Humanly speaking there was
something tragic in the fact that this great being who acted as
a great teacher in the former epoch should have had to incarnate
again in a form in which his soul to a great extent was outside
it, and yet he could not make any use of this unusual faculty of
soul. This kind of incarnation was called a 'Son of Apollo'
because that which had dwelt on earth before was not reincarn-
ated in a direct way. A son of Apollo had a soul designated by
mysticism as the 'female' element. He could not carry it all
within him because it belonged to another world. This inner
tragedy of the reincarnated teacher of former times has been
wonderfully preserved in Greek Mythology in the figures of
'Orpheus and Eurydice'.
" In this incarnation of Apollo as Orpheus we have the descent
of what Easterns term a Bodhisattva, a descent to Buddi-hood.
Apollo was a projection into the Greek soul of the Angel who
had worked at the end of the Atlantean age, and who was
ensouled by the Christ and spoke wisdom to the Greeks through
the mouth of the Pythia. His temple became a meeting place
of the holiest plays and festivals, and in all the difficulties of
life His aid was sought and his healing powers invoked. Many
Greek towns bore the title of Apollonia, and were founded by
His advice. Yet Apollo wa~ never embodied in a physical form
but worked through the earth elements. Even the Pharaohs of
Egypt came to consult him, but his oracles were given only through
his priests and priestesses in the sanctuary.
" What, then, was really the profoundly venerated Apollo
whose name is known to every schoolboy? He was a celestial
Being who poured out from the higher worlds the music of the
l This was alsu the case in the late incarnation of the great Sufi Master, lnayat Khan
GREECE: THE GODS AND MEN
spheres, and the healing forces of the soul, who also brought
about in the body of man such a co-operation of brain, breath,
lungs, with larynx and heart, that it is a bodily expression for
the right working together of thinking, feeling, willing. The
celestial Healer is Apollo. We have seen three stages of evolution,
and the Healer who was the foundation of Apollo was reborn,
and men called Him Jesus, which, translated into our language,
means ' He who heals through God'. That is the Jesus of
Nazareth, 'The One healing through God', Jeshus-Jesus, not to
be confounded with the Cosmic Christ, though later Christ-
ensouled.
"Histonans to-day refuse to admit that the religion of the
mysteries was either ancient or sacred. They regard it as an
artificial fabrication grafted upon pure mythology. This opinion
was not held by the great writers of Greece. The poets from
Homer to Sophocles; the historians from Herodotus to Strabo,
and the two greatest Greek philosophers, Plato and Aristotle,
trace back the mysteries to prehistoric times and speak of them
as the highest and holi$!st religion. The greatest of the Greek
lyric poets, Pir.dar, exclaims:
" ' Happy are those who have been initiated into the mysteries :
they know the beginning and end of life.' In the Homeric hymn
to Demeter he speaks of the mysteries of Eleusis, 'her godly
mysteries, hold mysteries which none may violate, or search into
or noise abroad. Happy is he amongst deathly men who hath
beheld these things, and he that is uninitiated and hath no lot
in them hath never equal lot in death.'1
" The Gods themselves evolve, and change with the universe,
yet, despite all changes and chances, the ideals of Eleusis went
on their way through the world and from them arose the Greek
theatre, ancestor of our theatre to-day.
" Dionysus, a multiple god scattered throughout the whole
of humanity, spoke at Eleusis thus:
" ' Know that the Supreme Spirit the Divine Self manifests
through sacrifice and is divided up amongst innumerable souls.
He suffers, lives, breathes, and aspires in thee as in otheR. The
vulgar know him not, but the initiate must reconstruct him within
1 Andrew Lang translation
0
THE COSMIC CHRIST
himself. Look into the depths of thine own spirit. Seek him
and thou shalt find him.' "
The man of to-day may see nothing but a trick in the gift
of clairvoyance, but both Pythagoras and Plato honoured it with
their faith, and Aristotle acknowledged that there is a science of
spiritual vision. With such testimony as that the opinion of
to-day's narrow materialist signifies nothing.
Of the great Christ-filled Pythagoras we will say but littlt.
Volumes are required (and they exist) to do justice to his life
and teaching, and no greater Master can any student find to study
and live by.
The exact date of his birth is not known. Roughly, it lay
between 640 to 570 before our era, and like all reformers,. ~ven
Jesus the Christ, his real work was effected by oral instruction.
The essence of his system, however, comes down to us in the
"Golden Verses" of Lysis, the commentary of Hierocles, fragments
of Philolaus, and in the Timzus of Plato, which contains the
cosmogony of Pythagoras. The writers of antiquity are filled with
the spirit of his philosophy. They never weary of relating
anecdotes depicting his wisdom and beauty, his marvellous power
over men, and Neoplatonists of Alexandria, the Gnostics, and the
early Fathers of the Church quote him as an authority.
To occultists it is clear that no small part of his mission was
to bind together in one grand conception the esoteric teachings
of the great ones of India and Egypt, and thereby prove that at
certain periods one identical spiritual current passes mysteriously
through the whole of humanity.
Jamblichos says: "No one can doubt that the soul of
Pythagoras was sent to mankind from the empire of Apollo, either
being an attendant on the god or co--arranged with him
in some other more familiar way, for this may be inferred
both from his birth and from the all various wisdom of his
soul."
To us he appears as an Initiate of the highest type, pos5essed
of the scientific mind and cast in philosophic mould, to which the
spirit of modern times most. nearly approa~hes. His teachings
began by the divine Trinity in the profound 1·eccsscs of the
210
GREECE: THE GODS AND MEN
Absolnt~. and ended in the human trinity at th~ centr~ of life.
In father, mother, and child, the initiate could rc.-cogni'l..c the spirit,
soul, and heart of the living universe.
Schure writes: '' Plato took from Pythagoras the whole of his
metaphysics, though he unfolded it with less dearness. The
Alexandrine school occupied the upper storys of the edifice, whilst
modern science has taken the ground floor and strengthened its
foundations; numerous philosophical schools, and mystical or
religious sects have inhabited its many chambers. No philosophy,
however, has yet embraced the whole of it."
In a leader in the Morning Post1 on "Hellas" it is written:
" It is difficult to exaggerate the influence of Greek cultur~
on the ~tffairs of mankind. It did not begin, as most ~pi~
imagine, with the prodigious intellectual upheaval of the
Ren~aissance and its corollary, the Reformation. Thus there is
a profound truth in Dean Inge's paradoxical saying that between
Palestine and Christian dogma 'there is very little connection',
for the whole stately edifice of Christian theology was built up
on a basis of <ireek philosophy.
"As long as men had a personal memory of Christ and could
cherish a lively hope of His immediate return, there was no
need of reflective reasoning. When, however, the memory and
the hope began to fade away, the more thoughtful believers began
to ask· themselves what, precisely. it was they believed. If Christ
now reigned in Heaven, what was His relation to the supreme
Deity? These and other tremendous questions were asked <tnd
answered in the spirit of the essentially Greek belief, that even
the deepest of religious mysteries can be comprehended by the
mind of man. It was a great English theologian who .said that
Hellenism. had always been Christianity's indispensable handmaid,
and St. Thomas Aquinas, perhaps the mightiest thinker since
Aristotle, would have nodded agreement.... Despite the new
and vast accumulation of surprising facts, the mir~cle of Hellas
rem.1ins unexplained. Narrow as its scene was, and brief as was
its duration, the life of ancient Athens has enriched human
experience with a visioh of creative imagination, of loyalty to
trut.,., ~md love of heauty, compared with which our boasted
• 28th Au~ust, 11)21)
:ZJJ
THE COSMIC CHRIST
'progress' seems a painful and perplexing awakening. And are
we even awake?"
This suggestive article answers its own question.
Certainly we are not awake to the most important and vital
half of our Being-the spiritual half. Naturally, we cannot under-
stand the mystery of Hellas, because the spiritual life was the
dominating factor in Greek life, and dense materialism is the
dominating factor in ours. Their divine teachers taught them
how to live in the full pulsating joy of both. In our lives the
spiritual is crushed down, and we have sunk into a dark pit
of materialism which brings us nothing but bodily sickness, the
result of a starved spirit, and what practically amounts to universal
unhappiness. Who can affirm to-day that as a nation the majority
is happy? How many of us h~.ve the sense to realize why we are
miserable? Happiness comes from within; it is a fruit of the
Spirit. But the Spirit is not functioning : there lies the root
trouble.
The.Miracle of Hellas took place a thousand years before Christ
walked the earth, and an eminent Theologian tells us (as many
others have done) that "Christian Theology was built up on a
basis of Greek Philosophy". What part, if any, will the Theo-
logians admit did the Christ take in building up this foundation
of Greek Philosophy? We say : Naturally Christian Theology
was built up on a basis of Greek Philosophy because the Christ
inspired Greek Philosophy as the sequel to His inspiration of
Indian, Persian, Egyptian, and lesser Philosophies. Surely the
identical spirit current of the Christ which has run through the
world from the beginning is plain enough for the dullest to
recogmze.
Our spiritual teachers possess the church, but they leave us ·to
discover all the vital values for ourselves. They preach that
Christ was born two thousand years ago, which is simply untrue.
We are not trained Theologians, but even we know that a very
ancient Pagan formula1 ran thus :
" I am the Alpha and Omega, the first and the last, which is
and which was and which is to come, the Almighty."
The Priesthood ought to stop talking of "Before Christ", which
1 Pausanias X, 1:z. Plato Laws IV, i
212
GREECE: THE GODS AND MEN
has really no meaning whatever, and on Christmas Day use the
text: "I am Alpha and Omega".
Instead of preaching on the birth of Jesus of Nazareth in "the
house", according to St. Matthew, or "the manger", according
to St. Luke, how much more interesting it would be if, in place
of leading the unlearned to believe that Christ came for the first
time two thousand years ago, they would describe His teaching
"through the mouth of His holy Prophets" from the Beginning
up to the present day.
It is natural to the majority when wandering amid the bygone
splendours of some mighty and ruined civilization to wonder "For
what was all this intended if it was destined to perish thus?"
It seems so melancholy a waste of time, labour, wealth, and
we go on to wonder vaguely what is the use of anything if ruin
inevitably is to overwhelm all human endeavour.
Such reflections, though natural, are consequent on the ill-
balanced view we take of material life, our neglect of the spiritual,
and our very lightly held belief in the immortality of the soul. We
forget, or we do not believe, that the Spirit inspiring such mighty
efforts of beauty and culture is indestructible. Like all other great
civilizations, Greece had her dawn, her full glory of Sun Power,
and her fading out into twilight, then darkness.
Such is the destiny of all nations.
Schure says: "Orpheus is the Initiate of the dawn. Pythagoras,
the Initiate of the full daylight, and Plato that of the setting sun
of Greece."
We take no account of the lives and activities on "the other
side" of the great chain of Initiates that extends back to the
beginning. We think of these great souls, such as Plato and
Pythagoras, as dead, retired from active life to the Elysian Fidds
of God where we imagine that conditions are already so· perfect
that no effort on their part will be required. Vaguely we wonder
what on earth such men can find to do in our hypothetical
heaven, and we think it rather a pity and a waste, and that
probably if Plato can look back upon the great school he founded
about four hundred years before the Palestine Event, and· which
lasted for centuries after the Master's death, extending eventually
to the mighty school of Alexandria, he must regret to note how
213
THE COSMIC CHRIST
futile and evanescent all his strivings were. .. What has become
of his great school now?" we ask cynically.
The answer is: " It lives vitally in the souls of all who came
under his influence, and who to-day are keeping his memory and
teachings alive.
If we could only grasp more surely the fundamentals of
reincarnation we would begin to realize that nothing garnered
during earth-life by the soul is ever lost. The belief in reincarna-
tion is literally the only key that can unlock the closed gates
to simple belief in the eternal verities.
Without reincarnation there is no logical explanation of ·life's
problems, therefore the majority toss them aside as unsolvable.
If we could look upon ourselves as pure spirit coated in flesh
this fact would become clearer still, and we would see in the great
torch-bearers of the past, spirits who as Christ Messengers came
to this earth and took human incarnations.
Knowing the exact facet in the life divine, it was their mission
to make clear; they performed their sacrificial task, took physical
liberation when their work was done, and passed on to another
sphere of usefulness in another land awaiting them.
Only things eternal have meaning for such souls. The glories
of stately temples made by hands are to them the unsubstantial
forms reflected in the divine mirror, through which we see as in a
glass darkly. They see behind the ever-changing, imperfect forms
of earth the perfect prototype, not made by hands, eternal in
the heavens, existing as eternal perfection. Such souls have come
to us "trailing clouds of glory from God, who is their home", and
have been Christ-ened from the beginning, and will serve the
Solar Logos in the ages yet to come.
Again, to such advanced souls the earth phase is a school of
learning. The greater the soul, the longer it takes to know the
great "I am".
Love and harmony, the foundations of Plato's soul, required
of him a personal experience of the passions, in all their phases,
to transmute into sublime form.
Pythagoras brought pure ethics home to his disciples. He repre-
sented the principles of loftiest initiation, and possessed the supreme
truth disclosed in the great mysteries.
214
GREECE: THE GODS AND MEN
Plato gathered together the work of his great predecessors.
Proclus truly says: " What Orpheus promulgated in obscure
allegories, Pythagoras taught after being initiated into the Orphic
mysteries, and Plato had full knowledge of it from Orphic and
Pythagorean writings."
The reason why St. Paul found his best disciples in Greece
lay in the fact that the way of the Lord had been prepared by
the great ones sent before to aid the spiritual advancement of
humanitv. ·
215
CHAPTER XIII
MITHRAISM AND THE MICHAEL REVELATION
WE are only just beginning vaguely to realize that there are vast
cosmic activities taking place in our midst. ''Look about" where
we will, we can observe God doing things, very, very big things
in His own silent \\'Jy. Then we turn our attention to the world's
·loud weariness, and we note men doing tiny things with incredible
fuss and noise.
We have never known in our time any attempt to co-ordinate
the Angels of Creation and the Cre:1led-that is a glorious preroga-
tive of the Church of Rome-but the period is approaching in
which new revelations will dawn upon mankind. We will learn
something of the always present· Angelic ministry, and this will
come about through the wider and greater Christ revelation
approaching. Already it is heralded, and commonly spoken of
as "The Second Coming", the hour of which no man knoweth.
This is not the place to speculate upon the form "the coming"
will take, whether it be in the clouds of the etheric body, or in
physical form, or in a second Pentecostal outpouring of the Divine
Christ Spirit; suffice it now for us to note that a Divine coming
is in the air and expectation is awake amongst all peoples.
To understand the things of earth the intellect must be used,
but for super-sensible reality something more is required, for
in the world of spirit one can make no definitions. One can only
note carefully the results of Cosmic activity upon our world of
being, and by using the intuition of the Spirit come to one's own
conclusions. This is markedly so in trying to understand the
Grzco-Roman period. Intellect is quire useless in attempting to
penetrate its mystery. No explanation is possible save through
spiritual intuition.
To understand what Or. Steiner terms "The Mystery of
216
MITHRAIStvl AND TI-l£ MICHAEL REVELATION
Golgotha" is the task that now lies before the world, and it is
an undoubted h11:::t that this, the greatest event in human evolution,
is less understood than any other great event known of or hinted
at in historic or prehistoric times. It has taken roughly five
thousand years for us to discover that the Flood actually took
place. It will take considerably longer before the real significance
of the Cosmic Christ's incarnation in Palestine becomes established
in the hearts of men.
This is due to our extremely narrow view of the whole subject,
nnd the lack of any public teaching which attempts to expand
the little as yet known of the Palestine event. All orthodox con-
temporary teaching takes for granted that all is known that can
be known of the life of Jesus the Christ, and urges us to take to
our hearts the bald message given out. But here the trouble
comes in, because we know in our hearts that there is something
more. We are vague as to what that something is, but we are
sure it exists if only we knew where to find it.
Our intuition is not at fault. We have been told to seek and
we shall find. Some of us have sought, and found that there is
very much more to he learned of the Christ than is contained
in the orthodox teachings, and only now, after two thousand
years have passed, is the realization dawning that we are only
at the very beginning of Christology, and that we stand at the
A B C stage of the most important event in the world.
By no means the least of all the great Christ revelations that
have led us up to the present day is Mithraism, known no\\' only
to a few students, yet the most nearly universal religion of the
western world in those early centuries before the fall of Imperial
Rome.
As it is a manifestation which is due to blossom into full
flower in the immediate future, we will devote some pages to
its salient points. They have a very close bearing on the concrete
religion prevailing in our midst.
We will deal ·with the exoteric side of the subject first, and
dwell upon the esoteric side afterwards.
Who was Mithra, and what is Mithraism?
Chambers's Encyclopxdia devotes half a page to the subject,
the Encyclopxdia Britannica no more, but the bald and strictly
217
THE COSMIC CHRIST
materialistic details given suffice to awaken interest in those who
make a study of the Cosmic Christ.
Chambers informs us that Mithra was a Perso-Iranian Deity
whose worship, after passing through several changes, spread
· itself for a time .far beyond its native seat. ·In the Persian Zend~
Avestas Mithra appears as God of the heavenly light, and the Lord
of all countries. He was the Sun God represented by the orb
of day which was worshipped in his name. Mithraism possessed
a system of sacred rites and mysteries. · For admission to these
the aspirant was prepared by a series of trials of a severe descrip-
tion. He then underwent initiation which comprised seven
degrees. Baptism and the partaking of a mystic sacrament were
included in the inaugurative acts.
Mithraism must have had attractions -of no ordinary kind.
Introduced into Rome in 68 B.c., it rapidly spread through the
greater part of the Empire. The well-knov...n taurine tablets
sculptured in bas-relief are the most interesting of its monuments
that have come down to our time. There is a fine example in
the British Museum, and others are to be seen in the principal
museums of Europe. One of the most perfect temples or ·
Mithraeums yet discovered is in Ostia. The floor and walls of
this Chapel are lined with mosaics representing the twelve signs
of the Zodiac and the course of the planets, and containing allusions
to the rites of Mithras.
Tablets found at Housesteads in the Roman wall, and at York,
are proof of the presence of Mithraism in Britain. Having come
into collision with Christianity, it was formally suppressed by the
prefect Gracchus, A.D. 378, though St. Jerome speaks of it as
being still practised in his time.
This is the gist of the little article which we are able greatly
to elaborate. Let us specially note here that Mithraism was intro-
duced into Rome in 68 B.c., and rapidly spread until suppressed
in A.D. 378. We are in a position to show that it was a pure
Christ revelation, and therefore must have prepared the way
and greatly aided the proselyting efforts of the Apostles in the
Southern Peninsula. When St. Paul told to the Romans the
story of the life of Jesus the Christ, they must instantly have
noted certain facsimiles in the tradition of the great Sun God,
218
MITHRAISM AND THE MICHAEL REVELATION
Mithras. In truth Mithraism need never have come into collision
with Christianity had the early Fathers known as mw;h as students
now know of the Christ manifestations that have come Jown to
us from Creation's dawn. Despite its close bearing on the
Christianity of to-day, no acknowledgment of this fact is ever
made by orthodox theologians.
WHO WAS. MITHI\A?
The first trace we find of him is in the Indo-Iranian faith. He
is invoked as the God of the heavenly light sharing with God
universal sovereignty. In the Vedas they arc invoked as Mitra-
Varona (father and son) enjoying equal powers.
In the Persian Avesta it is written : "Mithra, Lord of wide
pastures, I have created as worthy of sacrifice, as worthy of glorifica-
tion, as I, Ahura-Mazda (t;od) am Myself."
It will be remembered that the Zend-Av.csta is mainly conversa-
tion betwixt God and Zoroaster.
In Persian "Mihr" means the Sun. Mithra is God of heavenly
light: Lord of vast luminous space : ( lod of truth and faith.
The ritual of the Avesta is quite clear.
"We sacrifice unto Mithra and Ahura (Son and Father) two
great imperishable holy Gods, and unto the stars and the moon
and the sun. Wc sacrifice unto Mithra, Lord of alJ countries,
whom Ahura-Mazda (God) made the most glorious of all the world
unseen."
This is simply the Christian ritual of to-day written in old
Persian by Zoroaster, whom occult schools trace down to his
reincarnation in Palestine as Jesus of Nazareth.
Reading from Darmesteter's translation we find ag:~in God
speaking through the mouth of His holy Prophet :
" Happy that man, 0 holy Zarathustra, for whom a holy priest
. . . who is the word incarnate, offers up a sacrifice unto Mithra.
Straight to that man will Mithra come to visit his dwelling. Then
Mithra's boons will come to him as he follows God's teachings and
thinks according to God's ·teachings.,
There is no difficulty in finding complete correspondences to
219
THE COSMIC CHRIST
these promises in the New Testament. As Professor John
Robertson says:
"Thus we have the cultus of Mithra as the Sun God, Deity
of light and truth, created by, and yet co-equal with the Supreme
Deity, and fighting on the side of the good against the evil
power; this at a period long before the Christian era. So much
is certain, whatever we may decide as to the actual period of the
writing of the Avesta as it has come down to us.... As time
went on the cultus of Mithra became more and more considerable,
and it is the historic fact that he ultimately came to occupy a place
only a little inferior to that assigned from the first to Ahura-Mazda
(God). Darius, 485 B.c., placed the emblems of Ahura-Mazda and
of Mithra in equal positions on the sculptured tablet above his
tomb. His example w~.s followed by all the later monarchs of
his race. Artaxerxes Mnemon, 358 B.c., placed an image of Mithra
in the temple attached to the royal palace at Suza. He also unites
the 'Son with the Father' and prays for their joint protection.
Artaxerxes, 337 B.c., does the same. Artaxerxes Mnemon swore
'by the light of Mithras', as William the Conqueror swore by
'the Splendour of God'.
" This Deity, then, is from remote antiquity one of high moral
attributes. Theologically, he exists both in abstract and in symbol;
originally he is simply the Sun. According to the universal law of
religious evolution, he becomes a spirit apart from the Sun, but
~ymbolized by it, he being the God who sustains it. He can
never be dissociated from it, and as the same word 'mihr', the
Sun, also means 'the friend', and seems to connote love or amity,
a moral distinction inevitably attaches to him in a stage of human
thought in which names have an incalculable significance. And
at length in the dualist theory, holding its ground as a theological
system, as it always will while men personify the energies of the
universe, Mithra comes to occupy a singular position between the
two great powers of good and evil, being actually named 'the
Mediator', and figuring to the devout eye as a humane and
beneficent God, nearer to man than the Great Spirit of Good, a
Saviour, a Redeemer, eternally young, Son of the Most High,
and preserver of mankind from the Evil One. In brief, Mithra
is a pagan Christ".
220
MITHRAISM AND THE MICHAEL REVELATION
Deleting the word "Pagan", we agree that in Mithra we have
a grand manifestation of the Cosmic Christ, and as the great
spiritual force behind the Sun, which is His objective manifesta-
tion, occultists to-day look to Him as the Light of the World.
Much more, can be recorded of Mithra, known also as Saviour.
His name is obviously taken by the early Persians from Mitra,
the Deity invoked in some of the earliest hymns of the Rig
Veda. Stukeley states that the worship of Mithra was spread
over all Gaul and Britain. Ornaments of Mithraic origin have
been found in Britain, and though our country was held by
the Romans for three hundred years at a time when Christianity
is supposed to have penetrated the whole Imperial world, there
have been found no monumental signs whatever of any Roman
profession of the Christian faith, while monuments in honour
of Mithra abounded. There is a Mithraic cave at Housesteads,
Northumberland, containing sculptures of Mithra worship, and
an inscription, "To the God, best and greatest, invincible Mithra,
Lord of ages". There is another at Kichester with an inscription,
"To the God, the Sun, the invincible Mithra, the Lord of Ages".
Other monuments have been found at Chester on the line of the
Roman wall, at Cambeck-fort in Cumberland, at Oxford and at
York. Mithraic bas-reliefs cut on rocks or on tablets of stone
abound throughout the former western provinces of the Roman
Empire; many exist in Germany; still more in France.
In Persia the birth of Mithra was celebrated on the twentv-fifth
I
of December. He was born in a cave; his mother was a virgin.
He died as the Christ did, and he had his sepulchre over which
at the Easter celebrations or vernal equinox his disciples wept.
During the night the priests carried his image to a tomb, and
the image was laid on a litter. At the end of the Easter resurrec-
tion the priest pronounced these words : " Be of good cheer, sacred
band of Initiates, your God has risen from the dead. His pains
and sufferings shall be your salvation."
Professor Lee refers to the prophecy of an expected Messiah in
the ancient Persian writers. It is ascribed not only by the Persian
Abulpharagius, but by the Celts of Ireland, to Zoroaster. He
declared "that in the latter days a pure virgin would conceive, and
that as soon as the Child was born a star would appear blazing
2.11
THE COSMIC CHRIST
even at noonday with undiminished lustre. ' You, my Si>ns,'
exclaimed the seer, ' will perceive it rising before any Qther nation.
As soon, therefore, as you behold the Star, follow it whithersoever
it shall lead you, and adore that mysterious Child, offering yt)ur
gifts to Him with profound humility. He. is the Almighty Word
which created the heavens.' "
" Perhaps no religious festival was ever more splendid than
the annual Salutation of Mithras, during which forty days were
set apart for th:mksgiving and sacrifice. The procession to salute
lhe God formed long before the rising of the Sun. The High
Priest was followed by a long train of the Magi, in white robes,
chanting hymns :md carrying the s~tcrcd fire on silver censers.
Then came thr<!'C hunt!red and sixty-five youths in scarlet ·to
repn.'sent the days of the year, and the colour of fire. These
were followed by the Chariot of the Sun--empty, decorated with
garbnds and dra\\'11 by superb white horses, harnessed with pure
gold. Then came a white horse of magnificent size, his fore-
head blazing with gems in honour of Mithrcts. Close behind him
rode the King in a chariot of ivory inlaid \\•ith gold, followed by
his royal kintlred in embroidered garments and a long train of
nobles richly caparisoned. This gorgeous retinue, facing the cast.
slowly ascended Mount Orontcs. Arrived at the summit, the
High Priest assumed his mitre and hailed the first rays of the
risi.ng sun with incense and prayer. The other Magi joined him
in singing hymns to Ormuzd, the source of all blessing, by whom
the radianr Mithra had been sent to gladden the earth, and pre-
serve the principle of life. Finally, they :.til joined in one universal
chorus :of praise, whilst Kings, Princes, and :Nobles prostrated
themsel~es before the orb of day. " 1 It wqi be remembered that
the Zoroastrian Magi did follow the star and came to Bethlehem
years ago.
During the s~tlutation of Mithra the Persians fast{'d for forty
days. Those who were initiated into the mysteries of Mithra
partook of a sacrament of bread and wine, and were marked on
the forehead with a cross.
St. Justin established the rcscmhlance of the religion of Mnthra
with that of Christ. especially in the sacrament of the Eucharist.
1 Child's "Progr1·~~ nf Religious Idea~"
2l2
MITHRAISM AND THE MICHAEL REVELATION
It ought also to ·be noted that the worship of Mithra in Persia
must not be regarded as Polytheism, but similar to the worship
of Jesus in Christendom.
The Mithraic mysteries were carried on in caves, not temples,
and Mithra was spoken of as "rock born", and Sunday was
consecrated to him as the Lord of the Sun day. Similarly, Jesus
the Christ was buried in a rock tomb, and rose from it on the
day of the Sun. Also the Christ, being the Solar Logos, naturally
has the Sun day dedicated to Him.
A cave is still shown as the ~irthplace of Jesus at Bethlehem, and
Justin Martyr and Origen state He was cave born. In the first
Epistle of Peter, xi, 4, 5, we read of Jesus being "a living stQne",
and how Jesus, the Christ, said: "Thou art Peter, and upon this
rock I will build My church," thus the mystic rock of Mithra
(Petra) has come down to this day as the foundation of the Church.
Tertullian, writing of the Mithraic mysteries, speaks of Soldiers
of Mithra, the Initiated. He was essentially a warrior God in
the Roman Empire and was regarded as God of Armies. The
Initiated received a sword, and long after his conversion to
Christianity the Emperor Constantine remained a loyal Mithraist,
as can be proved by his coins.
A slain lamb or ram (amongst the Jews a male lamb one day
old is a ram) figured m the Mithraic mysteries just as amongst
the early -Christians a lamb or ram was sacrificed in the Paschal
mystery, the blood being saved in a cup for anointing purposes; he
carries on one forefoot a sword or cross. To~day in many of our
churches we can look upon this symbol. It is to be found ready
to he reproduced in all art needlework shops.
On the lintel of the great Christian temple in Rome is graven :
" Thou art Petros, and upon this Rock I will build My Church,"
"a lesson of human history and of the unity of human religion
more enduring than the sectarian faith that is proclaimed within."
The bishop's "Mitre" and the "Mass" are words probably to be
traced to Mithra.
In the course of evolution we will see and recognize much more
clearly the close connection of the Cosmic Christ with all peoples
and ·religions of the past.
The union of Christianity with the ancient faiths and traditions
223
THE COSMIC CHRIST
of the East will come to pass when we open our minds to the fact
that always since creation's dawn the Christ has worked in the
world through His Divine ambassadors.
This book is not intended for those who have no belief in
the Angels of God or the actual presence of the living Christ.
We therefore have no hesitation in seeking to prove that Mithra
was a great spiritual manifestation of the Cosmic Christ, and that
Mithra and the Great Archangel St. Michael are one and the
same Spirit.
" Michael, the great Prince that standeth for the children of
Thy people." (Daniel xii, 1.)
Frequent allusion is made in the Bible to the seven angels
who stand in the presence of God.
"The seven who in God's presence, nearest to His throne,
stand ready at command." (Milton.)
Who are they, those seven angels who have distinct vocations
and appellations?
Michael, who is like unto God. Captain General of the host
of heaven and protector of the Hebrew nation.
Gabriel, God is my strength, guardian of the celestial treasury
and protector of the patriarch Joseph.
Raphael, the medicine of God. Healer. The conductor of
Tobit, the Chief of Guardian Angels.
Uriel, the Light of God. Regent of the Sun who taught Esdras.
" The Angel that was sent unto me whose name was Uriel."
Esdras xi, 4·
Chamuel, who appeared to Christ at Gethsemane.
Johpiel, Guardian of the Tree of Knowledge.
Zadkiel, who stayed the hand of Abram when about to sacrifice
his son.
Four only of these seven Angels are mentioned in the Bible :
Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, Uriel.
They are said to sustain the Throne of God, and they bear
the Greek epithet arch or chief. The Angels correspond with
the following celestial bodies:
MITHRAISM AND THE MICHAEL· REVELATION
Michael, the Sun.
(iabriel, the Moon.
Chamucl (or Samcal), Mars.
Uriel, Venus.
Raphael (also Michael), Mercury.
Zachariel, Jupiter.
Jophiel, Venus.
We deal only with the illustrious Angel, St. Michael, whom
Christians and Jews agree in giving the pre-eminence over all
created Spirits. All the might, the majesty, the radiance of
Thrones, Dominions, Princedoms, Virtues, Powers, are centred
in him. In him God put forth His strength when He exalted
him chief over the celestial host, when angels warred with angels
in heaven, and in him God showed forth His glory when He
made him conqueror over the power of sin and "over the great
dragon that deceived the world". Revelations xii, 9·
The glorification of St. Michael is traced back to the Eastern
dogma, the perpetual antagonism between the Spirit of Good and
the Spirit of Evil. It was he who cast out the dragon. " There
was war in heaven, Michael and his angels fought against the
dragon," etc., "and the dragon was cast out."
Needless to say, no approximate date can be given for this
event. Though tradition has much to say upon the subject of
the war in heaven, it cannot be dealt with here, as it is too vast.
In the epistle of Jude and the Book of Revelation the Arch-
angel Michael and the Spirit of Evil are antagonists.
Amongst the ancients Mercury was held as a synonym with
St. Michael. It may be asked why should an angel be regarded
as one with a certain planet. The answer is that each Arch-
angel is the informing spirit of one particular planet. Michael
informs Mercury. The soul of a planet is formed by the
agglomeration and combination of the myriad souls composing it,
and ranging from the mineral to the human. A planetary god
is not a supernatural person, but the sum total of the souls com-
posing the planet. His soul is the Higher self in man. His spirit
is divine. Similar to the Divine Christ Spirit in man, therefore,
the Spirit of the planet-god and man's spirit ;tre one. Each
:r
THE COS:MIC CI-IRIST
planet-god presides over one of the seven rays, and upon each.
one of these rays are millions of human beings. This points to
the astrological link between man and the stars.
As an astrological planet, Mercury is very occult. It is identical
with the Mazdaen Mithra: the God established betwixt sun and
moon who holds a balance. Michael, in earliest art, holds a
balance, thus in the days of the Zoroastcrs he was identical with
Mithra. ·
St. Michael comes down to us as the Angel of the Face of the
Lord: the great Archangel who served Jehovah. He represents
the Christ in earthly manifestations. He is the spiritual potency,
at once image and face and guardian of Jehovah. He is the
translator, so to speak, of the invisible \'vorld into the visible
and objective. To make the office of St. Michael clearer let us
put it thus:
The Cosmic Christ appoints a mighty Being, Christ-ensouled
and named Jehovah, to perform certain creative work and to be
King of Israel. Jehovah is always a formless God, for whom no
physical body was sufficiently perfect to contain him. A medium,
a reflector, was therefore required, and that medium was the Angel
of the Face of the Lord, the great Archangel Michael.
He comes down to us as "The living image of God : Chief
of the Host: the Archistrategus of the Lord's Army: Archisatrap
of the sacred militia, who slew the great dragon: the Invincible
virgin combatant who refused to create". The Hindu system
calls him "The eternal celibate".
Far from being rejected as a Pagan God, we find St. Michael
passing into Christianity. The religion of Mithra was gradually
absorbed by Christianity. One can see the Divine intent under-
lying Mithraism as one traces it up through the ages. It was
simple Christianity in the time of Zoroaster, who was destined
to reincarnate as Jesus of Nazareth. He used it as the simple
teachings for a primitive people, as a first lesson on a coming
great event. We find later the Prophet Daniel, a follower of
Zoroaster in connection with Mithraism and Michael, and right
up to the coming of Christ and for centuries after Mithraism
kept the faith of Christ alive and His banner was upheld by
Michael.
226
MITHRAISM AND THE MICHAEL REVELATION
Until a study is made of the subject the s.tudent can form no
conception of the vogue of Mithraism in the early Christian cen-
turies, and yet there ensues for a whole era an absolute blcmk in
which the ancient faith seems forgotten. This fact was owing to .
the withdrawal of the Archangel Michael from active participation
in human affairs. Mithraism was not overthrown but transformed,
as was the Divine intention, into Christianity, and the informer,
the Archangel Michael, had for the ·time being completed that
special work.
Mithraism had never been permitted to become a public
organization, but its esoteric traditions were indestructible, as all
esoteric traditions are. It was suppressed by physical force in
Rome and Alexandria in the fourth century A.D., yet even in the
eighth century it was a cause of contention in the Church Councils,
!lnd its symbols and rites were carried into the Christian Church.
The first Christian Emperor, who remained an ardent Mithraist,
was unwearying in the work of enshrining the might of St. Michael
in holy edifices and magnificent pilgrimages.
Thus, as Christianity gradually gained ground, it was seen that
the higher mysteries of communion, divine sacrifice and resurrec-
tion were as much Mithraic as Christian, so that a Mithraist could
turn to the Christian worship and find his main rites unimpaired.
The Mithraic Christians continued to celebrate Christmas Day
as the birthday of the Sun, despite the censures of the Pope.
When they listened to the Roman litany of the holy Name of
Jesus they knew they were listening to the very epithets of the
Sun G.od. They knew that the name "the good Shephad" had
been ~rne by Mithrfl and. other Cb{ist messengers; they had all
carried ·the lamb, been mediators and creator~; and the chief
my,steries of the two.'cults ~ere the same.
To those who have staked their all of faith in God and hope
in heaven upon a single great event in history it must indeed be
a shock to behold in sculptured remains of other places, and in
remoter times, the effigies of like events: the crucifixion of Mithra,
the infant Horus in the arms of the immaculate Mother, the
resurrection of Osiris; yet perchance from out their dismay may
dawn the knowledge that religion has nothing to do with history
and that "The Kingdom of Christ is not of this world", and
227
THE COSMIC CHRIST
through His many manifestations He shows to us that He is
Saviour of all the world and not of a fragment only.
It is a sad fact that countless travellers have returned home
convinced that what they have seen (let us say, in Egypt) points
conclusively to the story of the Christ being nothing more than
a solar myth revived two thousand years ago. Faith in the
Christ is ended for them, and they do not trouble to probe
deeper. There is, alas! no church that teaches the universality,
the greatness, the agelessness of the Christ. He is born in
ecclesiastical Christendom two thousand years ago, and His former
manifestations, though they speak in the Holy Scriptures of every
nation and cry out from the mighty ruins of all His ancient
civilizations, are ignored.
Why is this? We believe it to lie in the strange reluctance to
accept the Christ as the great Solar Logos animating the spiritual
Sun, of which our Sun is the objective manifestation. This is the
belief that all the Initiates, the great men of old, held, 1 and probably
for that very reason it is scorned.
The old belief will return. Some of our modern astronomers
tell us that our earth, once ejected from the sun, will one day be
reabsorbed into it. We c1re at the beginning of a new age. Since
the last decade of the nineteenth century we are in the Sun epoch
of Michael, and humanity is destined to understand something
through the spiritual outpouring of Michael of the resurrection
forces of the Christ. Michael is the great Archangel whose work
is to lead humanity to the science of the resurrection.
It pleased the Almighty to select from amongst the nations of
the earth one people to become peculiarly His own. He appointed
St. Michael to be president and leader over that people under
Jehovah. " At that time shall Michael stand up, the great Prince
which standest for the children of Thy people." (Daniel x, 13,
xii, 1.) Again, in the times to come, will Michael come to aid
in the final salvation of those who are the people of the Lord.
The worship paid to St. Michael, and which originated in the
East, is said to have been adopted by Oriental Christians in con-
sequence of a famous apparition of the Archangel at Collos~,
in Phrygia, and, though worship of angels was heresy in the
J Se.e siJcth Psalm.
MITHRAISM AND THE MICHAEL REVELATION
early Church, we find Constantine, a baptized Christian, dedicating
to St. Michael, one of the most magnificent churches in Con-
stantinople, renowned throughout the East as a model for hundreds
of others and for the miracles wrought within it.
The West had its angelic apparitions as well as the East. One
vision took place on the site of the famous church at Monte
Galgano, in Italy, which has never ceased to attract many pil-
grimages. Another vision appeared to Pope Gregory. A church
was reared and dedicated to Michael on the site of the vision,
and is named Castle of Saint Angelo. The third apparition was
accorded to the Bishop of Avranches, who was bidden to build a
church on a lofty rock in the hay, used since many years as a strong
fortress and State prison.
A small church was erected and afterwards replacc::d by the
magnificent abbey church, begun by Richard, Duke of Normandy,
in 966, and finished by William the Conqueror. l~ont Saint
Michel, with its magnificent towers, has braved the tempests of
a thousand years, and its celebrity as a place of pilgrimage grows
with the ages.
We also have a Mount St. Michael on the coast of Cornwall,
in situation and name resembli(lg that on the coast of France;
In the ninth century the worship of Michael became popular
in France. He was selected as the Patron Saint and of the military
order instituted in his honour by Louis XI in 14~· After the
Norman Conquest the worship spread to Great Britain, and there
are very few towns and districts where churches, ·some very old,
dedicated to St. Michael are not to be found to-day. ·
The Archangel Michael has been deleted in the Gospels, but in
the legends of the Madonna he plays a very important part, being
deputed by Christ to announce to His Mother her approaching
death and to receive her soul.
So many of St. Paul's abjurations on the subject of women
are now obsolete (we chanced to be present in Exeter Cathedral
this year and heard the Dean permit several bareheaded girls to
remain in the sacred edifice, a ruling which reduced the sides-
man to tears) that we may hope that the banishment of the Angels
from Protestant notice will not for ever continue, in spite of
St. Paul's taboo.
THE COSMIC CHRIST
In the Church of Rome the Angelic Host arc given a glorious
welcome. We will quote from a really beautiful little book1
written by Dom Anscar Vonier, O.S.B., Abbot of Buckfast.
Speaking of the Angels, he says :
" The Church considers the spirits as her fellow~workers in the
sanctification of the world and her fellow~\\'orshippers in the adora~
tion of Christ. The Church's faith in the guardian Angels is
to be ranked differently; this is not so much an act of the Church
as a dispensation of the Creator Himself. . . . If the Church
blesses a bridge over a river she confidently expects that an Angel
will be deputed to the keeping of that bridge. . . . The Angels
are called down into the house of the sick, into the home of the
newly wed, into the rooms where Christ's little ones are being
taught their faith and their letters. There seems to be no end
to the angelic possibilities in the sense of the Catholic Church.
Everywhere the evil ·spirits arc driven away and the good spirits
are made to take their place.
" At the beginning of Mass, Michael is among those holy ones
to whom we confess our sins. When incense is burned over the
offerings on the altar the intercession of Michael, 'who standeth
on the right side of the altar of incense', gives an additional aroma
of sweetness to the burning perfumes."
Speaking of Christian art, the Abbot says :
" The period of history when paganism was giving way finally
to Christianity under the first Christian emperors is particularly
interesting. • . . The Victory statues are often adorned with
Christian symbols, such as the Labarum, and genuine heathen
medallions of Mercury have an entirely different significance when
the word 'Michael' is engraved upon them. Perhaps the owner
of the art treasure was loth to part with his gem and had a
Hermes Christianised into an Archangel.''
Here the Abbot refers to the fact that the "heathen" medallions
were the work of the ancients, who looked upon the ruling angel
of the planet Mercury and upon Hermes and Michael as one and
the same spirit. This view was accepted from the first century
of our era. So much is Michael the Mercury of the Greeks and
other ·nations that when the inhabitants of Lystra mistook Paul
1 "The Augels", Burns, Oates & Wa·.hbournc, Loudon; or BudJa~.t Abbey, Devon
230
MITHRAISl\i AND THE MICHAEL REVELATION
and Barnabas for Mercury and Jupiter, saying: "The Gods have
come down to us in the likeness of men," the text adds, " and
they _called Barnabas Zeus and Paul Hermes because he was the
leader of the Word " (Logos).
The Abbot writes later : " It is a favourite theme with
St. Thomas Aquinas to represent the whole physical world as
being entrusted by God to the keeping of the Angels. The stars,
in their courses, are watched by the mighty spirits, nations are
committed to the care of a heavenly prince, and there is oo part
of the universe which does not feel the breath of those whose
mind beholds the countenance of God."
\Vith the above we most fully concur; therefore we cannot see
why a medallion with Mercury graven upon it should have its
significance altered by the addition of Michael.
The nation committed to the care of the great Archangel
Michael we believe to be the British nation, and when in the
future the truth of this dawns upon us we will turn to him as
to an old friend whom we have always heard of, whose name·
is extraordinarily familiar to us, in truth so familiar that we have
never troubled to inquire deeply into who and what he is. We
will discover that his name has never been pc.·rmitted to die out
amongst us.
Occultists say that during the Grc~1t v.,r:tr Michael was par~
ticularly active and that he formed a large and very powerful
army on "the other side", composed of the flower of our youth
who fell. They are termed Michaels or Michael's Militia, and
squadrons of them were seen on the battlefields before the close
of the War. They arc destined for use in the coming conflict for
the final overthrow of evil, and the Archangels presiding over other
narions have rendered a like service to their countries by gathering
together the advanced souls whose physical bodies perished. They
will all act as one under the leadership and banner of the great
Archangel. Thus for one race one Being of the Divine Hierarchy
works as the race Spirit.
Let us now see what that great Initiate Rudolph Steiner
has to !'ay upon the subject, and let us remember what an
rnormous following hf' has throughout the world. Through
2~1
THE COSMIC CHRIST
him the position of Michael will be more dearly under-
stood.
"If one wishes to make a comparison between Jehovah and
Christ it is well to take sunlight and moonlight as an illustration.
What is sunlight? What is moonlight? They are one and the
same and yet different. Sunlight streams out from the sun, but
in moonlight the sunlight is reflected back by the moon. In the
same way are Christ and Jehovah one and the same. Christ is
like the sunlight, and Jehovah is as the reflected Christ-light in so
far as it could reveal itself to the earth under the name of
Jehovah before the mystery of Golgotha occurred. Again, when
such a sublime being as Jehovah-Christ is in question, we must
seek in the sublime heights of the superscnsible world for His
real significance. In reality it is an act of presumption to endeavour
to approach such a Being as Christ-Jehovah with ordinary con-
ceptions.
"The ancient Hebrews endeavoured to find a way out of the
difficulty. The attention was not turned directly to Jehovah (a
name considered too sacred to express) but to the being described
in Western literature as Michael. . . . Michael is the most signi-
ficant being in the Hierarchy of the Archangeloi. The ancients
called Michael the Countenance of God, and in the mythology of
the ancients Jehovah was understood through Michael."
He is termed the informing angel of this century : the Arch-
angel who works in the British race spirit. Dr. Steiner, who
passed over four years ago and who was by far the profoundest
occultist of our century, ascribed deep importance to the dawn of
the reign of Michael, and many true occultists who follow him .
have gone deeply into the subject. There is now established in
Middle Europe, Dornach, Switzerland, a centre from which all
Michael activities can be centred, sensed and spread far and wide
in a cosmopolitan way. Michael has transferred his dominion inro
the sphere directly adjoining the earth existence, and he helps
those whose aim it is to co-operate in the spiritualization of the
earth. It is a great misfortune that this fact should be confined
in Protestant circles to occult students whilst the Church of Rome
takes full advantage of it. The British Israrl Movement is alive
to the importance of Michael. Henry Proctor, F.ltS.L., writes:
232
MITHRAISM AND THE MICHAEL REVELATION
"He it is who will stand up for Israel in the coming tribulation,
as he has done in the past, notably in the Great War, especially
after the battle of Mons."
Wegman states : " The chief direction taken by the Michael
impulse is north-east, and will be specially so in future. It is
known that numerous souls who lived on earth during an earlier
Michael epoch-about the year 6ot to 247 s.c.-are in physical.
lX>dics now and are in present co-operation. Those souls who
had had decisive incarnations in the pre-Christian era did not
reappear in the first century A.D. During the mystery of Golgotha,
and in the time immediately following that event, they were in
the spiritual world, and their next important appearance on earth
took place during the seventh and eighth centuries, when they
embraced Christianity. Added to their knowledge of Christianity
was the heathen knowledge which still held a certain sway over
them, and which they found more or less mixed up with
Christianity, for the latter had not entirely thrown off the heathen
yoke."
We hold that Dr. Ita Wegman is entirely wrong in speaking
of "heathen knowledge". What these souls found mixed up with
Christianity was the pure Christian impulse of Mithraism, which
began to die out when its informing Spirit, Michael, was with-
drawn about two hundred and fifty years before the descent of
Christ to earth. From that date Mithraism slowly lost ground,
but it lingered on during several centuries of the new era until
Christianity could be said to have established itself firmly.
Dr. Wegman, writing of the Michael revelation given out by
Dr. Steiner, describes the activity of Aristotle with that of his
pupil Alexander the Great. " It was shown how Alexander the
Great was taught to penetrate into the natural scientific work of
Aristotle, into which had flowed, through the influence of Plato,
the Eleusinian Mystery wisdom.
" Esoteric instructions were given to him by Aristotle, in whom
the Ephesian Mysteries lived so vividly which taught the secrets
of the Word. The young Alexander was also led to Samothrace,
where he visited the mystery school with Aristotle and received
instructions. The Michael impulse worked so strongly in him
that he felt within himself the urge to experience what he had
233
THE COSMIC CHRIST
been taught and to carry out into the world the learning imparted
to him by Aristotle. . . . Thus originated the expeditions of
Alexander, through which the whole of the Aristotelian knowledge
was brought to the East esoterically and exoterically. One can
speak of a Michael stream in this connection.
" Something else happened during this reign of Michael. A
little earlier than the expeditions of Alexander we find those of
the Arrhurian Knights starting from the West Coast of England.
Twelve Knights gathered together at King Arthur's round table,
learned Michael warriors, and these, coming from the West, had
the task of civilizing Central and Northern Europe and of liberat-
ing the people inhabiting those regions from their wild astrality.
These Arthurian Knights had the faculty to behold the impulses
which came from the Sun, where the great Christ Being still had
His dwelling. . . . The other Michael stream, which started
with Alexander, spread from Asia over North Africa as f:u as
Spain and found an outlet in Ireland in the Hibernian Mysteries
-a current which proceeded from East to v-.,·est. This stream
later on continued into the Graal stream. after the mystery of
Golgotha had taken place, and united its{'lf in Europe with the
Arthurian stream.,.
\\7e can think of Michael as the Ambassador of Christ, our
guide now and in the future. His guidance will be along the
Christ path, and his spiritual teaching will be to illumine in our
hearts the mighty fact that two thousand years ago the Cosmic
Christ took flesh and united Himself with this earth. His earthly
body was given back to the earth, bur the Christ Himself was
united with the spiritual sphere of the earth and lives within it.
How is this, the splendour of Christ, to be shown to this world,
s-:·; unready to receive it? Just as a thousand years B.c. Michael
ret~ected the Jehovah light to the people of Israel, so will he now
be K us "the countenance of God". the direct inspiration of the
Christ to us.
CHAPTER XIV
THE MICHAEL-MASS
" For He shall give His Angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy way~.·'
-PSAUI 91.
WHAT have we to go on Lo support the statement which ended our
last chapter? We believe that outside the Catholic Church the
majority would unhesitatingly assure us we have no foundation
for our belief in the immanence of the Angeloi. A small number
of devout Protestants would support us and all occultists.
In the Book of Common Prayer, in the collect for St. Michael
and all Angels, 27th September, the prayer runs as follows:
" 0 everlasting God, Who hast ordained and constituted the services of
Angels and men in a wonderful order, mercifully grant that as Thy Holy
Angels always do Thee service in hea\·en, so by Thy appointment they may
succour and defend us on earth, through Jesus Christ our Lord."
The epistle appointed for Michael's Day is naturally Re,·ela-
tions xii.
There are those who can understand this prayer and let its
meaning sink in, and those who give it lip service and banish
Michael and his Angels till the following September, when they
again recollect his existence. The latter constitute the overwhelm-
ing number of our church-people who constantly give lip service
to the words, "therefore with Angels and Archangels and all the
company of heaven we laud and magnify Thy glorious Name",
whilst from their hearts and lives the Angels are totally dis-
associated. Protestants do not have Michael constantly brought
to their notice, as is the case in the Catholic world. A writer
in The Times1 says: "Michaelmas Day is welcomed by many
to whom the traditional pictures of the Angels have little meaning.
The Jewish Apocalyptic writers tell us of seven Archangels
t Saturday, 28th Septembcr, llJ~\J
"'3-
- .,
THE COSMIC CHRIST
who stand around the throne of God as leaders of hosts of heaven.
Their names are recorded, and the special office of each in his
service to the Most High is described. With them, we arc told,
~tre hosts of Angels ready to minister to the sons of men."
Our behaviour, our attitude in conversation, proves that the
above has had no effect upon our daily lives. Either we do not
want such ministry or we disbelieve in it. Perhaps the statements
are not so much disbelieved in as treated as having no practical
relation to us.
The writer continues: "The Christian Church adopted much
of these apocalyptic conceptions of the Angels . . . the New
Testament, in its reserve on this subject, offers a striking contrast
to the writings familiar to the Jews of the first century and to
the extravagant stories of the Middle Ages. Two Archangels arc
mentioned in the New Testament. The first is Gabriel, the
messenger of mercy, the Angel of the Annunciation. The second
is Michael, the messenger of Judgment, the avenger of God's
enemies, the destroyer of those who withstand the Divine Will,
the Archangel who leads the heavenly hosts against Satan and
his army and drives them out with complete defeat from the
Divine Presence. . . . St. Michael has many companions who
have found 'the heavenly places' a battlefield against enemies
whose energy and bitterness manifest a malignity which the love
of gain could never evoke and only the fear of truth and good
:,eems to mctte. . . . They will take care that they bear them-
selves like St. Michael and his fellows, faithful to the will of God.
. . . The one duty imposed upon them is to bear themselves as
members of the Army led by St. Michael, armed with the weapons
of justice, truth and faith. . . . The companions of Michael are
engaged in a good fight. Not only are they employed in a great
cause, but the struggle carries them always nearer to an assured
victory and the perfect attainment of the Kingdom of Heaven."
The great American preacher, Henry Victor Morgan, says, very
truly : " Our commonly-accepted belief of the word Angel as
always meaning a disembodied intelligence of an altogether
different order from ourselves has prevented us from deriving
the strength that should be ours. • . . If there are Angels with-
out, they must of necessity speak to the Angel that is within, else
lJ6
THE MICHAEL-~fASS
their message would be meaningless. . . . In my own experience
I have known many remarkable instances of deliverance wrought
through the silent influence of what I love to call the Angel
Presence."
Why should there be so much scepticism regarding the ministry
of Angels when so much happens in life that points to their
presence amongst us?
Those who are unwilling to accept a spiritual world will find
nothing to interest them in this book.
To the doctors of Poitiers the Maid of Orleans said : " There
are more things in the Book of God than in your book."
It is of some of those things which we have read in the Book
of God that we have written, and we hold that the spiritual world
interpenetrating our material world is ready to reveal itself, and
the working of the Angels of God is quite clearly to be discerned
in the great and small events of our lives.
We believe that we have passed into a totally new era which
has already swept away many preconceived views and settled
beliefs and which is causing a spiritual uprising in the minds of
multitudes. We would like to have remained in our old world
-to have fallen back to where we complacently rested in 1913.
This has not been permitted. It is often said of men holding
prominent posit~ons in the world: "They have learned nothing"
meaning that they are acting and thinking in an atmosphere of
bygone times. The majority realize now that a decided change
has come and that they must either strive to live up to the new
conditions or fall out. To fall back is not permitted. The order
is "Go forward or fall out".
In all this we see the working of angelic forces who govern
our evolutionary progress. The Archangel Michael, with his hosts,
has come into action, and we may conceive of his hosts as including
the flower of our youth, not to be thought of as lost to us in
the Great War, but rather as those who are beloved of the Gods
and ready to work with Michael in the great spiritual revival
about to take place. Michael now controls the destinies of the
British Nation, and we will experience the full force of his power
during the coming years.
Renan declares that "a nation is a living soul . . . a spiritual
2~7
THE COSMIC CHRIST
principle, the result of profound historical complications, a spiritual
family, not a group determined by the configuration of the soil,
Though Renan denies divinity to Christ he concedes a soul to
a nation, and we read in an article by James Tuckwell: 1 "A
nation cannot he adequately explained as a mere aggregate ot
individuals. So far from being merely a collective name for the
individuals that may at any time compose it, a nation must be
interpreted rather as a iiving organism, a sort of person or real self-
hood, with a body and members and will of its own. Behind,
or, still better, within, the everchanging personalities the aggregate
of individuals that at any given moment compose the State we
have to postulate an enduring psychic entity or self. Apart from
such hypothesis, to speak of the life of a nation would obviously
be meaningless."
Spiritual science, believing in the unbroken tradition of Angelic
governance, postulates the Archangel Michael as the "psychic
entity or self", the "spiritual principle, the living soul", which
rules the British nation.
The most casual glance across the last twenty years discloses a
vast and yawning gulf which still remains unfilled. We have yet
to learn what it is to contain. At present we do no more than
look over the edge and then run away and take whispered counsel
in our various litde groups. Human thought is undergoing such
radical changes that no one section of the nation is ready to begin
the filling-in work. There is a time for digging and a time
for going over the top. We are all at the digging stage, and
di~erent ;groups of people, all at different !stages of mental develop-
mfnt, are segregated together, busily digging into the fathomless
in~nite in man to find Ultimate Reality.
jlt seems as if some outside, unseen power had sorted them
out into distinct groups according to their different degrees of
understanding.
It is clear that the great majority of us desire to attend some
school which will push us on spiritually and intellectually. There
is a fundamental craving for light, which is simply the stirring
of the Divine Spirit within us all; hence the enormous number
of groups intently studying some facet of truth from out the great
1 Hibhtrt Journal, October, 1929
238
THE MICHAEL-MASS
whole. Many thousands of humble workers find in some weekly
meeting in a back room the only hours of light and interest in
.a life of unremitting mechanical toil.
We could mention hundreds of such groups known to us.
They all grow rapidly, especially those devoted to Healing. Clearly
the healing Archangel Raphael is very active amongst us. We
have for long had the Guild of St. Raphael, and the Rev. John
Maillard is now seeking a large church which he can devote
entirely to healing. He is one of the few clergy who will have
anything to do with the subject, and he is gaining the reward
of his great service to humanity. On other lines Rosa Barrett,
sister of. the scientist, the late Sir William Barrett, has just edited
a book entitled "The Seekers". For a number of years Mr.
Simpson, formerly an electrical engineer in New Zealand, has been
carrying on a very considerable work of psychical healing in
St. George's Square, Westminster. The whole is directed from
the other side by a certain "Dr. Lascelles", a forceful personality,
and the peculiarity of the work is its "contagious" character. A
considerable number of those who have been healed are now
healing others under the same guidance. The number of patients
thus treated run into some hundreds a week. The whole is
conducted in a religious spirit and the healing is by prayer. The
co-workers in this busy centre have now constituted themselves into
the "Guild of Spiritual Healing", and, having far outgrown their
old quarters, they have taken a large house at 29 Queen's Gate,
S.W. Twenty years ago such movements were very few, now they
are growing with great rapidity, showing that a large section of
our public is alive to the fact that healing and other spiritual
blessings can be got by those who are seekers. With such results
as are now obtained the ridicule of sceptics falls quite flat.
We are fully aware of the many who will regard the Guild
of Spiritual Healing with contemptuous incredulity. Others will
be shocked at what they regard as wicked spiritualism. We are
writing for seekers who are looking for the inner heart of life's
mysteries, for those who look for a clue to the changes taking
place in the thought of civilized humanity. To such it should
not be difficult to surmise what great power keeps the Guild in
so prosperous a condition. How does such a movement originate?
239
THE COSMIC CHRIST
A spirit who called himself Dr. Lascelles passed through the
gates of death carrying with him his ardent and probably life-
long desire to help suffering humanity. On the other side so
lofty an aim would not suffer eclipse, but would certainly attract
the attention of the great Healing Archangel St. Raphael. Dr.
Lascclles was able to attract the interest and attention of the New
Zealand electrician (who may, for all we know, have been an
earth friend or karmically connected with Lasccllcs in former
lives), and the work of Lascelles on this plane was thereby con-
tinued; and on the other plane he would be given the strongest
possible assistance from the Cosmic Christ, working through His
Angelic helpers.
To anyone who has any belief in Christ and His Angels surely
this is a perfectly simple and unsensational explanation of such a
movement. In a fine editorial the Occult Review1 writes: " The
consciousness of the race appears to be subjected to an unseen
stimulus which, while it mJkes its effects perceptible in the dis-
integration of old forms, at the same time clears the way for
something new. That 'something new', of course, can only
apply to the form, for the Spirit, the Heart of Love, which
nourishes and sustains the universe, is neither old nor new, but is
eternally."
Again, those of us who keep watch upon the signs of the
times note that there are distinct periods when we, as a nation,
are being tested. We are being weighed and valued spiritually.
Some of us are put to severer tests than others; one might say,
in our own homely words : " An inventory is being taken for
spiritual probate and we are ticketed according to our worth."
Such a testing-time was undoubtedly in operation during the
winter of 1928-9, when the King lay sick unto death. The
universal massed-feeling expressed itself in one spontaneous
utterance, heard on every side, which, had the occasion not been
so serious, would have been mirth provoking.
" Oh, poor man. Ten doctors I"
To the public this seemed a torture too cruel to contemplate,
and it brought the nation to its knees. "Limericks" were com-
posed and passed from lip to lip. They all began with the
1 October, 1~)29
THE MICHAEL-MASS
doctors and ended with "God, save the King,, with a terrific
emphasis on God. They expressed the feeling of the nation.
Men and women asked themselves the question : " Could I
endure that?, and in a great spasm of pity the people fell to
prayer.
Suddenly the neglected Almighty was desperately needed to
save the King. It was realized that there was no one else to do
it. Myriads of people, too heedless or to busy to turn on the
wireless for the morning prayers, suddenly did so and began the
day praying for the King in words they could not utter for
themselves.
The consensus of opinion is that prayer and God did save
the King, in spite of the ten doctors, and this brings out an
interesting psychological fact. When really hard pressed, when
one single object is powerful enough to pierce the collective heart
of the nation, indifferent and irreligious as it is, it is still capable
of falling back on the only power. An enormous number who
never prayed were suddenly stirred to action by the thought of
ten doctors standing over the helpless body of a man who meant
a good deal to them, and suddenly they did their best to get into
touch with a vague abstraction called God. The King's danger
proved a swift and powerful spur to a national apathy, and who
can tell how many, having tried, have decided not to let go again.
The result of this test proved that the vast majority of the
British people greatly desire to keep what they have got: a Royal
couple who deserve to be loved and respected.
It would be well if this majority roused out of that deadening
familiarity which accepts so placidly any change that comes along
and took to heart the fact that the King and Queen have come
through great tribulation in order to gain the only thing that
really matters in any life-time for quiet thought and the develop-
ment of the spiritual life.
We read into the startling relapse of His Majesty on the night
of the thanksgiving at Westminster Abbey, a strong and dramatic
intervention by the Higher Powers. It was a plain intimation
that the King was not to be used for selfish purposes and was
to be given the rest and.spiritual refreshment he so richly deserved
after nineteen years of pure self~sacrifice. The Church and the
241
THE COSMIC CHRIST
medical profession have always asserted an almost exclusive right
over the Sovereign. The one claims his soul, the other his body.
The former evidently thought that the latter had enjoyed more
than its share and it was full time that the Church should assert
her rights. The result of this unseemly haste was one of the
most dramatic events in recent history. It was so dramatic that
it struck the Press into silence. The Almighty plainly and very
obviously repudiated the whole affair and flung the service and
prayers back into the lap of the staggered Church. That night
the doctors returned to the Palace, and, as we all know now, the
King's health was very far from being restored at that time.
To us this was a most obvious exercise of the power of the great
Archangel who controls our destinies, and it would be interesting
to know what the dignitaries of the Church thought of so severe
a mark of displeasure. Did they accept it as Divine displeasure
or did they accept it philosophically? As a something no man
can understand? Possibly some harassed souls may have feared
that the disharmony in the Church provided rather an unfortunate
atmosphere for so solemn an occasion. We do not presume to
know more than the fact that the general public blamed the
Church for the King's relapse and used the vulgar word "snub"
with considerable relish. Quite lately the King of Spain gave
public utterance to the fact that it was not his fault that he had
been born a king. He would much rather have been born
someone else, but, being who he was, there was nothing for it
but to get on with his job. This is what we call making good
Karma. Probably the few kings now left in the world would
all prefer to be someone else, but one and all seem bent on doing
their best under the highly difficult circumstances.
The divine right of kings is obsolete, but students of divine
science are aware that something very unusual in past Karma
must have placed certain men in positions which carry vast
influence, no matter whether such power is desired or not.
The appalling restlessness of the age is prone to sweep the
Crown with it in its mad career, and no greater injury can be
done to the Royal House than to leave its members no time for
serious reflection.
We all know that there is a "Plague spot" in our midst
242
THE MICHAEL-MASS
composed of idle squanderers who pass their hectic days in riotous
living. We deplore the mad Gadarene rush down the slippery
slopes of fictitious pleasure whilst our nation is passing through
a very grave economic crisis. We are 50 familiar with the reckless
selfishness of the times that we almost look upon it as immune
from the wrath of God. But it is not the wrath of God that
need be feared. Wrath suggests impulse. There is no impulse
in the workings of the Absolute. There is inexorable law working
in the mills of God. It has delivered unto man the means for
self-destruction, and millions are using this freedom to its certain
end. We have the power to smash civilization to dust, and both
in the international and home spheres we are threatening to do
5o through a childish spirit of wanton destruction.
The multitudes who turned to God and asked for the King's
life were mainly those who are conscious of the dark riddles of
life, who know that if no answer to them be found disastrous
consequences will ensue. They know that there is a cosmic pur-
pose which by many is being blindly contravened. Yet there is
no living man or woman unaware of the fact that we are in the
hands of a power who can do with us as He wills.
Selfishness is '50 tyrannical, a Moloch consuming its vtctlms,
demanding the whole life, that the soul perishes, so far as this
cycle of evolution is concerned. .
The lesson must be learned some time, and such lives have
to turn back to the beginning again.
We are often reminded that for thousands of years we have
successfully muddled through. Surely we can safely believe that
~he supposititious God Who has so far backed us up will continue
to do so for a longer time than we need worry about. After
all, we won't leave this old world in a worse condition than we
found it in at our birth.
This is the extremely common, blind assumption that the past
is a stationary condition that holds good to-day. It is the attitude
of the child confidendy expecting to find bed, breakfast and pram
provided at regular hours. But are we quite sure that God is
continuing to back us up? There have lately been some nasty
jars, and it looks as if more were on the way. We take only a
swift glance at the warning confronting us to-day, trumpeting
:043
/
THE COSMIC CHRIST
out the fact that the problems confronting us are unprecedented,
unless it be that they heralded in annihilation through some
stupendous catastrophe.
If for a second the warning scares us we remind ourselves th~t
fire and flood never come here:, and to drown any pursuing voice
we turn on the exhaust, which is our way of drowning what we
don't want to hear. The noise we now make we consider to
be: sufficient to guard against hearing the "last trump" or
the "descending shout", or any other uncomfortable manifesta-
tion, such as "the still small voice". We have: "taken heed" to
ourselves that "the day" shall come upon us unawares.
Last year quite a number of us got a horrid scare over the
"Pyramid Prophecy"; something objectionable was to happen at
the end of May "that would usher in a period of heavy trouble
for the British race". The warner, Mr. Davidson, was careful
to add : " For definite knowledge of the real nature of the events
that begin this period we must wait and see."
The vast majority remained quite unconscious of the fact that
anything had happened. The threat of the great tribulation w~s
forgotten. There was no earthquake, nothing spectacular occurred,
but the number of unemployed leapt up a million in a week
and certain big financiers wrote alarming statements about our
financial condition, which we "skipped", concluding comfortably
that such articles were only meant for the City.
As autumn wore on into winter we were not so sure that
nothing happened in May, 1928. Looking back, we saw that the
general conditions had deteriorated. The winter of 1928-9 was
exceedingly black, and in spring the Sunday R~feree 1 informed us,
through the mouth of a great economist and financier, that "we
are face to face with the most difficult and dangerous financial
situation the world has ever confronted".
No sooner do we settle down to enjoy a lovely summer and
the Labour Government than we find the Morning Post2 warning
in with the following : " We have borne all sorts of exceptional
vagaries of the British climate, bitter frosts, Arctic blizzards,
deluges, Atlantic hurricanes, untimely heat spells, and more
untimely cold spells. Now in the midst of an African drought
1 3ut March. 2 2:md July.
244
THE ~HCHAEL~MASS
we havt: tasted the Monsoon weather of India itself. We may well
ask : ' What next?' "
The question can at this stage be very partially answered.
Worse droughts in September: Arabs and Jews butchering each
other in Palestine: and the bank rate has been raised to six and
a half per cent. We are writing in the first days of October,
and refrain from asking " What next?"
Can it be said we have had no hints that it is time we, as a
nation, grew up? Surely 1914~17 was a hint to us to stop playing
soldiers and sailing our little ships on our little seas. The hint
was really very broad. Our game brought ruin upon us : pure
loss and no compensation. It is no consolation to reply : " Ycs,
but other countries suffered equally." The little countries that
remained neutral prospered exceedingly. Our game benefited them
enormously. We have millions of little white crosses to our credit.
That is literally all the Gods gave away in prizes.
We use the words "Playing soldiers" advisedly, for there is one
indubitable, immovable fact connected with this war game. It is
not intended for "grown ups".
No man who has grown to his full mental stature would be
interested in it, simply because it is a game suitable only to savages.
To affirm, as so many do, that wars must in the nature of things
be always with us, is to affirm that we are doomed always to
remain in the savage state.
Naturally there are some amongst us who violently repudiate
the suggestion that at the command of the multi~millionaires who
finance our little war games we must wallow in blood and filth
and add a million or two to the little white crosses. There are
some who see what a false definition of the word patriotism has
reduced us to. If every man was true to the "Light of the World"
that would be true patriotism. If we were "soldiers of Christ"
in deed instead of "in frantic boast and foolish word" then the
Lord might have mercy on His people and our childish games
would not cost us so dear.
Our inability to face reality has grown into a besetting national
sin. We grumble against our changed conditions, which we have
brought down on our own heads, and refuse to believe that the
time has come to grow up and take a step forward. We will not
245
THE COSMIC CHRIST
face the fact that the human race is now sufficiently advanced to
work out its own salvation. It is time to cease thinking as a
child, time to put away childish things, and now, face to face
with reality, stare it steadily in the eyes. For generations we have
been too young as a nation to see reality, but now that we are
old we don't want to look at it, because it would mean breaking
away from our old and false obsessions and our darkness would
be flooded with new light.
Let us return for a moment to the Hosts of the Lord, the
almost-forgotten Angels.
Some twenty-five years ago certain information came through
a source operating from the other side concerning the great Arch~
angel Michael. At that period we were not sufficiently advanced
to gather its import. We remember trying to find out all we could
of Michael, but beyond the Biblical texts and that Michael~mass
fell in September, that people then ate geese and received bills
they had to pay, no one knew anything whatever about Michael.
It is interesting to look back a decade and mark what study
has brought to us during that period. At last, after twenty~five
years, the true purport of those Michael revelations is revealed to
us, and we can link up the past, present and future.
Again, in the Great War the forgotten Angels were remem~
bered. Many men and women saw them. One might say it
would have sounded more plausible if they had seen devils at the
Fronts. The fact remains that they saw Angels, certainly the last
sort of being they expected to see in such surroundings, and we
use the word "fact" simply because the seers were unshaken by
the sceptics. After the Armistice an English duchess saw Michael
and his hosts grouped on a height overlooking the British Front
in France. She knew nothing about Michael and his army, and
we are informed that her first thought was of film-taking. Only
as they faded out before her eyes did she begin to realize that she
had seen a vision seen by others several times before and since.
It is a significant fact that before 1914 a large number of the
lads who fell had previously received teaching in spiritual science
in their home life. Thus they were prepared to enter Michael's
Army. To such young men as the Grenfels, Rupert Brooke,
"Bim" Tenmtnt, Arthur Burn, and numerous others, the other
246
THE MICHAEL-MASS
side and the life and work there can have come as no surprise.
They were all advanced souls who had grasped their own spiritual
origin and therefore knew something of the spirituality of the
Cosmos. One has only to read the literary remains of many of
them to know that they had begun to know themselves by spiritual
cogmuon. Humanity is only now ripe for se}f.recognition, and
during the present era of transforming forces, man, through spiritual
science, will be brought to self.knowledge. The development of
man in former centuries was not of the nature which enabled
human beings to know themselves. The instincts of the past are
no longer universal in men. A vast number have evolved into
something quite different. What Dr. Steiner calls the Christ
impulse is stirring in them and urging them to reach out for a
connection with all humanity, if only it can be realized that in
this new dispensation, since Jesus the Christ walked the earth,
Brotherhood will be more and more forced upon human mentality.
Mechanical devices are aiding in the abolition of distance and
the drawing together of all nations. Many remember what great
service Russia rendered to us in the Great War and are anxious
to help her out of her present misery. This is specially noticeable
in the activities of the present Labour Government.
There is a law of progress for the human race, guided by an
Archangel, just as there is a similar law for the individual. The
souls of men are not the same as they were a thousand years ago,
nnd here history can be very misleading, as it takes no note of
spiritual evolution, and the student of history is apt to think of.
let us say, the souls of the ancient Egyptians as similar to the
souls of to-day.
There are, however, many souls with us now that have dropped
far behind and have remained stationary at, for an example, the
age of Ca:sar. This is a very serious danger to the advancing
humanity, and a case in point is given by Dr. Steiner. When
the causes of the Great War, or perhaps it would be more correct
to say, when the men who were in power at the outbreak of
the War, were closely observed through the lens of spiritual science
it was found that the most momentous decisions in 1914 were
taken by between thirty to forty men whose souls had remained
stationary and fixed in a former srage of rhe evolution of humanity.
247
THE COSMIC CHRIST
As human beings Christianity had passed them by. The Christ
impulse had been powerless to touch them. They were not ready
to receive it. This fact accounts for much of the barbarism prac-
tised in the War. Those who had received the Christ impulse,
in whom the Christ spirit was stirring, had to be doped to force
the soul to act against its status in evolution. The great war
play, Journey's End, brings out this well-known fact in a pathetic
and most realistic manner. All have been touched by the Christ
spirit and have grown in spiritual srature far beyond the savage
who plays the war game.
The spiritual ancestry of these thirty to forty men was easily
arrived at by competent students, and the War books that the
survivors have written confirm the first diagnosis.
The danger of power being in such hands must be clear to all,
even to those who care nothing for spiritual science, but to the
students of the mysteries of life the attendant resuhs of this
arrested development are very terrible. As cast-away useless
rubbish in everyday life always attracts the unclean feeders in
the lower rungs of animal life, so do the arrested useless spiritual
failures attract the subhuman entities that exist around us.
It is a natural instinct to burn refuse, to put it through the
purification of fire, to return it to mother earth, and we know
that she will transform it into other elements. Nothing is lost,
not even souls, but they will have to pass through cosmic fire
and begin again if they persistently tarry : " Our God is a con-
suming Fire."
Those souls who are in a state of arrested development are
the prey of subhuman entities: they are untouched by the Christ
force which is powerful to save and preserve.
The Catholic Church is fully alive to the danger of possession,
which is becoming more and more accentuated as it is ignored by
the State religion. The Abbot of Buckfast writes: .
" Nothing is expressed more often and more explicitly by the
Roman Church in her various exorcisms and blessings than the
idea that evil spirits abide in material things, from which they
are driven out by the Church's triumphant power of sanctifying
and consecrating the visible elements which are the basis of human
life. The human body itself may he the dwelling of an evil
24~
THE MICHAEL-MASS
spmt; this might be called the silent occupation of this earth by
Satan : a thing full of mystery and independent in its origin of
man's consent to Satan's evil suggestions."
Writing of Guardian Angels, the Abbot says: " If the human
race had not possessed the spirit tutelage its history would have
been very di11ercnt from what it has been; it would have been
infinitely more dismal, though we cannot indicate the facts antl
events directly attributable to the spirits that watch over man.
And what is said of the race is true of every individual human
being; we must simply say that this life is what it is because
he has been given at his birth inro the keeping of an
Angel."
Rudolph Steiner teaches us a cosmic form of worship. He shows
us the round of the Archangels throughout the course of the year.
He makes the whole of nature a sublime temple. In Autumn,
Michael serves the Mass; in Winter, Gabriel, giver of blessings;
in Springtime, Raphael, the healer; in Summer, Uriel, the wise.
Thus do the Angelic forces work amid us.
Tht> forces of memory are relics of the past in human evolution
and will be transformed in this age of Michael into the force of
spiritual creative imagination. With this imagination man can
reach up into the spiritual world, just as with his memory he
reaches down into his human nature. From a cosmic being man
has become an earthly being, but now, since the Christ forces
are united with the _earth, he can again become a cosmic
being.
We are only on the threshold of discovering what Christ did
for humanity when he united Himself with the earth two thousand
rears ago. Selfconsciousness appears when we form ideas, but
no sense possessed by man can give him power to form ideas or
to remember. Man thinks only what his senses impart to him,
but the power to think is not given him by anything he thus
thinks. It is the power of the spiritual vision that he has brought
with him from other earth lives which enables him to form ideas,
and the ordinary consciousness knows nothing of this power. It
resides unconsciously in man, and he owes the development of self-
consciousness to spiritual processes which work in him during hi~
earthly life.
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Yet man forms a species of relationship betwixt the physical
and spiritual, though he may be unaware of the fact. The
rhythmical processes in nature and in human life have nothing
material in them. Day and night the seasons of the year alternate
rhythmically. The processes of respiration, and the circulation of
the ·blood, the states of sleeping and waking: there is nothing
physical in them; they belong to Michael, and Michael's world
reveals itself in rhythm.
At this stage of our evolution we are aware that creation and
maintenance go on all the time within our physical bodies and that
their work has nothing to do with conscious man. The subjective
power and intelligence, which has never left us, remains with our
bodies as the ever-present power maintain.ing the bodily life of
man. Of this powerful intelligence we take no notice whatever.
Let us first remember that our bodies are the temple of the living
God (divine Spirit), then let us see if these bodies are in any way
worthy of the residing Deity. It will give us some idea of the
angelic creative work of Christ's Servants, though we can only
deal with a fraction of it.
The body is composed of two hundred and eight bones, articu-
lated in such a way as to form a solid frame-work, upon which
are hung some four hundred muscles. The three joints known
ro the mechanical world are duplications of those existing in the
physical body. These joints are articulated, bound together with
ligaments and provided with lubricating oil.
We will quote Porter Mills, that great teacher who has
passed from us. He describes the miracle of blood circula-
tion.
" The blood has been demonstrated to start from the left side
of the heart and to work round through the brain and back to
the right side of the heart in the period of thirty seconds. It makes
a complete circuit of the whole body within the space of rwo
minutes, going at the rate of twenty-five miles an hour. All this
takes place in the body in a circuit of fine tubes, and this
wonderful process goes on without impressing itself on the self-
conscious at all. The heart puts forth an effort equal to the
lifting of one ton to the height of one hundred and twenty-four
feet in twenty-four hours. Yet lhe organ which has performed
2)0
THE MICHAEL-MASS
this prodigious feat itself weighs but nine ounces and normally
gives no sign of fatigue. We need not fear on account of the
light weight of the heart-muscle. Fundamental Intelligence devised
it.,
Physical science tells us that the respiratory muscles do a work
equal to the lifting of one ton to the height of twenty-one feet
in every twenty-four hours. This is all accomplished by a Power
and Wisdom of which man takes no account, as being associated
with himself. He has hitherto only discovered the fact. The
Intelligence by which it is done he has not realized, because it is
primarily related to his subjective entity. The mind can realize
that creation and maintenance go on all the time within the body,
and that this creation and renewal every seven years is not the
work of conscious man. Then whose work is it, if not the work
of the great creative Angels working through the inspiration of
the Cosmic Christ?
It is amazing to realize that the Christ within Who owns our
whole organization absolutely, and Who has planned us on such
wondrous lines, Who furnishes the power and imparts to man
a certain amount of instinctive intelligence by which he may direct
himself, is practically unheeded by the average individual. Luckily
for us the creating Christ has placed beyond our jurisdiction the
vital functions of life. He has so ordained that life carries on
in spite of us and independent of our ignorances. We cannot
command the heart to cease beating, nor can we arrest the cir-
culation of the blood. We take no note of those vital activities,
so long as they function normally, but all the time that man is
thinking himself apart from Christ, Christ is within him as the
life of the psychical and physical life.
There are moments when a man remembers that "there is a
spirit in man and the breath of the Almighty giveth them under-
standing." When the man has grown up and receives his
knowledge from the Most High within, his self-consciousness is
born within him, and he knows that now is the appointed time
and place to be born of the Spirit. He no longer looks to the
state of death to deliver him. He knows that the Presence is with
him now. That the Christ always was, and that the realm of
spirit Is, and is His directly he is willing to appropriate it. No
251
THE COSMIC CHRIST
longer is spiritual knowledge man's latent birthright. It is man's
the moment he realizes that the Kingdom of God is within await-
ing the awakening mind, the instrument by which man may know
everything fundamentaL This is the inheritance with which we
are all endowed-Life Itself, or when expressed in other terms,
the Absolute.
2)2
CHAPTER XV
PALESTINE IN A.D. I
IT will be well to hold clearly in mind the difference ex1st1ng
between the orthodox church tradition and the esoteric tradition
of the Cosmic Christ. According to official church belief, Christ,
the second Person of the Trinity, left the bosom of the Father in
order to incarnate in the Virgin Mary. According to the esoteric
tradition which we follow, the Cosmic Christ is a superhuman
being, God in every sense, and the highest spiritual manifestation
that humanity has known.
We believe that He has been with us from the beginning, and
as the Logos, has instructed humanity through the mouth of His
Christ-ensouled prophets. Those "Christ Priests" prepared the
way of the Lord through all the great civilizations which rose
and fell B.c.
We believe that the incarnation of the Cosmic Christ in the
body of Jesus of Nazareth has marked the central point in history
and constitutes the most momentous and stupendous event this
world has experienced in its evolution.
We believe the Christ opened a new dispensation two thousand
years ago, bringing with Him the gift of the Divine Spirit, a ray
from the Absolute which Roods the world and interpenetrates all
humanity. Therefore, we hold that He is with us still and always
will be. We also hold that the development of Christ's reign
has only begun and that the mass of humanity has as yet no
conception of the incalculable import of the Christ Advent, or
of the power of the Christ Spirit bestowed upon man.
Finally, we hold that the visible ·sun in the firmament,- the ruling
Star of our system, masks the Great Spiritual Sun through. which
the Solar Logos, the Light of the World, manifests.
We htlve ~id t.h;~t the incarnation of the Cosmic Christ is the
:zs~
THE COSMIC CHRIST
central radius around which history revolves, and we maintain
that no conception of this supreme event is possible unless we can
trace His spiritual passage towards us as a beam of solar light
thrown upon the immemorial past, and stretching before us into
the infinite future.
No study, however profound, of the Palestine ministry can
furnish us with an adequate conception of the Cosmic Christ: no
purely theological or scientific test can elucidate the Christ mystery
which belongs to the subtler field of the Spirit.
Let us now briefly glance at the state of the world and of
Palestine in particular at the time of the birth of Jesus of
Nazareth.
Throughout Asia, Africa, Europe, there had taken place a great
downfall, a decadence in civilization. The great intellectual
altitude of Greece had proved too lofty to be maintained. The
disciples of Orpheus, Pythagoras, Plato, failed before the sordidness
of the politicians. Reeling under anarchy and abandoned to
despotism, Greece no longer transmitted Egyptian science and the
sacred mysteries, though the long heralded coming of the Messiah
remained a firm belief throughout all nations. The last flash of
Greek glory came from the marvellous and superhuman genius
of the Macedonian, Alexander the Great, founder of Alexandria;
an ardent Mithraist, deep in the mysteries of Samothracc and a
disciple of Aristotle. He sought to reconcile Asia and Europe
through the bonds of one common religion. As an advanced
initiate, he paid equal homage to Mithra and Aristotle, Jehovah
of Jerusalem, the Egyptian Osiris, and Hindu Brahma, knowing
the same divinity breathed through each. His great ideals lived
after him and fused in one Oriental philosophy, Judaism and
Hellenism.
After the decline of the great civilization of Greece, Alexandria
became the centre and home of science and literature: firstly from
323 to 30 s.c., which included ~he reign of the Prolemies, and
secondly it developed greatly under Jewish and Christian influences
into a flourishing school of neo-platonists and the religious
philosophy of the Gnostics.
The philosophy of the Alexandrian School was a blending of
the philosophies of east and west. The culture of mathematics was
254
PALESTINE IN A.D. t
founded by Euclid in the reign of the first Ptolemy, and, with the
physical sciences, reached a higher eminence than this funda·
mental science had ever known outside a small band of priest
initiates. It is difficult for those of us who have not studied the
period to realize to what a lofty standard learning had attaineJ,
to realize the enormous concentration ('If brain power which
at the time of the birth of Jesus was centred in Alexandria.
The population was drawn from all nations of the known worlJ,
though Greeks, Egyptians, and Jews predominated. Greek was
the predominating language, and Mithraism, which so closely
resembled Christianity as yet officially unborn, was widely prac-
tised. The spiritual genius of Alexander, the founder of the
magnificent and luxurious city, still inspired it.
Alexandria was also the centre of the commerce of the world,
and on the death of Cleopatra, last of the Ptolemies, it had reacheJ
the zenith of its splendour. After 30 B.c. it was possessed by the
Romans, anJ for long its glory was undiminished. Christianity
was said to have been introduced by St. Mark, and by the second
century its adherents were numerous. An Alexandrian Jew named
Apollos went to Ephesus in 54 A.D., to be a fellow-labourer with
Paul. He taught in Corinth, and is thought by some to be the
author of the Epistle to the Hebrews.
In 391 A.D. a mob of Christians, led by Archbishop Theophilus,
committed the unpardonable crime of burning the glorious library,
containing the collected literature of Rome, Greece, India, and
Egypt, about 7oo,ooo volumes. So began the long series of horrible
crimes, tortures, burnings, religious wars, committed under the
banner of all faiths, even up to to.day in Jerusalem: and in the
name of the Christ throughout the past two thousand years. Is
it to be wondered at that Christianity has not yet been given to
the world? Can it be said that we have deserved it?
We arc apt to think of the Jews as a compact race occupying
Palestine in the year A.D. I. In truth, no country was more over-
run. It was forced into intimate connection with Egyptians,
Assyrians, Persians, Greeks, Romans. It was greatly Hellenized,
and this contact with one great nation after another was a fruitful
source of culture, and, like the Jewish race, official Christianity
owes a debt to outside influences it was able to make its own. The
255
THE COSMIC CHRIST
popular ddusion that the country of Jesus was thinly populated
by a race cut off from the rest of the world and living in a sort
of pagan darkness is quite incorrect. The hub of the universe
more aptly describes the divine birthpbce, and Divine Omniscience
probably chose it for that reason.
A small, aristocratic priestly band of Jews entrenched in the
fortress of Judaism had no power to arrest the great flow of external
influence from reaching the bulk of the people, and the incorpora-
tion of foreign thought was irresistible.
In Babylon a famous school of Jewish thought had established
itself, ignoring Jerusalem, and in Galilee of the Gentiles foreign
influence predominated. Alexandria held large Jewish colonies
in which Egyptian and Greek philosophy swamped Judaic belief.
Israelites read their Scriptures in Greek, and used Greek for their
translations of the Apocrypha. Wherever that strong spiritual-
roadmakcr, the Macedonian conqueror, had travelled, he had
entrenched Greek culture and Mithraism, and shown by example
the necessity of daily sacrifice to "The Mediator" Mithr~•, the great
Sun God.
Commerce had also opened up the road to the Egyptian traders,
and the bazaars of Hindostan and scholars burst the bonds of
isolation and mingled with the great convergence of the religious
movements of the past.
Judea was not exempt from such influences.
During that brief ministry in Palestine which showed forth
the Lordship of the Cosmic Christ, the similarity between the old
Persian, Egyptian, and Hellenic teaching, the esoteric cult of
Mithra, the teachings of the Rabbins, and the spiritual ethics of
Jesus must have been marked, learned, and digested, in hundreds
of parallelisms. It was impossible that Palestine could have
remained untouched by the prolific literature pouring from the
Egypto-Judaic, Judea-Babylonian, and Judao-Hellenism, all of
which testified to a period of mental upheaval, vivid unrest,
and growing cosmopolitanism.
Jesus was born into a Hebrew state under the rule of an
Idumzan king. He lived under a tetrarch, was condemned under
Jewish law, and suffered death in a Roman province under the
governance of a Procurator.
256
PALESTINE IN A.D. 1
Let us try to picture what the scene was like when jesus walked
by the lake of Galilee. Its fringes were studded by Greek cities,
none of which, according to Josephus, contained less than fifteen
thousand inhabitants. It was one of the most densely-populated
regions of Palestine.
Its millions (Josephus) were composed of Greeks, PhCI!nicians,
Jews, and subject to continual foreign intercourse. Galilee, as
a tract, was what Palestine was as a country, the least self-contained
in the world.
Palestine, though bounded by sea on the west, and by desert
regions on the east, was open to north and south, and was the
great highway between Babylon and Egypt. It thus became the
meeting-ground of opposing nations, and a pathway of commerce.
The sea brought rather than excluded foreign influence to its
shores. It was subject to such a variety of foreign dominion that
its physical barriers could have been of small account.
Galilee was the least remote of provinces. It was bounded on
the north hy Phc.enici:l, renowned for its activity and trade, the
parent of semitic languages, proud of its intelligence, and possessed
of an enormous cosmogonical and theological literature. On the
east flows the Jordan, and the districts on the other side were
Syrian and Greek.
On the south was Samaria, with her own version of the Penta-
teuch, her own mount of worship, and her hostility to Jerusalem.
Galilee was not like Jerusalem, fighting the battle of national pride
against foreign influence, for the foreigners had quite overpowered
the Jews.
Ca:sarea, a coast town on the border and twenty-five miles
distant from Nazareth, was the civil and military capital of
Palestine. It was built by an Idum~an, and filled by a diversity
of faiths, statues, and temples, that belonged to various deities.
About a century and a half before our era the temple of Jerusalem
bore the name of the Olympian Zeus. The Samaritan temple was
also dedicated to Zeus. The Maccabees at last restored the national
ritual.
The history of the Maccabees is contained in five books of that
name, two of which are included in our Apocrypha. Four are
accepted as Canonical by the Church of Rome, none by Protestant
257
THE COSMIC CHRIST
communions. The rule of the Maccabees did nothing to remove
Greek influence, and the Roman rule accentuated it.
Twenty miles from Nazareth lay the town of Ptolemais, and
the borders of Phrenicia were within a two hours' walk. Within
a couple of miles from the home of Jesus ran a great trunk road
from Damascus southward, whilst twenty miles westward lay
Mount Carmel.
There were caves there with Greek inscriptions. Elijah had
been there, and about 500 B.c. Pythagoras, travelling to Egypt,
spent several days on the mount. At the time of Jesus it possessed
a college and temple, and a few decades after our era Vespasian
came there to consult an oracle.
Mount Tabor held a fortified town, and Sepphoris, an hour's
walk from Nazareth, had a college of doctors and a Sanhedrin
established by the Romans. This and Tiberius were the largest
cities of Galilee. The Masters of the law composing such a
Sanhedrin were not all Hebrews; they were not only natives of
all parts of the world-wide Roman Empire, but also denizens of
Arabia and Judea. There is every reason for supposing that there
were other important towns near to the Lake of Galilee. An
important town situated on the south side is described by Pliny and
Josephus.
The foregoing brief sketch will give a rough idea of the country
into which Jesus was born. It was no simple and unsophisticated
land, but the home of numerous extremely learned men of all
nationalities. The harshness of the seventh Ptolemy drove out
numerous students from Alexandria, and they dispersed them-
selves all over the isles and coasts of the Archipelago and the
Galilean towns. Roman standards floated above them, but Greek
was mainly spoken. It was an affectation of cultured Romans
to speak Greek. Paul, born according to tradition in the second
year after Christ, was educated in Jerusalem, and was a bilinguist,
able to address an audience in Greek or Hebrew. Peter evidently
knew Greek, as we read of him delivering a sermon to " men of
Cyrene and strangers of Rome, Jews and proselytes "-a mixed
congregation.
There is no reason for the supposition that the Apostles were
ignorant men. About 100 B.c. schools began to multiply all over
258
PALESTINE IN A.D. 1
the country. There were elementary schools, with a teacher for
every twcnty-l1vc children. All towns had superior colleges, and
all vouths from the age of sixteen were ordered to enter them. The
Taimud says : " The world is preserved by the breath of the school
children. A town in which there is no school must perish.
Teaching of school children is of such importance that it must not
be stopped~ even for the building of the sanctuary."
We see therefore that at the time Jesus was born, education was
compulsory, and fishermen and carpenters had free entry into
the higher schools, as shown by the words of Gameliel, 40 B.c. :
"Learning of no matter what kind, unaccompanied by a trade,
ends in nothing, and leads to sin."
Rahi Gamaliel was Paul's tutor, and became President of the
Sanhedrin, A.D. 30. Though a strict Pharisee, he was an ardent
Greek student.
It is highly improbable that Jesus did not understand Greek.
The southern Jews inquire scornfully (John vii, 15): " How hath
this man literary knowledge, never having learned?" Probably
they scorned the fact that coming from the north He had not
been educated in Jerusalem.
Many believe that His early years were passed with the Essenes,
and if that be so He would he prepared in large measure for His
mission on earth. There were those amongst the Essenes who were
guardians of the secret Doctrine and the twe Gnosis. In the
synagogue Jesus was able to translate from the Greek roll into
Aramaic, as was the custom.
We do not know if Jesus ever travelled beyond the borders of
Palestine. Like other young students, He may have traversed
Egvpt, visited India, or "The lost sheep of the house of Israel".
The age at which Paul began his studies in Jerusalem is said
to have been fourteen; he \•vould consequently have been a pupil
there betwixt the time when Jesus spoke in the temple as boy
and man. It is curious that in all his writings he makes no
mention of having heard of Jesus in his youth.
The Jewish bible or Talmud has been called a "literary
wilderness". Part of it is in Hebrew, part in Chaldee or Aramaic,
with Persian, Greek, and Latin idioms.
This confusion of tongues is to he accounted for by the fact
259
THE COSMIC CHRIST
that Palestine was ruled successively by Assyrians, Egyptians,
Persians, Greco-Assyrians, Romans. Thus the cradle of Jesus on
earth was placed amidst the collective traditions of all the former
great civilizations He had guided from the beginning. Students
of the Talmud can easily trace a number of its ethical, ceremonial,
and doctrinal points back to Zoroasterism, Egyptian Hellenism,
and Christian, and in philosophy and metaphysics to Aristotle,
Plato, Pythagoras, Neoplatonists, and Gnostics.
In dealing with the times in which Jesus the Christ walked
the earth it is necessary to refer to a query put by all learned critics
of the New Testament. " Why is it that the great contemporaries
of Jesus were apparent!y unconscious of His existence?"
If there was not a much profounder answer, to ~>e dealt with
later, the question could be simply settled by inquiring and
receiving a truthful reply to the following.
Supposing Christ came here to-morrow, and for three years
carried out the same programme given to us in the Gospels, how
many of our intellectuals would trouble to notice Him? If He
went into one of our churches and threw out the offertory, or
tried to teach, He would be convicted of brawling. His healing
ministry would be treated as our spiritual healers are treated, only
used by a bare handful of churches, disbelieved in or ignored by
the public. Only the common people would hear Him gladly.
In the days of His ministry the common people did not write,
and the printing press had not been invented.
The names of some of the great thinkets, 25 B.c. to A.D. 45, have
come down to us. The two most prominent are Philo and
Josephus. The latter refers to Jesus in the briefest way, and the
passage is said to be spurious. He does mention John the
Baptiser, probably because his death was due to political causes.
This curious silence has caused many critics to adopt the belief
that Christ never came to earth. This doubt has now been finally
laid to rest.
It must be remembered that we are just at the beginning of
our understanding of Christology, but our vision will become
more and more clarified as the new era is established.
One of the first manifestations of the new revelation is the
fact that at last the actual existence on earth two thousand
:260
PALESTINE IN A.D. 1
years ago of Jesus the Christ has been definitely established.
G. R. S. Mead, Editor of The Quest, discloses this vastly important
fact, and for those who are unacquainted with his work, suffice
it to state that he is acknowledged to be a master of his lifelong
investigations into Christian origins. No man is better equipped
to deal with this extremely difficult and obscure task, the
magnitude of which is quite outside the layman's understanding.
He writes:
"Our new phase of quest of the historic Jesus centres round
the discovery of the long-lost or suppressed testimony of Flavius
Josephus to infant Christianity in its very cradle."
To the brilliant work of a German, Robert Eisler, is due this
momentous revelation, and a popular summarized edition in
English will shortly be published. Mead writes :
''One position at any rate has been won-definitely and
decisively secured. The non-historicity school-which would have
had it that Jesus had never existed-is for ever hopelessly down
and out-knocked senseless, nay, stone dead."
This is something for which we have to thank Josephus,
born A.D. 37, who wrote voluminously, hut who has hitherto been
a disappointment to the students of Christianity.
We will now pass on to one who has been called the "elder
brother of Jesus". Philo was born probably about thirteen years
before Christ, and survived Him approximately ten years. So
much is known. Some of his works are extant, but they are of
too subtle and mystical a nature to interest the average mind.
To the theological student they are of importance, as they contain
such a close relation to Gospel expressions, such numerous
parallelisms between his writings and the Christian scriptures,
that they have furnished the clue to many obscure biblical passages.
Philo was a Jew, resident in Alexandria, but he passed into
Palestine, and kept in very close touch with all public movements
and the religious thought of the times he lived in. He is said
to have been the main teacher of the Essenes, amongst whom
Jesus is believed by many to have been brought up. The strong
resemblance between Essenism and the doctrines and practices of
the early Christians gives colour to this belief. The Essenes wor-
shipped the sun as the symbol of Life, and as possessed of Divine
261
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Life. Philo wrote a history of the Essenes, who were resident
in many cities of Judaea in large communities. He describes them
as "Therapeuts of God".
Philo was a wealthy man, and had command of unusual
culture, yet with all he was truly humble~minded and free from
all narrow sectarianism. In studying his works one feels how
whole~heartedly he would have been with the ministry of Jesus,
and there is ample evidence to show that he was in close touch
with a school of mystical thought existing amongst the cultured
before A.D. 1.
We can only touch in the briefest manner upon Philo's
philosophy and theology, the main elements of which passed into
the Christian church and exercised a powerful influence over its
thinkers and the Christian world. With all his Greek culture
he remained a Jew, holding Jewish philosophy to be profoundest
wisdom. In his treatise "On the Contemplative Life", he writes
of the numerous groups of men who, abandoning the life of the
world, had given themselves up to a search for Divine Wisdom.
He says: "This natural class of men is to be found in many parts
of the inhabited '"·orld, both the Grecian and non~Grecian world,
sharing in the perfect good. In Egypt there are crowds of them
in every province, and especially round Alexandria."
Philo\ belief is that God is the real good, the perfect, the final
cause of all things which ceaselessly flow outward from Himself.
Good can trn1y be imagined as primeval Light, which cannot
be seen of itselt but which may be known from its rays that
till the whole world.
Angels surround God, real active powers and messengers who
work His will. Some are serving angels, others are the souls of
the Prophets. Others are the heads and representatives of the
different nations, and arouse the "Spirit of the Nation". The
Logos, or Divine Reason (here we find the Logos a century before
St. John wrote), comprises all these intermediate spiritual powers
in His own essence.
The Logos is the highest of the Angels, the beginning, the
name, the word, the first~born Son of God. The Logos formed
the world out of chaotic matter regarded as a mass occupying
space.
PALESTINE IN A.D. 1
Man is a microcosm, a creation of the Logos through Whom
he participates in the Deity, or, as Scripture puts it: " He is created
in the image of God".
Man stands between the higher and lower beings.
Philo holds a firm belief in immortality and reincarnation.
" While the soul of the wise man comes down from on high
from the ether into mortal life, and enters into and is sown in
the field of the body, verily it is sojourning in a land not its own.,
The soul is pre-existent : virtue and sin have all their rewards
within themselves (Karma, or what we sow we reap), but the
soul being pre-existent, having finished its course in the sublunar
(earth) world, carries this consciousness with it in a more intense
and exalted manner.
Paradise is one-ness with God (Nirvana). There is no hell
for souls without a body. The direct vision of God is possible
only to those souls which have been lifted out of themselves and
illumined by renunciation and severe purity.
Philo's Messianic belief is obscure and veiled. He speaks of
a time when a great Being will arise out of the nation and gather
all the dispersed into His fold.
It is not known whether the books from which the above are
quoted were written during the ministry of Jesus the Christ,
or during the nine years in which he survived Calvary. The
fact remains that he shows no consciousness of having seen or heard
of the Christ.
Paul, a theologian, becomes, after the death of Jesus the Christ,
a teacher whose every word is closely scrutinized. His
Christology cannot be entirely explained by the experience which
brought about his conversion. He was steeped in the eschatology
of the times, and must have formed a conception of what the
Messiah would he. In I Corinthians, xv he says that Christ rose
"according to the Scriptures", presumably meaning that the mani·
festing Christ in Indian, Persian, Egyptian Scriptures had like-
wise risen. Philo, who obviously inspired much of Paul's
teaching, is known to but few.
Philo was a living reality about whom we can learn a great
deaL His established existence and his extant writings prove that
in the time of the Advent there was no spiritual darkness to
263
THE COSMIC CHRIST
combat in the East. His works contain a brief reference to Herod
the Great and to Pilate. He does not mention John the Baptiser.
Those who care to study Philo's writings cannot fail to be
struck by his wide culture, profound piety, and deep knowledge
of the spiritual life.
" The invisible Spirit which is wont viewlessly to hold converse
with me prompts me. God alone is the most undissembling and
genuine peace."
Philo had practised the Presence. " My soul is often divinely
possessed and to prophesy concerning things it knows not."
Philo and the author of the Epistles to the Corinthians both
quote Leviticus xxvi, 11, 12: " I will set my tabernacle among
you, and my soul shall not abhor you, and I will walk about
within you and will be your God and ye shall be my people."
Philo writes thus of the God within : " In the minds of
those that are in a high degree purified, there doth assuredly,
inwardly walk, without noise, alone and invisible, the God and
Governor of the universe~ for truly there is a Divine oracle extant,
vouchsafed to the wise man, wherein it is said, I will walk
about within you, and I will be your God. But in the minds
of those who are still in process of cleansing, while they are not
yet wholly washed clean of the life that sullies and lies under
the ignominious weight of the body, there walk the angels, the
Divine words: Do thou therefore, 0 my soul, make haste to
become the house of God and His holy temple.
" We look not for the city of the eternal in the regions of the
earth, for it is not constructed of wood or stone, but seek it in
the soul which is free from war. . . . There is nothing higher
than God, and if anyone has been quick to stretch the eye of
the soul unto Him, let him pray for guidance and firm standing.
For the uphill ways are toilsome and slow, but the downhill career,
which is rather like a downward sweep than a descending path,
is swift and easy."
One could multiply such parallelisms with Scripture indefinitely,
simply because Philo's works are the Scriptures. As they are
extant, there is no difficulty in verifying this statement.
Here is Philo's Sermon on the Mount.
" Does this belong to another? Do not covet it. Is that thine
204
PALESTINE IN A.D. 1
own? Use it and do not abuse it. Hast thou great abundance?
Share it with others. The beauty of riches is not in purses of
money, but in the succour of them that have need. Art thou
possessed of but little? Be not envious of the wealthy. No man
would pity a poor man who is envious. Art thou in good repute?
Art thou held in honour? Be not over boastful. Art thou lowly
in fortune? Then let not thy courage be depressed. Dost thou
stumble ofttimes? Hope for favourable things."
Philo attributed a double meaning to many of the barbarous
episodes in Hebrew Scriptures.
He takes the flaming sword in Eden to be the Sun. His Eden
is the spiritual world and the region outside the world we live in
is guarded by the firmament which mortals cannot pass.
Adam is Humanity, and Eve Life. The coat for Adam and
Eve is simply the natural skin of the body.
" And Jesus went about all Galilee teaching in their synagogues
and preaching the gospel of the Kingdom, and healing all manner
of sickness and all manner of disease amongst the people. And
His fame went throughout all Syria, and they brought unto Him
all sick people that were taken with divers diseases, and torments,
and those which were possessed with devils and those that were
lunatick,. and those that had palsy, and He healed them. And there
followed Him great multitudes of people from Galilee, and from
Decapolis, and from Jerusalem, and from Judaea. and from beyond
Jordan."
How can the fact be accounted for that one of the greatest
men of the time and place, and by far the most cultured and
voluminous writer, took no note of the presence of Jesus the
Christ, whose teachings he gives to all who care to read them?
Why does he not acknowledge the source of his inspiration?
There are critics who say Philo's silence proves that Christ's
ministry is pure delusion. He never existed. Others, loth to
part with their Christ, regard the question as insoluble, and say
there is no explanation.
As old students of occultism we offer one that we believe to be
near the truth.
Philo's silence regarding the incarnation of Jesus the Christ
26)
THE COSMIC CHRIST
was deliberate. He knew, with all his race, that the Messiah was
coming, and that the elements of Christology were all prepared.
The coming Christ was a potent factor in the life of the times,
and when Jesus the Christ began His ministry He had to face
the Christ idea, the result of innumerable prophecies which had
powerfully swayed the Jewish mind. Peter's exclamation: "Thou
art the Christ", implies a knowledge of this. Philo belonged to
an esoteric school that preserved the secret doctrine and all the
Messianic knowledge. He also knew that the Christ event could
only in centuries to come be understood spiritually, as a spiritual
fact, and those who do not understand it as such know nothing
really of it.
He knew that the young Jesus whom he had known as living
among the Essenes was destined to be ensouled by the great sun
Spirit. He knew that Christ was to become the soul of a man,
Jesus of Nazareth, and be the first God to suffer birth and death,
and thus unite His destiny with mankind and the earth. This
he knew in common with a few others who were of the elect in
spiritual knowledge.
To those few it may have seemed too mighty an event to speak
of or write of. Were there sufficient men alive at the time ready
to accept the truth? It may be that Philo shrank from throwing
in the weight of his great position in favour of Jesus, and thereby
adding to the growing fear of His influence over the people.
Philo knew that this event was not to be advertised as a passing
show. It was the spiritual pivot of this world's history which was
destined through the ages to turn men's thoughts from the
past to the future; to turn men's gaze from the sun in the
heavens to the Light of the World dwelling in every heart of
man.
Christ never left us a written word, and can we doubt that this
was not by deliberate Divine intent? If we wonder why, may
not the answer be that, not by the word, but by the spirit must
He be discerned. V.le have no words actually written by the
Apostles, only copies of what they are supposed to have written.
Yet we have in our possession the writings of Philo, who wrote
down the Christ teachings, and who lived throughout the whole
period of His earthly existence. It is possible that Philo was the
266
PALESTINE IN A.D. 1
secret imtrument used to keep account of these teachings, and to
be a guide to the later work of the Apostles and John.
Philo writes as one who had a mission, and that he carried
out so far as he was able, though naturally his words do not
convey to us the power and sweetness of the Christ's.
In the present day, when so few are interested in the life of
the Spirit, it is diH1cult to realize the burning fervour of such
men as Philo, Appollonius of Tyana, and many others, who have
added so enormously to our knowledge of Christology. To those
of us who have studied the subject it is clearly apparent that
without their aid the New Testament would not have existed.
Philo must have known that the Christ had not descended to
earth to establish a reputation as a great public preacher and
teacher. His coming conveyed to the initiates something infinitely
profounder than that. His destiny had to be carried out to the
bitter end. He had to give humanity something in the new
dispensation to live by--seed words that were to grow in the
hearts of men unto life eternal.
Here was One Who could have electrified the earth He trod
had He so chosen.
That was not His mission. He came as the ideal man-the
great example. He taught reincarnation by taking a human body,
reincarnation which, according to Sir Oliver Lodge's explanation,
means, " surely the manifestation in time and place of something
previously existing-the display in bodily form for a limited
period of some portion of an eternal spiritual essence."
Christ taught that eternal life can overcome death, the divinity
of love, and much else. He promised that His own Divine Spirit
should ensoul as many of us as are ready to accept Him. As He
had ensouled Jesus of Nazareth. so would He ensoul those who
are ready to accept Christ absorption. Philo knew that Christendom
must find aspirations, not laws, Life not rule, spirit not system-
Love of God and service to man, which it would take centuries
to evolve. He understood that Christ is a cosmic name insofar
as it stands for that in God which is manifested in creation.
One of the great changes coming to fruition in the hearts of
men is the reliance upon experience rather than on dogmatic
teaching. Our conception of God is now Spirit, the work of the
2(q
THE COSMIC CHRIST
Spirit which we trace in our own lives. We think not so much
of God in the past as of the experience of God we receive to-day.
Often quite unconsciously we become aware that we have contact
with the Spirit of Truth. When we are driven down into the
very core of our being we find spiritual reality. A ray from the
Light of the World pierces our souls, and, though hard circum-
stances may have destroyed belief, the personal experience proves
stronger than the lost faith.
Christianity really means unity-that of Humanity in Christ:
"Not I but the Christ in me"; and as Fichte says: "To develop
an insight into the Absolute unity of the human existence with
the Divine is certainly the profoundest knowledge that man can
attain.''
In future less heed will be given to the foolish question : " Who
and what is Christ?" All will depend upon men realizing in Him
a unifier, no matter how greatly humanity will externally be
diversified. Spirit is the most positive reality in the universe,
and men will slowly begin to realize the Power in Spirit, and
that it is impossible to wipe out part of the experience of human
nature if it happens to jar upon the regulations of orthodox
ecclesiasticism.
The whole of Christianity can be expressed in a few very simple
seed-words that contain in their essence the whole of evolu-
tion.
We can look back to the beginning upon an unbroken chain
of seed-words kept alive and shining, and watered with the dew
of the Spirit by the "men of God", prophets, revealers, who have
[aught Christ throughout all time in simple seed-words like these:
flindu. " The true rule is to guard and do by the things of
others as they do by their own.''
Buddhist. " One should seek for others the happiness one
desires for oneself."
Zoroast1'ian. "Do as you would be done by."
Chinese. " What you do not wish done to yourself, do not
unto others."
Mohammtdan. '' Let none of you treat your brother in a way
he himself would dislike to be treated."
:z68
PALESTINE IN A.D. r
/ewi.fh. "What ever you do not wish your neighbour to do
to you, do not unto him."
ChriJtian. •· All things whatsoever ye would that men should
do unto you, do ye even so unto them."
In the Hindu Bible, the Zoroastrian Bible, the Chinese Bible,
and Jewish Scriptures we find almost identically the doctrine given
in the Christian Scriptures.
" Are we not all children of one Father? Hath not one God
created us? . . . Who hath made of one all nations of man to
dwell upon the face of the earth."
And we have dwarfed the Lord of Life to a three years'
ministry, and failed to see in Him the culmination of the greatest
event in the world : the incarnation of the Light of the World
as the Crown of all beliefs.
CHAPTER XVI
"LO! I AM WITH YOU ALWAYS"
\VE have attempted very brietly and inadequately to trace the
passage of the Cosmic Christ through history. We have tried to
compress a gigantic subject into one volume, \\'hich is not intended
for the deeper students of Christology, but for those who have
not the leisure to study for themselves.
We have roughly shown the infinite purpose of God along
the pilgrim's path of human endeavour, and how simple it is to
prove that the Christ has manifested Himself in diverse forms
and many messengers to all the world.
We also reaffirm our belief that the profound import attached
to the Christ's descent to earth is still not understood except
by the very few. It can only be understood spiritually or
esoterically. What passes for orthodox Christianity to-day is simply
a fragment of the sublime truth dressed up in ecclesiastical pomp
of ritual and fine raiment. It is pre-eminently exoteric, and, need·
less to say, has no connection with the chaste simplicity emphasized
for us during the three years' ministry.
There is no ground here for :my criticism, as no one ever
attempts to demonstrate any connection betwixt the two. What-
ever be the form worship takes, if its practice develops the Christ
spirit in man, then that bith ·is to he fostered and commended.
We also desire to affirm that when the sublime universality of
the Christ is grasped, when His sovereignty over the Solar System
is more fully comprehended, all the puerile difficulties concerning
our Bible and its slender contribution to our knowledge of His
mission upon earth, will fall into their proper perspective, as but
one Divine manifestation out of many. Though, be it noted, that
for us, newly come of age, it was the greatest of all revelations.
It opened a new dispc:>nsation or age, and emphasized for us
270
"LO! I AM WITH YOU ALWAYS"
the supreme gift-that of the indwelling Christ Spirit-"Christ in
"
you .
" Thereby know we that we dwell in Him and He in us because
He hath given us o~ His Spirit."
This is the one central star of light brought down to earth by
the Light of the Wodd, and from which all other rays radiate.
When the Christ descended from the heavenly places and
impre~nated the etheric body of the earth with His Spirit, He
gave to humanity the Divine gift which carried with it the
prom1se.
"Lo I I am with you always, even unto the end of the age."
Here let us emphasize the important fact brought to light by the
scholarship of the National Messenger and Banner, November 16,
1929, page 725, that nowhere in the original MSS. used in the
llible is the word "world" used. The correct translation is "age"
(aion}-a very different matter. Neither Jesus the Christ nor
the Apostles spoke of the end of the world, but the end of the
age, and the Apostles were right, for the coming of Christ closed
one age or dispensation and opened another. The mistranslation
is rectified in the Twentieth Century New Testament, Weymouth,
Moffatt, and Farrar Fenton.
In the old age, or dispensation, men were in touch with the
angelic orders, and the Christ-ensouled Ambassadors, who through-
out the ages guarded the Mysteries. In the new age, or
dispensation, the angel guides were withdrawn, and the priestly
guardians of the Gnosis passed into incarnation as the bearers
of the highest Greek thought, as the contemporaries of Jesus and
the early Fathers. Continuity was never broken. Those who had
passed along the rivers of life, touching from time to time at some
port that called for light through the forgotten ages, were alive
again in the flesh in the early centuries of Christendom, to keep
the torch of the Spirit burning, and establish on a sure foundation
the seed-words of the Christ.
Thus St. Augustine tdls us, " what is now called the Christian
religion already existed amongst the ancients, and was not lacking
at the very beginnings of the human race. When Christ appeared
in the flesh the true religion already in existence received the
name of Christian."
271
THE COSMIC CHRIST
This was the mystery religion that Christ came to unveil, and
which He taught to His disciples. In pre-Christian times one
who desired to rise into spiritual heights had to do so by way
of initiation into the mysteries. After the coming of the Christ
in the flesh it became possible for every soul to gain Christ Wisdom
by seeking within. "The Kingdom of Heaven is within." God
must be found within. Then He appears as the " Primal splen-
dour, Who sends out innumerable rays, not perceptible by the
senses, but collectively thinkable."
These are Philo's words, and by many he is believed to be
th~ reincarnation of Plato. For both men the Rible contained
a profoundly symbolical meaning-it is the history of the soul,
and for Philo and those who thought with him, "Knowledge was
the birth of Christ within the world of Spirit."
The Nco-Platonic philosophy, which developed contem-
poraneously with Christianity, was an elaboration of Philo's
thought, and we will better realize what we owe to these great
incarnations if we bear in mind the following fact: " The historical
origins of Christianity arc hidden in impenetrable obscurity. Of
the actual history of the first half of the century we have no
knowledge. Of the history of the next hundred years also we
have for the most part to rely upon conjectures."1
Let no one therefore scoff at esoteric tradition, the spiritual
thread which alone has preserved the true Gospels, and which
goes to prove our contention that Christianity, to be understood,
must be spiritually discerned; and that the Christ, by leaving no
written record of His teaching, intended that this should be so.
The early Alexandrian theologians and scientists who are
probably living again in our midst to-day, and who were the
branded "Heretics" of Catholicism in the first two or three
centuries, were those of whom Philo says : " Such men, though
tew in number, keep alive the covered spark of wisdom secretly
throughout the world in order that virtue may not be absolutely
quenched and vanish from our human kind;" and Steiner says:
" In the Christian community the wisdom of the Mysteries was
indissolubly bound up with the personality of Jesus Christ. That
which man had previously sought through the Mysteries was now
1 G. R. S. Mead: "Fragments of a Faith Forgotten"
272
'' LO! I A~,f \VITH YOU ALWAYS"
replJccd by the belief that Christ had lived on earth and th.It
the faithful belonged to Him."
Here again we lose much by discarding the doctrine of reincar-
nation. We fail to see how carefully the way of the Lord, the
coming .Messiah, was prepared; and how men who were competent
to guard, foster, and advance spiritual values were incarnate at
that particular time.
As Mithraism faded into the Christ \Visdom they fanned it into
flame, and have kept it alive up to the present day. The doctrine
of Philo was that the "\Vord" was in all things and in all men.
It spoke through the Prophets. It brought in the mighty deeds
of the famous men of old, and, according to St. John, it gives
light to every man that comes into the world. " It was in every
man that comes into the world in the same degree, but in Jesus
the Christ it dwelt in its fulncss, for the Spirit was without measure
in Him." Philo addresses the Logos, as Christ, "as God is the
first and only King of the Universe the way to Him is rightly
called the Royal Road." It is li~e an initiation to Philo, when
he enters on this Path in order to meet the Logos, Who, to him,
is the Son of God.
Theologians acknowledge how much they owe to Greek
philosophy, but continuity and the Spiritual content is lost without
a recognition of ·who and what these philosophers were iri the
Spiritual world. In short, by shutting out the vast spiritual
impulse operating outside the physical world we can never hope
to understand the true import of the coming of the Cosmic Christ
to earth, and what that coming really signified to the children
of men.
The workings of the Spirit are not always perceptible. The
deeper processes work behind world evolution, and the Christ
impulse is in the earlier stages of its development. Only in
future ages will men begin to understand what it means to
humanity, and we arc all aware that it is rejected in certain
domains of thought.
The name of Christ is rigidly kept out of all ordinary historical
works and scientific works. No historian ever mentions Christ in
a "history book". Jeans, in his splendid astronomical '""orks.
ignores "The Light of the \Vorld". It is the same with the
273
s
THE COSMIC CHRIST
great physicists. All this vast region of human activity is as yet
untouched by spiritual impulse. We see that in many departments
of thought it has made no impression whatever. The great
scientific thoughts are purely mechanical, lifeless facts. This
means that a portion of the human brain is in a state of gradual
atrophy. The part of the etheric body which is intended to
vivify the dying brain substance is not alive to the quickening
of the Spirit, and there is consequently no infusion of life.
" Why do ye wonder at the signs? I give unto you a mighty
inheritance which the whole world doth not contain. Grieve not
the Holy Spirit which is in you, and put not out the Light which
hath shone forth in you.
"As ye see yourselves in water or mirror, so see ye Me in
yourselves. Seek for the great Mysteries and the little shall be
added to you. As I find you, so will I judge you."r
The atrophying process will gradually increase, because of the
rejection of "the mighty inheritance", until it permeates all
mankind, and the etheric body of the earth and the human etheric
body will be merged and revivified.
Cunninghame Graham truly writes :
" Marvels of science, mechanical improvements, increase of
wealth and income tax, and the perfection of all warlike apparatus,
seems to blind us to the fact that abstract qualities of mind have
shown no symptoms of progression." Here he puts his finger on
the actual spot, and scatters in a few words the delusions we live
in. Above all this is what we need-to be clarified and shown
how false are all our vaunted discoveries advertised with all the
gusto of the marvel-mongers. " A rich barbarian, pale and
dyspeptic •.. seated in a machine travelling at eighty miles an
hour, luxuriously upholstered and heated, and yet the traveller's
mind a blank, or only occupied with schemes to cheat his fellows
and advance himself, is in the abstract no advance upon a citizen
of Athens, in the time of Pericles, who never travelled faster
than a bullock-cart could take him in all his life.
" Science has no marvels, every so-called discovery heralded as
marvellous is not a marvel in the true sense of the world. The
Rontgen Rays, the microphone, the phonograph, are coeval with
1 Rejected Logia, ab0ut .\.n. 200
"LO! I AM WITH YOU AL\VAYS ,,
the world. The wonder lies not in the discovery (so-called), but
in the fact they have remained so long unknown. The real
mystery of mysteries is the mind of man.
'' The conquests of the mind never grow stale; let he who doubts
it rc:-~d a page of Plato, and compare it with some aIa mode
philosopher."
All the great thinkers and teachers in the past, and up to the
sixth century A.D., emphasized the doctrine of reincarnation, and
if it cannot be asserted that The Christ taught it when He
incarnated in the body of Jesus the Nazarene, He certainly never
rebuked those who spoke before Him in terms of reincarnation.
" Foolish and ignorant they, and do not reach far with their thinking
Who oppose that what tias not existed can come into being,
Or that something may die away wholly and vanish completely;
Impossible it is that any beginning can come from Not-Being,
Quite impossible also that being can fade into nothing.
That spirits of men only live whilst what is called life here endures,
That only so long do they live receiving their juys and their sorrow~.
But that ere they were born here antl when thc.:y arc dead they arc nothing."
-·bii'I'IJOCJ.ES (41)0 II.C.),
Spiritual ancestry meant everything to the sages of old. They
looked beyond themselves into the future, and behind into the
great past ,~~,·hich had made them what they were. They knew
that the race could not progress save by the progression of the
individual.
To-day to them was the result of yesterday, whilst to-morrow
would be the result of to-day. Their present lives were the result
of former lives, and wonld by the foundations for futurity.
Perfection they knew to he the natural goal out of imperfection.
There was nothing miraculous to them in a young genius such
as we so often marvel at and speculate upon. Genius was nothing
more than something which h:1d hecn earned in a former existence.
It was a spiritual development, and as there was no question with
the ancient sages of a continu:-~ncc of the immediate personality
after death, the thought of eternity passed hcfore their minds as an
unbroken chain.
Such a belief was a strong incentive to learning and spiritual
development. An unbroken continuity stretched ahead.
The first centuries of Christianity found reincarnation still the
275
THE COSMIC CHRIST
prevailing creed. In the form of Gnosticism it so strongly pre-
vailed in the early church that the Fourth Gospel advocated a
broader rendering of the same faith. Origen refers to pre-
existence as the general opinion. Clemens Alexandrinus (Origen's
master) taught it as Divine tradition authorized by St. Paul in
Romans v, 2, 14, r9. Ruffinus says: "This opinion was common
amongst the primitive fathers." The Gnostics ancJ Manich~ans
received it with much else from Zoroastrian predecessors. The
Neo-Platonists derived it from a blending of Plato ar.d the Orient.
The church fathers drew it not only from these sources, but from
the Jews and the pioneers of Christianity.
The words of the dying Plotinus, perhaps the most interesting of
all the ancient writers, are given us :
" The mission of men is to bring the divine within them into
harmony with that which is divine in the universe." He taught
reincarnation in a form thoroughly rational and supremely
helpful, meeting \Vestern needs in this regard more directly than
any other philosopher.
Such teachings as that of Origen must have given a great
stimulus to his disciples. How helpful they would now be to
the clergy who have literally nothing logical to on·er as an
explanation of life's inequalities.
"The present inequalities of circumstances and character are
thus not wholly explicable within the sphere of the present life.
But this world is not the only \Vorld. Every soul has existed
from the beginning; it has therefore passed through some world
already, and will pass through CJthers before it reaches the final
consummation. It comes into this world strengthened by the
victories or weakened by the defeats of its previous life. Its place
in this world as a vessel appointed to honour or dishonour is
determined by the pre\'ious merits or demerits. Its work in this
world determines its place in the world which is to follow
this."
The loss to us of the general belief in reincarnation accounts for
much of the present-day apathy and indifference. " It will last
my day," simply means, "I h:l\'C nothing to look forward to.
Whv bother?"
At the second Council of Constantinople, A.D. 553· the doctrine
276
"LO! I AM WITH YOU AL\VAYS"
of reincarnation, the only rJtional explanation of this life's
inequalities, was proclaimed a heresy.
" Whoever shall support the mythical doctrine of the pre-
existence of the soul and the conseguent and wonderful opinion
of its return, let him be anathema."
It is difficult for the student to feel anything but angry contempt
for the men, whoever they were, who worked such irreparable
damage in their treatment of the Scriptures.
This body of men took no heed of the Christ's repeated
confirmation of the popular impression that John the Baptiser was
a reincarnation of Elijah. Once, when John was still alive· and in
prison, Jesus told the multitude who thronged around him :
'' Amongst thc.m that are born of women there hath not risen
a greater than John the Baprist." And He directly goes on to
assert : " If ye will receive it, this is Elias which was for to come."
Again, after John was beheaded, Jesus said to the disciples : " Elias
is come already, and they knew him not, but have done unto
him whatsoever they listed." Then the disciples understood
that He spake unto them of John the Baptist.
That this Council of men were not willing to receive in their
obvious and literal meaning Christ's words and many other like
assertions in the Bible is a fact which proves nothing but the
existence of an invincible and ignorant prejudice against the pre-
existence of the soul.
Nothing since that time has been given to humanity which can
reconcile a God of justice with the hideous inequalities of this
world. By a vast majority our troubles are attributed to a God
who is responsible for the failures of His Creation, and as it is
impossible to love such a Being, the only course to take is to
ignore Him.
In the time when Jesus the Christ walked the earth, and up to
A.D. 553, reincarnation was accepted as a Divine law. The church
tried ineffectually to eradicate it, and all the great intuitional
souls of the past up to the present have adhered to it. The best
of German philosophy and the Italian luminaries, Cambridge
Platonists, and great scholars from the days of Origen and
Porphyry have retained a firm belief in what remains as the
only explanation of life~s inequalities. We have but to look back
277
THE COSMIC CHRIST
to forty years ago to realize how rapidly this great doctriue is
recapturing the world to-day, with many other lost laws.
Dr. Talmage says: "The Apocryphal Books of the New
Testament show a great deal of the early life of Christ not to
be found in the four Evangelists." Concerning the Epistles lost
to us there are unknown letters of Paul, letters of Clement and
others, and reports of Herod, Pontius Pilate, and Tiberius Cxsar.
Also there arc beautiful sayings of Christ in the "Rejected
Logia", some of which arc variants of Canonical sayings, and
some of which have been preserved in the Pauline letters.
Dr. Wake, Archbishop of Canterbury, has translated these
Epistles from the originals, and says they arc a full and perfect
collection of "all the genuine writings that remain to us of the
Apostolic Fathers, and carry on the antiquity of the Church from
the time of the Holy Scriptures of the New Testament to about
;t hundred and fifty years after Christ, that except the Holy
Scriptures there is nothing remaining of the truly genuine
Christian antiquity more early: that they contain all that can
with any certainty be depended upon of the most primitive Fathers,
who had not only the advantage of living in the Apostolic times,
of hearing the holy Apostles, and conversing with them, but
were most of them persons of a very eminent character in the
Church, too: that we cannot with any reason doubt of what they
deliver to us as the gospel of Christ, but ought to receive it, if
not with equal veneration, yet but a little less respect than we
do the sacred writings of those who were their masters and
instructors."
Gradually those ''lost books of the Bible" are coming into the
hands of the public. A cheap and excellent book bearing the
above title comes anonymously from America, issued by the Alpha
Publishing Co., New York.
Students have long since realized that we owe no gratitude to
those early Councils of Rishops who, accordin,g to history, did
nothing but quarrel and altercate. They ended in giving us a
pitifully meagre canon, which Archbishop Wake and all scholars
know might have been very greatly enriched. William Wake,
Archbishop of Canterbury, was born 1657 and died 1737·
It may be contended that the books given to us are canonical
.;78
"LO! I AM WITH YOU ALWAYS"
(accepted as genuine by the Christian Churches), and those left
out are not canonical.
The truthful reply is that more recent kno,;ledge proves that
our collection is no more certainly authentic than many of the
rejected books. Certain it is that in these rejected Gospels and
Epistles there exists a wealth of information, a profound earnest-
ness, and a deep reverence and love for the Christ, proving them
to have been written by men who were deeply inspired to deliver
a message. Reading the fragment saved from "The Acts of John"
(third quarter of second century), we get a glimpse of the occult
life of the Christ, and deeply interesting details of His personality.
John noticed that "His eyes never closed". He describes what he
felt as he lay on the breast of the Christ; when He was in prayer
there was seen in Him "such a light as it is not possible for a
man that useth corruptible speech to tell what it was like".
Reading in these rejected books of the deep love, the fervid
adoration these early writers displayed towards the Christ, their
Saviour, who dares to-day to connect their names with Heresy?
Let us not remain under the delusion that everything worth
knowing about the three years' ministry was set down in black
and white once and for all in the New Testament pages.
The compilation of the Bible was no one definite act. It
evolved out of the hands of churchmen of various beliefs and
purposes, who quarrelled violently at every meeting, and have
continued to quarrel ever since up to this hour. In the formation
of early Church doctrines there was dissension, jealousy perse-
cution, bigotry, intolerance. It is a miracle that out of such human
and vicious conditions we have been given even the little we
possess, and it is not to he wondered at that dozens of Gospels
and Acts mentioned by writers in the first four centuries of
Christ are not now extant.
The most famous of all these Councils was that of Nicrea, a
town in Asia Minor, but the ancient writers all disagree as to
time and place, and the number who sat in council. No
authentic acts of its sentence have come down to us, and it is
not certain that this council declared the Canon. We get some
unpleasant details through Socrates, Sozomen, Rufinus. Socrates
Scholasticus was a Byzantine historian born ~79· He wrote
279
THE COSMIC CHRIST
ecclesiastical history from 306 to 439· His works were first printed
in Greek. He died 440.
This celebrated Council arose through a violent quarrel between
Alexander, Bishop of Alexandria, and Arius, presbyter of his
diocese, over the nature of Christ. A council of war, consisting
of about a hundred bishops, was called, and the extreme violence
of the proceedings caused the Emperor Constantine to intervene,
and command peace in the Church. The Bishops paid no heed
to him, and Socrates represents both sides as equally truculent.
The Nicene Council, :ps, was then summoned, consisting, it is
said, of 318 bishops. They instantly renewed the quarrel, and fell
upon one another. Their libels were sent to the Emperor, wh<?
burnt them.
They settled the doctrine of the Trinity and the time for
observing Easter. In the fourth century the text was again
changed to bring it into conformity with what was considered to
he orthodoxy.
It was under such turbulent conditions that the work of sifting
and collecting the books of the Bible was begun and continued.
It requires little imagination to arrive at the fate of the hundreds
of precious books written by men who were inspired by the flame
of th~ Holy Spirit, and the fervent lpve aroused by the Divine
Inspirer. One consolation is, however, left to us.
The Divine Spirit which the Cosmic Christ descended to earth
to implant in the breast of Humanity cannot be touched, injured,
or lost by any bickerings of theologians or holocausts of sacred
wnungs. His teachings and His Divine gifts stand far above,
and most clearly apart from theology, which is the science of
religion, and, like all sciences of to-day, is in a purely elementary
stage of flux which engenders frktional heat.
There is nothing elementnry or fluid in the Cosmic Christ.
His seed-words are, from the beginning, primary, radical, organic,
essential principle, based on evolutionary law. Vle know that He
is the true vine, and we are the branches, and that the roots are
hidden in the Absolute. We know that every branch is intended
to produce finer and finer fruit, and that the Divine Spirit of
Life, the sap within the vine, is ever present to aid its develop-
ment until final perfection is attained.
.:;!~\)
"LO! I AM VnTH YOU ALWAYS"
We know also that if we reject the spiritual life of the branch,
the Christ-principle in our own nature, and dwell in destructional
existence in place of constructional existence, the branch must
atrophy and bear no fruit. These quite simple facts we know.
They are fundamentals. No matter how mutilated and frag-
mentary our Bible is, the fundamentals are there, miraculously
preserved to us.
Let us finally turn to the Divine Being of all power who
passed on His God-appointed way, preaching His Gospel of love,
and healing the sick, until the three years' ministry ended
and He returned to the heavenly places from whence He
came. The terrible incubus of the physical body was aban-
doned on the Cross, and His natural raiment of light was
resumed.
Some day Humanity will fully understand why His feet should
ever have been required to touch earth. At the present we can
but grasp the outer shell of the greatest Cosmic mystery, and take
into the depths of our spiritual being certain great lessons He
taught, certain great mysteries He unveiled.
We believe that His greatest Cosmic objective was to establish
the Kingdom of Heaven in the hearts of Humanity. "Christ lives
within the jew and the Gentile-hut they know Him not "
(Revelations xiv, 6). Yet the day must come for us all when
we learn to know Him or be "cast into the outer darkness" of
the laggards in spiritual evolution.
Christ, being a Cosmic, universal Spirit, could not have
founded any one church. Ensouling a Jewish physical body, He
med the Jc\vi~h temple, but I Iis teaching was mainly given forth
by the wayside or on the hills. The first churches, ecclesiastically
speaking, were Greek republican groups. We believe that churches
are necessary to-day as a gathering place for instruction of those
who c:-mnot as yet grasp the pmver, magnitude, an·d glory of the gift
of the Kingdom. Churches will no longer be necessary when
the Kingdom is definitely established on earth.
'vVe do not believe that any new teaching will be given from
without. The deep menta] unrest the worJd over must continue
until the Christ event is brought into relation with Cosmic evolu-
2SI
THE COSMIC CHRIST
tion : 1._.1ntil the Christ sphere is given universal, world-wide inter·
pretation.
What did Christ actually mean when He told His listeners
that the Kingdom of Heaven was within them? What is the
meaning of Pentecost, by far the greatest of all Christian fulfil-
ments? What did Paul mean when he said : " Our citizenship
is in the Heavens" ?
John, the Baptiser, emphasizes and foreshadows the same
teaching. It is promised in Ezekiel xxxvi, 26, 27.
This entirely new manifestation, this inauguration by the Christ
of a community, garbed in the physical body to whom He
deliberately handed the keys of Heaven, is surely an act of tremen-
dous significance! So mighty that even if we could grasp it no
words could express it.
The Bible is too full of it to permit quotations. The teaching
is free from all ambiguity, yet but few churches have grasped this
-the greatest gift in our world. But few books deal clearly with
it, hut one, "The Spirit of Christ", by the Rev Andrew Murray,'
is priceless. He understands.
The first Christ objective was the gift of the Divine Spirit,
and He tells us where to find it-in the Kingdom of Heaven
within. When the Kingdom is found all else will be given
to us.
\Vhen we have sought what is it we find?
THE CHRIST SPHERE
We find that though we are still in the flesh we are offered
here and now membership of the Spirit world, the Heavenly
community. It is impossible to read any other meaning into the
teaching. The Spirit is the dynamic principle in whom concen-
trate all the life powers that flow from the Christ.
By His descendence out of His former transcendence He has
flooded the world with His Cosmic power, and has reconciled
the Cosmic with Cosmos. The outpouring of the Christ Spirit
was the gift of new life power set free from the Absolute. It is
l Nisbet & Co., London. ')/·
2fh
"LO! I AM WITH YOU ALWAYS"
now immanent in inJividual man, and pervades this world's
system as Cosmic law.
Mutilated though our Bible may be, it delivers· this supreme
message with perfect clarity for all who have eyes to see and
ears to hear. When once grasped, this teaching releases Jesus the
Christ from the narrow sectarianism in which we have bou1Hl
Him, and sets Him on earth and in the heavens as the supreme
Light of the World. To recognize the Christ Spirit permeating
the universe is freedom at once from all the ridiculous little doubts
and difficulties we suffer from on earth. We see that not one of
them m,ltters one "jot or one tittle", and that \Ve may renounce
them now and for all time as we accept our membership of the
spiritual world and His promise: " I will be with you until the
end of the age."
(;radually we will sec that the gift of the Kingdom carries
with it ramifications, obligations, resultant naturally from our
changed estate. The Kingdom enjoins Brotherhood. This the
particular work of 1\fiLhacl, our gre:tt Archangel, who for us at
present is "the face of the Christ" as he was to Jehovah of old.
We can see him at work in the strong rccmdescencc of war which
he is swinging round to the spirit uf peace. Watch how .Michael
conducts his propaganda.
Five years ago no war play, no war book was a practical
proposition. Frankly and universally we declared we were sick
of Goth. To-day ~1ichad is flooding the world with both. Such
is the weapon he forges for peace with the sword of the Spirit.
He is out to slay the dragon of war, and he is succeeding. How?
By showing us the damnable futility and stupidity of war. By
proving that e\·olution has swept us past the age when we could
go "over the top" ablaze with the savage lust of blood and
slaughter. Journey's End shows us that stage is for ever past.
The heroism remains, but it is of a far profoundcr quality. It
now exists in the utter surrender to a certain moral degradation
\vhich is ponderous with suffering. It is the surrender of the
hardly-won spiritual advancement that evolution has brought to
man, the falling lxKk into primitive savagery, and in order to
gain cndmance to remain there, the spirit must he drowned and
the soul intlamed by drink.
THE COSMIC CHRIST
The fight against spiritual degradation was fiercer than war
against a human enemy. It added mental poignancy to the
physical sufferings.
Only under the a:gis of Michael can the real dynamics of social
and industrial advance and their mighty ideals be thrown on the
world's screen, and that "never again" \Vhich was fading out be
brought into concrete form and indestructibility. Michael is
creating th~ atmosphere, and spreading abroad the universal foun-
dation of the Brotherhood which must be born of the Christ Spirit.
No one can say there will be no more \var. To-day we have
in the world ten millions more men under arms than in 1914,
but any future war \Vill rest on a different basis, and meet with
a ditlerent human attitude from that in which past wars were
regarded. So much has been gained. We have leapt from the
old order to the new across a gulf which may prove to be the
greatest divide in our natural history.
What of the "life of the age to come?" As inhabitants of the
earth Jeans tells us we are living at the very beginning of time.
Wc have come into being in the fresh glory of dawn, and a day
of almost unthinkable length stretches before us with unimagined
opportunities for accomplishment. We are still too much engulfed
~n the greyness of the morning mists to be able to imagine, how-
ever vaguely, how this world of ours will appear to those who
will come after us and see it in full light of day.
"A thousand years is as a single day" in the eyes of the
Absolute.
Christianity has not yet existed for two days, and the true
import of the Christ's descent to earth lies in the future, though
the stupendous spiritual impulse He brought with Him is begin-
ning to dawn upon us.
More especially is this so with those of us who are old souls :
who have suffered more re-births than have the masses : who
have brought with us into our life of to-day some "trailing clouds
of glory" derived from a former knowledge of the Cosmic Christ.
At His trial before Caiaphas He answered the question, "Art
thou the Christ?, with the emphatic words :
"I AM".
" LO ! I A~·1 WITH YOU AL\VAYS "
In John we read : " We have a law and by that law he ought
to die because he made himself the Son of God."
He claimed Divin~ honours, not there and then, but saying they
should be paid t.o Him hereafter for what he then was.
The resurrection was placed by the Apostles in the front of
their teaching-" That which we have seen with our eyes and our
hands have touched concerning the worrt of life," and they carried
their incredible story into the Roman Empire, Asia Minor, and
Greece, and at Ephesus and Corinth they were believed. We do
not realize that from the beginning the way of the Lord had been
prepared. We do not know exactly what carried conviction to
Dionysius on the Areopagus, or to Apollos at Ephesus, because
the Gospels and Acts give no such evidence, but it is certain that
countless eager questions must have been asked concerning the
risen Christ, and how often the Christ manifestations that had
gone before must have arisen in countless minds in the first years
of our era. Just as to-day we stand in Egypt amid Egyptian
history several thousand years B.c., and compare it with our history
of two thousand years ago, so must the many in Corinth, Philippi,
Antioch, have exclaimed upon the similarity between Osiris,
Mithra, and Christ.
"Spiritual things are spiritually discerned", and it is hardly
fair to expect spiritual discernment invariably to accompany clericJ1
accoutrements. We are all restricted by our mental and spiritual
limitations, and not by Divine decree. There are now living in
this world innumerable persons who knoev that the so-called
miracles performed by Jesus the Christ have been many times
reproduced in our day. They know that spiritual Healing is now
a commonplace. They have proved the truth of human survival,
and the words which could not be more definite:
" He who believeth in Me, the works that I do shall he do also,
and greater works than I do shall he do."
We hold very strongly that now is the nppointed time when
a definite decision must be made. Every day the Press gives
prominence to the scorn publicly expressed by several noted
churchmen who "are out" to advertise their disbelief in the
spiritual acts of the Christ. Let us definitely decide in whom we
believe, and ask ourselves in what light we view the Christ. When
285
THE COSi\.fiC CHRIST
the decision is m~1de. then Jet the clean wt be made. Let those
who have convinced themselves of Christ's divinity and His
consequent unlimited power, cease from the common and
abominable pastime of treating apostasy as a joke, and swelling
the numbers of a congregation that are present to be amused
rather than instructed.
Is Christ to us simply a man, a mystic, and a great and good
teacher whom we would be wise to follow? About \Vhom little
is known, and who lived two thous:tnd years ago for a period of
thirty-three yc:1rs? Or do \ve worship Him as the Cosmic Christ
onbined by the Absolute as the great Creative Spirit of the
universe of whom very much may be known by those who have
eves to see and cars to hear? Do we believe He came to endow
.
us \vith · the power of the Spirit, and that in Him we live and
move and have our being, beautifully expre~scd .in a Tibetan
book:
" The soul of every living thing being only a fraction or separate
part of the universal soul, no percipient being is liable to perish,
but merely changes its form and mould as it passes successively
into different bodies."
\Vc would do well to ask ourselves this all-important question,
and not rest content until we receive the answer.
\Ve have stated that it is impossible to write a life of Christ.
The book of John says that: "even the world itself could not
contain the books that should be written," and the revelations
given to mankind arc not such as can be completed in books and
given out in book form. Those who have made, or are about
to make the attempt have no glimmering recognition of the
sublimity of the Being of \vhom they would write. A moment's
thought ought to prove this. \Vherc would the biographer begin?
\Vho. in this world, knows how He 'vas born, or, indeed, if He
ever was born? He spoke of Himself as before all time. The
first knowledge we have of Him comes by tradition, and the
Akashic Records at an unknown date, unknown millions of years
ago, when the Absolute sped Him forth as Grand Architect of
our globe and life-giver to the atom destined to evolve into
man.
Through mutilated fragments of parchment, through oral
286
., LO! I AM WITH YOU ALWAYS if
tradition, we trace His brief three years in :Palestine. Through
the unswerving similarity of His teaching, through the mouth of
His holy prophets, through all the great civilizations of our
ancient world, we trace the Divine Footsteps indelibly marked
upon the sands of time, and at length we come back to that
unchronicled "In the beginning", which was the beginning for
Created, but was there ever a beginning for Creator? To speculate
upon such a question would indeed be folly. It is better for
humanity in the present stage of diversity to cling to the simple
seed-words in which Christianity can be quite adequately
expressed, and in whatever worldly conditions we may find
ourselves living we may carry the truth and proclaim it in our
mode of life.
We can all live in the meaning of Christ's coming and in the
power of the words which express that meaning:
" Not I, but the Christ in me."
With this Divine consciousness the higher self carries with it
the Christ Spirit that belongs to the whole of humanity.
It is only through the consciousness of the indwelling Chnst
that the true spiritual understanding of Christianity can dawn
upon the world He created. There are now many people who
cannot conceive of this world apart from the Christ. We find
that imagination absolutely fails if we try to picture what this
world would be like to-day if Christ had never come to earth.
This has nothing to do with our mental conception of Him.
It has simply to do with the fact that He has impregnated the
world with His Spirit, and whether we take note of its existence
or not, it is there nevertheless.
For an ever-increasing numher He is the perfect Ideal in whose
Sacred Heart we can live on this earth and carry on with us
this Ideal into the life beyond. However careless and indifferent
men may be, there are those who realize how stupendous this
Ideal gift is, and how utterly bereft we would be with-
out it.
" The chord to which man belongs is the three-fold chord of
Love, Harmony, and Beauty. As the atoms of his body evolve
and become finer and finer, so he is able to respond to the higher
vibrations of this chord.
THE COSMIC CHRIST
" From atom to solar system the !-.atnc prorcss is repeated. The
law imposed upon the universe is also imposed upon every single
atom and electron of which it is composed.
"One substance-Light; one law-Vibration; one Goal-God.··
The Way, the Truth, and the Life of that Law is
THE COSMIC CHRIST
1 Nargis
288
