{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__weinfurther___mans_highest_purpose.pdf","mytitle":"Mans Highest Purpose","mylang":"de"}
MAN'S
HIGHEST PURPOSE
(THE LOST WORD REGAINED)
by
KAREL WEINFURTER
Translated by
Prof. ARNOLD CAPLBTON and CHARLES UNGER
RIDER & CO.
Paternoster House, Paternoster Row
London* .4
MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
Madt tad Printed in Gnat Britain tt
Wimaat Brandon ft Son, Ltd.
CONTENTS
fAOB
FOREWORD ........ n
PREFACE ........ 13
I. THE MEANING OF THE MYSTIC IN GENERAL AND THE
CHRISTIAN IN PARTICULAR ..... 19
II. THE MYSTICAL SCHOOLS ..... 40
III. THE LEADER AND HIS RELATION TO HIS DISCIPLE .
52
IV. MEDITATION AND CONCENTRATION .... 59
V. THE MANTRA PRACTICES ..... 79
VI. THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES . .
93
VII. THE MYSTICAL STAGES ...... 188
VIII. THE INNER WORD 206
IX. THE RESULTS OF THE MYSTICAL PRACTICE .
.219
X. THE MYSTIC AND KARMA ..... 224
EXTRACTS FROM SOME MYSTICAL WORKS OF THE
MIDDLE AGES 238
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
FACING PAOB
THE ZODIACAL MAN 83
THE REBORN MAN ....... 120
WIRTH'S CARD 137
WILLIAM BLAKE: THE MYSTICAL MARRIAGE . . .
204
FOREWORD
MY
arduous task in connection with this work has
been to correct, and in many places completely re-
translate, an English translation already existent.
The labour could scarcely have been greater had I made an
immediate translation myself. The object of these remarks
is not to solicit silent sympathy on the part of the reader,
but to prepare him to find, here and there throughout this
work, something quaint and naive in its style. But such
quaint peculiarities of diction I have, not a few times,
carefully left alone, as they have a charm all their own,
not by any means unadapted to a work of this nature.
Those readers who find such peculiarities a weakness are
politely reminded that it is, after all, the matter which
counts, and not the manner of its expression. Further,
before all, I would point out to everybody that the exper-
iences, phenomena, and many deductions stated in this
book could only have been rendered by a person initiated
in the Secret Lore. Thus it became necessary to have the
work translated by a non-Englishman, as at that time I
was not sufficiently advanced in the subject.
PROF. ARNOLD CAPLETON.
ii
PREFACE
Though God is immeasurable
And infinitely high,
Yet there is place for Him
Within a small heart.
IT
is a fact that the majority of the students of the
Occult Science have no notion at all of the fundamental
principles of the Mystic, especially as far as the practical
way is concerned.
In my translations of different mystical works, I have
endeavoured to explain some mystical symbols and ideas,
but have always been aware that readers have failed to
follow them.
Of course, the individuals, who are in personal touch with
me, and to whom I can give oral explanations, show more
interest and understanding.
But my purpose is to disseminate this lore, and I have
therefore decided to write down my experiences and help
readers with my limited knowledge.
In this book I endeavour to show not only the idea of the
Christian Mystic, but also its purpose, and last, not least,
the WAY to attain it.
To begin with, the way shown in the present book is by
no means a dangerous one, and those who shall start on
the way, will have a safe crossing, although the way of the
Mystic is narrower than a hair, and can be compared to the
edge of a razor stretched over a precipice.
One more reason which leads me to publish this book is
the intolerable mental state of the would-be Occult Societies
nowadays. They do not allow the carrying out of any
practice, declaring that telepathy or any spiritualistic
experiments are very dangerous, though secretly they
24 PREFACE
themselves try to do so or at least would do so, if they
could.
They say you should first perfectly purify yourself and
then take up the practical training, after having secured a
leader. They ask you to be a saint first of all, and then
allow you to start. By that they mix up the cause with the
result, as the Union with God is only to be attained by
patient training, and no one can become a saint of his own
accord. But of that later. A worse case are those who
venture to declare they have attained -certain degrees on
the Occult Path by asceticism. They pretend to be leaders
able to penetrate into the astral realms or pass through
them. Those are but boasting of capacities they do not
We have among us a great many false prophets, and the
only means to unveil them is LOVE. This is the touch-
stone, as fire is for gold. Then there is another party : the
bookworms, presuming to attain initiation by reading a
lot of old and new books. I do not mean to say that one's
knowledge cannot be enlarged by reading good books, but
spiritual evolution cannot be obtained by merely reading.
One cannot become a virtuoso by heaping up literature on
music, or studying the history of the violin, its parts, its
composition, the varnish used in old times by the violin
makers, without having touched either the fiddle or the
fiddle-stick in trying to play. Can a man like that ever
become a virtuoso ? Everybody will agree that such a
supposition would be silly. Well, many occultists, however,
boast of big libraries and the wisdom collected from the
books, but they never dare to touch the strings of the most
perfect instrument given them by the Creator, and froiw
which the sublimes! symphonies and the real music of
Pythagorean spheres could be drawn out.
The human body is that instrument. And the human
soul is the musician, as well as the composer and the creator
of the instrument.
And there is another category of individuals, who would
like to penetrate the Eternal and the spiritual fundamentals
PREFACE 15
of Man. But I
They try to solve the highest and
deepest problems by another path than that leading straight
to the Sun. Instead of walking on flowery meadows and
through shadowy forests, where choirs of birds give con-
certs, instead of treading pure paths along melodious brooks,
and then continuing their way up to the great rivers falling
into the Ocean of Eternity, they prefer to tread on stony
and thorny ways, so going astray. They are erring in circles
and spirals, and naturally arrive at the same dark spot
where they started from. They are those who want to solve
the Greatest Mystery by arguing and philosophizing. They
seek and build up theories on theories, raising hypothesis on
hypothesis, but do not reach the final point. Instead of
concentrating the whole power of their mind exclusively
on the Highest Truth, to direct their sight without fear
towards the Sun, they creep like moles under the earth, and
when it gets a bit light they dig themselves back into the
philosophical labyrinth of their theories.
Of course, the philosophical way is one of the ways, too,
leading to Rome. But it is a very troublesome and rather
a dangerous one and can easily lead astray, as the way of the
magician. For this way there is need of other people than
we are to-day, and if there are any who follow this way
and attain the goal, they are exceptions. To them belonged
the Greek Initiates and some of the Indian Adepts. The
greatest handicap for that way is the fact that we have
many philosophical directions, but all of them theoretical,
and none practical. So it follows that a student goes on
the one way to come back and tread another path without
ever reaching the goal.
It is therefore ridiculous for a man, never having made
the first step, to judge the real and experienced results
attained by adepts, sacrificing half of their lives to that
way, as Jacob Bdhme, Pordage, Jane Leade, Gichtel,
Eckartshausen, Kerning, and a great many others, marching
the same way as did and do the members of the sublimest
Brotherhood upon earth, known as Rosicrucians, or the
Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross.
16 PREFACE
It is necessary to mention a few words about this Brother-
hood. As it is the way of this world that the highest and
purest things are misused and soiled, so it has happened
to the name of this Holy Order. A lot of false Rosy Cross
Orders have been created. I have been told that in certain
towns of the U.S.A. there are sometimes as many as three
of such Orders in one town, each of them having its own
lore and its own rituals. In Europe, too, there were and
are Lodges adopting the name of the Rosy Cross. All of
them, with no exception whatever, are false Orders, as the
actual Rosicrucians have no visible Brotherhood, no Lodge
where they meet each other, whereas they do exist, and
there is a possibility to get into personal touch with them.
But this is only reserved to those mystics who have attained
the actual inner Fire Baptism. Some of those Brothers
published in different times books containing their LORE,
their mystical way, and their philosophy. The most
important of those scripts is The Chymical Marriage of
Christian Rosenkreutz, published in 1459, an^ now reprinted
by Barsfeld, in Berlin. This book describes in detail the
whole mystical way, and those who understand it, to the
last page, can call themselves Initiates of the highest degree
and reborn Mystics. I must point out that after a twenty
years' training a few only understand a third of the book.
Of course, there is a difference between understanding and
understanding. The Mystic understands only what he has
experienced himself and in himself. All other understanding
through the medium of human brains is deceiving. We
can't penetrate the Mystery except through the inner
revelation. 'You have to have courage and start as Mme.
Blavatsky states, and then you can fathom the depths of
the human soul.
Other actual Rosicrucian scripts are the Fama Fraterni-
tatis et Confessio. Both the scripts have been now reprinted
by the aforementioned publishers. But I would recommend
the readers of those German works to leave out the intro-
duction of Ferd. Maack, M.D., where the would-be explana-
tions show the ignorance of the writer.
PREFACE 17
Other books of importance are those of Jane Leade, then
the works of Jacob Bdhme, Gichtel, John Pordage, and of
those published in the last century there are Kerning's
ScMUssel zur Geisteswelt, and Der Weg zur Unsterblichkeit,
and finally The Voice of the Silence, by Mme. Blavatsky
(wherein the Indian way is shown, the principles being
quite analogous). A further remarkable book is that of
Bo-Yin-Ra, Das Buck vom lebendigen Gott.
Those who are anxious to have an actual idea of our
Lord are recommended to read the Indian Bhagavad
Ghita.
Man's Highest Purpose
CHAPTER I
THE MEANING OF THE MYSTIC IN GENERAL AND
THE CHRISTIAN IN PARTICULAR
THE
outer world is generally convinced that the
Mystic is something quite incomprehensible, nebu-
lous, and inexplicable. It is because to that outward
world the Mystic is identical with Mysticism. But, in fact,
the Mystic has nothing in common with Mysticism. The
word Mysticism means the mysterious, inexplicable, nebu-
lous, and rather fearsome, while the idea of Mystic is quite
different. The Mystic is a lore and a practical way, enabling
the mortal, while alive, to attain to union with his Creator.
The Mystic is not a mere theory, but an experience.
The reader will at once grasp that there is here a question
of something tremendous and sublime for a religious man.
On the other hand, it will appear as an absurd idea to a
man with no feeling and understanding for religious matters.
But I am not writing for them. They will put aside this
book, after having read a few pages, as the words referring
to spiritual realms have a repulsing effect on people with
materialistic or atheistic views. The same applies to the
scepticism towards spiritualism, whereas this scepticism
greatly increases against the Mystic. When meeting an
individual of materialistic views, whose outer and inner life
is filled by sensual, earthly, and material ideas, and telling
hint of spiritualistic sittings and their phenomena, he will
not only ridicule them, but will fly into a rage. For a long
20 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
time I tried to make out what the queer cause could be, and
have come to the conclusion that such people are so full of
material ideas that these form an actually live part of their
natures, and they are consequently convinced they would
become ridiculous if they adopted these foolish explanations.
And, indeed, that is so, they would lose something, something
would die within them i.e., their old conviction, and then
they would perhaps change their life, and lay down their
beloved prejudices [which are the greatest enemies of any
progress], then many hobbies, faults, and vices. Rather they
prefer to repudiate all to avoid leaving their obscure cell.
As to the
"
after-death
"
well, perhaps there is nothing
afterwards and if oh, one had better not think of it.
Such are the thoughts of materialistic people. But there
is yet another cause keeping many from adopting the
spiritualistic lores, or that of the Occult Science. The
real cause is KARMA. The law of recompense constrains
them not to adopt, at least in their present life, the high
lores and the highest wisdom. They have to stop before the
veiled picture of Sais, even should someone offer to them
to unveil it. The Sceptic is instinctively frightened of the
after-death recompense and particularly of the punishments,
and therefore buries his head in the sand like an ostrich,
hoping to escape them. It is not necessary to comment
upon this ridiculous beginning.
There are a great many visible proofs that Karma
has tremendous effects fcn cases, where the path of the
human individual has to change, i.e., where the descending
curve becomes an ascending one. This Law hinders
certain people from getting acquainted with the occult and
mystic lores, it further hinders them from reading books
which they have bought themselves. It sounds strapge,
but I shall quote a concrete example among many I know*
(In some occult circles it is supposed that Karma has
only a general and an outlining effect. This is not correct.
If Karma exists, then it affects the slightest things, as these
slight things have often a big influence on the human life.
Besides, it is necessary to point out that the Universe, as
THE MEANING OF THE MYSTIC IN GENERAL 21
a live unity, has at its disposal many kinds of invisible
beings, used by the Higher Powers to influence man. This
is very comprehensively described and proved in Mulford's
The Gift of the Spirit.)
But let us revert to the case forementioned, which will best
illustrate how higher powers do not allow a man the reading
of a certain book. It is to be understood that the reading of
an actually mystical book will leave an eternal trace on the
reader's soul and can never be erased. Though it may happen
that the human soul has adopted this holy, unalterable, and
eternal Truth unwittingly and without the necessary com-
prehension, this Truth must finally bear fruit, should it
last ages. But the transcendental law, being as unalterable
as the coarse physical laws, ordains that any spiritual pro-
gress must be deserved, and nobody can penetrate certain
transcendental truths unless his time has arrived, else the
individual's future evolution would have to alter.
About the year 1890 we established the first Theosophical
Lodge, whose members used to meet on certain days.
Among others, there was a well-educated young gentleman,
speaking several
1
./. .,
-
and an enthusiastic occultist, as
far, at least, as book reading was concerned. Being very
well off, he was in a position to buy heaps of books in different
languages, which he collected and studied. By chance, the
well-known author, Gustav Meyrink, who was a member
of our Lodge, asked the young gentleman, whom we shall
henceforth name Mr. Z., if he had already acquired the
Bhagavad Ghita. As stated in the preface, the Bhagavad
Ghita is one of the most sublime mystical scripts, and was
at that time our most favourite reading and theme on
which our conversation hinged, owing to the deep mysteries
it contains. Mr. Z.'s reply was a negative one, which was
rather amazing, as he was known to buy all occult works.
Then Mr. Z. observed that he would buy the book the next
day.
A month later, Meyrink, meeting Mr. Z. at a coffee-house,
asked him if he had succeeded in getting the book. Mr.
Meyrink being of a sharp mind, came to certain conclusions,
22 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
of which later on he informed us. We then learnt that
Mr. Z. had not bought the book as yet, but was going to.
The matter dragged on for almost six months, during which
time Mr. Meyrink repeated the question on several occasions.
But Mr. Z. neither bought nor ordered the book, and finally
declared that he could not understand the reason of his not
buying the Bhagavad Ghita. We others commenced to see
through it all and wondered at the result. At last Mr.
Meyrink (who is of a rather tenacious character) brought up
the matter for discussion again :
M. : Have you at last got the Bh. G. ?
Z. : I am sorry, I forgot to order it.
M. : It does not matter, we can do it here.
Then the waiter was asked to bring writing materials, and
the letter was properly posted. We were greatly impatient
to see the development of that adventure, and presumed
that either the edition would be sold out, or the book lost
on the way, while we were quite sure that Mr. Z. would not
receive it.
But quite the contrary happened. The book finally
arrived, and Mr. Z. brought it, like a conqueror, in its paper
cover to the next meeting. We impatiently waited to hear
a partial report of what he had read, but Mr. Z. was silent
for two, three, four weeks and longer, until Meyrink at last
ventured the question: "Well, how do you 'find the
Bh. G. ?
"
Mr. Z. smiled and replied : "I am not able to
read books only stitched together, and shall therefore first
have it bound. For several weeks I have been racking my
brains about selecting a special design for its cover." Such
remarks went on for some few weeks, which was of no more
importance, as we were quite sure of Mr. Z. reading the
Bh. G. after having it bound. Some time afterwards Mr. Z.
appeared at a meeting with a joyous face, declaring he had
just ordered a design for an engraved copper cover, which
would suit a book like Bh. G.
More weeks elapsed, until the design was ready and the
whole copper cover finally done. At last Mr. Z. brought
the bound book lying in a nice case to show us. But we
THE MEANING OF THE MYSTIC IN GENERAL 33
waited to hear he had read it through and know the impres-
sion it had made on him. But, strange thing, when asked,
he always had the same answer :
"
I don't know what is the
matter with that book. I am used to reading in bed until
late in the night, or when awaking in the morning. I never
fell asleep, when reading other books, but as soon as I take
up the Bh.~G. I immediately fall into a deep sleep both at
night and in the morning. I therefore decided to take the
book to a Public Garden. There, many a time, I looked for
a quiet place, where I could enjoy undisturbed the profound
beauties of this selection of the Indian literature. When
at last I found such a place, there always appeared an
acquaintance of mine starting a conversation and so depriv-
ing me of my reading. The same happens to me during the
day ; as soon as I am going to read the Bh. G., the electric
bell starts ringing and someone comes to see me."
So finished the adventure of Mr. Z., who passed over
some years ago, without, I presume, having ever read the
Bh. G. There are many reliable witnesses of that strange
case. Why he did not read the book may be solved by the
foregoing explanation of Karma, but this does not enter
the frame of the present book.
To show of what importance this mystical book is, we
here quote the part of Chapter XVIII, verse 67, where
Krishna Himself says :
"
But this lore is not for those who cannot control them-
selves, who do not worship Me and will not hear My voice.
Nor is it for stubborn ones and blasphemers. He who
reveals this mystery of all mysteries to those who worship
Me, and who at the same time sacrifices to Me the best of
all works, will surely come to Me. There is nobody else
who could render Me a better work, than such a one. Also
none will be dearer to Me, and he who shall read this Holy
Lore, shall try to attain Me by sacrificing his knowledge.
This is My commandment. He who accepts this Lore with
Faith and without blaspheming, shall enter the realm o!
the blessed without hindrance/'
But let us revert to the question regarding the Mystic.
24 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
We have mentioned that the Mystic is a lore and a practical
Way to attain God while alive. The Godhead shall be as
desirable to a mystic as a golden treasure to a thief, whom
only a thin wall separates from it, as says Ramakrishna,
the great Brahman mystic of our time. Those only who are
possessed of such a love and such an untameable longing
for God, who are so thirsty for Him, who attain that degree
of inner spiritualization whereby the thought of God pre-
vails in them when performing any material task, when it
overpowers all their own interests and appears to them
even in their dreams can hope to reach the goal. But, in
our daily life, we are not in a position to devote ourselves
wholly to such thoughts, thinking uninterruptedly of God.
Should we do so, we should neglect our duties and would
not be able to earn our living. But, we can become Mystics
and continue to be actual Mystics, without any change in
our daily occupations. It will not be a handicap to us in
obtaining the necessary resources to remain normal members
of human society in the materialistic sense.
But how shall we arrange our life in order to make the
mystical way and the materialistic struggle harmonious ?
This is a most difficult question for Europeans and
Americans. I know a great many people well acquainted
with the occult literature and belonging to divers classes
and ranks, who know quite well the mystical Lores- and are
convinced of their sublime truths, and are quite aware that
the mystical way only is a right and safe one to attain
spiritual development and the highest in human life. Yet
they cannot decide to set out. How often have I heard
those people saying :
"
After having carried out this or
that, I will begin the mystical training." Or : "As soon
as I get rid of that or this trouble, or when I get this situa-
tion immediately I will commence."
Experience shows that no one thinking as mentioned will
ever adopt the mystical way. Similar hindrances everybody
has got. And if every one thought so, there would be no
one in the wide world determined to take up the mystical
way. Nowadays it is not possible to leave the family and
THE MEANING OF THE MYSTIC IN GENERAL 25
set out for the mountains or a desert to become a hermit,
devoting one's whole life to religious concentration and the
mystical lore in asceticism. The only one solution to this
difficult problem is to go on doing one's business, intolerable
as it may be, longing for the truth all the same. Who has
the will, can do it.
If we have the will, we shall always find plenty of time
to devote it to the mystical training. Yes, under the most
inconvenient and annoying circumstances, he, who will,
shall find moments where he will be alone and undisturbed,
should he even steal them from his night sleep to devote
himself to the thought training, which is the only way of
attaining the spiritual development.
The Mystic is consequently the desire to attain God and
to perceive God's Spirit both in the Universe and within
oneself. At the same time, it is the desire to penetrate the
mystery of the human soul, rising to the Celestial Heights.
It is the desire for redemption and the deliverance from the
material, as for the attainment of Jesus Christ, dwelling
within our Self. He literally exists in our hearts, waiting
till we raise our eyes to Him and stretching His hand
towards us to lift us up and raise us to Himself. These
conceptions are not chimerical, but actually as real as the
material world around us. Any man or woman deciding
to tread the mystical way will experience them. I repeat, it
will be experienced by any individual of either sex and of
any age, within a few weeks, for the Godhead is as much
within ourselves as without ; It irrefutably exists, and if
we endeavour to approach It by one step, It will make ten
towards us, and, once more be it said, we shall experience
both spiritual and bodily evidence with the same reality
as any of our fellow-creatures.
At all times we can immediately start on the way to
God, whatever the circumstances and our occupations be,
though we be rich or poor, of low or high rank, educated or
not, good or evil, pure or impure; we only need to be
candid and we shall attain to the summit. If not at once,
then after a shorter or longer period. Let it be remembered
26 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
that the slightest effort along this way has and will have
its effect for ages. The mere desire to approach the Spirit
will already have an influence upon our spiritual evolution,
should our soul reincarnate for one hundred thousand times.
The mere desire will bear its fruits for good and all, and will
attract new ones, higher and loftier, till the real holy
ecstasy enraptures us and we set out on our travels. Many
are afraid of treading the path, being sinful. But who can
or dare measure God's Love ? Yet the greatest sinner
starting on the way, will soon change by God's Mercy,
becoming good and pure. Therein lies the superiority of
the Mystic and its way described in this book, for its means
are not, before all else, forcible or violent, and yet lead to the
Summit all the same.
The mystical training influences our spiritual life, the
mere moments devoted to that lofty training having a
tremendous, iil!li'?'L!h unobserved effect on the growth of
our soul, which, misunderstood by us, hides itself in the
depths of our Self. Who knows what the soul is like ? Who
knows it ? Who can converse with it ? It is not necessary
for us to be cheated by hypnotic or somnambulistic
demonstrations, or by the so-called appearances of the spirits
of dead people, through mediums. All these appearances
refer to the lower principles of the human entity. The
human soul is far above them. And he, within whom the
soul is resuscitated, is quite unlike the mortal individual.
I mentioned that the Mystic's end is to know God, while
alive. This means that it is possible to attain immortality
in the material body, as declares Prentice Mulford in his
works. He who has succeeded in knowing God, when alive,
becomes a god himself, and it depends upon him to
change his mortal body into immortal by spiritual forces.
The Bible shows us two such cases, where two biblical
personages were
"
brought while alive by God to Heaven/'
There was Enoch walking with God, until he became
invisible, ie,, until he disappeared together with his body.
The other case was that of the prophet Elias, who ascended
alive to Heaven in a fiery chariot. As to other Initiates,
THE MEANING OF THE MYSTIC IN GENERAL 27
direct reports are wanting, but we do know that there were
and are many Adepts appearing from time to time on our
earth in apparently human bodies and who do not die.
Such an example, although fictitious, is Mejnour, in Lord
Lytton's Zanoni. But living examples were the Count
Cagliostro and the Count de Saint-Germain. Both came,
no one knows where from, and both disappeared, nobody
knows whither. Here I have to point out that recently the
English Occultists succeeded in proving that Cagliostro
never died under the name of Joseph Balsamo, but vanished
without leaving a trace like de Saint-Germain. Any reborn
Mystic will rather be glad to leave the mortal frame, to live
in the immortal life in spiritual realms. If necessary, he
can always enter the material plane in any human body
whatever, staying here as long as he likes. In India there
are many examples of immortality attained by Yogis,
even nowadays. It is quite obvious that those Initiates do
not find it necessary to convince a Western ignoramus of it.
From the above it is obvious that the Mystic needs the
highest piety, as without it the tremendous longing for
God is not possible. But on the other hand, there is no
need for any religion. By that I intend to say that it is
not necessary to be a member of a particular religious
system. We can be real and actual Mystics without it.
But best is to keep to that religious form which we have
been brought up in. According to Ramakrishna, the
Buddhist has to go the Buddhistic, the Brahmin the Brah-
min, the Christian the Christian way, etc. It is absurd and
unreasonable to think that the Buddhist or the Indian way
would be better than the Christian. The ideas of God
inculcated in childhood, have left in everybody unerasable
traces absorbed by our soul. These ideas have germinated,
grown, and sometimes flourished and born fruits. And then
of a sudden, we try to inoculate in this spiritual tree of
religious ideas quite other forms, rather strajsge ones, for
which another soil, another bringing-up, and another sap
were necessary. If, exceptionally, an individual, brought
up in the Christian religion, has actually succeeded in
a8 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
penetrating the mysteries of the Indian Mystic, attaining
supreme results, then his is to be looked upon as a particu-
larly exclusive case. 1
But by such cases we cannot judge in general. Though
the Indian scripts may be, in the beginning, of a certain
advantage to us as far as mystical concentration is con-
cerned, yet our religious ideas must be retained in those
forms and shapes to which we grew accustomed in our child-
hood.
It is to be remembered that every Mystic must have in
the beginning a certain Divine Ideal in a certain form
always before his eyes. And Ramakrishna says that, as
soon as the Mystic has attained the point where he deserves
it and it be possible, the Divinity will appear before him,
namely, in that shape which the Mystic imagined. That
1
I know only one case where a European really attained the higher
degrees, or even became a Yogi through the Indian training. It was the
English captain Seymour, whom Dr. Paul, a military surgeon at Benares,
whose name is well known as that of a scientist and a physiologist, men-
tions. Dr. Paul published a treatise on the philosophy of Yoga, which
caused excitement among the physicians in India and vivacious debates
between the Anglo-Indian and the native journalists. But for long he
could not reach the source of the Indian Mystic, until he got acquainted
with Capt. Seymour. I quote what Mme. Blavatsky wrote about him in
her book In the Caves and Jungles of Hindustan.
"
The history of that
man is indeed incredible and was very popular among the Indjan Army
about twenty years ago. Capt. Seymour, a very rich and well-educated
officer, turned Brahmin, intending to become a Yogi. He was therefore
declared to be a lunatic and sent back to England as a prisoner. But on
the way Seymour escaped, disguised as a Sanyasin (an Indian Initiate)
and returned to India. He was caught once more and imprisoned in
London. But, in spite of being strictly watched, he disappeared the third
day. Later on, his friends met him at Benares and the General Governor
received a letter from him from the Himalayas. In his letter Capt.
Seymour pointed out that, though having been kept in a lunatic asylum,
lie was never insane, and advised him not to interfere in matters not
concerning anyone but himself. At the same time he declared that he
had firmly decided never to return to civilized society.
'
I am a Yogi,'
he wrote,
'
and hope to be able to attain my life's purpose before I die,
and become a Radja Yogi/ After that letter he was not troubled any
more, and since then no European, except Dr. Paul, has seen him. It is
said that Dr. Paul was in uninterrupted correspondence with him and
visited him twice, under the pretext of botanic excursions to the Hima-
layas." Thus Mme. Blavatsky.
THE MEANING OF THE MYSTIC IN GENERAL 29
Initiate says that the Divinity has a countless number of
forms, but is also without them. (Max Miiller, Rama-
krishna, his Life and Sayings.)
In one of the foregoing sections I mentioned that even
an impure person or sinner can set out on the mystical way
and he will have results. This refers to a great Mystery
described by Jacob Bohme, in the words :
"
The Choice
of the Divine Mercy." It means that God may descend in
His mercy to the greatest of sinners and may raise him to
Himself. The reader will find many an example of it in the
Old and the New Testament. This is of importance to
know and remember, as the biggest fault of our to-day's
occultists is the fact that they are concentrating all their
will and force on the so-called purification, as provided by
the Indian Mystic Lore. It is obvious that the Christian
Mystic demands from its disciple piety, to have pure
thoughts and carry out only pure deeds, but remarks :
"
If thou are not pure, sacrifice thy sins, thy vices, and the
rest with a childlike heart to thy Lord and thou wilt be
purified by His Mercy." The proof that the Indian Mystic
does not refute this is the Chapter IX, 30, of the Bhagavad
Ghita, which says :
"
Should even a great sinner revere Me
only and love Me above all, he is to be considered a good
one, as he will attain the truth. Such a one will soon set
out on the right path and shall attain the eternal peace.
Be convinced, Khauntedja, that he who reveres Me in
truth shall not perish, for he who takes refuge in Me, O
Partha, treads the highest path, be he a woman, a husband-
man, or a servant, and should he have started in sins."
A further proof is the Yoga Sutra, by Patanjali, trans-
lated by Manilal N. Dvivedi. It says on page 14, section I,
XXIII,
"
Or by devotion to Ishvara." The commentary
adds :
"
The Parasamadhi, i.e., the unconscious concentra-
tion (being the way to the resurrection) can also be attained
by another method, as the word
'
Or
'
indicates. Ishvara
means the Inner Divinity. The devotion not only means
the spiritual submission, but a perfect sinking and renuncia-
tion of one's Self. The most important cause of the hindrance
30 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
to the attainment of Samadhi1
is materialism (raga), which
affects the changes of the thinking principle. This
materialism is caused by our presumption of being suffi-
ciently strong to secure the good and evade the evil. (Or,
in other words, that we believe to be able of our own will
to get rid of our vices and to become pure). If we give
up this incorrect idea, the result will be a perfect independ-
ence, which is the next step to Samadhi. By the resignation
of our selves, we shall submit to the Divine Will, so that
His Will only be done, and then we have to throw all things
upon His mercy be they good or evil or indifferent things,
so that He can do with us whatever He likes. The firm
conviction that any of our deeds happen of His own will,
without regard to the result, means the real devotion to
Ishvara (i.e., to Jesus Christ), being the way and the door to
Samadhi."
As to the conception of the so-called
"
pure
"
or
"
moral
"
life, it is to be observed that our ideas of it are
quite different to those, for instance, in India, where, as
known, do exist to this day really Holy Ones. But what is
Holiness ? The word holy is derived from the German
"
heilig
"
and
"
hell," i.e., clear and shining. It is known
from myths and legends that Holy Ones often really shone,
particularly around their heads, as is to be seen on the
images of Saints, not only of Christian Initiates, 'but also
of Chinese, Indian, Egyptian, etc. Many occultists see
therein something else, namely, the human aura owned by
all men, though invisible. The shining of the Saints is
quite different, being the heavenly light, which has nothing
in common with the animal body of a man. Besides, any
living being possesses that aura, not only man. In
addition to the conception of shining the word holy contains
other conceptions, as, e.g., God's Son, the Divine Substance
being the Light, the Fire and the Brightness. It further
means the Supreme Piety and Purity. If an Indian Yogi,
1 Samadhi means the mystical ecstasy, whereby the Mystic unifies
himself with his inner Divinity. Only in this state can the resurrection
and initiation be attained.
THE MEANING OF THE MYSTIC IN GENERAL 31
treading the forcible way, makes himself a Saint (as he
presumes), there is the Divine contribution all the same, as
the Divinity has revealed Itself to him and made him a
Saint. Though a man may presume that he has attained
it by himself, yet it is not so. Nobody can make himself
Holy, this can only be done by God. As already mentioned,
there are -deceiving Lores in existence, advising their
disciples to become Saints first, as the theosophical school
prescribes. They say that only then can one set out on the
practical training of the mystical concentration. He who
speaks so ignores the fact that he begins with the end. For
those who are Saints, or nearly so, do not need the pre-
liminary training, as they at least partially know God and
their souls are uninterruptedly united with Him. (Vide
Miiller, Ramakrishna, his Life and Sayings.) The afore-
mentioned schools teach that those who are practising the
concentration, without a foregoing purification, will become
mediums, or obsessed, or fall into the Black Magic. I would
like to see an example. One of the best known authors
declaring that the Black Magic Schools are using the Holy
Serpent Power for excitement of the sexual centres is the
Theosophist Leadbeater (see his work, The Inner Life,
page 443 and further). This distinctly shows his ignorance
of the Serpent Power and its activity, and that he has no
notion of its arousing and its manifestations. Another
writer of this kind is the American occultist, J. Pryse, who
says in his script, The Apocalypse Unsealed, that :
"
The
mere dabbler in pseudo-occultism will only degrade his
intellect with the puerilities of psychism, become the very
prey of the evil influence of the phantasmal world, or ruin
himself by the foul practices of phallic sorcery as
thousands of misguided people are doing even in this
age." (p. 62.)
Which is another example of a fantastic assertion, which
cannot be proved.
There is no doubt whatever that certain people would
nowadays use even the holiest things for the satis-
faction of their hobbies. But luckily this is not possible
3* MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
with pure powers, and to the impure ones they have not
the key.
Avalon, the author of the work, The Serpent Power, whom
we have already mentioned, and who has lived many long
years in India, is continually translating Sanskrit scripts
into English, and is in constant touch with celebrated
pandits and Yogis. He says on page 40 of his book : "I
have, however, never heard Indians refer to this matter,
probably because by reason of the antecedent discipline
required of those who would undertake this Yoga, the
nature of their practice, and the aim they have in view,
such a possibility does not come under consideration. The
Indian who practises this or any other kind of spiritual
Yoga, ordinarily does so not on account of a curious interest
in occultism, or with a desire to gain
'
astral
'
or similar
experiences. His attitude in this as in all other matters
is essentially a religious one, based on a firm faith and
inspired by a desire for the union with God, which is
liberation. Those who do practise magic of the kind
mentioned have recourse to the Prayoga, which leads to
Nayika Siddhi, whereby commerce is had with female
spirits. The process in this work described is one upon
the path of liberation, and has nothing to do with sexual
black magic."
With true Jesuitic perseverance the Western theosophists
declare that occultists, theosophists, and especially Mystics
have to renounce sexual intercourse. The Mystic must not
lead an impure and depraved life, but it is to be seen from
the example I am going to quote that complete celibacy
is only to be observed in certain periods. Of course, it is
better to be chaste, but not essential. The Indian scripts,
disfigured by Western ignorance, tell us quite the opposite.
According to the Indian idea, the greatest sin is anger. And
all those who tread the mystical way have experienced the
truth of this. But the already quoted Avalon mentions
that the Hatha-Yogi (Hatha-Yoga is the strictest form of
Indian Yogas) has to observe chastity, until he *Aas quite
mastered the prescribed position (asana), that is the bodily
THE MEANING OP THE MYSTIC IN GENERAL 33
position in which the breathing and the concentration
training are to be made.
The Yogi Swatmaram Swami in his book, Hatha-Yoga
Pra&ipika, says on page 24, chap. I, verse 61 :
"
In the
beginning the Yogi has to avoid bad society, sitting at the
fire in winter, sexual intercourse, and long walkings, bathing
in the early morning, fasting and hard labour." The com-
mentary adds :
"
It is to be understood that the aforesaid
is to be avoided by the Yogi at the time of his training.
As soon as he masters the training, he may undertake long
walks, sitting at the fire in winter, and having intercourse
with his wife."
The Yogatattwa Upanishada says (verse 90) :
"
The
Hatha-Yoga bestows suph personal beauty on the Yogi
that all women will desire him, but they must be resisted.
In the early stages of the Hatha-Yoga the heat goes upwards,
the penis shrinks, and the sexual powers are largely lost.
Cohabitation with emission of semen at this stage is like to
prove fatal. But a Siddha (i.e., he who has attained
liberation) regains his sexual power and can exercise it.
For if fire and the other elements cannot hurt him, what
can a woman do ?
"
I have already stated that, for instance, the Jewish
Adepts, as it is known from the Bible, and surely they were
of the highest degree, were Holy Ones, having, however,
wives and children. Those to whom the above facts are
not sufficient, simply blind themselves to the truth.
It does not, however, follow from the forementioned that
the Mystic can devote himself to sexual debauch. This
cannot be compatible with the mystic way and must be
renounced.
There were and yet are mystical schools throughout the
world emphasizing chastity on account of the reasons
mentioned. But chastity is not a condition to the attain-
ment of the highest stages of the mystical evolution. With
this the celebrated Adept Kerning also agrees, as is to be
seen in his works. This sticking to sexual purity of the
Western schools has another cause. The theosophical way,
34 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
as kid down by Mme. Blavatsky, has deviated from its
original purpose, namely, the attainment of God. It is no
more a mystical lore, but a magical. This is to be seen from
the writings of their leaders, proclaiming that the essential
aim is to obtain clairvoyance and before all the visiting of
the astral realm in full consciousness. This, however, is the
characteristic feature of Magic. Though it often occurs on
the mystical way, yet it is never of importance. The
modern theosophists intend to obtain the so-called
"
siddhis," i.e., magical mental powers, and then the union
with God. The latter is quite left out in some of the recent
works. Instead of it they set in the first place the com-
munication with Adepts.
The Mystic has no desire for such powers and qualities,
but treads the path to God like a child fully trusting
his Father. He goes on simply with pure love and ignores
dangers, which he neither takes notice of nor is afraid of,
just as an unwitting child would not fear tigers. The
Mystic, therefore, goes safely and nothing can happen to
him, should he even commit errors, provided he relies on
God and not on any invisible Adepts. There are, however,
individuals who know everything better, though they have
never practised the Mystic and cannot consequently
understand
"
the live faith.'
1
I have over a twenty-years' experience and have often
written about the erroneous and sometimes dangerous
training we were carrying through, but as we have always
been filled up with pure faith, we have stepped as trustful
children without getting hurt. He who has fears of be-
coming a medium or of turning to Black Magic, or of his
nerves or brain being affected, he shall never attain any-
thing. The human imagination is especially, as far as the
occult science is concerned, unlimited, so that those who
have just tasted the occult lore consider themselves leaders
and are waiting for the crowd's applause.
He who fears to become a prey to mediumship or Black
Magic (both are quite foolish ideas and suppositions, as it
can never happen through the concentration training, but
THE MEANING OF THE MYSTIC IN GENERAL 35
only when using magical mirrors, or when preparing
oneself for the excursion to the astral plane, or by invoking
tatvic powers by tantra vowels) has, in a word, not the faith
wanted by the Mystic and he shall never be able to carry
on any practice whatever. In short, such a one is not sure
of himself. He who has attained God, or is on that way,
will gradually get all these powers additionally. It has
not been said in vain :
"
But seek ye first the Kingdom of
God, and his righteousness ; and all these things shall be
added unto you."
As the theosophical and the anthroposophical ways of
to-day are identical with Magic, they first lead to the
attainment of powers, provided the student has succeeded
in obtaining the highest possible moral purity. Otherwise
he would be exposed to great dangers on the astral plane.
Therein lies the difference between the Mystic and the
modern Theosophy, which, however, is not understood by
the theosophists. On the other hand, the middle-age
theosophy or the Divine Wisdom is identical with the
modern Mystic. Its representatives were the Rosicrucians
and in olden times the Gnostics.
He who like a child, though he be not pure, is longing for
God and sets out on the way to Him by the practice I am
going to describe, he shall soon alter his former life or at
least renounce his chief vices. It will take place, provided
the student considers the Mystic his principal aim in his
lifetime and never discontinues the practice. But this altera-
tion will not occur of his own, but of the Divine Will. The
Divinity will put in his way insurmountable obstacles when
the student is about to commit his old faults and sins ; in
a word, he will be led and warned, and so obtain purifica-
tion in a slow but sure manner. Many hundreds of such
cases are known to me from the lives of students who are
personal friends of mine.
Besides, the purification, as prescribed by the Indian
Yogas, cannot be carried through in Europe, for this purifi-
cation not only refers to deeds, but also to ideas and our
thinking principle, and the circumstances which we are
36 MANS HIGHEST PURPOSE
living in, especially since the war, are mentally poisoning,
and those who pretend living as the Yogas prescribe are
either hypocrites or deceiving themselves. An exception
occurs in those living in solitude or living in monasteries.
All Indian books treating of the Yoga practice demand
above all from the student that he retire to a solitary place
before beginning to practise, this having its good reason.
One of the sad proofs that life in Europe or the U.S.,
in the centre of the modern civilization, is repugnant to the
Yoga practice, is the pitiable fate of the well-known Indian
author Swami Vivekananda, a former disciple of the Indian
Adept Ramakrishna. After the Adept's death, Vive-
kananda got into touch with Indian theosophists and was
sent on a lecturing tour to the U.S. The result of those
lectures are his well-known writings, as Karma Yoga, Raja
Yoga, etc. But during his stay in the States something
happened which nobody expected. The fair sex fell in love
with the smart Indian to that extent that it proved fatal
to him. He was called back to India, where he soon died
of grief for the lost Yoga practice.
It is quite natural that the progress of a Mystic is the
faster the purer his life is. But to reach that effect pre-
ceding dispositions of Karma are necessary, and therefore
this cannot be applied to all students.
But there is yet another touchstone to discern all untrue
occultists by, and especially those pretending to lead a pure
life or boasting of having attained to a high degree on the
occult path. It would suffice if they would explain mys-
teries. Of course not those described in books, but such as
are experienced by the mystic student, when he has attained
a certain degree of the inner evolution. Every student, I
repeat every, who treads the mystical way a longer time,
will unveil the lesser and the greater mysteries but only
for himself, and will never disclose them to profane people.
Of course, the students among themselves can discourse of
their revelations and do so.
Those unveiled mysteries, which have never been pub-
lished or publicly revealed, are the true proofs of the mystical
THE MEANING OF THE MYSTIC IN GENERAL 37
way to its students. He who knows them is a Mystic and
has obtained them by his inner life, which he has awakened
within himself. The mysteries must be personally ex-
perienced, and are not phantasmagoria or mere mental
states, as profane people often presume. They are a
reality and identical with all students. As it has been
already stated, the student never knows just what is to
be expected and therefore any auto-suggestion is excluded.
Besides, owing to the nature of these experiences, an auto-
suggestion could not be possible at all. These experiences
repeating themselves innumerable times in different ways,
will show the student the correctness of the mystical way.
The Initiates always used to and do speak and write in
allegories and symbols. Therefore any book talking in
philosophical and inflated phrases is far away from the
Mystic. The symbolical teachings of the true Mystics are
now often imitated by insipid sentences containing bor-
rowed allegories. The Mystic will immediately perceive
their untrue origin when comparing one with the other.
There are plenty of such pseudo-mystical writings in
modern literature. All perceptions talking to the outward
brain and trying to analyse scientifically the mysteries are
worthless. The mysteries cannot be explained or under-
stood by presumptions and suppositions :
"
The modern
reader being accustomed to everything except mystical
thinking, is at a loss to understand a mystical book, unless
he has experienced the mysteries within his Self. A layman
has to put aside all forms and perceptions of this world and
concentrate himself on quite different ideas, which are not
abstract, but to be personally experienced. No book can
supply these events, unless the reader possesses such an
inclination." (Prof. Wolfgang Schultz, The Documents of
the Gnosis, Introduction, page 3.)
This author also mentions the fact that all Mystics and
all their disciples understand each other, should they have
lived at any time and anywhere, lor the allegories and
the symbols of the spiritual life have always been and are
quite the same, and each Mystic must have experienced
38 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
them for himself. He therefore knows them and does not
want an explanation. But to profane people they have
been, are, and shall always be sealed by seven seals,
It is manifest from what I have said that our ideal on
the mystical way is to be either Jesus Christ or any holy
entity of the Christian religion. It may be the Creator
Himself in some form or other, or the Holy Mother, or any
great prophet or Adept. But this idea must distinctly
correspond with our religious feeling. This is of a great
importance.
He who cannot decide as to the religious form for his
meditation, has but to address a prayer to the Divinity
before going to bed, and perseveringly ask for the solution
of his question. Of a surety, he shall shortly receive the
answer in dream or through inner presentation, according
to which he then shall act.
In this work it is not my task to explain the theories
leading to the mystical practice. I have mentioned in the
beginning several books to that effect and will yet do so in
my next chapters. He who has within himself the feeling
to look for the truth, for the light and the Divinity is
referred to the works of Kerning or Bo-Yin-Ra and the
Old and New Testaments, to bring his soul into harmony
and the right mood. Afterwards he shall commence with
a candid heart and with devotion to the Divine Will 'with
the practice described in later chapters. The Mystic is not
a game and dare not be profaned by the curious, who would
but learn its depths to boast of and ridicule it. He wi$o
sets out with such a resolution will attain nothing, though
it will not do him any harm. The Mystic is not like Magic
or the other occult ways, unmercifully punishing those wbo
set out from mere curiosity, or for the attainment of super-
natural powers.
These supernatural powers are first acquired by the ocailf*
tist and are the most poisonous plants and serpents on his
way, and as soon as he is nearing the summit they will draw
him to the precipice.
While the mystical way is quite a different one* He who
THE MEANING OF THE MYSTIC IN GENERAL 39
has started with an insincere heart will not endure the
inner pressure very long and will soon give it up. All the
same it will not hurt him, as the slightest longing for the
union with God will some day bear fruit and cannot harm
anybody, just as the child cannot be harmed when longing
for its father.
Someone has compared the Mystic with a leap into the
darkness, as the Mystic has to resign arguing and reasoning
and has to devote himself solely to feeling and to his heart,
without any after-thought. Therefore the occultists of
other directions, deceiving the layman by their lofty philo-
sophical theories, lift themselves above the Mystic, pre-
suming that the renunciation of logical reasoning will bring
disaster to its disciples. They think the Mystic will forget
logical thinking entirely and that this habit will affect
his daily life. Such a false perception can only originate
in those who never dared to undergo any practice. Besides,
the reader shall judge for himself from the following pages.
CHAPTER II
THE MYSTICAL SCHOOLS
IT
is not my task to relate the history of the Mystic.
My aim is, as the title of this book indicates, to show
forth the practical side of the Mystic, especially of the
Christian, the evolution of which has been influenced for
thousands of years by the different religious forms, maybe
even those from the Atlanteans, the Egyptians, the Baby-
lonians, then from the Greek and Roman Mystics up to the
Mystic of the Greek Church influenced by the Kabbala, the
Indian lore, etc., from the so-called Gnostics up to the Roman
Catholic. From all those sources the modern Christian
Mystic is derived, of which the file-leader remains J. B.
Kerning.
The mystical schools exist in many secret societies, of
which we cannot take notice here, as it would lead too far
from our purpose. It will suffice to say that in the -ideal
sense of the word a mystical school was formed by Jesus
Christ with His apostles and disciples. The mystical teach-
ing was propounded in Egypt, then in the philosophical
schools of Greece and the Roman Empire, as in those
of the Neo-platonists and in many orders of the Middle
Ages. The Hebrews possessed mystical or prophetical
schools.
But our ideal is the school of Christ. How did Christ
select His disciples ? We know that when meeting a man
unknown to Him it was always either a fisherman or a
worker, in a word an uneducated man He of a sudden
asked him to follow Him. And the man, moved by some
inner power, followed Him without word and became His
40
THE MYSTICAL SCHOOLS 41
disciple. The Gospel nowhere tells us how the ,
Highest
Leader taught His disciples in the practical Mystic, of which
He was the most sublime representative. We are unaware
whether His disciples practised any particular system.
In the Gnostic scripts, however, as in the so-called supple-
mentary Gospel (the Apocrypha) are certain references indi-
cating that Jesus Christ celebrated certain rituals together
with His disciples, but these have not been incorporated
in the Christian Church. Many such examples are to be
found in the Gnostic scripts Pistis Sophia and in the book
Jeu.
But of that later. I would only mention that Jesus
Christ, as the Highest Leader, accepted disciples and led
them spiritually.
The same happens in the mystical schools to this day.
Among people who have devoted their lives to spiritual
evolution is always to be found one who has attained to
such a degree of inner perception, and development of
mind, that he is eligible as a teacher of all those who
are ready for it. It is necessary to point out that the
teacher cannot accept every student, as there are certain
spiritual laws under which both the teacher and the dis-
ciple must be in the same spiritual sphere, i.e., in the same
Divine Ray. There are seven Rays, according to the
Eastern Lore. The teachers or the leaders of the lower
degrees are supposed to be occasionally allowed to accept
disciples of a different sphere, but first the spiritual connec-
tion is to be attained which of course is unnecessary if
both are of the same sphere. The attainment of such a
connection is a great sacrifice.
In all mystic and occult schools it is stated that any
disciple having attained a certain degree of inner evolu-
tion will find his leader. By the latter is meant a developed
Mystic in the human body, who has attained that degree
of spiritual development which enables him to lead
others on the right and safe way. In the mystical and
occult books leaders are also mentioned not living OB the
material plane, but inhabiting higher realms and descending
42 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
to us from time to time, materializing, to be seen by the
outward eye, and leading their wards. There is a further
mention of the Highest Leader, i.e., the Divine Spark or
the Divine Self latent within all men.
Each mystical school has its own form according to the
sphere to which its leader and students belong. Their
purpose, however, is always the same, namely the so-called
enlightenment, preceded by
"
the mystical death
"
and
"
the re-birth." But these are subjects I am going to discuss
in the following chapters.
He who through his longing has reached that degree
where he commences involuntarily to act on the higher
planes, is somehow broadcasting his spiritual waves in the
neighbourhood of the leaders, and then it always happens
that the student who has patiently waited long years for
one leader, or has commenced the right practice without
one, is called on by several at one time. It is of great
importance to point out this circumstance, for in that
moment the student has moved the spiritual world and
drawn near to himself leaders of all kinds. Now it is up
to him to select. There comes a leader of the pure mystical
school, one of the occult, another of the magic, and it may
also happen of the black-magic. Whoever they may be, it
is certain that there always come at least two leaders
offering the student their services. Usually one is from
above, the other from below, and it is up to the student to
decide on the right one.
As the question of the leader is one of the greatest im-
portance, and the neophytes of the Mystic and the Occult
Lores do not know, in spite of all book-reading, how to
secure a leader, I think it to be of use to show of my own
experience how to find one, or better, how to act to have
him come, for we cannot force a leader to accept us as his
disciples, should we even be personally acquainted with
him and know him to be capable of the mystical guidance.
The leader must have
"
the inner word,
11
i.e., he must hear
his inward Master's voice, who infallibly tells him whom he
may accept or not for his disciple. Until the student is
THE MYSTICAL SCHOOLS 43
sufficiently prepared it would be impossible to influence the
leader in any way, as the latter cannot do anything unless
his
"
inner word
"
ordains it. As for the leaders in Magic,
there are different laws, and they are looking themselves
for apt disciples.
After the establishment of the Theosophical Lodge at
Prague, named'" The Lodge of the Blue Star,
1 '
and founded
in 1891, we used to have regular meetings at G. Meyrink's
flat. By every means we endeavoured to attain some
progress in occult science, especially trying to secure a
mystical leader. I am stating all details, so the reader may
judge for himself how results are to be obtained. In the
occult circles of to-day (at least here in Prague) there is
no more of that solemnity and zeal which prevailed in our
small circle, though the membership hardly amounted to
ten persons. But their zeal and enthusiasm overwhelmed
all obstacles whatsoever. To our reading belonged the
works of Mabel Collins, of Mme. Blavatsky, Sinnett's Esoteric
Teaching, Bulwer's Zanoni and The Strange Story, as well as
Kerning's works, a whole range of English works, and the
old German literature of the Mystic procured by G. Meyrink.
In our free hours we were meeting at a coffee-house where
we exchanged our ideas, talking about books read, and
making propositions as to the different practices each of us
should carry through.
It is necessary to mention that after having read the
works of J. B. Kerning, The Key to the Spiritual World and
The Way to Immortality, we presumed that for our further
evolution we needed a leader and tried everything possible
to find one. We observed the Indian instructions and
resigned all worldly pleasures, renouncing smoking and alco-
holic drinks, becoming even vegetarians. That we carried
on for two and a half years, but without any result what-
ever.
At the same time we looked to control our thoughts, and
when we read in a book of any practice which we considered
to be right it was generally an Indian practice we did
not shirk starting it, sitting long hours in the Yogi position,
44 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
and practising the breathing trainings, in which one
of us, Mr. R., attained proficiency. When we obtained
Rama Prasada's book Nature's Finer Forces we immediately
commenced carrying out the practice described therein. As
to the Pranayama, i.e., the retaining of breath by the Indian
method, it has not, according to my experience, the result
of which the modern authors speak. Either they are writing
without having experienced it for themselves, or it is a self-
deception. It is quite evident that there are people who
have no notion at all of the mystical or occult practices,
and whose business is the retaining of the breath for a
longer time, and who of course have not obtained by it the
slightest result in Occultism. To them firstly belong the
musicians of the different wind-instruments, and then glass-
blowers, and finally the pearl-fishers who reach enormous
records in retaining the breath. But none of them can even
boast of perfect health, much less of having attained some
occult powers or qualities.
From the above it is manifest that the mere suppression
of breath, without concentration, has not that influence
to which unscrupulous writers of American sensationalism
and other charlatan practices refer.
Reverting to our former society, I have to point out that
unwittingly we were often carrying out very dangerous
practices indeed but none of us was ever hurt by same.
It generally happened that, when somebody started such a
practice, before long we learned
"
by chance
"
that the way
in question was dangerous, and the particular member of
our society immediately gave it up.
Therefore I do affirm that he who strives hard from pure
love to approach the Divinity can never run into danger,
as he is treading an unknown path on which he hopes to
find God.
It is a different thing if the individual commences a prac-
tice, in spite of knowing it to be dangerous. Then, the
circumstances being quite reversed, the punishment may
come very soon indeed.
From the wrong practices may emanate :
THE MYSTICAL SCHOOLS 45
1. Obsession.
2. A grave heart defect.
3. Awakening of slumbering base desires and vices.
4. Disastrous influence of the astral realm, which may
lead to the mediumship by uncontrollable beings. (It is an
obsession of a higher degree, whereby beings of more ad-
vanced spheres take hold of the medium, keeping same in
their power and not allotting any spiritual progress.)
5. Madness.
6. Lighter or graver degrees of nervous disease.
But as stated, none of our circle was ever hurt, for we
ourselves were filled with a sacred longing for the Divinity
and the way to It.
Besides, we were assiduously corresponding in all direc-
tions. As soon as a book was anywhere published, the
author of which we supposed
"
to know something," we
immediately wrote to him, provided that the contents of
the book indicated that the writer should have some higher
knowledge of the Mystic or Occultism. In the majority of
cases we were disappointed, as the answer was not a satis-
fying one. Sometimes we succeeded in getting into touch
with persons dispersed over the world who had very
likely attained at least a certain degree of the occult evolu-
tion, and professed to have an occult leader and to have
developed some of the occult powers ; but we never suc-
ceeded in getting into touch with their leaders. Such efforts
always failed.
Then of course we did not know the cause thereof, but
later on we learned that there are higher powers influencing
the lives of all, and prohibiting such connections. The
persons aforementioned were all disciples of leaders of Magic,
and that way was not destined for us. Once we got into
direct touch with an English magician. He was over eighty
years old and published his own journal entitled The Magic
Minor. He possessed an enormous energy in spite of living
46 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
in great simplicity and poverty. His journal he composed
and printed himself and sold it at a very low price. From
the contents of the journal it was manifest that he had
attained certain results in ceremonial Magic. In particular
he was able to evoke the different forces dwelling in old
trees. Some of our fellow-members did not hesitate to start
the concentration practice, as advised by the old English-
man. The concentration referred to the Pole Star and was
combined with the evocation of a certain spiritual Brother-
hood, of which the Pole Star was both the symbol and the
force-giving centre. All those of us who carried on that
practice obtained identical visions confirming that there
was something in that matter. But in time we were warned
by our Viennese friends to abstain from that training, which
was very dangerous.
So we continued our investigations. As then the famous
Tantric book of Rama Prasad, Nature's Finer Forces, was
published, we started the training described therein, but
without obtaining any results. We further practised dif-
ferent Indian concentrations, but only for a certain period,
so that it did not hurt us. Not being advised nor helped
by anybody, we could take refuge only in books which we
acquired.
Nevertheless we were not quite forsaken, as some members
of the Theosophical School of Vienna were in touch with us
and advised us by letter. Of course they were clever enough
not to prescribe any training, but they at least watched
us. As we were candid in our doings and always com-
municated to them the kind of practice started by
our members, the Viennese Mystics warned us in time,
indicating why the respective practice was not the right
one.
I have already mentioned that for some time we were
carrying out certain ascetic practices. But all was in vain.
A similar result was to be seen in Vienna, where one of the
occultists had been fasting for fourteen years, being emaci-
ated to the bones. At the same time he was sleeping on a
ladder, carrying out different ascetic practices, a descrip-
THE MYSTICAL SCHOOLS 47
tion of which is unnecessary. But all without any result
whatever. Therefore after a practice of two and a half
years we gave it up. Nobody, therefore, can persuade me
of such training being crowned with success, unless carried
out under quite different circumstances and in a quite
different milieu than in Europe. After such experiences I
cannot help looking down upon the so-called occultists who
boast of a would-be ascetic life, and of having attained by
it to clairvoyance or even to the setting out in full conscious-
ness for the astral plane, and who dare to give prescriptions
as to practice to their acquaintances. Such a deception
of trustful persons longing for the truth will certainly be
severely punished, being a conscious encroachment upon
the transcendental laws, which unite the leader with the
disciple. He who sins against this law commits a sin greater
than the parricide, being a
"
false prophet
"
and sinning
against the Holy Spirit. Besides, there is a safe way to
unmask those who pretend to live on the astral plane.
There are three questions which can only be answered by
those who are indeed living in the astral realm in full con-
sciousness. Another proof is that anyone able to live there
consciously is able of his own will to appear to anybody far
away from his home. Finally the real magician visiting
the realm consciously can evoke material and physical phe-
nomena analogous to those produced in the spiritualistic
sittings, i.e., such as are to be seen and heard by everybody.
It is therefore very easy indeed to get to the bottom of such
tales. Subterfuges that such demonstrations are not allowed
are of no value. I have plenty of proofs that anybody living
on our plane may do it, especially if the necessity arise of
convincing others. The best proof of this is Mme. H. P.
Blavatsky and the phenomena of that kind produced by
her. She was never at a loss to prove her powers before
the greatest of sceptics.
Reverting to our scheme, I would mention that three
members of our circle (I was not among them) entered the
so-called
"
esoteric circle
"
of the Theosophical Society of
London, the leader of which was Mrs. Annie Besant. We
48 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
always used to carry out both the self-chosen and the pre-
scribed practice with the greatest assiduity and sincerity,
and therefore we were soon aware that the practice of the
London Society was quite wrong and not suitable for
Europeans. If, in spite of it, some members of the London
Society with the honourable exception of Mme. Blavatsky
and Mabel Collins pretend having developed in themselves
clairvoyance or other occult abilities, I doubt it, as it is
known to me that, for instance, the greatest of the so-called
clairvoyants does not possess that ability himself, but uses
instead of himself a well-known medium. In spite of this
fact, the Theosophical Society did not deem it necessary to
publish the truth, and goes on declaring the member in
question to be a real clairvoyant. It is manifest that such
circumstances do not help to increase the confidence in the
leadership of that Society. Those who are interested in
details are referred to C. G. Harrison's The Transcendental
Universe.
After an assiduous investigation of three years Mr. R.
made up his mind to carry out an imagination practice. I
shall describe that practice in detail, but at the same time
I warn everybody against it, as the result of it may be a
lunatic asylum if not something worse. In the In .;!:,: \
:
\\\:
the student imagines with closed eyes some common objects
such as white pictures on a dark background or vice versa,
concentrating his thoughts as perfectly as possible. After
having succeeded in seeing them quite distinctly before
himself for a certain time, he proceeds to more complicated
objects, as for instance flowers, divers vessels, books, etc.
Having obtained a considerable success in the above-men-
tioned practice, the student may continue doing it with
open eyes and then he will have interesting but very
dangerous results. He, for instance, imagines a closed
china-case and it lies before him looking like a real object.
By his will the experimenter may open the case and take
out of it different objects, according to his liking, and may
then replace them in the said box.
In our case, it happened that Mr. R. went so far that he
THE MYSTICAL SCHOOLS 49
actually cut his finger with a knife he imagined in the way
described. The imagined knife must have materialized
itself for a while. Further, he burnt his finger in the flame
of a candle standing in a candlestick, both being creations
of his phantasy. This was not all. Our friend finally suc-
ceeded in imagining himself in the garden, while he was
walking in full consciousness in his room. And he actually
saw himself in the garden, where the sun was shining and
the birds were singing.
To many of my readers the above description will appear
improbable or exaggerated. Those I refer to Prof. Stauden-
meier's work Die Magie als experimentelle Naturwissenschaft.
This book was published eighteen years after the imagination
practice of our fellow-member. The author, a sceptic and
a materialist, describes therein his experience obtained by
the imaginative training, referring not only to the sight but
also to the hearing and the other senses. By this means
he obtained certain magical powers, but it is important
that his results were identical with those of our Mr. R.
The author himself confesses the enormous danger con-
nected with such a practice.
But that practice did not last long enough to do any
harm to Mr. R. Soon afterwards he left for Vienna to
boast of his results to his friends in the Theosophical Society,
who, as already stated, were advising us. But they received
his communication with a grave and perplexed mien and
told him that that practice was to be considered one of the
most dangerous. He was not told more. Mr. R. returned
home, but a few days afterwards he received a wire from
Vienna with the following contents :
"
Come at once, the
way is open."
That wire was a remarkable event of great importance to
all of us. It meant that the occult or even the mystic way
should be opened to Mr. R., and then we all perceived that
our Viennese friends had been in touch with an Adept or a
Leader. Of course, during our intercourse of several years,
we had thought so, but nobody had ever mentioned it.
This was quite right, as such matters dare not be discussed
50 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
except among Initiates. And no one having a real leader
will ever boast of it to others, should they even be of the
same mode of thinking. I am pointing out this circumstance
to my readers, as silence in this matter, as in all others, is
an essential part of the occult evolution. He who cannot
keep silent and would like to have all said or written or
even published such a one does not understand the most
primitive and fundamental laws of occultism. In the books
it is possible to say very much or nearly all, but not so
openly as to be understood by anybody without the neces-
sary preparation. The Initiates always spoke in allegories
and symbols, and Jesus Christ Himself declared that He
spoke in parables, as the majority could not grasp the naked
Truth and should not do so (Mark iv).
As the profoundest mysteries are for the chosen ones, so
also are the lesser mysteries for those destined to learn them.
In the next chapter I will deal with this in full, but I feat
that it will escape the attention of the majority of my
readers.
But let us revert to Mr. R. and his wire. By the next
train he again left for Vienna and returned the Collowinp
evening. I remember quite well how we went in a body to
the station, all in great excitement to meet our friend.
When at last we perceived him, we were very much dis-
appointed at his sad mien. After a frugal dinner he com-
menced to talk. We then learnt that in fact some members
of the Theosophical Society had a leader. But it was a
mystical leader and he led the Christian way. To us, who
had been presuming that the only correct way was either
the Indian Mystic or an occult training, it was a come-
down.
I have described the above to show first the history ol
occult investigation in Prague, and then to show the
reader how individuals get into touch with the transcen-
dental world, which way is like a labyrinth and needs
patience. Of course, it is not at all analogous to the others.
There are persons destined by the Karma to find a leader
without trouble. But such are exceptions. Then there are
THE MYSTICAL SCHOOLS 51
others setting out on the mystical practice without any
leader at all, yet attaining high degrees all the same ; for
since the latter years of the past century another cycle has
commenced, when the entrance to the spiritual realm has
been made easier.
CHAPTER III
THE LEADER AND HIS RELATION TO HIS DISCIPLE
TO
appease the curiosity of my readers, I must yet
mention that the leader in question gradually
accepted nearly all members of our circle for his
disciples, having led them for long years. As to that leading,
I shall revert to it in detail in Chapter VII. On his death
he left us a certain message from the Higher Realms for
those who were filled with the same longing as we were.
That message is of great importance, and will be mentioned
in this book in the right place. Now I am going to describe
the relation of a leader to his disciple.
Before all, it is necessary to state that by such a leader
I mean a live person in the human body, and not some
higher being coming down from time to time to our plane to
get into touch with the human. Neither do I mean the
supreme inner Leader living within our interior and reveal-
ing Himself by the so-called
"
Inner Word." When the
disciple has found his leader, he must usually promise to
conform implicitly to the leader's advice and hints, and
bind himself to practise every day for at least half an hour
the concentration training, as prescribed by the leader.
When those outward though important formalities are set
right, the leader will immediately take up his leading. In
the beginning he usually endeavours to inculcate and to
explain some wrong perceptions referring both to material
and spiritual matters, which perceptions might detain the
disciple on his way. Some leaders possess their own manu-
scripts, circulating them, of course, only among their
disciples, and which must not be shown to anybody else.
I point out that circumstance to my readers, referring them
5*
THE LEADER AND RELATION TO DISCIPLE 53
to Marie Corelli's The Romance of Two Worlds, where the
authoress describes how she has been given two manuscripts
by her leader, one of which she is publishing, withholding the
other which refers to the practice to be carried out by herself.
If the leader entrusts the disciple with such a personal
script, the student has to study it carefully and meditate
over it for a longer time, asking the leader for explanations,
should anything not be clear enough to him. We must not
forget that, when a disciple has been accepted by his leader,
a certain change has taken place within his inner self. He
then enters the spiritual sphere of his leader, for he has
become a member of his school and is subject to his leader's
mental influence. This usually has its outer reflexes too ;
for, without being aware of it, the student becomes more
sensitive to certain spiritual influences, and his inner self
gradually awakens, growing more comprehensive for ideas
and forms, which he could not understand before. The
farther the student proceeds on his way, and the more
assiduously he carries through the practice ordained, the
duration of which is not limited, the easier he will understand
the spiritual lore taught by his leader.
Sometimes the leader imparts to the disciple, immediately
on his acceptance, a certain spiritual lesson usually a
sentence to be repeated by the student in thought for at
least half an hour daily in strict solitude. He has to think
of its contents and vividly imagine what the sentence means.
A mere mechanical repetition without concentrating one's
thoughts on its meaning, would be but a loss of time and
without any result. In our mystical school each student
received his own lesson, it being quite different to the others.
On the attainment of certain results, the lesson was individu-
ally altered, which used to happen in unequal periods, as the
necessity arose.
As each leader has to be a clairvoyant, he easily perceives
the inner self of all his disciples and accordingly imparts to
them right lessons. Besides, such lessons are prescribed for
each student by the leader's inner word, that is the voice
of the Holy Spirit, Who has realized Himself in the leader.
54 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
Such a leadership cannot then be erroneous, and the student
can rely upon the practice given to be the only safe and
correct one. Under the right leader it has always been
proved.
The best examples of the guidance of the student by means
of a leader are given by the great Mystic and clairvoyant,
J. B. Kerning, in his works The Way to Immortality and
The Key to the Spiritual World. In one of his works he
says :
"
From a child it had been impressed upon my mind
that Providence was watching over us and would fulfil our
prayers, provided they were indefatigably sent forth. I
believed in this teaching, for it was granting me clear
prospects for the whole of my life. My faith pressed me to
pray and not to faint, until I should be heard. By a per-
severing practice my mental horizon became extended, and
/ found within myself a new life, of which I did not know
before. To that life I gradually devoted myself in full, and
have reached that point where I seek all counsel in eternity,
whereby I obtain surety and peace.
11
(Kerning, Tto
Key ... p. 31.) Elsewhere it is said :
"
I devoted
myself to a full meditation of the Old and the New Testa-
ment, and hoped to find satisfaction therein. Verses such
as these :
'
He who sins against the Father will be for-
given, he who sins against the Son will be forgiven, he who
sins against the Spirit can nevermore be forgiven
'
; further :
'
When thou prayest do not use many words, as heathens do.
When thou prayest say but : Our Father . . .
'
became
manifest to me as containing some meaning concealed
therein, the revelation of which could make all compre-
hensible to me.
'
What does it mean ?
'
I asked myself
'
Is the Spirit more than the Father and the Son ? Or is
It given to man for a leader, or is It his property ?
Why
not use many words ?
' "
By these words Kerning endeavours to point out that
our prayers should not be long ; that few words only should
be said. Of course, by prayer he understands not the
common prayer said by the people, but mystical con-
centration of thought.
THE LEADER AND RELATION TO DISCIPLE 55
He then describes how the leader, after having prepared
his disciple, imparts to him the lesson :
"
Let the man
think in you." After the disciple has practised it for a few
months, the leader orders him to continually pray
"
Our
Father/' and explains :
"
Hereby it is said : You shall pray nothing else but
that, repeating it so often in silence, until not only your
mouth, but also your heart, why your whole nature from
the skin into the inmost point of your body knows it by
heart. If then you feel the effect of it, when your hair is
standing up and your bones are burning, then think you
have received the baptism.
l
You are called and, as I hope,
chosen too. We are Christians. Christ must be our Leader.
You know His Baptism, let Him wash your feet. Do not
meditate, but do what I am teaching you. As sure as the
first happened, so will the second. I cannot say any more/'
"
After six months of struggle, he could tell his leader :
'
My feet are pure/ The leader submitted him to an
examination to convince himself of the truth, and, having
found it confirmed, he promised to give him soon a new
lesson/'
"
The next practice was to animate his hands. After
three months the disciple declared to his leader :
'
Though
I cannot yet place my hands on the sick, as our Prototype
did, saying
"
Be healed/' yet my hands are animated/ The
leader examined him and gave him the next day the follow-
ing information :
"
From the day of the washing of feet up to the death on
the cross all is written for us. If we believe like children,
and blindly practise, then we shall rise from the dead. All
that occurred to the High Master in those three days is our
prototype. We are to receive blows and to feel the flagel-
lation, the weight of the cross must oppress us and an
exhaustion shall take place in all of our limbs to give place
to the new man. Should our reason struggle against it, our
senses rebel, and all our nature revolt we must not waver,
1
Kerning, The Key. p. 104. The baptism and other mystical stages
are described in a separate chapter.
56 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
but bear it with firmness, transforming the crown of thorns
into a crown of life. He who does not use many words, but
brings the few everywhere into action, so making his whole
nature capable of thinking, he walks the way towards
victory and shall be glorified on the cross of life.
11
The last words need some explanation. In Bo-Yin-Ra's
work, The Living God, it is said, on page 88 :
"
Until you
feel your Self in the whole of your body from the tips
of your toes up to the temples of your head, so long you
cannot feel the Spirit, nor can you ever unite your Self with
It. Your first task shall be to feel yourself in all your body,
this being the Spirit's sanctuary." The work from which
I am quoting is the best of the modern publications, being
the right continuation of Kerning's works. It indicates a
practice which may be carried out by anybody having
good will and a live faith, without any risk or danger.
It is, however, necessary to point out that while the
works of Kerning contain profound truths of the mystical
lore, there are lessons not suitable for everybody. They are
only quoted for example and not to be carried out. In some
of his works, however, the author speaks quite openly, and
I shall quote some epitomes. As to the lessons indicated in
Bo-Yin-Ra's work, they may be practised with safety.
The communication between the leader and his disciple
must not be a personal one. The leader may live far away,
and it is sufficient if the disciple correspond with him. Of
course, they need to meet each other once, and such a
meeting suffices for ever or at least for a long while.
As soon as the disciple has started, he must devote his
attention to a multitude of things, of which he did not take
notice before, or but a slight one. There are in the first
place dreams, showing the first understanding between our
outward Self and our Divine Leader. As I have already
stated, the Holy Ghost < :::i:^i< !*-">
endeavours to get into
touch with us, but the grossness of our senses and of our
feeling do not heed that delicate influence, permitting it to
escape. As soon as we increase our attention to our Inner
Self, the acting of the Spirit will be revealed to us in different
THE LEADER AND RELATION TO DISCIPLE 57
ways, the first of which are dreams which are of the utmost
importance. Therefore the disciple has to write down each
of them, although they might appear insignificant. It
concerns everybody setting foot on the mystical way with-
out a leader, as dreams are the heralds of spiritual
evolution. Though they ever speak in symbols, he who
seriously longs for their interpretation, may be assured of
meeting an Initiate who will explain their meaning.
There is no doubt whatever that all individuals of similar
mental desires are connected with each other by invisible
ties, which will bring them together sooner or later. It is
further necessary to mention here the outward life of the
disciple, as prescribed by leaders such as Kerning and
others. Any ascetism or celibacy is quite superfluous.
Neither vegetarianism nor anti-alcoholism are necessary,
though on the other hand they do not prevent the mystical
evolution. Of course, it is better to live without either
alcoholism or smoking. The vegetarian diet forms an
exception. With some persons it weakens the body,
while the Mystic must in the first place be healthy.
The only vices the leaders warn against are excessive
alcoholism, Magic, and furious anger. When even an ad-
vanced Mystic commits one of these sins, they thrust him
back for a long time, and then he can regain his former
degree only with great effort. As far as religious conviction
and the religious form are concerned, they are not necessary
at all in the beginning, provided the disciple fully trusts
his leader and possesses sufficient spiritual power to carry
out the practice prescribed. Any uncertainty will not last
very long, as soon, sometimes after a fortnight or one month,
the disciple will become convinced of going the right way.
The Divinity possesses innumerable means of showing the
Mystic Its action, even after the slightest mystical effort,
and will convince the Mystic of it visibly and palpably.
Of course, as soon as the student has received such a proof,
his faith becomes a live one, having got incontestable, though
subjective, proofs. These experiences are not only the
same with each student, but also their order of succession
58 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
is identical with all. Therein lie the tremendous power and
force of the conviction. Though that which the student
experiences is described in the rituals of all Hermetic
brotherhoods and societies, yet no one knows how such
phenomena appear to the individual. No one will find the
description of such mystical stages in any book or elsewhere.
While to those who know them, their description in the
Holy Scripts of all nations, as well as in all mysteries and in
secret rituals, are quite clear. Their concealment has two
reasons. First that they be not profaned by non-initiated
persons, and secondly to prevent their ,
'
"
. with
the student when he sets out on the way. Not known to the
student, their auto-suggestion becomes impossible. But
after having experienced them and communicated with his
more progressed comrades, he gets the conviction of going
the right way. Owing to the fact that these experiences are
innumerable and not imaginable to any one who has not
had them himself, their very conformity is a great proof
and a hearty incitement towards eager perseverance.
CHAPTER IV
MEDITATION AND CONCENTRATION
IN
the preceding chapters I have often referred to
concentration of thought, i.e., the mystical practice.
In the present chapter, I am going to explain the
technical side of both meditation and concentration.
Meditation is only a preliminary training, and does
not directly lead to any mystical results. It is but the
preparation of the soul to devote itself to the necessary
concentration. We can meditate at any work which does
not need the concentration of our thoughts. Anyone ponder-
ing over mystical or occult matters, over the Divinity,
religion, the problem of humanity, its future, its evolution
and the immortality of the human soul, and after-death
states, is carrying out meditation.
I do not mean to say it is not of any utility. On the
contrary, to many such meditations are the necessaries of
life. But they must not be identified with the mystical
meditations, the form of which I will endeavour to explain.
The purpose of the mystical meditation is to accustom our
thinking principle to become concentrated.
For the mystical concentration we need to create a logical
circle of thoughts, which shall bear upon the purest and
highest ideals. Then we have to constrain our thinking
principle to continually rotate within this circle. By this
means dispersed and scattered thoughts may be captivated
for some time and concentrated on certain conceptions,
whereby it is necessary that the thoughts do not leave the
circle.
There are, however, people who do not need this pre-
liminary practice, as they are at once able to start the
59
6o MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
proper concentration, while others have to be prepared by
meditation.
There are a great many practices which are quite wrong.
I know of a certain case where an improper leader advised
his students to think of the exploitation of pit-coal.
Such an idea can originate only in an individual not having
the slightest notion of the influence of such a meditation on
the whole of the human organism, on its astral body and
even the soul. As already indicated, meditations may only
refer to ideal or religious conceptions, otherwise one could
concentrate oneself on a piece of coal, instead of doing so
on one's Divine Self.
The most important and the one and only mystical
practice leading direct to the goal is the concentration of
thought, called, in Sanskrit, Yoga.
Patanjali says in his work, The Yoga Sutra :
"
Yoga
is the suppression of the transformations of the thinking
principle/' (Vol. I, 2).
1
The thinking principle is that which thinks within our-
selves. It is neither our mind, nor our soul, nor our own
self, but a particular faculty of ours, arousing thoughts and
conceptions inside ourselves. The proof of this thinking
principle not being our own self is that when thinking any-
thing, we have the sensation that behind our thoughts
there exists something else quietly watching these thoughts
of ours. And this quiet watcher is our proper self, is our
soul. As soon as we stop, by any means whatever, the
flood of our i1ioiif!lu. and succeed in controlling them for
some time, we then cease to cry down the voice of our inner
self, which is of a divine origin and constantly endeavours
to speak to us in its whispered way. But its still voice is
incessantly cried down by our thoughts and our outer
perceptions, reaching us through our senses, and issuing
from the outward world or our body. Therefore the Mystic
has to shut himself in and retire into his interior like a
1
Patanjali is a very old Indian author and an Initiate of the highest
degree, whose work The Yoga Sutra is the best description of the Yoga
practice.
MEDITATION AND CONCENTRATION 61
tortoise into its shell. Moreover, he has to stop the current
of his thoughts, for by that means only may he perceive
the still voice of his higher self.
When explaining the suppression of the transformations
of the thinking principle, Patanjali says that our thinking
principle adopts each time the shape of the perception we
are just thinking of; e.g., whenever we think of a horse, it
adopts the shape of a horse, etc. If the next moment we
look at a bottle, our thinking principle adopts the shape
of this perception ; i.e., of the bottle. The Indian translator
of Patanjali's works remarks that it can be compared with
water poured into different vessels of varying shapes.
While one of the vessels is of a globular shape, another being
oblong and narrow, and a third wide at the top and narrow
at the bottom, yet the water poured in always remains
water, though it takes on the shapes of the vessels.
These are the principles and the fundamentals of the
concentration practice. It is all one whether we concentrate
our thoughts on a word or on a conception, which of course
must be the purest possible, or whether we force our thoughts
to repeat constantly one and the same sentence imparted
by our leader or gathered from some Holy Script. It is
equally the same, if we succeed in blotting out all thoughts
whatever and all perceptions whatever, whereby our
attention is concentrated on one internal focus. The last
mentioned practice is the most difficult, but the quickest
one, as through this practice the student succeeds in making
his interior quite void, and, as in physics, the void permits
of being filled with something else, namely, the perceptions
from the man's higher self, whereby the mystical connection
is immediately produced.
The concentration of thoughts, be it on a sentence or a
word or a letter, or the total suppression of thinking, is in
the beginning so irksome a task that it can hardly be
compared even with any study or any philosophical medita-
tion, or with the solution of mathematical problems. The
only one comparison may be made with the chess com**
bination, where the player has always to return to the first
62 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
move, after losing the chain of the consecutive moves, which
easily escape his memory. Of course, this effort is not the
same with all students. There are people able to con-
centrate themselves from the beginning, while others need
several months' training for the attainment of the con-
centration power. It is necessary to point out that the
Yoga concentration is a particular faculty which cannot be
described in words, and is only known to those who have
attained it. But he who has acquired it, can lose it never-
more. We shall know it only by its acquisition, for it is
impossible to describe it to anyone not having experienced
it for himself. It is similar to the explanation of what is
sweet, if the questioner has never tasted anything sweet.
Should we explain sweetness to such a one, he would never
understand it. The concentration faculty is a subjective
conception which is to be experienced. In the beginning
the concentration is connected with a certain mental effort,
which is quite natural, for we can control our thoughts
only by will. As soon as we have practised for a short
time, we are no more aware of that effort and perceive
quietude and in particular mental silence and emptiness.
With some individuals this emptiness can be transformed
into a different and quite a particular feeling, although this
is not of necessity. The student then loses the sensation
of his body, but never his consciousness which is of import-
ance. The emptiness then increases and the student gets
the sensation as of being suspended over an infinite precipice.
This sensation is known in mystical literature by the
term :
"
the Gnostics' abyss."
I expect the reader to be aware of man's having several
stages of consciousness. In the mystical concentration our
normal outward consciousness is to be removed into the
interior. This is by no means a difficult or an uncommon
or even a dangerous stage, but on the contrary one known
by all of us from the present life. It has often happened
to everybody that when meditating over anything or when
reading an exciting book, another person has entered the
room and called him to dinner or so. But the reader has
MEDITATION AND CONCENTRATION 63
not heard either the other's coming nor his calling, though
it may have been done repeatedly. Sometimes it is even
necessary to touch such a person to awaken him in his
realm of dreams i.e., from his concentration to the normal
consciousness. The soldier at the front does not hear the
whistling of the bullet, nor does he feel having been wounded,
when jiitiickiiicr. It is an old fact and can be confirmed by
those who fought in war.
But how can our senses, and especially the sight, the
hearing, and the feeling, which function quite mechanically
in reporting without any interruption as to what happens in
the outer world or in our body, be excluded from their
wireless connection with the brain, namely, when our
thinking is firmly and inevitably concentrated on some
subject ? Although some learned ones explain it quite
simply, yet the actual process of such a vigilance is very
complicated, being inexplicable and inaccessible to modern
science.
I doubt whether materialistic science will ever succeed
in explaining these matters by actual proofs, and not by
presumptions and theories. Occultism and the Mystic
explain these phenomena by theories, too, for to understand
them, it would be necessary to rise far above the material
plane, and to become a real Initiate.
It is said that our consciousness frees itself from certain
nerve channels, which report our sensual perceptions to the
brain. Although our senses, of a surety, deliver such
perceptions mechanically to the nerve centres, as in the
normal state, that is to the brain and the spinal marrow,
yet they do not reach our consciousness, so that we are
ignorant of them.
Something similar, namely, that, though we are alive,
our senses do not function, takes place when sleeping.
Sleep is another kind of consciousness. When sleeping, we
are conscious of ourselves, but being in quite a different
world we no more perceive any sensations of our body,
except under certain circumstances. On the other hand,
we are then receiving perceptions from another plane,
64 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
namely, from the astral plane, as the Occult Science calls it.
Concentration is, so to say, a state, as if balancing our
consciousness on a knife's point, between waking and
sleeping. There are persons not able at all to become
concentrated, as they fall asleep as soon as they start.
This falling asleep is one of the greatest obstacles with
certain people to the correct concentration. If it occurs
to the student it becomes very troublesome, and sometimes
impossible to be overcome, as he will immediately fall
asleep as soon as he commences practising, so becoming
deprived of the fruits of his effort. Then there does not
remain anything but to practise while walking or standing.
By this means it can be avoided, provided it has been
applied in time, i.e., as soon as the obstacle in question
has appeared. This falling asleep always takes place with
those students who practise concentration on the physical
heart.
The mystical books teach that the Divine Spark (Atma)
is situated in the heart of all beings. The student, ignoring
the peril threatening him by falling asleep, concentrates his
thoughts on his heart, searching therein his inward Leader,
Why the neophyte falls asleep when concentrating himself
on his heart cannot be explained here. Everything known
about it relies upon presumptions which are, as is well
known, quite valueless as far as transcendental matters are
concerned. He who concentrates his thoughts on the
menial heart, this being in the middle of the chest, does not
fall asleep.
But let us revert to the state wherein the Mystic is when
concentrating himself in a correct way. Let us imagine that
the soul is standing on the point of a knife stretched out
over a precipice. On one side is the normal conscious-
ness and on the other side the unconsciousness of the
sleeper, i.e., in other words, the astral consciousness. By
the concentration of our thoughts we may so succeed that
our consciousness remains inflexible like
"
a quiet flame
protected from the wind
"
on the said point, passing neither
to the state of the normal nor to that of the astral con-
MEDITATION AND CONCENTRATION 65
sciousness. This is the seeming wonder which the Mystic
will sooner or later attain to, and which to common people
seems an impossibility, for its result is the total suppression
of thinking.
As soon as the student has reached that stage, he has
only to remain therein uninterruptedly for twelve seconds.
The following quotation is taken from Swami Viveka-
nanda's The Raja Yoga : "If the mind can be fixed on one
centre for twelve seconds it will be a Dharana, twelve such
Dharanas will be a Dhyana, and twelve such Dhyanas will
be a Samadhi."
Dharana means in Sanscrit concentration, and at the
same time the student's struggle with the obstacles which
are in his way to the attainment of the concentration.
Dharana means the concentration attained for at least twelve
seconds, during which the iN -:;J: ! - are to be quietly and
undisturbedly concentrated on the subject chosen. If we
have attained the Dharana, i.e., if we have succeeded in
being concentrated on any subject for twelve seconds, we
have attained the concentration power which we cannot
lose any more. But at the same time we have attained to
something else. When we have been concentrated for twelve
seconds without the slightest diversion and without the
slightest secondary perception, we have through it lighted
the inward mystical fire, or in other words we have paved
the way for indissoluble connection with our Divine Self,
our inner Leader, for ever and ever. This connection can-
not be any more broken, and if we do not attain to the
goal in this life, we shall start in our next life just from the
point whereat we stopped, to go on in our task until we
have obtained freedom and knowledge. By the attain-
ment of Dharana, we have also contracted an indis-
soluble connection with God. And the Divine stamp is not
only imprinted on our soul, but also on our body. This
contract may be apparently infringed by the human, for
there are people succumbing from time to time to their
foibles, discontinuing after a certain time in their effort to
attain to re-birth or liberation both being identical.
66 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
But either they will resume their practice after some time,
or will do so in their next incarnation. The mystical con-
centration once attained is a cosmic event, and its influence,
i.e., the influence of the contact with the Divinity, will
endure for ever and ever and will be manifested in due
course. It cannot be otherwise. He who is longing for
God in a faithful and loyal way with love, attachment, and
without egotism, to him will God stretch out a helpful hand,
and he to whom this hand has been once stretched out,
shall not be any more abandoned.
Therefore he who has attained to the Dharana will again
be able to become concentrated not at any chosen time,
but of a surety, at certain intervals, at least, in the beginning.
The more he then practises the shorter become the intervals,
until finally he reaches the desired stage at each practice.
In the Dharana we have not the right expression for this
stage of the concentration, therefore I am using the San-
scrit word commence to appear at once the effects of
concentration, the student experiencing the mystical stages
and the inner senses beginning to be aroused. To that we
shall revert later on.
The duration of twelve seconds, whilst the student shall
concentrate his thoughts without any perceptions whatever
or without any secondary perceptions, will appear very
short to everybody, and any inexperienced beginner will
think to carry it out without any effort at all. But he will
be deceived. Let anybody whatsoever sit down in a com-
fortable position, concentrating his thoughts at most on the
middle of the chest, but never on the heart, and imagining
there a bright shining point or a flame or a star, praying
with a few words to his inner Leader for help and saying :
This moment I will solely devote to my Divine Self (or to
my Leader or to Jesus Christ) dwelling within me. And
then let him try to persevere in that one conception, with-
out any faltering, without any other thoughts or conceptions
for the whole twelve seconds !
Everybody, I say every-
body, will find that even after a few seconds his mind
will be wandering to quite different matters, and suddenly
MEDITATION AND CONCENTRATION 67
he will become aware that, instead of thinking of the sub-
ject chosen, he is in fact thinking of a theatre, of pictures,
of his sweetheart, or if it be a woman, of her new clothes,
etc.
In short, concentration is a continuous and a weari-
some struggle against our perceptions and our thoughts ;
for the whole of our lives they are unfettered in all of us
and flow upon their own course against our will, trying so
to escape our control. For the whole of our lives we allow
our thoughts to wander without any control, or even with-
out an attempt at controlling them, and then suddenly
we want to subjugate them, to lasso them like the wild
horses of the prairies. As soon as we start this work a
reaction is aroused in our thinking principle, so that during
the practice we receive thousands of perceptions more
than we usually do. But the student has to remain quiet,
refusing all secondary perceptions as well as the transforma-
tions of the thinking principle, suppressing them by his will
and steadily returning to the perception chosen, to his
Divinity. For a beginner who has not yet that strong sup-
port which gives the living faith, and which will set in later
when the first results and proofs of the practice have
appeared, it means indeed a herculean labour.
I have already stated that effort connected with such a
practice cannot be compared with anything but the con-
centration of a chess champion combining long sequences
of different moves in his thoughts. But by the very practice
all obstacles can be overcome and all that is possible will
be attained to, provided we carry it through with love and
devotion. Nearly all men may become perfected in a
measure not anticipated in any art whatsoever, provided
they master two magical words opening all locks, destroying
the mountains of obstruction and creating magnificent
palaces of success. These two words are love and patience.
Not long ago a clock was exhibited in Prague, constructed
by a convict who in civil life was a tailor. That man
had worked for long years in his cell, studying books on
mathematics, astronomy, and mechanics. Then he took
68 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
a needle and the bottom of a tin vessel, of which, by
scratching it with the needle, he made a toothed wheel,
and then, with tremendous effort and an inconceivable
patience and persevering love towards his work, he con-
trived out of tin, reels, twine and paper, a clock, the con-
struction of which was based on a quite new principle,
showing not only the hours and the week-days, sun-rise
and sun-set, as well as the changes of the moon, but
also for many years to come the solar and lunar eclipses.
And this was achieved by a man who had never heard of
nor known anything about such things, who had never read
a professional work, having constructed it almost without
any instruments or expedients. It is indeed an uncommon
work, showing the tremendous power of the human mind
if it becomes concentrated on one thing, be it material or
spiritual 1
But it is a pity that people devote such an enormous
effort to material things, i.e., to earthly and therefore fleeting
matters, while they do not know how to devote and cannot
devote even a tenth of that work and effort to that which
is of value for ever and ever. You will answer that people
must have something material to which they shall devote
their work and their love, and that the conception of God
is too nebulous and too far away, and that consequently
people cannot devote to it so great an effort as, e.g., to an
art, or to invention, and so forth.
But, on the other hand, the question arises whether that
tailor had anything material in his mind when he com-
menced to think of his clock. Was it not in the beginning
a purely immaterial conception, merely a nebulous and
obscure thought, which took possession of and filled his soul,
forcing him to study and work, strengthening him the nearer
he approached the goal, until it brought him to it ?
With any invention, any human creation, be it an artistic
work or a scientific book or anything else, with all human
works first and foremost the idea must be awakened.
That idea is the basis and the incitement towards
further activity, and if we persevere therein we shall soon
MEDITATION AND CONCENTRATION 69
transform it into a deed, materializing the fugitive con-
ception and obtaining so the material result of our inner
activity.
Prentice Mulford, the well-known author of the practical
occult work The Gift of the Spirit, says rightly that
"
thoughts are things." For the thoughts are not imaginary
unreal conceptions, nor are they immaterial and powerless.
They are real things like air, water, or electricity, and
the very fact that they are able to act on our body both
in a salutary or a destructive way, proves their having
different functions in man and in the universe besides those
which modern psychology attributes to them. According
to Occult Science, thoughts are the seed which every-
body is sowing around himself and out of which grow,
in the invisible astral realm, objects as well as live beings,
with which one may also magically operate. Each of our
conceptions is projected into the astral realm and remains
there plastically and vividly reimpressed according to its
power and the perseverance with which it has been broad-
cast. People engaged for long years in a certain idea are
not only permeated with it through and through, but they
also have been creating in the astral realm a real being or
a durable construction thereof, which according to the case,
may be of utility or of harmfulness to them. Developed
clairvoyants and those occult students who are able to set
out consciously into the astral realm, see there, besides
other things, these creations of human souls, which have
been sown there for thousands of years and are bearing
their fruits here on our material plane. Our thoughts not
only our acts appear in our further reincarnations, as the
results in the material world of those astral forms. It is
to be remembered that the astral world is the world of
causes, and the material the world of results. He who under-
stands how to act on the astral plane with full consciousness
is a magician (although a good one), for he evokes without
visible causes material phenomena, the seed of which he has
sown on the astral plane, forcing it hastily to germinate. In
the ordinary case, so sown a seed will germinate only after
70 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
a longer time perhaps after thousands of years but it will
germinate infallibly.
People think in two different ways, and they may be
divided into two big classes accordingly. The one class
thinks in words and the other in pictures or conceptions.
The last are more advanced in occult or mystical matters
than the first, for they are broadcasting ready conceptions
and not only words into the astral realm, where from the
words the conceptions are yet to be created. Therefore the
influence of the second class on the astral and yet higher
realms is manifestly greater.
Here the proper aim of this chapter has been reached.
Our thoughts, according to their contents, are broadcast
either to the astral realm, as next to ours and the coarsest,
or to higher realms, as the mental and lastly the spiritual.
The thoughts referring only to matter or to the material
life, as well as those connected with base and coarse percep-
tions, enter the astral plane and remain there to bear fruits.
A more ideal thought, as for instance an invention of public
utility, or artistic conceptions, fair and good, enters the
mental plane to stay there. Their fruits are always good
and bring their producer profit, joy, and good luck. But
the purest thought, such as contains the conception of the
Divinity or Its qualities, enters the spiritual sphere, where
it remains for aeons. Its fruit is the highest bliss, and* if it
be of perseverance and firmness, it may eventually bear its
fruits already in this earthly life, its producer being identified
with God in this or that form.
"
God has many forms
and is also without form, and the disciple first knows Him
in a form, and only later without any form," says the Indian
Mystic Ramakrishua.
In whatsoever form we conceive God in our mystical prac-
tice, in the same He will appear to us at last face to face,
and we shall be able to talk with Him "
as a brother with
a brother," according to the same Leader.
If we then devote all our efforts to the attainment of
union with God, just as the prisoner did to his clock, and with
the same energy, we are broadcasting our thoughts into the
MEDITATION AND CONCENTRATION 71
spiritual sphere, causing them to bear fruits already in our
earthly life, and those fruits will come in the shape of the
inv *i i<\i1
way which will be unveiled to us. On that mystical
way we shall personally learn that God is not an imaginary
idea, but as real even more real than is any earthly
being. This assertion is not a dream or anything of that
kind, but is confirmed by thousands of experiences, by the
utterances of many eminent Mystics and the experiences of
persons personally known to me.
It is quite natural that such a practice needs a certain
resoluteness and faith. He, who has not got either of them,
is not able to devote himself with the whole power of his
soul to mystical concentration and cannot attain to any
results. We have to bear in mind that the high mystical
aim is to be OUT foremost effort, which must not be displaced
by anything else. Only then will our effort lead to success.
The twelve-seconds' concentration or the Dharana is the
first real degree in the mystical evolution, and when we
have attained to it, we receive proofs of our advancement
both inwardly and outwardly. More of this later. But in
Dharana we have not reached all. There is another degree
called Dhyana. In Dhyana the concentration must last
twelve Dharanas, i.e., for 144 seconds, and then comes the
third degree, the Samadhi, or 12 Dhyanas or 1,728 seconds,
that is about half an hour. Even the second degree leads
to high occult and mystical powers, if we are concentrated
on certain inner centres or, as the Christian Mystic calls
them, planets. These planets may be transposed at our
will. This transposition is beautifully described in G. Mey-
rixik's book The Green Face, The third degree or Samadhi
is the highest degree, as we may attain therein to the union
with God. In that stage, though the Mystic is in full con-
sciousness, yet his body becomes torpid and insensible.
Once, when Ramakrishna was quite alone in a temple, he
fell into Samadhi, and in this stage he collapsed on live coals
prepared for incense. The live coals burnt out a deep hole
in his foot without his knowing it, until he returned to the
normal stage, when his senses resumed their work. To
72 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
persevere in a 144-seconds' concentration is an enormous
labour, though within the reach of the majority of human
beings. How difficult it is to attain the Samadhi those can
understand who have reached at least the first degree, the
Dharana.
But there is no reason to despair at such obstacles.
Through patience and indefatigability all may be obtained.
To illustrate the way in which the Indians regard these
matters, I quote a tale from Swami Vivekananda's The Raja
Yoga :
"
There was a great god-sage called Narada. Just as
there are sages among mankind, great Yogis, so there are
great Yogis among the gods. Narada was a good Yogi, and
very great. He travelled everywhere, and one day he was
passing through a forest, and he saw a man who had been
meditating until the white ants had built a huge mound
round his body, he had been sitting in that position so long.
Hesaid to Narada :
'
Where are you going ?
'
Naradareplied :
*
I am going to heaven/
'
Then ask God when He will be
merciful to me, when I shall attain freedom/ Further on
Narada saw another man. He was jumping about, singing,
dancing, and said :
'
Oh, Narada, where are you going ?
'
His voice and his gestures were wild. Narada said :
'
I am
going to heaven/
'
Then ask when I shall be free/ So
Narada went on. In the course of time he came again by
the same road, and there was the man who had been medi-
tating till the ant-hills had grown round him. He said :
'
Oh, Narada, did you ask the Lord about me ?
' '
Oh, yes/
'
What did he say ?
' '
The Lord told me that you would
attain freedom in four more births/ Then the man began
to weep and wail, and said :
'
I have meditated until an
ant-hill has been raised around me, and I have four more
births yet/ Narada went to the other man.
'
Did you ask
my question ?
' '
Oh, yes. Do you see this tamarind tree ?
I have to tell you that as many leaves as there are on that
tree, so many times you will be born, and then you will attain
freedom/ Then the man began to dance for joy, and said :
'
I shall have freedom after such a short time/ A voice
MEDITATION AND CONCENTRATION 73
came :
'
My child, you shall have freedom this minute/
That was the reward for his perseverance. He was ready
to work through all those births, nothing discouraged him.
But the first man felt that even four more births were too
long. Only perseverance like that of the man who was
willing to wait aeons will bring about the highest results/'
As to the obstacles the student meets on his way, there
are not only those produced by our thinking principle re-
volting against the thraldom into which our will forces it.
Our nature as well as our surroundings, and, if I may say
so, the whole universe rebels against us at the beginning
of our practice as though to prohibit our entrance into
the mystical realm.
Whosoever has started the practice will before long person-
ally learn the truth of what I say. All our senses rebel and
try to manifest themselves with an unexpected force. The
dormant passions awake and endeavour to lay hold of us.
But this is not all. As soon as we sit or lie down at home
to begin the practice, our acquaintances come to see us,
barrel-organs sound and gramophones start playing. In
our vicinity people begin to quarrel or to laugh and sing
aloud. Other obstacles of this kind, disturbing us in our
meditation or concentration, appear regularly at the time
of our practice. If then we purposely put off the hour of
our training, the disturbances come simultaneously with our
concentration just the same.
If we choose a distant place out of doors, people come
and put questions to us in a place not frequented all the
year round. If there are not people, there will be animals,
as birds, etc., coming near as without fear and looking at
us with curiosity. Once, on such an occasion, a squirrel
came and sat down upon my foot. But all this takes place
only in the beginning. As soon as we have acquired some
dexterity in concentration, all that resistance of "the
spirit of the universe
"
is broken down, and nothing more
will disturb us.
I therefore advise the student to select in the beginning
a& advanced hour in the night, amidst complete silence and
74 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
of course in a separate room. Even then, he will observe a
certain kind of disturbance, as rapping in the furniture, in
the floor, in the ceiling, and on the windows, similar to the
rapping-phenomena of the spiritualistic circles. Sometimes
there are single but very loud knocks manifesting around
the students, and sometimes the practice is accompanied
by other phenomena, but never by any appearances, which
I wish distinctly to point out. The seeing of elementals or
spirits will come later.
If we intend to devote ourselves to the practice, it is
always necessary to do so in complete solitude. If we carry
it out during the night, it is neither right nor of advantage
if another person is sleeping in the same room. As soon as
we have attained the right concentration, the person sleeping
in the same room will immediately awake, and if falling
asleep again for a short time, he or she will awake again and
again. This has been observed by all who have practised
under the stated circumstances.
I know quite well that this, as many other subjects, are
alluded to in this book for the first time by me, for
nobody else has written of them hitherto. Therefore I point
out to all that that of which I am writing is extracted from
practical experience, and has never been mentioned in
books before.
As soon as we have succeeded in concentrating our
thinking principle, we cause around us in the astral a very
vigorous whirl, of which we are the centre. The diameter
of this whirl is often of ten to twelve yards, and no astral
body whatever can enter it. During the sacred mystical
concentration no
"
spirit," no elemental being, nor even an
angel can enter that circle of ours, as they would get torn
to pieces by the whirl in question. As the human soul
leaves its body during sleep, it is constrained to re-enter the
body owing to the whirl caused by the practice. When it
re-enters the body, the latter is then awakened. It is so
because of the peril threatening the soul of becoming affected
by the whirl, while remaining on the astral plane.
How that whirl acts, we have experienced many times
MEDITATION AND CONCENTRATION 75
whea the members of our mystical school were present at a
spiritualistic sitting. As soon as any Mystic begins to prac-
tise at such a sitting, all phenomena are at once discon-
tinued, be they of a material or the so-called voice kind.
Of course, the student has to carry through the practice in
the right way, and has to attain at least the first degree,
i.e., Dharana.
I have also seen what influence mystical concentration
has on obsessed persons or on such as have mediumistic
faculties, and are therefore exposed to uncontrolled in-
fluences of the invisible world.
In one case, a friend of mine commenced out of ignorance
to practise the word
"
myself/' quoted as an example, but
fry no means to be practised, in a work of Kerning's. It
happened that I did not meet him for about three weeks.
When we met then, he was glad to communicate to me that
"
he was already seeing a lot of moving figures around him-
self." I got frightened at that, and asked how it occurred.
He had read that book of Kerning's and started the prac-
tice in good faith, and then the figures began to appear.
I was aware of having before me a gifted individual, who
might become a victim of dangerous visions unless rightly
advised, and therefore explained to him the correct con-
centration. My friend immediately understood, and a week
later the figures began to disappear. Another week passed,
and my friend received the first signs of the mystical way.
I have to mention that he was gifted with unusual psychical
powers, being very sensitive.
Another case was a great deal worse. A lady was brought
to us from the country. She was very well educated and
had become the prey of a wicked astral being. The poor
lady was obsessed by it to that degree that she was con-
stantly menaced by death, owing to her great psychical
powers. When the mystical concentration had been ex-
plained to her, namely the one without words, as I will
describe at the end of this chapter, she immediately began
to practise, and almost at once she became free of her tor-
mentor. At the same time she experienced whole series of
76 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
the so-called mystical stages, indicating the inner evolu-
tion. With surprise we learned how she attained stages
within two or three hours, the attainment of which was not
possible to many of us after an assiduous practice of several
years. The reason of this quick result was that the lady
possessed high psychical powers and that all her vexation
and liberation were predestined.
It follows from the above how important is the mystical
concentration, when we are threatened by any perils of the
astral world.
I have already mentioned that the object of our concen-
tration must always be something ideal, the purest possible,
in a word the divine. The best of course is to concentrate
one's thoughts on the Divine Leader dwelling within us.
He who would like to practise some sentence, without
having a leader, will find instructions in Bo-Yin-Ra's work
The Living God, unless he prefers the easiest practice de-
scribed in Chapter V.
I have promised to describe in this chapter the practice
imparted to us by our mystical leader before his death, and
call attention to his remark that the time being is of so
great an advantage to anyone longing for the attainment
of higher mystical stages, that there is no need of having a
leader, and that everybody may practise by himself and for a
long time. As soon as the student has attained a certain
stage there will come a leader of a higher rank.
The practice recommended by the said leader and carried
out with good results by many of his disciples is the prac-
tice without words. In the Bhagavad Gita the following
sentence is to be repeatedly found : "If anyone think con-
stantly of Me (i.e., GOD), he will verily come to Me." So
counsels Krishna (Christ) in many forms to Arjuna (human).
The above practice is to be understood as follows :
We take a seat in a comfortable chair or on a sofa, where-
by it is of necessity that our back be rectilinear with our
neck and our head. The hands may be held either along
the body or on the knees. To avoid in the beginning any
distraction through outward perceptions we shut our eyes
MEDITATION AND CONCENTRATION 77
and send up a brief prayer to the Highest, deciding to
devote all our being and our interior to our Lord. Then
concentrating all our attention on our interior, we therein
imagine the Divinity in any ideal form. The more primi-
tive and more simple that conception is the better it is.
Some persons use to that effect a luminous triangle, others
a shining flame, or stars and pearls. The complicated con-
ceptions are always more difficult. Besides, the simpler
conception is better adapted to the purpose of this practice,
which is to prevent the admission of other thoughts and
perceptions and to enable our minds to become identical
with our inner Divinity, with which we shall become merged.
The conception of the luminous triangle, the stars or the
flame is only preliminary, and must disappear later on,
when our consciousness, our Self planted in the depths of
our inner being and in God's womb, is better conscious of
itself and the object of its longing, i.e., its God and nothing
else. No perception at all, no thought though the purest,
no image though the holiest must eclipse our thinking prin-
ciple at that practice. Whatsoever appears therein has to
be immediately repelled, and we have to return to God's
womb to stay there inflexibly.
Thus we may attain the entire evacuation of our thought,
we shall suppress the transformations of our thinking prin-
ciple, and before long shall attain the right concentration
faculty. This practice may be carried out by anybody with-
out any xisk, and everyone will hereby reach the goal. Of
course, he who has no faith has neither sufficient strength,
I advise all those intending to practise the above to read
several times beforehand a good translation of the Bhagavad
Gita, the works of Kerning, and the very good booklet of
Mme. H. P. Blavatsky, The Voice of the Silence. At the
end of this chapter I cannot refrain from mentioning the
wrong practice imparted to students of good faith by
unscrupulous individuals. There are a great many occult
schools in Europe and the U.S. conducted by persons passing
themselves off for leaders. They are the poisonous weeds
grown on the beds of occultism and the modern Mystic, and
78 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
all candid confessors of these lores have inexorably to fight
against those dangerous monsters. I have already men-
tioned how a leader, of course an improper one, urged his
friends to think of the exploitation of pit-coal. Such ex-
travagances are severely punished both in the invisible and
in the visible world. I hope this admonition will do.
To make the practice described easier, it is recommended
to listen both spiritually and physically to our inner being
as though waiting for a communication therefrom. In all
practices described in this book the student has to breathe
through the nose.
CHAPTER V
THE MANTRA PRACTICES
MANTRA
is a Sanscrit word and means a holy verse
or song, or a magical sentence or formula, and
lastly the magical syllables or letters. In the
Mystic there are two kinds of practice. The first is that
without words, i.e., silent concentration, as described in
the last chapter. The other, much easier and with many
more efficient, is the practice of letters, syllables, words and
sentences. This is to be carried out under the same con-
ditions as the silent concentration, and in the beginning it
will be sufficient to devote to it at least a quarter of an
hour daily, but always at the same time and if possible in
the same place, where one is not disturbed. If the student
is in a position to practise in the open air he should do so
as often as he can, for then the practice brings quicker
results. It is particularly recommended to practise on lovely
days, when there is full sunlight, as we then inhale a great
deal of the ethereal vital power, the so-called Prana, which
furthers considerably the mystical evolution. We must not
forget that our bodily health is a very important factor in
any mystical practice. He who is not quite healthy must
try to get cured if possible by occult means, such as mag-
netism or the inhaling of Prana, and only when he can
recover neither by the said means nor the mental training
of Mulford, should take refuge in material remedies.
Bo-Yin-Ra recommends in his book The Living God a
practice dealing with the repetition of a particular sentence
from the Holy Scriptures, or from a mystical book, or the
works of an eminent author. But those sentences are to be
such as to influence our soul in a lofty and sublime way.
79
8o MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
Such a practice of a short sentence or one word is called in
India Japa. It was known to the ancient Egyptians, having
been imparted to the neophytes. The German author
Kerning, probably owing to his clairvoyance, succeeded in
discovering a much simpler practice of a great efficiency,
the proper one to precede the practice of sentences.
Each sentence and each word consists of letters. The
letters being the elements of the language, and the Mystic
having to attain the Divine Word, this practice of letters,
i.e., their constant repetition in thought in all parts of the
human body, is the best and most proper means for the
attainment of the high purpose.
Christ said :
"
I am Alpha and Omega." The apparent
explanation of this utterance is" the beginning and the end
"
;
but this is a mistake, as it signifies : I am the whole ABC.
This will appear to many very strange, but I shall prove
it in the next chapter by quoting the old Gnostic scripts.
The letters as the elements of the language are the simplest
conceptions, and the fundamentals not only of our speech,
but also of our thinking. By introverting them into our
body we shall succeed in getting all our fibres to speak the
language of the Spirit. All our body then becomes pene-
trated by the new life and will be reborn.
The author of the book The Re-Birth, a disciple of Kern-
ing's, says :
"
When the man is born he learns to stand
upright, to walk and to speak. By the outer speech his con-
sciousness becomes awakened. So the brain, the under-
standing, and the will become developed. Then just as the
outward man has learnt thinking and feeling the language
of the mouth, so must the mental man learn inside himself
the language of thought, or he must desire, think, and
feel the language of the thoughts. As the child had first
to pronounce the letters, so the inward man has to learn
first to think and then to feel the letters. But as the child
had first to learn how to stand and walk, so the man,
desiring to awaken the inner life and become independent,
has first to think and to feel the letters in his feet, these
being his foundation."
THE MANTRA PRACTICES 81
Here we have touched the very mystery of this practice,
i.e., that we start with the feet. The proofs of this
are known in India and have been one of the oldest tradi-
tions of occultism, namely in the Tarot cards, and will be
given in the next chapter.
A man is connected with the higher realms not by his
head but by his feet. We know that at a natural death a man
first loses the control and feeling in his feet. The same
happens when the astral body sets out for the invisible
worlds, for then man first feels his feet getting torpid.
Best is in the beginning to think the letters on the soles,
proceeding then in time towards the toes, but always on the
skin surface, when we finally reach the ankles. In the
ankles there is a particular mystical centre. The student when
reaching that centre will experience certain phenomena,
provided he has practised thoroughly and not quickly.
Until he has received the sign, he must not go on, but has to
continue the practice up to the ankles. Having had certain
signs, he can go on in his practice without precipitation up
to the knees, these being the second mystical centre, the
attainment of which has already effects on the whole body.
First we should practise the vowels in the following suc-
cession I, E, O, U, A. The very fundament of that practice
is the mystical word and the divine name IAO, known as well
to the ancient Chinese as to the Gnostics. It contains the
visible mystery of the flower and the fruit, namely the
"
I
"
being the stalk, the
"
A "
the scar, and the
"
O "
the ovary.
Likewise are concealed therein the eternal mysteries of the
sexual organs in the cosmical sense, i.e., the phallus, the
vagina, and union in the creative action. In brief IAO is the
symbol of the spiritual fecundation and the spiritual re-
birth. Later on, after having obtained certain results which
we always distinctly feel, we may think on the said places
consonants too. Before practising the complete alphabet,
it is advisable to divide it into three parts, practising each
part for about a month.
Everyone who has commenced any mystical practice
has got into touch with the spiritual world, though it may
8a A!tS HIGHEST PURPOSE
be unwittingly. He should not, therefore, presume to be
forsaken, if he be without a leader. Each mystical student
will meet in time either a leader or a progressed student, who
may advise him as to further practice. Besides, at least
progressed students receive hints as to their practice in a
spiritual way.
As any Mantra practice ceases to be effective after a
longer period, it is necessary to alternate them from time
to time. As soon as the student has become aware of their
inefficacy, he has to return to his original practice, which
will always be of a powerful effect. So it will be possible to
practise the alphabet for a few years.
He who has got accustomed to that practice has to carry
it on for at least half an hour daily.
According to the old sources, to be quoted later, man is
divided into seven sections, to be compared with the seven
rungs of a ladder. The first rung is in the feet and the last
in the head. On these rungs the student progresses intern-
ally. The first rung is in the ankles, the second in the knees,
the third a little below the sexual organs, the fourth in the
navel, the fifth in the breast, the sixth in the throat pit, and
the seventh in the temples. He who has started the correct
practice will soon learn that the human body is tuned like a
musical instrument, containing a great octave consisting
of seven under-octaves.
The division of the said ladder is somewhat different in
the Indian Yoga scripts, as the Indians commence their
concentration practice in a certain centre at the base of the
spinal column, proceeding then to the other centres up to
the vertex.
Those centres or Chakras will be fully dealt with in
due place.
<fhe mystical evolution corresponds with the
"
zodiacal
"
at's evolution, or Adam Kadmon's, as he is called in the
According to all astrological scripts, his evolution
Started under the zodiacal sign of the Fish, which is in the
zodiatfil man's feet. The evolution is going on and is at the
lime being in the calves, namely, in the sign of the Fisher*
I HI /<>!)! \( \l M \\
THE MANTRA PRACTICES 63
man, As, according to the "
emerald table/
9
all above is like
all below, it also applies to the earthly man, i.e., the micro-
cosmos, in whom the mystical evolution also begins in his
feet. The sign of Jesus Christ was the fish, and now after
a period of 2300 years shall come another Saviour in the
sign qf the Fisherman, (v. Plate No. i.)
The practice of letters is best carried out as follows :
While mentally pronouncing
"
I," we should at the same time
think of our feet. Within small intervals, not exceeding
a few seconds, we think the other vowels as above, i.e.
E, O, U, A. But thereby we constantly think of the corre-
sponding points in both our feet or other parts of our body,
according to our progress. Some people are not able to think
letters in both their feet at the same time. Those arte recom-
mended in the beginning to think the letters in each foot
separately, first in the left and then in the right one. All
letters are to be repeated on each spot for at least a minute,
whereupon we proceed to the next point.
1
In the beginning we may imagine the letters as being just
printed or written on our feet, later on it will not be neces-
sary any more. The same applies to other letters too.
First we practise on the skin surface of all our body, where-
upon we shall do so inside in our muscles, nerves, and bones,
into the marrow of the latter. In all practices, be it the
silent or the Mantra practice, we must always breathe
through the nose. It is of importance while practising not
to think of other things, which is achieved by not allowing
our attention to leave the place of our concentration.
In all mystical practices the body is to be kept quite
still. We are to be either comfortably seated or to lie on
our back, the spine being rectilinear with the head. When
walking the concentration is not easy. With some students
the results have been accelerated by looking at the bare feet
white practising. Others, to avoid the transformation of
their thoughts, close their eyes. All these details are at the
student's will. The effect of our practice will be greater if,
1
The space covered by the letters thought must not exceed a square
inch. C. U.
84 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
according to the Gnostic combination, we repeat each letter
for a certain time on the same spot, e.g., iiiiiiii, eeeeeeee,
oooooooo, etc. Later on it is advisable to practise the
numbers too, namely, from i-io or from 1-12. It is not
possible to fix the time when the student shall commence
the word or the sentence practices, this depends on his
individual progress. The student will get the advice in
time. Some students are more sensitive to vowels connected
with consonants, i.e., syllables. For that purpose the
guttural consonants, as h, k, gh, ngh, are specially recom-
mended. They are practised as follows :
ih, eh, or hi, he,
ki, ke, etc., while ng must be preceded by a vowel as ing,
ong, eng.
The student has to bear in mind that the practices in
question aim at the attainment of God, and must not
therefore be carried out frivolously. Besides, the Spirit
would not admit it, and the person in question would soon
lose patience, meeting too many obstacles.
The author of the Re-Birth says on page 52 :
"
This
art of thinking letters is the elementary and original religion.
It is the general law of life, without which the comprehension
of God, of oneself, of the truth, of the inner life, the re-birth
and the eternal constant happiness are not attainable.
Everybody should practise it from his seventh year of age.
The practice itself is very easy indeed, you have but to stand
straight pronouncing the letters mentally and projecting
your Self into the feet. To do so is very easy, but to per-
severe therein it will be necessary to employ one's whole
force."
As soon as we have progressed, we must practise the
letters in all parts of our body, in all muscles, bones, nerves,
veins, teeth, ears, eyes, etc. ;
in a word, the letters must
penetrate ALL OUR ATOMS TO VIVIFY THEM. But I warn
everyone not to hasten with the practice in the upper parts,
although striking results have been obtained. For the
ordinary man it is advisable to practise the first six months
only up to the knees. Nobody need fear being at any time
without advice. The sentence and the word practices are
THE MANTRA PRACTICES 85
an inheritance of the Rosicrucians, one of whom initiated
the leader of our school.
Other details are known only to those who are actually
practising. EACH STUDENT HAS TO EXPERIENCE A WHOLE
SERIES OF PHENOMENA, THESE BEING QUITE ANALOGOUS
WITH EVERYONE. They are so striking that they are often
observed by other people who are with the student. Con-
sequently any supposition of a hallucination does not come
into consideration.
I wish to point out distinctly, to make it comprehensible,
that the mystical stages are by no means mere imaginations
or uncertain and nebulous mental events, as they are often
said to be in so-called
"
mystical works/' the authors of
which have not the slightest notion of the Mystic. I am
purposely writing this book without any symbols,
*"
.,- ; :
*i,
or comparisons, so enabling the reader to get the correct and
real idea of the mystical way. I am writing as openly as
some Indian scripts do of the Indian Mystic. To poetize
about the Mystic is all very nice, but then the practical side
looks very dismal. Our purpose is to give the readers the
key to the practical action and not to an impracticable
doctrine.
All other concentration on outer or inner objects is
dangerous and may lead to dreadful bodily and mental
diseases.
But let us revert to the already mentioned phenomena
accompanying the student on his mystical way and serving
as -ii,:;
;>
-!, to show him the degree he has attained to.
The whole mystical way consists of many main chapters
which shall be dealt with in a particular section.
The spiritual evolution of man has been the same since
the beginning of the Universe with all nations. The trans-
formations taking place inside the student to-day are
identical with those of the time of Atlantis, of Egypt, India,
Persia, Ancient Greece, and Rome. Therefore, as I have
repeatedly stated, the Mystic is the ONE AND ONLY key to
all mysteries, which in their essence are quite analogous.
The following is extracted from Kerning's The Mysteries :
86 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
"
Are there mysteries ? Yes, there are. Why are they
not revealed ? They cannot be revealed. Why not ?' For
we do not seek them. But all the world seeks them. It is
not true ; people have neither courage nor faith. Courage
is necessary ; for without it nothing can be obtained.
Likewise is faith necessary ; for without it who would make
any efforts ?
"*
"The mysteries do exist, only a few people have the
courage to deny it. He who believes in God, believes in
mysteries ; for the very idea of God is of the greatest mystery
to everybody. He who has a religious feeling and respects
the Commandments, he also believes in mysteries, and the
believers
1
task is to unveil them/'
"
There is yet another class of people neither believing
in God nor in religious truth, but for those these lines are
not destined/'
"
If we consider positive religions, we see that they stand
upright like a natural law, which we cannot doubt and of
which nothing can be altered. Then it seems that these
religions are no more mysteries, for custom and blind faith
so bind them together with man that they enter his self and
become a part thereof/'
"
But to many mere blind faith is not good enough.
They look for understanding, and create of themselves a
God as colossal and great as their kindled imagination can
manage/'
"
But the greater they have made and imagined Him, the
greater becomes the distance, and at last both God and
Heaven become too strange a realm to be entered."
"
The conception of God in His qualities is the purpose
of all endeavour which both philosophy and theology have
to submit to, if they want to get results. The -transition
from man to God, from the creature to the Creator, is the
1
Courage and faith are lacking In those people who would depreciate
the enormous importance of the Mystic as being the loftiest and the highest
occult way, and they would take that courage and faith from those who
possess them. To those apply the words of the Gospel : "Ye shut up
the kingdom of heaven against men : for ye neither go in yourselves,
neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in."
THE MANTRA PRACTICES 87
basis of all knowledge, of all education and all pros-
perity, wherefore all countries should support their in-
vestigators of the mysteries, enabling them to work in
retirement, free from prejudice and superstition.
1 '
"
Once nearly all countries had their mysteries. This
fact is admitted by opponents who endeavour to show
hereby their insufficiency. Though they admit their being
analogous in all countries, yet they do not suffer the slightest
deviation, pretending that the eternal law would then lose
its validity. It is because they cannot understand that God
is infinite in all and must be so in His qualities too.
11
"
India, the old Jewish State, and Egypt are the funda-
mental countries of the mysteries for the investigator, as
history goes back thus far. The mysteries were taught
there systematically in schools, and we have inherited
their tradition, giving us a clear outline of their system and
their results/'
"
Those mysteries deviated from each other as to their
form and purpose but were apparently quite identical and
analogous in their desire to know God in His sublime
qualities/'
"
The Indians mostly endeavoured to arouse their inner
sight to perceive God in His Light, for which purpose they
used different signs and postures, these often being very
wearisome/
1
"
The shutting up of all bodily apertures by the hands
and feet was a task wherein but few succeed, owing to its
difficulty. To arouse the inner sight, they had a simple
practice in repeating for innumerable times the word AUM."
"
The ancestors of Israel and a part of their descendants
searched for the Divine Word in its widest meaning, where-
fore they are to be considered as the most ideal example
for the investigator. To speak with God, to ask His advice,
to be taught and led by Him was their LIFE-PURPOSE, and
gave them peace and safety, as in no other country/'
"
Egypt was the country of innumerable mysteries, where
the investigation was rather carried out in a scientific
manner. He who received the first initiation had to attain
88 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
to a certain perfection in some branch of the Divine Science,
even should he have been constrained by force. Their
essential occupations were medicine, measures, astronomy,
astrology, and prophecy. The last applied to the nation's
and individual's fate and to the fertility of the soil. For
that purpose they applied signs, words, touchings, and
bodily postures. The sign they took from the circle, dividing
it into angles or quadratures. The single words passed for
prayers, pronounced with shut lips into one's interior to
awake the inner life and to enter the Spirit."
"
The touching they used for the arousing of the Spirit in
any part. By means of the position connected with the
touching, the words and the signs, they observed the gradu-
ations of the body and their spiritual action.
"
(Here Kerning
means the mystical centres.)
"
Their school provided the following preparation : The
student had to practise daily for a few hours, and the
instruction lasted seven years, if he would pass all the
degrees."
"
The sphere of his activity was not assigned to the
student, unless he was found worthy."
"
For the attainment of their aims, the Egyptians pos-
sessed special expedients which no other country could boast
of. The colossal buildings, the remains of which even
to-day arouse our admiration, were built for the support of
their LORE. The obelisks and pyramids, the tombs and the
temples with their inscriptions were the signs and the letters
not of the country, but so as they are seen by the Spirit
speaking the elementary language of God." (Kerning, The
Mysteries, 1-8.)
As far as signs are concerned, which the author mentions
above, I may add that all who are practising will receive the
proof that the hieroglyphics, i.e., the metaphorical writing,
originated in the Spirit's acting on the Mystic's body. This
very fact must be sufficient to show to any unprejudiced
mind that the Mystic is the only right way, for from the
beginning God speaks there through the medium of the
Mystic's body. The human body is to its last cell built up
THE MANTRA PRACTICES 89
by the Spirit. In truth the life of each cell is the manifesta-
tion of God. Therefore the Spirit may evoke at any time
on the human body, as well as within it, phenomena named
the mystical stages, which may be perceived by other people
too. Those phenomena are identical with any mystical
practice, be it the silent one or that of letters, words, or
sentences, or both alternately. The phenomena appear
according to the student's progress.
To those phenomena also belongs a certain kind of the
metaphorical writing of letters, numbers, and whole sen-
tences, appearing on the disciple's body, and perceivable by
anybody else. Of course, no disciple will show them to
sceptics or laymen, while he may do so to persons seriously
interested in the Mystic. Nevertheless, those signs may be
perceived by profane people, when they have appeared on
the student's body unexpectedly in the presence of others.
The mentioned signs or stigmas (for that in fact they are)
show the student the degree he has attained to on his way,
or the promise of the progress to come. They may also
prescribe the practice of letters appearing.
The adversaries of the Mystic they are particularly to
be found among the pseudo-occultists presume that the
mystical practice first affects the senses and the soul. That
is a great error, as just the contrary happens. In fact, how-
ever, the mystical practice first affects the material body,
and this in a salutary way. The mystical practice fortifies
the health, this having been testified to by many physicians.
It further evokes remarkable transformations in the whole
organism, calming the nerves, and then it gradually in-
fluences the finer parts of the man, as the ethereal and the
astral body.
I know well that like many subjects in this book this
assertion, too, has never been touched upon before. Up to
the present anything connected with the mystical evolution
has been kept secret, although some Mystics, especially
Kerning, have mentioned it in their works, but in a dis-
guised way, so that profane folk cannot comprehend it.
But let us revert to the signs mentioned. They appear
go MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
on the body of all students in a comparatively short time,
and make themselves known by a particular sensation, so
calling the student's attention to the place which they have
appeared on. Sometimes there are single signs while next
time there appears a whole row of them on different parts of
the body. As already stated, these stigmas are the first
language of the Divine Spirit, wherefore the student has to
pay careful attention to them, entering them into his diary
specially provided for that purpose. At the same time,
these signs are the guides of the student on his way, and
consequently there is no risk that the student will not know
how to proceed in his practice.
The signs in question are not only the true origin of the
hieroglyphics, but also the origin of writing itself. The
primitive man who led the mystical life, being more pene-
trated by the Spirit than the present generation, imitated
these signs and so learned writing. But this is not all. From
the symbols and the sacred sentences appearing on the
student's body and taking sometimes human and animal
shapes, the man learned to imitate them, which in the olden
times led to the archaic art. Likewise the so-called tattooing
with uncivilized nations has its origin in the mystical signs.
Once more I have to point out that these signs can never
be created out of mere ;.:::! -::.;..,< ..V-r. Before all, the
student cannot produce them at his will or out of his
imagination, as he does not know their form and cannot
foresee it. For the rest, personal experience will prove it.
We can attain to the truth but by personal experience,
i.e., when ]>r;i( iMr.p ourselves. Unless we have commenced
the practice, we cannot have the slightest notion of the
inner life's beauty, of which all Initiates speak.
The whole mystical way consists of some principal
chapters, accompanied by different phenomena, the basis
of which is the cross, i.e., the death on the cross. Our
Saviour came to show us the mystical way, and He did it
more clearly than anyone before. But the way was
known in the darkest antiquity, being the way of the
COSMICAL EVOLUTION. In Ancient Egypt, as well as on all
THE MANTRA PRACTICES 91
antique relics which belonged to nations of which we do not
even know the name, we meet with the cross as the prin-
cipal symbol of theirs. In Egypt have been found crosses
of iron with human figures either thereupon or beneath.
This should be sufficient to anyone possessing common sense.
In all ancient myths we find the mystical way described.
For an example I have selected that of the Greek king
(Edipos, as being the most remarkable.
The king Laios received the news that his own son would
take his mother for his wife. When the queen Yocaste bore
a son, the king, intending to make the oracle impossible,
pierced the child's feet at the ankles and, passing a cord
through, bound them together, ordering the child to then
be abandoned in impassable mountains. But the child was
brought up by a shepherd, who gave him the name of (Edipos
because of his swollen feet. When he had grown up he
learnt the horrid oracle that he was destined to murder his
father and to take his mother for his spouse. He therefore
left Corinth, his home, going abroad, where one day he met
his father's carriage. The carriage would not make room
for him, so he went on silently and courageously, till the
horses made his feet bleed by their trampling on them.
Thereat the son killed the father. Then he journeyed to
Thebes, where he destroyed the raging Sphinx, solving her
riddles. Thus the unknown stranger, (Edipos, in conformity
with the proclamation that the liberator who destroyed the
Sphinx should get the queen for his wife, married his own
mother, the queen Yocaste.
This myth is the key to the mystical evolution of man.
King Laios being the old man, the old Adam, is to be killed
by the new man, born within ourselves, i.e., Jesus Christ.
And the reborn Jesus Christ takes for His wife His mother,
i.e., the Soul, as His immaculate bride who bore Him before.
This myth contains the great mystery of the Immaculate
Conception. It will be clear to all that the symbol of the
feet pierced through at the ankles corresponds with Christ's
feet nailed through. Besides, there are many other mystical
symbols concealed in this myth, which may not be unveiled.
92 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
The bleeding feet mean baptism of blood, after which follows
the killing of the Sphinx, i.e., the Old Serpent or Dragon,
namely the gross worldly power or the material body. This
killing will take place after the riddle has been solved. Who
saw behind matter, he conquered and overcame it, and at
the same time he destroyed it, as it ceased to exist for such
a one any more.
Then follows the so-called mystical marriage, symbolized
by the marriage of (Eidipos with Yocaste. That mystical
marriage is the culminating point of man's inner evolution,
being the union of the King with the Queen, the bride-
groom being Jesus Christ and the bride the Soul. This
marriage means the association of the student's soul with
the Holy Spirit, whereby the mystical evolution is brought
to an end, the student having become the Master of the
Royal Art.
But not only is the (Eidipos myth a description of the
mystical way ; all ancient tales and fables are so. I cannot
show the conformity of those old tales and traditions, owing
to the limited space of this book. A critical reader may
easily discover the conformity according to the above-stated
scheme, and he who will do so will soon see the profit
to be derived therefrom.
CHAPTER VI
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God
and the Word was God. (John i, i.)
WHEN
discussing the Mantra practices, we have
to revert back to the oldest occult traditions,
comparing those of several languages with each
other. As the Indian sacred Scripts speak the clearest and
the most distinct language, and the Indian Mystic is both
practically and theoretically best worked out, we shall look
first for its sources to enable the reader the easier to under-
stand.
I have already mentioned that modern occultism has
brought to the Western countries many translations of the
mystical literature of India ;
but these translations are not
always correct, owing to wrong commentaries on the part
of the translators themselves. This is very regrettable with
these important things, for it follows that the Western
translations distort the truths contained in Indian scripts,
and conceal the most important ones.
It is therefore necessary to procure books which are im-
partial and true translations, if we intend to compare the
Indian Mystic with the Western. To such belong in the
first place the books of A. Avalon. Quotations from his
writings will be given in inverted commas.
A mystical power of the most importance, being in truth
the root of the eternal life and the regenerator and preserver
of the material body, as well as the basis of all life
throughout the Universe, is the sacred Serpent Power or
Kundalini, possessing in India many names as Kutilanghi,
Bhujanghi, Isvari, Arundhati, Fanavati, Mahashakti, and
93
94 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
Paramesvari. The name of Kundalini was first brought to
Europe by Mme. Blavatsky, who in her writings did not
discuss it as it were necessary. Her writings only mention
that She is coiled three and a half times like a serpent and
lies at the base of the spinal column, and is the
"
ardent
mystical power.
1 '
I shall try as far as I may to unveil the mystery of that
mystical power without using any symbols or allegorical
expressions, as many of the modern writers do when dis-
cussing the mystical forces, whereby they only try to hide
their superficial knowledge of the matter.
The name of Kundalini derives its origin from the word
"
kundala," meaning coiled. Therefore this power is called
the Serpent Power, having been known to all nations. We
shall also name it so. In India the Serpent Power is known
as the Goddess Kundalini. She is consequently of the
feminine sex, Her form resembling a coiled serpent asleep.
And She is asleep, until She has been aroused by Yoga
practice, which is called after Her the Kundalini-Yoga.
"
Kundalini is the Shabdabrahman that is, Divine Cosmic
Energy in bodies
"
(Avalon, The Serpent Power, p. i).
"
This form of Yoga is, however, in particular associated
with the Tantras or Agamas, firstly, because these Scrip-
tures are largely concerned therewith. In fact, such orderly
descriptions in practical full detail, as have been written,
are to be found chiefly in the Hathayoga works and Tantras
which are the manuals, not only of Hindu worship, but of
its occultism
"
(Avalon, The S.P.).
Tantra means a net and is a special form of Yoga,
according to which letters and syllables are practised. But
the Tantrik scripts have in Europe a very bad reputation,
owing to the fact that certain theosophical authors have
held them identical with the Black Magic, which of course
is quite wrong. The same applies to the Hathayoga prac-
tice, of which it has been asserted that it is but a means
for strengthening and healing the body. Both Tantra and
Hathayoga are profound religious scripts, prescribing the
hardest asceticism, and their aim is the attainment of the
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 95
Highest Divinity. On the other hand, it cannot be denied
that there are certain Tantrik scripts referring to the Black
Magic, but they form only a very insignificant part of those
scripts. It was Mme. Blavatsky who committed this error
with the Tantras, because she was not told all while staying
in India. Since then the bad reputation of the Tantric
scripts has been obstinately maintained, of course only by
those who do not know them.
As already mentioned, the Serpent Power is at the base
of the spine in a particular MYSTICAL centre, and not a
bodily one. This centre is named Chakra and resembles a
four-petalled lotus. Such Chakras are seven in the human
body, as is to be seen from the table on the next page.
The lowest centre is called in India Muladhara.
The Serpent Power is in the Muladhara centre and can
be awakened by the mystical fire, i.e., the concentration on
our Inner Divinity, or by the repetition of letters in thought,
or by any of the other Indian methods. When the Serpent
Power has been awakened She gradually enters the Chakras,
which is connected with particular sensations, and some-
times it involves considerable pain. When the Serpent
Power has entered the Anahata centre, i.e., the heart lotus,
then the turning-point has been reached, as the further
ascent is very difficult. Once aroused, the Serpent Power
does not at once ascend to the highest centre, but gradually
enters the seven centres, the latter being identical with the
mystical ladder. It is Jacob's ladder, which the angels
ascended and descended. It is the ladder known to all
Egyptian investigators to be a particular symbol found in
the excavations on the papyri and among the inscriptions
on the temples and sepulchres. Later on we shall read its
description by Kerning.
It is enormously difficult to make the Serpent Power
ascend the last three centres, but according to Avalon there
are experts in India able to do so within one hour, but then
that mystical power returns to the lowest centre and is to
be aroused again each time. Of course, each time it grows
easier, but the purpose has not been attained until the
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 97
Serpent Power is retained in the head top in the Sahasrara
centre for a certain time, of which I shall still speak later.
As is to be seen from the annexed table, the number of
the petals of the mystical lotus corresponds with the number
of letters of the Sanscrit alphabet. According to the Tan-
trik scripts the Yogi has to repeat in each of the mentioned
centres those letters which are on the petals of the lotus in
the respective centre. This practice is called Mantra. It
is therefore evident that the letter practice has been known
long in India. Through this practice the Yogis arouse the
greatest of the mystical powers, i.e., the Kundalini, who on
entering the Sahasrara centre effects Her union with Brahma
or the Divine Spirit, this being identical with the alchemical
"
marriage
"
of the Western Mystics. But as with the
Western Mystics the bride is called the Virgin Sophia (the
Divine Wisdom), it follows that thereby is meant the Divine
Soul of the man (Buddhi), who is nothing else than the
Yogi's Sacred Serpent Power or Kundalini, as we shall
convince ourselves by the manifestation of the Gospel.
For a long time this truth was not revealed to me. It
took twenty years until the understanding thereof was given
me, enabling me so to apply the comparative methods of
the respective religious forms.
In the Indian scripts one of the names of the Serpent
Power is also Mantradevata, i.e., the Goddess of all Mantras,
the substance of which is the letters, being consequently
the Mother of the whole Universe. A. Avalon writes in his
book The Serpent Power, p. 236 :
"
She is the Mother of all
and not the child of any. She is the world-consciousness
as a whole. She, the subtlest of the subtle, holds within
Herself the mystery of the creation, and the stream of
Ambrosia which flows from the attributeless Brahma. By
Her radiance the Universe is illumined, and by it eternal
knowledge is awakened that is, She both binds the ig-
norant in the bondage of this worldly life and is the means
whereby liberation may be attained. Kundalini is the Shab-
dabrahman (the sound of God) and all Mantras are Her
manifestation. The body of Kundalini is composed of the
98 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
fifty letters or sound-powers. For this reason it is said in^
the Hathayogapradipika that She gives liberation to Yogis
and bondage to the ignorant. For he who knows Her knows
Yoga, and those who are ignorant of Yoga are kept in
bondage of this worldly life. Her sweet murmur is like the
indistinct hum of swarms of love-mad bees and the soft
cadence of sweet harmonious music/'
The awakening of the Serpent Power is manifested to the
student in different ways. All cannot be revealed, being
the mystery of the mystical practice, but I will mention
those stated by Avalon in his book. The student first per-
ceives vivid flashes of lightning. Another infallible sign of
the arousing of the Serpent Power is the humming of swarms
of bees and a full series of other sounds, commencing with
the chirping of a cricket up to thundering and terrible
thunder-claps.
"
She maintains all the beings of the world by means of
inspiration and expiration, and shines in the hollow of the
Mula lotus like a chain of brilliant lights. Mantras are in
all cases the manifestations of Kundalini Herself, for She is
all letters, all words, and all human languages. Hence
Mantras are used in the rousing of Kundalini. Words in
themselves seem lifeless, but the Mantra power which they
embody is Siddha (magical power) that is, the truth and
capable of teaching it
"
(p. 237).
As soon as the Serpent Power has entered a centre, the
flower of the lotus in that centre turns upwards, while it
was turned downwards before. The aroused Kundalini
causes that the Prana (the vital power) circulating before
in two channels named Ida and Pingala, does so now in the
middle channel called Sushumna, while the two lateral
channels get devitalized. When Prana is in Sushumna there
is neither day nor night, for Sushumna devours time. The
Yogi has then entered eternity.
"
It generally takes years from the commencement of the
practice to lead the Serpent Power to the Sahasrara. At
first She can only be led to a certain point, and then grad-
ually higher. He who has led Her to a particular centre
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 99
can reach the same centre more easily at the next attempt.
But to go higher requires further effort. At each centre a
particular kind of bliss is experienced, and particular powers
are gained, until at the Ajna centre the whole universe is
experienced
"
(p. 240).
"
Kundalini does not at first stay long in Sahasrara. The
ength of stay depends on the strength of the Yogi's prac-
tice. There is then a natural tendency on the part of Kunda-
lini to return. The Yogi will use all effort at his disposal to
retain Her above, for the longer this is done the nearer
approach is made to the time when She can be in a per-
manent manner retained there. For it is to be observed
that liberation is not gained by merely leading Kundalini
to Sahasrara, and of course still less is it gained by stirring
it up in the Muladhara or fixing it in any of the lower
centres. Liberation is gained only when Kundalini takes up
Her permanent abode in the Sahasrara, so that She only
returns by the will of the Yogi. It is said that after staying
in Sahasrara for a time, some Yogis lead the Kundalini
back to the heart and worship Her there. This is done by
those who are unable to stay long in Sahasrara. If one
should die after attaining any of these stages, he is born
again having all the advantages of the stages gained,
and will begin in his next birth where he has last left
off "(p. 250).
As is to be seen from the table annexed, the sixth lotus
includes the mystical figures of the moon and sun. These
figures appear in all times and in the most ancient scripts,
meaning the ROYAL MARRIAGE, i.e., the union of the soul
with Jesus Christ. Likewise in the alchemical scripts (which
are always of a twofold meaning, i.e., the alchemical and
mystical) we meet with the same symbols of the Royal
Marriage. The same is to be found in Gnostic scripts. I
was therefore much surprised at finding this union of
"
planets
"
in Avalon's book, too, on the coloured plates
representing the different centres. This is the best proof
that the mystical way is everywhere the same, its symbols
being uiiuluguu* in all times with all students.
ioo MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
Now I am going to touch upon a very interesting point,
being quite new to the Western occultists, namely the prob-
lem why not all Adepts or Mystics can gain immortality of
their material body, as the Indian scripts promise with
certainty.
He who has aroused the Serpent Power, and made it
permanently stay in the Sahasrara, becomes immortal in
his body, at least until he chooses to leave it. Such a Mystic
is no more subject to any disease or age. On the other
hand, it is known that many high Initiates died of diseases
or age. This apparent contradiction is explained by the
fact that the liberation may be obtained either by the
aiou-iiii; of the Serpent Power which is connected with
the preservation of the material body or without it, namely
by the Jnanayoga (the path of knowledge) or Bhaktiyoga
(path of devotion). If such a Yogi practises without regard
to the Serpent Power, trying to attain the liberation and
union with God, he can attain it, though his body remain
subject to death. When he is in Samadhi the Serpent Power
is still sleeping in the lowest centre. He cannot therefore
die at will, though the hour of his death is known to him.
So died the celebrated Bhakta-Adept Ramakrishna of a
cancer. So died many other Adepts, as Jacob Bohme, etc.
On the other hand, it is known that many members ,of the
Rosy Cross did not decease, but are yet living on this plane
unknown. They gained their bodily immortality either by
arousing the Kundalini or by the life-elixir. The last-
mentioned means cannot prolong the life of the material
body for ever, but only for a certain period, after which the
dose is taken again. (Compare Avalon, p. 265.)
From the above it results that the mere arousing of the
Serpent Power or its leading up to some higher centres is
considered from the Yogi's point of view but a preliminary
stage. Therefore no one should be surprised at learning
that under our letter practice or that of the silent concen-
tration the Serpent Power is aroused very soon indeed.
This is the very advantage of our practices, for they lead
the student to the highest goal, and not only to the mere
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 101
union of the Spirit with the Soul, as is the case with the
different Yogas. The Christian Saints did not know the
right concentration nor the letter practice, wherefore they
suffered so much physically and did not attain the immor-
tality of the material body. They practised the Yoga of
devotion (Bhaktiyoga), but not perfectly, as this also needs
concentration.
The Serpent Power may be also aroused by accident,
i.e., by a man who had not the slightest notion of it. It
may happen so when running or forcibly breathing. Of
course, that Divine Power retires again, for he who awakened
it cannot make it stay above.
The author of The Serpent Power mentions such a case
on p. 47 of his quoted book :
"
As regards practice, I am
told that Kundalini cannot be roused except in the Mulad-
hara and by the means here indicated, though this may
take place by accident when by chance a person has hit
upon the necessary positions and conditions, but not other-
wise. Thus the story is told of a man being found whose
body was as cold as a corpse, though the top of the head
was slightly warm. (This is the state of the Kundalini Yoga
Samadhi.) He was massaged with ghee (clarified butter),
when the head got gradually warmer. The warmth de-
scended to the neck, when the whole body regained its heat
with a rush. The man came to consciousness, and then told
the story of his condition. He said he had been going through
some antics, imitating the posture of a Yogi, when suddenly
'
sleep
'
had come over him. It was surmised that his
breath must have stopped, and that, in being in the right
position and conditions, he had unwittingly roused Kunda-
lini, who had ascended to Her cerebral centre. Not, how-
ever, being a Yogi, he could not bring her down again.
The Pandit who gave me this story was learned in this
Yoga, and his brother practised it." (Where the Serpent
Power steps forth from the head, there the clergy wear the
round tonsure.)
At the commencement of this chapter I promised to ex-
plain the meaning of Mantra. It is a magical formula, a
102 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
prayer, sometimes a syllable, or a letter to be repeated in
a low voice or mentally by the student. The latter method
comes into consideration with the mystical practice as
described here. Each Mantra is to be practised until it re-
sounds in the whole body. How this happens, the student
will learn when practising. Each other Mantra is without
any effect.
Avalon writes on it as follows in his already cited work
on p. 103 :
"
There is perhaps no subject in the Indian Scripts which
is less understood than Mantra. Commonly Orientalists and
others describe Mantra as
'
prayer/
'
formulae or worship/
'
mystic syllables/ and so forth. These are the super-
ficialities of those who do not know their subject. Whilst
I am not aware of any work in any European language
which shows a knowledge of Mantra and its science, yet
there is perhaps no subject which has been so ridiculed
a not unusual attitude of ignorance. There is nothing
necessarily holy or prayerful about a Mantra. Mantra is a
power which lends itself impartially to any use. A man
may be injured or killed by Mantra, by Mantra a kind of
union with the physical Shakti is by some said to be effected,
by Mantra, in the initiation called Vedhadiksha, there is
such a transference of power from the Guru to the disciple
that the latter swoons under the impulse of it, by Mantra
the Homa fire may and, according to ideal conditions,
should be lighted, by Mantra man is saved, and so forth.
Mantra in short is a power which is thought-movement
vehicled by and expressed in speech. The root
'
man '
means
*
to think/ To quote an example which I recently
read in an account of an author nowise
'
suspect
'
as an
Occultist, Theosophist, etc. General J. T. Harris noticed a
scorpion close to the foot of a Sadhu.
'
Don't move/ he said,
'
there is a scorpion by your foot/ The Sadhu leaned over,
and when he saw the scorpion he pointed at it with his
fingers, on which the animal immediately and in the pres-
ence of the General shrivelled up and died.
'
You seem to
have some powers already/ the General said, but the Sadhu
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 103
simply waved the matter aside as being of no importance.
(China Jim : Incidents in the Life of a Mutiny Veteran, by
Major-General J. T. Harris, p. 74.) Of an extraordinary
use to which Mantra is put, I am informed by some wor-
shippers of the Bhairava Mantra. The man projects the
Mantra on to the woman, who then experiences the sensa-
tion of a physical union. The Vishnu Purana speaks of
generation by will power. As the Kularnava Tantra says,
and as may be readily understood, such a Guru is hard to
get. The disciple who receives this initiation gets all the
powers of his initiator. It is said that there are Gurus who
can at once make their disciples fit for the highest aims.
As actually happened lately in the house of a friend of
a collaborator of mine, a man lit the fuel in Kushandika
Homa simply by Mantra without recourse to light or
match."
"
The creative power of thought is now receiving in-
creasing acceptance in the West. Thought-reading, thought-
transference, hypnotic suggestion, magical projections (Mok-
shana), and shields (Grahana) are becoming known and
practised, not always with good results. The doctrine is
ancient in India, and underlies the practice to be found in
the Tantras, some of which are in general kept concealed
to prevent misuse. What, however, is not understood in
the West is the particular form of thought-science which is
Mantravidhya. Those familiar with the Western present-
ment of similar subjects will more readily understand when
I say that, according to the Indian doctrine here described,
thought (like mind, of which it is the operation) is a power
of Shakti. It is, therefore, not only as real, but in a sense
more real than outer material objects, which are themselves
but the projections of the creative thought of the World-
thinker. The thought-movement vehicled by and expressed
in speech is Mantra."
In India there exists an actual literature on Mantras,
partially described in Avalon's works. What we have
quoted will be sufficient to prove the correctness of the letter
practice, which was and is yet carried out in India, in
104 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
accordance with some very ancient scripts, two of which
have been translated into English by A. Avalon, namely,
Shatchakra Nirupana and Paduka panchaka.
"
Kundali is a form of the Supreme Divine Power who
maintains all breathing creatures. She is the source from
which all sound or energy, whether as ideas or speech,
manifests. That sound Matrika when uttered in human
speech assumes the form of letters and prose and verse,
which is made of their combinations/' (Avalon, p. 181.)
This clearly shows the conformity of the Indian lore
with the Christian conception of the Word, as some
quotations of European authors to be quoted later will
confirm.
Now we pass on to the further sources concerning the
letter practice.
The most ancient sources are the Egyptian. In the
Chapters of the Book of the Dead, particularly CLXII,
CLXIII, CLIV, and CLXV, we find a great number of
names of
"
magical power
"
used by the priests not only
for prayers, but also for evocation. It is further supposed
these words were used for the mystical practice in order
to awaken the INNER LIFE. In Chapters of Coming Forth by
Day, we see that God Amen, which means the Hidden One,
had many names, and the deceased hoped to be saved from
the injurious influences beyond, if he knew those names.
In many places of that book the names of other gods are
repeated, and the following saying is to be found :
"
I have
Thy Divine Name in my mouth and will utter it." (The
Chapters of Coming Forth by Day, p. 289.)
It is a pity that only insignificant remnants of the
Egyptian rituals have been preserved. Besides, the mystical
practice was probably kept secret and nothing was written
down thereof, all being handed down orally. All the same,
the reader will find that the Egyptians knew well the
practice of the inner evolution. From the Greco-Egyptian
papyri will be seen that their magicians and mystics knew
the letter practice composed of the vowels IEOUAY.
One of those papyri begins as follows :
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 105
"
I call upon Thee that didst create the earth and bones,
and all flesh and all spirit, that didst establish the sea and
that shakest the heavens, that didst divide the light from
the darkness, eye of the world. IAOOUEI, hear my voice.
I call upon Thee, the ruler of the gods, high thundering
Zeus, Zeus, king, Adonai, Lord, IAOOUE ,
etc." (Goodwin,
Fragment of the Greco-Egyptian Work upon Magic, p. 21.)
The spell ends with the statement that it
"
loosens chains,
blinds, brings dreams, creates favour." He who under-
stands the Mystic knows that it actually refers to the inner
evolution, for it is the only one means to loosen the chains
of the material world, for only then we receive dreams from
the Spirit (being the first interpretation of his being in touch
with us), and only the Spirit can protect us against all.
We find in this formula the names of the seven vowels
wherein all names, all light and all Power are contained.
It does not matter at all that there are the influences of the
Hebrew Kabbala and the Greek mythology, as the very
base of all mysteries is always the same and only their
external dress differs. On the papyri and amulets we find
vowels in magical combinations forming triangles and
rectangles, e.g. :
Such inscriptions were engraved upon metallic plaques
serving as talismans. When, later on, those mystical signs
passed into the hands of profane people, their signification
became lost, and they were used by them for
"
magical
"
purposes. The same happens to-day in the European
countries, where the masses are ignorant of the cross being
a mystical sign and use it for protection against evil.
The old Egyptians knew well the mystical practice, as
we carry it through nowadays. Their different symbols
106 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
misunderstood by the Egyptian investigators ignorant of
the occult and still more of the mystical lore bear witness
thereof. I am going to point out some of them.
In the first place, there is the sign TETH or TET. For a
long time it was not understood by the investigators, until
they finally discovered in a papyrus that it was the back-
bone of the god Osiris. But there the matter remained.
The Mystic, however, finds at first sight that it is really a part
of a backbone with the dorsal vertebra, for in the backbone
is the spinal marrow, where the mightiest of the mystical
powers, the Kundalini, is sleeping. When we then find the
following ideograph :
it will be clear that it represents an Initiate, who has gained
the liberation by the arousing of the Serpent Power, evoking
God (in the shape of the disk of the sun). The above
drawing contains the sign ANKH, i.e. TAU with a sling,
the known Egyptian cross, the sign of death and life. Well,
again the cross ! The arms uplifted above the cross are the
hieroglyphics for prayer or evocation. The sun represents
the spiritual enlightenment. The Egyptians were masters
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 107
in composing symbols from the signs of their alphabet.
We find here that the sign Tau rises straight out of the
backbone, for the Serpent Power hidden in the spinal
column is the sole dispenser of the eternal life. That sign
was in later times put with the deceased into the coffin for
protection. Chapter CLV of the Book of the Dead contains
the following sentence :
"
Rise up thou, O Osiris. Thou
hast thy backbone, O Still-Heart/' (This is he who has
succeeded in stilling his thoughts, i.e., in concentrating
himself.)
"
Thou hast the fastenings of thy neck and back,
O Still-Heart." As already indicated, when practising, the
student has to keep his back and head in one straight line,
as otherwise the practice might injure him, the Serpent
Power ascending only if the backbone is straightened.
Before passing to the meaning of the different amulets
of Egypt, it will be necessary to point out that these mystical
symbols were known in Egypt from the earliest times, and
represent certain spiritual ideas, about the origin of which
even the Egyptians were at times doubtful. (Vide Budge,
Egyptian Magic, p. 26.)
"
The oldest Egyptian amulets
known are pieces of green schist, of various shapes, animal
and otherwise, which were laid upon the breast of the
deceased ; these are found in large numbers in the pre-
historic or pre-dynastic graves at several places in Egypt."
According to the investigations of Egyptologists, the principal
cults were brought to Egypt from Lydia. But there is no
doubt whatever that the true origin of these mystical signs,
as well as of mystical lore altogether, is to be looked for
in the Far West of the olden times, i.e., in Atlantis.
According to the inscription on the sarcophagus of the
Queen Khnem-Nefert, the spouse of Mentu-Hetep, a king
of the eleventh dynasty (about 2500 B.C.), one Chapter of
the Book of the Dead had been found during the reign of
the fifth king of the first dynasty, named Hesepti, who lived
about 4266 B.C. Just that Chapter of the wonderful Book of
the Dead was considered to be the most mysterious and the
most difficult to comprehend. Of course, it was not com-
prehensible to profane people. It is further of great
io8 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
importance that the inscription in question says that the
above-named Chapter was
"
revealed
"
about 4266 B.C.
If it was only revealed at that time, when was it written
down ? Besides* if it was but revealed, it was probably not
of Egyptian origin. I am stating this only to make it clear
that the Occult and Mystical Science of Atlantis was the
very origin of those insignificant relics of which we know
to-day, and that their spiritual evolution must have been
an enormous one and quite incomprehensible to us.
The same applies to certain amulets. According to de
Morgan their use was exceedingly widespread until the end
of the neolithic period, but with the advent of the people
whom we call Egyptians they become very rare. In the
subsequent period the animal forms disappear, and their
place is taken by plaques of schist, rocizuipular in shape,
upon which are inscribed, in rough outline, figures of
animals, etc. These inscriptions were called
"
hekau," i.e.,
words of power or magical formulae. The Egyptians
possessed complete books < .:
'
': . such words of power,
for we see from the inscription on the wall of the corridors
and chambers of the pyramid of Unas, king of Egypt about
3300 B.C., that a
"
book with words of magical power
"
was
buried with him.
In the following sections we shall describe only those
Egyptian amulets on which we could trace a mystical
meaning. The first of them is the amulet of the HEART.
Its meaning must be obvious to everybody having but a
slight notion of the occult tradition, for in the heart dwells
the Divine Self of man. The symbol of the human heart
was one of the most important in the Egyptian religion.
After death the human heart was weighed in the presence
of Osiris in a balance against its deceased proprietor.
Therefrom its divine meaning and importance ensue.
Another amulet was that of a human-headed bird, which
was tfre symbol of the SOUL. The Mystic will soon learn
that this symbol is yet in force in the spiritual world, appear-
ing on the mystical path in different shapes and degrees
very often indeed.
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 109
One of the most important symbols of the Mystic in the
form of an amulet is the LADDER. In the Egyptian tombs
of the ancient empire ladders of wood and other substances
are often found, but the Egyptologists do not understand
their meaning, which is quite natural, for they are not Mystics.
This ladder is nothing else but the Jacob's ladder of the
Bible, upon which the Divine Serpent Power gradually
ascends the individual centres. This ladder is in the human
body, or in other words man is this ladder, for he reaches
on same the spiritual under -,l;i ml ing, the single rungs of it
being the centres (lotus) described in chapters dealing with
the Serpent Power. According to the Egyptian tradition,
Osiris himself experienced some difficulty in getting up to
the
"
heavens." He succeeded therein only by means of
the ladder provided by his father Ra. In the Egyptian
texts the ladder is often said to be the means of the ascent
of the deceased into heaven. This, of course, was written
for laymen, for the priests knew well enough that the ladder
was but for the living, and that only those who ascended
it, while alive, could enter the true Heaven after their
death. In the text written for the king Pepi it is said :
"
Homage to thee, O Divine Ladder. Homage to thee,
O Ladder of Set. Stand thou upright, O Ladder of Set.
Stand thou upright, O Ladder of Horus, whereby Osiris
came forth into heaven, for Pepi is thy son, and Pepi is
Horus/
1
etc. This ladder has been preserved until our
times in some secret societies, the members of which, how-
ever, no longer understand its meaning.
Another important symbol is the amulet of two fingers.
It represents the index and the medius, close to each other
and upraised. They represent the two fingers which the
god Horus employed in helping his father Osiris up the
ladder into heaven, as has been described above. In the
already mentioned text for the king Pepi, it is further said :
"
Pepi rises like the Uraeus on the forehead of Set, and
every god and every spirit stretches out his hand to Pepi
on the Ladder ... he has gone quickly into heaven by
means of the two fingers of the god of the Ladder (i.e.,
no MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
Horus)." (Budge, Egyptian Magic, p. 54.) The Uraeus is
a serpent issuing forth from the forehead of many gods,
being also an ornament of the royal crown. It is not very
difficult to guess that this serpent is but the Divine Kun-
dalini which also appears outwardly, when it has entered
the top centre. It is not by accident that in the above text
the Uraeus is mentioned together with the Ladder, which
is one proof more of its reference to the spinal centre and the
Serpent Power.
The symbol of the Two Fingers is very important on the
mystical path, and we meet with it very often elsewhere,
as for instance on the
"
emerald-table
"
of Hermes Tris-
megistus, whereon they appear on both the sides with
hands thrust out of the clouds, i.e.,
"
the heaven/' The
practising Mystic will conceive their full meaning after a
longer training. This is all that can be said of it.
A known amulet of the Egyptians is THE EYE OF HORUS.
It is one of the commonest of all, and its use seems to have
been universal at all periods. Its Egyptian name is Utchat
and is of two kinds, one facing to the left and the other to
the right, and together they represent the two eyes of Horus,
one of which, according to an ancient text, was white and
the other black. One represents the Sun and the other the
Moon. (Budge, p. 56.) Here once more we find the two
symbols of the so-called Royal Wedding, i.e., the union of
Jesus Christ with the Soul. In all mystical scripts, old as
well as new ones, we always find both the symbols together,
namely the crescent containing a small sun. This twofold
symbol is also not missing on the Tabula Smaragdina, and
is also indicated in the mystical tarots. Likewise we have
found it in Indian pictures representing the inner centres,
up to which the Serpent Power is n-ccnding. In Avalon's
quoted book The Serpent Power they are best indicated in
the forehead-centre, i.e., Ajna, where the union is effected.
(v. Avalon, Table 7.) On the plate representing the reborn
man or the Master, according to an old engraving from the
works of Jacob Bohme, we find below the Sun with the
Moon. (Table 2.) Both the signs are also to be found in
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES in
the astrological sign of Mercury. Above is the crescent and
below the sun on a cross. Mercury was called by the Greeks
Hermes, and is a neutral planet. Its symbol was the
Caduceus, i.e., a stick around which two serpents are
twisting and at the end of which are two wings. The
meaning of the stick is quite clear it is once more the
Kundalini rising up the backbone. The two wings repre-
sent the two-petalled lotus between the eye-brows, of which
already mention has been made. The meaning of the Moon
united with the Sun is likewise to be seen from the astro-
nomical sign, where the crescent is united with Venus or
Aphrodite. Hermes (Mercury) and Aphrodite gave the bi-
sexual god the Hermaphrodite, which indicates the mystical
wedding, the union of the Virgin Soul with Jesus Christ.
The amulet
"
NEFER
"
represents a kind of a lute. The
Egyptologists declare it to mean good luck, but its real
meaning is a mystical one. It refers to certain musical
sounds to be heard by the Mystic during his evolution, and
which are of a great importance.
The amulet of the SERPENT HEAD is the symbol of the
goddess Isis who is often represented by a serpent. It is
the Soul or the Serpent Power, as already explained. The
Serpent, as a symbol of the Kundalini, has been preserved
until our times in certain pictures of the Virgin Saint, who,
as is well known, is the modern aspect of Isis and many other
goddesses of ancient times, always shown with the symbol
of the Serpent.
The amulet MENAT and SAM represent from the mystical
point of view the union of the organs of generation (menat),
i.e., the mystical wedding and then the i\ , i.:v,ji!s... spiritual
power in the shape of phallus (sam).
The amulet of the STEPS has the same meaning as that
of the Ladder. It means the divers degrees of the mystical
evolution with the student. It is interesting that, like many
others of these symbols, this symbol has been preserved up
to to-day in the secret societies.
The actual and the hidden meaning of the majority of
these symbols is to be concealed from laymen, for it refers
H2 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
to the mystical evolution, which cannot be unveiled in all
its details. He who is honestly determined to set out on
the Way, will easily have their meaning explained, and the
same symbols will be his proofs as to the truth of the afore-
said. Only for that purpose are they indicated in this book.
From the Egyptians the way leads us direct to the
Gnostics who existed about 200 B.C. until A.D. 200. The
Gnostic or Gnose means the understanding of, i.e., a better
and deeper insight into religious truth. The Gnostic is
the very ancient form of the Mystic. There was a great
number of the Gnostic systems and all were either philo-
sophical or practical. The following extracts from the
Gnostic are for the first time explained in this book from the
mystical point of view. They are undoubtedly documents of
the Mantra letter system revealed by Kerning and known in
India too which was practised on a large scale by Gnostics.
It does not matter at all that the modern scientists presume
it to be but some
"
magical formulas," for it is well known
how these scientists, ignoring the occult and yet more the
mystical mysteries, let themselves be deceived in all direc-
tions. Of course, the Gnostics knew also of the Serpent
Power. The proof of it is their different symbols, e.g., of
the human figure around which, from the feet up to the
head, a big serpent is twining, over the human vertex. The
same symbol is to be found on the gems of the god Khnubis
(or Khnumis), who is, of course, the ancient Egyptian god
Khnemu, i.e., the Creator of all which breathes, of man and
beast. He is usually depicted on the gems as a huge serpent
having the head of a lion, surrounded by seven or twelve
rays. Over the rays are the seven vowels of the Greek
alphabet. This is quite natural, for the Kundalini is the
Mother of all letters and sounds. On the back of the gems
is usually found the sign of the triple S and a bar, SSS
i.e., the Kundalini's three coils and the backbone. (Vide
Budge, Egyptian Magic, p. 179.)
The limited space of this book does not allow the ex-
planation of all Gnostic systems, for, from the mystical point
of view, it would fill several volumes. We shall point out
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 113
only those systems which quite clearly show the principles
of the Mantra letter-practices. But nobody must suppose
the Gnostics to have accepted their number system con-
nected with letters from the Hebrew Kabbala. Though this
presumption might be possible, yet it is not true. The Gnose
adopted this lore from the Pythagoreans.
This already shows itself from the fact that the Gnostics
considered the sound of the vowels to be the music of the
heavens, i.e., of the spheres. And the music of the spheres
is a particular conception of the Pythagoreans.
Let us draw attention to the founder of one of the
well-known Gnostic systems, i.e., Marcos.
Marcos had elaborated a complete letter system, which I
am going to quote from W. Schulze's The Documents of the
Gnosis (p. 189 et seq.). The extracts here quoted are those
of Irenaios, Hyppolitos, and Epiphanies.
"
From the invisible and unutterable spheres there as-
scended to me the Quaternity in the shape of a woman, for
her male shape could not be suffered by this plane. She
told me her meaning, and how the Universe had been
created, both the mysteries not having been revealed to any
god or man before. She spoke to me :
" '
In the beginning, when the Unimaginable and Un-
revealed, Who is both a man and a woman, was circling,
He wanted the Unutterable and Invisible to be born.
Wherefore He opened His mouth and sent out the Word,
which was equal to Him, and which took a place at His side
and shewed Him what it was, for it represented the In-
visible's Image.
" '
The utterance of that word happened as follows :
" '
He spoke the first word of His name, which was the
Beginning (arche). It was composed of four elements. Then
He added the second word composed also of four elements,
and then He said the third word composed of ten elements,
and the fourth consisting of twelve elements. Thus the
utterance of the complete name was achieved by four words
and thirty elements.
" '
Each of those thirty elements has its own letters and
H
H4 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
its own character and its own pronunciation, as well as its
own shape and image. For the names of those elements
are usual and utterable signs for secret and unutterable
eternals, words, roots, seeds, fulfilments, and fruits. And
none of those elements perceives the figure of that of which
it is itself only an element ; it does not even recognize the
pronunciation of its neighbour-element, but sounds so as if
it could itself express the All in tone, as it supposes itself
to delineate the Whole. For although each of these ele-
ments is only a part of the whole, it holds its tone to be
the All and does not cease to let it sound. And it does not
leave off till the tone has reached to the last element of the
last word.
" '
Yet it happened with the first and the last element
of the whole name that each made its voice sound. Its
sound set out, according to the images of the former ele-
ments, creating new elements, from which were then shaped
those following later, the foregoing consisting of the latter
ones. (The practical occultists will know that here it is a
question of a lore similar to that of the Indians, namely the
breathing in and out of Brahma in Manvatars and Pralayas.)
For the letter, whose tone followed the direction of the
whole name sounding into the depths, was taken up into
the heights by that word of the whole name to which it
belonged, and its tone used for the fulfilment of the whole,
while the tone itself rushed into the depths, as if lost in the
distance.
" '
Now, the whole word whose single letters, as a conse-
quence of their utterance, penetrated into the depths, con-
sisted of thirty such letters, and each one of these thirty
letters was composed of other letters, by which the name
of the letter is indicated. (For instance, A is called Alfa
in Greek and is composed of A, L, F, A.) And these new
letters again receive names, which consist of further letters,
and so on continuously, so that an endless abundance of
letters, whose names are again written with letters, arise.
So the element D bears, for example, the name of Delta,
and consists therefore of five letters, namely, D, E, L, T, A,
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 115
of which each again has its own name, which produces new
letters, so that an unending quantity of letters answers to
such an element. If, however, one single element alone
gives rise in this fashion to always more and more letters,
out of which others are again uninterruptedly formed
then see the abyss of plenty which, consisting of thirty
such elements, is hidden in the name of the Primordial
Father.
" '
But if all these elements, of which each further sounds
for itself its own tone (as a single one is not able to utter
the whole name), and of which each only began to sound,
after its being preceded in the utterance of the whole name,
and of which each will sound the particular tone like the
other then the All will again return into itself, and the
tone which then sounds will be : Amen.' (This is the end
of the Manvatar and the beginning of the Pralaya.)
"
And the Quaternity further spoke to me :
" '
Look and I will show thee the truth. For I have
brought her down from her unearthly abode, that thou
mayest see her naked and know her beauty, but also hear
her words and admire her understanding :
(alfa, omega)
(beta, psi)
(gamma, Khi)
(delta, phi)
(epsilon, ypsilon)
(dzeta, tau)
(eta, sigma)
(theta, rho)
(iota, pi)
(kappa, omikron)
(lambda, xi)
(mi, ni)
" '
This is the body of the Truth, this the shape of her
name, this the character of her letters. And she is also
called MAN. She is the source of each word and the origin
of each voice, the utterance of all unutterable and the
u6 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
mouth of the silent silence. But thou, awaken all the
heavenly power of thy mind and listen to what has been
uttered of itself from the mouth of the truth by means of
the Word given her by the Father.'
"
From the last sentences, we see that the lore described
above is quite identical with that of the Indian Mantra
system with the Serpent Power, who is said to be the mother
of all sounds, letters, words, etc. That which Marcos here
calls the Truth is nothing else but the manifestation of the
Gospel.
"
When the Quaternity said it, the Truth looked at me,
opened Her Mouth and uttered the Word, and the Word
became the name, and this name was He, Whom we know
and confess :
JESUS CHRIST (IHSOTS XPEISTOS). And when
she named Him, she at once grew speechless. But as
I thought she would go on, so the Quaternity approached
and spoke :
" '
Do you consider the Word you heard from the mouth
of the Truth so insignificant ? Not so ! For what you
know and presume to possess for long is but the name of
which you know the sound, while its meaning rests con-
cealed from you. For Jesus is an important name, com-
posed of six letters, which are convoked by all letters called.
Christ, however, is a name of a different quality and form,
to be perceived but by kindred spirits, whose greatness
abides with Him through all times.
" '
Therefore listen : Those twenty-four letters of the
alphabet (Greek) which you know are emanations deline-
ating on high the three powers which encompass the Uni-
verse and the number of the elements. For the nine
soundless letters (b, g, d, th, k, p, s, t, f) belong to the
Father and the Truth, being soundless, i.e., unutterable and
unmanifestable. The half-sounding (1, m, n, r, z, x, kh, f) ,
eight in number, apply to WORD and LIFE, for they are be-
tween the soundless and the sounding, receiving from the
former their flow from above, and from the latter their
ascension out of the depths. Finally the sounding seven
(a, e, , i, o, y, 6) point to MAN and the CHURCH, for the
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 117
voice came out of man and created the All. For the sound
of the voice gave shape to things.
" '
In this way the Seven belong to the WORD and the
LIFE, the Eight to MAN and the CHURCH, and the Nine to
the FATHER and the TRUTH.
" '
To that number then which remained behind came
that one which is deprived of its seat in the Father, sent
by him from whom it was severed to amend what had
happened, that the unity of the fulfilments dwell in the
Good and bring forth the power of all as fruits in each of
its parts. And so the seven was adjusted with the nine to
the average eight, and the three places of the Above, the
Middle and the Below become each an eight.
" '
And these three united gave the number twenty-four.
And the three pairs of the powers which encompass the All,
and of which then there are six, give, simplified according
to the secret ratios of the four-number, that number which
answers to the Inexpressible.
" '
Yet they are borne by the six letters of the name of
Jesus (IHSOTS), which are images and parables of those
invisible powers, while, if one reckons these six letters to
the twenty-four letters of the alphabet, one gets the number
thirty, answering to the elements of the name uttered by
the Primordial Father at the creation of the world.
" '
But this Jesus, mysterious genesis, is the following :
From the first Quaternity, the Mother of All, arose as a
daughter the second Quaternity at the utterance of the
Divine Name by the Father, and so were formed the Eight,
whence the Ten came. So the Eighteen were formed. Then
the Ten came to the Eight, and multiplied they gave Eighty,
which multipled with the Ten gave Eight Hundred, so that
the total of the numbers originating from the Eight and
Ten were the following :
Eight, Eighty, Eight Hundred.
And eight hundred and eighty-eight is the numeral value
of the letters forming the name of Jesus (IHSOTS, i.e.,
10+8+200+70+400+200=888. Vide the annexed table
of letters and the corresponding numbers). Wherefore the
Greek alphabet contains eight unities, eight tens, and eight
n8 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
hundreds. This is why Jesus is called the Alfa and the
Omega
'
(i.e., all the alphabet). Therefore the mystical
students of the Kerning school practise the letters.
"
And further spoke to me the Quaternity about the
origin of the twenty-four letters :
" '
In the Aloneness was the unity, whence One and the
One were derived. So they were four ; for twice two are
four. And further these two added to the four gave the
number six, and the six quadrupled gives the number
twenty-four. And the names of the first Quaternity, de-
vised by Saints and unutterable, are perceived but by the
SON, while the Father knows what they are.
" '
Those names, however, which in silence are uttered in
faith, are : UNUTTERABLE and SILENCE, FATHER and TRUTH.
The total of this Quaternity is composed of twenty-four
letters. For UNUTTERABLE (APPHTOS) has seven, SILENCE
(ZEIFH) five, FATHER (HATHP) five, and TRUTH (AAHGEIA)
seven again, which are together 24.
" '
Likewise, the second Quaternity gives the equal
number of letters, namely WORD (Aoros) and LIFE (ZOH),
MAN (AN0PQH02) and CHURCH (EKKAHSIA) for 5+3=8
and 8+8=24. And the unutterable name of SON (rioz)
has twelve letters (y-iota-oi-sigma), but that of the ANOINTED
(XPEISTOS) twenty-four letters. Namely his very name
(XPBISTOS) is composed of eight letters, while his name
unutterable of twenty-four, for XEI are three letters, po
two, BI two, IOTA four, SIFMA five, TAT three, or two,
ZAN lastly three. So in the name of the Anointed is con-
tained his name unutterable in twenty-four letters/
"
But on account of this relation of his to the alphabet,
the Anointed says of himself : I am the Alpha and Omega.
For unto him descended the dove, when he was anointed,
and the numeral value of the letters of which the name of
the bird is composed is 801, which rendered in letters again
means : OA (alpha's numeral value is i and omega's 800,
vide the table).
"
And further spoke to me the Quaternity of the Soul
of the Universe and of Man :
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 119
" '
The Six, expressed by the letters of the name of Jesus
(IHSOTS), makes use of the greatness of the seven to mani-
fest through the latter the fruit of self-determination. And
through her power and knowledge she created and animated,
by means of the influence emanating from her, the world,
whose collective animation, as far as it is to be seen, is
nothing other than an imitation of the seven powers, whose
virtues are contained in each Seven. And she makes use
of this accommodation, as if it were built by her, while the
Seven fulfil their service as imitations of the inimitable,
which is contained in the thought of their Mother that is
of the Six.
And the first heaven sounds the Alpha
the following the Ei
the third the Eta
the fourth and the middle among the
seven powers the Iota
the fifth the Oy
the sixth the Y
the seventh and fourth after the middle the 6 (omega)
All these powers sound and praise, bound in unity, Him
from whom they are brought forth, and the glory of this
sounding rises up to the FATHER. And when the sound of
this glory descended to the earth, it became the moulder
and creator of all earthly things
'"
(p. 194).
Here we meet again with a very important aspect of
letters, and particularly vowels, each of which is said to be
a heaven. If we, therefore, practise in thought (in the feet)
the vowels, we make the heavenly sounds resound in our
body. Herewith is explained their quick effect on the
human body and the human soul from the mystical point
of view. It is also clear why such a beginning is the best
and surest way, for it must lead to the highest goal to God.
I don't know how the investigators of Gnosticism could
have gone astray in taking their magic formulae (which
equally consist of groups of vowels) to be the foremost part
of the mysteries of the later Gnose, not knowing anything
120 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
whatever of their mystical meaning. If they had compre-
hqnded better the quoted texts, they could not have let
themselves be deceived.
This Lore of the Divine Word was contained in almost
all Gnostic systems, and it was thought that it revealed the
secret Being of the Godhead. The Gnostic Simon opposed
the mouth, where the word is formed, as a proper sphere
of formation, to the improper sphere of formation, i.e., the
woman's womb. Such an idea is either idle and vague, or
is to be carried through to its consequences. But as the
Gnostics attributed to the Divine Word the highest meaning,
they could not but reach these results. Probably these
were known not only to Marcos, but to all Gnostics. Being,
however, a secret lore they were not handed down, except
in some obscure intimations, so that it may be an unlucky
chance that only just that part of his teaching, appertaining
to the Word of the Godhead, has been handed down to us.
For all that we are at least able to grasp the real essentials
of the Gnostic Lore of the Logos. The consequences re-
sulting from the idea that the World is the Divine Word
and the mouth the sphere of its formation, are, according
to W. Schultz, the following :
"
If the world answer to the Word and the formation of
the world to the formation of the Word, and the latter to
the formation of the Child, then the parts of the world
must be analogous to the parts of the Word and the Child.
The parts of the world are the elements, the parts of the
Word are the letters, and the parts of the Child are its
limbs. Therefore the elements, the letters, and the limbs
of the human body must correspond with each other in a
mystical relation. The train of these ideas has been sup-
ported by the fact that both the letter and the element
have one and the same name in the Hellenic language
(stoicheion), further that the alphabet was composed of
twenty-four letters, which could be allotted in sixes to the
four elements, then that in the Universe the zodiac rested
on the number of twelve constellations, to which the twenty-
four letters could be applied in pairs. Thus finally the
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 121
human body was divided, as Marcos shows us the division
of the Truth's feo4y, into twelve parts, whereby the micro-
cosmos (the man) eame into the safrie relation with the
letters, as was the case with the macrocosmos through the
medium of the zodiacal signs. (We have already alluded
to Adam Kadmon's evolution by means of the zodiacal
signs.) Further it was considered that all events in the
world and aH' thought might be expressed in words, the
words thus being adapted to things and thoughts in full.
Therefrom it was concluded that the dividing of the words
into letters must answer to the dividing of things and
thoughts into the elements
"
(Schultz, p. 197).
,
I do not know whether the mystical aut'hor J. B. Kerning
established his system on the basis of the Gnostic.
Neither do I know whether he established it on the Indian
basis expounded by me, and which fully agree in all
their principles with the Gnostic Lore, as described above.
Yet I shall prove later by quotations from Kerning's writings
that the train of his ideas fully corresponds with what I
have quoted from the Tantric system and the Gnose. To
suppose Kerning to have known the Indian Yoga scripts
and especially the Tantric one is absurd, for in his lifetime
they had not yet been translated, and he did not master
the Sanscrit language. Likewise it is very doubtful whether
he could have known the Greek and Coptic text of the
Gnostics, having reference to the above-mentioned systems.
There remains but the presumption that Kerning as >a
developed mystic was a clairvoyant and discovered these
laws in his interior by means of the inward word awakened
in him.
If, however, formerly the numbers appearing in the
subdivision of the year, the month, the zodiac and the
alphabet became marked, then yet another possibility
presented itself by forming names out of letters, of allotting
to everything its numeral value, an'-.-iJms; to its name.
This took place either in this way that each name was
composed of a certain number of letters (and thus arose the
numeral-symbolics of letters, which we have referred to
122 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
several times in the case of mystical names), or by the
custom, since the oldest times, of attributing to each letter
of the alphabet some numeral value. This was done in the
way shown below :
"
If we want to make out the numeral value of the word
Abraxas, we shall get :
A i
B 2
R 100
A i
X 60
A i
S 200
365
(Abraxas is the name of an essential Gnostic Divinity,
having the body of a man with a head of a cock, his feet
ending in serpents. In one hand he is holding a dagger and
in the other a shield, whereon the sacred name of IAO is
engraved. It is a secret symbol comprehensible but to
advanced mystics.)
"
Likewise the word Amen, wherein, according to Marcos,
the world event shall be uttered in letters, may be calculated
as follows :
A i
M 40
E 8
N 50
99
Equally it has been received :
I 10
- 8
S 200
070
Y 400
S 200
888
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 123
" Or the name of the dove, the Greek name of which is
PERISTERA, gives the total of 801.
"
At the same time, we may render the number of 801
in letters, and shall get omega and alpha. For Omega is
800 and Alpha I, which is a reversed sign of Alpha and
Omega attributed to Jesus. The peculiarity of Marcos'
calculations is his distinction between utterable and un-
utterable names. The name utterable is that word, e.g.,
IESOYS, while the unutterable is formed therein, when we
put into a vertical row the names of the single letters the
word is composed of. Therefore the name utterable IESOYS
is composed of six letters, the unutterable one of twenty-
four :
Iota 4
Eta 3
Sigma 5
O - 5
Ypsilon 6 ( (ps)
= I Greek letter).
Sigma 5
24 letters.
"
The Pythagorean influence on Marcos' system, without
which such developed symbols of numbers would be incon-
ceivable, is to be particularly recognized in the
'
Quater-
nity/ the Greek name of which is Tetraktys, and which
reveals all wisdom to Marcos. The Quaternity being one of
the fundamental principles of the Pythagorean speculation
of numbers, owes its signification to the observance of the
first four numbers, i, 2, 3, 4, which summed up give the
total of 10, thus the perfect number being obtained. The
ten has been therefore considered to be a perfect number,
for each numeral over ten, according to the decade system,
which as the Pythagoreans presumed, is the basis of
1 ii. .-i.-n - of all nations, is composed of the numbers under
ten. When we consider that the
'
WORD '
is formed in the
1
sphere of creation/ we may observe the strange fact that
all theories referring to this
'
creative sphere
'
teach that the
Quaternity rules therein. Then we shall know how deeply
124 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
and harmonically the mystic meaning of numbers, the Lore
of Logos, and Paradise have been connected with each
other since the most ancient times perhaps quite inde-
pendent of Pythagoras/' (Schultz, p. 200.)
psi 700
omega 800
sampi (only a numeral) 900.
As already mentioned, the mystic lore connected with
the practice of vowels and letters was kept strictly secret,
though in the subsequent centuries some obscure accounts
of the effects of that practice fell into profane hands. Of
course, in those surroundings it was not comprehended,
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 125
and people presumed that they were dealing with magical
formulae. Many writers of magical formulae profited there-
from, using very often the sacred rituals of heathens and
Christians for their purpose to deceive the masses. One of
such relics is the so-called magical papyrus Abraxas,
originating in Egypt, but written in Greek. We find
there a very queer magical formula consisting of seven
vowels representing here the seven planets. That formula
has the !!]< mi:::: appearance:
A E I O Y 6
E I O Y 6
I O Y 6
I O Y
O Y 6
Y
(3 Y
Y O
6 Y O I
6 Y O I
6 Y O I E
6 Y I E A
The mystical power of letters had to be generally known
among the initiates at that time. This fact is confirmed
by the Mithras liturgy, extracted from the
"
magical
papyrus/' preserved in Paris. That papyrus derives its
origin from the second century A.D. I am going to quote
the translation of that liturgy, for mystical students will
find therein many known subjects with reference to the
inner evolution. It will serve them for an impulse and
encouragement, being at the same time a proof that the
mystic lore has been at all times always the same. Besides,
the reader will find in the text the evocation formulae
composed of vowels, whereby the proof is given that also
in Persia, for the Mithras liturgy is of Persian origin, were
initiates in ancient times who knew the Mantra practice
of letters. Of course, in the liturgy to be quoted all is
126 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
transferred into the outward form, while the reader must
bear in mind that all described takes place in the student's
interior and by no means outside. It is quite obvious that
this liturgy is incomprehensible to investigators. They lack
the mystic's key, without which comprehension is not
possible. In truth, Mithras was the Persian God of the Sun,
and his evocation was spread from Persia over Italy to
Gaul and Roman Germany, and became so universal and
public that nearly the half of Rome's population got
initiated into his my -iciii's The liturgy in question was
performed in caves which were decorated in a way to
represent the Universe.
I cite below an extract from the liturgy in question
translated by Prof. W. Schultz :
"
The beginning of the sacred action :
"
Turned to the sun-set, holding a musty stuff of tombs
in hands, say thy prayer :
(follows a prayer in verse con-
taining two lines of vowels : a i & e i a and magical words).
"
When I said this prayer, there appeared to me the
demon ; and these are the mysteries handed down first,
O Mysts,
1
which became that power of ours, which the
great God Helios Mithras made his archangel hand over to
me, so enabling me to enter the heaven alone as an eagle
and see all there.
"
This is the evocation of the prayer :
"
Origin of origin, of the origin in me first !
a e 6 i o y 6
"
Beginning of beginning, of the beginning in me first !
thrice clicking
*
"
The spirit's breath of the spirit's breath, of the spirit's
breath in me first !
thrice repeated howling
"
Fire of fire, of the fire in me first !
puffing
1 The mysts are initiates or priests at the divine service.
1 The sounds above mentioned are of the utmost importance in the
mystical evolution. It is obvious they cannot be explained.
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 127
"
Water of water, of the water in me first !
"
Earth-stuff of earth-stuff, of the earth-stuff in me first !
thrice repeated roaring
"
My perfect body,
Created by an honourable arm
and an imperishable right hand
in a lightless and illuminated world,
on a spot soulless and full of souls,
causes, through its fundamental nature,
that I look, after my present distress, which presses me sorely,
because of my mortal origin
the immortal beginning
by means of the immortal breath of the spirit,
by means of the immortal fire,
by means of the immortal water,
by means of the most solid earth-stuff,
that the holy breath of the spirit breathe in me,
that I admire the holy fire,
that I behold the unfathomable water,
that I taste the earthen mixture,
that the lifegiving widespread lustre hear me,
for I will gaze to-day with immortal eyes
I, mortal, born in a mortal womb,
improved by a mighty power
and an imperishable right hand,
by means of the immortal breath of the spirit
at the immortal ETERNAL,
hallowed in holy hallowings,
for holy has my human soul become,
which I shall again attain
after my present distress, which presses me sorely and
bitterly,
which is, under God's decree free of any compulsion and
irrevocable,
for it would not else have been given to me, a mortal born,
to ascend the heights with the golden glory of the immortal
light."
128 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
"
And immediately them wilt see an overflowing glory ; and
go on to take breath of its rays, thrice inhaling as deeply as
thou canst, and thou wilt see thyself risen, so that thou
believest to be amidst the air. Nothing wilt thou hear,
neither man nor beast, nor anything of the mortal on earth,
yet thou wilt see nothing but immortal things.
"
For thou wilt see on that day and at that hour the divine
situation of the stars and the gods on the heavenly planes
and such ones ascending the heaven, as well as others
descending it.
1
But the wanderings of gods perceived will
be visible by the disk of my father God : likewise the tube
will be the outlet of the wind on service : for thou wilt see
it from the disk like a tube hanging towards the West, as
thou wilt see the counterpart of the appearance, when it
will be directed towards the East. Also thou wilt see how
the gods gaze at thee and assail thee. But thou placest at
once the right finger on thy mouth and prayest :
"
Silence ! Silence ! Silence !
Protect me, silence !
Then whistle loudly twice,
Then click loudly twice.
And thou wilt perceive how benevolently the gods gaze at
thee and assail thee no more, returning to their activities.
While contemplating the upper world, and when no god or
angel assail thee, beware of fearing a mighty thunder-clap,
which will shake thee. But thou goest on praying again :
"
Silence ! Silence !
I am a star which goes with you on your way
and is shining here out of the depths :
oxyr oxer thuth."
When thou prayest so, the disk will immediately unfold
itself. And after having said the second prayer, with the
twofold silence and that which follows it, whistle twice and
1
Jacob's ladder of the Bible with ascending and descending angels.
K.W.
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 129
click 1
twice : and at once thou wilt see five-tined stars
coming down from the disk, filling up the air.
But thou, go on in thy prayer :
"
Silence I Silence I
1
And as the disk is opening, thou wilt see an infinite circuit
and closed doors of fire. But thou shalt quickly say the
following prayer with shut eyes :
"
Hear me, O Lord, who has shut the fiery castles of
heaven by the breath of the Spirit.
Second Holy One, administrator of fire, creator of light,
fire-sower, etc. etc., open to me : for I am calling, because
of the oppressing and bitter and inexorable distress, to the
names which never yet entered mortal nature, which have
never been uttered by a human tongue, or by a mortal
sound or voice, the immortal, living, most honourable
names :
eeo e eeo ioo eeo o eeo ioo
oee eoe o oee eie o ooe ie ooe
ooe ie ooe ie eoe oe i oe oeo
io eo oie oie eo oi iii
eoe ooe eoe ooe eoe aea ee ee eee eee
ieo ieo oee oee eeo eeo eo eo oe oe
a ee eee iiii ooooo yyyyyy ooooooo3
1
Once more I point out that the above stated sounds of the mystical
evolution are of a profound meaning. K. W.
*
Unnecessary to observe that silence means the suppression of thoughts
or the mystical concentration.
*
Professor Schultz, the translator, remarks that he left out the signs
showing which of these vowels are short or long, for, he says, we do not
know their right pronunciation. Here I have to point out that the
investigators of the Gnose suppose these vocal evocations to have been
sung. So many occultists presume that magic results might be obtained
if they knew the correct intonation of these vowels. But they are mis-
taken. The ritual described, as many others, might have been sung, for
the secret of the mystical practices passed over in time to the profane,
who, of course, were ignorant of their high importance, and degraded the
high mysteries into quite superficial and external ceremonies, during
which naturally nothing happened. What I have quoted is but a mere
ritual, though containing a mystical substance. It is just the same in
regard to the Christian ceremonies, in particular our mass. During the
130 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
(All this pray, after having ended the first with fire and the
breath of the spirit, then begin in a similar way the second,
until thou hast ended the seven immortal gods of the
Universe.)
"
When thou hast prayed so, thou wilt hear thunder and
the crash of the surroundings, and wilt feel accordingly
shaken thyself. Then open thy eyes, and thou wilt see the
doors opened and the world of the gods inside, at the sight
of which thy spirit will be delighted and rise to the heights.
*
Approach the Gods at once and looking straight at them
inhale the breath of their spirit. As soon as thy soul has
got quiet again, say this prayer :
"
'Come to me, Lord, Creator, Illuminator, Founder/
"
When thou hast prayed so, the rays will turn into thee
and thou wilt become their centre and wilt see a youthful,
fair-shaped God, with fiery curls, in a white garment and
a purple coat with a fiery garland. Immediately salute him
with the fire-greeting :
" '
Hail to Thee, Omnipotent Lord, mighty King, the greatest
of Gods !
Helios, Master of heavens and earth, god of gods :
Mighty is Thy breath !
Mighty is Thy force !
mass, which is from its beginning to its end a mystical ritual, but brought
down to the material plane, no miracles take place either on the material
or the astral plane. But in a higher sphere, i.e., in the spiritual one, the
effects are to be seen, and influence not only those present, but affect the
surroundings of the church at which the mass is celebrated. These effects
always take place, be the priest celebrating the mass, of whatsoever char-
acter, be he a believer or not, provided he has been appointed to his office
in the right way, i.e., consecrated by a bishop. Therefore, presence at a
mass is of a very efficient effect for all, and the mystical author Kerning
recommends it in his work The Student. The combinations of letters given
above may serve the mystic as a Mantra practice, but they are by no
means to be sung. This is the mystery of the letters in question, and
nothing is farther from the truth than the supposition of many occultists
that it is connected with base magic.
1
This breathing of the spirit is the Prana, which according to the
Indian Yoga enters the head of the Yogi.
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 131
O Lord, if it please Thee, announce to the highest God,
Who begot and created thee, the following :
A man born of a mortal mother's womb
and a liquid seed, and who has been re-born to-day by Thee,
and called to immortality among so many thousands
at this hour under God's decree :
wants to worship thee
in his human way.'
" When thou hast so prayed, he will ascend the heavenly
heights and thou wilt behold him as walking on a path.
" But thou, look at the god in the eyes, and at a loud noise,
a mighty blare as from a horn, give forth the whole breath
of thy spirit, press thy side and shout and kiss the amulet,
and, turned to the right, pray :
" '
Protect me, prosymeri/
When thou has thus prayed, thou wilt see doors opened and
stepping out 'of their depth seven virgins in byssos garments
with snake faces : the mighty queens of fate in the heavens.
When thou beholdest them, greet them thus :
" '
Hail, ye seven fate-queens of heaven,
Ye worthy and good virgins,
Ye holy maidens living with Minimrophor
Ye most holy guards of the four pillars,
Hail to thee, thou first Chrepsenthaes
,, second Meneschees
,, ,, ,, third Mechran
,, ,, ,, fourth Ararmaches
,, fifth Echommie
,, ,, sixth Tichnondaes
,, ,, seventh Erurombries
And there step out seven other gods, with the faces of black
bulls, in linen aprons and seven golden diadems : the lords
of the heavenly heights, whom thou shalt similarly greet so :
" '
Hail to ye, ye guards of the tenons (i.e., of the Universe-
axis)
132 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
Ye holy and strong youths
Ye who are turning the revolving axis of heaven and
are sending
thunder and lightning and earth-quake and hail
on the crowds of blasphemers,
while on me, the pious favourite of god,
you send down the health of the body
the intactness of the soul
the power of hearing
and sharp-sightedness,
as well as peace of mind at the present good hour,
Ye my lords and mighty Gods :
Hail to thee, thou first Aieronthi
,, ,, second Merchemeiros
third Achrichiur
,, ,, fourth Mesargito
fifth Chichroalitho
,, ,, ,, sixth Ermichthathops
,, ,, ,, seventh Eorasiche.'
But when they take up their places, look straight into the
air, and thou shalt see lightnings and lights coming down
and glittering, and the earth quaking, and a very mighty
God with bright face, young, with golden hair, in a white
garment and wide trousers and a golden garland, in his right
hand a golden shoulder of an ox, this being the constellation
of the Great Bear, which moves and turns in the heaven,
wandering up and down according to the hours.
"Then thou shalt see liyli tiling issuing from his eyes
and stars out of his body. But thou, press thy body at once
to arouse thy five senses, and mightily shout till thou canst
no more, and kiss thy amulets and pray :
'
Mokri mopheri mophere rizon
stay with me in my soul.
Desert me not, for thou art commanded by
enthophenenthropioth.
'
And gaze at the god, mightily howling, and greeting him so :
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 133
'
Hail to thee, Lord, the ruler of the water
,, ,, leader of the earth
,, master of the spirit's breath
,, ,, ,, sovereign of the fire !
Re-born, I decease ;
I am growing, and grown I finish ;
born of the origin producing life
I become dissolved to expire.
I am treading the path, O Lord,
As thou hast founded it,
As thou has made it a law,
As thou hast created it to be a mystery.
1
When thou hast said that, God will at once give thee the
oracle. But thou wilt be enraptured and unconscious, as
soon as he answers thee. He tells thee howbeit the oracle
in verses, and then howbeit he will leave thee alone. But
thou wilt be in ecstasy and comprehend all for thyself,
infallibly remembering each word of the Great God, should
the oracle be even composed of a thousand verses. Wilt
thou, however, have a companion in this initiation, who
shall hear only the words together with thee, then he shall
be, as well as thee, chaste for seven days, and abstain from
flesh-food and from bathing.
" But if thou wilt only show him what thou wilt see thyself
at thy elevation to immortality, then impart to him the
prayer beginning thus :
'
Origin of origin, of the origin in me
first ae&oyo !
'
But the rest tell as an initiate to his
head in a subdued voice, that he hear it not. Then anoint
his face with myrrh.
"
This elevation to immortality takes place thrice a
year." (Schultz, pp. 83-90.)
Here I must remark that the letters seen in Marcos'
vision on the body of the Truth (v. p. 167), who is said to be
a man, concern both the earthly and the zodiacal man
(v. plate i). The zodiacal signs on the plate correspond
with Greek letters mentioned in Marcos' vision. The
t34 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
planetary circuits, cutting through the body of the zodiacal
man on the plate in question, refer to the mystical ladder
in the human body, which I have already mentioned
before.
Now let us turn to the mystical interpretation of the
TAROTS.
The Tarot cards, supposed by many occultists to be the
oldest book in the world, are also called the book of Toth,
and are said to derive their origin from Egypt, and may be
from Atlantis. A pack is composed of 78 cards, of which
22 are the great Arcana (mysteries), corresponding with
the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet. In these arcana
is contained the whole mystical evolution, but compre-
hensible to those only who know the way. In Egypt the
Tarots were made out of metallic plates. Nowadays they
are altered and disfigured. As an example, I maintain that
the card XVIII, so called the lunar, was quite different on
the Tarots of the fourteenth century than to-day. Nowa-
days this card has dogs painted thereon, while on the old
one there were lions. From the mystical point of view,
there is, of course, a great difference between the two
symbols.
Yet the symbols of importance have remained the same
until now.
The mystical way commences with the card VI.. The
cards Q-V refer to the outer world. No. I is a magician,
No. II is Isis, III an empress, IV an emperor, and No. V is
the pope. The card O represents a fool. It is the worldly
man who has not yet taken up the mystical practice. On
card II the picture of Isis represents the outward form of
the religions.
1
Card VI : Hercules on the cross-road. It represents the
1 I must observe that the Tarots admit of many other interpretations,
whereas the above one is the first interpretation from the mystical point
of view, at least as far as the written or printed word is concerned. It is
to be attained to only by the mystical training and not otherwise. My
interpretation can only be given in a general sense and not in detail, to
prevent the disclosure of the mysteries. Other interpretations refer to
the lower planes (particularly the astral), and are rather incomplete.
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 135
human soul on the cross-road. This card represents a youth
between two ladies. The lady on his right bears a crown on
her head, while she on the left has no crown at all. The
card means the moment when the man decides either for
the Mystic, i.e., the right, or the Magic, the left way. This
card is wrongly called
"
love/
1
or
"
amorousness."
Card VII. A carriage. It is the spirit as the master of
the body, the latter being represented by a carriage. The
horses mean the thoughts.
Card VIII. Justice. This card refers to the spiritual
man, who has commenced the practice.
Card IX. An eremite. He is showing the WAY, holding
a lamp in his hand, and hiding it with his coat. In fact, he
is not an eremite, but a mystical leader. In his right he is
holding a stick with seven knots, representing the seven
centres, through which the Serpent Power rises upwards.
Card X. The wheel of fate. This card represents the
action of the Karma.
Card XI. Power. It means the overcoming of the lower
self, which is represented by a beast a lion. This over-
coming is attained by means of the concentration practice.
Card XII. A gallows. This card ever was and is yet
one of the most difficult riddles to the expounders of the
Tarots, for the majority do not comprehend it. This is
quite natural, as this card is the clue to the mystical way,
and at the same time its basis. It represents a young
man hanging on a cross-bar placed on two trees. Between
their stems, he is hanging head down, tied by his foot, while
his other foot is bent at its knee, the two legs thus forming
a cross. Already Papus guessed that the cross is here the
point in question, but he was unaware of the fact of the
cross-way being the sole mystical way with all people long
before Christ. On many cards the head of the man hanging
down is surrounded by a glory of Saints, which is a proof of
his being a Holy One, or that he is doing something holy.
136 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
It is therefore an intolerable absurdity to explain this card
as representing a punishment of an Adept. Not at all,
this card is the clue to the mystical practice, known since
the most ancient times, and revealed once more by J. B.
Kerning. The man hanging has his feet where another has
his head. It seems we shall think in our feet, as taught
by Kerning and in some Indian scripts, of which I am going
to quote but a section.
The section to be quoted deals with the so-called nectar,
named also Ambrosia, that is the food of gods, and which
flows out of the moon. But in the ordinary human body it
is swallowed up by the sun. From which it follows that the
human body grows old.
According to the Indian idea, the moon is situated at the
root of the palate, and is continually pouring downwards a
stream of the nectar, which, however, is swallowed up by
the sun situated near the navel of the human body,
"
But there is a most excellent proceeding to deceive the
the sun. This proceeding can be learnt only from a Guru
(leader). The theological studies of a heap of books cannot
explain this matter." (For it is the mystery of the highest
practice, not to be found in a script. As we see, the Indians
preserve the deepest silence about it. But we have found
the secret clue to it somewhere else. We will show it
immediately.)
"
This position is called Viparitakarani, whereby we
succeed in reversing both the sun and the moon, that is the
sun now near the navel, and the moon on the palate shall
change their places. This can be learnt only from a Guru/'
(Hatha-Yoga Pradipika, p. 61.)
The author of the Serpent Power, who never was a Yogi,
and does not, therefore, understand the Yoga and the
mystical practices, explains it by the presumption that the
body has to rise in the air, standing on the head, with arms
leaning upon the earth, while the hands support the flanks
tod the elbows also rest on the earth. The evidence of the
great importance of the said practice for the Mystic is
also the circumstance that, in an old tale, Parsifal is said
\\ IRIH'S C \RI)
THE ORIGIN OF THE 1K&NTK& faWCTICES 137
to have found in a forest; v$iile watering round the Castle
of the Holy Grail, a knight hanging head 'down.
To revert to the Tarot card, I must point out some other
interesting circumstances. For instance, the fact that the
trees between which the youth is hanging have both seven
knags. When connecting them we perceive that the man
hanging is cut through just at the places where, as we
already know, are the mystical centres. In one word, we
have here the mystical ladder, already described. The
youth is holding his hands behind, and between his elbows
a bag is to be seen, from which small particles are scattered
down. This bag is in connection with the bag on card 0,
carried by the fool. This bag is filled with the earthen clay,
of which the student gets rid by and by when practising.
But the culminating point of our proof is that on a rightly
designed card there are two crescents on the lappets of the
young man's coat round his navel, which means that the
planet moon has been removed from the palate to the navel,
just as the author of Hatha-Yoga Pradipika describes it.
Out of ignorance this symbol has been left out on new
cards, but it is to be found on Wirth's card (v. plate No. 3).
This changing places of the sun (shining around the youth's
head) and moon is also described in Golem, by Gustav
Meyrink, the German occult writer.
The above is the correct interpretation of the Tarot card
No. XII, an interpretation which has been discovered after
many years of the mystical practice, for no work mentions
anything like it. This card means then a man thinking in
his Jeet, for in the feet begins the evolution of both the
mystical and the zodiacal man.
Card XIII. This card means the mystical death. It
represents a skeleton. All who have stepped on the path
will sooner or later understand the meaning of this symbol.
Card XIV. This card is wrongly named
"
temperance."
There is an angel pouring out a fluid from a golden vessel
into a silver one. It is the symbol of pouring of the Holy
Spirit into the soul. The Spirit is represented by the golden
138 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
vessel, this being an old symbol of all concerning the
Divinity, and the soul by a silver vessel.
Card XV. The Devil. This card means the descent into
hell in the so-called
"
fire of the divine wrath/' (Where no
detailed explanation is given, it is on account of the mystical
stages, which must not be published to avoid their pro-
fanation, and to make it impossible that people who have
not experienced them should plume themselves on their
knowledge.)
Card XVI. The liberation and the re-birth. The card
shows lightning striking into a tower which is collapsing,
while out of its window a man is falling headfirst. His feet
and hands form together with his body the shape of the
Hebrew letter Hain. Another mystical stage to be ex-
perienced by every student.
Card XVII. The Baptism with Water. There is a butter-
fly on a flower, then the sun and the seven planets.
Card XVIII. The Baptism with Blood. There is the
moon out of which drops of blood are falling down.
Card XIX. The Baptism with Fire. There is the sun,
whence drops of fire are falling down on a couple. On some
cards there are two lads embracing each other. Both the
symbols represent the inner and the outer man, which is
also the zodiacal sign of the Twins. At the baptism with
fire the outward man is already nearing his Divinity.
Card XX. Resurrection. After the mystical death the
man gets resurrected in his new body, being aroused by
Jesus Christ.
Card XXI is called
"
The World," but, in fact, means a
mystical Adept who has attained the highest goal.
I have mentioned in the beginning of this paragraph that
the twenty-two great Arcana correspond with the twenty-
two letters of the Hebrew alphabet. This very fact, as well
as the numbering of the cards from 0-21, was the cause
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 139
of wrong interpretations by the uninitiated. The corre-
spondence of the cards with letters of the Hebrew alphabet
is quite accidental. Though the mystical way is completely
shown in the Tarots, yet actually the sequence of the
different stages does not agree with the numbered cards,
with the exception of the three baptisms, which in fact take
place in order indicated by the cards. If the Hebrew letters
had been in correspondence with the contents of the Tarots,
these cards could not have derived their origin from Egypt
or Atlantis. But this is not the case. Besides, it is not my
task to investigate it. My evidence regarding the mystic
lore contained in the Tarots will be sufficient.
On the other hand, it is indisputable that the Hebrews
equally knew the power of the letters, which is to be seen
from their Sepher Yetzira. They of course knew also the
mystical practice of letters, though they kept it secret, and
handed it down to the next generations only orally. And
this oral tradition has been preserved until our day by the
Jews in some Eastern countries of Europe. It will be of
interest to quote in this place the interpretation of the word
Kabala by a French mystic, St.-Yves d'Alveydre, K's
numeral value being 20 (Hebrew letter Koph), B's value 2
(Beth), nd La meaning the Lore. Thus the word Kabala
means the Lore of the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew
alphabet. What is more, a very advanced mystic of Prague
discovered in the Hebrew name of God, IHVH, in Hebrew
Iod-H^-Vau-H^, the clue to the mystical practice of Chris-
tians. For
lod means the hand
H ,, wound
Vau nail
He wound
Hence it follows that in this sacred name, which the Jews
must not utter aloud, is hidden the mystery of the cruci-
fixion, that is, the mystical death on the cross. I have to
add that each letter of the Hebrew alphabet has its own
name, its own number, and each being a word has a meaning
140 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
in the Hebrew b.r.^iiiirc- As the three conceptions, the
hand, the wound, and the nail, are united in the Holiest
Name, it proves that the Jews, as far as they were Initiates,
must have known the mystical death on the cross. Be-
sides, there are plenty of proofs of it in the Bible, for all
Hebrew Initiates describe phenomena as they have been
and are experienced by the mystics of all times.
Now I have to revert to the time when the flames of the
Gnostic lore were slowly becoming extinguished in Southern
Europe, in Asia and Northern Africa, and when, particu-
larly in Egypt, were arising whole communities of monks
belonging mostly to the religious order of the great initiate
Pachomios.
Doctor A. Lang in his book St. Hieronymus, the Father of
the Desert, mentions on page 151 some translations of the
said Saint, who was also an Egyptian eremite and initiate.
St. H. was first a rigorous ascetic, but when he came to
Egypt he saw there that the monks of that country, though
working and living in discipline, were carrying out a dif-
ferent practice to what he was accustomed. It is sure that
he gave up asceticism, but there is no mention as to his
carrying out the practice, put in letter by the founder of
the Egyptian monks, Pachomios, and which was respected
in Egyptian monasteries very much, about 400 years A.D.
(Pachomios
1
instructions were translated by St. Hiero-
nymus.)
The mysterious language of that practice (which Pacho-
mios was said to have learnt from an angel) uses single
letters of the Greek alphabet as symbols of the mysteries
known but to the initiates. Instead of long expoundings
we quote here a translation of one of the twelve strange
letters of Pachomios (IV).
" '
The ages fermented in evil, which is Delta. Beta Tau
the fruit ripened on the lips, which is T. God made me
forget the penury at my home, from the summit of the
mountains to their foot, which is P O. Lambda Phy for the
sleep of the widow and the glory of the poor, which is
Omikron, Tau, Epsilon, Tau. Harken mountains to the joy
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 141
of the earth, which is Xi, Iota. The earth is hidden, value-
less, which is E P. Thinkest thou that hells take notice of
it, which is Pi. They drank in hidden joy, which is Iota.
Rho, Omikron, they became prey without bloodshed. Ny
Alpha Xi, became profound precipices in the grief of the
heart, which is Xi Epsilon. They escaped without fear and
were in hiding, which is Omikron Alpha Omega. Who knows
if God returns and will repent. Tau Beta Psy. Rejoice
heavens and twist Earth. Omikron Iota Xi. The day
awaits the redemption. Omikron Alpha Phy. From Naza-
reth may come something good. Beta, Iota, Beta, Ypsilon.
Praised be God, Who gave meekness to those who fear Him.
Omega Kappa Zeta Tau. The fruit of my mouth grew
sweet on my lips. Ypsilon Ny Sigma. The Lord gives me
the speech of the discipline. Alpha Theta Ro. I shall not
die, but shall live and ask for God's deeds. Iota Omega.
He who enters me will be redeemed. Tau Kappa Omikron.
Sought is the judgment of God, his Damascus. Omikron
Lambda Zeta. For God had mercy on Israel and comforted
his meek ones. My Ny. As the fresh water to the thirsty,
thus is a messenger from a distant country good. Theta
Rho Ypsilon Ny Zeta Omikron Rho Iota Pi.'
"
The author of the work quoted says that it appears to
be like a childish game with cryptograms, or the babbling
of a lunatic. . . .
The mystic, however, finds therein the relics of the
Gnostic practice of letters, connected with sentences for
the concentration of thoughts. Once more I point out that
these scripts were highly esteemed, and had been imparted,
according to a legend, by an angel to Pachomios.
To show the strict analogy of the mystical practice with
all nations would require to quote the enormous literature
of the mediaeval writers, and especially the scripts ascribed
to the Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross. The alchymical
scripts of note are of a twofold meaning. Partly they speak
of alchemy, that is, the actual transmutation of ordinary
metals into precious ones, and particularly gold, as well as
the preparation of the Philosophers' Stone and the elixir of
142 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
life. I shall not delay in affirming that all this is obtainable
by chemical processes, for, as far as the transmutation of
the metals is concerned, already to-day's modern science
admits its possibility, knowing that it is taking place in
nature, too. As to the other problems of alchemy, I refer
readers to the respective literature.
The alchymical works, however, at least the genuine ones,
have yet another meaning, concealed in their symbols and
the chemical signs, as in the planetary figures. They de-
scribe the mystical way, but in such a veiled manner that
a layman and not initiated cannot have the slightest notion
thereof. The alchymical procedure, its preparation, its un-
foldment and the attainment of the goal, that is the stone
of the philosophers are but preparation for the mystical
practice, its evolution and the attainment of the end, i.e., of
Jesus Christ, Who is the genuine and the sole stone of the
philosophers. The mystical way is, however, a spiritual
way and consequently the original, while the alchymical is
but its reflection on the material plane. It is not to be
forgotten that the rule, stated on the emerald table of
Hermes Trismegistus, that all above is like all below, comes
here into force. Then, as in the spiritual so in the material
world.
To give evidence that alchemy was but an instruction
for the mystical practice I am going to give the discovery
of a remarkable mystic of Prague (the same who revealed
the mystery of the Divine Name, IHVH) respecting the
alchymical
"
secret stuff/' the so-called AZOT. This Azot
was a universal dissolvent of the alchymists for
"
the pro-
duction of gold
"
and is yet nowadays the greatest riddle to
modern chemists. They suppose it to be nitrogen (which
is still called in French
"
azot ") or nitrogenous acid. But
the word AZOT does not signify other than the mysterious
allusion to the letter-practice, which dissolves anything
material, i.e., bodily. It means as much as Christ's words
"
I am Alpha and Omega." The word AZOT is composed
of the first and last letters of the Latin, the Greek, and the
Hebrew alphabets : A-Z (the first and the last letter in
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 143
Latin), Alpha-Omega (a-o in Greek), and Alef-Tau (He-
brew). Omega (o) is the last letter of the Greek, while Tau
(t) is of the Hebrew alphabet.
1
To those who are interested in such alchymical scripts, I
recommend the Rosicrucian work Geheime Figuren der
Rosenkreuzer aus dem XVI ten und XVII ten Jahrhundert.
This book was originally published in Altona in 1785, but
has been recently reprinted by the Bartzdorf edition in
Berlin. Its English translation by Dr. Franz Hartmann
was published about the year 1880 under the title The
Secret Symbols of the Rosicrucians. The second volume of
this work contains the so-called
"
Parabola/' wherein both
the alchymical process and the whole mystical way are de-
scribed. This Parabola is likewise cited by Herbert Silberer
in his excellent book Probleme der Mystik und ihrer Sym-
bolik (Leipsic and Vienna 1914). Though this Parabola is
put in writing by an unknown author, yet it is an excellent
proof of mediaeval science and its skill in writing in alle-
gories, whereby both the ways the alchymical and the mys-
tical are touched upon. Of course, he who is ignorant of
the practical Mystic will not find a great deal in the Para-
bola, because the stages described there are to be first
experienced, and only then may they be comprehended.
He who has but a slight notion acquired by the practice
will find in those treatises safe instructions and evidence of
his practice being correct. Such a perception belongs to
the highest earthly joys a man may enjoy. . . .
In such moments we draw near to those of the old Adepts
who until now appeared to be very far away in their strange
sentences and symbols. In such moments their would-be
nebulous talk becomes the most distinct of the world's lan-
guages, as the student then kindles the light to them inside
himself. Their figures become more real, and we perceive
then that those celebrated adepts were as much of flesh and
bone as ourselves, and that our former conceptions of them
were fancies ; for, like ourselves, they were possessed of
1
Though Eliphas LeVi gave a similar explanation, yet he did not know
the true meaning.
144 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
their little human purely human deficiencies and defects.
They were no superhuman beings, as they have been made
to seem by those who have not the slightest idea of the
actual Mystic.
By this I do not intend at all to depreciate their loftiness,
as far as their spiritual conception and illumination are con-
cerned ; all the same, they were but human beings. Cer-
tainly there are also in this world initiates who already have
left their material and mortal body, and who from time to
time appear on this plane in an apparently human body.
Concerning this more will be said in the chapter dealing
with leaders.
To be sure, I could quote hundreds and hundreds of
paragraphs from the different works of the Rosicrucians,
as Basil Valentine, Valentine Andreae, Arnold de Villanova,
Flamel, Fludd, Helmont, Jane Leade, Thomas Vaughan,
Pordage, and many others, but my purpose is to unveil the
mystic lore by ordinary words, without any symbols and
parabolas, to enable everybody to understand it without
any effort, as far as the degree of his spiritual unfoldment
allows it. Therefore I avoid these quotations and explana-
tions with the exception of some small examples. He who
is more interested in this matter may search them for him-
self, and will be sure to find the confirmation of the mys-
teries stated in any scripts of that time.
To increase the interest in the mystic Lore further in the
widest circles, I am adding to this book the reproduction
of a picture representing the reborn man, ,m niil'r.Li to
Jacob Bohme's work Seraphinisch Blumen-Gaertlein, pub-
lished at Amsterdam in A.D. 1700 (vide plate 2 on p. 120).
I chose this picture as it confirms Kerning's teaching of
the letter practice, as everybody will ascertain by studying
thoroughly the globe held by the man in his right hand.
This globe bears a flaming cross in the middle, while its
periphery shows the letters of the alphabet, i.e., the WORD.
But this alphabet is without vowels, for the latter are at the
top of the picture, above the adept's head, in a circle around
a triangle with a cross. They are contained in the Divine
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 145
Word "
IEHOVA," whereby the V replaces the U. In the
right and left corners are two crowns above flaming circles,
wherein the letters M and V are contained, meaning Mother
and Father (Mutter, Vater). Around the flaming circles are
drawn angelic heads signifying the heavenly world. Out
of the initiate's head a steam is rising representing the con-
quest of the fire, while out of his vertex is sticking a little
column with a crown on its top. This is the crown of
wisdom attained by the aroused Serpent Power, who has
burst forth out of the vertex. Over the globe with letters
there is a capital letter A, signifying the beginning. In his
left hand, the initiate is holding a burning candle reversed.
It is his own light, being reversed to drop on to the lower
world. A semicircle composed of stars and flames reaches
up to the half of the initiated body, to his hips. This semi-
circle signifies the Baptism of Fire coming from below.
Underneath is the material world with the firmament in
which the sun and moon are shining. They represent the
Mystical Marriage, as already stated before. At the initiate's
right foot a lamb is lying, at his left a buck. They represent
the magical powers, heavenly and earthly, of which the
initiate is master.
It is obvious from the whole picture that Jacob Bohme,
too, knew the meaning of the alphabet, and the mystical
practice connected therewith.
Evidence of this are the few par.'iuapli** I am going to
quote from Bohme's Mysterium Magnum, this work being
the explanation of the first Book of Moses, Chapter XXXV,
section 49 :
"
The spirits of the alphabet's letters are the form of the
uniform spirit in the natural language. The five vowels
derive their origin from the name of JEHOVAH, out of WHOM
the Holy Spirit speaks, for these five vowels are the sacred
name of God, conforming to His Holiness. For the name
Jehovah has but the five vowels i, e, o, u, a. The re-
maining letters signify and express nature, i.e., what the
Divine Name is in the word created in nature, in love and
wrath, in the darkness and the light. But these five vowels
146 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
only signify what God is in the light of Holiness, for
nature is tinged by those five vowels to be the realm of
joy.
"
That the ancient wise men, who understood these lan-
guages, added to the name JEHOVA an H, so calling Him
JEHOVAH, happened as a piece of great sagacity, for this
very H makes the sacred name of God, composed of five
vowels, visible in outer nature. It shows how the sacred
name of God is breathed into the creature, and how it
reveals itself therein. Those five vowels form the hidden
name of God, Who dwells in Himself ;
while the H signifies
the Divine Joy or Wisdom, and how this Divine Joy is
exhaled out of itself/'
It would not be difficult to fill
up several volumes with
quotations from the mediaeval mystics, and particularly from
the Rosicrucian scripts, but I hope those given will mean-
while do for an unprejudiced reader.
There is no doubt whatever that the mystical way and
the means of reaching it, as stated in the present book,
always have been and are the way of the Brotherhood of
the Rosy Cross, that is of the loftiest community in the
Universe. Likewise it is certain that he who sets out on
this way, and perseveres therein, will solve in his interior
the mystery of the rose and cross, about which nothing
can be told to the profane. Try it and then you will
know it.
Before taking leave of the mediaeval mystics, I have to
call the reader's attention to Johannes Scheffler, a German
physician, philosopher, and mystic, the author of a well-
known and ever beautiful and valuable mystical poem Der
Cherubinische Wandersmann published by the Propylaen-
Verlag, Berlin.
Johannes Scheffler was born in 1624 at Breslau of Lutheran
parents. In 1648 he was promoted to Doctor Phil, and
Med., and devoted himself to the practical Mystic. In 1653
he turned Roman Catholic, and published yet a few works
besides the stated Cherubic Wanderer.
I select some stanzas from the Cherubic Wanderer :
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 147
In Silence You Worship God
"
Who desires to worship God's Majesty
In truth, he must plunge himself into the sacred silence."
In these verses the author unveils the secret of the mys-
tical concentration, that is the suppression of the thoughts,
which is the loftiest prayer. It is, at the same time, the
highest sacrifice and the greatest self-denial, because our
thoughts are our selves, and, by keeping them silent, we are
killing them, that is we are sacrificing ourselves.
"
Who in heaven will crown his head with roses
He must be pricked on earth with thorns."
<f
May stands at the door. Bloom forth frozen Christian !
Who blossoms not to-day shall remain dead for ever."
In both verses the mystery of the rose and cross is
alluded to, which I have already mentioned before. It is
analogous to the mystery of the
"
blooming of flowers," of
which Mabel Collins speaks in her Light on the Path.
To those evading the Cross.
"
It has not yet come to your mind, my child, perhaps,
That you cannot rest for ever in the Lord's heart.
The dearest to God is he who in heart-break, death,
cross, and anguish and torments approaches nearest to
Him."
In the above verses are indicated the preliminary mys-
tical stages respecting the death of the old Adam.
The Spiritual Mater Dei.
Towards Mary, all meekness, God so flamed up in love
That He considered it a bliss to become Her Child.
If you be meek like the Virgin Immaculate
Yourself shall become your mother, and God your Child.
Blessed Virgin.
Say, Lofty Lady, was it meekness Thine
Which won Thee the right of a Mother of God ?
For I myself am longing to become
The Virgin, the Bride and God's Mother
On this earth.
148 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
St. Alex.
How could St. Alex be so valiant
as to dismiss his bride on the nuptial day ?
Why, could he be a bridegroom, who was the bride himself
and had betrothed himself for ever to the Divine Bride-
groom ?
The above quotations indicate the mystery of the Soul,
who first is to be the Virgin, and then the Immaculate
Mother of God. It signifies the mystical rebirth inside the
man, which is the sole clue to these mysteries. The 6oul of
every man must be fecundated by the Holy Spirit, thus to
be then able to beget the Child Jesus. The Blessed Virgin,
like all great goddesses of antiquity, represents the human
Soul, as well as the female divine principle in the Universe.
Therefore many of the ancient occult and religious schools
taught that the universe had been created by the divine
influence on the pre-egg born of the Virgin. Thus once
more we see the fundamental sentence of the " emerald
table,"
"
As above, so below/
1
confirmed. The unfold-
ment of that fecundation by the Holy Spirit, as well as the
rebirth in the human body, takes place in such a way that
the student is indubitably informed of the degree attained.
A Strange Marriage.
"
Oh, what a marriage ! The God of glory, the king of
kings took a slave's daughter, my soul, for His spouse."
He who has attentively read the foregoing chapters of
this book, understands from the contents of the above
verses that they refer to
"
the mystical marriage," where
Christ is bridegroom, while His bride is the human soul. As
already stated, this mystical marriage is the culminating
point of the mystical practice, for it means the union of
God with man.
Another example showing clearly the mystical way :
"
Vigilantly indeed is watched the heavens' eternal realm,
Of which the entrance is to be forced by fire and iron."
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 149
Details explaining the above cannot be given on account
of the mysteries contained in the verses, but those who have
decided to practise will soon have its solution.
A few verses referring to the mystical way and the
re-birth :
"
God sacrificed Himself (how mysterious it sounds), to be
born to life again inside me."
By Silence We Learn :
"
Be silent, my darling, for : whose soul has grown silent
siliognlKT, he shall receive more of God than he ever
wished/'
As the reader has certainly guessed, the latter verse has
reference to the suppression of the thoughts and their be-
coming fixed, in the mystical concentration, on the divine
substance of man in his interior. The last verse is literally
true, for no one, not even the highest initiate, could ever
dream or imagine what the Celestial Father has prepared
for those who love Him. This, besides, is quite natural,
for the human being cannot have the slightest notion of the
things celestial.
To show in one example at least the transformation of
an actually enlightened initiate, I cite the following verses,
wherein it is distinctly said that the spiritual enlightenment
is in fact connected with the Light in all
senses, then of
course in our sense, too, that is the material one, but not
as interpreted by the Church or laymen i.e., that such
an enlightenment refers but to the soul.
God Is Full Of The Sun.
"
When the just man blazes as the burning rays of the Sun
then God in eternity must be full of Suns."
Here I have to point out that from time immemorial the
Sun always has been and will be the symbol of the Highest
Divinity. Let the reader recall the Mithras liturgy, which
I quoted in full in this book, as well as many other religious
forms especially the Egyptian where the sun was the
150 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
outward symbol of God. Likewise Jesus Christ appears to
the mystic as a sun. For Souls awakened this remark will
be quite sufficient.
Of the Stable.
"
Before the stable, at Bethlehem, stop wanderer,
for it is many times better than Jerusalem.
Therein a night quarter awaits you, for the eternal Divine
Child
With the Virgin, Its Mother, and the Bride will welcome
you/'
In this stanza is concealed the mystery of the Christ's
rebirth and his lying in the manger, the latter being the
human body. There is further an allusion to the mystical
marriage and the mystery of the Mother and Virgin.
The Scholars.
"
You are investigating the Son of God in scripts,
Where you search with your cunning ; give it up
And hurry for the stable : There kiss the Divine Child
And you will at once feel Its wondrous power."
Here the author points out in common words the great
mistake of those who endeavour to grasp the divine mys-
teries by means of their outward brain. He advises such
to give it up, and rather hasten to the stable, that -is to
their interior, with love towards the divine child, when he
promises they will immediately taste his wonderful power.
This promise of the great Mystic is the best affirmation of
what I always said and wrote, i.e., that it is necessary but
to enter with a loving heart one's own interior, searching
there for God. Though you were the greatest sinner, you
shall receive God's mercy, for God is not like a man, not
forgetting the wrong, but He immediately receives who
comes to Him. Therefore the author says elsewhere :
The Physician seeks the Sick Ones :
"
You ask why God is often in touch with sinners ?
Why, a faithful physician must take care of the sick."
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 151
The Penitent quenches the Fire :
"
You say the flames of hell are not extinguishable,
if they may be quenched by a penitent's solitary tear ?
"
Here is to be mentioned that the Christ's way honestly
trod delivers of sins. Those who cannot understand this,
presuming that the so-called Karma or the law of recom-
pense must be effected, are reminded of the words in the
Lord's prayer :
"
And forgive us our sins." This prayer
was imparted by Christ to His disciples, and He surely knew
its importance better than anybody else He who believes
will be forgiven ; who does not believe His words shall not
be forgiven. Faith is a magical clue to everything in the
worlds invisible. Without it not even the lowest realm may
be entered, much less the highest one. If some are led astray
by the wrongly expounded doctrine of
"
KARMA," then
they cannot be helped they will reap what they have
sown. It is as with people who during their life-time did
not believe in any life after death. When they die they are
ignorant of it, and sometimes err for centuries in the dark
regions, until they understand after long suffering what has
happened with them. Therefore, once more I repeat :
faith
is the fundamental base of the earthly and spiritual life.
He who has no faith has nothing ; and such a one, who
had not even what is required for the earthly life, could not
exist at all on this plane. Everybody without exception
believes he will get up
"
the next morning
"
alive and safe.
This faith of his influences, without his being conscious
thereof, his organs, enabling him to overcome many diseases
and dangers ; without this faith in to-morrow man would
sooner or later perish. So it is with faith in other things,
be they small or large. We know well what Christ said of
faith, and what he said thereof is a literal truth.
By the foregoing quotations I have shown the reader
that Johannes Scheffler, like all other Mystics, knew the
mystical way. It could not be otherwise. There is only
one way, and everyone who treads the same must experience
the same stages. It is wrong to think the ways may be
152 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
several, for the way to liberation is and must be only one,
while the mere preparations may be different. Of course,
these preparations are of a great importance, for some are
of a short and some of a longer duration. Some are very
easy, while the others are very difficult.
I think it advisable to mention here the circumstances
which led me to the mystical practice, as described in this
book. In Chapter II I already touched upon our mystical
society consisting only of a few members, and which started
its work about 1890, at Prague. I also remarked that one
of our party after long sufferings finally found a Christian
leader. That leader was, as far as his outward profession
was concerned, a simple weaver and of a rather advanced
age already when our friend got into touch with him. But,
from the spiritual point of view, he was very educated and
enlightened. At this point I call the reader's attention to
the fact that our leader had been initiated by a Brother of
the Rosy Cross, who came to him of his own accord and
imparted to him the necessary. That leader of ours had the
so-called INNER WORD, that is the voice of the Holy Ghost,
Whom he had awakened within himself. If someone asked
to be accepted as his pupil, the leader first asked his inner
word, and only after an affirmative command he accepted
the student in question. Otherwise it was impossible to
demand of him his mystical leadership. There were i?iany
who were not accepted, while he had rather a great number
of pupils spread over the whole of Europe. Here I may
disclose that among his disciples was also Franz Hart-
mann, M.D., a known mystical and occult writer, who was
also in touch with Mme. H. P. Blavatsky. In our leader's
lifetime everyone had to strictly hide being his disciple.
Therefore Hartmann, though he wrote a great many mystical
works, never mentioned it, nor even indicated his own
practice, as described in this book.
The leader in question had about himself some very
progressed Mystics, to whom belonged also his wife and
one of his relatives. The latter also possessed the inner
word, but he could not be a leader, for his inner word only
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 153
replied to questions concerning himself. They were both
employed in a big weaving factory, and were very poor
indeed. One Saturday, when leaving the factory, they
walked together home, and of a sudden the leader informed
his relation of his having given notice. To this his relation
replied :
"
So did I." They were both induced to do so by
their inner word. Though they did not know what they
should live on, yet they obeyed the command without any
objections, and did what they had been asked to do.
But their uncertainty did not last long. The following
day the leader was already proprietor of a handsome
country house, a gift of a rich lady, a pupil of his.
I am mentioning here these episodes just to show that
the practice described in this book is derived from the
Rosicrucians, and had its origin prior to them, in far-off
ancient times, in the religious mysteries.
As already indicated, this leader prescribed his pupils'
training by the practice of sentences, which he did not
impart to them himself, but by order of his inner word.
Each student had a different sentence to practise, and after
a certain time the respective sentence was alternated with
another. Thus it was with any pupil, but each of them had
always a different practice. This depended upon the inner
unfoldment of the student, and the progress was, according
to his individuality, a slower or quicker one. It further
depended on his diligence, that is his fervour and the time
devoted to the daily practice prescribed. Each disciple had
to inform the leader of the mystical experiences, which were
then explained to him, if the disciple was not in touch with
some progressed students, who could expound them to him
themselves. The spiritual practice imparted by this leader
was identical with that of J. B. Kerning, which may be
found throughout his works, but, of course, only by someone
who is himself practising. To all others these things remain
concealed. Any student practising must reveal these things
to himself, that is they are revealed to him by the influence
of the Holy Spirit. At the end of his life our leader announced
that the time was approaching when the Spirit's realm
154 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
would be easily opened to all those who intended to practise
with a sincere heart. He further communicated to us that
there is one practice, which may be carried through by
everybody without a leader, and that everybody will be
brought to the same goal as those practising the sentences
imparted by him. This practice is the silent concentration,
described in the foregoing chapters.
Besides, to all Mystics of Prague he sent a special message
of the Spirit, which, he told us, would have a certain in-
fluence on all those who would grasp it. This message is
published here for the first time :
"
I have often told you that I want to have spirits of
power, i.e., such ones who persevere while on guard, because
he who will render fire-offerings will admit it without any
falsity. For it is a greater profit than that which only
glitters and twinkles and which cannot be grasped."
Now I am going to quote some extracts from Kerning's
works, which I hope will be appreciated by all friends of the
mystic lore, as his works have not yet been translated from
German into another language.
From the work Ebbe und Flut :
"
What is the spirit properly composed of ?
"
He consists of feeling, love, and hate. He is dwelling
in man's heart, bestowing on him a certain character. His
whole basis is language. He built up man for speaking,
in order that the latter could approach him by means of
language and become one with him. His elements are the
letters, words are the indication of his conceptions and
ideas, from which the mind and the intellect derive their
origin.
"
But how may we know the Spirit ?
"
By introversion, hearing, and feeling. But he who
would only introvert would never gain the vibrations and
the elasticity of life, which are necessary for thinking. He
would never feel any joy or love and could not rise to some-
thing higher. He would stare at the eternal ether and
would lose himself in the blue of the heavens or in the stars
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 155
without number. He who would but listen would not see
the blue and starred heaven. All colours, forms, and the
beauty of nature were lost for him, and he would not have
any positive means to preserve at will his individuality. And
what would he have who should but feel ? Such a one
would dissolve himself, being submerged in pains and joys,
and would renounce his independence. Seeing, hearing,
and feeling are life-powers, which when once associated
must succeed in obtaining the entrance into the sanctuary
of life. But of course, this seeing, hearing, and feeling are
not only to be used outwardly, but inwardly as well into the
innermost bowels, even to the marrow of the bones,
1
then
we shall be nearing the powers of life and dare ask them for
the light, the truth, and protection
"
(p. 82).
"
The mouth is the creative organ of the inner life
spiritual. The mouth, as a material instrument of language,
is to know how to send letters and words into the depths
and foundations, out of which shall grow lips, teeth, and
palate. Then the whole body will have arisen outwardly
and inwardly to the language and the faculty of thinking.
Our self, when uttered into our interior, will gain the faculty
to be in any part of our body and on any altar to there lay
down its wishes. This is a complete lore for an unprejudiced
man, for it is in strict conformity with anything we do in the
world. A prejudiced person, however, cannot be helped by
the longest expoundings or whole libraries. He who has the
courage to consider the elements of the language, uttered
by the mouth, as well as the syllables and letters as a kind of
a bodily food, and who can swallow them, will soon feel
what a wonderful food he has taken, and how necessary it is
to feed the spiritual life not only with puzzling conceptions
but with elementary powers
"
(pp. 88-9).
From the work Die Missionare :
"
The tuning instrument I am about to speak of was at
all times considered by many people to be a mere dream,
1 The marrow of the bones signifies here the spine, where the student
has to practise to arouse the Kundalini. THE AUTHOR.
156 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
and only a few understood it, while those who were in fact
using it could be counted on the fingers. I would not there-
fore mention it, if it were not your intention to travel for
India, where this instrument exists to this day among the
Brahmins. You who are going as missionaries to India,
intending to propagate there the new spiritual lore, should
know this, to avoid being attacked with unknown weapons.
It is the art of tuning oneself with words. Each Brahmin
on attaining a certain degree receives from his superior a
special word to be used as a tuning instrument in all circum-
stances, as at prayers, at a speech, when supporting and
comforting the unfortunate, and sick, etc. The first Church
fathers used this instrument with the best results, and
it only lies with you to make such a word feel and
think within yourselves. Then you will see that its
effect is as sure and infallible as nothing else in the whole
creation.
"
I would like to satisfy you in giving you a complete
instruction, but I must not. All the same, I may say this
much that, by means of this tuning, we create in ourselves
a power, which raises our existence to a point where we
forget the passage of time, becoming one with eternity
already on this earth
"
(pp. 91 and 93).
Kerning is referring here to certain sacred words, which,
after the student has practised for some years, will be born
in his interior. To such words belonged, with the ancient
Hebrews, certain divine names as well as the names of some
angels.
"
Speaking is the loftiest, the loveliest, but also the most
difficult art of human life. But it has been already stated
before that, by actual speaking, is by no means meant the
uttering of common matters, as the daily news, or scientific
treatises, but the free coming forth of our inmost thoughts
and feelings. This way of speaking is then a manifestation
of that mental stage, into which the tuning has placed us,
and which takes up all sounds about it, then developing
thoughts and ideas, of which the speaker had often not the
slightest notion before.
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 157
"
We have spoken of the five ways of tuning oneself for a
speech :
1. Through the impression of the objects and circum-
stances surrounding ourselves.
2. Through looking at or touching any tuning instru-
ments.
3. Through the aptitude of our hands and limbs, as they
may form different shapes, and through the positions
of our body, as well as touching the same with our
fingers and hands.
4. Through the imagination of such tuning instruments
by our fancy and thinking.
5. Through a word thought into ourselves, which arouses
and animates the speaking in an elementary and
powerful way.
"
The fifth way to tune oneself with words is the key-stone
of thinking, the crown of liberty, the unquenchable light
of the wise, the so much misunderstood stone of philosophers,
which fooled so many of the unwise, and the clue to the
understanding of GOD "
(pp. 107, no).
"
The loftiest quality of a man, which we have to consider
as the source of all his magnificent gifts of mind, of the
reason, the regulated sensation and the independence of his
being, is, after all we have heard and said, contained in
language. If we are in a position to understand language
in a similar way and to the same extent, then we have the
fundamental cause of human knowledge, will, and feeling,
not only within ourselves, but also in the creation as a
WORD, and, as then the Word is God, we have discerned
GOD in the Word. In this eternal creed, in this pre-con-
ception of all wisdom, in this ever living philosophy, which
is at the same time the principle of all religions and pre-
religion itself, we have found a positive aim for our investiga-
tions, and the sight of this aim will preserve us from any
confusion or delusion.
"
To learn the substance of the language of the word in
nature, first we ought to know that each vowel has its own
158 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
particular pre-form. This pre-form is not bound to any
distance or any size, it flows from one star to another, from
one cloud to cloud, from mountain to mountain, from tree
to tree, from stone to stone, from being to being, from limb
to limb, into the inmost folds of the heart and all inward
and outward organs of the body. If we learn to feel within
ourselves this vocalization, then the Divine Spirit is given
to us, and we are bound unto the eternal power of creation,
which, like ourselves, is able to think all, to will all, and to
fulfil all" (pp. 115,116).
"
In the word are not only all forms of the tones contained,
but they also multiply by the differing sounds of the vowels,
by the different interruptions with the consonants, and
finally by the ingenious melting together of letters into
syllables and words. In the word may be found all forms
of geometry. Each vowel has besides its form of tone a
peculiar form of sound, by virtue of which the vowels create
their scale not only to the height and depth of the har-
monical relations, but also according to their original
sound. Thus we get an abundance immeasurable : and
as the form of sound is far more decidedly expressed than
the form of tone, it must act much more forcibly on our
senses, animating them to a free language.
"
To make the matter clearer, it will suffice to consider
the sounds of the five fundamental vowels i, e, o, u, a,
which sharply differ from each other, and to compare them
with the imperfect sounds of the musical instruments, which
are always perceived as imperfect sounds, as :
6, ii and ao
(e.g., in the words
'
burn
'
and
'
all ').
A high praise is to
be given the musicians, who, despite the imperfection of the
elements, succeeded in the realization of a complete and
exhaustive system of tones, but what is surprising indeed
is that the scientists, the so-called philosophers, have quite
lost the system of a scale of sounds, and in their blindness
even deny its very traces, along which they might regain
their certainty. In the word is the creative power. The
word is the highest in creation. God is the creative word,
and therefore the outline of creation lies before in the
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 159
word already, and consequently God is at the same time the
will and the power and the wisdom.
"
In the word are contained all forms. Each vowel has
its own pre-form, which may be represented through
associations with others in innumerable modifications. If
this is so, then any form must be a word too, expressing
itself in our sensation by vibrations. Chaos was in a state of
fermentation. This fermentation is an elimination of the
coarse from the pure and spiritual, as we see distinctly
in wine. The spiritual extends itself, when fermenting, in
curves and straight lines, in angles and circles through the
infinite reservoir, space. Formed into a word, it dominates
and moves as a free agent. Thus, the highest faculty of the
Universe, the word, works in its eternal lines, forms, and
vibrations, and as the coarser parts, though driven away
by the word's power, are surrounded and penetrated by it,
they retain in their formation the word's character revolving
round their own centre, placing themselves in certain lines
and angles to other centres, so designing in this relation the
letters of God's creative word in nature and its forms.
"
According to what is stated, it is of importance to us
not only to hear the word as a tone, but to perceive and
feel it as a form. The pre-forms of the letters have become
lost in ordinary life, so that now the whole thing is rather
considered to be only a fancy of enthusiasts and impostors.
Nevertheless such pre-forms do exist in nature, and anybody
may put it to the test. There remains but the question,
how such pre-forms may be recognized ?
" A mechanician, when beholding an instrument he never
saw before, will examine its purpose and its parts, judging
at the same time the machines and means by which the
instrument in question has been made, thus enabling
himself to manufacture a similar instrument. Thus and
not otherwise have we to proceed, too. The work is before
our eyes, and nobody hinders us from viewing it. But the
mere staring at it is of no use ; we have to know the means
by which the whole has been built up in this way and not in
another. We perceive lines, circles, points and angles, the
160 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
changing of the days and years and the infinite space of the
heavens studded with worlds without number. But this
immensity rests on lines, circles, and angles, while its
efficiency as word rests on the vibrations of the forms and
in the graduations of the light. Lines, circles, and angles
are therefore our elements, wherein we have to investigate.
Should nature's proportions be too large for our investiga-
tion, nobody hinders us from doing like the astronomers,
bringing the objects to be examined, in a reduced size, as
near to us as possible. The astronomer makes a sketch of
the immense firmament on a sheet of paper, calculating the
course of the sun and stars up to a minute and second.
Likewise the investigator, if he seriously endeavours to
find the truth, makes the lines, the circles, and angles vibrate
within himself, measuring, like the astronomer the firma-
ment, the boundaries between time and eternity
"
(pp. 131,
134).
To the aforesaid I have to observe that Kerning is here
pointing out the correlation of the Universe and man, i.e.,
the macrocosmos and microcosmos. It means that whta
is in the whole Universe is also to be found in a man, and,
if the substance of the Universe be the word, the same is
consequently the substance of the man. But the word is
composed of letters, and these are but geometrical forms
formed out of lines, circles, and angles. By making these
pre-fundamental powers of the Universe vibrate in our
body, we realize our fundamental substance, i.e., the Divine
Spirit, as well as the correlation of the Divine Spirit to the
Universe, and thereby the whole Universe.
"
A lot has been talked about the possibility of seeing the
tone and word with the eye and to feel it, but an obstinate
doubter cannot be helped, while to an unprejudiced person
the following may serve as a confirmation :
"
A musician takes in hand a composition, studies it
with his eyes without uttering a tone or moving the lips,
and then interprets its contents and value quite precisely.
Another studies volumes upon volumes, imbibing the whole
history of man or a part of his scientific systems, without
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 161
uttering a single word, or opening his mouth. Are these not
actual proofs of the eye's being able to see the word, con-
ferring it upon our senses and our thinking principle ?
After such considerations nobody will maintain that the
following sentences are too risky for serving as a fundamental
starting point.
"
The form is word, and light is word.
"
Any fermentation is a self-liberation of the light out
of the darkness, or a separation of the coarser materials
from the finer and spiritual ones.
"
Any action of the light takes place by radiation, con-
sequently by forming lines, circles, and angles.
"
The whole Universe is a great ring, an immense globe,
and therefore a form, a word-element.
"
The word is alive, always active and is creating without
rest or stop.
"
The lines, circles, and angles are the root of the word
and shoot forth branches of life and motion through worlds
and life-systems.
"
The word enters the coarser stuffs and becomes a
sound and conception for the visible senses.
"
God speaks and man speaks.
"
God gave Himself to man, and thus man may elevate
himself unto the Word by means of the feeling, whereby he
perceives the pre-types and God's
*
.
"
Thus a man stands on the summit of God's glory,
being able to manifest God's substance, and to gain there-
with the spiritual liberation and immortality.
"
To a thinking man it does not suffice only to suspect
a thing, he struggles after the certainty. Well, he asks
himself, how is the eternal life to be attained ?
"
We have found the elements of the word in the eternal
space, and as this has no boundaries, as far as time and
locality are concerned, then also in eternity. If we endeavour
to feel these elements in their form and efficiency, then we
bear the unmistakable stamp of eternity in ourselves, and
are in a small measure that which the pre-word is in the
infinite All.
162 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
"
Music is ordinarily taught on an instrument. But as
soon as one has learnt it thoroughly, then the instrument
ceases to be of importance, for the student bears the music
within himself. To some their throat serves as an instru-
ment, though they are rather to be considered as but
outward organs, because the whole effect goes outside. So
the Word ! The throat, tongue, teeth, and lips are the
organs for using the word outwardly ; but as soon as the
elements of the lnni;im:< stir within ourselves and manifest
themselves, then can the outward organs of speech grow
dumb, the hearing become lost ; still, in our inmost being,
the live 1;,n.;!i;i|:r remains and cannot die, though even our
body dissolve itself into atoms.
"
But how may the word be recognized in its pre-forms,
and how do we receive the conviction that we have it not
only in our mouth, that is in our outer organ, but also in
our interior ? The mouth is an organ for the outer world,
but at the same time it is a creative organ of the inner life.
A man must get accustomed, as he speaks outwardly, to do
so inwardly, and soon he will feel undoubted results. God
breathed into man the live breath into his nostrils, says
Genesis. Let us try to breathe in, instead of the air, the
vowels, then words and finally complete sentences, making
them to penetrate our body through and through, and
we shall soon perceive what it means to feed ourselves
with the life-essence. Have you succeeded so to feel dis-
tinctly your inner life, then you may inhale questions,
awaiting the answer at your exhaling.
"
That which has just been said could need a volume for
its comprehension, but to a man of an earnest will a few
words may suffice. We have already spoken of the word
being a tuning instrument. Here it is not only an instru-
ment but a power, and therefore he, who is tuning himself
herewith, has not only a leader and a helper, no, he is
ladling with his own hands out of the primordial stream,
using it at his will
"
(pp. 132-142).
In the aforesaid the author is dealing with the breathing
in of a question, to which we may expect an answer when
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 163
breathing out. It will be of use to observe that many young
pupils presume, after a short practice or the first results
obtained, to be able to arouse the inner word within them-
selves. I therefore request readers stepping on the way to
bear in mind my warning concerning this point, as in the
beginning divers lower SELVES may give the answer, which
would not be the right one, and may lead the student astray,
or mislead him altogether, if he should follow their advice.
There are, however, instances, when in certain moments the
necessity arises, that the student receives out of his interior
a quite clear advice or hint, but this is an unproduced
utterance, and quite different to the case where the student
himself puts the question, awaiting an answer thereto. In
the latter case the danger is so much the greater, as the
student is wont to be restless in such a moment, whereby
a correct answer is not possible.
"
We have spoken before of the vibrations of tones. As
the sound of the word is far more distinct than the common
tone of music, therefore the vibration of the first must be
of a greater efficiency."
Every one who starts to practise will convince himself
of the vibrations produced by thought letters or words. Their
effect is so mighty that the student is often amazed.
"
It is easy to speak with confidence about the power of
the vibrations of tone, for this may be experienced daily.
Once I entered a concert hall, of which the walls and floor
trembled and the windows clattered, as soon as somebody
played a little loudly on the D-string. I asked the musician
for the cause of that striking effect, and received the answer :
The hall is tuned in the key of D. I expressed my doubts
about it, but he persisted in his statement and played other
tones yet louder than before, but nothing stirred ; but as
soon as the D resounded, at once the whole room was
trembling. I thought over this case without getting cleverer
than the musician had made me. Then I asked a scientist,
who was very embarrassed how to reply at all. Yet he
thought that the effect arose from aerial motion. Once
more I went to see the musician and made him play several
164 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
times in the same hall the D ; but I did not perceive a
slightest motion of the air. Another day I was able to
experience the same in a church, where its walls, windows,
and altars trembled as soon as a certain key was played.
Then I was sure of the fact that it was not the air which
produced such an effect, for those walls did not tremble
even at the heaviest gale. I asked the choir conductor for
the cause of this phenomenon, and was told the following :
It is the church-tone which makes the whole church tremble.
Through the medium of the air ? I asked. No, sir, he
replied, this happens by the tone-vibration corresponding
with the structure of this building. Of course, the vibration
in question is in the air like the Spirit, or rather in the ether.
I thanked him for his explanation, and verily the con-
versation gave me to think.
"
If we apply this observation to the effect of the word,
which is still deeper and more spiritually hidden in the
coarse elements, and which is subject to still more effectual
vibrations, then we discover the divine power which
dominates chaos, building up worlds, holding the stars in
their courses, and able to create all that we see about us.
If we consider that the word works in the same manner as
the sound and the form, and if we must conclude from
these forms their attraction-phenomena, then we come to
the basis of the teaching, and, from the above-cited
"
If the word is a form, then form is a word, too we can
come to the further conclusion :
"
If the tone is in a position to make walls tremble, then
the sound of words may move mountains.
"
Tone and sound reinforce their efficiency in a reversed
relation, so that with the tone the vibrations are mightier
of tone, while with the sound they are mightier of form.
"
This is the very riddle of the Sphinx, the simple but
deeply concealed mystery of God and nature. Cleverness
cannot solve it, while it was always open to the simple mind.
Listen to a tone, and imagine its form, and the vibratioil
will be more powerful. Let us think of the form of a Latin A
or O, and the vibration will be mightier than when we utter
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 165
cither of them. The word acts, deeply concealed as God's
sanctuary ; the tone is also part of the word, but it is
rather in love with the senses, flattering them with lovely
melodies. He who can comprehend it, let him comprehend.
The timp
will perhaps come when it will be allowed to explain
more distinctly, when everyone will have to look for it
within himself, considering it his own property.
"
This time, however, has not arrived as yet, for the
mysteries experienced by an initiate must not be revealed.
The very nature of the mysteries does not allow it. Never-
theless the time may be at hand when the Holy Spirit will
be poured into all souls, which will mean the final revela-
tion."
From the work :
Christianity :
"
The great mystery of humanity is contained in the art
of praying, searching, and knocking. We have but to learn
it, and we shall be able to make of our life a paradise
"
(P- 4).
By the said art, the author means the searching and
knocking within ourselves either by means of the concentra-
tion on our Divine Self, or the repetition of letters, words,
and sentences in thoughts. It is interesting that the ancient
mystics as well as the Rosicrucians represented the art of
concentration by an archer shooting his arrows at a target.
The target is here of course the divine substance in ourselves,
or that spot of our body whither we send our Mantra
practice. The cross-bow is our soul, which is to be stretched
like a string of a cross-bow, while our thoughts are the
arrows and the archer is the outward man. He who under-
stands tarfin -shooting knows that the taking aim requires
full attention and quiet. Likewise the mystical practice
requires full attention and peace. Without it the arrows
miss and our thoughts do not reach their target. The
ancients were masters in symbolising, as the above example
shows.
"
The loftiest quality of a man is language. This, how-
ever, is to be awakened not only in the mouth, wherefrom
it only issues forth, but in all inner and outer organs. Then
i66 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
may a man understand spiritual power and freedom, then
may he cure diseases, cast out serpents, and remove the
perils of death
"
(p. 90).
Here I must observe that with the re-born man, or yet
before the re-birth, in a word with a Mystic who has prac-
tised for some years, there appears, besides the inner word,
in the first place the healing power, at least to a certain
degree.
"
The Hebrews possessed prophetic schools. All Ihorongh
investigators of history admit that Elias was the leader of
such a school. The Bible speaks of the prophets' children.
What kind of children could they have been ? Surely none
other than such men who were members of the prophetic
schools and visited them. If we consider impartially the
history of Persia and India, we meet with numerous things
which cannot be understood without such a clarity of spirit
"
<P-98)-
It is certain that in the most ancient times, in Egypt,
Babylon, and later in Greece, prophetic, or as we should
call them to-day mystical, schools existed, where the stu-
dents learnt to comprehend nature not only oul\\<irdly but
also inwardly. In such schools the students were led by
some high initiate, who imparted to them lessons for their
inner unfoldment, and also led them in their outward
life. The Greek literature alludes to many schools of this
kind, but almost nothing has been preserved from ancient
times.
"
As the Christian religion is but a prophetic school, so
it can do without all other religions
"
(p. 100).
Thereby the author means that he who is a Christian and
acts i
"'
to the Spirit of the Gospel, and not to the
TPii'rV'i : of the Holy Fathers, who often had not the
slightest notion of the inner life, need not belong to any
church, and may attain the inner consecration.
"
What is prophecy ? It is the manifestation of the
awakened Spirit of Genius imparted to the outwardly
material man. He will manifest himself to us as soon as
we have put aside all we have heard, seen, learnt, and kept
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 167
in our mind ; and when we renounce all earthly passions
and desires, by overcoming them giving place to the inward
life, enabling the latter to move and stir and teach us
by feeling, speaking, and seeing
"
(p. 109).
"
The personality of Christ is objective, while His Spirit
is subjective. Without its spirit the personality is of no
value. Christ Himself says hereof :
"
The more we are occupied with His personality, the
less we comprehend His Spirit. But the more we under-
stand His Spirit, the more comforting is His personality to
us ; for, becoming our ideal and prototype, it enters our
selves, transforming them in His way."
The last sentence contains a certain mystery of the mys-
tical evolution, namely the transformation of the man
earthly into a heavenly one. This heavenly or divine man
is stamped upon or poured into the Mystic's soul, trans-
forming his interior.
"
The historical struggle about the personality of Christ
leads and has led to the unbelief, the dogma, the sects, the
specialization, and the quarrelsomeness, which all in all have
lost the understanding of the eternal and divine, giving their
attention to the flesh and blood
"
(p. 121).
" '
Except ye become as little children, ye shall not enter
into the kingdom of heaven.' What do the children do
first ? They learn to speak, first letters, then syllables,
then words. Every one shall do so within himself
"
(p. 129).
"
He who denies Christ's incarnation is not a Christian.
The words of Christ are Spirit and Life. Both of these have
no peculiar place in a body. They are spread over the
whole body and dwell in the flesh. Hallow the flesh, ex-
tract the Spirit by a child's practice, then Christ will arise
within yourself. Therefore become as little children are,
and the re-birth must take place, as truly as a g*rape ripens
in the sunshine
"
(p. 130).
"
We have to learn the speaking of letters first, then
syllables and words up to complete sentences. Now we
understand the legend of the Chinese Emperor, lao, who,
in order to make his country happy, elected out of his
168 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
people a fellow-governor. lao is the root of the Word, is
God; while the fellow-governor is the earthly governor
elected by God. Now we see why these three letters were of
such high value to the Gnostics and the Neo-platonics
"
(p. 131).
The above-mentioned having been thoroughly explained
in the chapters dealing with the letter-practice, there is
consequently no necessity to add anything.
"
The organic elements of the language are the lips, the
teeth, the tongue, and the palate. Like the letters, they
are so profoundly established in nature that none of them
can supply the other. D cannot be uttered with the lips,
nor B with the tongue, nor can either of the letters be pro-
nounced with the palate. Likewise it is not possible to
utter K or G with the lips, teeth, or tongue. Please bear
this in mind ! It is of a great importance, as we are thereby
enabled to penetrate to the interior of nature and investigate
its spiritual powers.
"
The lips are the representatives of the skin and the
muscles of a man. The teeth are the sucking branches of
the osseous system. The tongue is in closest touch with
the inner organs of the body, as the veins, the blood, and
even the nerves. The palate is always either in a furthest
angle or in the centre of a thing/'
These instructions given by Kerning are very important
for a practical Mystic, as they are the due to the mystery
of the outer nature. He who has learnt in his interior the
alphabet and the inner Word is in a position to carry this
procedure through in outward nature too, awakening there
the voices of things living and unliving. For the whole of
nature speaks to an initiate. Therefore many Brothers of
the Rosy Cross are said to have understood the language
of the animals. Jacob Bohme knew the paradisaic names
of all animals, and could call to himself any shy animals
by those magical names. They were given by Adam.
But this clue may not be used except by one who has
found it within himself. For the majority of people this
teaching is senseless and valueless. To show the profound
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 169
symbols hidden in these mysteries, I have but to point to
the symbol of the circle with a point in its centre. Every
occultist knows it to be the sign of the Sun, but that is
not all, for the Sun is at the same time the material symbol
of God, and therefore the circle with the point is also a
symbol of God manifested or revealed. The point in the
centre is, according to the above teaching of Kerning,
"
the
palate.
1 '
The periphery of the circle is the outward mani-
festation or the creation. With the palate we may utter
the letters g, h, kh. Therefore our ancestors added to the
divine name an H at the end (Jehovah), for this letter means
the manifesting power. The same applies to the letters Kh
and G. The letter Gh has the mightiest effects of vibra-
tion on all three worlds. Thus it is with all other letters,
and he who succeeds in finding the corresponding organs
of the language in the natural forms shall hear nature's
language.
"
All that exists bears the stamp of these four organic
elements. Everything has an exterior, a fastness, an interior,
and a middle. We feel the upper layer of earth, when
brought into our imagination as the lip ; the mountains,
with their rocks extending over the whole globe, as teeth
and bones ; behind this skeleton we feel the tongue, while
the centre of the globe we may imagine only by means of
our palate
"
(p. 168).
He who brings about imagining these speaking elements
of nature in his interior, but in correspondence with the
speaking elements of his organism, obtains the key to the
comprehension of outward nature.
Further on in the pages of the book quoted Kerning proves
the mental impressions everyone may feel, unless he is full
of prejudices, as is generally the case with an untrue
philosopher :
"
If you imagine the top of a steeple, where do you feel
it?"
"
Of course, in my head."
"
And the base of a steeple ?
"
"
Strange ! in my feet.
11
170 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
"
And if you imagine a branch of this tree ?
"
"
In my arm/'
"
And the roots of this tree ?
"
"
Again in my feet/'
"
I intended to convince you of the possibility of mental
impressions, for without having touched either the top of
the steeple, or the tree's roots, yet you have felt them/'
"
What is the use of it ?
"
"
We have been taught from our childhood to look for
God in the heights, whereby he rises up to our head, where
we think him over and work him up, until he dissolves and
disappears from us. God is everywhere ; the whole man,
that is the whole human body has to learn feeling him, but
then we shall have him in the whole, too. In our feet,
knees, thighs, hips, loins, belly, breasts, in all inner organs,
into the marrow of our bones he must stir, and then we
feel him, and feel our positive life, and immortality becomes
not only a possibility but a necessity. The head is the top
of the steeple, it is the cock thereon, crying out into the
world and turning at the most gentle breeze, it surveys all,
yet is seen by all. In the tower itself the clock is
going under the established regulations, and measuring the
minutes, hours, and days* But all this would not be possible
unless it stood on a firm foundation and on firm feet. Think
of it !
"
(p. 182).
Master Kerning constantly shows the fact that God is
present in a man in his whole body. Consequently, as soon
as we begin to seek God within ourselves, be it through
the practice in the mystical heart, or when practising in
our feet, God commences to manifest Himself in all our
body. Ninety-nine per cent of occultists suppose the
mystical evolution to begin in a man's soul. This presump-
tion is one of the greatest errors in modern Occultism. It
originated from a complete ignorance of the spiritual laws,
or therein that these matters are dealt with by people who
have never experienced the mystical unfoldment not even
its very commencement.
The truth is just the contrary. The mystical evolution
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 171
begins in the body, manifesting itself before all in bodily
sensations, of a kind unknown to any who have not started
the practice and thus experienced them for themselves.
Also the evolution of the inward senses is rather a bodily one.
Here the magic spiritual powers affect the organism, yet
their effect is materially felt. Their act of affecting is secret
and incomprehensible to a man until he has attained his re-
birth. But the effects of these powers are manifested in
our body.
"
Turn your face to the south and imagine the sun-rise.
Where do you feel it ?
"
"
On my left hand."
"
And the West ?
"
"
On my right/'
"
Where do you feel the country of our antipodes ?
"
"
In my feet."
"
And the firmament over the antipodes ?
"
"
Also in my feet, but in a wider vault.
1 '
"
Well, which conceptions are clearer, those directly from
the clouds, or these from below ?
"
"
The latter."
"
Can you imagine anything clearer than the aforesaid ?
"
"
No." (For the conception from below must penetrate
the whole body, that is God's substance.)
"
The purest conception a man can imagine and feel is
the Holy Spirit. To arouse and refine the susceptibility of
feeling in a natural way is self-knowledge, while the sensa-
tion is God, the perception of whom was the sole purpose
of all founders of religions and spiritual institutions."
"
And this is the foundation of the religions and priest-
hoods ?
"
"
Yes."
"
Why then do we not see any trace of such a lore ?
"
"
Because it has been lost and because we endeavour to
obtain all this by means of the steeple-cock
"
(p. 184).
It is obvious that by the cock on the steeple Kerning
means the human brain, blinding our eyes and not allowing
us to perceive the truth.
172 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
"
Then we understand why the ancients never celebrated
the divine service at noon, but always in the morning or
evening. The Mithraists and the Pythagoreans greeted the
sun at his rise, and let that lofty appearance act on their
bodies, while the sky became light over their heads. The
first Christians chose the night-time, and even to-day the
Roman Catholics celebrate the birth of Christ at midnight.
1
When at the time of our midnight we imagine the full noon
of our antipodes, then we feel as though included in a light
vault, which is of a salutary, strengthening, animating, and
instructive influence
"
(p. 186).
The Student :
"
As the proverb
'
Practice makes perfect
'
occurred to
my mind, I was imagining all possible things and regions
of the creation, when I became distinctly aware of my head
becoming excited in an unpleasant and almost painful way,
as soon as I sent forth my thoughts straight upwards. On
the other hand, when taking up into my imagination ob-
jects situated below me, the sensation was either lovely or
of a salutary kind. As I finally determined to grow in the
natural way, that is from below upwards, I occupied my-
self with tree-roots, fundaments, and my antipodes in the
other hemisphere. The result thereof was that it seemed
to me as if I were walking in water. What does it mean ?
You have led me into a labyrinth, and consequently you
must help me to get out."
"
You may get out of it by yourself alone."
"
How ?
"
"
By the continuation of what you commenced. The
spiritual powers you have felt act in the beginning chaotic-
ally, then they grow and unfold to a certain activity, when
you will be able to perceive their truth and importance."
"
But this subject is so new and uncommon that no trace
thereof may be found either in the history of to-day or of
the past."
1 The Rosicrucians* duty was to leave the town-gates on certain
holidays at sun-rise.
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 173
As we have experienced, not only the letter-practice,
carried on in our feet, but the mere transfer of the conscious-
ness into our feet acts in an equal manner, that is it unfolds
the mystical powers, and he who does so steps on the way.
Of course, the letter-practice is mightier, and directly leads
to the inner word of the prophets.
"
He who looks for intimations shall find them ;
he who
evades them, declaring them at once to be nonsense, can-
not perceive them.
11
"
Please give me an example.
1 '
"
Christ speaks to Peter : He that is washed needeth not
save to wash his feet."
"
And you presume that that washing of feet refers to
something similar ?
"
"
To what else ?
"
"
To a moral purification."
"
The narrow-minded, the orthodox, are always looking
out for the moral everywhere, while the thinker sees nature
everywhere."
"
Consequently the Bible is not a lying book."
"
It is the book of the spiritual powers revealed in human
nature."
"
Why do we not find nowadays these revealed powers
any more ?
"
"
Because the Bible itself does not contain the revelation
of such a lore."
"
But then the Bible is but an imperfect book !
"
"
As far as the lore in question is concerned it is so, while
it is a divine book as regards the efficiency of the powers
developed."
"
Why is the lore missing ?
"
"
Either it was decided not to take it up, or it has got
lost already."
"
And is it still lost ?
"
"
It exists among a few only."
"
And those few ?
"
"
Will not expose themselves to persecutions by the clergy
and the rationalists."
174 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
"
But the matter as you are dealing with it is quite
rational."
"
I hope so. But ask others and you will hear the names
I am honoured with."
"
One must not be afraid of speaking the truth."
"
You are right, if favourable results may be expected
"
(p. 192).
In the last section Kerning refers to certain degrees of
the mystical evolution. He does so very often in his writings,
but always in a way incomprehensible to an uninitiate. He
who is practising, however, will always find the confirma-
tion of his own experiences. As far as the lore of the inner
evolution of man is concerned, it was concealed for a long
time, and is now entering the stage of revelation, of which the
present book bears the best evidence. It could never have been
written and published, unless it had happened in accordance
with the divine power. Besides, I may say that this book is
the first plain revelation of these mysteries. This, too, is
possible only by higher authority. It is because a new era
is arriving, because before long the mystical practice will
be spread among people far more than ever. *It is also
possible that it is to be brought into connection with the
prophecies of the coming Saviour. Those who presume the
Saviour has already come, and has according to some
written a book already published, are greatly mistaken.
Others consider a founder of an enormous society, who by
lectures and books and ingenious behaviour managed to
gather a great many intellectual and also less educated
people about himself, to be the new Saviour. But it is to
be remembered that before the coming of the Saviour a
great many false prophets shall arise. Therefore search
within yourselves and not outside. When He comes whose
coming has been foretold it will be manifested in an in-
fallible way His word will penetrate the world like fire,
and He will not use books, or papers, or outward societies,
for
"
all power whatsoever will be given unto Him upon this
earth."
From Kerning's book Die Grundzuge der Bibel :
THE ORIGIN pF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 175
"
There are three species of God's children mentioned by
the Canon :
"
Those who come into this world without fleshly parents,
but are conceived by the Holy Spirit on soft earth forming
an uterus ;
"
Those who are born by a woman without having union
with a man ;
"
Children of natural parents who of their own and the
power of the Spirit have produced the Messiah within them-
selves, and by their re-birth have risen to be God's children.
"
Of all three kinds the Bible quotes examples, calling
them God's children in contradistinction to the ordinary
human children. Round the first the community gathers,
hoping to participate in the promise they see already ful-
filled in God's children. Thus, a church is formed, a realm
of God, far from gloomy dogmas, obeying only the higher
laws of nature, and able to reconcile and unite all, and to
lead them to immortality
"
(p. 80).
"
There are three species of God's children then, and they
are the pillars of the Bible, pillars without which Chris-
tianity itself were without a foundation.
"
There is ONE GOD ; who will deny it ? There is im-
mortality. We all believe in it. But immortality is the
most wonderful thing of the creation, and consequently we
have no reason to doubt about any Biblical wonder. The
human creature is not immortal ; all of which it consists
returns to the original elements, and the former individu-
ality cannot be traced any more. Immortality is gained
when the Spirit has produced within the creature a new,
an imperishable body, which unites itself with the creature,
taking up the latter's feelings and thoughts. The purer
and the more distant the ethereal and spiritual body is
from the fleshly, and the coarser the material, the more
imperfect will be their relation to each other, and the more
uncertain the state of the eternal life. On the other hand,
the more material the new ethereal body is, and the purer
the fleshly one, the more uncertain is their union and so
much the more sure may we be to take beyond with our-
176 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
selves our whole individuality. If we substitute for the
ethereal body fine alcohol and for the fleshly body impure,
muddy water, then it will be easy to understand that they
cannot become united. The light spirit floats above, while
the water stays underneath. When both are poured out
upon the earth, we shall perceive them to be separated one
from the other. There will neither be a trace of alcohol in
the water, nor the slightest drop of water in the spirit.
When, however, we condense the spirit with more sub-
stantial spirituous liquids, and cleanse and distil the water
at the same time, then both parts will so mix together as
if they had always been one from the beginning. The first
case denotes the coldest indifference and the complete domi-
nation of the senses, while the second is the culminating
point of human refinement, when the creature even over-
comes death and does not suffer decomposition.
"
There is a re-birth in spirit. The creation of an ethereal
body by the spirit is the re-birth in question. This ethereal
body is conceived like the fleshly in the womb, and grows
out of it through all parts and organs. The creation of such
a divine body being established in nature, and its approach
towards the creature serving for our refinement, it would
not be consequently against common sense to conclude that,
under favourable circumstances, the ethereal body, having
but tasted of the corporeal material food, is in a position
to become so corporeal that, being a human being con-
ceived by the spirit, it may leave its paternal roof, entering
the outward world equipped with human qualities.
"
This intimation, though an imperfect one, being yet in
accordance with nature's laws, may explain the origin of
the second class of God's children. The first must be pos-
sible, as otherwise there would not exist any human beings.
The beginnings of nearly all nations, all mythologies and
mysteries mention and render them in intuitive symbols
and parables. If all nations at different periods are in
accordance to this effect, we must not fear to be deceived,
but must come to the conclusion that without being taught
by nature such an agreement could never have taken place/'
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 177
I have quoted this extract on purpose, as Kerning here
touches upon the burning question of immortality and the
most secret mysteries of humanity altogether, that is upon
the origin of the human being in nature, and his transition
from the material state into the spiritual. As we have
seen, Kerning does not believe in immortality without the
spiritual re-birth in the flesh, which has to take place in
every mystical student. This lore is, however, in contradic-
tion to the teaching of the occultists, who maintain that
the soul of an individual survives the body to become re-
incarnated again and again. So we assent rather to the
occultistic teaching than to the theosophical and that of
Kerning.
There are many reasons for this, especially the physical
ones. Of course, they cannot be expounded in this book,
which has a different purpose. Perhaps I may do so some-
where else. Though Kerning did not believe in the indi-
vidual survival without the re-birth, it was not of import-
ance to him, as he of a surety attained to the re-birth. The
same applies to Buddha, who denied God, iidnoulv ili-ini.;
only the LAW. All the same he attained the highest degree
of an initiate. Our individual faith during our life-time on
this plane is of a magical influence upon our conscious state
after death. Who does not believe in the survival, the sur-
vival will not exist for him after his death. On the other
hand, he who believes shall in full consciousness continue
to live after death.
The opinions of all initiates at any time individually
differ from each other. In their substance they are of
course analogous, and we must not be misled by trifles and
divergences of opinion. As long as the spirit is confined to
the material body, be it that of the highest adept, yet he
bears the human stamp. And let us not forget the saying :
Oh imperfection, thy name is man. There was only one
perfect and infallible in all matters, and it was Jesus Christ,
But He was not a man, but an incarnated Son of God, and
therefore there was nothing human about Him.
From Kerning's work, The Key to the Spiritual World I
178 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
"
Listen then : If all shall die, the Creator cannot die.
If all dies, then the creature, in which the Creator has
glorified himself, cannot die. To seek him and to realize his
glorification with ourselves is our task. There are many
ways of different advance. Some are slow, the others quick.
He who has courage and strength may choose the latter.
The weak are given easy ways. Which class do you count
yourself as belonging to ?
"
To the forcible and quick ways belong, for instance,
asceticism and the Yoga practices, as carried out from time
immemorial up to the present day in India. Also the
Egyptians knew slow and quick ways. The quick way is
impossible to a European, and is rather dangerous, as it
cannot be in accordance with the circumstances under which
we are living. The Greeks knew different ways in their
mysteries. They knew quick and slow ways, and their
initiates imparted them to their disciples according to the
latter's individual endowment and faculties.
"
The Student :
'
I have courage, but I am not sure of
having the strength necessary. I am ignorant of what I
have to perform, please therefore deal according to your
own judgment/
"
'Well then : Let the man think within you, then you
shall succeed/
"
The Student :
'
How shall I do it ?
'
"
The Teacher :
'
Let the man think within you, then you
shall succeed/
"
The Student :
'
I guess what you mean. The actual
human nature ! Shall I ever find it within myself ?
'
"
The Teacher seized his hand, looked steadily into his
eyes, and said :
'
He who has courage and perseverance,
to such a one no goal is far away/ He then left the student
alone in the room to think it over
"
(p. 101).
"
You arrive at knowledge of the Spirit, if you endeavour
to recognize his qualities. These qualities are the com-
ponents of his substance. They may be possessed theoretic-
ally and practically. Theory contents itself with naming
them and knowing they exist. Practice, however, penetrates
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 179
into their substance and their activity. The latter is our task,
whereby we gain the entrance into the spiritual world."
"
When ye pray, use not vain repetitions. Therefore
pray ye :
'
Our Father,' etc., says the Bible.
"
From that it follows you shall pray but that ; repeating
it as slowly and as often until not only your mouth, but
also your heart, your whole nature, from the skin into the
innermost part of your body, knows it by heart. When
then you feel its result, when then your hair bristles up,
your bones are burning, then think :
you have received the
baptism. Now either stay here or leave me. It appears to
be a trifle, but to perform it all the strength of a man is
required
"
(p. 104).
Here Kerning is alluding to the sentence practice, and
recommends to practise in all parts of the body Our
Father. That this practice, too, is to be carried out in the
feet, is to be seen from the following :
"
From below grows the plant, on the ground all that is
striving for security is fortified. Firmness exists for us
only in solid stuffs, and what is more solid than the earth
rotating unalterably within its own circle, and giving each
being the support for its growth ? On his feet stands man,
and rests upon them ; when the support is not good he is
lost
"
(p. 106).
"
From the day of the feet-washing to the crucifixion,
all was written only for you. If we believe like children,
blindly practising, then we shall rise from the dead. All
that happened to our Master in those three days is to be
our ideal. We must experience the passion of our Saviour,
His scourging, the weight of the cross, and, in order to give
place to the new man, exhaustion has to take place in all
our limbs. Though the reason struggle against it, our
senses rebel, even our whole nature revolt, we must suffer
steadily to change the crown of thorns into one of life. He
who does not use many words, but puts the few into action
everywhere, thus raising his whole nature to the faculty of
thinking, he treads the path towards victory and shall be
glorified on the cross of life
"
(p. 108).
i8o MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
I am now going to quote an important section of Kerning's
writings, namely, that where a chaplain teaches a young
knight how to become an invincible warrior. The Spirit
disposes of numerous gifts, one gets wisdom, another the
healing power, yet another invulnerability, and so forth.
Evidence thereof is to be found not only in the Bible, but
also in all mythologies and legends. The following story
takes place in the Middle Ages, when, especially for a noble-
man, it was desirable to defend oneself successfully against
one's enemies.
"
The chaplain drew the young knight's attention to
the inner forces, how they often slumber, then suddenly
awaken and endow us with suppleness, courage, and
sagacity.
" '
It's true/' said the knight.
'
Often we carry out some-
thing which seemed impossible a moment before. Thus it
is with our thoughts :
you may brood for days over a
problem without being able to solve it, and of a sudden it
appears quite clear to you. How does it come that this
often happens so slowly ?
'
" '
Because we go a round-about way/
"
The Knight :
'
I do not understand/
"
The Chaplain :
'
Yet it is so/
"
The K. :
'
Please explain/
"
The Ch. :
'
If you want to see someone and you do not
know where he lives, then you must first find him out. The
same applies to our powers. If we knew where the powers
lie, we could arouse them quicker. So it is with the thoughts.
If we knew the residence of the thoughts, it would not be
at all difficult to receive therefrom ideas, which might
explain to us anything hidden/
"
The K. :
'
Well, now the question arises : How is it
possible to know the residence of those powers ?
'
"
The Ch. :
'
He who solves these questions has attained
the goal. To avoid mixing up one thing with another, we
will first examine the thought to find the way to same/
"
The K. :
'
I am very anxious to hear it/
"
The Ch. :
'
The following principle is to be considered :
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 181
Any power may think but of itself or of something in con-
nection with it/
"
The K. :
'
It seems strange/
"
The Ch. :
'
Yet it is quite natural. The ear cannot
think but of the powers of the ear, it cannot imagine colours
or measure a superficies, in a word nothing which does not
belong to its sphere. When speaking of the smell, the nose
thinks, and only the palate may judge the savouriness of
a meal/
"
The K. : 'It is true, I have just tested it, while you
spoke. Verily it is true ! But where does it lead to ?
'
"
The Ch. :
'
As far as a man's power reaches. As far
as he is able to think and feel. Into the infinite, the highest
of all, the heart of nature and his own being/
"
The K. :
'
Please give me another rule, or better still,
let me make a test/
"
The Ch. :
'
Well, with what do you think of your
mother ?
'
"
The K. :
'
With my heart/
"
The Ch. :
'
With what do you think of her figure ?
'
"
The K. :
'
With my eyes/
"
The Ch. :
'
With what do you think of the tone of her
voice ?
'
"TheK. :
'
With my ears/
"
The Ch. :
'
But if you think of her as your mother,
your leader, and your guardian, then you do so with your
heart. And the more gratitude and love you imagine these
qualities with, the deeper is the thought, which we call by
the name of
"
the feeling/' for we feel it in our heart/
"
The K. :
'
I thank you very much for your information.
I shall practise the dismemberment of these thinking
powers, and hope to make out where the force of the fighter
dwells/
"
The Ch. :
'
Let me shake your hand, young man. I
see you will get on
' "
(p. 203).
"
The Ch. :
'
Welcome. I heard you were practising
assiduously, and am glad of it. The experimenting by
oneself is an evidence of zeal, which is praiseworthy. But
i82 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
let us not forget that first we have to learn to stand up-
right before beginning to walk and fence. But please
do not misunderstand ! I do not blame you at all, but
have to call your attention to how a ladder is to be
ascended, namely, rung by rung, beginning with the lowest
one I
' "
Here the author refers to the mystical ladder in the
human body, which has been already fully described in the
foregoing chapters.
"
The K. :
'
Please lead me to the ladder.'
"
The Ch. :
'
First we have to erect it.'
"
The K. :
'
To erect it ?
'
"
The Ch. :
'
Yes. For it is yet hanging obliquely in a
gloomy barn/
"
The K. :
'
Please let me see it/
"
The Ch. :
'
You are it, yourself/
"
The K. :
'
Please explain/
"
The Ch. :
'
When you think, where do your thoughts
arise ?
'
"TheK. :
'
In my head/
"
The Ch. :
'
In your head or upon it ?
'
"
The K. : 'I am sorry I do not know/
"
The Ch. :
'
You cannot erect the ladder unless you
know/
"
The following day the knight came to see the chaplain,
and was highly unsatisfied with himself.
'
I have tried to
solve it all day and all night/ he told the chaplain,
'
but I
am not able to do so. First you told me that each power
knows but itself or what appertains to it, but now you ask
me where thought arises ? This is another question, and
cannot be answered in the same way/
"
The Ch. :
'
Quite right. First you see, hear, and feel
a thing or you imagine it. But then that which you have
seen or imagined comes into action, becomes yours, and
you think over it. With what organ does this first take
T)lace ?
"
The K. :
'
I do not know.'
"
The Ch. :
'
Which are the resources of thinking ?
'
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 183
"TheK. : 'Words.'
"
The Ch. :
'
Where are they formed ?
'
"TheK: '
In the mouth/
"
The Ch. :
'
Right. In the mouth the thought com-
mences its activity, and returns then along a defined way to
that power which produced it or is in accordance with it/
"
The K. :
'
Please give me an example/
"
The Ch. :
'
The miller takes the corn out of a bag,
shoots it into the mill, turns it into flour, and fills the bag
again with it/
"
The K. :
'
I do not follow/
"
The Ch. :
'
The sense receives an idea, and transmits
it by means of 1:!ii;:
i :.!'..< to the mouth, which makes it pass
through the body to crush it, and then the idea returns as a
perfect thought to the sense/
"
The K. :
'
The teaching is now clear, but the practice ?
'
"
The Ch. :
'
The practice is subject to some difficulties.
But practice overcomes all/
"
The K. :
'
Thank you. I am sure I shall not be lazy/
"
The Ch. :
'
Do not forget the ladder !
'
"
The K. : 'Is it in any connection with the aforesaid ?
'
"
The Ch. :
'
Of course. When the mouth has started its
activity, it is all important that we observe the corresponding
step-ladder. First you have to erect the ladder, and then
you may start/
"
The K. :
'
Will you teach me how to do it ?
'
"
The Ch. :
'
Listen then : A man stands upon his feet ;
if they are not strong enough, he will easily fall over.
Examine this and come then again to see me/
"
The young knight was in a desperate state how to
carry out his task. He had to learn to think in his feet, and
this he could not accomplish. He made all possible attempts,
and often he was in despair. Finally he succeeded, and
after five weeks he came to see the chaplain again :
'
Excuse
my having tarried so long, but it seemed to be very hard.
Yet I have now made it out/
"
The Ch. :
'
Listen : The feet are the first rung, whence
you rise up to your knees, then into your hips, into the
184 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
navel, the pit of the stomach, the throat, and finally the head.
The ladder is erected, now learn to rise thereon.'
"
The knight required a full year to accomplish his task.
Though he saw the chaplain daily, the latter did not impart
to him any lessons, but they talked together about the
value and the powers of man in general. Finally the
disciple believed himself to have reached the top of the
ladder, and asked his teacher to examine him. The chap-
lain replied :
'
You have got it, but a skilful climber also
makes progress with his hands, this I hope will be easy to
you to perform. Difficult, however, will be what follows. All
that you have performed outwardly has also to take place
inwardly. The first climbing touched but the skin, and now
we are going to penetrate the flesh and the bones, through
the loins, liver, lungs, and heart, into the very marrow in
order to come nearer to the desired perfection/
"
Now commenced the struggle. The disciple felt ill, and
fire and cold penetrated his body. He would have suc-
cumbed without his teacher's encouragement. Finally the
storm calmed down, and there was a new man.
" '
Now we are going to form the fighter,' said the chap-
lain.
'
Your legs are standing upright, your hands are
alive, and your whole body is ready for free action to
receive the spirit. Ahead now ! Do not tremble when you
meet or perceive anything, for it is the inward self endeavour-
ing to manifest its qualities.
" '
The audacious climber does not need to step from one
rung to another, he often leaps over one, two, three, some-
times five rungs at once, to ascend so much quicker to the
top. He gets rid of all ties and soars up like an eagle.
" '
The language is formed in our mouth, yet it must
penetrate ourselves everywhere, until our entire nature
becomes the language itself, where God's word resounds
and shows us the Truth. Obey this word, when hearing it,
and undertake nothing without its advice, then in truth a
new day will break for you.
" '
The inner eye must see, the inner ear hear, and all the
senses are to be aroused in a man's interior. Then the
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 185
human being is resurrected, having the crucifixion behind
him.
" '
The powers being now known to you, it is but a matter
of faith to learn what they are able to perform. They are
immeasurable and none has yet got to their bottom. The
Eternal says :
"
Art thou afraid to think a lot of Me ?
Look at the myriads of stars. I have set them there to shine
for those who come nearer to Me. Look at the firmament
in its loveliest azure. I have shaped it to give a temple to
him who worships Me. Him who prays to Me in Spirit I
hear, and it is already granted with the prayer. He who
speaks My language speaks within Me and all Mine is his."
I must not tell you more. Now you know all you want, and
it lies only with you to win it
' "
(pp. 202-11).
In the last sentence the great mercy is shown, in which
any Mystic participates, provided he has been faithful to
his task. He who knows how to pray in spirit and truth,
his prayer is always favourably heard often at once.
We cannot learn prayer in Spirit and Truth, unless our
whole body prays with all its atoms and cells. Of course,
this kind of prayer is unknown to those who utter their
prayer only with their lips. The prayer with the lips is of
little value, for it cannot ascend to the Creator. The
prayer of a Mystic is animated by his faith and love, and is
therefore of a magical influence.
From the book, Wege zur Unsterblichkeit :
"
Which are the elements of thinking ? Reply : The
language, the numbers, and forms. You have to learn
with all your body to count, to create forms and to speak,
and then you shall understand the universal history and
your own being
"
(p. 125).
Kerning expresses here before all a new teaching, namely,
that it is necessary to practise all numbers and divers forms,
and observes that the student will know the history of
mankind at the end of his practice, which means he may
attain clairvoyance. As far as the practice of numbers and
forms is concerned, the student shall not trouble about
186 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
that in the beginning, for it will be given to him when it
will be necessary. Only those who are lacking both in
faith and resolution fear they will not know how they are
getting on with their practice. But, as Kerning says,
everyone has to devote himself blindly to the mystic lore.
He who lacks courage had better not touch it.
"
A man has to possess himself fully ;
this is the purpose
of any teaching ; and thither we try to lead the student.
Not only in his heart or head, but in his whole body a man
must feel and know himself, lest he get mutilated and be
incapable of the perfect life."
"
Here human narrowness is manifest, for it appropriates
to a certain part of our body more holiness than to others,
though we experience every day that no limb is useless, but
each is of use to carry out the Creator's intention."
"
Try to keep that which you have, and think that where
life exhibits itself most clearly, there you are nearest to
God ; but do not be one-sided with your powers, and be
convinced that perfection must possess all powers."
"
In the lowest tone are contained the higher ones,
descend therefore to the lowest apartments of your body,
remembering Christ's descent into hell to call souls and
powers to life."
"
Do not rest until you have created everywhere within
you a lens, through which you may gaze at eternity, and
do not care for the world which perceives but your head
and tries to fill it up with all possible dogmas, until your
head threatens to separate itself from you and your feelings.
Persevere and master yourself, else you are a crucified one
whose bones have been broken on the cross, and whose body
may therefore not be taken down."
"
Have confidence in time and be master of the moment !
This teaching is distinctly described in the foregoing ex-
amples ; for it will require years until a man reaches his
maturity, when he will discover the essence of his life, to use
it for his leader
"
(pp. 168-170).
Many impatient ones would like to attain the complete
mystical unfoldment within a few months or a few years.
THE ORIGIN OF THE MANTRA PRACTICES 187
This, of course, is absurd, and the reply thereunto is given
by the Master. It will last many years until the inner word
is aroused, while complete clairvoyance is needed in a leader.
There are mystical students who are not destined for leaders
at all, but for other tasks ; for each one receives according
to his powers and faculties.
CHAPTER VII
THE MYSTICAL STAGES
BEFORE
beginning to enumerate the so-called mys-
tical stages, according to which the inner unfoldment
takes place (I can do so only in broad outline to
prevent the profanation of what must not be revealed at
all), I shall yet briefly mention certain Christian ceremonies
examined from the mystical point of view, for they are but
the symbolical representation of certain mystical stages
taking place within each student.
The most important of these ceremonies are the so-called
Sacraments, that is, according to the ecclesiastical expres-
sion, sacred rituals, which under their outward and visible
signs should have an influence upon the spiritual side of an
individual. There are seven sacraments in the Roman
Catholic Church, namely Baptism, the Eucharist, Confirma-
tion, Penance, Extreme Unction, Holy Orders, and the
Sacrament of Marriage. These sacraments were first in the
sixteenth century declared by some reformers to be holy
ceremonies. It is doubtful whether Christ Himself estab-
lished these ceremonies as they are performed nowadays.
Their origin is obscure and quite unknown. Of course, they
were introduced by the Holy Fathers, yet their origin can-
not be verified, for their sources were either lost or burnt
in the famous library of Alexandria. Nevertheless it seems
to be certain that these ceremonies had their origin in some
Gnostic sect, which existed 200 years B.C. up to A.D. 200,
and that they were adopted by the Christian sect after the
respective Gnostic sect had been destroyed. It is interesting
that actual mystical stages and events are symbolized in all
the sacred ceremonies, and it is, therefore, obvious that he
188
THE MYSTICAL STAGES 189
who introduced them was an Initiate of the highest degree.
The true Mystic does not content himself with the first two
sacraments, i.e., Baptism and Eucharist, for he has to ex-
perience them all up to Holy Orders and the Sacrament of
Marriage. This of course is to be understood in a mystical
sense and not outwardly. Baptism means the purification
by the Holy Spirit and the unfoldment of the spiritual
senses, the Eucharist means the entrance of the Spirit into
the Mystic, Confirmation is the stability of the inner life,
Penitence is the communication with the Divine Self, Ex-
treme Unction is identical with the mystical death, which
has to forego all, and finally Holy Orders mean the inner
consecration and the Mystic's rising to leadership, after the
Inner Word has been fully developed in short that the
Mystic has become a prophet ; for the Inner Word is
the voice of the Holy Spirit. The Sacrament of Marriage
is the so-called mystical nuptials, that is the union of the
Mystic's spirit (Jesus Christ) with the Virgin Sophia, who is
but the ardent soul, named Kundalini by the Indian. This
is the meaning of the sacraments in their mystical sense.
Besides the above sacraments, the most important cere-
mony is the Mass, whereat the most significant moment is
when the priest lifts up the holy wafer to show it to those
present and then the cup with wine, for at this very mo-
ment a mystical transformation of both the substances into
Christ's flesh and blood takes place. Whosoever has the
inner sight developed will perceive with his own eyes the
transformation mentioned, manifested by a singular radiance
extending to all present. Therefore the Mystics are advised
(vide Kerning's The Student) to attend divine service on
Sundays to the end. This actual mystical transformation
has a salutary effect on everybody's soul, and always takes
place, be the priest of whatsoever character. This process
happens on the highest spiritual plane, and be the human
instrument impure yet it is of a powerful effect. He may
be compared with a very miserable and sinful individual,
within whom the Divine Self is radiating and cannot be
soiled by his deeds. The priest has but to be ordained by
igo MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
a bishop then the power to transform the holy wafer into
Christ's flesh and blood is transferred unto him. If it were
not so Christianity would be a mere farce, and millions of
believers, possessing and knowing nothing else, would be
deceived by Him Who suffers these ceremonies. This, of
course, were inconceivable.
That the mystical transformation is a fact, and that the
visible radiance transferred upon those present in a certain
way really takes place, has been proved at Prague innumer-
able times by several mystic students. Once more I have
to point out that, like everything in this book, this section,
too, is written but for those who are longing to unveil the
Divine mystery within themselves while it is not destined
for everybody, because it were as corn falling upon stones.
Hence it results that it is of importance to a Mystic to
attend, at least on a Sunday, divine service. He who will
do so regularly will soon know its great influence and its
great support also for his practice.
The first mystical stage to be experienced by the student
and consisting of hundreds of sections and subdivisions is
called the mystical death.
If one is to be born, then he could not have in reality
lived before, but could at best have led an apparent life. Such
an apparent life is the ordinary earthly existence of all com-
mon mortals, that is those who have not started the mystical
practice. He who has done so and stepped out on the
sacred path has secluded himself from the crowd treading
the wide comfortable main-road, and has set out for the
far-away summit along small by-ways. Thus is symbolized
the Mystic's errand, who has left the multitude alone, there-
by escaping the ordinary laws which the rest of humanity is
subject to, for the majority of these laws have no more
power over him, he being subject to higher laws ruling the
spiritual realm. This happens so that he may say that he
has overcome his last and most stubborn enemy death
and may exclaim :
"
O death, where is thy sting ?
"* The
1
The mystical death begins with the crucifixion and manifests itself
by stigmatisations, i.e. the five wounds of Christ:
THE MYSTICAL STAGES 191
re-birth of an already living and grown-up man may take
place only on the condition that he somehow returns to the
state of an unborn child resigning his present life. There-
fore the sacred event of the re-birth consists of two acts,
the first being the renunciation of life or the mystical death.
The Mystic dies, according to the ancient myths and tradi-
tions, either a voluntary or an involuntary death, either he
has to kill himself or is killed. This of course refers only
to the outward ceremonies of the secret societies to which
also the ancient mysteries belonged, while in fact it takes
place inwardly, by degrees, yet in a very palpable way,
being accompanied by impressions from the spiritual realm.
I presume all readers have heard of the Freemasons, who
are an old occult society, and whose initiatory ceremonies
represent some of the mystical stages described in this
chapter. Of course, with the Freemasons, all happens only
outwardly and symbolically. Also, with the Freemasons,
the novice is put into a coffin, which signifies his
death.
In fact the mystical death is connected with many inter-
esting phenomena, giving the Mystic the clue to divers
mysteries hitherto hidden from him. The Mystic will under-
stand many and many myths referring to the different
heroes and divinities. To quote but one example, the
Mystic sees and hears around his head croaking ravens, like
the Teutonic hero Siegfried before being killed by Hagen.
This very fact, being one among thousands, is very charac-
teristic. It is the proof that mystical stages were known
in times immemorial, and that the mystical path was always
the same with all nations ; the laws governing it being as
old as humanity. Therefore just the mystical practice alone
gives us the clue to all iny>tcriVs, the oldest tales and fables
and the Holy Scripts of all nations and all ages. I think
that any evidence that, since the most ancient times, the
cross has been the symbol of the mystical death is not
necessary. Thus it always was and shall be. Jesus Christ
came but to show us by His death and His whole life the
way we are to go.
192 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
It is curious that we find with some savage people cere-
monies symbolizing death. Some uncivilized nations possess
their secret societies, secret occult brotherhoods, etc. On
attaining their puberty, the novices are brought into forests,
lying as though dead to await the natural decay of their
bodies.
Together with the mystical death, a whole range of other
stages takes place, having reference both to the re-birth
and the three baptisms. There are three species of the re-
birth and the baptism :
by water, blood, and fire. In the
Mystic's body an enormous process goes on, which is sym-
bolically described by the alchemists, and which the pro-
fane presume to be chemical processes within a retort. The
true alchemy in the first line speaks symbolically of the
mystical unfoldment, and only in the second line does it
treat of the transmutation of metals. He who desires to
transmute the metals has first to attain the highest degree
of an Initiate, and then he will very easily succeed. Who,
however, is not initiated, he would trouble himself in vain.
In the Mystic's body two important events take place at
the same time : the death of the old Adam and the birth
of Jesus Christ.
It is obvious that nothing may be published of these
events. It would not only be a profanation of sacred
matters, but an auto-suggestion could arise with 'future
students. To the re-birth belongs the symbol of a child.
A child knows no shame and walks nude, wearing at most
a shirt or a cloth around its loins. Of course, it cannot yet
speak. It knows but babbling and has to learn the a b c.
Hence the mystical practice imparted by Kerning to think
all letters of the alphabet in the whole body from the feet
to the head.
All occult writings mention that Mystics and occultists
have to develop within themselves the five spiritual, or as
they are sometimes named astral, senses, these being essen-
tial for the finer impressions from the invisible world. This
assertion is quite true.
I, however, do not know how those inner senses become
THE MYSTICAL STAGES 193
unfolded with occultists or magicians (not the conjurers,
but those practising to set out for the astral plane) ; for
their schools are unknown to me. On the other hand, I do
know how these spiritual senses become developed with a
Christian Mystic.
The direction evolved from the v, ; <}
:
!':> of the Essenian
School and the later Neo-Platonism is named the Christian
Mystic. To the Essenian School also Jesus Christ belonged,
but the New Testament does not mention any mystical
practice imparted by Christ to His disciples, for it contains
but a teaching and the revelation from the religious point
of view.
While with an occult student the point in question is the
evolution of the astral senses, it is not so with a Mystic.
With the latter also, in the beginning these lower senses
get developed, but later on also the higher senses, by means
of which the Mystic is able to receive impressions from the
spiritual world, and even the Divine. The confirmation of
the aforesaid are the ordinary clairvoyants at spiritualistic
sittings. Such persons are wont to have the astral senses
developed, namely the senses of a lower grade. Usually it
is the sight and the hearing, sometimes also the touch. The
other senses are not so often developed with them. This
unfoldment with clairvoyants and mediums, who have never
undergone a preliminary occult or mystical practice, may
be explained only by Karma, that is that their inner
senses are the result of some work performed in one of their
former incarnations.
Nowhere so much as to occultism and the mystic can the
proverb be applied :
"
No pain3 no gains." The following
quotation from Patanjali's Yoga Sutra will explain this cir-
cum^tance better :
"
These siddhis (i.e., Yogi powers) may be attained in
different ways. (To those powers also belong the inner
senses.) They are gained by birth, plants, incantations,
asceticism, or samadhi."
Their attainment by birth means that a man has gained
them by a succession of his earthly existences, according to
N
194 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
the law of reincarnation. This is the case with the ordinary
clairvoyants and the spiritualistic mediums. By plants are
understood opiates, hashish and other narcotics, by means
of which the astral body is freed and thereby the contact
with the transcendental world is obtained. The Orientals
know a great many of those vegetable means for the
arousing of the higher senses and for the attainment of
magical powers. The Indian vegetable mixture used for
gaining these powers is secretly kept and usually known
but by the Guru (leader) how to be applied. It is not
necessary to use these means for a long time, for as soon
as the disciple has entered the astral, where his leader, also
in his astral body, is j : i.,:!:ir. :
: him, he will receive hints
how to move on that plane, how to evade the vehement
and rapid currents blowing in all directions with an enor-
mous force and speed, for they may carry off the astral
body of one inexperienced to spots where he did not intend
to go, or force him involuntarily to return into his material
body, whereby the excursion into the astral is interrupted.
To move and live on the astral plane is not so easy as the
majority of readers expect it to be, who suppose one to feel
at home immediately on entering that plane. The astral
world is much more alive than ours, more lovely, but also
much more dangerous than the material world. These re-
marks are by a friend of mine, who was in personal touch
with two Oriental magicians.
As soon as the disciple has to a certain extent got used
to the impressions of the astral realm, and especially to the
laws ruling there, he may enter it without any material
expedients, namely by the mere reminiscence of the impres-
sions already experienced and by concentrating himself on
them. For the setting out for the astral plane there is no
need of any moral purification, and any commonplace per-
son may do so without any preliminary preparation. Evi-
dence of this are the innumerable cases of the so-called
wizards and witches of the Middle Ages, who "
fled
"
to the
astral realm to participate in orgies and bacchanals. In
these cases, too, vegetable narcotics were used, under the
THE MYSTICAL STAGES 195
name of the notorious ointments mostly prepared from
nightshade, henbane and poison-nut and other noxious
plants. These ointments were rubbed in either over all the
body or into the armpits, the straddling and other parts,
where certain glands exist.
By the incantation, Patanjali means the Mantra prac-
tice, i.e., the repeating of single sentences, words, or letters.
As shown in the foregoing chapters, by their means the
Yogi, i.e., the mystical powers, are attained. It is also
possible to acquire the coarse magic powers by evocational
formulae or by the association with some higher astral
denizen, by the so-called pact or contract.
It is obvious that an act like that is very dangerous and
repugnant.
The strict asceticism in its widest sense belongs to the
practices of many saints, especially Christians, and then
to the Indian fakirs, who, though gaining certain Yogi
powers, never attain the liberation and the union with God.
Asceticism itself does not lead to the mystical marriage, that
is the union of the soul with Jesus Christ. Besides, the
Christian Saints suffered infinitely, because they did not
know the right, direct, and safe way. The Christian Saints
could not find in the Bible or the New Testament any prac-
tical instruction for their inner evolution, and endeavoured
consequently to get through the heavenly gates by devotion
to God and by the mortification of their body. Many really
succeeded in attaining their purpose, but at what a price !
But this will be dealt with in my book on the Western
Mystic.
The ascetic, mortifying his body, involuntarily turns away
from the outward world, thus carrying through the intro-
version, though involuntarily. This also leads to the mys-
tical way but of course through by-ways and with great
sufferings.
But let us revert to our principal subject, i.e., the mystical
stages accompanying the inner evolution. It would be a
profanation to give a detailed statement of them. In his
work Die Missiondre, Kerning says on page 216 as follows :
196 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
"
God is the brightest Light. He wants us to keep Him
holy. Only the sensation of Holiness, which we have in
His proximity, can make us worthy of Him. If the human
languages would systematically expound His proximity,
then this very proximity would destroy the sensation of
holiness and would make us unworthy of it. Therefore it
became a law to observe a strict silence on this point, and
this law has ever existed. This law I must not transgress,
though I have spoken against it often enough. Thus, in-
stead of a teaching, I must give you only intimations. Act
according to them !
"
There are many who would like to expound God by
philosophy, and others who desire all mysteries to be fully
published. Such are advised first to start the mystical
practice, whereby they will obtain the solution of all these
problems, only then will they even so keep silence, as others
did before them.
Further mystical stages to be experienced by all students
(I have recently learnt that the Indian Yogis equally ex-
perience the mystical death and the re-birth) are the three
baptisms, namely the Baptism of Water, of Blood, and of
Fire. To the first one belongs the awakening of the inner
or the spiritual senses. In the beginning, quite naturally,
first the astral senses are aroused, but gradually also the
higher are developed, until the student is able to' receive
impressions from the Divine Realm.
These inner senses are : the sight, the hearing, the smell,
the taste, and the touch or the feeling. Under the ancient
rituals the student was immersed head downwards into
water, and held there for a moment, at an apparent risk
of his life. At that moment,
"
the eyes became incapable
of tears and the ear became insensitive/' This is the
sole interpretation of the profoundly expressive sentences
with which the beautiful work of Miss Mabel Collins,
The Light on the Path, commences. He who is practising
will experience it.
According to Philon, the Egyptian priests at their
nocturnal service used to undertake a symbolical pilgrimage,
THE MYSTICAL STAGES 197
on which they had to pass water. At the end of the pil-
grimage they saluted the rising sun. Thence we learn that
the water-pilgrimage prepares for the worship of the sun-
rise (Christ), and that only those who are purified by the
baptism (but a mystical and not an outward one) are
worthy of gazing at the ray of the sacred light, that is at
the rising aurora. But this purification is not brought
about by a man himself, but the God within him.
Whenever I conceal certain higher mystical stages, it is
to avoid their profanation by the depraved world of to-day.
I am not writing this book for the appeasing of one's
curiosity, but for enabling those who are longing for the
Truth to know it by the practice described. To those this
book will be a safe guide, and for a long time they will not
be in need of a leader. They will be in a position to judge
whether they are going the right way or not. I have already
remarked that until to-day nobody has written on the
Christian Mystic in such a detailed manner as is to be found
in this book. And if anybody ever did so as, for instance,
the most celebrated European Mystic, Jacob Bohme he
wrote so mysteriously and symbolically that his work is
understood only by Initiates, i.e., those who have already
experienced these stages for themselves.
On account of the aforesaid reasons, nothing more can be
revealed as far as the Baptism of Water is concerned. It
will be, however, necessary to mention the inner senses,
among which the most important is that of taste. This I
am pointing out to all who intend to practise.
As far as the inner sight of a man is concerned, it is of
different species. First, the student is taught by his inward
leader by means of symbolical pictures, which he perceives
either with open or closed eyes, either in the darkness or
by light, either before or behind or within himself. The
Spirit's symbols are so plain that there is no necessity of
being versed in the mystical literature to understand them.
Any symbol perceived means either the stage attained by
the student or the promise of further stages. Together with
the inner sight yet another faculty gets developed in the
198 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
Mystic, namely, that of mystical dreams. Each student has
from time to time certain very clear dreams speaking also
symbolically and identical with all students. In this direction
there exist certain strict spiritual laws. As not only the
phenomena of the inner senses but also the dreams are the
very milestones of the mystical way, the student has to
note them from their beginning in a special diary, stating the
date when he experienced them. Such a in\>i io.'il
diary is to
be carefully concealed from the uncalled. Only a mystical
brother may peruse it. He who does not act accordingly
will lose for a long time what he gained. Though the degree
he attained to is not taken from him, yet the contact with
the divine is interrupted, and the student appears to be
quite forsaken.
As to the apparition of astral beings, this comes to pass
at the last struggle, when the Baptism of Fire is finishing.
But then all possible monsters assail the Mystic, but he
must not care for that, concentrating himself on his Divine
Self. Thus he will always drive them away. Higher
spiritual beings angels do not appear so easily. On
certain degrees of his way, the student will feel their prox-
imity, and may even hear them, but to perceive them
requires the attainment of higher stages.
The second baptism is that of Blood. Since time
immemorial the blood has been considered rightly io be a
peculiar liquid, to be the actual residence of the soul, as
supposed by the ancient Hebrews. The Mithraic cult
ordained a particular baptism of blood, the so-called
Taurobolium. In fact it was the ritual of initiation repre-
senting the re-birth, by means of which it was supposed to
be able to attain regeneration for ever. According to
such a ritual, the Mystic was to promise its repetition after
twenty years. The procedure was as follows. A deep pit
was dug out, into which the neophyte descended, and which
was then covered by planks. On to these planks a bull or
a sheep was brought and was slaughtered there, so that its
blood poured down through the apertures in the planks into
the pit upon the neophyte, wearing a white garment. The
THE MYSTICAL STAGES 199
blood had to flow into the neophyte's eyes, ears and mouth
under the said ritual. Hence it is evident that that ceremony
represented the awakening of the inner organs. It is further
of interest to mention that the neophyte entered a grave,
being symbolically dead. He returned to the Mother Earth,
but the sacred blood animated and aroused him to a higher
life. The victim represents the Divinity. The Baptism of
Blood is accompanied by many hundreds of different stages,
which must not be published. The third and the highest
mystical baptism is that of Fire, ascending from the feet
up to the head.
Here it is necessary to mention that all sensations, all
phenomena of the inner senses, as far as the Divinity is
concerned, always appear in a burning state. These burning
phenomena come to pass when the Baptism of Fire is on
the way. Evidence thereof may be found in several places
in the Old and New Testaments. The readers only have to
recall Moses
1
burning bush, the vision of Abraham (Gen.
xv, 17) and so forth. The fire is not a mere symbol of God,
but it is His very substance. Here it is not an earthly fire,
but a heavenly one, and these shall not be confused. There
are, however, certain parallels between the divine and the
earthly fires, just as there exist everywhere parallels between
the material, physical laws, the astral laws, and the highest
spiritual laws. Just as the laws of gravitation, the power
of attraction, magnetism and electricity, and all other laws
of the material world govern the physical plane, so the
same laws, but in a higher octave, govern the astral, the
spiritual, and the divine realms. The "
emerald table
"
of
Hermes Mercurios Trismegistus confirms this by its first
verse :
"
As above, so below." This sentence applies to the
slightest details, and he who presumes its meaning to be
but a symbolical one will be deceived. The reason of the
great mistakes committed by the modern occultists and
also Mystics is the fact that many passages in the Holy
Scriptures are interpreted symbolically, while they are to
be literally understood and vice versa. Evidence thereof
are the words of Christ :
"
Use not vain words," whereby
200 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
the mystical sentence-practice was meant. At thfc baptism
the Mystic is given a new name, while in secret societies
certain mysterious words of a sacred nature were used in
case of need. We shall deal only with the name. With the
ancient Egyptians we find the teaching that a man consists
of a material body, and several internal invisible principles,
as his double, his spirit and his name. The neophyte's name
is an important factor at his meditations or concentrations,
and when he has found a leader, the latter will communicate
to him his name, as soon as he has attained a certain stage
of the first Baptism. Otherwise the student has to wait,
until his name is communicated to him in another way.
The Mystic must not reveal his name to the non-elect, for a
certain sacred power rests therein, which could be lost at
its disclosure. He may communicate his new name to his
fellow-students belonging to the same school. Also at the
Catholic ceremony the child is given a new name, and in
all secret societies the neophyte receives it at his initiation ;
but these are but outward names given by men, and not
imparted by GOD. These names are meaningless, while the
name given by God contains that sacred magical power,
which at the same time expresses the inner individuality of
the mystical student.
This imparting of a new name means the transformation
of the Mystic into a new man. This name is impressed
upon the Mystic with the divine stamp and remains fixed
for ever on his soul. The new name makes of a man what
his soul expresses.
This divine stamp is represented in the secret societies
by a mark placed on the neophyte's forehead or tongue
or another part of the body. In the Mithraic cult this
ceremony was rather barbarous, for this mark was burnt
in. But on the other hand, this branding is in conformity
with certain mystical stages experienced by the student.
The Divine stamp is visible on a certain spot with a pro-
gressed student. Of course, no Initiate will ever show it to
an uninitiate, for it is quite necessary, / repeat it emphatic-
ally, to conceal all experiences from people uncalled. He
THE MYSTICAL STAGES 201
who does not comply with that law, will immediately lose an
enormous part of his spiritual possession hardly won, and
is thrown back for a long time, having committed a pro-
fanation and a sacrilege. He who has no taste for the
mystical way, will have no taste either for these trans-
gressions. But for such people this book is not written.
The keeping of a secret is a power appearing in the results.
Likewise Prentice Mulford advises in his The Gift of the
Spirit never to reveal one's ends and plans, if one wants to
realize them. If, however, we reveal them, we may do so
to persons of whom we are quite certain they will support
us in our aims by their thoughts. Thus, the mystical
student, if communicating to his fellow-student his results,
is sure to be supported by him, while from an uninitiate he
would meet but with disbelief and doubts, which poison his
inner life, bringing on disasters.
Before the last baptism and very soon in the beginning
of the mystical practice a new
"
immortal
"
body com-
mences to form itself within the Mystic. This is connected
with peculiar sensations felt from the skin into the marrow.
This process is very important, and known to the Mystics
as
"
weaving."
Then comes the covering of the head.
The habit of veiling one's head at the religious cere-
monies, and especially at the mysteries of the secret
societies, is very ancient and very widely spread. Be it
remembered that Christ, on His way to Golgotha, had His
head covered for a moment by St. Veronica's garment, when
she wiped from His face the bloody perspiration. In some
secret societies this covering is symbolized by a ribbon
around the head, or a cfown, or a wreath of flowers.
In the Gnostic sect of Marcos, the neophyte's head was
covered at the solemn purification (Apolytrosis) with a hat,
which was said to make its wearer invisible, to enable him
to escape the vengeful demons. Therein the purpose of
head-covering is quite obvious, this being a mystical
protection.
The next sections of the mystical way, running parallel
202 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
with the baptisms, are the three re-births, namely, of
water, blood, and fire. This process, too, is accompanied
by many hundreds of different stages.
This feature is to be found with many primitive nations
at their pubescent rituals. The initiates have to behave
like babies, pretending not to understand the language,
using a mimic language, and uttering sounds of spirits,
that is speaking
"
tongues," as the New Testament puts it.
It is said that the language of the angels and spirits, being
likewise that of the initiates, is very peculiar, consisting of
incomprehensible sentences or single syllables and letters.
The Egyptian god of mysteries, Harpokrates, was repre-
sented as a baby with its finger on its lips. Harpokrates,
like Horus, is the child of Osiris and Isis, and it seems to
symbolize a Mystic just awakening after his re-birth. It is
a divine child, and its conception was then perhaps trans-
ferred to the Child Jesus. Christ said that only children
can enter the kingdom of heaven, that is the realm of the
chosen ones, and shows us the way to perfection by becoming
as little children. This means we are to be re-born, whereby
we get rid of our yoke and sins burdening those who are
born but once. Thus, Jesus Christ is our prototype of a
Mystic deceased, and re-born, as the Lord of death and life,
in the form of a child watched by its mother, and surrounded
by His Father's Spirit. The finger put on its mouth, in the
case of Harpokrates, means silence. The divine child orders
the Mystic to conceal all he knows, indicating at the same
time the mysterious origin of its being and the sacred
Mystery of the re-birth. This placing of the finger on the
lips, as a symbol of silence, was later adopted by the secret
societies and included in many mysteries.
Here the necessity arises to mention the symbols of the
alchemists. He who reads the alchymical scripts and tries
to explain them in a material way will not get far. But he
who is initiated in the mystical secrets, i.e., who has ex-
perienced himself their metaphorical descriptions, such a
one will understand them easily and be amazed at the
clearness and the strength with which the mystery of the
THE MYSTICAL STAGES 203
re-birth and the ascent to a higher life through the mystical
death are described. Alchemy is a science, the symbols of
which carry a double meaning. He who finds therein only
the recipes and instructions for the transmutation of base
metals into gold, or the attainment of the Stone of Philoso-
phers, or the Elixir of Life, sees only obscure hints and
allusions to higher though possible ends. But he who has
experienced at least a part of the mystical stages
personally, he will find therein the whole evolution from a
common-place being to a re-born man, to his greatest
surprise.
Another great mystery, known but to a few, is to be
mentioned in this place. From the different alchymical
and especially Rosicrucian scripts it is known they often
speak of a Mystic as of three persons. Firstly, he is his own
father, secondly his own mother, and thirdly his own child.
The Mystic is his own father, for he has begotten within
himself a new self, a re-born child. Therefore he is also his
own mother. It is also of importance to know that the
ancient occultists and mystics, especially the Kabbalists,
imagined Adam as an inxlropyno, that is a bi-sexual being.
"
And male and female created He them/' as the Bible says,
which does not mean that men and women were created
separately, but in one as hermaphrodites, bi-sexual beings.
At the conception
"
of the Holy Spirit/* and still more
during the re-birth, many religious mysteries of an un-
expected profundity are unveiled to the Mystic, who to his
great amazement will learn that unbelievers ridicule just the
most sacred things.
Welling, in his Opus mago-cabbalisticum (p. 139), says :
"
This man, Adam, was created, as says the Holy
Scripture, of the male and female sexes, not as two different
bodies, but according to his nature as one body, though
as two bodies according to their capacities, for he was of
the earth Adamah, the red and white Mercury of the
spiritual Sun and Moon, he was a male and female seed, the
dust Adamah with the Shanai, and had (as a celestial being)
the power to multiply magically, as needs had to be, in
MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
order to prevent united manhood and womanhood from
falling asunder."
Here I must remind the reader that also Mercury is bi-
sexual As it is known, Hermaphroditism plays a great
part in mythology. It is said, though I have no evidence
thereof, that a perfect re-born Adept loses his sexual organs,
be he a man or woman, becoming instead a spiritual her-
maphrodite.
During the re-birth many phenomena take place, one of
which is the fettering and imprisonment. In short, the
neophyte has to undergo many trials, among which the
crucifixion is neither the last nor the worst. Only when
liberation has been attained and the prison has fallen to
ruin is the Mystic free, but then follows another task, the
descent into hell. According to Jacob Bohme, there are two
fires in the Divinity. One is called the fire of the divine love,
being the reward to the chosen and initiates, while the
second is the fire of the divine anger, persecuting the rest of
mortals, including those who have started the mystical
way.
The descent into hell is a manifestation of that divine
anger, and is remarkably symbolized in mystical stages.
When the Mystic has attained the re-birth by fire, the
last act of the great inner drama, the mystical marriage,
follows. Jesus Christ or the Divine Self is the bridegroom,
and his bride the Soul, or, as the ancient Mystics called her,
the Virgin Sophia. This marriage is accompanied by the
most sumptuous and magnificent stages, until finally both
bride and her bridegroom take their places, as a queen
Ifing, on their throne to command the earthly world,
is the material body of the Mystic (see Plate 4). The
adjoining illustration of the mystical marriage is from an
engraving of the famous English painter, mystic, poet, and
seer, William Blake (1757-1827). He was one of the greatest
artists in the world, but was in his lifetime without renown
and often ridiculed. His faculty as a seer was extraordinary,
he saw spirits of all degrees up to the angels and prophets,
and was uninterruptedly in touch with them. His poems
THE MYSpnSiL STAGES 205
were dictated to him bybefogs of th$ invisible realms, and
his pictures (he mostly printed apct published them himself
as albums), of which a "great pnmber exists, he drew in his
visions. He said of them :
"
Spirits and visions are not,
as the modern philosophers presume, a nebulous and cloudy
nothingness, but they fr^Ve always appeared to me as more
perfect and much better organized than anything else I
have ever seen.** He also declared their voices and words
to be quite comprehensible.
The illustration represents the Soul unifying herself with
the Spirit, who is just rising from the dead amidst flames.
The mystical evolution is accompanied by many and
many other manifestations. All nature is at the Mystic's
feet. All realms are opened to him, the lightning and the
thunder being his servants, and angels come down to carry
out his commands. But all this is of a secondary order
always, as well as all the mystical stages described, for the
one and only purpose is and must always be the ETERNAL
SUN OF LIFE GOD WHO will finally appear to the Mystic
face to face.
CHAPTER VIII
THE INNER WORD
IN
the chapter dealing with leaders I have already men-
tioned that every leader has to have the so-called
inner word, or an inner mystical voice, which leads
and advises the Mystic in things spiritual and sometimes
material. This inner word is the voice of our Divine Self.
As already explained, it is the voice the prophets heard,
and thereby this inner word is sufficiently characterized.
The inner word is infallible and incapable of erring. He
who has it must yield and conform to it, for should he not
do so he would harm himself. Yet there are cases rather
incredible, when the Initiates did not obey their inner word.
So Moses, himself, though he surely was an Initiate of the
highest degree, many times disobeyed the Divine Voice and
opposed himself to the Lord ; for instance, when God was
about to annihilate the people of Israel, because of their
rebellion and idolatry, and when many of Israel were dying,
Moses opposed himself to God's command, sending Aaron
amongst the people with a censer to fumigate those who
were not as yet infected, so stopping the plague.
The foregoing confirms that a man, whilst in his material
body, always remains a man subject to his earthly intellect,
and opposes God's will. Wherefore let us not be discouraged,
when perceiving on our mystical \
,"!.
i:
;;
:.;. that we are
failing somehow. Let us pull ourselves together, not looking
either to the left or to the right, MiiM.'i;1in;: steadfastly in-
ward towards the lofty end to which we are to attain. Now
I am going to give a few explanations with reference to the
inner word, presuming that the best to begin with will be
a quotation from the Mysterium Magnum or the Explana-
206
THE INNER WORD 207
tion of Genesis, by the greatest of the European Mystics,
Jacob Bohme. This author says in Chaptei: XXXV, 2 :
"
Adam was the first Ens1
to the seed, and this Ens to
the human life was in the Divine Wisdom, in the Word of
the Divine Power, the Divine Mind. This very Ens was
transferred by the Divine Spirit from the Divine Wisdom
and Joy into Verbum Fiat, as into the longing of the
creative word and into nature, and therein the Divine Spirit
effigiated that Ens of the Divine Wisdom into plastic life
speaking the Word, and into the character of the three
principles in the body, into which body the Divine Spirit
breathed in the said life of the Divine Mind. II. The
reason of our forefathers having had such long lives before
the Flood was that the powers of the Word created by the
Divine faculty were with them yet, undivided and unborn,
just as a young tree, full of force and sap, manifests its
beauty in its growth and its branches. But when it begins
to bloom, then this good power passes over into the blos-
soms and fruits.
"
12. The foregoing sentence applies to the first age of
man. When the forces of the one and only quality rested
in the stem, then people understood nature's Liuiiufir, be-
cause therein all other languages were included. 2
"
13. Later they did not live so long, for the true power
of the human life, from which the mind derives, came from
1 Ens is the most hidden part of the seed, the greening of the being.
Each being has its individual Ens, which is its earth, wherein it acts as
the Archaeus-Separator, the fiery Mercury in the thought, as the emanated
Divine Word in a threefold action : Archaeus is the foreman and divider
of the bodily being from the ethereal substance, while the Separator sets
apart the good from the evil, and the bright beings from the dark ones.
1 B6hme means here the so-called natural tongue understood by all
high Initiates to whom all nature speaks, the lightning and the thunder,
the stars and the firmament, the earth, waters, mountains, and all which
exists on earth, as the plants, trees, all animals, from the highest to the
lowest, as birds, reptiles, fish, insects, etc. Jacob Bbhme mastered this
language perfectly. He knew the names of all live beings, plants, and
minerals, namely those which, according to the myth,
"
Adam gave to
the animals in the paradise." These names are magical ones. In the
sections quoted from Kerning in this book the ways to the attainment of
this faculty by the student are indicated, THE AUTHOR,
2o8 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
the Divine Word. But as the mind was divided into many
languages and qualities, the human nature weakened there-
by, and the lofty wisdom of
'
the quality
'
descended into
the spirit of the letters, for the inward was transformed into
the outward. 14. Of such man was deprived at Babel, when
he magnified so highly the natural, and was going to erect from
the outward understanding a tower, the summit of which
should have touched the heavens, whereby Miir.i ililn;: lofty
is meant, and which is hidden in the names of Noah's de-
scendants (to be cabbalistically understood). 15. For the
names of Noah's children and their children, from which
all other monarchies derive their origin upon earth, are 72,
which the Spirit declared in Moses. Herein is hidden the
great mystery of the tower Babel, the confusion of tongues.
16. For the total number of the Divine Manifestations in
the world of forms is 77, while Babel is the number 72, as
the tongues of miracles. The remaining five are holy ones
and are hidden among those 72, having originated from I
or lod, and lod stands in O, that is in one, that is in the
eye of eternity, which is without foundation and number.
"
17. Through the five holy tongues out of IOD the Spirit
speaks in the formed word of nature holy divine words in
the children of the holy, and through the 72 tongues He
speaks through the nature of miracles evil and good,
;.( ^i-iil-;. as the Word takes hold in an Ens.
"
21. The seven sons of Japhet represent the seven quali-
ties of nature, and in their names is hidden the mystery of
the Japhet line in nature's realm, from which nations and
empires will spring up to the end of the world. (See the
quotation of Bohme on page 145 of this work.) The inner
meaning of these five vowels is this : I is the name Jesus,
E is the name of the Angel. O is the form of the wisdom
or joy of I, that is Jesus, and is the centre or the heart of
GOD.1
U is the spirit, that is sus in the word Jesus, pro-
ceeding from the joy. A is the beginning and end, as the
will of the whole conception, and is at the same time the
Father. 52. And those five vowels become united in the
1 means the Sun or the Divine Eye.
THE INNER WORD 209
conception into three, that is a word, that is A, O, U,
namely the Father, the Son, and the Spirit. The triangle
means the trinity of the Persons
1
quality, and the U in the
triangle means the Spirit in the H as breathing in, for the
All God manifests Himself spiritually, proceeding from
Himself."
To many readers this quotation will be rather unin-
telligible. They are advised to meditate inwardly on the
meaning of the single sentences, for then they will soon appear
quite comprehensible. Jacob Bohme's works are all written
in a similar way, and he who wants to understand them
must read them assiduously.
Now I am going to quote an easier expounding of the
inner word from the work of one of Kerning's disciples
(Die Wiedergeburt)
1
:
"
137. But the powers of the universe have their roots in
the elements of thinking, in the letters, in the lan-
guage, or, as the Holy Scriptures call it, in the
'
Word/
"138. Proof.
Elements of Thinking Nature of the Powers.
"
139. The Thinking comprehends all things which one can
imagine.
"
140. The Conceptions denote the signs of the Imaginings.
"
141. Absolutely simple thoughts are such whose signs
and conceptions are one (identical).
"
142. Each Power is a kind of Movement.
"
143. Each Movement occurs in space and time and
thereby conditions Substance and Form.
"
144. Absolutely simple Powers are such in which Sub-
stance and form are one (identical).
1
The Re-birth.
210 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
"
145. This Simplicity is possessed by the
'
Letters/ con-
sequently they are the Elements of Thinking the
Nature of the Powers.
"
146. In order, before all, to prevent a gross misunder-
standing, I must remark that, by
'
Letters/ not the
arbitrary signs of the different written languages are
meant no, by
'
Letters
'
only the Character, the
Spirit lying in the Letter Ideas can be meant,
only the Primal Form, corresponding with the Char-
acter of these absolutely simple ideas, or identical,
can be meant.
"
147. A few examples will suffice to clearly outline this
relation. If, for example, one unexpectedly pricks
somebody with a needle, he will start and in his pain
cry I (in English 'e'). If one suddenly strikes a
person heavily on the shoulder with the fist, in this
case he cries U or O (in English
'
oo
'
or
'
o ').
If on
a dark night a beautiful Bengal light burns, the sight
brings forth as a rule a general A (in English
'
ah ').
It will be seen that between the character of a pin-
prick and I ('
ee '),
between the character of a blow
from a fist and O, and between that of a Bengal
light and A (' ah') a certain agreement is recog-
nizable. If one regards a little forget-me-not, one
cannot think
'
U how lovely/ but
'
I how lovely/
On the other hand, if one imagines a bear or a bull,
one cannot think
'
I how terrible/ but
'
O how
terrible.
'
In viewing a sunrise nobody will be capable
of exclaiming
'
U how beautiful/ but
'
A how
splendid/
"
148. Of all letters the characters I, A, O contrast most
sharply one with another, so that even the weakest
power of feeling and thought must recognize their
all-forceful nature.
"
149. As soon as Man dismembers the outward world in
this way, so he finds that he is surrounded by nothing
THE INNER WORD 211
but letters. Everywhere is the Word of God, every-
where God speaks in the heights and in the depths,
in solitude and amidst sounds, in heat and in frost,
in the great and the small, in the vicinity and in the
distance ; everywhere whither the senses of man
penetrate are letters, the Word of God, the 1;-n::ii.'!i.v
of God ; and man has nothing to do but understand
these letters, these spiritual characters, this living
scale, the primal forms of the Word, the lingual
Powers of God to learn to perceive and feel them,
in order to reach the final purpose of his life.
"
154. The lingual powers of nature are for the inner life
what the scale of tones is for the musician. The
letters are the school for the inner life. Man must
let the spirit of the characters so long work upon
him until his life's feeling becomes powerful to the
point of infallibility, similar to the musical ear ;
until God ceases to be something far and strange,
and he is able to speak with God as with himself.
"
155. Every tree, every bush, every flower, every leaf
each mountain, each rock, each stone, each spring,
every star, each lake and the sea the sky and the
firmament, day and night summer and winter
snow and rain the breeze and the tornado cold
and heat lightning and thunder the hard and soft
in short, All, each form, each colour, each sound,
each movement all things that the senses can per-
ceive have their distinctive character, and these
characters are the lingual Powers of God, which in
the last instance can be reduced to the spirit of the
letters, and this spirit must be taken by man into
himself, this spirit as letters must man learn to feel
and be sensitive to then will he learn to speak with
God then will he build his inner life, then will he
awaken Christ within himself, then he will become
a child, a son, a likeness of God, and participate in
212 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
all spiritual powers lying in the nature of the God-
head.
"
156. God is the Word and the Word is letters. How is
that to be understood ? Let us imagine a l.< :.
:
r ::::!:;
of the creation. There were not yet worlds, beings,
creatures then anywhere there was nothing but
empty space. But quite empty this space cannot
have been, else nothing could have arisen. Space
was therefore filled with powers, and as far as space
reaches it was filled with this Force without the
slightest interruption or rift. There was then, in
the beginning, nothing but a simple Substance, a
Being, a Power, name it what we will in short a
Something filling the universe. Now, if this Being
wanted to do something, to produce something, It
had to be active. But every action is a movement.
Again every movement is a form. Each movement
has its specific character. The simplest forms, the
simplest characters, consequently the simplest move-
ments are the letters. Therefore as soon as God is
active He speaks. His activity is His language
and the language is the nature or the name of
God.
"
158. Language serves man for the building of conceptions,
for the communication of his thoughts. This manner
of use is only a less important quality of language.
Its true, but unfortunately almost completely un-
known, worth rests in its strength.
"
166. But the spirit is the specific character of these move-
ments, and man must learn to feel, perceive, and
understand these characters in all parts of his body ;
then he learns to speak with God, he becomes a
luminary for whom all mysteries become clear and
is lifted up to the highest virtue, to love, to
God.
THE INNER WORD 213
"
171. I challenge all thinkers of the whole world to split
the thoughts I, A, O, U, M, P, R, K, etc., in short
the 9 vowels and 16 consonants into still simpler
ingredients !
"
172. Here is stability, here is the essence of God. While
all matter in the whole world is subject to eternal
change the letters do not change. And should the
whole universe fall into ruins, and become trans-
formed into a new chaos, the letters will remain
eternally that which they were and are.
"
174. In the elements of thinking man possesses the key
to the inner life, to the understanding of all things,
to the powers of the whole creation, to the highest
perfection, infallibility union with God.
"
175. God has given Himself to man, for the spirit of man
is a part of God. But more than that, through the
letter-language He has bestowed upon man the
capacity of learning to know this spirit in its
strength, and of identifying the Ego with this
strength.
"
178. As soon as man is seven years old, he must dedicate
daily one hour exclusively to this employment, this
activity. This activity in itself is as easy as a child's
game ; one may do nothing but hold oneself up-
right, speak the letters in thought, and transfer one's
self in imagination into the feet. The practice is
easy, but the whole energy a man is capable of is
necessary in order to persevere and hold out.
"
180. The art of letter-spelling is the universal law of life
which can be put into practice in all life's businesses.
"
181. When a man gets up in the morning he should think
letters into himself whilst he dresses.
"
182. The peasant must now go to the stables to feed and
clean the cattle. These tasks demand so little
214 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
thought that he can at the same time quite com-
fortably think of letters in his feet.
"
183. Now he goes forth into the field and sows, or ploughs
or harvests. Thereby he can quite easily speak
letters in his thoughts and try to learn to feel them
in his feet.
"
184. The craftsman can almost always, in spite of his
work, spell into his feet.
"
187. The soldier, standing on guard, cannot do better
than use the time, whilst in a fine upright attitude,
to spell into his feet. The factory-worker, who
stands without thought at his machine and mechanic-
ally performs the few things necessary, can at the
same time learn to feel letters in his feet.
"
188. An invalid, confined to the monotony of his bed,
cannot do better for his physical and mental health
than continually think letters into himself and learn
to feel them in the feet.
"
189. The female sex, in performing most duties, can in
thought spell into themselves, and thanks to their
finer nerve-systems they are much easier and quicker
able to feel the letters in the feet. Young maidens
of noble pedigree especially would learn the thing
in a fabulously short time, and when this art of
spelling will once be generally taught, then prophet-
esses will grow up amongst such maidens like mush-
rooms from the earth.
"
190. Business people and scholars have it worst. These
cannot, in the following of their callings, think
letters, because their thinking powers are engaged
in other things. But it has been said and not for
nothing : the first shall be last.
"191. It is absolutely necessary for these to sacrifice one
hour dailv in order to annlv themselves to the
THE INNER WORD 215
spelling-art. To whom this seems impracticable, let
him think that as soon as a man has an eager wish
he always knows how to find time to realize it. Who
before slept 8 hours, let him now sleep only 7. Who
formerly spent 2 hours at the inn, let him now
be satisfied with I hour. And so on. There is no
greater stupidity than when a business man says
that he cannot come to himself, having so much
work to do. Who does not come to himself, does
not also come to his home, and who wants then to
everlastingly wander aimlessly in foreign places and
trouble and plague himself amongst strangers, with-
out payment, without thanks, when he could live
a costly life of joy at home ? The learned generally
have more free time. Our country parsons often do
not know what to do with their time. They should
but in thought speak the word of life into their feet
so long until the inner life has caught fire and they
have found the right commentary to the written
word of God, the right interpreter, the living Word.
193. The spelling-art is open to all. No position, no form,
no religion, no language, no grade of education is
shut out.
194. The miner, who, deep down in the earth, spends his
precarious existence in hard work, can thereby spell.
Let him awaken in his feet the inner life and thus
open up for himself the view of a happy life.
195. The criminal who in lonely cell pays for his misdeeds,
cannot do better than continuously think the alpha-
bet in his feet and thus share in the promise : And
though your sins were red as blood, yet will I (the
inner life) wash them white as snow.
'
203. Let a man employ one hour daily for the nourishing
and awakening of the inner life, by retiring into
solitude and learning to feel the spirit of the letters
216 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
in the feet. For the rest, isolation is unnecessary,
it can even become harmful and does not lie in the
plan of the Creator.
"
204. What breathing is for the earthly body, the spelling
is for the spiritual body. Man must make himself
able, in thinking letters, to inhale and exhale in all
organs and parts of his body ;
in so doing he fills
himself with heavenly, unperishable manna, whence
flows life eternal ; for the nature of the letters is
nothing but pure power and strength.
"
205. The mere raking-up of questions, quarrellings, and
opinions helps nothing here. A man must set to
work, and if he has exercised himself daily in letter-
thinking thirty years long, it will have become clear
to him what the power of the letters means. Through
cunning a man cannot reach to the knowledge of the
power which lies in hini but through activity.
"
254. As we have seen above, the letters are the name of
God, because the characters of all powers or move-
ments can be simplified to the letters.
"
255. But all movements can be considered as variations
of a triple ground-theme, or among all movements
there are three which pronounce their character the
most clearly, namely, the line, the angle, and the
circle. As, however, the line always makes itself
known to the mind as an I, the angle as an A, and
the circle as an O, so IAO is the root of the name of
God.
"
256. This root-name we find in the mysteries of all
religions.
"
257. With the Jews it is to be found in the names of the
three patriarchs :
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. The
Jew should therefore bring at first the A, then the I,
then finally the O to life within himself. Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob spoke with God. The Jew could
THE INNER WORD 217
also learn to speak with God in these three names
that is to say, if he brought to life in himself the root
of the name of God, by means of these three names,
then he felt the movements of the lingual powers
of God he spoke with God.
"
258. The same root is to be found in the holy name of
God Jehova. The real name was surely at one
time Jeoua, that is : five vowels as five life-streams.
These life-streams the Jew had to constantly think
into himself, for it was forbidden as a sacrilege to
speak them aloud.
"
260. The root of God's name is to be found again in
Christ's forerunner, John (Johannes), who in accord-
ance with the express command of God was thus
named. Why ? In order to characterise the sym-
bolical interpretation of Christ, that is to say the
inner life, also in this direction. First man must be
sensitive to and feel I O A in himself, before Christ,
the full inner life, can take root and reach the
highest maturity.
"
261. Christ finally delivers this root to his followers
again in Simon. He calls him at first Peter (Petrus),
and says : on this rock He will found His church
and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
Before His ascension He gives to Simon further the
name of Jonas, the root of the name of God (John xxi.
15-17). Peter should then first have learnt to feel
E U and then I O A in himself. These letters again
form the most ancient name of God, and on this
rock the Church of Christ shall remain established/
1
In the same way we may practise a sentence from the
Holy Scripts, or from other works, provided it is by an
author whose works exalt us highly. I finish this chapter
with some words of Jacob Bohme :
"
Only seek the word and heart of God, who became man
in a stable amongst cattle and in the depth of night. When
3i8 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
thou hast found it, so thou wilt find Christ as Word unto
the Father, as unto Father, Son and Holy Ghost, and also
unto everlasting life and the world of angels and Paradise.
Thou wilt convince thyself that thy blind reason has led thee
for a long time, that thou has been reeling like a drunken
man. Thou mayest not tax thy mind with high 1liou;;lil>,
for through high thinking and vain imagination thou wilt not
find the ground. Search in thy mind and thy senses and in
thy reason to make the love and charity of God thy own
"
(Vom dreifachen Leben des Menschen, Chap. Ill, 30).
CHAPTER IX
THE RESULTS OF THE MYSTICAL PRACTICE
IN
this chapter I would indicate what the mystical
student may expect after having devoted himself to the
mystical concentration for at least two or three years.
Besides the fact that he will gain the conviction of the truth,
described in this book, by the medium of his dreams and
visions, as well as by means of the mystical stages experi-
enced by himself, which conviction will give him the impulse
and strength to continue in his efforts, the first faculty
appearing will be that he be endowed with the so-called
inward comprehension in questions mystical, in matters
appertaining to the astral, mental, and spiritual realms, and
finally in daily questions having reference to the material
life of the student. By this spiritual comprehension I mean
that, when the student be at a loss how to explain one thing
or another, or does not know in certain important cases of his
earthly life what decision he shall take and how to make
up his mind, he can concentrate his thoughts in his interior,
just as he does at his mystical practice, but he must not
await his answer from within, because he could thus bring
himself into a great danger. He could consider some
inward voice, a very fine and scarcely observable one, to
be his Inner Word, while it were the voice of some spirit,
which though he might speak the truth, yet this truth
would not necessarily be a reliable and absolute one. In other
words, the student could become a medium, which, as
is evident from the foregoing, is not at all desirable in
the mystical evolution. Thereby I do not mean to say
that the spiritualistic mediums are of no value ;
on the
contrary, in another of my works I have endeavoured to
219
220 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
explain my view in this respect, and have stated that
the mediums are on the first rung of the mystical evolution.
Only, if they desire to go on, they must become mediums
of God and by no means of spirits. Besides, in such moments
the danger is at hand that some lower self could answer and
lead the student astray.
Therefore the student must not wait for a direct answer
to his question, but he has to hold out through the night
till the next morning, eventually remaining in bed after his
awakening for a few minutes, and recalling the question he
put to himself. Then, in nine cases out of ten, the answer
will appear in his thought quite clearly and
"
self-evidently."
Inasmuch as such counsels from within have proved true,
the student may judge of their value. Yet it often happens
that the student, blinded by his outward mind, does not
conform to these counsels, \\
{'\*\:\\\r\"+ his error after he has
been harmed. As far as answers and advices in questions
mystical are concerned, everybody who has devoted himself
to the matter will arrive at surprising results. Not only
that, without reading any books, all secrets of the highest
Mystical philosophy will be opened to him, but the student
will find the key to all other mysteries. The practising
Mystic will arrive at the conviction that in the sagas and
fairy-tales are contained the same truths as I have stated,
referring to the mystical death, the re-birth, the baptisms,
the mystical marriage, etc. In each saga there remains
some vestige of this ancient lore manifesting itself through-
out all religious systems of mankind in all ages.
He who but partially grasps these miraculous spiritual
laws, will bow in spirit before this tremendous power,
which has at all times understood how to find its way to
the light even from the deepest obscurity, and his surprise
will be boundless, when finding the same laws among the
savage tribes of Central Africa, as among the Indians, and
again among the ancient Egyptians, Akkadians, and Baby-
lonians, and then finding the same symbols and undeniable
elements, as well as the same secret teachings in the
Christian religion, which is the crown of all, in its esoteric
THE RESULTS OF THE MYSTICAL PRACTICE 221
meaning transcending all others by its clearness and
transparency.
All ancient myths of gods, goddesses, and heroes are like
single pearls slipped on to the same thread. Be they the
Greek or Roman myths, the Egyptian or Pythagorean
mysteries, or any others, we shall always find a great many
correlations, which may explain to us their origin, funda-
ments, and secret purpose.
When the student, after he has experienced certain
mystical stages, perceives that the twelve labours of
Hercules represent the mystical evolution, and the crab
sent by the angry goddess to bite his heel, when the hero
fought the hydra, may be compared with the symbol of the
Serpent of which the Bible says :
"
It shall bruise thy head,
and thou shalt bruise his heel
"
then of a surety he will gain
the conviction that the path he is treading is the sole way
to the goal.
The ancient myths and legends, as well as fairy-tales
contain the mystical way, as it is described in this book.
Very much is quite clearly indicated in the German epic,
the Nibelungen, and Richard Wagner, who composed the
trilogy The Ring of the Nibelungen must have been either
an inspired poet, or have been in touch with some initiated
Mystic, for his libretti contain different mystical stages, of
which there is no mention in the original legend. The
same applies to the libretti of the operas Parsifal and
Lohengrin where many allusions to the mystical practice
are to be found. Hence it follows that the mystical way
was also known to the ancient Teutons, for the origin of the
Nibelungen legend is purely Teutonic. I would advise
readers to read and study the libretti to the aforementioned
operas of Wagner, but if possible in the German language,
for the translations are not quite correct, which is quite
comprehensible, as the translators tried to conform to their
outward sense, their poetical form and the vocal part, while
the mystical conception of these texts was unknown to
them and escaped their comprehension. The poem
Parsifal, by Wolfram of Eschenbach, as well as Wagner's
222 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
opera of the same name, are and will yet for a long time
remain unintelligible, because of their mystical meaning.
When speaking of Wagner and his musical compositions, I
have to point out that he was one of the few composers who
really understood how to compose magically. Another
composer to be placed with Wagner on the same level in
this respect was van Beethoven. A person only a little
psychically sensitive, when closing the eyes during some
compositions of Wagner rendered by a complete orchestra,
will perceive certain colours until the last chord of a certain
melody has sounded. In the opera The Valkyries such a
part is
"
the fiery magic/' at which with eyes closed and
face turned away from the stage a blood-red light is to be
seen. In the opera Die Meistersinger at the scene of the
commotion, a green light and colour are to be seen.
The practising Mystic will also find within himself an
infallible key to the mysteries of the Bible, the New Testa-
ment, the old Egyptian texts, the meaning of which, of
course, escapes the philologists. The same can be said of
the symbols astrological, ornamental, and formal of all
nations, as well as of the obscure symbols of alchemy,
wherein a great many people cannot get at a result. From
the simple
"
Druidical stones
"
up to the most wonderful
cathedrals of the middle ages, from the pyramids up to the
Indian rock-temples, everywhere as practising Mystics we
find the clearest evidence of the ancient mystical tradition,
which outlasted all suppression and the innumerable
struggles with darkness and matter.
But the strangest is the fact that mystical teachings and
stages are contained in the poems of the modern poets, as
well as in modern pictures and sculpture.
And here a strange and seemingly incomprehensible
matter strikes us ! How is it possible that these thoughts
are owned by poets and artists, who never heard of the
Mystic ? But the answer to it is easy. Each poet and each
artist enters, though unconsciously, at his inspiration, the
spiritual world, where conceptions and ideas are impressed
upon his mind, which he then embodies in his works, without
THE Ki:.M I IS OF THE MYSTICAL PRACTICE 223
understanding what he is creating. The Holy Spirit pene-
trates all and understands how to manifest Himself there
where we should never expect His presence.
Like all other symbols, the mystical student can also
solve the symbolical dreams without another's aid, in the
beginning only his own, but later on also those of other
persons. All this depends upon his diligence and persever-
ance in the practice, for the frequency of practising is in
equal proportion to his progress.
He who perseveres will know what symbol the cock was
which crowed at Peter's betrayal, as well as the meaning of
the cross as a symbol and the very important sentence from
Genesis n, 7 :
"
And the LORD GOD formed man of the
dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath
of life ; and man became a living soul."
This act of Creation is the second epoch in the creation
of man, and refers to quite different matter than verse
27, Ch. I, of Genesis, which says :
"
And God created man
in His own image, in the image of God created He him ;
male and female created He them !
"
This verse indicates
the first creation of man, in the first epoch, when man was
bisexual in one body, as already mentioned elsewhere.
CHAPTER X
THE MYSTIC AND KARMA
BY
the word Karma is meant, according to Indian
sources, a certain natural law working mechanically
and inevitably on every man, and controlling his
earthly fate. Karma is then the law of return for good and
evil, caused by human acts in each incarnation (perhaps
also in the life spiritual). The German occultist Bo-Yin-Ra
affirms that this law controls also the fate of the discarnate,
that is the destiny of the deceased. Of course, this matter
cannot be discussed. Karma is then in a certain sense the
law of recompense. From another point of view Karma
is the working out of the Divine Power, the Divine Justice,
which nothing can escape. Each good, evil or mixed act
(thus are acts divided, acvoidini! to the Indian sage Patan-
jali, see his Yoga-Sutra, Book IV, v. 7) bears its fruits in
some of the next incarnations, eventually even in this.
This
"
even in this
"
means that in some cases our. acts
influence our fate already in that incarnation, in which we
have performed them. To this teaching we shall yet return
later.
The Indian scripts say that Karma merely produces
certain life-circumstances, which man is forced to enter,
but that it has no influence on his free-will. This explana-
tion is not quite correct, for the law of return or Karma,
should it be effective, must also have to a certain extent
influence on the human will, which consequently is not free.
The question of free-will with man is very complicated,
and calculated to make one perplexed and confused. There-
fore in many secret societies the discussing of this question
is prohibited to the members.
224
THE MYSTIC AND KARMA 225
People generally presume themselves to have a free-will
in the full meaning of the term. That is that they may
act accoidiiif! to their liking, and are consequently fully
responsible for their acts. The so-called absolute free-will
belongs but to those who have succeeded in becoming
united with God, namely, to the initiates of the highest
degree, whose will has become one with God's will. Hence
follows that absolute free-will is owned only by God*
Human beings have, according to their spiritual evolution,
a more or less limited free-will.
Evidence that free-will is not absolutely owned by human
beings is that all prophecies are fulfilled to their minutest
details. With people of lower grade free-will is very much
limited, for coarse, dark, and evil deeds are the substantial
part of their individuality, as they stick fast in ignorance
and matter. Such have very much in common with the
animal world. Also the animals are by their nature led
to a life, which from the human standpoint would seem
utterly evil. Let us take, for instance, some blood-thirsty
beast, as the tiger, which all its life kills other creatures,
including man, often cruelly playing with its victim, like
a cat with a mouse. This quality is, however, inborn and
such an animal is not responsible for its acts.
The same applies to people of low, coarse, and ignoble
characters. Their deeds are so connected with their gross
and material nature that they cannot act otherwise. There-
unto come yet alien influences, especially those from the
astral plane, inciting such ones to the worst acts, and they,
unwittingly, become their suitable instruments.
Even human justice, in some cases, where a disturbance
of mental balance is manifest, acknowledges the irre-
sponsibility of such individuals whom society calls mad.
All occultists know that the majority of insane persons are
possessed by evil, invisible entities, or their own vicious
ideas that is by involuntarily created elementals. The
confines between responsibility and irresponsibility cannot
be easily traced, either from the point of view of human
laws, or from the medical or occult point of view. Only an
226 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
initiate of the highest degree, who is able to behold both
the past and future and to consider all hidden causes which
have led the individual to his acts, may distinctly define the
boundary in question.
To say that man's will is quite independent of any in-
fluences is unreasonable and shows ignorance of occult
laws.
An individual can defend himself only against those evil
influences, temptations, etc., which are manifest to him,
which either have effect on him upon the material plane
(i.e., by means of his senses) or which are impressed upon
him. Impressions may be sometimes good and sometimes
bad. Of course it depends upon the degree of his evolution
how the individual rf/.s//wv///,s7/ t \s the evil from the good.
For an ordinary person the evil or the good may be
relative : that is, what once is good may, under different
circumstances, be bad, and vice versa.
The well-known occult fact that on this plane people are
exposed to secret influences, both good and evil, bears
witness that our destiny here is to figlit to decide for this
or that. On the other hand, however, we know that there
are factors deciding the majority of human inclinations.
Before all there is the inborn inner organization, and then
the destiny of fate in the form of unhappy life-circumstances,
which drag a man down into the morass. He, for instance,
who was born into a family of criminals, or who later got
into bad company, is lost, if his inner inborn organization
be in conformity with such circumstances. We know that
criminals are just as much born as geniuses. Where then
is their responsibility. ? Where is the automatic working
of Karma ? If such a criminal, according to the wrongly
interpreted teaching of Karma, has incarnated himself a
thousand times, he will always remain a criminal and will
in one respect pay for crimes committed, while on the other
hand he always incarnates himself with the same inclina-
tions, for the one conditions the other. When, however, we
admit that besides the automatically working law of recom-
pense (Karma), the Divine Mercy is continually stepping
THE MYSTIC AND KARMA 227
in, /cwi'iiHp certain sins, and erasing their consequences,
and offering at the same time the opportunity for a thorough
comprehension of the right way then the whole problem
appears solved.
This Divine Mercy rests in the comprehension of religion.
As soon as man has attained that degree of his evolution
where he comprehends religion, be it of the most primitive
and simple form, certain spiritual forces have already been
awakened in his inner self, and his substance, i.e., his soul,
endeavours constantly and uninterruptedly to lead him to
his primordial origin, namely to God. Therefore it may
happen, and surely does, that some savage is nearer on his
way to God than a European atheist, be the latter a scholar
of world-wide reputation.
But the way towards God is a good way. The higher
a man ascends in his insignificant comprehension of the
Highest Power in the Universe, the more he grows respons-
ible and the more his moral substance and feeling become
awakened, thus enabling him to distinguish between good,
evil, and mixed deeds. Such an individual acquires in a
smaller or larger measure free-will and responsibility for his
acts. But by means of them he begins to have effect on
his fate, on his Karma, which is not unalterable. If Karma
were unalterable, then free-will would not exist, not even
partially, nor would there be any progress. Certain theo-
sophical writers who did not thoroughly know the Indian
teachings and who were without any higher inspiration,
brought a good deal of confusion into the Western occult
literature. They particularly professed that Karma is an
inexorable law, which can by no means be evaded. But
this supposition is quite erroneous. The Indian author,
Patanjali, the Father of Yoga, says in his Yoga-Sutra,
Chapter IV, verse 16 :
"
The suffering which has not yet
taken place can be evaded/' Swami Vivekananda in his
English translation comments upon it as follows :
"
A part
of our Karma has already worked itself out, another part
we are just experiencing, and some part waits to bear fruit
in the future. That part we now experience, we are to
228 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
suffer, and only what waits to bear fruits in the future can
be overcome and mastered, wherefore all our powers are
to be directed to master the Karma which has not yet
borne fruit/
1
This is quite clear, and from the above words it follows
that in a certain way it is possible to evade the Karma to
come. But not only that. Man can alter his Karma already
in this life. That this is possible and God allows it, thereof
everybody can convince himself, if he follows the teachings
given in Mulford's The Gift of the Spirit.
As soon as man has got so far that he grasps, at least
partially, the spiritual laws and begins to comprehend at
least an insignificant part of his relation to the creator, he
is then given the power to influence his fate, his Karma,
and to change it. This practice, however, is considered by
some occultists to be Black Magic, and as something that
may enormously harm a man, and that will be punished by
hell fire. It is not our intention to persuade such short-
sighted ones. They presume to be infallible in their systems
and their teachings, while they place the greatest obstacles
themselves in the way of real I>IOJ;K
-^ and evolution ; just
like the materialists, who, blinded by their veil of matter,
do not see therein the Spirit, those people do not know
that God wills everybody to be happy already in this world,
according to his faith. These would-be knowing ones for-
get that the greatest Leader of this world, Christ, taught
us to pray :
"
Forgive us our sins."
What do these words mean ?
Nothing else than forgiveness of sins or the destroying of
bad Karma by God's Mercy. He who will explain them in
a different way is either an unbeliever but with such we
do not discuss the matter or he is blinded by false doc-
trines. Christ, to be sure, as Son of God, knew best what
He counselled and taught, and nobody has so far been able
to refute even a single word of His.
Karma with all its mysterious and certainly tremendous
power is before the power of the Divine Mercy a mere
bubble which shall burst and melt away. And elsewhere
THE MYSTIC AND KARMA 229
Christ said :
"
Whatsoever ye will ask your Heavenly
Father, He will give ye/' Is not therein also the forgiveness
of sins comprised ? Many will perhaps object that such a
Divine Mercy must be deserved.
This is a great mistake.
The Divine Mercy is something so very tremendous that
no man, not even the greatest among Holy Ones, can merit
it. The Divine Mercy is a mystery of love, and as such it
is incomprehensible to man. Jacob Bohme, one of the
greatest mystics, devoted to that Mercy a whole book,
1
wherein he explains this mystery, where God chooses of His
Will a certain man, without his meriting it, and bestows
upon him His Mercy.
I can say with all certainty that all who have the power
to set out on the mystical way and persevere therein shall
participate in God's Mercy, for It alone has given them the
determination and devotion and faith which are necessary
for this self-sacrifice.
Therefore already this way is not for everybody, and
therefore also there are a great many who though they
started could not persevere. They will have to finish what
they commenced in their next lives. Therefore the mystical
way is not a way of the mind, but of the feeling, as it has
been already stated many times.
"
The re-birth and the
Stone of Philosophers cannot be found in a dispute and
never with the cleverest brain : Thou hast to leave all worldly
things, should they glitter more than anything, but thou
hast to enter within thyself . . ." (Jacob Bohme, The Three-
fold Life of Man, Chap. VII, n).
He who has learnt the law of the effect of the human
thought on the astral realm, where also the causes of
earthly fates exist, is able to influence that realm with
great ease, for everyone influences it, though some do so
unwittingly.
It is not in vain that the Eastern occult schools teach
one to control one's thoughts, that is not to have hateful
1
Jacob B8ble : Von der Gnadenwahl oder dem Will** Gotten tiber dii
230 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
and evil thoughts, but benevolent and good ones. For just
as a hateful thought affects the astral realm, placing there
its seed, which shall bear fruits on the material plane, just
so a good thought will bear good fruits.
The same applies also to fearful and distressed thoughts,
for they attract just that which we fear and before which
we tremble. All, whether we know it or not, has its effect
on the astral plane and sows there that which we gather
sometimes already in this life. He who sows such thoughts
consciously on the astral plane will soon know its effects,
for a thought sustained by a conviction is far stronger than
an unconscious one.
Karma can consequently be affected by thoughts. This
is an incontestable fact. It is of importance to know how
this influence is to be carried out and in what direction our
thoughts are to be led, in order to alter our Karma to the
best advantage.
I have already mentioned that as soon as man under-
stands religion, his will becomes free to a certain extent,
and this liberty of will grows with his spiritual evolution.
But the highest of any religion is the Mystic, for in it one
is quite conscious of stepping towards God to become united
with Him. In it one refuses all that is earthly not only
material things but also worldly knowledge as something
of little value, or rather quite valueless, and looks for the
highest attainable estate, namely eternal life, the highest
wisdom and the union with the Heavenly Father. He who
has arrived thus far has of course made his will free to a
great extent, whereby he has become responsible for his
acts in the highest degree. But he who has started the
mystical way he at the same time participates in the
Divine Mercy. Both appear very manifestly in earthly life.
The above words are of a profound '.'", ,
to all Mys-
tics, but they refer to but one of innumerable mysteries
which cannot be explained. From the above it follows that
such a one participates in God's Mercy whom God particu-
larly loves. I repeat that such men could never merit this
gift, because whatever a man may do, in his insignificance,
THE MYSTIC AND KARMA 231
he cannot deserve God's Mercy, should he even exert himself
unnaturally to please God
Jacob Bohme has tried in the book mentioned to explain
the choice of God's Mercy, but this work is only for Initiates,
for nobody who has not experienced a certain part of the
spiritual unfoldment is able to comprehend his words. In
brief, God, in His highest will, chooses certain men whom
He marks out for His favour and bestows upon them His
Mercy. This often appears thus that their life sometimes
changes of a sudden, sometimes slowly, that all that is im-
pure and evil becomes disgusting, and that such men pass
through the nuMical stages sometimes amazingly quickly
to the right holiness namely the re-birth. Sometimes some
people partake of this Divine Mercy even though their life
is apparently at variance to it. Such a salient example is
the conversion of Paul, amongst many other examples. I
quote the conversion of a prominent English mystical
authoress, Jane Leade, member of the
"
Philadelphian
Society
"
established in the seventeenth century by the
famous Mystic, John Pordage. Jane Leade, who had not
the slightest notion of the mystical teaching, fell into a
state of ecstatic vision amidst a gay company, which she
immediately left and to which she nevermore returned. She
devoted all her further life to the mystical evolution and
attained the highest stages, of which her work, The Revela-
tion of Revelations, is the best evidence.
It is, however, necessary to mention in this place that
our mystical way is but one of many ways towards the
liberation from matter and towards the union with God.
On the other hand, the spiritual evolution is and always
was the same, that is to say the mystical progress, as indi-
cated in the foregoing chapter
"
The Mystical Stages/' takes
place with everybody equally, though the students use these
or those expedients. In India, for instance, a great many
expedients for the starting the mystical way and its bringing
to a finish are known and applied. Also our way is known
there under the name of Bhakti-Yoga or Tantrika. The
latter, as already said, particularly deals with the letter and
232 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
syllable practice. Bhakti-Yoga is the love of God that is
what Christ taught. Many of the Indian ways are of a very
forcible nature, and they are used without any regard to
God's Mercy. Under those practices the student acquires
an apparently enormous will-power and through the fostering
of inner faculties also the liberation and union with God.
But in fact there is but the Divine Mercy, without which
one could not attain anything. God's love is so unfathom-
able that it even encompasses those who deny God alto-
gether, provided they seek the liberation from material
fetters. Best evidence thereof is the way of Buddha who
denied God admitting only
"
the Law
"
and yet he
reached the goal.
But all these Indian expedients as well as any asceticism
are quite inconvenient for a European, unless he were living
in India, among Indian initiates, separated from the world.
Our Western expedients are to be quite different, they must
be moderate and slow ones, as otherwise the students might
be harmed and would never obtain any results. The Indian
way, i.e., the ascetic way, is quite impossible in our milieu,
evidence of which is for example the fact that those who
have come from India to Europe or the U.S., and have
already been sufficiently advanced, have had to run away
to avoid being overcome by the evil influences of our society.
He who will make himself holy of his own accord will soon
perceive that it is impossible, and will admit it if he is
honest, otherwise he will become a hypocrite.
The one and only way for Western students is the way
of God's Mercy, when God Himself through His infinite
love and power purifies a man and brings him to His bosom.
The mystical way is of course a superhuman work, and
therefore a man cannot carry it out of himself. This fact
is already contained in its very purpose. If God did not
constantly help a man, all would be in vain.
As far as Karma and its working on the Mystic are con-
cerned, it will be necessary to mention some important
things. As soon as one has been given the power to carry
out the mystical practice of whatever character he may
THE MYSTIC AND KARMA 233
have been before he is also given the mercy of gradual
purification and of overcoming all bad Karma which may
await him. The accumulated Karma will ordinarily work
itself out already before the beginning of this practice in dif-
ferent sufferings following in quick succession. There is no
Mystic who has not experienced cruel blows of fate, especially
such as shake his soul. Karma, which has had to work
eventually for twenty years, concentrates itself upon a very
short period, perhaps on one or two years, so that one blow
is followed by another. As soon as the way has been started,
the Mystic has slipped out of the influence of earthly ranks
and laws which govern the rest of mankind, and is now
subject to laws quite different. Ordinarily it is obvious that
he already carried on a similar practice in his foregoing life,
but that he only attained to a certain stage of the evolu-
tion, without reaching the highest point. The mystical
unfoldment, which he experienced in his foregoing incarna-
tion, repeats itself again very quickly, but then the student's
progress changes to go on more slowly.
He who has only once started the mystical practice, and
with whom the first initiation stages have taken place, has
made a contract with God, and in each of his coming in-
carnations will restart the way just at the point where he
stopped, to continue until he reaches the goal !
The mystical way causes the full destruction of Karma,
and is consequently the best means and the only one
indeed for setting oneself free from it. The Mystic, how-
ever, has not to think that it is he who carries out the
annihilation of Karma, for he only surrenders himself fully
to God's Will, and only God destroys the waiting Karma
fruits by His Mercy and Love.
The Pythagorean school taught the same, namely that
blind fate is subject to Divine Providence. Fate is the
reaction of nature (i.e., the Universe) upon man (Karma),
and the human will, when in harmony with Providence, can
escape the lower Karma powers. When thereby the
Mystic
"
throws upon God "
all his acts, in that he does
all without awaiting any recompense, or repayment or
234 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
fruits of his deeds, then he will not create new Karma any
morel
He, of the practising Mystics, who repeats to himself
several times daily the psalm :
"
Commit thy way unto the
LORD. Trust also in Him, and He shall bring it to pass
"
(Psalm xxxvu. 5), will soon know the effect of this sub-
mission to God.
All bad habits and in general harmful acts will gradually
disappear from his life. There will be hindrances put in
his way, so that he will not be able to commit sinful acts, for
he will be warned in different ways and cautioned against
coming temptations.
If the student, however, falls in spite of all, then he must
raise himself quickly, and before all he must not think of his
stumbling. When the student has fallen there will always
come a quick punishment which must be endured for recon-
ciliation. This has been experienced by a great many, and
is at the same time an evidence that a new Karma is no more
formed, in order not to hinder the student in his progress.
Thus God constantly gives His faithful ones the proofs of
His action, though not in the same measure to all, but
to one more and to another less, according to one's
wisdom.
The things I am writing here are not things dreamt, but
experienced by all those who tread the mystical way: All
students, without having been acquainted with these details
before, will confirm it. And it cannot be otherwise, as the
spiritual laws must affect everybody equally. Of course, it
is necessary that the Mystic should turn completely into
his interior, which state is called introversion. He who so
seeks the highest treasure within himself will find it.
After a certain time, which is not, of course, the same
with all, the Mystic's life will become so peaceful that it
will flow like a quiet river to its end. If the student has
reached a certain higher degree in his evolution I hereby
mean the mystical marriage he is brought into such life-
circumstances that he may live for a certain time in soli-
tude and complete separation from other people. This he
THE MYSTIC AND KARMA 235
needs in a high degree, for in that stage the highest con-
centration of all spiritual powers on one point is necessary,
and for its attainment strict quietude and solitude are
indispensable.
Every student will feel in the beginning of his way
sometimes after a very short period of his mystical prac-
tice a disgust towards the world and a longing to leave
society life for some solitary place. This longing is the first
reflection of such a solitude, which may be fulfilled only
later after long years. It is not necessary to mention that
the student must not give way to this longing, for he would
commit a great mistake, as in this world and this society
in which he lives he has to do the duties he has accepted.
Everyone can be sure that as soon as the suitable time for
it arrives, he will be freed from his duties, and only then
will the time of isolation have come.
The Mystic, through his practice, sets the highest forces
into motion, and therefore it is also obvious that his con-
centration will also affect his outer fate. When he has
reached a certain stage, he can ask whatever he desires and
it will be given to him. Few would believe that among
humans there are such whose prayers are always fulfilled.
But, before all, man must learn the right prayer. It is not
said in vain that man has to pray with his heart and by
no means with his head. He who understands how to pray
in his heart will always be heard. This is quite literally
meant. Therefore also a Mystic, who at some moment has
not prayed with his heart, will not be heard. But the heart
does not mean feeling only figuratively, but it means the
actual spiritual organ, which is not placed just where the
anatomic heart is, but in the middle of the chest. This
spiritual heart can be seen by an advanced Mystic gleaming
in his chest. This is the eternal light, the sacred tabernacle,
out of which a flame rises and where Jesus Christ resides.
According to the old Rosicrucian script, The Secret Symbols
of the Rosicmcians, this mystical heart is divided into five
spheres. The author describes that heart to be narrow
below and very wide above, to be open to God, but shut to
236 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
earthly things. In the inmost sphere, the fifth, is the Holy
Spirit, teaching man divine things.
As to prayers, all students and those interested in the
mystical way should remember Christ's words :
"
But seek
ye first the kingdom of Heaven and His li.LriuroiMu^s. and
all other things shall be added unto ye."
You need only to have faith and not to care about to-
morrow, for the Heavenly Father knows best what you want
and the fulness of His gifts is inexhaustible. By this, of
course, is not meant that we should fold our hands and wait,
but that, if we want help, we should rely upon God only, and
not on men. He who cares more for earthly than for spiritual
things cannot progress spiritually, and he will not be given
more than what he would have received if he had not
devoted his efforts to spiritual life. But as regards him
who has not got this faith, it cannot be given him, for it is
also a part of God's Mercy.
He who is interested in the mystic lore may carry it out
alone according to the outline given in this book ; but it
is of advantage if in one place two or three kindred spirits
meet from time to time to discuss spiritual matters. By
this means the inner feeling becomes supported and it
creates the necessary frame of mind, which sometimes fails
everybody. In bigger towns small circles can be founded,
members of which can meet each other once weekly or
fortnightly. It is recommended to lecture at such circles
upon some important quotations from mystical works and
discuss them. When this is done with sincere earnestness
and zeal, the rest comes of itself. The Spirit will not forget
to collaborate.
To make the studying of the mystic easy to my readers
I quote below some works which I consider of the greatest
importance. The reading of such books, though not
constantly, fills one's soul with suitable ideas and
supplies the frame of mind which facilitates concentration.
It is not necessary to read long or to have many
books. Among those I state here, one can choose at least a
few:
THE MYSTIC AND KARMA 237
The Bible and the New Testament.
The Bhagavad-Gita.
Andraee Valentin : The Chymical Marriage of Christian
Rosenkreutz.
Jacob Bohme's works.
Jane Leade's works.
John Pordage's works.
Michael Molinos : The Spiritual Leader who liberates Souls.
Angelus Silesius : The Cherubic Wanderer.
Swami Vivekananda's works.
H. P. Blavatsky's The Voice of the Silence.
Mabel Collins: The Light on the Path, etc.. etc.
Eckartshausen : The Mystical Nights.
Sedir : The Seven Mystical Gardens.
Prentice Mulford : The Gift of the Spirit.
Jan van Ruysbroeck's works.
Patanjali :
Yoga Sutra.
Oupnek Hat.
Kerning's works.
Rabindranath Tagore's works.
B6-Yin-Ra's works.
I finish this book with the hope that at least to a few
it will be a light in the deepest darkness of to-day, where
all run after the sham gold of the world, after the foolishness
of fame and renown, where truth and honour are trampled
underfoot, and where robbers are apparently triumphant
in the material and spiritual worlds. To him who will dare
to tread the way described herein and should be in need of
any advice, the author is always willing to give it. There
is consequently no reason to fear going astray. The ex-
periences acquired in the Mystic, as far as they do not con-
cern the revealing of mysteries, belong to the whole of man-
kind, and by no means to him only who has gained them.
According to the law that he who has received gratis must
also gratis give to another, our duty is to teach there where
we are asked to do so, but on the other hand to keep silent
where we are not asked.
EXTRACTS FROM SOME MYSTICAL WORKS OF THE
MIDDLE AGES
AFTER
meditating long as to how best describe the
whole mystical way, I have decided to include here
before all the so-called
"
PARABOLA/' from a
Rosicrucian script named The Secret Symbols of the Rosi-
crmians of the XVIth and XVIIth Centuries. The proper
title of that work is : "A Simple Spelling-Book for Young
Disciples Daily Practising in the School of the Holy Ghost,
in the Way of Pictures painted for the Eyes for the New-
Year's Practice in a natural and theological light by a
Brother of the Christ's
Fraternity
of the Rosy Cross P.F.,
for the first time published and by some pictures of the
same content increased by P.S."
My explanations are at the end of this chapter.
PARABOLA
1. Once when I was walking in a young, green, and
beautiful wood, reflecting upon the trouble of this life, also
beweeping the misery caused us through the lamentable fall
of our first parents, my thoughts made me to err from the
usual path, and I found myself, I know not how, upon a
narrow foot-path, quite wild, untended and impassable,
which was so overgrown with many bushes and plants, that
it was easy to see how little it was used. Therefore I started
and had gladly turned back : but such was no longer in
my power, especially as so mighty a wind blew behind me
that I had rather been able to take ten steps forward than
one back, (i)
2. Therefore I was constrained to wander on and not heed
the rough going.
238
EXTRACTS FROM SOME MYSTICAL WORKS 239
3. After walking a good time I came at last to a charming
meadow, like a round circle, surrounded by beautiful fruitful
trees, named by the inhabitants Pratum felicitatis. There
I found a band of old men, all with ice-gray beards, except
one rather young man with pointed black beard, as also
another whose name I indeed knew, whose countenance,
however, I could not for the time being see, and who was
still younger. They disputed upon all sorts of things,
particularly upon a high and large secret nut, hidden in
nature, which God kept hidden from the great world, and
only revealed to those alone who loved him.
4. I listened long to them, and their discourse pleased
me well ; but some of them wanted to break loose from the
bridle, not indeed in respect of the materiae or work, but
of the Parabolas, similtudines, and other Parenga : therein
they followed the figments of Aristotle, Pliny and others,
which one had copied from the other. Thereat I could not
contain myself any longer, but mixed in some of my mustard,
refuting such empty things , from experience, until the
greater part of them agreed with me, examined me in their
Faculty and made it pretty hot for me, but my :; I.::M!I,:
was so good that I passed with honours, so that they all
wondered among themselves, deciding unanimously to
receive me into their College, whereat my heart rejoiced. (2)
5. But, said they, I could not become a real colleague
until I had learnt to know their Lion right well and knew
completely what he, inwardly as well as outwardly, knew
and could do. Therefore I should put forth diligence that
he become subject to me. I had enough trust in myself
this to do, and promised them to do my best. For their
society pleased me so well that it would not have taken
much for me to separate from them. (3)
6. They led me to the Lion, describing him to me at
great length : But how I was to proceed with him in the
beginning, nobody would tell me : some of them hinted,
but very confusedly, that the ordinary multitude could not
understand him, but gave me to understand that when I
had bound him fast and secured myself from his sharp
240 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
claws and pointed teeth, they would not hide anything
further from me. Now, the Lion was very old, grim, and
monstrous, his yellow mane hung over his neck, he seemed
quite unconquerable, so that I was half horrified at my own
temerity, and gladly would have turned back, had not my
promise, and the circumstance that those ancients surround-
ing me were all-expectant as to what I should do, deterred
me. I stepped up to the Lion in his trench with show of
confidence and began to coax him, but he, with his brightly
shining eyes, looked at me so fixedly that from very fear
I nearly fled abjectly, although I remembered that I had
heard from one of the ancients, whilst on the way to the
Lion's trench, that very many people had undertaken to
compel themselves to approach the Lion, of whom few had
succeeded, yet would I not bring shame upon myself, and
bethought me of certain grips learnt with great diligence
in this Athletica, besides which I was well experienced in
natural magia, and so forgot all flattery, and attacked the
Lion with such nimble artifice and subtlety, that before he
was well aware I drew the blood out of his body, yea from
out his heart, which was beautifully red but very choleric.
Then I anatomised further and found, to my no small
wonder, that strangely enough his bones, of which there
were many more than his blood, were white as snow. (4)
7. As all this became clear to my dear ancients, standing
there above around the pit and watching, they began hotly
disputing together as far as I could see, but what they said
I could not make out, as I was still deep down below in the
pit :
Still, as they closed upon each other with words, I
heard how one said, he must bring him to life again, other-
wise he cannot be our Colleague. (5) I would not go a
long way round and betook myself out of the pit over a
great place, and came, I don't know how, upon a very high
wall whose height climbed over 100 ells towards the clouds,
but above it was not as broad as a shoe, and there went, as
I went up, to the end an iron railing right in the middle
of the wall with many cast-iron supports. On to this
same wall I came, I say, and it seemed to me there went
EXTRACTS FROM SOME MYSTICAL WORKS 241
somebody a few steps ahead of me on the right side of the
rail.
8. After following this person a while, I saw behind me
on the other side also somebody following, whether a man
or a woman I am still in doubt, who called to me and said
it were better to wander on his side than where I was
walking, which I easily believed, for because of the rail,
which so stood in the middle and made the way too narrow,
walking was very bad at such a height. Then I saw several
who wanted to go such a way fall over behind me. There-
fore I swung myself under the rail, holding fast with the
hands and continued my way on the other side (6), till I
came at last to a part of the wall which was very precipitous
and <lang( rou^ to climb down. Then I was sorry that I
had not remained on the other side (7), and if I could not
get through beneath to the same, so was it impossible for
me to turn about and so get myself on to the other way.
Therefore I dared, trusting to my good feet, held fast, and
so arrived down below without hurt, and after I had
wandered a little further, so I saw and knew of no more
danger, and knew not where the wall and rail had
gone to.
9. Arrived down below, there I found a beautiful Rose-
bush, with beautiful red and white roses growing upon it,
but of the red many more than of the white, of which I
broke several off and stuck in my hat. (8) But I noticed
there a wall which went round a large garden. In the
garden there were youths. Maidens were standing outside
the wall. These would gladly have joined the youths but
fought shy of the trouble of going all the way round to the
gate of the garden. Then I took pity on them, went again
the way I had come, but on a level, and so quickly that I
soon came to several houses, thinking to find the gardener's
house. But I found there very many people, each having
his own chamber. Working alone they were slow ; together
they worked diligently ; yet each had his own work. But
what they were doing, it occurred to me, I had done and
worked before this, and all their work was known to me.
242 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
Strange, thought I, see, if so many other people do such
dirty and slovenly work, a mere appearance, according to
their own fancy, but having no Fundament in nature, so
are you to be pardoned. Therefore, knowing that such arts
disappear like smoke, I would not delay to no purpose, and
went the way I had determined.
10. As I now went towards the garden gate, several to
one side regarded me sourly, so that I feared they would
hinder me in my Proposito (purpose) : But others said :
see, he wants to get into the garden, and we have so long
done garden-service here, and have never got in, how we
will laugh at him if he doesn't succeed. But I took no
notice of all this, because I understood this matter of the
garden better than they, though I was never inside, but I
went straight to a door, which was locked fast, so that also
from the outside one could neither see nor find a keyhole.
But I observed that a small round hole, not to be perceived
by the common eye, was in the door, and thought at once
that there one would have to open the door : I got ready,
therefore, with my specially prepared skeleton-key, un-
locked the door, and went in. Once inside I found some
other barred doors, which I however opened without
trouble. But this was a passage, just as though it were in
a well-built house, about six shoes wide and twenty long,
with a ceiling above. And although the other doors were
yet closed, still, since the first door was opened, I could
see well enough into the garden.
11. I wandered on into the garden in the name of God.
There I found in the middle a tiny garden, about square in
shape, each side six measure-yards long, which was fenced
with wild roses blooming very beautifully. But because it
rained a little, and shone the sun thereby, there was a very
charming rainbow. After I had gone by the tiny garden
and wanted to go to the place where I should help the
maidens, see, I became aware that in place of the wall stood
a low trellissed fence, and there went the most beautiful
maiden clad in pure white silk, with the most majestic of
youths robed in scarlet, past the Rose-Garden, with their
EXTRACTS FROM SOME MYSTICAL WORKS 243
arms about each other, and carrying many sweet-smelling
roses in their hands. I spoke to them, enquiring how they
had got over the fence ? This my best-beloved bridegroom
said she, helped me over, and we are now going out of this
lovely garden to our chamber to cultivate friendship. I am
glad, said I, that without further trouble on my part,
satisfaction is done to your will : nevertheless look you
how I have hurried and have come round such a long way
in so short a time in order to serve you. After that I came
to a great mill, built inside of stone, therein were no flour-
bins or other things such as belong to grinding, but one
saw through the wall some water-wheels going in water. I
asked why this was. An old miller answered me that the
mill-stones were shut off on the other side. When I then
saw from the weir-bridge a mill-boy go in, him I followed.
When I had now come over the bridge, which had to its
left the water-wheels, I stood still and marvelled at that
which I saw. For the wheels were now above the bridge,
the water coal-black, yet its drops were white, and though
the bridge was not over three fingers broad, yet I dared
to go back again, and held on to the wooden rails which
were over the weir-bridge, and so passed over the water in
security and without getting wet. Then I asked the old
miller how many water-wheels he had : Ten, he answered.
The adventure would not go out of my thoughts, and I
would gladly have known what the meaning was. But when
I noticed that the miller didn't want to let out, I went away,
and there was before the mill a lofty paved hill, on it were
some of the aforesaid ancients. They walked in the sun,
which was then shining very warmly, and had a letter
written to them by the Faculty, about which they consulted.
I soon perceived what the contents might be, and that they
concerned me, therefore went to them and said : Gentlemen,
is it about me ? Yes, said they, the woman whom you took
not long ago you must keep as your wedded wife, or we
must report it to our Prince. I said, that will cause no
difficulty, for I was born with her in the same moment and
brought up with her from childhood, and having taken her
244 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
once I will always keep her, and death itself shall not
separate us : For I love her with all my ardent heart.
What complaint have we then ? answer they, the Bride
is also content, and we have her will; you must let
yourselves be married. Well contented, said I. Very
well, said the one, so will the Lion receive back his life
again, and become much mightier and stronger than
before. (9)
12. Then I remembered my foregoing trouble and work,
and thought within myself, strangely enough, it must
concern not myself, but another well known to me : In
him I see our Bridegroom with his Bride, clothed as before,
walking along, ready and prepared to be wedded, of
which I was very glad : For I was in great anxiety lest the
things should concern me. (10)
13. Now then, as expected, our Bridegroom in his gorgeous
scarlet clothes, with his sweetest Bride, whose white silk
gown gave out such bright rays, came to the ancients ;
they wedded the twain soon, and I was not a little astonished
that this Maiden, who should be her Bridegroom's Mother,
was still so young, that she even now seemed newly
born, (u)
14. Now, I know not what sins these two must have
committed, that they, although they were brother and
sister, bound themselves together with love to such a
degree, that they were also not to be separated, and so then
were willing at the same time to be charged with incest.
These two were brought, instead of to a bridal-bed, after a
splendid wedding, into a perpetual prison. So that their
doings could be watched the prison was transparent, a bright,
crystal-clear apartment, like a celestial globe, fitting their
high birth and prominent standing. To this prison they
were condemned and therein locked up, there in constant
tears and true repentance to do penance for their misdeeds
committed. But beforehand all outward clothing and finery,
used as ornament, was taken from them, so that they were
obliged to live quite naked together. Nobody was allowed
to go iato the apartment to wait upon them, but after they
EXTRACTS FROM SOME MYSTICAL WORKS 245
had been supplied with necessary food and drink, taken
from the water before-mentioned, the door of the room was
securely bolted and locked, also the seal of the Faculty was
impressed upon it, and I received the order that I should
guard them, and during the winter, before the door, suffi-
ciently warm the room, that they neither freeze nor burn,
and that they in no wise get out and escape. Should,
however, contrary to expectations, this mandate be abused,
I should be grievously punished for this. The thing didn't
please me, my fear and care damped my courage :
for,
thought I to myself, it is no small thing which I have been
commanded to do. I knew also that the Collegium sapientiae
was not in the habit of lying but of putting into practice
what it said. However, as I could not change matters, and
further as this locked chamber was in the middle of a strong
tower, which was yet again surrounded by strong bastions
and high walls, wherein one could, with a fair but continual
fire, warm the chamber, so I undertook the office, and began
in God's name to warm the chamber and protect the
imprisoned married couple from the cold. But what hap-
pens ? As soon as they feel the least warmth, they embrace
each other so tenderly that such a thing will not soon be
seen again, and they remain also in such ardour that the
heart of the young bridegroom melts for very fervour of
love in his body, also his whole body melts at the same
moment in the arms of his beloved and falls apart. As she,
who loved him not less than he her, saw this, so she wept
from her heart for him and at the same time buried him, so
that one could not see, for the tears she had shed, which
flooded everything, where he had gone to. She gave herself
to her weeping and mourning for a short time, and such
the pain at her heart that she did not want to live longer
but gave herself up voluntarily to death. Alas for me, in
what anxiety, distress and trouble was I, that I should see
both of those entrusted to me in the same moment perish
in water and lie dead before my eyes. My certain ruin stood
before my eyes, and what was worse for me, I feared more
and derision, which I saw in my mind's eye I
246 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
should be exposed to, than any harm which could happen
to me. (12)
15. Whilst spending some days in such troubled thoughts,
taking counsel with myself and turning the matter over and
over again in my thoughts as to what was best to be done,
it occurred to me how Medea brought the dead body of
Aesonis to life again, and I thought to myself : If Medea
could do such a thing, why should you not also succeed ?
I began to consider how I would do such a thing, but found
no better way than to continue with warmth until the
water had disappeared and I should see again the dead
bodies of our loving couple, hoping then to escape all
danger for my usefulness and earn praise. I proceeded,
therefore, with my warmth begun, and continued with it
for forty whole days, then I became aware that the longer
the time the more the water decreased, and the dead bodies,
though as black as coal, began to show themselves again :
and indeed this would have happened sooner had not the
apartment been so firmly locked and sealed. Which I
might, however, under no circumstances open. Then I
noticed how the water rose up and hurried towards the
clouds, collected itself together above in the apartment and
fell down like rain : so that it could not get away then,
until our Bridegroom with his dearest Bride lay dead and
putrified, and therefore stinking in the highest degree,
before my eyes. Meanwhile a very beautiful rainbow was
seen in the apartment, produced by the sunshine in the
wet weather, with extraordinarily fine colours, which
gladdened me not a little in the affliction I had passed
through, but much more was I glad at seeing my two lovers
lying before me. But there is no joy so great but what it is
mixed with much sorrow : I also then experienced grief in
my joy, for meanwhile those who had been commended to
my care lay dead before me without a sign of life. But as I
knew that their chamber was made of such pure and dense
Materia, and also so firmly locked that their soul and spirit
could not get out, but were kept close within, so I went on
with my continual warmth day and night, in the carrying
EXTRACTS FROM SOME MYSTICAL WORKS 247
out of my office, quite ::.-,'':.. that the twain would not
return to the bodies, as long as the damp remained. For
such are well preserved in damp nature. As this I then also
found in very truth. For I became aware, through careful
observation, that towards evening many vapours rose up
from earth through the sun's force, and drew themselves
up into the above, just as though the sun would draw
water. They became condensed during the night into a
lovely and very fertile dew, which in the morning fell and
wetted the earth, also washing the bodies of our dead ones,
so that the more the bathing and washing took place the
longer, more beautiful and whiter they became from day
to day. But the whiter and more beautiful they became,
the more the moistures disappeared, till at last, when the
air was clear and fair, and all misty and damp weather had
passed, the spirit and soul of the Bride could no longer
contain themselves in the clear air, but went into the clarified
and now transfigured body of the Queen, which soon
received them and immediately came to life : which glad-
dened me as you may easily understand with a strange joy,
as I saw her arise in the costliest garments such as have
rarely been seen, and adorned with a precious crown set all
over with diamonds, and heard her say : Hear ye children
of men, perceive all ye born of women, that the Almighty
has the power to set up and depose kings : He makes rich
and poor ;i<
cording to his will : He kills and brings to life
again. (13)
16. Behold in me a true and living example of this. I
was great and became small : but now, after being humbled,
am I a Queen supreme over many kingdoms : I was killed
and brought to life again ; to me, poor one, have the great
treasures of the wise ones and the mighty ones been entrusted
and given over.
17. Therefore unto me has also been given the power to
make the poor rich, and to bestow mercy on the humble,
and to bring health to the sick. But I am not yet equal to
my best beloved brother, the all-powerful King, who is
248 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
still to be awakened from the dead. When he comes he will
prove that my words were his. (14)
18. After she had said this, the sun shone very brightly,
and the day became warmer than before, and the dog-days
were at the door. But because, long before, for the great
and splendid wedding of our new Queen, all sorts of costly
garments, as of black velvet, grey damask, grey silk, silver
taffeta, snow-white silk, and one especially beautiful robe
of silver, threaded with costly pearls and splendid diamonds,
had been prepared, so also at the same time were prepared
for the young King different clothes of costly stuffs of
Incarnat, of yellow-gold colours, and lastly a red velvet
garment sewn with costly rubies and carbuncles in great
numbers. But the tailors who made the clothes were
invisible, so that I wondered, when I saw one coat after
another and one dress after another ready before my eyes,
how it could happen, especially as I knew that nobody but
the Bridegroom and his Bride had entered the chamber ;
but what made me marvel most of all was that, as soon as
another coat or dress was ready, the former disappeared
in the same moment before my eyes, so that I did not know
where they went to, or who had locked them away. (15)
19. When this costly apparel was ready, there appeared
the great and mighty King in glittering splendour, to which
nothing can be compared : and when he found himself
locked in, he begged me in friendly and very gracious words
to open the door for him, and that I would grant that he
come out, and it would be of great use to me. Although I
had received the strict order not to open the door, yet I
was so impressed by the great authority and gracious speech
of the King, that I opened for him with good will. And as
he went out he was so friendly, so gracious, even so humble,
that he indeed bore witness thereto that nothing sits so well
on high personages as these virtues.
20. But because he had passed through the dog-days in
great heat, he was very thirsty, run-down and tired, and
ordered me to bring some of the swiftly-running water
from under the mill-wheels, from which, when I had brought
EXTRACTS FROM SOME MYSTICAL WORKS 249
it, he quaffed a large draught with great avidity, then went
again into his chamber, and ordered me to lock the door
securely after him, so that nobody could disturb him or
awaken him from sleep.
21. Herein he rested some days, and called to me to
open the door. But I noticed that he had become much
handsomer, richer in blood and more splendid, which
observing also himself, and attributing this to such a
splendid and wholesome water, he soon demanded more
water, and also drank much of it, more than before, so that
I at last began to consider building the chamber much
wider. When then this King had drunk of this fine drink,
despised by the ignorant, to his heart's content, he became
so handsome and splendid, that I have never in all my life
seen either such a magnificent person or such deeds and
conduct. Then he led me into his kingdom and showed me
all the treasures and riches of the world, so that I must
confess that not only the Queen proclaimed the Truth, but
left the greatest part to those who know him to describe :
for gold and noble carbuncle-stones were there in endless
quantities, rejuvenation and restitution of natural forces,
as also restoration of lost health and taking away of all
illnesses were common things there. But most excellent
of all was that the people of that same land know their
creator, fear and honour him, and obtain from him wisdom
and understanding, and at last, after this temporary glory,
attain to eternal beatitude. Thereunto may God the Father,
Son and Holy Ghost help us.
AMEN. (16.)
EXPLANATIONS
(i) The author begins by the description how, after medi-
tations on the vanities and sufferings of life, he started on
the mystical way, which is narrow, uneven, and impassable,
and only little used. When he tried to leave it, he could
250 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
not do so, for the natural power the wind- hindered him.
The wind is the symbol of the Holy Ghost. Allegorically
it is said here that the author was driven to go on the way
by the Holy Ghost.
(2) The author has been accepted by a mystical school.
(3) The lion spoken of means the outward man.
(4) Here there are already many secret hints as to the
mystical practice. The author has been taught the natural
Magic that is he knew the Royal Art or the Yoga. To this
also the remark concerning
"
grips
"
refers, of which some
are preserved symbolically in certain secret societies, es-
pecially also with the Freemasons. The pit where the lion
is means man's inside, the anatomizing of the lion means
the penetration of the concentration practice through all
parts of the human body, as explained in the chapter
dealing with the letter-practice. The blood and the snow-
white bones mean mystically and alrliymiciilly the red and
the white tinctures, but also the female and male principles
(menstruum and sperma). They both have an important
meaning in the Mystic.
(5) The author describes the killing of the outward man
that is the lion, and at the same time he points out the
duty to revive him, which in a mystical sense means the
re-birth.
(6) The left.
(7) The right.
(8) Here the author speaks of white and red roses, which
are one of the great mysteries on the mystical way. Of
them only this much can be said : that the rose in full
bloom is the attribute, quality, and adornment of the Virgin
Sophia or the Soul, the Female Principle of the Godhead,
who becomes united within the mystical student with Jesus
Christ, which is the so-called chymical marriage. The rose
is equivalent to the white lotus, i.e., the unfoldment of inner
senses and mystical powers. But the rose means still very
much which cannot be publicly expounded.
(9) The garden with a small aperture in the door and the
peculiar key are certain mystical experiences to be under*
EXTRACTS FROM SOME MYSTICAL WORKS 251
stood only by those who actually practise. The key means
the mystical practice which opens the door into
"
the
lotuses
"
(the roses in the garden), which are in the spine
(v. table p. 96). All outward explanations would be idle
talk. In paragraph n the bridegroom and the bride appear
for the first time. This bridegroom is the author himself
who describes here his vision. The mill which he came to
is nature's laboratory, of course from a transcendental point
of view. The ancients speak with the author of his coming
wedding with his bride, with whom the author was born
nearly at the same time and brought up, for this bride is,
as often explained, his soul. By this marriage the lion, i.e.,
the mystically dead man, is brought to life again to be
stronger and mightier, namely to become, as an Adept
and an Initiate, the master of all in the mystical re-
birth.
(10) Here the author alludes to certain psychic struggles
to be gone through by every Mystic. There is the question
of transposing consciousness from the lower self to the
higher Self, which is accompanied by no small struggles and
anguish. The student presumes that by transposing the
consciousness to his higher Self he will lose his earthly
individuality or personality. This anxiety is so strong that
it retains very many people from treading the mystical way.
But this anxiety is misleading, for he who becomes re-born,
and whose consciousness is united with the universal
consciousness of God, does not lose his individuality,
but on the contrary thus only may he indeed save his
personality. This is a mystery which cannot be further
explained.
(n) Here the necessity arises to comment more in detail
upon the evolutional system of Mystic which was known
in the most ancient times to all the initiated, and which, as
already stated, was and is the fundament of all mysteries
of the world. All myths, sagas of the ancient heroes, the
majority of the national legends, and all mysteries of the
old occult and mystical societies of all nations speak of one
and the same matter, namely the death of the old man, i.e.,
252 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
the mystical death, and his resurrection or re-birth. This
old man (the old Adam) is killed by his son, and this son
takes his mother for his spouse. This procedure is most
clearly described in the Greek myth of King Laios (v. p. 97).
This is the substance of all mysteries. In other myths we
find at least fragments of this system or its modifications.
But he who knows the substance of the m\-i:r;i1 evolution
will meet with it everywhere and discover it easily. The
mystical evolution has taken place according to unchange-
able spiritual laws ever since man has been on earth, and it
is obvious that these laws are in force in the whole Universe,
in all worlds equally.
The same applies to the
"
Parabola/' where the author
says that he was surprised to find the bride, who had to be
the mother of her bridegroom, so young.
(12) The reader has perhaps guessed that the secret cham-
ber where this bridal scene takes place is once more the
human inner being, wherein the mystical bridegroom be-
comes united with his bride, which means the mystical
wedding. The warming of the chamber is nothing else than
the mystical concentration. The mystical practice or the
concentration is like fuel put into the stove to avoid the
fire's dying out. Jane Leade also compares the human
interior with a stove, which it is necessary continually to
heat. When the student discontinues the practipe the
mystical flame within him goes on burning for a certain
time, until it so to say hides itself under the ashes and
then the mystical evolution slowly ceases. It may, how-
ever, take some years until all mystical stages have ceased,
especially if the student discontinued the practice when he
had already attained a higher degree. As soon, however,
as he resumes the practice, that mystical flame becomes
rekindled and the student proceeds on his way. We must
not forget that the Parabola was written for those only
who have already attained a certain degree of the mystical
evolution. For other people it is meaningless. Also the
author expressly hides everything under allegorical images
and pictures, like all mystical writers. This is in order to
EXTRACTS FROM SOME MYSTICAL WORKS 253
avoid the profanation of sacred mysteries by the uncalled.
But these allegories are also used by many false alchemists
who presume such treatises to refer to outward alchemy, to
be applied in laboratories. Thus many explain that the
chamber of the bridal couple is nothing else than a chemical
retort, into which certain stuff is to be put, to be then heated
from time to time. The Rosicrucian scripts have in fact, as
already mentioned elsewhere, a double meaning : a mystical
and an alchymical. They both aim at the same end to
obtain the Stone of the Philosophers, which is nothing else
in the mystical sense than Jesus Christ to be found within
ourselves. He who has found it in the mystical sense can
easily find it also alchymically, i.e., outwardly. It would,
however, be in vain to try to obtain the Stone only in a
chemical way, without the preceding re-birth of the operator.
The Great Work (Magnum Opus), of which these works
always speak, refers first to the transmutation of man into
a divine creature, an Adept or Initiate, who is not only able
to carry out the
"
projectio
"
of precious metals, but will
find the Elixir of Life and the Stone of Philosophers.
(13) This paragraph contains the description of further
mystical stages taking place within the practising student.
All disciples of mystical schools will meet here with well-
known things.
(14) So speaks the awakened soul or the Virgin Sophia
within the student before his mystical mamage.
(15) Here it is necessary to mention the remark referring
to the dog-days. These dog-days occur in our times during
the hottest period of the summer ;
but here something
quite different is meant. The dog-star, or Sirius, was con-
secrated in Egypt to Anubis, i.e., the God of the dead, who,
as known, was symbolized as having a dog's head. This
Anubis, or, according to the Greek myths, Cerberus, is the
guard of the underworld, and his presence will be announced
to each Mystic, who in his evolution descends to hells, in an
infallible way.
(16) This Parabola is then the description of the inner
evolution of a practising student of the mystical Lore, or
254 MAN'S HIGHEST PURPOSE
the Hermetic Art, as it was often called in the Middle Ages.
Readers are recommended to read it often and meditate on
it. What has not been explained cannot be said, because
it must not be revealed. He who will seek will quite surely
find the right meaning of each word.
