{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__anonymous___exposure_of_h_dennis_bradley.pdf","mytitle":"Exposure Of H Dennis Bradley","mylang":"de"}
{
.
EXPOSURE OF
H. DENNIS BRADLEY
Being an Account of his Efforts to Discredit a
Famous Voice Medium and " Smash Spiritualism...
With GEORGE VALIANTINE'S REPLY
THE HEBREW PROPHET.
Tom Charman's Pen and Ink Impression of the Psychic
Picture on the smoked paper. See pages II and 13.
INTERNATIONAL PSYCHIC GAZETTE, LTD.
Price Thieepence.
69, High Holborn, London, W.C.x
THE PICTURES BRADLEY FAILED TO SEE,
TOM CHARMAN'S IMPRESSIONS OF THE PSYCffiC PICTURES ON ·SMOKED PAPERS.
No. J.-The Lanky·haired Fellow. No. 2.-The Antiquated Lean Lady. No. 3.-The
Swan. No. 4.-The Laughing Lady. No. 5.-The Old Man. No. 6.-The British
Officer. No. 7.-Mr. Lloyd George. No. 8.-The Comical Cat. No. 9.-The Old Turk.
No. io.-The Donkey's Head. No. ir.-The Lady's Profile (betweens and 8).
Nos. t, 2 and 8 represent what Mr. Bradley calls" The Alleged Doyle Imprints," and
No. 7 represents what be calls the " Alleged Lord Dewar Imprint." And all four be
suggests were made by George Valiantine's toe in the dark ! Could absurdity go further?
Dennis Bradley's "Exposure" of
George Valiantine
and His Efforts to Smash Spiritualism.
Reprinted by special reqi~est from THE I N TERNATIONAL
Psvcmc GAZETTE for November and December.
Chapter I.
MR. H. DENNIS BRADLEY, author of " The Wisdom
of the Gods," " Towards the Stars" and other notable
works, has just launched a new book bearing the enigmatic
title of " . And After" (T. Werner Laurie, Ltd., 10/6).
A NEWSPAPER'S PRELIMINARY PUFF.
Even before its publication its sensational character was
proclaimed by a " Daily Express Special Representative " in an
article, based on an interview with Mr. Bradley himself, which
had the following scare headings :-
" Tricks of a Famous Spiritualist Medium Exposed."
" Finger-prints of the Dead Faked."
" Big Toe used as ' Spirit ' at a Seance."
" Medium Caught in Act of Fraud."
"Mr. D. Bradley's Exposures."
The writer of the article is probably the same scribe who a
few days before had made a virulent anti-Spiritualist stunt for
the Express out of an alleged medium's alleged confession with
the following attractive titles :-
" Medium's Amazing Confession."
" Hundreds Duped by Pretence of Spirit Guide."
" Seance Frauds." .
"His Own Voice in the Trumpet."
" Seance Quackery Revelations."
Our contemporary Light promptly and cleverly identified
the subject of this article, a man named Beare, with an unnamed
medium who had already made a similar " confession " in the
Catholic Times, which paper described him as " a Catholic who
strayed and now repents," wishing " to return to the faith of my
fathers, trusting God will forgive me for being an arch-deceiver
for thirteen years ! " The Catholic connection with this virulent
attack on Spiritualism should not be overlooked.
Similarly Mr. Dennis Bradley reveals in his new book :-
" I am on intimate terms with several of the leaders of the
Catholic Church," who "have discussed my psychical studies
with me at considerable length." He says further that " to
seek to replace such artistry and beauties (as those of the Catholic
Church) by banal services conducted by ignorant and illiterate
mediums and preachers, with confused ideas and a smattering
I
of knowledge, is absurd." His leanings, therefore, like Beare's,
are at present distinctly away from Spiritualism and towards
" a return to the faith of my fathers."
THE PURPOSE OF THE BOOK.
The Express's :flattering recommendation of Mr. Bradley's
book reveals its intention thus :-
" Spiritualists the world over will find their faith shaken
to its roots by disclosures which are made in a book to be
published in England at the beginning of next month. The
author is Mr. H. Dennis Bradlev, one of the leaders of the
Spiritualist movement in this country" (sic).
But was he ever a Spiritualist leader? We have never heard
of his following. He was not, however, denied an ornamental
place at the tail of the movement.
The article continues :-
" George Valiantine, an American, hitherto regarded
by Spiritualists as the greatest medium of all-a man beyond
reproach-is exposed as a trickster."
Few Spiritualists in this country have ever seen Valiantine,
who was always strictly reserved by Mr. Bradley for the entertain-
ment of himself and his distinguished friends. Other Spiritualists
had no chance of witnessing his phenomena, but they had no
reason to believe that Mr. Bradley's glowing descriptions of his
superlative gifts and personal honesty were untrue.
A SIMILAR " EXPOSURE " RECALLED.
As for his now being " exposed as a trickster " by Mr. Bradley
and his two clever confederates, Noel Jaquin and Charles Sykes,
we believe that is probably no more true than that honest William
Hope, the famous psychic photographer, was " exposed as a
trickster " by Harry Price, with the assistance of Eric Dingwall
and James Seymour. Just as Hope's character was triumphantly
vindicated by a critical analysis of the crafty one-sided story
of his accusers, so we predict will Valiantine's, when Bradley's
bold assertion of guesses as facts, and his own admitted guile
and craft during the experiments, are subjected to the same
process. It strikes us that this whole story of Valiantine's
" decline and fall," when carefully read in the book, smacks
much more of the nature of a cunning Jesuitical plot than of
a fair-minded and impartial inquiry.
" SPIRIT IMPRESSIONS."
The Express report continues :-
" At a series of seances held at Mr. Dennis Bradlev's
house, with George Valiantine as the medium, a number..of
' spirit impressions 'were produced. These spirit impressions
were found to have been produced by Valiantine himself."
Now it is not true to say that these impressions, whatever
they were, " were found to have been produced by Valiantine."
If they were actual " spirit impressions " he had, of course,
nothing whatever to do with them, beyond providing (along
2
with the other mediums present) the essential element of his
mediumistic organisation for their production by spirit entities.
Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace once defined a medium as " a person
in whose presence psychical phenomena happen." They do not
happen without the presence of mediums, and when they do
happen it is not because the mediums have indulged in pranks
or conjuring tricks with hands or toes or elbow joints !
If, on the other hand, it is claimed that the imprints were
"physical impressions" produced by George Valiantine's or
anybody else's toes, Mr. Bradley must first prove that that
was physically possible. in the circumstances under which they
were produced.
THE CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE EXPERIMENTS.
Let us try to visualise the scene from the particulars given
in the book.
There is a small circle in Mr. Bradley's house on February 20,
1931, consisting of Mr. and Mrs. Bradley, Mr. and Mrs. Charles
Sykes, Mr. Noel Jaquin, and Mr. Valiantine. (It is just as well
to mention here that Valiantine was a guest in Mr. Bradley's
house, and was giving his services in a long series of seances
without a penny of reward) :-
"The circle was a carefully chosen one," says the author,
"because each of the sitters was experienced, and one
could rely on meticulous observation, and also on expert
knowledge of imprints.
" We all dined together, and immediately prior to the
sitting, which began at 8.50 p.m., Mr. Jaquin carefully
smoked two sheets of blank foolscap paper.
" One of these sheets was placed on top of a small, but
heavy, old oak coffin stool, and the other on the carpet
beneath the stool.
" The sheet on the top of the swol was placed on a blotting
pad, measuring I4t inches by 9} inches.
" The coffin stool has four bars, 2 inches thick, at the
bottom between each of the four legs, and standing rt inches
from the floor.
" The four legs are zt inches square in thickness.
"The sheet of smoked paper on the floor was placed
underneath two of the legs of the stool.
" The sitting was, of course, held in darkness, with the
exception of the distinct luminosity from the spots on the
diagonal wires on the celluloid trumpet."
WERE PHYSICAL IMPRESSIONS POSSIBLE ?
No particulars are given as to the position in the room or the
height of the coffin stool, and these may be of consequence.
Was the stool, for example, within easy reach of Valiantine's
toes or not? That should have been stated.
Was there space for a man's foot to pass between the bars
of the small stool and so reach the paper under the legs of the
stool?
3
Assuming that there was, a barrier 3l inches from the floor
all round the stool inhibited free access to the floor. Would
it be possible for anyone to curve his foot over this 31} inches
high barrier so as to enable him to reach the smoked paper lying
on the carpet with his big toe, and make such an impression of its
delicate lines and ridges that it could afterwards be identified?
A CHALLENGE TO MR. BRADLEY.
If Mr. Bradley thinks that feat is possible he ought to
demonstrate it himself before independent witnesses. We
challenge him to do it.
As for the paper on the blotting-pad on the top of the stool,
to make a toe imprint on it would, it seems to us, be still more
difficult. Even if the paper lay no higher than the seat of the
medium's chair, he might perhaps get an impression of the back
of his heel by stretching forth his foot, but it is difficult to see
how he could curve round his big toe to the paper to make any
sort of imprint at all. But again Mr. Bradley will perhaps oblige
by himself showing its possibility ?
Then, even if these feats could be successfully accomplished
by some extraordinary mobility of foot, no skin impressions
could be made unless the experimenter's shoes and socks were
off, and there is no evidence at all that Valiantine's were ever off.
He was carefully guarded by three meticulous observers, who
were only too ready to pounce on him and catch him flagrante
delicto, had he made the slightest suspicious movement.
Also, if his toes had been pressed on the smoked paper, surely
some sign of the carbon would have been found when Valiantine
was afterwards stripped and examined, but no trace of any
carbon was found on his toes or anywhere else.
THE " ELBOW JOINT " EPISODE.
There is also a question of Valiantine having made an impression
of his elbow joint in a tin of melted wax, though it is difficult
to see what purpose there could be in doing so, for it would prove
nothing. Had he wanted to do so he would have had to pull up
the sleeves of his coat, shirt, and vest in the presence of
his watchful guard, make his mark with his elbow joint, and pull
them down again, without arousing suspicion, but there is not
an atom of evidence that he did any of these things. It is true
that a green stain was afterwards found on his elbow, but that
can be perfectly explained in the light of psychic science without
concluding that his elbow was ever near the wax.
Looked at from the purely physical point of view the misdeeds
attributed to Valiantine by his accusers seem not only silly
and purposeless but also impossible.
It is incumbent on Mr. Bradley to prove that they were
physically possible in the circumstances under which they
are supposed to have been done. If he fails to prove that
possibility then his whole case falls to the ground.
He will then bave to withdraw his book and his cruel aspersions,
4
which have been broadcast throughout the world, against
Valiantine's probity. As a man of honour it would also be his
duty to apologise to the hitherto inoffensive and honest medium
he has so grossly wronged.
IF SUPERNORMAL NOTHING IMPOSSIBLE.
If, however, the imprints on the paper were genuinely super-
normal-that is, made by spirit operators-then nothing is
impossible. Physical barriers could not prevent them from
impressing smoked paper either on the stool or under the stool,
and these impressions could be whatever they pleased, whether
a butterfly's wing or a bird's foot, or the thumb of a disembodied
spirit, or the facsimile of any living person's heels or toes or
elbow joints. Neither the medium nor the sitters would have
any part in making such psychic impressions, and they would
not be responsible for whatever happened. Their guides, controls
and psychic operators would alone be responsible.
It is inconceivable that Valiantine's long-tried, faithful, and
honest guides would have impressed a facsimile of his toes to
imitate existing impressions of thumbs, whether of Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle, Lord Dewar, or anybody else, and thus destroy
the good name of their medium. Mischievous or mal-intentioned
spirits might do so, to gratify the wish of their own particular
mediums.
WHOSE MEDIUMSHIP ?
Now Valiantine's phase of mediumship ·is for the "direct
voice." He makes no pretensions to " physical mediumship,"
such as would be required for the kind of psycho-physical
phenomena produced. But Mr. Dennis Bradley does. He writes
(page 303) :- •
" On certain occasions, physical phenomena, and also
voice phenomena of a distinctive nature, have occurred at
the private sittings held under the mediumship of my wife
and myself, when Valiantine has not been present, or even
in this country. These distinctive phenomena have, later
on, taken place similarly while Mrs. Bradley and myself
have been sitting under the mediumship of Valiantine. On
one occasion when Valiantine was visiting England, a family
sitting was held, especially in order that Valiantine might
observe certain phenomena which had not occurred under
his own mediumship."
The italics are Mr. Bradley's own, and they emphasise a point
that is important, namely, that certain phenomena sometimes
occurred during seances for which neither Valiantine nor his
guides were responsible, but for which Mr. and Mrs. Bradley
and their guides were. It seems hardly fair that the Bradleys
should appropriate all the kudos when things go right and that
Valiantine should be shouldered with all the responsibility when
curious unexplained physical phenomena happen.
THE 1925 EXPERIMENTS.
Let us now give a history of these so-called " expei:iments,"
* 5
that have all taken place in Mr. Bradley's own house, with a
summary of the results. We here quote from page 296 of the
book:-
" When Valiantine was in England in 1925, when
discussing with Mr. Noel Jaquin the phenomena of
materialised hands, which occasionally touch sitters during
seances, he suggested that if the spirit hands touched various
of the sitters, then these hands could be placed upon smoked
paper and an imprint could be obtained.
" The first experiment was made on April 18, 1925, with
only Mrs. Bradley, Valiantine and myself present. At the
end of the seance, when the lights were turned on, it was
discovered that on one sheet there was the imprint of a
hand with four fingers and also part of the thumb. On
the other sheet there was the imprint of the two feet of a
bird. Now these imprints have never been
scientifically explained. They have been studied by
many experts, who have not to this day been able to
determine how they could have been produced by normal
means."
A BUTTERFLY'S "DRAGGED" EFFECT.
A further experiment was made on April 23, 1925, when Mr.
Jaquin and Mr. and Mrs. Sykes joined Mr. and Mrs. Bradley
and Valiantine. Two further imprints were obtained, namely,
the signature of 0 . B. Everett and the delicate velvety imprint
of a butterfly lying on its back. There was no suggestion then
that these imprints were made by Valiantine's toes, although
it is .admitted there was a " dragged " effect in the butterfly
impression. It was a similar effect in 1931 that suggested to
Mr. Bradley that the s.moked paper must have been "moved"-
and by Valiantine's toes; kine illae lacrimae ! Mr. Sykes in his
report stresses how difficult it would have been for any human
hand to have made this butterfly impression with an india rubber
stamp owing to the cross-bars at the foot of the stool, and Mr.
Jaquin says :-"I am convinced that these are supernormal
imprints."
COLLECTING THUMB•PRINTS.
There were no further experiments of this nature until
February, 1931, about six years later. Mr. Bradley had in the
interval been taking thumb-prints from famous men, including
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Lord Dewar, in the hope that after
their death they might he able to give identical impressions
as proofs of their survival. Valiantine was quite willing to sit
in experiments with this intention. Mr. Bradley says " the
series of imprint sittings were devoted to materialistic attempts
to obtain physical phenomena." Valiantine's mediumistic gifts
are not adapted for securing such " physical " phenomena,
but as we have seen above Mr. and Mrs. Bradley's are. That
is very important, and should be kept in mind.
6
THE 1931 PHENOMENA-A WARNING !
Now we give a summary of the essential facts in the first two
of the 1931 series of sittings :--
February 19, l93r.- Valiantine sits with Mr. and Mrs. Bradley
for " voices " only. " Thirteen different and distinct spirit voices
manifested," and among them that of Mr. Bradley's own sister
Annie, who said, " as if endeavouring to give him some urgent
warning" :-" Herbert- it's Annie. Be careful ! Be careful ! "
Mr. Bradley could not understand this warning, but it is not
unreasonable to believe that it was a warning to be careful of his
own conduct in the " experimental " sittings he was about to
begin, and it is a pity he did not take this warning, though it
"remained stamped upon his mind."
" THE DOYLE VOICE I "
February 20, l93r.-First experimental sitting for imprints.
Present :-Mr. and Mrs. Bradley, Mr. and Mrs. Sykes, Mr. Jaquin,
and Valiantine. Conditions obviously not good. Com-
munications few and short. " A voice, speaking in a light and
somewhat husky whisper, said, ' Bradley-Doyle . . . Arthur
Doyle." And a little later, "I am trying to give an imprint."
Bradley says he could not recognise this husky whispering voice
as Sir Arthur's. It claimed, " This is the first time I have spoken
in this way," which he knows cannot be true of Sir Arthur's.
It was obviously an impersonation. Nevertheless, " for the
purposes of the prosecution," he calls it hereafter " The Doyle
Voice." " George Gregory " told his brother-in-law Jaquin that
" he would endeavour to help in obtaining a supernormal
imprint." "Pat O'Brien" said, "You know, Mr. Bradley,
Doyle has been trying to get his imprint through."
MR. JA QUIN'S OPINION.
The sitting closes. Impressions are found on the two pieces
of paper, placed on and under the stool. Mr. Jaquin "fixes"
them with a solution and takes them away to "compare them
with the original imprint of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's hand,
which he had in his possession."
Next morning Jaquin telephones to Bradley that "he had
studied the imprints, and so far as he could see, they
corresponded with Doyle's ! "
This "expert " opinion should be noted for these imprints
later become part of the dossier convicting Valiantine of
fraudulently making them with his toes !
MISLEADING LABELS.
Photographic reproductions of them appear in the book with
thP. following labels :-
" Exhibit No. r.-A photograph of the smoked paper as found
and fixed after the seance held at Dorincourt on Friday,
Febru~ry 20, l93r. During this seance a 'voice ' alleged
that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was 'trying to get an imprint
through.' "
7
"Exhibit No. 2.---A photograph of the smoked paper placed
underneath the stool at the seance on February 20, 193r.
The curious indentation may have been caused by uneven
pressure."
The suggestio falsi of these labels will be obvious.
SPIRIT ARTISTS AT WORK.
Not being experts we can only speak of these imprints as they
appear. We find no sign of any visible imprints of either a
thumb or a toe, but we do see curious markings which suggest
that spirit artists have been having quite a game with Bradley
and his expert associates ! There is, for example, on No. I,
a swan's long neck with head erect, which may signify that this
was the occasion of Bradley's Spiritualistic swan song ! Close
beside it, under Bradley's signature, there is a laughing lady's
face, well thrown back, as if she is enjoying the joke. And
upside down there is a comical fellow with lanky hair and a
pointed nose. On No. 2 there is, in the centre, an old man's
white face, with a big nose, square jaw, and retreating forehead ,
and at the side what may be the back view of a group of children's
heads.
CONTRADICTORY ACCOUNTS.
We think it well to quote in full the three contradictory
accounts given of these first imprints :-
(r).-BRADLEY writes on February 21 (page 319) :-"At
about 9 a.m. on the morning of February 21, Mr. Jaquin
telephoned me. He told me that he had studied the imprints,
and so far as he could see they corresponded with Doyle's."
(2).-JAQUIN writes on February 21 (page 378) :-" On
the following morning I carefully examined the original
imprints of the hands of the late Sir Arthur Conan Doyle,
which were taken by me in 1925. I could find no point of
resemblance to the seance prints, the origin of which I felt
to be extremely doubtful."
(3).-JAQUIN in his "Report on the Imprints, Deductions
and Conclusions" (page 383) writes :--" On Friday, the 20th,
the first imprint was later (sic) discovered to be a right toe.
Owing to the normal impression being blurred it was
impossible to obtain sufficient data to establish fraud."
Our italics, to indicate that an intention to make an allegation
of fraud against Valiantine was in the minds of his inquisitors
from the very beginning !
MORE ARTISTIC EFFECTS.
We find later on in the book that it is the lanky-haired fellow
who has been spotted as the alleged toe print ! He has been
very artistically enlarged and in the process has become trans-
formed illto an antiquated lean lady, with white goffered cap,
ruffle round the neck, shawl over the shoulders, wearing dark
spectacles, and-like Maggie Tulliver's famous doll and the very
finest Greek sculpture-sadly battered as to the nose ! This
artistic production (the alleged fraudulent attempt to produce
8
•
Sir A. Conan Doyle's thumb-print) is printed as E xhibit II
page 340, alongside a "normal impression of the right big toe of
George Valiantine."
The two companion pictures are no more resemblances than
chalk is like cheese.
A REFERENCE REQUIRED.
All the same the " Daily Express Special Representative "
says :-" Ex-Chief Detective-Inspector Bell, who examined as a
finger-print expert the ' spirit ' impressions secured at the
Valiantine seances and the toe and finger prints of the medium,
declared :-' The resemblance between them is exact . In a
court of law the resemblance would be sufficient to hang a man
charged with murder.' "
We must call upon this Express journalist for his reference,
for this pretended quotation is neither in Inspector Bell's Report,
printed in full, nor anywhere else in the book ! Nor anything
the least like it !
EX-INSPECTOR BELL'S REPORT.
The Ex-Inspector's Report is almost entirely confined to
one isolated item, namely, his search for " points of similarity "
between what Mr. Bradley calls " the supernormal impression
of one of the alleged Lord Dewar imprints " and a " normal
impression " of Valiantine's left toe. There is no general
resemblance between them, but the ex-Inspector was paid as
" an expert " to find " points of similarity " in their lines and
ridges, and professes to have found eighteen. He was not asked
to find their " points of essential difference " and has, therefore,
nothing to report on that head, but these are the crux of the
whole matter, and some of them could have been pointed out
to Mr. Bradley for nothing by any intelligent school child !
"THE DOYLE VOICE" SAYS "I WILL TRY."
We now continue our summary of the seances :-
Febritary zr.-Same sitters as last. The only new element
in the conditions is that Sykes has brought a cigarette tin filled
with modelling wax, which is placed on the stool beside the
smoked paper. " Pat O'Brien," when asked if there would be
further imprints, replied that " Doyle was trying to do so," and
the alleged " Doyle Voice," slightly huskier than before, says
"I will try and do so," in reply to a request by J aquin that he
should give an imprint of his index finger. A childish feminine
voice, recognised as that of " Honey," one of Valiantine's guides,
volunteered the statement, " I have put my hand on the paper."
\Vhen the lights are put up " certain impressions" are found
on the smoked paper which was on the top of the stool, but only
" meaningless scrolls " on that underneath. Nothing on the
modelling wax.
QUITE AN ART GALLERY !
. Mr. Jaquin took the sheets away for examination, but made
no report on them-why not ? They are printed as Exhibits
9
No. 3 and No. 4 in the book. Among the "certain impressions"
we find an excellent picture of a British officer wearing his service
cap, and immediately in front of him the profile of a lady, whose
chin, nose, and front hair are touched with light. Then in the
middle there is the face of an old Turk, whose headdress is half
pulled off. Above him is a comical looking cat, which has perhaps
done the deed, and has turned its face round in its flight to see
whether it is purused. The so-called " meaningless scrolls " are
like a child's attempt to draw a donkey's head and jaw on a slate.
It has quite a droll appearance. Valiantine's toes must be
rather clever, to do such pretty sketches in the dark !
VALIANTINE BRINGS UP BLOOD.
February 22.-When Valiantine retired to bed the previous
night be had coughed violently and brought up a quantity of
blood. He wished to sit with Mr. and Mrs. Bradley alone on this
date in order to consult " Dr. Barnett," one of his spirit-guides.
The doctor told him there was no need to worry, as in the efforts
for materialisation they were compelled to use not only his ecto-
plasmic forces but also his blood. The blood taken from him
had not been properly re-assimilated by his body at the end
of the seance.
"THE DEWAR VOICE!"
" One of the most fluent and remarkable voice seances I have
ever known " is Mr. Bradley's description of what followed.
Twenty-six different voices manifested. But near the end, a
whispering husky voice (probably the same as impersonated
Doyle), announced itself as "Dewar." It sounded in no way
like that of the late Lord Dewar and pronounced the name as
" Do-er " and not Dew-er. Bradley says this " may indicate
impersonation.'· Of course it did. The speaker said he had
" tried " to get his index finger on the wax on the previous
evening, the zrst. He did not say he had succeeded, and no
discernible impressions were, in fact, found on the wax.
February 23.-The Bradleys, Sykes, Jaquin, and Valiantine
were the sitters. Besides the smoked paper Sykes had brought
a tin of softer wax. What Bradley now calls the " Lord Dewar
Voice," this time "weak and muffled," said, "I have tried to
give an imprint." The impersonator only said he had "tried."
After the seance the two sheets of paper were " fixed " with
solution and examined. Photographs of these are given in the
book, and the labels attached to them are very carefully devised
to cunningly suggest that the imprints were made by Lord Dewar
himself, though Mr. Bradley knew very well that all the evidence
indicated that the spirit claiming to be Lord Dewar was an
impersonator.
VERY CURIOUS MARKINGS.
Mr. Jaquin makes no report on these, but this is how they
appear to us :-
Exhibit No. 5.-This paper shows a very dark part and a
much lighter part. On the dark part are two blobs of a medium
IO
'
'
shade, one of which is indefinite in shape, and the other is rather
a good attempt at a likeness of Mr. Lloyd George, with his shaggy
hair. On the top of the black part is the representation of an
old man, with a well-rounded head, an enormous Punch-like
nose, and a small projecting chin as if he had lost all his teeth.
Exhibit No. 6.-We see no imprint whatever on this smoked
paper taken from under the stool, but the whole smoky mass
makes a very curious picture. It portrays an old Hebrew prophet
in long voluminous robes. He has abundant white hair and a
long flowing white beard. His two hands are held up as if in
remonstrance. His left foot is seen under the skirt of his robe,
but his right foot is off the edge of the paper, the right leg being
outstretched as if in the act of kicking someone outside the
pale!
THE EXCUSE FOR BRADLEY'S CAMPAIGN.
This is the smoked paper which Bradley says " had been
moved during the seance." He does not say so in so many
words, but he means by Valiantine's toe ! There were six pairs
of toes in the circle, but it is Valiantine's he is after. This is
the beginning of what may become known as "The Famous
Bradley Toe Fiasco," and we must leave the dramatic story
of its tragical development for another chapter.
It will be noted that up to this date there had been no signs
of success excepting in the first imprints which Jaquin mistakenly
thought "corresponded with Doyle's." Valiantine has taken no
part in these seances beyond sitting in silence to help with his
psychic power. He has made no claim that he could produce
the thumb imprints of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle or Lord Dewar
or anybody else. This was a series of experiments which might
be successful or they might not. If not successful it did not
matter a brass farthing to him. This was not his phase of
mediumship and he was not being paid by results ; he was,
in fact, being paid nothing. If successful he would have been
gratified because it would have pleased Bradley, and would
have been a good piece of evidence of survival.
The impersonator of the "Doyle and Dewar Voices" was
obviously none of his guides or controls, but a mischievous entity
attracted by some sinister influence in the seance room. We
shall see later how from such a small matter as the suspected
" movement " of a smoked sheet Bradley found a starting point
for his determined campaign to denounce his friend and guest,
whom he had called the greatest medium in the world, as a fraud
and a cheat. We shall also find the probable psychological
reasons for his extraordinary change of attitude.
II
· ·· ·chapter·IL ' • ' • I
I NTRODUCTJON.-Last n\enth we mentioned cogent reasons for believing
it was physically impossible for Va.liantine to malle toe prints on the smalled
paper lying.on anq -µnder the .coffin-stool in Bradley's seance room. We
challenged Bradley to himself perform the feat before independent witnesses
if he thought it possible, out he has met our challenge with silence !
We also called upon the DAILY EXPRESS to supply the reference to a
pretended quotation from an alleged declaration by E~'-Chief Detective
Inspector Bell, but again we are met by silence, though we called the Chief
Editor's personal attention to the matter.
The fair inference to be di•awn is that Bradley cannot demonstrate the
·physical possibil'ity of doing what he denounces JIa.liantine fo-r having
done, and that the EXPRESS cannot give the reference to a quotation which
never existed.-ED., I .P.G.
OUR readers will recall that when the curtain dropped at
the dose of the First Act in Mr. Dennis Bradlev's ridiculous
farce, as described in our last issue, two sn10ked sheets
were taken from above and below the coffin-stool.
TWO FAINT BLOBS.
·On the dark smoky part of the sheet on top of the stool were
two faint blobs of a medium shade, the first of them indefinite
in shape, and the second rather like Mr. Lloyd George, but neither
of them the least like anybody's toe-prints !
These two faint blobs are what Mr. Bradley hereafter calls
" the alleged Dewar prints," on which he principally bases his
allegations of fraud against his guest, George Valiantine, the
American medium.
NO RIDGES VISIBLE.
We have carefully examined these blobs on the photograph
of the smoked paper (Exhibit 5) with the most powerful microscope
at our disposal, and can find no trace whatever of any skin ridges
or lines of either thumbs or toes !
THE ADVENT OF THE RIDGES.
These blobs, however, when reproduced as Exhibit 9, are
artistically enlarged, and are covered with a profusion of beautiful
digital furrows and ridges, not visible in the originals ! These
enlargements afe placed alongside a print of" George Valiantine's
left big toe," also covered with 'furrows and ridges, and Mr.
Bradley confidently announces on his label :-"All of these
digital impressions·are the same."
INSPECTOR BELL'S REPORT.
A still further enlargement of part of one of these blobs (with
the artistic ridges and furrows), was submitted later to Ex-Chief
Inspector Bell, along with an enlargement of part of the imprint
of Valiantine's left big toe, and the Inspector reported :-
" Both the impressions submitted to me are, without
doubt, of the sam~ type of pattern, ai:d disclose skin ridge
characteristics which agree not only m type, but also in
the sequence in which they appear.
" In short, the peculiarities shown in one impression are
to be found reproduced in the other.
I2
IJ
" El.ghteen of these clearly defined ridge characteristics,
which are in agreement, are marked in each case hy means
of lines drawn and numbered."
THE PECULIARITIES REPRODUCED.
We have emphasised in black type what seems to us to be
the essential part of this report, namely :-" The peculiarities
shown in one impression are to be found Reproduced in the other,"
and again we lay emphasis on the· word "REPRODUCED."
For the Inspector was not furnished with the original
documents, as he should have been if an opinion of any true
value was desired, but ·with " photographic copies " in which
the lines on the one were " found reproduced on the other ! "
INFERENCES THAT MAY BE DRAWN.
Is not the only inference that can be fairly drawn from this
report, that some photographic artist had faithfully carried out
the work entrusted to him of "reproducing" Valiantine's toe
lines on "the alleged Dewar print"? Not, as Mr. Bradley
would suggest, that Valiantine had taken off his shoes and socks
in the dark and made a toe impression on the paper on top of
the stool in the presence of Bradley, Jaquin, and Sykes, without
their being cognisant of his clever and, indeed, impossible feat?
"THE PAPER HAD BEEN MOVED!"
The second smoked paper, the one lying on the carpet and
underneath the coffin-stool, showed no sign of any imprint at all,
but the whole smoky mass formed a strange picture of a Hebrew
prophet in his voluminous robes. Bradley says on the label
attached to this picture (Exhibit No. 8) :-
'' It will be seen by the distinct light patch that the smoked
paper had been moved during the seance."
By " the distinct light patch " he refers to the prophet's long
white beard, which is naturally a little hazy in outline ; but
the sharp clear outlines of .his priestly robe and left toe show
not the slightest trace of movement.
Moreover, if is difficult to see how this particular piece of
paper could have been moved, even if all the big toes in the
room had made a combined effort to do it, for it was firmly pinned
down on the carpet by two legs of the heavy coffin-stool, and
it was guarded all round by a stout rail, 3t inches high above
the floor, which reached down to rt inches from the carpet !
But this pretended evidence of a " movement of the paper "
starts Bradley on his vigilant hunt for Valiantine's toe ! It
forms a picturesque episode in his play and we leave Bradley
to describe it in his own words :-
BRADLEY'S OWN STORY.
SECURING VALIANTINE'S TOE-PRINTS.
" 'When Valiantine and the others had left the seance room
Mr. Jaquin and I had a talk together, and we arranged that he
should take the impressions of the big toes of Valiantine and
of all those present in the circle.
13
" He therefore at once prepared fresh sheets of smoked paper.
We then joined the others, and I told them it was absolutely
necessary that every possible precaution should be taken, and
that I would like them to agree to have their toe prints taken.
" When I made the suggestion, although I avoided looking
straight towards Valiantine's direction, I could notice that, in his
manner, he did not seem at all disturbed. . . .
JAQUIN PERFORMS THE CEREMONY.
" The four men returned to the seance room, and Mr. Jaquin
first took an impression of his own toes-right and left.
Valiantine then took off his shoes and socks quite quickly and,
taking a sheet of the smoked paper, was about to make the
impression himself [as Jaquin had just done] , when Mr. Jaquin
intercepted him. Mr. Jaquin took hold of Valiantine's right
and left toes, and took the impression of them in the manner
he desired.
" In turn the toe impressions of the other sitters, Mr. Charles
Sykes and myself, were taken, and then those of Mrs. Sykes
and Mrs. Bradley.
AN ALLEGED DISCOVERY.
" After these impressions had been completed and the paper
fixed, we compared Valiantine's toe-prints with the alleged
spirit imprints which had been obtained during the evening.
[Why were all the other toe-prints ignored?] Mr. Jaquin at
once observed the similarity. · [Just as he had done in the case
of the earliest "imprints," which he first told Bradley "corresponded
with Doyle's," and during the same morning wrote he "could
find no point of resemblance " ; and in his Report said :-" The
first imprint was later discovered to be a right toe ! " This
finger-print expert marches rapidly from one extremity to
another : first, Doyle's thumb imprint ; second, not so ; third,
a toe !J
BRADLEY ALSO OBSERVES THE SIMILARITY.
" I had that day purchased two powerful magnifying ·glasses
for the purpose of examination [this incident had evidently been
prepared for], and on comparison I also observed the similarity.
[Though none to be seen !]
VALIANTINE ACCUSED !
"After the taking of the toe-prints Valiantine and the other
sitters had returned to the drawing-room. I rejoined them,
and asked Valiantine quite genially [sic] to come and glance
at the imprints. He then joined Mr. J aquin and myself in the
seance room. Mr. Jaquin handed him the two smoked sheets,
the one containing the impression obtained during the seance
["the alleged Dewar print "] and the other of Valiantine's left toe.
Mr. Jaquin, in a casual manner, remarked:-' Have a look at
this, George ; they look rather similar to your left toe.'
"It must be understood that both Mr. Jaquin and myself,
throughout the whole of this incident, were purposely very
easy and friendly in our manner toward Valiantine. ·
14
VALIANTINE'S EMPHATIC REPLY.
"When Mr. Jaquin handed the two sheets to Valiantine for
comparison, I watched Valiantine closely. As he took the
sheets his hands trembled slightly. This was the first sign of
agitation he displayed. He had hardly glanced at the imprints
for more than two seconds when he said :-' I can't see any
similarity. They are not at all the same.'
CALMING VALIANTINE.
" We did not wish, at this period, to disturb Valiantine any
further, so we laughingly endeavoured to calm him by telling
him how curious similarities such as these do sometimes occur
with skin imprints.
"Mr. Jaquin took away with him that night the seance imprints
and also the toe imprints, and I asked him to have photographs
taken of them as soon as possible the next day."
THE EVIDENCE TO DATE.
Now let us review the development thus far of the attempt
to convict Valiantine of making dead men's thumb-prints by
means of his toes !
Three " imprint seances" have been held, on February 20,
21 and 23.
On February 20, there was obtained what Mr. Bradley calls
" the alleged Doyle imprint," which looked like a lanky-haired
fellow in the unenlarged photograph, and like an antiquated
lean lady in the enlarged version, artistically touched up with a
profusion of pretty lines !
On February 21 another " alleged Doyle imprint " was spotted,
which looks like a comical cat in the small photograph, but loses
most of that resemblance in the touched-up enlargement.
On February 23, two "alleged Lord Dewar imprints" were
found on the smoked paper, one indefinite in shape and the other
rather like Lloyd George. They bear no resemblance to any
mark that could have been made by anybody's toe, but later on,
mirabile dictu, they are found in touched-up photographic enlarge-
ments to exhibit the identical ridges and furrows of Valiantine's
toe!
THE FINAL SEANCE.
'Ne shall now resume our summary of the "imprint seances."
There were to be three more, but the next was the last.
February 27, l93I.-Present, the Bradleys, the Sykes, Jaquin,
and Valiantine. Few voices spoke and what they said " was
practically of no account." " Bert Everett," in shrill tones,
announced, "Segrave is here." After a lengthy pause "Bert"
said " Exquisite ! " a word he frequently utters. Bradley
asked-" What is exquisite ? Do you mean that we have got an
imprint through ? " " Bert "-" Yes." Bradley-" Whose ? "
"Bert"-" Segrave's."
When the lights were switched on several "imprints" were
found on the smoked sheet on top of the stool, " one of which
was apparently a finger." Bradley's label on the photographed
15
copy of this sheet says :-" There are several impressions of
elbow joints, a finger impression, and also skin ridge markings.
During the seance it was alleged that an imprint has been given
by the late Sir Henry Segrave."
" THIRD DEGREE" IN TORTURE CHAMBER.
The ladies at this stage left the seance room, and waited in
the drawing-room until between two and three in the morning,
while the three men worked their cruel will on the gentle, honest,
unsuspicious Valiantine. This particular chapter in the book is
entitled "The Collapse of Valiantine," and though it is an ugly
story, it is narrated by Bradley with an air of personal triumph.
We again think it well to let the author tell his tale in his own
way:-
BRADLEY'S PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS.
" Mr. Sykes, Mr. Jaquin, Valiantine and myself then each
examined the imprints closely in turn under the magnifying
glass. I remarked casually, but with a purpose, that they were
certainly quite different from those obtained at the previous
imprint sittings, and added, also with design, ' If it can bP. proved
that these imprints could not be made by anyone who was present
in this room to-night, then it will be possible to assume that
they are supernormal.'
IMPRINTS OF VALIANTINE'S FEET.
" I stated that we must take every precaution to ensure absolute
proof. This afforded Mr. J aquin the opportunity to suggest
that he should take the impression of the whole foot of Valiantine.
To this Valiantine readily agreed, and Mr. J aquin took the
impressions of both of his feet, including his heels. The object
of this was to discover if there were any signs of methylene green.
I did not anticipate that there would be. Assuming a very
ordinary craftiness on the part of Valiantine, it did not appear
to me logical he would be likely, in view of what had happened
previously, to repeat the same type of fraudulent performance.
[Up to now there had been no sign of any " fraudulent
performance " on Valiantine's part.]
" FOR PURPOSES OF COMPARISON."
" It was useful, however, for Mr. J aquin to obtain further
imprints of Valiantine's feet for the purposes of comparison
with the imprints which had been previously obtained. [A very
different purpose for which they might be useful occurs to us !]
" While his feet imprints were being taken Valiantine showed
a slight sense of resentment, and said that if his feet imprints
had to be taken, then the feet imprints of every other sitter
should be taken also. [Quite right too, but there is no mention
.of the others having done it !]
JAQUIN CONFRONTS VALIANTINE.
· " While we were discussing this, and Valiantine was replacing
his laced shoes and socks, Mr. Jaquin left the room for a moment
-0r so: H e then returned with the photographic enlargements
16
of the seance imprints obtained on Monday, February 23, and
also the photographic enlargement of Valiantine's big left toe.
[The prints referred to were "the alleged Lord Dewar prints."]
He confronted Valiantine with them, saying, ' How do you
explain this? ' [Valiantine's reply, if any, is not stat ed.]
BRADLEY "A CALM OBSERVER!"
" In view of the happenings which had occurred at the sitting
on this evening I consider that Mr. Jaquin was too precipitate
in his action. I did not interfere in anv way, because although
Mr. J aquin and Mr. Valiantine were both getting slightly excited,
I maintained throughout the attitude and mentality of a calm
observer. It was essential for me to record all the facts. fHe
has just burked what Valiantine had to say in answer to Jaquln.]
Trivialities may occasionally excite me because of their irritation,
but when the moment arrives for essentials to be considered
the effect on me has always been to foster an aloof perspective
in order to obtain a clearer and more penetrative survey.
I interposed, and stopped the slight argument between Mr.
J aquin and Valiantine. I said it was necessary for us to consider
the imprints which had just been obtained.
FINGER PRINTS TAKEN.
" We all examined them again, and in view of the fact that
one of the seance impressions was that of a little finger,
we suggested that impressions must be taken of Valiantine's
little fingers. [Why not of all the others?] Valiantine assented
to this quite readily, and Mr. Jaquin then took them and fixed
the imprints.
" The imprints of Valiantine's fingers, as taken, were certainly
shorter than those of the seance imprint. This, however, might
have possibly been explained by the stretching of the joints.
[Some new magical process !]
" EXPLAIN ·THE .RESEMBLANCE ! "
" Mr. J aquin then asked Valiantine whether he could explain
the resemblance. Valiantine replied firmly and confidently,
but with genuine heat, ' That is not my little finger.' J aquin
then remarked that it was suspiciously like it, to which Valiantine
angrily replied, ' I bet you two hundred pounds that it is not
my little finger.' Mr. Jaquin was slightly nonplussed by this,
and did not pursue the point.
BRADLEY ADMITS " CONSIDERABLE DIFFERENCE."
" Valiantine was peculiarly emphatic when he made this
remark ; so much so that he really appeared confident that
it was not his little finger, and that this could not be proved.
I observed that there was a considerable difference between the
length of the' Segrave 'seance finger imprint [the one in question]
and that of George Valiantine's little finger imprints, taken by
Mr. Jaquin.
JAQUIN'S IMPUDENT SUGGESTION.
"Mr. Jaquin then added to Valiantine, ' If it 1s not your
17
little finger then probably Y?U _have a dummy finger_ in ,your
pocket.' Valiantine became md1gnant at this, and said, You
can search me.'
BRADLEY ADVISES HIS GUEST TO STRIP!
" This gave me [Bradley] the opportunity of suggesting to
Valiantine that for his own sake the best thing for him to do
was to strip and submit to being searched. Valiantine at once
agreed, saying, 'You can strip me; I don't mind being searched
if you agree that everyone else is stripped and searched
afterwards.' To this we all assented.
VALIANTINE'S POCKETS SEARCHED.
" Valiantine then took off his jacket , waistcoat, and trousers,
and I asked Mr. Jaquin to undertake a search of Valiantine's
pockets. The pockets contained only the usual objects a man
carries. [There is no mention of the three inquisitors stripping
or letting Valiantine go through their pockets !]
AN OMISSION.
" I remembered afterwards, however, that Mr. J aquin had
omitted .to examine Valiantine's pocket handkerchief, which, of
course, might have shown traces of the wiping away of the marks
of the smoked paper. This omission was unfortunate, because
a search for all possible traces was particularly essential, having
regard to Valiantine's emphatic challenge that the smoked
paper imprint was not his.
A GREEN STAIN !
"Proceeding with his search, Mr. Jaquin then rolled back
the shirt sleeve of Valiantine's right arm . There were no
concealments and no markings. Rolling back the shirt sleeve
·of the left arm on the elbow was discovered a large stain rJj the
preparation of the finger-print ink and methylene green.
VALIANTINE CANNOT EXPLAIN.
" The stain was pointed out to Valiantine and he was asked
to explain it. He looked at it, appeared somewhat staggered,
and then said, ' I just can't explain it ; what it is I don't know,
or how it got there ? [This reply reminds us of William Hope's
answer, when tricked by Harry Price and Co. We asked him
what had happened and he said, " I have been tricked, but
I don't know how." Had Valiantine examined his inquisitors'
hands and handkerchiefs " for all possible traces " of finger-print
ink and methylene green might he not also have discovered
something? That was another unfortunate omission.]
BRADLEY'S "PROOF."
" I then told him that the tin of modelling wax had been
specially prepared with methylene green, and that this was a
proof that he had used his elbow to make the seance imprint.
[This was no proof at all, in view of another explanation much
more likely to be true.] I told him to put on his clothes and we
would discuss the matter.
18
THE INQUISITORS IN TURN BADGER VALIANTINE.
" In turn we asked him if he had any explanations to l?ive
of the smoked imprint, and of the stain. In reply to our quest10ns
he merely continued to insist [as any other man conscious of his
innocence would have donel that he had never used his toes,
and that the only way he co~ld account for the stain on his elbow
was that his ectoplasm must have absorbed the methylene green,
and when it returned to his body had left the stain on his elbow.
[An explanation quite in accord with proved facts in psychic
science, though it was possibly not the correct explanation in
this particular case.]
"To the majority of questions which were put to him Valiantine
had one stock reply, ' I can't explain.'
VALIANTINE BREAKS DOWN.
" We questioned him at considerable length, and he then
showed signs of breaking down. Rising from his chair, he said
in a broken voice, ' I can't stand it any longer. I can't stand
it-let me go.' I told him quite gently, but firmly, that he must
not go to bed until he had given us an explanation.
HE COLLAPSES AND BECOMES UNCONSCIOUS.
"He [Valiantine] still seemed to trust and rely on my help.
He sat down again, but after a few more questions he collapsed
utterly, and burst into a violent fit of sobbing. His whole body
shook convulsively, and when the sobbing subsided he became
unconscious. His eyes closed and his body shook with violent
trembling ; he gasped for breath. It was apparently a fit of
nervous hysteria.
SYKES AND JAQUIN APPLY BANDAGES.
" Mr. Sykes at once suggested that cold water bandages should
be applied to his head. This was done : Mr. Sykes applying
the bandages while Mr. J aquin continued to re-soak the towels
every few minutes.
" IN DANGER OF A STROKE."
" Valiantine remained in this condition for nearly two hours.
During this time his heart beat was extremely rapid, and, by the
signs of congestion shown in his face, his blood pressure was
-
evidently high. His pulse was extremely rapid and intermittent.
At one time, shortly before he recovered consciousness, Mr.
Jaquin said that he thought his condition was such that he was
-certainly in danger of a stroke.
BRADLEY HELPS HIS GUEST TO BED.
" It was about z a .m. when he recovered, and then I took
him up to his room. He was in a distressed condition, but was
just able to walk upstairs with my help, hanging on to me with
his arm round my neck. He thanked me for helping him,
speaking in heart-broken tones, almost like a child.
VALIANTINE'S SORROWFUL QUESTION.
" He sat limply on his bed, his eyes looking into space, and,
not as if he were addressing me, he said, in broken tones : ' Why
19
did they do this to me ? Why did they do this to me ? ' These
words were said in a manner difficult to describe. Strange as 1t
may seem I do not think that he meant by ' they ' to refer to
Mr.- J aqui~ or to Mr. Sykes, to me, or to any of us.
BRADLEY'S "WORDS OF COMFORT."
"Valiantine was in such a distraught condition, and evidently
so weak and ill, that it was only merciful for me to give him a
few words of comfort. I told him to try and ease his mind and
get some sleep. He threw his arms round me and embraced me.
THE LADIES EXONERATED!
"After leaving Valiantine I rejoined the others. Mrs. Bradley
and Mrs. Sykes had remained in the drawing-room since the
close of the seance at about ro.30 and, of course, they had no·
part in any of the proceedings which had taken place since then. "
"THIRD DEGREE" EXAMINATIONS.
Now has there ever been a story in real life so cruel, so merciless,
and so inhuman as this of Valiantine's " third degree "
examination by three educated men in the Tortune Chamber of
Dorincourt? The intention was obviously to extort by persistent
bullying " a confession " from Valiantine that he had, as a
medium, been guilty of a fraud he had never committed, a
confession which would make a tremendous sensation throughout
the world, to the great discomfiture of Spiritualists and to the
great satisfaction of Bradley's Mother Church ! But Valiantine,
sensitive to a degree as he is, and brutally borne down as he was,
held firm to the assertion of his complete innocence, and thereby
baffled his inquisitors with their wicked trumped-up accusations I
Had the police subjected any suspected criminal, even a
suspected murderer, to such a cruel ordeal, bringing him within
an ace of a stroke of paralysis, if not of death itself, in order to.
extort a confession (even a just one) the whole country would
have been roused to a storm of angry indignation.
POINTS OF PSYCHOLOGICAL INTEREST.
The most difficult part of the story to understand is why
Bradley, still in the midst of his admiration for Valiantine's
" voice " phenomena, should have rounded on him and denounced
him in his book and through the Press as a fraud, without the
faintest shadow of excuse.
BUSINESS ARRANGEMENTS.
A certain coolness and distance had apparently sprung up·
between the two men in connection with their business relations,
which Bradley describes in detail in his book.
Briefly summarised, these were that for Valiantine's first
visit to England he was paid the sum of £225, including expenses,.
of which Bradley paid one half and Mr. Joseph De Wykoff, an
American admirer, the other.
On subsequent visits Bradley defrayed Valiantine's expenses.
and "a present was made to him of about £200." He does not
say whether anyone shared this expense, but we have ascertained
~o
that in 1925 Bradley himself paid £105 and other contributors
£204 6s. .
As Valiantine became more and more famous he received
many big offers for his services. Bradley writes :-" One man
whom I know personally offered him £300 for six sittings. I did
not allow Valiantine to accept this offer because I detested the
idea of mediumship being placed upon a definite commercial
basis."
SEANCES ON THE CHEAP !
On the second last occasion [1929] Valiantine came to this
country, Bradley did not send him a cheque for his expenses
as he knew that another client would treat him " in an
exceptionally generous manner."
He says :-"My expenses had been so heavy in connection
with his previous visits that I had no intention whatever of
making a contribution on this occasion. Valiantine, however,
appeared to take it for granted that I should do so. His manner
seemed to me to have become hardened and materialistic. He
spoke in a somewhat conceited manner, and certainly had very
decided views as to the monetary value of his services. He
remarked to me casually that some people would pay a million
pounds for such privileges. He apparently disregarded the fact
that the translated publications of my psychic books in most
of the European countries were largely responsible for his having
become internationally famous."
A FIFTY-FIFTY MUTUAL INDEBTEDNESS.
Bradley on his part disregarded the fact that but for Valiantine
he would never have soared " Towards the Stars " or glimpsed
" The Wisdom of the Gods," or written books on these subjects.
There was a 50/50 account of mutual indebtedness between them .
Bradley continues :-"There can be little doubt that the rapid
accumulation of money did not have a beneficial effect upon
Valiantine's character. As a man, I think it ruined him." So
he generously refrained from helping in his ruin-by paying
him nothing !
VALIANTINE'S TERMS. ·
It is only fair to state that Valiantine never charges any fees
and relies for a living on the voluntary gifts of his clients. So
Bradley was under no compulsion to pay anything for the two
series of seances he asked for and obtained, though there was,
of course, an implied contract to make him the customary gift.
"THIS SACRIFICE OF YOUR TIME."
For the last visit in 1931, Bradley sent Valiantine an offer
from an English doctor of £200 for a fortnight's sittings and
asked for a fortnight's sittings for himself (to be included in the
same fee !). Valiantine replied that it would not pay him to
come over for a month for £200 if he had to pay his own expenses,
but should his other client also wish him he would come. Bradley
replied :-" I think you should not consider whether it would
pay you to come over for £200, but whether, in view of everything
21
that has been done for you in the past you should not make this
sacrifice of your time."
OTHER CLIENTS TOLD.
Arrangements were completed. to give the additional clie?t a
month's sittings, Bradley a fortnight, and the Doctor a fortmght.
The Doctor paid Valiantine a cheque for £zoo in advance, which
Bradley on making his charge of fraud against Valiantine
demanded back ! He asked whether Valiantine had yet been
paid by his other client for his month's sittings and on being
told no, told Valiantine to say nothing to this client until he had
been told " exactly what had happened ! " The Doctor and the
other client were told Bradley's version of " exactly what had
happened." The Doctor decided to take the sittings arranged
for nevertheless ; while the other client received Bradley " in a
somewhat cold manner" and, says Bradley, "I am almost
inclined to think that he believed Valiantine more than he
believed me ! ''
BAFFLED AND THWARTED!
Thus Bradley's efforts to injure Valiantine in the eyes of his
two paying clients were baffled. His desire to ship him off on
the 4th of March, immediately after the so-called " exposure,"
instead of the 18th as arranged, was thwarted.
And all the satisfaction Bradley got out of his schemings
was the knowledge that he had secured two series of Valiantine
seances free of cost. To his titled friends he had, like some
grand seigneur, been giving away the highly valued and exclusive
privilege of attending Valiantine seances at his house, and they
are not likely to be grateful to him to-day for having been made
the unconscious sharers in his parsimony !
PARTING KICKS.
Bradley knew that he would never again get a series of sittings
with " the greatest medium in the world " on such stingy terms.
The parting of the ways had come, and it was celebrated in such
injurious ways as we have seen, which may fitly be described as
Bradley's parting kicks !
J. L.
22
Chapter III.
VALIANTINE'S REPLY TO THE ACCUSATIONS.
DENNIS BRADLEY'S THREAT TO "SMASH SPIRITUALISM."
W E (the International Psychic Gazette) sent Mr. George
Valiantine a proof of our November article on his so-called
" Exposure " by Dennis Bradlev and invited him to
send us his own account of the affair, ~hich has already been
noised abroad to the most distant countries in the world.
The following is his reply, which confirms our faith in his
absolute innocence, and our belief that he is the victim of one of
the most wicked and disgraceful attempts to discredit an honest
medium by crafty tricks and widespread slanders ever experienced
in the history of the Spiritualist Movement :-
Williamsport, Pa., U.S.A.
November 7, 193r.
DEAR Sm,-I am in receipt of your letter of October 25,
enclosing proofs of your review, for which kindly accept thanks.
I think it is a fine article and appreciate your kindness in taking
so much interest in me.
I was very much surprised when the Editor of one of our
papers here in Williamsport called me by telephone and t old me
that Mr. Bradley was writing a book denouncing me as a fraud,
and he asked me what kind of a man Bradley was. I told him,
as far as I knew he was all right.
I am perfectly innocent of the charges made against me.
It looks to me as though it was a frame-up, as there were
none of my friends present at the sitting, and, therefore,
they had everything their own way.
As far as the weeping is concerned, they certainly did abuse
me, which hurt my feelings very much. They tried to make me
admit that I made them (the imprints) and I told them if they
could explain it, to go ahead and do so, as I could not ; and
I told them it was beyond me, and that I was perfectly innocent
of any wrong-doing.
The night before I left, Bradley urged me to have a sitting,
which I did. Mr. and Mrs. Bradley and myself sat as usual, but
we could not get any voices, only the movement of the trumpet,
and Bradley, after the sitting, became very angry because we did
not get anything and said he was going to smash Spiritualism.
The next morning I left for Southampton.
They threatened to denounce me to the world, by the
I nternational News, that I was a fraud. I told them to do just
as they liked, as I was innocent, and he (Bradley) wanted me to
leave London by the next boat , and for me to cancel the arrange-
ments we made with Dr. Vivian, of Southbourne, which I did
not do. He did not want the newspaper men to know when
I left England, fearing that the reporters would interview me.
Noel Jaquin t ook my toe and foot prints, six times, and I would
like to know why it was necessary to take them so many times,
23
and as all the prints were mixed up, mine with those of the Spirit
prints, which we had gotten, they could easily have taken two
copies of mine to Scotland Yard and said one was supposed to be
that of Sir Arthur's. At the first sitting we had for finger prints,
the prints of all those present were taken, but after that, only
mine were taken. \iVhy was that ?
I could not understand why Dennis Bradley, after writing two
books on Spiritualism and lauding me as one of the greatest
mediums of to-day, would deliberately turn around and denounce
me as a fraud ; but since reading your article, I can clearly
see what is back of it all : that he wants to return to the Catholic
faith, and before doing so, he wants to make amends, and is
taking this means to do so by denouncing me as a fraud and
thus try to smash Spiritualism.
I am enclosing herewith an article which was printed in our
Williamsport Su.n. I was interviewed by a reporter here.
What seems so strange to me is that there was nothing in the
New York papers about it ; but it is my opinion that Bradley
wanted the paper of the City in which I live to know about it.
In conclusion, I wish to state again, that I am perfectly
innocent of the charges made against me.
Again thanking you for your interest in the matter, and trusting
that everything will be all right, I am, sincerely,
GEORGE VALIANTINE.
24
Become a Regular Reader of
The International
Psychic Gazette
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE'S TESTIMONY:-
"I greatly admire the Ga.r<ette·and the masterly way in
which it is conducted."
It is the only journal he honoured with a legacy.
THREE REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD SUBSCRIBE
i. The Gazette has for twenty years championed the cause
of mediums when they have been unjustly attacked and
aspersed. It has alone, in many important cases, fully
vindicated their honour and exposed the rascally tricks
played on them by the enemies of Spiritualism. This
pamphlet is an illustration of its unique work in that
direction.
2. It is the only Spiritualist Journal in the English language
which gives a monthly survey of the most interesting
events in Spiritualism and Psychical Research throughout
the world.
3. Its special articles are by distinguished Spiritualists, full of
enthusiasm for the Cause.
1n11111111nn11111u11111n1n11111111n111111111u1111111111111nn1Hm1uun1...........111111111
BEFORE YOU FORGET, ORDER IT TO-DAY
from your newsagent, Church or Society bookstall, or
the Publishers, and thus help it in its important work.
If you miss one number you will miss something
worth while. BECOME A" GAZETTEER" NOW!
llHHlllHlllllllllHIHHllllllHllllllHllUllllHlllHIUllllllllHlllllHHlllllUIHllllllllllllll
THE INTERNATIONAL PSYCHIC GAZETTE, LTD.
69, High Holbom London, W.C.1
Bobby & Co.. Ltd., Printers, Mac,,ate.
