{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__belton___psychical_research_and_religion.pdf","mytitle":"Psychical Research And Religion","mylang":"de"}
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND
RELIGION
BY
LESLIE J. BELTON
B.A. (Liverpool), M.Sc. (Birmingham)
THE LINDSEY PRESS
5, EssEx STREET, STRAND, LoNDON, W.C. z
NOTE
THE term Psychical Research is unsatisfactory a.nd
ambiguous. It is used here only in conformity with common
practice. The word ' psychical ' is, strictly, descriptive of
any mental process whatsoever, whether normal, abnormal
or supernormal. Thus the adoption in our language of
either the German term Parapsychology or the French term
Metapsychology would help to dispel confusion and is much
to be desired.
First published in 1931.
Printed in Great Britain
BY RICHARD CLAY AND SONS, LIMITED
BUNGAY, SUFFOLK
SYNOPSIS
..
CHAP. PAGE
I. THE PROVINCE oF PsYCHICAL REsEARcH • 9
§I. Beliefin Telepathyand Spiritualism is indicted as
superstitious materialism, but Sir Oliver Lodge and
others have shown that Psychical Research provides a
field ofinvestigation which cannot be ignored.-Ifwe
cannot speak of facts in this field we impugn either the
honesty or critical judgment of men of acknowledged
ability.-Thesefacts are supernormal, i.e. inexplicablein
the light of normal experience and knowledge.-But
inquirers should discriminate between facts and their
interpretation; first let the facts be isolated and
examined.
§ 2. The Society for Psychical Research, founded in
I882, exists to investigate these phenomena impartially;
it is a clearing-house for psychic ideas, though progress
is not due to the S.P.R. alone.
§ 3. It has been claimed that fraud adequately
accounts for so-called supernormal phenomena.-
Trickery exists, but knowledge of the methods em-
ployed leads frequently to exposures.-Fraud, how-
ever, is often unconscious and varies in culpability.-
While precautions must be enforced, it should be re-
membered that the medium too has his rights.
II. THE PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
§ I. Physical phenomena may be spontaneous or ex-
perimentaL-Of the former kind are ' -raps ' and the
pranks of alleged poltergeists ; of the latter kind
telekinetic phenomena, including cases of human
levitation, are of importance.
v
.
V1
CHAP,
SYNOPSIS
§ 2.. Ofrecent years the most remarkable phenomena
are those reported from Millesimo Castle, e.g. pro-
duction ofthe Direct Voice and ofApports concluding
with the dramatic disappearance of the medium.
§ 3. The most astounding ofall phenomena is that of
materialisation, especially as witnessed by Crookes and
Wallace.-Ectoplasmic forms have been examined by
Schrenck-Notzing, Richet and Geley.-In Paris
paraffin wax gloves of presumed spirit hands have
been obtained.-Though ectoplasm has been photo-
graphed and analysed, its precise nature is unRnown; it
seems, however, to be malleable by thought.
PAGE
III. THE MENTAL PHENOMENA 28
§ I. Rejection of telepathy implies forfeiture of the
only plausible alternative to the spiritistic hypothesis ;
but telepathy is proven, as witness, among others, the
Gilbert Murray experiments.-Apparitions, too, may
sometimes be due to telepathic influence.
§ 2.. The term clairvoyance loosely covers many
varieties of supernormal activity.~Most sensitives
require a 'link,' e.g. handwriting, crystal, etc., which
serves to arouse their capacity for supernormal
activity.-Richet's theory of a sixth sense, like other
physical theories, hardly covers the facts, and we are
driven to the conclusion that in certain circumstances
mind can act independently of the brain.
§ 3. The remarkable Pagenstecher experiments in
psychometry are examined and found inexplicable along
lines of current psychological theory; they and other
similar phenomena point to the possibility of mind be-·
coming partially released from the physical organism.-
Nor is the theory of a' subtle' body to be scorned.
§ 4· The alleged messages from ' the other side '
provide the problem of problems, and various alter-
natives to the spiritistic explanation have to be con-
sidered, e.g. the· theory which accounts for voi~e
phenomena by mental dissociation.-The hypothesis
of telepathy alone is insufficient to account for the
supernormal knowledge obtained.-Noteworthy are
the Dennis Bradley phenomena, especiilly those
'
I
\
r
I
I
I
~
I
I
I
SYNOPSIS
CHAP.
obtained without the ~ssistance of a professional
medium.-That intelligences manifesting the same
characteristics have spokenin different circles provides a
plausible case for their identity.
§ 5. The case for spirit agency is, perhaps, best
demonstrated in the cross-correspondences in which
several mediums obtain part of a message. These and
other tests said to originate from' the other side,' e.g.
the book tests of Drayton Thomas, are difficult to
explain on any other hypothesis.-Judgment on these
matters must be informed, i.e. based on the available
facts.
IV. THE SIGNIFICANCE oF PsYCHICAL RESEARCH FOR
..
V11
PAGE
RELIGION AND LIFE • 49
§ r. That genuine phenomena of a supernormal
nature occur there can be no doubt; their recognition
profoundly affects every attitude towards life and
necessitates the attempt to comprehend new factors
inexplicable in terms of any.closed system.
§ 2. Psychic science undermines materialism and
invalidates any description of mind in terms of nerve
stimulus and response.-Mind has or may have primacy
over body, and the facts ofclairvoyance, etc. render less
secure the dogma that brain changes accompany all
mental processes.-Likewise, psychic science affects
religious belief : the commission of research requires
the testing of a theory which implies human survival
of bodily death.
§ 3. Proof of survival and of a supersensible world
is not possible in an exact, mathematical sense.-But
we can be reasonably and intuitively certain.-The
question : Is communication possible between the
supersensible world and this world ? is for each to
answer for himself after study of the evidence.
§ 4· The Old Testament contains warnings against
necromancy; these in no way proscribe psychical
research.-But psychic faculty may be prostituted to
base ends.-The New Testament supplies many
instances of psychic phenomena, notably in the life of
Jesus.
viii SYNOPSIS
§ 5. Spiritualism assumes diverse forms, and it is
important to discriminate between persons who
maintain that communication with a spirit world is
possible and persons who accept communication as a
new gospeL-Spiritualism challenges the churches :
modern man asks for demonstration of survival, and
whereas Spiritualism supplies an answer, the churches
often fail to do so ; their eschatology needs revision.-
But Spiritualism is not a religion.-Supernormality is
not to be confounded with spirituality.
' ·
i
l
I
!
:
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
AND RELIGION
CI-IAPTER I
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
§I
" To the physiologist, who recognises the majestic unity
of natural phenomena, belief in telepathy and spiritualism
appears a form of materialism as gross as the ju-ju super-
stition of the Benin native." 1 This pronouncement of
Sir Leonard Hill represents as thorough a refutation of all
that falls within the province of psychical research as could
be found in the learned world of to-day.
Many persons would be readier to agree with the professor
had he included only Spiritualism in his too sweeping indict-
ment. But there are other persons who would violently
disagree with him, and, among them, Fellows of the Royal
Society whose claim :to attention is at least as great as that
of Sir Leonard Hill. The names of Sir William Crookes,
Alfred Russel Wallace, Sir William Barrett, may be men-
tioned, and of Sir Oliver Lodge, whose interest in psychical
research has extended over the greater part of his life, and
whose championship of Spiritualism, while it has made some
1 Introduction toM. Culpin: Spiritualism and the New Psychology.
9
IO PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
suspect his intellectual poise, has caused others to throw
their prejudices to the winds and face the issue with open
mirids. ·
In the year I 9I 3 Sir Oliver delivered his famous presi-
dential address on " Continuity " to the British Association.
A passage in this address may usefully be contrasted with the
statement of the younger professor already quoted. " I
must risk annoying some of you, not only by leaving on
record my conviction that occurrences now regarded as
occult can be examined and reduced to order by the methods
of science, carefully and consistently applied, but by going
further and saying with the utmost brevity that already the
facts so examined have convinced me that memory and
affection are not limited to that association with matter by
which alone they can manifest themselves here and now,
and that personality persists beyond bodily death. . The
evidence-nothing new or sensational, but cumulative-to
my mind goes to prove that discarnate intelligence, under
certain conditions, may interact with us on the material
side, and that gradually we may hope to attain some under-
standing of the nature of a larger existence and of the con-
ditions regulating intercourse across the chasm."
No words could be clearer than these, and few could be
more courageous. As recently as I 876 a delegate to the
British Association who dared to speak to that assembly on
psychic matters was openly derided and forced by ill-mannered
incredulity to discontinue his speech.
Much good work was done during the years intervening
between I876 and I9I3· In I88z the Society for Psychical
Research was founded, an event which signalised the tardy
recognition of alleged phenomena which merited strict
scientific investigation. Since the founding of this society,
and other societies of similar nature in several countries,
excellent research work has been carried out and men of
noted ability have given their services to the study of this
·i1
;:
•
'
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH II
important field-sometimes to the imperilling' of their
reputation.
Even to-day the feeling persists that it is scarcely respect-
able to dabble in psychic matters, and most psychologists
find themselves able, or compelled by prevailing prejudice,
to ignore certain supernormal facts which, once recognised
(however they may be interpreted), would necessitate the
abandonment or reconstruction of many of their theories
concerning the psycho-physical nature of man. Super-
normal Psychology has not yet become an acknowledged
branch of scientific study.
The phrase " supernormal facts " was used. Is the phrase
justifiable ? Are there any facts in this debatable field·?
This is the first question which must be answered; for if
there be no factual basis, if the occurrences deemed occult,
and dismissed by serious investigators as coming within the
province of pseudo-science, have no basis in fact, then is
the ground removed from beneath out feet and this inquiry
becomes merely one of ascertaining how the illusion of
supernormal occurrences arose in the human mind and why
the illusion has been perpetuated. The inquiry would
become an inquiry into the psychology of deception to
discover how it was that men of recognised ability, like
Crookes, Wallace, Lodge, Lombroso, Hodgson, Richet,
Bozzano and Tillyard were deceived by clever trickery.
The question would be, how it comes about that scientists
of repute, whose work in orthodox fields of research is
generally acknowledged to be of the highest importance,
lose their customary acumen as soon as they become psychical
researchers, and fall an easy prey to mere charlatans and
tricksters.
It seems easier and ·more reasonable to believe in the
reality of these supernormal occurrences than to impugn
either the honesty or critical judgment of these investigators.
This is the alternative adopted here if only for the common-
12 PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
sense reason that to disbelieve the testiinony of, not spiritual-
ists alone, but scores of serious investigators, is unwarrant-
ably to strain credulity. These men are not simpletons ;
they are not desirous, most of them, of substantiating a
preconceived theory, but of honestly and critically investigat-
ing the phenomena 1 commonly but not exclusively associated
with Spiritualism. No person with any pretence to sane
judgment can consult the weighty Proceedings of the S.P.R.,
the journals devoted to the subject, or monographs like
Professor Richet's Thirty Years of Psychical Research, and
remain unconvinced that, despite instances of fraud, there
is a mass of phenomena which cannot be scoffed out of
existence. The evidence is cumulative and has now reached
such proportions that none but the most foolish sceptic (a
being as pitiable as his brother, the hyper-credule) can deny
its potency. Moreover, the nature of the phenomena to
which the evidence points precludes their being adequately
explained in terms of normal experience ; hence our refer-
ence to supernormal phenomena.2 Their modus operandi is
inexplicable in the light of knowledge so far acquired and
in some respects contradictory to it, or at least in opposition
to the clear line of demarcation drawn by modern thinkers
between that which is and that which is not possible.
"Nothing is too wonderful to be true," said Faraday, and
nothing, it may be added, is too apparently miraculous to
be true. No man, however learned he may be, is justified
in saying: thus far and no farther shall the tide of knowledge
advance, or into this channel only shall it flow.
1 For convenience we employ the commonly accepted term
'phenomena,' which simply means remarkable or strange occurrences.
· 2 We r~ject the term supernatural in this connection for the following
reason : we know only the natural order; of that which is above nature,
i.e. outside nature, we know and can know nothing. We are aware of
an order of events ; and of this Qrder of events we posit unity and con-
tinuity, which by their nature preclude supernatural agency. The term
supernormal connotes that which is so far outside normal knowledge,
but may be incorporated within that knowledge at some future time. It
follows that an event may be supernormal but not supernatural.
';·
'
'!'HE PROVINCE OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
On the assumption, then, that there do occur phenomena
of a strange, baffiing and remarkable nature to whose
elucidation an increasing band of investigators are de-
voting their time and energy, it is worth while examining
these phenomena to learn what progress has been made
in the attempt to understand and classify them. But, first
of all, it is necessary in an inquiry of this sort to discrimi-
nate between the facts adduced and examined by .psychical
researchers and the interpretation they and others put
upon these same facts. When, in the address just quoted,
Sir Oliver Lodge affirmed that personality persists after
bodily death he was recording quite justifiably a personal
conviction, one which in his view the evidence supported;
he was expressing one of the hypotheses adduced to interpret
some of these facts, that hypothesis which seemed to him to
cover them better than others. Sooner or later a working
hypothesis is necessary to research in any field, but, as far
as possible, the facts themselves should first ·of all be
isolated, examined, authenticated, analysed, correlated with
other facts and classified. Interpretation comes afterwards.
Above all things a calm, judicial attitude is needed, and is
the more difficult to obtain inasmuch as one of the hypo-
theses-
·the spiritistic hypothesis-inevitably assumes an
emotional coloration which comes of the deep-seated desire
of most persons to know whether empirical proof of survival
is or is not to be had. The will-to-believe has to be kept in
. abeyance. Investigators, amateur or professional, should
be led by the facts alone and try to prevent their own wishes
even unconsciously from co-ordinating or interpreting the
material in the interest of a greatly-to-be-desired explanation.
It will be clear that the subject of discussion is not
Spiritualism. Psychical Research is concerned with pheno-
mena commonly associated with Spiritualism, but it also.
examines capacities of the human mind which we term super-
no.rmal, and these capacities are in no way exclusively related
14 PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
to any one cult or method of explanation. The results of
psychical research may or may not lend support to Spiritual-
ism; opinions vary. The first step will be to become
acquainted with the phenomena falling within this field; for
without this knowledge, and familiarity with the conditions
in which these phenomena are studied, no one has a right to
express an opinion concerning the value to religion or
science of either psychical research or Spiritualism.
§ 2
A few words about the Society for Psychical Research
will show the nature of the field of inquiry with which
psychic science-as some call it-is concerned.
The S.P.R. was founded "for the purpose of making
an organised and systematic attempt to investigate various
sorts of debatable phenomena which are prima facie inexplic-
able on any generally recognised hypothesis." Before the
formation of the society investigations had been carried
out sporadically and by individuals only. Now a scientific
society was in being whose avowed objects were to investigate
phenomena like telepathy,1 clairvoyance,2 apparitions and
alleged communications from the dead.
Among those who took a prominent part in founding
the society were Professor William Barrett, Professor Henry
Sidgwick (who became the first president), Edmund Gurney
and F. W. H. Myers, while among those who have held the
presidential office are the Earl of Balfour, Professor William
James, Sir William Crookes, Professor Charles Richet,
Andrew Lang, Professor Henri Bergson, Professor Gilbert
1 Telepathy, a term first used by F. W. H. Myers, is classically defined
as " the communication of impressions of any kind from one mind to
another, independently of the recognised channels of sense."
2 Clairvoyance is the term employed rather widely for several kinds of
supernormal activity. The following might serve as a rough general
definition : the capacity evinced by certain persons to obtain visual
impressions of a distant scene,or hidden object.
PROVINCE OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
. :·_<,<~ Murray, Dr. L. P. Jacks, Professor Hans Driesch and other
.men of renown.
..·•
.•Three years after the formation of the British society an
·. ··American S.P.R. was formed with which is immemorially
. ~:inked the name of Dr. Richard Hodgson, who became a
·· S
:
upporter of the spiritistic hypothesis. Despite its chequered
· blistory the American society has made notable contributions
.to psychical research, chiefly through the work of such
· ·. C(anpetent officers as the late Dr. James H. Hyslop, Dr.
: \XYalter F. Prince and Dr. Hereward Carrington.
,': } Progress in this province of research has been due not to
:. the work of the S.P.R. only. In Paris there stands the now
· famous Institut Metapsychique, founded in .1920 by M. Jean
, Meyer and associated with the work of Professor Charles
R.ichet, the late Dr. G. Geley and Dr. Eugene Osty. And
······ no summary can fail to mention the remarkable contribution
to this research of the late Freiherr Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing,
·· who established his own laboratory in Munich. London
possesses an ·excellent psychical laboratory under the able
direction of Mr. Harry Price, whose investigation of the
mediumship of Rudi Schneider is a first-class example of the
. · sttictly controlled experiments desired by scientific workers.
· ·>I n London also there is the British College of Psychic Science,
.. whose attitude is noteworthy in that it associates an avowedly
spiritistic point of view with scientific method.
Convinced and enthusiastic spiritualists like the late Sir
·Arthur Conan Doyle have shown impatience at times with
·.the, in their view, excessively cautious and suspicious methods
adopted and persisted in by the S.P.R., but even he admitted
.that "the world has beeri the better for the existence of the
S.P.R. It has been a clearing-house for psychic ideas, and a
half-way house for those who were attracted to the subject
· yet dreaded closer contact with so radical a philosophy
. as spiritualism." 1
1 History ofSpiritualism, Vol. II. p. 88.
PSYC-HICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
§ 3
It is customary to distinguish between two kinds of
tisychic phenomena, physical and mental. This distinction
is not an arbitrary one-there are phenomena which are both
mental and physical-but serves the purpose of making
presentation easier.
Physical phenomena range from the production of mysteri-
ous raps to the rarer and remarkable instances of partial or
complete materialisation. Under this head, too, are included
slate-writing by alleged supernormal agency, levitations, the
production of psychic lights, the phenomena of apports 1
and asports, and telekinesis, i.e. the movement ·of objects
by supernormal means without the contact of living
persons.
The question naturally arises, and should by no means be
avoided, as to whether these apparent ' miracles ' can be
accounted for without recourse to belief in their super-
normality. Can they be adequately explained on the theory
of fraud? Are all mediums tricksters, hyenas (as Conan
Doyle styled them) who gain their livelihood by preying
upon the credulity of those who are so foolish as to resort
to them?
Unfortunately there can be no avoiding the fact that
trickery abounds. It is even said that a certain firm in
New York issues a catalogue and price-list of appliances
designed especially fot pseudo-mediums. If trickery is less
frequent now than it once was, the reason is to be sought,
not in any increased sensitiveness ef conscience, but in the
expert knowledge which many psychical researchers now
possess of the trick methods employed by fraudulent mediums
1 Apports (French ' apporter,' to bring) are objects alleged to be
brought into the seance room from without by some power unknown.
Objects conveyed by supernormal agency from the :room to a distant
place are known as asports.
.
,
j
"{ .
t
t
·.t .,
. .
..
l
~!:..
'.
.,
' (
THE PROVINCE OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH 17
and clairvoyants.1 It is this knowledge which has led to
the exposures of recent years; and it is only fair to remember
that none is a greater enemy of the fraudulent medium than
the spiritualist himself; his own good name is implicated.
Naturally, psychical researchers-whether favourable to the
spiritistic hypothesis or not-are anxious, in accordance
with the terms of their self-imposed commission, to expose
any attempt at deception. It is even the custom of some
of them when investigating these phenomena to assume the
disposition of a sleuth-hound and to presume from the outset
the falsity of the medium, until results obtained under test
conditions make the hypothesis of fraud no longer tenable
by reasonable men.
Fraud, it must be remembered, is not always as black as it
appears t9 be. There are many cases on record of uncon-
scious fraud, cases in which a medium who is patently honest
resorts to trickery, or, rather, personal interposition, while
in the trance state. Further, when a medium is detected in
attempting to deceive those present, it by no me~ns follows
that this particular medium is always an impostor and there-
fore incapable of obtaining genuine phenomena. He may,
as the saying is, try "to help himself out," to supplement
his failing power, when the desired phenomena are not pro-
duced as ·readily as is wished. Nor should it be thought
that all mediums resort to trickery. If some are black and
some are grey, others are white. To besmudge the name
of a person or to suspect him merely because he happens to
be a medium is to display not only malice but ignorance. .
The question of test conditions is an important one.
Spiritualists maintain with some reason that too rigorous
control and an attitude of suspicion on the part of the sitters
combine to create an atmosphere which· often makes the
production ofphenomena impossible. The medium becomes
1 Vide H. Carrington, Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism; D. P.
Abbott, Behind the Scenes with the Mediums.
B
1:8 PSYCHICAL RESEARCf! AND RELIGION
nervous and confidence is undermined. Most scientific
researchers, however, maintain that the sine qua non of a
successful sitting (from their point of view) lies in the imposi-
tion of certain conditions which shall both make attempts
at trickery easily detectable and assure the evidential value of
the phenomena obtained. In this matter each side should
be prepared to yield. The spiritualist must admit, as he
usually does, though not always with the best grace, that, if
phenomena are to be of value for scientific purposes, pre-
cautions against fraud must be enforced. The scientific
researcher should, for his part, conform to the conditions
which spiritualists believe to govern the production of
phenomena; his attitude should be one of sympathy rather
than antagonism, and he should realise (he usually does ; it
is .the armchair critic who does not) that, when spiritualists
insist upon darkness, semi-darkness or a red light only, they
do so from experience that these conditions are usually
essential to the production of the desired phenomena. If
subtle forces come into play it is reasonable to suppose that
they too have their ' laws ' and that strong light may exer.t
a disruptive effect upon them. In general, it has been shown
that even an attitude of suspicion is inimical to the best
results, and that to seize the medium while in trance (even
if he is unbound and moves from his place), or to seize
uninvited any extrusion from the body of the medium, may
cause him severe bodily harm.
'
1
j
.,
\
·. ·.. · ,.· .. ;
'· ,;,,
i·
'.
~: ' ' .
'
,..
>·'-.
i..
f.!_-,.•.
i~ .. .
··.: :·
.·.
,..
'i..·
·>·: ...
CHAPTER II
THE PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
§ I
INTO this class falls a variety of remarkable occurrences ·
of great interest to all serious students, especially to physicists
and biologists, though possibly of less interest to students
who are primarily concerned with the presumed religious
significance of supernormal phenomena. No one in his
senses supposes that, as such, the levitation of a table or the
antics of a poltergeist 1 are of any more importance to religion
than a million and one normal incidents of daily life. . But
they are interesting in themselves, and cannot be omitted
from this survey.
Phenomena of the physical kind may be spontaneous or
experimental; that is, they may occur unexpectedly · and
involuntarily, or they may take place when conditions have
·been prepared in the hope of inducing them. Of the former
kind is the production of raps. The famous case of the
Fox sisters of Hydesville, N.Y., is a notable example. So is
the case of' Florrie' reported by Sir William Barrett. Dr.
Carrington reports of the medium Eusapia Palladino that
" extraordinary raps-or rather bangs-were heard, usually
in the cabinet, when both hands and feet were carefully con-
trolled." Rappings, sometimes on objects distant from the
medium, who is not necessarily entranced, are in the first
instance involuntary, though there is reason to believe that
the medium may gain a measure of control over them and
1 Poltergeist : a noisy and, frequently, mischievous spirit.
19
..
. .
''
'
: ~ ~
'I : ;
! .
' I :
~ ! I
; ' ;
i I l
• i '
20 PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
learn to produce them at will. But how are they produced ?
Ingenious theories have been devised ·to account for them
on ' natural ' grounds, and all fail to do so. The most
satisfactory explanation is that they are caused by the extru-
sion from the body of the medium of some highly potent
plasm in the form of rods which are able by impact on a
distant object to result in the production of sound.1 Some-
times the sound comes from within an object. The only
alternative to this theory, or son1e variant of it, is the less
feasible one of spirit agency.
Many interesting and alarming tales are told of the pranks
played by so-called poltergeists. In some cases homes have
become untenantable through their attentions. Stories of
haunted houses are numerous. When due allowance is
made for deception, hallucination, imagination, there are
still ample grounds, in our vie\v, for believing that in some
as yet inexplicable manner certain houses and roo1ns are
. mysteriously associated with a presence, agency or energy
which causes both the phenomena and that eerie feeling
experienced by the most matter-of-fact persons and more
vividly felt by sensitives. The interested reader should
consult Flammarion's book on Haunted Houses and the
numerous reports.
We must pass on to discuss at greater length the types of
physical phenomena which come more or less within the
compass of experimentation. Of these, perhaps the most
important are those classed under the heading of telekinesis.
Through the introduction of Dr. W. J. Crawford; Sir
William Barrett was enabled to make the acquaintance of
the Goligher family-simple, uncritical, kindly people, con-
vinced spiritualists, who, though subjected by Crawford to
many annoyances, never accepted payment of any kind.
Barrett describes 2 how he sat in this family circle in a light
1 Vide W. J. Crawford, Psychic Structures at the Goligher Circle, etc.
2
On the Threshold of the Unseen, p. 48.
;'t .··
' .
f'
. . ~ -' ..
'I'HE PHYSICAL PHENOMENA 21
, which enabled the sitters clearly to see one another, and how,
with a clear space separating the sitters from the table and
with their clasped hands raised above their heads, the table
:rose some 1 8 inches from the floor and there remained
suspended, resisting his efforts to move it, until at last, rio
one touching it, it turned completely upside down.
All this seems ludicrous and meaningless. Perhaps the
investigator was fooled I But when we realise that occur-
"
rences similar to this happen repeatedly, and are confirmed
by men whose integrity it would be folly to impugn, it
behoves us to think, and cease from laughing this kind of
performance out of court-or laboratory. The fact is
startling but true : in some mysterious manner the law of
gravity is overcome or suspended by some agency or force
unknown I
So, too, in cases where human beings are levitated, we are
obliged to recognise the presence of forces in nature so far
beyond our comprehension. But is levitation a fact ? In
.the absence of personal experience, recourse must be made
to the reports of those persons who have witnessed it, but
can these reports be rejected as unworthy of credence?
When accounts of the levitation of St. Theresa or of Indian
yogi are met with, it is possible, in the absence of precise
information, to withhold judgment; but when students are
confronted with first-hand evidence supplied by con1petent
investigators, it may be that more than suspension of judg-
ment is asked for. Among other recorded cases, the follow- ·
ing may be noted : Sir William Crookes declares that on
three occasions he saw the medium D. D. Home completely
levitated from the ground: the Rev. Stainton Moses(' M.A.
Oxon.')chtims to have been levitated no fewer than ten times,
while Professor Lombroso tells in his After Death-What ?
of the levitation of Eusapia Palladino in the presence of him-
self, Professor Richet and others.
Many strange stories are told of D. D. Home. He is said
;
.;
i i
i I
i
I
I
! f,
: I!
!
22 PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
on good authority to have been able without injury to hold
:red-hot coals in his hand. And stranger still, as excluding
the possibility of trickery, he was apparently able to transfer
to others in his company the power to perform this feat.
The sceptic will remain unconvinced, but Andrew Lang
was not, nor were Lord Crawford, Sir William Crookes and
a witness named Wilkinson.
There are stories, too, of the violent SJ!lashing of cabinets
by supernormal agency. This phenomenon is said to have
occurred in the famous experiments of Professor Zollner at
Leipzig with the medium Slade, and, more recently, in Boston
through the mediumship of the celebrated 'Margery,' the
gifted wife of Dr. Crandon, who has suffered many indignities
in the cause of psychic science. By supernormal power and
in the presence of reliable witnesses, one of whom held the
medium, a wing of a cabinet was torn off and screws and
iron clamps were loosened.
§2
Still more remarkable from the standpoint of physical
phenomena are the 'miracles' reported to have occurred at
Millesimo Castle, Savona, Italy (and subsequently elsewhere),
in the years 1927 and 1928.1 The story of these proceedings
reads like a fairy tale; yet, can we refuse to believe the
testimony of those who took part in them-among others,
the Marquis Centurioni Scotto, Professors Bozzano, Castel-
lani, Passani and Mrs. Hack? The reader must decide for
himself after studying the records in full. If a scientist, he
may object that conditions of control were lax and that the
evidence is thereby rendered devoid of scientific value, a
view recently propounded by Professor Rudolf Lambert in
Die Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie, and countered, with his
customary vigour, by Professor Bozzano, who insists that
1 Gwendolyn K. Hack, Modern Psychic Mysteries at Millesimo Castle.
With preface and articles by Professor Ernesto Bozzano.
'!''HE PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
in certain circumstances valuable evidence may be obtained
even when rigorous control of the medium is dispensed
with. He maintains, too, ·that control which may well be
imposed upon professional mediums cannot be exacted from
a distinguished amateur like the Marquis Centurioni.
These phenomena are certainly extraordinary and range
from the regular and repeated production of the Direct
Voice 1 to the expert playing of a musical instrument, un-
familiar to those present, which floated ' miraculously ' over
the heads of the sitters. Apports of an unusual size and
nature were obtained; on several occasions a living bird.
Professor Bozzano reports that on a very hot day, "almost
immediately we felt strong blasts of icy air which rapidly
increased in force, giving one the impression of a powerful,
supernormal electric fan which periodically wafted its
pleasant, cooling currents of air over the sitters.... These
currents were so strong that . . . the men's coats and the
lace on the ladies' dresses were blown about."
These marvels culminated in what to the observer from
afar looks like a grand climax. The marquis disappears
from the circle I .The light is turned up; the doors are
found to be still locked-on the inside. But the marquis
is gone 1 A thorough search for him proves useless. · At
last, after two and a half ·hours of anxiety, a message is
obtained automatically through the hand of Mrs. Hack,
which gives precise information as to where the missing
marquis will be found. Acting on these instructions, they
find him-asleep in .a locked granary 1 Pers·ons unfamiliar
with psychic mysteries will hardly repress an incredulous
smile. But ought we not at least to suspend judgment ?
Dramatic as this case is, it is not an isolated one. There
are on record other cases of dematerialisation (for nothing ·
less is involved in this ' miracle ') and ·many reports of the
passage of matter through matter. It may be that we shall
1 Seep. 42.
- - - - ' - ~ .......,\."" ': -~- - - ~ -
-- - ----- ---- -
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
have drastically to revise our views, scatter prejudice to the
winds, and learn that to possibility there is no limit.
§3
Of a similar ' miraculous ' nature is the phenomenon of
materialisation. The experiments of Sir William Crookes
with the medium Florence Cook are classical. In the minds
of psychical researchers his name will always be associated
with that of Katie King-the living being or simulacrum of
a living being who materialised in his presence, conversed
with him, posed for photographs and acted in many ways
as a carnate human being would act. According to the
professor, the appearan~e, height and manner of l{atie King
were different from those of the medium. On one occasion
they were both seen together in a bright light by eight
persons. On another occasion Katie courageously agreed
to a proposal that for test purposes a full light should be
thrown upon her face. This was done, but Katie simply
dissolved away in full view of the witnesses, proof positive
that she was not a physical being ! And Katie appeared to
her earthly mentor some hundreds of times 11 What is to
be thought of a case like this one ? It almost compels the
belief that even physical phenomena may ~ave a very direct
bearing upon religious beliefs and disbeliefs. Was l(atie a
living person who assumed a corporeal, or, rather, a material
frame for the express purpose of making herself visible to
observers on this plane of existence? Or was she a thought-
image projected from the medium's mind? Either alterna-
tive has its difficulties, though the former is the more plausible
of the two. But 'for the moment the question is not how
these phenomena occur.
Alfred Russel Wallace, another competent observer,
1 Crookes, Researches in the Phenomena ofSpiritualism.
• ·
. J
. ;.··.
·
' '
·.·.:
.···t:
• l:.·.
..
.\• , ;
'1·
.:t'.
. '
.· .. .
,-~- !;'
;.:·1
:/r
. .
........ p
·:, THE PHYSICAL PHENOMENA 2 5
· · testi£es to phenomena scarcely less sensational.1 Let it be
:said in parenthesis, however, that these instances are not
chosen because of their sensationalism, but with the inten-
. tion of throwing into high relief certain occurrences which,
if genuine, must profoundly influence men's view of life
·and life's possibilities. The following case of a partial
materialisation witnessed and reported by Wallace is an
interesting one, as having occurred in full daylight. The
medium, known as Dr. Monck, "who was dressed in the
usual clerical black, appeared tQ go into a trance; then stood
up a few feet in front of us, and after a little while pointed
to his side, saying, 'Look.' We saw there a faint white
patch on his coat on the left side. This grew brighter,
then seemed to flicker and extend both upwards and down-
wards, till very gradually it formed a cloudy pillar extending
from his shoulder to his feet and close to his body." This
substance (since Wallace's day, usually known as ectoplasm)
then assumed the form of a draped woman, and after a few
moments became reabsorbed in the medium's body. It is
worth noting that a prize of £Iooo was offered to Mr. J. L.
Maskelyne if he could duplicate this phenomenon by means
of his magical art. The challenge was ~ccepted, but, accord-
ing to Conan Doyle, " the evidence showed that the imita-
tion bore no relation to the original," and, the case being
brought to the law courts, the verdict was given against the
mag1c1an.
Those whose business it is to understand and explain the
nature artd behaviour of the human body have' fought shy'
of the phenomenon of ectoplasm. A few scientists only
have risked their reputation by treating it seriously, and
. have been rewarded with the courtesies usually accorded to
pioneers-jeers and suspicion. Among these there stand
out the names of Schrenck-Notzing, Richet and Geley. The
latter once summoned a hundred learned men to witness the
1 See My Life, especially Chapter XXXVII.
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
production of ectoplasmic forms through the mediumship
of Eva C. He it was who was chiefly responsible for obtain-
ing, under strictly controlled conditions at the Institut
Metapsychique, the famous paraffin wax ' gloves ' of pre-
sumed spirit hands.1 Besides these experiments, there are
the prolonged and patient investigations of Schrenck-Notzing
and Mme. Bisson 2 whose work in this direction, following
the pioneer experiments of Crawford with the Goligher
circle, deserves the gratitude, not of psychical researchers
only, but of all students of human nature.
What is ectoplasm? This is the definition of one special-
ist. " The ectoplasmic phenomenon is a physical extension
of the medium. During trance, a portion of the organism
is·exteriorised. This portion is sometimes small, sometimes
considerable. It is first observable as an amorphous sub-
stance which may be solid or vaporous; it then takes organic
form (usually very quickly) and there appear forms which,
when the phenomenon is complete, may have all the anato-
mical and physiological characteristics of living organs. The
ectoplasm has become a Being, or fraction of a being, but
always in close dependence on the body of the medium, ot
which it is a kind ofprolongation and into which it is absorbed
at the end of the experiment." 3 This eminently plastic
substance (which as a conductor of psychic force may account
for many kinds of physical phenomena, e.g. telekinesis) .has
been photographed, filmed, weighed and analysed. There
are probably several kinds of plasm of various .colours and
degrees of visibility. · Further research is likely to add greatly
to our knowledge of this phenomenon. Whether, in certain
cases of complete materialisation, the ectoplasm becomes, as
1 See Geley, Ectoplasmic et Clairvoyance; Doyle, History ofSpiritilalism,
Vol. II. .
2 Schrenck-Notzing, Phenomena of Materialisation and Gesammelte
Aufsatze zur Parapsychologie, pp. 74-II3·
3 Geley, Paper read before Metapsychic Congress, 1920. Quoted in
De Brath, Psychical Research, Science and Religion. ·
.. ,!
f
!
I
I
!
I
I
I
~
'I'HE PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
it were, the temporary garment of a discarnate entity is a
question that the future will have to decide.
Ample space has been devoted to a summary of some out-
standing examples of physical phenomena examined under
strict conditions by men whose good faith it would be more
than discourteous to doubt. The bearing of these pheno-
mena upon the wider issues of philosophy and religion may
not be obvious. This much at least is implied : the fact,
once substantiated, that there are present in, or able to act
through the human organism energies hitherto unsuspected
and still unrecognised by orthodox scientists will result in
the total discrediting of all purely materialistic explanations
of human nature. To take one example only : if the plasm
exuded in certain conditions from the human body be malle-
able by thought, as it seems to be; then in very truth the
primacy of mind is demonstrated in a very practical way,
and we may say with Geley, "What we have seen kills
materialism. There is no longer any room for it in the
world." But before the implications involved in these facts
are considered, the field covered by psychical research in its
investigation of the so-called mental phenomena must be
examined.
Note.-The revision of this MS. some months after its
transcription provides the opportunity to draw attention to
the reports which have come to hand of therecent eminently
successful Sittings-one of them a solus seance-of Dr.
R. J. Tillyard, F.R.S., with 'Margery' in Boston, during
which excellent thumb prints of Walter, 'Margery's' deceased
brother and 'control,' were obtained under strict test con-
ditions. Of these phenomena and others Dr. Tillyard says,
" Science can only ignore them at the deadly peril of its own
future existence as a guiding force for the world." Vide
Psychic Research, April 193 I, and Psychic Science, July 1931. I
j•
i
I
CHAPTER III
THE · MENTAL PHENOMENA
§I
WrrHIN the compass of mental phenomena may be in-
cluded the several varieties of motor automatisms-auto-
matic writing, drawing and painting-telepathy, trance
mediumships of various degrees and kinds, crystal-gazing
(scrying), the capacity for experiencing premonitory visions,
psychometry, clairvoyance, clairaudience and the phenomena,
among others, of apparitions, spontaneous and experimental.
Clearly only a few of these can be touched upon.
In treating first, though briefly, of telepathy, it may be
said that those who, like Professor Leonard Hill and Dr.
Joseph Jastrow, refuse to accept the _
evidence of its reality
are in an awkward predicament : either they must adopt
telepathy as a means of explaining many of the acknowledged
phenomena of Spiritualism, or they must confess themselves
converts to the spiritistic hypothesis. Actually, of course,
they escape from the dilemma by refusing to admit its reality,
assuming that the evidence so laboriously garner~d and··
studied for many years is of no account at all. In their
view, presumably, deliberate fraud on the part of mediums
and unconscious self..:deception on the part of investigators
adequately explain all that occurs ! It can only be assumed
· -it is the more gracious course-that these sceptics are
ignorant of the weight of evidence now amassed in favour of
that which they deny. The most effective weapon with
which to belabour spiritists-presuming the wish to belabour
28
\
r' THE MENTAL PHENOMENA
them-is that provided by telepathy. To deny the possi-
bility of telepathy is to deny the most elementary and, per-
haps, most universal of all psychic occurrences, and one
which is accepted as proven by all psychic researchers. Nor
is telepathy necessarily inimical to belief in spirit-communica-
tion. . The evidence is now conclusive and is provided in
the results of a long series of experiments having their origin,
so far as test experiments are concerned, in the excellent
work of the S.P.R. in the earlier years of its existence.!
Experiments on a large scale have been neither numerous
nor markedly successful. The recent 'wireless' experi-
ments in telepathy are a case in point. The author's recent
experiments with University students in -{\.berdeen were
likewise inconclusive, though a number of students, about
1 5 per cent., registered positive results beyond those to be
expected by chance, a fact which suggests, as we should
expect, that sensitivity to telepathic messages is an endow-
ment of some rather than of all individuals, or; at least, is
more readily exercisable by some than by others.
The most striking evidence is found in cases where indi-
viduals or groups well known to each other, and to some
extent en rapport, have succeeded in transmitting images
sometimes over great_distances. Contra:ry to what might
be expected, distance seems to p1ake little or no difference
to the clearness or correctness of the images perceived. To
_exemplify this by a personal instance, a few years ago a
friend of the writer, acting as agent, 'transmitted' from
Birmingham the image of a chess-board which he held
before him, while at the agreed time in Aberdeen the per-
cipient sketched on paper a number of horizontal and vertical
lines intersecting one another, a not unsatisfactory repro-
duction of the original. Instances could be multiplied.
1 See Phantasms of the Living, especially Chapter III of the abridged
edition.
Also Oliver Lodge, The Survival of Man, and W. F. Barrett, Psychical
Research.
~ .
' , ·'
'
!
; ...
~ .
f. ·.;
·~
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIG10N
The interested reader would do well to consult Mr. Upton
Sinclair's recent work, wherein details are given of numerous
experiments carried out with great care by his psychically
gifted wife.1 What promises to be one of the most strik-
ingly successful of all records of experimental telepathy was
recently reported to the Congress on Parapsychology at
Athens (1930). Positive results were obtained between
groups in Athens, Warsaw and Paris, So per cent. of the
reported cases being brilliantly successful.2 The proportion
ofsuccesses registered is probably due to the vario'us ' groups '
being constituted by individuals selected for their known
capacities and likely to conduce to successful results.
Of a different nature are the experiments conducted by a
group of distinguished persons in which Professor Gilbert
Murray acted as the percipient. The usual procedure was
for the persons in the room to select and concentrate upon
an incident of historical or literary interest, whereupon
Professor Murray, as soon as he entered the room, would
allow the thoughts of those present to influence his own
.mind. The results were surprisingly successful, especially
when we consider the recondite nature of some of the inci-
dents selected. The following is one ofthe simpler examples.
The agents thought of " Alistair and Malcolm MacDonald
running along the platform at Liverpool Street, and trying
to catch the train going out." The percipient spoke as follows:
" Something to do with a railway station. I should say
it was rather a crowd at a big railway station, and two little
boys running along in the crowd. I should guess Basil."
Experience shows that emotionally saturated images or
ideas are transmitted more easily than neutral images or
ideas, or those of no emotional interest to the agent or per-
cipient, a fact which may account for the relative incon-
clusiveness of many experiments in which simple objects
1 Mental Radio.
2 Summarised report by Karl Rothy, Psychic Science (October 1:930).
.J
- -: 'IHE MENTAL PHENOMENA
like playing cards and diagrams are sought to be trans-
_
·..:·mitted.
This view seems to be borne out by the enormous number
,:: of authenticated instances of apparitions-the so-called phan-
- .·<- tasms of the living, the dying and the dead. Ghost stories
·.- abound,.and their elucidation is no easy matter. While the
: facts do not warrant the belief that when an apparition is
seen a disembodied spirit is actually present in ' ghostly '
· i torm, this alternative should be held in abeyance as a possible
explanation in certain cases. On the other hand, the theory
that all apparitions are caused solely by an hallucination in
··'>:- the mind of the experient is equally unsatisfactory, and un-
-• :i··· tenable in the light of ascertained facts. Hallucination may
--_ ~cpouht for some cases, but not for all. The most adequate
,: ':''..'..:.,- th¢ory is the telepathic one: that in moments of emotional
s-
tress, and concurrent with the disruption of normal con-
-.·;·:. >:- \i.,_: sciousness, the thought of the dying or suffering persons is
.. ·. £11 :
some unknown manner transmitted to the minds of other
· pets-
ons with whom they are in sympathetic relationship.
--.-.. Thete are also on record a few cases of experimental appari-
. d on : . A decides, perhaps on falling asleep, that ·he will
.app~ar to B at a distant place, and B actually perceives· or
__-dunks he perceives the person of A in his room. In some
. cases the apparition, experimentally induced, is seen by more
thatl one person at the same time. This is a complex pheno-
-:· ~enon - and we touch upon it only for the reason that it pro-
- vkles conclusive evidence in favour of telepathy, though it
,- may be that telepathy, as we understand it, is inadequate to
: atecount for some of the most striking instances. ·An alter-
,: .aadve, or, rather, supplementary theory is this : that in
ee.tt ai.n circumstances some persons are able to project them-
' sel~es 'from their physical bodies and to appear before others
· ~l-~~hed irt .a subtle or etheric body. ·The question is a
d£
£ticult one This is not the place to propose modus oper-
. imdt _
for telepathic phenomena or to indulge in speculation,
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
but the possibility of an explanation of some of these strange.
occurrences ought not to be dismissed merely becaus·e of
its distastefulness to orthodox scientists. The theory that
·man possesses an etheric counterpart or double of his material
body, which may at times (in the trance state, for example)
disengage itself and manifest independently, is one to be
treated seriously. The theory is plausible ; cumulative,
if indirect, evidence goes to support it. There are certain
psychical facts which can be understood only on some
supposition such as this.1
§ 2
Imagine a hard-headed business man content to believe
the evidence of ·his senses and nothing more. · Tell him
that a friend of his is gifted with 'second sight,' and can
read the contents of sealed envelopes. In biblical phrase,
he will laugh you to scorn. Yet all through the ages there
have been persons gifted in this way, able to perceive:distant
or concealed objects and scenes by the exercise of what is
known as clairvoyance. Professor Richet has coined the
word, cryptesthesia (=unknown, hidden sensibility), but
it is merely a word. That which it represents is still a
mystery.
There need be no doubt about the facts. Certain persons
do possess a supernormal capacity-name it how we will-
which enables them to act in an apparently suprasensible
manner, to obtain knowledge of what, for example, lies
hidden in a sealed package (cryptoscopy), to reconstruct a
past event by means-ex hypothesi-of an object associated
with that event, instantaneously to recognise the character
and idiosyncrasies of a given individual, even to foretell
future events i~ the lives of certain persons, the so-called
faculty of precognition.
1
See below, p. 39·
jj
l
J
1
.J
..._,
·J
...
.._,
•.::
.•
'
~HE MENTAL PHENOMENA ;;
Of these manifestations of supernormal sensitiveness, Or.
Eugene Osty.points out in his Supernormal Faculties in Man,
·. · ''It is scientifically useless to undertake investigations into
the nature of hypercognition by endeavouring to obtain a
prearranged set of phenomena without previously ascertain-
il!lg the type of human subject employed," meaning to suggest
that there are several types of supernormal capacity. So far
thes.e have not been correlated. It is not known to what
extent a sensitive who is able to recognise a distant scene by
means of an intermediary link with that scene is also able,
. for instance, to inform us about the character of an individual
by means of his handwriting, or to obtain premonitions.
Again, some persons exhibit supernormal capacity spon-
taneously and in a condition of what appears to be normal
waking consciousness. Other persons, however, manifest it
only, or more successfully, while in a condition of slight
trance which may be scarcely perceptible to onlookers. Still
others evince this capacity only in a state of deep trance or
hypnosis. When a sensitive dreams that a certain unknown
visitor comes to him asking for advice·on a matter of grave
personal concern, and when on the morrow the visitor duly
appears, as foreseen in the dream, and is handed in writing
a prepared answer to the question occupying his mind, he
is not unnaturally greatly surprised. Yet cases of this kind,
duly authenticated, have been known. to occur. There are
many cases also of sensitives being able to assist in a very
practical way in the discovery of missing persons and lost
articles.
Professional clairvoyants usually employ some chosen
'medium' or 'link' which serves to awaken in them the
capacity to obtain knowledge supernormally. ~ome use
handwriting : while known as graphologists, they often
pay little or no attention to the writing before them. A
sensitive who practises with success the delineation of char-
acter from handwriting once assured the writer that she
c
!
i
I
· •
; I
I :
I .
I !
I !
:
I i
!
I I
'I
34 PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
paid practically no attention to the peculiarities of the writing
itself. Raphael Schermann, perhaps the most celebrated of
all graphologists, is able to make remarkably accurate diag-
noses of character from writing enclosed in a sealed envelope ;
further, when a letter unseen by him is dictated, he is able
to reproduce the writing in a manner closely resembling the
original.
The same process is probably at work in crystal-gazing
and in the telling of fortunes by means of playing cards
and other objects. The sensitive may o.r may not under-
stand the real significance of the object he employs (presum-
ing, of course, that his gift is genuine and not mere char-
latanry); but there seems little reason to doubt that the
object, whatever it be, acts as a kind of conductor or link,
whereby, in some fashion quite unknown to psychology, the
sensitive is able to penetrate a region whence his metagnomic
information comes.
There is much work to be done in this field of inquiry.
Practically nothing is known of the processes involved in
these cases of clairvoyance, and technical terms, necessary as
they are, merely cloak our ignorance.
Richet cites many examples 1 of the exercise of super-
normal faculty as evidence of a sixth sense, to the presence
of which (in most persons latent, in others more or less
active) he ascribes·all cases of what he calls lucidite. It is not
intended to examine with thoroughness any theory adduced
to explain these cases of supernormal faculty, but the criticism
must be made that Richet's theory is just the kind to be
expected from a physiologist, and seems hardly to cover all
the facts. The idea has become familiar in recent years of
the presence in the ether of vibrations to which man is
entirely insensitive, his sense organs being attuned to vibra-
tions of a certain rate and intensity only. On Richet's
theory, some persons are endowed with a sixth sense, more
1 Richet, Our Sixth Sense.
·f
i
·I
lI
~
!
·I
I
i
I
J
~·
THE MENTAL PHENOMENA 35
or less developed, through which they become receptive to
some of these 'finer' vibrations and thus become aware of
items of reality undisclosed to persons who are not so
endowed or whose ' sixth sense ' lies dormant. The fruits
of the professor's labours in psychical research may be
gratefully accepted without compulsion to subscribe to his
theoretical interpretation. And we would ask : if these
capacities to foresee the future in dreams, to unravel past
events, or to transmit telepathic messages from Athens to
Warsaw be-forms ofhyper-sensibility, and, therefore, physical
in origin, where lies the organ of reception which, by analogy
with other sense-receptors, we should expect to find ?
Richet provides no answer. In the judgment of the writer,
the phenomena of lucidite demand a psychical rather than a
physical explanation.
Any theory which presumes that the transference of
thought from one mind to another is caused by brain waves
or vibrations is open to serious doubt. There appears to
be no organ in the brain or nerve-centre adapted either
to their transmission·or reception. Moreover, how are we
to suppose that physical vibrations originating in one brain
are able, not merely to externalise themselves and affect
another brain, but so to impress the other brain as to give
rise to the same thought ? How can a thought emanating
from the brain of the agent occasion, on the wave theory,
the precise reproduction of that thought in the brain of
the percipient? Furthermore, how, on this theory, is
selectivity possible : why is the vibration caught up and
reproduced into thought in one particular brain and not
in others ? And the same difficulties arise, are intensified
indeed, if the attempt is made to account in this way for
other and rarer types of supernormal activity. So far as our
limited knowledge allows, the facts seem definitely to point
to the agency of mind, and of mind oniy, whic? is able,
in some manner not known, to function independently
1
-l
j
.-~
l
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
of the bodily ?rganism. On the theory that the primary
capacity of the brain is to transmit, but not to create thought,
there is involved no insuperable difficulty in the further
postulate, that mind is able in certain rare circumstances to
act at its own level independently of cerebral activity. This,
of course, is rank psychological heresy, but some of the
acknowledged facts of supernormal faculty seem to demand
a theory similar to this as their only rational explanation.
There will be more to say under this head below. Mean-
while, other manifestations of psychical activity must be
considered which tend to support the claim that mind has
primacy over, and may be exercised independently of, the
brain.
§3
Of all experiments in psychometry 1 perhaps those con-
ducted by Dr. Gustav Pagenstecher of Mexico with the
gifted, non-professional medium, Maria Reyes de Z., are
the most remarkable. These experiments were closely
examined. by Dr. Walter Prince, research officer of the
A.S.P.R., who confessed to Dr. Hans Driesch that, having
travelled to Mexico a sceptic, he became convinced of the
reality of the phenomena and returned to Boston with a
strong inclination to believe in their spiritistic interpretation.2
The procedure was as follows : the medium in art hypnotic
state induced by Dr. Pagenstecher, her family doctor, was
handed an object carefully wrapped so that its nature was
undetectable by normal means. Thereupon, the medium
1 An ambiguous word meaning literally soul-measuring. Carrington
provides the following definition : " The ability to tell the past history of
an object merely by handling it, and also to receive various impressions
at the same time, regarding the environment ofthe object in question, and
perhaps incidents associated with the life ofthe person owning or handling
the object."
2 Vide Introduction by Driesch to German edition (Pagenstecher,
Die Geheimnisse der Psychometric und Hell.rehen) of Past Events Seer.rhip-
A.S.P.R. Proceedings. Vol. XVI, 1922-3.
,.\
iI
I
[
'I'HE MEN'I'AL PHENOMENA 37
would give a remarkable description, not so much of the
object itself, as of the conditions associated with it. In
·some instances the descriptions were manifestly correct, in
others they were afterwards verified. With certain objects
of great antiquity, precise verification being impossible, the
descriptions bore every mark of truth and were corroborated
by archreologists.
Consider this example. The object is a shell from the
beach at Vera Cruz picked up by the wife of the experi-
menter. The medium exclaims : " I am under water and
feel a great weight pressing upon my body. I am sur-
rounded by fishes of all kinds, colours, shapes and sizes. I
see white and pink coral ... I am .among the creatures
but they do not seem to notice my presence, as they are not
afraid of me in spite of touching me as they pass by." On
another occasion, being handed a sacrificial knife, she describes
with detail a great crowd of American Indians gathered for
some festival. She sees four Indians creep towards and
seize a man who defends himself vigorously. She sees them
carrying him to a round stone, upon which they lay him,
and a large, powerful man (whose appearance she minutely
describes) approaching the stone. She sees the victim killed
and the officiant holding up in his left hand something which
quivers and streams with blood; it is the heart of the mur-
dered man 1 Clearly here is a phenomenon of vast sig-
nificance.
The medium grips tightly with the fingers of both hands
. the object given her, and, passing into a deep trance, immedi·
ately sees a vision associated with the object she holds. All
· the while she is able to answer the questions of Dr. Fagen-
stecher. But here comes the most remarkable part of the
performance: though the visions are always sharply defined,
they appear at a distance from her which, upon examination,
is found to be in ratio to the antiquity of the vision which
the object inspires. An Egyptian mosaic gives her a kine-
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
matographlc vision of which all the details are minutely
described; but, on her own confession, it is as though she
were looking at the scene through the wrong end of a pair
of binoculars. Whatever is enacted in the vision the medium
herself lives through, so that sometimes she cries out in horror
and falls into convulsions. What can be said of such marvels
as these? Are there stored up in these objects, some of
the1n hundreds or thousands of years old, vibrations to
which the medium becomes sensitive in her abnormal state?
And how can these vibrations arouse memories of e-vents
which transpired so long ago ? These and countless other
questions rise to the mind. Those who are interested will
do well to study this case in detail. A satisfactory hypo-
thesis has not yet been formulated, and it may be long before
a final solution is found.
This only need be said without venturing to speculate
rashly : that phenomena of this nature, incomprehensible
as they are, remain quite inexplicable along the lines ofcurrent
psychological theory. It is almost as though we are com-
pelled to recognise that in certain conditions the mind is
partially released from its bondage to the body and becomes
able to function at its own level in a manner which in normal,
waking consciousness it seems quite unable to do. How
else can such faculty as that possessed by Mme. Reyes de Z.
be understood ? She declares that she can see the human
aura (she is, of course, not alone in this), and is convinced
that in the deepest trance state she is almost entirely freed
from her body.
In corroboration many experiences could be cited. Let
one suffice. Dr. Frederick van Eeden made a study of his
dream-life from a motive quite different from that of psycho-
analysts. He reports : " I dreamt that I was lying in the
garden . . . I was lying on my chest and observing the dog
very keenly. At the same time, however, I knew with
perfect certainty that I was dreaming and lying on my back
.I
.;
..
'
.
I
.-~
::
.~
· I
•I
· !
I
t
I
l
l
f
!
i
(
j
THE MENTAL PHENOMENA 39
in my bed. And then I resolved to wake up slowly and
carefully and observe how my sensation of lying on my
chest would change into the sensation of lying on my back.
And so I did, slowly and deliberately, and the transition
. . . is most wonderful. It is like the feeling of slipping
from one body into another, and there is distinctly a double
recollection of the two bodies.... This observation of a
double memory I have had many times since. It was so
indubitable that it leads almost unavoidably to the concep-
tion of a dream-body." 1 Or, say, the etheric 'counterpart'
or ' double ' of the physical body ? There- is a mass of
evidence for the existence of a ' body ' of this nature, which,
however, is usually considered as quite other· than the
' subtle ' or ' astral ' body through which the individual is
said to manifest at a higher level of existence after the death
of his physical body. (This idea of a subtle body must not
be confused with the conception of soul, of which it also is
presumably an instrument.) Some such theory as this
accounts more satisfactorily than any other yet adduced
for phenomena like travelling clairvoyance, 'ghosts,' and
experiences like that of Dr. van Eeden. It may be remem-
bered, too, for what it is worth, that dying persons some-
times testify to a feeling of withdrawal, as though some vital
_essence were leaving their bodies, an experience which seems
to be shared by mystics in a state of ecstasy. Not proven
may perhaps be our verdict as cautious psychical researchers ;
but there is no reason why that verdict should remain at
that. If the contention of clairvoyants who affirm that they
actually sec the astral body disengage itself from the physical
body at death is corroborated, if the Apostle's teaching that
there are bodies celestial and bodies earthly is proved to be
true, if there is truth after all in the theosophical teaching in
this matter, then, at least, the case for the survival of man
has advanced one step.
1 S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. XXVI. Quoted by Carrington.
' .
' I
!
i
I!
I:
i'
i
I
I i
! i
I!
I i
I '
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
§4
In any attempt to prove human survival of bodily death
there has to be considered another set of phenomena to which
psychical researchers have devoted a great deal of attention-
the alleged messages from communicators on "the other
side." This is the problem of problems so far as psychical
research is concerned. It is almost unnecessary to remark
that students are divided on this supreme question. . Some,
like Lodge and many others, are convinced that open sesame
obtains between this world and the next, and that inter-
communication between the living and those miscalled
' dead ' is occasionally possible. Others, like Rich~t, equally
informed as to the facts, find themselves unable to make the
plunge into waters so deep ; they take one or other of two
courses : either they oppose the spiritistic hypothesis as
inherently mischievous and unwarranted (though actually
few earnest investigators take so strong a line), or, more
prudently, they reserve judgment in the belief that the
spiritistic hypothesis is not proven as yet.
The case against spirit communication finds its chief
support in the contention that trance phenomena are suf-
ficiently explained in terms of psychiatry and abnormal
psychology, that the mediumistic control 1 is not the entity
he purports to be, but a dissociated part of the medium
himself, a secondary or co-conscious personality masquerading
as a spirit. There is something to be said for this view,
especially when it is realised how limited the knowledge of
the human mind really is. On the other hand, as will be
seen, phenomena do occur (the famous Piper sittings, for
example, reported by Hodgson) which make it very im-
probable that any theory of mental dissociation covers all
the facts.
1 The' intelligence' who assumes control of the medium's body.
THE MENTAL PHENOMENA 41
· In cases ofvoice mediumship (the medium being supposedly
controlled by a discarnate intelligence), when knowledge is
displayed which cannot have come from the medium's mind,
resort is had to the hypothesis of telepathy. The informa-
tion, it is contended, must have been telepathically impressed
upon the medium from the mind of one of the sitters. Or,
if this be discounted owing to the information supplied being
unknown and never having been known to any of the sitters,
then, so the contention goes, it must have been derived
telepathically from some other living mind. Thus is the
theory of telepathy stretched almost to breaking point !
Many critics would rather believe· in an almost magically
selective telepathy, able to cull items of knowledge from
the ends of the earth, than believe that a spirit actually
speaks through the medium. In many instances the spiritistic
explanation is the simpler of the two.
Clearly, one of the chief aims of those who hold the
spiritistic view is to obtain what are called evidential mes-
sages, and of these perhaps the best for their purpose are
those which convey information of a comparatively trivial
nature, but of a nature easily to be associated with the intel-
ligence purporting to communicate. If he convey informa-
tion relative to his own past life known to none of the sitters,
and, better still, to no living person, and the information
so given is afterwards verified, then the presumption
that he is indeed .the entity he claims to be becomes very
strong.
Incidentally one answer is found here to those persistent
critics who object, with some reason be it .said, to the
triviality of the greater number of messages received through
trance-mediumship. If the alleged spirit is anxious to
establish his identity it is likely that he will do so most
successfully by referring to trivial incidents connected with
his past life on the earth plane. Only so can he make himself
known, though in some instances his voice and manner
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
may be recognised by the sitters, a fact which carries no
weight save to those who.knew him well. That the messages
are often deplorably vapid and commonplace few will deny;
but in most cases could anything else be reasonably expected ?
There are said to be lying spirits and spirits who use the
names of notable personages ; and, in any case, there is no
reason to believe that the dear departed have been suddenly
metamorphised into radiant angels or seers. Everything
points, rather, to their continuing in the next world to be
substantially the kind ofpersons they were in this. Moreover,
critics unconversant with the technicalities of mediumistic
phenomena ignore the extraordinary difficulties involved in
the process of communication, not on this side only, but on
the other side also. The process of communication is not
to be compared with that of speaking to friends through the
medium of telephone wires.
Records of trance phenomena abound and are of varying
degrees of value. One of the best of the popular books on
voice-phenomena is Mr. Dennis Bradley's Wisdom of the
Gods, a work at once sensational and sane, written·with the
gloom-dispelling vigour characteristic of the author. Mr.
Bradley is, of course, a convinced spiritualist, but of a type
all his own. At Dorincourt amazing phenomena are said to
have occurred : musical instruments have been played by
unseen players, luminous trumpets have moved about the
room, and, which is far more important, numerous spirits
have spoken independently and from space by means of the
'direct voice.' 1 The communicators, that is, have spoken
not in the customary manner through a medium, but directfy,
their voices, varying in tonal quality and power, emanating
from different parts of the room. Moreover, and hereby
their importance is enhanced, these voices were ultimately
obtained without the presence of a professional medium, the
necessary ' power ' being developed by members of the
1 . This phenomenon is sometimes classed as ' physical.'
1
·1
j
J
1
J
'i
l
I
.,
·i
•J
j
..l
::'·:'• ~
:.L'
t
I
i
'
I
i
•
'I' HE MEN'!'AL PHENOMENA 43
circle themselves. These phenomena are said ·to have been
witnessed at different times by over a hundred persons
and are assuredly remarkable enough whether or no the
conclusion of their instigator is accepted that their successful
production " represents the outstanding miracle of this or
any other age in history."
It is advisable perhaps to interpolate at this point that the
writer has had highly successful sittings of unusual duration
with Mr. Phcenix, one of the few good voice mediums in this
country. This is not the place for a detailed report, but it
is worth recording that the elevated tone of the proceedings,
was extraordinarily impressive. When there are heard
fourteen voices of differing quality, ·speaking each in its
own manner and for its own purpose, it is difficult to believe
that one is dealing only with strata of the medium's dis-
sociated mind, more especially when the voices, except that
of the control and one other, speak directly from space
through the trumpets.
As to the· mechanism involved in the production of the
voices, little is known with any degree of certainty. All
that can be said, and this is mainly conjectural, is that some
substance (ectoplasm ?) is drawn from the medium, and
perhaps, to some extent, from the sitters also by the spirit-
operators and used by them " to fashion something resembling
a human larynx. This they use in the production of the
voice." 1
The direct voice phenomena obtained at Millesimo Castle
were chiefly due to the impetus given by Mr. Bradley's home
circle. There, as at Dorincourt, voices rapidly succeeded
one another, varied greatly in their power ofexpression and
spoke in several languages.
It is worth noting that in New York, through the
mediumship of Mr. Valiantine, messages were transmitted
in Ancient Chinese, a language foreign to the medium and
1 Conan Doyle, History of Spiritualism, Vol. II. p. rp.
l
1
j
f
1
l
·j
I
I
Il
i
i I
II
I
'
1:1
I i
! i
i
!
I.
I'
I '
I
44 PSYCHICAL ,RESEARCH AND RELIGION
beyond the power of anyone to reproduce without years
of patient practice. The linguistic construction of these
messages was confirmed by Dr. Whymant, a noted Orien-
talist, as perfectly correct. Other languages spoken by
direct voice were Persian, Portuguese and French. In
London, through the same medium, voices were heard
speaking in Chinese, Hindustani and the Sicilian dialect, and
were also recorded by a gramophone company. Now-and
here comes a significant point-the intelligence, .Cristo
d'Angelo by name, who had previously spoken in the Sicilian
dialect through Valia~tine in America, became afterwards
the chief guide of the Marquis Centurioni at Millesimo
Castle. A short extract from a published letter sent by
Signor Rossi to Mr. Bradley will make this clear. "After -a
while I asked if he (d'Angelo) could send us some of the
Guides of Mr. Valiantine, Dr. Barnett or Everett or the little
girl ... D'Angelo replied : ' Sono impregnati con Valian-
tine.' (They are engaged with Valiantine.) Then I asked,
'Try the little girl,' and then after a while we heard the
peculiar voice of the little girl, the same as I have heard in
London sittings, greeting us 'Good-evening,' sending us ·
kisses and laughing in her childish way." It is worth adding
that the distinctive voice of Bert Everett was also heard at
these Italian sittings.
The significance of all this lies just here : several alleged
intelligences speak in their own characteristic way to diffe,rent
circles. D'Angelo and others make themselves known
through the mediumship of both Valiantine and Centurioni.
Other things being equal, have we not here a prima facie
case for believing in their identity ? And does not this fact
at least disprove the contention of objectors that the ' control '
is always a secondary personality of the medium ? This
objection is often made, and may be legitimate in certain
cases. It is urged by critics that the control of Mrs. Osborne
Leonard-the celebrated Feda-is really a secondary person-
'·
I·
,.
'I'HE MEN'I'AL PHENOMENA 45
ality of the medium herself; yet the evidence is that Feda
spoke directly to the Bradley circle in the absence of Mrs.
Leonard I 1 Evidence of a similar nature was supplied
many years ago by Signor Damiani, a well-known inves-
tigator, in his evidence before the London Dialectical Society.
He " declared that voices that had spoken to him in the
presence of unpaid mediums had subsequently conversed
with him at private seances with Mrs. Marshall, and.had there
exhibited the same peculiarities as to tone, expression, pitch,
volume and pronunciation as upon the former occasions ! " 2
§5
Brief reference must be made to another variety of com-
munication pointed to as evidence of spirit agency. Few
more learned champions of Spiritualism have arisen than
F. W. H. Myers, and it is he who, with others, is said to be
responsible for the remarkable but wearisomely complicated
cross-correspondences which have been a marked feature of
psychical research in recent years. These cases have been
examined by experts and reported voluminously in the Pro-
ceedings of the S.P.R. To examine them here, even in
a summary fashion, is impossible. Briefly, to quote Dr.
Carrington, " the idea .is that a word given through one
medium is also given through another, or an idea is partly
conveyed in one case and extended or completed through a
second or a third. Thus, several mediums obtain portions
of a message-which portions, pieced together, are found to
constitute a complete whole." 3 The mediums employed
were often hundreds of miles apart. On occasions, numbers,
figures or sentences were given at seances in Boston which
were completed by automatic writing elsewhere and verified
by telephone. It is indeed difficult to study these corre-
1 H. Dennis Bradley, Wisdom of the Gods, pp. 52-53.
2 Conan Doyle, History of Spiritualism, Vol. II. p. I 54·
3 The Story of Psychic Science, p. 307.
,''
I i
I
'
l
• I
I
; I
i
I· l
! :
. I
; I
'
I :
I•
I
; !
':
I .
i :
I '
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
spondences even cursorily at second hand and not believe
them to emanate from a master-intelligence who has sought
to devise a series of tests with the express intention of elimin:-
ating telepathy as a means ofexplaining them and ofproviding
incontestable proof of survival.
Another interesting variant of those ' tests ' alleged to
be manipulated from the 'other side' is the Book Test.
Its chief exemplifiers are Lady Glenconner and the Rev.
Drayton Thomas.1 Through the ·mediumshlp of Mrs.
Leonard, Mr. Thomas believes that he is in communication
with his father, who speaks, sometimes through the agency
of Feda (the control), and sometimes directly through the
medium. The procedure is something like this : the
communicator indicates that in a certain book on, say, the
third shelf from the top in the second book-case from the
door in Mr. Thomas' study, and on an indicated page about
halfway down, will be found a sentence referring to some
incident in the life of Mr. Thomas or his father. The
nature of the message is briefly indicated. The following is
one of the simplest instances, and has the added advantage
of being amusing. Feda announces, speaking through ·Mrs.
Leonard, that she visited Mr. Thomas' house and tried to
make her presence known by knocking loudly and softly.
The loud knocks only were heard. Three days later, when
Mr. Thomas visited Mrs. Leonard, Feda greets him with the
assertion that she had been to his house and had given the
taps there. A few minutes later, a test, alleged to have
been devised by Mr. Thomas' father, is transmitted, which
would show " the unmistakable bearing of the words "
upon Feda's visit. On returning home and following the
precise directions, Mr. Thomas finds the book selected-a
volume of Shakespeare; and at the place indicated he reads :
"I will not answer thee with words but blows.·
"
1 Glenconner, The Earthen Vessel. Drayton Thomas, Some New
Evidencefor Human Survival.
•.' I
i
,,
'
·.(
. ·.;
·i
. ~
,,
'
.: -~
.!
' '
THE MENTAL PHENOMENA 47
Several interesting variations of the usual method were
tried. On one occasion tests were given from books which
had been selected and seen only by a bookseller, and made
up into 'a parcel, securely sealed. The object, of course, was
to obtain tests which should eliminate all possibility of
telepathy from the sitter to the entranced medium. (There
is, by the way, little doubt that a medium in trance or a
person in a state of hypnosis is much more susceptible to
telepathic impressions than when in a normal condition.) ·
That knowledge not possessed by the medium, but dis-
tinctly relevant to some incident in the life either of the
deceased or some member of his family, was frequently
revealed in these ingenious tests does seem to point to their
having been devised by a discarnate intelligence, in this
case the author's father. The only satisfactory alternative
is that the hypersensitiveness of*the medium enabled her to
come into contact telepathically with information unknown
to herself, but known to some living person. But·can we
reasonably credit the medium with being able supernormally,
by means of a travelling clairvoyance, to visit Mr. Thomas'
library and select there from a page of one book among a
multitude of books a passage bearing precisely upon some
incident private to the life of Mr. Thomas or his father?
To do so-
. to reject as inherently incredible the theory of
spirit agency but to accept this equally incredible alternative,
is surely to strain at a gnat (a big one, perhaps) and swallow
a camel.
Another type of test involved the linking of the com-
municator's memories with items which were to appear on
a given page of a newspaper of the following morning ! Mr.
Thomas was surely right when he wrote: "No physical or
mental powers known to science could accomplish what has
been repeatedly done." And there the matter must be left.
Everyone is given in some degree to the vicious if some-
times excusable habit of pronouncing judgment on matters
' '
i .
' I
!
'
. :
'
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
about which his knowledge is meagre or practically nil.
There are issues concerning which only the expert has the
right to exercise judgment. Is this not one of them?
Clearly, each individual who desires to do so has the right
to exercise his own judgment, or, at least, to form an opinion.
He has full liberty to do so. But one opinion is not as good
as another. He will abuse that liberty if, in the name of
common-sense, religion or science, he voices an opinion
without first informing himself of the facts ; and his ignor-
ance will not count against him in these days of specialisation.
But if he promulgate his prejudices or pronounce judgment
on the issue without first studying it in an unbiased way,
then he is guilty of disservice to the cause of truth.
No subject of study at the present time finds more easily
the weakest spot in the human armour than this one; preju-
dice often prevents its being given a fair· hearing. Un-
reasoning dislike condemns Spiritualism as a mere recru-
descence ofprimitive superstition, and even psychical research,
which some hail as a new science, shares in the distrust.
·For this cause, if for no other, it has been worth while sum-
marising som~ of the more important points with which
psychical research is concerned. Interesting in themselves,
quite apart from their implications, they are destructive-
these facts-of many old ideas. But "it is better to be · .· ,
knocked down by a fact than picked .up by a fallacy," said .
one whose clarion became the trumpet of Spiritualism-
Robert Blatchford.
CHAPTER IV
THE SIGNIFICANCE OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA FOR RELIGION
AND LIFE
§I
- READERS who have carefully followed the description of
the phenomena examined by psychical researchers and the
comments thereon have the right to ask a question, which
might be put something like this : Granted that these super-
normal occurrences are genuine, and, in the main, inexplicable
in terms of fraud or pathological states of mind, how do
they affect human life ?
In answering it must be recognised that it is impossible to
say how far hallucination, fraud, deception or pathology
enter into the matter; each reported case of supernormal
activity must be carefully examined before judgment can be
arrived at with regard to it. These factors may modify or
nullify the supernormal element in a large percentage of
cases. Every student knows the limits to which credulity
can be strained; and the strong, inner drive of the wish-to-
believe. The evidence adduced for the supernormal occur-
rences must be proportionate to the strangeness of the
phenomen~ to be substantiated. For these obscure events
it needs to be ' fool-proof ' before it can be accepted as
irrefutably established. The claim made here is simply this :
while allowing for all those factors destructive of belief in
the genuineness of the phenomena, the cumulative force of
the evidence seems irresistible. That genuine phenomena
of the kind considered do occur there can be no doubt.
D 49
!
j
i
!
II
'
I.
,I I
I '
'i Id
' I
I !
I ;
, j
!
il
l i
!
ii
' I
;.,!:
I
I''
i
1:
I ., i!
I I'
I!'
i
1:.
l~
·'
•
! ~
IL
L
Ir
' i !
'I
II
i
I
I i
I
I I
II
'I
I !
:i
i
i
!
I i
1
!
i
I '
I
I
I
:
I
;
[
I
'
i
I
!
~
!
!
i
'
:
;
I
;
!
I
'
'
'
I
!
L
'
'
';
i
'
!
L
;
:
i
I
!
;
I
L
'
:
'
:
;
!
L
:
50 PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
And the writer's conviction of the reality of these phenomena
rests upon a sound basis-personal experience, and the
investigations and study of men whose good faith and
intellectual integrity it would be folly to question. Nor is
it possible to ignore traditiort, stories from antiquity and
.from the Old and New Testaments, stories of the oracles, of
the lives of the saints, of the Indian Yogi, witchcraft and
occult societies. Who can read these accounts, these tales
repeated from age to age, and fail to recognise that amid
much that is legendary, mythical, fantastic, logically impos-
sible and exaggerated, there is something which no cry of
" Away with this necromancy " can altogether discount or
destroy ? It may be that in folk-lore there lies much buried
truth.
Without more ado, then, the conclusion is accepted that
these phenomena have, and always have had, a basis in fact.
How, then, to return to our question, do they affect humanlife?
How, if at all, is this 'new' knowledge to be related to the
working philosophy of the ordinary man, or to the general
tag-end outlook on life which sometimes does service for a
philosophy ? Perhaps the ' man in the street ' is already
sufficiently perplexed without being given anything more to
think about. All that can be said is that if truth means any-
thing to him, he will not wish to blind his·eyes to anything
which comes in ~er name, however perplexing it may seem
to be. He who desires mental comfort at any cost is in a fair
way to destroying his own mind. Room must surely be
found for facts so important and far-reaching in their effects.
And their recognition will profoundly influence his attitude
to life, and, indirectly, his attitude towards his fellows. If
the man who is confronted with these facts be an atheist,
his atheism will go ; if he be an agnostic, his agnosticism will
be tempered with belief; a naturalist, he will have to forgo
the attempt to describe reality in terms of natural law alone;
a materialist, a mechanist or a behaviourist, he will be con-
iI
f
,.
I'
'I.
!
PSYCHICAL- PHENOMENA FOR RELIGION AND LIFE 5I
fronted with facts which will render these sternly empirical
creeds no longer tenable; a philosopher, he will have to
evolve a theory of knowledge compatible with the exercise
of supernormal faculty; a biologist, he will have to reconcile
preconceived ideas with vital radiations and subtle energies ·
of the. human body inadmissible to orthodox science; a
physicist, he will follow Sir Oliver Lodge and learn ·that
modern physical theory is in no essential point inimical to,
but rather corroborative of, the views regarding the nature
of the universe to which psychic science points; if he be a
psychologist, he will have to take into account evidence
which will compel him to acknowledge individual capacity
of a new and suprasensible kind; an anatomist-well, he will
probably reject the evidence of psychical research, for it is
destructive of all he holds most securely founded, and
suggests a duality in human nature which he cannot
admit. Be he layman or priest, plain man or philosopher,
artist or scientist, his acceptance of these facts, in so far as he
is honest with himself and capable of evaluating them, will
profoundly influence his outlook on life and his relations
with his fello\v-men.
§ 2
As has been. already suggested, the acctedited results of
psychical research sound the death-knell of the long-lingering
materialistic interpretation of scientific facts; and they
render current mechanistic theory-in its comprehensive
sense as covering all forms of life activity-finally and
absolutely untenable. For an endorsement ofthis contention
we refer to the words of Professor William McDougall :
"I regard the research as having established the occurrence
ofphenomena which cannot be reconciled with the mechanistic
scheme of things." 1
1
Body and Mind, P~ 350.
j.
.~!
i
_,
I
I
j
l
)
I
i
j .i
. '·
i j
i
: ;
i '
: I
I :
I I
. ·!
i 1
1
'.
: l t
; ~ ;
' .
:;
I :
t j ~
i j r
t · !
. ;;
' ·
! ;
' '
! i
1 i'
: '
. :!
j ;;
! '.
I ; •
: ,,
! .·
i , '
: · '
' '
( .
': .
' ; i
' .
• I
' '
1 r
i
1 I
' '
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
From the strictly mechanistic standpoint, the phenomena
under discussion are intrinsically absurd and ' unthinkable.'
Hence, perhaps, the opposition, prejudice or indifference
towards psychical research shown by many scientists. His·
tory in this respect repeats itself. "The history of Science;"
wrote Dr. Schrenck-Notzing, "in the last few decades con...
firms .. ~ the justice of the words of the great mathematician
that the word ' impossible ' should be very sparingly used
outside mathematics." Flying, colour-photography, hyp-
notic suggestion, wireless telegraphy and radio-activity have
each in turn been 'impossible' to former generations. Not
so many years ago Sir William Barrett was openly ridiculed
for broaching the subject of telepathy to the British
Association.
Caution is a scientific virtue. It is possible that a case
could be made out which would show that the excessive
caution evinced even by learned men in the presence of new
facts has been beneficial in that it has guarded the scientific
method from prostitution to new-fangled notions and super-
stitious fancies. But caution driven to excess becomes a vice.
It may be that there is a subtle defence-reaction involved
in this rejection of new facts, that there is a savour of unpleas-
antness about them, for the reason that, once acknowledged,
they will demand the retasting of so many entrenched ideas
and the reformulation of many working hypotheses.
Certainly any theory remotely similar to that which
describes mind in terms of nerve stimulus and response is
invalidated by psychical research. If consciousness be a
product of the brain, then these phenomena are mere phantas-
magoria. There can be no reconciliation between the inter-
pretation here given of the results of psychical research and
the theory of those who can affirm with Sir Arthur Keith
that " the human soul is but the manifestation of the living
brain."
It is probable that the doctrine of the soul (whether this
\ PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA FOR RELIGION AND LIFE 53
time-honoured name be used or not) will return to favour,
but with this difference: that it will become, not only
theologically, but also scientifically admissible. The function
I·
l:
I
r
I
I
f
t
I
'i~
'
,.
;
l
of the brain will be conceived of as being primarily trans-
missive, even though it has the capacity inpart, and in alliance
with the entire nervous system, to act independently and
automatically. Such facts as those adduced, as well as those
of therapeutic and hypnotic suggestion, automatic writing
and the large measure of mental control which may be exer-
cised over the organic processes of the body (mind cure), all
go to show that mind has or may have primacy over the body.
Further, the axiom that changes in the brain accompany all
mental processes is seen to be less secure than it was. How,
on this ·assumption, can explanations be given of trance
clairvoyance, or even telepathy, in which the subject's
experience, compas.sing a dimension or level of reality
unknown to the brain (which is dependent on sensory
experience), comprises knowledge distant in space or time ?
How can there be a correlation between mental processes and
cerebral processes in cases ofthis kind ? Thus again psychical
explanation is demanded. Some view similar to this-space
does not allow to state it more precisely or to consider the
various theories-is the only one compatible with the facts
presented by psychical research.
It will be realised, too, that this view leaves the way open
to belief in human survival, unless recourse be had to the
belief (Gerald Heard) that individuality is a 'habit' to be
outgrown, and that deep down as it were there lies a collective
consciousness or super-individual mind in which all individual
differences melt away. If mind has primacy over body
and is able to function independently of the brain, the
dissolution of the bod.y at death in no way implies the
destruction of mind also, or, in our view, of the controlling
agent or soul.
The question must be asked whether psychical research is
,.
r
I'·
>
'r
I
t
'·
t.
)·
f
r
i.
I
'·
I .
I
!
I
i.
...
i
j
I
4
.~
I
~
]
·~
'·1
j
II
,,
.., j
1
"
l
.,
l
I
54 PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
itself a science ? Here, if anywhere, is a field for fruitful
experimentation. But the work is hardly begun; not yet is
it treated as a valuable and legitimate branch of scientific
act1v1ty. Most psychologists hold themselves suspiciously
aloof. Universities, with very few exceptions, withhold
from this province of study their official recognition. But
the time will come when endowments will be provided for
the active pursuit of psychical research in properly equipped
laboratories, and progress in this field will no longer depend
solely upon the labour of devoted individuals and groups.
Meanwhile the work continues, and not Science only, but
also Religion to an ev~n greater extent, is finding in' Psychics,'
as some think, an ally, and others a foe.
How does psychical research affect religion ? It might be
maintained that psychical research affects religion, o:r Chris-
tianity, no more and no less than any other branch of human
inquiry. Clearly, every field of scientific inquiry reacts upon
religious thought, and, ultimately, .to some extent upon
religious practice. It is a truism that the efflorescence of
Science during the last 200 years has profoundly affected
theology (the intellectual formulation of religious faith), and
this new science, if the term may be used, will likewise make
its mark upon religious thinking.
Something more than mere general influence is involved
here. However unimpassioned individual psychical re-
searchers may be, however desirous of knowledge for the
sake of knowledge, the wider issues involved in these inves-
tigations cannot be avoided. And for this reason : the
investigator, in dealing with some. psychical phenomena, is
obliged to adopt the spiritistic hypothesis as, at least, one of
his working theories. He may or may not consider that the
facts warrant his subscription to the theory as the only one
satisfactorily accounting for them. That is another matter.
The point is, that research in this realm demands the careful
testing of a theory which implies human survival and com-
PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA FOR RELIGION AND LIFE 55
munication with departed spirits. Clearly, then, psychical
research may affect religious belief very closely in this regard.
Questions pertinent to the issue obtrude themselves here.
Is empirical evidence of survival possible ? Does the
present state of research warrant our believing that survival
has been proved ? And is it desirable that men should even
try to penetrate 'the Unseen ' ? These questions will now
be briefly considered before dealing with the most pressing
question of all-what is the significance and value of modern
Spiritualism ?
§;
Is empirical evidence of survival possible? Now it must
be admitted that conclusive proof in the mathematical sense
seems unattainable. There can only be ' a balance of
probability.' If there is only one hypothesis which ade-
quately and illuminatingly covers the facts, it may be accepted,
either with due reserve or with grateful enthusiasm. Much
depends upon personal characteristics.
Any attempt to prove survival empirically has to recognise
these difficulties. But they are not insurmountable. The
reality of the external world or of other beings besides our-
selves cannot be proved. Yet men are not solipsists. They
surmount the absurdity of a logic whose conclusions are at
variance with what we call common-sense. Even where
absolute proof is not possible, reasonable certainty may be.
The difficulty involved in proving the existence of a spiritual
world and the presence ·therein of intelligences who once
lived on earth is not intrinsically greater than the difficulty
of proving a host of other postulates. Or is it? The
X-rays are invisible, yet we believe in their existence. Why ?
Because instruments have been made to detect and direct
them, and we rely upon the authority of experts whose work
it is to discover these things. Is our attitude wholly different
·~ .
l
'
1
~
l
·i
-~
I
l
'l
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
when we come to consider the crucial questions of psychical
research ? We must admit a difference : to employ a phrase
of Carrington, one half of the circle is missing.
" On the earth the broken arc; in the heaven, a perfect round."
The evidence given tends to prove an order of existence
so inapprehensible that no instrument yet devised, perhaps
ever devisable, can detect it. On the other hand, once
having admitted the genuineness of phenomena which
transcend normal ·experience, the business of understanding
and explaining them follows, and no world-view which fails
to comprehend them within its synthesis can be accepted.
Order has to be brought out of chaos. And one hypothesis
seems to do this, one that is both corroborative of religious
faith and explanatory of many phenomena which else remain
unexplained: that there is a world (name it how we will)
surrounding or interpenetrating this material world, a plane
or level of existence to whose subtle vibrations men are
normally, but not invariably, insensitive. It is not possible
to prove the reality of this world to sceptics, but those who
have had experience of it may reasonably conclude that they
are not mistaken.
There is a further question-to spiritualists a crucial one :
Is communication between this supra-terrestrial world and
this world an established fact? To this question, a definite
answer cannot and need not be given here. Each one
who desires an answer must study the evidence for him-
self and reach his own conclusion.. And this should be
done without prejudice. Some there may be who will prefer
to suspend judgment, and to them is honour due, for theirs is
no easy task.
The writer feels, however, an obligation to state his own
tentative conclusion, and. believes that he would even be
wanting in courtesy to his readers were he now to refrain
from doing so~ After examining the evidence as dispas~
sionately as his nature allows and paying due regard to
t•
[.,
PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA FOR RELIGION AND LIFE 57
altern~tive theories, he finds himselfcompelled-after years of
wavering-to confess his. own belief that communication
between persons in this world and intelligences in ' the next '
is a practical possibility. The spiritistic hypothesis seems to
him the only one capable of offering a rational and compre-
hensive explanation of many of the facts adduced by inves-
tigators of psychical phenomena. But he also believes that
there is much self-deception in this matter, and that very
many cases of supposed communication are explicable on
purely psychological grounds. While deploring that attitude
which finds in signs and wonders a substitute for the Religion
of the Spirit, he is convinced of the inestimable value of
psychical research, not to Science only, but also to Religion.
In the last few paragraphs we have already provided a
partial answer to the third question formulated above-Is
it desirable that men should try to penetrate the 'Unseen'?
Let J. R. Lowell answer: "Is anything of God's contriving
endangered by inquiry ? Was it the system of the Universe
or the monks that trembled at the telescope of Galileo ? "
Who shall say, "Thus far and no farther; here is holy
ground whereon thou mayest not tread " ? The temper of
this age is surely right here : nothing is profaned by research,
nothing is too sacred to be understood. There can be no
trespassers in God's world. Where human insight leads,
the human intellect may follow; that which intuition affirms,
reason may try to prove or disprove if it can.
§4
Fqndamentalist objectors will tell us that we are expressly
forbidden by Holy Scripture to meddle with these things.
There is no doubt that the horror with which many good but
usually old-fashioned Christians regard psychical phenomena
is largely due to the oft-repeated warnings in the Old Testa-
ment against divination, sorcery and consorting with evil
;
·i
l
l
!
!
~
··I
j
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
spirits.1 There was probably good reasonfor these warnings.
A people given over to necromancy and magic arts was not
likely to obey the commands of Jahveh, or to become a strong
and stable community, especially when these practices were
conducted for selfish or nefarious purposes. It is possible,
as Sir William Barrett points out, that " with no knowledge :
of the great world-order such as we now possess, the intel-
lectual and moral sense of the people would only have been
confouhndedd by these psybchl
1
·cal phednohme~ba
1.'' . h .
1
.~
In t ese · ays it is possi e to rea t e B1 e w1t 1nte ligence
and to assess the pronouncements and denunciations contained
within it from the standpoint of reason and with due regard
to their historical setting.
But, say our scripturalist friends, the practices denounced
by the leaders of the Hebrews are essentially and for all time
evil, satanic, dremoniacal. The best treatment of this
objection is perhaps to respond with the counter assertion
that every gift of man, every avenue of inquiry open to man
is permissible. At the same time, every human gift may be
used for an evil or a good purpose. The motive and the
end in view makes a whole world of difference. It is per-
fectly conceivable that necromancy as an end in itselfmay be
undesirable. Psychic faculty may be prostituted to base
ends; it often is. But that the Giver of Life has endowed
human beings with capacities which are in themselves evil is
a thought unthinkable. The moral for ourselves to be
gleaned from these biblical warnings (which have no necessary ·
significance for us) is that we should beware of relying upon
divination in the stead of our own conscience and reason, or
of making ·an interest in psychical phenomena a substitute
for religion.
When reference is made to the Bible, it is sometimes for-
gotten that in the New Testament there are scores ofincidents
which, ifthe records be trustworthy, show that the phenomena
1 Deut. xviii. 10-12) etc.
PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA FOR RELIGION AND LIFE 59
of the kind witnessed to-day were not unknown to the
earliest Christians. Moreover, there is no hint of their being
proscribed. On the contrary, cases are found ·of visions,
clairvoyance and clairaudience, of automatisms, possessions,
apparitions, indeed of almost every type of psychical phe-
nomenon known and studied to-day.
Jesus perceived in spirit that the scribes reasoned within
themselves.1 He· divined the history of the woman of
Samaria.2 He saw Nathaniel afar off-" when thou wast
under the fig tree I saw thee." 3 When Jesus walked on the
water the disciples thought they saw a spirit.4 Again, the
Fourth Gospel, in the account of Jesus' baptism, speaks of a
voice from heaven, heard, in this instance, by a crowd of
followers, so that some " said that it had thundered : others
said, an angel hath spoken to him." 5 Whether apocryphal
or not, these incidents show that the people of that place and
time werefamiliar withwhat we now callpsychicalphenomena.
The above are a few of the simpler instances of this .sort.
But how else is it possible to understand the ' marvels '
attendant upon Paul's journey to Damascus except by believing
that there occurred some manifestation of psychic power ?
May not this be the explanation of the narrative of the Trans-
figuration, the events of the upper room in Jerusalem, or,
most significant of all, the reported resurrection of Jesus ?
How else, indeed, can this be understood, than by believing
that, after the crucifixion, Jesus did appear to the disciples
and others, but in a celestial 6 or subtle body, which in some
manner un~nown to us (occultists have their theories) became
visible to mortal sight? It is well known that the accounts
of the resurrection appearances contain many conflicting
elements; any interpretation of them has its difficulties.
But, short of their total rejection as apocryphal, we can
conceive of no theory so illuminating as this one, or more
1 Mark ii. 3-12.
' Mark vi. 49·
2 John iv.
5 John xii. 28-30.
.
3
John i. 47-50.
6 Cp. I Corinthians xv. 40.
,,
I ,
I
I [
:I .~
1!
6o PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
suggestive of an explanation of what has always been
the outstanding miracle of Christian history. .The early
Christians believed in a Risen Lord, explain it how we will.
More than this we cannot say, save to quote words ofF. W. H.
Myers which are right to the point: "I venture now on a
bold saying; for I predict that, in consequence of the new
evidence, all reasonable men, a century hence, will believe
the Resurrection of Christ, whereas, in default of the new
evidence, no reasonable man, a century hence, would have
believed it." 1 Again the spiral ascends: that which was
once rejected on the ground that " miracles do not happen "
and because the modern world offers no parallels, need be
rejected no longer, at least so we believe. Herein psychic
science lends to modern Christianity a helping hand.
§5
There is one question which must inevitably be asked in
any attempt to consider psychical phenomena in their rela-
tion to religion. What is the significance -and value of
Spiritualism ?
It would be better, perhaps, to use the simpler, less
ambiguous term ' spiritism ' ; but it is not worth while to
dispute about a name, and, since it is spiritism in its religious
significance which is now being dealt with, the point may
be conceded to the spiritualists. And it has to be recognised
that for any one person who associates the term Spiritualism
with a philosophical attitude, ninety and nine will think of
.that increasing body of people all over the world, organised
into societies and churches, whose chief affirmation is that a
connection has been set up between this world and the next.
Spiritualism assumes diverse forms. In regarding this
diversity it is first of all necessary to discriminate with perfect
1 Human Personality and its Survival ofBodily Death. Abtidged edition,
p. 2 97·
l>SYCHlCAL PHENOMENA FOlt RELIG!ON AND LIFE 6 I
clarity between, on the one hand, those persons who accept
the spiritualistic interpretation of many psychical phenomena
and, on the other hand, those who find in Spiritualism a
gospel and a philosophy. This distinction should be clearly
realised. There are spiritualists-they may or may not
like or own the name-
·who resent the cultification (if we
may coin ~ useful but ugly word) of that which is to them
primarily a scientific fact, however pregnant its significance
for religion, just as there are others who find in Spiritualism
tidings of great joy, a new revelationand an enrichment of
faith.
That spiritualists of the latter type sometimes prove
annoying by their obsession with trivialities and preoccupation
with (supposedly) higher things, to the neglect sometimes of
the duties of this world may be frankly admitted. But
Spiritualism should not be ignored because individuals who
take its name fail in grace or good sense any more than Chris-
tianity should be condemned because of the follies and sins of
many Christians. Men and women, within and without the
Christian Church, have found in Spiritualism a new inspiration
and a new realisation of their responsibility as sons of God.
Spiritualism may be disliked as a cult even while the truth
of its main position is recognised; but Christians should not
decry it as though 'it were merely a competitor to be beaten
and slain. Rather might they ponder with advantage these
words of the Rev. G. Vale Owen: "Unless the Church
accepts our standpoint, it will be disastrous for the Church.
. . . Science has taught us that a fact can no longer, as in former
times, be accepted on authority alone. A fact must ·be
capable of demonstration. As it is claimed that life beyond
the grave is a fact, the layman asks for proof. It is no proof to
him to point to the authority,of the Church or Bible. That
no longer satisfies him."
These words constitute a challenge to the Christian Church,
and there is in them a large measure of truth. Blind faith in
-
l
1
j
l
·.l
j
·.•
i
j
j
J
I! :
: !1 ~
1 I 1 1
IiI i
I :
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
authority no longer suffices ; man is thrown more and mote
upon himself. In so far as he has taken to heart the Emer-
sonian doctrine of self-reliance and the teaching of Mar-
tineau, he recognises an inward authority only-fallible yet
compulsive : that of his conscience and reason. And if he
feels no inner assurance of immortality; if his reason refuses
to be satisfied with the Church's teaching of Immortal Hope,
what then ? If, furthermore, the conception of the goodness
of God carries with it for him no belief that he, and, what may
affect him more closely, his loved ones will survive death,
what then ? If he asks for demonstration, is it right to
denounce his lack of faith, or is it not intelligible if he seeks
to exercise his divine capacity to find out for himself whether
this teaching be true ?
"The souls ,of the righteous are in the hands of God."
That may be wisdom and truth, and may satisfy many religious
people; but does it help a stricken soul ? And what of the
unrighteous, the unregenerate souls? The Church has
virtually abolished the doctrine of hell; the old dualistic
solution of the problem of man's destiny has fallen into
general disfavour; but what has the Church, the Protestant
Church, to put in its place? Its teaching is vague in the
extreme. The progressive Churches, especially, have failed
to face the problem; and for suggestions their ministers turn
to spiritualistic or theosophical books. However much the
mapping out of the ' highlands ' and ' lowlands ' of heaven
may be discountenanced, there is no resisting the fact that
Spiritualism is rightly or wrongly supplying a particular need
which the Churches ought to supply. And this they will not
do until they revise an eschatology which, in its crudest form,
is so totally discredited that it has become the butt of street-
corner rationalists and music-hall comedians.
Universalism (belief in the final restoration or salvation
of all), the "larger hope" of Tennyson, George Macdonald
and the Brownings, of Whittier, Longfellow and Whitman,
PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA FO.R RELIGION AND LIFE 63
has mellowed the harsh doctrines of Reformed Christianity.
But how many questions remain unanswered ! Men may
respond to the poet's cry-
" There shall never be one lost good. What was shall live as
before."
But it is not enough. They see as through a glass darkly.
Yet gleams of light are falling across their path, and these
gleams they must make to shine forth as a gospel ofknowledge
as well as hope if the Church is to regain its lost radiance
and ancient power.
In conclusion, there is one point needing emphasis.
Spiritualism ofitselfis not and cannot be a religion. Though
for many people it has religious value, and inspires in them
reverence which else they were without, it is not a religion.
The Kingdom of Heaven cometh not with observation.
That which is supernormal or extra-ordinary is ultimately of
no greater spiritual significance than the commonest, most
ordinary events of everyday life.
It is needful that this point be emphasised. One of the
tendencies of our day is to confound progress in mechan-
isation with spiritual advance. As Hermann Keyserling has
truly said : "Progress enlarges the sphere of that which may
be transfused by soul; whether this transfusion really takes
place is another question." 1 This tendency finds its counter-
part in personal life. A man may learn by Yogic practice
how to control completely the forces of his body, how to
become cataleptic at will, but has he thereby grown in grace
and truth ? A woman may attend a circle, and learn there,
if she be so endowed, to develop her psychic gifts, but in
virtue of those psychic gifts alone she comes no nearer the
Kingdom of God. Our talents, such as they are, whether
1 The Travel Diary ofa Philosopher, p. I 30.
l
J
;
.,
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND RELIGION
they be psychic or not, become " transfused by soul " only
when men learn how to live from the depths of their being as
children of Eternity, and seek to obey the greatest of all
commandments ; for
" Love is God,
And makes heaven "
in this world and in all worlds, now and evermore.
