{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1931__cerve___lemuria.pdf","mytitle":"Lemuria","mylang":"de"}
JUmuria
T H E LOST C O N T IN E N T
O F T H E PA C IFIC
By W ish a r S. C erve
with a Special Chapter
By Dr. James D. W ard
ROSICRUCIAN LIBRARY
VOLUME XII
SAN JO SE, CALIFORNIA
ROSI CRU CI AN PRESS
Printing and Publishing Dept.
AMORC COLLEGE
FIRST EDITION. SEPTEMBER 1931
Copyright 1931
By AMORC
(All rights, including
scenario form.
conversion
reserved)
Printed in U. S. A.
into
ROSICRUCIAN PRESS
San Jo6e, California
D E D IC A T IO N
V V V
In appreciation of the first researches
into the history of the lost
continents of
Atlantis and Lemuria,
made by that brilliant
mind and soul,
SIR FRANCIS BACON
this boo\ is dedicated to his memory and
everlasting greatness of character.
T he Author
T h e R o s ic r u c ia n L ib r a r y
V V V
VOLUME
I. Rosicrucian Question and Answers with Com'
plete History of the Order.
II. Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and
Business.
III. Mystical Life of Jesus.
IV. The Secret Doctrines of Jesus.
(In preparation.)
V. “Unto Thee I Grant’’
(Secret Teachings of Tibet.)
VI. A Thousand Years of Yesterdays.
(A Revelation of Reincarnation.)
VII. Self Mastery and Fate with the Cycles of Life.
VIII. Rosicrucian Manual.
IX. Mystics at Prayer.
X. Rosicrucian Healing.
XI. Mansions of the Soul.
(The Cosmic Conception.)
XII. Lemuria, The Lost Continent of the Pacific.
(Other volumes will be added from time to time.
Write for complete Catalogue.)
C O N T E N T S
V V V
CH A PTER PAGE
Publishers' P r e fa c e ........................................................ 9
In tro d u ctio n ................................................................... 17
I. The First Races of Man in America . . 23
II. Fascinating Incidents of the Past . . . 47
III. Mysterious Forces of the Universe . . 71
IV. The Land and the L iv in g ...................................97
V. The Mental and Psychic Development
of the L em urians.......................................117
VI. The Spirituality of the Lemurians . . . 139
VII. The Community Life of the Lemurians 149
VIII. Remarkable Achievements of the
Lemurians ..................................................165
IX. The Colonies and Descendants of the
Lemurians ..................................................181
X. Mysterious California ............................... 209
XI. Present Day Mystic Lemunans in
California ................................................. 235
Appendix No. 1.................................................................... 265
Appendix No. II.................................................... . 267
P u blish ers' P refa ce
Some years ago a representative of the Rosi-
crucian Brotherhood in China visited our offices
in San Francisco and placed in our hands, as an of­
ficial portfolio, some very rare manuscripts dealing
with many of the age-old traditions preserved in
the secret archives of Tibet and China. Among
these manuscripts was a very old and worn copy
of the secret spiritual and ethical teachings of the
Tibetans, which this representative was anxious
to have brought to light in the Western World in
modern form. The truly mystical and private
manuscripts of a Rosicrucian nature were de­
posited with us for use in connection with our
usual activities as publishers of the magazines and
other printed matter of the Rosicrucian Brother­
hood.
In order to facilitate the proper publication and
public dissemination of the Tibetan teachings the
foreign representative organized a publishing com­
pany under the name of the Oriental Literature
19]
L E M U R I A
Syndicate, and this syndicate produced the Tibetan
manuscript in book form under the title of “Unto
Thee I Grant—” This rare book has had a num­
ber of editions and is considered one of the most
beautiful specimens of Oriental literature pub-
lished in recent years.
Among the manuscripts retained by the
Oriental Literature Syndicate were several dealing
with the ancient records and traditions telling the
story of the lost continent of Lemuria. It was the
intention of the Syndicate eventually to gather to'
gether from all parts of the world the thousands
of tabulated and recorded facts regarding Lemuria
and its people, and to put these into a highly in'
structive and fascinating book for public dis-
semination. The work of gathering this informa-
tion and compiling it was placed in the hands of
Wishar Spenle Cerve, who was selected because
of his interest in the subjects of archaeology,
geology, and meteorology. As the matter was
gradually accumulated and the astonishing facts
put into readable form, many interesting stories
evolved, each of which was worthy of independent
publication. One of these stories was published by
[ io]
L E M U R I A
us in the Rosicrucian magazine known as “The
Mystic Triangle" for August 1925. The publica­
tion of this story aroused wide spread interest and
immediately there were requests from all parts of
the world for the further publication of similar
stories or the publication of a complete book deal­
ing exhaustively with Lemuria and its people.
W ith the assistance of representatives in China
and Tibet, the entire holdings of the Oriental
Literature Syndicate were taken over by the pub­
lishing department of the Rosicrucian Brotherhood
in America, and therefore the book called “Unto
Thee I Grant—•
” and all the other accumulated
manuscripts and records owned by the Syndicate
became the possession of the Rosicrucian Brother­
hood of AM ORC for North America.
The researches started by Mr. Cerve have con­
tinued during the past ten years, and because of
the increasing demand for the publication of the
fascinating facts, we decided to have him put the
most essential ones and the most alluring parts of
the story of Lemuria into a public book, free from
all technical data of a ponderous nature, and re­
plete with the human interest features which make
[ 111
L E M U R I A
the story of Lemuria the equal of any of the
world’s fascinating romances.
This book is now offered in the present form
with the hope that it will please and instruct as
well as satisfy the natural curiosity in the minds of
millions of persons living in the Western World.
To a great many the book will be a surprising
revelation, and undoubtedly thousands of readers
will question the truthfulness of all the facts stated
herein and will demand scientific proof and veri-
fication. A complete index of all of the records,
writings, traditions and facts regarding Lemuria
would make a book of itself. W e have deemed it
advisable to state a few of these authorities and
records in an appendix to this book, but we do not
attempt to establish the facts of Lemuria in such a
manner as to be indisputably verified in the minds
of those who would undoubtedly question any or
all of the statements regardless of what proof
might be submitted. There are certain facts that
are self-evident regarding Lemuria, and its people,
and these few or many, as the readers may dis­
cover them, constitute a selection or framework
throughout the present volume that is sufficient
£ t2]
L E M U R I A
foundation upon which to build a firm belief in the
entire story. To ignore these indisputable facts
and self-evident points and criticize a few which
have not been substantiated by the most acceptable
authorities is to do an injustice to the work of the
author.
W e have just stated that our desire has been to
make this book free from ponderous, scientific
quotations, and for any to take advantage of this
by criticizing the lack of such evidence will be a
sign of insincerity. If the self-evident and indis*
putable facts to be found in this book are given
proper consideration, there can be no doubt left in
the mind of any critic that most of the entire story
of Lemuria as recorded herein must be true.
One of the points that might be disputed is in
connection with the statement that the changes
which have occurred on the surface of the earth in
past centuries have been in cycles. Many years
ago this astonishing fact was discovered by a well-
known scientist, Mr. John H. Tice. When he at­
tempted to publish his findings in 1875 no pub­
lisher would accept his statements of the scientific
principles constituting natural evidences of a
[ 13 ]
LEMURI A
Cosmic power and the manifestation of Cosmic
laws unknown to other scientists. He, therefore,
published his findings in private form and we are
happy to quote part of these findings in support of
the claim for cycles of changes in the earth’s sup
face in Appendix T^umber One at the close of this
book. Much that Mr. Tice published privately in
1875 and practically all that is contained in his
rare manuscripts now in our possession have been
verified in recent years by the independent re­
searches of hundreds of other scientists, none of
whom, however, have so completely related the
various discoveries and strange manifestations as
Mr. Tice related them in outlining his theory.
The people of the Western World seem to be
generally of the opinion that outside of sacred
literature very little positive information regarding
ancient times is available or of a dependable nature.
It is common belief, for instance, that the only
complete or authentic record of any great flood,
which, as a cataclysm, destroyed or changed part
of the earth’s surface is to be found in the sacred
writings now published in the form of the Bible or
in related Jewish records. The truth of the matter
[ M]
L E M U R I A
is that this great flood and many others are very
completely and interestingly recorded in the sacred
and scientific records of many ancient peoples, and
verification of these are found in the modem
records of nature's own archaeological registry.
From similar writings and records of the
ancients the facts contained in this book have been
gathered and compiled without discrimination, and
without religious or scientific bias.
W e wish to acknowledge our appreciation for
valuable help and assistance to the many persons
mentioned in our appendix relating to authorities,
and especially to Dr. W ard for his special chapter
dealing with the very unique subject with which he
is most intimate as a high representative and gradu-
ate of some of the oldest institutions of learning in
India.
The American people, especially those living in
California, will be delighted with the mysterious
facts contained in this book and we feel sure that
all those living in North and South America, and
who are citizens of these countries will feel a great­
er pride in the ancestry and origin of their coun­
tries and their native races. W e feel that this book
o n
L E M U R I A
has a glorious message and a means for much en-
joyment in the field of fascinating research.
T h e P ublishers—
V V V
[16]
In tro d u ctio n
I wish to anticipate many comments that will be
made regarding this book by those who may have
expected to find within its covers a scientific
treatise on the subject. I have not attempted to
make this book a treatise on the subjects of anthro-
pology or anthropometry, nor in the fields of
archaeological and geological research. Nor will
meteorologists, astronomers, cosmologists or others
find herein a ponderous encyclopedia of technical
information.
W ith the same enormous mass of facts which I
have had at my disposal, and with the same artists
and other assistants ready and qualified to prepare
matter in a technical form for me, such a book as
some may anticipate could have been prepared and
offered to the public, or to that limited portion of
the public, desiring its knowledge in a technical
form. But my purpose was to comply with the
desires of the publishers in preparing and present­
ing an easily readable, enjoyable, and fascinating
[ 1 7 ]
L E MU R I A
account of the lost Continent of Lemuria, with all
of its past history, effects upon the races of man,
and ancient, human incidents of life.
After all, it is a fact that all of us enjoy a re'
taxation from preachments and ponderous aca'
demic dissertations no matter how deeply we may
be concerned with specialized scientific subjects.
The very men who claim to cast aside a book that
deals lightly with an historical, learned, or sciem
tific subject are found in their times of relaxation
completely lost and absorbed in the fascinating and
alluring stories of the popular magazines and Sun'
day newspapers; and I do not hesitate to say that
I have found among my scientific acquaintances
many who have admittedly discovered their first
clues to attractive subjects of research through the
reading of the semi'scientific articles prepared for
lay reading in the popular publications
Scientific research and investigation may be
substantial food to the scientific mind, but a read'
able story, brilliantly coloring the human interest
side of the facts revealed by science, never fails to
become food to the emotional, human, side of our
natures.
[ is]
L E MURI A
The facts contained in this volume are ar-
ranged and presented in the same manner that the
facts of life are presented to you daily. The serious
points are mingled with those that are amusing or
lightly interesting, instructive, or perhaps practical.
The beam of the spotlight of interest is centered
more upon the human-interest features of the story
than upon the ponderous technicalities of scien-
tific erudition. The people, the characters, the
scenes in the backgrounds, the facts and figures
themselves, are all brought out of their laboratory
niches and heavily draped positions, and paraded
upon the stage of life before us to the accompani-
ment of lively music with the bright lights playing
upon them while we, the readers in the audience,
watch this age-old play of life go on and on.
The story in this volume is a play of life that
started over two hundred thousand years ago with
a vague and indefinite prologue, and continuing
through many astonishing, surprising, interesting,
acts up to the present time. The play is still going
on, for the descendants of Lemuria are still in our
midst, and we are daily contacting the effects pro­
duced by these people who attained a high degree
[19]
L E M U R I A
of civilization and established many principles of
life which are still fixed in their purpose and
practice.
After my task was started and I had overcome
the hesitancy I had in writing lightly and freely in
a nontechnical manner of matters that might have
been dealt with more deeply, I began to enjoy the
work. I found the continents of which I was
writing becoming alive, instead oi dead, specimens
painted on old yellow maps. The people them'
selves looked at me, talked to me, and told me their
stories, and I found myself entering into their
communities and observing the transitions in na'
ture, the changes in all forms of life, and the evo­
lution of the races of man. Then it was I dis­
covered why the facts of the story of the lost con­
tinent of Lemuria had never reached a universal
understanding among the lay-minds of the public.
Only the geologists, archaeologists, profound his­
torians and those who delve into the anthropology
of man have found any interest in the history of
Lemuria, and what they found they tabulated in
such a dry and uninteresting manner and pre­
served as such sacred personal assets of their own
[ 20}
L E M U R I A
achievements in research, that few knew what had
actually been discovered.
I hope, therefore, that this book will make the
subject more popular and arouse further interest
in the investigation of the hundreds of available
sources of information still untouched by those
who have spent their lifetime seeking for positive
facts.
W ith this hope and with the further desire that
what I have written may contribute to a better
understanding of the development of the human
individual in all of his physical, mental, spiritual,
and so-called psychic qualities, I offer this work.
July 7,1931.
W . S. C.
[21 ]
Chapter I.
THE FIRST RAC ES OF M A H IH AM ERIC A
NE of the most interesting problems in the
study of world civilization is the origin of
the first races of men in America.
It has been commonly believed, as a
popular idea, that the cradle of civilization was in
Mesopotamia and there is a very general belief that
the first races of man could be traced to some
Oriental country. In fact, the so-called Carden of
Eden has always been considered as a mythical
description of an Oriental location.
A few years ago some scientists advanced the
idea that the valley of the Ohio River might have
been the real Garden of Eden, inasmuch as dis­
coveries there tended to indicate that the mound
builders and the cave dwellers may have descended
from the first races of man to people the earth, and
various relics unearthed in that valley seemed to be
older than anything that had been found up to the
L E M U R I A
period of their discovery. Since then further dis­
coveries have changed the idea somewhat. While
it is generally admitted that there is ample evidence
to prove that the Ohio Valley did shelter and pro­
tect some races of man antedating the history of
man in many other parts of the world, there are
now many evidences to indicate that the Pacific
Coast of the United States is unquestionably the
only existing location of the earliest races of men
who had reached a civilized state of development.
Many and various fantastic theories have been
given to account for the presence of the aboriginal
Americans. The history of the origin of the Ameri­
can Indian is a wonderful study and is a subject
which may never be completely cleared of its
mysteries.
The fact that the American Indians were divid­
ed into many tribes widely separated in their lo­
cations and widely differing in their language and
yet appearing very much alike and having many
customs and habits in common, permit of many
forms of speculation as to their origin. The things
which have been found to be common with most
of the American Indian tribes afford a foundation
[ 2-t ]
LEMU R IA
for the theory that all of them were descendants of
one race, while the many differences in their habits
and customs and in their language afford a founda­
tion for the theory that they were in no way re­
lated and that those in the western part of North
America may have descended from other races that
came from the West, while those in the eastern
part of the continent were descendants of Eastern
tribes or races who had made early contact with
this continent.
In studying the problem we have many reliable
scientific principles as guides and much data of an
accumulative nature that constitutes a fairly de­
pendable index. In studying the history of men we
must bear in mind that there are certain character­
istics which are common to all races and that slight
variation may not always indicate distinct races
but rather the effect of environment upon counten­
ances, nature, and habits of man.
Certainly, we are face to face with one of the
two possible explanations for the existence of the
many races of man. Either all the races of man
throughout the world had one common origin, in
one cradle, in one location, and from this one point
[ 2*]
L E M U R I A
moved in all directions to cover the face of the
earth, or man had his origin in many places
throughout the world practically simultaneously.
The question therefore is whether all mankind had
one common origin and became differentiated in
races and characteristics through evolution affected
by environment as man moved to various parts of
the world, or whether human beings evolved or
were created in hundreds of widely scattered lo­
calities at the same time with distinct character­
istics, natures, and habits in accordance with the
purpose of creation and the environment in which
the creation occurred.
Environment and the consequential effects of it
will change the nature, appearance, habits, and
customs of any race and it is perfectly possible for
all of the races of man to have had one common
origin and to have been identical in countenance,
customs, and habits until the members of this one
original race became scattered in various parts of
the world and developed future generations having
such modifications as the effect of environment
would produce.
[26]
L E M U R I A
W e know that men who live where there is an
abundance of bright light such as in the northern
or southern polar regions or in countries having
wide areas of snow for many months of the year,
or where there is a great amount of white sand re'
fleeting the brilliant sunlight, acquire squinting
eyes or eyes which become slightly oblique, and
from the squinting and continuous attempt to keep
the eyes partly closed against the glaring light the
cheek bones have a tendency to be raised or the
muscles of the face are raised to appear like high
cheek bones. On the other hand, those who live in
the mountains or mountainous regions and must
climb a great deal and struggle much in moving
from place to place, soon develop strong legs, deep
chests and powerfully developed muscles in the
back, and these characteristics are transmitted
from generation to generation until we have a dif'
ferent type of man from those living where there
is snow or desert lands.
Likewise, the races of men who live along rivers
or the borders of oceans and have developed means
of moving rafts or logs or other floating things for
conveyances, using the arms as a motive power
[27]
L E M U R I A
rather than the legs, soon develop broad chests and
powerful shoulders with great muscular arms and
underdeveloped legs.
Just these few points will indicate to you how
physical characteristics may be developed in sue-
cessive generations until an almost distinct race of
man may be evolved through the effects of environ­
ment. If we add to these effects the additional ones
of deeply tanned complexion in the warmer or bril­
liantly lighted climates or where there is a great
deal of sunlight as in the north and south polar
regions, and fairer complexions in the mountains or
shaded valley sections of the temperate zones, and
the effect upon the height and physical develop­
ment generally resulting from warm or cold cli­
mates, accompanied by the effect upon the thick­
ness, color and growth of the hair on the body, we
will see that many greatly modified and diversified
forms of the human body will evolve under the ef­
fects of environment.
W e must not forget, either, the effect of food,
water, and personal habits. The mental develop­
ment of a race, adding to it the character of the
soul within, also has an extremely important ef-
[28]
LEMURI A
feet upon the outer appearance of man. It is gen-
erally conceded that the more intelligent races of
man developed in those countries where the climate
was extremely mild or cold while the less intelligent
races developed in those countries where there was
extreme heat. Analyzing this we find a very
logical reason for this law. In the colder countries
where there is much snow and ice man was forced
to invent and reason out ways and means of cloth'
ing himself and protecting himself against the cold
and the winds and he had to invent homes and
shelter, and devise ways and means of warming
them. He had to devise ways and means of secur'
ing food and preserving it. All this taxed his
imagination, challenged his mental ability, and
made him more industrious and a deeper thinker.
Those who lived in the very mild and warmer
climates found an abundance of food the year
around, required little or no clothing, no specially
constructed homes or huts of any kind, and be-
cause of the heat and the enervating effects of the
climate he became sluggish in his thinking and in
his physical actions.
[29]
L E M U R I A
There are some modifications to the above and
there are some indications of races that reached a
high degree of culture in tropical climates, but
most of these modifications are explained by the
fact that those parts of the world that are now
tropical may not have always been so tropical and
those places which are now so completely covered
with snow may have been more temperate in cli-
mate; and again many of the races of man that at'
tained high civilization in tropical lands were
descendants of tribes that came to such countries
from more temperate or colder zones.
In so far as North America is concerned it is a
remarkable fact that all of the explorations and in­
vestigations into the antiquity and origin of the
primitive races of this continent show that the
greatest and highest degree of civilization was at­
tained on the Pacific coast. I will speak more of
this later, but in passing it may be fitting to say
here that this is an important point in our consid­
eration of the history and ultimate disappearance
of the continent of Lemuria and the distribution of
its surviving people.
[30]
LEMURI A
In considering whether the races of man had one
common origin or not we must keep in mind the
fact that if the races of man originated in one local'
ity and from that point distributed their descend'
ants throughout the world, we must concede that
there were ways and means for the journeying of
the races of men from one continent to another
throughout the world. In this regard we have little
difficulty for there is every indication of a reliable
nature, that many of the great open spaces now
filled with oceans and bodies of water were at one
time occupied by continents and large islands.
W e need not resort to the theoretical pos'
sibility of man having travelled from Russia and
through Asia across the Bering Strait into
Alaska, for while there is evidence that men of an
Asiatic origin did eventually reach Alaska and
leave monuments there proving the fact, neverthe'
less, there is other evidence to indicate that men
reached the shores of America by devious routes
in various ages.
On the other hand, in considering the question
as to whether man may have originated in various
parts of the world simultaneously and without con'
[ 3 1 ]
LEMURI A
tact or knowledge of the existence of other races
in other parts of the world, we have this one very
important fact to keep in mind, namely, that in'
vestigations and researches including the most
carefully made study of the relics found in ex­
cavations in all parts of the world show that the
primitive or original races existing in each locality
started with some culture or development of
civilized ideas, and gradually created an original or
independent civilization of its own. If all the races
of man had one common origin and gradually
spread throughout the world we must concede that
the migrations would not have begun until man
had attained a very high state of civilization and
had developed many methods of caring for himself
and promoting his best interests. In such a case
those who reached foreign lands and established
communities of their race on new and virgin soil
where no other human beings had ever lived,
would naturally have begun their new lives in a
new land with a certain degree of advanced culture
and advanced forms of civilization.
The rapidly accumulating evidence from all
parts of the world proves that this is so. In nearly
[32]
LEMURI A
every case, the earliest relics, the earliest evidences
of human occupation indicate some form of civili'
zation and for this reason we have a right to as'
sume that in these localities the races of men did
not have their beginnings independent of any other
races in any other parts of the world. Considera'
tion must be given, of course, to the results of
retrogression in culture in countries widely separa-
ted from easy contact with others.
There is a very large amount of evidence that
proves conclusively that there was a considerable
amount of migration in the early history of this
earth. This is especially true of the Pacific coast,
of South America, and is an important factor in
the study of the mystery of the disappearance of
the continent of Lemuria.
Before entering upon a discussion of the exist'
ence of the continent of Lemuria and a description
of its people and their habits and customs it may
be well to state in this first chapter the nature of
some of the evidence that has been carefully com'
piled after being gathered by many men and in
many expeditions, all of which I have followed
with keen interest. In the first place, it is more
[33]
L E M U R I A
than likely that we shall eventually find that the
North American Indians are descendants of the
“lost tribes of Israel.” This belief has gradually
developed in the minds of those who have made a
careful study of the origin of the American Indians
and of their languages, customs, habits, and early
products. It may be interesting to my readers to
know that one of the outstanding discoveries in
this regard was the finding that in all of the various
tribes of Indians in America there are certain
words that are common to all, although slightly
different in sound or symbol. A list of these words
common to all of the tribes has shown that they
were words which were identical with words used
by the tribes known as the Israelites.
When one considers the unusual and enormous
diversity of the languages and the tribes of North
American Indians and the fact that tribes that
lived very near each other were unable to under'
stand each other or to communicate with each
other in any form, then the existence of certain
common words of an identical nature and meaning
become highly significant. In the second place, it
has been found that nearly all of these identical
[34}
LEMUR! A
words had a religious or mystical meaning and had
nothing to do with objects or conditions of a purely
local nature, and very often related to principles
and laws of a Cosmic nature and pertaining to
nothing else in their language or in their customs
and habits. In the third place, it was found that
there were certain holidays or holy days or cere'
monial days that were quite common to all of the
tribes despite the great variance in their manner of
living, their beliefs, and their tribal philosophy.
Again it was found that most of these ceremonial
days had a Cosmic, mystical and religious signi'
ficance and were coincident with similar holy days
prevalent among the “Israelites.”
Again, considering the fact that many of these
Indian tribes were so widely separated that an em
tire continent lay between them so that they were
so unknown to each other that when they were
eventually brought into contact with each other
they were astounded to know of the existence of
the other, we can well realize that the similarity
and coincidence of ceremonial days could not be
the result of late intercommunication or the recent
exchange of ideas.
[35]
LEMURI A
How the American Indians came to be the
descendants of the “lost tribes of Israel” is a
matter that requires further investigation and the
presentation of the problem would require another
separate book. The subject has no special relation'
ship with our study of the continent of Lemuria
except that we must keep in mind the fact that the
American Indians may represent a portion of the
descendants of Lemuria and Atlantis.
That these American Indians could have de'
scended from the Israelites by way of migration
across the Pacific is indicated by the fact that
many Asiatic dialects and Asiatic evidences have
been found in North America and this subject, too,
is complete enough to constitute a volume of its
own. But there is this significant point in con'
nection with the study of the distribution of the
Asiatic dialects and Asiatic distinctions. All of
the Asiatic dialects and Asiatic relics are found
only on the Pacific coast, and almost wholly along
the north western shore of the North American
continent. This becomes highly significant as we
shall see later on.
[36]
LEMURI A
On the other hand, along the western coast of
South America we find striking evidence of the
identity of tribal words with oceanic dialects,
plainly indicating and definitely proving that
there was some easy means of access between the
western shore of South America and the various
people of Oceania. In fact, many of the tribes
living along the western shore of South America
are surprisingly like the natives of many of the
present Pacific Islands both in features and color
and in many minute respects. For instance, the
Sirionos of Bolivia, constituting an isolated race of
primitive people unlike all of the other races of
that country but having slightly wavy hair of a
very fine texture with large bushy beards and
typical Oceanic features resembling no other race
anywhere in the world except those of Oceania,
are unlike any of the Indian tribes of either North
or South America. Furthermore, in some of the
expeditions which I have carefully followed and
worked with in analytical study of their researches,
there has been unearthed along the California coast
certain prehistoric graves in which were found
adzes, axe-heads, and other stone articles carefully
[37]
LEMURI A
made, and in a style and manner typical of the
work of some of the tribes still existing on islands
in the Pacific Ocean, and made of stone that is
found no where else except in those islands of the
Pacific Ocean.
It must be kept in mind that these islands now
existing in the Pacific are unquestionably the
remnants of other islands and a large continent
which once occupied the space or part of the space
of the Pacific Ocean, and unless we concede that
ancient men did sail or journey by some means for
many months from distant islands in the Pacific to
the western shore of South America, we must ad'
mit that there must have been other islands or
large bodies of land in the Pacific close to South
America and which were occupied by tribes like
unto those still existing on the Pacific islands and
with stone similar to that still found on such
islands. In such a case it would have been a simple
matter for the pre'historic tribes to have journeyed
from the one continent on the Pacific to the other
and to have made such migrations at a time when
the Pacific continent was slowly submerging.
[38]
LEMURI A
Another interesting point is the fact that North
America affords the greatest study in the in'
vestigation of the origin of man because, even ex'
eluding the many American Indian tribes with
their various dialects, customs, and habits, we still
have evidence in North America of other tribes of
distinctly different dialects and habits. In fact, the
variation of races, of dialects, and customs, was
unquestionably greater in this new world than it
ever was in the old world, and so far as the Pacific
coast is concerned, more than one hundred distinct
languages or dialects were spoken by the various
tribes within a few square miles, constituting a
greater number of distinct tribes for the same
amount of country than in any other part of this
world. Even at the time that North America was
first visited by explorers the condition of variation
in tongue and character was highly impressive.
Many of the natives were naked and savage;
others were nomads. Other tribes were partly
civilized. Some were agriculturists; some were
hunters. Some dwelt in the open fields and vah
leys in the shelter of the brush and trees, while
others had built their homes of adobe and the skins
[ 3 9 ]
LEMURI A
of animals using methods found in no other parts
of the world, or using methods, customs, and
habits that were identical with other tribes in other
parts of the world. Most of the tribes evidenced a
progressiveness in development to the stone age
indicating that they had advanced beyond all the
primitive states. Some of these tribes had already
reached a very high state of culture and had at­
tained real artistic skill, and many of them had ac­
complished feats which had never been excelled or
equalled by any of the other races in the history ot
the world.
I am referring particularly to the Pacific coast
where the early explorers were astonished to find
among primitive races and primitive people the
evidence of a very high civilization.
It is true that in the Yucatan there was found
much evidence of a highly civilized race with a
very remarkable development in culture, but this
is the story of the Mayans, a race of people who
descended from the Atlanteans and Lemurians in­
termarried, when the continent of Atlantis sub­
merged in the Atlantic Ocean. This, too, is another
story in the history of man that has no bearing
[40]
LEMURI A
upon the story of the Lemurians but the fact that
the Mayan writing is one of the most marvelous
achievements of any race and is known only in its
most perfected form, and must have required
thousands of years for development, indicates how
a cultured and civilized race of people came to this
North American continent to live among primitive
conditions.
Certainly this gives us a picture of the polyglot
of races of man, the mixtures of civilization, the
variance of culture, and the wide dissemination of
man himself on a continent in the new world, as
it is called today, but which we shall see was really
an old world before Europe had become even
partly civilized.
In the book of Genesis we have a story of the
origin of man that is not only symbolical but in
some passages quite historical. W e must bear in
mind, however, that the story given to us in
Genesis is the result of age'dd traditions passed
from person to person by word of mouth for many
ages before becoming recorded in the crude writ'
ings on stones. Then such stories were later re'
arranged and recorded for preservation in manu
[41 ]
LEMURI A
scripts, and still later re-arranged, edited, and pre­
pared for translation into other languages and for
wider dissemination. The stories, therefore, of the
origin of man and especially of the great flood, are
not mythical stories but historical facts known to
all ages of man as part of the traditions of man’s
history. Geology and the study of the earth’s
surface and a study of all of the things within the
earth give us mute but indisputable evidence of the
fact that at one time great floods did destroy most
if not all of the living things on the face of the
earth, and that as the flood came to various parts
of the world there were migrations and the move­
ment of hordes of people from one country to an­
other. The flood was not simultaneous every­
where but gradual throughout a long period of
time with one continent or another gradually dis­
appearing here and there. There is scarcely a tribe
of people in any part of the world that has not a
story of a great flood among its traditions. The
early visitors and explorers who came to the
shores of America were astonished to find that
the tribes living here in such great isolation and
separated from all other parts of the world with
[42]
LEMURI A
no means of communication or contact with the
traditions of the Orientals, had their own stories of
a great flood that were identical with the stories
told in Genesis and held by the people of Asia
and other parts of the Orient. How this story of
the world flood came to the American Indians and
the hundreds of other tribes here was a puzzle, in'
deed, to the early explorers, but today there is no
more mystery about it and the explanation of the
possible means of such knowledge constitutes a
part of our study.
W e have been accustomed to think that man’s
first appearance in America was not many years
before the coming of Columbus or the early ex'
plorers. I am speaking now of years in a relative
manner, for a few hundred years, or a few
thousand years, constitute a short time compared
with the existence of the races of man. But the re'
searches within recent years, by every department
of geology and the study of man, have set back
man’s presence in America many thousands of
years. Some years ago no one would have believed
that human beings dwelt in America more than
twenty thousand years ago. Today we have proof
[ 4 3 ]
LEMURI A
that is indisputable that man not only inhabited
North America thousands of years ago, but that
the races of man existing in this country at that
time were the equal if not actually the superior of
the races of man in the old world at the same time.
I have in mind the exhibits from the gravel deposits
in Frederick, Oklahoma, and in Raton, New
Mexico, where we have seen articles that were
buried and associated with animals known to have
lived only in very ancient times. Such animals
were mastodons, camels, horses, elephants,
ground-sloths and others. Underneath the fossils
were found flint arrow-heads and spear heads and
other human-made articles, and some of these
were buried in the bodies of the animals and were
still attached to the bones of these animals who had
been killed with them, and these animals are in­
disputably and scientifically recognized as belong­
ing to very ancient periods. In at least fifty
localities in North America such exhibits have
been found. The most definite proof was found at
Colorado, Texas, where flint weapons which had
undoubtedly killed the animals were within the
skeletons or embedded in the bones. Every
[44]
LEMURI A
scientist and profound student of the subject of
the origin of man in America will tell you that the
evidence is rapidly piling up and while some of
these may not admit with me the existence of
Lemuria as a separate continent with its own race
of people, they will admit that people came to
America many, many thousands of years ago from
some unknown country in the west.
V V V
i* n
Chapter II.
FASCIHATIHGincidents of the past
HE idea that there have been a number of
continents which disappeared in ages gone
by is very old and is found expressed in
various ways in the oldest legends of
many lands. There are references in many ancient
writings to tribes of people living toward the east
or toward the west in localities that are now oc'
cupied with seas and oceans.
I must avoid the subject of the continent of
Atlantis as much as possible because that lost
continent has been well dealt with in the book by
Ignatius Donnelly and by others and because as a
story, not as fascinating as that of Lemuria, would
occupy a complete volume in itself. But, for many
centuries the idea of a lost continent having once
existed in the space now occupied by the Atlantic
Ocean was expressed in hundreds of manuscripts
and books, though considered often as merely a
[47]
LEMURI A
legend without scientific foundation. Even when
Sir Francis Bacon wrote his famous book called
“The New Atlantis” and thereby gave some
weight to the old stories of a lost Atlantis, many
still believed that the ancient continent was as
mythical as the New World he described. Along
with the coming of the realization that the new
Atlantis described by Bacon was a prophetic pic-
ture of the United States and Canada, also came a
realization, through scientific discoveries, that the
lost Atlantis might be more fact than fable.
In recent years, however, all doubt about a sub­
merged continent at the bottom of the Atlantic
Ocean has been cast aside, for the great scientific
explorations and tests have revealed that there is
such a continent, and that at one time it undoubt­
edly filled most of the space between the shores of
the New World and the Old World in the
temperate zone. The Azores Islands and the
Madeira Islands are now generally accepted to be
mountain peaks of the ancient Atlantis continent
still lifting their heads above the ocean's surface.
That there were other such islands in the Atlantic
in centuries gone by is now generally believed be-
[48]
LEMURI A
cause of the many references to them in ancient
writings.
The disappearance of the continent of Atlantis,
however, is only one incident in the history of the
changes that have taken place on the surface of
this earth. It is more than likely that at one time
there was far more land than water, and because
of the picturesqueness of the subject I wish to deal
lightly and briefly with some of the great changes
that unquestionably took place. It is impossible in
a book of this kind and in a limited chapter of this
nature to speak of all of these changes in detail.
First of all, we cannot exactly determine how
large the continent of Atlantis really was, but, of
course, we can be sure it came in contact with
North America and Africa. It may appear as
though this would indicate that the continent of
Atlantis must have been very large, but we will
anticipate that argument by stating that there are
other good scientific reasons for believing that the
continental shores of North America as we know
them today and the shores of the European coast
were not as widely separated as at the present
time. First of all we have evidence to show that
[49]
LEMURI A
the coast lines of both continents have been
gradually changing, just as they are changing to­
day. Despite the many places in which man has
filled in, with earth and other material, various
points and places along each coast and especially
along the North American shore, the washing
away of the earth and the disappearance of part of
the land along the ocean has been more rapid and
more exhaustive than we realize at first considera­
tion. Many of the very ancient maps that show
discrepancies between the present coast lines of
North America and Europe are not the result of
error, but fairly accurate pictures of what the
coast line was at one time.
W e have no reason to assume that a continent
is something that is anchored and fastened to the
center of a great sphere and is immovable. Small
islands have shifted as well as disappeared and re­
appeared in times past and it is possible for an en­
tire continent to move either eastward or west­
ward or even toward the north or south or twist
itself slightly diagonally. Scientists now believe
that because a continent can float and move on the
surface of the earth that very likely the North
[ 50]
LEMURI A
American continent was a part of the European
continent and that the two present shore lines of
the North American and European side were once
the shore lines of a river that merely divided cer'
tain parts of a great continent, and that gradually
the river widened because of the movement of the
continents and continued to do so until the river
became an ocean.
One of the points held forth to justify this idea
was the fact that not only did the continents move
but that the rugged and peculiar Eastern shore
line of the North American continent seemed to
have a similar contour to the western shore line of
the European continent, and in fact there is such a
similarity despite some descrepancies. It is scien-
tifically possible that during the many and marvel'
ous changes that have taken place on the surface
of this earth and while an entire continent of ice
changed into a continent of grass and trees,
changing even the very surface of the earthly sub'
stances themselves, there may have arisen a great
mass of land in the Atlantic Ocean after the two
continents, or the two halfs of one continent, had
[ « ]
LEMURI A
separated and formed two independent continental
bodies.
Among the other picturesque changes is that of
the creation of the present Gulf of Mexico. Urn
doubtedly at one time the present Gulf of Mexico
did not exist as a body of water but as a deep and
beautiful valley lying between, or nearly complete-
ly surrounded by, high mountain regions. The
present peninsula of Florida is not a part of such
mountain regions rising above water but an ac­
cumulation of sand, coral, and shells which have
been deposited on the upper peaks and surface of
a sunken mountain chain. In other words, at one
time the chain of mountains known as the Ap­
palachians was continued on southward in a line
to meet what is now the W est Indian Islands and
on to South America, or another mountain chain
began just north of Florida and continued down­
ward to the W est Indian Islands and South
America. Such a mountain chain would have en­
closed a large valley lying between it and the
present eastern shore of Mexico with its mountain­
ous regions, for we find that it is a mountain chain
that constitutes the only present connection be-
[ « ]
LEMURI A
tween North and South America through which
the Panama Canal has been cut. The present Car-
ribean Sea, as well as the Gulf of Mexico, would
have been within this valley. While the Islands of
the W est Indies are really composed of parts of
the ancient mountain chain, still above the surface
of the water, the land of Florida is a newly com'
posed material accumulated in time, as things from
the sea are accustomed to accumulate around any-
thing to which they can anchor themselves.
Undoubtedly the present Mississippi River
flowed through the center of this ancient valley
and had an outlet somewhere near the Islands of
Martinique and Barbados. Into this valley spread
the survivors of the lost continent of Atlantis, for
there are some islands of the West Indies group,
such as those just mentioned, which indicate that
they were once in close contact with the people of
the lost continent of Atlantis. As time made its
changes in this valley and it began to sink lower
than the sea level, and no longer carried the water
of the Mississippi off into the Atlantic Ocean, it
gradually became filled wtih an inland sea and this
in turn became the great gulf with the continuous
£« ]
LEMURI A
sinking of the eastern mountain range which
separated it from the Atlantic Ocean.
The descendants of Atlantis and Lemuria living
in this peaceful valley gradually migrated to the
sides and top of the mountain ranges both east and
west. Eventually those who had migrated to the
mountains on the eastern side now lying beneath
the peninsula of Florida had to migrate again, and
some went south to the mountain peaks now con­
stituting the West Indian Islands, while the others
went westward and upon the highest land acces­
sible to them they once again built their temples
and their homes, this time more permanently than
ever because of belief in the permanency of the
new site. Thus we find in the Yucatan and the
countries of Guatemala, Honduras, Salvador,
Nicaragua and parts of Mexico, the very wonder­
ful temples attributed to the race known as the
Mayans, whose structures are scientifically ad­
mitted to be older than those in Egypt.
This story of the Mayans is also one that is too
great and too interesting to condense into a brief
chapter of this book and perhaps some day the
[54]
LEMURI A
marvelous truths and knowledge of the Mayan
people will be presented in a separate volume.
Another remarkable change in North America
is that of the gradual disappearance and evapora-
tion of the great inland sea that one time occupied
the entire central area of the United States. The
Great Lakes, the Mississippi Valley, and the great
desert region lying between the Mississippi and the
Rocky Mountains were due to terrific though
gradual changes in the rising of the land. But even
these changes are not as remarkable as another
change in the North American continent to which
I will refer in a moment.
Going further north we find evidences to indi'
cate that Alaska and Siberia were at one time
united and probably the land was broken through
and the continents separated by the onrush of ice
in the time of the change from the glacial period to
the next period, and even north of this there is
definite evidence that the country of Canada was
once a high plateau continuing far beyond the
70th degree of latitude. Greenland and Canada
were originally united and the many islands now
n n
LEMURI A
composing the Arctic archipelago composed one
united land reaching far into the north.
Going into the old world we find many similar
examples of changes, as for instance the separation
between Africa and Arabia and the separation
that is still taking place between Arabia and
Persia. The present China Sea and the Gulf of
Siam now occupy a place that once constituted a
very beautiful valley closed in by a mountain
region on the east which now constitutes the Island
of Formosa, the Philippine Islands, and the Islands
of Borneo, Sumatra and the Malay Peninsula.
W e are not concerned at the present time with
the Old World and its changes which are far more
recent than those of the so-called New World, and
which are continuing more rapidly in their present'
day changes than are the changes of North and
South America. The Pacific Ocean is today a
great area of continuous changes. The changes in
the earth's surface seem to be periodically in zones.
From observations I have made over a number of
years I firmly believe that the zones of changes are
in parallels running westward and eastward; that
is to say, like the degrees of longitude. In other
[56]
LEMURI A
words, these parallel zones are at right angles
to the equator. In each zone certain changes take
place and then the changes move westward to the
next zone and complete their work and then move
on again westwardly to the next zone. The
period of time occupied by each set of changes in
each zone is now being studied from a theoretical
point of view in order to check up with the
periodical changes discovered in the earth’s sur-
face by geologists and scientists of various schools
of investigation. If this theory is proved to be true
and more evidence as convincing as that already
found is discovered in the next few years, we will
undoubtedly find that part of the Pacific Ocean is
at the present time being affected by some of these
changes and that these changes will gradually
move westward across the continents of Asia and
Australia and eventually reach Europe and Africa.
The many recent earthquakes off the coast of Asia
and Australia indicate that the zone of changes is
gradually approaching these continents, and look­
ing back over the history of the changes that have
occurred in the Pacific Ocean we find that within
the last few hundred years many changes have
*[57]
LEMURI A
taken place in a zone that included the Philippine
Islands and the thousands of islands north and
south of them. This is probably the 20th or 30th
time that such changes have taken place in the
Pacific Ocean. In other words, the 20th or 30th
time that the zones of changes have moved from
the east to the west across the entire surface of
the earth.
The changes that take place are accompanied by
earthquakes, terrific storms and cyclones, tidal
waves and fires and extreme changes of temper'
ature. There would seem to be also a movement of
land along with the movement of the zones of
change, and this would account for the continents
of North and South America moving away from
the continents of Europe and Africa after they had
once been divided by water. It would account,
also, for the continuous movement of these con'
tinents and for the rising of a new continent and
its eventual submersion.
Keeping in mind that more than half of North
America was at one time beneath the water, as well
as other parts of it far above the water, and that
which was above is below and that which was be'
[58]
LEMURI A
low is now above, we can see how wonderfully
the surface of the earth is being remade and modi'
fied. The gradual changes in climate, often blamed
upon tidal waves, earthquakes, and ocean currents,
is simply another manifestation of the zone
changes referred to above. The changes in climate
seem to follow in separate zones after the other
changes have taken place or sometimes precede the
other changes. There are those who remember
many such changes in climate as, for instance, those
who recall that in our own lifetime the climate
along the north eastern States of the United States
was entirely different than what it is today, with
winters that began very early in the fall and were
extremely cold and white with snow before Christ'
mas, whereas today New York, for example,
seldom experiences heavy snow storms until almost
the beginning of spring or certainly not before
February or March. If such a great change could
take place in the lifetime of one generation we may
well understand how such a change could have
taken place as would have altered the eastern
states from being completely covered with snow
and ice throughout the entire year to moderate
[ » ]
LEMURI A
temperature and warm weather most of the year.
Similar changes in climate are taking place along
the Pacific coast at the present time, definitely
modifying the temperature and improving the
climate of northern and central California especial­
ly-
Many interesting geographical changes have
been made through these zone effects and, of
course, it is reasonable to say that the results of
these changes are responsible for some of our na­
tional and international boundaries. The British
Isles for instance are powerful in their present posi­
tion solely as a result of the changes that have
taken place in centuries gone by. Very often
picturesque effects have resulted from such
changes, such as the magnificent Niagara Falls and
some of the wonderful falls in southern Africa.
Then, again, Manhattan Island in New York is an
example of how nature can contribute to the for­
tune of man. Manhattan Island was at one time a
part of the mainland and was suddenly cut off as
though a huge knife had sliced off an edge of the
mainland and pushed the slice away leaving a river
in the space between. A study of the pallisades
[60]
LEMU R I A
along the Hudson River would convince anyone
that some terrific earthquake or volcano has split
the solid rock of the mainland in almost a straight
line, and the slice that was thus separated from
the larger body dropped several hundred feet into
the ocean to form a peninsula floating in the ocean
at a lower level than the mainland. This peninsula
finally broke loose from its upper connection and
became an island, and is the most valuable island
in the world.
The Great Salt Lake of Utah is a remnant of an
enormous inland sea that covered hundreds of
miles in each direction filling the valley that lies
between the Rocky Mountains and the foot-hills
of the Sierra Nevada range. The gradual evapora­
tion and condensation of the water for many cen­
turies is responsible for the saltiness of the present
remaining water. Marks on the side of the rocks
surrounding the present lake plainly show the
original height of the surface of this sea and also
show the gradual lowering of that level through­
out many centuries.
All of the foregoing changes, representing only
a fraction of those that might be pointed out, are
[61 ]
LEMURI A
far less surprising than one great change that has
taken place on the Pacific coast of North America
and which enables us to understand much about
the disappearance of the continent of Lemuria and
the migration of its race of people.
In order that this important change may be
thoroughly understood the reader is urged to study
the maps and illustrations presented in this book so
that a proper registration of the pictorial effect
may be made in the consciousness.
First of all we must take into consideration that
the Pacific coast of the United States, as it now
exists, represents the unity of two continents.
Every student of geology and every expert in the
study of the soil, the flora, the minerals and the
relics of the races of man has come face to face
with the many mysteries of the Pacific coast, The
whole region of that coast from Vancouver to
Lower California presents distinctive and unvary'
ing differences of soil, flora, minerals and relics of
nature and the races of man unlike anything found
in the midwest of the continent. In other words,
the land lying between the eastern foot'hills of the
Sierra Nevada mountains to the shore line along
[62}
LEMURI A
the Pacific Ocean, is distinctly different in all of
its exhibits from the land that lies east of the
Sierra Nevada foot-hills or the foot-hills of the
Cascade range. Here, in this narrow strip of land,
averaging about three hundred to five hundred
miles in width and several thousand miles in length
we have soil, products of the soil, along with relics
of man, representing the oldest surface of the
earth ever discovered by scientific investigation.
Here the oldest living things known to man still
remain, such as giant redwood trees that are at
least three thousand years old, with relics of other
trees that lived and grew to great age many, many,
thousands of years previously. In fact, the flora of
this land was so abundant for so many thousands
of years that the soil today is filled with and partly
composed of the decayed flora that has accumu­
lated for so many centuries that it constitutes the
most fertile and the most productive soil in the
world, and everything that will grow in soil any­
where in the world will grow in this soil prolificly
and to unusual development. Immediately east of
the Sierra Nevada Mountains and the Cascade
[63]
LEMURI A
Range the soil is entirely different and all of its
products are different.
A close study covering a very long period, re'
suiting in the finding of many exhibits of nature
and the handicraft of man along with the remains
of many species of animal life, proves conclusively
that between the Sierra Nevada Mountains and
the Cascade Range and the Rocky Mountains, or
in other words in that great valley that lies be'
tween these two great ranges there was a body of
water covering the soil and separating the moun'
tain ranges for many centuries. In other words, if
we imagine that the Gulf of California, which now
separates Baja California from Mexico, was con'
tinued on northward through the valley of the
Colorado River and up into the district of the
Great Salt Lake and then on through Idaho, parts
of Washington, and Montana into Canada, we
would have a complete separation of the Pacific
part of the continent from the midwest as shown
on a map herewith. There probably were many
islands rising in this body of water at some period
of the past, but ages ago this great ocean separated
[64]
LEMURI A
the Rocky Mountains from the present coast range
of the North American continent.
The coast range, the Sierras, the Cascades, and
the present valleys of California, Oregon, and
Washington, were part of another continent that
rose in the Pacific Ocean west of the original
continent of North America. This other continent
of which we now have only a relic was the con-
tinent of Lemuria.
To understand what occurred we must realize
that continents and islands have not only com'
pletely submerged in the centuries that have passed
hut in some instances have only partially sub'
merged, and large islands have dipped or tipped to
one side or one end, while the other end has risen
higher into the space above the water, just like a
large piece of wood floating upon the surface of
the water and being pushed downward on one
end; there would be a tendency to have the op'
posite end rise slightly and especially so if at the
time of the change that caused the dipping or tip­
ping of the land there were such eruptions and
earthquakes and other natural changes in the sur­
face of the earth as would have pushed up one end
[67]
LEMURI A
while causing another end to dip into the water.
From a study of many ancient maps and a study of
deep sea explorations we find many parts of is'
lands that are under water having every indication
of one time being far above water, and we have the
reverse condition in many places where study of
the flora and soil and the remaining rocks show
that in ages gone by they were covered with water
for a long time and have only recently, compara*
tivcly speaking, risen from their watery cradle.
From every investigation that has been made
and the closest study of the nature of the Pacific
ocean and its islands, and from the deep sea
soundings and study of the flora of the Pacific
Ocean, it is very evident that the continent of
Lemuria occupied a great area and was probably a
continent as large as the North American contF
nent if not considerably larger. It unquestionably
reached from 0 degrees southern latitude to 40 or
50 northern latitude, and from a close proximity
to North America to a close proximity to the
continent of Africa. The New Zealand group of
islands and all of the other thousands of large and
[66]
L EMURI A
small islands in the Pacific Ocean are mountain
peak remnants of the submerged continent.
There are indications that the eastern shore of
this ancient continent was close enough to the
North American continent to permit of migration
and some form of transportation long before
Lemuria submerged. When the continent sub'
merged, however, the extreme eastern edge of it
which was very mountainous and very high above
the sea level remained partly above water and the
changes that took place during that cataclysm
caused the continent of North America to move
westwards until the mountain ranges which re'
mained above water united with the rising land of
the western part of the North American continent.
This brought the great valley lying between the
Rocky Mountain range and the Cascade and Sierra
Ranges above sea level and made one continuous
piece of dry land except for the inland sea in the
Salt Lake region.
W e must bear in mind that most of the separa'
ted continents, as we look upon them in present
day maps, are united beneath the water of the
ocean. A study of the flora of the ocean would
[67]
L E M U R I A
show, for instance, that the present Gulf of
Mexico is merely a deep valley into which the
waters of the Atlantic have rushed and that the
continent of South America is connected with the
continent of North America by much more land
than the mere peninsula through which the
Panama Canal has been cut. Undoubtedly the
submerged continent of Lemuria is connected with
part of the continent of North America beneath
the ocean.
W e are inclined to think of rivers being formed
by the flow of water down the mountain sides and
eating away the soil in the mad rush to find an
outlet to the ocean or to a lake or some other form
of dispersion, but until nature forms a valley or a
continuously declining surface into which the
draining water of the mountains can naturally
flow a river cannot form itself. In some cases
earthquakes and surface changes in mountainous
regions have caused a spreading of the rocks creat­
ing a canyon in the midst of mountains into which
the waters of the mountains will pour and form a
river. The Grand Canyons of Colorado are un­
questionably a living testimony to the cataclysmic
[68]
L E M U R I A
changes that took place at the time the continent of
Lemuria was submerged and the waters lying be-
tween the Rocky mountains and the Sierras and
Cascade mountains were emptied into the Pacific
to make room for the rising land of the present
valleys and desert places.
By studying the maps in this book, therefore,
one will see that the western portion of the United
States is a remnant of the submerged continent of
Lemuria and that here we have the oldest of living
things, the oldest of cultivated soil, and the most
numerous relics of the human race which had
reached a higher state of cultural development and
civilization than any other races of man. It will
be interesting, therefore, to examine some of these
wonderful exhibits of antiquity as discovered in
California and other parts of western America and
see the real proofs that Nature has preserved for
us.
V V V
[69]
Chapter III
m y s t e r i o u s FORCES OF THE U NIVERSE
N ORDER to understand some of the
mighty changes that took place in the su p
face of the earth in ages gone by, I believe
it well to present here, in very brief form,
a panoramic picture or description of what
occurred in the past two hundred thousand years.
I will not take the time nor space to quote
authors or records for the statements made in this
chapter, but wall refer to these in a separate part
of the book. Suffice it to say that where archaeo'
logical and geological records do not give some of
these facts, ancient writings, carvings, and engraw
ings on stone supply the defficiencies in an indis'
putable manner.
Beginning, then, at the earliest period of which
we have any definite knowledge, we find that two
hundred thousand years ago the surface of the
earth was very much like that pictured in map No.
[71]
L E M U R I A
1. The large dark portions shown on this map con-
stitute one unbroken continent reaching from the
20th degree of eastern longitude to the 80th degree
of western longitude, and occupying a large por-
tion of the present Pacific Ocean and lapping over
into Asia and Africa. This continent was the
only habitable land sufficiently above water to
have any considerable degree of vegetation. The
shaded portion shown on the map, which repre'
sents the ancient continent of North and South
America and the present continents of Asia and
Africa, was either wholly submerged beneath the
water or it was a form of swampdand known to
the inhabitants of the continent of Lemuria but
not available for habitations of any kind.
At least one hundred and fifty thousand years
ago these partially submerged lands were known
and described and sometimes pictured in maps,
from which the map shown herewith has been
taken. But, for many thousands of years, these
swampy lands were unpopulated and considered
as barren and useless. There must have been parts
of this swampy land that were higher than others
and, from some indications, we find that those
[ 7 2 ]
L E M U R I A
■
M
ap
N
o
.
L E M U R I A
portions, shaded a little darker than the others on
the map, were known as highlands, but still of
little value.
On the one continent shown in black on the
map, all human civilization began, and, probably,
here too, was the beginning of all creatures that
lived out of or above the waters of the earth. This
ancient continent, which is now called Lemuria,
but which had other names in times that are past,
was truly the cradle of the human race and the
original Garden of Eden, if we look upon the
ancient traditional story of the creation of man as
symbolical of the actual facts. In all ancient rec-
ords and among all tribes of people there is a trace
of this same old story of the creation of man in a
Carden of Eden, and like many others in the Old
Testament of the present-day Bible, these sym­
bolical, traditional stories are evidences of great
truths passed down from generation to generation
of the human race.
For one hundred thousand years or more the
cradle of civilization on the ancient continent of
Lemuria rocked the newly born of many tribes
which descended from the earliest created beings,
0 7 4 ]
L E M U R I A
and it may be said, in passing, that the earliest
records indicate that man was created coincident
with the creation of other living creatures, and
that he was not a descendant from any lower
specie of the animal kingdom, but always of human
form and expression and with dominant control
over the other creatures around him. Thus, the old
Biblical story, representing the ancient traditions
of the history of man, appear to be correct and in'
dicate that God created man immediately after
having created the other creatures over whom he
was to have dominion.
just about a hundred thousand years ago great
changes began to take place on the surface, and
below the surface, of the lands and waters of this
earth. I shall not take time to speak of the facts
about gas belts, volcanoes, and other causes of
earthquakes, temblors and shocks, which periods
cally affected the surface of the earth in such a
definite manner as to make it evident that the
earth was passing through a regular and continu­
ous program of evolutionary changes, for the
science of archaeology and geology are replete
with traditions and interesting descriptions of the
[7»]
LE MU RI A
causes and nature of such periodic changes. Suf-
fice it to say, in this regard, that these changes ap­
pear to have been cyclic* and to have moved in
waves like magnetic waves from the east toward
the west, and each wave covered a narrow band of
the earth’s surface much like the bands of longi­
tude shown on the maps herewith. These bands
were evidently about forty to eighty degrees of
longitude in width and extended from the north to
the south poles. They were truly magnetic in ef­
fect for their results are indelibly recorded in the
matter and elements that compose the hard and dry
substances of the earth’s surface and show that
great heat of an electric and magnetic nature often
instantaneously reduced the hardest materials to
molten. Sometimes such changes occurred in two
opposite parts of the earth's surface at the same
time, but the changes were in progressive steps
across the surface of the earth from east to west.
Our continents, as we know them today, there­
fore, have grown to what they are through the
many changes that have taken place and they are
continuing to grow and to change. Coast-lines of
•—See Appendix No. 1 at the close of the book.
[76]
L E M U R I A
all continents are varying from century to century
and new islands rise and disappear in various parts
of the world. Mountains have changed their
height; valleys have been raised or lowered; seas
have come and disappeared and even climatic con'
ditions have changed in the western world, as well
as in the eastern world.
It is interesting to note that in the processes of
the development and growth of continents on the
surface of this earth that all lands began as
swampy marshes and either raised slowly in parts
or were left higher through the waters receding in
a gradual manner, or were pushed upwards in
places by sudden submarine or other explosions;
but, practically all of the continents in their early
stages were more or less level, and high mountains
were entirely unknown, for mountains are a very
recent addition to all continents.
A hundred thousand years ago, when the
present European and adjoining continental lands
were beginning to be higher and dryer, there were
very few high places that might be called hills and
absolutely no mountains at all. Even Lemuria, the
oldest of the continents and the one which was at
[77]
L E M U R I A
this time well populated and thickly covered with
vegetation, had little or no hills and absolutely no
mountains.
About eighty-two thousand years ago the first
of the definitely recorded series of magnetic waves
began to move once more around the earth’s
circuit from east to west. The ones which had pre­
ceded these by several hundred thousand years,
are not definitely recorded, but those which began
about eighty-two thousand years ago affected civi­
lization to such an extent and made such im­
portant changes in the lands that were highly civi­
lized, that records regarding the changes were
made. W e find that the first and most important
change that took place is that shown on map No.
2. First, beginning at about 140 degrees eastern
longitude, the part of the continent of Lemuria
that was connected with Asia and Africa began to
sink slightly enough to be broken up into swampy
islands, and other parts of it submerged leaving
the continent of Lemuria a much smaller con­
tinent, located entirely in the Pacific Ocean and
contacting some of the present day islands near the
shore of Asia. As the magnetic waves and degree
[78}
LEMURI A
of changes passed eastward, the continent of
Europe rose higher and ceased to be a swamp-land
and became high and dry desert wastes with a few
inland seas, as shown on the map. Rivers were
formed in the lowest of the sections of the lands
and as the magnetic waves continued further east­
ward large rivers were formed which separated or
divided parts of Europe into several continents.
Map No. 2 shows the European continents shaded
in a manner to separate them. The large black por­
tion forming one entire continent from the north
to the south, and reaching from about 20 degrees
eastern longitude to 130 western longitude, is the
land that was destined to become North and South
America. This great continent, shown in black,
rose very high, and rapidly became covered with
heavy vegetation, while the rest of Europe, shown
in shaded lines, and all of Africa, remained desert
land, with most of Asia still swampy land.
The people of Lemuria now began to colonize,
and the records indicate that about eighty thous­
and years ago they began to make pilgrimages to
other lands, sending sufficient numbers in each pil­
grimage to constitute a colony or community. The
[ 7 9 ]
M
ap
N
o
.
L E M U R I A
first experiments of this kind were directed toward
Asia, but many pilgrimages were made both east­
erly and westerly.
About seventy-five thousand years ago the con­
tinent in black, shown on Map No. 2, began to
drift and to separate itself from the rest of Europe
and Africa. To those who may wonder whether
it is possible for a continent to drift or not, let me
say that there are many and sufficient proofs in
the sciences of archaeology and geology to show
that this is possible; not all land on the surface of
the earth is a part of the submarine floor or body
of the earth. Even when continents are attached
to the body of the earth these continents can be
moved and have moved through the changes in the
surface of the earth, caused by earthquakes and
cataclysms of various kinds. It appears from a
careful study of the nature of the earth, as a
sphere, that there must be internal regions of great
space filled with great heat and gases. It is appar­
ent that in some of the cataclysms that have taken
place, land has been swallowed up by the vast in­
ternal spaces of the earth, as well as having sub­
merged just beneath the surface of the water, for
[81 ]
L E M U R I A
all of the continents that have disappeared, and all
of the islands that have lowered beneath the sur-
face of the water are not discoverable through
deep sea exploration. As I shall point out later,
the sinking of some of these continents has caused
a lowering of the level of the ocean’s surface. The
sinking of a continent just beneath the surface of
the ocean would not cause the waters to materially
drop in their height, inasmuch as the displace'
ment of water by the sinking of the continent
would make up for the absence of the continent in
the surface of the water. Some continents, how'
ever, and many islands, have been drawn com'
pletely into the very bowels of the earth and have
not displaced any of the water at all.
In keeping with the magnetic pulsations and
earthquakes moving in an easterly direction around
the earth, the continent that became North and
South America moved westerly in a gradual man-
ner, separating itself entirely from Europe, Africa,
and Greenland, and at the same time leaving a
unique coast-line for Europe and Africa. Students
of geography have noticed for many years that the
eastern shore-line of North and South America
[82]
L E M U R I A
was very similar to the western shoreline of
Greenland, Europe, and Africa, and that the
pieces of continent could be fitted together much
like the pieces of a cut-out puzzle, making due al­
lowances for the ever continuing changes of
shore-lines. A t the same time that these changes
were taking place mountains were beginning to
grow in the form of small hills, and the people of
Lemuria were continuing their colonizations in
other lands.
About fifty thousand years ago other very im­
portant changes were noted by those who made
any official records or permanent writings of any
kind. W e find the surface of the earth much like
that shown in Map No. 3. The continents of
North and South America had moved westerly
and had gone as far as they could go, inasmuch as
the western shore of North America had reached
and contacted the easterly shore of Lemuria, and
that part now known as Alaska had reached and
was contacting the easterly limits of Asia. A t the
same time we find that a new continent was be­
ginning to rise in the Atlantic, and swamp-lands
[ 83]
L E M U R I A
appeared there, contacting and uniting North
America with the shore of Europe and Africa.
The reader should keep in mind that it does not
take a very great cataclysm to make many im­
portant changes in regard to continents and
islands. Only recently it was determined by deep-
sea soundings and under-sea explorations that if
the entire land surface of the earth should be
caused to raise above four thousand feet, or a little
less than a mile, every continent on the face of the
earth would be connected by land above water.
In other words, when another great cataclysm oc­
curs, and it should be in the nature of explosions
that would raise the land only four thousand feet,
all of the continents of the world would be in
touch with each other above the surface of the
water and thereby afford dry land communication
and transportation. Think what a mighty change
in the world would result from this! And, it may
be said in passing, a cataclysm that would raise or
lower the surface of continents or lands only four
or five thousand feet would be a small cataclysm,
indeed, compared to those that have taken place
[ 8 4 1
L E M U R I A
in the past. Therefore, we should not be surprised
to learn that about fifty thousand years ago this
new continent suddenly appeared above the sup
face of the water. Whether it had been in sub"
marine existence at the time the North and South
American continent rode over it in its westerly
journey, or whether it was pushed entirely from
the bowels of the earth upward for many miles
cannot be determined, since little of it remains to
this day.
Along with the rising of this continent of A t­
lantis the continent of South and North America
also rose to a considerable height and mountains
rose higher. Where marshy lands were thus en­
closed by highlands deep seas were formed, and
lakes and rivers. By studying map No. 3 the
reader will note that the bay of Hudson was at one
time a great sea connected with the St. Lawrence
River and the Lakes, and that the Mississippi
Valley had a very wide river connecting with an
inland sea or lake in the Colorado Valley, and that
between the Sierra Nevada Mountains and the
Rocky Mountains there was another great inland
sea covering what is now known as the State of
[ 8 5 ]
M
ap
N
o
.
L E M U R I A
Utah. Another sea was formed in South America
in the valley of the Amazon. In fact, records show
that boats from Lemuria and from the west were
able to sail into this sea and out again into the
Atlantic Ocean, and that international communi-
cation and pilgrimages from east to west were
made by this route. This would have made the
lower part of South America a separate continent,
as shown on the map.
Greenland was caught midway in its westerly
movement and remained fixed where it is today,
although the northern part of North America was
not broken up into islands but formed several
large continents.
The most important consideration, however, is
to be given to the western coast of North America.
As the continent of North America moved west­
ward it joined with the eastern high coast of
Lemuria, which was the first part of Lemuria to
have its hills rise to great heights and become
real mountains. Later on when the continent of
Lemuria was submerged this high portion of
Lemuria, joining the western part of North
America, remained above the water and constitutes
[87]
L E M U R I A
the Pacific coast of North America, including the
States of Washington, Oregon, all of California, a
small part of Nevada, Lower California, and parts
of Arizona and Mexico. The western end of
Lemuria, near the coast of Asia, was beginning to
sink and form islands, and here was the beginning
of the formation of the new or separate continent
of Australia and the islands east and north of it.
In Europe mountains were beginning to rise and in
Lemuria itself civilization was reaching a great
height of development and the people were attain­
ing mastership in a sense not even comprehended
by us today; for their civilization was now fully a
hundred and fifty thousand years old, whereas
our present civilization is still a child in com­
parison.
Approximately twenty-five thousand years ago,
further important changes took place on the sur­
face of the earth. The continent of Atlantis rose
higher and mountains began to form on it,
especially in the eastern section, and mountains
were forming rapidly in Europe in and around the
Mediterranean Sea or north of it, and across the
French and Spanish peninsula. The shore-line of
[88]
L E M U R I A
Europe and Africa was gradually changing
through the disappearance of islands and the wash­
ing away of swamp-lands along its edges, leaving
the continent of Atlantis separated from both
Europe and Africa.
North and South America were also passing
through changes, for the land was rising in South
America to form mountains, and new mountains
forming the Rocky Mountain range were rising,
narrowing some of the seas to a smaller area, clos­
ing the rivers to a narrow stream, and closing the
Amazon sea in South America to a river in a dry
valley. As the western coast of Atlantis began to
change and separate itself from North America,
islands were formed and parts of the continent at
Bering Strait were seriously affected, as well as
the small continents north of Canada, now com­
posed of islands.
Lemuria itself was continuing to sink in the
western portion, forcing all of the people to move
to parts of Asia, Australia, and the islands of the
Pacific, or to the eastern part of the continent bor­
dering upon the shores of North and South
America. The continent of Atlantis had become
[89]
L E M U R I A
peopled with pilgrims and colonists from Lemuria,
who had crossed North and South America. Many
parts of South America and many parts of North
America were also peopled by tribes descended
from the early pilgrims from Lemuria.
Approximately eighteen thousand years ago A t­
lantis was at its height in civilization. The eastern
part of its continent now had enormous mountains
and toward the west there were civilized areas
covered with mountains rising to great heights.
The people from Lemuria had reached Africa in
their westerly journeys and had settled along the
shores of the Red Sea and the Nile River, which
was a very wide river feeding a number of lakes
and inland seas and thereby affording excellent
vegetation and the conveniences and necessities for
civilization. This was the beginning of Egyptian
civilization.
Three thousand years later, or approximately
fifteen thousand years ago, another great cata­
clysm occurred which greatly changed the south­
ern part of North America. The people from
Lemuria had settled in and around the rivers and
great seas in what is now known as Texas and
[90]
L E M U R I A
parts of Mexico and Yucatan. It was natural for
these colonists to establish communities where
water and vegetation were most abundant and
where there would naturally be highlands or moun-
tains acting as watersheds and affording the new
product called stone and marble, from which
homes could be constructed or into which caves or
protected places could be carved or cut. But the
great cataclysm of fifteen thousand years ago sud-
denly came upon the continent of Atlantis and
caused the western part of it to sink and at the
same time the great valley just north of Mexico
and through which the great river known as the
Mississippi flowed submerged, destroying almost
all of the civilization centered in that part of
North America. These people were known under
the general name of Mayas, which was a general
term given to all of the Lemurians and some of the
Atlanteans who had entered that valley and built
temples and large cities. The result of this sub­
merging of land formed the present Gulf of
Mexico. The peninsula of Florida did not exist at
this time, but a few mountain peaks rose where the
peninsula of Florida now is and the islands of
[ 9 1 ]
L E M U R I A
Cuba, Porto Rico, and the other islands of the
West Indies group were left as remnants of the
sinking land. The newly formed mountains of
North America that reached down to South
America prevented North and South America
from becoming separated and formed the present
Isthmus, while that part of the old valley that was
the highest, because of its great mountains, became
the present land of Yucatan, while the rising land
that forced the inland sea to disappear became
part of the states of Texas, Arizona, and surround'
ing territory.
The civilization in Atlantis was at its height at
this time and the records show that Queen Moo
was ruling over the people that had survived and
had joined those who lived in the mountains of the
Yucatan.
Three thousand years later, or approximately
twelve thousand years ago, a sudden and more or
less unexpected cataclysm caused the entire con'
tinent of Atlantis to sink and become submerged
in less than twelve years. The eastern high points
of Atlantis were all that remained above water
when the cataclysm was ended and these mountain
[92]
L E M U R I A
tops or mountain peaks now form the islands
known as the Azores, the Canaries, Madeira and
others. Even in Europe many great changes took
place, such as the sinking of the ancient civilization
of Athens and practically destroying all living
Athenians. The continent of Lemuria had com­
pletely disappeared and only its rocky mountain
eastern shore-line remained and was now a definite
part of the continent of North America. The in­
land sea that once existed between the Rocky
Mountains and the Sierra Nevada Mountains in
the Nevada basin, was now beginning to dry up
and disappear, gradually reducing to a small sea.
The present small Salt Lake of Utah is the last
remnant of that great sea, and this is gradually dis­
appearing. Some day, fifty thousand years from
now, or even less, students of the history of the
earth’s surface will read with much doubt the
story of the existence of a lake in the heart of
Utah, just as many of you are reading with con­
siderable doubt the facts regarding the inland seas
of our present continents and the disappearance of
continents of ancient times. There was also a small
inland sea lying between the Coast Range and the
[93]
L E M U R I A
Sierra Nevada Mountain range in California.
This sea was in the northern part of California,
lying in what is now the Santa Clara Valley and
being a part of the present San Francisco Bay.
Another small inland sea existed in the region of
Puget Sound, for that was the northern extremity
of the old land of Lemuria. In many parts of the
present valley of Santa Clara, known for its very
old soil and its wonderful relics of antiquity, sea
shells of various kinds are found imbedded in lands
that are now high above sea level. Of other
changes in Europe and other parts of the world we
are not concerned in this book.
Lemuria had been tom to pieces and her great
civilization submerged and lost, except so far as
her colonies throughout the world were concerned.
When the continent of Lemuria sank, it caused
the water of the Pacific Ocean to recede on all
coastlines and to change the shorelines of all con'
tinents, leaving them higher and allowing many
islands to appear that had not been visible before.
When Atlantis sank the great hole left in the
ocean was immediately filled with an inrush of
ocean water which likewise changed the shoreline
[94]
L E M U R I A
of North America, allowing islands to be formed
and some lands to be sliced off, such as a part of
New York State being cut off and dropped into
the ocean forming the present Hudson River and
the island of Manhattan, and that which is known
as Long Island. The water of the St. Lawrence
River and the Great Lakes and the Hudson Bay
were drawn into the Atlantic Ocean at the same
time, thus narrowing the rivers and making smaller
the lakes and bays. W e are not concerned, how-
ever, with the many changes that occurred
throughout the rest of the world but with the re-
suits from the submergence of Lemuria, approxi'
mately twelve thousand years ago.
W hat became of her people? W hat races of man­
kind descended from this earliest race on earth?
To what heights of civilization did she attain?
W hat did she accomplish in her thousands of years
of development and progress? Are there any
remnants of her strange people living today? And
what is the great mystery of California and the
Pacific Coast of North America? These are the
questions that interest thinking people today, and
[95]
L E M U R I A
these are the questions that I will attempt to
answer in the following pages.
V V V
[ 9 6 j
Chapter IV.
THE LAND A N D TH E LIVIH G
ATURALLY, one of the first questions
that is asked by every person who hears
the story of the lost Continent of Lemuria
is in regard to the land and the living
thereon. W hat was the country like? How did
the people live? And what did they do? The stu'
dent of arcane literature invariably asks another
question, ‘
‘‘
'Did the Lemurians attain any special
degree of intellectual, mental, or psychic develop'
ment, as is sometimes reported?”
Regarding the nature of the country itself we
have certain evidence from archaeological re'
searches and undeniable testimonies in the form of
relics. The country as a continent was probably
not as mountainous as the western part of the
United States except along the eastern shore,
which is now a part of the State of California.
The central part of the continent was more or less
[97]
L E M U R I A
level with an occasional mountain peak rising to
perhaps two to four thousand feet. These peaks
were unquestionably formed through volcanic
eruptions and undoubtedly the entire continent was
badly shaken at times by the eruption of the many
volcanoes which dotted every part of the com
tinent. In the extreme western part of the com
tinent there were some mountain ridges whose
high peaks constitute the many islands near Asia.
The vegetation on the continent was undoubt'
edly of an extremely tropical nature. Viewing the
continent from our present day considerations we
would say that most of it was in the tropical zone
but viewing it from the time of its existence we can
say that all of it was of a tropical nature since most
of it, if not all, was within an extremely warm belt.
Those who have made a study of nature in its re*
lation to the zones of temperature know that in
tropical countries all living things of the vegetable
kingdom grow to an extremely large size and in the
animal kingdom all species lower than man in in'
tellect and spiritual development tend to grow to
extreme size. From specimens that have been dis'
covered in various islands of the Pacific, long em
[ 9 8 }
LEMURI A
crusted in the soil and preserved for us through
many centuries, we see that even the smallest in'
sects, as we judge them today, were of an enormous
size in Lemuria. That which we call the ant today
was so large that it was at least two inches in
length in Lemuria, and the bug generally known as
the roach, for instance, was from four to five
inches in length, with large wings capable of flying
a very long distance. All other animals grew to
enormous size proportionately to those I have
mentioned. The largest among the animals was
that belonging to the class Dinosauria. These
creatures grew to be over a hundred feet in length
and sometimes much longer and they were urn
doubtedly the greatest destroyers of human life,
animal life, and vegetation. Their strange grumbh
ing, made by a form of gurgling in the throat,
which always preceded one of their wild rampages
in search of flesh, or the crackling of vegetation as
their huge bulky forms moved through the high
growth of grass and wild bushes, were sounds for
which the natives constantly listened and in which
they lived in dread.
I [99]
L E M U R I A
Birds were especially prolific and of many va-
rieties and it is believed by some of the best
authorities that the eagles, especially that peculiar
genus, the bald eagle found in the western part of
North America is a remaining descendant of one
of the huge birds that had its natural habitat in
Lemuria, for it is found in some relics carved as an
emblem, and in some pieces of stone parts of its
wings, or the bony structure, has been embedded,
giving us an excellent idea of its size and power.
Snakes and serpents of various lands were also
quite common and even though up to very modern
times the belief in sea-serpents has been smiled
upon by scientists who took the position that the
sea-serpent was a mythical creature never having
had real existence, it is now known that such
creatures actually existed and that the ancient
writings referring to them and the pictures carved
by the Lemurians and their descendants were based
upon actual facts. Only very recently, or within
the year 1931, the first fairly complete skeleton of
such a sea-serpent was found on American soil in
the State of Texas where it was uncovered by ex­
cavators who had dug into virgin soil for the first
[ 100]
LEMURI A
time. Scientists who have examined the skeleton
agree that the remains are many thousands of
years old and that this gigantic Plesiosaurus flipped
through the waters of the Pacific Ocean at the
time that the Pacific Ocean reached inland to the
district of Texas before the continent of North
America was completely formed.
From specially made photographs prepared for
my study and examination I am convinced that the
measurement of seventy-five feet for the length of
the animal is correct. Its head is over eighteen
inches wide and its neck over twenty-five feet
long. Such creatures were evidently very fre­
quently seen around the shores of Lemuria and
were another source of terror to the inhabitants of
the continent.
Perhaps the most interesting of the various
species of animals that inhabited the continent of
[ 101]
LEMURI A
Lemuria and that which was the most prolific was
that known as the Lemurs which constituted the
class in the animal kingdom known as the
Lemuroidea. Briefly and in nontechnical language
one may say that this class of creatures was much
like that of the monkey or ape but with certain
distinct differences which scientists have easily
recognized even from the most fragmentary of
specimens of skeletons. These creatures were of
various sizes and in some parts of Lemuria,
especially in the more tropical sections, grew to the
size of the human body, or nearly six feet in
height when standing upright. W ith the average
Lemur the tail was very long but other character'
istics of well formed fingers and toes and well
shaped heads have been responsible for an error
being made in the judgment of those who found
the earliest specimens of the skeleton remains of
the Lemurs, and who thought that these fragments
were parts of the skeletons of the humans who
lived on Lemuria. This led to the conclusion that
the Lemurians were an undeveloped sub'race of
man. Many strange stories have appeared in
various books regarding the native Lemurians and
1102]
LEMURI A
their primitive physical form and underdeveloped
human characteristics.
The strange belief that man evolved from a
continuous and progressive development of the
Lemuroidea and that the eventual human Lemur
ian was a descendant of the ape'like Lemurs is also
unfounded inasmuch as excavations and discover
ies made within the past centuries have shown that
the Lemurians as a race of man were highly
developed in every physical and mental sense while
the ape'like creatures were still true to their primi'
tive form. There is nothing to indicate that the
Lemurians were a primitive race except in the
thousands, or perhaps millions, of years preceding
the building up of the continent of Lemuria as a
highly civilised nation, and there is no evidence
that warrants the belief that the Lemurians were
descendants from any lower specie of the animal
kingdom. In fact this belief is abhorrent to every
profound student of the Lemurian civilization.
It may be interesting to note in passing that the
name of Lemuria as a name for the lost continent
was arbitrarily adopted by scientists many years
Clos 3
LEMURI A
ago because of their knowledge regarding the ex-
istence of the Lemuroidea in the islands of the
Pacific and the lands surrounding the Pacific and
because it was believed that this class of creatures
belonging to the primates had its original habita­
tion on the continent that is now beneath the
waters of the Pacific. The continent, however, is
referred to in ancient writings as the motherland of
Mu.
Regarding the people themselves, we have evi­
dence that indicates that they were a little above
the average of today, perhaps six feet in height and
weighing around one hundred and sixty to two
hundred pounds. They were of a strange appear­
ance, however, with many unusual features. First
of all they were not given to the eating of much
meat, especially that of large or wild animals and
when they indulged in flesh at all they ate that of
small animals and fish. They lived principally
upon vegetables and fruit and had discovered or
evolved a method of baking many forms of food
from vegetables made in the same way as our bread
of today is made from wheat or corn. This method
[ 104]
L E M U R I A
of eating had a considerable effect upon their man'
ner of living, for, in the first place it did away with
every invention or process for the hunting or cap-
ture of large animals or wild animals. This would
naturally eliminate also the effects of hunting
which have had a considerable influence upon the
culture and modes of living of other races. Not
being hunters they did not venture into wild parts
of the country and did not become discoverers of
new cities or new lands except as other forms of
necessity might take them for short distances away
from home sites or scientific exploration war­
ranted. In fact new communities were established
only as the old ones grew larger.
After the first great catastrophe that eliminated
more than half of the original continent and left
only a small continent in the center of the present
Pacific Ocean the highest culture among the people
of Lemuria developed along the eastern shore on
the high mountain slopes facing the Pacific Ocean.
Trade was exchanged between this shore and
points of the new continent now known as South
America. North America at this time was so
swampy or covered with water that the raised
[ 105]
LEMURIA
parts, or those sufficiently above water to permit of
habitations, were far to the south or north.
South America had afforded the opportunity
for the establishment of cities and communities
originated by those of Atlantis who had gone west'
ward from the Yucatan in the time of their great
catastrophe and there was a continuous exchange
and communication between the Lemurian and
the country of South America, especially the
northern part.
While speaking of this exchange and trade it
may be interesting to note one of the high develop-
ments and scientific achievements of the Lemur-
ians. They did not use steam ships as we know
them today although they did use the wind as one
means of propelling or driving some of their ves­
sels in certain directions. According to some
carvings and writings found in very old records
and buried specimens, they had found among the
volcanic regions certain stones that had been
thrown to the surface of the earth and which had
a peculiar activity which affected water. When
such a stone was placed in a large body of water
it pushed or shoved water away from it in one
t 106]
L E M U R I A
direction with a very peculiar repulsion. This
stone was used by attaching it to the rear part of
a raft between two extended arms so that the stone
was held just slightly beneath the surface of the
water. The stone was turned in such a manner
that the repulsion of water was toward the rear.
Since the water could not move away from the
stone, the stone was forced forward and this
pushed the raft in a forward direction. Whether
there was any considerable speed to this mode of
travel or not we cannot judge from our present day
comparisons, but evidently it saved considerable
labor and was sufficiently efficient to enable rafts
and large enclosed vessels containing from ten to
twenty men and a large store of supplies to make
long journeys with safety. A form of steam pro­
pelling was known and used in many mechanical
ways. W ind mills were also used in manufactur­
ing purposes and there seems to have been another
stone having some sort of magnetic repulsion,
radiating an energy from it that was used to turn
wheels that had large pieces of iron or some
similar metal attached to its surface.
[ 107]
LEMUR IA
Light was also produced in homes or inclosures
by means of some stone or mineral that was like
unto radio-active ones discovered today, but which
gave a very brilliant light continuously. Many
rare minerals and unusual stones were used by the
Lemurians in various purposes little understood
by us since we have not yet discovered duplicates
of them and from the occasional references to
them, in writings or carvings, it is difficult to ap­
preciate their nature and the purposes to which
they were put. Evidently the continent in most
parts was rich in minerals almost unknown to us
today or else the Lemurians were so advanced in
scientific knowledge that they were able to use
many of the minerals now known to us for pur­
poses unsuspected by us.
A large portion of the continent was constantly
in a steaming condition due to the large areas of
boiling lava. In this respect the surface of the con­
tinent in many places must have been like that seen
near Naples with the hot boiling mud bubbling
from the fires beneath and giving off steam con­
tinuously. I have walked among these beds of
mud and studied the nature of the soil beneath and
[ 108]
LEMURI A
around such areas and have tried to picture the
Lemurian continent with its active volcanoes be'
neath it and the other active ones rising high
above the surface of the table lands, and it was
easy to understand how such an continent might
become destroyed and so shaken that the water of
the ocean would rush in over it and cause it to sink
and disappear. Undoubtedly the large areas of
boiling mud were lower than sea level and vege'
tation covered only those portions of the continent
which were above sea level and along the shore of
oceans and rivers. This, however, would have per-
mitted vegetation to have covered at least 75% of
the continent.
Scientists have generally agreed in believing
that the continent was four or five million years
old at the time of its disappearance and this refers
to the portion that remained in the Pacific after the
first division and general floods which submerged
the half of the continent lying east of Australia.
Those scientists who have studied the evidence of
the flora of Lemuria point out that it included
principally coniferae and giant ferns while its
C109 ]
L E M U R I A
fauna included many specimens of unusual scien'
tific interest.
Whatever structures or buildings were erected
by the Lemurians in the latter days of their
civilisation were unquestionably composed of
stones of an extremely hard and durable nature
much like granite and marble. Relics of these
structures show not only the use of unusually hard
stone but the use of a form of cement or mud for
the joining of the stones and filling in of spaces be-
tween them that has stood the destructive forces
of time, tide, and storm. The strange nature of
the stone is one of the chief sources of evidence re'
garding the dispersement of the Lemurians before
and after the great catastrophe. Structures have
been unearthed in parts of South America border'
ing the Pacific Ocean, along the shores of Baja
California and in certain parts of California and
even in parts of Nevada, composed of this same
hard stone, despite the fact that nowhere in the
present excavations of North American soil have
such stones been found in a natural state. This,
along with the discovery of many unusual carvings,
strange pieces of wood, specimens of unusual pot'
[ no]
L E M U R I A
tery and bead work and agricultural implements
typical only of some of the Islands of the Pacific
Ocean which are remnants of the lost Lemuria,
give conclusive proof of the fact that the ancient
Lemurians were in contact and communication
with the shores of North America before the sub­
mergence of the continent.
The homes and other buildings were generally
built in the form of rectangular walls averaging
about ten to eleven feet in height over which
wood and leaves and a coating of mud formed a
roof. The roof extended from four to six feet be­
yond the walls on the outside thereby affording
some shade around each building and keeping the
interior cool. The extreme heat and the brilliancy
of the sun was evidently one of the problems which
the Lemurians had to contend with for there are
many other indications that they suffered greatly
from such sun heat on a continent where the very
soil was warm from great fires and beds of lava be­
neath. There were numerous rivers and cooling
streams due to the many small hills forming many
valleys, which was most fortunate, and this,
coupled with the fact that there were frequent
[ u i ]
LEMURI A
heavy rains throughout the year, made it possible
for the Lemurians to endure the heat and cultivate
the soil. Larger structures were much like the
small ones except in the height of the walls, and
were composed of separated units with covered
hall ways between them or perhaps long passage
ways so that persons could go from one unit to
another without going out into the heat of the sun.
Other homes were carved into the sides of great
rocks or mountains.
Most of the agricultural work, which was the
principal employment of the populace, was done
early in the morning or late in the afternoons be-
cause of the heat of the sun. Pottery and the mak'
ing of ornaments seemed to be the chief manufac-
turing industry and this would indicate that there
was a considerable exchange of these things be-
tween various sections of Lemuria and various
other countries or continents. It is very possible
that that part of Lemuria which disappeared first
may have been considerably different in its soil
and mineral elements and that there was a large
exchange of the products of one part of the coum
try with the products of another part sufficient to
[ 112]
LEMURI A
have warranted the Lemurians in the far eastern
part devoting most of their time to the manu­
facture of articles of adornment, decoration, wor­
ship and mechanical service.
Wood was used to a great extent in the con­
struction of buildings and in the manufacture of
useful articles. The eucalyptus tree and the primi­
tive form of the giant redwood tree were the
principal ones to be found in Lemuria. The in­
dications are that the eucalyptus was most prolific
if not exclusively found in that part of Lemuria
which was the first to submerge but a portion of
which now constitutes the countries of Australia
and New Zealand. However, young eucalyptus
trees were transplanted in the far eastern parts of
the continent and even brought to portions of the
North American continent, and redwoods seemed
to grow naturally along the eastern portion of the
continent which now forms a part of the con­
tinent of North America. Thus we find in Cali­
fornia the giant redwood trees acknowledged to be
the oldest living things on the face of the earth, for
some of these trees rising hundreds of feet into the
C113 ]
L E M U R I A
6ky are thousands of years old. But of this I will
speak later.
Some very large buildings were built by the
Lemurians undoubtedly as temples or places of
worship and scientific study. Domes or curved
roofs were quite frequent in connection with these
larger structures and wherever a building was con'
structed for religious purposes the main entrance
was a portal with the two crescent curves at the
top symbolic of the sacred curve which was the
basis of their religious-scientific doctrines.
There apparently was no attempt to build their
homes close together or create congested com'
munities although there was a very definite com'
munity life with definite precincts or districts for
homes, temple buildings, and places of manufacture
and agriculture. Streets and highways were formed
by clearing away all vegetation and levelling a
broad path and then covering this with a thick
layer of powdered stone that was much like chalk
stone in appearance but which when wet formed a
hard united mass much like cement. In other places
the wet, powdered, stone was merely sprinkled on
the path and apparently no vegetation could grow
[ H4]
L E M U R I A
through it and, therefore, such paths were kept
definitely open and well defined. Transportation
was principally by small boats on the many rivers
for all the communities were located along the
shores of rivers, but various animals were used to
draw or pull what we might call sleighs, along the
smooth highways while other creatures were used
for individual riding. Many pictures crudely
drawn show the native Lemurians riding on the
backs of animals which appear to be tall and
slender much like the camel, but of an entirely dif­
ferent form. As we shall see later on, there was
not the need for personal contact and transports
tion in business and social matters that is common
today and only those engaged in the transportation
of merchandise or products of some kind felt it
necessary to leave their communities and go to any
great distance.
Gold and silver were plentiful as were other
rare materials but these were used purely for orna-
mental purposes and not for exchange or any form
of compensation.
All in all the Lemurians had a very difficult
time because of the climate, the nature of the soil,
1irt]
LEMURI A
and the continuous dread of unexpected volcanic
eruptions, earthquakes, tidal waves, and attacks
from hordes of wild creatures that would descend
from the mountains or come from the plains or rise
from the rivers and ocean waters suddenly to at'
tack a community. Despite all of these handicaps
and difficulties, however, we find that the Lemur-
ians achieved a great scientific comprehension of
natural laws and at the same time developed in­
wardly certain human abilities to a degree much
greater and higher than we have attained today,
with all of our boasted advancement in civiliza­
tion.
V V V
[116]
Chapter V
THE MENTAL AND PSYCHIC DEVELOP'
M ENT OF THE LEMURIANS
SIDE from what we know of the descend'
ants of the Lemurians and through a study
of them discover the high degree of de'
velopment achieved by their ancestors,
there are many ancient records which refer to, and
fairly accurately describe, the mental and spiritual
development of the people at the time that Lemuria
was in the height of its power. Ever must we keep
in mind the fact that the civilization of Lemuria
had developed through aeons of time. Europe may
speak of its long periods of culture, and Rome and
Athens may speak of the great heritage which was
theirs, and even Egypt may boast of a long period
of intellectual development, while we in America
rejoice in the fact that there are some centuries of
culture and development back of our present gem
eration; but when Lemuria was in the height of
[ H7]
LEMURI A
her power she could boast of thousands of cem
turies of development.
In addition to the long period of time through
which the Lemurians had learned the lessons of
life and attained mastership through perseverance,
industry, study and cooperation with the highest
laws, they had the advantage of being free from
the contaminating influence of false knowledge
and a material conception of life.
Speaking in a purely spiritual and mystical sense
we find that today those in Europe or the Western
world who are seeking to comprehend the higher
laws and principles of life deplore the fact that so
much which we have learned in the past century
or two must be unlearned in order that the im
tellectual consciousness of man may be cleared and
purged and made ready to understand and inward'
Iy comprehend the higher laws and principles. It
is quite commonplace for students of these sub'
jects to say that they wished they had come in con'
tact with the real truths of life in their childhood
when the mind was open, unbiased, and unpre'
judiced, and when the eyes had not seen so much
through colored glasses and the ears had not heard
[ 118]
LEMLJRI A
so much through false trumpets. It is a fact that
we are born with not only an inheritance of mis'
understandings and false conceptions, but our en-
vironment and education from the hour of birth
onward are fraught with the pressure and in'
fluence of false ideas and untruths. W e struggle to
separate the gross from the pure, to find truth
amid so much falsehood, and to adjust ourselves to
a correct understanding. Realize, then, what it
meant to the Lemurians to have been free of this
contaminating influence.
W e admit that if a child born today, could be
separated from the present influences of miscom
ception and taken to a distant point and raised and
trained in a purely natural spiritual way, with no
contact other than that which is consistent with
the understanding of higher laws, that such a child
would become a great master so far as the highest
principles of life are concerned. This was the
situation with the Lemurians.
The Lemurians were not surrounded, right
from the very earliest days, with any established
conceptions of the universe or of the natural laws
operating in the universe, and they had no estab'
[ H9]
LEMURI A
lished opinions or orthodox doctrines of life pre-
scribed for them by any special group of scientists
or educators, for all knowledge was obtained
through the individual observation of Nature at
work.
I do not mean to intimate that the Lemurians
had no schools or institutions of scientific learning,
for these are ample evidence to show that they did
have these in abundance and operating with a sys­
tem that would be most desirable today; but these
institutions taught only that which was demon­
strable, which had been proved true, and which the
students could demonstrate to themselves. W e
find in all of the writings and records of the
ancients that even thousands of years after
Lemuria had attained its greatness in scientific
learning and spiritual development the people had
not fallen into the error of creating theoretical ex­
planations and establishing hypothetical condi­
tions to explain the phenomena of life. Our
scientific schools today are filled with this sort of
mental food and it constitutes one of the great er­
rors of our education.
[ 120]
L E M U R I A
The Lemurians and their descendants despised
guess work and speculation in their learning. They
came to realize that there was one dependable
source of positive knowledge and this was the
Cosmic Mind. It seemed to be common practice
with them to resort to concentration and medita-
tion when in doubt, or in search of new knowl­
edge, just as we, today, turn almost automatically
toward some printed book, the newspapers, or
some specialist in human form, and accept the
dictums, the principles, the theories, the ideas, the
personal conceptions and beliefs of these supposed
authorities, without question. It is for this reason
that in all of the later developments of their sacred
literature, which constituted their real books of
knowledge, they placed great emphasis upon the
value of meditation and concentration, and we
should not be surprised, therefore, to find that they
became mighty and powerful in their ability to at­
tune with the Cosmic Mind and in their further
ability to comprehend, understand, and interpret
the impressions they received. From these prac­
tices developed all of the sacred ritualistic practices
of the various religions that developed among
[ m ]
LEMURI A
their tribes or descendants who went into other
lands and established what later historians called
the various religious rites and beliefs.
W e may wonder whence came this great faith
in the Cosmic Mind and the universal ability to re'
ceive information in this manner. Tracing back
their own comments in this regard, we find that
one very natural faculty which had developed in
them was responsible for this great faith and trust
in the Cosmic Mind. In order to make plain what
this faculty was I must say something about the
personal, physical, and mental, as well as spiritual,
characteristics of the beings who constituted the
Lemurian race.
If I could select a typical Lemurian, truly repre-
sentative of those of his race who lived in Lemuria
at the time of its greatest advancement in civiliza-
tion, and place this individual before you as an ex­
hibit, you would look upon a creature peculiar in
many particulars. The first and most outstanding
difference that you would notice between the
typical Lemurian of ancient times and the typical
man or woman of today, would be the fact that
the head was very much larger in proportion to the
[ 122]
LEMURI A
body than we are accustomed to find, and we
would notice that the forehead was very high, or
that the distance between the eyebrows and the
hair on the top of the head was much greater than
in the average individual of today. In fact, the
average forehead of the Lemurians must have been
about six to seven inches in height. In the center
of this forehead, about an inch and a half above
the bridge of the nose, there was a large protrusion
much like the size and shape of a walnut. W e
would look upon this sort of growth in the center
of the forehead today, as a disfigurement, but
with them it was perfectly natural, and such a pro­
trusion was as proper to them as is the protrusion
of our nose, or of the chin, or the high cheek bones.
This protrusion, however, was composed of a soft
mass of matter over which the outer cuticle was
drawn tightly and the cuticle itself was of a deli­
cate, soft nature and color like the skin that is
underneath our eyes.
In height, these Lemurians were a little above
the average of today, with a great many attaining a
height of almost seven feet. The arms were much
larger, longer, and well-developed in muscle, while
[123]
LEMURI A
the limbs were not so long but fairly well-develop-
ed. The hair on the top of the head was short, not
through any style of dressing or training, and it
grew very lightly and was of a very fine texture.
The hair on the back of the head, however, grew
very long, and was often braided or arranged in
very fancy forms across the shoulders or down the
back. If there was any one particular form of orna­
mentation it was in connection with dressing this
long hair, and individual taste was given a wide
scope in this regard, if we are to judge from pic­
tures carved in stone or drawn or painted upon
leather.
The necks supporting the heads were long and
slender and usually a decorative collar formed of
beads or stones was the only fancy addition to the
adornment of the body. The feet and hands were
large and every joint of the fingers and toes was
easily moved and controlled, thereby developing
them to a greater degree than we find in the
present day races of man.
The women were somewhat shorter than the
men and somewhat more corpulent, but their
features were far more refined than those of the
[ 124]
L E MU R I A
men. Very few of the men had any hair upon the
face and the women protected their faces from the
heat of the sun and from the effects of the weather
by wearing a veil made of some vegetable fiber
through which air passed freely, but the protection
against sunburn was evidently sufficient to result
in a fairer complexion for the women, throughout
many generations, than was found among the men.
The ears were much smaller than we find them
today but the nostrils were largely developed and
the nose was more broad and flattened on the face
than we find among the people of the western
world of the present period. The eyes were large
and very clear, and gave an impression of a
piercing gaze and keenness of perception that must
have been very impressive. The skin was not of
dark complexion but merely tanned, while the hair
was very dark and the eyes were brown. The
teeth were very small but uniformly even and
regular.
The protrusion in the center of the forehead was
a result of the sustained development of a faculty
of the human body that has gradually disappeared
since Lemuria submerged and the races of its
[ 125]
L E M U R I A
people were dispersed throughout the world. I
trust that my readers will not compare this pro­
trusion of the forehead with the fantastic stories of
Cyclops, but the story of Cyclops is based upon
what was an actual fact with the people of
Lemuria, for, although this protrusion in the fore­
head was not an organ of sight of a limited nature
nor was it a “third eye” in a limited sense, it did
constitute an organ of sense that was equivalent to
an eye, and an ear, and a nose, and any other
faculty that we now possess for the reception of
impressions. It was commonplace for the Lemurian
to close his two physical eyes and to stand still at
any moment of his daily activities and focalize his
consciousness upon the center of his forehead and
receive an impression that might have been trans­
lated into one of sight or smell, or hearing, or
feeling, or tasting. In fact, it was as common for
the Lemurians to suddenly turn their concentrated
attention to this organ for some impression, as it
is for us today to stop in our conversation or our
activities, and concentrate our attention upon our
hearing in order to hear some distant or faint
sound, or concentrate our eyes upon something we
I 126]
L E M U R I A
wish to see clearly, or concentrate our sense of
smell, or feeling, for a moment in order to analyze
some impression. The Lemurian, however, used
this special faculty not for local impressions or for
purely intimate matters, but for long-distance im­
pressions, for it is recorded that through the use of
this faculty he could see or sense by smell or sound,
some dangerous animal at a very great distance. In
fact, he developed eventually, the ability to com­
municate with animals in their own language or
their own manner of communication, through
attuning this sixth sense with their own.
W e should not be surprised to learn, therefore,
that the art of mental telepathy or the mental ex­
change of ideas and impressions at unlimited dis­
tances became a perfectly natural, commonplace,
and regular practice with the Lemurians. They
recorded, in a casual manner, the reception of im­
pressions from others who were hundreds of thou­
sands of miles distant, just as a hunter today in
recording his story of his hunting experiences
would state in a casual manner that he heard the
call of another hunter or the call of an animal five
hundred or a thousand feet distant. To the Lem-
[ 127 ]
LEMURI A
urians this sixth sense was not an extraordinary
thing but quite commonplace, though they were
conscious of the fact that its usefulness had been
developed by their ancestors through practice and
concentration and that it was a faculty more sus-
ceptible of development and growth than any of
the other faculties which are common to the human
race.
We, today, are conscious of the fact that our
eyes can be trained in seeing, as witness the train­
ing given to an artist; or that our ears can be
trained to hear, as is necessary with a musician; or
our taste may be developed, as is true with those
who are experts in the tasting of wine, for instance.
W e are likewise conscious of the fact that our
muscles in any part of the body may be developed,
or that certain features or functions of the body
may be strengthened through definite effort and
practice.
W ith the Lemurians the knowledge was handed
down from generation to generation that the salva­
tion of their race and the hope for mastership in
the highest attainments of civilization depended
upon the individual and personal development of
t 128]
LEMURI A
this sixth sense. Naturally, they did not consider
it a special gift and it is doubtful if they ever
thought that the time would come in the develop'
ment of the human race that that sense would be­
come obliterated through lack of use and lack of
development to such a degree that its existence
would never even be suspected. They did believe
and did understand that a lack of use of chis faculty
in any family for several generations might result
in a diminishing of its size or its high degree of use­
fulness, just as we realize that the discontinuance
of the use of the tongue in speaking through several
generations might naturally result in an offspring
having no ability to use the tongue at all.
That this sixth sense was an organ equal to or in
some way connected with the present small organ
in our modern bodies known as the pituitary body
is quite likely. And, scientists have discovered that
in many of the races of man living today in remote
parts of the world this organ is much larger than it
is in those of more civilized races and that it has
unquestionably diminished in size throughout the
ages and must have been an important organ in
some early races of mankind. However, that may
[ 129]
LEMURI A
be, this sixth sense also enabled these Lemurians to
sense things in their fourth dimension, for one of
the problems that confronts every student of their
ancient carvings and writings is the continued de-
scription of things in a manner that shows that
they saw or felt or sensed something about every­
thing in nature of which we have no consciousness
today. When they saw a tree, or an animal, a
stone or a mountain, they saw more than its
heighth and breadth and thickness. They saw
something of a Cosmic nature or ethereal nature, to
which they gave various terms; and to them it was
as much of nature and as important in description
as were the other three dimensions.
Now, if we add to this faculty and its abilities
the further fact that it enabled them to attune with
the Cosmic and to receive direct information of a
dependable, reliable nature on all subjects and
covering the entire field of knowledge, we will
realize at once that the Lemurians must have
attained an extraordinarily high degree of perfec­
tion, not only in knowledge but in the matter of
living and co-operating with all of nature’s laws.
Cno]
L E M U R I A
Should we be surprised, then, that these people
living on one continent, stretching almost half way
across the globe, should have been intimately ac'
quainted with the facts concerning the universe,
the growth and development, rising and submerge
ing of other lands, and other continents? Should
we be surprised at their intimate knowledge of
what was going on in distant points of the world
far beyond their personal contact? And, should
we be surprised that they had solved all of the
great problems of life and had found solutions to
all of the mysteries?
Their records and writings show that they were
acquainted not only with the rest of the world as
it existed during their time, but with what had
existed on the face of the earth prior to the forma'
tion of their continent, and what would eventually
happen to their continent. This was their guide in
their wide colonization of other lands, and in the
dispersion of their people to distant points in vari'
ous periods. Again, we must take into considera'
tion the fact that for over a hundred thousand
years they had an opportunity of developing their
knowledge and of carrying out their plans for pre-
[ m ]
L E M U R I A
serving the race of mankind against the cataclysmic
changes that they knew would take place.
To them the spiritual part of the world was the
most important, because it was the only real part
and the only dependable and safe part in life.
Thousands of years of accumulated knowledge had
taught them that the very foundation upon which
they stood, composed as it was of earthly materials,
and subject to the mighty changes that had taken
place and would take place, was a most unreliable
and unreal part of life.
Their conception of a future existence was quite
unique and yet most logical, and probably as good
as any that we have today. They were not only
firm believers in the doctrine of reincarnation (not
transmigration) but they had had ample time, and
the faculty with which to prove, that reincarnation
was a fact and that there were those living among
them who had lived before on the same continent
and in intimate contact with them. Therefore, re­
incarnation was not a matter of belief with them,
for, as I have said above, they had no beliefs which
were not demonstrable truths. They knew reincar­
nation to be a fact the same as we know that so-
t 1321
L E M U R I A
called death of the body is inevitable, and that the
same body will not be seen on the earth plane again.
This is not a belief with us but an established fact
over which there can be no dispute. Their under'
standing of reincarnation was just as well estab-
lished. But, they did know, also, that in the interim
between the passing from this life and the re-em-
bodiment of the personality again, the personality
would exist in a spiritual world which they were
not foolish enough to attempt to interpret in
material terms like the clergy and the religious doc-
trinaries of today attempt to do.
They definitely stated that the personality of
man was ethereal, spiritual, invisible essence and
consciousness, which would occupy the fourth di­
mensional conditions of a purely spiritual world,
and that such a world could not be located or de­
scribed, limited, or compared with material terms
relating to the material world. Even the Cosmic
Mind which they looked upon as superior and
above all human and material things, was not con­
sidered as being above them in a physical sense,
nor located in the heavens or the clouds, as we
think of Heaven today, but was considered to be
[ 133 ]
L E M U R I A
in all space, everywhere, and for this reason they
were apt to picture the Cosmic Mind or Cosmic
consciousness as being within their rooms or even
in the deeply excavated secret chambers beneath
their homes, as in the vast space above the clouds.
For this reason the spiritual personality of one
who had passed through transition was just as apt
to be close to them and living with them in their
homes or in their temples as above the clouds or
anywhere else. That they could sense or contact
these disincarnated personalities through their sixth
sense is quite plainly indicated in their writings,
but such contacts did not imply that such per
sonalities were either close at hand or at a distant
place inasmuch as this sixth sense received its im-
pressions instantaneously, regardless of distance.
W ith such a nature and such an understanding
of universal conditions it was only natural that the
Lemurians should have developed a very high de-
gree of appreciation of spiritual laws and prin-
ciples. Their conception of God was of a universal
principle, both positive and negative, male and fe­
male, and creative and loving in every sense. They
had outgrown any earlier beliefs that their primi-
t 13 4 ]
L E M U R I A
tive forbears might have had that storms and
strifes, cataclysms and destructive forces, were
sent by gods of evil or by a loving God expressing
His wrath. They looked upon all of the processes
of Nature as constructive, even when temporarily
destructive, and considered these as established
laws of evolution having been created by a loving
God in the beginning of time. Their interpretation
of God as analogous to the human individual was
much like comparing God with a Great Master, as
well as parent, of all living beings. He regulated
or controlled every process of nature with only one
thought in mind, that of life and the perfection of
the human race.
In another chapter I will speak of their commu-
nistic affairs, and their ethical and moral practices,
for at present time I am speaking only of the in­
dividual as a highly spiritualised being. The refine­
ment in the food they ate (being almost totally of a
vegetable nature), the care which they exercised
in what they drank, the manner in which they lived
so far as hygienic conditions were concerned,
coupled with labor, exercise, and rest, produced an
unusually healthy body; but there was no attempt
I »5]
L E M U R I A
to seek a long life as the most desirable asset of the
living. In fact, my readers may be surprised to
know that they looked upon transition not only
with a total absence of fear, but as a valued change
and improvement in the status of the individual,
and they were capable of deciding when transition
should take place, and how, and it was common for
the Lemurians at certain ages to announce to their
relatives and friends that three days, or two days,
hence they would pass through transition. They
and their relatives would then make preparations
for such an important event and all material affairs
would be adjusted. On the day of the expected
transition the devout ones would place themselves
on that portion of sacred soil which they had
selected to be their burial place, and with due
ceremony lie down, bid farewell to all, close their
eyes and go into eternal sleep within a few hours.
Seldom were Lemurians stricken unexpectedly by
any disease, and even accidents due to the attacks
of savage animals, which was their greatest prob'
lem, were generally known to them in advance
and every attempt was made to avoid such attacks.
The average Lemurian, however, chose transition
[ H6]
L E M U R I A
as the next step in his life after he became com
vinced that he had accomplished all that he could
do or all that was expected of him in the conditions
and circumstances in which he lived. For this
reason, many Lemurians passed through transition
in what we would call youthful ages, while most
of them passed through transition between the six'
tieth and seventieth year and a number out of
every thousand lived to be over a hundred years
of age.
If you, my reader, think that such a thing is im'
possible as the selecting of a day for transition and
the arbitrary creation of such a condition without
disease or pain or injury, you should know that
there are still some groups or tribes living who
practice this system at the present time, and the
well-known explorer, Cap't Salisbury has recently
lectured upon his contact with transitions which
he saw in various places. Many ancient records
of the descendants of Lemuria show the continu-
ance of this practice for many centuries after the
continent submerged, and undoubtedly the pure
Lemurian, or the pure descendants of ancient Lem-
urians who are still living in various parts of the
[ 137]
L E M U R I A
world, carry on this same system as a quite natural
solution to many of life’s problems. It was not
looked upon as a form of suicide, for in their an'
cient writings the wilful ending of life by injury
or undue risk of the maintenance of normal condi'
tions in the body, is considered sinful, and any
attempt to avoid obligations or the solution of life's
problems by bringing life to an end was considered
a violation of the highest laws. He or she who
contemplated transition and prepared for it had to
be able to show to relatives and friends that what'
ever their mission in life, it had been fulfilled, and
that there were no uncompleted duties nor obliga'
tions, nor any fears from which they were with'
drawing in cowardice.
These facts will give you some idea of the Lem'
urian as an individual, and with these in mind we
will make a little study of their community life and
of their various moral and ethical codes.
V V V
f 138]
Chapter VI.
THE SPIR ITU A LITY OF THE LEM U RIAN S
By Dr. James W . W ard
(Eminent EHsciple of Oriental
Monastary Schools)
OME historians tell us that the Lemurian
race was as unconscious of this physical
world as we are in our sleep. To me it
seems strange that historians having some
facts about the Lemurians, will cover those facts
with vague and indefinite ideas and statements
which cannot possibly be true. In the next breath
they admit the Lemurians were so spiritually de-
veloped that their consciousness was never com
centrated on this physical world. They also vouch­
safe the statement that their incarnations were a
favorite pastime, laying aside the physical body
when worn out and taking on another as naturally
as the falling off of the leaves from trees and new
ones coming out as beautiful as the ones cast off.
t 139]
L E M U R I A
In the face of such contradictory statements they
would have us believe the Lemurians were all born
and lived without eyes, that they had no need of
eyes, because, like animals and fishes in caves and
underground, their eyes would atrophy from living
in the dark. They go on and say that they had
sensitive spots in their heads where the eyes should
be and that the reflections of the sun affected those
sensitive spots. First they saw they had no need
for eyes and could not have eyes in a land of dense
fog which the sun could not penetrate, and yet the
burning glare of the sun caused great pain, and
suffering to those sensitive spots in the head.
Such writings go on to say that the Lemurians
never had a language, but they fail to explain how
we got historical records almost as complete as that
of George Washington. W riters of today say that
the Lemurians were taught at the school of Initia'
tion the laws of nature and facts relating to the
physical universe, and art. Let me say at this time
that the Lemurian of A rt was only used in refer'
ence to the Deity and, if I remember the wording
of the old manuscript correctly, it was spelled Ord,
translated ART. However, let us give thanks to
[ 140]
L E M U R I A
those teachers for teaching a “blind” race which
lived only in the spiritual and had no concept of
the physical universe, yet were able to study the
laws of nature and all the facts relating to the
physical universe and art. W hy not tell us where
they, our writers, received their erudition? Where
did they get their evidence that the Lemurians
never had a personality nor an individuality, that
they were only a God'guided people? I wonder
how many of such writers have established and
proved to themselves an individuality, and how I
wish they had the divine apperception the Lem'
urians had. W e must, however, thank them for
stating that wisdom came to them as a gift. Per'
sonally, I wonder if God was not more generous in
those days with His gifts than now? But why the
argument? Let us establish the true facts and, un-
less I can prove to you that my friends have no
ground to stand upon, you should refuse to accept
my statements.
The first thing we were taught in the Oriental
Monastaries, regarding the beginning of the human
race called man, was that God was first, last, and
always; that God was and is a supreme, divine,
r h i i
L E M U R I A
intelligence, who produced, evolved, and mani­
fested man and every living thing. W e were taught
how and why man was produced. Our teachings
were handed down from the Sages of Antiquity,
and had been recorded in various ways and were
perfectly understandable. They stated that God
realized that every spiritual existence had to have
a spiritualized manifestation in transition in order
to be consciously conscious of its own existence,
God having produced nature and every living thing
had an idea of an ideal manifestation of the abso­
lute, and He produced man as perfect as He Him­
self was perfect. If God failed in one millionth
part of the perfection of man, and if our modern
writers change that first man in any way, they
destroy the existence of one Infinite God.
God’s ideal in perfect man was a thousand times
more perfect than I am today. I know that the
Lemurian people were thousands of years old, the
offspring of the original human family coming
down through two long and interesting races
whose earthly existence was purely immortal, that
is, if the divine injunctions handed down from
them to the Lemurians were authentic. That his-
[ 142]
L E M U R I A
tory was simply this: that man wanted to be free,
he begged for freedom, he knew he was divinely
free but he wanted to be a free moral agent; he
knew more about liberty than some of us. God en­
dowed man with reason and he lost track of his
divinity; then came sickness, pain and death. Lame­
ness and disease came into existence and from this
there were millions blind, so many so, that there­
after the Atlanteans called them the blind race.
However, there were many times more in numbers
who were physically whole and pure as the angels
in heaven.
Instead of pinning your faith on the lapel of our
modern writers with their superficial knowledge,
go with me and let us recognize the perfect man in
all his innocence and purity. Their offspring for
generations were proud of their ancestors who
thought only pure, positive, constructive thoughts,
and ever and anon endeavoring to emulate their
forefathers and ancestral homes. They were con­
stantly reminding their children of the Lemurian
Disciples of God to whom they had vouchsafed the
life and conduct of their posterity. Every night be­
fore retiring they taught their children to guard
1 143]
L E M U R I A
with care every action, deed and thought. To pray
for strength and wisdom, to live the life taught
them by the Holy Lemurians who lived in a world
with other people, but not of them. True, they
had love and compassion for the blind and dis­
eased, but lived in a different sphere.
I, personally, viewed with interest some histor­
ical records of the Lemurians and especially inter­
ested was I in the fearless and undaunted adven­
tures of twelve Lemurian Disciples who started out
with an airship which looked just a little like our
modern blimp. They were old men experienced in
flying a ship, also in sailing boats. Their dreams
were of exploring other countries or continents.
They made some crude maps and some so plain and
perfect that we were sure they were maps of New­
foundland and Florida.
These twelve Disciples finally landed in Atlantis
where they were received, loved, honored and
obeyed, because the Atlanteans called them the
Holy Lemurians.
The records show that the Atlanteans knew all
about the Lemurians and only referred to them as
C144]
L E M U R I A
the blind race because of the great number of blind
among them.
The twelve Disciples left a map of their travels,
and it was of much interest to me because of the
shape of the earth—almost round and resembling a
cocoanut. The countries they discovered were
sketched on the outside, similarly to the present
day globe of the world. The Atlanteans in looking
over the cocoanut-shaped globe came to the con­
clusion that the home of the Lemurians was about
a 30-day trip in a sail boat beyond the setting sun.
To them the sun set just beyond the borderland of
Atlantis.
I wish I had made a photo of that map as it
looked to me. That was fifty-three years ago and I
was not so much interested then as now. But there
is now a very earnest desire on my part to reconcile
the teachings of the Lemurians with the present-
day history and books, which teach that all was
progression, that man at one time was of the lower
animals. Some say that man actually walked on
all-fours and that we still have the ape-body, etc.
Sometimes I am inclined to believe it true of some
writers.
t H5]
L E M U R I A
Let us go over that old record showing the de'
scription, life, teachings, and mystical rites of the
Lemurians, who were the most perfectly formed
human beings that ever lived; straight as an Indian
and as perfect a specimen of manhood as the Im
finite Intelligence and the Eye of God could
visualize; beautiful as a picture of a Greek God,
and a soul as pure as the universal soul from
whence it came and in whose image it was pro'
duced; as perfect as the Divine Mind could com
ceive; the highest idea of God produced for the sole
purpose of manifesting God, demonstrating the
good virtues and holy truths, so pure and sanctified
that to observe one slight mistake or transgression
of the law by a member of his family would cause
him to hang his head in shame. Inately refined, the
women were angels on earth; their grace and
beauty excelled the most beautiful queen that has
ever graced God's kingdom on earth. For 100,000
years they were as pure and as virtuous as the
angels that are now on the Cosmic Plane. The
pictures of those men and women showed them to
be the color of the sun and equally as bright and
shining. The men were nearer the color of the sun
[ 146]
L E M U R I A
at dawn or at sunset while the women were lighter
and brighter.
It is unfortunate to blur this picture with a his­
tory of those blind imbeciles and fallen angels that
our modern writers would have us believe, com­
pletely inhabited God’s own paradise. I am not
going to comment on them for I might reflect some
sad truths regarding our own modem civilized
world. W e still have a few men and women who
are as pure and near perfect as is possible to live on
this earth plane, while we have millions of old,
dilapidated accumulations of ill-spent lives travers­
ing every stage of folly until we are getting millions
of unclean specimens of humanity. Such degener­
ates of the Lemurian Race were in the minority,
however great enough in number, and many of
them lived in swamps similar to the swamps in
Florida, before the country was drained. W e have,
today, in Sweden, cold, damp swamps, dark and
dismal sections of country exactly like parts of
Lemuria before the greatest upheavals and volcanic
eruptions that were ever known destroyed the
country and consumed the Lemurian race with the
possible exception of a few. In truth and in fact
[147]
L E M U R I A
they were not all lost and never will be, because
the continuity of life came to their rescue and
saved for them a remnant of the greatest, noblest
race that ever lived. As a matter of proof of this
narrative is the reincarnation of one of those
twelve Holy Lemurian Disciples who was known
in the Lemurian Age as the greatest architect that
lived in that time and who has reincarnated many
times, and each time for the love of humanity when
man needed him most. He was born a perfect and
pure soul, lived a spiritualized and perfect life
through each incarnation. This Holy Lemurian
whose incarnations have proven him one of God's
noblest spirits is today doing God's work under
divine guidance. He is daily designing and prepare
ing those heavenly mansions and places of abode
for all the elect who chose to live the life and be'
come attuned to the “Threshold.”
This short notation of the Lemurian Race is as
true as the sun that shines and as perfectly narrated
as the divine law that governs the divine plan of
the universe.
V V V
[H 8]
Chapter VII.
THE C O M M U N ITY LIFE OF THE
LEM U RIAN S
LL the scientific analyses of the life of
primitive man intimate that in the begin-
ning of his earthly existence he lived
separately and suspiciously isolated from
others in the bows of trees or in caves along the
banks of rivers until he learned whom he might
trust among all the creatures of the animal king­
dom. And we are told that he learned to trust a
few animals of species lower than man and learned
to trust a few of his companions and that eventu­
ally he domesticated the few animals he could trust
and made friends of the men and women he could
trust and these he gathered together in his immedi­
ate vicinity and constituted them as the elements of
his community life.
W hether the Lemurians began their greatness in
this manner or not we will probably never know.
f 149]
L E M U R I A
It must be evident to everyone who reads this book
that the records from which we quote, including
the carvings on many monuments and the tradi-
tions preserved in the writings of many races that
descended from the Lemurians, began only with the
story of Lemuria after community life was estab­
lished. Men did not learn to think and analyze and
had no occasion to preserve their thoughts and
their knowledge until after they had learned to
exchange ideas with others in the quiet hours of
peaceful community life. Thus we find in the
earliest records that community life was a well-
established condition among the Lemurians. When
I speak of community life I do not mean the group­
ing together of individual homes, merely because
of a favorable site or because of related conveni­
ences that would bring a number of individuals and
their homes together, for this was a stage that pre­
ceded the community life of which I speak. I refer
to that form of community life wherein all the in­
dividuals in a group constituting a town site or a
definite place of homes and dwellings were inter­
ested in some occupation, some production, some
demonstration of mental and physical effort that
{ i»o]
L E M U R I A
made them live and work together as one large
family. So united and identical were the interests
of the individuals in most of these Lemurian com­
munities that they appointed or elected one of their
group who occupied a position much like a mayor,
or city manager of today, but who was really their
advisor, their chief instructor, and court of last
appeal in all disputed points, and their religious
and spiritual guide as well.
W e may grasp a better understanding of the
situation, perhaps, if we realize, first of all, that the
Lemurians issued no coins and had no such com­
modity or device as money. No one received any
form of remuneration for his efforts, except the
privilege of sharing in all the community interests
and each having the friendship and association and
guidance of the principal minds in the group and
of all the other workers. Their products were not
sold and the things they made or grew in the soil
of the earth, or which they dug from the mines,
were traded with other communities at distant
points where different products were available.
Their storehouses and warehouses were commu­
nity ones and there was no incentive to accumulate
{ m i
L E M U R I A
a vast amount of any of these products as a per-
sonal possession. The result of this condition was
that each was required to give his very best effort
in that direction for which he was best qualified
and to that degree for which he was capable in
exchange for the necessities of life and the enjoy'
ment of many luxuries and blessings which we do
not enjoy today. The natural result of this is plain
to be seen. Lawlessness and crime, as we under­
stand it today, was reduced to a minimum. Social
distinctions were absolutely without power. The
power of personal wealth was unknown and prob­
ably could never have been comprehended by the
Lemurians. Those who were talented in various
ways were given every opportunity to exercise that
talent and to devote themselves to it, for if it was
productive in any sense it afforded an opportunity
for receiving all of the blessings of community life
equal to those who produced more material or
necessary requirements. This is why the arts and
sciences among the Lemurians progressed to a high
degree. The reverse of this condition is true today.
Eminent artists and scientists capable of making
the most valuable contributions to our knowledge
f m ]
L E M U R I A
and to our ethical development are forced to aban-
don their work and their effort because they must
resort to some occupation which pays them with
money and enables them to live. If all of the truly
great artists and scientists in the world today were
assured of an equal degree and form of living and
the enjoyment of all the necessities of life while
pursuing their special professions, we would solve
one of the great problems of the present and future
development in our ethical culture.
I have already intimated that scientific know'
ledge constituted the religion of the Lemurians,
inasmuch as a fundamental principle of their under'
standing was that God, or the Creator of all things,
revealed to man all knowledge as a process of
evolving man to the same degree of understanding
as possessed by God. Therefore, the acquirement
of knowledge was considered the acquirement of
spiritual attunement, and growth and knowledge
was looked upon reverentially, instead of as a com'
mercial asset. That the knowledge should be
applied in a practical way seemed natural to them,
for otherwise there would be no purpose in the
revelation of knowledge. Therefore, the religion
C153 ]
L E M U R I A
of the Lemurians contained no doctrinal beliefs and
no false gods or principles arbitrarily selected by
any council or group of individuals and promul­
gated as an orthodox system.
In each community a temple of an appropriate
size was built, handsome and enduring, as befitting
a monument to the glory of its purpose and in
which the religious services were of a double
nature; namely, of silent or spoken adoration to
God, with prayers of thankfulness and apprecia­
tion, and the dissemination of knowledge. These
temples, therefore, were equivalent to universities
and schools of the present day, and it is to be noted
that the instruction was classified into various
branches of study and presented progressively to
the young people and in the form of forums and
open discussions with those who had completed
the youthful years of study. The education of the
youth was compulsory, but the young people also
had to contribute to their own support by par­
ticipating in some of the practical work of daily
life in accordance with their individual qualifica­
tions, talents, and capabilities.
{ 154]
L E M U R I A
It is from the records preserved in some of these
temples and the carvings upon the walls of all of
them that we have learned much about the Lem'
urians. These temples were typical of what the
word temple means. They were buildings en'
shrined against time for the preservation of know'
ledge, as well as the giving of knowledge, and upon
the walls of these structures, and especially on
many large stones arranged in special position to
stand the test of time, the outstanding discoveries
and proved facts of life were carved for future
reference. There are many indications in these
writings that they anticipated the future to be very
far distant and that much which they carved upon
the stones would have to be preserved for many
thousands of years in order that future races might
learn the truth of these ancient people. W e are
sure, therefore, that these Lemurians anticipated
some great cataclysm that might destroy most, if
not all, of their continent, and scatter their people
to all parts of the world and almost destroy all
knowledge of them. It was this attempt on their
part to prevent a complete obliteration of their
[ w ]
L E M U R I A
existence that has resulted in our present day
knowledge of them.
The moral standard of the Lemurians was ex'
tremely high, even though a modern purist would
look upon their code as one of no morals at all, and
would consider the Lemurians unmoral rather than
moral or immoral. W e find, for instance, a total
lack of emblems or intimation that any form of
phillick or sex worship entered into their conscious'
ness. Our research would reveal that this phillick
worship is a much later creation of uneducated
men or races of men in distant lands. Among the
Lemurians there was no prudery regarding the
naked body, nor was there any particular reference
to it for there seemed to be neither shame nor glori'
fication of nudity, yet the Lemurians did not dwell
in nudity nor do they picture themselves as being
undressed or lacking in dress in any degree. They
wore loose flowing outer garments, much like the
Egyptian and Arabs of today, which was probably
as a protection against the sunlight and heat. But
they had community swimming pools and bathing
pavilions much like the Romans adopted in later
t H6]
L E M U R I A
centuries in which both sexes bathed at the same
time without any consideration of sex or nudity.
There were very definite rules regarding all sex
relations and they had a marriage custom that is
still to be found among some of their descendants
in some of the islands of the Pacific. According to
records which have been found, the marriage sys'
tern was as follows. When a young man and a
young woman had found sufficient interest in each
other to believe that they desired to become man
and wife, they appeared before the official Gu of
their community, who was their spiritual advisor,
instructor, mayor, and Supreme Court judge. Their
appeal was properly recorded and the relatives of
both were called in consultation, and if the mar'
riage was found agreeable to the parents a date was
set for a ceremony that was preliminary to the
actual marriage. On the day of this ceremony the
young couple, their parents, and all in the com-
munity who were interested, gathered at the large
open square or circle in front of the principal
buildings and temple and the young couple were
denuded of every bit of clothing and every worldly
possession of a material nature. They were then
f 157 ]
L E M U R I A
escorted in a sort of fiesta parade with much music,
flowers, and cheering, to the edge of the city or
community bordering upon the wilds of unoccu'
pied and unsettled land. They were then directed
to proceed at least fifty miles inland into the wilder-
ness in the company of each other, but without any
material things, not even a piece of metal or device
of any kind. In part of the ceremony the Gu or his
representative suddenly demanded of the young
man a piece of metal as a souvenir and token of his
departure and the same was required of the young
woman. If either of them possessed anything of a
materialistic nature or device of any kind the cere­
mony was postponed for a full moon period, or
they were rebuked in some manner and not allowed
to proceed. This test, therefore, was applied for
the purpose of determining, in the presence of all
witnesses, that neither one of the young people had
anything concealed in their long flowing hair or
braided locks or in their hands.
They were instructed to go into the wilderness
and remain for a given time, usually two moon
cycles or approximately two months, and then to
return to the temple together and in the company
[ 158)
L E M U R I A
of each other. If, upon their return, the young
woman could show that she had some form of
clothing, made from animal skins or from feathers
and fiber, and had been well-protected against the
attack of animals, properly fed and nourished and
provided with comfortable sleeping facilities
wherever they were in the wilds of nature, and,
was convinced of the tenderness and devotion of
the young man, and if he could show that he had
provided himself with similar clothing and had
secured proper food and protected himself against
injuries and attacks from animals and could say
that the young woman had been his helpmeet in
every sense and that he was still fascinated by her
charms and devoted to her, then a date was set for
the marriage ceremony which was held in the
temple with a very elaborate ritual, which included
the making of an incision in the first or index finger
of each of their right hands and the hands bandaged
together so that the blood from one flowed into the
other and thus became as one blood. The ceremony
was a sacred one in many ways and constituted a
form of marriage or union that was never to be
broken except by transition. There was no such
1 1*9]
L E M U R 1 A
thing as divorce or temporary separation in the
marriage relations of the Lemurians. If the young
couple returned together or separately and either
one claimed that the other had shown an inability
to secure and provide food, sleeping accommoda-
tions, clothing, or was lacking in devotion or atten­
tion, the marriage ceremony could not be per­
formed and the couple were never permitted to
make a second application for marriage. In other
words, the couple had to prove their individual
abilities to care for each other, support each other,
and continue to love each other under the most
trying and difficult circumstances. W e cannot help
but wonder how many of the young men of today
would be able to go into the wilderness without
the least piece of material as an instrument or
device and build a protective hut, make clothing,
secure and prepare food, and care for another in
similar circumstances. If such a test was applied
today there would be few marriages, indeed.
All bartering and trading was done in accord­
ance with certain standards and a violation of
these standards disqualified the individual from
f 160]
L E M U R I A
sharing in any of the community interests for cep
tain periods of time.
The young children of the community were
cared for in a community nursery under the guid'
ance of those who were specially selected to care
for them physically, mentally, and even spiritually.
Physicians were appointed in each community who
developed a high degree of knowledge and skill in
all systems of healing, including the use of herbs
and surgery, and, according to some records found
in different places, there was evidently a system of
massage or exercise which was used as a part of
the healing system for special conditions. Drugs or
herbs were not depended upon exclusively, for a
form of healing from the use of hands or the laying
on of hands and another form of healing through
meditation and prayer was in universal use.
I have already touched upon the subject of
death, or transition, but we may add that no elab'
orate ceremonies or graveyards existed among the
Lemurians, for after transition the body was con-
sidered of little importance. The mere fact that the
average Lemurian voluntarily decreed his own time
of transition, prepared his own grave, and laid
C161 ]
L E M U R I A
himself into it and was willing to have his body
become lifeless, indicates that little thought was
given to the physical part of our beings. From
some records we learn that three days after the
transition had occurred, and it was found to be a
true transition, the body was covered with some
mineral or chemical much like lime, which ate
away the body or destroyed every vestige of it
without contaminating the soil. It is to be noted
that in digging the grave the one who was to
occupy it was always one of two who did the
digging and the graves were always in lines run­
ning east and west and the head of the deceased
was always placed toward the east. After the
passage of many thousands of years there seemed
to have come a change in regard to burial, for
records show that the person who anticipated or
decreed his transition did not lie in the grave but
knelt or squatted in a position facing the east in a
square excavation with his hands clasped in front
of him and remained fixed in this position in medi­
tation and concentration until transition came and
some chemical was poured over the body three days
later which made sure of the preservation of the
[ 162]
LEMURI A
flesh and bones against contaminating decay. Some
graves have been discovered where the skeleton
with some flesh is still in this kneeling posture with
the dirt of the earth closed tightly around it. Since
there were no individual possessions that were not
owned by the community there was nothing willed
or transferred to others at the time of transition
except possibly some little ornament, or personal
token, or keepsake, which never had any intrinsic
value. Gold and platinum were quite plentiful but
had no value except in the making of instruments
and devices for ornamentation. There were few
references to any minerals that could be considered
precious, except a red stone which may have been
the ruby, and if there were diamonds in Lemuria
they were considered of no more value than pieces
of glass would be. Rare feathers of a brilliant color
were perhaps the most valued of rare ornaments
known to the Lemurians and marble used in build­
ing some of the beautiful temples was the most
unusual product taken from the soil and the most
carefully used.
The homes were large and airy and sleeping
arrangements consisted of a raised platform sur-
C1631
L E M U R I A
rounded by a netting of fiber which afforded a pro-
tection against insects and small animals. This
screen around each sleeping place was open at the
top to allow ventilation. Food was cooked by fire
or by the heat of the sun in special sun ovens.
There were regular periods for daily worship and
study for all members of each community and there
were sacred features connected with the early
morning ablutions just after sunrise, and again at
sunset and at midday there was a community serw
ice of concentration and worship lasting for a few
minutes.
This, in general, is a picture of the community
life. It does not include, however, many of the
vast activities of the Lemurians about which we
shall learn in another chapter.
V V V
C 164]
Chapter VIII.
REM ARKABLE ACHIEVEM ENT'S OF
THE LEM U RIAN S
SIDE from the unusual psychic develop*
ment or spiritual unfoldment attained by
the Lemurians and which gave them un*
usual advantages in a purely personal and
individual sense, the people as a race and as a
nation attained a high degree of development in
the arts and sciences and in the mastership of
worldly problems.
When it is said in modem writings that the
ancient Egyptians attained a degree of civilization
and intellectual mastership that was superior to
our present day attainments, this is generally said
in a relative way, for it is only relatively true.
When we say that the Lemurians reached a higher
degree of civilization then we have reached, it is
likewise meant in a relative sense, although there
are some evidences of attainment that were actu*
I 16J]
L E MU R I A
ally beyond the scientific achievements of modern
times.
When we stop to consider, however, the natural
difficulties which surrounded these ancient peoples,
and keep in mind the fact that they did not have
the advantages which we now have and that many
of our present day achievements are based upon
discoveries which they made, we can truthfully say
that these ancient peoples did attain a higher de-
gree of civilization compared to the times and con­
ditions in which they found themselves than we of
the modern world have attained.
If a man is stranded in his youth on a barren
island and during his lifetime is capable of evolving
methods of extracting from the earth his necessities
and turning gross matter into refined instruments
and with these build beautiful homes and create
the things he needs for a life of ease and luxury,
we can truthfully say that he, as an individual,
attained a greater degree of mastership in the arts
and sciences than would an individual living during
the same century in a modern city with all of the
advantages and necessities supplied to him.
[ 166]
L E M U R I A
It is true that today we have many marvelous
scientific achievements that are rapidly becoming
commonplace, and which our children and grand­
children will look upon as ordinary conveniences
of life. Many of these were undoubtedly unknown
to the ancient people of Lemuria, or Egypt, or any
other old country. To say, however, that these
modern achievements, which we have and which
they did not have, indicate a higher degree of ad­
vancement, a higher degree of civilization and cul­
ture than was enjoyed by the ancient people,
might be a serious mistake. The Lemurians, for
instance, did not have our modern radio methods,
but even these modern methods of communication
are becoming cumbersome and every scientist and
philosopher dreams of further improvements
whereby this cumbersome system may be simpli­
fied.
W e may find, for instance, that the methods
which the Lemurians had for communicating to
great distances was a higher phase of scientific
achievement than our present day radio, for I have
already explained to you that the Lemurians were
capable for mental communication, regardless of
[ 167]
L E M U R I A
distance, through the effort of a faculty which we
have dubbed “mental telepathy.” This would indi-
cate that whereas we have placed our faith in the
forces of nature, such as electricity, and have
created machinery for the transmission of this
energy from one distant place to another, the Lem-
urians proceeded along much higher lines and de-
veloped a faculty within their own beings for the
transmission of an energy more refined and higher
in its vibrations than the crude electrical energy
which we use. Their means for distant communica­
tions was not surrounded by cumbersome equip­
ment and by interferences from electrical storms
and by rules and regulations and by finances. The
ease with which they could communicate and the
dependability with which the communications
were transmitted and received certainly represents
a higher achievement in this field than our present
day radio, just as radio and telegraphy represent a
higher achievement in our art of communication.
In many Oriental lands, today, tourists of the
thinking class and investigators are frequently
astonished at the rapidity with which a story or a
message or an important fact is made known to
[ 168]
L E M U R I A
various persons at very distant points. The art of
communicating thoughts is still a mysterious art,
despite all of our scientific achievement, and is
really classified among the arcane mysteries await'
ing further scientific development.
In many other respects, however, the Lemurians
achieved great fame and mastership. In the art of
building, for instance, the Lemurians constructed
with plans for greater permanency than any other
nation of people. They knew from long experh
ence that their continent, as well as the rest of the
world, would be rocked and shaken by earthquakes
and volcanic eruptions and that periodic changes
in climate would also affect everything that they
built. They, therefore, made a careful study of the
science of balancing and the art of calculating the
principles of stress and strain. When we realize
that some of their structures stood for nearly thirty
thousand years without being damaged by any of
the cataclysmic changes, we see at once how
marvelously they had mastered this problem.
When we think of how modern built buildings,
designed and constructed by architects and con'
tractors who have access to all the facts and figures
[ 169]
L E M U R I A
of the earth’s changes, are quickly thrown down
by even light earthquakes or temblors, we cannot
feel such great pride in our achievements in the
art of building.
As we pass by any modern electric or steam
power plant and see the enormous amount of
material, labor, and money invested in such elab­
orate equipment solely for the purpose of giving us
a form of nature’s energy, and then think that the
Lemurians used the natural energy without all of
this equipment, we see that we have not progressed
as greatly in our mastership of the earth as we
think we have.
The Lemurians harnessed all of nature’s forces
in a truly scientific manner and with extreme effi­
ciency. I have spoken of how they were able to
propel their boats in water by using the energy
that radiated from a stone. Undoubtedly a simi­
lar device was used in the propelling of their air­
ships through the air, for they did use air-ships
quite frequently. Since they needed no engine, no
gasoline, and no long-armed propellers,, their air­
ships were fighter and much different in design
from anything that we have been able to attain at
I 170]
L E M U R I A
the present time. Furthermore, they were able to
have lights in these airships and to use a search'
light that cast a beam to a greater distance than is
cast by any of our present search-lights. Whatever
the nature of this light, its energy was not pro­
duced by any revolving machinery or by gasoline
or gas, but undoubtedly from some minerals small
in size but which could be so harnessed or utilized
that their radiations furnished the necessary energy.
W e are only beginning to study the nature of
radio-active or radiating minerals and we are only
speculating at the present time on the possibility
of harnessing our natural, universal energies.
Scientists tell us that there is sufficient stored-up
energy in one atom to cause a terrific explosion, if
we only knew how to use this energy and apply it
safely. The Lemurians, either by force of circum­
stances or through a greater understanding of Cos­
mic energies, were able to use the power in many
minerals and apply this power very specifically and
efficiently. One of the outstanding features of
Lemurian scientific achievements was the utilizing
of the energy and power that is constantly bathing
this earth in the sunlight. In our present day period
[ m ]
L E M U R I A
of scientific achievement, we are just speculating
with this possibility and a few small engines have
been constructed which operate with sun power.
The Lemurians used this sun power very freely and
very universally in all of their communities. It gave
them light and heat and energy at night and gave
them enormous motive power during the day for
the movement of great pieces of stone and wood
in their constructive operations.
In botany they were so expert that agriculture
with them became like the expert work that is
shown at a botanical garden. In art they were
guided by their superior knowledge of fundamental
Cosmic laws and by certain rules which are taught
today only in the architectural schools, but which
they used not only as fundamental principles for
living, but in all of the sciences and activities of
earthly life.
Many of their homes were carved in solid rocks
on mountain sides; on the other hand, others were
built of rare stone to represent in symbolical form
the great temples of knowledge having spiritual or
Cosmic lines and contours.
[ 172]
L E M U R I A
These Cosmic principles were expressed in many
ways by the Lemurians but we find the funda'
mental law of these principles expressed by the
Lemurians as “The Law of the Sacred Four.”
The drawing given herewith illustrates some of
the forms in which The Law of the Sacred Four
was represented either in a very definite form, like
the plain cross, or in a decorative form. It will be
noticed that generally a circle was drawn around
the outside of the symbol of the Four since this
circle represented the lines of the universe and
carried the intimation that the completed universe
or anything in its completed expression, having no
beginning and no ending and lasting eternally, was
based upon the Law of the Sacred Four. The
center example at the bottom of the drawing shown
herewith, containing a cross with its sides touching
the circle, became known in later years among the
descendants of the Lemurians as the Wheeled
Cross. While it is true that this form also became
typical of the wheels found on the earliest carts or
wagons, the wheel was connected with this symbol
because of the turning of the earth and the passage
of earth through Cosmic space. In other words, it
H73]
LEMUR1 A
[ V74]
L E M U R I A
represented revolution. This Wheeled Cross later
became the first symbol of the mystic Rosicrucians
who were the inheritors of the earliest mystical
teachings of the Lemurians through the mystery
schools of India and Egypt.
The four principles referred to by the Lemurians
in their legend were the creative principles of the
universe, as well as the four fundamental laws
governing the geometrical and mathematical form
of everything that was created. Since the outside
circle represented the universe, it was sometimes
drawn in the shape of an egg, for the Lemurians
considered the egg as symbolical of the birth place
of all living things. The Sign of the Four, showing
the cross within the egg, represented the process of
germination. An ancient Lemurian legend said that
in the beginning God commanded the four prin'
ciples to bring forth all life and that the four prin'
ciples began their work within a Cosmic egg. It
may be interesting to speculate for a moment upon
the many forms in which the cross has been
adopted as a symbol by various races of persons in
all ages of time and even as a symbol of religious
and philosophical thought. This is just another in'
[IW]
L E M U R I A
stance of how a truly sacred or spiritual and phil­
osophical principle, universally recognized today,
can be traced to the high spiritual illumination of
the Lemurians. The designs shown herewith are
drawn from many ancient Lemurian carvings,
found not only in California and South American
communities established by the descendants of the
Lemurians, but on many of the islands of the
Pacific.
The Lemurians must have enjoyed life to the
fullest extent, for they had invented and devised
ways and means of producing all of the necessities
and all of the luxuries required by them. Certainly,
the present day races of man have not reached this
point. W e have entered into a cycle of artifi­
cialities, bringing forth artificial and unreal desires
that can be satisfied only with artificial things. We
have developed the stage and the production of
theatricals as an artificial means for the study of
history and human problems. Having entered into
this fictitious manner of study, the stage has
rapidly developed until we believe the theater plays
and moving pictures are of educational value and a
real necessity as a form of amusement. If we can
1176]
L E M U R I A
realise for a moment that the real study of human
beings around us and an analysis of things that are
actually occurring in every-day life are the basis of
all theatrical productions and could easily supplant
the artificial productions on stage or screen, we
will see that the Lemurians missed nothing of the
luxuries of life through not having our present day
moving pictures, despite the fact that we consider
any community in which there was no theater or
no pictures of this kind as being antiquated and
lacking an essential form of pleasure.
The same principle is true regarding many of
our other modern accomplishments. The seeming
necessity for money and the seeming necessity to
save time are two of the artificial standards re­
sponsible for most of our modern scientific achieve­
ments. W e require automobiles and other means
to transport us rapidly from place to place in order
to eliminate a false valuation of time. Our radio
is an attempt to out-do the telegraph and tele­
phone, as well as the post in the transmission and
reception of communications, but here again it was
the element of time that was given the greatest con­
sideration. W e are building great buildings and
{ 177]
L E M U R I A
great communities, not because of the artistic
arrangement but because of an artificial necessity
based upon an artificial valuation of land.
If we analyze what we have today as represent'
ing our advancement in civilization, we will find
that we have gained nothing that the ancients did
not have and which they enjoyed to a greater
extent because of its naturalness. Of the artificial
things, however, or the unnecessary things brought
into existence by a false realization of life itself, we
will discover that most of these could be eliminated
from our life if we lived properly, and their lack
would not constitute a real detriment nor an ob'
stacle in the attainment of peace and happiness.
The Lemurians, therefore, devoted themselves
very greatly to the establishment of communities
in distant lands and to the education and advance'
ment of the races of man which were emerging
from the early foundations laid by their own
people. In one old record there was found an inter­
esting story of how the later descendants of Lem-
uria visited a community in Alaska which had been
founded by some of the eary pilgrims from Lem-
uria. These late voyagers expected to find these
Cn s]
L E M U R I A
descendants in Alaska enjoying all the advantages
of life which the Lemurians had created on their
own continent. They were surprised to find that
these people in Alaska had retrograded and had
become so distinct in color of complexion, in mam
ner of dress, in form and habit, and even in writing
and speaking, that they had difficulty in becoming
convinced that they had not come upon an entirely
new race of earthly people. Great missionary work
was attempted to aid these descendants in modern'
izing their communities and reaching the same de'
gree of development as those who had remained on
the continent of Lemuria. It appears, however, that
they never completely succeeded in doing this and
abandoned the work because they found that the
climate and general conditions had made the people
lazy and indifferent in cultural development, and it
is more than likely that from this period onward
through history, this tribe in Alaska spread into
other lands, intermarried, lost most of its racial dis'
tinctions, and became a nomadic people probably
still remaining in northern zones.
The pilgrimages to other lands were highly sum
cessful and records show that the Lemurians kept
[ 179]
L E M U R I A
in contact with their people in Mexico and South
American countries, and in Egypt, Asia, and parts
of Europe, throughout many centuries, and
through this continued contact and comparison of
ideas and principles there came to be a universal
establishment and agreement in regard to certain
points of agriculture, buildings, language, music,
art, ritual, and other human activities which are
outstanding points of racial identification today.
V V V
f 180]
Chapter IX.
THE COLONIES A N D D ESCEND ANTS
OF THE LEM U RIAN S
CONSIDERING that the Lemurians were
the first definite races of man known to
history and that the continent of Lemuria
was the real cradle of the civilization of
man, we are confronted with the interesting fact
that from Lemuria and its people came all of the
present day races of man.
The fact, however, that Lemuria was a very
large continent, reaching more than half way
around the world, answers one of the interesting
questions about the great variation of races and
tribes of people found in even the earliest periods
of research. As has been stated in a previous part
of this book, climate and environment and the de'
sires or exigencies of life are responsible for most,
if not all, of the variations we find in the com'
plexion, build, countenance, features, customs, and
t 181 ]
L E M U R I A
habits of all of the races of man. Man, as God
created him in the original divine image, was of
one definite type, and if all external influences had
never affected this type, the descendants of the first
man and woman would have been of a similar
nature, except for the changes of evolution result'
ing from inner growth and spiritual development.
Considering, however, the enormous size and
expanse of the continent of Lemuria which brought
its habitable portion into various climates with a
great variation of soil and the products of the soil,
and considering the great age of the continent and
its people, which included many cycles of cata'
ctysmic changes not only in the material nature of
the continent itself but in its climate and in the
effects of these things upon the people, we can
easily undei utand how the race of Lemurians, as it
spread throughout its own continent, through
many centuries, developed tribes of people with
varying complexion, varying forms or degrees of
development of forms, and greatly varying habits
and customs.
Unquestionably, in the early periods of Lem-
urian civilisation pilgrimages were made quite fre'
{ 182]
L E M U R I A
quently in search of the fortunes of life and the
satisfaction of the natural curiosity of the intellect
for worldly research. Many of these pilgrimages
must have been made to very distant points of the
continent and at these distant points colonies of
communities were established and maintained. The
wide separation of these and the distinct differ'
ences of climate, soil, and the requirements of life
gradually brought about many changes in the figure
and personality of the members of each of these
groups of colonies or communities, and in each case
a foundation was laid for the beginning of a new
tribe or a new branch race of the Lemurian people.
There were parts of the Lemurian continent that
were extremely cold and undoubtedly passed
through the serious effects of the so'called Glacial
Period. There were other large areas of the conti'
nent that were within the belt of the most ex'
treme tropical weather. When part of the conti'
nent was experiencing the colds and storms of
winter another part of it was in midsummer.
These are but a few of the outstanding facts that
must be taken into consideration in trying to form
a mental picture of the growth and development of
[ 183 ]
L E M U R I A
the various tribes or races of man that descended
from the early Lemurians.
Many of their pilgrimages made to distant points
resulted in complete isolation and permanent separ-
ation from the original race. Time is a tremendous
factor not only in the development of human char'
acteristics but in the gradual blotting from the
memory most of the past traditions, customs, and
habits. Many of the colonies or communities estab-
lished by the expeditions of Lemuria eventually lost
all trace and record of their earlier connections and
developed even a distinctly different tongue and
manner of living, adapting themselves to the condi­
tions in which they found themselves and adapting
themselves to the gradual changes that took place
in the course of a hundred thousand years.
It is natural, however, that certain elements,
certain principles, certain beliefs, or traditional
facts, should have remained vague and indefinitely
fixed in their consciousness, and that is the one clue
found in the search of the races of man which en­
able us to relate them to a common origin. In those
things which were recorded more or less perman­
ently by the earliest members of the Lemurian race
[ 184]
LEMURI A
there were fixed ideas which were carried forward
through thousands of generations. When know-
ledge is conveyed mostly by word of mouth from
father to son, and generation to generation, we
expect to find continuous modifications, amplifica-
tions, and distortions, as well as unexpected elab'
orations, but in those matters of greatest concern,
which were cut or carved into stone and which
remained permanently visible and fixed for thou-
sands of years, we find the permanent similarities
and universal agreement in certain ideas which
help us to unite one race, one tribe, one people, in
various parts of the world with others.
Those things which are considered the most
sacred to the individual are the ones which are
most apt to become permanently fixed from gen­
eration to generation. Among such things are
definite holidays or holy days, certain community
practices or customs, and certain ideals. As I have
already stated in another part of this book, we find,
for instance, among the many and greatly diversi­
fied tribes of American Indians on the continent
of North America and even in South America,
certain holidays, certain ideals, certain words, and
[ 185]
L E M U R I A
certain customs which are uniform and universal
among all of these diversified tribes of people, and
we find similar holidays, customs, ideals, and habits
among races of people living in isolated parts of
the world who are not physically or mentally classi-
fied as being connected with or a part of the Indian
tribes. W e cannot avoid the conclusion that all of
these peoples with such similar and unique agree­
ments in certain points must have had either a com­
mon origin or a close companionship and connec­
tion at some distant time.
W e know, furthermore, from the records that
have been preserved, that as the western part of
Lemuria, located in the Indian Ocean, began to
suffer from the cataclysmic changes and to sink
beneath the surface of the ocean, that the people
of Lemuria began to disperse themselves in various
directions. Africa was the closest land to this
western portion and, in fact, a part of Africa as we
know it today was at one time a part of Lemuria
itself. But the portion of Africa that overlapped
Lemuria or touched its shores in other parts was a
vast swamp-land at the time that Lemuria began to
submerge and except for a few high parts which
[ 186]
L E M U R I A
eventualy became mountains and now constitute
islands in the Indian Ocean, the most habitable
lands to which the Lemurians could go during the
periods of their catastrophe were toward the east,
including those high parts that now constitute the
islands of Sumatra, Java, Borneo, New Guiana,
Australia, New Zealand, and others.
As the continent continued to become sub-
merged those who had located more or less per'
manently on the above mentioned places found
that these were remaining high and dry and safe
for habitation and did not continue their eastern
pilgrimage but stayed where they were and became
founders of new countries and eventually of new
races of people.
In later centuries, however, the colonizations
and pilgrimages spread to the shores of South
America, North America, and through the conti­
nent of Atlantis to Africa, which had emerged
from its swampy grave and was now a habitable
continent. Those who ventured to such distant
points found in succeeding years that they were
separated by vast expanses of water from their
[ 187]
L E M U R I A
original country and, adapting themselves to local
conditions, became founders of other races of man.
I have already explained how the climate and
sunlight in vast open areas would tend to darken
the skin of some races of people, while those living
in colder or in moderate climate with much more
vegetation, or in the forest, would have a lighter
complexion. The other shades of complexion
which are often erroneously used as guides to dis'
tinguish races of man, are likewise effects of climate
and environment.
If we skip a hundred thousand years or more and
take up our study of the races of man at practically
two thousand years before the Christian era, we
find the races of man widely distributed through'
out the world with accumulated and firmly fixed
distinctions which were so at variance that if one
were to judge them as we would have found them
at this time, without any regard for their past
associations, we would have to conclude that most
of them represented independent races that never
had a common origin.
For instance, in the year 2000 B. C., we find
eight very definite classifications of peoples which
[ 188]
L E M U R I A
may be called the Aegeans, Egyptians, Hittites,
Amorites, Iranians, Indians, Huns, and the Chi'
nese. The latter six constituted the general groups
of Alpine, ProtO'Nordic, Semitic, Mongolian
peoples, while the first two classifications repre'
sented the Mediterranean people.
W e find that the Aegeans at this time were the
sea going Cretans of the first Middle Minoan
period who had developed culture under Egyptian
influence and built a monumental city at Cnossus,
which became the political and commercial capital
for trading with Egypt and Babylonia. They evi'
dently became the leading sea power of the Medfi
terranean and made rapid advancement in civiliza'
tion, even though their country was destroyed
several times. They became competitors with the
Egyptians in the development of architecture and
art and established colonies in Sicily, South Italy,
and Asia Minor. They were finally in conflict with
the Greeks and from their contact with these
people a new branch race started to develop. The
Aegeans entered into Syria and some of their
people became the Philistines mentioned in the
Bible. From this time, which was about the thip
[ 189]
L E M U R I A
teenth century, B. C., the pure race of Aegeans
became mixed with others and in a few hundred
years was almost extinct as one of the ancient orig-
inal tribes, while the Greeks descended from them
and developed a new culture and civilization which
increased in power throughout the pre-Christian
centuries until it began to diminish about the sec­
ond century after the Christian era.
The Egyptians constituted one of the branches
descending from the early colonizations of the Nile
soon after the submergence of Lemuria and in the
year 2000 B. C., had developed agriculture, ship­
building, government, commerce, art, law, writing,
and mathematics. Thus, we find the Middle
Egyptian period of the 12th dynasty, a time of
reunification of Egypt into a strong feudal state
under Theban Kings. A century later Egyptian
culture was at its zenith and considered the most
perfect in the world. The worship of the sun as
the god Ra was first established in this country
during the 19th century, B. C., but Egypt was
then beginning to pass through a period of internal
strife and disorder. The situation was saved by
the introduction of new blood through the invasion
[ 190]
L E M U R I A
of the Semitic Nomads or Bedouins who ruled over
Egypt as the Hyksos Kings. It is interesting to note
that about this time hordes were introduced in
\
Egypt for military purposes and this military de-
velopment became so extensive that it actually laid
the foundation for our present-day military rules
and regulations and the carrying on of wars in a
systematic and supposedly semi-humanitarian man­
ner. Art suffered as a consequence although the
political power had increased to an extent that the
resulting wealth and authority produced many
marvels of architecture. Finally the Hyksos were
expelled with the aid of an army raised in Ethio­
pia, where an early group had colonized and a dark
skin race had developed. The introduction of this
blood into the Egyptian valley had a very definite
effect upon the future generations.
About 1500 B. C., the Egyptians entered into
trade and commerce with Babylonia, and there was
a sudden development in literary activities produc­
ing many of the famous sacred writings now
familiar to us, including the “Book of the Dead.”
Soon, thereafter, a great statesman, Thutmose III,
who has often been called the “Egyptian Napo-
[ 1 9 1 ]
L E M U R I A
leon,” conquered Syria and Ethiopia, and Thebes,
the capital of Egypt, rose to the height of its great'
est splendor under the marvelous intellect and
power of Queen Hatshepsut. This was the begin'
ning of the rise of the Egyptian empire, and from
thence on the magnificent temples at Karnak and
Luxor and elsewhere were built, and art and the
sciences were at their height; but this power was
bringing in its wake a definite moral decline which
eventually threatened the prosperity of the empire.
The descendants of Thutmose III and Queen
Hatshepsut realized that religion, morals, and ethi'
cal culture were required to save the empire and
the races of man, and in the 14th century B. C.,
the members of the royal family made their first
plans for a system of cultural development and for
the organization of secret schools and institutions
for the spread of such knowledge. The plans cul'
minated in the birth of one unique king, Amenho'
tep IV, who not only changed his name to Ikhna-
ton or Akhnaton, but changed the religion, the
art, and all of the scientific, political, and ethical
foundations of the country. In religion he intro'
duced the idea of a “one ever'living God,” existing
[ 192]
■
L E M U R I A
above and beyond all the symbols and all the terms
for any god, and greater than any of the past gods
or any of the living creatures on the face of the
earth. This was the first introduction in the
modern world of the ancient Lemurian idea of a
monotheistic religion. His ideals, however, were
criticized and attacked by the pagan priesthoods
and he and his followers had to resort to the estab-
lishment of secret mystery schools and fraternities
for the continuance of their religion, and the
furtherance of their moral and ethical codes. In
these plans, successfully carried out, we find the
foundation of the first secret fraternities with
secret initiations, pass words, and means of identi-
fication, which later developed into various forms
of guilds, crafts, and fraternal lodges.
Amenhotep IV died without a son to succeed
him, but he had seven daughters, one of whom be­
came queen in her childhood and who married a
scheming politician, by name Tut'an\bamon.
This youth attempted to convert the wealth, the
art, and power of Egypt to his personal aggrandize­
ment through making peace with the pagan priest­
hood and converting the official religions and
[ 193]
L E M U R I A
morals of Egypt into the lower standards of the
priesthood. His transition occurred while he was
still a young man and he was buried in a structure
created by him as a hiding place for the wealth he
had pilfered and accumulated, and this great tomb
was discovered in recent years.
From his time on the power of Egypt waned,
and after the 12th century B. C., there was a rapid
decline and Egypt was attacked by the Lybians
and others, and the final dissolution of the great
Egyptian empire occurred in the 11th century B.
C. It was just before the fall of the empire that
tribes from other lands invaded Egypt and became
the tribes of Israelites that later left this land and
went into Palestine, Syria, and other parts of the
world.
The Hittites were really descendants of Indo-
European races who had inter-married with the
Alpine races and became the ancestors of the pres­
ent Armenians. In the year 1800 B. C., they had
established a kingdom in Anatolia and developed
the peculiar writing known as the cuneiform, as an
adaption of the pictorial representation of the
Indo-European language. They developed their
[ 194}
LEMURI A
religion in which they worshipped the great earth
as the mother of all living creatures, and their his-
tory after the 17th century B. C., is little known.
They built many imposing palaces in later years
and their king, Hattusil I, expanded their territory
into Syria establishing the Hittite Empire. They
became politically united with a formidable Iranian
power in the east and attained the height of their
glory in art and civilization in the 14th cen-
tury, B. C.
About the time of the exodus of the Israelites
from Egypt the Hittite kingdom began to weaken
and later on through the invasion of the Assyrians
their language was changed, their customs and
their habits, and the Hittite Empire faded out of
the world picture in the 9th century, B. C., while
the Syrians as a distinct race succeeded and evolved
from them only to fade out as another world em-
pire in about the 8th century B. C., although their
people blended with others and the Syrian ideals
and customs and habits continued for many cen­
turies.
The Amorites were perhaps the most spiritual
and artistic of all of the tribes or races descending
[ 19*1
L E MU R I A
from the Lemurians and they gave most of their
thought to the formulation of codes of law and to
the development of art and literature. A t about the
year 2000 B. C., they were beginning to establish
the great Babylonian kingdom with the wonderful
city of Ur where culture was developed to that of
the highest degree in any part of the world. In fact,
the word culture itself is derived from words mean'
ing, “the Light of the City of Ur.’ The city of
Chaldea succeeded Ur as a great center and the
people absorbed the Sumerians and other tribes
until we find a new race evolving which established
the Kasshite dynasty. Their art and culture, how'
ever, began to decline in the 17th century B. C.,
and they developed a religion worshipping the
moon as a god with a great temple dedicated to
this god built at Ur. The Kasshite power began to
decline after the 16th century B. C., and at the
time of the entrance of the Israelites into Palestine
and Syria the Babylonia-Amorite power was rap­
idly decreasing. Finally an evolved race, descend­
ing from them, established the Babylonian power
about the 10th century B. C. From these de­
scended the Chaldeans as a ruling caste and a con-
[ 196]
L E M U R I A
trolling power among their people, and after they
had attained the height of their splendor in the 6th
century B. C., the Chaldean empire gradually
faded out until at the time of the 4th century B.
C., it was of no consequence, politically or
socially.
The Iranians in the year 2000 were composed of
groups descending from the early Elamites, Mitani,
Cossaci, and the Aryan Hindus. They probably
brought the first horses to Asia Minor and
Mesopotamia and records show that they were the
first in Asia to use the Lemurian bows and arrows
as weapons. They were experts in the making of
finely painted pottery, and 1800 years before the
Christian era, had perfected a pottery wheel that
greatly advanced the manufacture of pottery. The
centers of their art and culture were located at
Susa (Elam) and Anau. The coming of an increased
number of Elamites into India in search of gold and
copper increased the power of the Iranian Empire
and they became famous for well-built palaces and
buildings, and for the introduction of unique drain­
age systems into their communities. The race of
Iranians continued to remain strong and definite in
1 197]
L E M U R I A
character and the power of one of their kings, who
destroyed Babylonia and carried away much of its
wealth, might have been the beginning of a great
empire, but it was, in fact, the beginning of a de­
creasing and diminishing empire until the coming
of that great prophet, Zoroaster, in the 9th cen­
tury B. C.
His new form of the monotheistic religion of the
ancient Lemurians and a revival of the culture and
ethics of the people of Lemuria gave his people new
life and new power. A great mystical religion and
philosophy developed among their people who later
became known as Magians. In the 6th century
B. C., Cyrus established the Persian empire which
included the Iranian races and finally included the
peoples of other countries. It was during this
period that Zoroaster’s great work entitled
“Avesta” was compiled and the Persian empire
was born.
Warfare had spread to the seas and the Persian
empire defeated the Greeks, but a decline of
Persian power followed this great victory even
though the culture and philosophy of Persia was
at its height. There followed centuries of crime
t 198 ]
L E M U R I A
and disorder until their king, Darius III, was de-
feated and their culture and power were absorbed
by the Hellenistic conquerors in the second century
B. C. From their people, however, descended many
other tribes and races, and once again a new Per'
sian empire came into power for a short time be­
tween the 2nd and the 8th century, A. D.
The Indians, or Hindus, constituting perhaps
the purest blood of the Lemurians and known as
the pure line of Aryan speaking people, were
found in a more or less primitive state in India at
2000 B. C., because of their world-wide pilgrim­
ages before having established a group of perman­
ent communities. They finally invaded the Punjab,
which had been inhabited by a race that had be­
come so dark in complexion as to be considered the
foundation of the black races of man, and in this
country the early Indians established the tribal sys­
tem of government and developed agriculture to a
high degree. The Elamites were also absorbed
partly into the Indian line and this had a powerful
effect upon the religion and art of the Lemurians.
Their literature developed to a very high degree
and in the 15th century B. C., they began the com-
[ 1 9 9 ]
L E M U R I A
pilation of over one thousand poems describing
their life, early ancestry, and their religion. These
were grouped together under the general title of
“Rig-Veda.” Sanskrit became the national lang­
uage thereafter and because of the great literary
and art learning among the better class of their
people there was developed a Hindu or Indian caste
system. In architecture they developed the method
of excavating into the rocks and in the mountain
sides and building cliff temples. This feature of
their civilisation reached a magnificent degree in
the 11th century B. C.
Finally their priests obtained supremacy over
the nobles and political rulers and there was an in­
crease in their territorial states and associated king­
doms. At about the time that Zoroaster appeared
among the Iranians with his revelations of ancient
religions there was developed among the Hindus
and Indians the Brahman system of religion.
It is interesting to know that in this same cen­
tury the Babylonians developed a new form of spir­
itual understanding and in Assyria new temples
and edifices were erected to a more human god. In
Palestine, Judah, and Syria the Jews were evolving
[ 200}
L E M U R I A
a new religion with Solomon building a great
temple in which the religion was revealed. The
Phoenicians had developed in that same century a
new alphabet for the purpose of recording their
religious ideals, and from this came the alphabets
of all the western civilization. A t the same time in
Abyssinia, Arabia, and Egypt the development of
the religion of Amen was taking a new color and
new expression and even in China and among the
Huns new religious ideas were revealed. This will
give us a little idea of how the religious and the
ethical, moral, artistic, and scientific development
of man has progressed in cycles just as the changes
in the continents have changed in cycles and that
at certain definite periods of the past two hundred
thousand years, there were world-wide and uni­
versal revelations in religious and philosophical
thought as though the great Cosmic Mind, which
the Lemurians recognized as the ruling system of
the world, preordained such revelations as the
evolution of man and made him ready or qualified
for the coming of new knowledge and new life.
The development of the Brahman religion and
philosophy led into the birth and leadership of
[201 }
L E M U R I A
Buddha among men of his country as an inspired
messenger of God. This was around the 5th cen­
tury B. C., and coincident with this Cosmic or
divinely inspired incident of religious life there was
born Confucius, as a leader of the Chinese, Cyrus,
the leader of the Iranians and the Chaldeans, and
others in other lands, including Pythagoras among
the Greeks. This would indicate that inspired
leaders among men were born and carried on their
great missions at certain well defined cycles of time
as a universal condition of human development.
After the 3rd or 4th century B. C., the Indian
empire developed in strength and power until
there were various invasions, changes of religion,
and deaths of great leaders in the 4th and 5th cen­
turies A. D. This resulted in the diminishing of
the Indian empire and through the invasion of the
Moslems the empire continued to weaken in its
great strength and beauty.
The Huns were a small race that made a bitter
fight in the early centuries to maintain their dis­
tinction and power but the continuous raids by the
Mongolians and outlying tribes of central Asia
greatly weakened them. Finally many treaties
[ 202 ]
L E M U R I A
were made by Chinese emperors and these Huns
of northern China, known as the Tartars,
strengthened their civilization and were able to
protect themselves against the raids of so'called
Barbarians; but they were finally defeated by the
Chinese Emperor Mu-wang about 1000 B. C., and
the intermixing with the Chinese undermined the
imperial authority and the people as a nation
almost passed out of existence and power in the
6th century B. C. Finally the Tartars or Huns
made raids on China and through the contact with
other people, the Huns, the Tartars, and other
nomads of the Gobi desert were driven west by
prolonged wars. However, about the 3rd century
B. C., they advanced across the Volga and forced
the Ostro-Goths and Teutonic tribes into central
Europe but later united with them against the Ro­
mans and Franks. About the 4th century B. C.,
Attila became their great leader and strengthened
their empire enormously. After his death the Hun
empire settled permanently in South Russia, Hun­
gary, and Bulgaria. They attempted further in­
vasions in the 5th and 6th century A. D., but for
hundreds of years remained relatively a weak power
[ 2 0 3 ]
L E M U R I A
until we find this power developing again in
Russia and the Tartars and Mongolians revealing
the power of their early ancestors.
The Chinese, as the last of the eight principal
classifications of the races of man in the year 2000,
were perhaps the most interesting because of the
many unique features of their language, customs,
habits, and religion. Their empire at this time was
divided into nine provinces under the autocratic
rule of one emperor. This form of political govern'
ment was a slight modification of the ancient Leim
urian government. Their greatest development
was in the form of militarism but this was soon
abandoned as the most important power, and
philosophy and scientific knowledge supplanted
militarism. They had kept, perhaps, the most per'
feet records of ancient times and valued so highly
their well'traced origin among the Lemurians that
their religion took on the form of ancestral wop
ship, and this was moulded into doctrines by the
Emperor Yao in the year 1550 B. C. It is interest'
ing to note that the first handwritten documents of
a reliable and dependable nature were possessed by
the Chinese and they were already tabulated and
[ 204 ]
L E M U R I A
indexed in the year 1500 B. C., when a new form
of philosophy and cultural development had its
birth. The power of the Chinese empire developed
magnificently and became the center of 1700 small
feudal states under an imperial sovereign in the
year 1200 B. C. From then on their art, literature,
and science increased, and their literary writings
and scientific notations show that their knowledge
foreshadowed many of the discoveries of modem
science. They became unusually wonderful
workers in bronze, and art in metal. When Con'
fucius was born his teachings solidified all of the
ancient philosophies and ancient ideals and became
the standard for the customs and politics, as well as
religion of the life of China for its entire future.
The history of China from that period on to the
present, is too well'known to require any com'
ments in this book.
Viewing the races of man today and their em­
pires, nations, and countries, we find that many
have descended from these which I have just de­
scribed. By turning to any encyclopedia and look­
ing up the description of any race of people or any
existing nation, one will find references to their
[ 205 ]
L E M U R I A
origin as associated with the tribes and races de­
scribed in the foregoing paragraphs.
If we should expect to find, however, any pure
blooded Lemurians existing today we would have
to seek for them among those who had descended
from the first Lemurians and had remained on land
and in climate as near like the early continent of
Lemuria as possible, and had refrained from inter­
marriage with many modified tribes that had
descended from them in other parts of the world.
In other words, in seeking for the purest tribe of
Lemurians we would have to seek for men and
women who had married among those of their own
closest branch of descendants and who had re­
mained in similar environment and conditions of
living. There is only one place in the world today
where parts of the ancient continent of Lemuria
have remained with little change in regard to
environment of living. There is only one place in
the world today where parts of the ancient conti­
nent of Lemuria have remained with little change
in regard to environment and climate, and in seek­
ing here for any remnants of the Lemurians we
have been fortunate in finding those who are repre-
[ 206 ]
L E M U R I A
sentatives of the purest type and who have lived
for thousands of years in the same locality with a
minimum amount of intermarriage and external
influence. These people we shall speak of in a
future chapter.
V V V
t 207 ]
Chapter X.
M YSTERIO U S C ALIFO RN IA
E CA N find mystery and romance in the
lives of nations and countries as well as in
the lives of individuals, and, perhaps, of
all the strange and mysterious parts of the
world there is none that is so filled with the ele'
ments of fascinating and alluring mystery as that
of the country of California.
I use the word country very advisably because
the more one becomes acquainted with the State of
California, its history, its traditions, its heritage,
and its people of today with their inherited cus-
toms and interesting habits of living, the more one
is convinced that the personal sentiments regarding
California as a Republic are more deeply seated
than most Americans realize.
It often surprises those who go from various
parts of the world, and especially those who go to
this new land from eastern parts of the United
[ 209 ]
L E M U R I A
States, to find that California is still very proud of
the former flag of its Republic and that on every
holiday and at every fiesta occasion—which means
very frequently, indeed—the flag of the Republic
of California is displayed alongside of the Ameri'
can flag.
There is no other state in the Union, perhaps,
in which the school children are taught so many
songs that praise the glories of California and pay
tribute to its ancient and present day virtues and
where such songs are sung not only by the children
but by the adults in their theaters, by the members
of the various service clubs, and by large conclaves
wherever they may be assembled. The ancient
spirit of gaiety and gala festivities is still so alive in
the hearts of the Californians that the least excuse
—the visit of some government official, the visit of
some foreign diplomat, or commander of a foreign
vessel, the flying through the fair skies of some urn
usual aviator, the discovery of some new field or
mountain of gold, the anniversary of some old
Spanish or California event—is the occasion for
wonderful parades, gay holiday celebrations with
the schools closed, the business institutions semi'
[210]
LEMURI A
active, and the governors, mayors, city councilors,
and leading citizens taking part with elaborate,
flowered floats, the wearing of Spanish costumes
by most of the citizens, the selection of local queens
to rule over mythical courts, community dancing
on the streets in the evening and every other form
of festivity for which the ancient periods of its his-
tory were famous. There is a sweet loveliness
about the spirit of the people, accompanied by a
broad toleration for all view-points, for all re­
ligions, all customs, and habits, and a united deter­
mination to make life worth living and to make the
enjoyment of life a primary motive rather than a
secondary one. This has had no detrimental effect
upon business but has, in fact, stimulated it; and
whereas in eastern sections of the United States
the drive for money and big business is considered
necessary as a primary objective in order to avoid
complete disruption of business, the Californians
have proved that the very reverse may be true.
The extreme contrasts in its climate, its scenery,
the spirit of its people, so far as present day matters
are concerned, and the thousands of variations and
gradations that lie between these extremes, con-
[211]
L E M U R ! A
stitute a combination of conditions that helps to
make California so attractive. While one may
bask in warm sunlight on its beaches at any period
of the year, one may also journey for a few hours
by automobile or train to its mountain tops and in
summer attire, with all the attractive clothing of
the sport wear of the polo field, enjoy the thrills of
snowballing and skiing. From fertile green valleys
filled with thousands of varieties of wild flowers
and roses, and from plains trampled by herds of
thousands of head of cattle, or desert places of
wind blown sand that afford the opportunity for
the making of pictures with Sahara settings, one
may journey in a few hours to the highest peaks
surrounded by rugged scenery, or into forests that
are so dense that many of them have never been
explored and are natural museums of research.
Every hour spent in driving or riding, walking or
boating on California lands, or in the streams,
lakes, bays or the ocean, brings continuous sun
prises and an ever changing panorama of new in'
terest and new thrills.
To the stranger, California is still the land of
gold—the golden poppy in the fields and the many
r 212 3
L E M U R I A
other golden flowers, along with the golden colors
of peaches, apricots, apples and other fruits, the
gold in the sky at sunset that lasts long into the
evening, the golden reflections in the waters, the
golden tints of the Spanish homes, the golden color'
ings in the tapestries, drapes, awnings, curtains and
other decorative material, and the gold in the soil
that seems to have no limit for those who per­
severe in seeking for it, constantly impresses the
stranger with the fact that not one tenth of Cali­
fornia has been explored nor converted into the
marvelous opportunities that lie before it.
But, what interests those of a scientific or phil­
osophical turn of mind to a greater degree than its
gold or spirit of joy and happiness, health and
invigoration, are the many mysteries and the stories
of ancient times that one hears in every part of this
unusual country. As those from the east approach
California and ride over the long spaces of almost
desert areas or lands of ranches and unfertile
valleys to the foothills of the Sierras one feels that
one is going to a far distant place that must be dif­
ferent and unlike anything passed on the way.
{2U J
L E M U R I A
Ascending the foothills to the top of the Sierra
Range one enters into the snow and cold of the
higher regions in winter with its barrenness, or into
the heavy vegetation and forest growth of the
summer. Then begins the decline, minute after
minute, in the interesting, twisting, turning, rail-
road ride down the sides of the Sierra Nevada
Mountains to the glories of California. On every
hand one sees the remnants and relics of the days
of ’49 when the miners hastily erected cabins and
buildings, while others worked in bringing forth
the fortune that proved the ancient stories of Cali'
fomia to be true. The snow gradually disappears,
the valleys become more fertile, the flowers appear
with fields even though the rest of the country
that has been left behind is covered with frost. As
each minute brings the traveller further west into
California and toward the Pacific Coast, he notices
that the soil is rapidly changing, the trees are dif­
ferent, the rock formations are distinctive and pic­
turesque, thousands of wild flowers of varieties
never seen in the east become more profuse. Blos­
soms, ferns, palms and plants that grow only in the
hot houses of the east or can be raised only under
[ 214]
L E M U R I A
careful culture are seen growing wildly without
any cultivation or special attention. The climate
becomes mild, the spirit of the people seems to be
one of joy. There is an invigoration in the air
which gradually impresses the stranger with a feel­
ing that there are vibrations of some mysterious
vitality, of something very old, very antique, ro­
mantic and unfathomable.
The stranger, therefore, is never surprised when
the first citizen of this western Republic begins to
tell him of the uncommon things to be seen or even
heard in the day time or the night.
I am aware of the fact that no Chamber of Com­
merce in any of the very progressive cities of Cali­
fornia would think of writing a book about the
local allurements of each community by giving any
emphasis to the weird sights, strange sounds or
peculiar mysteries within its own boundaries. To
the public at large these things may have no appeal,
and to some they might be objectionable. But to
the lover of mystery, the student of the sciences,
the research worker, the thinker, and those intel­
lectually inclined, the mysteries of California are
[21*]
L E M U R I A
not only appealing but never completely solved and
never forgotten.
One just passes from one interesting situation,
one astonishing condition, one fascinating story or
experience, to another, day after day and mile after
mile as one rides or walks along the King's High'
way of California, called “El Camino Real.” And,
even where this old trail ends the Indian paths go'
ing northward or eastward leading one into even
deeper fantasies of interest that equal those found
in the fairy tales of our childhood.
Are all of these stories merely traditions handed
down from early generations and having no found'
ation in fact? Are the tales and reports of strange
occurrences only the imaginations of a people still
moved by the emotions of their ancestors? Are all
these things purely fictional and part of the fiesta
spirit? A stay of but a month in this wonderful
state convinces anyone that all of the stories and
experiences are probably true, and that most of
them are told with little elaboration and little fic'
tion. The spell of the California mysteries gradu'
ally overpowers the visitor who prolongs his stay,
[216]
L E M U R I A
and therein lies the secret of the universal enthus'
iasm for its land that every native son and daugh-
ter expresses so convincingly.
Those who have read the preceding chapters of
this book will realize that the State of California
actually represents the oldest habitated, cultivated,
civilized land on the face of the earth that is still in
practically the same physical form, and in the same
environment, as when God first created it. I have
already said that science recognizes the fact that in
the forests of California, in the hills and valleys,
in the rock and shell of its great mountains, and in
the sand and soil of its shores are found the oldest
living things in the world; and so far as specimens
of non-living matter, relics of bye-gone, forgotten,
prehistoric times are concerned, California offers
the greatest abundance of evidence, and with such
fascinating pictures as quicken the emotion of
romance, the spirit of imagination, and the heart­
beat of weird thrills.
For instance, one may journey to that beautiful
little city known as Santa Barbara, where only a
few years ago a mild earthquake completed some
of the final adjustments of the land upon which it
[ 2 1 7 ]
L E M U R I A
is situated, and which adjustment began at the
time that the continent of Lemuria was submerged.
Here in a beautiful spot with magnificent homes
built along the shore drive, reminding one of the
Reviera of France and Italy, and with a busy city
constantly in fiesta dress, we have the setting of
a very ancient habitation, the mystery of which is
yet unsolved. Off the shore of this unique city,
modern in its progressive architecture and Amen-
can beauty and antique in the many Spanish homes
and ancient structures, there are several islands
whose stories no man can tell in detail but which
may some day bring millions of visitors to their
shores that they may say that they have seen such
memorable places in the western world. For these
islands were at one time the fortified preserves of
an ancient race whose homes and daily activities
occupied the district of the mainland where the
city of Santa Barbara now rests. Because, how-
ever, of the continued invasions by unknown tribes
from South America, unknown people from the
north, and, stranger still, the people from far in­
land, they lived exclusively by themselves with a
language, a complexion, a code of living, and an
[218]
L E M U R I A
architecture distinctly their own, unlike anything
else in the rest of the world.
All that they held dear and all that they could
save and gather of worldly value to protect them
in the future days of inevitable conquest they
stored on the islands and fortified these to a degree
that astonishes the creators of our modem forms of
fortification. These people, known technically as a
tribe with the name Chumash, constituted practfi
cally an independent race of people, so far as their
ancestry would appear in ordinary records of an'
thropology, but, as the reader will divine, they
were one of a number of groups or tribes of separ­
ated communities that were direct descendants of
the Lemurians, continuing to live in their own land
without intermarrying with other tribes or allow'
ing the blood that flowed in their veins to be
blended with any other.
Thus, it was inevitable that the race should dis'
appear, just as the other groups of similar descend'
ants in other parts of California are gradually dis-
appearing. When Cabrillo discovered these Chu'
mash natives in 1542 there were over 35,000 of
them, and in 1771 when missionary work entered
[ 2 1 9 ]
L E M U R I A
into their lives and a tabulation was accurately
made there were 8,960 remaining, and in 1900
three families constituting nine adults remained,
while today but one of these adults is living, and
he has been taken by his Lemurian brethren into
another community. Science admits that these
people were well-versed and well-developed in the
art of sea life, and technically expert in harpooning
and spear-throwing. Others in their community
revealed, even in 1542, a long culture and experi­
ence in art, pottery making, architecture, basket
weaving, astronomy, the sciences generally, and
especially what they called the art of healing and
the prevention and cure of diseases. If ever the
proper expeditionary work and research efforts are
made in the soil of the islands off the coast of Santa
Barbara and in the deep soil underlying the present
city there will be rich rewards made to the history
of man and the history of this great State; but this
is only one of the many spots in California that
offers the novelist, the scientist, the dreamer, and
the artist a golden opportunity.
Of the largest of the groups of descendants of
Lemurians, still living and constituting one of the
[ 220 ]
L E M U R I A
most impenetrable mysteries of the State, I will
speak in another chapter; but there are other inter'
esting places in California which one can touch
upon only lightly for the complete details of each
would fill many volumes.
In the first place, California is really much like
an island continent of itself, that is, if we add Ore­
gon and Washington to the State of California and
likewise the peninsula known as Lower California,
for in ancient times all of this was known as Cali­
fornia. The soil, the climate, the products of the
soil, and everything in and around the land of these
several States are so different and so distinctly
unique in comparison with the rest of the United
States that we may look upon this group of States
as constituting a separate nation or a separate
island. W e are warranted in this view-point by the
fact that this territory was at one time an island
separate and distinct from the rest of the North
American continent.
4
The name California itself gives us the first clue
to the mystery and romance of the West. For
years there were many and varied explanations as
t 221 ]
LEMURI A
to where the name California came from, and how
it came to be applied to this western land. We
know that most, if not all, of the other names used
in the State and which are foreign to the Ameri­
can language, were copied from European lang­
uages, mostly Spanish, and the Padres and the mis-
ionaries. But the name C a lifo r n ia has no definite
meaning in any European language and is quite a
unique name in itself.
It was Rev. Edward Everett Hale who dis­
covered in 1862 a clue to the origin of the name
California and how it came to be applied to this
western land. He found in his researches that just
before California became the goal of foreign ex­
peditions, especially those of a Spanish nature,
there was re-printed in Spain a story of chivalry
that had once been very popular in the time of the
Crusades but which had come down from great
antiquity as a story of traditional exploits and
scientific research. This story in its new and re­
vised form became extremely popular and in it
there was described, with all of the grandeur and
romance of the pre-Crusade days, a land in the
western waters in the form of a great island ruled
[ 2 2 2 ]
L E M U R I A
by the beautiful heroine of the story known as
Queen Califa, and the island over which she ruled
was called California. The description in the story
stated that this wonderful island was on “the right
hand of the Indies, very near to the terrestrial
paradise.”
The description of the people was quite mythical
and romantic but there was every evidence in the
story that it was based upon expeditions made by
those who, in prediistoric times, had been able to
reach the shores of this island and studied its
people and explored the nature of its country and
soil. The reference to it as being near the terrestrial
paradise is typical of other ancient records which
referred to the existing remnants of Lemuria as the
early paradise of man, the Garden of Eden, and
the birthplace and cradle of all races of man. The
references to the vast amount of gold that could be
found in this island of California, the quiet, peace'
ful waters which surrounded it, its abundance of
fruit and rich vegetation, its wonderful climate,
and the cordiality of its people, ever made the story
an unforgettable one and was unquestionably re'
sponsible for the many hundreds of expeditions
(223 ]
L E M U R I A
from various parts of the eastern and western
world which made this island their goal.
In this regard the reader should bear in mind
that the expedition of Columbus was very late,
indeed, and that long before Vespucci made his
discoveries and long before any expeditions were
made of which we have any popular record or any
definite information at all, there were thousands of
expeditions to this western world when North and
South America as continents were not in the posfi
tion now occupied by them, and when the so-called
island of California was all that was left of the
eastern edge of the submerged continent of Lem'
uria. As an instance of how the idea persisted
through many centuries in the consciousness of
man regarding the country of California being an
island separate from any continent at all, I offer in
evidence, a drawing made from the famous A^ncy
Globe. This globe was seen in the town library at
Nancy, France, where it has been for many years,
and its recorded history dates back to 1531,
although the actual date of its making is not
known. It is but six inches in diameter and was
[ 224 ]
LEMUR1 A
highly colored, and considered very accurate and
complete for the period in which it was made.
Such maps or globes as these were made not by
navigators themselves but by those deep students
of research who specialized in watching and re­
cording the explorations of navigators and of
special expeditions. They tried to put into one map
the facts and figures, the findings and the dates
brought back to the old world by the scores of
capable observers and explorers. In studying this
map one will quickly notice that although the con­
tinent of North and South America is fairly accur­
ately drawn and represents North America as
being the larger Spanish land with the country of
New Spain in the southern part, and eastern Asia
and India in the western part, there is no attempt
to make the peninsula of California a part of the
mainland but rather to show all of California or
the western part of the continent of North Amer­
ica as a separate island with a group of small
islands at its southern extremity. In other words,
nothing that had been reported by the early explor­
ers at the time that this globe was made changed
the opinion and belief of all the explorers and map
f 22y]
C«««J‘
T iie Nancy C lone
makers that California was a land separate from
North America.
In order to understand why California was com
sidered an island, your attention is called to Map
No. 4 on Page 249. This is a sketch of the land
that unquestionably constituted the island remnant
of the eastern end of the continent of Lemuria after
[ 226 ]
L E M U R I A
it submerged and as it was being united to the
western coast of the North American continent.
By examining this map one will find that this island
section was composed of a small mountain range
along the western shore line and of a larger mouiv
tain range, comprising the Cascade and Sierra
Nevada Mountains, on the eastern shore of the
island, and that these mountains united and again
divided near the southern part forming the penin-
sula of Lower California and part of the Mexican
coast fine. In the north the island ended in swamps
lands, while the island of Vancouver was a
swampy marsh in a bay.
Lying between the two mountain ranges of this
island of California was a low valley most of which
was occupied by a bay, with its center opposite
what is now the Bay of San Francisco, near the
Golden Gate. This means that the Santa Clara,
San Joaquin, and Sacramento Valleys were at one
time under water and that even preceding this
period the northern part of the island of California,
up to and a little way beyond the northern bourn
dary line of the present State of California, was
under water forming a very large inland bay.
1 227 ]
L E M U R I A
These waters remained for perhaps fifteen or
twenty thousand years, but gradually receded
through the continued rising of the island of Cali-
forrua, and through volcanic and earthquake effects
upon the general surface of the land. The present
Bay of San Francisco, and much of the swamp'
lands in the Sacramento Valley, are remnants of
this ancient bay, while the beautiful and fertile
Valley of Santa Clara is a result of the many cen­
turies of watery deposits and earthly compositions
resulting from the existence of the great bay and
its gradual change, so that, today, the Santa Clara
Valley with its sea shells deeply imbedded in its
soil and the eternal marks of the effects of water
upon the hill sides around the valley, gives mute
evidence of what once existed; and the marvelous
products of fruit and flowers found in this valley
and constituting a wealth that is equal to the gold
found in the mountains shows how nature can pre--
pare and arrange its blessing for man.
Situated in the center of this wonderful valley is
that fascinating city of San Jose, where the first
pueblo was established after the Padres, and the
early explorers preceding them, had selected this
f 228 ]
L E M U R I A
site as the most beautiful and most suitable for the
building of a great city in the center of perfect cli­
mate. This city, then, became the first Capitol of
the State and the first center of the great Spanish
life and wealthiest estates ever known in Cali­
fornia. A visit to San Jose today, and a ride
through its brilliantly illuminated, busy, modern,
business streets reminds one of a ride through the
busy section of the largest eastern cities, for the
same spirit of progressiveness, the same leadership
in advance of other communities is found, and the
representation of many great eastern industries
gives a very distinct atmosphere to the business and
social life of this old city. Yet, in the heart of it,
and its environs, lie many fascinating, alluring and
fantastic stories and earmarks of ancient times.
Here we find the very center of the California
fiestas, the flowery parades, the celebrations, the
gaiety and happy social life of the old and the new
world combined. Still, in its progressiveness it has
attracted to it more universities and colleges and
institutions of learning than any other city of its
size in the West, and many of these date to great
antiquity. Even the famous Leland Stanford Uni-
[ 229 ]
L E M U f U A
versity, now located further north in Palo Alto,
had its early foundation in San Jose. And, just up
on the mountains which adjoin San Jose is located
the great Lick Observatory, while on the northern
boundaries of the city, in the famous Santa Clara
University is that other well-known observatory
where the Padre of the Rains has made his calcula­
tions and his discoveries of world-wide interest.
Not far from San Jose and just across a little
mountain range called the Santa Cruz Mountairis
is a small peninsula which stands unique in roman­
tic, religious history, for here is the mountain of
Carmel, the valley of Carmel, and the Carmel
River. The Carmelites who came here and estab­
lished a monastery were acquainted with this par­
ticular locality long before Viscaino made his ex­
peditions and brought scientists. Padres, and some
Rosicrucian mystics to this region to unite their
efforts in further amplifying the modifications and
civilization of the Carmel and Santa Clara valleys.
The early expeditions to California had reported
that there was a bay and a small peninsula along
the western coast that resembled the Bay of Acre
with its peninsula, its Mount of Carmel and the
[ 230 ]
L E M U R I A
Carmel River running inland; and the further facts
were that these two similar bays and peninsulas
were in almost the same latitude, with similar cli­
mates and similar vegetation, although in almost
opposite parts of the world. It was for this reason
that the mystic descendants of an early mystery
school located in Carmel of the East desired to
accompany the expedition to the New World, and
named the goal of their expedition Carmel long
before they reached its shores. The early records
of these mystics, known as Rosicrucians, show that
the establishment of the Carmelites as a religious
order followed the selection of this site for the
establishment of the first Rosicrucian Temple on
the Pacific shores, equalling a similar foundation
laid by the Rosicrucian pilgrims on the eastern
shore in what is now known as the city of Phila­
delphia in 1694.
It is an interesting fact that many of the trees
and shrubs found growing in profusion in the
valley and mountains of this new western-world
Carmel were unknown in any other part of the
world several centuries ago, except near the river
of Carmel on the Bay of Acre. The valley of Car-
[ - 31 ]
L E M U R I A
mel in California and its entire environment is filled
with romantic stories and stories of mystery and
Cosmic weirdness. It is not surprising, therefore,
that the valley contains a little town known as
Carmel'by'the'Sea, which holds itself separate from
the mad progress of western civilization and
shelters cozy little cottages and studios where the
best known writers and artists of the world have
come and, like Robert Louis Stevenson, have stayed
for months or years and written their greatest
novels or painted their greatest pictures; for here
in this strange village nestled among the pines, and
sitting in a veritable garden of flowers, one is easily
inspired by the very vibrations of the place, as well
as by the stories and historical records which are
available in its little cabin library.
Not far from San Jose, close to the sea shore,
near the attractive mountains, and practically on
the main highway of the State, Carmel with the
beaches of Monterey and Del Monte, constitute a
combination of attractions where the investigators
of historic traditions and archaeological research
find the greatest joy of life.
[ 232 ]
L E M U R I A
Even in the centuries of long ago when much of
this State was wild and uncivilized, so to speak,
the ancient people of Lemuria, finding their great
continent submerging beneath the water and their
people being wiped out of earthly existence by the
greatest of all floods and catastrophes, scattered in­
to the valleys and mountainsides of this eastern por­
tion of their continent which seemed to be rising
higher. Here they laid foundations, built struc­
tures, created conditions, and established perpetual
memorials to their highly advanced civilization.
Much of the mute testimony to their knowledge
and wisdom is beyond our comprehension even to­
day and many of their accomplishments remain un­
explained by science and unduplicated by all of our
progressiveness. Month after month visitors and
explorers in California come face to face with some
great rock of strange carving, some magnificent
piece of sculptured work lying beneath age-old
shrubbery or some skeleton or the remains of some
living creature which awes them and leaves them
spell-bound in the realization of our ability to un­
derstand.
[ 233 ]
L E M U R I A
Whoever the Queen Califa may have been that
ruled over a land so full of gold that the poorest
and most common of her subjects were found
literally covered with gold ornamentations, she
must have ruled over a highly illuminated and
happy nation of people, and if in analyzing her
descendants who still live in California we find
any clue to that which made this civilization so old
and so great, we may find the key to that which
still makes California the land of gold.
V V V
[ 234 ]
Chapter XI.
PRESENT DAT M TSTIC LEMUR IA N S
IN C ALIFO RN IA
S HAS been stated in preceding chapters,
the great catastrophies that overwhelmed
the continent of Lemuria and caused the
final submergence of nearly all of it in
more or less rapid time, forced the surviving rem'
nants of the great race of civilized inhabitants to
flee to the highest mountain tops and seek there a
possible haven.
Whether many went to upper plateaus of high
mountains and were eventually thrown into the
sea and lost to earthly life, we do not know, except
that millions of beings lost their lives in the great
catastrophies, but probably most of these were LV
ing in the peaceful valleys and plains of the great
continent.
The evidence shows that the eastern portion of
the continent of Lemuria, or that portion nearest
[2iJ ]
L E M U R I A
to the North American continent, was very high
and naturally appeared to be the best place for
those who were given time and opportunity to
reach these points and establish themselves in
safety. The fact that only a few thousand sue-
ceeded in reaching the mountains would indicate
that the last great catastrophe of Lemuria was
more or less sudden and decidedly complete in its
submergence of the land. Even those high eastern
mountains that remained above water were greatly
lowered in height, for before the catastrophe they
were probably as high as any to be found in the
world. The nature of the soil around these moun­
tains indicates that for many centuries the lowest
valleys on either side of the mountains were high
above sea level, and then for many centuries were
lowered beneath sea level and completely sub­
merged. A later series of minor earth changes
raised the valleys sufficiently high enough to drain
them of the water and leave them in the condition
in which we find the valley of Santa Clara for
instance, at the present time.
Because of the rapidity of the submergence and
the evident extent of the catastrophe those few
[ 236 ]
L E M U R I A
thousand who were able to reach the hillsides and
attain a height of safety were unable to bring with
them any great quantity of their personal effects
and very little of their stores of supplies. However,
the records indicate that anticipating this possi'
bility they had arranged and prepared for the
eventual catastrophe by establishing small, con-
servative, and well-protected bases of supplies in
various sections of the high mountains. These
protected places were constructed in the typical
Lemurian style out of very hard stone and marble,
and being built for permanency and to survive the
most severe storms and conditions of climate, they
are today in their partly ruined condition, the only
surviving examples of Lemurian architecture of the
pure type.
This accounts for the occasional discovery of
strangely built structures found in a ruined condi­
tion by explorers in the mountains of California.
Often the ruins are of small buildings and so torn
asunder by storms and the handiwork of later
tribes who used much of the stone for the building
of new structures that little of the original design
or plan remains. But, in other parts of California
[ 237 ]
L E M U R I A
and especially in the vast forests and unexplored
regions, many moss-covered, shrubbery-hidden
ruins have been accidently found by explorers who
have made their first reports in great astonishment,
but were later prevented by mysterious forces and
strange incidents from returning to these sites and
making any further investigations.
I remember speaking to one such explorer who
was not given to any degree of romance or emo­
tionalism in his profound scientific work, who said
that the frequent frustrations of his scientific inves­
tigations by weird and almost uncanny incidents
made him think, in one of his moments of reverie,
that there was a sleeping personality in the highest
regions of the Sierras like the traditional personal­
ity of Rip Van Winkle sleeping in the Catskill
Mountains, and that whenever an investigator
appioached this sleeping personality too closely it
awakened and thundered forth its protests. While
he was speaking allegorically it reminded me of
the fact that it was almost a literal explanation of
what had actually occurred in many parts of the
State.
[ 238 ]
L E M U R I A
There are mountainous parts of California
where men go lion hunting or hunting for other
wild animals, and where the foot of a white man
has probably never trod for many centuries, if at
all. It is not uncommon for these hunters, and for
lonely explorers in search of thrills and excitement,
to come face to face with peculiar conditions, un-
expected scenes, and gruesome relics of ancient
peoples. Many very valuable specimens of human
forms and of animals of all species have been found
in remote parts of these mountains and are pre­
served today in many museums of the country.
More thrilling than these stories of scientific dis­
coveries are the stories of personal experiences on
the part of tourists who love to enter into the wild
parts of any country seeking the personal pleasure
of discovering new things. Their stories when told
at the fire-sides of the bungalows or in the clubs
of the social classes in the larger cities, sound like
tales from foreign lands of ancient times. The
accumulation of these stories with a careful
analysis and comparison of them shows such simi­
larity of details and such consistency in principles
as to convince one that they are founded upon
r 239 1
L E M U R I A
truth. It is interesting, therefore, to spend time in
visiting some of the unusual places of the moun-
tains of California and studying the relics of an­
cient civilization. Even when we go north of Cali­
fornia into other states we find similar conditions,
proving that all of these western states which con­
stituted the island of California at one time, were
occupied by identical people with identical customs
and habits.
One of the interesting explorations to be made
with safety and pleasure by any visitor to Cali­
fornia is in the Basin of Klamath Falls. The great
Klamath Basin is in Oregon but this is only a rem­
nant of the great inland sea that one time reached
far down into the present State of California, and
the present Klamath Lake reaches across the Ore­
gon State line into the northern part of California
and occupies only a small portion of the land in
the north eastern corner of Siskiyou County,
whereas at one time this lake reached down
through this county into the adjoining one. Into
this lake there projects at the present time a small
peninsula which is the remnant of a high mountain
where was located one of the colonies of the sur-
[ 240 ]
L E M U R I A
viving Lemurians. On the rocks of this peninsula
are carved the strangest marks that modern scien­
tists have ever attempted to interpret. There are
thousands of these hieroglyphic characters and I
have drawn a few of the principal figures and re­
produce them here as samples of the Klamath Falls'
writing.
Those who have attempted to interpret the hun­
dreds of feet of these characters on the stones in
various sections surrounding the lake have dis­
covered that there is a uniformity to the writing.
They have not been able to evolve an alphabet or a
code which will reveal the messages written there
which were intended to inform future generations
regarding the nature of the colony surrounding this
lake and the story of their catastrophe and
struggles for life. I have found in these characters,
however, a similarity to many of the other Lem-
urian characters to which reference has been made
and the important key throughout these writings
is the various forms in which the cross appears. Of
this I will speak later. It is interesting to note that
from ancient times certain parts of this country
[241 }
L E M U R I A
[ 242 ]
L E M U R I A
surrounding the lake and the Klamath Falls Basin
have had peculiar names. A century ago these
names were believed to be names which the Indian
tribes gave to the places and they were considered
to be Indian names, but a careful study of them
shows that they were in use long before the Indians
could have settled in any part of this country and
are not Indian names at all. Scientists have decided
that the 1,200 feet or more of carved writings are
on rocks that have been below and above water at
different periods and that, therefore, the writings
were made many hundreds of years ago. Different
generations have added to these writings in order
to bring the history of their people up to a very
modern date, comparatively speaking. One of the
other interesting facts is that the Sacred Oak of
the ancient Druid mystic brotherhood appears in
these writings, in many significant places; and in
other places the Sacred Lamp of the Druids
appears. The Druids eventually had their center
of earthly activities in the British lands about the
beginning of the Christian era. In addition to this
evidence of relation with the Druids, there is very
positive evidence that the writers of these strange
[ 243 ]
L E M U R I A
characters where those who helped to establish the
Sanskrit language and the Roman language and
were, therefore, part of the highly cultured and
civilized races that spread the most modern of
literary culture in various parts of the world.
For instance, part of the lake valley was known
to the Modoc Indians who lived there in later gem
erations as “The Valley of Knowledge” because
there was every evidence that this place had been
the seat of learning for some ancient tribes of
people. These American Indians called this valley
of knowledge the “Walla-Was-Skeeny.” The In­
dians said that this meant, “Valley of Knowledge”
but it was found that these words were not like
any other words in their Indian language or dialect.
Then it was discovered that these Indians had
inherited this name, or had received it from the
descendants of the early tribes who were still living
there when the Indians came and that the words,
“Walla-Was-Skeeny” was really an attempt to
pronounce the Latin words meaning valley of
knowledge or Vallis Scientia. It was also found
that these Modoc Indians had inherited the word
[ 244 ]
L E M U R I A
“wocus” for the name of the lily, while in Latin it
is lotus. The ruins of a former walled-in preserve
built by the Lemurians on the top of a mountain
north of Olene in Klamath County was called
“moynia” by the Modoc Indians, and in Latin any
walled-in place, or the site of ramparts, is called
moynia. Some of the hills in this region are called
“collil” and the Latin word for hills of this nature
is collis. On the other hand, some Greek words
appear in the language also for there is another
mountain point which the Indians claim was called
“Mu-Pi.” These two syllables are easily recog­
nized as two letters of the Greek alphabet.
It may be said in passing that when the Ameri­
can Indians were first discovered in this part of
California and the writing observed by early ex­
plorers, the Indians disclaimed any knowledge re­
garding the origin of the writing or any interpreta­
tion of even a part of it, and students of the various
Indian dialects and forms of writing say that this
ancient writing is totally unlike anything that any
of the American Indian tribes produced.
It has been reported that many years ago the
region near these strange writings was illuminated
[ 245]
L E M U R I A
at night with peculiar white lights, and all investi-
gation failed to reveal any origin or source for such
illumination. At that time electricity was not
available in that district and there were no indica-
tions of fires of any kind being built on the soil or
on any of the rocks.
This element of strange lights enters very freely
in the mysteries of California. In many parts of
the State on certain nights of each month mountain
peaks are illuminated, or in between the trees of
great forests a strange white light almost like the
white light of a photographer’s flashlight is seen,
not in sudden flashes or explosions but in a steady
manner lasting for several hours. Every manner of
research has failed to trace the real source of these
lights. For instance, within the past year a very
old white light seen forty or fifty years ago, and
considered as gone forever during the past twenty
years or more, has suddenly re-appeared in the foot­
hills east of San Jose within a mile or two of the
San Jose Mission. This great white light, many
hundreds of feet below the valley of Santa Clara,
appears to be in the midst of a dense forest and
[ 246 ]
L E M U R I A
rising above the trees. It is clearly seen from vari'
ous parts of the San Francisco Bay.
A t first this great white light was believed by
many to be a signal of some kind produced by
illegal makers of alcoholic liquors, probably for the
purpose of signalling to some small craft in the bay.
Investigation made during the day failed to reveal
any structure, home, house, or cave anywhere near
the area where the light was seen, nor any indica'
tion of a fire of any kind. Finally surveyors were
engaged and transits were set pointing to the exact
location of the white light as seen at night and in
the day time these transits pointed very definitely
to a dense group of trees on the mountain side
barren of all homes, with no indication of even
burnt leaves on the ground. Electricity is not avail'
able in this district of the mountains and how such
a steady light could be produced for a long time
without leaving any trace of itself is one of the urn
solved mysteries still occupying the attention of
hundreds of keen intellects. On the other hand, as
proof that these lights may be associated with some
of the mysteries of Lemuria and its people, the
[ 247 ]
L E M U R I A
weird stories of Mt. Shasta in California remain as
an ever-lasting fascination.
Mt. Shasta is located at the northern extremity
of the Sierra Nevada Mountain Range. It is, there­
fore, located in Siskiyou County, not many miles
from the Klamath Lake area to which I have just
referred. Mt. Shasta is the cone of an extinct vol­
cano rising to a height of over 14,000 feet above
sea level. Scientists point out the mute evidence
of archaeology, showing that its deep-fluted sides
prove that at one time it was much higher than it
is now and that the ground around it has sunken,
and the mountain itself has been worn away in
glacial periods by the action of ice. There are other
mountains near-by which are only a little over
9,000 feet above sea level and which bear evidence
that today they are mere remnants of their former
greatness. M t. Shasta is still possible of eruption
because a true sulphurous furole lies just below
the extreme summit and one or two others on its
northern slope emit heat, smoke, and other ele­
ments, proving that some day there may be one
more final, though very mild, eruption from one
part of this volcano.
C 248]
L E M U R I A
A t one time, however, Mt. Shasta was undoubt­
edly the highest of all the mountain peaks in this
part of California. It is a beautiful sight, with its
upper regions covered with snow most of the year,
Map No. 4
and can be seen from many great distances. The
streams of water in and around this area are of an
[ 249 ]
L E M U R I A
unusual quality and the soil is exceedingly produc-
tive when irrigated, being of very ancient origin
like the remaining parts of California. To the east
of this volcano is the well-known Shasta Forest.
The heart of the forest is less than thirty miles
from the foot of the volcano, and in the area lying
between the two is low land, believed to be tra­
versed by a number of fine streams and brooks.
Little is known of this region lying between Shasta
and the forest, but it is most certainly a marked
spot in the minds of thousands of persons who
have witnessed the strange sights to be seen from
near-by points of vantage.
For several hundred years or more the old timers
living in northern California, and many tourists,
explorers, government officials, scientists, novelists,
artists, writers, and those merely inquisitive, have
centered their attention upon the strange happen­
ings in this region. Many years ago it was quite
common to hear stories whispered in northern Cali­
fornia about the occasional, strange looking, per­
sons seen to emanate from the forests and the dense
growth of trees in that region and who would run
back into hiding when discovered or seen by any-
[210]
L E M U R I A
one. Occasionally one of these oddly dressed indi'
viduals would come to one of the smaller towns
and trade nuggets and gold dust for some modern
commodities. These odd looking persons were not
only peculiar in their dress and different in attire
from any costume ever seen on the American In­
dian, and especially the California Indian, but dis­
tinctive in features and complexion; tall, graceful
and agile, having the appearance of being quite old
and yet exceedingly virile. They gave every indica­
tion of being what one would term a fo re ig n e r, but
with a larger head, much larger forehead, a head­
dress that had a special decoration that came down
over the center of the forehead to the bridge of the
nose, and thus hid or covered a part of the forehead
that many have attempted to see and study.
At other times great fires were seen to be burn­
ing in the center of the woods, allowing the blue
and white illumination to penetrate the darkness
between the trees; between the fire and the ob­
server strange figures were seen to pass at times,
silhouetted against the great light. At other times
when the wind was blowing in the proper direction
strange chanting and singing, and weird, beautiful
[251]
L E M U R I A
music would float or be carried in the direction of
one of the smaller cities or towns near-by.
Every attempt by investigators to invade this
district and observe what was going on resulted in
a similar experience, and the similarity of these ex­
periences related by persons who had never come
in contact with those who might have informed
them, is one of the outstanding pieces of evidence
regarding the truthfulness of the whole story. In­
variably the investigator was considered an in­
truder, and after having reached a certain point in
his progress toward the center of the lights and
sounds, he would either come in contact with a
very heavily covered and concealed person of large
si2;e who would lift him up and push him away
from the district, as though being forcibly im­
pressed with the idea to hurry away as rapidly as
possible, or a strange and peculiar set of vibrations
or invisible energy, would seem to emanate toward
the investigator and force him to remain fixed in
his position and to be able to move in no other di­
rection than away from the place of his inquiry.
Thus the conditions and the mysterious facts were
whispered and talked about for many years until
[ 252 ]
L E M U R I A
that well-known scientist, Professor Edgar Lucin
Larkin, Director of Mt. L o w e O b s e r v a to r y in
southern California, accidently discovered a few
new facts about this northern California mystery.
While he was engaged in experimenting with a
new feature of one of the long distance telescopes
used for auxiliary purposes in his observatory, he
turned it north and south of his location along the
top of the mountain range on which the observa-
tory was established many years ago, merely for
the purpose, as he said, of testing its day-time use­
fulness and to help him in gauging a new standard
scale for determining distances. He claims that he
had never heard of the mystery about Shasta and
probably would have taken little interest in it if he
had heard of it. He picked out Mt. Shasta, how­
ever, as an object upon which to focus his vision,
because through this telescope the high snow­
capped top of Shasta stood out clearly against the
deep blue sky. After he had consulted the maps of
California and determined in miles and feet the
exact distance between himself and the peak of
Shasta and made his notations for the purpose of
comparing these figures with the new scale of rela-
[253]
L E M U R I A
tive distances upon which he was working, he
moved the telescope so that its field of vision in'
eluded the lower eastern side of Shasta and, antici'
pating that he would see only the tops of trees in
the foreground, he was surprised to see a glimmer'
ing curved surface that was truly unusual in any
picture anticipated by him. As the sun shone upon
this glittering object among the trees he was im'
pressed with the thought that he was looking at a
gold'tinted dome of some Oriental building. At
various intervals, twenty minutes apart, he made
further notations and as the sun moved in its
course he gradually discovered that there were two
domes rising above the tree tops near Shasta and
that the part of a third one could be seen several
hundred feet distant. Moving the telescope once
again he found visible between the trees a comer
of another structure seemingly made of marble.
Knowing that there were no such structures in
northern California, and especially in the land
around Shasta, he left his telescope fixed to see
what these things would look like in the setting
sun and in darkness. He was surprised to find later
in the night that around this dome were great
[254]
L E M U R I A
lights, apparently white, which partially illumin­
ated and made them visible even though there was
no moon to cast any light at the time.
In his usual precise way he made careful nota­
tions regarding each peculiar thing that impressed
his mind and waited for sunrise to make further
observations. Another adjustment of the telescope
permitted him to see smoke rising between the
trees and likewise to see part of another structure.
After one week’s study of the matter he decided
to investigate further, and it was his investigation,
personally conducted, that led many scientists to
explore the region to such a degree as was found
possible. Others began to accumulate the facts
known to those who lived near-by and it was found
that at one time a very old character had emerged
from this district and made some sort of important
journey by foot to the city of San Francisco,
where he was met by some committee of wealthy
men at the Ferry Building and escorted up Market
Street to the City Hall, and there some special
ceremony was held to which all strangers were for­
bidden. Comments of those who saw the character
being escorted say that never in all their lives had
[ 2 5 5 }
L E M U R I A
they seen a being of such nobility, humility, and
majestic bearing in one expression. Who he was,
and what he came to do, has never been revealed
and even the date of the incident is denied to all
investigators; nevertheless the story is universally
told and is consistent with many stories told of
similar expeditions on the part of strange indi­
viduals from this district.
Many representatives of the community that
must live at the foot of Mt. Shasta have been seen
on the highways unexpectedly, garbed in pure
white and in sandals, with long curly hair, tall and
majestic in appearance, but wholly undesirous of
of public attention. Every attempt to photograph
them and get near enough to talk to them has re­
sulted in their sudden disappearance, either, as
some have said, by their running into the shadows
of forests along the highways, or as others have said,
b y ju s t d isa p p e a rin g in th e tw ilig h t. Those who
have come to stores in near-by cities, especially at
Weed, have spoken English in a perfect manner
with perhaps a tinge of the British accent, and
have been reluctant to answer any questions or
give any information about themselves. The goods
[ 2T6]
L E M U R I A
they have purchased have always been paid for in
gold nuggets of far greater value than the article
purchased, and they have refused to accept any
change indicating that to them the gold was of no
value and that they had no need for money of any
kind.
Those who have seen some of them at their mid'
night ceremony around the fire claim that they
have seen the silhouettes of some four or five hum
dred figures and that this number represents only a
fraction of those grouped on one side of the fire.
The origin of the fire or its nature is not known,
for it does not appear to be the burning of wood or
brush or of even oil or gasoline, for it is a very
white light almost bordering upon a violet blueness
in its brilliancy. At one part of the midnight cere'
mony beams of bright lights are cast upward into
the trees often blazing the sky and occasionally
tin g in g th e edge of a cloud that may be hanging
low. These beams of light strike against the upper
portion of buildings and particularly on the domes
that seem to be plated with gold. Where the build'
ings are illuminated and can be observed at all they
appear to be constructed of marble and onyx. At
[ 2 5 7 ]
L E M U R I A
sunrise another similar ceremony is conducted,
attracting a great deal of attention because of the
lights that appear in the darkest parts of the forest.
The only key to these ceremonies that has ever
been found is that which was carved upon a stone
and set up near the outskirts of the forest like
stelai were erected in Egypt. On one of these
there were considerable hieroglyphs and under'
neath were cut in a careful manner the English
words “Ceremony of Adoration to Guatama.”
The hieroglyphs indicated that the ceremony re'
ferred to was performed at sunrise, sunset, and
midnight, and that the word “Guatama” meant
the continent of America. An adoration ceremony
of this kind would be taken to mean a celebration
of appreciation, and this, therefore, must be in
honor of the time when their forbears were saved
from the great catastrophe by coming to this part
of the mountainous region of Lemuria as it was
submerging.
The stories of mystical powers attributed to
these people must be taken with the proverbial
grain of salt, although my reader may interpret
them as he wishes. It is said, for instance, that on
( 258}
L E M U R I A
a number of occasions when great forest fires have
raged in various parts of California and have
approached close to the forest near Mt. Shasta, a
strange fog has suddenly emanated from the section
occupied by these peculiar people and that this fog
has risen from the ground in a circular manner so
as to form a circular wall around the entire area,
through which the forest fires have never pene-
trated. Some natives in this region delight in tak­
ing the skeptic on a circular tour, pointing out to
them the mute evidence shown by the burnt trees
reaching a definite line that forms a circle around
the mysterious region. On the inside of this circle
the trees rise to great heights, of old age, and
without a single scar or blemish from the burning
of the trees that were destroyed within two hun­
dred feet of them.
Others speak of having attempted to approach
the region by automobile and finding that at an un­
expected point where a light flashed before them
their automobile refused to function properly, for
the electric circuit seemed to lose its power and not
until the passengers emerged from the car and
backed it on the road for a hundred feet and turned
[ 259 ]
L E M U R I A
it in the opposite direction, would the electric
power give any manifestation and the engine func-
tion properly. Others have said that some strange
cattle, unlike anything ever seen in America, have
emerged from the woods, but before going very
far along the highways or by-ways these animals
would be frightened by some invisible signal, and
would turn abruptly around and run back toward
the places from which they came.
There are hundreds of others who have testified
to having seen peculiarly shaped boats which have
flown out of this region high in the air over the hills
and valleys of California and have been seen by
others to come on to the waters of the Pacific
Ocean at the shore and then to continue out on the
seas as a vessel. Similar boats have been seen by
seamen on the high seas, and others have seen these
boats rise again in the air and go upon the land of
some of the islands of the Pacific. Others have
seen these peculiar vessels as far north as the
Aleutian Islands. Only recently a group of persons
playing golf on one of the golf lawns of California
near the foot-hills of the Sierra Nevada Range
saw a peculiar, silver-like, vessel rise in the air and
[ 260 ]
L E M U R I A
float over the mountain tops and disappear. It was
unlike any airship that has ever been seen and there
was absolutely no noise emanating from it to indi­
cate that it was moved by a motor of any kind.
Perhaps the most interesting explanation of
what is to be found in this locality is that it is not
only the ancient seat of hundreds of Lemurians
who still live there and manufacture and grow all
of their principal necessities and keep themselves
isolated, as did the other group of Lemurians who
lived at Santa Barbara many years ago, but that
their village itself is only partly on the outside of
Mt. Shasta, that there is a tunnel through its
eastern base leading to a great inclosure in which
there is a city of strange homes, and that the heat
and smoke seen arising from the crater of Mt.
Shasta is smoke and heat from the interior village.
This is not an unusual tale, inasmuch as there are
records showing that in Mexico another group of
descendants from Lemuria were found living in the
center of an extinct volcano, hidden from all possi­
ble worldly observation.
Thus we have one of the present day groups of
Lemurians hidden in isolation in modern Cali-
[ 261]
L E M U R I A
fornia, if we are to believe the testimony of reliable
citizens and many scientists. It is not a story that
is beyond human reason or possibility. And it is
not the only strange sight or peculiar incident in
California, but typical of what this old land may
contain if ever it is completely and thoroughly
explored.
Whether these descendants of Lemuria, as they
are considered, continue to practice their ancient
rites and live as they always did, or whether they
have adopted some modern methods, is another
question that is unanswerable. That they will
eventually pass away and become extinct as the
last, or one of the last, surviving groups of Lem-
urians, is inevitable, inasmuch as they do not allow
any of their members to marry with other races.
A t any rate, if all of the stories and the mute evi­
dence of carved statuary and ruined buildings, be
true, America has the honor and prestige of having
on its soil the last survivors in a direct line of the
first race of man on the face of the earth. Here was
the beginning of that race, and here will be the
end of that race. This makes America, in fact, the
oldest country of the world and yet the newest, and
[ 262 ]
L E M U R I A
perhaps it is this happy combination, this rare asso'
ciation of the old and new, this unique blending of
the spirit of ancient culture with modern progres*
siveness, that makes the North American continent
and its peoples from Canada to the Isthmus a great
world of opportunity and golden fortunes.
V V V
[ 263 ]
Appendix N o. I.
THE CYCLES OF CHANCES IN THE EARTH
The following extracts are from a personal manuscript
by John H. Tice, Meteorologist, and published privately
by the officers and directors of The Meteorological Re­
search and Publication Company of St. Louis, Missouri,
in 1875.
“For half a century scientists have earnestly been labor­
ing to discover such a cycle, but without success; yet every
day the necessity for it becomes more evident and the de­
mand for it more earnest and pressing. Professor Lockyer,
an English astronomer and renowned as a spectroscopist,
expresses himself upon this subject as follows: ‘In Meteor­
ology as in Astronomy, the thing is to hunt down a cycle;
and if it is not to be found in the Temperate Zones, then
go to the Frigid Zones, or to the Torrid Zones to look for
it. If found, then above all things, and in whatever man­
ner, lay hold of it, study it, record it, and see what it
means . .
“Observation on special phenomena, such as sunspots,
solar physics generally, magnetic intensity in the Earth,
electric tension both of the Earth and of the Atmosphere,
auroras, earthquakes, cyclones, rainfalls and terrestrial
temperatures, have been made for half a century, and some
for nearly two centuries. W hy these observations have
not been more fruitful in valuable results is owing to the
fact that each observer worked independently, and made
the observations of his chosen phenomena a specialty,
without ever dreaming that there was a correlation be­
tween all physical phenomena. After devoting a period
to their work—equal to half the length of what the Psalm­
ist assigns as the term of human life,—each observer came
to the conclusion that his special phenomenon had a
[ 265 ]
L E M U R I A
periodicity, and repeated itself in a cycle between ten and
twelve years . . .
“After having satisfied myself of the existence of
meteorological cycles, about eight years ago, I undertook to
investigate their cause with a view of determining their
length. As nothing can exist without a cause, synchronous
and covariant phenomena regularly repeating themselves
in cycles of uniform length, must have a permanent cause
that is common to them all; and whatever that may be and
wheresoever located, it must be ascertainable and suscepti'
ble of proof . . .
“In the preceding part of this work I have demonstrated
that winds, rain, snow and hailstorms, cyclones, auroras,
earthquakes, in fine, all telluric and atmospheric pheno­
mena are electric; and that under what may be considered
the normal condition of the Earth and the atmosphere the
Electricity necessary to their production is constantly being
generated but with varying energy . . .
“The testimony of the facts presented, incontestably
establishes these points; that earthquakes have a periodicity
in the frequency of their occurrence, and that they show
well defined periods of maximsvand minima, which alter­
nate regularly as to time with each other. Examinations
of the dates of their occurrences show that these maxima
and minima are covariants with those of other physical
disturbances . . .
“Earthquakes are caused by disruptive discharges of
Electricity through the strata of the Earth. Electric cur­
rents, at all times, are circulating through the Earth from
East to West. In times of physical perturbations, indicated
by sunspots, auroras and great oscillations in the magnetic
needle, earth currents, as they are called, often become too
intense to be transmitted through the strata of the Earth,
unless where the strata are unbroken or of good conductive
capacity. These currents where the strata are broken up,
or of too feeble conductive capacity, become damned up,
as it were, until they are strong enough to force a passage,
which is effected by what is called a disruptive discharge.”
t 266 ]
Appendix No. II.
For the benefit of those who are analytical and of a re-
search turn of mind and who would like to delve more
deeply into many of the subjects touched upon in this
book, the following list of authorities and sources of infor­
mation is given:
The researches and writings of Dr. Augustus le Plon-
geon.
The records of the Mayan people in Yucatan,
The records of William Niven, Archeologist,
The records of Dr. Morley of Carnegie Institution,
The Code Cortesianus, a Maya book written 5,000
years ago from temple records and which can be found in
same institutions of learning,
Manava Dharma Sastra, an ancient Hindu book.
The writings of Lao Tse,
The writings of H. T. Colebrook concerning his re­
searches in Asia,
The records of researches of Professor Ellis in Polynesia,
The Egyptian book, The Boof{ of the Dead.
A study of the history of the Inca people and the
Quiches,
The researches of Leonard V. Dalton in Venezuela,
Researches at Easter Island,
Plutarch’s, Life of Solon,
The writings of Plato,
The researches of Dr. Henry Schlieman,
The papyrus rolls from Egypt to be found in the mu­
seum in the city formerly known as St. Petersburg, Russia,
Osborn’s book, Men of the Old Stone Age,
The excavations at Yucatan and various parts of Central
America,
[ 267 ]
LEMURI A
Richard Curie's book, Wonders of the Past,
The writings of Valmiki, the ancient Hindu historian,
The book of Manu, containing ancient Hindu writings,
E. H. Parker’s book on China,
Captain Cook’s records of his trip around the world
in 1770,
The Rosicrucian records and historical writings,
The records of the Essenes, and hundreds of others.
The publishers cannot attempt to give information by
correspondence as to where the foregoing books and others
can be found by readers desiring them. Most of these
books can be found in the larger of the principal libraries
throughout the world, but any librarian or large publish­
ing house will attempt to get these books for any reader,
or will state where and how they may be secured.
[ 268 ]
Explanatory
THE ROSICRUCIAN ORDER
V
N T I C I P A T I N G q u e stio n s w h ich m a y be a sk e d b y th e
re a d e rs of th is b o o k , th e p u b lish e rs w ish to a n n o u n c e th a t
th e re is b u t o n e u n iv e rsa l R o sic ru c ia n O r d e r e x istin g in the
w o rld to d a y , u n ite d in its v a rio u s ju risd ic tio n s, a n d h a v in g o n e
S u p re m e C o u n c il in a c c o rd a n c e w ith th e o rig in a l p la n 6f th e
a n c ie n t R o sic ru c ia n m an ifesto s.
T h is in te rn a tio n a l o rg a n iz a tio n re ta in s th e a n c ie n t tra d itio n s,
te a c h in g s, p rin c ip le s, a n d p ra c tic a l h e lp fu ln e ss of th e b ro th e r­
h o o d a s fo u n d e d c e n tu rie s a g o . It is k n o w n a s th e A n c ie n t
M y s tic a l O r d e r R o sa e C ru cis, w h ic h n am e is a b b re v ia te d lo r
p o p u la r u se in to A M O R C . T h e N o rth A m e ric a n ju risd ic tio n of
th is o rd e r m a in ta in s N a tio n a l H e a d q u a rte rs a t S a n Jose, C a lifo r­
n ia , w ith b ra n c h e s d istrib u te d th ro u g h o u t th e U n ite d S ta te s,
C a n a d a , a n d M e x ic o . T h o s e in te re ste d in k n o w in g m o re o f th e
h isto ry a n d p re se n t d a y o fferin g s of th e R o sic ru c ia n s m a y h a v e
a fre e c o p y o f th e b o o k e n title d th e " L ig h t o f E g y p t" b y se n d ­
in g a d efin ite re q u e st to : E x te n sio n L ib ra ria n , A M O R C T e m p le ,
R o sic ru c ia n P a rk , S a n Jose, C a lifo rn ia .
C o n sists of a n u m b e r of u n iq u e b o o k s w h ic h a re d esc rib e d in
th e fo llo w in g p a g e s, a n d w h ic h m a y be p u rc h a se d from th e
A M O R C S U P P L Y B U R E A U , S a n Jose, C a lifo rn ia .
The Rosicrucian Library
f 269 ]
V o lu m e I.
Rosicrucian Questions and Answers
W ith Complete History
of the Order
V
T
H I S V o lu m e c o n ta in s th e first co m p lete, a u th e n tic h isto ry
of th e R o sic ru c ia n O r d e r fro m a n c ie n t tim es to th e p re se n t
d a y . T h e h isto ry is d iv id e d In to tw o se ctio n s, d e a lin g w ith
th e tra d itio n a l fa c ts a n d th e e sta b lish e d h isto ric a l facts, a n d is
re p le te w ith in te re stin g sto rie s o f ro m a n c e , m y ste ry , a n d fa sc i­
n a tin g In cid en ts.
T h is b o o k is a v a lu a b le o n e sin ce it is a c o n s ta n t re fe re n c e
a n d g u id e b o o k . Q u e s tio n s th a t a rise in y o u r m in d re g a rd in g
m a n y m y stic a l a n d o ccu lt su b je c ts a re a n sw e re d in th is v o lu m e.
F o r m a n y c e n tu rie s th e stra n g e , m y ste rio u s re c o rd s o f th e
R o s ic ru c la n s w e re clo sed a g a in s t a n y e y e s b u t th e h ig h in itiate* .
E v e n e d ito rs o f g re a t e n c y c lo p e d ia s w e re u n a b le to se c u re th e
w eird , fa sc in a tin g fa c ts of th e R o sic ru c ia n a c tiv itie s In all p a rts
of th e w o rld . N o w th e w h o le sto ry Is o u tlin e d a n d it re a d s like
a s to ry from th e la n d o f th e " A r a b ia n N ig h ts .”
T h e b o o k a lso o u tlin e s a n sw e rs to h u n d re d s o f q u e stio n s
d e a lin g w ith th e h isto ry , w o rk , te a c h in g s, b en efits, a n d p u rp o se s
of th e R o sic ru c ia n fra te rn ity . It is p rin te d o n fine p a p e r, b o u n d
in silk clo th , a n d sta m p e d in g o ld . P ric e , p o sta g e p re p a id , $2.50.
V o lu m e II.
Rosicrucian Principles for the
Home and Business
V
T
H I S v o lu m e c o n ta in s su c h p rin c ip le s o f p ra c tic a l R o s ic ru ­
c ia n te a c h in g s a s a re a p p lic a b le to th e so lu tio n o f th e
e v e ry -d a y p ro b le m s o f life in b u sin e ss a n d in th e a ffa irs of th e
h o m e. I t d e a ls e x h a u s tiv e ly w ith th e p re v e n tio n of ill h e a lth ,
th e c u rin g of m a n y o f th e co m m o n ailm e n ts, a n d th e a tta in ­
m en t o f p e a c e a n d h a p p in e s s a s w ell a s th e b u ild in g u p o f th e
[ 270 ]
a ffa irs o f life th a t d e a l w ith fin an cial c o n d itio n s. T h e b o o k Is
filled w ith h u n d re d s o f p ra c tic a l p o in ts d e a lin g e sp e c ia lly w ith
th e p ro b le m s of th e a v e ra g e b u sin e ss m a n o r p e rso n In b u sin e ss
em p lo y . It p o in ts o u t th e w ro n g a n d rig h t w a y fo r th e u se of
m e ta p h y sic a l a n d m y stic a l p rin c ip le s In a ttra c tin g b u sin ess,
in c re a sin g o n e 's incom e, p ro m o tin g b u sin e ss p ro p o sitio n s, s ta r t­
ing a n d b rin g in g in to re a liz a tio n n e w p la n s a n d id e a s, a n d th e
a tta in m e n t o f th e h ig h e st am b itio n s in life.
" R o sic ru c ia n P rin c ip le s fo r th e H o m e a n d B u sin e ss" is n o t
th e o re tic a l b u t s tric tly p ra c tic a l, a n d is In Its th ird ed itio n ,
h a v in g h a d a w id e c irc u la tio n a n d u n iv e rsa l e n d o rse m e n t n o t
o n ly a m o n g m em b ers o f th e o rg a n iz a tio n , w h o h a v e v o lu n ta rily
s ta te d th a t th e y h a v e g re a tly im p ro v e d th e ir liv e s th ro u g h th e
a p p lic a tio n o f its su g g e stio n s, b u t a m o n g th o u sa n d s of p e rso n s
o u tsid e of th e o rg a n iz a tio n . It h a s also b e e n e n d o rse d b y b u si­
n ess o rg a n iz a tio n s a n d b u sin e ss a u th o ritie s.
T h e b o o k is o f s ta n d a rd size, w ell p rin te d , b o u n d in silk
clo th , a n d sta m p e d in g o ld . P ric e , p o sta g e p re p a id , $2.25.
V olume III,
Mystical Life of Jesus
V
T
H IS is th e b o o k th a t th o u sa n d s h a v e b een w a itin g fo r— th e
re a l Jesu s re v e a le d a t last! It h a s b een in p re p a ra tio n fo r
a n u m b e r o f y e a rs a n d re q u ire d a v isit to P a le s tin e a n d E g y p t
to se c u re a v e rific a tio n o f th e s tra n g e fa c ts c o n ta in e d in th e
a n c ie n t R o sic ru c ia n a n d E sse n e R e co rd s.
I t is a full a c c o u n t o f th e b irth , y o u th , e a rly m an h o o d , an d
la te r p e rio d s of Je su s' life, c o n ta in in g th e s to r y o f H is a c tiv itie s
in th e tim es n o t m en tio n ed in th e G o sp el a c c o u n ts. T h e facts
re la tin g to th e Im m a cu late c o n c e p tio n , th e b irth , cru cifix io n ,
re su rre c tio n , a n d a sc e n sio n w ill a s to u n d a n d in sp ire y o u . T h e
b o o k c o n ta in s m a n y m y stic sy m b o ls, fu lly e x p la in e d , o rig in a l
p h o to g ra p h s, a n d a n e w p o rtra it of Jesu s.
T h e re a re o v e r th re e h u n d re d p a g e s w ith se v e n te e n la rg e
c h a p te rs, b e a u tifu lly p rin te d , b o u n d in p u rp le silk a n d sta m p e d
in gold.
H e re is a b o o k th a t w ill in sp ire, in stru c t, a n d g u id e e v e ry
stu d e n t of m y sticism a n d re lig io n . It w ill b e th e m o st ta lk e d -
a b o u t b o o k of th e y e a r. R e a d it a n d be p re p a re d fo r th e d is­
c u ssio n s o f it th a t y o u w ill h e a r a m o n g m en a n d w o m en of
le a rn in g .
S e n t b v m all, p o stp a id , fo r $2.90.
[ 2 7 1 ]
V o l u m e V .
“Unto Thee I G ra n t.
V
91
'H IS is o n e of th e ra re st, O rie n ta l, m y ste ry b o o k s k n o w n .
X It is tr a n s la te d b y sp e c ia l p erm issio n o f th e G ra n d L a m a an d
D isc ip le s of th e S a c re d C o lleg e in th e G ra n d T e m p le in T ib e t.
H e re Is a b o o k th a t w a s w ritte n tw o th o u sa n d y e a r s ag o .
a n d w a s h id d en in m a n u sc rip t fo rm fro m th e e y e s of th e w o rld
a n d g iv e n o n ly to th e in itia te s o f th e tem p les in T ib e t to
stu d y p riv a te ly .
O u t o f th e m y ste ry of th e p a s t co m es th is a n tiq u e b o o k c o n ­
ta in in g th e ra re s t w ritin g s a n d te a c h in g s k n o w n to m a n w ith
th e e x c e p tio n of th e B ible. H u n d re d s o f b o o k s h a v e b een
w ritte n a b o u t th e te a c h in g s a n d p ra c tic e s o f th e M a ste r s o f th e
P a r E a s t a n d th e A d e p ts of T ib e t, b u t n o n e o f th em h a s ev e r
c o n ta in e d th e se cre t te a c h in g s fo u n d in th is b o o k . T h is b o o k is
d iv id e d in to m a n y p a rts, e a c h p a rt c o n ta in in g a la rg e n u m b er
o f se c tio n s o r d iv isio n s a n d c h a p te rs.
T h e b o o k d e a ls w ith m a n 's p a ssio n s, lo v es, d esires, w e a k ­
n esses, sins, stre n g th s , fo rtitu d e s, am b itio n s, a n d h o p es. A ll a re
tre a te d in d e ta il w ith illu m in a tin g sim p lic ity . T h e b o o k is b e a u ­
tifu lly p rin te d a n d b o u n d in lea th erette , a n d c o n ta in s a lso th e
s tra n g e m y stic sto ry o f th e e x p e d itio n in to T ib e t to se c u re th is
m a rv e lo u s m a n u sc rip t.
P ric e , p e r c o p y , p o sta g e p re p a id , o n ly $1.50.
H
E R E is a b o o k th a t w ill tell y o u m o re a b o u t th e re a l
fa c ts o f re in ca rn a tio n th a n a n y th in g th a t w a s e v e r w ritte n .
I t is a s to ry o f th e so u l, a n d e x p la in s in d e ta il h o w th e soul
e n te rs th e b o d y a n d h o w it le a v e s, w h e re it g o e s to a n d w h e n
it co m es b a c k to e a rth a g a in , a n d w h y .
T h e sto ry is n o t ju st a p iece o f fiction, b u t a re v e la tio n o f th e
V o l u m e VI.
A Thousand Tears of Yesterdays
V
m y s tic la w s a n d p rin c ip le s k n o w n to th e M a s te rs o f th e F a r
[ 27 2 1
East and the Orient for many centuries, and never put into
book form as a story before this book was printed. T hat is
why the book has been translated into so many foreign languages
and endorsed by the mystics and adepts of India, Persia.
Egypt, and Tibet.
F a sc in a tin g — A llu r in g — In stru c tiv e
Each who has read the book says that he was unable to
leave it without finishing it at one sitting. The story reveals
the mystic principles taught by the Rosicrucians in regard to
reincarnation as well as the spiritual laws of the soul and the
incarnations of the soul.
It is well printed, neatly bound, and worthy of a place in
anyone's library.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only 85 cents.
V o l u m e VII.
Self Mastery and Fate with the
Cycles of Life
V
T h is b o o k is e n tire ly d ifferen t fro m an y ev er issued in A m erica
d ealin g w ith th e secret p erio d s in th e life o f each m an an d w om an
w h erein th e C osm ic forces affect o u r d aily affairs.
T h e b o o k reveals how w e m ay tak e a d v an tag e o f certain
p erio d s to b rin g success, h ap p in ess, h e a lth a n d p ro sp e rity in to o u r
lives, a n d it likew ise p o in ts o u t th o se p erio d s w h ich are n o t fa v o r­
ab le fo r m any o f th e th in g s w e try to accom plish. I t does n o t deal
w ith a stro lo g y o r a n y system o f fo rtu n e tellin g , b u t p resen ts a
system lo n g used b y th e M a ste r M y stics in O rie n ta l lan d s an d
w h ich is stric tly scientific a n d d em o n strab le. O n e re a d in g o f
th e b o o k w ith its ch arts a n d tab les will en ab le th e re a d e r to see
th e co u rse o f his life at a g lance. I t h elp s ev ery o n e to elim i­
n a te “ c h a n c e " an d " lu c k ," to cast aside “ fa te " a n d rep lace these
w ith S elf M astery .
H e re is a book y o u w ill use w eek ly to g u id e y o u r affairs
th ro u g h o u t th e years. T h e re is n o m agic in its system , b u t it
o p en s a vista o f th e cycle o f th e life o f each b ein g in a rem ark ­
able m an n er.
W e ll p rin te d , b o u n d in silk c lo th , an d sta m p e d in gold to
m atch o th e r volum es o f th e R o sicru cian L ib rary . P ric e, postage
p aid , $ 2 .5 0 .
[ 2 7 J ]
V o l u m e VIII.
Rosicrucian Manual
V
T
H IS p ra c tic a l b o o k c o n ta in s n o t o n ly e x tra c ts fro m the
C o n s titu tio n of th e O r d e r o f R o sic ru c ia n s, b u t a co m p lete
o u tlin e a n d e x p la n a tio n o f all of th e c u sto m s, h a b its, an d
te rm in o lo g y of the R o sic ru c ia n s. w ith d ia g ra m s a n d e x p la n a tio n s
of th e sy m b o ls u se d in th e te a c h in g s, a n o u tlin e o f th e su b je c ts
ta u g h t, a d ic tio n a ry o f th e term s, a co m p lete p re se n ta tio n of
th e p rin c ip le s of C o sm ic C o n sc io u sn e ss, a n d b io g ra p h ic a l
sk e tc h e s of im p o rta n t c h a ra c te rs c o n n e c te d w ith th e w o rk . T h e re
a re a ls o sp e cial a rtic le s o n th e G r e a t W h ite L o d g e a n d its
ex iste n c e , h o w to a tta in p sy c h ic illu m in a tio n , th e R o sic ru c ia n
C o d e o f L ife w ith th irty la w s a n d re g u la tio n s, a n d a n u m b e r of
p o rtra its of p ro m in e n t m y stic s in c lu d in g M a s te r K . H ., th e
Illu strio u s.
The technical matter contained in the text and in the hundred
or more diagrams makes this book a real encyclopedia of
Rosicrucian explanations, aside from the complete dictionary it
contains.
T h e " R o sic ru c ia n M a n u a l" is o f la rg e size, w ell p rin te d ,
b e a u tifu lly b o u n d in re d silk clo th , a n d sta m p e d in g o ld . T h e
fo u rth e d itio n h a s b een e n la rg e d a n d im p ro v e d in m a n y w a y s .
P ric e, p o sta g e p re p a id , $2.30.
V o l u m e IX.
Mysties at Prayer
V
T
H E first co m p lete c o m p ila tio n o f th e fa m o u s p r a y e r s o f th e
re n o w n e d m y stic s a n d a d e p ts of all ag e s. B y M A N Y
C IH L A R , F . R .C ., A u stria n P h ilo so p h e r a n d M y s tic .
T h e b o o k " M y s tic s a t P r a y e r " e x p la in s in sim p le la n g u a g e
th e re a so n o f p ra y e r , h o w to p r a y , a n d th e C o sm ic la w s in ­
v o lv e d . Y o u co m e to le a rn th e re a l e ffic a c y o f p r a y e r a n d its
full b e a u ty d a w n s u p o n y o u . W h a te v e r y o u r re lig io u s beliefs,
[ 274 ]
this book makes your prayers the application not of words,
but of helpful, divine principles. You will learn the infinite
power of prayer. Prayer is man's rightful heritage. It is the
direct means of man's communion with the infinite force of
divinity.
"Mystics at Prayer" is well bound, embossed in gold, printed
on art paper in two colors, with deckled edge and tipped pages,
sent anywhere, postpaid $1.00
V o l u m e XI.
Mansions of the Soul
V
R
E IN C A R N A T IO N ! T h e w o rld 's g reatest d isp u te d d o ctrin e.
T h e belief in re in c a rn a tio n h as h ad m illions o f in tellig e n t,
learn ed , a n d to le ra n t fo llo w ers th ro u g h o u t th e ages. R in g in g
th ro u g h th e m in d s a n d h earts o f stu d e n ts, m ystics, a n d th in k e rs
h av e alw ays b een th e w o rd s: " W h y A re W e H e re ? " R e in c a r­
n a tio n h as been criticized b y som e as co n flictin g w ith sacred
lite ra tu re an d w ith o u t v erificatio n . T h is b o o k reveals, h ow ever,
in an asto u n d in g m a n n e r th e m an y facts to su p p o rt re in c a rn a tio n .
Q u o ta tio n s fro m e m in e n t au th o ritie s, fro m B iblical a n d S acred
w orks su b sta n tia te re in c a rn a tio n . T h is v o lu m e P R O V E S re in ­
c a rn a tio n . It places it high above m ere sp e cu latio n . T h is book is
w ith o u t ex ag g eratio n th e m ost co m p lete, in sp irin g , en lig h te n in g
book ev er w ritte n on th is su b je ct. I t is n o t a fiction sto ry b u t a
step b y ste p rev elatio n o f p ro fo u n d m ystical law s. Look at som e
o f th ese fa scin atin g , in trig u in g su b je cts:
T h e C o sm ic C o n c ep tio n ; T h e P e rso n a lity o f th e Soul; D oes
P erso n a lity S u rv iv e T r a n s itio n ? H e re d ity a n d Inheritance; K arm a
an d P ersonal E vo lu tio n : R elig io n a n d B ibical V ie w -p o in ts;
C h ristia n R eferen ces; B etw een Inca rn a tio n s: S o u ls o f A n im a ls an d
th e " U n b o r n ", R eco llectio n s o f th e P ast.
T h e book c o n tain s o v e r th re e h u n d re d pages, b eau tifu lly
p rin te d , n e a tly b o u n d , sta m p e d in gold, it is a v alu ab le asset to
y o u r lib ra ry , eco n o m ically p riced . P ric e p e r copy, p o stag e p re ­
p aid , o n ly $2 .5 0 .
[ 275 ]
H O W TO ORDER BOOKS
V V V
If y o u r re g u la r book d ealer does n o t h av e th ese b o oks in stock,
a n d y o u do n o t care to w a it u n til he secures th e m fo r y o u , yo u
m ay save tim e b y se n d in g y o u r o rd e r d irect, w ith rem itta n c e o r
C. O . D ., p o stag e p re p a id by us.
A m o r c S u p p l y B u r e a u
R O S IC R U C IA N P A R K - S A N JO S E C A L IF O R N IA
