{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__synder___hypnotic_poetry.pdf","mytitle":"Hypnotic Poetry","mylang":"de"}
H Y P N O T I C POETRY
A Study of Trance-Inducing Technique
in Certain Poems and its
Literary Significance
By
EDWARD IX SNYDER
Associate Professor of English
Haverford College
With a Foreword by
JAMES H. LEUBA
Professor of Psychology
Bryn Mawr College
I93°
Philadelphia
U N IV ERSITY OF PEN N SYLV A N IA PRESS
COPYRIGHT I93O
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA PRESS
London: Humphrey Milford
Oxford University Press
P R I N T E D I N T H E U N I T E D S T A T E S O F A M E R I C A
B Y T H E V A I L ' B A L L O U P R E S S , I N C . , B I N G H A M T O N , N. Y .
1
1
PREFACE
* I *HE first four chapters of this volume propose and sup­
port a certain idea about poetry, while the remaining
chapters make practical applications of the idea to indi­
vidual poems and to topics of a more general nature. I
hope that people who read poetry for the sheer love of
it, as well as those who are teachers and professional critics,
will welcome this study of the trance-inducing effect that
a few poems seem to exert on the reader, and will share
my interest in extending the study to poems that are less
obviously hypnotic.
Since Mr. Leuba has suggested in his Foreword both the
nature of this study and its possible significance, I need
not do so. Instead, I take this opportunity of thanking him
for his kindness in reading the manuscript and in making
many valuable suggestions. I should be ungenerous if I
did not warn readers that, should they rely on the fact that
so distinguished a psychologist as Mr. Leuba has, so to
speak, guaranteed the soundness of the principal psycho­
logical views here set forth, they must not hold him re­
sponsible for such errors as may have crept in despite his
warning. I must also thank all others whose interest in
hypnotic poetry, or whose friendship, has enabled me to
benefit by their helpful criticism—particularly Mr. Elias
vii
Vili
Lyman of Northwestern University, Mr. Christopher
Morley, Mr. L. Arnold Post of Haverford College, Mr.
Arthur B. Perry of Milton Academy, and my sister, Miss
Alice D. Snyder of Vassar College. Permission to quote
various passages of prose and verse has been given through
the courtesy of several publishers, to whom my indebted­
ness is acknowledged in notes to the passages quoted.
E dward D. Snyder.
Haverford College,
September 22, 1930.
PREFACE
I
SPELLWEAVING
POEMS__________________________
I
s u p p o s e almost every lover of poetry has been impressed
by the ease with which a good reader is occasionally
able to put a roomful of people under a sort of spell by
reading certain poems. It is a spell not merely of silent
attention but of intense emotional sympathy with the poet
and the poem in question. As likely as not the listeners
have no texts with which to follow the reading; some of
them may even be sitting with eyes half shut. To many
poems they are cold and indifferent, but unexpectedly
they yield themselves to some one poem with an emotional
abandon that leaves them in complete agreement with
what the poet has said, and their mood in perfect harmony
with that of the poem.
On a little consideration this fact becomes the more
striking because these spellweaving poems often contain
phrases, lines, and even long sentences that are not under­
stood by the people who respond to them so completely.
An audience may be put under such a spell, for instance,
by the reading of To Be or Not to Be; and later it will
develop on inquiry that few, if any, of them have a
clear notion of “taking arms against a sea of troubles” or
of “fardels” or of “the native hue of resolution” or of “the
pale cast of thought.” Intellectually, these spellbound peo-
X
2 HYPNOTIC POETRY
pie seem to be dazed. Many of them have no exact idea
why Hamlet shrank from suicide, and some few do not
even know that he shrank from it; but every one of them is
likely to recall with absolute exactness the phrase, “the un­
discovered country from whose bourn no traveller re­
turns.”
It is also of interest that the person doing the reading
is not always immune to the spell. If he enjoys the sound
of his own voice, as most poetry-readers do, there are likely
to be occasional moments when his eyes grow dim with
tears, and other moments when he feels a suggestion of
the ecstasy that betokens the sublime. And perhaps he
has encountered the sublime. But oftentimes he realizes
with becoming sheepishness, after the experience is over,
that the passage by which he has been thus moved falls
far short of the usual academic standards of poetic excel­
lence. Perhaps he has even been reading Tennyson or
Longfellow or one of the other poets in whom the younger
generation of critics find no virtue whatever! Here of
course is a paradox: theory and fact do not agree. The
theory is that such a poem is of no literary or artistic in­
terest. The fact is that its obvious power to rouse the emo­
tions suggests a concealed artistry which may be of the
greatest interest.
Let us put aside for the moment the question as to
whether these poems should be recognized as “great” or
even as “good,” and turn our attention to distinguishing
them from another group, which do not, under ordinary
circumstances, exert such a spellweaving power. In doing
SPELLWEAVING POEMS 3
this, it will, accordingly, be of no interest for the mo­
ment whether Longfellow’s Ship of State is a better
poem or a worse poem than Lowell’s Commemoration
Ode. It will, however, be important to note that when the
Ship of State was recited in Faneuil Hall before an audi­
ence of three thousand people, it gave them an emotional
experience which, even after we have made due allowance
for the patriotic fervor of the day, has seldom been equaled;
but that when Lowell recited his Commemoration Ode
under equally favorable conditions, the audience was not
moved to any considerable pitch of emotion. It will like­
wise be significant that when, at the meetings of the literati,
Poe used to turn down the lights and recite his Raven, his
audience felt an ecstatic thrill which they could never
forget. If the word “spellweaving” fits one type, perhaps
for the purposes of this study the word “intellectualist”
may be used for the other.
Thus we may distinguish one clearly spellweaving poem
of Browning’s, hove Among the Ruins, from another of
the contrasting intellectualist type, which he wrote more
frequently—say My Last Duchess. My meaning may be
clearer if I suggest that one of the simplest tests of the
“ spell” to which I refer is the test of interruption. If one
interrupts the reading of one of these spellweaving poems,
¿he emotional continuity of the listeners’ experience is
broken in a way that is for the time being irreparable; even
if one interrupts to explain or comment favorably on the
passage concerned, there is a distinct sense that something
has snapped. On the other hand if one interrupts the read-
4 HYPNOTIC POETRY
ing of an intellectualist poem, the intellectual continuity is
broken, to be sure, but the break is of little importance;
one can stop, discuss, interpret, and then pick up the thread
again with no special feeling of loss. Browning’s Love
Among the Ruins, for example, will suffer tremendously
in its effectiveness if thus interrupted. My Last Duchess, on
the other hand, loses little and may gain a good deal if the
interruption is pertinent; it is evident that whatever emo­
tion may be aroused at the climax of My Last Duchess is
largely the result of little increments of intellectual stimu­
lus. But the “spell” with which I am concerned is some­
thing more nearly akin to what listeners experience when
a piece of music is played with especial effectiveness. If a
poem under consideration retains virtually its full effec­
tiveness in spite of interruption, it is presumably outside the
class of what I call “spellweaving poems.”
Now, if one is sufficiently fond of poetry to keep a men­
tal or written record of the effect which he himself has
been able to produce by reading various poems, he will
have material available which may be of value in getting
at certain little-recognized psychological facts about po­
etry; and it is with a simple classification on this basis of
effect produced that I wish to begin this study. I am aware
that, in formulating any theory of poetry, one must always
guard against the danger of inventing facts to support one’s
theory; it is a strong and in some cases irresistible tempta­
tion, but in the present instance my conscience is clear
on that score, for I encountered the facts first and am
merely seeking a theory to explain them.
If we attempt to classify poems psychologically accord­
ing to the amount of the spellweaving power which they
possess, it soon appears that we have a small group at one
extreme which are patently spellweaving, and another
small group at the opposite extreme almost purely intellec-
tualist. Between them, of course, we have a mixed group,
by far the largest, of which we need not speak until a later
chapter.
SPELLWEAVING POEMS 5
SPELL- MIXED IN T ELLEC -
W EA V IN G T U A LIST
The poems at the extreme left in the diagram are dreamily
persuasive; they arouse the listeners’ emotions through no
obvious process of thinking. Those at the extreme right
rouse the emotions, if at all, largely in response to careful
study and mental alertness.
It is with some hesitation that I give the titles of spe­
cific poems which I have found to be spellweaving in this
way, because there are at least three variable factors which
make a rigid classification impossible. The first of these
is of course the varying ability of different readers. One
man has a rich sonorous tone, a leisurely manner, and per­
haps a dignified bearing, that enable him to do full jus­
tice to Gray’s Elegy, while another, though excellently
equipped for dramatic reading, will invariably fail at
anything of the “graveyard school.” Similarly one reader
will manage always to make Keats’s La Belle Dame Sans
6 HYPNOTIC POETRY
Merci carry, while another, just missing the trick of hold­
ing the monosyllables in the last line of each stanza, w ill
do the poem scant justice. Yet this first difficulty is not
insuperable; at least a person can listen to his own reading
day after day and year after year, until he is prepared to
say that such and such poems, as he reads them, are the
ones most likely to produce the peculiar response to which
I have referred.
A second variable which makes rigid classification diffi­
cult is the relative sophistication of different audiences.
Particularly where an audience is so well read that it
knows both the poem under consideration and various par­
odies of it, as must often be the case with Poe’s Raven or
The Bells, it is obviously impossible to get the same reac­
tion that one would get in reading to a less mature group
to whom the poem was new. Longfellow’s Wrec\ of the
Hesperus may be tiresome to one group but thrilling to
another. Again, some listeners with no musical background
may hear Shelley’s Indian Serenade merely as a poem;
others may instinctively associate it with a tune to which
they have heard it sung, which will modify their psycho­
logical reaction to hearing it read; while still others may
find their minds distracted from the poem proper by the
question as to which of the two tunes that they know is
better suited to it. Such conditions sometimes introduce
perplexing variable quantities into the equation. Yet here
again if the reader happens to be a teacher, or a public
lecturer appearing continually before people of about the
same level of intelligence, he will find himself gradually
SPELLWEAVING POEMS 7
getting interesting facts which enable him to foretell, often
with almost scientific exactness, what effect a poem will
produce.
Finally, there is the variable of the mood in which the
audience is gathered. For instance, if people have come
together in an hour of national crisis, any patriotic poem
is apt to take on a special spellweaving quality; if the gath­
ering is a funeral, a religious poem automatically gains
force in proportion as it gives comfort and promise of im­
mortality. In general, where an audience is already expe­
riencing a strong emotion before the reading begins, the
effect of a poem which further stimulates that emotion
must certainly be discounted. But here again in the college
classroom, where similar groups of students gather day
after day under similar conditions of more or less volun­
tary attendance, stimulated perhaps by occasional pressure
from the office of the dean, we find at least one convenient
place where “average conditions” may be said to obtain.
At least the professor will not have to make so great al­
lowances for the varying moods of his listeners as does
the occasional reader.
With such cautions and reservations as I have indicated
in the three preceding paragraphs, I now venture to give
a few representative titles of familiar poems which my own
experience suggests belong to the contrasting “spellweav­
ing” and “intellectualist” groups respectively. To facilitate
the reader’s understanding of the inherent contrast between
the two types, I have limited my lists to the best-known
examples of each.
HYPNOTIC POETRY
SOME WELL-KNOWN SPELLWEAV­
ING POEMS
Browning
Love Among the Ruins
8
Burns
Auld Lang Syne
John Anderson, My Jo
Byron
The Isles of Greece
Coleridge
jKubla Khan
Much of The Ancient
Mariner
Fitzgerald
Many long passages from
The Rubaiyat
Gray
The Elegy
Keats
La Belle Dame Sans Merci
Most of The Eve of St.
Agnes
Kipling
The Long Trail
Longfellow
Many long passages from
Evangeline
SOME WELL-KNOWN INTELLEC-
TUALIST POEMS
Browning
Representative poems such
as Cristina
My Last Duchess
Andrea del Sarto
The Glove
Mrs. Browning
Sonnetsfrom thePortuguese
Byron
English Bards and Scotch
Reviewers. Many satiric
passages from Don Juan
Coleridge
France: An Ode
Kipling
An Imperial Rescript
SPELLWEAVING POEMS 9
Masefield
Sea-Fever
Poe
Annabel Lee
To One in Paradise
Seeger
1 Have a Rendezvous with
Death
Shelley
Indian Serenade
Other representative lyrics
such as My Soul is an En­
chanted Boat
Swinburne
Hymn to Proserpine, and
many others
Tennyson
Brea\} Brea\, Brea\
Crossing the Bar, and many
representative lyrics
such as T he Bugle Song
Whitman
0 Captain! My Captain!
Wordsworth
(See page 84.)
Masefield
Dauber
Pope
Epistle to D r. Arbutknot
The Rape of the Loc\
Epilogue to the Satires
Shelley
Ozymandias
Swinburne
Cor Cordium
Tennyson
Northern Farmer (Old
Style)
The Higher Pantheism
Whitman
When l Heard the Learn d
Astronomer
A Noiseless Patient Spider
Wordsworth
The Tables Turned
The World is Too Much
with Us
10 HYPNOTIC POETRY
To isolate some of these markedly spellweaving poems
and study them intensively, is an occupation that will
assuredly be pleasant and perhaps be profitable. Their very
popularity with millions of readers in different countries
over a considerable period of time suggests a hidden some­
thing that has thus far eluded criticism. And the fact that
many of them have been openly decried of late by certain
contemporary critics seems to me rather to challenge than
to discourage a closer investigation, for even so opinion­
ated a man as Dr. Johnson recognized that “by the com­
mon sense of readers uncorrupted with literary prejudices,
after all the refinements of subtility and the dogmatism of
learning, must be finally decided all claim to poetical hon­
ors.” In conclusion I would only suggest here a theme to be
treated in a later chapter: if the psychologists are right in
telling us that human conduct is conditioned less by intel­
lect than has been supposed, and more by emotion, then the
student of literature who should focus his attention chiefly
on intellectualist poetry would be likely to find himself
sadly out of date.
II
AN ILLUMINATING
HYPOTHESIS____________________
R
e v e r t in g to the two contrasting lists of poems on
page 8, we see that they present a peculiar critical
puzzle for our solution. Here are two groups of poems;
all the poems are popular; nearly all of them have stood
the test of time; yet, though we can understand in most
essentials the technique by which the intellectualist poems
achieve their results, we are baffled by the technique of the
spellweaving poems. We are, in fact, so seriously baffled
that many critics refuse a place of honor to poems like
Evangeline which have endeared themselves to hosts of
readers. The puzzle is, first of all, to find out how the spell
is woven.
It is a puzzle of which the solution has not even been
attempted by most lovers of poetry, because they are so
used to classifying and studying poems conventially by
types that they give little thought to the desirability of
classifying and studying them according to psychological
characteristics. Such psychological classification is, how­
ever, desirable and even inevitable.
Critics praise, as a rule, the art they understand. We
are all critics to some extent, and few will question the
statement that our praise is more whole-hearted, and cer­
tainly more illuminating, in those fields of art where we
n
12 HYPNOTIC POETRY
know what constitutes good technique. Speaking by and
large, most of us do understand the technique of an intel-
lectualist poem. We pick it to pieces, examine it phrase by
phrase, even word by word; we note the ideas, transitions,
and the general structure; we isolate the striking pictorial
passages and note their individual value and their respec­
tive appropriateness; we pass critical judgment on the
versification and many other details of workmanship. In
a word, we analyze it from a dozen different standpoints
and measure its excellence by as many critical standards.
In the main our criticism of an intellectualist poem is just
and reasonable.
But for the spellweaving poems listed on page 8 we
have no such ready norms. There is something queer about
them. Some people express their admiration, but cannot
justify it; hence they express it with shamefaced timidity;
others simply condemn the art they cannot comprehend.
Here, then, is the challenge to our intelligence—what gives
these spellweaving poems their power ? Shall we yield to
the luxurious enjoyment of their dreamy emotionalism,
thrill with the ecstasy of their compelling magic, and then
say “This is not art” ? Shall we, taking refuge in a con­
venient subterfuge of ignorance, call their art mere “felicity
of diction” ? Or shall we accept the challenge? With the
material at hand which psychology has now put at our
disposal, I for one have not been able to refuse the chal­
lenge.
I am not greatly attracted by the study of general aesthet­
ics, nor do I look with much hope of profit toward the
AN ILLUMINATING HYPOTHESIS *3
general controversies over “What is poetry?” which have
been carried on since the dawn of history. But if some
striking, isolable phenomenon about a certain group of
poems keeps forcing itself on my attention, I take an in­
terest not altogether unique, I trust, in trying to under­
stand it.
As I turned over in my mind throughout a period of
years the amazing effectiveness of such spellweaving poems
as I have already mentioned by title, I sought here, there,
and everywhere for something which would account for
the phenomenon. Specifically, I sought for some funda­
mental characteristic common to all of these poems which
would explain their peculiar power, but which was not
to be found in the intellectualist poems which I have men­
tioned by title in another group.
“Good or bad,” I kept asking, “what is the art responsible
for the carrying power of these poems?” When there is
not one iota of proof or argument stated or suggested in
Crossing the Bar, why do certain listeners get from it the
overwhelming conviction of immortality? What magic
spell is woven by Browning in hove Among the Ruins,
so that the phrase “Love is best” becomes indelibly im­
printed on the listeners’ minds? One can “understand”
many of Browning’s poems—what is the art that makes
us blindly “feel” this one ? Casually at first, then more sys­
tematically, I kept seeking the trick, the quality, or the
combination of qualities, common to all the poems that are
spellweaving but not characteristic of those that are in­
tellectualist.
HYPNOTIC POETRY
After trying various explanations, so unsound and so un­
important that I need not bring them before the attention
of the reader, I repeatedly tried the theory that these poems
gain their spellweaving power because of the perfection of
their versification; and here, it seemed to me, I was nearer
the truth than in any of the other conjectures. It developed
that every poem of this sort is characterized by an excellent
versification, and so far the explanation was satisfactory.
But the flaw in the theory appears as soon as it is applied
negatively to the poems of the contrasting group. Im­
mediately we realize that Pope’s Essay on Criticism is one
of the most perfectly versified pieces in the English lan­
guage, and that it has, roughly speaking, no emotional
effect. The same may be said of The Rape of the Loc\. This
leads us at once to suspect that the theory is inadequate.
Now, going on to those narrative poems in The Canter­
bury Tales, the versification of which has aroused the praise
of critic after critic, poetry-lover after poetry-lover, ever
since the re-discovery of Chaucer, we realize that perfec­
tion of versification is also a frequent characteristic of the
intellectualist poems.
Up to a certain point in my researches, the net result of
this prolonged effort to find an essential characteristic
which was common to the spellweaving poems but which
did not appear in any considerable number of the other
group was this: nothing seemed very satisfactory; but the
characteristic of extremely good versification might be a
partial cause of the spellweaving effect. This alone was not
enough to account for the phenomena observed, but if an
x4
AN ILLUMINATING HYPOTHESIS J5
adequate explanation should be found this element would
probably constitute part of it.
Further light subsequently came from a study of Poe.
It happened that I carried on this preliminary clearing of
the ground, which I have been able to review in a few
paragraphs, over a period of several years, during which
I had occasion to concentrate my attention from time to
time on Poe’s poetry, which is singularly spellweaving,
and on his theories of poetry. Poe’s amateurish interest in
hypnotism (mesmerism) was keen enough to make me
sometimes wonder just how he would restate his theories
of poetry were he living today possessed of all the accurate
information about hypnotism which science has put at
our disposal. Would he not find a parallel or even an
identity between his own dreamily spellweaving sort of
poetry and the art of the hypnotist? Would not Poe, were
he living today, recognize that the “rhythmical creation
of beauty” by which the poet approaches “supernal beauty”
is sometimes, in reality, the skillful combination of
rhythms and other psychological stimuli which produce
the state of light trance so often experienced by the patient
in the hypnotic clinic and by the religious mystic in his
solitary chamber? Such questions, unanswered, drew me
eventually into considering the possible soundness of such
a theory, regardless of whether Poe would have held it or
not. Perhaps these spellweaving poems are actually and
literally hypnotic.
From such considerations as I have tried to indicate in
this chapter I was naturally led to form a theory, or a work-
i6 HYPNOTIC POETRY
ing hypothesis, which may be stated first conservatively
and then more vigorously. Conservatively: If poetry-lovers
in general and critics in particular would pay more atten­
tion to the possible connection between poetry and hypno­
tism, we might enjoy some of our poetry more and have
sounder criticism of it. More vigorously: Certain poems
gain their emotional appeal by putting the listeners into
a hypnoidal state or some state of trance akin to the
hypnoidal, and since the harmonious pattern of sound con­
tributes greatly toward producing this state, it follows,
I. That an opinion from a strictly silent reader 1 on the
value of such poems cannot be given serious consideration;
II. That whatever criticism such poems are subjected to
should be radically different from that to which intellec-
tualist poems are subjected; and III. That any compre­
hensive theory of poetics which fails to take into account
the foregoing considerations should be modified accord­
ingly.
Such a theory would of course amply explain the baffling
technique of the spellweaving poems—if it should prove
to be sound. It would show that the listeners’ powerful
emotional response to the poem is not a normal result of
intellectual stimuli, but rather is an unusual psychological
state induced by a very special technique. If this sugges­
tion contributes anything towards the solution of the
puzzle, it solves it completely. The answer would be: not
beautiful rhythm alone, but a certain kind of rhythm
1 For a fuller statement of what is meant by a “ strictly silent reader,” see
pages 131 if.
AN ILLUMINATING HYPOTHESIS *7
combined with other stimuli to put the listeners into a
light state of trance—a waking trance in which aesthetic
enjoyment is heightened until it may even reach ecstasy.
Should such a theory be established, no matter with
how many reservations, its critical implications would be
far-reaching. It would give fresh emphasis to the im­
portance of reading aloud the poems admittedly hypnotic.
It would establish the futility of dissecting such poems for
the application of ordinary critical tests of excellence; and
conversely it would enable us to apply the usual critical
tests to non-hypnotic poems with more confidence. It
would enable us—even require us—to make of certain
parts of the poetic field a psychological survey not yet at­
tempted. It would give us a new vantage ground from
which to review the historical development and decline
of the free-verse movement. It would undoubtedly throw
some new rays of light on the perplexed matter of “poetic
inspiration.” Above all, its judicious application to poems
which are neither purely hypnotic nor purely intellectualist,
but mixed, would help solve problems relating to individ­
ual poems where critical opinion is now in sad disagree­
ment. It would not be a panacea for all the ills from which
criticism of poetry now suffers, but it would provide an
excellent psychological classification of poems, on the
basis of which sounder criticism would be inevitable.
The fact that most standard treatises on poetry do not
set forth this theory, or even hazard it as a conjecture, is
an objection more apparent than real. If the world has
been interested in poetic theory for well over two thou-
i8 HYPNOTIC POETRY
sand years, it may seem inherently improbable that a
specific theory not mentioned in famous treatments of
the subject should have any importance. But such is not
the case. First, such a theory lies outside the scope of those
studies which concern the general principles of what all
poems have in common, for even in the most unguarded
moment no one will suppose that all poems, or even all
good poems, have a trance-inducing effect. Second, such a
theory could not have been formulated until recently, for
hypnosis and analogous states of trance have been under­
stood for only a few decades. Indeed in England and Amer­
ica the prejudice against the use of hypnotism has been so
strong that even now there is little interest in it outside
the ranks of scientists. Third, any theory emphasizing
the parallel or identity between poetry and hypnotic stim­
ulus could not be formulated except by a person who hap­
pened to be familiar with one all-important technical
point; namely, the existence of a state of trance sometimes
called hypnoidal, a state clearly demonstrable as abnormal
yet so light that the subject is unaware of his temporary
partial hypnosis. For these three reasons, then, the tacit
omission of a discussion of hypnotism and trance from
most books on poetic theory is not a valid objection to the
theory’s being sound, or probably sound. The fact that the
Aurora Borealis was not explained as an electrical phe­
nomenon by early scientists who knew nothing about elec­
tricity, is not a valid argument against the soundness of the
electrical explanation!
AN ILLUMINATING HYPOTHESIS *9
During the past few years, however, the view that a
poem may put the listeners into an actual state of trance
has been hinted at and openly stated by enough writers to
lead me to think it must be accepted at least as a working
hypothesis for criticism. Among volumes of pertinent in­
terest are Mr. I. A. Richards’ Principles of Literary Criti­
cism, Mr. Max Eastman’s Enjoyment of Poetry, and Miss
June Downey’s Creative Imagination. I shall speak briefly
of these three works partly because two of them confirm
the hypothesis which I had put into writing before I
read them, and partly because I do not wish to claim any
particular originality for an idea which has already been
set forth in print by others.
Mr. Richards confirms, or rather anticipates, the exact
position which I am setting forth. On pages 143-144 of
his Principles of Literary Criticism he includes in his
chapter on Rhythm and Metre two paragraphs about the
hypnotic effect of rhythm, which are significant because
they include this statement: “. . . that a certain handling
of metre should produce in a slight degree a hypnoidal
state is not surprising.”
It is perhaps regrettable that Mr. Richards dismisses the
matter so briefly. It would appear that a fuller realization
of the significance of his own words might have led to a
more exact statement of his meaning, which must, I think,
have been followed by a detailed application of the theory
to some of the critical problems with which he is concerned.
But the crucial thing in Mr. Richards’ testimony is that he
20 HYPNOTIC POETRY
assumes as a matter of course, as something needing no
special proof, the absolute soundness of the only debat­
able point in the general position I am upholding.
Mr. Eastman’s Enjoyment of Poetry is rich with hints
of the significance of a poetic technique which he discusses
and illustrates by comparison with hypnotism. In the
chapter on Wine and Sleep and Poetry he shows himself
to have a wide background of poetic experience and to
have reflected on its psychological meaning. He evinces,
nevertheless, a certain timidity about making a direct ap­
plication of psychological principles. He does not make it
clear that some rhythms do, and others perhaps do not,
tend to promote an actual state of trance. In this state of
doubt or confusion he hopes for an eventual explanation
“by a mature science” and leaves the matter there.
But science is already mature enough to have established
in the psychotherapeutic clinics of Europe the fact that the
curative effects of post-hypnotic suggestion are felt by
patients who do not realize they have been hypnotized.
And by the same token poetic theory ought to be mature
enough to recognize that there are at least a few poems
which do produce, under favorable conditions, an actual
state of trance in the listeners.
The fullest statement I have yet encountered of the hyp­
notic effect of poetry, and of art in general, is in Chapter
XXVIII of Miss Downey’s Creative Imagination. Here we
find an illuminating discussion of the whole subject from
a psychological standpoint, a discussion which confirms,
and more than confirms, my opinion that certain poems
AN ILLUMINATING HYPOTHESIS 21
do actually put the listeners into a light state of trance.
That Miss Downey’s views did not arouse more discussion
when they were set forth previously in The Bookman for
February, 1919, is probably due to two causes. First, she
does not sufficiently emphasize the fact that hypnotic
poems are in a class by themselves, that they employ a
technique of their own. Second, her essay may be inter­
preted as trying to prove too much; it gives the impression
that all art tends to make frequent use of hypnotic tech­
nique—a thesis so startling that the casual reader naturally
discounts her words by assuming that she uses the word
hypnotic in a loose, inexact sense. Although her position
may be sound, her claims are apt to be dismissed as merely
specious, or else accepted with such mental reservations as
make them of little significance.
These and other less important references to the en­
trancing effects of poetry, although tending to confirm the
opinion I had independently formed, have not seemed
very satisfactory. (Parenthetically I may remark that we
have had some excellent studies of the entranced mood
of the poet himself; but to my mind we should find little
interest in the “inspired trance” of the poet unless he had
the power to put his readers into something of a trance.)
This unsatisfactory treatment of the theory is natural in
view of the cleavage, which until recently has been pretty
general, between psychologists on the one hand and liter­
ary critics on the other. Roughly speaking, we may say
that the literary critics have not been accurately enough
informed on the psychological technicalities involved to
22 HYPNOTIC POETRY
speak with assurance, while the professional psychologists
have not seen that the theory, if accepted, has far-reaching
implications in the field of literary criticism. Even where
a specific implication is made that poetry may induce a
state of trance, false inferences may be drawn from the
discussion. One might infer, for instance, that good ver­
sification alone is sufficient to produce the hypnotic effect
—to my mind a patent error. Or one might infer that any
good poem is supposed to be capable of producing the al­
leged effect. Or one might infer that the hypnotic effect is
of psychological rather than literary interest.
As I see the matter now, it has taken such definite shape
in my mind that I should like to state the whole hypothesis,
or unproved theory, fully enough to avoid being misunder­
stood and to suggest that we cannot longer shut our eyes
to its literary importance.
1. Certain poems (relatively few) can be counted on to
produce an actual state of trance in the listeners when the
poems are read aloud under favorable conditions.
2. These poems have in common a technique which uses
physical and psychical stimuli (discussed at length in
Chapter IV) similar to, and often identical with, the
stimuli used by hypnotists to put the subject into the
hypnoidal state. One can hardly emphasize enough that
metrically arranged words alone, without the support of
other stimuli, are not likely to induce a state of trance.
3. To produce the trance effect, the poem should be read
aloud without interruption under conditions like those in
the hypnotic laboratory; Le., the listeners should be com-
AN ILLUMINATING HYPOTHESIS 23
fortable, the room quiet, and the reader should have (in
addition to what one usually expects of a reader) the dig­
nity of bearing necessary to inspire respect and attention.
4. These poems stand at the opposite pole from certain
intellectualist poems, and the two extreme types may well
be studied in contrast.
5. Hypnotic and intellectualist poems respectively de­
mand radically different methods of treatment by reader,
listener, and critic.
6. Any competent critic of poetry should have as a part
of his equipment the ability to recognize a hypnotic poem
when he sees it, to experience its full value himself, to
read it aloud with something of a trance-producing effect,
and to criticise it from an appropriate psychological stand­
point.
7. As an indirect result of this ability, when the critic
encounters and recognizes a purely intellectualist poem, he
will be able to apply appropriate critical methods with in­
creased confidence.
8. Having gone thus far, we shall be better able to en­
joy, read, and criticize those “mixed” or “semihypnotic”
poems which form a great part of the body of significant
English poetry. '
9. In so far as we are interested in theories of poetry and
in theorizing about poems, we shall seldom find a case
where our views are not at least colored by the intelligent
application of some of the preceding principles.
Ill
HYPNOTISM
AND OTHER TRANCES__________
B
e f o r e proceeding to argue whether the poems I have
called “spellweaving” are actually capable of pro­
ducing a light state of trance in the listeners, it is neces­
sary to review briefly certain well-established facts about
hypnosis and other somewhat similar states of trance. I
shall begin with hypnosis, which has been made the sub­
ject of extended investigation under laboratory conditions,
and then consider certain other analogous trances. In mak­
ing this review I shall omit all controversial matters (espe­
cially the moot point as to whether hypnotic or psycho­
analytical treatment is better for certain nervous disorders),
holding fast to the facts on which psychologists are in gen­
eral agreement.
HYPNOTISM
The facts about hypnotism which might have some bear­
ing on the study of poetry may be treated under four head­
ings: the conditions for producing hypnosis, the methods
of producing it, the difference between heavy and light
hypnosis, and the nature of post-hypnotic suggestion.
i. The conditions for producing hypnosis are few and
simple: The subject or patient must be in a comfortable
posture (usually sitting); he must not oppose his will to that
24
HYPNOTISM AND OTHER TRANCES 25
of the hypnotist; he must make some effort to fix his at­
tention as directed and should submit to such influences or
stimuli as the hypnotist may exert. When the hypnotist is
some one in whom the subject has implicit confidence, the
problem of producing hypnosis is naturally simplified.
2. The method of inducing hypnosis is to employ cer­
tain physical and psychical stimuli which experience has
shown to be effective. Although some doctors facilitate
the process by a preliminary use of drugs, I shall disregard
this additional stimulus because it is rarely used and it in­
troduces an unnecessary element of confusion in our study.
a. The physical stimuli used are such as to fix the atten­
tion while retarding mental activity. Rhythmic sounds so
regular as to be monotonous are often used; among the
commonest are the beat of a metronome at half-second in­
tervals and the ticking of a clock or watch; even the regular
clicking of the hypnotist’s fingernails has proved satis­
factory. Rhythmic “passes” are also used, sometimes with­
out contact, in which case their effect is visual. A luminous
object is held in such a position as to cause the subject
fatigue from eye-strain; in the more elaborately equipped
laboratories a rotating mirror is fixated by the patient so
that the fatigue from eye-strain is combined with a rhyth­
mic sensation. Often the “passes” of the hypnotist are made
in contact with the subject’s forehead or body so that an­
other element of sensing the soothing effect of rhythmic
monotony is introduced. There are, of course, other physi­
cal stimuli continuous rather than rhythmic, but these are
the commonest. They fix the patient’s hearing, sight, and
26 HYPNOTIC POETRY
feeling (any or all) on a sensation physically compelling
but mentally of no interest to him.
b. The psychical stimuli usually take the form of a
verbal “suggestion”—words chosen to induce the subject to
fall into a heavy (or light) hypnotic sleep. In the act of
inducing hypnosis the hypnotist usually “suggests,” after
a few minutes of physical stimulus of the sort already de­
scribed, that the subject’s eyelids are growing heavy, that
he cannot open them, and finally that he is sleeping.
c. The combined physical and psychical stimulus is
easily achieved when the hypnotist puts this “ sugges­
tion” (b) into a simple phrase which he repeats with the
soothing rhythmic monotony characteristic of a. In recent
years many hypnotists have become so expert that in all but
the most difficult cases they do not avail themselves of any
physical stimulus except that of the operator’s own voice,
calm, dignified, reassuring, repeating a “suggestion.” This
does not mean, of course, that physical stimulus is futile.
It means that the only one needed is the monotonous
rhythm of sound, which is supplemented by various psy­
chical influences of manner and personality giving force to
the words of the “suggestion.”
Although these matters are too well known to need ex­
tended documentation, it may be well to include here a
brief statement from pages 94 and 95 of William Brown’s
standard treatise on Suggestion and Mental Analysis:1
“Generally speaking, the monotonous stimulation of sense
organs tends to produce hypnosis—to throw the patient into a
1 Second Edition. New York: George H. Doran Co., 1922.
HYPNOTISM AND OTHER TRANCES 27
state that resembles sleep. The patient lies on a couch and fixates,
say, an ophthalmoscope mirror or a faceted diamond held about
ten inches from the eyes and slightly above the normal plane of
vision, so that to fixate it he must turn his eyes upwards and in­
wards to the bright object. After a few minutes’ fixation he will,
if he is a satisfactory subject, experience more and more dif­
ficulty in keeping his eyes open, and will pass into the
hypnotic state. Suggestions may be given to him that he will
get drowsy and that he is going to sleep, with the result that
he falls into an artificial sleep, but continues to hear the words
of the operator, and later may lose consciousness of everything
else. This is a deep stage: he is apparently asleep to everything
except the physician’s words. Lighter stages can be produced,
where he is conscious of what other people say or conscious of
voices around him, but where, nevertheless, his mind is con­
centrated upon the physician’s words. He has no great power to
move his attention from one thing to another. It is fixed upon
the words of the physician.
“ The bright object may be replaced by a monotonous sound.
A metronome beating at two a second is very useful. The patient
lies listening to the beat of the metronome, and gradually falls
into a state of dissociation. Another means of producing sleepi­
ness is the use of rhythmical passes with or without contact. We
may smooth the forehead at a definite slow rate, or again we
may make passes down the subject’s body without touching the
body at all.”
The second paragraph in the quotation above is the
pertinent one in tracing the parallel between poetry and
hypnotism. It shows that for the physical stimulus rhyth­
mic monotony of sound is enough. As I indicate in more
detail in the next chapter, the beats of the metronome at
half-second intervals give almost the exact time of the oc-
currence of the heavily stressed syllables in reading Eng­
lish poetry aloud.
3. Heavy and light hypnosis must be clearly distin­
guished. In the heavier states the subject is in a manifestly
abnormal condition; he is apparently unconscious of
every one in the room save the hypnotist, with whom he is
completely en rapport. Laboratory experiments testing the
degree to which the subject is compelled by the conditions
of hypnosis to be obedient to the commands of the opera­
tor, have now been carried on systematically, and the re­
sults have been recorded, for many years. The most clearly
defined limit to the subject’s slavish obedience lies in his
uniform refusal to perform any act which would be morally
revolting to him when in a normal state of consciousness.
Volumes have been written on the startling and often
amusing way in which a deeply hypnotized person will
accept the commands or “suggestions” of the hypnotist—
calmly licking with his tongue a frog under the suggested
delusion that it is a snowball, chasing nonexistent butter­
flies about the room, etc. The facts are matters of common
knowledge.
In the hypnoidal or light state of trance, the subject’s
behavior is practically normal. He is aware of the presence
of others in the room; he obeys the suggestions of the
hypnotist (if at all) more reasonably; he is, however, sub­
ject to post-hypnotic suggestion. Often when the trance is
so light that the subject believes himself to be perfectly
normal, the existence of the hypnoidal condition is capable
of being established by convincing proof. Hypnotists who
28 HYPNOTIC POETRY
HYPNOTISM AND OTHER TRANCES 29
have cured numerous patients of headaches and insomnia
report that the patient, though originally expecting to be
hypnotized, says later, “ But Doctor, you didn’t hypno­
tize me!”
• 4. Post-hypnotic suggestion is usually a command or im­
pulse for the subject to do a specific thing, or behave in a
specific manner, after he has emerged from his hypnotic
sleep. And here again, both in the clinics and the psycho­
logical laboratories, the results of many experiments have
been carefully recorded. Thus the subject, waking from his
hypnotic sleep and acting on a previous post-hypnotic sug­
gestion, will put in an unnecessary telephone call, will
move a book from a table to a shelf, will call some one in
the room “blockhead,” or will find himself unable to pro­
nounce his own name—always in blind obedience to the
post-hypnotic suggestion.
There is, of course, a wide difference in the extent to
which different subjects can be thus influenced and in the
punctuality of their response. Thus, a very good subject,
having been commanded to put in an unnecessary tele­
phone call exactly one hour after he wakes from his hyp­
notic sleep, will carry out the suggestion almost to the
minute, while another will miss it by as much as fifteen
minutes. Some subjects, though easily hypnotized, have a
very considerable resistance to these post-hypnotic sug­
gestions. A typical and interesting case of a person who
could not entirely overcome the suggestion but was able
to evade the issue successfully is cited on pages 171-172 of
Albert Moll’s Hypnotism (London edition of 1913): A
HYPNOTIC POETRY
woman was given the post-hypnotic suggestion that she
would mispronounce the word “father” as “feether” ;
when she was awakened and asked about her parents, she
persistently avoided the word “father,” using instead the
cumbersome phrase “the husband of my mother.”
Often, however, the response to post-hypnotic suggestion
is very strong: one patient is cured of the fear of thunder­
storms, and the cure still holds good after the lapse of
twenty-five years. Others are helped to cure themselves
of the drug habit or of alcoholism. Many fascinating cases
are cited in standard works on the subject of psychotherapy.
In tracing the parallel between post-hypnotic suggestion
and the influence of spellweaving poems, we must bear in
mind that the results of post-hypnotic suggestion on sub­
sequent conduct may be obtained without the patient’s
knowing he has been hypnotized.
30
OTHER TRANCES
Although the number of people who are willing to
submit to hypnotism is doubtless very much smaller than
the number of those who experience trances of other sorts,
still the facts about these other trances are not often re­
corded satisfactorily. Such trances do not occur under
laboratory conditions, the subject is often alone, and the
facts cannot often be observed with scientific accuracy. Let
me cite at intimate second hand a peculiarly dramatic case
where the victim of a supposed trance could not possibly
give testimony for the simple reason that he was dead. A
HYPNOTISM AND OTHER TRANCES 31
friend of the writer once stood at the very bow of a steamer,
watching the ceaseless rhythmical procession of waves
breaking at the cutwater. The vessel was an oil tanker, on
which there were few regulations for passengers because
passengers were seldom carried. As the ship surged on,
minute after minute, into the moderate head sea, my friend
began to feel certain strange symptoms that interested
him, as they were not in any way like those of sea-sickness.
Just then the mate, standing on the bridge, raised his
megaphone and called him back, explaining later: “We
had a man once on this line who did just what you were
doing, watching the waves like that at the bow, and after
a while he pitched forward, overboard, and was lost. Sort
of hypnotized, people think. Anyway, we don’t allow it
now.”
The particular form of trance with which we are con­
cerned in this study of poetry is one in which the emo­
tional sensitiveness of the subject grows more and more
intense, sometimes reaching the pitch of ecstasy, as his
consciousness is concentrated on some one phase of life.
This state is similar to, but not identical with, a state of
hypnosis. The essential difference is that in hypnosis the
subject is put into a hypnotic state by one specific person,
the operator, and becomes en rapport with him, while in
emotional and ecstatic trances of this sort the stimuli do
not come necessarily from one person; the psychical stimuli
may come from his own mind, and the physical stimuli
may be either of his own making or may be due to an ex­
ternal but impersonal force. Thus the Hindoo Yogi is in-
32 HYPNOTIC POETRY
structed that in order to experience the exaltation of re­
ligious vision or trance, he should sit motionless, squint at
the end of his own nose, try to control his breathing, and
contemplate the Deity. Here the usual stimuli of hypno­
tism are duplicated: fatigue from eye-strain, attention
fixed on the rhythmically monotonous sound and feeling
of his regular breathing, and concentration without great
mental activity invited by “contemplating the Deity,” but
the phenomenon of rapport is lacking. In the supposed
trance cited in the preceding paragraph the physical stimuli
were probably the rhythmic monotony of the procession
of waves and the visual fatigue of watching them in mo­
tion, as the subject’s position at the very bow of the vessel
would require a continual change of focus; the psychical
stimuli are of course unknown.
Many of the recent books on psychology contain analyti­
cal studies of the various moods of trance and ecstasy, and
evidence has been gathered in sufficient quantity and with
enough scientific exactness to allow certain general con­
clusions to be drawn. For instance, in Mr. James H. Leuba’s
Psychology of Religious Mysticism is to be found an ex­
tended study of numerous cases of trance, which, begin­
ning from simple and comprehensible causes, develop into
moods of religious fervor and spiritual exaltation. But
because such evidence is now available in various psycho­
logical treatises and is obviously too long to include here,
it may suffice to give a brief summary.
In most particulars the general conditions for the pro­
duction of emotional trance are similar to those for the
HYPNOTISM AND OTHER TRANCES 33
production of hypnosis. Perhaps these three statements
will sum up the most important facts: (i) Whatever stim­
uli tend to fix the attention and at the same time retard
mental activity, are favorable to producing a condition of
trance in which the subject’s emotional susceptibility is so
intensified that he may experience a feeling of exaltation
and ecstasy. (2) If in this state of emotional responsive­
ness the mind of the subject gets a simple idea (a simple
idea rather than a complex one that might cause intense
mental activity and break the spell), he accepts the idea and
clings to it more completely and with more emotional
fervor than he would in an ordinary state of conscious­
ness. (3) Similarly, any impulse to act that is implanted
during a state of emotional intensity such as we are con­
sidering will become a dominating motive in the subject’s
future conduct, far surpassing in its influence any ordinary
impulse not so implanted or accompanied.
GROUP HYPNOSIS
It is not an uncommon thing nowadays for the instructor
of a class in abnormal psychology to put most, or all, of
the members of the class simultaneously into a state of
“ waking hypnosis,” and later to hypnotize more deeply
those who prove to be the best subjects. The degree of
success with which this experiment has been performed
may be inferred from the following statement of Mr.
Wesley Wells, which I excerpt from his comprehensive
article on “Waking Hypnosis” in The Journal of Abnor-
34 HYPNOTIC POETRY
mal Psychology and Social Psychology for 1924, pages
399-400:
“Waking hypnosis may be used either in group or in individ­
ual experiments . . . I recently obtained results with 100 per
cent, of a group of 12, and a few months ago I obtained results
with 24 of a group of 28.”
The usual practice in simultaneously hypnotizing several
people follows closely the advanced practice used with in­
dividuals. Suggestion of a simple sort is made by means of
a rhythmic phrase, and the phrase is repeated with monot­
onous iteration until many of those who have volunteered
as subjects finally succumb to the combined physical and
psychical stimulus. (Onlookers report the process to be
exceedingly tiresome.) Elaborate psychical preparation is
made: each volunteer is required to sign a statement of his
entire willingness to be hypnotized—ostensibly to give
some sort of legal protection to the instructor, but really to
put the subject into a mood of “consent.” A full explana­
tion is made of the results to be expected, and every effort
is made to inspire the subjects with confidence. Among
the reiterated phrases are such simple rhythmic suggestions
as “You' are sleep'ing, sleep'ing, sleep'ing,” and “You' are
fall'ing for'ward, for'ward.”
Up to the present time, however, the most striking
laboratory experiments in group hypnosis are as nothing
compared to the trance phenomena exhibited in various re­
ligious revivals by a great number of people at the same
time. In such a detailed study as Miss Catharine Cleve-
HYPNOTISM AND OTHER TRANCES 35
land’s Great Revival in the West 1J9J-1805 are recorded,
with adequate documentary evidence, group experiences
with trance phenomena of amazing violence. As Miss
Cleveland points out (page 118), hypnotic suggestion was
often partly responsible for the abnormal ecstasy and
frenzy which hundreds of people experienced simultane­
ously. As the topic is too extensive for the limits of this
survey, I may refer the reader to another excellent book,
Mr. Frederick Davenport’s Primitive Traits in Religious
Revivals. Ample evidence is available to prove that the
stimuli needed to induce a state of ecstatic trance are
often as effective on a large number of people, or the
majority of them, as on an individual.
A NOTE ON AUTOHYPNOSIS FROM SILENT
READING
Although I do not personally advocate the view that a
hypnotic poem read silently can produce any recognizable
state of trance in the reader, several of my friends, who
have discussed the matter with me, insist that it can. Silent
reading is of two distinct sorts, “strictly silent” and “silent
but auditing,” as I show in detail on page 132; and it may be
that by a “silent yet auditing” reading of a spellweaving
poem one can sometimes produce a light state of trance.
Any one interested in this possibility cannot do better
than compare his own experiences with the generally
established facts about self-induced states of trance as set
forth in Charles Baudouin’s Suggestion and Autosugges­
tion, from which I quote briefly on pages 100-101.
HYPNOTIC POETRY
My own objections to the idea that a state of trance may
be induced by the silent reading of a poem are both prac­
tical and theoretical. In practice I cannot say that I myself
have felt from my silent reading anything like the “ spell”
which I have experienced when the same poem was read
aloud. Perhaps I have done so, but I am not sure; nor do
I know with how much scientific exactness my friends
speak when they report such experiences. In theory there
are certain obvious objections. First, I suspect that the
sheer effort of consecutive reading is not conducive to a hyp­
notic state. Second, the auditory stimulus of monotonous
rhythmic sound must be much weaker when the words
of the poem are only “heard to oneself.” Third, the briefest
looking up from the page, no matter for what cause,
automatically interrupts the stimulus, or some of the stim­
uli, supposed to be inducing a state of trance. The combined
force of these objections is enough to make me skeptical.
On the other hand, one of the friends who profess to
have had trance effects from the silent reading of poetry
admits his inability to read aloud to his own satisfaction,
but insists that his “silent but auditing” reading gives him
the full value of every syllable. There may, then, be a
class of readers whose enjoyment of these poems, even
when not read aloud, is heightened by a state of abnormal
suggestibility and free play of emotion—readers whose
aesthetic enjoyment is due to their being in an actual state
of trance.
My skepticism being what it is, I feel it unnecessary to
extend this chapter by a statement of the generally accepted
36
HYPNOTISM AND OTHER TRANCES 37
views of autohypnosis. I shall, however, revert to the topic
in the chapter on Poetic Inspiration.
SUMMARY
In the last analysis hypnosis and kindred states of trance
cannot be better defined than as unusual states of conscious­
ness in which the most striding characteristic is the sub­
ject's increased susceptibility to suggestion. Stimuli which
promote such states are various, but a peculiarly effective
stimulus consists of words which fix the subject's attention
by their rhythmic sound and ma\e a simple suggestion on
which the subject concentrates without any great mental
activity. Later the subject’s mental activity may be con­
siderable and his emotional reaction in certain trances
may even reach actual ecstasy, but his consciousness is still
surrounded by a wall which excludes from his mind all
but the single phase of existence on which it has become
fixed.
IV
EVIDENCE______________________
As soon as I began to study the matter carefully, I was
struck by the number of particulars in which the
reading aloud of a spellweaving poem puts into action
various stimuli, both physical and psychical, parallel to
those commonly used to induce a light state of hypnosis, a
state called “hypnoidal” by many scientists and one of
“waking hypnosis” by others. And the fascinating part
of the study proved to be that the more I extended it, the
more I was convinced that the parallelism is an actual
identity. In this chapter, then, I shall try to show that cer­
tain poems have a peculiar trance-inducing technique; that
they owe their mysterious “spell” to a magic no more in­
comprehensible than that of hypnotism; that by intensify­
ing the listeners’ suggestibility they permit experiences
where—for better or for worse—the poet holds sway over
the listeners’ conscious and subconscious minds. I shall not
try to show that the delightful ecstasy experienced is always
profitable, nor that a poem of this sort involves a higher
form of art than does an intellectualist poem. I shall, how­
ever, try to make clear that there is a technique of poetry
which is literally hypnotic or trance-inducing, and that its
recognition is essential both to those who love truth and
to those who have any genuine interest in poetry.
Thus far I have uniformly spoken of these poems as
spellweaving. In a loose, popular sense they may be called
38
EVIDENCE 39
hypnotic without any argument. By the end of this chap­
ter I hope to have convinced the reader that they are actu­
ally and technically hypnotic. Meanwhile I trust I shall
not be accused of begging the question if I avoid the con­
stant use of the term spellweaving in what must neces­
sarily be a long discussion and call them for convenience
by the easy term hypnotic poems.
Such evidence as I have is strong enough, I hope, to estab­
lish the probable soundness of the theory I have advanced.
Although the theory is such that it cannot be either proved,
or disproved, beyond the shadow of a doubt, nevertheless
I think evidence enough can be marshalled to make it
seem both plausible and probable—in fact to put the burden
of proof on any one who may not accept it as a working
hypothesis for criticism. The evidence may be presented
in three parts—that from a study of a group of hyp­
notic poems, that from a more intensive analysis of Gray’s
Elegy, and that from general considerations of repetition
and refrain.
HYPNOTIC POEMS IN GENERAL
i. On examining a group of hypnotic poems such as
those listed in the first chapter, we find the most pro­
nounced characteristic which they have in common is, as
I have already suggested, an unusually perfect pattern
of sound; and on further analysis we find that this pat­
tern of sound tends to be soothing. Not all marvelous
versification produces a soothing effect, but it will be hard
to find a single hypnotic poem which is either rugged in
its versification or extremely spirited. The brilUarit rhyth­
mic excellence of
“I galloped, Dirk galloped, we galloped all three”
is not characteristic of these poems, but rather the more
soothing effect of
“Break, break, break,
On thy cold grey stones, O sea!
And I would that my tongue could utter
The thoughts that arise in me.”
As one considers the rate of reading poetry aloud (m y own
rate is about twenty-five lines of iambic pentameter a min­
ute) and performs a little simple arithmetic, it appears
that the spacing of the heavily accented syllables is so
near to the half-second interval at which the metronome
is set by Dr. W illiam Brown to induce hypnosis (page 27)
that the parallel is almost too exact to be a mere coinci­
dence. As a matter of fact the calculation based on my own
reading shows that in iambic and trochaic rhythms the
time is just a shade under half a second for the heavy
syllabic beats, and in anapaestic and dactylic rhythms
just a shade over (twelve twenty-fifths of a second and four
tenths of a second respectively). If now we combine this
half-second time interval with the regularity of rhythm
so obvious in the spellweaving poems under consideration
—the opening lines of Kubla K han, for instance—we
have the parallel almost perfect to the stimulus of rhythm
used by the hypnotist.
40 HYPNOTIC POETRY
EVIDENCE 4 1
In The Rationale of Verse Poe laid down the principle
that good poets only at rare intervals depart much from j
a standard pattern of rhythm, and make their departures j
chiefly “at such points of their subject as seem in accord j
with the startling character of the variation.” In general
this is true of Poe’s best work and of most of the hypnotic
poems I have examined, and as the early portions of such
hypnotic poems skillfully avoid whatever is “startling,”
they preserve a marked regularity of rhythm. But a point
which Poe did not make in his theorizing (though he
habitually exemplified it in his own hypnotic poems) is
that the most effective way to fix the listener’s attention
on rhythm is by ornamenting and elaborating the pattern
with rime—two-syllable rime if convenient,—with con­
sonantal return, and with as regular a pattern of rising and
falling pitch as the circumstances permit. Thus where the
hypnotist can say to his subject, “You must concentrate
your attention on the beats of this metronome,” the poet
may produce a parallel effect by making his sound pattern
so elaborate in its regularity that a listener with a sense of
rhythm cannot avoid giving it his full attention. (There
is all the difference in the world between a pattern of
sound that is irregular and one that is elaborate in its
regularity.) One cannot find a much more regular series
of iambs than in the opening lines of such a hypnotic poem
as Kubla Khan; but as Stevenson pointed out in his Essays
in The Art of Writing, these very lines are ornamented
with consonantal harmonies of a most pleasing sort. Al­
though the listener may have no time to enumerate the
HYPNOTIC POETRY
details of the recurring pattern, all the details combine to
make it compelling. Hypnotic poems in general give us
heavy stresses falling regularly at half-second intervals,
and so ornamented that the rhythmically inclined listener
has his attention drawn to the sound rather than the sense.
2. Another point in which practically all of these poems
show an interesting parallel to hypnotism is their freedom
from any abrupt changes which would be likely to break
the spell, and especially freedom from such ideas as compel
mental alertness. Looking over the group of hypnotic
poems, one notes the absence of cleverness such as one
finds in Swift and Pope—I am thinking especially of
Swift’s own verses On the Death of Doctor Swift and
Pope’s Rape of the Loc\. One notes also the absence of
paradox which is so stimulating in poems like Browning’s
Glove and The Statue and the Bust. This freedom from
abruptness and from everything that might cause intense
mental alertness would naturally allow the listener, and
indeed invite him, to slip gradually into that attentive but
listless mental state which is likely to become hypnoidal.
3. Another characteristic of these poems, akin to the
foregoing, is a certain vagueness of imagery which con­
trasts strongly with the hard, clear imagery sought by the
group of modern poets called “Imagists.” The pictures
presented in these hypnotic poems have such soft, shadowy
outlines that one may fill in the details to suit one’s fancy
or let the picture remain hazy. They foster an idle, dreamy
state of consciousness like the preliminary stage of
hypnosis. Their technique—whether we like it or not—is
42
EVIDENCE 43
of the sort to produce a state of trance. To check the ac­
curacy of this statement one cannot do better than contrast
the imagery of a hypnotic poem like Annabel Lee with
that of the realistic battle scenes in Mr. Stephen Vincent
Benet’s John Browns Body. Poe’s remarks on vagueness,
if we limit their application to hypnotic poetry only, are
significant:
“ There are passages in his [Tennyson’s] works which rivet
a conviction I had long entertained, that the indefinite is an
element in the true Trot-qais. . . I \now that indefinitiveness is an
element of the true music—I mean the true musical expression.
Give to it any undue decision—imbue it with any determinate
tone—and you deprive it, at once, of its ethereal, its ideal, its
intrinsic and essential character. You dispel its luxury of dream.
You dissolve the atmosphere of the mystic upon which it floats.
You exhaust it of its breath of faery.” (From Marginalia.)
4. The next point of similarity between these poems and
that which produces hypnosis may be nothing, or it may
be something of considerable critical importance. I shall
point it out in some detail and leave the reader to check its
psychological soundness for himself. As a state of hypnosis
is more easily induced when the subject experiences fatigue
from eye-strain, so I suggest that there is something in
these poems corresponding to the rotating mirror, to the
key held painfully high above the eyes, which we con­
sidered in Chapter III. There are certain difficulties which
the ordinary listener cannot solve, which he naturally
tries a little to solve; then becoming fatigued, he says
to himself, or rather, unconsciously adopts this atti-
44 HYPNOTIC POETRY
tude, “Well, I give up. The poet knows his business. I
will take everything on his say-so.” That is, these difficul­
ties break down his resistance through fatigue. I refer not so
much to structural difficulties in sentences that are long,
complicated, or inverted, as to verbal difficulties—not neces­
sarily difficulties that would bother the scholar or even the
close reader—but those which the ordinary listener
cannot solve in the brief fractions of a second which are
at his disposal for their solution. In my analysis of Gray’s
Elegy, later, I shall point out several. Let us turn for a mo­
ment to one of the most hypnotic of all Kipling’s poems,
The hong Trail, and see a number of specific phrases which
the ordinary listener not familiar with the technical lan­
guage of the sea may find to cause him fatigue and to break
down his resistance, allowing free play to the “suggested”
mood of the poem. The specific phrases are these: “ Ha’
done with the Tents of Shem,” “rime-ringed sun,” “blind
Horn’s hate,” “black Bilbao tramp,” “load-line over her
hatch,” “heel of the North-East Trade,” “Peter at the fore,”
“Hawsers warp her through,” “Lower Hope,” “Gunfleet
Sands,” “Mouse swings green on the old trail.” After the
listener’s resistance has been broken down by the fatigue
of his futile efforts to understand such phrases, Kipling
gives us at last several great, memorable lines, which pro­
duce a very remarkable emotional response. Such lines of
hypnotic suggestiveness are:
“And the Southern Cross rides high!
Yes, the old lost stars wheel back, dear lass,
That blaze in the velvet blue.
EVIDENCE
They’re all old friends on the old trail, our own
trail, the out trail,
They’re God’s own guides on the Long Trail . . .
“And it’s twenty thousand mile to our little lazy isle
Where the trumpet-orchids blow!” 1
The point is an important one and involves a nice dis­
tinction. Not that the eye-strain experienced in the hypnotic
clinic is identical with the ear-strain of the listener who
is baffled in his effort to understand the poet’s exact phrase
—an attempt to identify them would be futile. Rather that
the fatigue from strain in the two cases may be so nearly
identical as to produce the same psychological result,
namely, to facilitate in each case the process of falling into
a state of trance. Paradoxical though it sounds, we may yet
have to accept the view that in the early stages of a hypnotic
poem a foreign word, an obscure phrase, or any slight dif­
ficulty that causes fatigue from strain on the part of the
listener may actually promote the ultimate aesthetic effect
at which the artist aims. Such a theory might account for
the peculiar effectiveness of Shelley’s phrase “The champak
odors fail.” It might be one out of several reasons why
English readers respond most to the passages of Burns
which are written in Scottish, and vice versa. In any case
the parallel is there and it may be significant.
5. The use of a refrain, or of frequent repetition, is char
acteristic of many hypnotic poems; for example, Annabel
Lee, the Bugle Song from The Princess, The Ancient
45
1 Rudyard Kipling. Collected Poems. New York: Doubleday, Doran & Co.
HYPNOTIC POETRY
Mariner. Some repetition is mere physical stimulus, rhyth­
mic monotony likely to fix the listener’s attention, some­
thing comparable to the meaningless sounds used by the
earlier hypnotists (p. 25). Often, however, repetition takes
the form of a key phrase or refrain of special significance
like the “You' are fall'ing back'ward, back'ward,” in which
the modern hypnotist (p. 34) combines a psychical sug­
gestion with rhythmical monotony. A striking example is
the tragic “Nevermore” of The Raven, a poem which is
singularly hypnotic to those who have not heard it
parodied.
Refrain and kindred matters take us, however, back to
the admittedly hypnotic incantation of savages. Hence I
defer to the end of this chapter a more detailed treatment
of a topic at once complicated and fascinating.
6. Finally these hypnotic poems show a general tend­
ency to use suggestion on an entranced person. As hyp­
notic treatment differs from psychoanalytical treatment, so
hypnotic poetry differs from intellectualist poetry; one
suggests to a person whose suggestibility has been ab­
normally intensified, while the other calls the mental
faculties into play in a more ordinary way. The compelling
artistry of such suggestions is one of the marvels of hyp­
notic poetry. Clearly it is not alone the art of versification
which the poet employs in this particular, though the
perfect versification produces a physical stimulus which
makes the listener more susceptible emotionally. The wist­
fulness of the Hymn to Proserpine, the bleak loneliness
of La Belle Dame Sans Merci, the hushed reverence for
46
EVIDENCE 47
virgin beauty of The Eve of St. Agnes—all these are “sug­
gested” by subtleties of technique, especially by words of
peculiar connotation which bring to the listener certain
associated ideas appropriate to the mood desired. But the
parallel must not be forced. Lamb and De Quincey have
this power of suggestion in common with the writers of
hypnotic poetry, as many a man who is not a professional
hypnotist has great personal magnetism. Yet a compara­
tive study of Poe’s masterpieces in prose and in verse re­
spectively shows that by a dozen lines of hypnotic verse
he could effectively arouse an emotion almost equal to
what he could arouse by a dozen pages of prose. And this
fact, which any reader can test for himself, leads back to
the conclusion that the emotional mood induced by hear­
ing, say, Annabel Lee is due to a suggestion reinforced by
a technique genuinely hypnotic.
Some hypnotic poems stop here: the listener is lulled
by a perfect pattern of sound, his attention is fixed with­
out arousing of his mental faculty, and he falls into
whatever mood the poet “suggests.” It is interesting to see
how many poets are thus content to stop without taking
full advantage of the grip they get on the listener’s emo­
tions. Such skillful artists as Poe, Swinburne, the youthful
Tennyson, and countless others persistently fail, or refuse,
to galvanize the sensitive reader into action, determina­
tion, or even thought. Nor can the lover of poetry find a
more fascinating theme for speculation than whether cer­
tain lyrics would gain or lose in perfection if they con­
tained something for the mind to grasp. Other hypnotic
HYPNOTIC POETRY
poems carry the parallel to hypnotism still further by
“suggesting” an impulse to action, making a parallel to
the specific post-hypnotic suggestions of the hypnotist.
Merlin and the Gleam (of which more in Chapter X) fur­
nishes an excellent parallel to the post-hypnotic sugges­
tion.
Now it may be objected that such “suggestions” are also
commonly found in non-hypnotic poems, and the objec­
tion, so stated, is valid. But there is discoverable a differ­
ence in the nature of the suggestion and often in the posi­
tion of the suggestion, which makes only the hypnotic
poems resemble the performance of the hypnotist. Specifi­
cally, in a hypnotic poem the key sentence “suggesting”
an idea comes near the end, or at least only after there has
been a long preliminary soothing of the listener’s senses
by monotonous rhythmic “passes.” So in hypnosis. Also
this key sentence “suggesting” an idea carries conviction
without argumentative support, or with only the simplest
of obvious arguments to support it. In the non-hypnotic
poem these conditions do not obtain.
For example, in Browning’s hypnotic poem Love
Among the Ruins, the idea “suggested” comes in the three
last words, “Love is best,” and if the reader accepts them
as truth he does so because he has been prepared not intel­
lectually but emotionally. By contrast, Clough’s non­
hypnotic poem Say not the Struggle Nought Availeth,
begins with its key sentence, and supports it throughout
the rest of the poem with elaborate arguments by analogy,
first from the conduct of battle and then from the appear-
48
EVIDENCE 49
ance of the rising tide. In the first poem there is no argu­
ment—only rhythm, pictures, hypnotic passes, emotions,
and then a key statement; in the latter there is first the
rousing command, and then an argument to show why
Clough’s specific command should be obeyed. These dif­
ferences are characteristic of the two contrasting types,
hypnotic and non-hypnotic.
Further examples of the hypnotic and the non-hypnotic
method may be illuminating. Tennyson’s Crossing the
Bar holds its key idea until the end, presenting it without
convincing logical preparation; but the ordinary listener
is so completely en rapport with the poet that he accepts
it without resistance:
“I hope to see my Pilot face to face
When I have crossed the bar.”
Browning’s Cristina, on the other hand, opens with its
startling key idea, and offers logical support and explana­
tion in the succeeding lines. The abrupt beginning is utterly
unlike the manner of the hypnotic poems:
“She should never have looked at me
If she meant I should not love her!”
Again, in The Isles of Greece Byron begins, like the
hypnotist, with “passes” of rhythmic harmony, suggests
vaguely that we should deplore the waning greatness of
Greek glory, gets the reader completely under the spell of
his magic, and ends with the post-hypnotic suggestion
“Dash down yon cup of Samian wine!”
HYPNOTIC POETRY
Between the exquisite beginning,
“The isles of Greece, the isles of Greece!
Where burning Sappho loved and sung,”
and this concluding command, there is only the merest
suggestion of argument—a little group of taunting rhe­
torical questions. If the conclusion proves effective, it does
so in accordance with the same psychological principle that
makes a post-hypnotic suggestion effective. Pope, on the
other hand, in his most brilliant failure, the Essay on Man,
argues throughout Epistle I in support of a thesis, losing
most readers entirely in the intricacies of the arguments
(which he derived from his friend Bolingbroke), and
finally states the thesis he has tried to establish: “Whatever
is, is right.” Although the final position of this key sentence
is in accord with the hypnotic tendency, Pope’s poem in
most respects is of the other type. In so far as it fails, the
difficulty is probably due (as I show in more detail on
page 149) to the psychological discord between the sooth­
ing monotony of the “rocking-horse couplet” and the in­
tense mental activity demanded of the listener.
Having now seen that the poems called “hypnotic” offer
in general striking parallels to the laboratory methods of
inducing and utilizing a state of hypnosis, let us make a
more intensive study of a single poem. And in making
such a study of Gray’s Elegy—spoken of as perhaps the
most popular poem in the English language—let us avoid
distorting the facts to support a theory. Let us rather focus
5°
EVIDENCE
our attention on the elements which bear on the theory,
whether to support it or not.
GRAY’S ELEGY
An analysis of the pattern of sound in the first quatrain
of Gray’s Elegy shows it to be one of the most harmonious
stanzas—perhaps the most harmonious stanza—in Eng­
lish poetry. The metre is iambic with only two such slight
departures from regularity as serve to keep it from being
painfully mechanical. That is to say, the word “wind” in
the second line suggests a spondee rather than an iamb,
and the fourth foot of the fourth line is perhaps a pyrrhic.
The rhythm of these four regular lines is felt very strongly
because it happens that the accented syllables are also the
syllables of long duration. Thus, whether one be a “timer”
or a “stresser,” one’s ear is sure to respond to the soothing
regularity. Again, as each line is rimed and end-stopt, one
easily feels the rhythm of the line unit.
The vowel effects are singularly interesting; but as the
present state of knowledge on the psychological effective­
ness of “dark” and “light” vowels is rather dubious, I will
not risk giving evidence on this point, however tantaliz­
ing the temptation may be. But the consonantal effects—
to consider only the most obvious ones—are, I think,
unique. Even Poe with his adroit choice of the name
“Lenore” and his rather artificial coinage of the name
“Ulalume,” never quite equaled the skill with which
liquids and nasals are repeated in the Elegy. As the eye
may well be employed to supplement the ear in an analysis
5 i
HYPNOTIC POETRY
of this sort, the following arrangement may aid to make
the matter clear. Thus, a careful inspection shows that in
these four lines every accented syllable save one—and it is
the accented syllables that really count—either ends in a
vowel sound or involves a liquid or a nasal! The only ex­
ception is “plods,” which is so effective for other reasons as
to be inevitable. Liquids and nasals are capitalized.
the cuRfew toLLs the kN eLL of paRtiNG day,_
the LowiNG heRd wiNd sLowLy o’eR-fKê Lea,
the pLowMaN hoMewaRd pLods his weaRy way,
aNd Leaves the woRLd to daRkNess aNd to Me.
The second and third stanzas, like the first, continue, so
far as versification is concerned, to employ the very highest
artistry to satisfy and soothe the ear; and, with only slight
modification, the same thing may be said of the whole
poem. The skillful return to the liquids and nasals in the
second and third stanzas is so perfect as to defy comment
but to invite a brief continuation of the visual device that
has already been used.
Now fades the gLiMMeRiNG laNdscape oN the sight,
aNd aLL the aiR a soLeMn stiLLNess hoLds,
save wheRe the beetLe wheeLs his droNiNG fLight,
aNd dRowsy tiNkLiNGs LuLL the distaNt foLds:
save that fRoM yoNdeR ivy-MaNtLed tow’R
the MopiNG owL does to the M00N coMpLaiN
of such as, waNd’RiNG NeaR heR secRet bow’R,
MoLest heR aNcieNt soLitaRy ReigN.
52
EVIDENCE 53
The English language has not gone further—perhaps
cannot go further—than in these twelve lines to parallel
the methods of the hypnotist in fixing the subject’s atten­
tion on those rhythmic stimuli so productive of a state of
trance. My analysis of the pattern of sound has been far
from complete, but in a case where virtually every reader
knows the lines by heart he can complete it in all that is
essential (so far as the mere sound is concerned) by re­
peating the lines aloud. And since this is the case, I hurry
on to consider the poem from another standpoint.
These first three stanzas have for their dominant tone
peaceful solemnity. The suggestive power of the words
even in the first line is perfect—from the quaintness of
curfew on through the solemnity of tolls and knell to the
twilight of parting day. And so on through the first twelve
lines. One would have to quote every phrase to do justice
to Gray’s artistic suggestiveness—even the “tinklings” are
“ drowsy” enough to “lull” the “distant folds.”
By the smoothest of all possible transitions stanza four
continues the serene description and focuses attention on
the “rude forefathers”
“Each in his narrow cell forever laid.”
Here is death indeed, but calm death, softened into “sleep.”
The transition is so easy that one is reminded of the method
of the hypnotist who would begin by muttering “sleep—
sleep—sleep” and then without altering the cadence of his
voice would continue his experiment. This smoothness of
HYPNOTIC POETRY
thought—or, to put it negatively, this avoidance of any­
thing likely to cause a mental jar—is one of the features
in which the Elegy, in common with other poems already
considered, seems to be specifically following the method
of the hypnotist and avoiding the dramatic abruptness
which is often effective in intellectualist poetry. Stanza
four thus serves the double purpose of continuing the lull­
ing pattern of sound and introducing the topic of death
in such fashion that the listener is not mentally aroused.
It combines the physical and psychical stimuli to per­
fection.
There follow next three stanzas (the fifth, sixth and
seventh), still principally descriptive, suggesting the
homely rural life in days gone by. The listener’s atten­
tion is held amid hazy suggestions by such occasional con­
crete details as “the echoing horn” and “the blazing
hearth,” but the picture is still in soft outlines, the sound
pattern is still soothing, and the emotional mood is one
of sympathy and regret. Meanwhile there are two verbal
difficulties of the sort that may cause the listener to “give
up and give in” a little more easily. One is merely the
quaint phrase,
“Or busy housewife ply her evening care.”
The other, which is bound to puzzle even the scholar for
a moment, is a line of which the obscurity seems to be
almost studied:
“Their furrow oft the stubborn glebe has broke.”
54
EVIDENCE
Only after subjecting the listener for twenty-eight lines
to this superlatively skillful combination of soothing
sounds, soothing suggestions, shadowy pictures, and
slightly fatiguing language, does the Elegy offer its first
hypnotic suggestion or command. And this command,
containing the idea of the poem, is given in language so
abstract as to be universal yet so simple as to be unforget-
able. The listener accepts emotionally and holds forever
the idea, perhaps the exact words, of
“Let not Ambition mock their useful toil,
Their homely joys, and destiny obscure;
Nor Grandeur hear with a disdainful smile
The short and simple annals of the poor.”
Here the poem might well close and still be a very ef­
fective piece of poetic hypnotism. But the poet, having
the reader under the spell of his artistry, will not let him
go. He immediately adds three frankly obvious lines of
which the general purport is clear, but in which the in­
version of word order is so overwhelming that four peo­
ple out of five mistake subject and object, and a dis­
tinguished editor like the late Mr. Duncan Tovey must
devote half a page to explaining the sentence structure. No
ordinary listener will untangle the lines successfully, and
if the attempt does not cause fatigue, it will be because he
misses the singular number of the verb awaits, with its
subject hour:
“The boast of heraldry, the pomp of pow’r,
And all that beauty, all that wealth e’er gave
Awaits alike th’ inevitable hour.”
55
HYPNOTIC POETRY
But no matter. The listener’s ear carries the easy rime of
gave, and his whole emotional susceptibility finds satis­
faction in another immortal line:
“The paths of glory lead but to the grave.”
Now come fourteen consecutive stanzas in which the
poem almost follows a set formula, and the formula is
this: four hazy and lazy; one vivid; four hazy and lazy;
one vivid; four hazy and lazy. That is to say, we have four
stanzas of calm platitudinous moralizing and solemn re­
flection, of little intellectual power but of great harmony
in both sound pattern and emotional mood. The descrip­
tion and the ideas are both diluted with more words than
are strictly necessary. Where a modern realist would say:
“If no friends erect monuments in a cathedral” or “ If
no friends erect monuments in Westminster Abbey,”
Gray keeps the imagery less definite, the appeal to the
mind less incisive, but at the same time gives the ear the
onomatopoetic organ tones of
“Where through the long-drawn aisle and fretted vault
The pealing anthem swells the note of praise.”
Then we have a never-to-be-forgotten stanza, which I
have indicated in the formula as “vivid” (the famous one
beginning “Full may a gem of purest ray serene” ). Then
we have four more stanzas similar in tone to the preceding
group of four, but harder to follow; then another im­
mortal one (“Far from the madding crowd’s ignoble
strife” ), and afterwards we have again four of description
56
EVIDENCE
and moralizing, which end with enough perfection of
“ what oft was thought but ne’er so well expressed” to win
the unstinted praise of Dr. Johnson.
Here, after the ninety-second line, the poem distinctly
breaks in structure; also, if my analysis is correct, in psy­
chological effectiveness. With the abrupt “For thee” of
line ninety-three, we are introduced to three separate peo­
ple : “thee,” “some kindred spirit,” and “some hoary-headed
swain,” the last of whom takes the stage and speaks on
until the Epitaph. These concluding stanzas of the body
of the poem are arresting in their personal directness, but
by no means easy to follow. And psychologically it is too
late for further fatigue to have any value; the listeners are
quite fatigued enough already—so one would suppose, and
so my own readings have shown.
But with the Epitaph the poem regains all, or nearly all,
of its former effectiveness. Once more the poet himself
seems to be giving a hypnotic suggestion, and—whoever
the “youth to fortune and to fame unknown” may be—the
language grows simpler, and the idea grows emotionally
more compelling that even the victim of the most obscure
poverty may find repose in
“The bosom of his Father and his God.”
REPETITION AND REFRAIN
“For repetition as the main element in savage poetry
it is useless to spread out evidence; no one denies the fact,
and ethnology is full of it.” Thus the late Mr. Francis B.
57
HYPNOTIC POETRY
Gummere on page 252 of The Beginnings of Poetry. We
need not go beyond the limits of the same volume for con­
vincing evidence that repetition is likewise the main ele­
ment in poetry of the fol\ when they are considerably ad­
vanced beyond the savage state.
Probably the strongest single argument for the trance-
producing effect of certain modern poems would result
from showing the links or successive stages connecting the
admittedly hypnotic incantations of savage tribes with the
polished spellweaving poems of civilization. Although
the extensive gathering and weighing of evidence neces­
sary for such an argument exceeds the scope of this study,
I can suggest some of the links from which such a chain of
evidence could be forged.
Verbal incantations which promote hypnotic “magic”
among savages involve monotonous rhythms often pro­
duced by repeating the same word or phrase again and
again. (This may, or may not, be supplemented by danc­
ing and the beating of tom-toms.) No one who has read
anything about primitive peoples, in scientific treatises or
in popular narratives like Mr. W. B. Seabrook’s Magic
Island, is likely to deny that a state of trance is often pro­
duced largely by the familiar verbal stimuli of monotonous
repetition.
Next we find this element of tiring, yet effective, repeti­
tion in folk songs in general, and especially in popular
ballads. Here, of course, are weak links, or at least ele­
ments of confusion. Folk songs introduce the added factor
of music, and I am reluctant to complicate the argument to
EVIDENCE 59
the extent of trying to separate the musical elements from
the specifically poetic ones. Ballads, when recited, with­
out music, often contain too much interest—compel too
great mental alertness—to be typically hypnotic. Yet de­
spite these elements of confusion I feel that folk poetry
retains the refrain largely for a trance-promoting effective­
ness doubtless little understood but often experienced. The
process of oral tradition, we are told, wore away, or al­
lowed to drop out, all but the essentials of a folk poem.
Wherein is the monotonous repetition essential except for
its peculiar psychological effect? Why, otherwise, did it
survive? Granted the obvious mnemonic appeal to the
group, there is probably a more subtle appeal in the power
of the refrain to induce a light state of autohypnosis.
A later survival of the hypnotic magic of repetition may
perhaps be found in popular hymns. Here again we en­
counter the confusing admixture of music, but the evi­
dence is too interesting to be omitted. Go to any great re­
vival meeting and study the cynical, curious faces of the
late-comers at the back of the auditorium; then watch the
progressive steps of interest, fascination, and ecstasy, as
they gradually come under the spell of the rhythmic repeti­
tion of:
“ There is power, power, power, a wonder-working power,
In the b l o o d of the L a m b,”
or,
“Throw out the lifeline, throw out the lifeline,
Some one is drifting away;
6o HYPNOTIC POETRY
Throw out the lifeline, throw out the lifeline,
Some one is sinking today.”
The success of the exhortation that follows may be due in
no small measure to the effect of the songs in putting the
members of the congregation into a state of abnormal emo­
tional sensitiveness—increased suggestibility,—and the
leader of the meeting is a poor psychologist if he does not
soon have many of them quite at his mercy.
Such being the fairly obvious links in the chain of evi­
dence, I suspect that wherever repetition or refrain is
used freely in a hypnotic or “ somewhat hypnotic” poem,
it is a survival of the old savage rite of hypnotic incanta­
tion. Take away the refrain from Mr. Alfred Noyes’s
“somewhat hypnotic” ballad of The Highwayman, and
note the diminution of the spellweaving effect. Take the
most hypnotic of Poe’s lyrics, and note their dependence on
the art of repetition. Elaborate the test by applying it to all
the poems which any one reader finds most hypnotic, and
draw the logical conclusion.
DISCUSSION OF EVIDENCE
What does all this analysis prove? Not that the poems
discussed are the most hypnotic ones theoretically conceiv­
able. Not that they are necessarily the greatest short poems
in the language. Simply that in their method and order of
procedure they subject the listener to a series of combined
physical and psychical stimuli so similar to those used in
the typical hypnotic clinic that the parallel is not likely to
EVIDENCE 61
be a mere coincidence. We have similar causes producing
in the one case a state of trance where the subject’s resist­
ance is definitely broken down till he is en rapport with
the hypnotist, in the other case a state of emotional re­
sponsiveness where the subject’s resistance is broken down
till he is spellbound. Is not the presumption all in favor
of the hypothesis suggested—that certain poems do put
the listener into a light state of trance?
We may call the listener’s condition “a hypnoidal state,”
or, if that introduces a difficulty as to whether he is en
rapport with the poet or with the reader, we may call it
simply “a light state of ecstatic trance” ; but whatever we
call it, we must recognize that the listener has undergone a
peculiar psychological experience. We cannot shut our
eyes to the fact that the key phrases of hypnotic poems
have become embedded in his subconscious mind through
a process that is not wholly intellectual. He is more fixed in
his hope that he may see his “Pilot face to face” than if
he had been listening to an argument on immortality, more
determined to “Follow the Gleam” than if he had been
reading an essay on idealism. Above all, he has had an
aesthetic experience made possible only by hypnotic art.
A distinguished psychologist, who agrees with the main
thesis that I have advanced in this chapter, asks me whether
I regard it as moral for the poet to drive home his ideas by
a process that is largely non-rational. And my answer is
that, whether moral or not, it is a method often used to
achieve an end in the art of poetry and that as such it
should be understood by critics. Granted that the technique
62 HYPNOTIC POETRY
of the hypnotic poem might be used to disseminate ideas
not sound, the abuse of the art is not inevitable or even fre­
quent. We have outgrown the stage where the fact that
paintings of the nude may be undesirably sensual is urged
as a reason for compelling all painters to drape the human
figure. Frankly I incline to agree that some poets have
abused their hypnotic power, but, as I show in Chapter
VIII, not many.
Some one is sure to ask whether it is as high art to convey
an idea by this hypnotic process as to accomplish the same
result by means of an intellectualist poem. The question is
apt, but to my mind one that may be waived. My chief
concern is that these hypnotic poems shall be experienced,
enjoyed, and criticised according to the technique which
they employ, and that intellectualist poems shall be read,
studied, enjoyed, and criticised on a very different basis.
If this point has been made, I am content to leave to others
the question of artistic superiority.
V
SEMIHYPNOTIC
POEMS__________________________
I
n the four preceding chapters I have aimed to explain
and make at least plausible the theory that certain
poems gain their power by applying the laws and prin­
ciples of hypnotism, regardless of whether the poet has a
theoretical knowledge of such laws. In this chapter and
those that follow I shall assume that the theory is true, at
least to the extent of using it as a working hypothesis for
criticism.
Hypnotic technique in poetry provides a short cut or
special route to the mood of ecstasy in which the listener
often experiences the maximum enjoyment of a work of
art. In The Literature of Ecstasy Mr. Albert Mordell has
shown with able argument and profuse illustration the
importance of this single element, which he has stressed
in the title of his book, as an essential of great literature.
And although we may disagree with Mr. MordelPs peculiar
use of the word poetry and with many of his subordinate
statements, I think we must pay a merited tribute to his
success in emphasizing ecstasy as the criterion by which a
great aesthetic experience is distinguished from a small
one. If we turn from Mr. Mordell’s book to the study of
the trance of ecstasy in Mr. James Leuba’s Psychology of
Religious Mysticism, we may be able to synthesize certain
63
HYPNOTIC POETRY
ideas—not explicitly stated, but suggested—into a few
statements about hypnotic poetry:
1. The production of ecstasy in the reader is one of the
characteristics of great poetry.
2. Ecstasy is one of the recognized phenomena in a cer­
tain state of trance.
3. Poetic ecstasy is sometimes (not often) produced by
a peculiar hypnotic technique which psychology enables
us to isolate.
4. Hypnotic technique in poetry is, then, the use of
physical and psychical stimuli which tend to induce a light
state of ecstatic trance in which emotional play is intensi­
fied.
5. This hypnotic technique has often been used by poets
who had no knowledge of the facts about hypnosis familiar
to modern science.
When I speak of a “semihypnotic” poem, I mean to im­
ply either or both of two things: (1) That it contains one
or more passages employing marked hypnotic technique,
along with other passages of patently intellectualist tech­
nique. (2) That despite some quality—narrative interest,
for instance—which keeps it from being completely hyp­
notic in effect, it does usually tend to be spellweaving and
sometimes is peculiarly so. The terms sometimes hypnotic
and somewhat hypnotic would often be more exact, but
refinements in phraseology involve us in such nice dis­
tinctions and complicated explanations that I shall simplify
matters by using the single term semihypnotic.
Semihypnotic poems are so numerous in English that I
64
SEMIHYPNOTIC POEMS
shall limit myself in this chapter to consideration of a
very few which, while familiar, invite criticism from a
special psychological standpoint. I shall not, of course, at­
tempt in any case a complete criticism (whatever that
phrase may imply), but shall make various random re­
marks relating principally to hypnotic technique as pro­
moting that “transcendental feeling” which, as Mr. }. A.
Stewart has remarked in his brilliant Introduction to The
Myths of Plato, “is the essential charm of all poetry.” I
shall also comment a little on three poets whose work has
but a modicum of hypnotic art—Browning, Whitman,
and Wordsworth.
Semihypnotic poems usually contain a good deal of food
for thought. Their imagery is often clear, their contrasts
may be striking, and at times they compel mental alert­
ness and demand study. To that extent they are typically
intellectualist. But here and there are passages which in­
vite an easy, dreamy enjoyment and which if read aloud
tend to promote a momentary slipping off into a light state
of trance. The listener at such times feels a delicious sense
of ecstasy and, regardless of the exact meaning of the words
being spoken, drifts along on the stream of harmonious
sounds and hazy impressions.
65
BROWNING
Browning’s technique is seldom hypnotic. Love Among
the Ruins is, in fact, his only familiar poem of any length
which I have heard mentioned as likely to lull the listeners
66 HYPNOTIC POETRY
into harmonious agreement with its thesis by a non-rational
process. If we may speak of the “characteristic manner” of
a poet so versatile, Browning’s characteristic manner is the
reverse of hypnotic in nearly every particular: his rhythms
are not conspicuously regular; his versification is seldom
intricately ornate enough to fix the attention on sound
rather than sense; he habitually uses dramatic contrasts
and grotesque effects which startle us into intense mental
activity; he makes little use of repetition; and he argues
far more than he suggests.
But, as Browning knew full well, intellectualist poetry
may move readers of a certain type to a pitch of high
ecstasy. His best poems illustrate (and prove, if proof were
necessary) how absurdly we should err if we assumed that
hypnotic technique was the only sure means of attaining
the distinction of great poetry. Certain lovers of Browning,
readers not too lazy to crack the hard shell and find the
kernel, encounter in his works more passages where they
enjoy the ecstatic thrill of approaching the sublime than
in those of any other English poet since Milton. Such pas­
sages are almost uniformly intellectualist and should be
criticised on that basis.
There are, nevertheless, several noteworthy instances of
hypnotic, or semihypnotic technique. The conclusion of
the first section of The Ring and the Boo\ (the twenty-six
lines beginning, “O lyric Love,” ) is universally admitted
to approach the sublime, and on analysis proves to be
pure hypnotism—a series of phrases suggesting with in­
imitable art the rare mood of adoration. We enjoy them
SEMIHYPNOTIC POEMS
not in an intellectual way, nor in a pictorial way, but in a
way which psychology is enabling us to understand. The
exact meaning is so perplexing that even after devoting a
special appendix to it in his exhaustive Commentary on The
Ring and the Boo\ Mr. A. K. Cook leaves it still dubious.
The matchless phrases, made effective by an unusual har­
mony of mellifluous sounds, blend the suggestion of chival­
rous adoration with that of religious fervor—a thing ex­
tremely difficult to accomplish—so successfully that the
passage, read aloud without comment, produces an effect
seldom equaled. A few other passages where Browning
uses a semihypnotic technique are: the Lover’s last long
speech of In a Gondola, the climactic stanzas of Rabbi
Ben Ezra (which for the most part is typically intellectual-
ist) and A Woman’s Last Word.
KIPLING
Mandalay
Probably the best known of Kipling’s semihypnotic
poems is Mandalay. It contrasts strongly with such an intel-
lectualist achievement as An Imperial Rescript, where
vivid characterization and humor combine to make com­
pelling the stimulating idea that
“We will work for ourself and a woman, for ever and ever,
amen.”
Though a strictly silent reading of An Imperial Rescript
brings out virtually every excellence the poem has to offer,
67
68 HYPNOTIC POETRY
such is far from being the case with Mandalay. Intermixed
with the three brilliant stanzas devoted to the “ Burma
girl” in her Oriental surroundings and the two stanzas
presenting the contrasting “fifty ’ousemaids” of London,
there is a lilting, alluring melody towards the end of each
stanza leading always into the same refrain—
“On the road to Mandalay” etc.
If we succeed in disassociating the poem from its two
familiar tunes (of which one is somewhat namby-pamby
and the other stirring and martial) and submit it to the
test of reading aloud, we find it rich with brief touches of
hypnotic art. People virtually cannot, and certainly do not,
visualize clearly
“Where the old Flotilla lay—
Can’t you ’ear their paddles chunkin’ from Rangoon to Man­
dalay?”
Whether the paddles “chunk” as the Flotilla steams from
Rangoon to Mandalay, or whether the “chunkin’ ” is heard
from one place to the other, seems of no importance, nor
does the exact appearance of a “road” with “flyin’-fishes.”
(“Road,” one may remark, sometimes means “harbor”—
but apparently it does not here!) No matter: it is all exotic
and alluring.
The hypnotic passes, however, are not sustained; the
dreamy mood is persistently interrupted by striking, color­
ful pictures, some of them even grotesque, and the full
trance of hypnotic poetry is not induced. Yet the refrain
SEMIHYPNOTIC POEMS
takes on some little touch of magic art, and by repetition
becomes a sort of incantation to bring the listener into
fuller emotional sympathy with the poet’s mood. What­
ever one may have thought before, one comes to feel that
this man Kipling must be right—he knows—and in that
frame of mind one fairly revels in the vigorous final stanza:
“Ship me somewheres east of Suez. . . .”
POE
The Raven and Ulalume
Whether we should call The Raven hypnotic or not de­
pends on whether it weaves a certain spell when read aloud
under favorable conditions. For myself I cannot remember
ever reading it under favorable conditions; I was only a
boy when I heard parodies of it and parodied it myself,
nor do I suppose I have ever read it to people of any matu­
rity whose reaction was not conditioned in this way. There
are, however, accounts of the tremendous and lasting ef­
fect the poem created when it was first read, especially
when it was read by Poe himself.
So far as I can analyze the technique of The Raven, it is
not hypnotic in every respect. Its narrative interest compels
a degree of mental alertness hardly consistent with any
one’s falling into a state of trance, nor of giving even
momentary belief to the incidents. The story or plot of
the poem is improbable; it stretches one’s credulity to the
breaking point. Quite apart from the unlikelihood of the
Raven’s entering and behaving as reported, it is improbable
69
HYPNOTIC POETRY
in a more fundamental way that a despondent lover would
torment himself by making a raven confirm his fear that
his “lost Lenore” is indeed lost forever. Taking the whole
poem on a higher plane, we may regard it as symbolic of
the inevitability of grief, of tragedy in life and love; but
still there are difficulties. That these difficulties are largely
overcome shows the poem to be in other respects a tour de
force of hypnotic artistry.
The sound pattern completely fixes the attention by its
elaborate ornamentation of internal rime and end-rime of
one and two syllables, and by other devices of a more
subtle nature. It is extremely regular in its procession of
trochees; it involves much repetition and, of course, a re­
frain. Few poems, if any, in the English language tend so
strongly to fix the listener’s attention on the physical ele­
ment of sound. In my own reading, I always feel impelled
to make a definite crescendo as the poem advances, a cre­
scendo inherent in the poem itself, not artificially added,
and I find a climax of volume in next to the last stanza
coincident with the climax of emotion.
Concurrent with this hypnotic pattern of sound is a
brilliant use of psychical suggestion. The minor key of
melancholy is used early in the poem and is continued with
increasing effectiveness until the climax. We hear a singu­
larly rich harmony of suggestive words—“midnight
dreary,” “weak and weary,” “quaint and curious volume of
forgotten lore,” “bleak December,” “dying ember,” “ghost”
—and then the clear, simple tones of “sorrow, sorrow for
the lost Lenore.” By the most gradual transitions we are
70
SEMIHYPNOTIC POEMS
led on in the succeeding stanzas from suggested melancholy
to grief, from grief to tragedy, and from tragedy to a mood
of what Poe called, in another connection, “deep and irre­
deemable gloom .”
Poe’s Ulalume is a rather hypnotic poem in its effect on
som e people, not on others. Those who find it so, see no
allegory in it, get no very definite post-hypnotic sugges­
tion from it, yet are so lulled into a sympathetic mood by
its artistry as to accept the concluding tragic melancholy
with peculiarly strong emotion. Other listeners, also fail­
in g to see the allegory, are so annoyed by what they con­
sider its meaningless verbiage that they dislike it strongly,
regarding it frankly as Poe’s worst poem—perhaps an at­
tem pt to test the gullibility of the public. A third group of
readers, having fathomed the allegory to their own satis­
faction, like the poem immensely but find it far too stimu­
lating mentally to be hypnotic. The question just how far
the allegory is an autobiography so fascinates such readers
that they never sink into the state of complete emotional
responsiveness. In view of this situation it may be well to
include here a key to the allegory, which was suggested to
me some years ago by a friend and which has since, I be­
lieve, appeared occasionally in print: The speaker ( “ I” ) is
falling in love (not for the first time) and is communing
with his soul (Psyche) trying to still the soul’s instinctive
objections to the new romance. Astarte, his new beloved,
comes to him—in spite of the Lion (another suitor?)—
and the speaker accepts her, calm ing the strong but vague
7 1
72 HYPNOTIC POETRY
objections of his soul. Suddenly some coincidence of date
and place makes it overwhelmingly evident that the
speaker has already had the one great romance of his life,
and that the memory of his lost Ulalume will forever bar
Astarte from his heart. If the poem is autobiographical,
the speaker is Poe, Ulalume is his wife, and the puzzle is
to identify Astarte. Such a puzzle naturally destroys the
subtle hypnotic effect, but gives the poem a tantalizing in­
terest.
SHAKESPEARE
To Be or Not to Be
Shakespeare’s To Be or Not to Be is not strictly a hyp­
notic poem because it is not, properly speaking, a poem at
all, but a blank verse speech in a play. It contributes its
magnificent quota to the scene at a point where a great
emotional climax is not needed for dramatic purposes.
Nevertheless, I have mentioned it early in Chapter I be­
cause it proceeds in a somewhat hypnotic manner.
As for Hamlet’s specific thought on suicide, not all—not
nearly all—who admire the passage and have been moved
by it, can tell on what ground Hamlet comes to his con­
clusion, and a few cannot even tell to what conclusion he
comes! This fact—which the reader can easily verify
for himself by questioning a dozen friends—disposes at
once of the view that the idea or intellectual depth of the
passage is a primary element of its effectiveness. It would be
possible to confirm this by argument: no very great mind
is needed to say, “Life is so burdensome that I should kill
SEMIHYPNOTIC POEMS
myself if I were not afraid of the hereafter” ! But argu­
ment is superfluous where the fact has been established by
simpler means.
Yet the great soliloquy is as rich in suggestive metaphors
and moving images as it is poor in thought. It is a har­
mony of phrases all calculated to arouse the listener’s emo­
tion. From “the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,”
on through a dozen others too well known to need repeti­
tion here, it moves magnificently on to the matchless
phrase for death—
“The undiscovered country from whose bourn
No traveller returns.”
It is this phrase which contains the lasting post-hypnotic
suggestion.
My own interest in this soliloquy lies in the perfection
with which it shows how certain things and certain in­
dividuals fall into a circle of ever-increasing potency. A
great hypnotist is known to have vast powers of inducing
hypnosis; his new patients are so well aware of his reputa­
tion that a “suggestion” of being easily hypnotized is im­
planted in them even before they see him. His ability leads
to a reputation which, in turn, increases his ability until
he can hypnotize almost without effort. Likewise a great
speech such as To Be or Not to Be is known to have moved
vast audiences so deeply that a “suggestion” of yielding to
its spell is given us as we sit in the theatre and hear the
first six words. Expecting to be moved, we are moved more
deeply, or more easily, than would otherwise be possible.
73
74 HYPNOTIC POETRY
TENNYSON1
The Lady of Shalott, Lockjley Hall, Ulysses, and Crossing
the Bar
Looking at the printed page, one sees that The Lady of
Shalott consists of nineteen apparently identical stanzas of
this pattern:
a
a
a
a
First Refrain of “Camelot”
b
b
b
Second Refrain of “Shalott”
Although the word “Lancelot” is substituted once for the
usual first refrain, and once for the second, in other re­
spects the nineteen stanzas appear identical.
But on closer analysis we find the pattern of rhythms
is repeatedly changed—not varied with irregularities, but
changed. The first stanza is iambic with the usual one-
syllable rimes; the second is trochaic with two-syllable
rimes; the third is trochaic catalectic with one-syllable
rimes, and then iambic; the fourth is trochaic, like the
second, and so on. The eleventh stanza begins with four
lines of iambs but an extra syllable allows the two-syllable
1 For discussions of In Memoriam and Merlin and the Gleam sec pages
85 and 152 respectively.
SEMIHYPNOTIC POEMS
rimes of weather, leather, feather, and together. On com­
pleting the analysis of the versification, I find it leads no­
where. The rhythms change without systematic relation
from stanza to stanza in each of the four Parts into which
the poem is formally divided.
Taking a fresh start and considering the effect of the
poem as a whole, we note several features: the gorgeous
descriptions of the landscape and of Lancelot’s trappings,
.the narrative interest, the mystery of the spell or “curse,”
the solemn tragedy, and the peaceful (anticlimactic ?) bene­
diction with which the poem closes. In a still larger way
we feel a suggestion of symbolism—a suspicion that the
Lady’s fate is symbolic of that of others who are sheltered
and then suddenly brought into contact with the full force
of a life that is too strong for them.
The poem when read aloud does not produce a uni­
formly hypnotic effect. This fact is probably due first to
the frequent abrupt changes in rhythm, and second to the
occasional touches of intense narrative interest. Neverthe­
less, there are several sustained passages so dreamily har­
monious in sound, so elaborately interlocked by rhythm,
rime, and refrain, that the listener feels himself quite help­
less to resist the suggestion of the supernatural. Indeed it
is not until the thirty-fifth line, when the hypnotic spell is
woven, that we are asked to accept the supernatural—that
we find we have a “fairy” lady.
Most people who have read Loc\sley Hall only once or
twice admire it without knowing what it is all about.
75
HYPNOTIC POETRY
Later, on closer study, they find it seems to represent a
series of unrelated and sometimes contradictory attitudes
toward life not very clearly separated from each other.
One that is very often quoted (“I will take some savage
woman” ) proves to be utterly repudiated a few lines later
by the speaker, who says in condemnation:
“Fool, again the dream, the fancy! But I \now my words are
wild.”
Further study, however, shows that each of these mo­
mentary outbursts or temporary attitudes towards life, is
quite appropriate when spoken by the disillusioned lover.
Part of the keen enjoyment of the poem ultimately comes
from sorting the speaker’s outbursts into two groups—
the temporary and the abiding. And among the latter is,
of course, the magnificent “vision of the world and all
the wonder that would be,” with its prophecy of air trans­
port and world peace. The height to which the mind may
soar on the sheer intellectual inspiration of such a passage
is virtually unlimited, and the ecstasy aroused is largely
an intellectual thrill.
Yet I cannot but think this magnificent effect is some­
times promoted, and as often retarded, by various touches
of hypnotic stimulus. Is it not significant that the false
metaphor of the world spinning forever—a railway
train—“down the ringing grooves of change” was never
corrected? Tennyson wrote the line supposing the
wheels of a train ran in grooves, and when he discovered
76
SEMIHYPNOTIC POEMS
his error, he preferred to keep the figure vague.
If the poem be broken up into its proper sections, we
find it to consist of a series of short passages—several of
them considerable enough to make complete independent
poems. Now intellectually these various units do not sup­
port each other in producing a cumulative force or climac­
tic effect, but as psychological stimuli they do. The long
end-stopt lines riming in couplets compel a monotonous
rising and falling pitch pattern which eventually becomes
hypnotic. This dulls the listener’s mental alertness and
doubtless causes him to miss some of the nice points of the
speaker’s reasoning, but it also tends to break down pos­
sible resistance and put the listener into a receptive mood.
If the metre were as monotonous as the pitch patterns,
the poem would perhaps become an intellectual slumber-
song—an inartistic hybrid. And it does lean in that
direction. But fortunately the metre is trickily varied; al­
though we seem to have standard lines of trochaic octam­
eter catalectic, there are many with only four primary
stresses; for example,
“In the Parliament of man, the Federation of the world.”
77
Almost every young man at some time in his life finds
Ulysses the most inspiring short poem in the English lan­
guage. This statement, made by a distinguished English
critic, is probably not an exaggeration; in any case, the
poem is a masterpiece, and any new light on the reasons
for its effectiveness should be welcome.
7 8 HYPNOTIC POETRY
That the blank verse is perfect and that the theme is
inspiring are commonly accepted as sufficient reasons for
the satisfaction the poem gives. And certainly it was a
stroke of genius when Tennyson took from Dante the
post-Homeric Ulysses and by a few deft changes made
him representative of the seeker for truth of any sort in
any age—one whose spirit yearns^
“To follow knowledge like a sinking star,
Beyond the utmost bound of human thought.”
But the art of the poem lies not only in these brilliant
strokes which are recognized by conventional criticism. It
lies quite as much in masterly touches of the hypnotic tech­
nique which make perfection more perfect.
The verse is not monotonously regular enough to pro­
duce the completely soothing effect of Gray’s Elegy; the
numerous run-on lines prevent the regular rising and fall­
ing pitch pattern. But the proportion of regular iambs
is very great when compared with the proportion in, say,
Paradise Lost, and as the poem draws to its impressive
conclusion the stresses fall with an unusual degree of
regularity. If the pitch pattern is not hypnotic, the
rhythm is.
The ideas (in which this poem is far richer than a
typical hypnotic poem) scrupulously avoid anything
startling, and allow the listeners an easy progress from
one to the next. Thus if the listeners never slip off into
an actual state of trance, they are never very far from it.
Now from the psychological standpoint these ideas con-
SEMIHYPNOTIC POEMS
sist of four preliminary stages and then a post-hypnotic
suggestion: (i) Lines 1-17 tell what this Tennysonian
Ulysses has done in the world of affairs, notably
“Far on the ringing plains of windy Troy.”
(2) Lines 18-32 progress naturally to Ulysses’ insatiable
thirst for knowledge, which has led him into this active
life and which still lures him on despite his age. (3) Lines
33-43 digress on Telemachus, and certainly lessen the force
of the hypnotic spell by their laconic conclusion,
“He works his work, I mine.”
(4) Lines 44-53, specifically addressed to “My Mariners,”
contain a suggestion of the great discoveries yet to be
made, and end with the lines,
“Some work of noble note may yet be done
Not unbecoming men that strove with gods.”
The last seventeen lines, containing what I have called
the post-hypnotic suggestion, begin with the description
of the harbor at twilight,
“The lights begin to twinkle from the rocks,”
and then continue with a specific exhortation which subtly
but irresistibly becomes the poet’s exhortation to his lis­
teners quite as much as Ulysses’ to his mariners. At the
words,
“Come, my friends,
’Tis not too late to seek a newer world,”
79
the listeners find that the words addressed to the mari­
ners apply to themselves and realize that the search for
knowledge and experience should be their own. Prior
to this point, they have merely admired Ulysses’ atti­
tude and hoped the mariners would support him. Now
they find the quest is one in which they too may join.
Thus the monologue, which has begun in a mood of
meditative reminiscence, ends with the inspiring never-
to-be-forgotten command, which has the psychological
effect of a post-hypnotic suggestion—
“To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.”
80 HYPNOTIC POETRY
I may note here a personal reaction to Crossing the
Bar because it illustrates how a certain analytical tendency
may break the spell of hypnotic art. Until a few years
ago I had found Crossing the Bar typically hypnotic in
its effect on others and on myself. To be sure, I usually
heard it read at funerals, where I was already subject to
influences likely to render me susceptible to such a poem,
but even after making allowances I felt that the poem
had a real “spell” for me. Subsequently I became inter­
ested in the notion that man’s existence might be both pre­
natal and post-mortem as suggested in Wordsworth’s
great Ode, and found the idea perhaps implied in Tenny­
son’s two lines—
“When that which drew from out the boundless deep
Turns again home.”
SEMIHYPNOTIC POEMS 81
Questions as to whether Tennyson meant to convey this
specific idea of pre-natal existence, and of his relation to
Wordsworth, have subsequently associated themselves in
my mind with the second stanza of Crossing the Bar,
and the spell, so far as I am concerned, is no longer cast.
That is to say, I cannot experience the poem as an artistic
unit nearly so well as before.
WHITMAN
Whitman’s best poems, despite their general neglect of
some obvious hypnotic stimuli, contain, nevertheless, pas­
sages of peculiar interest to this study. Leaving out of con­
sideration O Captainl My Captain! which is in a class by
itself, we find that many of his representative pieces—Out
of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking and When Lilacs Last in
the Dooryard Bloom'd, to take the most familiar ones—
sometimes put certain people under a spell of peculiar
magic. Whether they do so depends partly on the sen­
sitiveness of the listener and partly on the manner of
reading.
There is only one best way to read Whitman aloud, a
way which resembles the usual solemn, almost intoned,
manner of reading the Psalms. If such a reading does not
make Whitman effective for the listener, nothing further
can be done about it. The lack of rimes and regular metre
causes such annoyance, at what is felt to be a literary hy­
brid, that some people cannot, even by the most patient
effort, acquire a taste for Whitman.
82 HYPNOTIC POETRY
People of a different aesthetic responsiveness find that
the sound of Whitman’s verse—when read their way—in­
volves three elements combined into a somewhat hypnotic
stimulus. First, two-syllable and three-syllable rhythms
more regular than those of standard English prose, but
less regular than those of strict metre, attract them as a
happy medium between disorder on the one hand and
mechanical standardization on the other, even as the
varied beating of waves on the shore is rhythmically more
pleasing to some than the regular swinging of a pendu­
lum. And as rhythm in the last analysis is largely a sub­
jective experience, we cannot say more, or less, than that
some people do react thus to Whitman. Second, his indi­
vidual lines, almost invariably end-stopt, allow (and
virtually compel) repetition of a rising and falling pitch
pattern which makes the tune of one line much like that
of the others. If this one-line pitch pattern is brought out
by modulation of the voice, and the line-unit is empha­
sized by a slight pause, there is created a line-by-line
rhythm on which some listeners cannot but fix their at­
tention. Third, Whitman’s representative poems make
such free use of repetition as to suggest the hypnotic in­
cantations of olden days. As the actual quantity of repe­
tition is greater than would be supposed possible in the
work of a writer who studiously avoids such conventional
devices as metre and rime, I must refer the reader to the
excellent recent study by Miss Autrey Wiley in American
Literature for May, 1929. Indeed, Whitman’s artistry in
the effective use of parallelism, refrain, and various other
sorts of reiteration makes him a master of this single
phase of hypnotic art.
The psychical stimuli needed to complete the process of
putting the listener into even the lightest state of trance
are not often to be found. His most characteristic manner
is about as unhypnotic as that of any writer of his century.
If he compels mental alertness by his abruptness, his in­
cisiveness, and his colloquial vigor, he goes still more
directly against the principles of hypnotism by focusing
our attention not on one simple phase of life, but on a
series of varied pictures painted with the bold strokes of
an avowed realist.
In his most lyrical passages, however, such as the best
parts of Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking and When
Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d, Whitman soothes
us—or some of us—into a mood of considerable suggesti­
bility, and then gives us telling post-hypnotic suggestions.
His range is so considerable, his manner varies so much
from one poem to another, that the student of Whitman
w ill find the search for semihypnotic passages amply re­
paid. Among fascinating topics is the doubtful relation of
his own mystical trances to the long “inventories” by
which he may have been trying to give his readers an
opportunity to enjoy similar transcendent experiences.
WORDSWORTH
Although Wordsworth’s poetry is unlike Browning’s in
most respects, it has in common with it the fact of being
almost never strictly hypnotic. Sustained passages of
SEMIHYPNOTIC POEMS 83
HYPNOTIC POETRY
verbal hypnotism such as we frequently find in Poe,
Tennyson, and Swinburne, are utterly inconsistent with
the Wordsworthian manner.
This does not, however, mean that there are to be found
in Wordsworth no hypnotic touches whatever. If I were
asked to indicate offhand the two brief passages most
certain to have what I call a spellweaving effect on an
audience, I should of course choose a particular passage
from Tintern Abbey and stanza V of the great Ode. In
these two poems Wordsworth surpassed his usual style in
many felicitous ways; hence it is not safe to infer that
their success is due to his use of hypnotic technique, or
that the poems should be read and criticised on that basis.
We may, however, note as a matter of scientific interest a
few points. The sound pattern of Tintern Abbey is
smooth and regular enough to be somewhat soothing;
the mood of solemn meditation (almost the “churchyard
mood” ) is suggested and maintained with little interrup­
tion to startle one into mental alertness; a few crucial lines
linger in the memory, possibly because they have been
embedded there with the force of an actual hypnotic sug­
gestion—
“The still, sad music of humanity.”
“A presence that disturbs me with the joy
Of elevated thoughts.”
If the reader retains a lasting sense of this “presence,” it is
not because its existence has been proved to him by the
poet, but because he has attained the light state of trance
84
SEMIHYPNOTIC POEMS
in which he accepts the poet’s dictum unreservedly by a
non-rational process. Whether this process is sub-rational or
super-rational is perhaps vital—but not to a study of
poetic art.
The memorable lines in stanza V of the great Ode
exert on the listener a spell so much more powerful than
what precedes or what follows that they challenge criti­
cism to account for it. Here is a suggestive experiment:
neglect the meaning of the poem as a whole and read only
stanzas II, III, IV, and V. Make the reading of stanzas II,
III, and IV too rapid to allow the listeners to make much
sense out of what they hear, and modify the spirited
sound pattern into what can only be called a rapid in­
tonation or chant. Then, more slowly and more solemnly,
read stanza V as if it were all that really counts, as if the
preceding lines had been only necessary hypnotic passes.
Does the poem lose anything by this treatment? It loses
two fine passages of consolation at the ends of stanza IX
and stanza XI. To my mind the experiment merely con­
firms the opinion that in the great Ode Wordsworth was
using to advantage every sort of poetic art—even hypnotic.
85
LONG POEMS
In Memoriam and Evangeline
I have put these two poems side by side in the hope of
startling the reader into focusing his attention on the
hypnotic quality in its essence. In Memoriam, philo­
sophic, argumentative, and reflective, differs in almost every
86 HYPNOTIC POETRY
particular from Evangeline, narrative, simple, even naive.
Yet the two poems have in common the psychological
effect of promoting trance. If one reads aloud a hundred
lines chosen from almost any part of In Memoriam, there
is produced a cumulative soothing effect which gives to
certain sections a distinctly hypnotic force. Similarly a
hundred lines chosen—perhaps with more care—from
Evangeline build up gradually an entrancing power well-
nigh irresistible. Neither of the two selections quoted below
is quite hypnotic in itself—that is, if read with no prepara­
tion. But if the reader will try the experiment of reading,
say, the eighty lines preceding either of these selections and
thus leading into it, he may share my experience of finding
it typically hypnotic.
“When on my bed the moonlight falls,
I know that in thy place of rest,
By that broad water of the west,
There comes a glory on the walls:
Thy marble bright in dark appears,
As slowly steals a silver flame
Along the letters of thy name,
And o’er the number of thy years.
The mystic glory swims away;
From off my bed the moonlight dies;
And, closing eaves of wearied eyes,
I sleep till dusk is dipt in gray:
And then I know the mist is drawn
A lucid veil from coast to coast,
SEMIHYPNOTIC POEMS 87
And in the dark church, like a ghost,
Thy tablet glimmers in the dawn.”
“ Still stands the forest primeval; but far away from its shadow,
Side by side, in their nameless graves, the lovers are sleeping.
Under the humble walls of the little Catholic churchyard,
In the heart of the city, they lie, unknown and unnoticed.
Daily the tides of life go ebbing and flowing beside them,
Thousands of throbbing hearts, where theirs are at rest and
forever,
Thousands of aching brains, where theirs no longer are busy,
Thousands of toiling hands, where theirs have ceased from
their labors,
Thousands of weary feet, where theirs have completed their
journey!”
When Poe wrote that “the phrase, ‘a long poem,’ is
simply a flat contradiction in terms,” he confused the is­
sues sadly. And though he supported the statement by
clever argument in The Philosophy of Composition and
again in The Poetic Principle, neither argument is con­
vincing. A more exact statement of the matter is this:
A long poem often divides itself naturally into passages
each of which is a unit, much as each stanza in Mr. Wil­
liam Ellery Leonard’s Two Lives is a sonnet in itself.
Some of these passages may be hypnotic, in which case
they will not greatly exceed a hundred lines apiece in
length and may be much shorter. Most of the passages,
especially if the poem be principally narrative, will be of
the intellectualist type. In any case the individual units
can be fairly treated as short poems, for despite all I have
88 HYPNOTIC POETRY
said about the necessity of reading a hypnotic poem in full,
it is not necessary to read all of Evangeline or of Mr.
Stephen Vincent Benet’s John Browns Body to get the
trance effect!
Evangeline in particular offers a field for more astute
criticism than has yet been made of it. At its worst (when
the hexameters are too halting to satisfy one’s rhythmic
sense and the action is too slow to hold one’s interest) it
sinks to a very low ebb. But at its best it has long passages
so soothingly hypnotic that the listener cannot help re­
sponding to the deep chords of tragedy which the poet
occasionally strikes. The conflict of gushing admiration
and violent condemnation over Evangeline is one of the
outstanding evidences of the confusion in criticism. The
fact is that in Evangeline Longfellow applied the hypnotic
method to a long narrative poem, with rather better re­
sults, artistically, than might be expected.
VERY SHORT POEMS
Such poems as are found to be hypnotic only after intro­
ductory remarks by the reader remind us of those hyp­
notic clinics where the operator, before beginning to
hypnotize, exerts his utmost skill to make a strong per­
sonal impression on the subject, inspiring him with con­
fidence. It is an interesting experiment with a poem
which has all the hypnotic characteristics except the
length necessary to allow for the slow process of induc­
ing the trance, to precede it by remarks calculated to pro­
mote its effectiveness. Something may occasionally be ac-
SEMIHYPNOTIC POEMS
complished. But far more effective is the experiment of
reading it, without comment, just after a longer hypnotic
poem by the same poet. Both Stevenson’s Requiem and
Poe’s To Helen seem to me to suffer—as hypnotic poems
— from this undue brevity. But the sixteen short lines of
Tennyson’s Brea\, Brea\, Brea\ seem in my own experi­
ments to weave a spell without support.
CONCLUSION
It would appear unnecessary to include in this study
other semihypnotic poems which lend themselves to the
process of analysis from this standpoint. If the reader finds
any merit in the procedure, if he finds the essential value
of certain poems more readily by scrutinizing them from
this particular psychological point of view in addition to
others that are more usual, he can easily apply the method
to such poems as suggest themselves.
According to my own judgment there are dozens of
poems—to consider only the more familiar ones—which
take advantage of the hypnotic principle to some extent.
They are not completely hypnotic; they do not, even
under the most favorable conditions, produce a state of
trance. But each has one or more passages tending in that
direction. And in attempting an appreciative criticism of
such a poem it is unwise to assume that every part must be
rich with some golden thought or else with some gem of
description. Mr. E. A. Greening Lamborn was on very
safe ground when he said in his Rudiments of Criticism,
“ Repeated experiments have shown that children not only
89
9o HYPNOTIC POETRY
enjoy listening to the music of poetry in an unknown
tongue, but that they are keenly responsive to its emo­
tional appeal.” I think we may go a good deal further,
and say that even for the most mature adults a quatrain
may serve a very useful artistic purpose, without either
conveying a specific idea or presenting a vivid image,
provided its sound pattern is fascinating enough to fix the
attention. I do not say, however, that such quatrains are
utilized with equal success by different poets, or by the
same poet in different compositions. Herein, of course,
lies the opportunity for discriminating criticism.
VI
POETIC
INSPIRATION___________________
So much has been written, ever since the time of Plato,
about “poetic inspiration” that we all know well
enough what the vague phrase means, without having a
clear conception of how the phenomenon is produced.
The poetic “frenzy,” “fury,” “ecstasy,” or “inspiration”
is a rare condition in which the poet is carried “out of
himself,” as we say, into a mood of sublime elevation; and
in that mood, happily for us, he is articulate. The question
of supreme interest is, what lifts him ? What forces com­
bine to turn the mere man into the “inspired” poet for a
few minutes or a few hours, after which he drops back
into everyday life ?
It would be both presumptuous and futile for an in­
dividual to attempt anew, where so many keen minds
have failed, an analysis of all the circumstances which
combine to produce the well-known effect. Yet I cannot
but think that we shall come a little nearer to an under­
standing of the phenomenon if we stress more than is
generally done the psychological effect of rhythm in
leading to a state of trance and in intensifying emotional
susceptibility. Here again I must disclaim any great
originality. Although the views set forth in 1910 by Mr.
George Woodberry in The Inspiration of Poetry are not
91
92 HYPNOTIC POETRY
in the main acceptable to some of us, nevertheless on
pages 207-209 he gives hints which may easily be inter­
preted as anticipating some of the points which I make in
the following pages.
Let me say that the effect of a rhythmic pattern of
sound on the poet may be twofold. The poet may realize
that his readers will be put into a mood of emotional re­
sponsiveness by the harmony of his rhythms. He may
• also, without knowing it, be able to get himself into an
intensely emotional state, not unlike that of the religious
mystic in a state of trance. If neither of these suggestions
alone goes very far towards explaining “poetic inspira­
tion,” we may yet find on analysis that these two psycho­
logical factors together often do explain it.
I. Few writers of prose are so free from self-consciousness
as to be able to voice their highest ideals and their most
intense feelings through letters to the public press. No
matter what pure gold a man may think to himself, he is
apt to mix it with the alloy of materialism before writing
to the Times, and the same thing is true, with certain
modifications, of writing prose of any sort. Quite natur­
ally ! Nothing hurts a writer more keenly than the cynical
sneer of the unsympathetic reader. We instinctively guard
ourselves against the pain of having our most sacred ideas
distorted and laughed at even behind our backs; “No in­
decent exposure of soul,” we say, drawing the pen ruth­
lessly through a half-finished sentence. Inevitably this
“dignified reserve,” as we like to call it, becomes the in­
hibition of self-consciousness. But with the poets it is
POETIC INSPIRATION
different, as all the world knows. The greatest of them,
at least in their most “inspired” moments, speak out from
the heart with an amazing directness. Beauty shines forth
as naked beauty, truth as simple truth, and goodness as
compelling goodness free from the cant of worldly
wisdom.
To account for the poet’s relative freedom from re­
straining inhibitions, we need not assume him to be
familiar with the detailed theory which explains how
rhythm tends to put the listener into a responsive emo­
tional mood. It is sufficient that the poet knows the fact
alone, without either the how or the why. And it is not
likely that a man could devote himself to the art of poetry
for any length of time without having an inkling of the
fact. He has himself come under the spell of other poets;
he has responded emotionally to the magic of their
rhythm and suggestion; and he knows that other listen­
ers are likely to respond as sympathetically to him, can he
but weave a similar spell of words.
This condition alone would account for much of
the poet’s so-called inspiration. He has a confidence in
the power of his own verse to carry his message into the
reader’s heart. We need not suppose the poet, even the
great poet, to be able to tap some divine source of ideas
not open to other mortals. The writer of prose may think
as deeply and respond to beauty as readily, but he cannot
escape entirely from his inhibitions. Many of us prose
writers may have flashes of insight into life when our
wisdom approaches the wisdom of the prophets—but,
93
HYPNOTIC POETRY
alas, we prophesy not! We have not the use of a rhythmic
medium to break down the reader’s possible resistance,
and knowing that fact we dare not speak out.
II. The second or unconscious feature in producing a state
of poetic inspiration is more easily understood. Indeed
any one who has read the more exhaustive treatises on
trance, ecstasy, and autosuggestion can readily see that a
poet may often be in a state of autohypnosis. Let us put
it this way: If a poet has composed the opening lines of a
poem and keeps repeating them to himself, he may un­
wittingly get into such a hypersensitive state that he con­
tinues the process of composition in a mood of ecstasy. I
have neither the space nor the technical knowledge to go
through all the intricacies of the argument for such a
theory, but its main contention is plain and, I believe,
sound. The “droning monotony” (as M. Emile Coue calls
it) of a repeated phrase, or the soothing of rhythm, is as
valuable a preliminary to autohypnosis as to hypnosis, and
autohypnosis frequently leads to ecstasy.
Such a state of ecstasy naturally increases the poet’s
fervor for whatever is uppermost in his consciousness and
allows him—perhaps compels him—to look past the di­
verting doors opening to right and to left, and to fix his
rapt eyes on the vision at the end of the vista.
“For I dipt into the future, far as human eye could see,
Saw the Vision of the world and all the wonder that would be.”
And from that time on until his vision fades away, he
will concentrate with an almost superhuman intensity on
94
POETIC INSPIRATION
the single theme that he is developing. At subsequent
times he may, in the most prosaically analytical mood,
modify and correct certain phrases, but the bulk of his
best work is hammered out while the theme glows in
the white-heat of the ecstatic trance. The abnormal emo­
tional state may not always be the result of autohypnosis
stimulated by a rhythmic pattern of sound; in the case
of Coleridge’s Kubla Khan and some of his other poems
there is good reason to believe the special stimulus was an
opiate; but it is highly significant that other poets with­
out the stimulus of a drug have been able to get into virtu­
ally the same state of trance. It is also significant that it
now appears Poe wrote much less often than has been
supposed under the influence of an opiate—almost al­
ways preferring the ordinary beverage coffee, which will
not in itself produce anything remotely approaching the
poetic fervor!
Perhaps, then, it was under the spell of trances induced
by the harmony of his own rhythms that Poe caught oc­
casional glimpses of that “supernal beauty” of which
he wrote so feelingly that he seems to have made the word
“ supernal” his own:
“The struggle to apprehend the supernal Loveliness—this
struggle, on the part of souls fittingly constituted—has given
to the world all that which it (the world) has ever been enabled
to understand and to fed as poetic. . . . It is in Music, perhaps,
that the soul most nearly attains the great end for which, when
inspired by the Poetic Sentiment, it struggles—the creation of
supernal Beauty. It may be, indeed, that here this sublime end
is, now and then, attained in fact. We are often made to feel,
95
HYPNOTIC POETRY
with a shivering delight, that from an earthly harp are stricken
notes which cannot have been unfamiliar to the angels. . . .
It has been my purpose to suggest that while this (Poetic) Prin­
ciple is, strictly and simply, the Human Aspiration for Supernal
Beauty, the manifestation of the Principle is always found in an
elevating excitement of the Soul. . .
(From The Poetic Principle.)
Perhaps, likewise, it was under the spell of a trance in­
duced by the harmonious rhythms of Dante that Long­
fellow at last rose to the heights which he had never scaled
before. In any event, he was deep in his translating of
Dante when he wrote the six sonnets entitled Divina
Commedia, which are generally considered to be his best
work, and it may be that the ecstasy which failed to come
to him from repeating his own verses did come to him
when he repeated those of the master.
Now there happens to be a very keen controversy at
present among theologians and psychologists as to whether
the trance of the religious mystic is merely autohypnosis,
as one side contends, or autohypnosis plus an added ele­
ment of direct communion with the Deity. Difficult though
it may be to avoid taking sides on such a point, we ought
to be able to avoid the controversial part of the discussion
and fix our attention on the patent fact that ecstatic trance
often begins with autohypnosis, or something akin to it,
and develops into a mood of intense concentration in
which the subject of the trance is freed from certain re­
straining inhibitions. After what has been said in preced­
ing chapters about the effect of a hypnotic poem in throw­
ing the listeners into a state of trance, it seems reasonable
96
POETIC INSPIRATION
that the same effect may be produced in the poet himself
as soon as he has completed a stanza or two and begins
repeating them over to himself.
A most striking illustration of this second point, of
ecstasy resulting from the effect on himself of the poet’s
own words, is to be found in Browning’s Saul. As orig­
inally written, Saul was an account of how the first King
of Israel was gradually brought out of a state of coma
through the psychological influence of David’s singing
to the harp. Later, however, Browning doubled the length
of the poem, and without changing the title made David
the principal figure. As the poem now stands in its en­
tirety, our interest attaches chiefly to the added stanzas,
which reveal the gradual steps by which David worked
himself up into a state of religious and poetic ecstasy.
Throughout the earlier stanzas David tells how he
sang a shepherd song, a reaping song, a marriage song,
and so on until at the end of stanza seven, he says: “ Here
in the darkness Saul groaned.” Then, finding Saul partly
conscious, he sang on, as recounted in the next eight
stanzas of the poem, of the joy of living and of the great­
ness of the King himself, until at length the King was
brought wholly back to a normal state. And here Saul
virtually fades out of the poem as David has a sudden
flash of insight into the greatness of God’s love for man.
So overwhelming is the ecstasy that the sixteenth stanza
consists of a single vivid line:
“Then the truth came upon me. No harp more—no song more!
outbroke—”
97
HYPNOTIC POETRY
And there follows in Browning s most masterly man­
ner a prophetic religious poem that verges on the sublime.
In studying the complete Saul to illustrate a poet’s grad­
ually getting into the inspired mood, the identifying of
David with Browning himself is inevitable. What Brown­
ing is giving us is an example of how he or any other
great poet experiences the full force of the “poetic mad­
ness.” Of special interest is the fact that in his ecstasy
David is fully master of his intellectual faculties, reason­
ing with such acuteness that he cuts to the heart of the
matter in the flash of an eye. He sees almost as a mathe­
matical formula this truth: If what I do for Saul is the
product of my great love mutiplied by my limited power,
then what God will do for man will be the product of
his greater love multiplied by his infinite power; and so
he rushes on to prophesy the coming of the Messiah.
The successive steps in the composition of an “inspired”
poem may, then, be something like this: first the poet
composes several lines of verse leading towards a theme
in which he is interested. (If he composes in the manner
of Burns, he fits these lines to a tune that is running in
his head, but such a supposition is not at all necessary.)
Then, testing these original lines and finding them ade­
quate to put readers into a sympathetic mood, he pro­
ceeds with added confidence. As he repeats over and
over to himself what he has already composed and dwells
with increasing concentration on a single phase of life,
he gradually experiences the trance in which for the time
being nothing else is of any importance or indeed enters
98
POETIC INSPIRATION 99
into his consciousness. This phase of his experience is ac­
companied by the intense emotional susceptibility com­
mon in ecstatic trance, and by a heightening of the poetic
faculty at least proportional to the completeness with
which it is focused on one topic. Under such conditions
the poem is completed, and either then or subsequently it
is committed to paper.
Some years ago I myself wrote a poem which was com­
posed, I now realize, under just these conditions, and by
just these stages. I do not append it here, for its technical
flaws would divert the reader’s attention from the topic
—in fact I cannot, for I tore up the manuscript the next
day. Nevertheless, I still remember the stages of trial,
initial success (so I thought), repetition of the opening
lines again and again, and subsequently of fervid and
ecstatic concentration and enthusiasm. So far as I can
make out, my psychological state at the height of my
frenzy was exactly like that of a real poet in a mood of
real inspiration.
But, someone objects, I am citing my own unverifiable
experience to prove my own unverified theory. Very well.
Then turn to any reliable account of the frenzy of the
world’s great poets as they have been recorded. Read, for
instance, pages 263 if. in Mr. Frederick Clark Prescott’s
volume, The Poetic Mind, and apply these tests: Are not
the two factors I have suggested at least among the most
probable contributory causes of the known effect? Can
any other combination of factors, without these, account
adequately for the fact of “poetic frenzy” ? Remove the
100 HYPNOTIC POETRY
poet’s inhibition of self-conscious reserve, then let him use
the most likely stimuli to produce an autohypnotic trance,
and whatever inherent power he has is completely liber­
ated for the time being.
That autohypnosis may be produced after some practice
by such means as I have described is not, I believe, dis­
puted. Turning to a standard psychological treatise on
such matters I find the statements I have made confirmed
point by point by a scientist whose interests are non-liter­
ary and who, in fact, devotes but one sentence in his whole
volume to the topic of poetry.
The following sentences from the more pertinent para­
graphs of the chapter on Autohypnosis in Charles Bau-
douin’s Suggestion and Autosuggestion 1 will serve to give
the gist of the chapter to those who may not have the trea­
tise at hand. The chapter does not take up the disputed mat­
ter of the therapeutic value of autosuggestion, but deals ex­
plicitly with the easiest means of producing a state of
autohypnosis.
“Outcropping, somnolence, even sleep, can be brought about
by a means which we have not hitherto described, namely, by
immobilization of the attention . . .
“In summary classification it may be said that there are two
main kinds of immobilization of the attention:
1. Fixation;
2. Seesaw . . .
“As to immobilization by seesaw, we have examples of this
in the noise of the waves beating on the shore, where two
splashing sounds of different pitch answer one another in an
1 New York: Dodd, Mead & Co.
POETIC INSPIRATION IOI
alternating song; in the tick-tack of a pendulum, where the
alternation is between sound and silence; in lullabies; and in
any kind of regular rhythm. . . .
“Obviously, when autosuggestion is our aim, the hypnosis
must not be pushed to the stage of profound sleep, in which
we shall no longer be able to control the direction of our
thoughts. But a moderate degree of hypnosis is to be recom­
mended for this purpose. The presence of a watch or clock not
far from the ear has a lulling influence. . . .
“Furthermore, physical procedures are not the only methods
for the production of autohypnosis. The attention may be im­
mobilized in other ways than by an outward sensation. Im­
mobilization can be brought about by a mental image, by an
idea. . . .
“Let us return to autohypnosis, as described earlier in our own
text. Since it can be induced by immobilizing the attention on
a mental state, why should we not choose, for this mental state
(in preference to the bead-telling or the counting), the very
idea which is to be the object of the suggestion?”
Autohypnosis, then, is produced by simultaneously fix­
ing the attention on some regular rhythmic sound and
mentally concentrating on a single idea or image—pre­
cisely the process employed unconsciously by the poet
when he repeats to himself the opening lines of a poem
already composed! And in this light state of trance or
ecstasy his full artistic powers are liberated; for, as
M. Baudouin remarks (on page 158 of the 1921 trans­
lation) :
“Emotion is likewise an instigator of images, a condition in
which the inhibitive faculties appear to be thrown out of gear.
This is especially noticeable in the poet, for the images flow
102 HYPNOTIC POETRY
from his pen more spontaneously, more vigorously, and more
rapidly, in proportion as his emotion is more intense.”
That the ideas and images expressed by the poet in his
“inspired” mood should reach such a very high plane, is
the natural result of inherent ability stimulated by a trance
of intense concentration. Perhaps an analogy from an­
other kind of concentration may clarify the matter.
Chess players know that the rapidity and almost flaw­
less accuracy with which a master player can foretell
the result, some three moves later, of a play which he con­
templates, is not a miracle but merely a case of concen­
tration on essentials. It is true that there may be to his
contemplated move some twenty possible replies by his
opponent, each of which would allow of twenty subse­
quent plays by himself, and that to each of these there
may be some twenty rejoinders by his opponent. To
analyze all possible variations for these three moves would
then require consideration of perhaps eight thousand
plays, which would fill one of the folio volumes of the
Chess Digest. Now the plodding analyst cannot pass ade­
quate judgment on the one move under consideration
until he has performed some such Herculean task; even
then, however, the plodding analyst will fail, for his mind
cannot possibly grasp and compare the relative merits of
some eight thousand potential positions. The secret of the
master’s success lies in the fact that he knows at a glance,
and even without a glance, that perhaps eighteen of the
twenty moves in each case are so weak as to be absurd;
neither he nor a worthy opponent would risk them. In
POETIC INSPIRATION
such a case he can, in each of the three successive steps,
analyze only the two strongest moves, and by comparing
the advantages of eight resulting positions he has done
all that is most essential in the problem of analysis. His
efficient speed in selecting the move which will bring him
the best possible position three moves later is thus rather
more than a thousand times that of the mechanical analyst.
Just as the success of the chess player is proportional to
his power of concentrating his attention on the few lines
of play that may be vital, so perhaps the heightened fervor
of the “inspired” poet is proportional to the effect of his
trance in excluding from his consciousness all but one phase
of life. If he is dealing with beauty, he “worships the
principle of beauty” like Keats; if he is composing a re­
ligious poem, he becomes for the time being almost a
fanatic. From any trunk of thought there are as many pos­
sible digressive ramifications as there are twigs on a giant
spruce, but the entranced bard sees only the main trunk
and follows it up higher and higher to the very top.
It is a wise saying that there is no accounting for genius.
But as to the factors which contribute to the mood of crea­
tive ecstasy, “poetic frenzy,” we can make some very defi­
nite conjectures.
I03
FREE VERSE
IN AMERICA
VII
N
ot long ago I suggested to a friend that an interest­
ing lecture might be given on “The Rise and Fall of
Free Verse in America,” a consideration of why the form
had been so popular between 1910 and 1920, and why it is
now dead. I was promptly brought to book, however, by a
citation of statistics about the current vogue of Miss Amy
Lowell’s work. Since her work still sells well—not only
new (posthumous) volumes but re-issues of the old ones
—it follows that free verse is not dead. The public still
likes it and pays for it.
Nevertheless, an impartial survey of the poetic trend
of the first three decades of this century shows that in
America, and to some extent in England, these were a
few brief years when free verse ran riot. Magazines were
full of it, volumes of free verse were published by hun­
dreds, and anthologies of free verse by dozens. It pro­
vided material for innumerable critical essays general and
particular, pro and con; it penetrated the drawing room,
the dining room, and the class-room; even the staid liter­
ary reviews bent to welcome it. But no more. As a literary
“movement” it is as dead as the Gothic Romance.
The inquest which I propose to hold in this chapter will
be brief and will touch on three topics: the reasons why
104
FREE VERSE IN AMERICA I05
the movement came into being when it did, the reasons for
the shortness of its life, and the inherent merits and de­
merits of free verse as a literary form. Such post-mortem
examinations have been held before, and this one offers
only such new evidence as comes from viewing free verse
in contrast to hypnotic verse.
Now the term free verse, like charity, covers a multi­
tude of sins. The phrase has been popularly used in such
a variety of meanings that we can accomplish nothing by
discussing it unless we define what types of composition
may reasonably be meant by free verse, and say with which
of these we are chiefly concerned. Such a careful analysis
as that in Mr. Bliss Perry’s Study of Poetry 1 is valuable :
“Readers who are familiar with the experiments of contem­
porary poets will easily recognize four prevalent types of ‘free
verse’:
(a) Sometimes what is printed as ‘free verse’ is nothing but
prose disguised by the art of typography, i. e. judged by the ear,
it is made up wholly of the rhythms of prose.
(b) Sometimes the prose rhythms predominate, without ex­
cluding a mixture of the recognized rhythms of verse.
(c) Sometimes verse rhythms predominate, and even fixed
metrical feet are allowed to appear here and there.
(d) Sometimes verse rhythms and metres are used exclu­
sively, although in new combinations which disguise or break
up the metrical pattern.”
In this chapter my interest is with free verse of types b
and c, and to simplify matters I shall speak of these types
jointly as “free verse.” Type a is eliminated automatically
1 Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co.
io6 HYPNOTIC POETRY
by being merely prose in disguise, while type d is often
too close to conventional verse to be distinguished from
it without hair-splitting.
Ever since the Ossianic poems of James Macpherson be­
came popular in the late eighteenth century, the oppor­
tunity to develop a technique of “spaced” or “measured”
prose has been evident. In my book on The Celtic Revival
iy6o-i8oo I have shown that to some of Macpherson’s
contemporaries the “Ossianic manner” seemed worthy of
imitation; more than a century later, occasional uses of
this peculiar prose style are still to be encountered. Thus
Mr. George Herbert Palmer described the style of his
English prose translation of the Odyssey (1891) as using
“a simple rhythm, a rhythm so unobtrusive and so free
from systematic arrangement that no one need turn from
the matter to mark the movement.” Let there be no mis­
understanding: this style is not content with the rhythms
inherent in good literary prose; it has a far closer similar­
ity to formal metre; it is, in fact, exactly the same “meas­
ured” prose employed by Macpherson. Except in its
typographical arrangement it does not differ greatly from
free verse of types b and c.
But the major poets of the nineteenth century, except
for Whitman, who is a unique force, manifested little
interest in semimetrical forms. All of them had acquired
the knack of writing excellent metrical verse, and many of
them had mastered the greater difficulties of a technique
that is hypnotic. Such experiments in the direction of
free verse as they did make, they do not seem to have taken
FREE VERSE IN AMERICA 107
very seriously. But about the turn of the century three
circumstances combined to invite a radical change in the
type of poetry to be produced, especially in America.
The death of five or six leading poets on each side of
the Atlantic—poets whose work their respective country­
men could hardly hope to surpass—was significant in pre­
paring for a change in the style, tone, or nature of the
verse to be written by the oncoming poets of another gen­
eration. The dates of death are these: Lanier 1881, Ros­
setti 1882, Fitzgerald and Longfellow 1883, Arnold 1888,
Browning 1889, Lowell 1891, Tennyson and Whittier
1892, Holmes 1894. If now we add that Swinburne virtu­
ally withdrew from lyric composition at the same time,
the facts speak for themselves. But even as the old con­
servatives were dying off (conservatives in the matter of
versification) the influence of the great radical, Whitman,
surged back from Europe and swept with irresistible force
over his own country. No matter whether Whitman’s pop­
ularity in England had been due to his manner or his
matter, Americans who came to admire him accepted his
manner, his successful use of free verse, as a guide-post
pointing to a rich and almost virgin land. Its resources
had been discovered but not yet exploited. Finally came the
third circumstance—the crystallization of popular interest
in whatever was most radical in music and art as well as
in letters. So forceful was this popular radicalism that by
1910 the music of a one-time extremist like Wagner was
regarded as heavy and conservative, while impressionistic
painting was forgotten in an orgy of post-impressionism,
io8 HYPNOTIC POETRY
cubism, and futurism. Thus the death of the old-school
poets, the growing interest in Whitman’s free verse, and
the eagerness of the public for novelty—always great, but
seldom so intense—combined between 1910 and 1920 to set
the American stage for the free-verse movement.
Among the obvious attractions of free verse are the ease
with which almost any one can write it and the amusing
novelty of the resulting product. Once the movement got
started a little, millions of people found themselves at
least potential “poets.” In a natural way these potential
poets and the magazines of new poetry led each other on,
because those whose work had not yet been published
were buying and reading the magazines of free verse to
see wherein their own poems fell short of those that had
appeared in print, and the magazines were accepting more
and more startling compositions in their competition with
each other. Sheer novelty, while it lasted, made free verse
attractive to editors not only of magazines but of news­
papers. “If a dog bites a man, that is not news; but if a
man bites a dog, it is.” And so it was with these amazing
effusions: a sensible idea in conventional verse was not
“news,” while a mad idea in mad verse was. But novelty
was also the bane of free verse, for the public soon found
far more delight in clever burlesques than in the form
itself. Staid critics, too, who had long refused to dignify
free verse by commenting on it, were at length roused to
condemn it in no uncertain terms, and the cumulative
effect of such condemnations from the lecture platform
and in conservative magazines was considerable.
By the time free verse had come to be a literary fad, it
was enjoying a vogue so obviously out of proportion to its
inherent merits that it invited and inevitably received the
rebuke of parody. Here and there all over the United
States people began to produce free-verse effusions, which,
when read to their friends, were accepted as quite up to
the usual standard but which, as a matter of fact, were
simply nonsense poems. I remember that in 1916 I read
aloud half a dozen poems selected from an anthology of
free verse and asked each member of a group of listeners
to name the one he liked best. Most of them—I think all
of them—named a poem called Drowned Love, which
happened to be a thing I had composed myself in five
minutes without having the slightest idea of what I was
writing about. I had simply tried to see how many lines of
passable free verse I could turn out in five minutes; and,
having produced a dozen lines, I copied them off on the
typewriter and secretly concealed the sheet in the an­
thology. When I explained to the listeners, who had voted
this poem the best in the group, that it was merely a non­
sense poem, we stopped to analyze a little the three cheap
tricks that had enabled it to surpass the other five poems
which had actually been reprinted for their supposed
merit. Now the tricks were these: (1) The meaning was
so obscure that the timid reader suspected a secret depth
which he was too shallow-minded to fathom. In reality,
of course, the pool was not “deep” but muddy. Even the
author himself had not the faintest notion whether the
quality of love had been drowned in some one’s life or
FREE VERSE IN AMERICA 109
n o HYPNOTIC POETRY
whether some one’s beloved had actually died by drown­
ing. (2) It had “a strong phrase” suggesting a daring
modernity—the phrase happened to be “back to the gates
of hell.” (3) The most vividly pictorial line, “My feet
sink into the oozy slime,” was repeated at the end and thus
impressed itself on the listener’s mind more strongly than
some of the others. Of course it won the vote, for each
of the other trifles employed only one or two such tricks!
But the downfall of the free-verse movement was chiefly
accelerated by the brilliant Spectrist hoax perpetrated by
Mr. Arthur Davison Ficke and Mr. Witter Bynner—a
hoax so successful that it has now become an incident in
literary history. It consisted of the publication of a num­
ber of idiotic pieces of free verse supported by such elabo­
rately meaningless critical comment as served to take in
more of the unthinking enthusiasts than one might sup­
pose possible. From the delightful account in Mr. Louis
Untermeyer’s American Poetry Since 1900 1 I quote the
following:
“In 1916, poetry was enjoying ‘boom times.’ Poetry maga­
zines were breaking out everywhere. Prizes were blossoming
on every bush; anthologies were thicker than office-seekers in
Washington. It was the time of manifestos, movements, over­
night schools, sudden departures. The Cubists, Futurists, Ima-
gists, Impressionists, Vorticists had all taken a hand at re­
juvenating the staid and perplexed Muse. And so, in November,
the literary world accepted, with a mixture of complacence and
sophistication, a book of poetic experiments entitled Spectra
1 New York: Henry Holt & Co.
FREE VERSE IN AMERICA h i
(Mitchell Kennerley, 1926). There was a properly cryptic dedi­
cation to Remy de Gourmont by Emanuel Morgan (described
as an American painter who had studied in Paris but had not
succeeded) and a characteristic prose preface by the other half
of the school, Anne Knish (‘a Hungarian woman who had
written for European journals and had published a volume of
poems in Russian under a Latin title.’) . . .
“Within a few months, the Spectrists had arrived! Others,
A Magazine of the New Verse, devoted its entire January 1917
number to Spectra; William Marion Reedy, after private com­
mendations of this new and ‘virile school,’ published his en­
thusiasms in his Reedy s Mirror; John Gould Fletcher wrote
of their ‘vividly memorable lines’; an erudite essayist in The
Forum analyzed and extolled the poems, which were headed
(not with such ordinary things as titles) but with opus num­
bers; The Little Review requested poems and published them
with gusto and congratulations. Disciples announced them­
selves overnight—the battlefield of ‘this most daring of the new
tendencies’ was clearly won. Revolutionary poets proved their
radicalism by excoriating those of their fellows who refused to
recognize the advent of a new power in literature; reviewers
and undergraduates deserted their fixed stars to gape at this
new and brilliant constellation.”
When it finally appeared that all this hubbub was over
a hoax, the supporters of free verse retreated with becom­
ing humility, the movement continued a short time, and
then died without pain.
Once a reaction against free verse had set in, the form
was repeatedly subjected to critical analysis which com­
monly resulted in adverse judgment. My own analysis
shows several inherent defects in free verse which will
prevent the majority of readers from enjoying it. I propose
to touch on them briefly.
First of all, our natural disgust with prose disguised by
the printer’s art (free verse of type a) naturally has spread
to all free verse, so that the genuine article suffers from
resembling the false. Though this is only an unlucky
accident, the associative instincts are so strong that we
are often predisposed against a piece the instant we see
that it is not in regular metrical form. So far as this is
true, free verse labors under a handicap.
A second defect is that free verse seems to many people
to be the unorganized product of an undisciplined mind.
It suggests to them the sound of a violin played by a be­
ginner who considers himself above the drudgery of prac­
tice and who has not the ear to recognize his own false
notes. It recalls to their memory painful amateur nights
in vaudeville. In its most unhappy moments of undis­
ciplined awkwardness it reminds them of the savage who
stole the missionary’s coat and wore it wrong side before.
Even at its best it is offensive to people who like art per­
fected by practice.
Next, even the people who enjoy free verse must regret
its lack of mnemonic appeal. Poems with heavily inter­
locked rimes, like those of Shelley’s Cloud or Poe’s Raven,
stick in the memory very easily; and even blank verse has
enough rhythmic regularity to make it easier to learn than
free verse. Now it tickles one’s vanity, at least subcon­
sciously, to be able to recall the exact words of a poem,
112 HYPNOTIC POETRY
FREE VERSE IN AMERICA “ 3
and the satisfaction so derived produces a very nice critical
problem: Is this mnemonic appeal something that tends
to produce great poetry in itself? The answer is “No,”
but with certain reservations. Though I can never forget
the exact words of
“Little Miss Muffet
Sat on a tuffet,”
I am perfectly sure that such a jingle is in no sense a
“ great poem.” On the other hand, I do feel that some­
thing important is added to Rabbi Ben Ezra by the
mnemonic appeal of the opening couplet—
“Grow old along with me,
The best is yet to be.”
At least this quality is a convenience, and perhaps it is a
good deal more. Perhaps it is a very significant factor
whenever the memorable phrase is doubly memorable—
both easy to remember and worth remembering. In any
case it is something very prominent in all hypnotic poetry
and completely lacking in most free verse.
There is, moreover, in free verse a certain indefinable
lack—a want of something that neither it nor bald prose
can ever achieve. What Wordsworth wrote in the 1800
Preface to the Lyrical Ballads about the inferiority of
prose to verse may be quoted and applied in every im­
portant particular to the inferiority of free verse to the
conventional forms:
ï ï 4 HYPNOTIC POETRY
“Now the music of harmonious metrical language, the sense
of difficulty overcome, and the blind association of pleasure
which has been previously received from works of rhyme or
metre of the same or similar construction, an indistinct percep­
tion perpetually renewed of language closely resembling that of
real life, and yet, in the circumstance of metre, differing from
it so widely—all these imperceptibly make up a complex feel­
ing of delight, which is of the most important use in tempering
the painful feeling always found intermingled with powerful
descriptions of the deeper passions. This effect is always pro­
duced in pathetic and impassioned poetry; while, in lighter
compositions, the ease and gracefulness with which the Poet
manages his numbers are themselves confessedly a principal
source of the gratification of the Reader. All that it is necessary
to say, however, upon this subject, may be effected by affirming,
what few persons will deny, that of two descriptions, either of
passions, manners, or characters, each of them equally well
executed, the one in prose and the other in verse, the verse will
be read a hundred times where the prose is read once.”
To conclude our analysis of the inherent defects of free
verse, it is only necessary to consider from a more strictly
psychological point of view than Wordsworth’s the effect
of its sound pattern on the majority of readers. Perhaps
the contrast between free verse and hypnotic verse may
clarify the matter. It is evident that free verse can never
be strictly hypnotic in its effect on most listeners, for there
is never enough regularity of sound pattern to fix the at­
tention primarily on the rhythmic beats and to deaden a
condition of mental alertness. This, of course, is not in
itself a fault; many of the great poems of our language are
not strictly hypnotic, as every one knows. The sound pat-
FREE VERSE IN AMERICA l l 5
tern of free verse is, however, so persistently irregular that
a composition in that form is likewise outside the realm
of that semihypnotic technique by which innumerable
poets have given to their listeners a touch of the dreamy
ecstasy of trance.
In so far as I understand the theory of what patterns
of sound are essential to hypnotic poetry—and I doubt if
any one understands it completely—those most effective
seem to involve regularity of accentual rhythm plus
more than the ear anticipates of the delicate harmonies
which make the pattern more elaborate but not appreci­
ably less regular. Exact rime, some tendency to compel the
voice to repeat a regular cycle of rising and falling pitch,
heavy playing on little groups of vowels and of con­
sonants—these are elements which in hypnotic poetry one
finds so combined as to make a pattern of sound as regular
as well can be, but more intricate than the listeners ex­
pect. And we know from experience that this works out
very well in its practical effect on the listeners. Most of
them do not care to hear the national anthem played out
of time by a single instrument, but played in time by a
full orchestra—that is different!
Now the freest verse is not prose—it has just enough
regularity of pattern to invite the reader’s rhythmic sense
to be constantly alert, but it is continually disappointing
that alertness. Hypnotic verse is ever keying the rhythmic
sense up to feel an even richer enjoyment than it is used
to. The one subjects a person with a strong sense of rhythm
to the same annoyance that he feels in dancing when the
n6 HYPNOTIC POETRY
music is out of tempo. The other not only satisfies a person
with a strong sense of rhythm but positively delights him.
Since, then, free verse finds most of us predisposed
against it, since it disappoints the orderly, disciplined
mind by its slovenliness and fails to leave implanted in
the memory whatever beauties it has, since it lacks what
Wordsworth found most delightful in poetry, and since
it persistently neglects to wave the magic wand of hypnotic
art—what merit can it have? Has it any possible advan­
tage over good literary prose? Personally I am not re­
sponsive to most free verse, but this very fact puts me on
my guard against condemning it entirely.
Here as always in a complex problem of this sort we
must be sure of our ground. We must recognize that
rhythm is primarily subjective, and then despite this con­
fusing fact forced on our intelligence by psychology, we
must advance and see our way clear to speaking objec­
tively of “the rhythm of a poem”—but with a difference!
Let us elaborate this a little. A series of drumbeats, equally
loud and at equal intervals of time, may be counted and
felt by one group of listeners in two’s (as iambic) and by
another group in three’s (as anapaestic). To that extent
rhythm is clearly subjective, and in any comprehensive
survey this principle of subjectivity is found to have im­
portant ramifications. Thus Mr. I. A. Richards is quite
comprehensible when he says in his Principles of Literary
Criticism that rhythm “is not in the stimulation, it is in
our response.” On the other hand, drumbeats may be
FREE VERSE IN AMERICA “ 7
made thus: boom boom BOOM (pause), boom boom
BOOM (pause), boom boom BOOM, in which case all
listeners will have about the same subjective experience of
anapaestic grouping, and the rhythm may be discussed as
objectively anapaestic. Further, we must recognize the
possibility of finding a pattern of sound which will rhyth­
mically satisfy a few listeners but not many; and it is this
element of varied personal reaction which continually
makes inexact most of our generalizations about free verse.
Finally we must recognize that even when a rhythm has
an objective existence, it may cause pleasure to one per­
son and annoyance to another.
With these ideas in mind, let me restate in more general
terms what I have already said near the end of Chap­
ter V in favor of Whitman’s versification. We can recog­
nize that free verse at its best causes some people to respond
pleasantly to the same small units (two-syllable and three-
syllable rhythms) which are repeated with considerable
regularity in semimetrical or “measured” prose. That is
to say, free verse shares with the “measured” prose of
Macpherson’s Ossian a quality which satisfies certain peo­
ple who feel it to be a happy medium between the irregu­
lar rhythms of ordinary prose and the standardized
rhythms of conventional verse. And where we find vari­
ous classes of people whose rhythmic response to, say,
Whitman’s free verse is radically different, one cannot do
better than accept the fact without argument. The rhyth­
mic response to such stimulus is very satisfying to a limited
number of readers.
n8 HYPNOTIC POETRY
Furthermore, free verse adapts itself more naturally
than prose to the effective use of repetition. Even as a re­
frain is virtually impossible to handle in prose, so most of
the other reiterative devices have been associated with
popular poetry and with verse in general more than with
prose. Such devices catch the eye of the reader more
readily when the composition is printed line by line in
the manner of verse; they impress themselves on the silent
reader and they allow any one who is reading aloud time
enough to modify his reading to emphasize the intended
effect. Whitman was a master of this technique; and the
failure of his imitators to duplicate his success is no more
an argument against the merit of free verse as a form,
than is Tennyson’s inability to write great drama an
argument against the merit of drama.
Finally, free verse as distinguished from prose, has the
quality of making the line-units stand out on the printed
page according to the author’s intent. Now in free verse
of type a (which Mr. Perry defines as “nothing but prose
disguised by the art of typography” ) there may be no
gain from such a line-by-line arrangement because the
line may not be a natural unit but an arbitrary one. But
in real free verse the line-units may resemble each other
in such ways as to set up a subtle but satisfying large-
scale rhythmic response. People who are accustomed to
reading the Psalms aloud responsively will inevitably un­
derstand some of the features of this “large-scale” rhythmic
effect: each line-unit of free verse may contain a unit of
thought; if so, it is end-stopt and lends itself to a rising and
falling pitch pattern which is duplicated in other end-stopt
lines of the same length; each of several successive lines
may contain an image, or may otherwise distinguish itself
as a natural unit to be coordinated with other lines of
the same sort. Thus free verse, even without making any
use of metrical effects, may produce a large-scale, line-by­
line rhythmic reaction which distinguishes it from prose,
and which a skillful artist may utilize to the enjoyment of
many readers.
FREE VERSE IN AMERICA 119
VIII
IS POETRY AN ESCAPE
FROM REALITY?________________
T
he “new psychology” has brought a new complaint
against poetry: “Poetry,” we are now told, “is merely
an escape from reality.” Personally I have a good deal of
respect for certain phases of the new psychology when it
is treated by serious-minded people who have something
more than a smattering of Freudianism. Let us examine
the charge and see whether another idol of ancient super­
stition is to be shattered, or whether the attack is merely an
effort to “debunk” something that has no “bunk” about it.
Historically there has always been a controversy over
the apparent untruthfulness of poetry. Almost every classic
defense of poetry takes the position so frankly stated by
Plutarch that “bards often falsify, sometimes intentionally,
and sometimes unintentionally.” But again, almost every
such defense reaffirms and enlarges on the sound Aris­
totelian view that poetry is more philosophical and has
a deeper seriousness than even history. Obviously the
poet, like the novelist, may invent fictions in the in­
terest of a larger truth. Since Sidney’s Apologie and
Shelley’s Defense, the consensus of opinion has been
“Not . . . that Poetrie abuseth mans wit, but, that mans
wit abuseth Poetrie.”
In the eighteen-forties, however, Poe reopened the con-
120
AN ESCAPE FROM REALITY? 121
troversy, or started a similar one, by his repeated affirma­
tion that poetry and truth were like oil and water, that
they simply would not mix. His critical views gave lustre
to his own verses, and his own verses so well illustrated
his views that a good deal of confusion has resulted. This
difficulty was in turn clarified by our realization that what
Poe said was true of his own particular kind of poetry
and no other. Few people take seriously nowadays the as­
sertion that poetry is simply “the rhythmical creation of
beauty,” or that it has no direct connection with truth.
But the spectre will not be laid. All the old arguments
against the apparent untruthfulness of poetry are being
revived, repeated, and (what is more important) given
point by the new psychological application of the “escape”
theory. When most of life seems—in the opinion of some
—to be a mere tissue of complexes and escape mechanisms,
what is more plausible than that poetry should owe its
popularity to the ease with which the third-rate mind
may find in it an escape from the world of reality, an in­
toxicating relief in illusion from facts too painful to be
faced ? And what is more amusing than that our idol the
poet should be reduced from the status of a prophet and
seer to that of a mere bartender ?
To be sure, that stimulating book The Philosophy of
“ As If,’’ which exposed so many of humanity’s pet de­
lusions, did not attack poetry on this ground—or on any
other. Of course Herr Vaihinger does treat poetry as a
“ fiction,” especially in his paraphrase of the views of
F. A. Lange, but not as a fiction providing an escape
122 HYPNOTIC POETRY
from reality into a dream that makes one forget one’s
troubles in the real world. On the contrary, in Lange’s
treatment poetic idealization of life is regarded, like in­
finity, as a useful fictitious exaggeration to express the ex­
treme of a tendency. The value of such poetry lies in the
exaltation and aspiration of contemplating a world so
idealized that one becomes aware of the faults of human
life, and aims to remedy them. Thus, if The Philosophy of
“As If” has promoted the view that poetry is an escape
from reality, it has done so only when the book has been
misunderstood and its teaching on this point reversed!
Yet the “escape” theory is allied to the general tend­
ency (which Herr Vaihinger’s book sometimes does pro­
mote) to ridicule whatever has been traditionally revered.
And since poetry, as well as religion, has suffered a
good deal from a hit-or-miss iconoclasm, it may be well
to consider impartially whether the view of poetry as al­
ways and inevitably an escape from reality is sound, un­
sound, or partly sound; and if it proves to be partly sound,
to consider whether its exponents are in most cases guid­
ing or misleading those who follow them. For the sake
of clearness let me quote the key sentence from an essay
in which this doctrine is vigorously set forth by a con­
temporary critic who holds that “poetry is a comforting
piece of fiction set to more or less lascivious music,” and
who brings the question to a direct issue by saying that
“This quality of untruthfulness pervades all poetry, good
and bad.”
Now though the merest tyro at criticism is sure to scent
AN ESCAPE FROM REALITY? 123
a fallacy here, he may not so easily see just what the fal­
lacy is; half truth is often more puzzling than complete
error. In this case the fallacy is simply one of hasty gen­
eralization, of inferring because the poet has a sort of
hypnotic power which he may use (and sometimes does
use) to create a world of illusion, that he always or
habitually uses it thus. Because a real untruthfulness of
idea pervades some poetry, we are asked to accept the
patent absurdity that it “pervades all poetry, good and
bad.”
On a moment’s reflection the fallacy is as evident as
would be a similar one in regard to oratory: thus because
the orator has sometimes used his powers of persuasion—
spellbinding powers somewhat akin to those of the poet
— to delude his audience, some one might argue that ora­
tory necessarily plays on the emotions to make men act
contrary to their reason. But the fallacy of the hasty gen­
eralization is at once evident. Eloquence is quite as often
employed to give force to truth as to error—let us hope
rather oftener! One might propound an equally bare­
faced fallacy about the drama: because a few fantastic
plays invite us to escape from reality into fairyland—one
thinks immediately of A Midsummer-Night’s Dream or
Peter Pan—one might advance the obviously unsound
proposition that drama always deals with the romantic
land of make-believe, never with life. But here the argu­
ment has reduced itself to absurdity.
Let us admit every item in the charge against poetry
that can be admitted, and see to what it amounts: doubt-
HYPNOTIC POETRY
less we can find poems that provide mere mental diversion.
Perhaps, too, there are others which involve an actual
mental perversion; certainly we suspect a taint of false­
hood in some of Swinburne’s hypnotic lyrics. From a
moral standpoint we deplore such a tendency just as we
deplore the taint of perversion in some of the pictures
displayed in the booths along the Seine in Paris. But we
do not greatly care; the few isolated cases are of little
importance when compared with the great majority. The
occasional abuse of an art scarcely justifies a critic in at­
tacking the art itself.
The poet whose technique is psychologically intellectual
cannot successfully promulgate any very false notions of
life. The poet whose technique is hypnotic generally does
not. Nor, if he made the effort, would he succeed in per­
verting his readers’ ideas very seriously, for even the most
deeply hypnotized subject invariably rebels against what­
ever is morally revolting. This striking fact about hypno­
tism has its parallel in the limitations of hypnotic verse:
weave what spell of words you please, employ every emo­
tional stimulus you can to put the listener en rapport
with you, then tell him bad is good—and hear him
scoff!
If we consider fairly a great number of cases, we find
'that poetry may be, but usually is not, an escape from
reality; further that as an escape, poetry is seldom of the
highest order. In an admirable discussion of certain phases
of this question in The Theory of Poetry, Mr. Lascelles
Abercrombie distinguishes the poetry of refuge (escape)
I24
AN ESCAPE FROM REALITY? 125
from that of interpretation. His conclusion (page 240) is
significant—that “the poetry of interpretation cannot but
be greater than the poetry of refuge.” Poets are not es­
sentially charlatans. Even those who have mastered the
art of weaving magic spells find pleasure enough in the
legitimate, sensible employment of their powers. For there \
is a legitimate need of the hypnotic technique in poetry—
the need of making truth compelling. And the more psy­
chology shows us that men are moved by their emotions,
the more we shall honor those poets who supplement
intellectual conviction with the driving force of emc
tion.
As a refreshing change from this inadequate view that
poetry is a mere escape from life, it is pleasant to turn to
some passages in Matthew Arnold’s Essays in Criticism.
Now Arnold was himself a rather biased critic, and more
apt to be sound in his judgment than in his logic. He
had, moreover, a peculiar way of excluding from the cate­
gory of great poetry all that did not involve what he
called “high seriousness.” In his contention that great
poetry inevitably involves a “criticism of life,” his personal
prejudice is obvious. But as an antidote to the specious
views under discussion, he is admirable.
“The future of poetry is immense,” says Arnold, “because in
poetry, where it is worthy of its high destinies, our race, as time
goes on, will find an ever surer and surer stay. There is not
a creed which is not shaken, not an accredited dogma which
is not shown to be questionable, not a received tradition which
does not threaten to dissolve. Our religion has materialised
126 HYPNOTIC POETRY
itself in the fact, in the supposed fact; it has attached its emotion
to the fact, and now the fact is failing it. But for poetry the
idea is everything; the rest is a world of illusion, of divine il­
lusion. Poetry attaches its emotion to the idea; the idea is the
fact. The strongest part of our religion today is its unconscious
poetry. . . . We should conceive of poetry worthily, and more
highly than it has been the custom to conceive of it. We should
conceive of it as capable of higher uses, and called to higher
destinies, than those which in general men have assigned to
it hitherto. More and more mankind will discover that we have
to turn to poetry to interpret life for us, to console us, to sus­
tain us. . .
In this idea that poetry may guide us and console us
by interpreting life, I cannot but think that Arnold has
come to the heart of the matter. As I have suggested in
Chapter VI, the great poet not only sees into the life of
things, but he tells us what he sees, for his own ecstasy
gives him the inspiration to speak out, and he knows, at
least subconsciously, that his reader is likely to be in a
sympathetic mood. Most of the world’s great poets have
not been afraid to reflect and interpret life as it is. The
fictitious elements in their work are the accidental qual­
ities, while the underlying truth is the essential. The super­
natural machinery of the Iliad is no more an integral
part of the human nature the epic portrays than a frame
is an integral part of a picture. And so of The Divine
Comedy, and of Faust. “Poetry attaches its emotion to the
idea. The idea is the fact.”
A witty iconoclast might insist that Tennyson’s Ulysses
AN ESCAPE FROM REALITY? I27
is merely the speech of a man long dead who never lived.
But if it makes impressive the nineteenth century’s ideal
that the search for knowledge is a worthy end in itself,
it has fulfilled its high purpose. To say that we read it to
escape from everyday life into an imaginary existence
some thousands of years ago, is very evident nonsense, for
the spirit that Tennyson shows in a Ulysses who will “fol­
low knowledge like a sinking star” regardless of whether
he reaches the Happy Isles, is simply the spirit of the great
scientist of the modern world. Nor does the lover of
poetry need to have the poem rewritten about a biologist
in a laboratory patiently seeking a cure for cancer! The
glowing idea is the same whoever the tireless seeker after
knowledge may be—Ulysses, Shackleton, Pasteur, or the
unknown and unsuccessful man with the microscope and
the germ-laden test tubes.
If a master spirit has given us his most sublime thoughts
uttered in a moment when he has shaken off the trammels
of self-conscious reticence, if he has so blended beauty
with truth that we hear him with pleasure, if he has woven
such a pattern of sound that his exact words impress
themselves indelibly on our memories, and if by supreme
art he has made these sublime thoughts so moving that
they enter our subconscious minds to remain with us al­
ways, what adequate thanks can we give ? If Milton was
right in saying that “A good book is the precious life­
blood of a master spirit, embalmed and treasured up on
purpose to a life beyond life,” what can we say of a good
\
128 HYPNOTIC POETRY
poem? Even the enthusiasm of Arnold seems to fall
short when he says, “Poetry is nothing less than the most
perfect speech of man, that in which he comes nearest to
being able to utter the truth.”
IX
THE SEAT
OF THE SCORNFUL_____________
I
n this chapter I wish to indulge in a little protest against
those current critical prejudices which militate most
strongly against the proper appreciation of hypnotic and
semihypnotic poetry. The topic is one which some readers
might wish to see expanded to include all the common fal­
lacies of criticism by which our good sense is offended
—truly a legion! But there are a few—some of them rather
subtle—which are marshalled against this special kind of
poetry so often that a volume like this would be incom­
plete without an attempt to neutralize their pernicious ef­
fect.
I do not believe criticism in the twentieth century has
any vice equal to the habit, so prevalent a century ago, of
damning a man’s poetry because one did not like his
politics, but it has some amazing faults. The one most
universal, of which many magazine writers are habitually
guilty in print, and of which we are all doubtless guilty
in conversation, is the tendency to sacrifice truth to in­
terest. Anything sensational makes good “copy” these
days, and it is very profitable to sit in the seat of the scorn­
ful. Now when some brilliant iconoclast overthrows the
heroes of other days in a spirit of high comedy, h la Mr.
John Erskine, there is much merriment and no real harm.
129
HYPNOTIC POETRY
But when a sophomoric cynicism creeps into criticism
of poetry, it is time to call a halt.
JEALOUSY
One of the pertinent questions which Robert Buchanan
long ago said should be asked in judging a critic’s com­
petence to make a fair and intelligent estimate of another
man’s work is this: “Has he written anything himself, and
has he been soured?” Thus it appears that before the term
inferiority complex was known, the effect of personal
jealousy in warping criticism was recognized quite as
well as today. We must never forget it! It happens that a
good many of our professional critics are also poets, or
poetasters, who have written something and been “soured”
by the cold reception which the public has given to their
efforts. Often enough these poetical efforts have been
manifestations of the “new spirit” which inclines towards
interest and vividness but lacks mature wisdom and per­
fection of structure, and in some cases the lack of ade­
quate structure has resulted in actual slovenliness of ver­
sification. When such poet-critics attempt to cry up their
own wares, whether consciously or unconsciously, by
crying down the productions of the great Victorians,
there appears to be no limit to the smug self-assurance
with which they attack their predecessors. Nor is this
always a strictly personal matter: often a critic, not him­
self a poet, belongs to a literary coterie that has suffered
a group inferiority complex, and in his comments on po-
130
THE SEAT OF THE SCORNFUL 131
etry in general it is evident that he is singularly partial.
What criticism of poetry needs, before it can proceed to
establish itself on a sound basis, is a weeding out of in­
sincerity and jealousy. We are tired of the cynical sneer,
of the assumption that everything Victorian is necessarily
worthless, of the fallacious insinuation that poems pro­
duced in the same half-century—or by the same author—
are all to be lumped together with the comment that “any
one who can admire the poetry of So-and-so would join
a Browning society.” Let the cleverest and most falla­
ciously brilliant of contemporary criticasters gather a
few dozen critical absurdities from our literary reviews,
reprint them with caustic comment, and turn the force
of his ridicule against all those who make a practice of
sacrificing truth to sensational interest—himself included!
STRICTLY SILENT READING
Another question which indicates whether a critic is
able to pass fair and adequate judgment upon a poem,
especially a hypnotic poem, is this: “Does he make a prac­
tice of reading aloud or not?” But here, lest we do an in­
justice to a large group of critics, we must in fairness
recognize that there are three ways of reading poetry
(with reference to the pattern of sound), and we must
distinguish these three ways even at the cost of treating
them somewhat technically.
Class I. The person who habitually reads aloud is pre­
sumably able to do justice to the pattern of sound.
HYPNOTIC POETRY
Class II. Less certain is the status of the person who,
though not reading aloud, hears “to himself” every syl­
lable of every word and probably moves his larynx with
every syllable though he may not be aware of the mo­
tion. Such a reader hears “to himself” five distinct syl­
lables in .
Forgive us our debts
and seven distinct syllables in
Forgive us our trespasses.
We may call him the silent but auditing reader. He will
often get the tone values of a poem almost as well as if he
were reading aloud—at least he will get the more obvious
ones. It is doubtful, however, whether he apprehends
the subtleties—the exquisite delicacies of consonantal re­
turn, the pitch pattern, and the prolonged tones of a line
like
“Where through the long-drawn aisle and fretted vault.”
In general one can never be quite sure whether a critic
of this class is able to comment intelligently on questions
of versification or on the psychological effect produced by
hypnotic poetry.
Class III. The last class is represented by the person who
is not only silent in his reading of poetry but who is also
non-auditing; we may call his reading strictly silent. He
grasps a poem in a purely intellectual way, skimming it,
132
THE SEAT OF THE SCORNFUL J33
if it is easy, just as he would skim a piece of easy prose.
To him debts and trespasses are merely loose synonyms
for sins; in reading the word trespasses he has no feeling
of three distinct syllables nor of the hissing of the re­
peated s. Such a method of reading is almost as valuable
in skimming the newspapers as it is harmful in reading
verse, and most people take advantage of it in the former
case. Thus after reading a report of the case of Jones vs.
Vanhomrigh, one may know all the facts of the case and
be aware that the litigants are Jones and some one whose
name begins with V or perhaps Van, yet one may not
know whether the Van person has a name of two syllables
or three or four. Now in reading hypnotic poetry by this
strictly silent method, one gets the principal ideas and the
more colorful images, but one never undergoes the trance-
producing stimulus of the soothing verse.
As critics of versification, then, readers of Class III are
quite at sea; but because the professional critic must read
omnivorously he is often tempted to follow this line of
least resistance and greatest speed. When the poem in
question is a hypnotic one, which achieves its effect prin­
cipally through th£.^emotions and stimulates these emo­
tions by its special technique of hypnotic versification,
the critical comment that results is inevitably comic. To ex­
pect valuable criticism of a hypnotic poem from a strictly
silent reader would be—to quote a happy phrase by which
Mr. Alfred Noyes pays his respects to certain critics of
Tennyson—“like asking a puppy to direct the hand of a
great surgeon during a delicate operation.”
134 HYPNOTIC POETRY
UNSCIENTIFIC DISSECTION
Another difficulty with contemporary criticism of poetry
is its tendency to pick a poem apart, regardless of whether
it is intellectualist or hypnotic, and appraise it line by
line. Now an intellectualist poem has some resemblance
to an elaborate piece of jewelry; each stone may be ex­
amined as an individual gem, and the value of the whole
is partly determined by the perfection of the separate
stones. To subject each stone of such a piece of jewelry,
or each sentence of an intellectualist poem, to the closest
critical scrutiny will give the connoisseur a surer sense
of the value of the whole piece. But the rhythmic passes
by which a hypnotist puts the subject into a state of hyp­
nosis cannot be isolated and criticized by any ordinary
standards of intellect or of art; nor can the rhythmic phrases
of a hypnotic poem. The only certain basis for criticism
in such cases is the study of the total effect which the
rhythmic passes produce when experienced under suit­
able conditions. In this connection it is hardly necessary
to remark that the absurd controversy in the English
press of 1927 as to whether Longfellow ever wrote “a
single line” of great poetry was the more absurd in so far
as his poetry is hypnotic.
Now a hypnotic poem resembles not an elaborate piece
of jewelry, but rather—if I may take my analogy from a
different field—a representative painting by J. M. W.
Turner. Seen as a whole from the proper distance, such
THE SEAT OF THE SCORNFUL *35
a painting presents certain luminous color effects not often
found in more conventional work. It is a platitude that
the close scrutiny of detail which brings out the best in,
say, a Hogarth, is absurd for a Turner—and every critic
takes it for granted. But in poetry some critics still blun­
der along applying, at least by implication, the same stand­
ards to Rabbi Ben Ezra and The Raven! In painting
we have learned that a certain marine blue-green may be
produced either by brushing the canvas with paint previ­
ously mixed from blue and a dash of yellow, or by dot­
ting the canvas with tiny daubs of blue among which are
intermingled here and there daubs of yellow. Whether
the second method of obtaining the desired color, with
its added sparkle to the waves, is a higher or lower form
of art than the first, I do not for the moment care. But
I have no hesitation in saying that to isolate individual
dots of blue or yellow, examine them under a magnifying
glass, and ridicule them, would only bring ridicule on
the head of the critic. And so it is with certain poems:
“We murder to dissect” ; and when, having dissected, we
condemn an individual line or phrase out of its context,
we ally ourselves with the puppy who, as Mr. Noyes
pointed out, is not competent to direct the hand of a great
surgeon during a delicate operation. I do not say that a
hypnotic poem can never be dissected to advantage, but
the point is that such dissection to be useful must be done
with a difference, and that it seldom adds much to our
aesthetic experience.
136 HYPNOTIC POETRY
FEAR OF THE DIDACTIC
One of the most evident characteristics of modern criti­
cism is its overwhelming tendency to condemn the didactic
in both fiction and poetry. The old custom of “pointing a
moral” is so obsolete, so out of keeping with the tendency
of the age, that he would be a brave writer indeed who
should attempt to revive it.
Whatever moral value a piece of literature may con­
tain should be found by the reader himself, we are told,
or not at all. Nay, more, the reader of narrative must be
left to add from his own imagination the concluding in­
cidents of the story. Only children, we are assured, enjoy
reading, “And so they married, and lived happily ever
after.” The sophisticated reader requires a different ending:
“Darling,” he murmured, “will you—can you ever—” A far­
away light gleamed in her eyes. FINIS.
Or, better still:
“Darling,” he m urm ured****** FINIS.
Roughly speaking, that is supposed to be the successful
formula. It is based on the reiterated principle that “ the
adult mind enjoys solving a puzzle—finding the moral
without (obvious) aid from the author, completing the
happy romance by drawing on its own (supposedly) wide
knowledge of human nature.”
The author must, of course, avoid the pitfall of being
over subtle. Should he leave his story too far from com-
THE SEAT OF THE SCORNFUL J 37
plete, he will find favor with only the few who have lei­
sure to put together the clues given until at length they
find, or think they find, the correct solution. Thus, the
perfect formula is to give just enough hints to guide the
reader inevitably in the right direction, but always with­
out his knowing he is being guided.
And how well the formula serves! How flattered we are
to get “the point” of the story all by ourselves! How com­
plete our scorn of those novels of Dickens where we are
told just how every villain is punished and how every good
character is happily married or sent to Australia! And
how superior we find the detached, coldly objective poetry
of today, to those works of Wordsworth, Longfellow,
and Tennyson, where, in an old-fashioned concluding line
or stanza, the poet points a moral!
Thus we are told that the last stanza of Keats’s Ode on
a Grecian Urn is artistically far below the level of the rest
of the poem because it openly states what the reader might
have been left to infer for himself. Of course “ Beauty is
truth, truth beauty” ! Why be so childish as to say so ? By
the same token, I suppose, some of these opponents of the
openly didactic would think Tennyson’s Ulysses more
satisfying for the omission of the concluding exhortation,
“To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.”
Perhaps, too, Crossing the Bar could be improved to suit
the popular taste if the poet’s hope to see his “Pilot face
to face” were merely suggested instead of being openly
stated!
HYPNOTIC POETRY
This almost universal objection to the didactic is not of
recent origin. It was, indeed, Poe who, nearly a hundred
years ago, strengthened his brilliant attacks on Long­
fellow by his effective use of the phrase “The heresy of the
didactic.” And although Poe’s objection to the art of
Longfellow was largely a matter of personal jealousy, the
phrase he used fell in so well with the taste of the late
nineteenth century, that his view came to be generally
accepted. And now we of the twentieth century find our­
selves facing a singular paradox. In spite of our boasted
independence of literary dogma, our amusement at “the
canons of criticism,” our frank admiration of anything
unconventional in fiction or poetry, we still cling, with a
violence almost amounting to fanaticism, to one funda­
mental of literary faith : we will not tolerate the heresy of
the didactic!
Can it be possible that a more enlightened age will
smile at our naïveté ? Can it be that all this beating about
the bush to avoid the inevitable is an artificial fad, com­
parable to the elaborate circumlocutions of eighteenth-
century “poetic diction” ? Can it be that in literary taste,
as in many phases of social life, there are not merely two
levels of intelligence, but three—and that, like those half­
cultivated persons who eat corn on the cob by cutting
oil the kernels with a knife, we are still on the second
level ?
In the social relations of men and women, the western
world is slowly climbing from the second level of intel­
ligence to the third, and the third has a good deal in com-
138
THE SEAT OF THE SCORNFUL 139
mon with the first. Already we feel a certain amused
superiority when we attend a revival of one of those well­
made plays reflecting the strained and artificial code of
honor of the mid-nineteenth century. We smile indul­
gently to see reproduced the absurdities of a society in
which a girl’s reputation was inevitably tainted by her
being unchaperoned for a few minutes in the company
of a male, and in which the husband who found his wife
in another man’s “chambers,” no matter on what errand,
“ made his arrangements” for a speedy divorce.
Can it be that in objecting to “the heresy of the didactic”
we are—but even the writer of a criticism of criticism dares
not make his point too obvious. Let the “adult mind” of
the reader complete the question, and discover the critical
significance of the answer, for himself!
In general I am sympathetic with the rule of thumb that
direct teaching and preaching had better be done in prose
than in verse. Yet I cannot forget that most rules have
their important exceptions, and that absolute tabus are
often mere superstitions. When we issue a critical fiat ex­
cluding a poet’s moralizing from the class of good poetry,
we may refuse him the right to express an essential part
of his personality. Whittier’s two lines are a case in point:
“Alas for him who never sees
The stars shine through his cypress-trees!”
The excision of such moralizing lines as these from Snow­
Bound would not produce anything quite so ludicrous as
140 HYPNOTIC POETRY
“Hamlet without Hamlet,” but it would give us a mere
winter idyl without Whittier himself.
Such considerations must not, however, be overstressed.
They cannot be legitimately used to justify such goody-
goody moralizing as Longfellow appended to his poem
on The Village Blacksmith:
“Thanks, thanks to thee, my worthy friend,
For the lesson thou hast taught!” etc.
For if any one argues that such sentiments express an es­
sential part of the poet’s personality, we may reply with
justice, “We don’t like a personality which moralizes so
much that the tail wags the dog.”
In brief, criticism should not reverse, but merely modify,
its attitude towards didacticism in poetry. Victorian verse
in general doubtless suffers from a profusion of the moral­
izing tendency; but in isolated cases it is better art to state
an opinion than to dodge it, and in other isolated cases
it is better art for the poet to reveal his personality than
to mask it. If a good many hypnotic poems of the nine­
teenth century are somewhat didactic, they should not be
condemned offhand on that ground.
THE POINT OF DIMINISHING RETURNS IN
POETIC THEORY
The “battle ground of poetic theory” now lies, I am
informed, in the attempt to define “the true function of
the poet,” or to define “pure poetry” in a way that will
be acceptable to all. Such an effort seems, at least super-
THE SEAT OF THE SCORNFUL 141
ficially, to bode well for the future of criticism and, in­
directly, of poetry.
This “battle ground” was reached by a gradual process
of enlargement so natural as to be almost inevitable. To
obtain critical standards we have grouped together cer­
tain similar poems and compared their merits until we
have been able to formulate certain theories about what
makes for poetic excellence in that group. It makes little
difference whether the poems compared have for their
point of similarity a common subject, or a common type,
or a common author; the essential is that we arrive at a
generalization—some bit of poetic theory—that will be
of aid in appreciating another poem which we may wish
to examine critically. This is, of course, the way of the
literary world, and a very sound way.
But students of poetic theory have not been content to
stop with studying small groups of similar poems and
drawing limited conclusions. They have felt it natural to
throw together small groups into larger ones, and to evolve
poetic theories including proportionately larger areas of
the field of poetry. And it seems, again at least superficially,
that poetic theory will have reached the ideal stage when
it stops talking about the parts and turns to the whole—
when it defines “the true function of the poet” and “pure
poetry.” But the search for general standards, for all­
inclusive definitions of “the true function of the poet”
and of “pure poetry,” is open to serious objections both
general and specific. These objections are, I believe, sound,
and they suggest the plainest reasons why the existing
HYPNOTIC POETRY
battle over poetic theory has come to be something of a
musical-comedy affair.
The study of economics has given the world a fuller
understanding of the law of diminishing returns: that
an acre of land, for instance, produces a larger and larger
crop in proportion to the amount of fertilizer used only
up to a certain point. But beyond this point a further in­
crease in the amount of fertilizer used will not produce re­
sults in proportion. Eventually we reach a situation where
more fertilizer would actually do harm by burning out
the crop entirely. Thus although some things are so re­
lated that it is profitable to carry a certain policy on and
on indefinitely, other things are so related that we en­
counter a point of diminishing returns. This essential fact
is too often forgotten by students of aesthetics in gen­
eral and of poetics in particular. Here to say, “Let us
generalize about larger and larger groups of poems until
we are able to generalize about all poetry,” is to neglect
the point of diminishing returns. The range of poetry is
so vast that, long before our enlarged groupings cover the
whole field, we find we have included poems in which
the points of difference so far outweigh the points of
similarity that comparative analysis is puerile.
Cooks, architects, and other practical people find a
point beyond which broader generalizations lead to use­
less platitudes. Culinary experts deal with the cooking of
individual dishes, and of classes such as soups, meats, and
salads; but should they try to deal with the art of prepar­
ing all foods, their generalization would be as flat as a
142
THE SEAT OF THE SCORNFUL H3
statement that “food should be appetizing and nourish­
ing.” Architects may generalize profitably about colonial
houses or about Gothic cathedrals; but there would be little
value in a study of the points which colonial houses,
Gothic cathedrals, railway stations, and summer cottages
all have in common. And so it is of poems.
Not that it is literally impossible to generalize about
Mandalay and the Iliad, but that it is silly. And the silli­
ness is obvious except where shallow platitudes and hasty
generalizations are obscured with a haze of pedantry.
This, then, is a final point where certain faults must be
eliminated before we can proceed to a sounder and more
valuable use of the critical faculty. Poetic theorizing must
not attempt the absurd; battles of theory must not be
fought where a priori considerations show that neither
side can win a victory. If we would have and enjoy good
poetry, we must have sound criticism; and to have sound
criticism we must limit our discussion of poetics to matters
on which progress can be made.
How refreshing it is to run across Mr. H. W. Garrod’s
vigorous refusal to be misled by a sweeping generaliza­
tion! In answering the Abbé Bremond’s assertion that
poetry and indeed all the arts “aspire to join prayer,”
Mr. Garrod (on page 39 of The Profession of Poetry and
Other Lectures) trenchantly replies that “some poetry is
very like prayer, and other poetry is as little like it as
could be.”
Two thousand years and more of discussion, and still
no definition of poetry on which we can agree! Of course.
HYPNOTIC POETRY
It was inevitable. Mr. H. L. Mencken in his essay on The
Poet and his Art has conveniently listed several definitions
of poetry so contradictory as to need no comment; then
he has added one of his own, with which I fancy few
thinking people will agree. And the list can be multiplied
indefinitely. Not until poetic theory narrows its efforts to
a more modest and practical scope, not until its generaliza­
tions are held short of the point of diminishing returns,
can we expect a sounder criticism.
A more specific objection to the arguments over “the
true function of the poet” and the meaning of “pure
poetry” is that such arguments beg the question by as­
suming without proof the dubious idea that some one func­
tion of the poet is “truer” or more essential than all other
functions; likewise that some one kind of poetry is “purer”
than all other kinds. Such is not likely to be the case. Poets,
like gardeners, raise different flowers in their respective
gardens—who shall say whether the tulip or the daffodil
is “purer” ?
Another serious objection to trying to generalize about
the whole field of poetry lies in the personal factor, which
we cannot escape. It is psychologically demonstrable that
different individuals are aesthetically responsive in dif­
ferent ways and to different extents. Some are tone deaf in
music but may have for compensation an extra degree
of sensitiveness in some other particular. In their sense of
rhythm some are natural “timers,” others are “stressers.”
Another class—perhaps they will be called “pitchers”—are
keenly sensitive to the rising and falling pattern of pitch.
J 44
THE SEAT OF THE SCORNFUL i45
Some are more responsive emotionally than intellectually,
and vice versa. The proverb de gustibus non disputandum
is in reality perfectly applicable here. No matter how
sincere a writer may be, when he writes about “pure
poetry” he is probably thinking of the sort of poetry to
which he himself is most responsive. Let him face the
facts.
I have called this chapter “The Seat of the Scornful”
because the critical positions I have been assailing all have
something in common which may lead good poetry to be
misjudged. The tendencies to let criticism be warped by
jealousy, by strictly silent reading, by unwarranted dis­
section, by universal tabu of the didactic, and by futile
battles over the definition of “pure poetry”—all have this
in common: they tend to make us neglect the art of those
nineteenth-century poets whose ability was in the pro­
duction of hypnotic and semihypnotic verse. Critics who
hold these positions are aiming, whether consciously or
not, to set up the poetry of the present day as the world’s
ideal by the simple process of irrationally attacking that
which preceded it chronologically. From a dispassionate
standpoint this is a sin against literature—this sitting in
the seat of the scornful. It is unworthy of our civiliza­
tion. It would be equally unworthy if we were to scorn
the efforts of new poets without having some rational
ground for so doing. Every poet is entitled to state his
own case, and to make a controversial matter of it if he
will. But among poets themselves there is often an amaz-
HYPNOTIC POETRY
ing degree of tolerance. Whitman was an arch-contro­
versialist, yet his tolerance, his avowed admiration of
men who had done the other sort of thing and done it well,
is an inspiration. We critics may well ride our own liter­
ary hobbies—that is what we can do best—but we are wise
not to scorn the work of poets whose tastes are a little
different from our own. As Whitman said in his old age,
commenting on the achievement of Poe, the American
poet most unlike him in taste and standards: “The poetic
area is very spacious—has room for all—has so many man­
sions!”
146
X
TOWARDS
A SOUNDER CRITICISM_________
I
n working towards a sounder criticism of poetry, some­
thing can be accomplished by the negative process of
shunning the pitfalls discussed in the preceding chapter.
If we avoid the prejudices due to jealousy, if we read aloud
poems that ought to be read aloud, if we refrain from dis­
secting works of art that can only be experienced as
wholes, if we modify a little our superstitious fear of the
didactic, and if we keep clear of those controversies which
are inherently futile, we shall at least have made a start.
But something more positive is desirable.
In a general way criticism of poetry cannot hope to
emerge very far from its present chaotic state until we
call on physics and psychology to give us technical in­
formation of fundamental importance. At the present time
technical information of a certain sort is not available;
criticism proceeds largely by an odd combination of
guesswork and a supposed “feeling” for art—a combina­
tion by which any one can often make out as plausible a
case as the mature critic whose taste has been cultivated
by long years of reading.
What scientific facts we need from physics are specifi­
cally these: an accurate analysis and codification of the
elements which combine to produce the pattern of sound
14 7
HYPNOTIC POETRY
in each of several dozen poems which have maintained
their popularity despite the test of time. On the basis of
such an analysis we can eventually achieve what we have
not achieved up to the present time—a definitive treatise
on versification, or at least a definitive treatise on certain
kinds of verse. Stress and time have, of course, been meas­
ured with some accuracy, and a little scientific work has
been done on pitch, but it is still the fact that our treatises
are based for the most part on two elements out of half a
dozen. This is deplorable. Moreover, since Lanier’s Science
of English Verse opened the whole topic as long ago as
1880, it is inexcusable.
One body of technical information that we need from
psychology relates to the effect on the listener of certain
sounds and elaborate combinations of sounds. Without
belittling the progress that has already been made by keen
searchers for truth, we must recognize that much remains
to be done. What patterns of sound best produce, or
harmonize with, certain emotions? Is it true that certain
vowels tend to stimulate different emotions respectively,
according as they are “dark” or “light” ? After arranging
the vowel sounds in an orderly phonetic table, can we
say anything accurate about their appropriateness to con­
vey different ideas and to rouse different emotions ? These
are vital matters for any one who would fathom the mys­
teries of great literature, whether prose or verse. Informa­
tion more pertinent to verse is particularly needed on
the psychological effects of refrain, length of line, rime,
and of the different rhythms. The phrase “heavy trochees
148
TOWARDS A SOUNDER CRITICISM M9
and tripping iambs” suggests something pertinent, but it
is all too easy to jump at conclusions. As soon as we gather
fuller evidence, we find our offhand conjectures hope­
lessly inaccurate. Something can be done—must be done.
Until it is done we can scarcely hope to comprehend the
subtle artistry which, even in Evangeline, has proved too
elusive to be understood by critics yet too effective not to
be felt by the reading public.
For example, in our present state of ignorance on these
fundamental matters I may guess (but it is hardly more
than a guess) that the most soothing pattern of verse to
be produced in the English language is iambic pentam­
eter, generally end-stopt, rimed. I may guess that this
type of verse will constitute the strongest available phys­
ical stimulus to fix the listener’s attention on the mere
sound, while dulling his mental faculties. If my guess
is correct, or approximately so, I have hit on a clue
to the success of Gray’s Elegy, for, as suggested in Chap­
ter IV, the broad, easy platitudes of the poem require an
emotional sympathy between reader and poet rather than
any special intellectual agreement. But (again, if my guess
is correct) I have also hit on the explanation of the varying
degrees of admiration and dislike with which Pope and
his imitators are read by later generations. These gentle­
men, it seems, inadvertently selected, of all possible forms
of verse, the one most ineffective for their peculiarly intel­
lectual poems. If their “rocking-horse couplets” be read
aloud in a casual way, it requires a supreme effort of will
for the listener to focus his attention on the witty subtleties
HYPNOTIC POETRY
and argumentative points with which the poems abound.
Unless the reader employs every artifice of pause, inflec­
tion, and emphasis, to bring out the meaning in spite of
the lulling pattern of sound, the wisdom of the Essay on
Criticism and even the playful brilliance of The Rape of
the Loc\ will be lost. To get the best out of Pope and his
imitators, then, it may be well to resort to strictly silent
reading or, better, to take the most effective couplets quite
out of their context. While we may infer from their prac­
tice that the Augustan poets did not understand the psy­
chological principle they so persistently violated, there
is reason to suppose that Pope himself eventually came to
have some inkling of the incongruity of the situation.
Long before his death he began working on the plan of an
epic poem entitled Brutus, which, had he lived to com­
pose it, would have been his magnum opus. The significant
point is that the epic was not to be in heroic couplets but
in blank verse.
Such fascinating critical speculations are, however, but
an indication of the need for specific technical aid from
both physics and psychology. For the present we may as
well frankly admit the chaotic state of criticism of poetry,
and do what we can to promote order and good sense.
One principle to which any critic might well agree is
that he should proceed with great caution in disparaging
a poem if he is not sympathetic to that kind of poetry.
If, for example, a critic does not like long narrative poems
while much of the world does, let him suspect that the
difficulty lies with himself more than with the poem in
150
TOWARDS A SOUNDER CRITICISM I51
question. If, however, he usually responds to a certain
type of poetry, but finds no virtue in one particular poem
of that type, then of course he may be surer of his ground
in pronouncing an adverse opinion. Let this principle be
applied generally and with becoming humility on the part
of critics. We are human; each of us likes to think he has
catholic tastes, but individually we have not. The range
of poetry is too great for one critic to be sensitive to all
kinds.
Another principle to which we might agree—unless this
book has been written quite in vain—is that we must con­
sider poems, and especially certain ones, from a particular
psychological standpoint. Granted that it is often well
to classify poems conventionally by authors and to give
each its appropriate biographical criticism, again by types
with criticism suited to each type, again by subjects with
comparison of the manner in which the same subject is
treated in different poems, and so on—is the time not ripe
for psychological classification as well ? Shall we not dis­
tinguish the dreamy, persuasive hypnotism of Love Among
the Ruins from the subtle intellectuality of My Last
Duchess? Can we not agree that entirely different critical
standards are needed for the majestic, flowing sweep of
The Battle Hymn of the Republic and the keen, power­
ful ¿pony of other war poems such as those in The Biglow
Papers?
The study of any kind of poetry should concern itself
less with the qualities it has in common with all other
kinds than with the peculiar quality that is its leading
152 HYPNOTIC POETRY
characteristic. As I said in the preceding chapter, it is not
literally impossible to find points of similarity between
the Iliad and Mandalay, but it is silly to hunt for them.
If this leading characteristic happens to be the employ­
ment of hypnotic technique, and if the poem contains
something of a hypnotic “suggestion,” let us focus our
attention there. How valuable is the suggestion, and how
deeply does it penetrate the listener’s conscious and sub­
conscious minds? A persuasive orator intent on driving
home a truth, no matter how sketchy his logic, is in some
ways the superior of a Burke, whose tiresome arguments
emptied the House so often that he came to be known as
“ the dinner bell.” To get results is always something, and
a hypnotic poem with a “suggestion” does just that. Most
of the message of Gray’s Elegy had been uttered before
Gray by other poets, as Mr. John Draper has shown in
extenso by his study of The Funeral Elegy and English
Romanticism— but it had not been heard! Gray’s credit is
that he made himself heard, believed, and remembered.
His plea for the humble English peasant has become im­
mortal. General Wolfe gave credit where credit was due,
and set a standard for criticism which combines truth
with interest, when he said he would rather have written
The Elegy than take Quebec.
To illustrate, a typical application of such principles ,
may be made to a familiar semihypnotic poem, Tenny­
son’s Merlin and the Gleam. This poem becomes less
hypnotic in proportion as the listeners exert themselves
TOWARDS A SOUNDER CRITICISM *53
to trace in it an allegory of the poet’s own career. But to
listeners unfamiliar with the poem (who hardly become
aware of the allegory) and to those so familiar with it that
the allegory interprets itself without effort on their part,
it is intensely hypnotic. Now criticism is puerile in such
a case if it limits itself to a conventional study of the poem.
Such a study is doubtless fascinating: the novelty of the
metrical structure, the quaintness of individual words, the
deftness with which the allegory reveals the poet’s own
failures and triumphs, the daring with which the word
Arthur suggests at once King Arthur and Arthur Hallam
—all these fascinating topics can be treated in the ordinary
critical fashion. But that is only a beginning. The great­
ness of Merlin and the Gleam lies in the power of the
spell under which it throws the listeners and in the force
of its post-hypnotic suggestion—“Follow the Gleam!”
If a critic had to choose between estimating the value of
the poem by ordinary literary standards or by the psy­
chological standards of hypnotic poetry, he could not
stultify himself more than by choosing the former. His
most significant comments should be based on the fol­
lowing points: (i) That the listeners must know in ad­
vance that “the Gleam” meant to Tennyson “the higher
poetic imagination” and that it may symbolize to each in­
dividual the highest ideal in his own career. (2) That lis­
teners who have to labor over the allegory are not in a
state of mind to experience the poem properly. (3) That
the technique of the poem is so perfect—with its haunt-
HYPNOTIC POETRY
ing rhythms, its baffling, mysterious vagueness, and its
commanding climax—as to make the post-hypnotic sug­
gestion overwhelmingly effective.
If the critic has included those essentials, he can be sure
that his comment will be at once sound and interesting.
Then, if he is able, he may in addition attempt the psy­
chological analysis of how the effect is produced. He may
count over and find that “the Gleam” is specifically men­
tioned eleven times, usually with a — rhythm, con­
trasting with the more frequent pattern of—^w — if that
is significant. He may ponder over the easy steps by which
the listener is made familiar with “the Gleam,” laying
special emphasis on the early introduction, through the
Master’s command to Merlin, of the key phrase, “Follow
the Gleam.” He may trace, if he can, the entranced lis­
tener’s vague wonderings as to what it all might mean to
him if he were in the poet’s place, and trace the subtle
suggestions by which an idea that is vague and ethereal
becomes one of definite aspiration. He may try to decide
whether more, or less, of hypnotic preparation would have
helped the listener into the mood of emotional responsive­
ness. He may note the reasons why at exactly line 124 the
listener is in the poet’s place, and must “follow the Gleam.”
But still the essentials of his criticism will be the three
points enumerated in the preceding paragraph.
Listeners who have ever followed a gleam more inspir­
ing than the tail-light of the automobile ahead, listeners
with ambition for self-realization, listeners with a touch
of that sublime aspiration that used to be called idealism—
*54
TOWARDS A SOUNDER CRITICISM i55
such listeners know that Merlin and the Gleam is a great
poem. And not least among the reasons for its greatness is
its hypnotic art.
I have kept harping on hypnotic poetry in this chapter
for the same reason that I have made it the subject of the
whole study—because I believe it to be an important iso-
lable phenomenon, not frequently isolated and not gen­
erally understood. Although I have no interest in disparag­
ing masterpieces of a different type, still I do urge that
here more than elsewhere is a chance for lovers of poetry
to get their bearings with new accuracy, and to voyage,
and voyage easily, “towards a sounder criticism.”
How important is the hypnotic technique? Is its ab­
sence always to be deplored? I think not. Is its presence
a sign of greatness? Its presence is at least a sign of skil­
ful artistry, and it may be more. There are so many qual­
ities by virtue of which (singly or in combination) a poem
may recommend itself, that the presence or absence of one
is not necessarily vital, especially if the poem be short.
Many of Browning’s Dramatic Lyrics and Dra?natic
Romances show no trace of several of the usual poetic
merits, yet they stand as masterpieces because they make
the best possible use of a few others—subtlety of char­
acter portrayal, dramatic contrast, and climax of interest.
“Who supposes that all poetry,” asks Mr. Lascelles Aber­
crombie in The Theory of Poetry, “even all the poetry
which is to be called supremely good, must have all pos­
sible qualities?” If a critic should condemn, say, Brown-
HYPNOTIC POETRY
ing’s Soliloquy in a Spanish Cloister for its lack of lyric
beauty and of various other poetic qualities, while com­
pletely overlooking its obvious merits, we should have no
patience with him. As I have already said, it is usually some
positive aspect of the leading characteristic which, if any­
thing, makes a poem important.
Now it does not seem an unreasonable extension of
this principle to include, among those qualities by virtue
of which a poem may recommend itself, the spellweaving
magic which has enthralled listeners from the primitive
age of man down to the present day. If certain admirers
of intellectualist poetry cannot respond to the spell, or if
by strictly silent reading they cut themselves off from it,
so much the worse for them. The fact still remains that
/ the generality of mankind do respond to that magic and
\ have responded ever since the dawn of history.
One finds the hypnotic quality—to speak only of Eng­
' lish literature—in the popular ballads rich with incre-
^ mental repetition, in the majestic blank verse soliloquies
of Marlowe and of Shakespeare, in the grandest passages
of Milton. One feels its soothing dignity in Gray’s Elegy
and its potent malignity in the curse of his Bard. One finds
it again in the lilting melodies of Burns’s lyrics, and on
throughout the golden pages of nineteenth-century poetry.
It still lives today in the most effective passages of Kipling
and Noyes. And if the views I have advanced in this
volume have any approximation to accuracy, we have good
1 reason to believe this hypnotic quality will live on through
\ the ages to come.
156
WORKS CITED
T h e earlier w o r\s, being available in m any editions, are listed by
author and title only
Abercrombie, Lascelles, T h e Theory of Poetry, New York, 1926
Arnold, Matthew, Essays in Criticism , Second Series
Baudouin, Charles, Suggestion and Autosuggestion, New York,
1921
Brown, William, Suggestion and M ental Analysis, London, 1923
Buchanan, Robert, “Criticism as One of the Fine Arts/’ in M aster
Spirits, Second Edition, London, 1874
Cleveland, Catherine C., T h e Great R eviva l in the W est 17 9 7 -18 0 5 ,
Chicago, 1916
Cook, A. K., Com m entary upon B ro w n in g 's “ T h e R in g and T h e
B o o \ T Oxford University Press, 1920
Davenport, Frederick Morgan, Prim itive Traits in Religious R e­
vivals, New York and London, 1905
Downey, June., Creative Im agination, New York, 1929. “Literary
Hypnotism,” in T h e Bookm an, February, 1919
Draper, John W., T h e Funeral E leg y and the R ise of English
Rom anticism , New York, 1929
Eastman, Max, En joym en t of Poetry, New York, 1926
Garrod, H. W., T h e Profession of Poetry and Other Lectures,
Oxford, 1929
Gummere, Francis B., T h e Beginnings of Poetry, New York,
1901
*57
Lamborn, E. A. Greening, T h e R udim ents of Criticism , Oxford,
1921
Lanier, Sidney, T h e Science of English Verse, New York, 1880
Leuba, James H., T h e Psychology of Religious M ysticism , New
York and London, 1925
Mencken, Henry Louis, “The Poet and His Art,” Prejudices,
Third Series, New York, 1922
Milton, John, Areopagitica
Moll, Albert, H ypnotism , London, 1913
Mordell, Albert, T h e Literature of Ecstasy, London, 1922
Noyes, Alfred, Som e Aspects of M odern Poetry, New York, 1924
158 WORKS CITED
Palmer, George Herbert, T h e Odyssey of H om er, Boston and
New York, 1891
Perry, Bliss, T h e Study of Poetry, Boston, 1920
Plutarch, H o w a Y o u n g M an Shou ld Study Poetry
Poe, Edgar Allan, M arginalia, T h e Philosophy of Com position,
T h e Poetic Principle
Prescott, Frederick Clark, T h e Poetic M in d , New York, 1922
Richards, I. A., Principles of Literary Criticism , New York, 1924
Seabrook, W. B., M agic Island, New York, 1929
Shelley, Percy Byssche, A D efense of Poetry
Sidney, Sir Philip, A pologie for Poetrie
Snyder, Edward D., T h e Celtic R evival in English Literature
iy 6 o -i8 o o , Cambridge, 1923
Stevenson, R. L. “On Some Technical Elements of Style in Litera­
ture,” in Essays in the A rt of W riting
Stewart, J. A., T h e M yths of Plato, London and New York, 1905
Untermeyer, Louis, A m erican Poetry since 1900, New York, 1923
WORKS CITED
Vaihinger, Hans, T h e Philosophy of “ A s If,” New York and Lon­
don, 1925
Wells, Wesley, “Experiments in Waking Hypnosis for Instruc­
tional Purposes,” in T h e Journal of A bn orm al Psychology and
Social Psychology, 1924, pp. 399 ff.
Whitman, Walt, A B a ckw a rd Glance O 'er Traveled Roads
Wiley, Autrey Nell, “Reiterative Devices in ‘Leaves of Grass/ ”
in Am erican Literature, May, 1929
Woodberry, George Edward, T h e Inspiration of Poetry, New
York, 1910
Wordsworth, William, Preface to the L yrical Ballads, 1800
*59
INDEX OF POETS
\rnold, 107, 125-126, 128
Benêt, Stephen Vincent, 43, 88
Browning, Mrs., 8
Browning, Robert, 3-4, 8, 13,
40,42,48,49,65-67,97-98,
107, 113» I35> I51» 155
Burns, 8, 45, 156
Byron, 8, 49
Dhaucer, 14
Plough, 48
Coleridge, 8, 41, 45, 95
Dante, 78, 96, 126
Fitzgerald, 8, 107
Doethe, 126
^ray, 5» 8» 39» 44» 5°» 5T
“57»
78, 149, 152, 156
dolmes, 107
rlomer, 126, 143, 152
riowe, 151
Ceats, 5-6, 8, 46-47, 103, 137
Cipling, 8, 44-45, 67-69, 143,
152, 156
Lanier, 107
Leonard, 87
Longfellow, 2, 3, 6, 9, 11, 85-88,
96, 107, 134, 137, 140, 149
Lowell, Amy, 104
Lowell, James Russell, 3, 107,
151
Macpherson, 106, 117
Marlowe, 156
Masefield, 9
Milton, 78, 156
Noyes, 60, 133, 135, 156
Poe, 3, 6, 9, 15, 43, 45, 46, 47,
51, 60, 69-72, 84, 87, 89,
95, 112, 120, 135, 138, 146
Pope, 9, 14, 42, 50, 149-150
Rossetti, Dante Gabriel, 107
Seeger, 9
Shakespeare, 1, 72-73, 156
Shelley, 6, 9, 45, 112
Stevenson, 41, 89
Swift, 42
Swinburne, 9, 46, 47, 84
162 INDEX
Tennyson, 2, 9, 13, 41, 45, 47, Whitman, 9, 65, 81-83,
48, 49, 61, 74-81, 84, 85-87, 107-108, 117-118, 145-1;
89, 107, 118, 126-127, 137, Whittier, 107, 139-140
152-155 Wordsworth, io, 65, 8
113-114, 116, 137
