{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__seward___fourteen_lessons_in_memory_training.pdf","mytitle":"Fourteen Lessons In Memory Training","mylang":"de"}
Fourteen Lessons
IN
MEMORY
TRAINING
By
PROF. A. F. SEWARD
'T houghts are
things9 which,
treasured in the
keeping of an or­
ganized memory,
become the key­
stone of human
progress
PRICE 50 CENTS
A. F. SEWARD & CO.
PUBLISHERS and BOOKSELLERS
3620 N. Fremont Street
(Formerly Rokeby Street)
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
VISIT
PROF. SEWARD’S WORLD FAMOUS
STUDIO
ON THE ATLANTIC CITY BOARDWALK
a
wStr^rTW^ii 5T W Y Y W W W W
yyvjy
yy
vy\
,/~xTt
s*r
\~y>
rm
av
V
jM
T
U
N
t
WM(M
M
Prof. Seward9
s Fortune
Telling Cards
Each card foretells the different events of life, and every
one will find them adapted to his or her peculiar case. With
these wonderful cards in your possession you can completely
mystify and amare your friends, who will be astonished at
your cleverness.
These cards are the result of years of study and practice
and are used today by the most renowned card readers,
fortune'tellers, clairvoyants and mediums throughout the
world, who, with remarkable accuracy, have foretold the future
of many people of great prominence, as well as many of the
stage and screen celebrities of Hollywood, New York, and
London. These cards are entirely different than ordinary
playing cards. Each card is numbered and illustrated with
pictures, signs and symbols of prophecy which should enable
any person of ordinary intelligence to tell the past, present
and future.
W ith a little practice one may become very skilled and
proficient as a card reader. Many men and women, even of
high social standing have applied their art and skill at church
fairs, bazaars, and other social functions, and in this way
raised large sums of money for charitable purposes—to say
nothing of being able to find out “other people’s secrets"—
in fact, with these cards many questions pertaining to business,
health, love, courtship, marriage, secret enemies, travel, etc.,
can be answered and foretold.
If in your home or at a party and the conversation seems
to lag, it is only necessary to produce a pack of these mysterious
cards and offer to tell the fortune of any or all of those present.
A ny one who will read the directions end become familiar with
these cards will surely become popular with both sexes and never
w ant for friends. People in every walk of life, with these cards,
are able to fortell the future. It should be remembered, these are
n o t ordinary playing cards— they are entirely different.
Surely you will be m ore than delighted with a pack of Prof.
Sew ard's F ortune Telling Cards, which are as entertaining and
fascinating as they are strange and mysterious. They will tell you
about m any of the things th at you are m ost interested in, to say
nothing about the excitem ent, fun and amusement you will have
w ith them the next tim e a crowd of friends drop in. The cards
are arranged in such a m anner th a t any person can read his for*
tune w ithout the aid of anyone else, as the printed instructions
accom panying each pack are very explicit.
P rinted in beautiful colors on high quality super-enamel, packed
in fine red and gold telescope case. One Dollar ($ 1.00) per pack
w ith full directions. Send your order in now while the thought Is
fresh in your mind. You m ay send check. Post Office, or Express
M oney O rder, o r if you prefer you m ay enclose one dollar in a
registered letter.
A. F. SEWARD & CO.
3620 N. Fremont Street Chicago, 111.
I
■ i
PROF. A. F. SEWARD
'THOUGHTS are
things, which,
treasured in the
keeping of an or­
ganized memory,
become the key­
stone of human
progress
PRICE 50 CENTS
A. F. SEWARD & CO.
PUBLISHERS and BOOKSELLERS
3620 N. Fremont Street
(Formerly Rokeby Street)
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
VISIT
PROF. SEWARD’S WORLD FAMOUS
STUDIO
ON THE ATLANTIC CITY BOARDWALK
i$^?itr?i^itrw>itrAiir\itrwwWTitr^isywww^^
rw
.aw
.ip!U
N
M/!>
.|J
.||
Fourteen Lessons
MEMORY
TRAINING
P R E F A C E
In offering this system of memory training to
the public the author frankly states, that it is not a
secret that is imparted for so many dollars, nor one
that can be obtained without labor. It is intended to
show how the mind can be strengthened, so as to
enable it to perceive, retain, and reproduce incidents
that have passed; how words, dates, facts, and pictures
may be stored away in the brain and recalled at will;
how by a right use of the mental power, memory ca*
be made to perform prodigious feats.
There is no reason why it should take a public
speaker tei^ times longer to memorize his speech than
it does to write it, nor is there any reason why matter
once committed to memory should speedily be for­
gotten.
The author has devoted a lifetime to the study of
this and kindred subjects, and this treatise on memory
culture, now given for the first time to the public, is
the resultant gitowth of years of patient testing om
vast numbers of students.
He therefore offers it to all who sincerely desire
to possess a good memory, with the full assurance
that such desire can be attained by a faithful and per­
sistent study of the following pages.
The Author.
CHAPTER I
WHAT IS MEMORY?
Memory is the mental power of recognizing
past knowledge. It is a recalling of facts, words,
faces, or pictures that had been put aside. A bus­
iness act has been performed and the facts inciden­
tal thereto are then stored in the recesses of the
brain, but at a later date a dispute arises concern­
ing this particular transaction and it is necessary
that all details of the transaction should be re­
called. Two travellers become acquainted, they
part, and for many years do not meet again; final­
ly, they come face to face. A gorgeous sunset is
witnessed by one who is journeying near the trop­
ics, the sun sinks to rest and the picture disap­
pears.
Recalling the facts pertaining to the business
act, remembering the face of the acquaintance, re­
producing the magnificent sunset are all acts of
memory.
Alexander Smith has said in his writings; “A
man’s real possession is his memory; in nothing
else is he rich; in nothing else is he poor.”
Lactantius, the Greek philosopher is quoted as
follows: “Memory tempers prosperity, mitigates
adversity, controls youth, and comforts old age.”
But even the above phases of memory represent
but a small segment of its complete circle. Bacon
has said, “All knowledge is but a remembrance.”
Kay, one of the most widely known authorities on
the subject has said regarding it, “Unless the mind
possess the power of treasuring up and recalling
its past experiences, no knowledge of any kind
could be acquired. If every sensation, thought or
emotion passed entirely from the mind the moment
it ceased to be present, it could not be named or rec­
ognized should it happen to return. Such a one
would not only be without knowledge but also with­
out purpose, aim or plan regarding the future, for
these imply knowledge and require memory.
Not only the learning of the scholar, but the
inspiration of the poet, the genius of the artist, the
heroism of the warrior, all depend greatly upon
memory. Even consciousness itself could have no
existence without memory, for every conscious act
involves a change from a past state to a present,
and if the past state vanished the moment it was
past, there could be no consciousness of change.
It is the author’s purpose in this work to point
out the most improved and scientific methods for
“recollecting” the impressions and ideas of the
4
memory, and to instruct the reader in the use of
proper methods, whereby the memory may be
stored with clear and distinct impressions which
will, thereafter, flow naturally and involuntarily
into the held of consciousness when the mind is
thinking upon a particular line of thought.
You will see this theme carried out in detail
as we progress With the various stages of the sub­
ject in this work.
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAINING
CHAPTER II
PERCEPTION
In the preceding chapter you have learned
“what memory is” and it is the author’s purpose
now to divide the “Act of Memory” into its sev­
eral functions, three in number, and classified as
follows:
Perception.
Retention.
Reproduction.
Many persons seem to be under the impression
that memories are bestowed by nature, in a fixed
degree, and that little, if anything can be done to
improve them—in short, that memories are boro,
not made. The fallacy of such an idea is demon­
strated by the investigations of the leading author­
ities on the subject.
However, all such improvement to be real,
must be along certain natural lines, and in accord­
ance with the well established laws of psychology,
instead of along artificial lines, and in defiance of
psychological principles.
You will find that in the several chapters of
this book, the author urges, first, last and all the
time, the importance of the use and employment of
the memory, in the way of exercise, practice, and
review work. Like any other faculty, the memory
will improve with use, and will tend to become in­
active by disuse and neglect.
There is no royal road to memory. Those who
hope for a “short cut” will be disappointed, for
none exists. Methods that dazzle at first sight
never give lasting results.
As previously stated, the first, or primary
function of the memory is “Perception”.
By perception is meant the ability to gain
knowledge through the medium of one or more of
the five senses.
We may perceive by the eye, ear, nose, tongue
s
i
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAINING
or skin. These all act as mediums for the trans­
mission to the brain, the brain in turn communicat­
ing with the organ of expression, thus lmiuilt
what is perceived with the faculty of retenti(Hfc.j
The reader is warned against confusing "per­
ception" with "looking” as this is an error which
entraps many. It is one thing to casually glance
at a person, object, picture or sunset, and quite
different to "perceive” the outstanding character­
istics of any or all. The average individual invar­
iably commits the error of looking at an object,
without "seeing” it—insofar as the perceptive
power of the memory is concerned. It is there­
fore essential in the cultivation of a good memory,
that anything which it is desired to remember,
must first be “perceived”, or “seen” with the phys­
ical eye, noting clearly one or more outstanding
features that will impress themselves indelibly on'
one's gray matter. Having “perceived”, the first
step has been accomplished.
The power of perception may be strengthened
by paying strict attention to all objects coming
within the range of one's vision. Some speakers
for instance, arrange their speeches or lectures on
cards three by five inches in size, placing one para­
graph or section of the speech on one card, famil­
iarizing themselves with the general appearance of
the text matter on each card, and when they rise
to speak, each card passes before their mental
vision, and it becomes easy for them to recall the
matter that is written thereon.
Other speakers use different colored sheets of
paper instead of cards, and associate the text mat­
ter with the various colors.
The arrangement of words or letters, often
aids in memorizing, as evidenced in the following
extract from Shakespeare: “And this our life, ex­
empt from public haunt, Finds tongues in trees,
books in the running brooks, sermons in stones,
and good in everything.”
(As You Like It, Act n, Scene I)
The observant or perceptive eye will note the
“t” in tongues and trees, the “b” in book and
brooks, and the “s” in sermons and stones. After
these things have been perceived by the mind it
will be a simple matter to memorize the passage
and a pleasure to recall it at will.
CHAPTER HI
RETENTION
You are now fully prepared to take the next
i in the training of your memory, which u
6
CONTENTS
Chapter 1 What is Memory?
Chapter 2 Perception.
Chapter 3 Retention.
Chapter 4 Reproduction.
Chapter 5 Memory Systems.
Chapter 6 Training the Eye.
Chapter 7 Training the Ear.
Chapter 8 How to Remember Names.
Chapter 9 How to Remember Faces.
Chapter 10 How to Remember Places.
Chapter 11 How to Remember Numbers.
Chapter 12 How to Remember Books and
Plays.
Chapter 13 Creative Thought.
Chapter 14 Building for Success.
known as retention. It is well at this time to
touch upon that most marvelous of all the organs
of the human body—the brain.
With the possible exception of physicians, sur­
geons and like professional people, very few indi­
viduals have any conception of the highly intric­
ate mechanism known as the brain. It may be
likened unto a well organized office, wherein the
equipment is at all times positively up to the min­
ute. You, being the landlord of this imaginary of­
fice, are charged with the responsibility of making
the very best possible use of the furniture and fix­
tures, contained therein.
These latter may be compared with modern
filing cabinets, fitted with selective indexes, and
ready at a moment’s notice to furnish any desired
information which has previously been placed
therein for future reference. For instance, how
often have you lamented the fact, that a telephone
number given to you by a very dear friend had
entirely escaped your memory, or the address of a
prospective client had in some mysterious manner
completely eluded your every search.
Few there are who would not give fabulous
prices to be able to commit such data to memory,
with the positive assurance that when needed, the
information could be instantly recalled at will.
In order to reproduce, it is necessary for us to
retain; we cannot dispose of a thing that has
passed from our possession; therefore, after an ob­
ject has been perceived it must be retained, so that
it may be reproduced. Retention is one of the
great essentials of memory. The only way for
persons to retain what they have seen, heard, or
felt, is for that particular thing to make an im­
pression on them; therefore, if they wish to re­
tain they must first perceive, closely and intently;
secondly, study the purpose or meaning of the ob­
ject perceived until they feel that they know all
about it, and when satisfied on that point, they
may rest assured it has been perceived in such
manner as will enable them to retain it.
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAINING
CHAPTER IV
REPRODUCTION
To be able to perceive and retain impressions
of all objects which arouse our interest, will be of
little use unless we can at the same time reproduce
them as many times as desired, and this repro­
duction may be continued until the brain ceasee
to function.
In this connection, the brain is much like a
7
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN
m em o r y t r a in in g
phonograph record; an impression is k«
and it may then be reproducedjndeflmtely, the
quality of the reproduction and the ability to re­
produce, depending on the perfection of tne
pression and the ability of the mind to recognise 119
when reproduced.
The power to recognize is as essential as the
ability to reproduce, for unless the mind recognizes
the reproduction, memory will fail to act. The
following incident will explain this fact. Longfel­
low and Emerson were intimate friends, both liv­
ing to a ripe old age, and achieving fame and re­
nown. Longfellow retained possession of all his
faculties until death intervened, but Emerson’s
mind had lost its marvellous power some years
prior to his demise. On the death of Longfellow,
Emerson’s daughter conducted her father to where
the funeral services were being held, and as he
gazed upon the peaceful face, and snow white hair,
he said, “It is a"sweet face, he was a lovely char­
acter”. Then turning to his daughter, he contin­
ued, in a low tone that indicated he was trying to
recollect whose face it was, “but I have forgotten
his name.”
This showed that all his processes of memory
had not remained intact, and while Emerson’s mind
perceived, retained and reproduced, it failed to
recognize, and consequently he was unable to re­
member.
By this time the student will perceive that
this system is not a hocus pocus trick, a juggling
of figures or words, but an honest setting forth of
the means by which the mind can be made to see,
retain, and reproduce objects, facts, and words, oy
the simple process of„exercising thought. In order
for one to have a good memory it is necessary for
the brain to do its full duty and this will be im­
possible unless it is in a healthful state.
Brain power is essential to the health of the
brain, and this power can only be attained through
keeping the brain in action. It is foolish to think
that one can deaden the brain with liquor, stupefy
it with drugs, or poison the system with nicotine,
and yet have a good memory.
If there be any who have accompanied the
author thus far on our journey, who think they
can persist in dissipation, or any form of unclean
living, and at the same time acquire a good mem­
ory, let them be warned here and now that nature
rebels at such a proposition and will in nowise
permit it.
By this it is not meant that men must neither
drink nor smoke if they desire to possess good
8
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAININO
memories, because both these habits may be prac­
ticed in moderation without doing any serious
harm to the mind, but it is the author's opinio«
that overindulgence of any kind, drinking, eating,
or smoking, tends to weaken the mind and thus
Injure the memory.
CHAPTER Y
MEMORY SYSTEMS
The subject of Memory Development is not by
any means a new one. For two thousand years,
at least, there has been much thought devoted to
the subject; many books written thereon; many
methods or “systems” invented, the purpose c4
which has been the artificial training of the mem­
ory.
Instead of endeavoring to develop the memory
by scientific training and rational practice and ex­
ercises along natural lines, there seems to have
been an idea that one could improve on Nature's
methods; that a plan might be devised whereby
the memory might be taught to give up her hidden
treasures.
The law of Association has been used in the
majority of these systems, often to a ridiculous
degree. Fanciful systems have been built up, all
artificial in their character and nature, the use of
which to any great extent is caculated to result in
a decrease of the natural extent of remembrance
and recollection, just as by using “drugs” or un­
natural aids in the physical system, there always
follows a decrease in the natural powers.
Nature prefers to do her own work unaided.
She may be trained, led, harnessed and directed
but she insists on performing the work herself err
dropping the task.
There are many points in some of these “sys­
tems” which may be employed to advantage, by
divorcing them from their fantastic rules and com­
plex arrangement.
The ancient Greeks were fond of memory sys­
tems, and it is related of Simonides, who lived about
500 B. C. that he was present at a large banquet
attended by many personages of high social stand­
ing. During the course of the entertainment he
was called from the banquet hall, and shortly after
he left, the roof of the building collapsed, kflling
all present in the room, and mutilating their bodies
to such an extent that friends and relatives were
unable to recognize many of them.
Simonides, having a well developed memory
for places and position, was able to recall ®
X
®
C
fl
order in which each guest had been seated, BOO
therefore was able to furnish the means of com*
píete identification.
This occurence impressed him so forcibly, that
he devised a system of memorizing based upon
position, which attained great popularity in Greece,
and the leading writers of that day highly recom­
mended it
This system of Simonides was known as the
“topical” system. His students were taught to
picture in the mind a large building divided into
sections, and then into rooms, halls, etc. The
thing to be remembered was “visualized” as occu­
pying some certain room in that building.
When one wished to recall the objects to con­
sciousness, they visualized the mental building,
taking an imaginary trip from room to room, call­
ing off the various objects that had been placed in
each.
Many modern systems have been built upon
the foundation laid by Simonides, and in some cas­
es students have been charged exorbitant fees for
the so-called “secret”.
Kay, a wizard on memory development, has ex­
posed the so-called “secret” of many high priced
systems, as follows: “Select a number of rooms,
and divide the walls and floor of each, in imagina­
tion, into nine equal parts or squares, three in a
row.
On the front wall—that which includes the en­
trance—of the first room, are the units; on the
right hand wall, the tens; on the left hand, the
twenties; on the rear wall the thirties, and on the
floor the forties. The complete numbers, ten,
twenty, thirty and forty, each find a place on the
ceiling above their respective wall positions, while
fifty occupies the centre of the room. One room
will therefore furnish fifty places and ten rooms
as many as five hundred. i
Having fixed these clearly in the mind, so as
to be able to tell readily the position of each place
or number, it is then necessary to associate with
each number some familiar object (or symbol) so
that the object being suggested, its place may be
instantly remembered, or when the place is in the
mind’s eye, the object is correspondingly visualized.
When this has been done thoroughly, the ob­
jects can be named in any order from beginning to
end, or from end to beginning.
Akin to the foregoing is the idea—underlying
many other “systems” and “secret methods of
10
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAINING
contingency or connection, in which words art
strung together by fanciful connecting links.
In this work there shall be no attempt to
teach any of these tricks or secret systems that
the student may perform for the amusement of
friends. It is the author's aim to instruct in the
intelligent and practical use of the memory in the
affairs of every day life and work.
CHAPTER VI
TRAINING THE EYE
It is a well established fact in professional
circles, that 87% of the impressions made on the
mind enter through the medium of the eye, hence,
we should be alive to the necessity of cultivating
that highly specialized faculty of observation and
perception.
Before the memory can be stored with sight
impressions the eye must be used under the direc­
tion of “Attention”.
We think that we see things when we look at
them, but in reality, we see but few things, in the
sense of registering a dear and distant impression
upon the mental blackboard.
We look at them, rather than see them.
A teacher once said to the pupils of a country
school, all of whom had seen cows; “I should like
to find out how many of you know whether a cow's
ears are above, below, in front or behind her horns.
I want only those pupils to raise their hands who
are sure about their position, and who are willing
to give a dollar to charity if they answer wrongly."
Only two hands were raised, and only one of these
proved to be correct.
Fifteen pupils were sure that they had seen
cats climb trees and descend them. There was
unanimity of opinion that the cats went up head
first. When asked whether the cats came down
head or tail first, the majority were sure that the
cats descended as they were never known to do.
Any one who has ever noticed the shape of the
claws of any predatory animal, could have ans­
wered the question correctly without seeing an
actual descent.
Farmers’ sons, who have often seen horses and
cows lie down and rise again, are seldom sure
whether the animals rise with their front feet first,
or whether the habit of the horse agrees with that
of the cow in this respect.
The elm tree has a peculiarity about its leaf
li
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN
m em ory t r a in in g
that all ought to notice the first time they see it,
and yet only one pupil in every thousand of our
present high school attendance can incorporate E
B
a drawing this peculiarity, although it is so easily
outlined on paper.
The student may ask here what are the an­
swers to the foregoing questions. That is a duty
thrust upon you by the author as part of his pur­
pose in presenting this treatise. Everyone has the
opportunity to obtain the correct answer in each
case if they will but “see”, and not merely look.
The way to train the mind to receive clear
sight impressions, and therefore to retain, in the
memory, is simply to concentrate the will and at­
tention on the objects seen, and then to practice re­
calling the details of the same objects later. It
is astonishing how great a degree of proficiency in
this practice one may attain in a very short time.
One of the best known plans, (approved by the
author) in the training of the eye, is given here­
with.
Select any store in your neighborhood, that
has a variety of articles exhibited in a show win­
dow. Upon your first approach walk past the win­
dow leisurely, looking therein with fixed attention,
and, having passed, endeavor to recall or write
down the names of all the different articles ob­
served on display. Having become proficient in
this one thing, add to your task by noting, in addi­
tion to the articles, their position in the window
and the amount appearing on the price tag, and, as
before, endeavoring to recall or write down the
articles, their position in the window and price
marked on each.
At first you will be able to notice two or three
articles in any given window, but if you will prac­
tice this daily for a month, the author predicts
that in that time, you will in all probability be
able to enumerate from 25 to 100 articles accord­
ing to the intensity of your perceptive power.
A variation of the above practice is to walk
down one side of a street, ncting across the way
the number of signs of all descriptions, what they
advertise, and their position, whether atop of a
building, on the sidewalk, on the wall, etc. After
having walked a block, stop on the corner, and
check up on your memory. Do not be discouraged
if at first you find that you are able to remember
only the last two or three signs noticed. Retrace
your steps and try again. Within a week you will
be able to call off every sign in that block, although
you may be in a totally different part of the city
when asked to do so.
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAINING
CHAPTER VII
TRAINING THE EAR
The sense of hearing ranks second in import­
ance among the senses or channels whereby we
receive impressions from the outside world. In the
senses of taste, touch, and smell there is direct
contact between the sensitive recipient nerve and
the particles of the object sensed, while in the
sense of sight and the, sense of hearing, the impres­
sion is received through the medium of waves in
the ether (in the case of sight) or waves in the air
(in the sense of hearing).
Just as it is true that it is the mind, and NOT
the eye that really sees; so is it true that it is the
mind and NOT the ear that really hears. Many
sounds reach the ear that are not registered by the
mind.
We pass along a crowded street, the waves of
many sounds reaching the nerves of the ear, and
yet the mind accepts the sounds of but few things,
particularly when the novelty of the sounds has
passed away.
One whose hearing is good for sound in gen­
eral may have but little ear for true musical tones,
and on the other hand one with an ear finely
attuned to the slightest discord in music, may be
deficient as regards hearing in general.
The author suggests at this time that should
you be disposed to classify your own hearing as
being poor, a little self examination may reveal to
you the fact that you have fallen into a bad habit
of inattention.
One cannot listen to everything, of course, ii
would not be either possible or advisable.
However, one should cultivate the habit ol
either really and intently listening to what one is
interested in, or else refuse to listen at all.
The compromise of careless listening is the
oft repeated, “I don’t remember”, and is wholly a
matter of habit.
As an exercise in developing the ear, try to
memorize the words that are spoken to you in
conversation. Do the same thing when next you
are listening to a preacher, actor or lecturer. Pick
out the first or any other sentence for memoriz­
ing, and make up your mind that your memory will
be as wax to receive the impression, and as steel to
retain it.
Listen to stray scraps of conversation as you
13
walk along the street, and endeavor to commit to
memory a sentence or two.
Again, listen to the footsteps of different per­
sons with whom you are acquainted, and endeavor
to distinguish between them. Each has its pecul­
iarities.
Get someone to read a line or two of prose or
poetry to you and then try to remember it.
A little practice of this kind will greatly de­
velop the power of voluntary attention to sounds
and spoken words.
•
In this way you not only improve the sense
of hearing but also the faculty of remembering.
CHAPTER VIII
HOW TO REMEMBER NAMES
The phase of memory connected with the re­
membrance or recollection of names probably is of
greater interest to the majority of persons than
are any of the associated phases of the subject.
How often have you been embarrased by the fail­
ure to remember the name of some one you are
sure you know. This failure to remember names
undoubtedly interferes with the business success
of many persons; on the other hand the ability to
remember or recall names has aided numbers of
people in their struggle for success.
The author has satisfied himself by experience
and observation that a memory for names may be
increased not only two but a hundredfold.
Washington and Napoleon were credited with
the ability to call each of their soldiers by name.
Pericles knew the face and name of every cit­
izen of Athens.
John Wesley could recall the names of thous­
ands of persons whom he had met on his evangel­
istic campaigns.
There have been many theories advanced, and
explanations offered to account for the fact that
the recollection of names is far more difficult than
any other form of memory activity. It is not our
purpose to discuss these theories, but rather to
proceed upon the theory now generally accepted by
the best authorities, that the difficulty in the recol­
lection of names is caused by the fact that names
in themselves are uninteresting, and therefore do
not attract or hold the attention as do other ob­
jects presented to the mind.
Fuller says of this matter: “A proper noun,
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAINING
14
or name, when considered independently of acci­
dental features of coincidence with something that
is familiar, doesn’t mean anything, and for this
reason a mental picture of it is not easily formed.”
The first step in cultivating the faculty of re­
membering names, is to focus the attention on re­
ceiving clear and distinct sound impressions, when
the name to be remembered is first pronounced
following the plan prescribed in a preceding chap­
ter on “Training the Ear.”
Having accomplished this task of receiving
clear sound impressions you will readily notice that
instead of merely catching the vague sound of a
name, you will hear it so clearly and distinctly,
that a firm and fixed registration will be obtained
on your memory record.
From this time on, names will begin to mean
something more to you, than just names.
To become proficient in the art of remember­
ing names, requires patience and persistence in
paying strict attention to every name heard that
is desirable to be remembered.
Repeating each name to yourself, after hear­
ing it pronounced, thus strengthening the mental
impression, not only of each name, but of the par­
ticular individual or object to whom or which it is
applied.
For example, the names of the human family
at large may be classified generally into their sev­
eral groups, such as the animal group—the Lions,
Wolfs, Foxes, Hares, Lambs, etc. The Blacks,
Greens, Whites, Greys, Browns, etc. in the color
group. Others belong to the bird family and in­
clude the Crows, Hawks, Birds, Drakes, Cranes,
Doves, Jays, etc. Some are linked to trades, Mil­
lers, Smiths, Coopers, Malsters, Carpenters, Bak­
ers, Paynters, etc., while still others are associated
with the trees, such as Chestnuts, Oakleys, Wal­
nuts, Cherrys and Pines. We have Hills and Dales,
Fields and Mountains, Lanes and Brooks.
Some are Strong, others Gay, some Savage,
others Noble, and so on “ad infinitum.”
As previously stated, the act of repeating a
name when spoken, at the same time looking in­
tently at the person bearing it, will thus fix the
two together in your mind at the same time, and
when wanted at a later date, they will readily be
found in memory’s storehouse, still partaking of
each others’ company.
To sum up the entire method of remembering
names, it may be said that the gist of the matter
ties in “creating an interest in names in general”.
li
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAINING
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAINING
Id this manner, an uninteresting subject is mad*
interesting, and a man always has a good memory
for the things in which he is interested.
CHAPTER XI
HOW TO REMEMBER FACES
The memory of faces is closely connected with
the memory of names, and yet the two are not al­
ways associated, for there are many people who
easily remember faces and yet forget names, and
▼
ice versa.
To some extent, however, the memory of faces
is a necessary precedent for the recollection of
names of people.
Unless we recall the face, we are unable to
make the necessary association with the name of
the person.
The author has given a number of instances of
face memory, in the chapter on name memory,, cit­
ing notable individuals who acquired a knowledge
and memory of thousands of citizens of a town or
city or the soldiers of an army.
It is common knowledge that many persQns are
able to instantly retcognize the faces of persons
whom they have not seen for years, while others
fail to recognize persons whom they had met but
a few hours previously, much to their chagrin.
During the course of a lecture on astrology
given by the author, in which the statement was
made that Aquarius people had the faculty of re­
membering faces fairly well, but names not at all,
a venerable old gentleman in the audience piped up
with the statement, “You’re right, I passed my
wife on the street a little while ago, and wanted to
•peak to her, but was afraid to do so. I was posi­
tive as to her appearance, but had forgotten her
name.”
Detectives, news reporters and others who
come in contact with many people, usually have
this faculty largely developed, for it becomes a
necessity of their work, and their interest and at­
tention is rendered active thereby.
Faces on a whole are not apt to prove interest­
ing. It is only by analyzing and classifying them
that the study begins to grow interesting to us.
The way to develop this phase of memory is akin
to that urged in the development of other phases,
the cultivation of interest, and the bestowal of at­
tention.
The study of a good elementary work on phys
1C
iognomy, such as “Character Reading at a Glance*
by Prof. A. F. Seward, or “Phrenology and Phys­
iognomy”, (both of which the student will find
Hated in the book list beginning on page 28 to 32 of
this book, they will prove interesting and instructive
to those desirous of developing the faculty of
remembering faces, for in such study, the student
is taught to classify the different kinds of noses,
ears, eyes, chins, foreheads and other character­
istics.
A rudimentary course of study in drawing
faces, particularly in profile, will also tend to make
one “take notice" and awaken new interest. If
you are required to draw a nose, particularly from
memory you will be apt to give it your interested
and undivided attention.
For example, if you were to be introduced tc
the author, and told that the next time you met
and recognized him he would present you with
$500.00 you would undoubtedly study his face
very carefully, in order to recognize him later;
whereas if the author were casually introduced to
you as “Mr. Jones”, the incident would arouse
little or no interest and the chances of future rec­
ognition would be negligible.
Every time we enter a street car we see dif­
ferent types of people, and there is a great deal to
be noticed about each type. Each human coun­
tenance shows its past history to one who knows
how to look.
The author suggests as an extra exercise, a
modified form of the practice of the celebrated
painter, Leonardo de Vinci, who was able to re­
produce from memory any face that he had one«
carefully scrutinized.
He drew on scratch pads, all the possible
forms of the nose, mouth, chin, eyes, ears, and
forehead, numbered them 1, 2, 3, 4, etc., and com­
mitted them to memory; then, when he saw a face
that he wished to draw or paint from memory, he
noted in his mind that it was chin 3, eyes 4, nose 1,
ears 6, and forehead 7, or whatever the combina­
tions might be, and by retaining the analysis is
his memory he could reconstruct the face at any
time.
If you as a student of faces will begin to form
a classification of several types of noses, such as
Roman, Jewish, Grecian, straight, pug, or re­
trousse, you would soon recognize noses when you
saw them. The same to be done with mouths,
•bins, ears, etc., but of all the features, the eye
is the most expressive, and the one most easily
remembered, when dearly noticed.
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAINING
IT
Detectives rely much upon the expression oi
the eye, therefore it is well to concentrate on eyes
when studying faces.
A good plan is to visualize during the evening,
the faces of people whom you met during the day,
noting the color and expression of their eyes, col­
or of hair, contour of cheeks. If a lady, whether
or not she wore earrings, and if so, of what pe­
culiar design.
It is best to commence this practice by using
as study subjects, people with whom you are weD
acquainted, until you are able to visualize the fea­
tures of every one you know.
You may then transfer your attentions to
chance acquaintances and finally to entire strang­
ers.
By a little practice of this kind, you will de­
velop a great interest in faces, and your memory
of them, and the power to recall them will increase
rapidly. The “secret", if any there be, is to study
faces, and be interested in them.
The study of photographs is also a very great
aid in this work, providing you study them in de­
tail and not as a whole. If you can arouse your
interest in features and faces you will have no
trouble in remembering and recalling them. The
two go together.
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAINING
CHAPTER X
HOW TO REMEMBER PLACES
There is a great difference in the various de­
grees of development of “the sense of locality” in
different persons.
The authorities on phrenology define the facul­
ty of locality as follows: cognizance of place; re­
collection of the appearance of places, roads, scen­
ery and the location of objects; where, on a given
page, certain thoughts or ideas are expressed; the
geographical faculty; the desire to see places and
the ability to find them.
Persons in whom this faculty is developed te
the highest degree seem to have an almost intui­
tive idea of direction, place, and position.
They never get lost or “mixed up”, regarding
direction. Their minds are like maps upon which
are engraved the various roads, streets, and ob­
jects of sight in every direction. When these peo­
ple think of China, Russia, London, or Bombay,
1«
Second Street or F ifth Ave., they seem to think oi
each as in “this or th at direction”, rather than as
a vague place situated in a vague direction. Their
minds think north, south, east or west as the case
may be when considering a given place.
In order to become accomplished in the m atter
of readily remembering places, we are forced to
again recognize th a t ever necessary essential, “in­
terest in the subject”.
The student should begin to take particular
notice of the directions of the streets over which
he travels, noting also any peculiar landmarks
thereon, such as quaint houses, dilapidated signs,
twists or turns in the road, fences etc.
He should further study maps of metropolitan
boroughs, showing streets, principal buildings,
parks and other places of interest, until he awak­
ens in himself a new interest in them, ju st as did
the man who studied the directory, in order to get
better acquainted with family names.
Supposing your sweetheart, wife or mother
had arranged to meet you at a designated spot in
a strange city, you would no doubt expend a tre­
mendous amount of energy in preparing yourself to
arrive at the place of meeting, proving again th a t
“desire” awakens “interest” ; interest employs at­
tention and attention brings into use the develop­
ment of memory.
One of the first steps after arousing an inter­
est in locality or direction, is to carefully note the
relative positions of the streets or roads over
which you travel.
So many are given to wandering aimlessly
through every town they visit, taking no notice
of the lay of the land as they proceed. This ia
fatal to “place memory”.
Pause at the cross-roads, the street corners,
the general stores, and public buildings, and look
around, noting the landm arks, general directions
and relative positions, until they are firmly im­
printed on your mind.
See how many item s you can rem em ber during
an exercise walk, and when you have returned
home, go over the trip in your mind, and see how
much you are able to remember.
Take out your pencil and try to make a map
of the route you followed in your walk. Fix the
idea of “north” in your mind when starting, and
keep your bearings by it during the entire trip,
and in your map drawing.
In the modern age of m otor driving and tour-
FO U RTEEN LESSON S IN MEMORY TRA IN IN G
19
iet travel, how often motor trips are planned with
infinite care as to reaching the desired destination,
yet few, if any, give any thought to the return
journey, especially if it is intended to return by the
route followed on the outward journey.
It seems to be taken for granted that because
one has driven over a given course from north to
south, or east to west, that it is a simple matter
to retrace the route in the reverse direction.
Many of you who read this work, know how
frequently this theory is upset, often to the dis­
comfort and inconvenience of the passengers.
It is a daily occurrence to hear a “back seat
driver” arguing with the “man at the wheel” that
“this” or “that” turn in the road is the “right” or
“wrong” one, as the case may be.
All such confusion is entirely due to inatten­
tion, lack of observation, an absence of the sense
of direction, all which defects may be readily over­
come by the simple expedient of mapping, mentally
and physically, your several journeys, whether
afoot, on horseback, or by automobile.
You will be surprised how quickly you will de­
velop an interest in making maps of your walks,
auto journeys, camping trips, etc., not only for
your own development, but also for the edification
of others.
Note carefully the names of the various
streets you travel, bringing into play the know­
ledge you have already gained on “How to remem­
ber names”. Note them down on your map, and
you will find that you will develop a rapidly im­
proving memory in this direction.
If about to visit a strange city, procure a map
of it before starting, and begin by noting the four
points of the compass, the direction of the prin­
cipal streets and the relative position of the prin­
cipal streets to the locality wherein lies your des­
tination.
In this way you not only develop your memory
of places, and fortify your self against being lost,
but you also provide a source of new and great
interest in your visit.
The method just described was put in prac­
tice by the author, recently, during a trip around
the world covering a period of approximately two
years, during which time almost every civilized
country in the world was visited.
It is safe to state, that had the author, like
the majority of people, been without knowledge
of training in the sense of direction and power of
f o u r t e e n l e s s o n s in m e m o r y t r a in in g
20
observation, he would undoubtedly have come to
grief on m any occasions while crossing th e track ­
less wastes of A frica, the plains of Burm a, the
Hands of Egypt^ not to m ention the num erous an­
cient cities whose intricate netw ork of streets and
alleys are as a crossword puzzle to th e average
tourist.
The foregoing suggestions are capable of the
greatest expansion and variation on the p a rt of
anyone who practices them . 'T h e re is no magic
in the process, ju st “w ant to“ bad enough, and
"keep at it“ and you are bound to win.
FO U R TEEN L E SSO N S IN M EM O RY T R A IN IN G
CHAPTER XI
HOW TO REM EM BER NUM BERS
It is generally adm itted by the best authori­
ties, th at the memorizing of dates, figures, num ­
bers, etc. is the m ost difficult of any of the phases
of memory.
However, all agree th a t th is faculty m ay be
developed by practice and interest. M any of the
ancient m athem aticians and astronom ers developed
wonderful memories for figures. Herschel is said
to have been able to rem em ber all th e details of
intricate figures in his astronom ical calculations
even to the figures of the fractions. In order to
become proficient in m emorizing num bers, dates,
etc., it is necessary th a t the student m ake the num ­
ber or date, the subject of sound and sight im pres­
sions.
It may be difficult for you to rem em ber “1848“
as an abstract thing, but com paratively easy for
you to remember the sound of “eighteen-forty-
eight“, or the shape and appearance of “1848“.
If you will repeat a num ber to yourself so that
you grasp the sound im pression of it, or else vis­
ualize it so th a t you can rem em ber having seen it,
then you will be far more apt to rem em ber it, than
if you think of it w ithout reference to sound or
form.
You may forget th a t the num ber of a certain
house or store is 3748 but you m ay rem em ber the
peculiar form ation of the figures and their par­
ticular position on the building, perhaps over or
on the door. In the latter case, you associate the
number with the door, and when you visualize the
door you visualize the num ber also.
It is difficult for some persons to even think
of a number abstractly. Try it yourself, and as­
certain w hether you rem em ber the number as
either a “sound of words”, or else as the mental
si
■
image of the form of the f i g u r e s .- -Whichever it
happens to be, sight or sound, that particular kind
of remembrance is your best way of remembering
numbers, and consequently gives you the lines up­
on which you should proceed to develop this phase
of memory.
Many who are desirous of developing the fac­
ulty of remembering numbers, dates, etc. commit
them to memory by doggerel verse, such as, “In
fourteen hundred and ninety two, Columbus
crossed the Ocean blue” ; or “In eighteen hundred
and sixty one, our country's Civil war begun”.
However, satisfactory as this method may be to
some people, it is the author's firm conviction, that
it is far better to cultivate the “sight or sound” of
a number, than to depend upon cumbersome meth­
ods of association built upon an artificial founda­
tion.
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAINING
Finally, a little elementary arithmetic, will do
more to start you on the road to “How to Remem­
ber Numbers” than a dozen textbooks on the sub­
ject. The task of going over the school books will
not be as uninteresting as when you were a child.
You will probably “discover” many queer
things in relation to numbers. For example, the
following are cited.
Take the figure “1” and place to the right of
it, a number of ciphers, thus: 1,000,000,000,000, or
as many as you desire. Next divide the number by
the figure “7”. The result or “quotient” will al­
ways be “142,857” followed by another “142857”,
and so on, according to the number of ciphers you
have used.
Next multiply this “142,857” by the figure
“7” and your product or answer will be all nines.
Then take any number, write it down, placing be­
neath it the same figures in reverse order, and sub­
tract, thus:
117,761,909
90,916,771
26,845,138
and you will find that the result is always reducible
to nine. Take any number composed of two or
more figures, and subtract from it the added sum
of its seperate figures, and the result is always a
multiple of 9, thus:
184
1 plus 8 plus 4 equals 13
171 divided by •
equals 19.
while a further mystery exists in the fact that the
22
duc«p9 a iso ^ et h u ? aii 7 i r 7 n 1 n a 7de? tof e th er Pro-
’ *
'nus- 171—1 plus 7 plus 1 equals 9.
* auth®
r mentions these familiar examples,
merely to remind you that there is much more of
interest in figures than many suppose. Let fig­
ures and numbers “mean something” to you, and
the rest will be simply a m atter of detail and per­
severance.
OURTEEN l e s s o n s i n m e m o r y t r a in in g
CHAPTER XII
HOW TO REMEMBER BOOKS AND PLAYS
In the preceding chapters you have been given
suggestions for the development of the principal
activities of memory, which, while grouped under
the genera] classification, m ay be considered as
worthy of special study.
For this reason, the author has deemed it
advisable to devote one chapter to a study of these
phases of memory th a t have been left out of the
other chapters.
Many of us fail to rem em ber the important
things in the books we read, and are often embar­
rassed by our ignorance regarding the contents of
popular novels, or the daily newspaper, which, al­
though we have read, we have failed to impress
upon the records of memory.
The trouble w ith the majority of people is
that they read books, newspapers, etc., merely to
“kill time”, as a sort of mental narcotic, instead of
for the purpose of obtaining knowledge from them.
As a result, such people not only lose all th at may
be of importance in their reading, but also acquire
the evil habit of carelessness and inattention.
You have not read an author until you have
seen his object, as he saw it. Each page should
be read as though never *to be seen again. The
memory should grasp the facts as in a vise.
It is not necessary, nor is it advisable to at­
tempt to memorize the te x t of a book, excepting,
perhaps, a few passages th a t seem to be worthy of
special notice. The principal item in the reading
of any book is, not the text, b u t its meaning, "w hat
is it about.”
In order to remember the book, it is vitally
necessary to first get the idea of the author, thus
viewing his work from the inside rather than from
the outside.
of fj!°U m?at e,n d e a v o r to form a m ental picture
events related, so that you see them clearly
a
in your mind's eye”, and in this way
build up a series of mental pictures which will he
impressed upon your mind, and which will be re­
membered just as are the scenes in a book you
have read or a play that you have witnessed. By
this practice, you will impart a naturalness to the
•vents in the story, and«obtain a new pleasure from
your reading-.
True, this plan will compel you to read more
slowly, and many trashy tales will cease to interest
you. but instead of a loss, this is a decided gain for
you.
When the reading of any book is finally com­
pleted, review it as a whole. By following this
practice consistently you will acquire the habit
of easily remembering the tales and books you
have read, and in later years, will obtain much
pleasure by re-reading favorite stories and authors,
in your imagination.
All of the foregoing requires timé, labor, and
patience, but the effect expended returns handsome
dividends.
To those who desire to remember the dramatic
productions which they may witness, the same
principles as are involved in the memory of books
may be employed.
Take an interest in each character as it ap­
pears; study carefully each action and scene; re­
view each act in the interval between acts, and
finally review the entire play after your return
home.
The student will note that the oftener a book
or play is reviewed, the more clsarly will it be re­
membered. Many minor details at first overlooked,
will later come into the field of consciousness and
automatically assume their proper places.
Sermons, lectures, and other discourses, may
also be remembered by the same general rules and
orinciples as are applied to books and plays.
The noted story tellers review and rehearse
cheir jokes, and have frequently been known to re­
late them to their unsuspecting friends, by way of
practice, before offering them from stage or plat­
form for public approval; incidentally it is the
same practice which gives rise to the saying, “try
ing it on the dog”.
One cannot deny that this method has Its
good points, because it at least saves one the mort­
ification of finishing an interesting story with Bjjsi
a-well, um-m-m I'm afraid I've forgotten just how
it ended,—but it sure was a good one!”
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAINING
FOURTEEN
lessons i n m e m o r y t r a in in o
CH APTER XIII
C R EA TIV E THOUGHT
Thought which stimulates original action,
' »rings about new conditions, uncovers hidden
truth, or gives birth to new ideas, is creative. The
creative powers of the brain are unlimited and are
as easily put to work as are the mere routine
faculties, when once the habit of original thinking
is formed.
Without some prim ary conception of flight, the
Wright brothers could never have conceived a fly­
ing machine. W ithout a suggestion of the vibra­
tory nature of sound, the phonograph would not
have evolved.
Creative thought goes to the foundation of
things, and with the prim ary elements, proceeds
to build an entirely new structure, from cellar to
roof.
Creative thought goes to original sources for
its start.
As opposed to Creative Thought, Constructive
Thought accepts the work which has been partly
accomplished and carries it to greater perfection.
It is the exercise of creative and constructive
thought which brings the highest rew ards in life.
It is decidedly w orth while, then, to put th e fa^cul-
ties to work in your own brain and profit by their
activities.
This sounds more complicated than it really is.
Let us consider a concrete example of creative
thinking.
A flourishing industrial tow n is built upon a
river at a point where there is very little level
ground. High, precipitous hills border the river
on either bank. The town grew and occupied al­
most every available building site, desirable or
otherwise, and furth er grow th seemed to be im ­
possible.
Creative thought stepped in, and the situation
was carefully analyzed. No sites available; posi­
tive and constantly increasing demand for loca­
tions; good prices for building lots; prospective
growth liable to continue for years. Then comes
the question “W here is the nearest available build­
ing site? The answ er was “Two miles down the
river, on the opposite side.” “Is it accessible?”
íes, by an expensive suspension bridge, a diffcult
piece °f road building, paved streets and a trolley-
line. W hat would the expense be?” “H alf a
ss
million dollars.” “Would it pay?” “Yes, because
the acreage, purchased at a low figure, and sub­
divided, would soon return the total investment.
These questions settled, it remained to^ do the
routine work of promoting the idea, forming^ the
company and accomplishing the work outlined.
Creative thought in the brain of one man, solved
the problem which the “routine brains” of a whole
city had for years considered to be a hopeless sit­
uation.
The student will perceive, no doubt, by this
example, that opportunities can be created, ob­
stacles overcome, inventions made, business pro­
moted, leisure increased and enjoyment mutiplied.
Creative thought is a pleasure in itself, because it
is a sure highway to progress.
f o u r t e e n l e sso n s in m em ory t r a in in g
CHAPTER XIY
BUILDING FOR SUCCESS
The greatest obstacle in the way of many
people is limited vision. They can see only the
things directly before them. The man clerking in
a store regards the floor walker’s position as his
only hope of advancement, and if that position
cannot be secured he is hopeless. THfe bank clerk
sees only the position of the assistant cashier; the
grade teacher strives only to be principal.
Their horizons shut down close around them,
cutting off their further reaches.
The first requisite, is to climb a hill in your
imagination and get a wider vision. Ask yourself
what one thing you would rather do than any­
thing else in the world. Examine every road
which leads to accomplishment and see how many
such are open to you.
If obstacles exist don’t turn back. Submit
each one to a critical examination at close range.
Is it impassable? Is it as big as it looks? Is
there a way around?
Never mind if the path seems to be barricaded
ahead. Keep going until you must stop. Success
may be just a little further on. Learn to conquer
one difficulty at a time. Keep at it inch by inch.
That will bring you ever nearer to the goal, give
you strength and confidence to go straight ahead
or find a way around or over, and will finally lead
to success.
Some people are constantly handicapped by
timidity, by a fear of big things. You would be
86
w S* With^twi°I^ hf°Wm a v y you»ar men there are
*1 K
f)f) nni* positions offered them, one paying
?»kp f £ " £ e nr *nd, the °‘her *5,000 per H B
take the smaller salary, for fear they cannot earn
the larger one.
r t e k n l e s s o n s i n m e m o r y t r a in in g
The monumental folly of this is apparent when
you consider that even a failure in the larger posi­
tion, would probably be of greater value in develop­
ment than success in the smaller one.
Look about. Keep awake. Examine minutely
your life and the lives of others, watching always
for openings which lead to bigger, better things.
Refuse to acknowledge failure or defeat. If one
effort fails, build another on the ruins, remember­
ing always that the man who earns $25,000 per
year generally has easier work than the man who
earns but $2,500.
Go after the big things, because there IS
room at the top. Preparation is essential, of
course, but it is often easier to prepare for big
things than for small ones. Take an upward step
whenever you can, whether that step be large or
small Above all keep on the job. Stagnation
means f a ille It is activity which spells success.
One of the surest guides to success is the
study of the lives of famous men as told in their
auto-biographies. Master their methods and ap­
ply them in your own life. You are the Master of
Human Destiny, Opportunity is Your Servant.
IN CONCLUSION
The sculptor takes a mass of moist clay. With
a few firm strokes he shapes that clay roughly into
human form. With trained eye and mind direct­
ing, his skillful fingers bring out a face.
Feature by feature, he shapes it, adding a lit­
tle here, and a little there, smoothing, molding,
shaping, until at last from that lump of clay ap­
pears the smiling face of a beautiful child.
You are the sculptor of your own destiny.
Your mind is like a lump of clay placed in your
hands by the Creator. Neglect your mind and you
will remain—a lump of clay. Develop your mental
talents, and you will bring forth beauty and use­
fulness.
the w , arlSt bu®
in«8s of mankind is to learn
f life, and to apply them successfully
*7
FOURTEEN LESSONS IN MEMORY TRAINING
toward the attainment of health, wealth and happi­
ness. If this attempt on the part of the author, to
open the door of knowledge to you has helped you
toward that end, it has fulfilled its mission.
If you have followed carefully the author's
guidance over the hitherto unfathomable places of
the mind, you are now better equipped to wrest
success from Mother Nature. You have the plan
and all necessary material. The WORK is up to
YOU.
The End.
A Very Valuable Sex Book
Follow ing Is a Short
Synopsis of th e Con*
tents of D r. Le
M oyne’s Book
Love, Courtship and Mar­
riage—The Marriage B ed-
Marital Rights or Abnormal
Sex Indulgence — Conserva­
tion of Energy—Twin Beds
—Simple Rules for a Happy
Married Life—Reasons for
Many Divorces— Pregnancy
and Care of the Prospective
Mother—Results of Sexual
indulgence During Preg­
nancy—Advice to Parents—
Chastity and a Pure Life—
The Ideal State—Gonorrhea
and Its Effects on Both Men
snd Women, Are You Cured?
—Ophthalmia Neonatorum—
Innoculation of the Eyes of
New Born Infants from
Gonorrheal Parents—Syphi­
lis in Its Three Distinct
Stages and Its Fearful Con­
sequences, With View of
Eminent Authorities on the
Subject—Sex Appetite—Sex
Control—Success or Failure
In Life—Commencement of
Life In the Embyra, and Its Early Stages—Terrible Results of Abor­
tion and Miscarriage—Postponement of Marriage and Lost Man-
hood—Masturbation—Conjugal Life vs. Sexual Intercourse—Phy­
sical Fitness for Marriage—Superior Manhood—Reasons for Lost
Health and Vigor—Sexual Excess and Its Dangers, Its Effeots on
Heart, Lungs, Liver and Other Organs—God's Divine Plan of Repro­
duction—Sacredness of the Marriage Vow—Morality In M arriage-
Sex Instruction to Children—Sex Powers—Disability and Its Causes
—Loss of Seminal Seoretlon—Self-Pollution—Unnatural Sexual Rela­
tions—Impotence—Loss of Sexual Power—How to Tone up the Sex­
ual Powers.
Ne matter what books you have read on this all-important sub.
jest. Dr. Le Moyne’s new book is worthy of your careful consid­
eration. It should be read by every man or woman, whether mar­
ried or single. From Its pages you will learn how to obtain the
greatest Pleasures in life as well as how to avoid Sorrow and Sisk-
ness. You will find paragraphs and Chapters therein worth many
times the price you pay for the book.
Price Art Paper Cover, $1.00; Cloth, $1.50
A. F. SEWARD & CO.
3620 Fremont St., Chicago, 11L
STUDIO: 1541 Boardwalk, Atlantic City, N. J
BOOK LIST
ar
A. F. SEWARD & CO.
Largest P u b lish ers and D ealers la
Astrological and Occult Books
3620 No. Fremont Street (formerly Rokeby St.)
CHICAGO. ILL.
Please Don’t Ask Us to Send Goods C. O. D. Oar books are
•old on a small margin and we make no charge for postal*.
4.11 orders sent promptly—Safe Delivery Guaranteed AD
Goods Sent Postage Prepaid.
By PROF. A. F. SEWARD
Humanity and the Zodiac, ---------------------------®
®
*®
*
The Zodiac and Its M ysteries, 198 Pages. Art Paper
Cover ____________________________________________
DeLuxe Stiff Cover, Art B in d in g--------------------------- 1#<
10 Tjtr m i in the Study of Astrology.——- ;
The Scar Gasan of Egypt, 264 Pages------------ — ---------------------------------
New Course in Num erology. Art Paper. #1.30» C loth ----------------------
Reading At A Glance— Art Paper. $1.30t Cloth------------------ fXM*
Facts About Brunettes and Blondes— Art Paper------------- ------ “ ~ **
The Astrological Bureau of Information, Vest Pocket
Size. 184 P a g e s -----------------------------------------------------
Annual Forecasts (Send Birth D a t e ) ----------------------------1*
f f
Seward’s Dream Book, 128 Pages, P a p e r ----------------
Dr. LeMoyne’s Marriage Guide and Sex Instructor, Art
Paper -------------------------------------------------------------------
Palmistry Made Easy...................................-.......... —................. **
The Art of Crystal Gazing, P a p e r ------------------------------- •**
Fortune Telling by Cards, Paper, 75c; C lo th ---------------- 1M
Periodicity, 140 Pages, Paper ----------------------------------------
How and When to Plant, P a p e r ------------------------------------- *®
®
Seward’s Palm Chart — ............... -...........—
----- ---------------—
Planetary Hour In d icator----------------------------------------------1*®® ■
You, I and the Stars, C lo th --------------------------------------------1-®®
Gypsy Witch Fortune Telling C a r d s---------------------------- l.®6
Raphael’s Key to A stro lo g y ------------------------------------------ 1.®*
Ancient Manuscript of Talismanic Magic. DeLuxe
Leather____________________________________________ AM
New Manual of Astrology (Four V o ls .) _______________ 3JM
The Kabala of Numbers, 204 P a g e s ____________________2.94
Book of Talismanic and Zodiacal Gems, 292 Pages, Cloth 4.06
Occultism Simplified, Cloth _______________________ ____ 1«§6
How to be Happy and Successful______________ _________ 1.60
How to Get What You Want, C lo th ___ ,________________ a eu
THERON Q. DUMONT
Rental Therapeutics, 232 P a g e s ________________ ____
Power of Concentration, 186 P a g e s _______ ' ~~ ~
SolaxanpiexusnCe °f Personal MaK»etism, 238 Pages_____2.00
" ° dl eXUS ............................ ............... - ............................- ........ .65
BOOK LIST
yogi ram acharak a
Science of Breath, 78 pages, ............................................Rl.oo
Fourteen Lessons, Yogi Philosophy, 286 pages.. . . . . 2.09
Ratha Yoga, 243 Pages---------------------------------------- 2,99
Life Beyond Death, 192 P ages.........................................2.SS
Psychic Healing, 190 P ages------------------------------------- 2.S#
Practical Water Cure, 128 P ages---------------------------- .45
Raja Yoga, doth................... 1.09
Mystic Christianity, cloth...................................... 9.00
Bhagarad Oita, doth ...................................................... 1.00
F. L. RAW80N
The Law of Right Thinking------------------------------------ jg
The Nature of True Prayer------------------------------------ j |
ARTHUR GOULD
Winning Personality, 285 P ages____________________m
Science of Sex Regeneration, 224 P ages_____________ i.tf
How to Become Prosperous, 186 P ages______________ j j j
How to Secure a Beautiful Complexion______________ §g
P * n r of Will_____:_____________________________ •»oy
GAZING CRYSTALS
Crystal Gasing Globes, 2% inch____________________j | |
Crystal Gasing Globes, 3 in ch _____________________
Crystal Gasing Globes, 3% inch_____________ *_____ CA4
Crystal Gasing Globes (Extra Large) (SPECIAL THE­
ATRICAL SIZE) _____________________________ ie.M
Book of Directions for Using Crystals_____ _________ j f
Beautiful Crystal Stand—Finished in Gold Bronse—to
fit any size Crystal____________________________ 2A9
Dr. deLaurence’s Practical Lessons in Hypnotism_____ 1.50
Oglivie’s Astrological Birthday Book, 264 Pages, Cloth. 1.54
The Human Aura, 86 P ages________________ _____^ _,f|
Astral World _______________ ___________
The Kybalion, 223 P a g es___________________________ 2.04
Practical Psyehometry ____________________________ .34
How to Stay Young, 309 P ages______________________ 2.44
Sex Secrets, 317 P a g es_____________________________ l.CI
Hind Power, 441 P ages_____________________________ 2.94
Mental Influence, 92 P a g e s_;
______________________ .71
Hind Reading, 94 P a g es___________________________ .71
Character Indicated by Handwriting_________________ 1.19
The Study of Palmistry, 416 P a g es__________________ M l
Practical Palmistry......................................................... 1.00
Practical Astrology................................................................ 1.00
Practical Hypnotism, Cloth _________________________ 1«®
*
Tarot Fortune Telling Cards, Pack including Book of
Directions of 176 Pages............. ®
*
®
®
The Harmonial Philosophy, 443 P a g es------------------------ M fj
Flashlight for Concentration, 101 Pages------------------ *®l|
Medical Hypnotism and Suggestion, 87 P ages------------
How to Know Your F uture------------------------------------- *2
How to Converse With Spirit Friends----------------------- ‘
Success and Happiness ------------------------------------------- i
Table Rapping-------------------------------------------------------
r^ * ' . 277 p
*
*
“
-
c
i
M
h
--
sex Pore«, c lo th ............... ; . 1*:I‘ ; ; i ; i ;*;*/
S e e rsh lp , 384 p a g e s, d o t h . .................................................... g.OQ
Ten/wrh° ^ f nf Dreams interpreted, 617 Pages, Cloth,
(W orlds best Dream Book) _____________ __ 1.50
Stars and Destiny, 297 Pages................. ............. _ ' 3.75
How to Make and Read Your Own Horoscope_____ 1.00
Analyzing Character (Blackford)________ _______ 3.75
Phrenology and Physiognomy, With 600 Original
Drawings-------------- ------------------- ---- ...________ 3.00
Sixth and Seventh Book of Moses, Cloth_________
_ 1.50
Zodiacal Charm Rings, Sterling Silver, Green. Gold
Finish. Send Size and Birth Date------------------- 2.50
Signs, Omens and Superstitions-------------------------- — 135
We Carry All the Above Books in Stock. Many of Them
Are Not to Be Had Elsewhere. Send Your Orders
Direct to Our Headquarters
A . F. SEW ARD & CO.
3620 F rem ont S treet (form erly H okeby SL) C h icag o . Illinois
BOOK LIST
THE DEVELOPMENT OF
S t E R S H I P
THE SCIENCE O F KNOW ING TH E FUTURE
By SWAMI BHAKTA V ISHITA (H indoo M aster)
Hindoo and Oriental M ethods
“ Coming Events C ast T h eir Shadow Before”
The w o rld a d v a n ces In cy cles. A t th e r ig h t tim e In th e
h isto ry of th e ra c e so m eo n e b rin g s f o r th a n e w d o c trin e .
The tim e is a t h a n d w h e n o ld th in g s s h a ll p a s s a w a y a n d
the w orld sh a ll be m ade an ew .
W ith in an d a ro u n d y o u lie s a n o th e r w o rld — a w o rld
w ithin a w o rld — a w o rld b e y o n d th e w o rld — a s u p e r-
w orld. You a re n e a r to th a t w o rld . T h e d o o r Is a lm o s t
open. T hose th a t a re re a d y c a n c ro ss th e th re s h o ld . T h e n
th ere sh all be no m o re d e a th , n e ith e r so rro w , n o r p a in ,
for th e cause of th e se w ill h a v e p a sse d a w a y .
E veryone p o ssesses in th e la te n t s t a t s th e w o n d e rfu l
faculty of S eership. T h is c a n h e d ev e lo p e d . Y o u c a n
tra in y o u rse lf so y o u c a n fo re se e e v e n ts a n d b e y o u r o w n
adviser—see y o u r fu tu re .
If you w a n t to m a k e th e m o st o f y o u rs e lf, b o th in a
hum an and d iv in e sen se, y o u s h o u ld re a d th is h o o k .
The m ost p ro fo u n d a n d c o n sc ie n tio u s o c c u lt w o rk p u b ­
lished In y ea rs. T ea ch es h o w to p ie rc e th e v e il— e n te r a t
w ill into th e s p iritu a l w o rld a n d c o n v e rs e c o n sc io u sly
w ith y our loved o nes n o w a c ro s s th e b o rd e r.
350 P a g e s , P ric e , C lo th 52.00
A. F. SEW ARD & C O .
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
HOW TO BE HAPPY
Is jv «very Ihlfiklnif person should reStO. I
♦* t w o n d erfu l little volum e w ritte n to ch eer jrets JJjflr
w hen you e re sad, to s p u r you on w hen you e re discern r-
*ged W a lin g w ith th e Mind. S elf-P ity . S elf-C o n tro l.
How to R ealise Your W ishes. Your D esires, W hy W o rry ,
the H ab it of Happiness, C ures fo r B lues, C u res fo r W o rry ,
of Confidence end Indecision. C u rs fo r T im id ity an d S elf-
O onsclousnes*. Sleep and R elax a tio n . D eep B re a th in g , th e
P hilosophy of L a u g h te r, and H ow to F o rg e t Y our
T roubles. T his book p re se n ts fu n d a m e n ta l p rin c ip le s
from th e p o in t of ch e erfu ln e ss. It dev elo p s w ith in you
h ab its of co n ten tm en t, decision, w ill-p o w e r to b a n ish u n ­
p leasa n t th o u g h ts, w h ereb y you can becom e a re s e rv o ir of
Pow er, en a b lin g you to m eet th e tria ls an d trib u la tio n s
of life. P ro f. S ew ard p e rso n a lly reco m m en d s th is book,
•How to Be H ap p y ”— only f1.00. O rd er a copy to d ay . Send
stam p s If you w ish.
A. F. SEWARD A CO.
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
Possess the Power of M ediumship
The D evelopm ent of
GENUINE MEDILÎMSHIP
or the
Invisible Powers
By Swami Bhakta Vishita (H indoo M aster)
A uthor of “Seership: The Science of Knowing the
Future.”
T h is is b y f a r th e m o st co m ­
p le te a n d in s tru c tiv e b o o k on th is
s u b je c t t h a t h a s e v e r b ee n p u b ­
lish ed . M o st o f th e w o rk s p u b ­
lish e d on th is s u b je c t w e re n o t
w r itte n b y A d v a n c e d T h in k e rs
a n d th e re fo re d id n o t c o n ta in an y
a d v a n c e d te a c h in g s . T h e a u th o r
is a n A d e p t a n d g iv e s in th is
b o o k th e a c tu a l k n o w le d g e th a t
h a s ta k e n h im a g r e a t m an y
y e a rs to a c q u ire . H e h a s a s s is t­
ed a g r e a t m a n y p u p ils to develop
th e ir M e d lu m istic P o w e rs a n d th e
sa m e in s tru c tio n s a r e g iv e n in
th e s e le sso n s t h a t h e g iv e s to his
p r iv a te s tu d e n ts . W ith th e se in ­
s tr u c tio n s y o u c a n d ev elo p y o u r­
self. E v e r y th in g is e x p la in e d so th o ro u g h ly th a t y ou do
n o t n ee d a te a c h e r. If y o u fo llo w th e in s tru c tio n s given
In th is b o o k y o u w ill be s u rp ris e d a t th e re s u lts .
11 P a r t s , 2 7 7 L a r g e P a g e a , B o u n d I n C l o t h . P r i c e 8 2 .0 0
TEN
THOUSAND
DREAMS
INTERPRETED
Of W
fc#tVui4
Ti
• .ti • W
*
■
*
*
*
JtrtTAVUS HINDMaN MILLER
1
Ten Thousand
Dreams Interpreted
OR
W H AT’S IN A DREAM
By GUSTAVUS HINDMAN MILLER
A home is not complete without a Good, Reliable,
Scientific Dream Book. The Bible, as well as other great
books of historical and revealed religion, shown traces of a
general and substantial belief in dreams. Plato, Goethe,
Shakespeare, Napoleon and many others assigned to certain
dreams great prophetic value.
Why we dream no one knows, yet it is a known fact that
in sleep we see without being awakened—for we see the
angry lightning rend the mighty clouds, and hear the
explosive thunder hurl its fury at us; why this is so, no
one can explain. Even the scientist or philosopher has not
explained the real meaning of love, joy, hate, life or death
satisfactorily. Many strange and wonderful revealments have
come in the way of a dream.
In a dream we may hear a fam iliar voice cry out in agony
—soon we hear of a shocking accident or serious illness
befalling the one whose voice we recognized in the dream.
Marriage, Divorce, a broken engagement, fin an cial losses,
illness and even death have been foretold with remarkable
accuracy through the interpretation of a dream. Many
inventions as well as fortune have had their beginning in
dreams. How often we hear of a song, a piece of music,
a play, or even a book that was founded on the fabric of a
dream.
It is a well known fact that thought can be transmitted
to the mind of another. There are m ental transmissions,
communicaions of thoughts, and psychic currents between
human souls. Space appears to be no obstacle, and time
annihilated.
This wonderful book, "TEN THOUSAND DREAMS,”
contains 617 pages. It is indexed and easy of
comprehension. Price, only 1U0L
A. F. SEW ARD & CO.
3620 Fremont Street Chicago, 111.
1541 Boardwalk, Atlantic City, N. J.
Numerology Vibration
A COMPLETE
COURSB
IN
TWELVE
LESSONS
CONCISE
CORRECT
SCIENTIFIC
YOUR NAME IN
NUMBERS
By
PROF. A. F. SEWARD
World’s Foremoat
Aetrologar
N
UMEROLOGY is an old, old science, first pro­
mulgated by Pythagoras, which has now become the
theme of the hour as a means of entertainment as
well as a scientific method of achieving success. It explains
why the letters of your name and their corresponding num­
bers and those of your birth date affect your character and
your destiny. Whoever you are, whatever your problems,
Numerology will help you to a better understanding of
life. When you discover W HY things are as they are and
W HY certain people react as they do, your perplexities
will disappear.
"NUMEROLOGY” gives you an answer to the eternal
questions, "Whence, why and whither?” as well as to many
things which have been the subject of wonder.
Why is A 1?
How does my name affect me?
What is my true vocation?
How can I improve present conditions?
How can I attract my own happiness and success?
How can I govern the selling reaction with different types
of customers?
How can I get a certain desired reaction from every
individual?
How can I harmonize my home and business environ­
ment?
What chances of happiness have I with die woman
(or man) of my choice?
How may I achieve greater happiness or success by a
change in my name?
PARTIAL CONTENTS
The importance of Your Name: Nam« vibration mor« important
than birth vibration.
Tha Relationship of Numbers. Unsuitable vibrations will not
develop.
Numbers and Personalitiesi Analyses of birth and name vibration.
Facts Revealed by Numbers: Tabulation of memorable dates.
The Table of Names following the lessons is of priceless value
to every student of Numerology.
"NUMBROLOGY” is clearly and entertainingly written. It con­
tains a score of examples applying to principlas of Numerology fee
the names of illustrious personages.
ILLUSTRATED 12 MO., BOUND IN ART PAPER, flJ O
DB LUXB EDITION, CLOTH COVER, *2.00
A. F. SEWARD & CO.
Qa 1* Chicago, Illinois 3620 Fremont Street
O l U a i O S 1541 Boardwalk, Atlantic City, N. J,
