{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__thomas___hinduism_invades_america.pdf","mytitle":"Hinduism Invades America","mylang":"de"}
HINDUISM
INVADES AMERICA
By
WENDELL THOMAS
B.S., M.A., PhJX, S.T.M.
Published by
THE BEACON PRESS, INC.
318-324 WEST 39TH STREHT
YOEK CTIY
COPYRIGHT 1930
BY
WENDELL THOMAS
Published September 1950
PWOT1D IN THI UNITED STATBS OF AMERICA
FOREWORD
This work is not an attack on Hinduism. It is not
meant to inflame American citizens by pointing to a for-
eign menace. Nor is it a defense of Hinduism. Nor is
it a defense of Christianity or anything else. It is simply
a study of the amazing adventure of an Eastern faith in
a Western land. Accordingly, it is not a collection of
curious or sensational anecdotes about a few of the many
Hindu swamis and yogis visiting these shores, but an ac-
count of the serious impact on American life of Hindu
philosophy and culture especially in the form of organized
religion.
Several years of study and teaching in India have some-
what prepared me to write on Hinduism in America. For
expert help in this modern study I am grateful especially
to Professor Hervey D. Griswold, formerly of the Panjab
University, Lahore, who guided my researches in Hin-
duism, and to Professor Herbert W. Schneider, of Columbia
University, New York, who advised me concerning the
subject and form of the book. I wish also to thank the
many accomplices who kindly answered my questions by
letter, and several Hindu friends in New York, who gave
me every possible encouragement.
WENDELL THOMAS.
New York, April 1930.
INTRODUCTION
In the imagination of the great majority of Americans,
foreign missions has been an altogether one-sided affair.
Taking for granted the superiority of Christianity, they
have pictured the Christian movement as going out to
overspread the world.
To thoughtful minds, it has long been obvious that
there would soon come a time when the great Eastern
religions, sure of the superiority of their spiritual life over
the mechanized living of the Western world, would come
to us with the deep conviction that they were the heralds
of the world's true gospel.
Mr. Thomas's book, so far as I know, is the first thor-
oughgoing treatise setting forth with patient research both
the direct and the indirect invasion of Western thought
by Hinduism. The book makes dear, what it has long
been evident would sometime be inevitable, that there can
no longer be a sharp distinction between the so-called
"home" and "foreign" fields in religion. Christianity is
at work in India and Hinduism is at work in the United
States. There is no possibility of Indian religion escaping
the influence of Jesus Christ, and there is no possibility
of American religion escaping the influence of the great
Indian faiths.
Mr. Thomas's book therefore is of primary importance,
and it is to be hoped there will be a popular understanding
and appreciation of its significance.
HAERY EMERSON FOSDICK
CONTENTS
FOREWORD 7
INTRODUCTION, by Harry Emerson Fosdick 9
I. HINDU MOVEMENTS IN AMERICA, AN EXPRESSION
OF YOUNG INDIA 13
II. CLASSIC VEDANTA, THE ESSENCE OF HINDU FAITH. . 22
1. The Background of Vedanta. 2. The Meaning of
Vedanta. 3. Sankara Vedanta. 4. Ramanuja Vedanta.
III. SAINT RAMAKRISHNA, A CHILD OF MOTHER KALI. . . 43
I. The Village Pet. 2. The Young Priest. 3. The
Mad Saint. 4. The Cult Taster. 5. The Tireless
Preacher. 6. A Little Child Shall Lead Them.
IV. VlVEKANANDA, A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 64
1. The Ambitious Youth. 2. The Young Swami.
3. The Son of Mother India. 4. The Oriental Orator.
5. The Social Lion. 6. The Cult Founder. 7. The
Conquering Hero. 8. The World Teacher.
V. VEDANTA CENTERS, THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT
IN AMERICA 95
1. The Growth. 2. The Message. 3. The Adjust-
ments. 4. The Methods. 5. The Members. 6. The
Critics. 7. Group Practice. 8. Individual Practice.
VI. THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY, YOGANANDA'S
PRACTICAL CULT 134
1. Out of India Into America. 2. The Message.
3. The Methods. 4. The Members.
VII. HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS, A SIGN OF
EASTERN POWER 177
1. Additional Hindu Cults. 2. Hindu Cultural Move-
ments. 3. Learned Hindu Lecturers. 4. Popular
Lecturers. 5. American Imposters. 6. Hindu Pro-
fessors a'nd Students. 7. Oriental Cults of Partly
Hindu OHgin. 8. American Cults of Partly Hindu
OrigfflL T9. Hindu Influence on Western Thought.
*l4//tne Modern Expansion of Hinduism.
VIIL -^ICAN HINDUISM, THE RESULT OF HINDU
.
"ADJUSTMENTS 246
^TOLLING AND PRONUNCIATION 257
NOTES 259
BOOK LIST 275
DIRECTORY 287
INDEX 291
CHAPTER I
HINDU MOVEMENTS IN AMERICA, AN EXPRES-
SION OF YOUNG INDIA
An old faith is now invading a new country. The new
country is the United States of America. The old faith is
Hinduism. The invasion began when the first Christian
colonists from Europe set foot on the American continent,
for there are traces of Hindu sentiment in both Catholic
and Protestant creeds. As soon as students in America
began to study Plotinus, Thomas Aquinas and Spinoza,
Hinduism began to spread, and when Emerson and his
like-minded friends received a generous hearing, Hindu-
ism became more firmly established in America than in
Europe. Theosophy, Christian Science and similar re-
ligious movements further extended its
sway, and when
Hindu swamis and yogis themselves began to appear orx
the horizon in robes of the color of this book-cover, Hindu-
ism suddenly advanced in all its
pristine glory. But the
end of the invasion is not yet in sight, for apart from the
swamis and yogis, a goodly throng of academic lecturers
and organization directors are slowly but surely conduct-
ing Hindu ideas into the very center of American culture.
Of course Hinduism reminds us of Mahatma Gandhi
and his inspired movements of "non-violent non-coopera-
tion/' We should understand at the outset, however, that
Hinduism in America has little to do with non-violent
non-cooperation, for the non-violent part of his program
Gandhi took over from the Sermon on the Mount and the
ahimsa, or non-injury, practice of Buddhism and Jainism,
while the non-cooperation part is the obvious political and
14 HINDU MOVEMENTS IN AMERICA
economic weapon of a rebellious and disarmed people.
Again, Hinduism reminds us of Katherine Mayo and her
startling book Mother India. But the Hinduism that
comes to America is no more a reflection of the culture
portrayed by Miss Mayo than the Christianity carried to
India by American missionaries is a reflection of free love,
race riots and racketeering. As far as I have been able
to discover, Hinduism appears in America in the following
forms:
1. Hindu cults, such as the Ramakrishna movement,
and the Yogoda Sat-sanga Society of America.
2. Hindu cultural movements, such as the Threefold
Movement, and the International School of Vedic and
Allied Research.
3. Learned Hindu lecturers, such as Tagore and
Radhakrishnan.
4. Popular lecturers on practical Hinduism, such as
"Super-Akasha Yogi Wassan," a Panjabi Hindu, and
"Yogi Ramacharaka," an American.
5. American impostors passing for Hindu popular lec-
turers, such as "Prem Lai Adoris," and "Joveddah de
Raja."
6. Hindu professors and students in America.
7. Oriental cults of partly Hindu origin, such as
Buddhism and Sikhism.
8. American cults of partly Hindu origin, such as
Theosophy and Christian Science.
9. Hindu influence on Western thought in such think-
ers as Schopenhauer and Emerson.
No doubt there are Hindu movements in America that
I have not discovered, and even as I write new forms of
American Hinduism may be arising. Every year sees the
advent of new Hindu teachers of one kind or another.
Certainly Hinduism is
invading America wave after wave.
Will it eventually overwhelm Christianity? Such is the
AN EXPRESSION OF 'YOUNG INDIA 15
claim of some of its
champions. And this claim cannot
lightly be set aside. If our view of the world is so changed
by science and the law of evolution that the Heavenly
Father of Christianity becomes a useless idol at best a
harmless creation of religious imagination, and at worst a
superstitious drag on progress then Hinduism, with its
conception of vital
evolutionary progress toward a divine
goal, will be just the religion we need to keep us from
atheism in a scientific age. Thus disillusioned Christians,
and for that matter all modern men will finally see the
truth of Hinduism, and eagerly seek its universal embrace.
So reason the champions of Hinduism.
And to orthodox Christians who shudder at this pros-
pect, these Hindus are ready to explain that Hinduism is
not a missionary religion, and makes no attempt to con-
vert people to an exclusive sect or creed. So it should
cause no alarm. Hinduism, they point out, is after all a
word of Western coinage, whereas the proper term for
their religion is Dharma, which simply means the univer-
sal progressive principle of every man! To acknowledge
the upward urge and divine goal of this principle, they
say, is not to exchange Christianity for Hinduism, but to
find a bigger and better Christianity.
Whatever the outcome of Hinduism in America may
be, we cannot understand it without a knowledge of cer-
tain facts pertaining to the history of its
past and present
achievements. These facts I have endeavored to present
in two ways: first, by means of a careful study of the two
most imposing Hindu cults in America, namely, Vedanta
and Yogoda; and second, by means of a brief survey of
all the other Hindu movements.
The study of Vedanta occupies chapters three to five,
chapter three dealing with its patron saint in India, chap-
ter four with its first missionary to America, and chapter
five with its
growth and expansion in the United States.
16 HINDU MOVEMENTS IN AMERICA
The study of Yogoda occupies only chapter six. Vedanta
has received more space than Yogoda because it has spent
much more time in America, is more classic, orthodox and
representative, and is
perhaps the first modern missionary
movement of any Eastern religion to the West. The facts
here presented are based mainly on Hindu sources, and
have been checked by the Hindu leaders themselves. The
judgments I pass on these facts are intended to be sym-
pathetic, yet critical and constructive.
The survey of all the other Hindu movements occupies
chapter seven. Several of these movements are very im-
portant, more important perhaps than Vedanta or Yo-
goda, but limited time and space forbids a more extensive
treatment. In chapter eight, which is the last, I aim to
present a brief resume of the causes and effects of the
Vedanta and Yogoda movements in American life, and a
brief opinion of the American prospects of the Hindu
faith in general.
Since the meaning of Hinduism in America cannot be
grasped without some knowledge of Hinduism in India,
I offer in chapter two a short account of classical Vedanta,
the basic philosophy of Hinduism, which forms the gen-
eral heritage of all Hindu movements in America, and not
merely the heritage of the particular Ramakrishna move-
ment which labels its American centers "Vedanta/' and
which I also call
"
Vedanta
1 '
in order to pair it nicely with
Yogoda. Furthermore, since this modern revival of classic
Hinduism cannot be properly understood without some
knowledge of modern India, I now set down a few facts
about modern India that are relevant to our purpose*
Hindu missionaries to America have come not from an-
cient India, of course, but from modern India, and modern
India is a child of East and West. In 1600, just before
AN EXPRESSION OF YOUNG INDIA 17
the Pilgrim Fathers set foot on the shore of America, the
East India Company of London ventured forth to the land
of India. It found an ancient and long-suffering people,
inured to repeated invasions from the Northwest, but
dimly remembering golden days of commerce, science, art
and religion. This Western trading company gradually
gained control over the whole land of India, and in 1858,
after the Mutiny, yielded the government to the Crown.
In 1857 the three great universities of Calcutta, Bombay
and Madras were founded, modelled on the University of
London. They did all their work in English. The estab-
lishment of these and other institutions of higher learning
marks the transition of young India from infancy to child-
hood. In spite of their somewhat old-fashioned methods
and paucity of Indian culture, creating a gap between the
"national" and the "English Indian, the universities have
served as a bridge between East and West whereon the
Indian student catches the vision of freedom shining in
English literature, and hastens to embody this vision in
the organization of his country. With almost perfect com-
mand over the English language, and familiarity with the
best works of European literature and science, a small but
increasing section of the population is
moving in touch
with the outer world so closely as to be keenly sensitive
to every breath of Western thought and feeling. East and
West have met, and never the twain shall part.
In addition to Western education, the highly centralized
British government has imposed on the oriental culture
of India a modern system of manufacture and commerce,
involving a well-paid civil and military service, trunk
roads, railways, telegraph and postal services, law courts
and hospitals. Partly because of this Western culture,
partly in reaction against it, the movement of Indian na-
tionalism has increased step by step until it has now taken
on a world-wide significance. Young India is
becoming
of age.
18 HINDU MOVEMENTS IN AMERICA
India may be divided into ten distinct language areas,
two types of government democratic and monarchic
and five religious communities: Hindu, Muslim, Christian,
Sikh and Parsi. Moreover, we find lines of cleavage
between the liberal North and the conservative South,
between the priestly Brahmans and the insurgent non-
Brahmans, between the complacent castes and the de-
pressed outcastes, between the learned university gradu-
ates and the illiterate peasants, and between the free-
moving men and the more or less shut-in women. These
lines, however, are being effaced as rapidly as age-long
custom will permit.
The religious development of modern India can best be
understood as the reaction of her communities to the im-
pact of Western Christianity. Toward the close of the
eighteenth century, when the British power was rising in
India, C. F. Schwartz of Germany established the Re-
formed Church in the South, near Madras, while William
Carey of England started the work of the Baptist Mission
in the North, near Calcutta. To Hindus and Muslims
alike they preached the gospel of salvation from sin
through Jesus Christ, supported by the doctrines of one
Book, one God, one Savior, and one Brotherhood.
The Muslims as a rule turned a deaf ear to this appeal,
for they also belonged to a dominant missionary minority.
For six centuries in India they had spoken to command
and not to obey. Moreover, they also had their doctrines
of one Book, one God, one Prophet and one Brotherhood,
which, as they firmly believed, had superseded the doc-
trines of Christianity. Most of all, they were the world's
fiercest propagandists, and would tolerate no defection
from their creed. Hence only a very few of the most
sensitive and courageous members of the Muslim com-
munity dared leave the Crescent for the Cross. But these
few became the pillars of the Church.
AN EXPRESSION OF YOUNG INDIA 19
While the Hindus likewise refused to break their age-
long bonds of caste to join the Christian Church, they did
not refuse to listen to the Christian message. They could
afford to be more tolerant, for they were in the majority.
Not merely for six centuries, but for thirty-six centuries or
more had their religion flourished in India and developed
an immense variety of forms. Like a vast banyan tree it
had sent forth from its branches many aerial roots, each
of which had grown down into the soil and become a new
tree trunk sending forth in its turn new branches and new
roots. So the Hindus listened. Many even read the Bible,
translated by the arduous toil of scholarly missionaries.
But for a long time they did not understand. The mis-
sionaries had not yet learned to present the gospel from
the Hindu point of view. But they refused to lose heart,
and established the two great aids to preaching, namely,
healing and teaching.
The ministry of healing, with its
hospitals, dispensaries
and asylums, directly imparted the doctrine of Christian
love even to the most hostile or degraded. It naturally
made its
greatest appeal to the Hindu outcastes, compris-
ing over fifty millions of people, almost as many as in the
whole Muslim community. When these dealers in filth
and carion felt the healing touch of love, they were not
slow to trust themselves to their benefactors. Especially
in the heart-breaking times of famine, when the mission-
aries laid aside their usual work to save the poor from
starving, whole communities in great mass movements
followed their village chiefs into the Christian Church.
Here they have been welded into a powerful lever
which is shaking the social structure of Hinduism. For
note this fact: once an outcaste becomes a Christian, he is
magically transformed from a despised Hindu untouch-
able into a member of the ruling community, a fellow
churchman of the King-Emperor. Moreover, a majority
20 HINDU MOVEMENTS IN AMERICA
of the five million members of the Christian community,
the third largest in India, have risen from the ranks of the
outcastes. Roused by the fear of thus losing to the Chris-
tians (and also to the Muslims) a huge section of their
community, the Hindus are now striving to purify and
take back into the fold of caste (or at least community)
these long-neglected and long-suffering brothers. But once
the barrier between caste and outcaste is demolished, what
will become of the barriers betwen caste and caste?
The ministry of teaching, with its schools and colleges,
naturally made its greatest appeal to the upper-caste
Hindus, who gladly sent their youths to drink at the
spring of modern culture provided by Government and
influenced by missions. Three results may be noted.
First, a few of these Hindu intellectuals have become out-
standing Christians. Second, a number of vigorous Hindu
liberals have adopted on the basis of reason the ethics of
Jesus and a monotheistic faith expressed by certain selec-
tions from the Hindu scriptures. The great pioneer in
this movement was Prince Ram Mohan Roy, who founded
the Brahma Samaj, or Divine Society, just a century ago
in Calcutta* Most of the Indian social reform of the past
century has come from this "unitarian church" and its
sympathizers, warmly supported by the Christian mission-
aries.
A third result of the Government's more or less Chris-
tian education has been to stimulate the orthodox Hindu
communities to appreciate their own rich heritage and
defend it
against the invasion of Christianity. And it is
chiefly from these orthodox communities that the Hindu
missionaries to America have emerged. The Brahman
pandits, whose business has ever been to treasure up
India's sacred lore in their Sanskrit books and memories,
had become so exclusive, that even the educated classes
did not know their country's scriptures until Western
AN EXPRESSION OF YOUNG INDIA 21
orientalists Hke Max Miiller presented them in English,
which after all was the all-Indian learned language of the
Indian intellectual. This kind of research was taken up
also by Indian scholars, trained in Western methods, but
saturated with the spirit of the East from their childhood.
Then with growing national self-respect the orthodox
Hindu religious leaders began to delve into their own
scriptures in order to find something to express their
national character and to offset the Christianity brought
to them by men of originally foreign culture and usually
domineering ways.
They did find something, which in the strange course
of future events proved to be a weapon of spiritual aggres-
sion as well as defense. But what was it
they found?
What is the character of the religious heritage of the
Hindus? It is revealed in the dominant Hindu philosophy
known as "Vedanta," which Hindu leaders are popular-
izing in America today. This Vedanta, or Vedantism, will
now be explained in the following chapter; but whoever
is not especially interested in the ancient classical founda-
tion of American Hinduism may pass directly to chapter
three, where the story of Vedanta's invasion of America
will begin.
CHAPTER II
CLASSIC VEDANTA, THE ESSENCE OF
HINDU FAITH
1. THE BACKGROUND OF VEDANTA
The oldest sacred scriptures of the Hindus are the four
Vedas, a mass of hymns, chants and spells composed
orally about 1300 to 800 B, c., during the time of the
Aryan occupation of the Panjab. The hymns of the Rig-
veda, the chief of the four, are for the most part vital
prayers addressed to the powers of nature, such as Indra,
the storm, and Agni, the fire.
Very soon the philosophic quest for unity began. One
way of unifying the gods was by identification. Just as
the different tribes use different words to designate the
same thing, so must there be Tad Ekam (that One), of
which the various gods are but various names.
The sages call that One in many ways, they call it Agni, Yama,
Matarisvan.1
But this identification did not destroy the individuality
of each god, which a worshiper might select from the
heavenly substance, and praise for the moment as God
absolute. This early distinction between the philosophic
One and the popular Many is the key to Vedanta.
The Aryans of this time were like the Greeks of Ho-
mer's time: free, fresh, natural, wholesome and happy.
Their gods were devas, or shining ones, and their life was
strong and open. There was no hint of world sorrow,
or desire to escape from life's
problems. The system of
caste, or hereditary class, had not yet been formed, and
THE ESSENCE OF HINDU FAITH 23
vegetarianism was not practiced. Beef eating was com-
mon. Karma, or the chain of action, and sansara, or the
cycle of birth and death, were conceptions not yet in-
vented, and God was still made in the image of man.
However, by the time of the Upanishads, or secret com-
ments on the Vedas, breathed from master to disciple in
the forest retreat about 800 to 600 B. c, the worldly joy
of this vigorous culture had almost faded out. The dis-
tinctions of color and occupation between the invading
Aryans and the native Dasyus had developed into a set of
four vamas, or orders, of (1) Brahmans, or priests and
teachers, (2) Ksatriyas, or warriors and rulers, (3) Vai~
syas, or farmers and merchants, and (4) Sudvas, or serv-
ants and toilers. This lowest order was composed of the
dark-skinned aborigines, who were excluded from the rites
of the "twice-born/' or three higher orders. At the time
of Manu, the greatest Hindu lawgiver, near the Christian
era, these orders solidified into strict castes and sub-castes.
The dogma or principle of the "wheel of life/' named
transmigration, palingenesis, metempsychosis, reincarna-
tion, or rebirth, is absent from the Rigveda, but present in
the Upanishads. The actions, deeds, or works of the soul,
such as sacrificial rites, charity, austerity, and the general
performance of social duty, which originally led it to com-
plete salvation in the highest heaven, now merely chain
it to the meaningless, monotonous cycle of rebirth. No
matter how high up in the moral scale the soul may go,
it is bound to come down again, for life is a Wheel. And
no matter how desirable human intercourse in the world
of nature may seem now and then, here and yon, its final
monotony will steal away all zest. Thus life is no longer
a thrilling adventure to be welcomed, but a dreary round
to be renounced. Here is a basis for acosmism, literally
"no-world-ism," the doctrine that the world is futile and
unreal. To achieve salvation, we must be negative to the
24 CLASSIC VEDANTA
world, but positive to a realm above, in which the world
melts.
The central task of the Upanishads is to point out the
path from the world to this upper realm of "Reality."
From the unreal lead me to the real.
From darkness lead me to light.
From death lead me to immortality.
2
Contrary to the previous Vedic literature, the Upani-
shads (which come at the end of the Vedas} show a dis-
trust of "works'* and a trust in "knowledge." Hence the
great effort to grasp the key of the universe, that one prin-
ciple by which a knowledge of all things can be gained.
Of what nature is the ultimate reality? On the answer
to this leading question depends man's course of salvation.
Like the Vedas on which they depend, the Upanishads
teach a variety of doctrines, which may be grouped into
three fundamental positions: a pantheistic monism, a vi-
talistic dualism and an individualistic pluralism. These
three inconsistent positions form the basis of later Ve-
danta; for, as we shall see, when they are combined with
an emphasis on the monism, we get the pantheistic acos-
mism developed by Sankara, but when they are combined
with an emphasis on the pluralism, we get the theistic
determinism developed by Ramanuja. These are the two
great classic forms of Vedanta (or Vedantism) , both of
which appear in America, not only in the "Vedanta"
movement, but in the "Yogoda" and other movements
as well.
It seems that the risis, or seers of the Upanishads, in
seeking the key of knowledge to unlock the gate of sal-
vation, did not want to explain the world so much as to
explain it
away. They themselves were not in the social
world of industry, but apart from it; not low-caste men,
but mosdy Brahmans, the exclusive possessors of religious
THE ESSENCE OF HINDU FAITH 25
learning, supported by the manual toil of the inferior
orders of society. Their teachings were avowedly secret,
and not meant for the masses, who had neither the mind
to understand them nor the opportunity to carry them out.
For the masses, the "lower," common-sense knowledge
and the way of "works," or social and ceremonial duty,
would have to suffice.
But the masses were not content with a second-rate sal-
vation. They cried out for the best, and their cry was
heard. Two popular leaders arose with deeply pondered
answers on their lips: Gautama Buddha, who preached
salvation by the new morality of love and service to all
mankind, and the unknown author of the Bhagavad Gita,
or "Song Celestial," who fastened the sanction of Upani-
shad teaching to the increasingly popular cult of loving-
devotion to a God who was in mankind, to be sure, but
essentially above and beyond.
In Siddhartha Gautama Sakyamuni, born in the sixth
century B. c., and later called the Buddha or Enlightened,
a noble youth of warrior line of the Sakya clan near the
border of Nepal in the Himalayas, the factor of an out-
standing historic personality first enters the history of
Hindu religion. The bitterness of war and plunder, the
misery of old age, sickness, death, and poverty, and the
monotonous futility of life in general, set forth in the
law of karma and rebirth, had existed before Gautama,
but never before had any seer brought these evils so
vividly to the mind of his people. To the keen and sensi-
tive nature of this original thinker, suffering is the over-
powering fact of life. After prolonged meditation on the
cause and cure of this evil, he becomes convinced of four
basic truths:
1. Individual life is suffering
2. The origin of suffering is worldly desire
26 CLASSIC VEDANTA
3. Escape from suffering lies in freedom from this
desire
4. Freedom from this deske comes from right thinking
and action
Desire and thinking are one. Worldly desire causes
suffering because we think the world is worthy, because
we value what is transient and perishable. Since action
springs from thinking, the pain of action can be cured by
right thinking. We need neither priests nor austerity.
We will renounce our cravings individually and of our
own accord when once we realize the truth that all things
are worthless. Man is an ever-changing stream of con-
sciousness, while nature also is a continual process of
change without abiding reality. With this knowledge,
individuality will cease in Nibbana (the Buddhist N/f-
vana) ,
a cool, calm state of ineffable joy, experienced even
in this life. This is the doctrine of the
*
'middle path" that
seeks to avoid the extremes of self-indulgence and self-
mortification.
Buddhism taught two ways of uprooting sorrow and
attaining this state of bliss: the Arhat ideal of individual
renunciation and meditation, and the Bodbisattva ideal
of social love and service, which overpasses the bounds of
caste and takes all life into its embrace. This latter ideal
resembles the Christian, but its background is considerably
different. The Buddha himself was Ar&at, but, out of pity
for the world, remained to teach it. This but shows the
essential opposition between the two ideals of individual
detachment and social sympathy.
Then came the Bhagavad Gita, or the Lord's Song,
some time perhaps between 200 B. c and 200 A. D. Like
Buddhism, the Gita rejected austerity as a way of salva-
tion, but unlike Buddhism, it was wise in its own genera-
tion, and so refrained from preaching love for the world,
THE ESSENCE OF HINDU FAITH 27
or anything that smacked of the old-jashioned way of
works discarded by the Upanishads. Yet it did preach
love love for a personal God. Driven from the broad
realm of social intercourse, love took refuge in the narrow
province of private devotion.
The Gita accepted completely the ways of knowledge
(jnana) and meditation (yoga) laid down in the Upani-
shads. But it made another contribution all its own: the
way of bhakti, or "loving-devotion" to God, together with
detached or meritless works, consituting a new kind of
karma. The secret ways of knowledge and meditation
may do for the exclusive Brahmans who have the time and
mentality for such otherworldly practices, but they cannot
benefit the toilers who live in the thick of the world and
support the Brahmans, for they cannot possibly renounce
the objects of sense. How can these commoners find sal-
vation?
The Gita is an answer to this deep question. The com-
mon man must work and love, but ordinary work and love
will not do, for this only binds him more firmly to the
wheel of action. Just here the popular worship of the
divine hero Krishna makes its contribution. Let the com-
mon man work not for the world, but for the Lord. Let
him love not kin but Krishna. To achieve release a man
must work without regard to the personal consequences
of his deeds, without fear of punishment or hope of re-
ward. He must learn not to be attracted by the attractive
or repelled by the repellent, but envisage both as illusory
manifestations of the adorable Lord. In the midst of tur-
moil he must rest in the Lord of Peace, discharging every
duty to the fullest, not because he seeks to benefit man-
kind, but because his duty is to obey the eternal law of
caste.
Prince Arjuna, a warrior by caste, appearing on the field
of battle to vindicate his brother's title to the throne and
28 CLASSIC VEDANTA
free the land from oppression, feels a sudden pang, a
sharp demand for peace on earth, when he sees kinsmen
and beloved comrades in the ranks of both the opposing
army and his own. How can he slay those to whom he
owes the duty of honor and affection and trample on the
sacred ties of kinship? Krishna, his divine charioteer, then
tells him how. When duties conflict, caste duties must
prevail, for they belong to Dharma, the very order of the
universe. The warrior must fight. Identified with the
Lord by devotion, he must enter the fray without hatred,
and slaughter his kinsmen without remorse. Such action
welds no bonds, and so the soul is free.
2. THE MEANING OF VEDANTA
Some time after the writing of the Bhagavad Gita, per-
haps, the Vedanta Sutras were composed. The term Ve-
danta is made up of two words, Veda (revelation) and
anta (end), and literally means, "the end of revelation,"
or the final aim of the Veda. In this sense it has some-
times been taken to include "the six systems of philoso-
phy" based on the Upanishads, and even the Bbagavad
Gita* More specifically, however, the term Vedanta re-
fers to just one of these systems, embodied in the Vedanta
Sutras, or Vedanta Aphorisms. As the only system that
posits an absolute God, the Vedanta is the boldest and
most characteristic form of Indian philosophy.
Several thinkers who start from the Upanishads and
Vedanta Sutras, such as Sankara, Ramanuja and Madhava,
are often called Vedantins (or Vedantists), but I shall
limit the term Vedanta to the positions of Sankara and
Ramanuja, for only these two thinkers seek to maintain
an absolute God. Aside from the Vedanta Sutras, which
provided the systematic foundation for both of them, San-
kara based his pantheistic acosmism chiefly on the mystic
declarations of the Upanishadic sage Yajnavalkya, the
THE ESSENCE OF HINDU FAITH 29
renunciatory aspect of Buddhism, and the Gita's ways of
knowledge and meditation, while Ramanuja's theistic de-
terminism depends mainly on the individualistic Katha
and Svetasvatara Upanishads, the old-fashioned Vedic
way of merit-making "works," and the Gittfs way of
"loving-devotion/*
Yet below their differences, Sankara and Ramanuja
have many points in common.
(1) Both were ardent defenders of the Hindu faith,
and welcomed the doctrine of release from the wheel of
life. That is, both depicted a universe in which every in-
dividual soul with its subtle "causal body" containing the
"seeds of action" repeatedly returns to rebirth in forms
determined by the deeds of every previous life. The form
of rebirth may be plant, animal or human, the subcon-
scious self being retained. The human form, in turn, is
divided into the four great castes which may not inter-
marry or interdine, and the outcastes. And both main-
tained that Sudras, or members of the lowest caste, are
excluded from salvation in this life because they cannot
be admitted to the study of the Vedas, lacking the initia-
tion of the sacred thread common to the three higher
castes.
(2) Both were Brahmans and natives of South India
where Brahmans are much more exclusive than in the
North. They alone studied the Vedas with satisfaction.
While the three upper or "twice-born" castes were per-
mitted the sacred study, only the Brahmans actually did
so as a rule, since the others would find small use for such
learning in everyday life. Such books as the Pancatantra
show that the education given to princes was in many
cases much more practical. As a result, the working out
of philosophic theories became almost the exclusive task
of a certain hereditary order. Since, moreover, this phi-
losophy was especially directed to the elaboration of
30 CLASSIC VEDANTA
"Sruti" or Revelation, composed of early hymns, cere-
monies and forest meditations, it was not especially con-
cerned with industry, art, ethics, politics or science. India
had indeed developed many sciences, such as medicine and
mathematics, but these were not considered departments
of religious philosophy; political and ethical precepts were
laid down in the sastras, or law books, as divinely fixed
once and for all, and did not evolve under despotic rule,
while art and industry were manual labor beneath the
function of a priest.
Hindu philosophers were not merely
an exclusive set: they even dealt with exclusive problems.
(3) So we are not surprised to learn that Sankara and
Ramanuja both rejected "sense-perception*' and 'logical
inference" in favor of "scriptural authority" as the source
of supreme knowledge, or the knowledge of God, which
was considered a matter of experience or intuition. San-
kara recognized intuition, or anubhava, as final only if
based on the word and sanction of scripture. As for
reason, it was held to be useless as a means of dealing
with ultimate reality, for it cannot yield the "higher"
knowledge, which is the experience of the "higher" God.
The fact of everything having its Self in Brahman cannot be
grasped without the aid of the Scriptural passage "That art
thou." a
Thus Sankara and Ramanuja were at bottom very much
alike, for in life and thought they both emphasized the
sharp distinction between the creative and the blissful
God, between the laity and the priesthood, and between
reason and revelation.
3. SANKARA VEDANTA
Sankara, who was born in the very south of India about
800 A. D., became in childhood a prodigy of Vedic lore.
Rejecting the ways of the world at an early age, he turned
THE ESSENCE OF HINDU FAITH 31
sannyasi; wandered over India, preaching and disputing,
and established four mathas, or monasteries, at the four
points of the compass: Badarinath in the Himalayas to
the north, Sringeri in the south, Puri in the east and Dva-
raka in the west. From these monasteries would sally
forth in good weather his order of preaching friars, or
sannyasis like himself, to proclaim his message. In this
organization he followed Buddhism. His monks were
called dasnamis, or "Ten Named/* because each monk
had for his surname one of ten names, such as Puri or
Giri. Thus each name came to denote a suborder. On
initiation into the order, every man would take a new
first name standing for one of Sankara's main doctrines,
and put on an ochre, saffron, or flame-colored robe, sig-
nifying the fire of knowledge in which ignorance and im-
purity are consumed. The color of the robe, still worn
today by sannyasis, or swamis, is like the color of this
book-cover. Castes also, along with property, ordinary
clothes and family ties, were "burnt up" in this order of
renunciation and meditation. But what did these friars
preach? What was Sankara's system?
Weary of the nihilistic doctrines spread abroad in India
by Buddhism, the Hindu community longed for a return
to Vedic authority. This meant a return to the Upani-
shads, which by their own dictum had fulfilled the earlier
parts of the Vedas. But what did the Upanishads teach?
There was no common view. The Vedanta Sutras were
comprehensive but cryptic. So an intelligible authority
was the urgent need of the day. How to make the Upani-
shads teach one main doctrine, then, is Sankara's great
problem. And he solves it with a genius as subtle as rare.
In the Upanishads he sees the "lower" Brahman known
by the "lower" knowledge, and the "higher" Brahman
known by the "higher" knowledge.
4
Taking this sharp
distinction as his guide, he fixes the "higher" knowledge
32 CLASSIC VEDANTA
as the standard authority of infallible scripture, and treats
the "lower" knowledge as an accommodation to men of
lower position on the cosmic wheel.
The "lower" knowledge gives us a creative, time-includ-
ing God and the manifold regulations for ceremonial wor-
ship and social duty enjoined by Hindu tradition. All this
Sankara sanctions as a wise propagandist. The 'lower"
knowledge is true indeed, but only relatively true. The
"higher" knowledge gives us the God of formless bliss.
In this bliss alone is full salvation, attained by the sanny-
asi, the one that renounces the world to meditate on his
"inner divine nature/'
With this plan in mind, Sankara constructs his system.
His first act is to lay down the proposition that object and
subject, the "thou" and the "I," are absolutely distinct
and cannot be identified in any respect. This is
supposed
to be self-evident. The subject is God, the object the
world. The trouble with most men, says Sankara, is that
they are unaware of this simple truth! They naively say,
"I am cold," or, "I am hot," when in reality it is
impos-
sible for the self to be anything finite at all. For cold and
heat are qualities of objects, whereas the self is the sub-
ject, which is
quite another thing. My body may be cold
or hot, but I myself can be neither.
This transference of the qualities of the object to the
subject, says Sankara, is man's innate or natural error
based on his cosmic forgetfulness of his original, quality-
less Self. And since the subject is the only reality, as the
Upanishads reveal, it is incorrect to think of the object as
real in itself. Hence the world as we usually know it,
is the result of ignorance, or avidya. It does not really
exist as it
appears to exist. Therefore it is illusion. In
the dusk we see a snake. But as we approach, we find it
a rope. The snake is an illusion, banished by knowledge.
So with the world.
THE ESSENCE OF HINDU FAITH 33
As a matter of fact, Sankara's course was away from
illusionism, and not toward it: all he desired was con-
sistent authority. His spiritual grandfather Gaudapada
had written a commentary on the Mandukya Upanishad
to show that waking life is no more than a dream. But
Sankara took great pains to point out the relative reality
of the waking life
compared to dreaming. The world,
said he, is not a private, but a public illusion, and real
for all
practical purposes. Indeed, the illusion is
pro-
duced by God himself, the great Illusion-Maker. Hence
the way of final salvation is the knowledge of God as the
absolute Self, and the everyday world as illusion.
The complete comprehension of Brahman is the highest end
of man, since it destroys the root of all evil such as false knowl-
edge, the seed of the entire process of transmigration.
5
When vidya, or true knowledge, begins, then avidyat
or false knowledge, ceases. Hence the two views of God,
practical and intuitive, cannot possibly conflict, for they
cannot exist in the same person at the same time.
The man who has once comprehended Brahman to be the Self
does not belong to this transmigratory world as he did before.
He, on the other hand, who still belongs to this transmigratory
world as before, has not comprehended Brahman to be the Self.
Thus there remain no unsolved contradictions.6
Now, the comprehension of Brahman as the solitary
Self demands private intuition as the completion of public
authority. After the devotee is convinced of the scrip-
tural verity "That art thou," he must also "realize" by
inner experience that he truly is that Brahman. Even
before a member of the faithful begins his sadhanat or
"realization," he must form a stable character by means
of common sense, practical logic, and the ordinary re-
ligion of ceremony, works and duty. Thus the 'lower"
knowledge has a distinct place as an educative agency for
the "higher" knowledge. Then he must fit himself for
34 CLASSIC VEDANTA
the direct intuition of Sat-cit-ananda, or "Reality-con-
sciousness-bliss," by traversing four stages:
(1) Discrimination between God and the world;
(2) Renunciation of the world, called sannyasa;
(3) Six mental disciplines:
(a) Restraint of the outer senses;
(b) Restraint of the inner senses;
(c) Retraction of the mind from the senses;
(d) Fixation of the mind on the "Self";
(e) Indifference to pairs of opposites, such as cold and
heat, gain and loss, pleasure and pain;
(f) Complete trust in the scriptures and guru, or
master.
(4) Keen desire to escape all bondage.
7
After the student is
thoroughly trained in these four
stages with their yoga practice, he is ready to follow the
final three stages.
(1) Learning the meaning of the text "That art thou" from
a guru who has himself really experienced this truth.
(2) Testing this truth by means of practical doubt and ex-
periment.
(3) The final constant bliss of intuition.8
This final rapturous experience can never be communi-
cated: it must be private. Indeed, according to Sankara,
the Vedic texts do not even aim to implant truth: they
merely direct our attention to it.
Knowledge springs up
in the mind "of itself" as a direct perception of the Eter-
nal, in which all limitations vanish, and the soul obtains
muktif
or liberation, here and now.
That which is real in the absolute sense, immutable, eternal,
all-pervading like akasa, exempt from all change, all-satisfying,
undivided, whose nature is to be its own light, in which neither
good nor evil, nor effect, nor past nor present nor future has
any place, this incorporeal is called liberation.
By taking mental discipline as one of the means of lib-
eration, Sankara embraces the yoga practice as presented
THE ESSENCE OF HINDU FAITH 35
in the Upanishads and developed in the classic system
of Patanjali.
11
The word yoga means yoke. Thus yoga
means the yoking, or restraint, of the senses. But if the
yoking be taken as a way to God (in contrast to the posi-
tion of the Sankhya system of philosophy), it comes to
signify union union with God. Patanjali taught the raja-
yoga or "kingly" way of restraint, as distinguished from
the hatha-yoga and the mantra-yoga. The hatha-yoga is
a system of bodily exercises for warding off diseases and
making the body fit to bear with perfect calm all sorts of
privations and strains. The mantra-yoga is a course of
meditation on certain "mystic" syllables leading to the
audition of certain "mystic" sounds.
The raja-yoga, which of all these is the most important
and the' system taught most in America, is a discipline of
gradual restraint and final annihilation of all mental
states for the sake of salvation. It tells how the senses
may be withdrawn from the objects of sense, and reduced
to stillness in the anta:karana, or inner central organ;
and how this central organ in turn may be so wholly
centered in the atman, or soul, as to lose itself in the bliss
of "superconscious" unity. But this goal of deliverance
can be reached only through a series of stages in which
external aids play a large part. Various bodily attitudes,
named asana, are prescribed, as well as the control of
breathing by means of counting and holding the breath,
and the fixation of attention on various parts of the body,
such as the navel or the tip of the nose. All this is meant
to reduce natural activity to a minimum. Sometimes tears
flow from the eyes, the body becomes cataleptic, or as stiff
as a piece of wood, and the devotee or yogi falls into
yoganidra, the hypnotic sleep that precedes complete
emancipation. One method that is useful in producing a
state of death to the world and awaking to bliss consists
in extending the tongue, bending it round, and inserting
36 CLASSIC VEDANTA
the tip into the opening of the throat, while gazing stead-
fastly on the spot between the eyebrows.
A development of Patanjali's method is the surtsabda
(or "spirit word") yoga, built on to the more classic way.
Before achieving his bliss, the yogi hears in his heart or
throat or some other part of the body various sounds,
such as the rolling of a drum, the roaring of the sea, the
tolling of a bell, the hum of a bee or the singing of a lyre.
These sounds are given tremendous, "cosmic" significance.
When the yogi earnestly perseveres in the correct
method, so we are told, he can both heal his body and
employ marvelous powers such as making himself in-
finitely small or invisible, swelling to an immense size so
as to touch the moon with the tip of his fingers, or trans-
porting himself anywhere by a simple act of will. His
mind is so concentrated and intense that he can see
through walls or read the minds of other men. He can
look into the past or future, and hold converse with de-
parted spirits. Yet we are told that the true yogi never
uses these powers: they are mere distracting handicaps to
his escape from the world and the attainment of heavenly
peace. As the snake sheds its skin, so does the soul shed
its body, and rest in the bliss of Brahman.
Such is the outcome of Sankara's message to the faith-
ful, to the orthodox sects he represents. Here his authority
is intuition based on scripture. But his message to the
heretical sects he opposes, such as Buddhism and the
Sankhya position, must be couched in different terms and
rely on a different authority. Since these sects do not
accept the Vedanta revelation, he must convince them by
reason alone he must meet them on the plane of the
"lower" knowledge where they dwell.
(1) When the Buddhists, for example, deny the sub-
stantial self maintained by the Vedanta, Sankara must
prove the substantial self exists. But how can he? How
THE ESSENCE OF HINDU FAITH 37
can anyone know the self exists, when knowledge (accord-
ing to the common, traditional
belief) is the apprehension
of an object, and the self is not an object at all, but only
the subject? Says Yajnavalkya, the knower cannot know
itselj. Sankara himself raises this question, and replies
that the subject is a necessary presupposition of all knowl-
edge.
It cannot be denied, for of that very person who might deny
it, it is the Self."
Moreover, the Self, or God, is known intuitively.
The existence of Brahman is known on the ground of its
being
the Self of everyone. For everyone is conscious of the existence
of his Self, and never thinks "I am not." If the existence of the
Self were not known, everyone would think "I am not." And
this Self is Brahman.13
(2) Again, to convince the Sankhyas that the ultimate
reality is
intelligence or consciousness, Sankara proceeds
to demonstrate that the efficient or material cause of the
world is the Self, or Brahman. To show that Brahman
is the efficient cause, he uses the argument for design.
A non-intelligent thing, which, without being guided by an
intelligent being, spontaneously produces effects capable of sub-
serving the purposes of some particular person, is nowhere ob-
served in the world. We rather observe that houses, palaces,
couches, pleasure grounds, and the like things which according
to the circumstances are conducive to the attainment of pleasure
or the avoidance of pain are made by workmen endowed with
intelligence. Now look at this entire world ... of which the
most ingenious workmen cannot even form a conception in their
minds, and then say if a non-intelligent principle is able to
fashion it!
14
To show that Brahman is the material cause, he uses
the argument from causality.
With regard to ether and air, the possibility of an origin has
been shown. But in Brahman's case there is no such possibility;
hence the cases are not parallel Nor does the fact of other
38 CLASSIC VEDANTA
effects springing from effects
imply that Brahman also must be
an effect; for the non-admission of a fundamental causal sub-
stance would drive us to a regresstts in infimtum. And that
fundamental causal substance which as a matter of fact is gen-
erally acknowledged to exist, just that is our Brahman.15
The relation of God to the world is defined more pre-
cisely in terms of substance and modes.
The omniscient Lord of all is the cause of the origin of this
world in the same way as clay is the material cause of jars and
gold of golden ornaments. . . .
16
In both these arguments, Sankara develops the genu-
inely monistic strand of the Upanishads into a kind of
theism. The Self, or God, is not distinct from the world
(as in the dominant dualism), but its very substance or
being. This is the 'lower" God, known by the "lower"
knowledge. Here there is no basis for acosmism: God
creates the world out of Himself with careful purpose.
Again, it is the individual, living in the strife and change
of the world that is "conscious of the existence of his
Self," and never thinks "I am not/* This means that the
ordinary man knows his Self, or God, without all the
paraphernalia of renunciation and steps in meditation.
As a matter of fact, when Sankara relies on reason, he
is a monistic theist, but when he takes refuge in revela-
tion, he is an acosmistic pantheist. And this he is funda-
mentally, for as a defender of that particular faith known
as Hinduism, he must take its
scripture as final authority,
and relegate reason to the comparative unreality of the
"lower" knowledge.
4. RAMANUJA VEDANTA
As Sankara in the ninth century fulfils the teachings
of the Upanishadic sage Yajnavalkya, so does Ramanuja
in the eleventh century fulfill the teachings of the Sveta-
svatafa Upanishad and the Bhagavad Gita. And as San-
kara was influenced by Buddhism, Ramanuja was influ-
THE ESSENCE OF HINDU FAITH 39
diced by the Alvars, or Visnuite saints, whose Tamil
hymns of "loving-devotion" had voiced the aspirations of
the masses that worshiped the god Visnu. So sings Yamu-
nacarya, the spiritual grandfather of Ramanuja:
Oh, fie on me, foul shameless wanton brute
Craving the rank of servantship to Thee,
Which lieth far, O God! beyond the chief
Of saintliest souls, Brahman or Mahadeo!
* # *
Lord Madhva, whatever mine may be,
Whatever I, is all and wholly Thine.
What offering can I bring, whose wakened soul
Seeth all Being bound to Thee for aye?
1T
Like the Svetasvatara Upanishad these hymns express a
sharp difference between God and the individual soul, as
well as between God and the world. Finally, just as San-
kara's chief opponent was the Sankhya, Ramanuja's chief
opponent was Sankara himself. Although Ramanuja also
became a sannyasi, and toured South India preaching
release, he was always a champion of the Visnu cult of
divine grace which stressed the distinction between devo-
tee and Lord. Early in life, so runs the legend, the will
of God came to him in this verse:
I am the supreme reality. My view is distinction. Self-sur-
render is the unfailing cause of salvation, individual effort not
being essential. Release will come in the end. . . ,
19
While both Sankara and Ramanuja are Vedantins, Ra-
manuja is more moderate than Sankara. He does not
perfect a device
20
to divide revelation into "lower" and
"higher," but labors to harmonize all teachings in one
doctrine. Rather than stand forth as an independent
thinker, he follows a long tradition of Vedantic expositors,
He agrees that salvation is release from karma and rebirth,
and that release comes through knowledge, but he takes
knowledge as meditation on the supreme, loving Person.21
40 CLASSIC VEDANTA
Such knowledge is
really bhakti, or "loving-devotion," in
response to which God graciously reveals Himself, and so
rewards the devotee. As the Bhagavad Gita says,
To those who are constantly devoted and worship with loving-
devotion I give that knowledge by which they reach me.22
Since this devotion can be cultivated only by certain defi-
nite duties and ceremonies,
23
Ramanuja, unlike Sankara,
makes good works integral to the knowledge of God.
While God is the one and only reality, the basis of the
origination, subsistence and reabsorption of the world, He
is also a loving Person. Although Ramanuja was not
original in treating ultimate reality as personal, he was
indeed the first Hindu thinker to define a person clearly
in common sense terms as one who has the power to
realize his purposes. God alone is unconditionally a per-
son, since He alone has complete power to realize His
purposes. Man has only a limited amount of this power,
and so is only conditionally a person.
Following his favorite Upanishad, the Svetasvatara, Ra-
manuja insists that Nature (prakriti) and individual souls
(jivas) are substances in themselves. Souls are one with
God not in being, but in kind. Individual souls are divine
in nature, but are separate and distinct from the universal
Soul, They are atomic; it is infinite. It creates; they only
enjoy. Yet Ramanuja wants to keep monism. So he calls
individuals "modes of God" in the sense that they come
under his personal control. Accordingly they are mem-
bers of the body of which God is the Soul.
24
Any substance which a sentient soul is capable of completely
controlling and supporting for its own purposes, and which
stands to the soul in an entirely subordinate relation, is the body
of that soul. , . , In this sense, then, all sentient and non-sentient
beings together constitute the body of the Supreme Person, for
they are completely controlled and supported by Him for His OWA
ends, and are absolutely subject to Him.25
THE ESSENCE OF HINDU FAITH 41
Thus Ramanuja, like Sankara, wants to make God both
the material and the efficient cause of the world. But to
Ramanuja, God is also the final cause. To Sankara, the
creation of the world is God's playful illusion, utterly
devoid of purpose; and karma, or work, has no integral
connection with release from rebirth. But to Ramanuja,
God creates all
beings in order that as a reward for thek
good works in the world, individual souls may enjoy
eternal divine communion.
While Ramanuja thus sees God in every way the cause
of the world, he is yet careful to keep God free from the
world and its evil. God is in the world but not of it.
He is embodied, but not subject to the actions of the body,
to the good and evil deeds of the world. He creates with
purpose, to be sure, but only in play or sport, unattached
to results. God never completely absorbs the world, he
tells us: the world becomes subtle and gross in endless
cycles, but remains ever distinct from God. How can the
impure reveal the Pure? God has really two forms: a
worldly form distinct from Him, and a heavenly body of
His very own, which from time to time He incarnates,
or thrusts into His worldly body, for the sake of His
devotees.
26
With the aid of these incarnations, the soul finally
achieves communion with its Maker. Not the bliss of
union, but the love of communion. However high the
soul may rise, there will always be an "other" for it to
cherish and adore. And since God is really separate and
aloof from the world, the soul that would love Him eter-
nally must also be separate from the world. For Rama-
nuja there is no jwanmukti, no release in this life. The
soul attains God only after exhausting all karma , and
casting off the body entirely.
While Sankara and Ramanuja thus differ in emphasis,
they are yet alike in the main structure of their thinking,
42 CLASSIC VEDANTA
which is a dualism between God and the world. To be
sure, they both get a spurious monism, Sankara by treating
the world as unreal, and Ramanuja by linking it with God
through God's power, but their basis remains dualistic
These two dogmatic philosophers or theologians India's
best are like two artists painting the landscape of the
Upanishads. Ramanuja brings into prominence the broad
green and red of "work" and 'loving-devotion/' Sankara
suffuses the canvas with the white and yellow of "knowl-
edge" and "meditation," but the outline and figures are
the same.
Both proclaim the monistic doctrine of substance and
modes, but fail to maintain it in its
purity to the end.
Sankara virtually consigns it to the limbo of false knowl-
edge, while Ramanuja vetoes it
by calling God separate
from the world. As a matter of fact, both thinkers are
loyal to two dogmas. The first
dogma is the "wheel of
life," which demands that salvation be conceived as release
from the world. The second dogma is the final authority
of scripture, which imposes the difficult task of reconciling
its contradictory doctrines of monism and dualism.
These two dogmas, developed by a priestly caste aloof
from science and industry in a land of glorious culture,
yet inured to invasion, hardship and despotic rule, com-
pose the framework of the Hindu religious tradition in-
herited by the modern Hindu. This does not mean that
his religion is limited to his Hindu heritage. Life is more
than logic, and present religion more than a summary of
past dogma. In practice, the modern Hindu may be
strongly influenced by Western ideas. Yet the dearest
way to trace the direction of a religious movement is to
understand its definite past positions. We are now ready
to study the more immediate source of the American
"Vedanta" movement in Ramakrishna, the brilliant, Il-
literate, naked saint of Bengal.
CHAPTER III
SAINT RAMAKRISHNA, A CHILD OF
MOTHER KALI
The first Hindu cult in America was founded by Vive-
kananda in New York in 1894, and Vivekananda's in-
spiration came from Ramakrishna, a modest saint who
never left India. The Hindu heritage did not come to
Ramakrishna in books, for he was ignorant of both San-
skrit and English as well as the higher literature of his
native speech, Bengali. He was just a country lad, simple
and singleminded. But his perfect piety and perfect art-
istry, coupled with his contact with devotees of most of the
Hindu sects, made him virtually an epitome of Hindu
orthodoxy, plus a dash of tender love. In the words of
"Mahatma'' Gandhi,
The story of Ramakrishna Paxamahansa's1
life is a story of
religion in practice, . . . His sayings are ... revelations of his
own experience. , . . In this age of scepticism Ramakrishna pre-
sents an example of a bright and living faith which gives solace
to thousands of men and women who would otherwise have
remained without spiritual light. His love knew no limits. . . .*
The life of Ramakrishna may be divided into five pe-
riods, each with its own distinct character.
(1) From his birth in Kamarpukur, Bengal, in 1836 *
till he reached the age of seventeen, he lived the happy,
carefree life of a talented
village boy.
(2) From his arrival in Calcutta in his seventeenth
year until his twenty-third year, he assisted his brother
Ram Kumar as a household and temple priest, and de-
veloped a passionate worship for the goddess Kali.
44 SAINT RAMAKRISHNA
(3) From his twenty-third until his tfirty-fifth year,
a period of twelve years, he strove with the utmost in-
tensity and rigor to gain visions of Kali and other Hindu
divinities.
(4) From the time he fulfilled this desire and attained
mental peace at the age of thirty-five, until his thirty-
ninth year, he experimented with various religious ideals,
including Islam and Christianity.
(5) From 1875, when at the age of thirty-nine he met
Keshab Chandra Sen, the leader of the Brahma Samaj,
until his death in 1886 at the age of fifty, he devoted most
of his time to teaching his many disciples. A section will
now be devoted to each period.
1. THE VILLAGE PET
Our hero made a wise choice of parents. Although his
Brahman forebears, named Chatterji, were poor in this
world's goods, they were honest and generous. Their small
village was far from the nearest city, yet on the road to
the holy Puri, where Saint Sankara had founded his
eastern monastery. The family had its idol, and the vil-
lage had one too. The child was marked for religion.
According to the story, his father's
4
function in concep-
tion was fulfilled by both Visnu and Siva, the gods of the
two great Hindu sects. While the father Khudiram was
lodging in sacred Gaya
5
whence he had gone to offer
barley balls to his ancestors,
6
he dreamed he was in the
temple of Visnu beholding a luminous God enthroned,
who spoke to him sweetly as follows:
I am well pleased at your sincere devotion. I am born again
and again to chastise the wicked and protect the virtuous.7 This
time I shall be born in your cottage and accept you as my father.
While Khudiram was thus off in Gaya, his wife Chandra
Devi, back in Kamarpukur, was also beholding a strange
A CHILD OF MOTHER KALI 45
vision. One day, standing with her friend Dhani, a wo-
man blacksmith, before the Siva temple next to her house,
"she saw a flood of celestial light issue from the Lord
Siva and dart towards her/' As the light entered her
body, we are told, she fell down senseless. On regaining
consciousness, she felt as if she were with child. In
similar manner, so runs tradition, were the classic Hindu
incarnations conceived: Rama, Krishna, Buddha, as also
Sankaracarya.
After the child was born, it is
supposed to have slipped
into an oven, and lain there without a cry, half covered
with ashes.
Perhaps this foretold a life of renunciation.
The father rejected the "proper" zodiacal name, and called
his son Gadadhar, one of the names of Visnu. Gadadhar
Chatterji became Ramakrishna at the age of thirty-five
when he passed through his initiation into sannyasa, and
became a swami.
The child grew to be a village favorite. When about
six years old, he fell into his first trance at the unspeakable
joy of seeing a flock of white cranes fly across a dark mass
of wind-swept clouds. Later on, the death of his father
convinced him of the impermanence and futility of the
world. Already the seeds of Sankara's renunciation and
rapture! He associated with Sankara's sannyasis, or with
sadhus like them, and began to imitate their ways. Like
Sankara, he was a prodigy of Hindu lore, solving a scrip-
tural problem for the learned pandits at the tender age
of ten. Playing truant with the village lads in good old
Krishna style, he taught them amateur religious drama.
Once while impersonating the God Siva in a village
play, the character so filled his mind that he rose to
ecstasy, and had to be carried off the stage. Owing to
his amazing memory and fondness for acting, his mind
became saturated with the stories of Hindu gods and
heroes. He often imagined himself a gopi, or milkmaid,
46 SAINT RAMAKKISHNA
sporting with the divine young cowherd Krishna, and im-
personated a woman so well as to deceive everybody.
Both men and women enjoyed his graceful dancing, his
clever merriment and jest.
He enjoyed modelling images
of the gods, and became an expert in this line. But in all
his play he felt a sense of mission, and resigned himself
to Rama, his household god.
2. THE YOUNG PRIEST
At the age of seventeen, Gadadhar joined his eldest
brother Pandit Ram Kumar in Calcutta, and helped him
perform his priestly duties. But he did not share his
brother's concern for the family income, and stubbornly
refused to attend school. "What shall I do with a mere
bread-winning education?" he demanded, "I would rather
acquire that wisdom which will illumine my heart, and
getting which, one is satisfied forever."
8
True to his
Hindu heritage and emotional temper, the boy wanted to
fly the world. To prevent just such immature renunciation
and social loss, the great lawgiver Manu had laid down
the four stages of life, in which renunciation comes only
after a man is old and grey and has already performed
his social labors. But the youth Gadadhar had many a
striking precedent in such saints as Gautama and Sankara.
Two years later a wealthy Bengali lady named Rani
Rasmani opened a palatial temple for the goddess Kali
on the Hugli River at Daksinesvara, four miles north of
Calcutta, and appointed Ram Kumar as chief priest. For
all her wealth, the Rani was only a Sudra, or member of
the lowest order of Hindu society, ancf so Gadadhar, like
the pious Brahman he was, protested against this service
of a low-caste woman. But he finally yielded to a decision
by lot. Even then he refused to eat within the temple
walls until his brother told him that no place on the banks
of the sacred Ganges could remain "unclean/*
A CHILD OF MOTHER KALI 47
Mathur Nath Biswas, the Rani's son-in-law and agent,
fascinated by the artistic
temper of Gadadhar, favored him
with the request to assist his brother in the temple service.
The youth consented only on condition that his nephew
Hriday (who was about his own age) assume the burden
of the work and responsibility. Gadadhar himself then
took charge of the dressing and decorating of the image
of Kali.
All through his life, Sri Ramakrishna showed an utter disgust
for service of any kind. Conquest of the cravings of flesh, and
renunciation of wealth were, in his opinion, the sine qua non
of divine realization. ... To engage one's mind to serve another
is to divert a part of one's attention from the contemplation of
God. . . .
Besides, Sri Ramakrishna would often say that to accept
service was to demean oneself. . . .
9
The pious boy now had free rein to indulge in devotion,
and he spent four precious years worshiping his mother
Kali. This goddess, it seems, was originally a blood-
thirsty female demon of an aboriginal tribe. But the
Brahmans took her into the Hindu pantheon by making
her the consort of Siva, who in his different aspects is the
great ascetic, the eternal creator, the patron of outlaws,
and the wild carouser. Kali is his sakti, or outpouring
energy; she it is that makes him "dance." She is the
mother of the universe, half humane, half terrible. Her
image stands in the Temple of Daksinesvara.
The Mother wears a gorgeous Benares cloth, and is decorated
with ornaments from head to foot. From Her neck hangs a gar-
land of skulls and round Her waist is a girdle of human arms
made of gold. In Her lower left arm She holds a decapitated
human head, also made of gold, and in the upper a sword. With
Her lower right arm She is
offering boons to Her devotees and
with the upper one She says, Fear not! The skulls and the sword
represent Her terrible side; and Her right arms offering boons
and fearlessness bring out Her benignant side. She is both
terrible and sweet just like Nature alternately destroying and
creating.
10
48 SAINT RAMAKRISHNA
This is the Mother with whom our hero would eat and
drink, talk and sing by the hour, till he became uncon-
scious of the world. In spite of Gadadhar's further ad-
ventures in religion, it seems that this goddess Kali re-
mained as the dominant influence in his life. At a later
time, his favorite disciple Vivekananda probably felt the
same loyalty. In times of crisis, both would turn to this
"Mother of the Universe* for comfort and guidance. And
in so far as both Hindu teachers were affected by the wor-
ship of this
principle, at once terrible and humane, they
would not be likely to spend much effort in making their
environment more humane and less terrible. In other
words, any moral effort would tend to be sporadic and
confused.
In the state of devoted ecstasy to Kali, the boy priest
would pass into that form of trance known as the classic
samadhi, or union with the divine, according to the yoga
practice based on Sankara's teaching. His body would
become rigid, his pulse and heart beat imperceptible.
Moreover, we are told that he had the power of inducing
such a state in another at any time by means of a single
touch. While uttering the various mantras, or sacred
chants, he could "see and feel" those things that most
priests can only "imagine/*
Thus while chanting the mystic syllable rang which directed
the priest to conceive a wall of fire around him, Sri Ramakrishna
really felt himself in the midst of a circle of fire guarding himself
and the place of worship from all evil influences. Again he could
actually feel the mystic power called Kundalini or the "coiled
up," rushing up from its
place of rest at the lower extremity of
the spinal column along the channel of Sushumna to what the
Yogis call Sahasrara, or the thousand petalled lotus in the brain.
He really visualized it
passing through the six centres of the body
in the spinal column. As it struck the "lotuses" of those centres,
the hanging buds were turned into erect, full blown flowers.11
A CHILD OF MOTHER KALI 49
This ceremony of the Kundalini is described in the Tan*
tras, or devotional manuals compiled from many sources
some time before Sankara, and used chiefly by the Sakta
cult of the Sivaite sect.
At the death of his elder brother the priest, the boy
went nearly mad with grief, and spent all his time praying
to get a vision of the Mother. If She is really my Mother,
he said to himself, She will come to me. But for a long
time She did not come. Just as he was about to kill him-
self with a ceremonial sword, the vision came: he plunged
into an ocean of otherworldly consciousness whose shining
billows kept rushing at him with a terrible noise, eager to
swallow him up. After this he gained repeated visions
both in trance and waking life. . . . He lost his individual
impulses, and felt himself completely at the mercy of an
outside impetuous force. Like other ecstatics who have
wished to shirk service, he felt absolutely unable to per-
form his sacred duties. Mathur Nath, acting for the temple
owner, allowed this strange worship to continue, while the
faithful Hriday took over all the work.
Now that the youthful visionary had seen Mother Kali
by following bhakti, or the path of loving-devotion, he
craved to follow the same path to get a vision of Rama,
the dutiful son and the hero-god of the great epic Rama-
yana. Caring nothing for the fact that Kali is
worshiped
by the Sivaites but Rama by the Visnuites, the boy applied
the same method to each the method of tears and tin*
earthly yearning. From among the five bhakti relations
between devotee and "Chosen Ideal," he now selected the
relation of servant to master, called dasya, or service, and
pictured himself as Hanuman, the monkey-god servant of
Rama.
By a constant meditation on the glorious character of Hanuman
[he recalls] I totally forgot my personal identity. My daily life
and style of food now strangely resembled those of Hanuman.
50 SAINT RAMAKRISHNA
I did not feign them, but they naturally came to me. I tied my
cloth round the waist, hanging a portion of it in the form of a
tail, and jumped from place to place instead of walking. I lived
on fruits and nuts only, and these too I
preferred to eat without
peeling the skin. I passed most of the time on trees, and in a
solemn voice used to call out, "Raghubir!" [a name for Rama].
My eyes too looked restless like those of a monkey, and what
was most wonderful, I had an enlargement of the Coccyx by
about an inch. It gradually resumed its former size after that
phase of the mind had passed away on the completion of the
course of discipline.
In short, everything about me was more
like that of a monkey than a human being.
12
During this period of sadhana, or "realization/' the
boy's health decayed. From time to time he suffered
severe burning sensations over his skin, for which he knew
no remedy. But one day a vision gave him relief from a
six months* siege.
A red-eyed black man, the "man of
sin," came out of his body, reeling as if dead drunk. Soon
after, there emerged a saintly ascetic of placid mien, wear-
ing the saffron robe, who killed the black man with his
trident. Alarmed at Gadahar's condition, his mother and
brothers now took him home, and tried to cure him of his
premature otherworldliness by marrying him off. The
eccentric youth yielded to the usual marriage ceremony,
but not to the usual marriage relation. His wife, who
happened to be a child of five,
13
returned to her father's
home, and never lived with her husband as a sex mate,
although she came to him later as a disciple and clmrig
to him loyally till the end. Since he would regard her
only as his mother, she came to be called the Holy Mother.
3. THE MAD SAINT
On his return to Daksinesvara, our hero was again
seized with devotional madness. By again neglecting his
duties he lost his position altogether, and betook himself
to a nearby wood. Twelve years he spent in tempestuous
meditation, and for the first six years, we are told, he got
A CHILD OF MOTHER KALI 51
no sleep. His one fixed idea was to get rid of lust and
wealth, so as to gain the power of beholding Mother Kali
at will. After many weary years, the first
person to under-
stand him was a Brahmani nun, or sannyasini, who came
and resided for some time in the temple. She had given
up home and name, and was known only as "Bhairavi
Brahmani,
5 *
that is, a Brahman woman who worships the
"Bhairavi," or "Fearful One/' who is Siva. Out of her
vast mental storehouse of sacred lore she drew a cure for
his madness. "The people are right/' she told him in
effect, "You are indeed mad. But mad after God. It
was the same with Chaitanya.
14
You are both incarna-
tions of God!"
She cured the burning of his skin with an application
of sandalwood paste. A mother-and-son worship soon
sprang up between them that relieved all his tension and
trouble. Then she instructed him in yoga, that discipline
of posture, breathing and attention aiming at "supercon-
scious" detachment from the world. She also put him
through the paces of the Tantras, those old manuals writ-
ten for the worship of Kali by the Saktist cult. The
main idea of this worship, we are told,
15
is to induce the
struggling soul to look on all
sense-objects as visible
representations of the Lord, so that the soul's undue at-
tachment to these things may be curbed. The common
practice was to indulge in wine and women with the ut-
most abandon. But the saintly Gadadhar, so his admirers
declare, introduced an element of purity all his own, and
passed through all tests unscathed. When he beheld a
woman of the streets, she would only remind him of the
"Divine Mother" in another form. Filthy words came to
him only as a group of separate letters, each a symbol erf
God. Besides, after inspecting the degraded practices
of the Vallabha cult of the Visnuite sea, our hero con-
cluded that a man may be engaged in some reprehensible
52 SAINT RAMAKRISHNA
form of sadhana or "realization," and yet progress spiritu-
ally and ultimately attain the goal if only he is sincere.
16
Thus, acording to this Hindu teacher, the only moral dis-
tinction in life is between sincerity and insincerity, be-
tween tears and no tears!
Such things he learned from his Brahmani. But her
greatest contribution to his cause was the open and valiant
proclamation that he was an avatara or incarnation of
God. This claim was later tested and verified by two
famous Hindu pandits who saw in his mind and body
the marks of divinity according to Hindu canons. From
henceforth he was no longer the mad Gadadhar, but the
incarnate Lord Visnu. And as such, his fame was spread
abroad by hosts of visiting mendicant monks and strolling
devotees. After the Bhairavi Brahmani helped her spiri-
tual son with all she knew, she departed from his sight
forever. But the son was still dissatisfied. He had
not sucked enough milk from her spiritual breasts. He
yearned for higher knowledge.
As if in response to his longing, the "naked one" wan-
dered in a tall, strong ascetic named Totapuri, who used
a sacred fire but no clothing. After forty years of forest
meditation, he had at last experienced God according to
the "non-dualistic" Vedanta ideal of Sankara.
Said Totapuri to the Lord Visnu incarnate, "You seem
to be an advanced seeker after truth. Would you like
to learn Vedanta?"
"I don't know," was the reply, "It all depends on my
Mother."
"All right," said the naked friar, "go and ask your
Mother."17
So the son went silently into the temple, and returned
with Mother Kali's permission! Then the sage told his
pupil that before commencing to learn Vedanta, he must
have an intense desire for renunciation, he must be ini-
A CHILD OF MOTHER KALI 53
dated into the sacred order of sannyasa.
18
This demand,
of course, was just grist for Gadadhar's mill. Already he
had renounced all but a loin-cloth, and he came out of
the initiation with a loin-cloth plus a saffron robe. More-
over, he got a new name Ramakrishna. Prostrating him-
self before his guru or sacred teacher, the novice sat down
to receive instructions.
"Brahman," began the master, "is the only Reality,
ever-pure, ever-illumined, ever-free, beyond the limits of
time, space, and causation. Though apparently divided by
names and forms through the inscrutable agency of Maya,
that enchantress which makes the impossible possible,
Brahman is really one and undivided. Because when a
seeker is merged in the beatitude of Samadhi, he does not
feel even a trace of time and space or name and form the
products of Maya. Whatever is within the domain of
Maya is unreal, leave it off. . . . Dive deep in the search
for Self and . .
you will realize your identity with
Brahman, the Existence -
Knowledge -
Bliss absolute/*19
Then he urged his pupil to taste this bliss for himself by
plunging into samadhi, or devoted trance. The pupil
tried once and failed. For "the familiar, radiant form
of the Divine Mother intervened/' Then he tried again
and succeeded. Three days and nights he sat motionless,
his body stiff, his face serene.
"Is it really true?" asked Totapuri in breathless wonder,
"Is it
possible this man has achieved in a single day what
took me forty strenuous years?"
20
He then aroused his precocious pupil by sounding a
holy mantra in his ear. Soon he departed from the temple,
for he had no more to teach. Indeed he himself received
instruction. Mother Kali, said Ramakrishna, is not an
illusion but real, the very sakti, or forth-going power of
Brahman.
When the Supreme Being is thought of as inactive creating,
sustaining or destroying I call Him Brahman or P&rusha, the
Impersonal God. When I think of Him as active -creating,
54 SAINT RAMAKRISHNA
caining and destroying I call Him Sbakti or Maya or Prakriti
or the Personal God. . . . The Impersonal and the Personal are
one. . . . You can't conceive a gem without its lustre. Such is
the relation between Brahman and the Divine Mother.21
When left alone, the new sannyast attempted his
new kind of trance. With what result? We are told
that for six months he remained practically dead to the
world, and came back to his senses only after a siege of
dysentery that lasted another six months.
4. THE CULT TASTER
Ramakrishna now felt peace of mind and breadth of
view. He had reached his God by many different paths:
by worshiping Kali of the Shivaites, Rama of the Vis-
nuites, and Brahman of the Vedantins; by practicing yoga,
bhakti and jnana, all by the way of trance. But here
came Govinda Rai, a Hindu convert of the Sufi, or ecstatic
sea of Islam, the religion of the Muslims, or Muhamma-
dans. "Is not Islam also a path to God?" asked the saint,
"Let me try it!" So he got initiated by Govinda, wore
Muslim clothing, and ate his food in Muslim style. The
cooking, however, was done by a Brahman. He was
willing to eat beef, the food no orthodox Hindu will taste,
but refrained at the earnest entreaty of Mathur "Babu,"
the owner of the temple, Says Ramakrishna:
I used to repeat the name of Allah, wear my cloth in the
fashion of the Muslims and recite the Namaz22
regularly. All
Hindu ideas being wholly banished from the mind, not only did
I not salute the Hindu gods, but I had no inclination even for
visiting them. After passing three days in that way, I realized
the goal of that form of devotion.23
The goal he "realized" was the trance state. First he
saw a radiant Person with a long beard and grave appear-
ance, presumably Muhammad, and then his mind, passing
through the realization of Brahman with attributes, was
finally absorbed in Brahman without attributes.
24
A CHILD OF MOTHER KALI 55
In like manner he tried
Christianity. He read the Bible
with his friend Sambhu Charan Mallik,
25
and loved to
look at the picture of the Madonna and Child in the home
of his friend Jadu Nath Mallik. The picture, we are told,
overwhelmed his Hindu ideas and evoked a deep love
for Christ. As in his trial of Islam, he fell into a trance
after three days, and saw a vision.
Beholding a divine-
looking man with beautiful large eyes, he said to himself,
This is the Christ who poured out his heart's blood for the
redemption of mankind and suffered a sea of agony for their
sake. It is none other than the Master-Yogin in eternal union
with Godhead Jesus, the embodiment of Love! 26
Then he felt Jesus enter his soul.
Plunging into a
trance, he realized his union with the Brahman with
attributes. Thus was he convinced that Jesus Christ was
an incarnation of the Lord.
He also sympathized with the ideals of the Buddhists,
Jains and Sikhs. On account of this wide range of spiritual
interest, and the speed with which he supposedly absorbed
the various ideals as they were presented to him, he came
to regard himself as a divine incarnation whose achieve-
ments were for the sake of others. His was the "Bodhi-
sattva" ideal without the usual service. Hence, while
he lived in union with God, and was free from all worldly
desire, he was not free from the world itself: he would
be born again and again to free others from the world
until all were free.
Since he had experienced ecstatic bliss by way of his
ideals of several religions or cults, he concluded all reli-
gions were true. Each system of doctrines, he believed,
was a different path to the same God. And the three
great systems of Hindu theology known as Madhava's
dualism (dvaita), Ramanuja's "modified non-dualism"
(visistad-vaita) and Sankara's "non-dualism" (advatia),
56 SAINT RAMAKRISHNA
are but three stages in man's progress towards the divine
goal. Dualism, he believed, with its matter, music and
idols, fits the ordinary man; "modified non-dualism," with
its systematic range of thought, is for the man of intellect;
but final "non-dualism," with its transcendence of all dis-
tinctions, is best for the saint.
The advatta is the last word about Realization. ... A man
who has got absolute purity of mind naturally goes beyond
action. He cannot work even if he tries to, or, the Lord does
not allow him to work.
5. THE PREACHER
In 1875 Ramakrishna met Keshab Chandra Sen, the
leader of the Brahma Samaj, that Hindu-Christian reform
society. The two men fell in love with each other. The
simple saint was so struck with the modern leader's
breadth and sincerity, that he told him he could enjoy
divine bliss in spite of his interest in the world. And for
all his modernism, Keshab's Hindu heart so glowed with
reverence for one who had fully realized the Hindu ideal,
that he followed him as his guru or sacred teacher. An act
of world-wide importance. Just as the Bhairavi Brahmani
introduced t>ur hero to Bengali Hindus, Keshab intro-
duced him to English-speaking people in general. He
welcomed him to the meetings of the Brahma Samaj, and
published his fame abroad by conversations, speeches and
writings.
Gripped by the saint's simple notion that all
religions
are equally true, Keshab announced himself as the divinely
appointed leader of the "New Dispensation" in which
all religions are one. But Keshad did not follow his gutu
completely. The tolerant Hindu allowed everyone to fol-
low his own religion without disturbing him in the least.
Keshab, on the other hand, true to his critical Western
training, set up one composite religion, apparently center-
A CHILD OF MOTHER KALI 57
ing in the supremacy of Christ as the God-man. Yet he
still clung to his master's Hindu view that religious ways
are indifferent. "Our position/* he says, "is not that truths
are to be found in all religions; but that all the established
religions of the world are true/'
27
While Ramakrishna thus modified the character of
Keshab's endeavor, Keshab in return directed the flow of
Ramakrishna's teaching into a new channel. Aroused
by the reformer's interest in the saint of Daksinesvara,
educated men from Calcutta began to go up the river to
see him. And it was mostly from this company that the
affectionate saint selected his little
group of disciples that
later preached his ideals to the world. For seven years,
until his death in 1886, the new world-teacher talked al-
most incessantly. All his life he wrote nothing, never
having learned, but his disciples took down his sayings
as they fell from his lips. Let us join the circle and hear
the words of the master.
Like unto a miser that longeth after gold, let thy heart pant
after Him.28
What is the strength of a devotee? He is a child of God, and
tears are his greatest strength.
Knowledge and Love of God are ultimately one and the same.
There is no difference between pure knowledge and pure love.
A true devotee who has drunk deep of the Divine Love is like
a veritable drunkard, and cannot always observe the rules of
propriety.
The soul enchained is, "man" (Jiva) and free from chains is
"God" (Shiva).
At one rime I am clothed, at another naked, so Brahman is
at one time with attributes, and at another time without.
Maya may be compared to a snake that is active and moving,
while Brahman is like the snake absolutely still. . . .
As one and the same material, water, is called differently by
different peoples ... so the one Sat-chk-ananda, the Everlasting-
Intelligent-Bliss, is invoked by some as God, by some as Allah,
by some as Jehovah, by some as Hari, and by others as Brahman.
Every man should follow his own religion. A Christian
58 SAINT RAMAKRISHNA
should follow Christianity, a Mahomedan should follow Maho-
medanism, and so on. For the Hindus, the ancient path, the
path of the Aryan Ejshis is the best.
A truly religious man should think that other religions also
are paths leading to truth. We should always maintain an atti-
tude of respect towards other religions.
The disciple should never criticize his Guru. He must im-
plicitly obey whatever the Guru says. ... In the words of a Ben-
gali couplet,
"Through my Guru may visit tavern and still,
My Guru is holy Rai Nityanand still."
And so he speaks on and on to the increasing crowds
of men and women that come to see him at the Temple
of Daksinesvara. As a result of this incessant labor, he
began to suffer from "clergyman's sore throat/* which
later developed into cancer. He was taken to Calcutta
by his loving disciples,
and attended by the best physi-
cians, who were men of Western training. They advised
him to keep the strictest silence. But his childish, affec-
tionate heart was wrung by the needs of his followers,
and so he spoke on and on. Even when his throat almost
dosed against liquid food, he continued his efforts with
dauntless cheer till he passed into his last long samadbi,
from which he never returned.
6. A LITTLE CHILD SHALL LEAD THEM
As we ponder this amazing man, we are at once struck
by his utter sincerity. To the best of his ability he prac-
ticed what he preached. Of course, he could not practice
renunciation completely. While he scorned the body and
its needs, he trusted himself to physicians, whose life work
is the body's care. While he worked up such a hatred
of money that he would convulse at the touch of a coin,
he was yet very pleased with the food and sweets his
disciples got for money and at his own request! While
A CHILD OF MOTHER KALI 59
he never grew tired of berating sex, his favorite religious
cry was, Mother! And while he was praised as master
of the art of attaining tranquillity, he would often worry
and fret like a child, and pester his friends without mercy.
Yet he acted in all faith and sincerity.
The fact is, he was not a man of intellect, but a man
of emotion. This is the key to his mesage. At the dawn
of his life, his fond parents allowed their winsome boy
to pursue Ms smiling, wayward course, undisciplined and
unchecked by the stern demands of the world. Thus he
grew up to be a kind of artist, but no kind of scientist. He
was an imitator, an impersonator, a man of penetrating
appreciation, a perfect instrument for any ideal or charac-
ter. With equal ease, he could play mother or child,
mistress or monkey. He would not strive to absorb the
ideal, but fall a victim to seizure or "possession/*
In temper or behavior he could be either male or female,
but he always remained a child. When he left his own
mother, he worshiped the Mother Kali. When she proved
too elusive to give him peace, he found relief in the lap
of the beautiful Brahmani, his adopted mother. After
her departure he took his own wife as his mother, and
prospered famously under her maternal care. He never
really grew up, but remained in a state of "mother-
fixation/*
Child that he was, he felt no sense of responsibility*
He shuddered at the prospect of managing an estate, and
even balked at his moderate priestly duties. He would
rather use a soiled coverlet on his bed than take the
trouble to get a clean one. He was unable to plan ahead,
and loathed manual service of any kind. He failed to
see any social problem. Passing a group of hungry vil-
lagers one day, he had his rich disciples feed them, and
then went his way serene and satisfied that all was well
with the world. In reply to the plea of a Brahma Samajist
60 SAINT RAMAKRISHNA
for the education and social liberation of women, out
pious friend exclaimed: "Go thou fool, go and perish in
the pit that your women will dig for you!"
29
He failed
also to make moral distinctions. He worshiped prosti-
tutes without teaching them, praised a degraded cult with-
out improving it, and used obscene language without any
shame. One day he alone ate all the lunch of a party
of four without any apology but the remark, "I'm satis-
fied!" Another day he happened upon a group of wine-
bibbers in a roadside tavern, and joyfully cheered them
with cries of "Bravo! Excellent!"
Such a responsive and childlike mind was eminently
fitted to absorb with simple piety every Hindu ideal that
came along. In this way our saint became in turn a
Sivaite, Visnuite and Advaitin, a follower of yoga, bhakti
and jnana, in short, an epitome of Hindu devotion. He
held all cults to be true, because each one seemed to lend
itself to his familiar trance, which as a typical Hindu he
regarded as the highest "realization" of God.
He could thus harmonize every Hindu cult with his
simple logic of emotion because they were already in
fundamental or structural accord. There is not an ortho-
dox Hindu cult that does not regard the world as the
result of an undesirable causal cycle, and reality as the
realm of painless bliss. The highest good, then, is ob-
viously some kind of escape from the world into bliss.
Since the advaita or acosmistic pantheism of Sankara gives
the simplest and most uncompromising presentation of
this ideal, our simple and uncompromising devotee natu-
rally gave this position first
place in his esteem, and in his
own unlettered way became a Vedantin.
Indeed, it is
impossible to harmonize advaita, or acos-
mism, with other Hindu positions without giving it first
place as the all-embracing whole of truth. For Sankara
can explain all the other positions as true according to
A CHILD OF MOTHER KALI 61
his "lower" knowledge of practical intellect, while his
advalta rises above them in the "higher" knowledge of
divine intuition. Thus in uniting Hindu positions, Rama-
krishna was compelled to give first
place to the teaching
of Sankara.
This teaching he regarded as "truth," and all other
Hindu and non-Hindu cults, including Islam and Chris-
tianity, as just "paths
1 '
to this truth. But this "truth" after
all is only a part of the Hindu Dharma in general. It is
the bliss of relief from the wheel of life, the freedom that
follows law, the final stage of Dharma, or universal duty.
Everyone has his cosmic caste, his position on the wheel
of life, his svadharma, or individual duty. His place in
society, determined by birth, is
just an instance here and
now of this $vadharma} and fixes the kind of cult he needs
to progress towards the "truth." Hence, every man
should follow the cult into which he is born. Otherwise,
he will sidestep his dharma and spoil his karma.
Now Dharma, according to the Hindu conception, is
the absolute religion which includes both karma, or action,
and "truth," or rest. In this one absolute religion there
are many relative religions which help us in our progress
towards the "truth." A relative religion may be called a
sampradaya** or cult, a combination of margaj or path,
with mata, or doctrine. When the Hindu saint says "every
man should follow his own religion," for all are "paths
leading to truth," he means by religion not Dharma of
course, but sampradaya. He thinks of Sivaisni and Vis-
nuism, Islam and Christianity as distinct
sampradayas; but
as for Dharma, that is
religion itself. Not for one moment
does our pious provincial think of this Dharma as just
Hinduism, one of the eleven living religions of the world,
noted for its
dogma of release from the wheel of life; to
him, this Dharma is cosmic fact. The law of gravitation
may be questioned, but not Dharma! To the pious Hindu,
62 SAINT RAMAKRISHNA
Dharma is not a theory, an explanation, an interpretation,
a dogma, a myth, a solution. It just is.
If Dharma is all in all, then Islam and Christianity are
of course only special paths of Hinduism in general, like
the various Hindu cults in particular. Hence it was quite
in keeping with our saint's own duty to try out his trance
on these other paths. He did so, and found that he could
get visions of the Prophet and Christ as well as of Kali
and Rama. Both Hindu and non-Hindu cults he harmon-
ized on the basis of Hindu Dharma. But in this way he
learned nothing radically new from Christianity and
Islam, and always remained within the pale of conserva-
tive Hinduism. He ate his food in Muslim style, to be
sure, but he employed a Brahman cook, and he never
ate beef. He adored the picture of Jesus, but all his life
he openly despised humble service.
As a matter of fact, the Hindu ecstatic never had the
opportunity of getting these two great world religions
at first hand. The man who "initiated" him into Islam
belonged to the Sufi cult which is Hindu-like in some of
its views, and besides, he was a convert from Hinduism.
His "Christian" tutors had love and respect for Jesus,
but were likewise Hindu at heart, and most probably
Hindu by community. The Muslim Sufi and Christian
mystic both treasure the visionary trance, but so does the
Hindu Bhakta. In sum, Ramakrishna experienced Islam
and Christianity only in so far as they coincided with con-
servative Hinduism.
Yet the Christian stress on love, service and sacrifice,
together with the Buddhist "Bodhisattva" ideal, must
have encouraged the simple, childlike affection that was
his by nature and nurture. And this human affection was
further developed by his friendship with Keshab Chandra
Sen, that Hindu lover of Jesus Christ. It was Keshab's
example that made him admit a man could know God
A CHILD OF MOTHER KALI 63
while still in the world a flat contradiction of Sankara,
who said that the same man could not be in God and the
world at the same time. And it was Keshab's enthusiasm
that made him a teacher. Not by his own Hindu-minded
investigation of Christianity, but by his contact with
Christian culture did Ramakrishna come to place a certain
Christian stress on Hinduism. Only when he began to
teach did he begin to serve, and he served in this new
way with utter self-sacrifice to the end. Only by his
anxious parental love for his youthful disciples did he
shake himself free from the Hindu notion that attachment
to the world is bad, and lay stress on the immanence of
God in man. It was this love that held those English-
educated students who later spread his fame abroad in
Western lands.
As a strict Hindu, Ramakrishna stands today as a pro-
test against modern education, material prosperity and
Western intolerance. But he is more than a stria Hindu.
He is a child. And of such is the Kingdom of Heaven.
Even the rigors of ancient Hindu practice could not de-
prive him of his simple, childlike love. This happy affec-
tion, so fresh in the morning of his life, so clouded over
at noon by ascetic practice, bloomed forth in his life's
evening glow with a fragrance his followers could never
forget. Ramakrishna is now the inspiration of a world-
wide cult that preaches love and service as well as renun-
ciation and meditation.
CHAPTER IV
VIVEKANANDA, A CHAMPION OF
MOTHER INDIA
1. THE AMBITIOUS YOUTH
Swami Vivekananda, who founded the Vedanta Society
in America in 1894, was the favorite and foremost dis-
ciple of Saint Ramakrishna. His original name was
Narendra Nath, meaning "Lord of Men/' and his family
the "lordly Dattas" from Simla, of the Kayastha caste,
possibly of the Ksatriya, or warrior, order. His grand-
father renounced the world soon after marriage. His one
child, Visva Nath, became Narendra Nath's father, a.
wealthy lawyer of the Calcutta High Court, who lived as
fitfully as the wind that blows. "He was always at odds
with life/' yet felt himself greater than the farce of it all.
He took pride in his family, made himself a kingly and
most surprising host, and lavished gifts on the poor. He
sometimes read the Christian Bible and the Muslim poet
Hafiz. His wife Bhuvanesvari was a queenly woman of
power and reserve, who knew by heart whole passages
from the old Hindu epics Ramayana and Mahabharata.
She had two daughters, but like every Hindu mother,
longed for a son!
Once for a whole day she meditated on the God Siva
in His character of "Lord of monks." His form is white
with ashes, His matted locks covered with the spread hood
of the cobra of wisdom. About His loins He wears a tiger
skin, while above His head shines effulgent the new cres-
cent moon. In Him the worlds move, yet, unconscious of
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 65
all, he meditates in silence sublime. But in the evening,
so the story runs, Siva slipped from His meditation, and
took form in the longing mother even as her own son.
Several months later, the boy was born in Calcutta on
January 12, 1863,
1
the day of the harvest festival of
"Mother Ganges" the sacred river. The child grew up
self-willed and turbulent. Often would he "tear the fam-
ily peace into shreds." He was a frightful tease, and made
the most horrible faces. His mother kept two nurses over
him constantly, but in spite of this (or because of it)
she
often had to duck his head under cold water to get him
back to normal. He conceived a special fondness for
sannyasis, or swamis, and would often embarrass his fam-
ily by giving the holy beggars whatever they wished. His
nights were strange indeed. He could never get to sleep
without first
merging in the big ball of light that rolled
towards him. He attended an old fashioned Indian
school, and there became a wild gang-leader. With his
astounding memory, he naturally imbibed an immense
amount of Hindu lore. In his high school, called the
Metropolitan Institution, he was always first in his class,
both in studies and pranks.
In the University of Calcutta he kept up this record.
At first he attended the Presidency College, the Govern-
ment institution, but soon joined the "General Assembly's
Institution," founded by the Scottish General Missionary
Board, and now known as the Scottish Church's College.
2
In his studies he showed a keen interest in philosophy and
mathematics. But he was also a voracious reader of all
kinds of current literature, a sweet singer of Bengali lyrics,
and a winner in the art of fencing with the lathi, or staff.
His friends remember him as imperious and self-conscious,
a lion among the students, and defiant in thought. He
was vehement, vigorous, untiring, and so we are told
always successful in argument and debate. His ambition
66 V1VBKANANDA
was to be a great orating lawyer, with power and wealth
and influence over men.
At that time, Keshab Chandra Sen, the Christ-loving
leader of the Brahma Samaj, was the idol of young Cal-
cutta. Under his spell Naren (short for Narendra Nath)
felt the burden of caste and the ignorance of Indian
women, and joined the progressive Samaj.
3
But he soon
came to believe in a more conservative kind of reform, a
gradual evolution by inner awakening. The idea of evo-
lution was no doubt augmented by the .works of Herbert
Spencer, who was then "all the rage." So he joined also
a movement of young Bengalis who desired the unity and
education of the great Indian masses, irrespective of caste,
race or creed.
One Sunday at a meeting of the Brahma Samaj, when
our young hero was singing in the choir, the congregation
was startled by the cry of "Naren!" and in the rear of the
hall saw a stranger with only a cloth around his loins,
and a pained expression on his face. Naren recognized
Sri Ramakrishna, and hastened to meet him.
"My boy! My boy!" exclaimed the saint, "Why have
you not come to see me? I have been waiting in
anguish. . . ."
4
As the two left the hall, the lad wondered why this
brain-sick old man had made such a fuss in meeting. He
had met him first when his uncle had taken him to Dak-
sinesvara, and had since humored the saint by calling on
him now and then, but scorned his advaita teaching as so
much atheism.
6
But one day came a miracle. As the mas-
ter was deep in a trance of love, his foot touched the boy,
and he too went off into ecstasy, seeing nothing but
"God." Even after he got home to Calcutta, he was un-
able to shake off his cofogtose state. The street cabs and
himself seemed all of one stuff, and he nearly went under
the horses' hoofs.
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 67
After the miracle, a catastrophe. He had just passed
his B. A. examination and entered law school, when he
was overwhelmed by the news of his father's death. As
with the young Gadadhar, this loss of a dear father made
life seem more illusory. Besides, Naren's father had left
his family very little
money. From lordly comfort, his
son was suddenly thrust into the direst poverty, and for
years faced shame and starvation. Family disputes arose.
While studying law, the would-be breadwinner went
about looking for work. Day after day he would trudge
over the hot streets with an empty stomach, but not even
a loophole showed itself to his penetrating and anxious
search. His heart sank. Bengal is fertile, but so are
Bengalis. The country is
overpopulated and many people
undernourished. There is also an oversupply of univer-
sity graduates. They have swarmed over India seeking
clerical and educational posts, and still swarm into under-
paid jobs in Calcutta. Naren was not the only "B. A."
unemployed.
When the clouds were darkest, he fled from it all.
Figuratively and liberally. He ran all the way to the
Garden of Daksinesvara, and reached the master with
torn garments, exhausted body and despairing mind.
Prostrating himself before his guru he cried, "What shall
I do? If you have power, then save me from this awful
fate!'
16
"Go, my boy," answered the saint, "Go to the temple
there and pray to Mother! She will grant you whatever
you ask!"
The boy obeyed. When he returned, his face was
transfigured. Henceforth he would be a swamil
2. THE YOUNG SWAMI
Once more the flight from the world! Once more the
conviction of "illusion" that has dogged Hindu thought
68 VIVEKANANDA
from the time of the Upanishads. A brilliant, ambitious
youth reduced to starvation by the blows of circumstance,
and then renunciation as the only alternative to crime or
death or undignified labor. Renunciation, because the
climate of India can support it. Renunciation, because of
its now hoary sanction.
No wonder this youth forever after called this world a
hell! He was not used to being crossed in purpose. Like
Gadadhar, his early home life had been one of playful
and innocent license. Like his father, he was proud and
fiery. And so he rebelled.
Before him were the examples of his grandfather's re-
nunciation, his father's scorn for the world, and the
swamu he used to admire in childhood. And so he fled
the world he could not conquer. Now at last he could
appreciate the message of the master. His forsaken fam-
ily? Oh, it
managed somehow.
Owing to his talent and mystic temper, the young
recluse soon became Ramakrishna's foremost pupil. And
when common devoted service to their master in his mor-
tal illness sealed the bonds of love among the disciples,
Narendra Nath became the leader of the little band.
While he surpassed his fellows in otherworldly emotion,
his reason kept them fairly sane. The master encouraged
all this. "Making Narendra Nath the fit instrument for
the propagation of his ideas, {he} entrusted to him the
charge of his flock."
7
An inner circle was formed consisting of those who
would renounce the world completely and live at the
country house at Baranagar practising devotion. In the
outer circle would work the supporting laymen, or "house-
holders." Then the master initiated the youths of the
inner circle as monks, and the foundation was laid for the
future Ramakrishna Mission in India, and the Vedanta
Society in America. The old saint then plunged into
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 69
samadhi and passed on from this life, his hair standing on
end, his gaze fixed on the tip of his nose.
Six of these sorrowing young swamis, weeping over the
body of their beloved master in 1886, will go to preach
to America: first Vivekananda (bliss of discrimination),
whose name, as we know, was Naren; then Saradananda
(bliss
of wisdom) ,
the former Sarat; Abhedananda (bliss
of unity) , the former Kali; Turiyananda (bliss of waking
sleep), the former Hari; Trigunatita (transcendence of
the three elements), the former Sarada; and Nirmala-
nanda (bliss of purity), whose name was Subodh. But
just now these boys are too bewildered to know what to
do. Ecstasy mingles with pain. What nights they spend!
Meditation, song, rapture and sorrow in turn fill their
hearts. Sri Ramakrishna they treat as if still in the
body.
One night Vivekananda and another swami, walking in
silent meditation in the garden, suddenly beheld a Shirk-
ing Figure before them. .-Was it the master? Both saw
it at once. Yes, it must be he. Before the others could
come at their call, the Figure had vanished! But in its
stead an inner Presence lingered, radiating power and
bliss. Verily the glorified Ramakrishna moved among
them!
As they beheld their risen master even like the disciples
of Jesus long ago, so also they had their Pentecost. In
the quiet little village of Antpur, whither they had jour-
neyed by bullock cart at the invitation of the mother of
one of the boys, they gathered together in the open one
starry evening before a raging big fire.
They felt of one
body, one mind and one soul, and all meditated on the
master.
After a while their leader filled the silence with the
story of the Lord Jesus he had heard in his college days.
The young monks lived with Jesus in imagination, and
70 VWEKANANDA
"adored Him even as they adored their own master,"
8
They saw His triumph and arrest, His sacrificial death
and glorious resurrection. "The Pentecostal fire of the
early Christians devoured their souls," and the names of
Christ and Ramakrishna resounded on the midnight air.
From this height of vision, Vivekananda charged his
brothers "to become themselves Christs, to aid in the re-
demption of the world/' And standing there in the light
of the flames they took the vows of eternal sannyasa before
God and one another. The Order was now definitely
formed, the matha, or monastic order, of gurubhais, or
teaching brothers. And they suddenly remembered it
was Christmas Eve!
Before retiring to the monastery at Baranagar, they all
went on a pilgrimage to the famous Temple of Tarakes-
vara Siva, where they worshiped the "Lord of monks/*
At Baranagar again, life was ecstasy over-reaching ecstasy.
Often a sankirtan, or chorus, would begin in the morning
and go on till evening, everyone forgetting all thought of
food and rest. "In their burning desire for God-vision,
some one or another would think, as did Narendra, of
giving up the body in prayopavesana, that is, starving
oneself to death without rising from the meditation seat
if the Goal was not reached." Yet they all did keep
body and soul together, and lived by chance begging.
What a strange mixture of Hindu asceticism and Chris-
tian service, each pulling against the other! At last some-
thing new under the sun? No, only primitive Buddhism
revived in India after a lapse of twenty-four hundred years.
Gautama, we recall,
10
preached both renunciation and
service, but never reconciled the two ideals, with the re-
sult that even today they divide the Buddhist world be*
tween them. And now we have to deal with another
compound or dual cult the Ramakrishna Order. Even
its members admit this dualism.
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 71
The Ramakrishna Order . . . fulfils the dual mission of <f
$>V<*
and Sevd
}
; or to put in another way, to the immemorial Hindu
ideas of the life of meditation and pure and retiring monastidsm,
it has added the ideals of service and works of mercy; it also
combines within it the dual ideal of personal freedom in the
monastic order for the individual monk . . . with the principle
of compact monastic brotherhood and organization as witnessed
in the Western world.11
From their past Hindu heritage and present hard times,
these Calcutta youths had welcomed the ideal of renun-
ciation. From Ramakrishna's contact with the Christian
Bible and Keshab Chandra Sen, from their own unusual
menial service to their master, and from Vivekananda's
career in a Christian college they imbibed the ideal of
service. But they did not reconcile the two ideals in their
thinking. They just added one to the other, and let them
lie there side by side unarticulated and unexplained.
While Swami Vivekananda was convinced that "in
India, the accumulated learning of the ages, divorced from
the concrete value of the racial experience of the masses
was meaninglessly abstract," he nevertheless held to this
learning in the main. And while he believed the Gospels
in so far as he understood them, he missed their main
message, and would "vanquish" Christian missionaries
"with a brilliance of logic all his own." He realized that
India needed Christ to quicken her civilization, but on ac-
count of his national pride, he refused to surrender to
Christ any fundamental Hindu doctrine. As might be sup-
posed, the favorite book of the order was the Bhagavad
Gita.
While some of the swamis remained socially at the
monastery like Buddhist and Christian monks, others, in
line with pure Hindu tradition, wandered nameless and
alone over the length and breadth of their country, some-
times on pilgrimages to sacred shrines, sometimes to soli-
72 VIVEKANANDA
tary retreats. Youth must be served: like most boys they
had the wanderlust, and like the German Wandervogel
of today, they enjoyed their freedom from the stuffy bour-
geois air of the modern city. After living with the group
for about four years, the leader himself broke from his
brothers in 1891, and wandered alone for two years, sight-
seeing and brooding.
3. THE SON OF MOTHER INDIA
Finally the swami wended his way towards Madras, a
center of orthodox learning and culture. On the way he
met a high government official who invited him to his
home in the city.
The news spread abroad: "An English-
speaking Sannyasin has come!" Such was our hero ex-
actly. The English in him preached mass education, social
equality and national reconstruction to his bigoted broth-
ers, but as a sannyasi, he clung to the main message of
old Mother India. He had heard vaguely of a World's
Parliament of Religions to be held in Chicago, America,
some time in the year 1893, and longed to preach to the
West. By a counter-offensive he would defend his native
land from ruthless foreign invasion. To his friends in
Madras he exclaimed:
The rime has come for the Hinduism of the Rishis to become
dynamic Shall we stand by whilst alien hands attempt to destroy
the fortress of the Ancient Faith? . . . Shall we remain passive,
or shall we become aggressive, as in the days of old, preaching
unto the nations the glory of the Dharma? ... In order to rise
again, India must be strong and united, and must focus all its
living forces. To bring this about is the meaning of my sannyasa!^
And his friends saw with him the imperative need of
preaching the Dharma .... Said they, "It must be done,
Swamiji, and you are the man to do it. You will work
wonders." Thereupon they went forth to raise subscrip-
tions for the cause. Soon they collected in rupees the
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 73
value of about a hundred and fifty dollars. But the swami
grew fearful, and gave the money away to the poor till
he could learn the will of Mother Kali. He waited for
'Illumination/'
In the meantime, friends of his Madras friends begged
him to come to the city of Hyderabad, the capital of
Hyderabad, the largest native state in India, and one ruled
by a Muslim. A message was sent ahead, and when he
arrived, he was surprised to find five hundred admirers at
the station. In a similar way, the Vedanta Society was
later propagated in America. To vast assemblies and to
individuals of rank and wealth including the Nizam or
Muslim prince himself, the son of Mother Kali spoke of
his mission to the West. The money was raised from the
upper and middle classes, and in a dream the Mother gave
her consent through the master.
The Swami saw the figure of the Master walking from the
seashore into the waters of the ocean, and beckoning him to follow
Mm! He awoke. A great peace and joy filled Ms whole being;
and Ms mind seemed to have been impressed with the authoritative
word, "Go!*' . . . All Ms doubts . . . were cleared away . , . All
Ms nervousness left Mm.13
On the last day of May, in 1893, with Mother Kali
above him and Mother India behind him, Vivekananda
sailed from Bombay for the Pacific Ocean and America.
He sailed by the fastest line, in the first-class cabin,
equipped with plenty of money and costly silk robes and
turbans of various colors. For he was no longer a hum-
ble, otherworldly ascetic, but the guru of a prince, and
the spokesman of a nation.
In July this son of India arrived in Chicago just in time
to enjoy the World's Columbian Exposition with its mas-
terful monuments of Western science and industry, and by
the end of twelve days he had spent most of his money.
Ramakrishna the master would not touch money; Viveka-
74 VIVEKANANDA
nanda the disciple could not keep it. He was robbed and
cheated at every step. His hotel was one of the best.
Moreover, he discovered to his dismay that the World's
Parliament of Religions would not open until September.
To cap the climax, he learned that he was not registered
as a delegate, and that the time for registration was past!
He wondered why he had been foolish enough to listen
to those sentimental schoolboys of Madras who fondly
imagined that their swami had only to appear in America
to be given his chance. So in despair, he turned to Bos-
ton, a less expensive place, to Boston the Athens of
America.
On the train he met a delightful lady who welcomed
him to her home in Boston. In this city of tolerance and
culture he was befriended by J.
H. Wright, Professor of
Greek in Harvard University, who sent him back to Chi-
cago with money and influence. To his friend the, chair-
man of the delegate committee he wrote, "Here is a man
who is more learned than all of our learned professors
put together/'
14
Alas, our learned world teacher had
little business about him! He lost his instructions, and
had to spend his night of arrival in a big box in the rail-
road yard. But luck was with him, for at daybreak he
began to beg along
tt
millionaire*s row** on Lake Shore
Drive. Again he met a delightful lady, and all was well.
American ladies and American reporters, each in their
own way, made the handsome oriental famous.
4. THE ORIENTAL ORATOR
And now the great Parliament of Religions is
holding
its first meeting. A new era has dawned. For the first
time in the history of the world, the various faiths meet
on a public platform on equal footing and in a friendly
atmosphere to discuss what service each can render, what
contribution each can make. Our hero is seated on the
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 75
platform (at last!) with learned celebrities from far and
near. The chairman, Rev. John Henry Barrows, D.D.,
the organizer of the congress, asks him to speak.
"No, no, not now!" whispers the young man, abashed,
"Let some one else speak." He has no notes or prepared
address, and his Mother has given him no command. So
the son sits dumb. Again and again he puts off his time
to speak until at last, at five o'clock in the afternoon, the
chairman rises and openly names Vivekananda as the next
speaker. Mother or no Mother, he must speak now! In
the magnificent hall he faces a yawning audience, worn
out by masses of manuscripts. Confused hesitation. Then
a beginning: "Sisters and Brothers of America. . . ."
At once the house shakes with deafening applause as in
a political convention. The splendid oriental has spoken
in such sweet friendship! Encouraged, the son of India
goes on: "It fills
my heart with joy unspeakable to rise
in response to the warm and cordial welcome which you
have given us. I thank you in the name of the most
ancient order of monks in the world. I thank you in the
name of the mother of religions, and I thank you in the
name of the millions and millions of Hindu people of all
classes and sects."
15
In this first address, our speaker pleads for a tolerance
that will accept all religions as true. "I belong to a re-
ligion," he cries, "into whose sacred language, the San-
skrit, the word exclusion is untranslatable. I am proud to
belong to a nation which has sheltered the persecuted and
the refugees of all religions and all nations of the earth/'
At a later meeting, in violation of the rules of the congress
that no speaker should in any way reflect on others, he
sneered at Christian missionaries for wanting to help
Hindus by spiritual teaching. "If they want to help our
people," he shouted, "why don't they send them some-
thing to save their starving bodies?"
16
Like his master,
76 VIVEKANANDA
Vivekananda was not a man of science, but a man of
emotion.17
5. THE SOCIAL LION
Immense crowds flocked to hear the son of India, and
the chairman wisely put him last on the program to hold
the audience through the weary round of manuscript read-
ing. Said an American newspaper, "This man, with his
handsome face, magnificent personality and wonderful
oratory, is the most prominent figure in the Parliament/'
18
Everytime he was to speak, 'ladies, ladies everywhere
filled the great auditorium."
19
Before and after his ap-
pearance on the platform he was beset by hundreds of
these charming persons who almost fought with each other
as at a bargain counter, to get a chance to be near him
and shake his hand.
Now why was he so popular, especially with the ladies?
First, because of his superb bearing and attire. The
princely raiment his rich friends lavished on him in India
did not fail in its mission. We read in a newspaper of
that time, "His finely poised head is crowned with either
a lemon-colored or a red turban, and his cassock . . . belted
in at the waist, and falling below the knees, alternates
in a bright orange and rich crimson."
20
The social lion
judiciously varied his costume. At another date, "he was
attired in Oriental garb, consisting of a scarlet robe of
soft cloth, which reached below the knees, bound round
the waist with a crimson girdle. On his head was a tur-
ban of white silk which set off to advantage the swarthy
complexion of his cleanly shaven face."
21
Besides his dress, several causes contributed to our
hero's popularity in America: his winsome personality,
his Bengali fluency as a speaker, his command of English,
his wise silence on some points, and his sincere reverence
for Christ. Moreover, as a striking oriental, he excited
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 77
curiosity, of which Americans have such an abundant
supply. Any great novelty attracts attention. Crowds
would flock to see a tatooed savage, stone hatchet in hand,
going through a war dance. The princely swami if we
can still call him a swami was the first real Hindu many
Americans had seen, and the first
missionary from the
East to the West. About him spread the fascinating
aroma of oriental mystery. He appealed also to cranks
and charlatans who supposed they had found in him a
proper tool to forward their interests.
22
Yet the basis of his popularity was deeper than all this.
Here was a man with a great heart who opened up new
vistas of expanding life and religion to thousands. In
him they saw a symbol of international fellowship, espe-
cially with the lovely and loving land of India, and felt a
release from the stuffy chambers of familiar dogma. They
thrilled to discover a new and exhaustless spiritual treas-
ure which would ennoble their own religious life. Here
was something savoring of ancient oriental wisdom, yet
refreshingly new!
So doors swung wide open to him wherever he chose to
go. Finally, in response to an insistent demand for his
message, he went on a special tour from coast to coast,
lecturing and teaching, a strenuous work that lasted two
years after the close of the parliament. He met with
friendliness everywhere he appeared even among the
orthodox clergy. His musical voice, boyish frankness, sur-
prising generosity and simple genius made him at home
with all. Like his master, he could mingle with women
as one of them, for he was himself too feminine to regard
them otherwise than as sisters and mothers.
23
And his
rapturous addresses held ever a charm for the ladies.
Wherever he went, he went as a guest. In Detroit for
about four weeks he was the guest of Mrs. John J. Bagley,
the cultured widow of the ex-Governor of Michigan. Then
78 VIVEKANANDA
he spent two weeks as the guest of the Hon. Thomas W.
Palmer, president of the World's Fair Commission, for-
merly a senator, and also minister to Spain. When not
traveling in answer to invitations from far and near, he
was often in the home of Mr. George W. Hale of Chicago.
After giving a series of lectures in the Unitarian Church
at Detroit in February, 1894, he visited Chicago, New
York and Boston.
During the midsummer months he spoke at the
'
'Green-
acre Conferences." Sarah J. Farmer, a New England spin-
ster, spent a fortune organizing an institution at Green-
acre Inn, Eliot, Maine, that would continue the study of
faiths inaugurated by the great Parliament of Religions.
There the swami expended Vedanta philosophy to a grow
of earnest students sitting on the ground in oriental fasn-
ion under a venerable tree known as "The Swamfs Pine."
Miss Farmer's conferences became famous through the
School of Comparative Religions conducted there by the
late Dr. Lewis G. Janes, who was long the gifted and
liberal president of the Brooklyn Ethical Society.
24
6. THE CULT FOUNDER
After lecturing in Brooklyn at the Ethical Society, the
swami established himself in New York in rooms of his
own, and started his regular work. Thus was the Vedanta
Society in America "founded in 1894." He announced
classes and lectures free of charge, supporting himself and
his work by the money he had gained in lecturing. Miss
S. E. Waldo of Brooklyn, who was later initiated into the
order as Sister Haridasi, describes his first classes as
follows:
It was just an ordinary room on the second floor of a lodging
house. The classes grew with astonishing rapidity and as the little
room filled to overflowing it became very picturesque. The Swami
himself sat on the floor and most of his audience likewise. The
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 79
marble-topped dresser, the arms of the sofa and even the corner
washstand helped to furnish seats for the constantly increasing
numbers. The door was left
open and the overflow filled the
hall and sat on the stairs. And those first classes! How intensely
interesting they were!25
And what did the swami teach? Just the old fashioned
"knowledge" and "meditation" of India, the jnana-yoga
and the raja-yoga, aiming at the suppression of the body
and the exaltation of the "spirit."
26
By June 1895 the swami had placed his work on a solid
foundation. He had constant support from wealthy and
influential followers, whose gifts went into the work.
Thus encouraged, our preacher dreamed of further con-
quest, and "decided that the whole Western world should
hear the Light of Asia and the glory of the Indian
Dharma" 27
So he pondered a trip to England. Said he,
"Organization has its faults, no doubt, but without that
nothing can be done/'28
Yet he often felt worried and
exhausted. "I long, oh I
long for my rags, my shaven
head, my sleep under the trees, and my food from beg-
ging/*
29
It is hard to be a genuine swami in America!
To get some help and relief, our novice at toil
planned
to initiate some of his followers into
ff
sannyasa" and let
them carry on the work. He already had good material in
Madame Marie Louise and Herr Leon Landsberg, and
soon they became renouncers of the world. Said the New
York Herald:
The Swami Abhayananda is a Frenchwoman, but naturalised
and twenty-five years a resident of New York. She has a curious
history. For a quarter of a century she has been known to
liberal circles as a materialist, socialist. . . . Twelve months ago
she was a prominent member of the Manhattan Liberal Club.
Then she was known in the press and on the platform as Mme.
Marie Louise, a fearless, progressive, advanced woman, whose
boast it was that she was always in the forefront of the battle and
ahead of her rimes. The second disciple is also an enthusiast
With that skill which Vivekananda shows in all his dealings
80 VIVEKANANDA
with men, the Hindu has chosen his first disciples welL The
Swami Kripananda, before he was taken into the circle, and
took the vows of poverty and chastity, was a newspaper man,
employed on the staff of one of the most prominent New York
papers. By birth he is a Russian Jew, named Leon Landsberg,
and, if it were known, his life history is probably as interesting
as diat of Swami Abhayananda.
30
From what I have discovered of the Vedanta Society
today, I conclude that it still deals in "interesting" per-
sonalities, mostly of foreign extraction, men and women
mostly women that have done rebellious thinking in
youth. Among others devoted to the oriental teachings
were Mrs. Ole Bull
81
(wife of the celebrated violinist and
Norwegian nationalist),
Dr. Allan Day, Professors Wy-
man and Wright, Dr. Street, and many clergymen and
laymen of note. Sarah Bernhardt, the famous French
actress, and Madame Calve, the celebrated singer, became
the swami's ardent admirers. Mr. and Mrs. Francis Leg-
gett and Miss J. MacLeod, New York society leaders, be-
came his most intimate friends and helped him in many
ways. Members of the Dixon Society became his cham-
pions, and Nicolas Tesla declared the Sankhya cosmogony
had something to offer modern science. Dr. Paul Carus
had been the swami's companion in lectures for the Par-
liament of Religion's Extension.
Almost exhausted on account of his work of organiza-
tion, our hero accepted a friendly invitation, and went to
Percy, New Hampshire, for a period of rest in the silence
of the pine woods. But his eager disciples prevailed on
him to teach them at Thousand Lake Park, on the largest
island in the St. Lawrence River. There the swami with
his inspired talks fulfilled and surpassed the hopes of his
rapturous feminine devotees. But this sort of thing was
not restful enough, so he took to the ocean, sailing for
Europe in the middle of August, 1895. He travelled on
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 81
the Continent, and in England was the guest of Miss Hen-
rietta Muller and of Mr. E. T. Sturdy, both lovers of
Hindu lore. There he met an Englishwoman by the name
of Miss Margaret Noble, who later became the famous
Sister Nivedita. While he was doing popular speaking
in London, a cry for help came from his American
disciples, and he returned.
After three months' absence, Vivekananda arrived 10
New York in December, 1895, in excellent spirits.
With
Swami Kripananda, the former Mr. Landsberg, he now
opened a center in Thirty-ninth Street. They occupied
two spacious rooms which could accommodate as many as
one hundred and fifty persons. The lady who had prom-
ised him help was hindered in giving it, but the Hindu
leader was not discouraged. He now began to preach
work and devotion, the karma-yoga and bhakti-yoga.
When he first came to America as a raw ascetic, he
preached intuition and meditation, the jnana and raja
yogas. Now that he had gained some experience as a
Western minister, he exalted the notion of work. In
New York he lectured in Hardeman Hall, Madison
Square Garden, and the auditorium of the People's
Church. The Metaphysical Society in Brooklyn and in
Hartford, Connecticut, gave him an eager hearing, while
Ella Wheeler Wilcox kept sweet during bank failures by
gazing on the Hindu "jewels of truth." Dr. Street be-
came Swami Yogananda.
32
In Detroit our hero started a successful class which
he turned over to Swami Kripananda while he went and
harangued the Harvard Athenians on the Unknown God.
The professors liked his stress on unity, but thought he
served them more emotion than intellect. We are told he
rejected a chair of Eastern philosophy at that celebrated
university because he was a sannyasi. Perhaps there were
other reasons. He consolidated his work and prepared
82 VIVEKANANDA
to return home to India. First he issued his teachings
in book form. Then he named his original class, The
Vedanta Society of New York. And finally he decided
to bring Swami Saradananda from India to America, writ-
ing him to come to London at once as the guest of Mr.
E. T. Sturdy.
Exhausted once more, partly by hard and unusual work
and partly by the fair and unfair criticism of Christian
missionaries and ministers, the son of India set off for his
motherland, on April 15, 1896. He stopped in England
to strengthen the work, and remained till the end of the
year. He was overjoyed to find there his gurubhai, or
brother monk, Saradananda, and sent him to New York
in June. While in Europe, Vivekananda had a "beautiful
time" hobnobbing with Paul Deussen and Max Miiller.
He sent to India for Swami Abhedananda, who came and
took charge of the London center. Then bidding his
friends a fond farewell, he steamed away, and arrived at
Ceylon January 15, 1897.
7. THE CONQUERING HERO
The swami had felt "the overwhelming difficulties he
had met with in presenting Hinduism to an aggressively
self-conscious Christian public/*
33
but he consoled himself
by crying aloud, India will hear me! What are the West-
ern nations! My own India will receive me in triumph!
So he was quite ready for the exuberant celebration that
actually occurred on his arrival, but he may have been a
bit surprised to learn from the chairman of the reception
committee that his three years' work had laid all humanity
under obligation to India. This was only the beginning.
The ovations accorded him along his triumphal march
from Ceylon's palms to Himalaya's pines were tremendous.
Bands, flowers, garlands, arches, flags, cheers, processions
and receptions sang his praise. At a Columbo temple,
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA S3
the returning conqueror was received with shouts of "Jai,
Maha Devi" or "Victory, great god!" The notion was
abroad among the people that their spokesman had dem-
onstrated to the West the superiority of Hinduism over
Christianity.
Soon the swami came to believe it himself, as far as we
can judge from his speeches. With all its boasted civiliza-
tion, he declared, Christianity is only a collection of scraps
from the Indian mind a very patchy imitation.
Today, when religion in the West is only in the hands of
the ignorant, and the knowing ones look down with scorn upon
anything belonging to religion, here comes the philosophy of
India . , . where the grandest philosophical facts have been the
practical spirituality of the people.
The eyes of the whole world are now turned towards this land
of India for spiritual food, and India has to work for all the
races. Here alone is the best ideal for mankind, and western
scholars are now struggling to understand this ideal. . , .
This is the land from whence, like tidal waves, spirituality
and philosophy have again and again marched out and deluged
the world, and this is the land from whence once more such
tides must proceed in order to bring life and vigor into the
decaying races of mankind.
Before ten years elapse a vast majority of the English people
will be Vedantic
I helped on the tide of Vedanta which is flooding the world.84
Truth is stranger than fiction, and if the truth must be
told, our hero's work in India produced far greater re-
sults than his work in America, for in 1897 he established
in India that splendid and far-reaching institution of serv-
ice known as the Ramakrishna Mission. Like a Buddhist
that believes in both renunciation and service, he com-
bined otherworldliness and constructive power; and if he
was a Hindu to America, he was a Christian to India.
Coming back to his own people as a veteran Westerner,
he at once set about organizing regular work. The orig-
inal monastery was moved to Alambazar, and Swami
84 VIVEKANANDA
Brahmananda was appointed president of the order. Then
the monastery was moved again in 1899 and permanently
located near Calcutta at Belur,
35
on the right bank of
Mother Ganges the river so sacred to the heart of Sri
Ramakrishna in the beautiful and spacious premises that
Swami Vivekananda secured for his fellow monks as thek
own abode and the final resting place of the master's
relics.
Another monastery was opened at Mayavati oa the
Himalayas, near Almora. Others came later, but the one
at Belur remained the center of all the work. In these
abodes the young students, or brahmacaris, and the older
monks, or sannyasis, are trained in renunciation and serv-
ice. The very year Vivekananda arrived home, there was
widespread famine in India. With courage and resolu-
tion, he managed to collect funds for relief, and organize
a number of enthusiastic followers at several centers to
save the famine-stricken people from an untimely death.
Mass education, especially the novel education of girls
and women, was also dear to his heart, and he made great
strides in this line.
36
When he had left England for India, there was an un-
derstanding between Sister Nivedita and Miss Henrietta
Miiller her friend, that they would soon help the swami in
educational work for India's women. A year later, the
sister followed him to India as Miss Miiller's guest, and
having made a tour with Vivekananda and some of his
brother monks, she settled in Calcutta and began her work,
adopting the customs of the most rigid Hindu life. She
soon found a place in the public thought of her adopted
land, and made a name for herself in the world at large
both as an author and as a public-spirited Indian. She
is immortalized by her picturesque books, The Web of
Indian Life, The Master as 1 Saw Him, Cradle Tales of
Hinduism, and Kali the Mother.
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 85
In less than two years Vivekananda's health again gave
way. In July, 1898, he wrote from Almora, "The way Is
long, the time is short, evening is approaching. I have
to go home soon. ... I feel my task is done."87
He was
advised to go to Britain and America for a change. He
went, and the faithful Sister Nivedita went with him. He
took along, also, Swanii Turiyananda to assist him in the
work. In England he stopped only a fortnight, and
pushed on to America, reaching New York on August
26, 1899- On that very afternoon, the two swamis went
to stay with Mr. and Mrs. Leggett in their beautiful coun-
try home in the Catskill Mountains. The sister joined
them later.
While Vivekananda was in India, Saradananda had
been working in America, making his chief center New
York, but lecturing also in Montclair, Boston, Cambridge,
Memphis and other cities. In 1897 Swami Abhedananda
had come from England to help him, finding the new
world richer soil for the Hindu seed, and together they
incorporated the Vedanta Society at New York in 1898.
88
But Saradananda returned to India when Vivekananda
came over to America this second time. After a fort-
night's stay in New York and its environs, the leader, leav-
ing Turiyananda to hold the fort, set out for Southern
California, that Mecca of strange cults, and remained there
for over six months. In Los Angeles he was soon pressed
into work, and delivered a series of lectures in Blanchard
Hall, at the Amity Church, and in ordinary public halls.
He also went into Pasadena as the guest of the Universal-
ist Church and the Shakespeare Club, lecturing on "Christ,
The Messenger," and "The Way to the Realization of a
Universal Religion." In Los Angeles he spent nearly a
month at the chief center of the "Home of Truth." He
discovered that, of all Americans, Californians are spe-
cially fit to understand the faja-yoga of intuitive medita-
S6 VIVEKANANDA
tion, which he labelled "Applied Psychology." In the
north, several Vedanta centers were formed in San Fran-
cisco, Oakland and Alameda, with Mr. C F. Patterson as
president.
Since the work was prospering so rapidly, the leader
wrote for Turiyananda to come out to California after
Abhedananda had returned from his own preaching tour
to relieve Turiyananda at New York. Before he left
California, Vivekananda received through the generosity
of Miss Minnie C Boock the munificent gift of a large
tract of land, 160 acres in extent, as a place of retreat for
Vedanta students. It was a charming place, surrounded
by forests and hills, and only twelve miles from the fa-
mous Lick Observatory. To this Santi Asrama, or "Peace
Retreat," came Swami Turiyananda with twelve students,
whom he trained in meditation and the austere monastic
life of India. After sweet communion with his California
disciples, and a stay in Detroit at the home of Mrs. Green-
stidel, whose daughter, as Sister Christine, later helped
Sister Nivedita in India, the tired leader returned to New
York, and departed from America forever on July 20,
1900.
After passing through Paris, he returned to his beloved
India almost used up. Like his master, he had little sense
of limitation; he could not say "No" to an appeal. So he
kept on working. A third monastery was founded, in
Madras, and service centers were formed in Madras,
Benares and the Murshidabad district of Bengal. He was
deeply impressed with the need for work and self-sacrifice.
He would not lecture, but did all he could to set men to
the labor of love. Yet in the midst of it all, the swami
would seek his times of quiet freedom. At such a time, in
the Belur M.atha, or Monastery, he entertained his friend
Jules-Bois, a young French poet. Says the poet:
From a small skiff on the Ganges, Calcutta receded into the
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 87
distance, and finally the Math [or Madia] came Into sight, all
white in the midst of a grove of palm trees, the trident of its
pagoda rising high above the pleasant terraces.
Vivekananda stood on the threshold. His first words were:
"I am free, my friend, free again. I have given away everything.
In the poorest country of the world, I am the poorest man. But
the house of Ramakrishna is rebuilt, and his spiritual family
there finds shelter." 41
The poet looked about him and saw the beauty of India,
with its fresh green fields under a burning sun, ponds like
mirrors which a goddess might have dropped in her flight,
and the arms of the Ganges embracing the earth. He
went inside and saw the hermit's simple cell, and was sur-
prised to find that the poorest man on earth yet retained
some American furniture including rocking chairs, and
a library in which Herbert Spencer and Ralph Waldo
Emerson were prominent. Said the swami unasked:
What you others call a dream is for us the only reality. Cities,
luxuries, the marvels of material science, we have awakened
from that brutal dream by which you are still enthralled. We
close our eyes, we hold our breath, we sit under the kindly shade
of a tree before the primitive fire, and the Infinite opens its doors
to us and we enter into the inner world which is the real one.ss
A bell sounded, and they leaned out of the cell window.
Under a big tree the monks sat in a circle round their fire
and the trident of Siva decked with garlands, and swung
their bodies in monotonous rhythm while one of their
number pierced the silence with a strident, quavering song
that soared like a joyful lamentation. Behind, in the
sacred stables, the cows lifted their venerable heads.
In 1902, on the Fourth of July, the missionary to Amer-
ica breathed his last, and his weary body was consumed
in the sacred fire.
8. THE WORLD TEACHER
What we want is action, not speech, said Vivekananda,
88 VIVEKANANDA
and spoke seven volumes full. "What is their gist? Our
Hindu's first conviction is that all religions are true.
Be brave and sincere, then follow any path with devotion, and
you must reach the Whole,40
Each religion is a narrow path leading to the open mead-
ow of the undifferentiated Absolute. So it is futile to
force a fellow-man into your particular path. Reduced to
clear outline, the argument runs as follows. God is the
only reality. The world is
quite separate from God*
Hence the world is unreal. Now the function of religion
is to give men true happiness. But if the world is unreal,
true happiness can only mean escape from the world into
God. Hence every religion must somehow provide a path
from the world to God. Hence any religion is ultimately
as true as any other religion.
Such is the old Hindu dogma which is
being preached
with increasing conviction as Hinduism seeks to defend
itself against the doctrines of Muslim or Christian suprem-
acy. If all religions are equally true, then all the evan-
gelical preaching of dogmatic Christian missionaries is
both futile and false, and Hinduism, which proclaims the
equality of all religions, is on that very account, the only
true religion! So says the Vedantist in America. But as
a chain is no stronger than its weakest link, this argument
is no stronger than the premise that God is
quite separate
from the world. This premise, it seems, is a dogma aris-
ing from certain circumstances in Indian life and civiliza-
tion that made the world appear burdensome, undesirable
and futile. If we glory in the world as a field for creative
endeavor, we shall not be likely to accept the dogma that
the world is futile and hence quite separate from God.
But if not separate, then just how is the world related to
God?
Taking Sankara's monism rather than his dualism, we
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 89
may call God the substance whose modes comprise the
world. Here we find no separation between God and the
world, but a practical unity. On this basis, the relation of
one religion to another would appear quite different. God
is the only reality. The world is a system of practical
distinctions in God. Hence the world is real. Now the
function of religion is to give men true happiness. And
if the world is real, true happiness can only mean a cer-
tain control of practical distinction. Hence the truth of
any religion is measured by the extent to which it enables
its followers to enjoy true happiness in the control of the
world. Accordingly, while all religions may spring from
God, and thus have a common foundation or fundamental
unity, they are not therefore equally true, for they obvi-
ously differ in the measure of control they afford.
Our Hindu's next conviction is the divinity of man.
Know you are the Infinite, then fear must die. Say ever "I and
the Father are one."41
This identity of man with God can be interpreted in two
different ways according to the relation conceived between
God and the world. If the world is conceived monistically
as a system of practical distinctions in God, then man is
already one with God even while living in the world of
practical distinctions, in the world of good and evil, of
righteousness and sin. When he hears religion telling
him he is one with God, he will then regard sin not from
the point of view of the finite brute, as an unexplainable
state of misery, but from the point of view of the infinite
God, as God's judgment on certain kinds of acts for the
sake of improving action in general. Thus sin, like eml,
is a valuable and universal tool of criticism, an instrumen-
tal concept that distinguishes between good and better in
conduct, and bids us choose the better. Clearly, the proper
use of the concept of sin is necessary for human progress
or creative achievement.
9 VIVEKANANDA
But if the world be conceived dualistically as a system
of practical distinctions that are unreal, or irrelevant to
God, then, as Sankara says, man is one with God only
when he somehow rids himself of all practical distinctions,
such as good and evil, righteousness and sin. As a child
of both West and East, Vivekananda seems to waver some-
where between these two views. In monistic mood he
exclaims:
Ye are the Children of God, the sharers of immortal bliss,
holy and perfect beings. Ye divinities on earth, sinners? It
is a sin to call man so; it is a standing libel on human nature.42
Here the swami administers a just rebuke to those who
claim to be children of God and yet sinners. If man is
essentially a child of God, that is, of the nature of God,
he cannot be essentially a sinner. He must be "made in
the image of God." Some of his acts may be reckoned
sinful, but these are opposed to acts that are righteous.
Man himself, then, is neither a saint nor a sinner, but a
"child of God" doing both good and evil according to
the accepted standard of judgment.
43
The swami's domi-
nant mood, however, is not monistic but dualistic, a mood
in which he holds that man is one with God only when
he is oblivious to all distinctions, including those of
morality.
The rest of Vivekananda's teachings stick together in a
common historical culture, for which they serve as apolo-
gies. Hinduism, he says, is true in every detail. The re-
formers are mistaken. In trying to uproot the weeds of
pernicious custom, they are also tearing up the precious
wheat of culture. Hindu civilization, he points out, is
the flower of Hindu religion, and so must be true and
spiritual, beautiful and good in every fiber of its being.
Since Western scholars altogether fail to understand it,
their criticism is utterly worthless. As for the comments
of Christian missionaries, they are wickedly slanderous.
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 91
This spiritual nation must teach the world in the pres-
ent as in the past. To this end it must shake itself free
from the degrading dominion of Western nations, with
their gross materialism and selfish sensuality* Every
Hindu must awake and do all in his power to defend his
religion and civilization from the poison of Western in-
fluence. Yet the Hindu, he concedes, will find Western
methods and education most useful. He must even give
up his horror of meat and become a beef eater if
necessary
in order to grow strong enough to build up once more
a flourishing civilization on the soil of India.
In this willful logic of emotion, renunciation of the
world works out into nationalism and political rebellion.
44
The exaggerated praise of India and condemnation of the
West coming from Swami Vivekananda, Sister Nivedita
and others was an important influence leading to the
anarchist movement in Bengal, and the more recent drives
for "Civil Disobedience" which Manmohandas Karam-
chand Gandhi, the saintly politician, has been organizing
on a nation-wide scale. Of course, Swami Vivekananda
was no politician. All he did was to arouse his country-
men to toil for India. But his religious doctrine of whole-
sale condemnation for the West was to the ordinary
Hindu a sacred sanction that smoothed the way for anar-
chy and "non-cooperation/*
Vivekananda's exposition of Hinduism is fourfold. All
the cults of the world, he says, are only different examples
of the four paths prominent in the history of Hindu doc-
trine. To each path, or way of restraint, he devotes a book,
compiled from shorthand notes taken of his speeches. His
chief books are thus Jnana Yoga, Raja Yoga, Bhakti Yoga,
and Karma Yoga. These works are perhaps more widely
read among the students of India, especially of Bengal,
than any other religious books.
45
In his Jnana Yoga he
aggravates the ilhisionism of Sankara with a Buddhistic
92 VIVEKANANDA
and even a Schopenhauerian pessimism. In view of our
many desires and few satisfactions, he calls the world
hideous.
At best it is the hell of Tantalus, and nothing else. Here we
are with strong impulses and stronger ideas for sense enjoyments,
and nothing outside to fill them. . . .
Unhappiness is the fate
of those who are content to live in this world, born as they are.
A thousandfold unhappiness is the fate of those who dare to
stand forth for truth and for higher things and dare to ask for
something higher than mere enjoyable brutish existence here.46
For this world there can be no explanation, says the
teacher, but "the Vedanta can show a way out!
9
All our
troubles come from the craving for individuality. But let
us rather be indifferent to the pain and sorrow of ourself
and others. "Millions come and go every minute. Who
cares? Why care for the joys and vicissitudes of this little
world?'*
47
Let us rather enjoy the bliss of the solitary
Self.
His Raja Yoga simply points the "way out." All the
orthodox systems of Hindu philosophy have one goal in
view, the liberation of the soul. The raja-yoga is the most
elaborate and refined classic method of reaching this goal.
According to the Raja-Yogz, the external world is but the gross
form of the internal, or subtle. The finer is always the cause,
the grosser the effect. So the external world is the effect, the
internal the cause. In the same way external forces are simply
the grosser parts, of which the internal forces are the finer. The
man who has discovered and learned how to manipulate the
internal forces will get the whole of nature under his control.
The Yogi proposes to himself no less a task than to master the
whole universe, to control the whole of nature. He wants to arrive
at the point where what we call "nature's laws" will have no
influence over him, where he will be able to get beyond them all.
He will be master of the whole of nature, internal and external.
The progress and civilization of the human race simply means
controlling this nature.48
A CHAMPION OF MOTHER INDIA 93
In Ms Bbakti Yoga our thinker attempts to reconcile
to the divine abstract unity those who are emotionally in-
clined. "He wishes to direct the love which normally
expends itself on particular objects towards the supreme
objects, or God, and so to increase the intensity of devo-
tion that the Object remains no longer an Object, but
becomes a Subject the Universal Subject, one with, or
absorbent of, all
particular subjects. An intense wave of
feeling may be able to reach what reason or even intel-
lectual intuition may not be able to secure/*
49
At the very
beginning of the book he says:
Bhakti-Yoga is a genuine real search after the Lord, a search
beginning, continuing and ending in Love. One single moment
of the madness of extreme love to God brings us eternal free-
dom.50
Bbakti is the smoothest and easiest path of all. We
begin where we are. We are not called on to renounce
anything at first. But as our love to God becomes more
and more intense, we gladly give up all objects for the
love of the one Subject, so that in the end, the bliss of
bhakti is the same as the knowledge of jnana. "There is
really no difference/' he says, "between the higher knowl-
edge and the higher bliss."
51
Thus the jnana, raja and bhakti yogas are all practically
the same. Vivekananda himself sees the need of recon-
ciling this renunciation with ordinary human life with its
pressing duties and social affairs, but in spite of his con-
tact with Christianity and his knowledge of Buddhism, he
does nothing more than hark back to the "Bhagavad Gita
for the material of his Karma Yoga. He preaches service
as a part of karma, or work, but not Christian or Buddhist
service, not service with the motive of love. We must
work for work's sake, without any motive, ideal or reward.
We may call this "work for God/' but must remember
that God himself has no motive but idle play, and is unat-
H VIVEKANANDA
tached to the world. In short, we work because we have
no capacity to renounce the world. There are two ways
to obtain release, says the teacher, the negative way of
"meditation/* and the positive way of "work."
The negative way is the most difficult. It is only possible to
the men of the very highest exceptional minds and gigantic
wills. . . . But such people are very rare; the vast majority of
mankind chooses the positive way, making use of all the bon-
dages to break through these bondages. This is also a kind
of giving up, only it is done slowly and gradually, by knowing
things, enjoying things, and thus obtaining experiences, and
knowing the nature of things until the mind lets them all go
at last and becomes unattached.52
This is the Gita with a dose of the Tantras. By blowing
the bubble bigger, and bigger, we shall soon burst it, and
realize it is only a bubble. Service is not for the world,
but for ourselves. We must not try to patch up the world,
but get beyond it. Social reform is mere "social
scavenging/*
Our world teacher is
patently Hindu, and his philoso-
phy is Hindu dogma in Western dress. If we would know
how Hinduism develops when it
really takes root beyond
India, we must pass beyond the conservative Vivekananda.
CHAPTER V
VEDANTA CENTERS, THE EAMAKEJSHNA
MOVEMENT IN AMERICA
The following notice appeared in the New York Times
announcement of Religious Services for Sunday, September
23, 1928:
VEDANTA SOCIETY
Founded by Swami Vivekananda, 34 W. 71st.
11 A. M. "The Existence of Soul."
Speaker, Swami Bodhananda.
3 P. M. "Vedanta in Everyday Life/'
Speaker, Swami Gnaneshwarananda.
The name of the afternoon speaker, meaning "Bliss of
the Lord of Knowledge," is spelled Jnanesvarananda in
the normal English transliteration of the Sanskrit, and
should be pronounced Gyaneshwar-ananda. Eager to
learn what practical message a preacher of the generation-
old movement of Vivekananda wished to deliver to Amer-
ica in 1928, I went to hear about "Vedanta in Everyday
Life." The Society's place of worship is a brown stone
and red brick house of four stories and basement, situated
just west of Central Park, in a region notable as a home
for various cults, such as Christian Science and Theosophy.
As I drew near I noticed a bronze tablet near the door:
VEDANTA SOCIETY
FOUNDED BY
SWAMI VIVEKANANDA
1894
95
96 VEDANTA CENTERS
Above It was a painted wooden sign:
SERVICES
11 A. M. SUNDAYS 3 P. M.
ALL ARE WELCOME
I ran up the steps and rang the bell. The door opened
at once. I walked in, and met the Dutch superintendent,
who told me that,the main floor of the Vedanta house is
devoted to public meetings, while the two swamis live
elsewhere in the building.
I entered the long parlor to the right, and met Swami
Bodhananda, dressed in neat black clericals. As I turned
to take my seat, I noticed that the glass doors of the square
back parlor were open, so that the two rooms together
made a small public hall. Since the pulpit stood at the
far end of the back room, the audience faced the rear.
About twenty-five worshipers were present, mostly
women. Sitting down in the dead stillness, I noticed a
sign with the single word, SILENCE. The rooms were
dark and handsome, tastefully furnished, and dimly
lighted.
On the wall behind the pulpit hung a painting of
Swami Vivekananda. To the left was a large French win-
dow covered over with heavy curtains of golden cloth.
To the left of the window, in the corner, stood a kind of
altar bearing a small framed photograph which I rightly
judged to be of Ramakrishna, the master of Vivekananda.
His likeness was honored with vases of flowers, burning
candles, and fuming incense. Looking around to the left,
I saw in the long parlor a large bookcase containing about
a thousand books, which I later discovered to be mostly
the works of Western Idealists.
Just then Swami Jnanesvarananda entered and mounted
the one-step platform supporting the pulpit. A young
man, rather short, with a pleasant face. He wore a shin-
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 97
ing golden robe. With folded hands he spoke in solemn
tones.
"Let us all try to meditate on our inner divine nature."
Silence. Broken by the swamfs resonant voice in a
quaintly appealing Sanskrit chant. Then a prayer in Eng-
lish:
"May that One who is called Siva by the Shiv-
aites, Visnu by the Visnuites, Brahman* by the Vedantins,
Allah by the Muslims and God the Heavenly Father by
the Christians, inspire our hearts with love for all man-
kind. Peace! Peace! Peace!"
The swami then announced his subject and began to
preach with lucid statements and apt illustrations. The
substance of his sermon may be presented as follows:
What is Vedanta? It can be set forth in three proposi-
tions:
1. Reality is universal Love, the underlying unity
manifested in all variety. To realize this Love within the
heart is literally Veda-anta, the goal of knowledge. If
you know the One, you know the many. Brahman alone
is. This is a rational, philosophic creed.
2. The world is illusion. All the variety of manifesta-
tion is nothing but appearance. Only the Cause exists.
In themselves effects are unreal. In reality they are iden-
tical with the Cause.
3. The individual "I/' or ego, that we feel within us
is always identical with the ultimate principle. The self
is the same as Reality.
Now success in life, or the practical application of Ved-
anta, consists in living in accordance with this intellectual
conviction. Your lives will then realize the ideal. Siddhi,
or practical success, comes from Sadbana, or instrumental
theory. Convinced of the truth of Vedanta, you must
enter the conflict of daily life, fighting without misgiving,
struggling with assurance of victory.
98 VEDANTA CENTERS
In realizing Vedanta there are three levels of conduct.
The first and highest is
pure passivity.
When convinced
you are Brahman, the nameless, birthless, qualityless,
sexless
principle., you feel the conflicts of daily life utterly vanish.
You do not harmonize these conflicts, for to you they simply
do not exist. If you don't do anything at all, how can you
harmonize?
The second level is desireless activity.
If you cannot
maintain the first level, then try the second. At the first
level, you believe reality is one without difference. This is
''non-dualism/' At the second level, you belive reality is
One with difference. This is "modified non-dualism." In
your daily behavior according to this conviction you must
try to realize you are a part of the big mechanism of the
entire world, and accept all actions in yourself and others
as the will of the Lord.
The third level is obedient activity, If you cannot main-
tain the second level, try the third, in which you accept
the "dualistic" belief that you are separate from the Lord.
You will then try to do what the Lord tells you, even
though your nature may be quite unsteady and frivolous.
But the devotee that is
perfectly steady can attain the high-
est level of pure passivity wherein the world becomes il-
lusion.
After the sermon, one of the members took up the offer-
ing. The coin I
dropped into the basket compared un-
favorably with its burden of paper money. The swami
then gave his announcements:
"After the political elections, three classes will
be formed this year as usual, each to meet once a
week at eight o'clock in the evening: on Tuesday, the
class on the Bhagavad Gita; on Thursday, the class in
meditation; and on Friday, the class for the study of San-
skrit. Only the class on the Gita is
open to the public;
the others are for members only. On the table near the
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 99
door are various books for sale in which you may study
Vedanta more deeply. You may see either of the swamis
at any time by making an appointment beforehand."
The meeting closed with another period of silence,
Sanskrit chant and English prayer. I then sought the
book table. Most of the books were by Swami Viveka-
vanda and Sister Nivedita. A few were by swamis who
continued Vivekananda's work in America, the present
Swami Bodhananda among them. As I left the place of
meeting no one rushed over to shake my hand, tell me
he was glad to see me, offer me literature, or ask for a
subscription. Not the busy cordiality of an American
Protestant Church, but the quiet ak of an Indian retreat
prevailed. I introduced myself to the preacher of the
afternoon, and made an appointment, remembering to
pronounce his name Gyaneshwar-ananda.
The appointed day found us sitting together in the
bare front parlor. The swami looked and acted like a
gentleman, and was dressed in the conventional American
way.
"Swamiji," I began (;/
is the usual term of respect),
"when you chant in Sanskrit, what do you say?*'
"The English prayer that follows is a free translation
of the chant. I use Sanskrit because it is the sacred lan-
guage."
"Another question. Vivekananda and Tagore and
others repeatedly speak of realizing God. But how can
we real-ize or make real what is Reality itself?"
"Oh, the trouble is in the translation. Perhaps ex-
perience is a better word. We realize an idea about God,
but God Himself we experience."
"Very good. Tell me now why you call your religion
rational. Is it not based absolutely on the authority of
scripture, namely the U
'
panishadsl"
"Yes, but it's rational in the sense that the authority
100 VEDANTA CENTERS
of scripture is verified by the intellectual intuition of each
individual worshiper. The scripture only points out the
way to God. You yourself find it true or rational when
you experience it."
"That's a curious use of the word rational," was my
reply, "and moreover, I can't see that it's scientifically
rational to believe the world is illusion. And yet you
consider this the highest level, don't you?"
"Well yes, but it
may not be the highest level for you.
It doesn't matter which level you choose and practice, if
only you do it
sincerely."
"Then how can you say one level is
higher than
another?"
"Theoretically it
may be higher, but practically all
levels are equally good. You see philosophy is theoreti-
cal and hence universal, but religion is
practical and hence
individual* Since individuals differ in native capacity,
certain individuals need one kind of religion, while others
need another kind."
"But if you don't regard one religion as better than
another why do you come over to America to preach?"
"Merely to show the eternal principles underlying all
religions. As Swami Vivekananda declared in his famous
address at the World's Parliament of Religions at Chica-
go in 1893, we want to make Hindus better Hindus, Mus-
lims better Muslims and Christians better Christians."
"Your society, then, helps Christians to do better work
in their churches?"
"As a matter of fact, very few of our members come
from the churches. They are usually dissatisfied with
Christianity when they come. We present their own reli-
gion in a new way that appeals to them. They seldom
join up with the churches, because they get so much help
here. But they may be Christians without going to church,
I myself claim to be a Christian."
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 101
"Then in America you are actually making Christians
by means of the Vedanta Society! Is this your missionary
goal?"
"Our goal is
simply to fill all America with the spirit
of Vedanta, which is the spirit of the eternal, universal
religion of understanding and tolerance."
"How do you propose to infuse this spirit of tolerance
among us?"
"By disclosing the four yogas, or methods of each and
every religion: (l) jnana, or knowledge, (2) raja, or
the best kind of meditation, (3) bhakti, or loving devo-
tion, and (4) karma, or work. Swami Vivekananda has
written a book on each yoga."
"Yes, so I noticed when I glanced at your book table.
And I
suppose you stress the method of meditation above
all others as the most suitable cure for the complexity,
hurry and tension of our American life. I notice you
have a whole class devoted to this method alone."
"Yes, and besides, we want to rid Americans of the
idea that Hindu meditation is
something hypnotic, oc-
cult or magical, full of visions and trances. But we stress
meditation mainly because it
provides the key for the
other methods. The knowledge that this world is illu-
sion, the devotion to God for His own sake, and the
ability to work without any interest in the fruits of your
work are all developed by the practice of meditation,
which brings the peace of samadhi, or union with God.
We should enjoy this samadhi in the workaday world, but
we can cultivate it best in private, just as we should go
off to a place where the water is smooth and shallow when
we want to learn to swim."
I left Swami Jnanesvarananda feeling that I understood
at least this much about the Vedanta Society. It was
here in America to make us peaceful and tolerant Chris-
tians by means of a meditation free from magic. Imagine
102 VEDANTA CENTERS
my surprise when I attended a meeting of the meditation
dass at a later date, and overheard the following remark
from one of the members as we all were leaving:
'These swamis are wonderful! They have more knowl-
edge in a little finger than we have in a whole hatful!
Just think! Every letter means something by itself by
knowing them all we could control the elements of the
universe! "Where is Jesus Christ now? Dead already
gone to nothing. These Hindus have the only true reli-
gion in the world!"
All this with a German accent. Is this effusion a re-
sult of the tolerant, non-magical teaching of the swamis?
After all, does Vedanta supply the universal principles
of all religions? Or does it merely supply the underlying
principles of Hinduism, which does indeed presume to
regard other religions as various practical cult-forms of
itself? The latter is the clear impression we get from
Ramakrishna, ensconced in his native India. But does
Hinduism presume as much in America? A careful study .
of the Vedanta movement in its actual practice and teach-
ing will help us to answer this and other perplexing ques-
tions.
l. THE GROWTH
American Vedantism is a tree of which the seed was
Vivekananda. The seed was planted in American soil
by the Parliament of Religions, and the sprouting plant
cultivated by wealthy Americans, especially women of
leisure, as in the case of many other cults. Whereas
Christian missions to India are inspired and supported
mainly from the home base, this Hindu mission to Ameri-
ca was originally inspired and is now supported by the
field in which it
operates.
How has the tree developed? How has the American
soil and gardening directed the Hindu plant? How far
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 103
has the growth adapted Itself to American ideals and
methods? Does Vedanta entice people away from the
churches or dampen missionary ardor? Is it widening or
narrowing the gap between East and West?
When Vivekananda sailed away from America for the
last time in 1900, he left Swami Turiyananda at San
Francisco on the western seaboard, and Swami Abheda-
nanda balancing him at New York.1
But just two years
later, in the same year that Vivekananda fell to earth like
a spent rocket, Turiyananda returned to India weak and
nervous. Apparently these two men were exhausted by
preaching the raja-yoga of perfect peace and control. Per-
haps this yoga cannot bring lasting peace in the midst of
toil. Perhaps the karma-yoga of incessant, impersonal
toil fails to suit the man of high hopes and keen sensibili-
ties, the man of charming personality. Or perhaps Amer-
ican life is a bit too varied and strenuous for the old
Hindu methods in general.
In any case, a fresh worker was sent out from the East
to preach in the West: Swami Trigunatita, who took
the place of Turiyananda in Los Angeles, San Francisco
and the nearby Santi Asrama. Soon the centers grew and
asked for another swami, so in 1904 Saccidananda (bliss
of reality and knowledge) came over and took charge of
the Los Angeles Center. Meanwhile, Swami Nirmala-
nanda arrived in 1903 at New York to help Abhedananda.
But he lasted just three years in America, going back to
his motherland after a siege of pneumonia in the winter
of 1906. Abhedananda, however, not only held his
ground in New York but also opened up a center in
Pittsburgh. Since Trigunatita in San Francisco was like-
wise expanding his work, three swatnis sailed in 1906
from Belur to ALmerica, Prakashananda (bliss of radiance)
to San Francisco, Paramananda (bliss of the highest) to
New York, and Bodhananda (bliss of intelligence) to
take charge of the new center in Pittsburgh.
104 VEDANTA CENTERS
In 1909 Paramananda2
set forth from New York and
established a center in Boston, where the valiant leader
Vivekananda had won his first
triumph in 1893, and dur-
ing the summer he gave his first course of lectures at the
Greenacre Summer Conference, where both the leader and
Swami Saradananda had delivered addresses. Then he
formed a branch in Washington, placing it in charge of
an American convert called Sister Devamata (holy
mother). Taking advantage of this new source of help,
the swami set out for India in 1911, lecturing on the way
in Germany and at Stratford-on-Avon during the Shake-
speare festival there. By Christmas he was back in Boston.
Then for three successive summers he toured Europe, hold-
ing classes in Germany, France, Switzerland and Italy, and
starting a branch in Geneva.
In the meantime, Abhedananda also left New York,
retiring in 1912 to an asrama of 370 acres at West Corn-
wall, Connecticut, in the foothills of the Berkshires; and
Bodhananda was called from Pittsburgh to take his place.
Nine years later, Abhedananda went back to his native
land after a long and fruitful period of service in Ameri-
ca, pleasantly interrupted by about ten visits to Europe
during the summer vacations.
We turn now to the western seaboard just in time to
see Saccidananda sail for home in 1913, and Trigunatita
pass away from this life a year later. To replace these
losses, Prakashananda set out for India and returned with
two more swamis, Prabhavananda (bliss of lordship) to
share his work in San Francisco, and Raghavananda (bliss
of Rama) to help Bodhananda in New York. Thus Los
Angeles was left without a swami, but not for long, be-
cause in 1915 the enterprising Paramananda, hindered by
the War from making his usual summer visit to Europe,
journeyed westward in America, lecturing by invitation at
Minneapolis and San Francisco, and in 1916 reestablished
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 105
the work in Los Angeles by forming a permanent center
there, with radiations in Santa Barbara, San Diego, Long
Branch, Pasadena and other points in southern California.
In the spring of 1918 he met with surprising success in
Seattle, and lectured in Tacoma and Portland as welL
In the spring of 1919, visits to Louisville, Cincinnati and
Gallup, New Mexico, added fresh centers in interest.
Six years later, in 1925, some of those who heard him in
Portland asked for a permanent swami to guide them,
and received Prabhavananda from San Francisco. So the
next year, in 1926, Paramananda went to India and
brought back two more swamis, Dayananda (bliss of
pity) for San Francisco, and AkMananda (bliss of the
whole) to help in the Boston center. The next year, in
1927, a veteran named Madhavananda, who had edited
the English Life of Sri Ramakrishna and published the
Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda, came to replace
Prakashananda, who had passed on to the next life. In
the same year Raghavananda in New York suffered a
nervous breakdown and was replaced by Jnanesvarananda
(bliss of the lord of knowledge), who spells his name
Gnaneshwarananda. In July 1929 Prabhavananda went
from Portland, Oregon, to Hollywood, California, the
capital of the cinema world, and Vividishananda was called
from India to take his place in Portland. Just after Chris-
mas in 1929, Jnanesvarananda was sent from New York
to open up a center in Chicago, the city of Vivekananda's
great triumph in 1893. In the near future another swami
may be summoned from India to shepherd a group in St.
Louis aroused by the lectures of Prabhavananda.
In all, there have been seventeen Ramakrishna swamis
in America, but never more than eight at a time, the
number reached in 1929.
8
Their movement is not one big
society with an all-American organization and central of-
fice, but just a number of centers operated by local Ameri-
106 VEDANTA CENTERS
can officers and funds. Unlike Christian missionaries in
India, the swamis do not control their centers, but are
really Hindu guests who have gladly accepted the invita-
tions of their American hosts. Guests do not control their
hosts. The relation is
simply one of friendship. So too
the centers do not control their swamis, but the leading
swami of each center is
directly responsible to the Rama-
krishna Matha, or Monastic Order, at Belur near Calcutta.
This matha, we know, was founded in 18864
and incor-
porated in 1899
5
as a dual order of renunciation and serv-
ice. But the service side was soon embodied in the Rama-
krishna Mission, founded in 1897
6
and incorporated in
1909
7
as a separate organization responsible to the Matha,
which then specialized in renunciation. Although Ve-
danta centers have appeared from time to time in Western
countries such as Switzerland, Argentina and Australia,
the Ramakrishna movement is now flourishing in only two
countries, India and the United States of America.8
And
whereas most of the Indian centers are now specializing in
social service, such as relief work, mass education and vil-
lage organization, all of the American centers, responsible
as they are to the Matha and not to the Mission,
9
have
confined themselves to the teaching of conservative Hindu
doctrines. While India is getting more of the Christian-
like side of Vivekananda's dual religion of renunciation
and service, America is
getting only the stricdy Hindu
side.
10
What does this mean? It means that of all the coun-
tries of the world including India itself, the United States
offers the most fertile soil for the growth of conservative
Hindu ideals. Why? In the first
place, these ideals are
more novel to America than to India and many other coun-
tries, and so more appealing. England, again, is not so
willing to listen to India, because of their master-and-
servant relation. On the European continent looms the
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 107
language barrier, for most educated Indians speak only
English besides their native tongues. Moreover, these
continental countries, unlike rich America, cannot provide
the funds required to bring the swamis aE the way from
India. Finally, America is not only the land of religious
freedom, but also the land of religious seeking, for its
background is Protestant and pioneer.
Moreover, since the Ramakrishna movement is in many
ways more conservative than other Hindu movements,
such as the Arya Samaj and Brahma Samaj, the Americans
that accept its ideals become, curiously enough, more
strictly Hindu in their beliefs than many Hindus in India,
And this
tendency is increased by the fact that Americans
are generally aggressive, single-minded and wholehearted
in whatever they do, so that when they join a Hindu move-
ment, they often want to be more specifically Hindu than
the swamis themselves, and whereas the swamis are toler-
ant of Christianity, their converts often despise the pit
from which they were digged, and become violently anti-
Christian. Partly because of this
disposition of many
American converts, Hindu beliefs have not adapted them-
selves very much to the dominant beliefs of America. But
of course there has been some adaptation. How much,
let us now seek to discover.
2. THE MESSAGE
In New York today Swami Bodhananda delivers sub-
stantially the same message that Swami Vivekananda de-
livered in the same city over a generation ago. And his
censure of popular Christianity is even keener. The doc-
trine of original sin, he declares, is a lie, and the worst sin
in the world. Why do Christians allow their ministers
to insult them by calling them sinners? Perhaps because
the biggest sinners are supposed to have the best chance
for salvation! But we are really gods, not sinners. We
108 YEDANTA CENTERS
must not beg for salvation, but demand it as our spiritual
birthright, and then proceed to remove the darkness of
Ignorance* Whatever we think, that shall we become.
So if we think we are sinners, we will indeed become sin-
ners, but if we think we are divine, we shall really become
divine.
Salvation, moreover, comes not by vicarious atonement
but by individual realization. Each soul itself must pay
the price for its salvation, and work out its destiny alone.
Gautama Buddha, says the swami, had knowledge of at
least five hundred past lives, yet he did not presume to
come from God to save men. In his great pity for hu-
manity, he saw not sin but misery. Hence the claim that
Jesus Christ is the only begotten Son of God who saves
all men is simply a conceit. In short, salvation is not an
involution from without, but an evolution from within, an
individual, spiritual
evolution.
The West, continues the swami, is torn between two ex-
tremes, the Christian dogma of creation out of nothing,
and the scientific dogma of evolution out of matter. But
Vedanta chooses the golden mean by teaching a spiritual
evolution, in which the same soul gradually purifies itself
by successive reincarnations. If we have only one birth
and one death, how can God be at once wise and benevo-
lent and just? Would such a good God create men with
unequal opportunities
and endowments, if they had only
one chance in the world? Would He send men to eternal
punishment for temporal sins? And why should the
Christian believe in eternal life after death if he does
not believe in eternal life before birth? This conception of
immortality, as Schopenhauer says, is an infinite stick
with only one end! The ordinary Christian says, "I have
a soul to be saved in Heaven bye and bye/' but the Hindu
says, "I am a soul, and Heaven is here and now within
me." Yet in spite of all his fallacies, the Christian wants
to force his views on others. But the Hindu knows that as
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 109
every individual must have his own kind of food, so too
he must have his own kind of religion, or svadharma. Ac-
cordingly, he is broad and tolerant.
But how can you attack another religion, Swamiji, and
yet claim to be tolerant?
I am tolerant,
11
replies the swami, in allowing every-
body freedom to follow his own religion, but I am intoler-
ant when I find insincerity and hypocrisy in the name of
religion, when I find a gap between profession and prac-
tice, and in this I follow all the divine masters, including
Jesus who condemned the Pharisees.
12
Swami Jnanesvarananda, a younger monk, is less
polemic and more illustrative. While he holds to all
the conservative Vedanta doctrines, he dresses them up
to appeal to an American audience. Here are a few ex-
amples. Religion, he says, is a response of the soul to the
stimulus of God. The soul is the motor-car driver whose
car is the body. Vedanta brings success in everyday life.
It is a rational religion, because based on experience.
13
The world is a vast mechanism controlled by God. AH
the world is God, just as all the images on the motion pic-
ture screen are light.
The young swami even uses ideas that if carried out to
their logical conclusion would revolutionize the Hindu
position. The Bliss of Brahma he calls the Love of the
Heavenly Father. Is our preacher aware of the road he
travels? It is a road that leads from ascetic, individualistic
renunciation to harmonious, socially-minded creation.
Again, he says that God creates the world as an obstacle
for His struggle and delight. Play may be struggle, to be
sure, and the Hindu holds that God creates in play or
lila, but there is considerable difference between the pur-
poseful play, or joyous work, of Christian romanticism,
and the purposeless play, or idle magic-making, of classi-
cal Hinduism. Which does the swami mean? Finally,
he tells us that life's highest good is not desirelessness,
110 VEDANTA CENTERS
but absolute control over selfish desires. If such preach-
ing should be fully developed, it might make the Ve-
danta movement as much Christian as Hindu.
Is it likely, however, that such preaching will be de-
veloped? Will Vedanta ever adjust itself to American
life? Let us consider this possibility on the basis of a
survey of adjustments of Hindu convictions to Western
culture made successively by the three most influential
swamis of the movement: Vivekananda, Abhedananda,
and Paramananda.
3. THE ADJUSTMENTS
Vivekananda went so far as to accept Western values,
but he interpreted them according to Vedanta. For ex-
ample, the West values science. So the swami says in
effect, "Religion must submit to scientific investigation.
What can judge between the claims of holy books and
codes? Only the light of reason." Then comes the in-
terpretation. "Vedanta, with its utmost generalization,
is the completely rational religion/'
14
Again, Western
idealism values democracy, and fights against privilege.
So the bold Hindu joins the fray. "Break down privi-
lege!" he cries, then adds a few words for Vedanta.
Once a gigantic attempt was made to preach Vedanta ethics,
and . . . those years were the best times for that nation. I
mean, the Buddhistic attempt to break down privilege. Some
of the most beautiful epithets addressed to Buddha that I remem-
ber are, 'Thou the breaker of castes, destroyer of privilege,
preacher of equality to all beings."
15
Finally, the West values Christianity. So what does
the swami do here? He attempts to show that as an orien-
tal religion, Christianity is only a form of Hinduism.
The Vedas are ... the oldest sacred books in the world. No-
body knows anything about the time they were written or by
whom. The religion of the Vedas is the religion of the Hindus
and the foundation of all oriental religions.
10
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA ill
Since the keystone of Christianity is Christ, the swami
must give him a special interpretation.
"The foxes have holes, the birds of the air have nests, but the
Son of Man hath not where to lay his head." That is what
Christ says is the only way to salvation; he lays down no other
way. ... He had no family ties ... no sex ideas ... no other
thought except that one, that he was a Spirit,
a disembodied,
unfettered, unbounded spirit.
17
Such was Vivekananda's way of preaching, which must
have given him a feeling of solid satisfaction, for in his
naive freedom from historical detail, he was not much
bothered by the fact that the classic Yedanta goal is not
rational but mystically non-rational, that the Buddhistic
attempt to break down privilege was at first aimed pre-
cisely at such cults as Vedanta, that Christianity is not
simply a form of Hinduism, and that Christ never said
the only way to get saved is to wander poor and homeless.
The first swami to visit America was a bold, well-meaning,
lovable impressionist.
Paying more attention to history and his field of opera-
tion, Swami Abhedananda did more than his leader to ad-
just Vedanta to Western culture. Rather than overpower
by flashing oratory, he seeks to convince by sweet reason-
ableness and a vast array of new and picturesque facts.
His case for vegetarianism, for example, makes a strong
appeal on its own merits. Again, he argues with a show
of reason, that if we accept the Christian Bible as revealed
of God we must then accept all bibles. Unlike Viveka-
nanda,
18
he does not scorn spiritualism as a cheap Ameri-
can product competing with the measureless penetration
of the Hindus, but simply states that for all his conversa-
tion with spirits through Western mediums, he has
learned nothing, and so regards them as earth-bound and
ignorant.
He even reinterprete his message to suit Western de-
112 VEDANTA CENTERS
mands. Whereas his master Ramakrishna scorned the
body and works of healing, this swami sympathizes with
Christian Science, and encourages the study of healing
power. What this American cult is striving to do, he
says, Vedanta has already mastered.
19
Moreover, in his
treatment of the doctrine of reincarnation, he is very theo-
sophic and modern, rejecting the notion of the god-man-
beast-plant wheel of life from which escape is desirable,
and stressing the creative, evolutionary, purposeful aspects
of the soul's cosmic peregrinations. Finally, his handling
of the doctrine of "work" is
quite Western. Like Rama-
nuja, combining the Gita rule of unselfish devotion with
the early Vedic idea of purposeful work for reward, he
takes the "duties and work of our daily life as a means to
a higher end," and declares that "all good or unselfish
works bring as their results peace, good health, prosperity
and happiness in the end/'20
This kind of work is a far
cry from the utterly disinterested and result-despising
duty proclaimed as the highest path in the Bhagavad Gita
and in the Karma Yoga of Vivekananda.
In Swami Paramananda, however, we see a return to
conservatism. Instead of sweeping history, science and
Western religion like Abhedananda to find illumination
and expansion for his Hindu convictions, he dwells for-
ever on the cultivation of the Dinner," or "spiritual,"
life
by the methods taught in the Gita. In his magazine Mes-
sage of the East, his associate, Sister Devamata, speaks
of escape from the wheel of life; the Brahman Sarada-
nanda now back in India praises work done without any
desire for name, fame, material benefit or future reward;
and the veteran Ramakrishnananda, also in India, main-
tains that life is the struggle of spirit against matter.
Thus the historical development of Vedanta teaching
in America does not show any one steady trend of adjust-
ment towards American culture. In Abhedananda and
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 113
Jnanesvarananda we notice considerable adaptation, but in
Paramananda and Bodhananda not so much. To be sure,
Paramananda teaches die congenial devotion and work
rather than knowledge and meditation, but here he stops.
It is not easy to tell what the future may bring, but unless
the basis of propaganda be definitely shifted from Hindu
Dharma^ to individual reason or life's
present needs,
we are not justified in predicting much more adjustment.
And as for the past, we must still maintain that apart
from social customs, certain Americans have proved them-
selves good old-fashioned Hindus.
The contrast between the Hindu conservatism of the
Ramakrishna Matha in America, and the Hindu liberalism
of the Ramakrishna Mission in India appears even more
striking when we note the remarkable adjustment of Hindu
ideals to Western culture now taking place in the work
of the Mission in India. Dr. S. L. Sarkar, for example,
in addressing the great Ramakrishna Convention at Belur
in 1926 embraces not only the Buddhist and Christian
ideal of service motivated by love, but also the Christian
and Ramanuja conception of God's joy in purposeful
creation.
In studying the subject of organization we get many a valuable
suggestion from the creation of the world and evolution of man-
kind. In creating the world God has given Himself up and
His joy lies in it. This joy in creation, through sacrifice, He
has imparted to all those who want to build or create. The
painter, the sculptor, the poet, the philosopher, the scientist,
the monk and the householder all find delight in their respec-
tive creations, and creations connote sacrifice on the part of the
person concerned. The more rigorous the sacrifice, the happier
the result. Thus self-sacrifice must be the basis on which the
real work of village organization should rest.
We find there are two types of work; work impelled by a mere
sense of obligation and work inspired by love. Of the two
the latter is more effective, and produces real joy. The Rama-
krishna Mission has shown good example of the latter kind,
114 VEDANTA CENTERS
inspired as it is by its noble motto "For the liberation of the
self and for the good of the many/' Here "the service to
others" becomes identified with "service to one's own self." . . .
In doing an act of service, one must not be actuated by a sense
of obligation alone, but one should be stimulated by a spirit of
love and self-sacrifice. "Moksha" is the experience of joy de-
rived from the hardship of sacrifice. What else can be the
meaning of Moksha?22 I have given . . . the philosophy of
service. It is the idea of Ananda (joy) which impels a man
to sacrifice all his comforts for the sake of others.23
4. THE METHODS
Turning back to America, let us now attempt to dis-
cover whether the monks of the Matha have adjusted
their methods to American culture any more than their
message. The old-fashioned Indian methods employed
by the teaching friars, such as personal instruction, pri-
vate classes, and birthday celebrations with an offering
and distribution of prasada, or blessed flowers, fruits and
sweetmeats, are carried over to America, and Western
methods also adopted, such as Sunday preaching services
and newspaper notices, public classes and paid member-
ship, reading rooms and circulating libraries, the sale of
books and magazines, and the distribution of bulletins and
magazines to libraries, colleges and universities.
In several ways, however, the American advance of the
movement is limited. In the first
place, the training of
the monks at Belur as brahmacans and sannyasis fits
them more for meditation than organization, and while
most of the swamis that come to America are graduates of
Indian universities, especially the University of Calcutta,
they do not care enough for American life to adopt its
ways. In the second place, following Vivekananda, the
monks come only as guests, having no funds24
of their
order for the work, and so can advance no faster than
the demand for their services stimulated by literature or
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 115
friendly contact. In the third place, the supply is not
even as great as the modest demand. In St. Louis, for
example, an interested group has the desire and the funds
for a swami, but the swami in question is unwilling to
come out from India because of his interest in training
genuine monks. In the fourth place, finally, the swamis
fail to use either of the two methods necessary for spread-
ing any religious work in America, (l) prominent ad-
vertising or (2) community cultivation.
In view of the conservatism of both message and
method, we are not surprised to discover that the influence
of the Ramakrishna movement in America, outside its
membership and local following, is
scarcely perceptible,
and its
membership is generally on the decline. In 1906
there were 340 members in the whole country, but in 1916
only 190. And membership does not necessarily mean
conversion. By 1926
25
ten members had been added,
owing perhaps to the increase of swamis and new centers.
But on the whole, from its inception until the present,
the movement shows a marked decline in local interest,
and after 1906 a decline in membership levelling into
stagnation. The failure to expand is
probably due first
to the wearing off of novelty, and second to the retire-
ment of Swami Abhedananda, who was willing to adjust
himself to American institutions in both message and
method. His Vedanta Bulletin, for example, had a cir-
culation of over 3000 copies, 300 of which were sent free
to libraries and student organizations.
However, the principle cause of Vedanta stagnation in
America is the master R.amakrishna himself. Scorning
the body, he put his stamp of disapproval on mental heal-
ing, and so prevented the movement from developing in
a popular way along the line of such cults as Christian
Science. Shunning wealth, he madt the order minimize
the value of great funds of its own. And with his old-
116 VEDANTA CENTERS
fashioned Hindu conviction that the disciple will always
come to the master, so that the master need not go out
and preach, he limited aggressive propaganda. It was
really not so much the Hindu Ramakrishna that sent
Vivekananda to America, as English education, Indian na-
tionalism and liberal Christianity. For Swami Jnanes-
varananda says today, "I will sing my song here whether
crowds listen or no/* and Swami Bodhananda feels that
as far as membership goes, the Vedanta movement in
America is never likely to prosper. In the spirit
of the
ancient Upanishads, he says, "Vedanta does not appeal to
the masses. And as for me, I shall never compromise its
truth to make it
popular* Even if the masses flocked to
my door, I would still continue the intensive cultivation
of the individual,"
5. THE MEMBERS
If Vedanta does not appeal to the masses, then to what
kind of people does it
appeal? Swami Vivekananda, we
remember, was supported by men and women of wealth
and influence; but according to his biographers, he
preached to rich and poor alike, and the accounts of con-
temporary newspapers,
26
as well as the judgments of
contemporary leaders of American opinion,
27
indicate that
his followers can best be classified, not by financial in-
come, but by mental disposition. They were intellectual,
odd, and venturesome; religious liberals, social rebels and
cultural faddists. But that was over a generation ago.
What kind of people are Vedanta members at present?
I have attempted to answer this question by means of
personal acquaintance and questionnaire letters,
28
and now
set down the results of my study. Since I cannot claim in-
formation from more than one fifth of the members, my
observations will apply only to this limited group com-
prising probably the most devoted members. In just this
THE RAMAKWSHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 117
group, then, most of the members arc native Americans,
with a sprinkling of English, Germans, Swedes and Jews.
Their ages run from 35 to 70, with an average of 48.
Two-fifths are unmarried, and more than three-fourths
of the group are women. Most of the women are oc-
cupied at home, but some of the single women have high
clerical positions. No one occupation is dominant among
the men, their work ranging from "manual" to "mental."
More than half of the group come from Protestant homes,
while the rest, half come from parents who confess no
religion, and almost half from Catholic parents. Several
inherit the Christian Science tradition. So far the group
seems fairly normal. There are very few men and young
people to be sure, but perhaps men and young people
are not apt to volunteer to fill out questionnaires. The
census shows in the whole movement no more than twice
as many women as men.
Now, however, we come to some eccentricities. Of
those who came from religious homes, about two-thirds
strayed away from the church of their parents into other
cults even before they had heard of Vedanta, and of these,
many changed their connection several times. For ex-
ample, one Unitarian became an Episcopalian, then
dropped out of the Church altogether, then took up in
turn New Thought, Christian Science and Theosophy be-
fore coming to rest in Vedanta. If we add to this num-
ber those who had no church to begin with, we find that
almost all of the group were religious wanderers, rest-
less souls who passed through many "borderland" cults
till they found Vedanta. And half of the few church
members who joined the Hindu cult without wandering,
have now left their churches, in spite of the fact that
Vedanta demands no severing of former church connec-
tion, and even claims to support all cults and sects. It
seems that the estimate of the character of Vedanta ad-
118 VEDANTA CENTERS
herents in the time of Vivekananda still holds today in the
main.
Now what do our pilgrims find in Vedanta that they
missed in former churches and cults? In other words,
what are the causes of their conversion? Half of them
find a broadening of outlook that brings sweet tolerance
and appreciation of all religions. A few find for the
first time a personal religion of experience and practice,
a few enjoy its otherworldly emphasis, while the rest feel
relief in giving up their old, perplexing doctrines such
as the sinfulness of man, the necessity of faith, the vica-
rious atonement, an extra-cosmic God, Christ the only in-
carnation, the need for conversion, Bible "myths" and the
exclusive claims of Christianity.
Then after devoting themselves to this Hindu cult,
what do our pilgrims come to? Do they worship Christ
and read the Bible with a Vedanta interpretation, or do
they find other leaders and books to guide them? In
other words, what are the effects of their conversion?
Only a few give first place in their estimation to Christ
and the Bible. The vast majority prefer Hindu books
and leaders although the names of Emerson and Lincoln
are prominent, and the Imitation of Christ is a favorable
book. One-third look to Ramakrishna or Vivekananda as
the supreme human model, while not a few love their
own swami the best.
Thus the Ramakrishna cult in America performs a dual
function. In a few cases it takes nominal Christians and
enlarges their views, and Swami Jnanesvarananda is right
when he says that his cult presents Christianity to Chris-
tians at least to some Christians in a new and appealing
way.
29
But in most cases, it takes stray seekers for
truth without any definite tradition, and leads them into
Hinduism as their first vital religion. While Vedanta is
indeed not a sect, with hard and fast lines of distinction,
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 119
it cannot, on the other hand, be called an impartial, uni-
versal religion that keeps everyone in his own tradition of
worship. It is just one cult among others more tolerant
and broad than many, it is true but still a particular
cult, a magnetic center of influence that slowly but surely
draws some kinds of people from indifference and nominal
Christianity into Hinduism. In this way, the protestation
that all cults are equally true, made by Hinduism in India
as a defence against the conversion of nominal Hindus
to Christianity, becomes in America a subtle instrument
for the conversion of nominal Christians to Hinduism, for
it is
precisely the Hindu method of broad generalization
that entices certain doubting and creed-bound Christian
rebels into the capacious Hindu fold.
As a bit of tangible evidence that American Vedanta
is not merely a kind of Christian interpretation but a spe-
cial Hindu cult, stands the San Francisco Vedanta So-
ciety's Hindu Temple
30
on the southwest corner of Web-
ster and Filbert Streets, erected as "the first Hindu temple
in the whole Western world" August 21, 1905, under the
auspices of the Ramakrishna Matha in India. It is a splen-
did three-storied structure in Hindu style adapted to
American building material. In the beautiful auditorium
appears a large picture of Christ sitting in the yoga pos-
ture. Above the main roof of the building rise several
picturesque Hindu cupolas, one serving as a small con-
servatory and another as a special temple to the god Siva.
Inside this little temple are displayed a number of Hindu
utensils and religious symbols in brass and wood and
stone.
6. THE CRITICS
Alarmed at this "Hindu Invasion of America," Mrs.
Mabel Potter Daggett, among others,
31
sounded a vibrant
note of warning to Christian men and women in the
120 VEDANTA CENTERS
Hampton Columbian Magazine Issue of October, 1911,
which found an echo in Current Literature, The Mission-
ary Review, and The Literary Digest. This Christian de-
fender of the faith sees American Vedantism as just a
part of a great oriental invasion, and points to the Bud-
dhist temple at Seattle, the Krishna temple at Los An-
geles,
32
the Zoroastrian temples at Chicago and Lowell
(Massachusetts) as startling evidence. And what is the
result of it all, she asks. Futility at best, but here and
there insanity!
Miss Sarah J. Farmer,
33
you remember, who gave a
fortune for the study of oriental religions at Greenacre
Inn what became of her? She is in the insane asylum at
Waverly, Massachusettes, says Mrs. Daggett. And Mrs.
Ole Bull,
34
who died in 1911, bequeathing several hun-
dred thousand dollars to the Vedanta Centre her will
was set aside by the courts on the ground of mental in-
capacity and undue influence. Then the wife of a col-
lege president renounced her home with the words, "My
husband and children are no more to me than any others
equally deserving of regard. My religion teaches me that
I am free to seek the perfect life alone."
35
And finally,
a club woman of national repute is said to be a physical
wreck through the practice of yoga and the study of oc-
cultism.
36
The danger to American women, says Mrs.
Daggett, lies not so much in the worship of images such
as little brown Buddhas and little jade Krishnas al-
though this is bad enough but in the worship of men,
their Hindu gurus, or swamis. After a certain swami has
finished his devotions, his female devotees bow eagerly to
kiss his sandalled feet.
What shall we say of these strictures? Is Hinduism
really dangerous for America? First of all, we must
remember that women have been known to go insane
over other creeds than Hinduism, and perhaps men also!
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 121
So even if these reports are true, It is hard to tell just
what they indicate with regard to the relative risks and
dangers involved in Hinduism. I have heard Hindu rites
in America called "awful mysteries/' but I have also read
that the Christian rites of the Lord's Supper in the Roman
Empire were supposed to be loathsome by those who
knew them not. Having myself partaken of the Lord's
Supper, a communion restricted to Christians, I report
nothing harmful therein; and having also attended a Hin-
du meditation class, confined to members of the society,
I
report that I
escaped unharmed, and even benefited by
the period of relaxation. But whether the yoga practice
of the Ramakrishna movement contains subtle dangers or
not can best be discovered by a faithful study of the
yoga presented by Vivekananda in his book Raja Yoga,
and taught by his present day followers in their meditation
classes.
7. GROUP PRACTICE
"Each soul," says Vivekananda, "is potentially divine.
The goal is to manifest this divine within, by controlling
nature, external and internal.
37
Do this by work, or
worship, or psychic control or philosophy, by one, or more,
or all of these and be free/'
38
Thus the goal of life is
the liberation of the soul. As for the methods of this at-
tainment, "work" is
karma-yoga, "worship" is bhakti-
yogaf "psychic control" is
raja-yoga, while "philosophy"
is jnana-yoga. It is the raja-yoga of phychic control that
is studied and practiced in the meditation classes of the
various Vedanta centers as the key to the other yogasf
says Vivekananda:
Raja-Yoga is divided into eight steps. The first is Yama
non-killing, truthfulness, non-steaHng, continence, and non-re-
ceiving of any gifts. Next is Niyama cleanliness, contentment,
austerity, study, and self-surrender to God. Then comes Asana,
or posture; Pranayama, or control of Prana; Pratyahara, or re-
122 VEDANTA CENTERS
straint of the senses from their objects; Dhafana, or fixing the
mind on a spot; Dhyana, or meditation; and Samadhit or super-
consciousness.89
In the weekly class of about fifteen members in the
New York Society, we are first told to relax the body
and empty the mind completely. Each worshiper is to
imagine he is the absolute passive witness of the world of
action, including his body, quite apart from himself. Then
follow six "Steps in Meditation/'
40
(1) Guru-pranama, or Salutation to the Masters. Here
each one may invoke the blessing of his special savior, or
all the saviors at once. The swami chants a Sanskrit man-
tra, or holy affirmation, and then tells us to imagine we
are charging the machinery of the body with electricity.
We may think of this electricity as a spiritual energy
emanating from the divine masters.
(2) Asana-suddhi, or Purification of Posture. Here
we are told to sit at ease, but quite erect, with the spine,
neck and head in one straight line. We breathe deeply
with a slow and measured rhythm. The swami chants
again, and then tells us to imagine a holy circle, a pro-
tecting wall41
of divine elements surrounding and keep-
ing us from all harm.
(3) Bhuta-suddhi, or Purification of the Subtle Body
Elements. This is
accomplished by meditation on the as-
tral upward progress of the Kundalinif* or serpent-pow-
er, from the fire at the bottom of the spine through the
six successive lotus flowers of the Susumna, or spinal canal,
until it
merges in the "Infinite Divine Consciousness" of
the sahasrara, or thousand-petalled lotus, of the brain.
All of these elements, of course, are not physical, but "as-
tral/* As the swami gives us the cues, we imagine the
serpent power mounting, lotus after lotus, supposedly
feeling an exaltation and sublimation of our now stimu-
lated animal nature.
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 123
(4) Ista-dhyana and Manas-puja, or Meditation on
the Ideal Person and Worship with the Mind. Now I
am supposed to call
up in my mind an image of the god
or ideal person I most revere, the most lovely figure I
know it
may be Siva, Kali, Rama, Krishna, Ramakrishna,
Vivekananda, Jesus, Spinoza, my mother, wife or sweet-
heart and mentally exchange loving offerings as if my
beloved were actually present in form. Again the San-
skrit chant, and again the silent worship.
(5) Asirvad, or Blessing. Now that we have reached
the peak of spiritual joy and love, let us not be selfish,
but send out to all beings, whether plant, animal or hu-
man, spiritual blessings, or vibrations of love and best
wishes. Again the chant and the worship.
(6) Atma-samarpana, or Self Dedication. To escape
all trace of selfishness, we now dedicate the fruit of our
holy exercises to the deity.
These devotions are intended to occupy one third of
the hour. During the next third the swami lectures on
Vivekananda*s Raja Yoga, and the final third is reserved
for questions and answers. The group meditation prac-
tised in class is of course sketchy and incomplete. It con-
tains only two of the eight steps mentioned by Viveka-
nanda, and deals with the Kundalini only in rapid outline.
In the privacy of the home, especially in a small sacred
room, or domestic temple, reserved for the purpose, one
is supposed to practice with greater persistence and in
greater detail. This greater detail, especially in regard
to the control of the breath, and meditation on the Kunda-
lini, i$ elaborated in Vivekananda's book, and explained
by the local swamis.
8. INDIVIDUAL PRACTICE
Breath control is not an end in itself, but the means
of rousing the Kundalini to begin its
upward progress.
124 VEDANTA CENTERS
But what Is the Kundalini, and why should It
go up? In
the first
place, you will never discover its
path by dis-
secting the human corpse, as Swami Dayananda Saras-
vati, the founder of the Arya Samaj, once tried to do. It
is
purely astral, that is, psychic, occult, mystic, imaginary,
autosuggestive, we are told, I
suppose if everyone imag-
ines it in the same way, it may be called a real, or public,
object like a mermaid, a nightmare, or a volt.
The Kundalinij then, is astral fire, or lurid light, in
the form of a serpent. It is
perhaps what Freud would
call the libido, the surplus animal energy of man. Unless
it be aroused, man is dull and apathetic, but once aroused
it makes him fiery and passionate until it can be controlled
and directed into the higher, more intellectual centers of
human activity. In other words, man's infinite potential
power must be made first kinetic and then sublime. The
jiva, or individual life, must unite with the Siva, or uni-
versal life. Man must rise to God in the exalted intuition
of "That art thou," (God art thou), the consciousness
of Buddhahood or Christhood, the "realization" of abso-
lute existence, knowledge and bliss, in short, samadbi. So
speaks the swami, but confesses he has never attained
samadhi.
You feel tired and listless because your Kundalini, or
*
'coiled one," is coiled up true to its name in a tight little
spring down below. If you are a disciple of Ramakrishna,
what do you do? First you sit down in proper form to
meditate. Early evening, like early morning, is
auspi-
cious. Then you rouse your serpent-power by breathing.
Why breathing? The connection is this. The fiery
serpent lies coiled at the base of a nadi, or tube, of light
called the smumna, running vertically through the center
of the spinal cord. In this cord on each side of the
susumna is another tube, the ida on the left, and the
pingala on the right. These three tubes are openly con-
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 125
nected at their base, but the susumna is
temporarily closed
near the bottom by the dormant Kundalim, which pre-
vents the Prana, the cosmic breath, or elan mtal, from
rising In It.
By breathing, you force the breath against
the Kundalini from below, and rouse it to ascend. As
It ascends it not only sublimates the personality, but also
makes way for the Prana to come up after, causing an
inflow of universal power.
43
First you close the right nostril, and breathe in through
the ida (or left
tube) up to capacity in four seconds,
counting mentally with the sacred sound
tf
Om" Then
you close both nostrils, and hold your breath for sixteen
seconds, allowing It to press on the Kundalini from below.
Then you close the left nostril, and breathe out through
the pmgala in eight seconds. Then you repeat the whole
process over and over again, breathing deeply with equal
periods according to the rhythm 1:4:2 as, for example, In
4:16:8 seconds. When you become adept, you can in-
crease the duration of each count, holding the breath four
minutes, let us say. Concentration of attention aids the
power of breath. After enduring repeated stresses, the
channel of susumna finally opens, and the Kundalini
begins to rise*
Now before it reaches the top, it must shoot through
six astral nerve centers conceived as lotus flowers hang-
ing at intervals from the inner side of the spinal channel.
This main process is called the sat-cakra-bheda, or liter-
ally, "six-circle-shooting/' As you meditate on the soft
pale light of the Kundalinif it rushes up the susumna,
striking in turn each hanging lotus bud, tossing it into
an erect, full blown flower, and passing on upward
through its center.
44
By this time you are feeling fit and
spry, entirely rid of your bodily and mental fatigue.
Do not presume, however, that you have reached the
goal, for the goal is nothing less than "superconscious"
126 VEDANTA CENTERS
bliss. If you practice long enough with sufficient intense
persistence, they say, you may at certain levels experience
wonderful visions, and gain control over a variety of
occult powers, but unless you continue to meditate stead-
fastly until the Kundalini strikes the blissful sahasrara, or
thousand-petalled lotus in the brain, your devotion will
not be crowned with spiritual success.
The normal person who has his brute nature of eating,
drinking and reproducing fairly well under control can
imagine that the Kundalini when aroused rises without
delay through the three baser lotuses of animal nature,
and pierces the fourth lotus opposite the heart in the
plane of fiery ambition. Then if the mind be filled with
the ideal of truth and peace and control over emotions,
this uncoiled serpent may shoot up and pierce the fifth
lotus opposite the medulla oblongata. An expansion of
peaceful sentiment will raise it to the sixth lotus in the
pineal gland opposite the eyebrows, and in rare cases
persistent meditation will cause it to strike the sahasrara,
and fuse the individual with the universal in the blissful
state of samadhi, or waking sleep. Even after the state
has passed away its effects will persist in everyday life
as a sense of peace and power.
45
I have met no one who says his Kundalini has ever
struck the sahasrara. The swamis of the New York
Vedanta Society make no such claim. However, one of
the faithful members, by driving his Kundalini up through
the first lotus has gained relief from the temptation of
"women/* and now feels the peace and joy of private sex-
sensation that seems not to drain but enhance his vitality.
But this "wonderful" realization only spurs him to greater
efforts to raise the serpent above sex altogether into the
realms of finer, more spiritual delight. This novice in
raja-yoga is the odd one of his family, away from his home
and country, unmarried, and compelled to drudge for his
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 127
daily bread. His main relief and enjoyment comes from
this practice of yoga before the peaceful idol and amid the
fragrant incense of the temple of his neat little bedroom.
Another Vedanta adherent, also away from home and
country, is a somewhat younger man of more reflective type
who takes truth wherever he can get it, and who prefers
study to marriage on a small salary. He finds that raja-
yoga enables him to control his stray thoughts and fiery
temper, and helps him secure peace, and efficiency in his
business life. He has no desire to renounce the world,
but would like to attain perfection in self-control in the
six months mentioned by Vivekananda. Still another
wanderer from abroad, a successful business man whose
race suffered religious persecution in the "old country"
when he was a child, finds in the mystic vision and practice
of Hinduism such freedom, health and joy that the world
seems ever like springtime. His insight "makes all things
new." In spite of his prematurely stooped shoulders and
white hair, he is
happy with his wife and children, and
although he smokes over a hundred cigarettes a day, he
feels healthy, wears light clothes in cold weather, works
hard, and devotes much time to the study of books on
mysticism.
One member confessed he suffered a heart attack while
spurring on his KundaUni, but this was due to his failure
to consult his swami. Vivekananda expressly states that
students who wish to practice the raja-yoga "are especially
and earnestly reminded that, with few exceptions, Yoga
can only be safely learned by direct contact with a
teacher/*
46
This however leads us to inquire whether
the implicit obedience to the teacher demanded by Hindu-
ism from the days of the Upanishads is not in itself a
danger. In so far as the devotee is immature such prac-
tice cannot be justly condemned if the character of the
teacher is above reproach. But who can judge the char-
acter of the teacher? He may be a saint with very eccen-
128 VEDANTA CENTERS
trie ideas. In fairness to the swamis, however, it must
be said that the members seem to be more responsible
than they are for retaining this ancient custom!
The yoga practice as it now stands is
opposed to the
spirit of modern science, for its whole ancient background
of theory is
magical and ascetic. A practice is
magical
(1) when it seeks to work in a realm above nature, or
(2) when it is secret or limited to a select few. Now on
die basis of classic Hindu philosophy, Vivekananda47
posits two realms, one of which is
psychical, inner and
subtle, while the other is
physical, outer and gross. The
subtle, he says, is the controlling cause of the gross. The
yogi seeks to control nature, or the gross realm, by work-
ing in the subtle realm of the mind above nature. More-
over, he tells us that "Yoga fell into the hands of a few
persons who made it a secret, instead of letting the full
blaze of daylight and reason fall upon it.
They did so
that they might have the power to themselves."
48
Thus
the classic yoga practice is
magical according to both parts
of the definition.
With his admiration for modern science, Swami Jnan-
esvarananda would like to "rid America of the idea that
Hindu meditation is
something hypnotic, occult or magi-
cal,"
49
but he will have a hard time doing it unless he
changes his view of reality as sharply divided into "outer"
and "inner." According to this teaching, the inner, or
subtle, realm is the Prana, or cosmic energy, which mani-
fests itself inside the body as the power of breathing. By
controlling our breathing, says the Hindu leader, we may
learn to control the cosmic breathing, or Prana, and thus
come to master all nature. Says Vivekananda:
The knowledge and control of this Prana is
really what is
meant by Pranayama. This opens to us the door to almost un-
Hmited power. Suppose, for instance, a man understood the
Prana perfectly, and could control it, what power on earth would
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 129
not be Ms? He would be able to move the sun and stars out
of their places, to control everything in the universe, from the
atoms to the biggest suns, because he would control the Prana,
This is the end and aim of Pranayama. When the Yogi becomes
perfect there will be nothing in nature not under his control. If
he orders the gods or the souls of the departed to come, they
will come at his bidding. All the forces of nature will obey
him like slaves. When the ignorant see these powers of the
Yogi they call them miracles.
The Yogis say that behind this particular manifestation there
is a generalization. Behind all
particular ideas stands a general-
ized, an abstract principle; grasp it, and you have grasped
everything. Just as this whole universe has been generalized,
in the Vedas, into that One Absolute Existence, and he who
has grasped that Existence has grasped the whole universe, so
all forces have been generalized into this Prana3 and he who has
grasped the Prana has grasped all the forces of the universe,
mental or physical. He who has controlled the Prana has con-
trolled his own mind, and all the minds that exist. He who has
controlled the Prana has controlled his body, and all the bodies
that exist, because the Prana Is the generalized manifestation of
force.
We see sects in every country who have attempted the control
of Prana. In this country there are Mind-healers, Faith-healers,
Spiritualists, Christian Scientists, Hypnotists, etc., and if we
examine these different bodies, we shall find at the back of each
this control of the Prana, whether they know it or not. If you
boil ail their theories down, the residuum will be that. It is the
one and the same force they are manipulating, only unknowingly.
They have stumbled on the discovery of a force and are using it
unconsciously without knowing its nature, but it is the same as
the Yogi uses, and which comes from the Prana?**
I confess I have never had the privilege of attending
any of these exhibits of mental power, nor can I testify to
the exercise of the various powers mentioned specifically
in Patanjalfs Raja Yoga, on which Vivekananda bases his
amazing statements: clairvoyance, the understanding of
animal speech, mind reading, invisibility, supernormal
strength, television, telescience, walking on water or
thoins, iEumination, telaudition, levitation, alternation of
130 VEDANTA CENTERS
size, extreme endurance, control of involuntary organs,
surpassing speed, broad intuition, fine discrimination, im-
perturbability, personal isolation, and others.
Here we have an enormous mass of enormous claims.
What shall we say about them? Shall we throw them all
overboard as so much obsolete fiction? Such procedure
would accord nicely with a certain modern temper, but
would it be scientific? On account of the dualism and
secrecy of the old-fashioned yoga, these astounding asser-
tions have persisted up till now in all their bold entirety.
When they meet the monism and publicity of modern
science, they will be welcomed, tested, criticized and
appraised. How much of their substance will remain?
Just now it is hard to tell, for modern scientific investi-
gation of mental capacity is still in its infancy. Perhaps
group hypnotism is one of the chief explanations of the
yogi's wonders. No doubt many beliefs are based on noth-
ing more substantial than clever frauds. Again, the very
concentration employed by the yogi produces a simple
uncritical state of mind in which any bit of imagination
is felt with the force of the utmost truth and reality. Cer-
tainly I shall believe I can touch the moon with the tip
of my finger if for a long while I persist in thinking noth-
ing else, just as when I am on the operating table and
almost overcome with anaesthetic I may be convinced that
the whole universe is
pervaded by the odor of ether. Any
event will seem true if unchecked by any other. All of
science and philosophy is just the criticism of events orig-
inally taken as self-evident truths.
Yet for all our hard-headed slashing at reported won-
ders, there will most likely remain a solid core of sig-
nificant and unusual powers that can be developed by
anyone who has a certain capacity, knows the method, and
is
willing to take the time. One of the chief obstacles in
the way of sifting the yoga practice for genuine achieve-
THE RAMAKR15HNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 131
ment Is that those who know most about ic arc me
reluctant to divulge their knowledge, perhaps on account
of pride, bashfulness, exclusiveness, or the justifiable de-
sire to prevent the spread of half-knowledge and mis-
guided popular enthusiasm which would foster all degrees
of trickery and deception. Moreover, the true yogi is not
supposed to use his powers. Another difficulty In learn-
ing about yoga at first hand Is the excessive amount of
time, patience, self-discipline and strenuous practice It
requires. To practice yoga In addition to regular work
Is to burn life's candle at both ends.
For example, the celebrated Hindu inventor, Sfrankar
A. BIsey, D. Sc?
Ph. D. (whose first name in classic trans-
literation is
Sankara), tells me that he used to practice
yoga in youth, and gained the power to read the mind in
a very simple, mechanical way, but only after a severe
course of diet, fasting and mental training. Consequently,
in the words of a friend writing in the East-West maga-
zine,
51
"he found It
impracticable to carry out such Yoga
practices any further while giving his attention to govern-
ment service/* With his Hindu lore, his knowledge of
magician's tricks, his long residence in the West, and his
scientific habit of mind, Dr. BIsey Is eminently fitted to
conduct research into yoga in cooperation with Western
scientists for the benefit of the modern man, and we may
hope that some day he will find leisure enough to turn
his attention to this fascinating problem.
Now the raja-yoga as presented to us by Vivekananda
Is not only magical but also ascetic. Above the two
realms of this world is a third the absolute, potential
realm of akasa.*
2
Here we have a double dualism a
dualism between mind and body, and a dualism between
the world of mind and body and the posited reality of the
passive and solitary self.
Beyond the vibrations of matter in Its gross and subtle
132 VEDANTA CENTERS
aspects, beyond motion there is but One. . . . Modern physics
. . . has demonstrated that the sum-total of the energies in the
universe Is the same throughout. It has also been proven that
this sum-total of energy exists In two forms. It becomes poten-
tial, toned down, and calmed, and next it comes out manifested
as all these various forces; again it goes back to the quiet state,
and again it manifests. Thus it goes on evolving and Involving
through eternity.
53
Here we see an attempt to Identify "kinetic energy"
with the cosmic Prana, the goddess Kali and the 'lower"
Brahman; and "potential energy" with the infinite akasa,
the god Siva and the "higher" Brahman. This combination
of Herbert Spencer and Hindu cosmology reminds us of
Zeno and Plotinus. How much science is there in this
persistent view?
As we look back over the spread of the Ramakrishna
movement, what difference can we note between its In-
dian and American development? In the first place, as
we have already seen,
54
the social service of the Rama-
krishna Mission is not carried on in America, while the
preaching of the Ramakrishna Matha is
kept up in both
countries. In India, the swamis of the Matha may either
wander alone or share the work of the monastery, but in
America they never lose touch with society. In their
native land all the monks are garbed in the saffron robes
of renunciation, but in the West, except when preaching,
they dress even as you or I. These are matters of land and
custom. But has there been any adjustment of message
and method?
We know that Swami Abhedananda made a few ac-
commodations to American institutions, and Swami Jnan-
esvarananda adapted his preaching to American ideas
mostly in form, but somewhat In substance also. How-
ever, no radical adjustment has taken place. The methods
are still based on the notion that the pupil will seek out
the teacher, and the message still includes the idea that
THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA 133
the world Is Illusion. As in India, so In America, the
function of the Matha Is
(1) to harmonize religious tra-
dition and (2) to preach the peaceful old Hindu Dbafma.
We notice two kinds of people among the converts to
Vedanta of the Ramakrisfana type: the few who remain
in their original churches with broader and more tolerant
views, and the many who plunge into Vedanta to find
peace for their restless souls.
If we stop here, however, we miss the most important
point of all, for in the Ramakrishna movement the influ-
ence of East on West is not so great as the Influence of
West on East. The work of the Ramakrishna Mission in
India Is far more extensive, and certainly more fruitful in
Its
practical results than the work of the Ramakrishna
Matha In both India and America, And the Mission, as
we have seen, Is a growth of the Christian spirit and Amer-
ican methods grafted on to Hindu stock. Getting his
Christian spirit from his Alma Mater and the Brahma
Samaj, and his training in organization from America,
VIvekananda went back to India and started a movement
that has won universal esteem for its unusually devoted
and effective service.
CHAPTER VI
THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY,
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT
One day a friend gave me a pamphlet bearing this title:
Descriptive Outline of
YOGODA
or
A system for Harmonious and Full Development
of Body, Mind and Soul
A Practical, Scientific Technique of Concentration
and Meditation Leading to Conscious Contact
with Inner Divine Forces
A Method of Recharging the Body, Mind and Soul
Batteries from Inner Cosmic Energy
as Taught by
SWAMI YOGANANDA, A.B.
of India
Swami Dhirananda, MA., Associate
Ninth Edition
Published by
YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
Los Angeles
On the inside of the front cover is this advertisement:
BOOKS BY SWAMI YOGANANDA, A. B.
Scientific Healing Affirmations. This book has become a world-
wide inspiration. These affirmations have been used at SwamTs
Healing Meetings and thousands have been healed and liberated
from body, mind and soul inharmonies. Scientific Explanation
and Unique Methods of Healing for different types of mind. 50c
Psychological Chart. 9th Edition. A practical and helpful chart
for Analyzing Human Nature and Conduct. A Psychological
Mirror. Highly recommended by many University Professors. 50c
Songs of the Soul. Intuitional Poems, inspired thru spiritual
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 135
realization. Includes "Vision of Visions" from the Bhagavad
Gita. For Chanting, Meditation, and Soul Revelation. "We
mark in some poems the power of Milton, in others the imagery
of Keats, and in all the philosophic depth of the Oriental
Sages." $1.50.
Science of Religion. Douglas Grant Duff Ainslee writes: "This
small book is the clue to die universe. Its value is beyond esti-
mation in words, since between these narrow covers is to be
found the flower of the Vedas and Upanishads, the essence of
Patanjali (foremost exponent of the Yoga philosophy and
method), and the thought of Sankara (greatest mind that ever
dwelt in mortal body!), placed for the first time within reach
of the multitude." $1.50.
SET OF ABOVE FIVE BOOKS, $3.75.
Philosophic Insight, by Swami Dhirananda. Unique philosoph-
ical exposition of the ideal and real in life. It embodies in essay
form die deepest Oriental thought. Its elevating message pre-
sented in a strictly psychological way is intensely gripping. $1.25.
Sheet Musk (for Piano). "Songs of Brahma," 35c. "My Soul
is Marching On," 20c.
Pasted on the blank page opposite this list of books are
a couple of dull yellow slips bearing the following
suggestion:
Enclosed please find my personal check (or money order) for
$25.00, for which please send me the twelve Lessons of the
Yogoda Correspondence Course. With these I will receive free
a set of five books by Swami Yogananda, and also one year's
subscription to the East-West Magazine.
In enrolling myself as a student, I declare on my honor that:
(1) I will practice the Yogoda lessons to the best of my
ability, and
(2) I will keep the Yogoda lessons for my own personal
use and knowledge unless otherwise permitted.
On the inside of the back cover is
pasted and folded a
light-green four-page leaflet containing testimonials to
Swami Yogananda given by certain members of his
Yogoda classes in several large cities of the United States.
Finally, on the outside of the back cover, the following
advertisement may be seen:
136 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
A UNIQUE MAGAZINE
Published by Swami Yogananda
EAST-WEST
BEAUTIFUL INSPIRING
A New Illustrated Non-Sectarian Magazine devoted to the
Spiritual, Psychological, Artistic and Cultural aspects of all Civili-
zations, especially the Oriental, with special reference to their
bearing on Present-Day, Practical Life. Articles dealing with
Spiritual Realization, Hindu Psychology, Practical Metaphysics
and the Truth-Offerings of East and West.
25c a Copy
509 Fifth Avenue New York, R Y.
About one-half of the 80 page pamphlet is devoted to
photographs and descriptions of Swami Yogananda and
his work, including many glowing testimonials of news-
paper writers, physicians and famous Yogoda students,
Luther Burbank and Madame Galli-Curci among them.
The other half is devoted to an explanation of his system
tending to arouse a keen desire to take his Correspondence
Course.
Yogoda, says the swarni on page 18, is the method of
giving harmony to the individual. "The word Yogoda
is derived from Yoga, meaning harmony or equilibrium,
and da, that which imparts. Hence Yogoda means that
particular system whose proper use can impart harmony
and equilibrium, to all the forces and faculties that operate
for the perfection of body, mind and soul/* Here the
swami is
reinterpreting the classic yogaf which teaches the
annihilation of mental activity, Sat-sanga is the society
that practices the method of Yogoda. Since sat means
truth, and sanga fellowship or society, the word Sat-sanga
means fellowship with truth, or The Truth Society.
The swamfs explanation of his method abounds in such
terms as electricity, vibration and evolution; will, concen-
tration and meditation; consciousness, subconsciousness
and superconsciousness; immanence, divinity and revda-
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 137
tion. He is American in both the terseness of his style
and the exuberance of his claims. He speaks in words of
popular science, and supports his statements by Hindu
lore and verses taken from the Bible. All his teachings
in the course described imply the notion that each human
body is connected by will with a divine cosmic conscious-
ness, or infinite energy.
In concentration, or the focussing of attention on vari-
ous parts of the body during exercise, the will can infuse
them with the healthful energy it draws from the cosmic
source of supply. The first
part of the course deals with
this concentration, which the swami claims is his own in-
vention. In meditation, or the focussing of attention on
the cosmic energy itself, the will can merge itself with the
divine. This second part is said to be adapted from the
ancient Hindu yoga for the use of the modern West. The
third and final part is devoted to various practical sug-
gestions culled from East and West for the improvement
of personality. The swami scorns neither medicine nor
exercise; he simply wishes to supplement and direct these
aids to health by force of will.
Aroused by these rich promises and two urgent follow-
up letters, I managed to obtain the Correspondence Course
and complete set of books, as well as all the copies of the
East-West magazine. The Psychological Chart is
pub-
lished in the form of a pamphlet with a pale-green cover,
while all the other bits of literature are small books that
shine forth in covers of brilliant orange or saffron, the
same color as the sannyasfs robe The magazine is of
ordinary size, with an attractive cover showing the two
hemispheres and the lotus-and-eye symbol of Yogoda.
The paper is excellent, and the thirty odd pages profusely
illustrated with photographs. Soon after, I received a
little folder with the swami's picture and this announce-
ment:
138 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
Fellowship of Faiths
in cooperation with
DHARMA MANDAL
(The Hindu Religious Association)
Three Lectures
by Swami Yogananda
Preceded by Music
Interpretative Plays or Pictures
AT THE UNION AUDITORIUM
229 West 48th Street, West of Broadway
On January 14, 21, 28 at 8:15.
I attended the first lecture, which was on The Meta-
physical Unity of Hinduism and Christianity. The
t
Union Auditorium" I discovered to be the Union Meth-
odist Episcopal Church. This small church was comfort-
ably filled at least the main floor with women and a
sprinkling of men, some of whom were Hindus. After a
brief organ recital, the chairman, the Reverend Eliot
White, a certain Episcopal rector, offered a prayer for the
sense of unity among men, and then introduced Mr. Kedar
Nath Das Gupta of the Fellowship of Faiths, who read a
short drama of love and faith called Savitri. Then the
chairman urged the formation of a group sufficiently inter-
ested in the play to provide an audience and cast for its
actual performance. He also advertised Yogananda's
books and the Calamus, a London quarterly of the Three-
fold Movement. He held in his hand the first number,
from which he read an editorial by the Reverend Will
Hayes,
Calamus, says the editor, is the name for the common
pond-weed chosen by Walt Whitman as the symbol of
comradeship. It also means pen, the pen of mutual appre-
ciation more powerful than the sword. Out of the cala-
mus, finally, is made the calumet or peace pipe of the
American Indian. Thus the Calamus magazine shall pro
YQGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 159
mote the unity of mankind. The Threefold Movement
works for human unity through the League of Neighbors,
for cultural unity through the Union of East and West,
and for spiritual unity through the Fellowship of Faiths.
Then Swami Yogananda was introduced as an Indian
lecturer, writer and philosopher. As he rose from his
seat in the audience to mount the platform, several persons
in the audience rose also, perhaps out of gratitude for
some benefit conferred by Yogoda, perhaps in honor of
the spirituality of the East, perhaps in accord with the
Indian pupil's respect for his master. The swami is short
and plump, with a striking face. His raven hair hung
over his shoulders in wavy locks even longer than usual
among Bengalis and he wore the vivid orange robe over
Ms Western attire. His first act was to read one of his
own poems, which he called "The Royal Sly Eluder," a
record of his personal search for God in ocean, tree and
sky, a search which ended in hearing God's voice within
the soul, calling out "Hello, playmate, here am I!" The
swamfs voice was loud and clear, his pronunciation good.
He then began his demonstration of the "metaphysical
unity of Hinduism and Christianity/* Out of the playful
popular presentation, I derived the following argument;
There are two methods of understanding the sacred
scriptures of any religion. The one is
inference based on
seme-perception, the other is intuition. The method of
sense breeds conflict and misunderstanding among differ-
ent religions, while the method of intuition brings appre-
ciation and unity. Intuition means experience, ^realiza-
tion," simple feeling. For example, let us take first the
doctrine of God. Intuition reveals that both Hinduism
and Christianity worship one God only, conceived vari-
ously as Father, Mother, Friend, Lover and so on. Of
course, Hinduism often worships God by the use of idols*
But does not Christianity have its "flagolatry"? If Hindu-
140 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
ism has its castes, does not Christianity have its denomina-
tions? Will the Pope and the Archbishop of Canterbury
exchange pulpits?
Or take the doctrine of creation, continued the lecturer.
By intuition we can find Hindu teaching in the book of
Genesis. If we use the method of sense and inference, we
notice a contradiction between the first and second verses
of the first
chapter of Genesis. "In the beginning God
created the heaven and the earth," says verse one; but
verse two says, "The earth was without form and void . . .
and the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters."
That is, the earth was not yet created. But by the method
of intuition, we understand clearly that verse one refers
to God's creation of the world in idea, whereas verse two
refers to God's creation in gross matter.
In like manner, the Eastern philosopher declared that
the Christian scriptures teach the Hindu doctrines of
karma and reincarnation. The doctrine of the Trinity too,
he said, is fundamentally the same in both scriptures. Ac-
cording to Hinduism, God was at first a great Spirit living
all alone. Bored with this monotony, he then projected
from Himself a vast ball of vibration. He then penetrated
the ball, filling every particle with His presence. This is
the Christian doctrine of the Trinity. Only the terms are
different. The original great Spirit is God the Father, the
ball of vibration is the Holy Ghost, while the spirit in the
ball is the "Christ-Consciousness."
It seems that the swami is
seeking to explain Christianity
in the light of the supposedly deeper knowledge of Hin-
duism, Like Ramakrishna and his followers he is
using
Hinduism as a basis for the reconciliation of all faiths,
like the Theosophical Society, he regards Hindu lore as
the source of the esoteric, or essential, truths that underlie
the exoteric, or literal, truths of Christianity. The
preacher of the evening surely had his audience with him
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 141
at least its audible members. Clearly they felt in Mm
a source of truth and comfort, inspiration and stimulation.
They nodded assent to his pronouncements and laughed
heartily at his jokes, especially when he called Christian
preachers "spiritual victrolas" and proclaimed that Chris-
tianity was suffering from ''theological indigestion/*
Yogananda closed his address with the famous Hindu
stress on the "inner" life. At a certain time of year, he
told us, the little musk deer goes mad after a certain
fragrance wafted to its nostrils. It rushes hither and yon
to find the source of it, and often perishes from over-
exertion, never knowing that the odor delectable came
from its own navel. Likewise, we in the West frantically
look for God outside, but fail to look within, where He
really can be found.
l. OUT OF INDIA INTO AMERICA
Swami Yogananda (bliss of yoga), like Swami Vive-
kananda (bliss of
discrimination) , was drawn to America
by a Christian congress. Like his forerunner also, he re-
ceived his Bachelor of Arts degree from the University
of Calcutta, He is likewise a Vedantist, but not a fol-
lower of Ramakrishna, and not a member of the Puri
group of Sankara's monastic order. He daims to belong
to the Gin group, and considers a Bengali yogi called
Babaji, or "Great Father," the "Supreme Master of the
Yogoda Sat-sanga movement in America and India/*
1
Although this master is Swami Yogananda's spiritual
great-grandfather, he is still
living, and his disciples claim
he is several hundred years old.
But BabajYs disciple Sri Syama Charan Lahiri Mob*
saya did not wish to live so long, and although appar-
ently in good health he deliberately took leave of his body
forever, while his cirde of pupils were pleading with
htm to remain on earth. Anniversary celebrations are now
142 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
conducted. This Lahki Maharaja, as he is called, was
known In India as a great yogi
2
who developed that part
of Patanjali's Raja Yoga known as the kriya-yoga? which
means the strict control of the body, mind and soul, the
study of ways of liberation, and the surrender of "fruits
of works" to God. Its plan of salvation Is very much like
that of the Bhagavad Gita, teaching one to be "calmly ac-
tive and actively calm/' Yogananda's parents were
Lahlri's disciples.
Lahiri was not a swami or celibate,
but a married saint and yogi, who "found God in the jun-
gle of city life and taught others how to find God there/*
Outward renunciation with inward craving, he declared, is
as bad as Indulgence. What the world needs Is modera-
tion. Whereas the West suffers from too much material-
ism, the East suffers from too much spirituality.
The
golden mean Is best, the practice of balance by meditation.
Srimath Swami Sri Yuktesvara Gzriji, initiated as a
sannyasi by Babajl and as a yogi by Lahiri, was likewise a
man of power, influence and balance, and the guru, or
master, of Yogananda. As his title indicates, he Is a mem-
ber of the Gin group of the monastic order founded by
Sankara. From this Yuktesvara came the inspiration and
command for the spread of Yogoda Sat-sanga in America,
Even as Vivekananda In his university days neglected his
classes and books to be with Ramakrishna, his master, so
did Yogananda before his Initiation slip away from study
to enjoy the fascinating personality of his master Yuktes-
vara. Says Swami Yogananda today:
It took me a long time to understand my master and Ms
miraculous power, though I had close contact with him. I have
seen miracles, and of all the wonderful things witnessed, I shall
declare to the world that I secured my A.B. degree through his
miraculous power. I used to always visit and stay with him, and
neglected my college work so much that I hardly knew where
my college books were. Two days before the university examina-
tion, I told my master I wasn't going to appear at the examina-
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 143
tion. He just changed suddenly and said, "Then all my relau
tions with you cease this Instant/' He Insisted and said, "All I
ask of you Is to appear at the examination." He declared I
would pass even though I had not studied. I
agreed reluctantly,
thinking I would write about his teachings In the answer paper
to questions on the writings to Shakespeare, I just agreed
literally to carry out his behest.
Next day he asked me, at first
gently, then vehemently, to go
to a certain friend of mine and ask certain questions of him every
morning of all those days that my A.B. examination lasted. This
Calcutta University A.B. degree, In some respects, is more diffi-
cult to obtain than a Harvard A.B. degree. There is so much
Injustice and difficulty set In the path of those being examined. I
did as my master told me; and strange to say, whatever questions
this friend of mine unconsciously told me to prepare for, I found
those very questions In my examinations.
After tie first day I declared to the world that I was going to
pass, and when I received the A.B. degree, my parents and
friends, who had given up all hopes about the success of my
college life, told me I had performed a miracle. That is
why
I am fond of putting the A.B. after my name in all my books
and articles. The A.B. title reminds me of this singular experi-
ence. When I
questioned my master, Sri Yukteshwar Giriji, he
just replied that faith, works, and knowledge of supermental law
can work miracles, where physical efforts of man fail.
My master Is still living in flesh and blood in India, and I
dare not tell all the wonderful things I have seen. This much
I can say: throughout the whole western world I have not found
a single one like him. . . . Americans who are good listeners and
love real progress now ought to go deeper than mere listening
to the philosophical message of India's spiritual science. They
should learn the technique by which the super-miracles of the
mind can be understood, and the higher laws applied to make
life not only financially successful, but blissful in every way.
4
Yoga technique, financial success and all-around bliss is
the swami's message in a nutshell, wMch was fairly well
outlined before he ever came to America. And in India
a university degree means financial success much more
than in America. Whereas Vivekananda's life was a series
144 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
of fitful turns, Yogananda's has been a steady develop-
ment.
While still in India, the swaml was Impressed by the
ideal of popular education along the lines laid down
centuries ago by Hindu saints and fisis, or wise men.
In 1917 he made an impassioned appeal for establishing a
Residential School in India for boys where they could receive not
only the ordinary intellectual training but also the knowledge of
leading the practical spiritual life and unfolding their own Inner
powers for lasting happiness and success in life. One of the
noble princes of India, the Honorable Maharaja Sir Manindra
Chandra Nundy Bahadur, of Kasimbazar, Member of the Im-
perial Council, Government of India, responded to the Swami's
appeal by offering one of his palaces and other surrounding
buildings, situated at Ranchi, in Bengal, and possessing spacious
grounds and suitable country environment, for use In establishing
such a school The Maharaja . . . also offered to finance the in-
stitution until ... it could be self-supporting.
Accordingly, on March 22, 1917, the Brahmacarya Vidyalaya
. . .
opened its doors with a modest enrollment of seven pupils.
At the end of the first year the repute of the school had spread
so far that there were hundreds of applicants for admission. . .
Only,300 were accepted, . . . Much of the class work is done out
of doors. An agricultural course Is given and gardening is one
of the occupations of the boys. . . . Industrial and commercial
training is given in tailoring, spinning, book-binding, cane-work,
modelling, typing, bookkeeping, etc. The boys are taught hygiene,
nursing, and first aid work. The regular school subjects are
taught. . . . There are story classes ... for the younger children,
and dramatic and debating societies for the older boys. Excursion
outings to distant places form part of the regular routine, to en.
courage love for natural beauty and to accustom the body to bear
exertion and fatigue.
But the chief distinguishing feature of the school is individual
attention received by each student and the close study made of
Ms nature and possibilities by his trained teachers, who record
the general character and psychological development and learning
of each child in a chart originated by Swami Yogananda for that
purpose. The students are divided in groups not according to
age and Intellectual progress, but according to individual moral
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 143
and spiritual growth. . . .
They are made to avoid all luxuries
and wrongly conceived ideas of happiness. Each student keeps a
record of his own changing tendencies, and is taught to make it
his own business to be better. . . . The atmosphere of harmony,
service and happiness is remarked by all visitors to the Institu-
tion, which is
being conducted during Swami Yogananda's ab-
sense by the capable Swami Satyananda. . . . Two other smaller
Schools similar to the one at Rancfai have been opened at Puri
and Bankura in Bengal.
5
The swami's method in America is
just an outgrowth and
adaptation of this enterprising, all-round method of edu-
cation. Unlike Vivekananda, he seeks to meet a need
rather than preach a dogma.
In 1920 Yogananda came to America as the delegate
from India to the Pilgrim Tercentenary Anniversary In-
ternational Congress of Religious Liberals in Boston,
Massachusetts, held under the auspices of the Unitarian
Church.8
TTiinMng this Congress wanted something
theoretical and profoundly Hindu, the swami did not ex-
plain his educational methods or yoga technique, but spoke
on "The Science of Religion/' a work which had already
been published in India, and was later elaborated and
printed in book form in America. While in Boston, how-
ever, he learned something very practical. Coming into
contact with various American cults such as Christian
Science and New Thought, he began to. admire their ef-
ficient methods of propaganda. At the same time, he was
convinced that they were teaching only smatterings of the
truth that Hinduism possessed as a whole. So he con-
ceived the idea of combining his genuine Hindu message
with American methods, and stayed in the new land to
teach. Before he had departed from India, his father,
who had undertaken the expenses of the long journey, had
said to him, "When do you expect to return?** The son
had replied,
"In about four months if the Americans
don't need me." But as events turned out, many Ameri-
146 THE YOGGDA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
cans did seem to need his message, as in the case of
Vivekananda, and so he stayed.
Through the financial assistance of his father and the enthusi-
asm of a few devout students, the Swami started a small Sat-Sanga
(fellowship of truth) Center in Boston. He lectured before
many clubs, colleges and associations. A small summer-school
was established near Waltham for students, mainly through the
cooperation of Sister Yogamata. The work grew and Swami sent
for his beloved associate, Swami Dhirananda, to come to America.
. . . Swami came to New York in 1923, aided by Dr. M. W.
Lewis of Boston, and in one lecture at the New York Town Hall
sowed the seed of interest in his work. He was invited by the
management of the Pennsylvania Hotel to become their guest, and
he gave lectures and weekly classes there.
Swami marvelled to find a great hunger for spiritual knowledge
among the New Yorkers, who are considered to live under a very
material environment. He had many distinguished students, in-
cluding Mr. Alvin Hunsicker, President of the Standard Textile
Products Company of New York, and employer of 15,000 men,
and Mr. J. W. Mott of the Traymore Hotel, Atlantic City, both
of whom have helped the Swami in his work. Mrs. G. F. Ham-
man, Mrs. E. Klotz, and Mr. E. C. Crowiey were also instru-
mental in spreading the mesage of Yogoda.
In early 1924 Swami visited Philadelphia and spoke there in
the Public Library to a capacity house, from which several hun-
dred were turned away. He left a large and enthusiastic class
in Philadelphia, including Mr. Leopold Stowkowski, the inter-
nationally known conductor of the Philadelphia Orchestra. He
received great cooperation from Mrs. E. Richdale (a friend of
India), Dr. Wilson, Mr. and Mrs. Eynon, and others, Swami
felt every city to be like a big human mind that vibrated differ-
ently. New York said, "How much have you got?*' Boston said,
"How much do you know?" Philadelphia said, "Who are you?*'
One Philadelphian did actually ask this question of Swami and
lie replied: "I come from a very high family headed by the
Almighty Father/* 7
In connection with this work, and in pursuance of his
plan to adopt American methods, Yogananda published
his captivating promotion booklet Yogoda, which gave
the prospectus of his class and correspondence courses.
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 147
About this time he was fortunate enough to secure the
services of a devoted and effective American secretary, and
he felt an inner call to extend the work further. In his
mind's eye he saw the West, and especially Los Angeles,
swept by his teachings.
Accordingly, he started out to cross the continent in a Maxwell
automobile, accompanied by Mr. Rashid and two students. . . .
By leisurely travelling and camping, the Swami managed to see
and study America and Americans very closely, and enjoyed each
moment of the trip. . . . Swami spoke to a cultured audience of
3,000 people in the Denver City Auditorium, where the city
organist played "The Song of India" when the Swami entered
for the lecture. A large class of Yogoda students was formed
with the helpful cooperation of Mrs. R Simmons, Mrs. Tedrow
and Mr. and Mrs. Smith. The city of Denver vibrated to Swami
the love for Nature, health-giving life, and the great personality
of Judge Ben Lindsey. Swami met Judge and Mrs. Lindsey, and
they became good friends and studied Swami's Yogoda System.
After traveling through Colorado Springs and Yellow-
stone Park, he sailed to Alaska and then returned to Seat-
tle where he spoke to large audiences. Mrs. C W. Wiley
and Mr. and Mrs. A. Willatsen helped to arrange for a
large and enthusiastic Yogoda class.
Proceeding to Portland, Swami lectured to huge crowds at die
Multnomah Hotel and had a large class of students. Mrs. Kloh
of the Portland Metaphysical Library and Mr. and Mrs. C P.
Scott were among those who aided materially in helping Swami
to spread his message. In Portland for the first rime Swami gave
his public divine healing meeting and prayer affirmations which
have proved so popular everywhere.
In connection with these meetings he wrote and published
his booklet Scientific Healing Affirmations.
In late October, 1924, Swami and his staff of three young men
reached San Francisco, and lectures were given to packed houses
in the Scottish Rite Auditorium. Classes of several hundred stu-
dents were given in San Francisco and Oakland. Finally, in
148 THE YOGODA SAT.SANGA SOCIETY
January, 1925, Swami arrived at his goal and final destination of
Los Angeles. The Great Divine Power seemed to have aroused
the whole city to receive the message of Yogoda, for truly Los
Angeles gave Swami a royal and hearty welcome. Clubs, col-
leges, societies, educational centers, churches and newspapers ex-
tended to him every courtesy and Swami's days were filled to
overflowing with engagements to speak, write, and be interviewed
everywhere. Then, when the free lectures began at the Philhar-
monic Auditorium . . . thousands were turned away each night.
Swami gave several classes and had about 1,500 students, who are
among the most loyal followers of the Yogoda Course and also
of a Special Advanced Course which the Swami gave in Los
Angeles for the first time in America.
One day during his Los Angeles stay, one of his students casu-
ally mentioned Mount Washington, Swami's soul was strangely
stirred at the mention of this place and suggested that they drive
up there on the following day. When he entered the grounds
of the Mount Washington Hotel site, he strolled about, and then
touching the bars surrounding the tennis court, he exclaimed to
his companions, "This place feels like ours!" . . .
Through the
kind and willing cooperation and donations of his thousands of
students throughout America, this property was purchased for the
American Headquarters of Sat-Sanga and Yogoda. The Hon.
James McLachlan, Mr. W. C. Bramhain and Mr. P. Rogers
helped greatly in the detailed legal end of acquiring the property.
On Easter Morning, Swami gave a beautiful and impressive Sunrise
Easter Service on Mount Washington. After Los Angeles, Swami
took a short vacation to view the unrivalled grandeur of the
Grand Canyon of the Colorado, and then proceeded to Long
Beach and San Diego where he met with great response, then
on to Fresno, and then a second series of lectures and classes in
San Francisco, Portland and Seattle. He spent September, 1925,
in Spokane, Washington. . . .
Everywhere the message of Yogoda
has aroused . . . attention and has been supported by leading
citizens of each city where the Swami has lectured.
With Swami Dhirananda holding down the main cen-
ter of Yogoda at Mount Washington, Swami Yogananda
felt free to tour the country from coast to coast with his
message of the balanced life, and during the next three
years he visited in turn Chicago, Rochester, Cleveland,
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 149
Pittsburgh, New York, Detroit, Gncinnati, Washington,
Buffalo, Minneapolis and St. Paul, and then Philadelphia,
Boston and New York again. He was not able to start
classes in New York, he says, on account of the high cost
of halls and advertising. Before he would enter any city,
a small staff of devoted voluntary workers, headed by his
secretary, would go before him and prepare the way by
advertising in papers and on billboards, and arranging
for meetings in clubs, liberal churches and similar institu-
tions. Then the swami himself would arrive a distin-
guished metaphysician, educator, lecturer and poet from
India and give a series of free lectures on India, religion
or the art of living. For example, in Buffalo he lectured
to the Rotary Club on "How to Recharge Your Business
Battery Out of the Cosmos/
9
After the lectures would come free healing meetings.
Men and women of wealth would become interested and
help to organize classes in private homes, hotels or halls,
as in the case of Vivekananda. In spite of the fee of
twenty-five dollars or perhaps because of it
many of the
classes were large, but the contagious personality of the
swami would effectively dominate the group and put it
through the Yogoda system of physical, mental and spir-
itual development. In the midst of the enthusiasm and
gratitude aroused by the success of the classes, the swami
would appoint a local committee to carry on the work
under a more or less gifted local leader who would be
instructed by the swami personally, and later directed and
encouraged by letter. Some leaders would give their serv-
ices free. Others would be supported by the group. If
in a year's rime everything went well, the swami would
allow a Yogoda Sat-sanga Center to be established with
more or less permanent officers, rules, and places of
meeting.
In addition to this "Traveling University" of Yoga-
150 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
nanda and his disciples, there has been developed at Los
Angeles the "Correspondence University" of the Yogoda
Course, which is announced by the ten cent booklet
Yogoda, sold with the aid of several high-pressure follow-
up letters on ochre, or "sannyasa-colored," paper for twen-
ty-five dollars or less,
8
and presented in three parts: the
"Tissue-Will System of Physical Perfection/' the "Scien-
tific
Technique of Concentration and Meditation/* and
the "Art of Material and Spiritual Success." In enrolling
himself as a student, the novice pledges himself to earnest
practice and obedient secrecy. This injunction of secrecy
is to prevent an unqualified or commercial teacher stealing
the system. The student understands that he may write
to the Yogoda Main Center for further instruction of
personal guidance.
The beautiful magazine East-West, published under
Yogananda's ownership and control, supplies the binding
twine of information and inspiration that holds together
the twenty-five thousand Yogodans scattered over the
United States in groups and as individuals. True to its
name, this magazine culls its literary gems from both East
and West, in striking contrast to Paramananda's Vedanta
monthly, the Message of the East, which is also true to its
name in propagating only Eastern culture. Whereas the
Message of the East abounds in Hindu stories, quotations
from the mystics of various lands and ages, Bengali hymns,
Krishna tales and commentaries on the Upanishads, the
colorful and copiously illustrated East-West tells you what
Mussolini says about science and religion, how an Amer-
ican student held his breath for fourteen minutes, why a
certain Silesian miner can run needles through his flesh
without injury, and that Zaro Aga of Constantinople,
who has been married ten times, has just celebrated his
one hundred and forty-sixth birthday. It
publishes edi-
torials by Yogananda, and concerns itself with American
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 151
problems such as yellow journalism and the crime wave.
It delves into the borderland between science and the
occult, reviews "inspiring new books," and offers poems
and pictures from East and West. And revelling in a
little multitude of "Yogoda Notices and Announcements,"
it
keeps alive the apostolic zeal of this new American cult.
Literary contributions by members are encouraged as a
testimony to the place Yogoda is
making for itself in the
hearts of the American people. One student offers this
fruit of his inspiration:
I am a Yogodan
I believe in a god of the medulla oblongata
I seek to unite East and West
I would recharge the batteries of my life,
Bathing my soul's beauty beneath cosmic rays.
9
And another bursts into song with a hymn to the tune of
"Oh Paradise":
Yogodal Yogoda!
Thou art my joy, my stay,
Thou cheerest me, thou leadest me
Through every joyous day!
10
2. THE MESSAGE
In his address before the Unitarian Congress of Re-
ligious Liberals at Boston in 1920, Swami Yogananda de-
livered a pure Hindu message based on a work published
in India, and later published in America in amplified form
as The Science of Religion, inscribed to his great Hindu
patron, the Maharaja of Kasimbazar. The final end of
all beings, says the swami in pure Vedanta style,
is bliss,
or the negation of pain. Through a great blunder, how-
ever, we confuse bliss with happiness, and so in our ignor-
ance desire happiness with its
pain rather than absolute
bliss without pain. The intellect will not rid us of this
fatal mistake, but in the intuition of "all in One and One
152 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
in all" a glorious vision of light appears, and we know
by Inner feeling that the bliss of the self is God, the goal
of life. There is no value in the finite, in life itself; it Is
only a means to the infinite.
Now there are four fundamental methods, continues
our Vedantist, "that will free the Ever-Blissful, Spiritual
self from Its baneful connection and identification with the
transitory body and mind, thus causing it to permanently
avoid pain and attain Bliss, which constitutes Religion/'
11
The Meditation Method is better than the Intellectual and
Devotional Methods, he says, but not so good as the final
"Organic, Scientific Method/'12
The Meditation Method,
to be sure, induces a state of "conscious sleep" in which we
axe free from the disturbance of the voluntary organs, but
It fails to free us from the disturbance of the organs that
are "involuntary and internal/'
This complete freedom can be accomplished only by the
"Organic, Scientific Method," says Yogananda. "I set it
down here from my own experience. I can say it will be
, found to be universally true. The practice of it is far more
purely blissful than the greatest enjoyment that any of our
five senses or the mind can afford us. I do not wish to
give any one any other proof of its truth than is afforded
by his own experience. The more one practices it with
patience and devotion, the more one feels intensely and
durably fixed in Bliss. Owing to the . . .
bondage of the
body for how many ages we know not ... it will require
patient practice for a long, long time/'
13
Our swami and yogi then explains the conditions of
practice. "The brain Is the supreme electrical Power
House" of the body. Out of this brain supply is dis-
charged the "Prank Current," or "Life-Electricity,"
through the six main centers of the nervous system: the
medulla, and then the ce'rvical, the dorsal, the lumbar, the
sacral and the coccygeal centers. These centers, in turn,
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 153
"discharge electricity to the different efferent and afferent
nerves." Now if the Self wishes to shut out the disturb-
ing reports of bodily sensation, it need only draw back the
electric flow "from the nervous system as a whole to the
seven main centers" where it is
"experienced in the form
of light." This can be accomplished by "magnetizing the
spinal column" by the concentration of attention, "the
great director and distributor of energy." When the at-
tention has succeeded in withdrawing the energy, the Self,
or Spirit, is freed from its contact with the body and mind.
"Death will then be under our control; for when we think
this bodily house is unfit and broken, we shall be able to
leave it of our own accord."
14
Since the attainment of painless bliss is the universal
goal, says the swami, and magnetizing the spinal column
is the best way to reach this goal, the problem of compara-
tive religion is solved. "If to abolish the sense of want
and attain Bliss is
Religion, . . .
everyone in the world is
trying to be religious, and can seek to be more completely
so by adopting the proper means. There is no distinction
here of caste or creed, sect or faith, dress or clime, age or
sex, profession or position. For this Religion is Universal.
If you said that all the people of the world ought to accept
the Lord Krishna as their God, would all the Christians
and the Mahomedans accept that? . . . But if you say, 'Oh,
my Christian, Mahomedan and Hindu Brethren, your
Lord God is Ever-Blissful Conscious Existence/ will they
accept this? Can they possibly reject it? Will they not
demand Him as the only One who can put an end to all
their miseries?"
19
Let us ask the swami one question. If you admit that
as a matter of fact most people seek happiness and not
bliss, on what ground, Swamiji, do you claim that every-
one really seeks bliss and not happiness?
On the ground, replies the swami, that bliss is a kind of
154 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
happiness. It is
unceasing happiness, whereas ordinary
happiness is fitful. Sorely if a person wants happiness at
all, he will want unceasing happiness even more. Happi-
ness is the absence of pain. It is
present when desire is
satisfied, to be sure, but only because the desire has been
removed, not because it has been fulfilled. It is
present
twice as strong when there is no desire at all. Bliss, or
unceasing happiness, is the native state of the soul. When
desire comes, it disturbs this state and causes misery.
When the desire is removed, the misery is relieved, and
we have a state called happiness, but since the pain of
former desire still
lingers, it is only half-happiness. Com-
plete happiness, or bliss, comes only when there is no
desire at all.
Thus we are asked to believe that happiness is the ab-
sence of pain, and desirelessness the native state of the
soul. This is the fundamental creed of the "Universal
Religion" offered by the swarni. If we doubt this creed,
we are asked to put it to the test of experience. Do not
doubt whether sugar is sweet, says the swami. Taste it.
But here lies the difficulty. The test will require "pa-
tient practice for a long, long time/* A life might be
consumed perhaps several lives just in making the test.
Furthermore, suppose the test is successful, and bliss be
attained. How can we tell this bliss is God? How do we
know there is not a better experience to be discovered by
another test? The swami does not condemn action only
desire. Perhaps we could all agree that peaceful action
is true happiness. But would this mean absence of desire?
Now the belief that God is
painless bliss is a Hindu
dogma or principle. Holding this dogma to be actually
universal, the swami therefore believes that every sacred
scripture must teach it. The Christian Bible, then, as one
of the world's sacred scriptures, must have a fundamental
Hindu meaning. Since the literal meaning is
obviously
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT
not Hindu, there must be another and deeper meaning that
is Hindu. Its real meaning must be hidden, esoteric, al-
legoric, intuitive. Thus Swami Yogananda, like Dr.
Annie Besant and others, proceeds to deal freely with
Christian scripture according to his own rules of interpre-
tation or exegesis. Every passage, he says, has three mean-
ings; the physical, the moral and the spiritual The spir-
itual, of course, is final. Let us see how the swami uses
Ms method.
"Unless ye have lifted up the Son of man, ye cannot
enter into the kingdom of God."13
This saying the swami
attributes to Christ. "The Son of man," he says, means
the body, and the saying as a whole means that "unless
we can transcend the body and realize ourselves as spirit,
we cannot enter into the kingdom or state of that Uni-
versal Spirit."
16
Again, when Saint Paul said, "I die
daily/' he meant that he knew "the process of controlling
the internal organs and could voluntarily free his Spiritual
self from the body and mind/* 17
And finally, "the mystery
of the seven stars of Revelation" means "the seven star-like
centers" of the cranium and spine.
18
The source of Yogananda's view of Reality lies in the
Upanishads, while the source of his "Organic, Scientific
Method" of attaining Reality lies in the Raja Yoga of
Patanjali, especially in its
kriya-yoga as developed by
his master's master, Lahiri Mahasaya. He differs from
Vivekananda in not mentioning the karma-yoga in The
Science of Religionj in dividing the raja-yoga into the
"Meditation Method" and the "Scientific, Organic Meth-
od," and in declaring that one method is the best. This
best or "Scientific, Organic Method" with its "seven main
centers" of
*
'nervous electricity" is based on our old
friend the Knnddini, with its seven "lotuses," or astral
nerve centers, which was added to the raja-yoga in India
some time after the seventh century.
19
Yogananda,, tin-
156 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
like Jnanesvarananda, does not insist that the nerve centers
are astral. Indeed, we get the impression they are physi-
cal. The Ojas, or infinite power in the brain, mentioned
by Vivekananda in his Raja Yoga
2
is conceived by Yoga-
nanda in modern terms as "the supreme electrical Power
House."
Such was his message to America when he arrived
fresh from India. To this message he still
clings, but his
emphasis has shifted. Owing partly to his shift of func-
tion from delegate to preacher, and partly to the influence
of busy American life, he no longer stresses the "baneful
connection" of the Spirit
with the "transitory body and
mind, but insists on the karma-yoga of the Gita, which Is
active calm and calm activity. And owing to his admira-
tion for the practical methods of Christian Science and
New Thought, especially in the work of healing, he has
adapted his own system of "bodily, mental and spiritual
development" to the art of healing as practiced in his
"healing meetings" and presented In his booklet Scien-
tific Healing Affirmations. Here he seeks to show that
"Life Electricity" (Prana), or "Omnipresent Cosmic Vi-
bratory Intelligent Energy," or simply God, is the only real
source of health.
Drags, medicine, massage, spinal adjustment or electrical treat-
ment all help to bring back the lost harmonious condition of the
cells by chemicalization of the blood or stimulation of certain
tissues. These are external methods that sometimes assist the
life energy to effect a cure. But they have not the power to act
on a dead body, whence the life energy has vanished, for there
Is nothing In a dead man that can utilize the properties of medi-
cine or electrical currents. Without the life energy, medicines,
etc., cannot have any healing effect on the human body. Hence
it can be seen that it is the life energy alone that can effect a
cure; all external methods of stimulation can only co-operate
with the life energy and are powerless without it.
21
The Power of Cosmic Consciousness is greater than the power
of your mind or the mind of others. Thus you should seek its
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 157
aid alone. But this does not mean you should make yourself
passive, inert or credulous, or that you should minimize the power
of your mind. Remember God helps those that help themselves.
He gave you will power, concentration, faith, reason and common
sense to help yourself in your bodily or mental affections. You
must use them all as you seek the Divine help. . . .
Always during
affirmations or prayer vibrations feel that you are using your own
but God-given power to heal yourself or others. Always believe
that it is not God only but yourself also who, as His beloved
child, tries to employ His-given will, reason, etc., to react on the
difficult problems of life. A balance must be struck between the
old idea of wholly depending on God, and the modern way of
sole dependence on the ego,
22
During the different affirmations, notice should be taken of
the physiological centers where the attention should be directed
L e.j the heart is the center where feeling is concerned, the
medulla is the source of energy, and the will proceeds from the
spot in the center of the forehead. Attention is unconsciously
directed to those centers, e.
g.}
when we feel, the attention is
centered in the heart and we feel it to the exclusion of all other
parts of our bodies. "We want to cultivate a conscious power
over the direction of attention to the centers of thought, will and
feeling.
255
Before starting to affirm, always free the mind of all worries
and restlessness. Choose your affirmation and repeat it first
loudly, then softer and more slowly, until your voice becomes a
whisper. Then gradually affirm it mentally only, without moving
even the tongue or the Hps. Affirm mentally until you feel that
you have merged into deep unbroken concentration, not uncon-
sciousness, but conscious continuity of uninterrupted thought.
GENERAL HEALING AFFIRMATION
Make us little children, O Father
Even as Thy Kingdom contains such.
Thy love in us is
perfection
Even as Thou art whole, so are we holy.
In body and mind we are healthy
Even as Thou art, even as Thou art.
Thou art perfect,
We are Thy children. . . .
Thou art everywhere,
158 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
In my heart, in my brain
In my eyes, in my face
In my limbs and all.
Thou dost move my feet
They are whole, they are whole.
My calves and thighs
They are whole, for Thou art there.
My thighs are held by Thee
Lest I fall, lest I fall.
They are whole, for Thou art there,
They are whole, for Thou art there. . . .
Let me feel
Thy loving thrill, Thy loving thrill,
Thou art my Father
I am Thy child.
Good or naughty
I am Thy child.
Let me feel Thy healthy thrill,
Let me feel Thy wisdom's will
Let me feel Thy wisdom's will.
MATERIAL SUCCESS AFFIRMATION
Thou art my Father
Success and joy
I am Thy child
Success and joy
All the wealth of this earth,
All the riches of the universe
Belong to Thee, belong to Thee.
I am Thy child
The wealth of earth and universe
Belongs to me, belongs to me. . . .
I have everything, I have everything
I am wealthy, I am rich
I have everything, I have everything
I
possess all and everything
Even as Thou dost, even as Thou dost,
I
possess everything, I possess everything.
Thou art rny wealth,
I have everything.
24
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 159
The swami's harmony of Hindu and Western notions
appears also In his Correspondence Course In practical
concentration and meditation, which Is Ms most important
contribution to American life. First let us consider the
Hindu notions. In the ''Scientific
Technique of Concen-
tration and Meditation," the "concentration'* may be
traced to the raja-yoga's dbarana, or the fixation of the
mind on one thing at a time In order to free it from dis-
traction, while the "meditation" may be traced to Its
dhyana, or the fixation of the mind on some divine mani-
festation. His favorite v/ord "contacting/* as In the slo-
gan "contacting Cosmic Consciousness/' comes from the
phrase "making samgama on/' which means combining
concentration, meditation and trance to penetrate any
given object. This Is how "wonderful powers" arise.
25
And when he tells us to charge the body with Prana, or
"Inner Cosmic Energy/
1
he Is
taking over the vitalistic
dualism of the Upantshads.
The aim of the old-fashioned yogi is to devote all his
energy to the practice of withdrawing from the body and
mind into a transcendent realm of visions and motionless
bliss. In like manner, the swami advises his pnplls to eat
meat substitutes, to eat only twice a day If
sedentary, and
to fast one day a week. Since matter Is only illusion, he
says, eventually we shall learn to live without food, like a
certain Indian woman near Ranchi, Bengal, who has not
eaten anything for forty years, so he claims. The sex life
also should be sublimated, he urges, even between man
and wife, until the spiritual union In love becomes a sub-
stitute for the sex union. The pledge of secrecy exacted
from each student goes back to the pre-Buddhistic times of
"secret sessions/* or "upanishads," between master and
disciple, while his use of mystic Identifications as in the
statement that the "sound of many waters'* of Revelation
is the same as the "rolling, roaring Om" also goes back
160 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
to the Upanisbads. In addition to the primary Yogoda
Course, there is the "Advanced Course," which deals with
comparative religion by the "spiritual" allegorical method,
and the still
higher "Initiation Course" called the "Auxili-
ator/* which deals with the KundalinL
At the same time, the course shows many Western at-
titudes. The original strenuous practice of yoga was in-
tended to free the soul from the body and mind, and
Vivekananda only followed an old-fashioned rule when
he cautioned his students, "Do not practice when the body
feels lazy or ill, or when the mind is very miserable and
sorrowful."26
But since Yogananda has adopted the mod-
em aim of healing the body and mind, and not escaping
them, he especially prescribes his system for all kinds of
illness and depression, and personally conducts healing
meetings. Like many other religious leaders today, the
swami wants to be scientific and philosophic. So he says
he agrees with Professor Millikan that all reality is vibra-
tion, spirit differing from matter only in its higher rate.
Although he tells us to "contact" Life-Energy in the old-
falhioned way, he also tells us to turn in the opposite
direction, and charge the body with Life-Energy. And
after we have become filled with God, we should go about
helping others to overcome their troubles. Without serv-
ing God in this way, he says, we will never know Him.27
The Yogoda Course, then, is not merely a yoga practice,
but a special combination more or less applicable to East
and West. As Yogananda says, it is
unique in its com-
bination of breathing, muscular tension and attention. He
might also have added, "suggestion" and advice. He
hopes to introduce this course into churches and schools
all over the world, to increase the power of attention in
the rational control of life. On this point of control the
East and West can agree, but seem to differ with respect
to the end of control, the West stressing creation, the old
East renunriAftnn ^
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 161
The swaml does not stop with teaching autosuggestion.
Combining East and West again, he uses suggestion on his
disciples in the form of a spiritual radio. In the East-
West Magazine we find this Yogoda announcement:
DIVINE PRAYER HEALING SERVICE FOR ALL
Every morning at seven o'clock Swami Yogananda sends a
Divine Healing Prayer Vibration to his students and all who
ask his help in healing and liberating themselves from physical
or mental disease or the spiritual suffering of ignorance. Anyone
who wishes to awail himself of this help, which the Swami is
happy to extend to all, may write to the Los Angeles headquar-
ters, briefly stating the nature of his or her trouble.29
The result in one case is a poem by a grateful and
rapturous devotee:
AT SEVEN
With hands elate,
My heart was lifted up
In prayer to the Great Spirit,
That I might receive
The blessing of my Master,
Garnered in the treasurehouse
Of cosmic Love
Then, like a stream of molten gold,
There flowed to me sudi treasure,
As ne'er in fabled tales was told
Of riches without measure.
And still it flowed, until at last
My heart overflowed with gratitude
To God, and to His Servant Blest,
Who sent me this Beatitude.30
Wondering whether seven o'clock referred to the swa-
mfs time or to the devotee's time, I asked for official in-
formation, and received the reply that the healing message
starts by the swami's time, but remains vibrating perma-
162 THE YOGQDA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
nendy in the atmosphere, so that the devotee can be sure
of results whenever he or she tunes In.
31
The message
must be repeated daily to keep the vibrations strong, fresh
and adaptable.
In every way possible Yogananda makes a combination
of East and West. In addition to morning meditation, he
recommends the devotional study of the Bible. But Ms
followers are urged to read other bibles besides the Chris-
tian, such as the Bhagavad Gita, the Imitation of Christ,
Shakespeare, Emerson, Walt Whitman, Francis Thomp-
son, or Tagore. In the Bible, he says, read just one verse
a day and try to feel it. We need less study and more
meditation. But the Bible is not above other books, and
Jesus, of course, is just one savior among many. "Spiritual
truth is one: interpreted by Christians it is called Chris-
tianity; by Hindus, Hinduism; and so forth/'
S2
In all his work the swami is careful to announce that
his movement is East-West and universal, and does not
interfere with anyone's traditional religion. The ideal of
the Society, he says, is only "universal scientific propa-
ganda/' Whoever becomes a true Yogodan need not re-
nounce his church, but may simply call himself a Metho-
dist Yogi or a Unitarian Yogi or a Roman Catholic Yogi
or a Christian Science Yogi or a Jewish Yogi or a Muslim
Yogi or some similar name. The truth of Yogoda, he
continues, lies not in any special creed, but in the common
intuitive, ineffable experience of its devotees, just as blind-
folded people can unite in enjoying the taste of an orange.
Our swami has even dabbled in the "social gospel,"
although it cannot be said that he connects it with his
teaching on meditation or devotion, or puts it at the heart
of his message. Indeed, every literary attempt at social
reform seems to be inspired by some special interest
Judging from his own statements in print,
83
his worthy
editorials "Yellow Journalism versus Truth" and "Spirim-
YCX^ANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 163
aHzing the Newspapers" were stimulated by newspaper
misrepresentations of himself and his India. His concern
with immigration reform was apparently due to the fact
that the United States laws worked against the individual
plans and national pride of his countrymen. Naturally,
he wanted a test based on quality, not race. Even Jesus
Christ, he said, would have been excluded as an Oriental,
His attention to the crime wave in America not only sug-
gests measures of control but also operates as a counter-
blast to an American woman's exposure of the worst side
of India, while Ms interest in American educational prog-
ress affords a nice opportunity for such a defense of Hin-
duism as this:
In Indk the ideal of continence and self-control is taught in
every house down to the lowest and most illiterate. There is
more immorality in any large American city than in the whole
length of India today.
84
Yogananda's eclectic spirit shines best in the realm of
general religious culture. He learns as he teaches, he
practices give and take. The celebration of Easter, Thanks-
giving and Christmas is not neglected at the Mount Wash-
ington main-center, nor is the Western Santa Claus omit-
ted from Christmas. Lincoln's birthday is utilized as
"Gardening Day/' and the Center itself has its birthday
party with cake and candles. Our swami even welcomes
American missionaries to India, especially those like
Henry Ford! On the other hand, he often regales Ms
admirers with Indian musk which he plays on four dif-
ferent Indian instruments, and publishes many oriental
gleanings in his magazine. When Walter Hampden's
presentation of The Ught of Asia failed, he wrote an edi-
torial in defence of this drama, and he likewise advertised
the reincarnation-teaching play called The Ladder pro-
duced for about two years at a loss of millions of dollars
by Mr. Edward B. Davis, a Texas oil magnate.
164 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
The universality of the swamfs selections can be clearly
seen in his treatment of immortality. His first solution of
the problem, of course, is the doctrine of reincarnation,
to which every orthodox Hindu clings as a description
of his Dharma, or eternal cosmic duty. In spite of his
many Western beliefs, our Hindu teacher is willing to
defend this doctrine in what he admits is its most fatalistic
form.
Even though we are tied to this wheel of cosmic birth and
death, even though no end is in sight, yet there is a way of
escape for us. All religions point die path. Through knowl-
edge, through non-attachment, through selflessness, through the
fire of meditation on spiritual reality, the seeds of all karma may
be roasted, may be reduced to ashes, and thus the soul may be
liberated from the otherwise eternal Wheel of Necessity.
35
To demonstrate the universality of this "cosmic truth,"
the swami tells us it is
potent in the heritage of the West.
In trying to make all
scriptures teach Hinduism he relies,
as we have seen, on the allegorical method of exegesis.
In trying to make all
philosophy teach Hinduism he inter-
prets history as follows:
Aristotle and Plato, both of whom have contributed very large-
ly to Western thought, very decidedly believed in Reincarnation,
and so did Socrates. The Jewish faith thoroughly approved this
belief. The early Gnostics and practically all the Christian
fathers, up to the fifth century, accepted it and wrote elaborately
about it. The doctrine slipped out of the European mind during
the Dark Ages.
30
Not content with this
attempt at historical proof, the
swami claims that reincarnation has actually been verified
by ecstatic yogis whose cosmic memories have recalled
definite events of their past lives.
Suppose I am a genuine
yogi. Suppose also I
happen to know nothing about
Abraham Lincoln in this life. But after a trance I reveal
certain facts to my friends, who are then convinced on
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 165
historical evidence that these facts belong only to the life
of Lincoln. According to the swami, this would prove
that in one of my past lives I was Abraham Lincoln.
37
Verification aside, the Hindu claims for the doctrine
of reincarnation many virtues. These claims may be com-
bined into three main arguments. The moral argument
deals with justice. If according to karma} or the law of
cause and effect in moral acts, the individual soul is re-
sponsible for the deeds done in its
past reincarnation,
then it is responsible for its
present condition, and so God
is relieved of all injustice due to present inequality of
individuals in rank and circumstance.
38
The religious argument deals with immortality. If we
believe in necessary immortality, we must logically admit
not only a never-ending individual life after death, but
also a never-beginning individual life before birth. If the
soul is eternal, it cannot possibly begin at one point of
time, such as the birthday of the body.
39
The scientific argument deals with individual indiffer-
ences. Take the case of genuine twins growing up to-
gether under the same circumstances. What can explain
the striking difference in their character? Only the theory
that the soul of the one is
eternally distinct from the soul
of the other, says the Hindu. And this means reincarna-
tion.
40
Hence Swami Yogananda's first solution of the problem
of immortality is the doctrine of reincarnation, a solution
that must be expected from any Hindu. But when he
wants to comfort his beloved flock with regard to the
"Mystery of Life and Death," he uses quite novel notions
gathered from Professors J. C. Bose, Millikan and Lovett
Evans, and then paints a picture of Heaven a social
Heaven, mind you that might possibly be conceived by
Saint Ramanuja, Emanuel Swedenborg and Sir Oliver
Lodge working together as a committee on the after-life.
166 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
Nothing is said about returning to an earthly body in the
next life.
Death above all else is a transition to a better land a change
of residence. The wise man who has opened his spiritual eye
finds that the death of the earthly life gives him a new beginning
in another supernal life. On this earth seeing we see not a
fluoroscope can show the bones of the fingers which the eye
cannot see. We do not see the cords of light blue, violet, aqua*
marine, orange, yellow, white, which bind the atoms and the
earth together. We hear the gross noise of the world and a few
sweet melodies and nothing more. . . .
In the mellow light of the other world, the wise perceive the
inner sides of stars, stones, living beings, corpses, dust, iron,
gold, earth, planets, dazzling with Infinite brilliancy. Every
object which we perceive has two sides the gross ugly outer
side present before the physical eyes, and the inner, most beautiful
side revealed to the eye of wisdom. The crude brick revealed
by the physical eyes appears to be like a garden of electrons, when
viewed through the spiritual eye. Human beings with skeletons,
ugly sinews and red blood appear as beautiful many-hued living
beings made of visible mellow materialized love. . . .
Everything talks there silently. The roses talk to the souls
with the language of spirit. . . . The gentlest earthly flower the
lily, violet, drunk with gross sunlight is not allowed to tread
the sanctity of that fair garden of the gods. The mortal, enslaved
by oxygen and sunlight, gorged with material food, faints at the
delicate airless
atmosphere of that divine supernal region. . . .
Souls in that region do not encase themselves in bundles of bones
with fleshly covers. They carry no frail, heavy frames to collide
and break with other crude solids. ... No bacteria, no thirst,
no selfish desires, no heartaches, no lust, no pain or sorrow, nor
boisterous fleeting joy, no accidents, shattering bones and skulls,
and no excruciating pain of parting, can ever visit there. , . .
Why
pity the dead? In wisdom they pity us.41
Thus Swami Yogananda is
all-embracing in his toler-
ance and desire to harmoni2e. In this he is not heretical,
but typically Hindu; for the Hindu theologian, as we
have seen in the case of Sankara, wants to take in every-
thing and drop out nothing. When Yogananda first came
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 147
to America he stressed the way of "knowledge" like Vive-
kananda, but after staying a wMle he began to stress the
way of "work/
1
As a yogi he still insists on the raja-yoga,
but in his preaching he relies less on Sankara and more
on the Bhagavad Gita. He has shifted from renunciation
to resignation. It seems that in Yogananda a portion of
ancient Indian history is
being enacted again before our
eyes, only on a world-wide scale. He is the reincarnation,
as it were, of the author of the Bhagavad Gita. He takes
his Upanishad heritage and adapts it not to the hard-
working people of India, this time, but to the hard-
working people of America. He preaches sweet resigna-
tion not to caste duties this time, but to modern business
methods and financial ambition for success. As Viveka-
nanda, figuratively speaking, was a Buddhist, Yogananda
is a Stoic of the more joyous and progressive kind,
42
a
Stoic saturated with Hindu bliss and American optimism.
With his genius for organization, Swami Yogananda
has put his message into systematic form, which I now
present as the last word on the subject.
AIMS AND TENETS OF THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA MOVEMENT
1. Universal all-round education, and establishment of educa-
tional institutions for the development of man's physical, mental
and spiritual natures.
2. Contacting Cosmic Consciousness the ever-new, ever-existing,
ever-conscious Bliss-God through the scientific
technique of con-
centration and mediation taught by the Masters of all ages.
3. Attaining bodily health through the "Yogoda" technique of
recharging the body-battery from inner life-energy.
4. Intelligently maintaining the physical body on unadulterated
foods, including a large percentage of raw fruits, vegetables and
nuts.
5. Physical, mental and spiritual healing.
6. Establishing, by a scientific system of realteation, the absolute
basic harmony and oneness of Christianity, Hindu Yoga teach-
ings, and all true religions.
168 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
7. Serving all mankind as one's larger Self.
8. Demonstrating the superiority of mind over body, and of soul
over mind.
9. Fighting the Satan of Ignorance man's common enemy.
10. Establishing a spiritual unity between all nations.
11. Overcoming evil by good; overcoming sorrow by joy; over-
coming cruelty by kindness.
12. Realization of the purpose of life as being the evolution
from human consciousness into divine consciousness, through in-
dividual struggle.
13. Realization of the truth that human life is given to man to
afford him opportunity to manifest his inner divine qualities,
and not for physical pleasure nor selfish gratifications.
14. Furthering the cultural and spiritual understanding between
East and West, and the constructive exchange of the distinctive
features of their civilizations.
15. Uniting science and religion through the study and practical
realization of the unity of their underlying principles.
43
3. THE METHODS
Aside from the saffron robe, worn only on ceremonial
occasions, the dim lighting, soft music and incense of his
meetings for worship, and his tours of personal instruc-
tion, the swami has only himself to show that he is a
Hindu teacher, as far as methods are concerned. Unlike
the Vedanta Centers, his movement is centered not in
India, but in a well-knit, nation-wide organization called
the Yogoda Sat-sanga Society of America, of which he is
the president.
44
It is governed by a national committee
which includes Mr. J. Harold MacDowell, a Cleveland
architect who built the Cleveland Auditorium, and Mr.
Alvin Hunsicker of New York, prominent in the textile
industry. The attorney is
Judge John F. Hylan, former
Mayor of New York. Since the Society is
incorporated
under the laws of Jersey City, New Jersey, the swarni is
responsible to his master in India only spiritually, not
legally.
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 169
The main center of the Society is at Mount Washington,
Los Angeles, formerly in charge of Swami Dhirananda,
but now in charge of Swami Yogananda himself.
45
Each
of the twelve centers in America46
is well organized with
a governing body and a religious leader who has been
personally trained by the master, and has signed a pledge
of loyalty. He is not considered an independent Yogoda
teacher, but just a teaching disciple. Three of these local
leaders are Hindus: Brahmacan (or Student) Nerod at
Los Angeles, Brahmacari Jotin at Washington, both Ben-
galis, and Pandit (or Sanskritist) Upadeshak at Cleve-
land, a Panjabi. These Hindus and some other local
leaders are supported by the local centers, while other
leaders give their services free. Some of the centers are
incorporated. Unlike the Vedanta societies, each center
is not independent, but a local branch closely connected
with the main center through legal responsibility, corre-
spondence, and the travels of master, secretary and staff.
We have noticed that the Vedanta centers have done
neither intensive community cultivation nor extensive ad-
vertising. The Yogoda Society does both. The main
center at Mount Washington is
very much like an Amer-
ican church in its methods. The Free Lectures on Sunday
are the preaching services, and a Sunday School is added.
The Wednesday Class is the prayer meeting. The Helpers
Association is the Ladies' Aid. There is also a Candy
Department that specializes in cactus candy, no doubt
inspired by Luther Burbank, one of the staunch Yogodans.
Plans for the enrollment and training of more teachers
have been announced.
The Society is
supported by fees from the Yogoda
Classes and Corespondence Courses, by voluntary monthly
payments on pledges to the main center, and by free gifts.
The institution of a two dollar national membership fee
is
being considered. From time to time the swami receives
170 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
personal gifts, such as a typewriter. He maintains himself
partly by money sent from India by his parents and partly
by one-quarter of the total income from the classes and
courses, giving three-quarters to the Society. The mem-
bers are encouraged to give towards the support of the
swamis' schools in India.
In order to release the swami from all commercial work
so that he can devote more time to "spiritual" meditation
and the propagation of the Correspondence Course, the
"Yogoda Publishing Company" has been organized by
Mr. Harry F. Sieber, a Yogodan and former bank presi-
dent. The company is
incorporated in Pennsylvania, the
original ten thousand dollars in cash having been supplied
by the Philadelphia Yogoda members. It plans to dis-
tribute its stock of two kinds among Yogoda members
broadly, and to have the stockholders of each center ap-
point their own representative as a director. While the
company is to acquire by purchase from Yogananda all
his writings and publishings, the control of the voting
stock is to be held by the swami himself.
Extensive advertising is carried on by the swamfs re-
peated city visits and lectures previously announced in
every feasible way by his staff, by the Yogoda booklet,
classes and courses, by letters, by the East-West magazine,
for which a special binder is sold, by books and three
pieces of sheet music for the piano, Song of Brahma, My
Soul is
Marching On, and Om Song. The American love
of insignia is not overlooked. The main center puts out
Christmas cards decked with Yogoda symbols, sentiments
and mottoes. For one dollar a member may purchase the
gold-plated, orange~and-blue-enamelled Yogoda pin with
the Yogoda emblem. This emblem appears also on the
front cover of the magazine. It signifies "the single spir-
itual eye of meditation, the prank star door through which
we must enter to find Cosmic Consciousness, taught by the
Yogoda method of meditation."
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 111
Swami Yogananda himself Is the biggest advertisement
for the Society, in spite of a newspaper announcement that
"Swami Yogananda keeps himself in the background/'
His face appears in
newspapers and on billboards, in some
of his books, and several times in his magazine. Every
Yogoda class has its
photograph; the class-members are
seated while the swami stands well in the foreground.
On one Fourth of July a large notice board at the entrance
of the Mount Washington grounds displayed a life sized
picture of the swami beside his message to America. The
organization arranges for photographs of the swami play-
ing one of his four musical instruments or conversing
with some American notable such as Governor Fuller of
Massachusetts or President Cooiidge. The swami attracted
notice when he prescribed a meatless diet for Cooiidge to
keep him cool! For two dollars any member may pur-
chase a beautiful framed photograph of his or her beloved
master. It is clear that Swami Yogananda is even more
American in method than in message.
The greatest difference between Vedanta and Yogoda
lies in method. The Vedanta swamis are still Hindus,
while Swami Yogananda, as it were, is a naturalized
American. The Vedanta swamis had to use American
methods to some extent in order to endure at all, but
Yogananda plunged into them completely. Both move-
ments are confined to the cities even the "peace retreats"
are for city dwellers but Yogananda has learned how to
work the cities. How can this striking difference best be
explained?
(1) Yogananda's master Yuktesvara was not as ascetic
as Vivekananda's master Ramakrishna. From his married
and city-dwelling master Lahiri he had learned the life
of balance, the Stoic rule of the Bhagavad Gita, and this
he passed on to his disciple, who was thus prepared to
accept the world, to do in Rome as the Romans do.
172 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
(2) Yogananda himself has a different personality
from Vivekananda. Not only is he less ascetic he is also
less impetuous and moody. He felt no great frustration,
crisis and sudden conversion, but developed his religious
life slowly and steadily from early youth. He was thus
more fit for the grind and responsibility of organization
work.
(3) Yogananda arrived in America a generation after
Vivekananda,, and thus found a more tolerant and liberal
nation which had learned something of India and had
accustomed itself to support a considerable number of
unorthodox cults.
(4) Yogananda attended a religious congress that was
more congenial than the one attended by Vivekananda.
He was not forced to defend his message against a host
of world-wide religions, but simply encouraged to explain
it before a group of appreciative liberals. He felt the
spirit of cooperation, and learned the methods of success-
ful American cults.
(5) Yogananda was fortunate in securing the services
of an efficient American secretary soon after the beginning
of his work, and he came on the scene after Los Angeles,
the hotbed of novelty, had grown tremendously. He did
not bother about Europe or India, but settled down to
"conquer" America.
(6) Yogananda, unlike Vivekananda, was a yogi by
nurture as well as nature when he arrived in America, and
thus met its shocks and strains with the methodical tech-
nique of relaxation drilled into him by his* master. He
keeps his health even when deprived of sleep, and so can
stand the strain of nation-wide organization. He has now
developed the movement so that he can give more time
to writing and spiritual training. He expects soon to
publish a work which will serve as the Yogoda textbook,
and a new book on prayer according to a modified yoga
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 173
method has just appeared (1930), entitled
Whispers
From Eternity, and proclaimed as "a completely fresh
analysis of the bewilderment in which multitudes of the
present generation find themselves ... a gateway to the
art of consciously contacting God/'
All these factors enabled Yogananda to
adapt Ms work
to American conditions more closely than Vivekananda.
4. THE MEMBERS
To Yogoda students as well as to members of the
Ramakrishna movement I sent out questionnaire letters.
But on account of the larger numbers of Yogodans, the
reports are much less reliable statistically, covering only
about two per cent of the entire
membership.
47
Yet they
can show which way the wind blows, and provide some
comparison between the Vedanta centers and the Yogoda
Society. If we omit the New York Vedanta Society, and
the Buffalo and Minneapolis Yogoda centers, where na-
tives of other lands are to be expected, both movements
appeal chiefly to ordinary white Americans of Anglo-
Saxon tradition, some of them descendents of original
settlers. The average age of the members responding is
practically the same in both movements, although several
of the Yogodans are under thirty-five, the lowest age of die
Vedanta group. Indeed, the more American methods and
breezy personality of Yogananda would be apt to draw
youth as well as age.
As in the Vedanta group, the women of the Yogoda
group outnumber the men three to one, but in the Yogoda
Society as a whole, judging from the faces in the numerous
clear
photographs of the large Yogoda classes, the pro-
portion is
only two to one, the same as in the Vedanta
movement according to the Census. Thus both Hindu
movements show an unusually large, though not alarming,
percentage of women. This is to be expected in most
174 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
religious bodies. The occupations of both men and women
show nothing unusual professional service, housekeep-
ing, clerical work and small business bulking more largely
than manual labor. Perhaps Yogoda attracts more teach-
ers, lawyers and medical men than Vedanta. Both move-
ments clearly operate in the great middle class, as do the
Protestant churches.
In the Vedanta group about three-fourths of the mem-
bers had orthodox parents, but in the Yogoda group,
nearly all. And while with Vedanta only a few of these
have remained in the churches, with Yogoda at least one-
third of them have done so. Moreover, in the Yogoda
group the percentage of religious wanderings or chronic
"seekers," is lower. Yet in both groups those who have
been wandering truth-seekers outnumber those who have
dropped into Hinduism by chance. It seems that on the
whole, Yogoda is much closer to the traditional Christian
Church than Vedanta, a point which is not surprising, in
view of the deliberate effort of Yogananda to adapt his
Hindu teaching to American methods and sentiment*
In many respects the reasons for conversion are the
same in both groups with some, a progressive broaden-
ing of outlook; with others, a solution of perplexing prob-
lems of creed. Many in the Yogoda group claim that the
swami's teaching makes them better church members.
Many delight in Yogoda's universal tolerance and love,
and its teaching of optimism and divine immanence. But
the vast majority become earnest Yogodans because of the
"wonderful" bodily, mental and spiritual benefits they
gain from its
practice of concentration and meditation.
In Yogoda much more than in Vedanta it is the clean-cut,
definite and systematic practice that converts people and
absorbs their leisure time and energy. Only two of the
fifty-one Yogodans reported less than a half-hour daily
practice, while many practice two hours a day and attend
YOGANANDA'S PRACTICAL CULT 175
several meetings a week. Some devote all their spare time
to Yogoda, which in a few cases amounts to three hours
a day. It is not hard to see where Yogoda makes its
strongest appeal.
The testimonials of those healed in the swamfs meet-
ings* classes or courses compare favorably with those of
Unity or the work of the Angelus Temple.*
48
Every issue
of the East-West rings with the witness of fresh grateful
devotees. Suffering humanity is cured of eyestrain, nerv-
ousness, stomach trouble, tobacco* fear, stiffness, and many
other ailments due to strain, worry, doubt, distraction or
lack of exercise. One person says the swami has removed
the cork from the botde of life to let in God's truth. An-
other says the Bible is now understood as never before.
A third exclaims that Yogananda has done as much good
as Jesus, a fourth that he must be a reincarnation of Jesus.
And so on. Says Luigi von Kunits, Conductor of the New
Symphony Orchestra of Toronto, "Yogoda has done and
is still
doing for me all that is claimed for it; youthful
energy that spurns fatigue, an almost complete immunity
from sickness and disease, intellectual alertness, steady
firmness and decision in willing and acting, a truly re-
markable quickening of ... memory, and a constantly
progressing calmness and mental tranquillity/'
**
So much for the causes of conversion. Now for some
of its effects. In the minds of one-fourth of the group,
Swami Yogananda fills the place of the ideal person,
while Jesus Christ remains the supreme savior of a bit
larger number. This comparative loyalty to Jesus makes
a sharp contrast with the indifference shown by Vedanta
adherents. However, a plurality of the Yogoda group
worship no one savior above another, but have many
favorites such as Luther Burbank, Albert Einstein, Thomas
Edison, Henry Ford, Bernard Shaw, Abraham Lincoln,
Manmohandas Karamchand Gandhi, Rabindra Nath Ta-
176 THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY
gore, Charles Fillmore, Stanley Jones, Walt Whitman,
Dhan Gopal Mukerji, L. Adams Beck, Ralph Waldo
Trine, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Marie Coreili, Helen
Petrovna Blavatsky, and Annie Besant. Many Yogodans
delight in works that are oriental and occult.
In the Vedanta group two kinds of people are prom-
inent: those who have just broadened their views, and
those who have adopted the Vedanta cult as their very
own. We meet with the same two kinds in Yogoda, with
the addition of a third, which is still actively Christian.
Thus in the Yogoda Sat-sanga Society of America we have
three classes: orthodox Christians, pure Yogodans, and
spiritual pilgrims who have wandered through the "bor-
derland" cults, such as Theosophy, Christian Science, New
Thought and Unity. Both Vedanta and Yogoda have
much in common with these American cults, but Vedanta
harks back to conservative Hinduism, while Yogoda leans
forward toward liberal Christianity.
CHAPTER VII
HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS,
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER
The position of the Vedanta and Yogoda cults in Amer-
ican Hinduism, and the importance of this Hinduism for
American religion in general is not fully evident from the
intensive study of these two cults alone. Hence a wider
observation is necessary. While I do not claim to know
the number and extent of Hindu movements in this coun-
try, and have neither the time nor the money to make a
systematic study of them all, I shall now set down briefly
what I know about all the movements that have come to
my notice, according to the ninefold classification pre-
sented in Chapter I. This will make nine sections. The
tenth and final section of this chapter will be devoted to
the world-wide cultural background of the advance of
Hinduism towards the United States.
1. ADDITIONAL HINDU CULTS
Baba Bharatfs Krishna cult, which in America is now
either defunct or very quiet, seems to be the oldest in
America after Vedanta. In 1904 a book called Shree
Krishna, the Lord of Love, written by Baba Premananda
(bliss of love) Bharati, was published by the Krishna
Samaj at New York. It seems that the Baba, or great
father, as he is called, stayed in America for about five
years, perhaps from 1904 until 1909- According to Dr.
Robert E. Speer, he was formerly a hill hermit in Tibet.
Coming to Los Angeles, he established a Radha-Krishna
temple there, and later claimed over five thousand fol-
177
178 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
lowers. He declared that he preached the eternal Hindu-
ism unadulterated by the West. Yet strange to say, this
pure orientalism, in his opinion, is
just the principle that
makes intelligible the dominant religion of the West. At
a farewell meeting presided over by a former minister of
the Gospel, he declared:
It has been my privilege these five years to preach to you your
own Christ, even as much as my god Krishna. I came not here
to thrust my religion upon you, but to help you to understand
your own God and your own religion. If I have talked of
Krishna and of the Vedas and Hindu philosophy it was only to
illuminate the teachings of your own Christ, to present him
before you In the limelight of the Vedas, and the X-ray of our
own scientific philosophies.
1
Here we have the familiar Hindu endeavor to accept
Christ, but only according to Hindu standards; and the
usual Hindu dalm that Hindu philosophy is scientific,
although it was systematized before the age of modern
science.
Yogi Hari Rama is another religious teacher who vis-
ited America for only a brief period, and then went back
to India never to return. He began his work here In 1925
and departed forever on September 1st, 1928, leaving his
Benares League, which embraces several centers in the
big cities, with national headquarters at 133 West 42nd
Place, Los Angeles, California. Like Yogananda, he com-
bined some harmless social and theological sentiment with
his yoga teaching, for his professed aims were to further
communal and international brotherhood, and to build up
in our hearts "Christ's love for all and everything in the
universe/*
*
He stressed everything "spiritual" nothing
"material/*
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 179
His lectures dealt with the control of the Pfana, or Slan
vital, by the "science" of breathing In order to master dis-
ease; with concentration and meditation for vitalizing any
part of the body; and with the mystic and occult powers
of the "Great Masters
1 '
of India. Like Yogananda again,
he gave more than one course, in ascending levels. The
Beginners Course taught the healing of self and others by
the control of food, and the awakening of the "Christ-
consciousness" by the control of the optic nerves. The
Advanced Course taught how to awaken the KundalinL
It referred to the Mosaic law and other tenets familiar to
the West. These courses were printed in outline form.
He also published a book containing a list of food com-
binations useful for "spiritual" development, recipes for
bodily ailments, and exercises for bodily defects.
In this way Yogi Hari Rama, more or less like every
other swami and yogi in the United States, sought to
mingle with Western tradition the Eastern lore of the
Tantra manual and the raja and hatha disciplines.
Very similar is the teaching of Deva Ram of 232 East
Erie Street, Chicago, in spite of the fact that the adver-
tisement of his Correspondence Course gives no hint of
attempts at interpretation in terms of Western religion.
Like Yogananda also, he claims that his lectures are prac-
tical, non-sectarian, and do not interfere with any religion.
The courses of ten lessons, "gifts of the Great Sages of
India for the good of all Humanity/* is published in the
form of a booklet which can be purchased for twenty-five
cents. It aims to inculcate physical, mental and "spiritual"
development, and deals with the "Subtle Spiritual Cen-
ters" of the body, presumably the lotuses of the Kundalini.
Here I shall let the announcement-folder speak for itself.
180 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
YOGA NAVAJIVAN
(Path to New Life)
Correspondence Course
Taught by SRI DEVA RAM SUKUL
Brahmin Philosopher and Metaphysician
President and Director APPLIED YOGA INSTITUTE
and HINDU YOGA SOCIETY
Editor "PRACTICAL YOGA'*
Spiritual-Will Control of Cosmic Divine Energy for Highest
Physical and Mental Perfection.
Yogi Technique of Concentration and Meditation for Spiritual
Realization.
How to maintain the Highest Rhythm of METABOLISM and
CIRCULATION in all
parts of the body.
Higher Law of Transmutation and Conservation of Vital Life
Fluid for Rejuvenation and Regeneration of Body.
Conscious Control and direction of Life Energy for the Har-
monious natural functioning of the Ductless Glands, thus Elim-
inating the infirmities and Debilities of advancing age and insure
Everlasting Youth.
A folder entitled "YOGESSAR" announces lectures by
Swami Bhagwan Bissessar of Ajodhya, India, in the Junior
Pioneer Association Building in St. Paul, Minnesota, be-
ginning May 15, 1929. This swamfs American address is
P. O. B. 3, Oakland, California, and his folder presents
him to the American public as follows:
SWAMI BHAGWAN BISSESSAR was born of High Caste Hindu
Parents of Aryan descent. When a boy he was sent to England
to be educated and attended Eton College and Oxford University.
Several years later the Swami made a trip around the world for
the sole purpose of studying the religions, the philosophies and
the mode of living of the various nations. This gave him a broad
and tolerant view of life and a keen understanding of the world's
peoples. He then went up into the Himalayan Mountains,
where he spent years at the feet of the Masters, studying and
absorbing the Ancient Wisdom of India.
At the completion of his studies he was given the title "Swami
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 181
Bhagwan Bissessar," which means a Spiritual Teacher of God, and
was sent out to teach humanity the way to NIRVANA. After re-
maining in India for some time he received the call to come to
the Western World and impart his own interpretation of the
Eastern and Western philosophies, having combined them in
what he calls "YoGESSAR."
This "noted Hindu metaphysician/' this "Distinguished
Yogi Philosopher and Hindu Psychologist, called the
Foremost Philosopher of Asia by the American Press,"
teaches, as might be expected, the way of "spiritual" real-
ization, which is intended to give "health, youth, success
and happiness." His lectures and private classes in the
jnana and raja yogas deal with such subjects as Prana and
karma, eating and breathing, relaxation and sleep, and
the easy acquirement of wealth. His tuition fee is twenty-
five dollars.
One cannot refrain from wondering how the swami rec-
onciles the way to Nirvana with the way to easy wealth.
And it seems strange that a swami, or one who has sup-
posedly renounced all property, should teach others how
to get it. But the old Hindu custom is for each man to
stick to his function regardless of another. Thus the
swami may stick to his wealth-renouncing, and the man
of the world may stick to his wealth-getting, and each may
encourage the other to be true to his own duty, or sva-
dharma. But can a swami living in America actually
be a wealth-renouncer?
In 1917 a young Madrasi Hindu known as His Holiness
Srimath Swami Omkar established his Santi Asrama in the
Totapalli Hills of southeastern India after clearing a fifty-
acre spot of jungle with much strenuous toil. This Peace
Retreat, which can be reached by mail at Santi Asrama
Post, Godavari District, Madras Presidency, South India,
182 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
was founded in memory of Swami Rama Tkatha, a Hindu
mystic of considerable Christian understanding, who grad-
uated from Forman Christian College, Lahore, taught
mathematics there, and later made a preaching tour of
America. To Omkar's Retreat came men and women of
various faiths to find rest for body and mind among the
beautiful shade trees and fruit trees of the garden, and
the Santi Mission which preserves the Retreat also runs a
children's secular school and publishes works on the spir-
itual life, including Peace, "an English Monthly Journal
of Life, Light and Love/* and Santi, a monthly magazine
in the Telegu language.
In 1923 the first American branch of the Indian Asrama
was established in Philadelphia under the name of Sri
Mariya Asrama. Its president is Sister Mariya lona, its
secretary Brahmacari (or student) Suryananda, and its
latest address 1928 North 61st Street, Philadelphia. Per-
haps Swami Omkar can now be reached at this place. An-
other branch is the Peace Center at 1111 South Alvarado
Street, Los Angeles. Among the swami's pamphlets for
sale at this center are My Creed, Meditation, Christ the
Savior, Do You Want God, Daily Prayers, Tears Divine,
The Coming of the Master, Are You Preparing for the
Crucifixion, Christmas Tidings, Outcaste, The Divinity of
Man, and Mother America.
As a swami, Omkar is a follower of the first swami,
Sri Sankaracarya, the great Hindu theologian whose name
is often abbreviated to Sankara. As an admirer of Swami
Rama Tiratha, Omkar is somewhat familiar with Chris-
tianity. Accordingly, he selects those aspects of Christian
teaching which coincide with the teaching of Sankara,
especially Christ's feeling of oneness with God, humanity
and the world, and his universal love and pity. In his
leaflet Message of Niagara Falls, Omkar hears the mighty
cataract speak to him as follows:
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER
Dear child of God, my message to you ... is ... to pour
out all that you have ... in a continuous and never-ending flow
of service. ... As an image of God, you can afford to give . .
infinite love and eternal peace. Peace and Love are your own
Birthright. Do not withhold these precious gifts like a miser.
Share all your perishable and imperishable riches with the whole
of humanity. Drown the world in peace and joy. Bathe hu-
manity in health and glory. ... I give because I cannot keep.
Behold how the whole world gazes at me ... in awe and ad-
miration. How beautiful is the giver. So, my sweet brother,
be a giver of peace, love, harmony, bliss and glory. . . .
likewise in his Daily Prayers, the swami suggests the
following passage for meditation:
I will shower flowers of hope and love wherever I go. Help
me to cheer, to encourage, to strengthen, to uplift ... the down-
trodden with Thy blessings. Above all, allow me to recognize
nothing but Thee in every face I meet. Let me realize that in
serving others I am serving Thee and Thee alone, for Thou art
the all-pervading and all-interpenetrating Life, Light, and Love.
Thus Omkar appreciates the similarity between Jesus
and Sankara owing to Sankara's so-called lower belief in
God as the ground of the world. But at the same time he
follows Sankara in the so<alled higher belief in God as a
transcendent realm of bliss wholly unattached to the
world, which is thereby considered illusion. In his pam-
phlet Do You Want God he cries, "Let us feel that God
alone is the only Reality, and all else is mere delusion."
In like manner he denounces all sects and creeds, and
exalts private meditation as the simple, silent "realization"
of God conceived as a state of "superconsciousness/*
which in common with many Hindu preachers in America
he calls
<t
Christ<onsciousness." In like manner also he
interprets the resurrection of Christ as a leap beyond the
world of name and form, with all its distinctions of good
and evil. In his pamphlet Afe You Preparing /of the
Crucifixion he cries:
184 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
O dear beloved ones! How can I
attempt or succeed in de-
scribing or expressing the Glory of this Christ-consciousness? In
this exalted state there are neither the blamed nor the biamer. . . .
Here there are neither forms nor names. ... It is a state of
Changeless Peace.
But the swami comes back to the world of good and
evil when he blames Miss Mayo for blaming Mother
India. In his booklet Mother America he writes:
Here is our sister Mayo . . .
engaged in ruthlessly wounding
the feelings of three hundred and twenty millions of calm, for-
bearing and undefending Indians, and in singing lullabies to
herself for so doing. She is doing harm not only to the Indian
nation but to all lovers of India and Truth both in the East and
in the West . . . inestimable harm to the whole world. . . . She
had no love in her heart; hence she could find none lovable. She
came with a repulsive spirit,
and the same condition greeted her
eye wherever she went.
Now I am not blaming Swami Omkar for blaming Miss
Mayo. Nor am I
blaming Miss Mayo for blaming Mother
India. I am simply pointing out the swami's loyalty to
Sankara and the Upanishads whereby he holds two dif-
ferent conceptions of God, the "higher" conception in
which "there are neither the blamed nor the biamer/' and
the "lower" conception in which blaming may be con-
sidered a just and creative act, as when Sankara blames the
Buddhists for unsettling the minds of the people. Accord-
ing to the "higher" conception Swami Omkar does not
blame Miss Mayo: according to the "lower" conception he
does blame her. Whether the contradiction here be real
or apparent, the swami makes no attempt to explain it.
In short, what Swami R. S. Narayana of Lucknow says
about Omkar's booklet Meditation (in the Foreword)
may be said about Omkar's whole preaching: "Without
caring in the least for language or logic ... he has freely
given vent to the free flow of his inner feelings. . . ." And
these feelings are sweet feelings of love. It is love for
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 185
India that leads him to blame Miss Mayo: how can love
remain Indifferent?
Yogi Ramacharaka teaches a system that is none the less
Hindu because he happens to be an American named Wil-
liam Walker Atkinson.3
His books, which deal with most
of the yogas and with much oriental occultism, are obtain-
able at the "Yogi Publishing Society/' 80 North Clark
Street, Chicago.
4
Many of these teachers of wisdom from
abroad are more than lecturers, and yet can hardly be
called founders of new cults. Even the cults they repre-
sent cannot be called cults in the full sense. A fairly new
religious form seems to be developing In America; some-
thing in between a sacred community and a secular audi-
ence, which might be called a supplementary cult, or a
religious class that appeals chiefly to chronic "seekers."
The Dharma Mandal, or "Aryan Religious Associa-
tion," organized by Kedar Nath Das Gupta, a Bengali of
long residence in London and New York, features less
lecturing and class work, and more worship and enter-
tainment. I can describe the aims and methods of the
association no better than by herewith presenting its con-
stitution:
THE DHARMA MANDALA
1. This Society shall be called DHARMA MANDALA
Association for the cultivation of Dharma.
(a) "Dharma is that which promotes spiritual growth and
evolution and leads to the realization of the unsurpassable Good,
the Supreme Worth.'*
(b) Dharma is Religion as spiritual endeavor without the
necessary acceptance of a religious "creed."
(c) Dharma is
practical Philosophy which satisfies reason and
enables Man to attain full Self-realization, divine Perfection and
186 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
unconditional spiritual Freedom while still living here on earth,
(d) Dbarma is in complete harmony with Science in so far
as Science is ascertained truth, not mere speculation.
2. The objects of the Dbarma Mandala shall be:
(a) To promote life's onward march and uttermost fulfil-
ment by the realization of the Supreme End of all human en-
deavor.
(b) To meet the spiritual requirements of those that are dis-
satisfied with dogmatic forms of religion and religious "creeds."
(c) To meet the spiritual needs of Hindus outside of India,
including followers all of Aryan Paths such as the Vedic, the
Puranic and the Tantric, as well as the Jaina, the Buddhist, the
Sikh, the Brahmo and any others originating from Aryan life and
thought.
(d) To bring about a better mutual understanding, sympathy
and co-operation between the Aryan forms of Dharma and all
other endeavors for the spiritual advancement of Man.
3. The means to be pursued for the carrying out of the afore-
said objects shall be religious services, rites, ceremonies, social
and religious plays, fairs and festivals, spiritual instruction and
guidance of a special and personal kind and other practices of
Dkarma; as well as all forms of educational activity conducive
to Dharma and to the growth of mutual understanding, sympathy
and co-operation among aspirants to spiritual development in all
races of mankind.
4. The membership of the Dharma Mandala shall be open to
anyone in sympathy with its objects.
5. No one is
required to renounce his particular form of
religion to be a member.
The significance of this movement for America lies in
the fact that it tends to bring Hindus and American
Theosophists even closer together than they are at present.
The brief history of the association is
given by Mr. Das
Gupta as follows:
The inaugural meeting of the Dbarma Mandal was held in
America at Carnegie Hall in New York on June 23rd, 1928,
and in England at the Grotrian Hall in London on November
llth, 1928. Since then several meetings were organized very
successfully in London and New York and were highly appre-
ciated by the large congregation.
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 187
Endorsers in India, include
His Holiness Shri Shankaracharya Dr. Kurtkoti of Bombay;
Swami Gnanananda of Benares;
The Maharajah Sk Pradyot Coomar Tagore of Bengal;
Shrijut Jugal Kishor Birla of Calcutta.
Extracts from "The Times of India," February 4, 1929:
"A public meeting was held at Girgaum, Bombay, on Thurs-
day night, January 31st, under the presidentship of His Holiness
Shri Shankaracharya Dr. Kurtkoti to inaugurate a home and a
foreign mission to propagate the Vedic Dharma.
"Dr. Kurtkoti in his introductory speech said that it was essen-
tial to coordinate the secular and spiritual life of society at home
and abroad through the medium of the Vedic Dharma. The first
step in this direction was to organize a mission in India with
branches in London, Paris and New York. Several persons, in-
eluding princes and prominent among them, Sir Tukoji Rao
Holkar of Indore, had offered their services for this work."
The first number of the magazine Dharma, managed
and edited by Mr. Das Gupta, Suite 829, 152 West 42nd
Street, New York, aims to "present India from India's
own point of view/* the view in which the divine appears
everywhere, the view that Rabindra Nath Tagore de-
scribes as follows:
There sounded a voice in the ancient forest-shade of India
reclaiming the presence of a soul in the burning flame, in the
owing water, in the breathing life of all creatures, in the un-
dying spirit of Man. Those men who awoke in the world's
early surprise of light were free and strong and fearless, crossing
the barriers of things in joy and meeting the One in the heart
of the AIL
2. HINDU CULTURAL MOVEMENTS
Perhaps the most impressive form of cultural Hinduism
in America at present is the Threefold Movement. One
day I decided to pay a visit to its
sponsor, Mr. Kedar Nath
Das Gupta, who had arranged for Yogananda's lectures
at the Union Methodist Episcopal Church at the beginning
of 1929. I had already met this Hindu promoter at the
188 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
first lecture, and having received a cordial invitation to
visit him, went to his office at 152 West 42nd Street, New
York. This address I found to belong to the Knicker-
bocker Building, in view of Times Square. The Threefold
Movement uses two rooms on the eighth floor. Mr. Das
Gupta, I discovered, is the same man who organized the
Dharma Mandal: he is
promoting both a cult and a cul-
tural movement. He is just past middle age, with^ gray
hair and a rotund figure, a man of benevolence and simple
charm.
"When did you start the Threefold Movement?" I en-
quired, getting down to business.
"Over twenty years ago, I dreamed a wonderful dream/'
"In Calcutta?"
"Yes. Struck with the fact that in spite of her variety
of communities, castes and cults, India has a common
background of culture, I dreamed that all the world, with
its various nations and races, might some day live and
move in cultural unity. So first of ail I joined my country-
men in the fight for svaraj, or self-rule. For I realized
that world unity depended on mutual freedom and respect.
We saw we couldn't get rid of British rule until we had
first got rid of our economic slavery. So in 1902 we strove
for svadesi, or home industry. We vowed hand on heart
not to sell our souls to the luxury of the West, but to keep
happy with the khaddar, or coarse cotton cloth spun and
woven in our native land. Encouraged by Rabindra Nath
Tagore, I
opened a svadesi store, and became Secretary of
Industrial Exhibits in Calcutta. I even sailed to London,
to establish there a market for our goods. But at that
time I was young and inexperienced. The big British
capitalists
soon killed my little business."
"What then?"
"I began to give lectures on India, and present our
classic dramas, such as Kalidasa's masterpiece Sakuntala
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 189
and Sudraka's The Little Clay Cart. Also Tagore's lyrical
plays, and Savitri, an adaptation of my own. Here was a
chance for me to help India and advance world unity at
the same time. In the field of culture, at least, the British
were approachable. So in 1910 I founded my Indian Art
and Drama Society/ which in 1912 became The Union
of East and West/ I laid down the rule that all contro-
versy whether political or religious must be avoided. My
society was like a green bamboo. It could be made into
a flute of praise, but not a stick of censure/*
"But what brought you to America?"
"In 1920 1 met Tagore in London. He told me America
was wonderful, and urged me to go there with him. I
scraped up all my money and went. I was now convinced
that the stage was the most effective way of presenting
truth. I engaged the Garrick Theatre and put on one of
Tagore's plays. Alas, I lost eight thousand dollars. But
the cultural success was worth it! Then I
got permission
through Margaret Anglin to use the Frazee Theatre free.
Later I said to myself, Look at all the church auditoriums
going to waste on weekdays! I went to John Haynes
Holmes. He allowed me to give in his newly recon-
structed church building two performances of Buddha,
adapted from Edwin Arnold's Light of Asia. Likewise,
William Norman Guthrie let me use the auditorium of
St. Mark's in the Bouwerie, and Rabbi Wise put the hall
of the Free Synagogue at my disposal."
"How did you manage the stage settings?"
"Well, I came to realize that such accessories only
obscure the profound message of the play. So bit by bit
I gave them up, till I
surpassed Ben Greet in this direc-
tion. Sometimes I even gave up costumes. But costumes
in a garden make the best effect. I once produced a play
in George Gray Barnard's Cloister."
"But when did you start the Threefold Movement?"
190 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
"It came about in this way. In 1924 I met Charles
Frederick Weller, who was running the 'League of Neigh-
bors* in Elizabeth, New Jersey. He is a great social
worker. His aim is to help the stranger within the gates,
whom you Americans call 'the dirty foreigners/ Weller
and I decided to join our two movements and also create
a third the 'Fellowship of Faiths' based on a principle
too seldom put into practice, the principle of appreciation.
Brotherhood is more than mere peace or tolerance, and in
my opinion, it can be encouraged best by art by sacred
songs, dances, and the drama. I
appealed to the minis-
ters. The response was surprising. We opened centers
in New York, Philadelphia and Boston. Also in London
and Dublin/*
"Where do you get your money?"
"Mostly from wealthy individuals. We also make a
general appeal."
I thanked my kind informant, and departed to study the
literature he gave me.
The message of the Threefold Movement is
quite sim-
ple: mutual appreciation of East and West. It stands for
"the Realization of Peace and Brotherhood through Un-
derstanding and Neighborliness uniting people of all
Races, Religions, Countries, Classes and Conditions not
merely by Preaching but by Practice by building Bridges
of Mutual Appreciation across the Chasm of Prejudice/*
It has "no creed to 'put over/ no institution. It does not
seek to change or weaken anyone's traditions or convic-
tions. It enables individuals and groups to enlarge their
own souls by appreciating unfamiliar neighbors through-
out the world. By understanding and serving his country
as a whole, a citizen becomes more useful to his native
town. Similarly, an American Christian will the better
serve his own nation and his church by also appreciating
the people of other creeds and countries/* Both National
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 191
Prosperity and International Peace are essentially spiritual.
The Threefold Movement seeks to develop a conscious-
ness of unity adequate to the jacf of unity created by
modern means of communication.
The methods of the Threefold Movement are likewise
patent to the Western mind. The organization is federal
and democratic, including ''Committees of One Hundred*'
in fourteen cities of nine countries, namely, New York,
Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, Baltimore, Chicago,
London, Dublin, Paris, Geneva, The Hague, Berlin,
Peking and Calcutta. At present the main center is in
New York where the general executives, Mr. and Mrs.
Welier and Mr. Das Gupta, carry on their work. The
Rev. Robert Norwood, D.D., is the president of the New
York Committee, while the chairmen of other committees
are, for example, the Rev. Joseph Fort Newton, D.D., in
Philadelphia, and Sir Francis Younghusband in London.
This organization seeks to work with others without
overlapping or competition. It is not a Hindu sect, and
it has no cult. It presents its
message through settlements,
churches, colleges, the Young Men's Christian Association
and similar institutions. "It is not a machine but a move-
ment." Its publications include bulletins, reports, Mes-
sages, newspaper contributions, and a bound book by Dr.
Alfred W. Martin, entitled The Fellowship of Faiths. For
one of the Messages Das Gupta has compiled a "Fellow-
ship of Worship which includes prayers, hymns and
poems selected and adapted from Western poets and the
scriptures of the world. For example, one hymn is
"Akbar's Dream,*' a paraphrase of Tennyson's poem by
Will Hayes. It begins:
Of each fair plant the choicest blooms I scan,
For of the garden of the King I'm free
To wreathe a crown for every Mussalman,
Brahman and Buddhist, Christian and Parsee.
192 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
Another method of work is the production of classical
plays of the Orient, such as the Hindu Sacrifice by Tagore,
with Hindu music and dancing, and The Cnmson Camel-
lia, a Japanese drama acted in English by Japanese players,
with Japanese music. Exhibitions of Eastern arts and
crafts have been organized in England and America, and
neighborhood service has been rendered to needy individ-
uals, especially bewildered foreigners.
In four years, meetings have been held on an average of
about one a day, with a total attendance of about 100,000.
These meetings include select dinners, mass meetings,
festivals and popular lectures such as "Pictures of Hindu
Life" by Dhan Gopal Mukerji, and "Glimpses of Chinese
Manners and Customs" by Dr. Inming C. Suez, the Chi-
nese Consul General. In Chester, Pennsylvania, under the
auspices of the League of Neighbors, a large hall, deco-
rated with flags of many nations, was filled with peqple
of various communities in picturesque national costumes.
An outstanding annual event is "Peace Week," observed
in May with large cosmopolitan gatherings.
In London, England, one of the meetings of the Fellow-
ship of Faiths gathered together in common "Tributes to
Christianity" notable representatives of eight different
faiths, including:
1. Dr. A. D. Jilla, a Zoroastrian
2. Abdul Majid, a Muslim
3. the Maharajadhiraja Bahadur of Burdwan, a Hindu
4. the Hon. Dr. W. A. de Silva, a Buddhist
5. Sir A. Conan Doyle, a Spiritualist
6. Rabbi Moses Gaster, a Jew
7. Dr. Annie Besant, a Theosophist, and
8. Dr. F. W. Norwood, a Christian
The intellectual character of the Threefold Movement
may well be described by selecting a few of the statements
purporting to express what the Movement "has learned":
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 193
The real conflict is not between France and Germany, or East
and West, or between any other nations, but between the forward-
moving idealists in each country and their own backward-looking
fellow-countrymen.
Culture is a potent means of unifying people of divergent
races, languages and religions as illustrated in the cultural unity
... of the peoples of India . . . who differ extremely in religion,
race and language.
Unity cannot be achieved through enforced or attempted uni-
formity. Increasing differentiation is God's and nature's way of
life. Each must cherish that consciousness of unity which is
enriched by free variety and differences.
Consciousness is the determinant of external facts and forces.
The internal, the unseen, the mental-emotional-spiritual faculties
in every man enable him to create anything be can conceive and
hold faithfully in consciousness not only personal health and
prosperity but social relationships and conditions, local, national
and international.
The International School of Vedic and Allied Research,
if not so demonstrative at present as the Threefold Move-
ment, is
perhaps even more venturesome in its ideal, which
is nothing less than complete Western appreciation of
Aryan culture. Its motives are the desires of Easterners
to promote their ancient culture in the West, and the
desires of Westerners to enlarge their vision and profit by
the culture of the East. Its methods are purely academic.
The Director is Pandit Jagadish Chandra Chatterji, and the
Secretary Dr. George C O. Haas, an American Sanskrit
scholar with a deep appreciation of Hinduism.
The pandit and his co-worker feel that the truths of
Hinduism and other eastern systems of thought have not
had a fair chance in the West. Until now Hinduism, for
example, has crept in unbidden, and masked by such
movements as Theosophy and New Thought. Or it has
been stored away in American Hindu cults such as Ve-
danta and Yogoda that have only a weak connection with
194 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
the dominant concerns of the West as a whole. Accord-
ingly, these scholars are adopting methods calculated to
weave Hindu ideals into the very fabric of Western cul-
ture and education.
In the mind of the West until now, they say, Hindu
notions have been rare and curious specimens from a
strange land, carefully labelled and stowed away in libra-
ries by Western scholars, many of whom have never been
to the East nor understood the meaning of the concepts
they handle. Accordingly, the aim of the friends of
Eastern culture must be to furnish Western universities
with genuine professors of Aryan learning, that is, schol-
ars who shall be able to present Eastern learning from the
standpoint of the East.
So Pandit Chatterji and his colleagues have created the
International School of Vedic and Allied Research, with
centers in America, Europe and India. The Executive
Council of the American Section is
composed of well-
known university men such as John Dewey, John H.
Finley, Stephen R Duggan, Paul Munroe, and William E.
Hocking. Its president is Charles Rockwell Lanman, Pro-
fessor Emeritus of Sanskrit, Harvard University. The
president of the British Section is the Marquess of Zetland,
while the temporary president of the All-India Committee
is Mr. M. R. Jayakar.
The Director of the whole School, of course, is Pandit
Chatterji. The title of pandit proclaims him a Hindu
Sanskrit scholar of the ancient orthodox way. He studied
in the Government Sanskrit College, Calcutta, and ob-
tained from the Bharata Dharma Maha-Mandala, or All-
India Religious Association, Benares, the title of Vidya-
Varidhi, which means Ocean of Learning. He received a
degree also at Cambridge University, England. He was
formerly Director of Oriental Research and Archaeology of
Kashmir, and Chief of the Department of Religious Ad-
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 195
ministration and Education of Baroda. Finally, he is the
author of several books, including Hindu Realism, which
presents the metaphysk of the Nyaya-Vaisesika School in
a form intelligible to the modern reader.
In support of its
position that the mutually comple-
mentary nature of the cultures of East and West is of
vital and practical interest, the School has announced four
definite aims:
1. The establishment of educational relations and exchange
scholarships as between the universities of America, Europe and
the East, especially India.
2. The development of a wider interest in the languages and
literatures of Vedic origin and affinity as an aid to general culture
and in particular to humanistic studies.
3. Systematic studies in Vedic, Indo-European (Aryan),
Sumerian, Semitic, Hittite and other "West-Asiatic" and allied
subjects, in the light of the latest archaeological discoveries.
4. Continued archaeological research in Armenia and other
places where such discoveries have already been made or may be
made in the future.
A special department corresponds to each of these aims.
1. The Department of Educational Exchange and Re-
lations aims to equip both Easterners and Westerners with
Eastern lore. Western universities that at present do not
offer courses in Oriental studies will be urged to do so,
those that do offer them will be requested to include them
in general courses for the Bachelor of Arts degree, while
those that go this far will be encouraged to prepare their
teachers to impart Eastern culture with a sympathetic un-
derstanding.
Hindu students will come to the West to study Western
science, sociology and methods of research with a view to
making an accurate study of Hindu thought from an ap-
preciative standpoint. To this end an Indian University
is being planned for America, and another for Europe.
Western students will be sent to India to study Hinduism
196 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
in 'living contact with Hindu scholars." To this end an
American University is
being planned for India "like the
American universities at Peking, Cairo and other centers
in the Orient/* This means that the funds and teachers
will come chiefly from America. The International School's
American university in India "is to be housed in the well-
known palatial building known as Radha Vilas, situated
directly on the banks of the Ganges, opposite the palace
of the Maharaja of Benares and close to the Benares
Hindu University/'
2. The Department of Vedic, Indie and Indo-European
Studies and Research aims to bring before the public eye
in the West the whole mass of Hindu lore in all its orig-
inal garb and meaning. To this end many massive en-
cyclopedic works will be produced, and a special effort
made to exhibit Hindu philosophy as the practical search
for
ct
a state of unlimited bliss and enlightenment," as a
body of doctrine in harmony with Christianity, and as
"the fulfilment of Western thought/' Moreover, the
School has announced three courses, which will be given
as soon as a sufficient number of students have registered
for them: 'Introduction to Hindu Philosophy" by Director
Chatterji, and "Sanskrit" and "Readings in the Upani-
shads" by Professor Haas.
3. The Department of Allied Studies and Research
aims to make a detailed investigation of the possible
points of connection between the Hindu Aryans and the
more Western races like the Semites. Why, for example,
do the childhood stories of Krishna and Christ have so
much in common miraculous birth, slaughter of the in-
nocents, and so on?
4. The Department of Archaeological Research aims
merely to carry on the field work required by the third
department.
The School will include a bureau for supplying infor-
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 197
mation about the East, and also a reference library. Two
numbers of its
quarterly Journal have already appeared,
published by the India Institute Press, Times Building,
New York, where the School has its main office. "All
persons who are interested in the work of the School and
desire to participate in its benefits, while at the same time
assisting it in carrying out its
plans, are invited to become
members of the India Institute."
Many of the proposals that are to be realized in the
School were advanced by Professor Lanman in his presi-
dential address before the American Oriental Society in
1920. The following quotation will give in a nutshell the
attitude of the Eastern and Western promoters of this and
similar institutions supporting the advance of Hinduism
in America:
The business of us Orientalists is something that is in vital
relation with urgent practical and political needs. The work
calls for co-operation, and above all things else, for co-operation
in a spirit of mutual sympathy and teachableness. . . . India with
her great learning is eager to adopt modern methods to make
that learning available to her own sons and to us, and is ready
to join hands with us of the West in order to make her spiritual
heritage enrich our too hurried life.5
Another cultural movement is the Hindustan Associa-
tion of America, Inc., 500 Riverside Drive, New York,
which aims to ease the way for young Indians to come and
study in America, and to promote Indian culture. Its de-
clared purpose is to interpret India to America and Amer-
ica to India. To this end, literary and social gatherings
are arranged, bulletins
6
published, and an official monthly
circulated, entitled The Hindustanee Student, of which the
editor is a young Bengali by the name of Hemendra Kisore
Rakhit. Of course, Hindustan means India, and India is
not wholly Hindu; yet in numbers and age of culture
198 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
the Hindus are dominant, as well as by far the most plenti-
ful in America, so that any all-India movement, especially
in America, is
apt to be mainly Hindu, and so can be
included in our study.
A cultural movement similar to the Hindustan Asso-
ciation, but working among the public at large instead of
chiefly among students, is the India Society of America,
Inc. The director, Hari G. Govil, whose office at present
(1930) is in the Times Building, New York, is a Hindu
of the Vaisya caste, and hails from the city of Bikanir in
the country of Rajputana, West India. At the National
Hindu University, Benares, Govil read for the Bachelor
of Science degree, and in 1920 carne to America to enter
the Boston Institute of Technology. Meeting difficulty
here, he began to study electrical engineering in the Col-
lege of the City of New York. But the need of making
a living was so pressing that he was forced to abandon his
technical career, and work at odd jobs including lecturing
and manual labor. Of these two kinds of work, the lec-
turing proved to be the more fruitful, for many Americans
were interested in what he had to say about India.
Thus Govil turned from the study of engineering to
the teaching of Hindu culture. Encouraged by the grow-
ing group of India enthusiasts, he published the first issue
of his bimonthly Oriental Magazine in 1922. Out of the
interest created by this magazine grew the India Society,
founded in 1924 and incorporated in 1925. The purpose
of this society is "to promote cultural relations between
India and America/' and its methods also are cultural,
for while it desires to promote Indian independence, it
seeks to exclude all
political and sectarian controversy.
Like Jagadish Chandra Chatterji of the International School
and Hamendra Kisore Rakhit of the Hindustan Associa-
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 199
tion, Govll deprecates all religious propaganda whether
Christian or Hindu on the ground that it excites animosity
and interferes with the deeper exchange of culture which
Is the best way of promoting freedom, peace and brother-
hood among the nations of the world. The honorary presi-
dent of the Society is Ananda K. Coomaraswamy; the
president, J. T. Sunderland, D.D. The Advisory Council
includes Upton Close (Joseph Washington Hall), Sidney
L. Gulick, Jane Addams, Huth St. Denis and Heywood
Broun. The record of the Society up to date may now be
presented in its own words:
PLAN AND PURPOSE
Through its mastery of physical science, America holds the key
to power in the world without through the knowledge of the
inner forces, India holds the key to the world within. Just as
America represents the highest achievement of the scientific West,
India represents the lofty spiritual achievement of the East.
For the unity of mankind and its fullest harmony, the intel-
lectual and spiritual aristocracy of America and India should
unite in an effort to attain to a more sympathetic understanding
of each other.
Towards this end, the India Society of America has undertaken
to establish the first India Center in America to promote cultural
relations between India and America. . . .
Origin
The India Society of America was founded by Hari G. Govil
in 1924 and sponsored by such distinguished men and women
as Prof. Edwin R. A. Seligman, Columbia University; Oswald
Garrison Villard, editor of The Nation; Prof. John Dewey,
Columbia University; Prof. William R. Shepherd, Columbia
University; Dr. Alfred W. Martin of the Society for Ethical
Culture; Rev. Dr. John Haynes Holmes, minister of the Com-
munity Church; and Rev. Dr. J. T. Sunderland of the Uni-
tarian Church. . . .
Out Object
In 1925 the India Society was chartered under the laws of
the State of New York as a membership corporation with the
following purpose:
To promote a broader and more intelligent understanding be-
200 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
tween the peoples of India and America through the study and
appreciation of India's art, literature, philosophy and culture;
To disseminate a more accurate knowledge of the Hindu
people, their lije,
ideals and aspirations.
ACTIVITIES
During the five years of its existence the Society has success-
fully carried on its work of interpreting India to America
through various activities which may be briefly summed up as
follows:
Lectures
The Society has arranged lectures on Hindu art, literature,
philosophy, religion, science and contemporary life of India by
prominent authorities and leaders, among whom may be men-
tioned: Dr. Ananda Coomaraswamy, Dr. and Mrs. James H.
Cousins, Rev. C. F. Andrews, Mme. Sarojini Naidu, Prof. S.
Radhakrishnan, Prof. Surendra Nath Das Gupta, Pandit Jagadish
Chandra Chatterji, Dhan Gopal Mukerji, Prof. Herbert Adams
Gibbons, Prof. Robert Morss Lovett, Prof. Harry F. Ward, and
Dr. Jagadisan M. Kurnarappa.
Social Gatherings and "Receptions
Special functions have been arranged in honor of distinguished
visitors from India to give an opportunity to members and friends
of the Society to make personal contact with some of the out-
standing personalities of India.
Art Exhibitions
The Society, in cooperation with the Corona Mundi Inter-
national Art Center and the American Federation of Arts, spon-
sored the first Exhibition of Modern Hindu Paintings in New
York City, with a lecture on Renaissance In Hindu Art, by Hari
G. Govil, Director of the Society. Under the joint-auspices of
the India Society and the Art Alliance of America, another Ex-
hibition of Modern Hindu Art, consisting of water-color paint-
ings by contemporary artists of India and brought by Dr. Jajnes
H. Cousins, was arranged at the Art Center, accompanied by
lectures on The Art and Culture of India, by Dr. James H.
Cousins. The Society also introduced to American art lovers, the
Exhibition of Heerameneck Collection of Rare Asiatic Art at the
American Art Galleries with an illustrated lecture on The Art
of India, by Dr. Ananda Coomaraswamy, Hon. President of the
India Society.
The Society represented India at the First Oriental Exposition
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 201
held In New York Qty In 1927-1928 and arranged an India
program.
Hindu Pilms
With the cooperation of the India Society, the premiere show-
ing of The Light of Asia, produced in India by an all-Hindu
cast and portraying the life of Buddha, was given at Carnegie
Hal! by the Film Arts Guild.
Shiraz, another film made in India with an all-Hindu cast re-
counting the romantic tale of the creation of the world-famous
Taj Mahal, was also presented with the cooperation of the India
Society.
Radio
The Society arranged India programs of lectures and musical
recitals over the broadcasting stations WEAF and WJZ . . .
station WGL . . . and other stations. . . . More than thirty pro-
grams have been broadcast. . . .
Publications
The Society has published informative literature on India for
free distribution among members, public libraries and educational
institutions. The following monographs . . .
may be secured by
writing to the Secretary: India and America by Dr. Ananda
Coomaraswamy, The Marriage of East and West by Claude Brag-
don, The Western Discovery of the Orient by Dr. Louise M.
Keuffner Avery, India's Place in the World's Civilization by J. T.
Sunderland, East and West by Rabindranath Tagore.
Library
The Society has a selected collection of books on India and
Asia available to members. New books are constantly being
added. The Society has presented significant books imported
from India to the important libraries in America.
First India Conference of America
As an outstanding achievement, the Society organized the First
India Conference of America, held in New York Qty during the
three weeks from October 4th to November 5th, 1928, to present
a comprehensive survey of India's life and thought, art and
culture. The Conference opened with the First Exhibition of
Modern Hindu Paintings. A recital of Hindu instrumental and
vocal music was included in the program. More than 50 lectures
were delivered from the platform and more than 25 over the
radio. The Conference aroused great interest and received much
favorable comment in the press. Many prominent speakers from
202 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
India and America participated. Mme. Sarojini Naidu, co-worker
of Mahatma Gandhi and formerly president of the Indian Na-
tional Congress, made her first New York public appearance at
the Conference.
INDIA CENTER
As the outcome of the round-table discussions of the First India
Conference of America, it was decided at the annual meeting held
in January, 1929, that in view of the growing interest in India's
art and culture and in the work of the India Society, definite steps
be taken to establish ... the India Center, where all the activities
of the India Society will be concentrated.
Endowment Fund
In line with this general resolution of opening a Hindu Center
for the cultivation of cultural relations between India and the
United States it was decided to raise an Endowment Fund of
$300,000 in India and America to finance the purchase of the
building and to create a Permanent Endowment Fund to sustain
the work and enlarge the program of the Society.
Location
The six-story building at 334 Riverside Drive, near 106th
Street, New York City, has been purchased for the India Center.
The location of the building is ideal in every respect.
Facilities
After thorough alterations, for which Frederick Kiesler, the
noted Viennese architect, has been engaged, the premises of the
India Center will provide the following facilities:
Auditorium
(a) for holding lectures and other functions.
(b) to present Hindu films to depict a true picture of the life
and customs of India. Arrangements are being made to
import Hindu films directly from India for this purpose.
(c) Hindu dramas and musical recitals will be presented oc-
casionally. Negotiations are being made to invite a group
of Hindu musicians from India to demonstrate this art of
India that is so little known in this country.
Art Gallery
There will be a permanent exhibition of the contemporary and
classical art of India paintings, sculpture, wood-carving, metal-
works and bronzes, textiles and prints, and other handicrafts of
India. Parts of this exhibition will be circulated all over the
country through important art centers.
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 203
Conference Rooms and Lounge
These will provide all the facilities of a social and intellectual
center for the members and friends of the Society.
Library and Reading Room
The Center will contain a comprehensive reference library of
books on India and Asia. . . .
Magazines and newspapers from
India, Asia and Europe will also be made available.
Studio Apartments
The Center will also provide living-quarters through its six
one-room apartments, equipped with all modern facilities. . . .
Visiting professors, scholars and business men, as well as tourists
from India, will find an ideal home at the India Center.
Restaurant
A well-appointed eating-place will be opened in the building,
where both American and Hindu dishes will be served.
International Institute of Hindu and Buddhist Culture
The purpose of the Institute will be: (a) To coordinate the
activities of the various learned societies and institutions all over
the world in the study and appreciation of India's culture; (b)
To provide for scholarships and fellowships for exchange of pro-
fessors and scholars between India and America; (c) To arrange,
in cooperation with other institutions, courses of study in Hindu
and Buddhist art, literature, philosophy, science and history; (d)
To encourage the study of Hindu and Buddhist culture in the
universities of America.
American Cultural Expedition to India
Members of the Society have often approached the Director
with the suggestion of conducting a party of American friends
to the heart of India and to interpret her life and thought. A
group of more than a dozen is already formed as the nucleus of
the party. In order to make the party comprehensive in its
interests, it has been decided to include a few more members
such as artists, writers, journalists, photographers and students
and professors who are capable and willing to approach India
with an unbiased mind. The party is
expected to start in No-
vember, 1930, for a period of from six to eight months.
This "Passage to India" would mean a tour round the world
going via Europe and returning via the Pacific. The party will
visit the various cultural centers in India such as Tagore's Inter-
national University at Shantiniketan, Gandhi's Satyagrah Ashrama
at Sabarmati, Bose's Science Institute, Calcutta, Brahma-Vidya
304 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
Asharam at Adyar, Benares and other important cities and historic
sites of India.
The tour will be conducted by Hari G. Govil with the co-
operation and supervision of the American Express Company.
This tour will be similar to the fourth Far East Cul-
tural Expedition conducted by Upton Close, leaving
Seattle July 2, 1930, and returning to America by way of
Siberia and Russia after having visited South America and
the islands of the Pacific. In 1927 began Govil's new
series of the Oriental Magazine, which includes Bertrand
Russell, Count Keyserling, Anatole France, Rabindra Nath
Tagore and the well-known Gandhi among its contribu-
tors. In October 1930, will be held the Second India
Conference of America, most probably in the new India
Center. For the International Institute of Hindu and
Buddhist Culture there has been arranged a series of
lectures by Kalidas Nag, Ph.D., Secretary of the Greater
India Society, Calcutta, an institution very much like the
India Society of America; A. E.
(Charles Russell), the
Irish poet; T. L. Vaswani, M.A., Principal of the Na-
tional University in Karachi; V. R. Kokatnur, Ph.D., a
Hindu chemist in New York; Felix Valyi, a Swiss writer;
A. K. Coomaraswamy, and H. G. Govil.
Representing Indian nationalism in its
political aspect
is the American branch of the Indian National Congress,
called the India Freedom Foundation, of which the Di-
rector is S. N. Ghose, whose office is at 31 Union Square,
New York. Just how much political propaganda may lie
hidden in other Hindu movements in America is from the
nature of the case hard to telL I have discovered none,
and have made no attempt to do so. But whatever may
be the influence of Indian political leaders on these move-
ments, there is
naturally at this rime of political crisis in
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 205
India a very sensitive national consciousness among In-
dians in America.
3. LEARNED HINDU LECTURERS
As early as 1886, a certain Mr. Joshee
7
lectured before
Theosophical societies in America. How learned or
scholarly he was I do not know, but he is the first Hindu
teacher in America of whom I have record. In 1905,
about twenty years later, Paul Ramanathan, who was not
a Christian although his first name was Paul, delivered
a lecture on "The Spirit of the East contrasted with the
Spirit of the West" at the BrooklynJnstitute of Arts and
Sciences.
Two years previous to this came Swami Rama Tiratha,
a Brahman from the Panjab, about whom we have copious
information. He arrived at San Francisco at the dose of
the year 1903. As the steamer reached the harbor, he
was standing on deck calm and luminous in his flame-
colored robe, amid the surrounding hustle and bustle of
landing. No one would have taken him for the university
professor he was a teacher of mathematics, if the truth
be told.
"Where is
your luggage?" inquired an American fellow-
passenger.
"Rama keeps as much as he can carry himself," was
the serene reply.
"Have you any money?"
"No."
"Are you landing here?"
"Yes."
"Then you must have some friends to help you."
"Yes, there is one."
"Who is he?"
"You!" breathed Rama, touching his companion's
shoulder.
206 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
An electric touch that produced results. This man took
care of the swami during his whole stay in America, and
later wrote of him: "He is a torch of knowledge hailing
from the Himalayas. Fire cannot burn him, steel cannot
cut him. Tears of ecstasy flow from his eyes, and his very
presence gives new life/
1
8
Such was Swami Rama. His message was simple, but
deep, for his soul was fed by Christian love and service
as well as by the Hindu feeling and conviction, "I am
God/' In Forman Christian College, Lahore, he con-
sumed his body at the altar of Western learning, and then
grew strong and robust on the diet of Vedanta assurance
and yoga body building. To India his message was patri-
otism and reason, the abolition of caste and the adoption
of modern education.
Accept not a religion because it is the oldest. . . . The latest
innovation, if it can stand the test of Reason, is as good as the
fresh rose, bedecked with sparkling dew. . . .
Accept ... a religion on its own merits. Examine it
your-
self. Sift it.
Renunciation does not require you to go into the . . . forests
... to strip yourself of all clothing. ... To realize God, have
the Sannyasa spirit,
i. e., entire renunciation of self-interest,
making the little self absolutely one with the great self of Mother
India?
To America his message was peace, and confidence in
the self as God. It is useless to send Christian missionaries
to India, he insisted. Just let the Hindu come to America
for modern education, and then return.
Cultivate peace of mind, fill your minJ with pure thoughts,
and nobody can set himself against you. That is the Law. . . .
Have you a doubt as to your own Divine Self? You had
better a bullet in your heart than a doubt there. . . . The whole
Universe serves one as his body, when he feels the Universal
Soul as his very Self. 10
In all and above all, Rama Tiratha was a universal
mystic.
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 207
Rama brings you a religion which is found in the streets . . .
written upon the leaves . . . murmured by the brooks . . .
whispered in the winds . . .
throbbing in your own veins and
arteries; a religion which concerns your business and bosom;
a religion which you have not to practice by going into a par-
ticular church only; a religion which you have to practice
and
live in your everyday life, about your hearth and in your dining
room, everywhere you have to live that religion.
11
# # *
After Swami Rama, came Rabindra Nath Tagore,
12
an-
other uniter of East and West, who made flying trips to
the United States in 1910, 1917 and 1921. He expects to
come again soon. Poet of joy and love and play, a man
of ceaseless activity and variety of effort, shifting back and
forth like Tolstoy from public to private life, plunging
through political and social reform into education and
religious peace, observant and critical, sweeping in praise
or blame, blurred by popularity, rejected in his native
province of Bengal, but accepted by the world, a champion
of freedom for women and for subject races, Tagore him-
self is his message.
The poet is no exact philosopher his mind is too sen-
timental and glancing. Nor is he bound by Hindu or
Christian tradition. He once repelled the suggestion that
he had been directly influenced by Christian thought when
he wrote Gitanjalz by saying that he had never read the
Bible. In similar vein, he once dubbed the ordinary Hindu
doctrine of transmigration a "fairy-tale." And this from
a Brahman! He frowns alike on the methods of Christian
missions, and the custom of Hindu caste. Tagore is
just
Tagore, and his message is no more strictly Hindu than
his life.
* * *
In 1909, the year before Tagore's first visit, another
Brahman received the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in
sociology at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. His
208 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
name was Shridhar Venkatesh Ketkar, and he hailed from
a western part of India called Maharastra. Encouraged
by the favorable reception of his dissertation on Hindu
caste, he wrote another book called Hinduism: its Forma-
tion and Future. He did it by himself, without the critical
help of his teachers.
This Brahman does not preach to America he just de-
scribes the future of Hinduism. Hitherto it has regarded
cultured Westerners as Barbarians like the outcastes and
the jungle tribes. From now on, however, it will take
them into its fold. Under the pressure of Islam and
Christianity it will develop a national brotherhood of
"Indianism" without forming a new religion. On this
basis, it will proceed to conquer the world with its cul-
ture. 'The work for the future for Hinduism to perform
is the creation of a manava-dharma, a common tradition
for the whole world."
13
Of this common tradition, the
Brahmans will be the priests. Already they are virtually
world-teachers their universal Dbarma, or eternal re-
ligion, is the basis for all particular cults or temporal
religions such as Hindu sectarian devotion and Christian-
ity.
But their teaching will not be universally accepted
until the West prepares itself intellectually to appreciate
the higher philosophy of the Hindus.
# # #
After Shridhar Venkatesh Ketkar the sociologist, came
Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan the philosopher, and in 1926
delivered the Haskell Lectures
14
in the University of Chi-
cago. He spoke somewhat as a preacher proclaiming a
gospel, somewhat as a lawyer defending a case. The
Hinduism he advocated was not the orthodox Hinduism'
of the pandits, nor yet the reformed Hinduism of the
Brahma Samaj, but something between the two. He
seemed to be interpreting the substance of dassic Hindu-
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 209
Ism according to certain familiar conceptions of Christian-
ity and Western idealism.
In his lectures the doctrine of rebirth is scarcely men-
tioned, while karma is
presented as the "embodiment of
the mind and will of God/' an instrument for effecting
divine mercy and forgiveness. The sannyasi of India, that
wandering, saintly mendicant, is
pictured as a solicitous
charity worker, whose aim is "not to free himself from the
cares of outward life/' but to "suffer and sacrifice and die''
for mankind. His renunciation is not detachment from
the world as is commonly supposed, but "attachment to
the finite as the embodiment of the infinite.
15
Yet Radha-
krishnan also calls the sannyasis "solitary souls who have
not any personal attachment/' 16
Even caste, which Tagore and the West denounce as the
bane of Indian life, is to Radhakrishnan really a model
for imitation, if
properly understood. For there are only
four ways of dealing with a conquered race. Three of
these are bad: slaughter, enslavement, and absorption by
intermarriage. Only the way of caste-organization is good,
for this preserves individuality with peace, and prevents
a degrading fusion of blood. But he omits the fact that
caste did not prevent this fusion in India. Even the code
of Manu allowed the fair Brahman to have four wives,
one of whom could be a Sudra, or dark-skinned person.
Amid the "flow of strife and opinions" Radhakrishnan
finds one firm foundation for his teaching, "since every
form of Hinduism and every stage of its
growth is related
to the common background of Vedanta." 17
In the spirit
of universalism, the professor declares, "The Vedanta is
not a religion, but religion itself"
18
This religion is true
in itself ineffable, incomparable, sublime. It is not
dogma but experience, beyond the reach of reason to con-
demn. In brief, it is the reality of the mystics, and mystics
ate all alike. "Judged by the characteristic religious ex-
210 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
perience, St. John and St. Paul have not any material
advantage over Plotinus and Sankara." 19
This ineffable
reality is
perfection, and perfection is inactive, unhistor-
ical, unknowable. Such wise agnosticism prevents in-
tolerance and heresy-hunting.
To attain moksa, or salvation, in this
perfection, you
may believe anything you please, so long as you strictly
follow certain prescribed rules of conduct, bound together
in Dharma, or right action. Freedom comes only through
law. For the individual this law means the four stages
of life, in which he becomes first a student, then a house-
holder, then a hermit, and finally a wandering beggar.
For society this law means caste. In Hinduism, then, you
may believe what you please, if
only you do what Vedanta
believes.
In 1926 again, the same year that Radhakrishnan lec-
tured in the University of Chicago, Surendra Nath Das
Gupta, his colleague in the University of Calcutta, and a
Brahman of Bengal, delivered the Harris Lectures
20
of
Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois. Like
Radhakrishnan, he presents Hinduism as fundamentally a
non-rational mysticism, "a view which considers reason to
be incapable of discovering or of realizing the nature of
ultimate truth . . . but at the same time believes in the
certitude of some other means of arriving at it."
21
The
*
lower" mysticism is
worldly and magical, but the
"higher" is "directed to the liberation of the spirit and the
attainment of the highest bliss/*
22
Another Bengali Brahman, who in spite of conservative
protests married into another caste in Hyderabad, South
India, is Mrs. Sarojini Naidu, India's foremost woman.
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 211
A peerless orator, once president of the Indian National
Congress, a distinguished poetess, and a tireless worker
in the cause of social and political freedom, she came in
1929 at the request of the Feakins Lecture Bureau to lec-
ture in America with the avowed purpose of interpreting
India's womanhood and national aspiration, in order to
weld a bond of fellowship between East and West.
In the Fall of the same year, Harindra Nath Chatto-
padhyaya came to America as a "cultural ambassador from
Young India." He Is the youngest brother of Mrs. Naidu,
and like his sister, he writes poetry that has received the
admiration of many, including Rabindra Nath Tagore and
Manmohandas Karamchand Gandhi. Like his sister, also,
he toured the country under the Feakins Lecture Bureau,
Times Building, New York. He is a musician and a play-
wright as well as a poet, and is a vital force in the Hindu
art renaissance. His Farewell Address at the Town Hall
Club, April 15, 1930, was on "The New Theatre Move-
ment In India."
These lecturers have gone back to their work in India,
but many of their compatriots are still in America today.
On Hollywood Boulevard23
in Los Angeles, Jogdesh
Misrow, a fourth Bengali Brahman, is
holding forth on
karma and rebirth and other topics dear to the Hindu
mind. Dhan Gopal Mukerji, likewise a Bengali Brab-
man, lecturing here and there on Hindu drama, jungle life
and other interesting topics for the Feakins Lecture Bu-
reau, is
telling delightful stories culled from Oriental lore,
praising the position of Hindu women, and denouncing
the West for its
greed. Harendra Nath Maitra, a sixth
Bengali Brahman, in his book Hinduism: the World Ideal
212 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
offers his native culture complete as a balm for the wounds
of the world. Says he:
In studying Western civilization I have felt that there is some-
thing wanting. This something India has. I can express the
distinction in one sentence. India looks within; the West without.
It was the uttering of the Great Teacher who is known in the
West that the Kingdom of God is not without but within. The
real crux is there. To find out that wtihm is the basis of India's
civilization; and that, I boldly state, must be basis of the World-
ideal, The West is mad for the outer. She has sought the help
of science not to gain life, but death. . . . She must learn medi-
tation.24
Ananda K. Coomaraswamy, of Ceylon, Curator of the
Oriental Department of the Museum of Fine Art in Bos-
ton, also looks askance at Western civilization. Opposite
the titlepage of one of his books, called The Dance of
Siva, is the plate of a bronze figure with two legs and four
arms, executing a whirling, elaborate dance. The figure
is symbolic, and replete with meaning. It is the image of
Siva, the God of primitive, rhythmic energy, who with
Visnu divides the honors of popular Hindu devotion.
Says Coomaraswamy:
Amongst the greatest of the names of Siva is Nataraja, Lord
of Dancers, or King of Actors. The Cosmos is His theatre, there
are many different steps in His repertory, He Himself is actor
and audience
"When the Actor beateth the drum
Everybody cometh to see the show;
When the Actor collecteth the stage properties
He abideth alone in His happiness."
Whatever the origins of Siva's dance, it became in time the
clearest image of the activity of God which any art or religion
can boast of.35
But the activity of God, according to the dominant
Hindu position,
is
only on the surface. There is another
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 213
and deeper phase of the divine rhythm, and this is God's
passivity.
After the dance is over, the Actor abides still
and alone. In reality, God is the bliss of solitary repose.
It is this passive oneness that lies in the background of
Hindu art as India's only contribution to the world "her
philosophy." This philosophy "is equally the gospel of
Jesus and of Blake, Lao Tze, and Rumi but nowhere else
has it been made the essential basis of sociology and edu-
cation."
26
The result is Hindu society, which appears to
many "infinitely superior to the social order which we
know as 'modern civilization'."
27
According to this Hindu view, the history of Western
progress, with its achievements in science and industry, is
nothing more than the dance of Siva, a bit of activity that
must come to an end, an illusion that will ultimately
vanish.
28
However much the Brahmans in thek mature wisdom
believed in renunciation, says Coomaraswamy, they had
no desire "to impose the natural asceticism of age upon
the young," and so tolerated all kinds of self assertion in
men of lower rank. From this tolerance arose the Hindu
social order with its reincarnation and caste. The doctrine
of reincarnation is
just "an artistic or mythological repre-
sentation" of the fact that the souls of men vary in age,
irrespective of the age of the body. Young souls revel in
action, but wise old souls prefer repose. By natural law
according to this preference, each soul is nearly always
born into its own befitting environment, and thus becomes
a member of a certain caste, low for the young soul, high
for the old soul. "To those who admit the variety of age
in human souls, this must appear to be the only true
communism." **
This cooperative scheme of Hindu life, the only hope
of the world, is now unfortunately the victim of material-
istic competition and exploitation.
214 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
The rapid degradation of Asia is thus an evil portent for the
future of humanity, and for the future of that Western social
idealism of which the beginnings are already recognizable. , . .
There will come a time when Europe will not be able to fight
Industrialism, because this enemy will be entrenched in Asia. . . .
What has to be secured is the conscious cooperation of East and
West for common ends ... for if Asia be not with Europe, she
will be against her, and there may arise a terrible conflict, eco-
nomic, or even armed, between an idealistic Europe and a mate-
rialized Asia.30
Rama Krishna Lall is a young ''Hindu metaphysician"
who began his lecturing career in America by utilizing
vacation periods while studying in Cornell University,
Ithaca, New York, from 1927 to 1929. At present (1930)
he is delivering lectures under the Emilie Sarter Lecture
Management, New York, some of his titles being: 'India,
Her Virtues and Her Handicaps/* "India's Contribution
to World Civilization," "India in Transition," 'The
Youth Movement in India/' and "The Hindu Way of
Life." In expounding the Hindu way of life, he passes
over from the mere description of culture to the definite
teaching of religion and philosophy, and is
thinking of
expanding this side of his work by starting a "Dharma
Center" in New York. While he is an adept in pro-
ducing illusions of mind reading and other works of
wonder for the sake of entertainment, he does not pose
as a supernatural seer, but presents his Hindu message on
its own merits.
Like many other Hindu lecturers in America, Lall is a
product of East and West, for in his native city of Alla-
habad in the "United Provinces," North India, he sat at
the feet of his revered guru, or Hindu religious tutor,
during all the years he attended the elementary school and
the high school conducted by the American Presbyterian
Mission. But he does not vacillate between two religious
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 215
positions: he Is a thoroughgoing Hindu with a knowledge
of Christianity. Later extensive travels, including sojourns
in British Guiana and New York City, where he landed
in America in 1924, did not shake his faith in his original
religion and culture; and while he worships Christ as an
outstanding moral teacher and artist in parable along with
other "masters" of his country, he regards the intricate
theories and exclusive claims of the intolerant sort of mis-
sionaries as a bit of hypocrisy. The main source of re-
ligious illumination, he feels, Is his own India, which has
contributed much in the past, including the lure which led
to the discovery of America, and will contribute more in
the future along the spiritual line.
Hari Das Mazumdar, another young Hindu, who in
1928 received a fellowship in Sociology in the University
of Wisconsin, at Madison, Wisconsin, is also lecturing in
America, and has written a book entitled Gandhi the
Apostle.
Shri Vishwanath Keskar, like Shridhar Venkatesh Ket-
kar, is a Brahman from Maharastra. He came to America
in October, 1929, and at present (1930) is
staying at the
Roerich Museum (a huge building including apartments) ,
Riverside Drive and 103rd Street, New York. Here he
received me in the quiet manner of the classic East, and
kindly gave me his story, which I now set down. While
he is a university man, he represents no university or
academic institution. He speaks only for himself, lives
on private funds, and demands no fees for his lectures.
Graduating from the Poona College of the Bombay
University, he spent five years at the National Hindu Uni-
versity at Benares teaching philosophy of East and West.
216 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
But studying rather than teaching was his main interest
at that time. So he left Benares and wandered about the
country, visiting all the universities in India and Burma.
Then feeling the urge to develop a more profound inner
life, he retreated to the lofty Himalayas, where he engaged
in private meditation for a period of about five years.
This part of his life must remain a closed book to the
public. His next step was to visit a multitude of holy
places including monasteries and secret abodes. All this
he did to prepare himself to be an accomplished teacher
of religion and philosophy. After filling the office of
principal of a large high school in Poona for nine years,
he steamed away from Bombay in April 1929, traveled in
Europe and Britain for several months, and then came to
America.
Piles of manuscripts embodying the results of his re-
searches and reflections are waiting to be printed. And
the call is about to come, for the inner voice has sounded.
Everything goes according to the plan of this inner voice.
No haste, no waste. No hurry, no worry. All is calm
and serene. One of the forthcoming books will deal with
personal experiments on "different planes of life and mat-
ter/* Another will describe "great teachers and masters
who are not to be found in the schools." Another will
go into psychoanalysis. Others will treat culture and
civilization, the purpose of man, the fundamentals of
education, and the problem of sex.
In his youth Professor Keskar was a skeptic. Like Des-
cartes he resolved to accept nothing on authority. But
on the basis of experience and intuition he has reached a
position of "scientific insight and religious fervor" which
supports the following message for the world. Science is
good and true, but limited. Art is
beautifying, glorifying,
but likewise limited. A harmonious adjustment is needed,
and this is
supplied by religion and philosophy, which are
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 217
really one and the same. The greatest need at the present
time is for religion as a sweet harmonizing influence,
religion without exclusive creeds or dogmas. Every reli-
gious cult, such as Visnuism, Sivaism, Judaism or Chris-
tianity, has a place to fill in the cosmic Dharma, or uni-
versal religion, which the West labels Hinduism. Vis-
nuism contributes devotion; Sivaism, discipline; Judaism,
law; Christianity, sacrifice; and so on. But Hinduism
gives them all a common goal in the final bliss of super-
material activity of soul.
Four prepared lectures on "Spiritual Synthesis*' present
this message. Another four lectures deal with the Bhaga-
vad Gita, and yet another four with the philosophy of
art. The names and places of his lectures may be illus-
trated by the following samples. "The Message of the
Gitef
9
at the Vedanta Society, "Christ the Master" at
Union Theological Seminary, and "The Fundamentals of
Spiritual Life' at the Rosicrucian Society, all in New
York. Then "The Spirit of India*' at the Howard High
School in Wilmington, Delaware, and "Education" at
Swarthmore College, Pennsylvania. Professor Kesker ex-
pects to lecture also before Rotary Clubs and Ethical Cul-
ture and Psychical Research societies.
4. POPULAR LECTURERS ON HINDUISM
"Super Akasha Yogi Wassan" is the self-styled name
of an uneducated Panjabi who seeks to convince gaping
crowds of the superior merits of a cultivated solar-
plexus.
31
Mr. Wassan's title alone is a sufficient index
to the character of his teaching. To the great Sankara,
Akasa signified the ultimate reality or bliss. Our yogi is
just above this ultimate! There are a few other popular
Hindu teachers lecturing here and there in America. K.
D. Shastri is the author of a book entitled Hindu Sexology
in Spiritual Development, published by a certain Indo-
Aryan Publishing Company in Minneapolis in 1917, and
218 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
R. S. Gherwal is
responsible for the book The Great Mas-
ten of the Himalayas, published in 1927 at Great Falls,
Montana, by a firm called The Public Drug Company.
Then there are certain very popular Hindu lecturers in-
deed, the famous Hindu "fakirs" who sometimes make a
living on the American vaudeville stage by "mind-read-
ing" or other "wonder-working" stunts.
32
However, popular lectures on Hinduism, especially in
its
practical aspects, are not confined to Hindus. A num-
ber of Americans have also learned the art. "Oom the
Omnipotent" is the self-styled Hindu name of Peter A.
Bernard, of New York City and Nyack, New York.
According to Charles Wright Ferguson,
33
he was formerly
a professional baseball player. Swami Yogananda says
"Oom" was once a barber, has been to India, does not
pose as a native Hindu, and teaches hatha-yoga and a bit
of the tantra practice. "Prince Ram Maharaj"
S4
is an-
other American "Hindu," who claims to have come from
Tibet after enduring twenty years of hardship attending
his initiation into Hinduism. He has announced his in-
tention of establishing a Hindu center in Los Angeles.
Baba Bharati also came from Tibet to Los Angeles. The
"Great Masters" of the Theosophical Society likewise live
in Tibet. Perhaps some day they too will come to Los
Angeles.
These Americans often go so far as to establish novel
Hindu cults as in the case of Yogi Ramacharaka.35
Ameri-
ca seems to be an exceedingly fertile field for the sowing
of Hinduism. And we must remember that certain Ameri-
cans, by virtue of their complexion, are naturally equipped
to play the role of a popular Hindu teacher. We have
heard of Hindu "fakirs" let us now turn our attention
to Hindu "fakes."
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 219
5. AMERICAN IMPOSTERS
Swami Yogananda tells me that "Prem Lai Adoris,"
whatever else he may be, Is not a Hindu. Let us take
another case. The astute Joe Downing
36
of coal-black
visage and some small town in Illinois appeared in 1918
on Keith's vaudeville circuit under the name of "Joveddah
de Raja/' an opulent nomenclature smacking of Roman
divinity, French nobility and Hindu royalty all in one.
With his wife, "Princess Olga," he did a "mind-reading"
act. Circulating in the audience, for example, he would
take a gentleman's ten-dollar bill, look at it
intently, and
then miraculously pass on its serial number to Princess
Olga on the stage, who would at once proclaim it to
the mystified onlookers. The couple worked hard at this
trick, practicing their code on motor-car license plates
while traveling.
In 1926 the princely Joveddah, now a profound "phi-
losopher and psychologist," began broadcasting words of
Oriental comfort and wisdom from radio stations in New
York and environs, such as WHN, WPCH and WMCA.
In one year he received over eighty thousand letters from
wistful and eager admirers. No doubt he had genius.
He charged fifty dollars for six lessons by correspondence
or four lectures delivered in person. He engaged a pri-
vate secretary a mere youth in college to conduct the
correspondence course and answer the yearning letters.
Taking his apprentice to Brentano's bookstore, Joveddah
bought him eighty dollars worth of cheap books on love,
marriage and fortune telling, and bade him go to work.
The boy worked with a will, knowing full well that he
held in his hands the fate of many a tender maiden. Soon
the master was prosperous, and the apprentice content
with his share of the loot. Alas! The police and the
prince did not see eye to eye in what constituted public
welfare, and the prince had to move.
220 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
Is Joveddah de Raja a part of American Hinduism? In
a sense. To niany Americans, his dusky visage and ori-
ental gear hold just as much of the "unfathomable mystery
of the East" as if he were the genuine article. Like certain
real Hindus, he puts a price on his lessons, and makes
supernatural claims. Indeed, the supernatural runs like a
thread through the Hindu fabric from beginning to end. Pro-
fessor Surendra Nath Das Gupta of the University of Cal-
cutta calls this the "lower" mysticism, defined as "an
obscure and supernatural method by which in some un-
accountable manner, miraculous feats may be performed
or physical advantages reaped. . . ."
37
No doubt there
are thousands of more or less wealthy Americans who are
willing to part with a considerable portion of their money
in order to reap the advantages of this kind of mysticism.
Since Hindu charlatans in America are not sufficiently
numerous to supply such an enormous demand, certain
Americans themselves have begun to enter the lucrative
trade. But this
aspect of Hinduism in America belongs
to America rather than to Hinduism.
6. HINDU PROFESSORS AND STUDENTS
Aside from the leaders of religious and cultural move-
ments, other Hindus have immigrated to America, of
whom the professors and students are perhaps the most
important from the point of view of the diffusion of Hin-
duism. It seems that the first Hindu students arrived in
California in 1901. Certain educational societies in India
sent six more in 1904, and by 1908 the number had risen
to seventeen. By now they are quite plentiful, especially
in the great universities and on the coasts. Their influ-
ence is exerted chiefly through conversations with Amer-
ican students and more or less informal lectures in Church
organizations and similar institutions^
8
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 221
7. ORIENTAL CULTS OF PARTLY HINDU ORIGIN
Preaching in America these days are heralds of several
oriental cults of partly Hindu origin. Sikhism was founded
in the fifteenth century by the saintly Guru Nanak, a
poetic Panjabi who attempted to harmonize the Hindu
and Muslim communities in the worship of the universal
God. The Sikh community, composed mostly of Hindus,
was militarized by the tenth gum, Govind Singh, in the
face of Muslim oppression. Since then Sikhism has been
even more decidedly Hindu than Muslim, and until re-
cently many Sikhs counted themselves as Hindus in the
census. In 1927, Dr. Bhagat Singh Thind (Devotee Lion
Thind) ,
a Sikh from Amritsar, the chief city of the Sikhs,
gave in New York two courses of sixty lectures each, the
first in September in the Hotel Majestic, and the second
in November in the Pythian Temple. His announcements
contain his photograph, which is
quite striking, and the
following caption:
To KNOW, TO DARE, AND TO KEEP SILENT
Master Course in the Teachings of the
SIKH SAVIOURS
Sixty Free Lectures on Divine
Realization
By
DR. BHAGAT SINGH THIND
Author of Divine Wisdom, Vol. I
Psychologist, Metaphysician and Divine of Amritsar, India
Sixty Life-Instilling Lectures on the
Practical Realization of the
Eternal Truth for Every-Day Life and Life Eternal, and Ever
Increasing Prosperity and Happiness
For Harmony without Discord, Freedom without Bond, Reality
without Illusion, Satisfaction without Striving, Love without
Longing, and Life without Death
222 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
As might be expected, he preaches the Hindu Dharma
of karma and rebirth, saying, "You Choose Your Own
Parents/' Like the Hindu yogi, he teaches "Scientific
Breathing/* and gives a lecture on "Jazz Mania: Its
Cause and Cure and the Psychology of Relaxation." He
seems to accept the tantra doctrine of the seven planes of
the Kundalini in announcing this title:
*
'Seven Centres
Is It Dangerous to Open Them?'* He also presents the
famous Om, or Aum, "The Sacred Hum of the Universe."
Like the Hindu he speaks of cycles of existence, and puts
special emphasis on food and fasting. In his lecture,
"Can We Talk with the 'Dead' and How?" he comes into
contact with spiritualism, while in treating autosuggestion,
the ductless glands and the science of colors, he comes
into line with modern psychology.
Like Swami Yogananda and other Hindu preachers, he
conducts healing meetings, gives Christ an occult inter-
pretation, believes in the "Transmutation and Conquest
of Sex Energy," and proclaims "The Highest Technique
of Concentration, Meditation and Spiritualization of Body,
Mind and Soul." He seems to be making a deliberate
attempt to Ajnericanize his teaching, at least in style. The
main center of the Sikh movement in America is some-
where in California, as might be expected, since Sikh
immigrants are located there, and California is very re-
ceptive to new cults. There is also a Sikh center in Van-
couver, British Columbia, called the "Khalsa Diwan
Society/'
Buddhist propaganda is
gently carried on from the
"Ceylon and India Inn" at 148 West 49th Street, New
York, which sells the magazine, the Maha-Bodhi and the
United Buddhist World, a Monthly Journal of Interna-
tional Buddhist Brotherhood, founded thirty-seven years
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 223
ago by Anagarika H. Dharmapala, and still edited by him.
On the outside of the issue for December, 1928 was pasted
a subscription notice in red ink, with the appeal, "We
want your support to Spread the Dharma." The present
Buddhist preacher of the Maha Bodhi Society in New
York is the Venerable Thera P. Vajiranana, who lectures
on such topics as "Right Mindfuiness," and "The Buddha
on Theocracy."
Early in 1929 the Venerable Lord Abbott Tai Hsu, a
fairly young and progressive Buddhist of the Mahayanaf
or more comprehensive sect, visited New York, making
his center of operations the Chinese Institute, at 119 West
57th Street. He said he was traveling in the interest of
universal peace and happiness to find the elements of unity
that would integrate the various cultures of the world.
Buddhism, he declared, is
unfortunately misunderstood in
the West, else it would be accepted as the universal, per-
fectly scientific and philosophic religion. It teaches kcwma,
or the unchangeable law of cause and effect in the moral
as well as the corporeal realm, and the ideal of happiness
in the best possible environment, to be won by the humane
method of non-injury. In short, says the abbott, Buddhism
gives complete intuitive wisdom for life. In achieving
world happiness, the first
step is to unite all Buddhist
sects, and then unite Buddhism with other religions. Even
now plans are afoot for an "International Institute for the
Study of Buddhism."
In 1901 there appeared in America a certain preacher
who called himself Ottoman Zar-Adusht Hannish, and
claimed to have come direct from Tibet and the mysteries
of the Dalai Llama. Since this Llama is the head of the
Buddhist order in Tibet, Mr. Hannish seems to have some
224 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
connection with Buddhism, and hence with Hinduism.
Someone suspected he was once a typesetter on the Mount
Deseret News in Salt Lake City.
39
But in spite of that
handicap, he launched his oriental movement, and with
the help of Marie Elizabeth Ruth Hilton, the wife of Dr.
G. W. Hilton of Lowell, Massachusetts, began to teach a
special art of breathing and a very ethereal diet of rose
leaves and other delicate vegetables, presumably intended
to rid the soul of all material dross.
This new religious leader was eclectic: he included in
his practical instruction the daily adoration of the sun and
the worship of Ahura Mazda, the supreme Lord of the
Zend-Avesta, the Zoroastrian Bible. The main temple of
this cult, called Mazdaznan, is on Lake Park Avenue,
Chicago, a lesser one is on the Hilton lawn in Lowell,
while ground has been consecrated for a third in Montreal,
Canada. In 1912 the movement claimed fourteen thou-
sand followers in thirty cities of the United States of
America, and in Canada, South America, England, Switzer-
land and Germany.
One Sunday afternoon in the season of 1929-1930, I
attended a Mazdaznan meeting in a small parlor of the
Hotel McAlpin, Broadway at Thirty-fourth Street, New
York. In addition to listening to a lecture, the little con-
gregation of men and women practices relaxation of body
and mind by means of a series of loosening exercises to
the accompaniment of piano music and group singing.
The jolly, lilting tunes are found in the special hymn book.
Most of the members seem to be from Continental Europe.
According to the "Standard Health Rules" of Mazdaznan,
meat should be avoided, and fruits and vegetables should
be eaten at different meals. The kind of food required
by any individual depends on whether his "temperament
and basic principle" is "intellectual," "spiritual" or "phys-
ical." This classification seems to correspond to the sattva,
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 225
rajas and tamas principles mentioned in the Bhagavad
Gita.
I noticed from the hymn book that Mazdaznan draws
on Hinduism directly, as well as indirectly through Bud-
dhism and Zoroastrianism. And the Hindu type of Islam
is also a source. Since all of these religions are dualistic,
it is only natural that Mazdaznan should be dualistic,
making a sharp distinction between Matter and Intel-
ligence. One article of the "Mazdaznan Confession"
reads:
I confess all the painful in matter to be the result of obstinacy
on the part of substance through its
processes of creations and
evolutions, declining to yield to the peaceful operations of intelli-
gence, thus introducing repulsion and impelling resistance.
Yet the Hindu-like monistic conviction of the identity
of the soul with God is also prominent, as can be seen
from the first
part of the "Mazdaznan Affirmation'*:
I am all in One individually and one in All collectively;
I am present individually and omni-present collectively;
I am knowing individually and omni-scient collectively;
I am potent individually and omni-potent collectively;
ALL is OF GOD AND GOD is ALL!
Individually I am in Part, collectively I am the Whole;
Individually I am Di-verse, collectively I am Universe;
Individually I am Limited, collectively I am Unlimited;
Individually I am Begotten, collectively I
Beget.
The following selections from the "Mazdaznan Declara-
tion of Freedom" will show its dependence on Hinduism:
Mazdaznan declares that the lower walks of life are repetitions
of past incarnations called into existence through processes of
reincarnation and transmigration prompted by pre-natal influence
and inherited tendencies which in man constitute the cause for
contention and struggle, thereby retarding progression.
Mazdaznan declares that the Infallible Plan of Salvation lies
in the Application of Means of Purification leading unto Regen-
eration, with the first step essential unto Salvation from Ancestral
226 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
Ties through the efficacy of rhythmic Prayers and Songs breathed
on the breath . . .
filling the heretofore unclaimed tissues and
energies with Galama, the centralizing life
principle. . . .
Mazdaznan declares to be the oldest and most comprehensive
Educational System of Individual-Collective Thought, embracing
as it does every Essential Truth embodied in the Aryan or Zend
race, substantiated through Ainyahita, revealed through Zara-
thustra, approbated and declared by Jesus, founded upon Genesis,
and borne out by the Science of Evolution. . . .
Whoever is interested in the Mazdaznan cult may send
ten cents for literature to the Mazdaznan Press, P. O. Box
1854, Los Angeles, California.
Sufiism and Baha'iism are two other oriental cults in
America that exhibit certain Hindu traits, and may have
some historical connection with Hinduism through Per-
sian Islam. Although both these movements are usually
regarded as Muslim sects, they are considerably different
from orthodox Islam, and perhaps more Hindu than Mus-
lim in temper.
Sufiism was brought to America in the Fall of 1910 by
Pir-o-Murshid Inayat Khan of Baroda, India, who traveled
in America from coast to coast until the Spring of 1912,
when he returned to India. He passed away in 1927. The
movement is now established in about eight centers in
America, with the main-center at San Francisco, which is
the place of residence of the head officer, Murshid Rabia
A. Martin. The New York office is at 10 West 84th
Street. The American branch of Sufiism is controlled by
Americans, some of whom, at least, have assumed oriental
names and titles. This esoteric cult claims to be unique
in its
openness to all truth, and its universal adaptability
to all conditions of men in all times and places by virtue
of its
all-embracing tolerance. In view of the claims of
Vedanta, Yogoda, Theosophy and other cults to be unique
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 227
in their universality it seems that Sufiism shares its
"uniqueness" with quite a number of like-minded move-
ments!
# * #
Baha'iism also is one of these "uniquely" universal
movements. It is
especially akin to Sufiism, because its
founder was a Persian Muslim of the Shiite sect which in
Persia is dominated by the Sufi movement. The Baha'i
cult first
appeared in America in 1893, when it was repre-
sented at the Parliament of Religions at Chicago by a
Christian missionary who had come in contact with it in
Persia. But it
began to flourish in America only after the
advent of Abdul Baha in 1912. The present Guardian of
the movement is
Shogi Effendi, who lives at Haifa, Syria.
He is
quite young, being Abdul Baha's grandson. In the
United States there are many Bahal centers. The secre-
tary of the National Board has his main office at 119 West
57th Street, New York, while a huge temple is being built
on the shore of Lake Michigan. The New York center,
under the leadership of Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, has formed
"The New History Society/' which meets at the house of
Mrs. Lewis Stuyvesant Chanler, 132 East 65th Street.
* * #
Now Sufiism and Baha'iism are more or less connected
with Hinduism through Gnosticism, Neo-Platonism and
Buddhism, all of which give evidence of Hindu teaching.
40
In particular, it seems that the seven Neo-Platonists ex-
pelled from Athens by the Emperor Justinian when he
closed the Platonic Academy in 529 were welcomed to the
Persian court by the broad-minded Nowshirwan the Just,
the last of the Sassanian kings,
41
Moreover, we are told
that this great patron of letters commanded Hindu pandits
to translate many philosophical works from Sanskrit into
Pahlavi.
42
Since the triumph of the Safawids in 1500
228 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
brought to the Persian throne a line of Sufi saints, it is
quite posible that Sufiism, and later Baha'iism, have been
distinctly influenced by these Hindu works.
8. AMERICAN CULTS OF PARTLY HINDU ORIGIN
Theosophy, of course, is more Hindu than Christian,
in spite of its
origin in a land of Christian tradition. In
1877, two years after the Theosophical Society was
founded in New York,
43
Madame Helen Petrovna Bla-
vatsky, its
leading spirit, published her Isis Unveiled, in
which she presented some bits of Hindu lore. But this
was only the beginning of Hinduism in Theosophy.
Madame Blavatsky soon left America with her "Theo-
sophical Twin*' Colonel Henry Steel Olcott, and reached
Bombay in June, 1879. The teachings of the "Twins"
now became much more distinctly Indian, based on the
Society's fundamental dogma of the Great White Brother-
hood, or occult lodge of supernormal, supertransmigratory
divine masters, or adepts, in the trans-Himalayan fastness
of Tibet.
44
From age to age, as reckoned by Hindu chro-
nology, these masters supply mankind with esoteric wis-
dom through chosen agents Madame Blavatsky, of
course, being the one selected for this age.
Yet Theosophy did not become thoroughly Hindu till
the advent of Mrs. Annie Besant, who succeeded Madame
Blavatsky as the spiritual guide of the movement. Since
1893 Mrs. Besant has spent most of her time in India, and
is virtually a naturalized Hindu. Since 1906 she has been
president of the Society, of which the main center is not
New York but Adyar, Madras. The new leader has lec-
tured repeatedly in every part of India, making the defense
and exposition of Hinduism her chief theme, and can point
with pride to the Central Hindu College which she helped
to found in Benares in 1898, an institution modelled on
the lines of a Christian missionary college, but giving
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 229
Hindu religious instruction.
45
Thus Theosophy early in
its career changed its diet from American Spiritualism to
fairly pure Hinduism, and is now more Hindu perhaps
than Yogoda.
# # #
Christian Science, unlike Theosophy, looks at first
glance like a pure American product, founded in the little
town of Lynn, Massachusetts in 1875 by Mrs. Mary Baker
Eddy,
46
a woman who had never ventured out of America,
and whose Science and Health} published the same year,
was advanced as a key to the Christian Scripture. Yet when
we read this Christian Science Bible we find that it out-
Sankaras Sankara with its doctrine of cosmic illusion!
47
Since spirit is the only reality, and matter is
opposite to
spirit,
the belief in matter is only an "error of mortal
mind." Sankara had the common sense to explain the
illusory world of matter as the magic of God, real and
independent of mortal mind, but Mrs. Eddy, quite above
common sense, sees the world of matter as dependent on
mortal mind, and mortal mind itself an illusion without
any clear origin.
Is this similarity between Hindu illusionism and Chris-
tian Science due to similar response to similar need, or to
some historical transmission of teaching? If we read the
Yogoda East-West magazine, we find light on the subject,
for in the issue of May-June, 1926, in his article "Chris-
tian Science and Hindu Philosophy/* Swami Yogananda
has turned on the searchlight. The current editions of
Science and Health contain no Hindu references, but in
the older editions, which the Christian Science Church has
deliberately withdrawn from publication, references to
Hindu teachings are quite clear and distinct. Says Yoga-
nanda:
It may be of much interest to many Christian Scientists to
learn that the great founder of their faith, Mrs. Mary Baker Eddy,
230 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
was a student of the Hindu Scriptures. This fact is shown by
her quotations from them in her Science and Health up to the
33rd edition. We find in this edition48 the following excerpts
from Sir Edwin Arnold's translation of Bhagavad-Gitai
"Never the Spirit was born; the Spirit shall cease to be never;
Never the time it was not; End and Beginning are dreams!
Birthless and deathless and changeless remained! the Spirit for-
ever;
Death hath not touched it at all, dead though the house of it
seems!*'
Edwin Arnold's Translation of Bhagavad-Gtia.
Again, Mrs. Eddy makes reference in the same chapter to
another translation of Bhagavad-Gita.
4* On page 259 of the
33rd edition, she says:
"The ancient Hindu philosophers understood something of this
Principle, when they said in their Celestial Song, according to an
old prose translation:
"
The wise neither grieve for the dead nor for the living. I
myself never was not, nor thou, nor all the princes of the earth;
nor shall we ever hereafter cease to be. As the soul, in this
mortal frame, findeth infancy, youth, and old age, so in some
future frame will it find the like. One who is confirmed in this
belief is not disturbed by anything that may come to pass. The
sensibility of the faculties giveth heat and cold, pleasure and pain,
which come and go and are transient and inconstant. Bear them
with patience; for the wise man, whom these disturb not, and to
whom pain and pleasure are the same, is formed for immor-
tality/
"
Both these quotations from the Bbagavad-Gita, or Song Celes-
tial, which contains the essence of the Vedas, or the Hindu Bible,
are to be found in Mrs. Eddy's 7th chapter on "Imposition and
Demonstration." This whole chapter has been omitted from
later editions of Science and Health; That is why many Christian
Scientists are not aware that their great leader Mrs. Eddy was
familiar with Hindu thought, and in her bigness did not hesitate
to acknowledge it in print. . . .
In this article my purpose is to show not only that the doctrine
of "mind over matter'* had been worked out by the Hindus prior
to the birth of Christian Science, and that the similarity of the
message of Mrs. Mary Baker Eddy and the principles of Hindu
Vedanta is
quite evident, but that the Hindus and Christian
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 231
Scientists will find mutual benefit and will add to their knowledge
of the power of mind by a combined study of the Bhagavad-Gtia
and the Vedanta of the Hindus, and Mary Baker Eddy's Science
and Health.
Furthermore, Mrs. Eddy must have imbibed some of the
teachings of the New England Transcendentalists
51
who
made their influence widely felt through books, magazines
and newspaper articles. Bronson Alcott, who was one of
them, attended her services. Now most of the Transcen-
dentalists, like Emerson, Alcott, and Thoreau, were pro-
foundly influenced by Hinduism, with its
spirit of breadth
and tolerance and unity.
Says Pratap Chandra Mazumdar, "The character of
Emerson shines on India serene as the evening star. He
seems to some of us to have been born in India/' 52
At
the early age of nineteen, Emerson could find nothing
better to express his conception of God than a passage
taken from Sir William Jones* translation of Narayana.
5*
At twenty-seven he wrote to a friend, "In the sleep of the
great heats there is
nothing for me but to read the Vedas,
the Bible of the tropics.
. . . Nature makes a Brahmin of
me." 54
When Emerson was fifty-two years old, his dear friend
Thoreau received forty-four volumes of Hindu literature
as a gift from a friend in England. To this store of Hin-
duism, Emerson doubtless had access, and two years later
his famous Song of the Soul, or Brahma, appeared in the
first number of the Atlantic Monthly. The first two verses
are sufficient to reveal two messages of the Bhagavad Gita.
If the red slayer thinks he slays,
Or if the slain thinks he is slain,
They know not well the subtle ways,
I
keep, and pass and turn again.
Far or forgot to me is near;
Shadow and sunlight are the same,
232 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
The vanished gods not less appear,
And one to me are shame and fame.
Emerson's "Over-Soul" is a translation of the Sanskrit
Paramatman, He regarded matter as the negative, and
mind as the positive pole of this universal Spirit. Perhaps
this is where Mrs. Eddy got her notion of mind and matter
as plus and minus electricity. Emerson repeats both the
monism and the dualism of the Upanishads: he sees man
both one with the Universal Spirit, and different from the
material organization.
55
The world seems very simple and easily dispatched. . . . There
are but two things, or but one thing and its shadow. . . . Cause
and Effect, and Effect itself is worthless if separated from Cause.56
This is
precisely the way that monism combined with
dualism in the Upanishads to produce acosmism, includ-
ing illusionism.
57
And when Emerson gives us his poem
called Maya, history repeats itself.
Illusion works impenetrable
Weaving webs innumerable,
Her gay pictures never fail,
Crowds each other, veil on veil.
Charmer who will be believed
By man who thirsts to be deceived.58
Thus through Mary Baker Eddy and Ralph Waldo Emer-
son, Christian Science is closely linked to Hinduism.
Unless we dig still
deeper, however, we do not get to
the bottom of Hindu influence on Christian Science. In
1861 Mrs. Mary Baker Patterson, who later became Mrs.
Eddy, was cured of nervous depletion and stormy hysteria
by Phineas Parker Quimby, a wandering healer whose
practice was based on a strange conviction.
59
After re-
ceiving treatment for some time, the patient took this con-
viction and developed it
along her own lines into the cult
now flourishing as Christian Science.
60
Quimby's conviction was that health and sickness de-
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 233
pend largely on the patient's belief. This was his own
conclusion, which he reached by keen observation while
practicing the mesmerism he had learned as a youth from
Charles Poyen, a Frenchman who had come to America
in 1836.
61
Now mesmerism goes back through Mesmer
and the Nancy school of Charcot, Janet and Coue to the
Swiss doctor Paracelsus in the fifteenth century, who be-
lieved in an all-pervading vital magnetic fluid directed by
the indwelling spirit,
which could be used by the well to
cure the sick.
62
This sounds like the Prana, or Cosmic Energy, pro-
claimed by Yogananda and other swamis and yogis today.
Has Paracelsus any connection with Hinduism? His char-
acteristic doctrines may be traced to Neo-Platonism,
63
of
which the chief representative was Plotinus, the Alexan-
drian philosopher of the third century after Christ. Stu-
dents of Plotinus know that his system stands nearer the
Vedanta than any other Western system, including that
of Schopenhauer. The similarity between Plotinus and
the Bhagavad Gita is
quite striking. An historical con-
nection between Plotinus and India is
suggested in many
ways, especially by the treatise of Bardesanes on the In-
dian "Gymnosophists," or nsis and yogis, a treatise used
by Porphyry, who was the intimate companion of Plo-
tinus.
64
Christian Science, of course, is first and foremost an
American movement, based on the personal experience of
its founder, who was typical of many nervous Americans,
and also on the personal conviction of Quimby, which was
the conviction that belief largely determines health. But
it seems clear also that Christian Science has certain his-
torical connections with Hinduism through Mrs. Eddy's
use of the Gita, through New England Transcendentalism,
and through the very indirect influence of a certain Hindu
view on Quimby.
234 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
The first New Thought
65
Society with a regular leader
and organization was established as the "Church of the
Higher Life" at Boston in 1894, the same year that Swami
Vivekananda founded the New York Vedanta Society.
66
New Thought soon showed its
hospitality to Hinduism by
inviting Swami Abhedananda to speak at its second con-
vention, held at New York in 1900.
67
Such a gesture is
only natural in view of the fact that this young cult, even
more than Christian Science, owed its birth to Quimby,
the American herald of spiritualistic mesmerism, and
Emerson, the American herald of transcendental panthe-
ism.
68
Mrs. Eddy and the Dressers were the outstanding
members of Quimby's little group of disciples,
69
but Mrs.
Eddy soon branched out for herself, and Quimby .passed
away, leaving the Dressers and their friends moving at a
slow pace until Charles M. Barrows adopted Emerson as
the father of the movement. The words of the Concord
sage have now become the unofficial Bible of the New
Thought Church, A booklet called Emerson's Conception
of Truth has been compiled by Henry Richardson Thayer,
who explains that "not a word of Emerson's has been
changed or added to, but widely separated sentences have
been brought together.
1 *
70
Thus New Thought contains some very old elements
which can be traced partly and indirectly to the Upani-
shads by way of Quimby and Emerson. And what applies
to New Thought applies also to "Divine Science," or
"Practical Christianity/' which is just that form of New
Thought developed mainly in the west of the United
States.
71
The Unity School of Christianity, founded at Kansas
Qty in 18997
2
seems to be connected with Hinduism on
account of the broad and tolerant attitude of its founders,
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 235
Charles and Myrtle Fiilmore. As Mrs. Fillmore lay musing
one night on what name would symbolize their "sympathy
for all movements helping in the uplift of humanity/* she
thought of the word "Unity," which suggested not only
the oneness of man with God, but also the oneness of all
religions.
73
These, of course, are primarily Hindu con-
ceptions. By 1899 these principles had been preached by
Emerson and Vivekananda, and it is very likely that since
its foundation Unity has absorbed Hinduism in yearly in-
creasing measure from Theosophy, Christian Science, New
Thought, and the Hindu cults themselves.
Says Charles Wright Ferguson, "According to its own
claims, Unity sprang into being quite independently of all
cults and with equal independence reached maturity. But
its stuff is too closely akin to the stuff of Nautilus"* and
Orison Swett Marden75
to be mistaken in identity. It was
undoubtedly joined by an umbilical cord to New Thought,
and sired by Christian Science. Over in New England
Mother Eddy had already published several editions of
Science and Health. ... By the time Unity arose Mrs. Eddy
had fairly well demonstrated that she could cure disease
by 'philosophy, and Warren Felt Evans76
had begun to
give the world his commentaries on the work of Quimby.
It is obvious that the teaching of the Fillmores partakes
largely of both the unwieldy and amorphous body of
doctrine known as the New Thought and the solidly con-
trived dogmas of Christian Science/*
77
Unity's doctrine of
reincarnation in itself is enough to make its members
eligible for Das Gupta's Dharma Mandal.
The Liberal Catholic Church is not a cult of American
origin. And of course it does not come originally from
Hinduism. But it may just be mentioned here as a cult
which is now established in America as well as in En#-
236 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
land, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Holland and
Java, and which is now connected with Hinduism through
the Theosophy of its
presiding bishop, Charles W. Lead-
beater. As Theosophy turned from American Spiritualism
to Hinduism, it seems that this strange church is now
turning from Dutch and English Catholicism to Theos-
ophy.
78
* * *
In addition to these well-organized American cults, there
must be scores of independent American lecturers in the
large cities of the United States strongly influenced by
Hinduism. Any one of these lecturers is a potential or
actual cult leader, as for example George Edwin Burnell,
the teacher of "The Absolute Truth," whose Book of
Axioms may be purchased at the Good Year Book Shop,
at Broadway and Forty-second Street, New York, in the
George Cohan Theater, downstairs.
# # #
Thus we see that Theosophy, Christian Science, New
Thought, Unity, and other systems, all originating in
America, are more or less Hindu in character and con-
nection. American Hinduism, then, may be said to em-
brace both Hindu and Hindu-like movements. Further-
more, if traces of Hinduism can be found in Plotinus and
other Western thinkers, America must be indirectly learn-
ing some Hinduism in its colleges, seminaries and univer-
sities, in spite of the fact that Hinduism as such is studied
very little in the West, and less in America than in
Europe. In view of this fact, let us now endeavor to
understand American Hinduism more fully, to see it as
a part of the vast vague Hinduism that seeps into Western
culture first through Plotinus and later through trans-
lations of the Vedanta works themselves.
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 237
9. HINDU INFLUENCE ON WESTERN THOUGHT
Piotinus is the main early source of Hindu-like teaching
for the West. Dissatisfied with Stoicism, Epicureanism,
Scepticism and Eclecticism, he harked back to the ancient
glories of Greece and India, and crowning Plato's Idea
of the Good with the Hindu Absolute above all good and
evil, he developed a mystic plan of salvation. Piotinus
was a fellow townsman of Origen, the first great Christian
theologian. Both were immersed in the oriental atmos-
phere of Alexandria, and attended the lectures of Am-
monius Saccas. According to Dean Inge, "Origen at-
tempted to do for Christianity very much the same that
Piotinus attempted to do for paganism."
79
According
to Wilhelm Windelband, "Neoplatonism and Christianity
had a community of purpose and a common origin. Both
were scientific systems that methodically developed a re-
ligious conviction and sought to prove that this conviction
was the only true source of salvation for the soul needing
redemption."
80
Both systems were Platonic. Yet the heart
of the one was Hebrew, while the heart of the other was
Hindu.
For six centuries after his earthly life, Piotinus molded
the mysticism of the West, and even today Idealism de-
pends on him for its distinction between body and mind,
for he stamped the vague term "spirit" as pure immate-
riality. In the Eastern Empire, says Thomas Whittaker,
81
"Greek ecclesiastical writers such as Nemesius (fl. 450),
who had derived their culture from Neoplatonism, trans-
mitted its refutations of materialism to the next age. In
the West, St. Augustine, who . . . was profoundly in-
fluenced by Platonism . . .
performed the same philosoph-
ical service." Throughout the Dark Ages, the task of
replenishing the faintly burning lamp of culture was
handed on by men of Plotinian cast the moralists
Boethius and Macrobius, the fervent, mystical author of
238 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
f
'Dionysws" and the bold Scotus Erigena. Thomas
Aquinas himself, the greatest philosopher of the Middle
Ages, and the official source of Roman Catholic theology
today, absorbed Plotinus not only directly through
"Dionysius" but also indirectly through Augustine, Eri-
gena and Anselm, the Plotinian psychology, and the sys-
tem of Aristotle worked over by the latest school of
Neo-PIatonism.
82
We should not be surprised to find
Hindu-like dualism in the creeds of Christendom, both
Catholic and Protestant, owing to the dominant influence
of the "angelic doctor." And if we find the strain in
Dante, it may possibly be traced to Proclus, and through
him, indirectly to the Upamshads.
The rise of Humanism, which threw off the shackles of
Scholasticism and ushered in the Renaissance, was accom-
panied by a return to Plato, studied for his own sake, and
read through the eyes of the Neo-Platonists. In philo-
sophic expression Bruno always falls back on Neo-Platonic
terms. Nor did the modern scientific upheaval dim the
luster of Plotinus in the eyes of certain thinkers, for his
own interest in science and keen distinction between spirit
and matter left him peculiarly available to scientific men of
the idealistic type. Thus, the Cambridge Platonists felt
they could adopt the corpuscular physics as not incom-
patible with "the true intellectual system of the universe,"
and Descartes could view the world as a vast machine,
while saving God and the soul in the realm of absolutely
immaterial spirit. On the other hand, the monism of
Spinoza,
83
which seems to have come indirectly from a
certain element implicit in Hinduism, provides a basis for
modern science, especially in its
philosophic mood.
In spite of his modern regard for the test of experience,
and his official Christian viewpoint, Bishop Berkeley, it
seems, found in the ancient "pagan" Plotinus hints to-
wards the solution of the ultimate problems he had first
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 239
proposed to settle by developing Locke's position. With-
out imitating the detail of Plotinus, the Platonic English
poets from Spenser to Shelley, as well as the Romanti-
cists and Neo-Christians of Germany lived and moved in
his atmosphere of pure spirituality. The simple German
mystic Jacob Boehme.,
84
who seems to have received his
bold doctrines from a humble neighboring rabbi deeply
imbued with the Qabbala, was the last Western thinker to
depend on Hinduism only by way of Plotinus. With
Schelling and Hegel, Vedanta and Hindu thought in gen-
eral began to be directly and assiduously studied in the
leading universities of Germany.
Friedrich Schleiermacher, with his definition of religion
as the feeling of utter dependence on the Infinite, and
Christian F. Krause, with his doctrine of the immanence
of all things in God, must have been influenced somewhat
by Vedanta by way of Schelling and Hegel.
85
Says Fried-
rich Schlegel, "The Indians possessed a knowledge of the
true God, conceived and expressed in noble, clear and
grand language. . . . Even the loftiest
philosophy of the
Europeans, the idealization of reason, as set forth by the
Greeks, appears in comparison with the abundant light
and vigor of oriental idealism, like a feeble spark in the
full flood of the noonday sun/'
86
Arthur Schopenhauer felt the influence of Vedanta
through the work of Anguetil Duperron, a French traveler
who obtained in 1775 a manuscript of a Persian transla-
tion of the Upanishads. This he translated into French
and also into Latin, and in 1801 and the following years,
the Latin version was published under the title of Oup-
nek'hat) L e., Sacretum Tegendum, meaning "Deep Mys-
tery." This unusual piece of work .was neglected till
Schopenhauer took it
up and told the West that "the an-
cient Hindus may have had perhaps more to say about
philosophy and fundamental truths than many of our mod-
240 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
ern writers."
87
In the preface to the first edition of his
World as Will and Idea he tells the reader that the dis-
covery of the Upanishads is the greatest privilege of the
century.
The Indian air surrounds us, the original thoughts of kindred
spirits. . . . And oh, how thoroughly is ... the mind washed
clean of all early engrafted Jewish superstitions, and of all
phi-
losophy that cringes before these superstitions. ... In most of the
pagan philosophical writings of the first Christian centuries, we
see the Jewish theism which as Christianity was soon to become
the faith of the people shining through, much as at present we
perceive ... in the writings of the learned, the native pantheism
of India, which is destined sooner or later to become the faith
of the people.
88
Sir William Jones, one of the first Sanskrit scholars of
the West, says of Hinduism, "It is
impossible to read the
Vedanta . . . without believing that Pythagoras and Plato
derived their sublime theory from the same fountain with
the sages of India/'
88
Friedrich Max Miiller, who used to
be the Nestor of Western Sanskrit scholars, was drawn
to the Upanishads while attending the Berlin lectures of
Schelling, who used "rapturous language'
*
about these
Hindu works. Says Miiller, "The earliest of these Upani-
shads will always maintain a place in the philosophic
literature of the world among the most astounding prod-
ucts of the human mind." 89
Says Victor Cousin, the French
educator and philosopher, "When we read the poetical
and philosophic monuments of the East, especially of
India, we discover there many a truth, and truths so pro-
found, contrasting so favorably with the results of Euro-
pean genius, that we are constrained to bend the knee
before the philosophy of the East and to see this the native
land of the highest philosophy/
1
90
Of considerable significance is the direct and potent
influence of Plotinus on the modern revival of mysticism
in the West in such persons as Dean Inge, Evelyn Under-
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 241
hill and Rufus M. Jones, and especially in Henri Bergson,
whose stimulating conception of creative evolution is a
unique combination of the pragmatism developed by
William James and the vitalistic mysticism developed by
Plotinus. Like Plotinus and Sankara, Bergson defines a
sharp dualism between spirit and matter. Bergson's con-
ception of life encased in matter is like the Upanishad
illustration of the razor in its case to describe the relation
of soul to body. In Hinduism the relation of the Param-
atman, or universal soul, to the jivatman, or individual
soul, is
compared to the relation between a river and its
rills. The same analogy is used by Bergson to relate the
elan vital to the individual. And in Bergson the pragma-
tism of James is reversed in accord with the contemplative
ethic of Hinduism and Neo-Platonism. We must strive
to see in order to see, he says, and no longer to see in
order to act.
91
Thus Hinduism comes to America indirectly through
the classic philosophy taught in American institutions of
higher learning, and directly through American writers
and poets such as Emerson, Thoreau and Walt Whitman.
Even Muslim, Christian, Sikh and Parsi lecturers coming
from India, including Christian missionaries, contribute to
the spread of Hinduism in America. American professors
of Sanskrit and oriental studies are not necessarily en-
thusiasts for Hinduism, but now and then they become
lecturers and writers on Hindu subjects, and from this
position may pass over into the work of organizing an
American cult more or less influenced by Hindu religion
or culture, as in the case of Dr. George C. O. Haas, who
is a co-leader with Miss Beulah E. Thompson in the Uni-
versal Spiritual Church, Hotel Biltmore, New York,
which holds meetings on Sundays at 8:15 P. M,
242 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
10. THE MODERN EXPANSION OF HINDUISM
In various ways, then, Hinduism has impressed itself
on American life: on miracle-loving people through Hindu
"fakes" and "fakirs/* on individual religious truth-seekers
through the Vedanta movement, the Yogoda Society, and
other Hindu and Hindu-like cults, on cultural liberals
through the Threefold Movement, and on students, teach-
ers and scholars through the International School, learned
lecturers, cultural organizations and certain Western phi-
losophers and poets. Outside of America, moreover,
Hindu missionaries are teaching and preaching their re-
ligion in both Eastern and Western countries. In India a
certain "Hindu Missionary Society"
93
has been formed
on these three principles:
1 . He who calls himself a Hindu is a Hindu.
2. Any person wishing to come into Hinduism may be ad-
mitted into its fold.
3. The religious status of all Hindus is the same. The
Vedas and the Sanskars, including the Sacred Thread, hitherto
confined to the three "twice-born" castes or orders are now free
for all. Caste, food, dress and other outward forms are to be
considered not religious but merely social matters.
A certain J. S. Rao writes in the Hindustan Revieiv,
Allahabad, "The Western frame of mind is so peculiarly
promising for the reception of Indian ideas," that "it will
be our own mistake if we do not make India the teacher
of the West as it has already been of the East."
93
He is
jubilant over the recent success of Hinduism, and sees
Christianity in the throes of death. Its dogmas, he thinks,
cannot withstand the scientific theory of evolution, while
its claims to finality cannot be maintained in view of the
modern study of religion. Hinduism, on the other hand,
is fit to be the world religion, for it stands for culture
rather than for dogma. Its
principles of reincarnation and
karma support the belief in a just and merciful God,
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 243
while its repeated incarnations reveal more divine love
than the single incarnation of Christianity.
Hindus never tire of insisting that they have principles,
whereas other religions have only dogmas. It is true they
eschew dogmas in the sense of detailed historical docu-
ments sanctioned by majority vote to bind the beliefs of
future generations. But dogmas in the sense of hoary and
authoritarian rules of belief and practice uncritically ac-
cepted and devoutly obeyed, they both cultivate and propa-
gate. They do not shrink from embracing new ideas, but
they are loath to give up the old. As Sir Charles Eliot
says, "the guiding principle of the Brahmans has always
been not so much that they have a particular
creed to
enforce, as that whatever is the creed of India, they must
be its ministers."
94
And now that India is awaking to
modern civilization, this principle is
simply being extended
to include all countries and races. Hitherto the Brahmans
have been the
preceptors
of India. They now desire to
teach the world.
This desire, moreover, is not confined to the Brahmans.
Just as the range of Hinduism is being extended from
India to the world, the privilege of teaching this sup-
posedly universal religion is being extended from the
Brahmans to the lower orders. Says Manmohandas
Karamchand Gandhi, commonly called Mahatma, or
Great Soul, a Hindu who is not a Brahman, "Why should
you self-styled whites get it into your heads that Chris-
tianity is your special largesse to distribute and interpret?
You have made a mess of it
yourselves. As a matter of
fact, Christ was originally Asiatic, as were all the founders
of religions, and I think we understand him much better
than you do. We would have thanked you for bringing
his gospel before us had you not mingled it so much with
your Western culture, dress and machinery. We will go
on and present the true Christ to India/
1
S5
And practicing
244 HINDUISM IN VARIOUS MOVEMENTS
what he preaches, Gandhi has ordered the New Testa-
ment read in all Svaraj schools. Like most of his coun-
trymen in America, he will teach all religions with a
Hindu interpretation.
This modern expansion of Hinduism is
just a part of
the great modern awakening of Asia. Although the other
oriental religious leaders do not so often pose as world
teachers, they nevertheless have a world outlook, and wish
to propagate their own culture while absorbing the culture
of the West. The Venerable Lord Abbott of Zojo, a pro-
gressive Buddhist of Japan, said in a public interview that
it was a good thing for the leaders of various religions to
meet often and discuss common problems, and the oftener,
the better. He supports the Shukyo Komvakei, an organi-
zation for Buddhist-Shinto-Christian fellowship. The Y.
M. C. A. and the Y. W. C. A. have their Buddhist paral-
lels in Japan. Buddhist churches, conference organiza-
tions and Sunday schools have been formed, and the chil-
dren sing Christian tunes to words such as "Buddha loves
me, this I know. . . ." Imitating the Red Cross in the
West is the "Red Swastika Society" of China and the
"Red Crescent" in Turkey.
96
A world-wide struggle for cultural influence is now
taking place. The West has sent missionaries to the far
away "heathen'** lands, foreseeing and preparing for the
day when India and China would become Christian, only
to evoke a strong reaction of Eastern propaganda. Each
community cries, "We have the universal religion!" Per-
haps India is in the van of oriental religious imperialism
because she has lived in the British Empire, and her intel-
lectuals have learned a world language.
As oriental countries in the recent past furnished good
soil for the sowing of Western culture because of their
material helplessness and subjection, so America today
offers good soil for the sowing of Eastern culture because
A SIGN OF EASTERN POWER 245
of its growing liberalism. The enlarged conception of
the universe presented by the telescope and the micro-
scope, electrical research and mathematical progress, the
advancing verification of the doctrine of evolution, the
growth of Biblical criticism and comparative study of
religions, the new psychology with its study of instinct,
dreams, suggestion and the "occult/* the increasing prag-
matic and the eclectic habits of philosophy, the growing
social unrest and the migration of populations all these
movements have tended to break down the original dog-
matism and provincialism of American religious life.
97
The American churches themselves are becoming more
rational, social and spiritual.
98
The original Protestant
idea of freedom in worship is
working out to its
logical
conclusion. At first freedom meant only freedom for a
particular church to be intolerant, sectarian and dogmatic.
Tt is now coming to mean freedom for the individual to
join or start whatever cult he pleases. The authority of
Church and Bible are challenged, and for many, only the
individual remains as the final ground and judge of reli-
gion. If the Hindu movements in America today are a
part of the age-long Hindu influence on the West and a
part of the modern awakening of Asia, they are also a
part of American liberalism. To a large extent, Hindu-
ism in America is American Hinduism.
CHAPTER VIII
AMERICAN HINDUISM, THE RESULT OF HINDU
ADJUSTMENTS
In order to trace the adjustment of Vedanta and Yo~
goda to American life we must begin with the swamis in
India. Before Vivekananda came to America, he was
half Sankara Hindu and half dilute Christian.* His Chris-
tianity came to him from his college and the Brahma
Samaj. His Hinduism came to him at birth (or before),
and he followed Sankara after meeting Ramakrishna. In
spite of his portion of Christianity, he did not cling to any
reformed or liberal Hindu group, but merely held an
advanced position among the conservatives. And as a
monk he was a Hindu of the strictest and most medieval
type, seeking to escape the world by condemning it as
illusion. Vivekananda was indeed a strange mixture.
As a modern preacher he was conservative, but as a me-
dieval monk he was liberal. Thus when he came to
conservative Madras, he created quite a stir by preaching
such liberal ideas for a monk!2
Before Yogananda came to America, he was one-third
Sankara monk, one-third practical yogi, and one-third
University of Calcutta graduate, all dominated by the
Bhagavad Glta. Thus instead of wavering between San-
kara renunciation and Christian creation like Vivekananda,
he held to the Gita, which teaches in the main a kind of
Stoic or Ramanuja resignation.
3
Neither of the swamis came to America on their own
initiative. Nor were they sent out by the spontaneous
act of any Hindu organization. Each came as a delegate
246
THE RESULT OF HINDU ADJUSTMENTS 247
to a religious congress inspired and organized by liberal
Christians.
4
Thus the presence of Hinduism in America
in the form of purely religious organizations is due pri-
marily to the desire of certain American Christians for
deeper and wider knowledge of the world's religious
thought. The Hindu preachers in the United States are
not so much missionaries as "inductionaries." The stimu-
lus is American, the response Hindu.
But even the response is
strongly influenced by Chris-
tianity and Western culture. In sending Vivekananda to
America, the Hindu enthusiasts at Madras did not send
a monk of the old fashioned type to represent their reli-
gion before the world. They sent a man with modern
education, a command of English, and a spirit of freedom
and expansion, all of which traits are primarily due to
the British Government and Christian Missions.
5
Yoga*
nanda likewise possessed these typically Western virtues.
And again, why is it that most of the Hindu preachers
and teachers in America are Bengalis from the vicinity
of Calcutta? Because that locality was the first and fore-
most in India to feel the influence of Government and
Missions. Calcutta is so Western that, unlike most other
cities of India, it has no "native" section, and Bengalis
are famous for their prominence in government positions
throughout the country. They might be called the na-
tional westernizers of India. Thus the response of Cal-
cutta to the stimulus of Chicago in 1893 and Boston in
1920 was the West returning to the West bearing gifts
of Eastern treasure. The swamis come to America be-
cause of Christianity and Western culture rather than
because of Hinduism of Eastern culture. We see a re-
bound of the West on itself, and furthermore a second re-
bound of the West on the East in the work of the Rama-
krishna Mission, which was organized by Vivekananda
only after his experience in America.6
248 AMERICAN HINDUISM
If now we ask why the swamis stayed in America after
they came, the answer is somewhat different. Western
Christianity is not as responsible for the founding of
Hindu cults in America as it was for the coming of their
founders. The driving power in both cults seems to come
mainly from those Americans who were already turned
toward Hinduism by American cults of partly Hindu
origin.
7
This is
especially true of Vedanta, while Yogoda
relies on two other groups also liberal Christians and
pure converted Yogodans.
8
But whoever may be their supporters, these Hindu cults
persist in America only because they make some contribu-
tion to American religious life. In the Vedanta move-
ment it seems to be mainly the peace that comes from
sympathy, tolerance and breadth of view, while in the
Yogoda Society it seems to be mainly the practice of body-
building and relaxation by means of calisthenics, concen-
tration and meditation.
9
Aside from this main teaching,
the wealth of Hindu lore proves attractive to many.
10
Whatever effect these cults have on American culture in
the ecclesiastical, political, industrial and social realms is
not direct but indirect, coming through individual in-
fluence.
Yogananda, however, has the desire if not the present
means to deal with such human problems as immigration,
the crime wave and sensational journalism, and hopes to
introduce his educational methods into churches and
schools.
11
Vivekananda, on the other hand, had little
social or even historical interest. Since his share of Chris-
tianity was not needed in America, he preached his share
of Sankara Hinduism, with the result that the members
of the Vedanta, or Ramakrishna, movement in America
today are on the whole more medieval and otherworldly
than all of the liberal and many of the conservative Hindu
groups in India itself.
12
THE RESULT OF HINDU ADJUSTMENTS 249
Now in making these contributions to American life,
how have our Hindu cults adjusted themselves? As to
message, we cannot expect them to revise their creeds
deliberately, for the Hindu assumes he has no creeds, and
possesses all doctrines to begin with. He does not care
so much to preach any special doctrine as to be the special
preacher of whatever doctrine he can understand.13
And
so far, the contacts of American Hindu cults with genuine
Judaism and Christianity have not been serious enough to
yield any profound understanding of these more Semitic
religions. On the supposition that India is the "Mother
of Religions/' the Hindus seek to embrace the various
elements common to all religions as children of Hinduism,
while the distinctly Jewish or Christian elements they
either overlook or interpret according to dogmatic Hindu
principles.
14
In the presentation of the message, however, we notice
a decided shift of emphasis from Sankara to the Bhagavad
Gita, from renunciation to resignation, from knowledge
and meditation to devotion and work, in short, from
escape from the world to escape from anxiety. Vivekanan-
da used to tell us that we live in a hellish world, and that
the quicker we deny it, the better. But his follower Para-
mananda proclaims today: "God is One . . . We are all
children of that One, and we cannot serve and love that
One unless one love makes us include all his children
east, west, north, south, everywhere. To uphold this unity
is the chief aim of this work/' 15
At first Yogananda used
to tell us how to extract the Spirit from the baneful body.
But now he tells us how to invigorate the body with
cosmic electricity. He may formally believe in escape, but
he actually teaches control. If the esthetic Plotinus had
been given the work of running the Roman Empire and
could have kept his health while doing it, would he not
have become more like Marcus Aurelius? In the same way,
250 AMERICAN HINDUISM
the demands of organization and the environment of
American industry have made Vivekananda and especially
Yogananda more Stoical and even somewhat Christian.
Again, we see the Hindu preachers grappling with
Western science and philosophy. At least, they talk more
glibly about science than scientists and more deeply about
philosophy than philosophers. And whatever their inter-
pretation of religion may be, it is
completely scientific and
philosophic, so they say.
16
Perhaps this use of Western
thought as a means of presenting an Eastern message will
some day radically modify the message itself. Even now,
however, the Yogoda Society, unlike the Vedanta move-
ment, is
making a deliberate attempt to reconcile the cul-
tures of East and West, and has accumulated a wealth of
inspiration and practice.
17
In this society, the Hindu
Kundalini traverses the seven stars of Revelation in the
Christian Bible, the Fourth of July is a fine day for a
Hindu sermon, while the Heavenly Father in His warmth
of love hobnobs with a divine principle as cool as a glass
of distilled water!
It is in the realm of method, however, that the differ-
ence between the two movements is most striking.
18
In
the Vedanta centers, the swamis sing their song, and those
come to listen who will. But the Yogoda Society means
business. It not only preaches "the Gospel of Getting
On/* but has also developed the art of getting on through
high-pressure advertising and the community church. It
literally proclaims its
message from the housetops by us-
ing the radio. And when the physical radio is
inadequate,
it resorts to the "spiritual" radio. The Vedanta centers
are guided only by swamis and sisters, but the Yogoda
Society with its national organization is built to endure
even if all the swamis and brahmacaris should retire to
India, for most of the local leaders are American, and the
Yogoda textbook will soon be published. The Vedanta
THE RESULT OF HINDU ADJUSTMENTS 251
movement in America has proved itself a true branch of
the Ramakrishna monastic order in India that seeks re-
nunciation, or escape from the world, but the Yogoda
Society, with its
carefully planned organization, seeks to
control even the future.
The Ramakrishna movement will most likely abide by
itself in America as long as sufficient wistful Americans
exist to support the kindly and sweet-tempered swamis
that supply them with inner peace. But the Yogoda So-
ciety who knows what it will do? For it both supplies
and creates a demand. Seeking to penetrate Western
culture, it
adopts American forms and methods, which
may gradually modify the message itself until it becomes
a kind of New Thought, and the Hinduism called to
America in the twentieth century by the Unitarian Con-
gress joins the Hinduism introduced to America in the
nineteenth century by the Unitarian Emerson.
In general, there are three main reasons for the persis-
tence of these and other Hindu cults in America. First,
their claim of universal authority is both novel and su-
preme, and consequently very impressive. While the
Roman Catholic Church claims absolute dogmatic author-
ity, it cannot deny that it
springs from a single historical
person, who lived less than two thousand years ago. But
the dogma presented by the Hindus is
supposed to be
nothing less than a complete and universal summary of
all possible religious principles existing from the begin-
ning of time the world over. It thus seems all-embracing,
all-tolerant, and all-supreme.
19
Hence we can readily
accept it without critical effort. We can enjoy "universal
scientific and philosophic truth" without being scientists
or philosophers ourselves. We can attain religious satis-
faction without the trouble of thinking out a special way
252 AMERICAN HINDUISM
of life. We need not strive to search for the best, for
the best is
regarded as all religion in general, and each
religion in particular as it suits our individual need. This
leads us to a second reason.
Their cultivation of the individual rather than society
fits in nicely with the American post-war mood of reaction
from social idealism, and most likely helps to account for
the rapid increase in Yogoda membership. The practice
of concentration and meditation, a religious duty so simple
that anyone can perform it, helps to relieve the spiritual
depression caused by the collapse of fond hopes for man-
kind, and provides an obviously sane and modest outlet
for religious fervor. Sacrificial devotion to social service
and reform, or strenuous inquiry into political, economic
and domestic problems may or may not be wise or pos-
sible so runs the feeling but self-culture is
undoubtedly
good. This contemporary leaning towards the renuncia-
tion of the turbulent world of public affairs is naturally
encouraged by the dualistic, or ascetic, side of classical
Vedanta.20
Finally, their insistence on the essential oneness of the
individual with God is universally satisfying.
21
This
monistic side of classical Vedanta is in itself neither ascetic
nor deterministic, and it
supports rather than opposes the
Western stress on science and social personality. While
it becomes pantheistic if God be conceived as impersonal,
it becomes theistic if God be conceived as personal. Hence
it is
quite suitable for the typical Western life of creation.
On this account, we are not surprised to discover in the
adjustment of Hinduism to the creative culture of America
an increasing emphasis on the monistic conviction of the
oneness of the individual and society with God, and a
decreasing emphasis on the dualistic tradition of escape
from the world.22
This movement from a world-denying
to a world-affirming position, which is fitful and slow in
THE RESULT OF HINDU ADJUSTMENTS 253
the Ramakrishna cult, is more steady in many other Hindu
orders in America, and glaringly rapid in the Yogoda
society.
The most rapid movement of all, however, is found in
the clean-cut work of A. K. Mozumdar,
23
an independent
Christian of Hindu race and tradition, who has preached
here and there in America for about twenty years. While
Mozumdar's teaching is
popular, it has unusual historic
significance, for it shows us what happens when a thinker
immersed in Hindu lore completely accepts a world-affirm-
ing position. What happens is an identification of the
Hindu conception of a divine universal Self with the
Hebrew conception of a divine creative Power. To Mo-
zumdar the ultimate God is not uncreative Bliss, as in
the view of Sankara, but creative Power, as in the Hebrew
tradition. Yet this creative Power, he declares, is the same
as the universal Self. Here the universal Self, we should
note, is not a finite Ideal, as in Greek philosophy, but
the infinite Substance of the world.
Mozumdar makes this synthesis on the basis of his faith
in Jesus Christ. Whether Jesus was historically influenced
by Hinduism, as many Hindus contend, we cannot at pres-
ent determine, but what makes him more than an ordinary
Hebrew prophet in his life and teaching is
precisely the
Hindu-like conviction, expressed as well as possible within
the limits of Jewish conceptions, that God is the universal
Self, or the personal Substance of man. Elaborating the
same conviction, Spinoza declares that the God of creative
Power is also the thinking Substance of man and the
universe. While the synthesis of Jesus is
implicit and
popular, the synthesis of Spinoza is
explicit and technical.
Like Spinoza, Mozumdar worships Jesus as the supreme
religious genius. Like Spinoza again, he feels both Hindu
and Hebrew influence. And like Spinoza in the third
place, he accepts the monistic philosophy of modem sci-
254 AMERICAN HINDUISM
ence instead of the dualistic philosophy of ancient Greece.
Unlike Jesus, both Spinoza and Mozumdar are explicit in
their Hebrew-Hindu synthesis, but like Jesus and unlike
Spinoza, Mozumdar uses a popular instead of a technical
method, for he preaches, teaches and performs faith-heal-
ing. While his lectures, classes, lessons and correspond-
ence courses subordinate the Hebrew interest in social
justice to the Hindu interest in meditation and concentra-
tion, his philosophical position as revealed in his nu-
merous pamphlets and books on "The Messianic World
Message'* is
definitely Christian and opposed to many
traditional Hindu conceptions, such as the equal value of
all great religious geniuses, the illusory nature of the
world, and the postponement of final salvation till the end
of the cosmic process. Says he:
Jesus's teaching is the greatest and simplest revelation of God,
and is different from other teachings of Truth. ... He came
to teach us that the human expression is not an illusion . . .
but ... a vital reality. . . . Instead of following a specific path
to realize God, you let God direct your life. ... It need not
take you millions of years to dispel millions of years* accumulated
darkness. It will take but a flash of light from God to light your
entire mental life.24
Yet his Christian teaching is unusual because it rejects
the traditional Greek dualism in favor of Hindu monism.
If man thinks and acts, is not the thinker . . . and actor . . .
God? ... If God is All-Life . . . then all lives are God. . . .
The Creative-power is the very nature of the Being of the Crea-
tor; hence the Creative-power is God. . . . Life is the Creator,
and It will never be reduced to the level of Its own creation.
The creature will forever be ensouled with the Creative-activity,
and move and act according to the inner impulse of the Creator.
... By thinking with the mind of the One Life, you become
conscious of being the Thinker. ... At the back of your every
action you should find Yourself. . . . You are spirit and there-
fore spiritual.
. . . The Permanent Substance is underneath all
forms. The forms are made of the Everlasting Substance. This
knowledge sets a man free. . , ,
25
THE RESULT OF HINDU ADJUSTMENTS 255
American religion, with its dualistic Greek notion of an
ideal God up in heaven and an actual man down on earth,
has come to a fork in the road. To the left lies a path
trod by atheists, secularists, humanists and others, who
seek to exalt man by getting rid of this sort of God. To
the right lies a path trod by Hindus, Theosophists, Chris-
tian Scientists and others, who seek to exalt man by sup-
porting him with a belief in his divine nature. The mod-
ern age has little use for the traditional dualism between
the natural and the supernatural, and is
moving towards
pluralism on the one hand and monism on the other, to-
wards the path of less religion and the path of more re-
ligion. Hinduism comes to America to point out the
path of more religion.
SPELLING AND PRONUNCIATION
The Sanskrit words in the Index are spelled and marked ac-
cording to the usage of the American Oriental Society. The
reader unfamiliar with Sanskrit may avoid the most noticeable
mistakes in pronunciation by pronouncing a as the u in up, a as
the a in arm, c as cb, e as the e in jete,
s and j- as sh, and th as
/.
Proper names of modern Hindus are spelled as they usually
appear in English, while the letters are marked for pronunciation.
257
NOTES
CHAPTER II
1. Muller, Six Systems of Indian Philosophy, p. 41, tr. Rigveda I,
164,46.
2. Hume, Thirteen Principal Upanishads, p. 71, tr. Brihad-Aranyaka
Upanishad 1.3.28.
3. &wfW J500&T of the East, v. 34, p. 23; Sankara's comment on
Vedanta Sutras 1.1.1. For most of my treatment of Sankara and Rama-
nuja I am indebted to M. H. Harrison's dissertation, Monism and Plur-
alism in the Upanishads, Faculty of Philosophy, Columbia University,
1928.
4. Maitri 6.22, and Mundaka 1.1.4.
5. Sacred Books of the East, v. 34, p. 14; Sankara's comment on
Vedanta Sutras 1.1.1.
6. The same, v. 34, p. 43; comment on V. S. 1.1.4.
7. Sankara, Vivekacudamani, verses 18-27; comment on Vedanta
Sutras 1.
8. Sankara's comment on Brihadaranyaka Upantshad 2.4.5.
9. Radhakrishnan, Indian Philosophy, v. 2, p. 636; quotation from
Sankara's comment on Vedanta Sutras 1.1.4.
10. Katha 6.10-11; Maitri 6.18-29.
11. Garbe, article "Yoga" in Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics,
v. 12, p. 831; Das Gupta, Yoga as Philosophy and Religion, p. vii;
Sankara's comment on Vedanta Sutras 2.1.2.
12. Sacred Books of the East, v. 34, p. 37; Sankara's comment on
Vedanta Sutras, 1.1.4.
13. Sankara's first comment on V. S. 1.1.1.
14. Sacred Books of the Eastf v. 34, p. 365; comment on V. S. 2.1.1.
15. The same, v. 38, p. 20; comment on V. S. 2.3.9- Cf. v, 34, p.
290. This argument was not original with Sankara, as also the one from
design, and he did not place primary reliance on them; but for all that,
he did accept them.
16. The same, v. 34, p. 290.
17. Barnett, The Heart of India, p. 42-43.
18. The pluralistic theism of the Katha and Svetasvatara Upanishads
is probably an outgrowth of the old Vedic polytheism transformed by
the pantheism of the early Upanishads, yet without getting rid of
inconsistency.
19. Radhakrishnan, Indian Philosophy, v. 2, p. 666.
20. Ramanuja gives the term avidya no technical status. To him,
even error is a kind of knowledge of the real, and may be corrected by
further knowledge of the same kind.
21. Thus God is an object of knowledge who can be defined In
positive terms.
22. Bhagavad Gita 10.10.
23. To Vedic rites are added traditional Visnuite practices such as
abstention from all but ceremonially dean foods, freedom from attach-
ment to desire, repetition of scriptural passages, and virtuous behavior,
including service to others.
259
260 NOTES
24. Sacred Books of the East, v. 48, p. 135-40; Ramanuja's comment
on Vedanta Sutras 1.1.1. Cf. p. 370: comment on V. S. 1.4.10; and p.
566: comment on V. S. 2.3.42.
25. The same, v. 48, p. 424; comment on V. S. 2.1.9.
26. The same, v. 48, p. 240; comment on V. S. 1.1.21.
CHAPTER III
1. Paxamahansa means literally "great goose," but as a name of
Visnu, it means "divine." It is a rare title, and higher than the usual
"sri," or "honorable."
2. Madhavananda, Life of Sri Ramakrishna, p. vii.
3. Following Madhavananda, whose edition is based on the most
complete Bengali Life.
4. Swami Saradananda, author of the most authentic Life (in Ben-
gali), claims on the evidence of women friends of the mother, Chandra
Devi, that the father Khudiram was away from his wife for about a year
before the child was born.
5. Not Buddha-Gaya, but the more ancient Visnu-pada-Gaya of the
Hindus, about seven miles to the south.
6. In the Sraddba, or "faith," ceremony.
7. The famous saying of Krishna, Visnu
f
s avatarz or incarnation.
8. Madhavananda, Life of Sri Ramakrisbna$ p. 68.
9. The same, p. 92.
10. The same, p. 102-3.
11. The same, p. 98-99-
12. The same, p. 124-25.
13. The bethrothal of a five year old girl is not unusual in India.
14. Krishna Chaitanya was a young Bengali ascetic of the sixteenth
century who founded a new sea for the worship of Krishna and Radha,
Krishna's favorite mistress, and won his success by an emotional tempest
of devotion.
15. Madhavananda, Life of Sri Ramakriskna, p. 192.
16. The same, p. 179.
17. The same, p. 257.
18. See above, p. 34.
19. The same, p. 260.
20. The same, p. 263.
21. The same, p. 278.
22. The famous prayer the Muslim offers towards Mecca regularly
five times a day.
23. The same, p. 283.
24. The same, p. 283.
25. The same, p. 338.
26. The same, p. 340.
27. Farquhar, Modern Religious Movements in lndiat p. 57; quota-
tion from the Sunday Mirror, Calcutta, Oct. 23, 1881.
28. This and the following aphorisms are selected from Miiller's
Ramakrishnat Gupta's The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna, and Abhedananda's
Sayings of Sri Ramakrishna,
NOTES 261
29. Madhavananda, Lije of Sri Ramakrishna, p. 371.
30. See Dr. Ketkar's explanation below, p. 208.
CHAPTER IV
1. Following Virajananda, Life of Swami Vivekananda, p. 29.
2. The same, p. 105.
3. The same, p. 203.
4. The same, p. 210.
5. Madhavananda, Lije of Sri l&tmakrishna, p. 445.
6. Virajananda, Lije of Swami Vivekananda, v. 1, p. 112.
7. Madhavananda, Life of Sri Ramakrishna, p. 723.
8. Virajananda, Lije of Swami Vivekananda, v. 2, p. 25.
9. The same, v. 2, p. 25.
10. See above, p. 26.
11. Virajananda, Lije of Swami Vivekananda, v. 2, p. 21.
12. The same, v. 2, p. 241-42.
13. The same, v. 2, p. 251.
14. The same, v. 2, p. 279.
15. See Nash, The Message and Influence of Swami Vivekananda, p.
742, and Madhavananda, Complete Works of Swami Vivekanandat v. 1,
p. 1. Beautiful! But how true? Vivekananda was initiated as a monk
by his master Ramakrishna, his master in turn by the monk Totapuri,
who followed Sankara's teaching. Sankara lived in the ninth century
after Christ. In the very same country of India, Gautama Buddha had
established an order of monks in the sixth century before Christ, a full
fifteen hundred years before Sankara. Vivekananda was speaking for
Hinduism, not Buddhism. Then how could he speak in the name of
"the most ancient order of monks in the world"? Indeed, how could
he speak as a Hindu monk at all, after living in palatial hotels, sporting
gaudy finery, and eating of all things beej? (See Christian Literature
Society, Swami Vivekananda and His Guru, p. xxv.) And how can
India be called the mother of religions, when she produced only four
of the eleven religions of the world, and of these four Buddhism is hers
no longer, while Jainism and Sikhism are offshoots of Hinduism?
16. See Reed, Hinduism in England and Americaf p. 170, and
Madhavananda, Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda, v. 1, p. 18.'
The answer is, of course, that Christian missionaries have done, and
are doing, and want to do wonders to save the starving bodies of
India's poor, so often neglected by high caste Hindus. The majority
of the five million Christians in India have come from those who were
saved by missionaries in times of famine. And Christian missionaries
have blazed the trail not only in mass education, but also in mass
medical relief, establishing vast numbers of hospitals and dispensaries
with money from America.
17. He practiced "wish-thinking." In all his preaching he pre-
pared no addresses or notes. Says J. N. Farquhar, "he had no his-
torical conscience whatsoever." See Farquhar, Modern Religious Move-
ments in India, p. 204. Our Hindu speaker did his best without the
facts. The teacher had called on him. He was not prepared, but
he had to recite. So he bluffed. And the bluff worked, for the
audience on the whole was more ignorant than he.
18. Nash, Message and Influence of Swami Vivekananda, p. 744-45.
262 NOTES
19. Christian Literature Society, Swami Vivekananda and His Guru,
p. iv.
20. The same, p. iv.
21. The same, p. iv.
22. The same, p. vi.
23. Virajananda, Life of Swami Vivekananda, v. 2, p. 359.
^
24. About Greenacre see the same, v. 2, p. 353; Daggett, in Mis-
sionary Review, v. 35, p. 211, and Ingersoli, in Arena, v. 22, p. 484.
25. Virajananda, Life of Swami Vivekananda, v. 2, p. 356.
26. The same, v. 2, p. 370-77. See above, p. 34-36.
27. The same, v. 2, p. 381.
28. The same, v. 2, p. 382.
29. The same, v. 2, p. 382.
30. The same, v. 2, p. 379. The swami himself revealed some-
what the kind of people that flocked to hear him when he declared,
"Scarcely could I go to a meeting or society, but 1 found three quar-
ters of the women present had turned out their husbands and children.
It is so here, there, and everywhere." From the Brakmavadin, 1897,
p. 251.
31. The same, v. 2, p. 379. See also Daggett, Missionary Review,
v. 35, p. 211.
32. Not to be confused with the Hindu leader of the Yogoda Sat-
sanga Society, who has the same name.
33. Virajananda, Life of Swami Vivekananda, v. 3, p. 86.
34. For all these statements see Christian Literature Society, Swami
Vivekananda and His Guru, p. ii-iii; quotations from Vivekananda, From
Columbo to Almora, Seventeen Lectures, p. 12, 13, 25, 32-34, 47, 203.
Sceptical of Hindu boasts about America, Dr. Wilber W. White,
Secretary of the College Y. M. C, A. of Calcutta, wrote a letter to
many prominent men and women in America, asking for information.
The replies were unanimous in affirming that to the main body of Ameri-
cans, Swami Vivekananda was at most a passing fad, leaving no perma-
nent impression. Some of the writers had only vaguely heard of him.
Others admitted he had made converts, but not from Christianity. Said
Rev. B. Fay Mills, a lecturer and evangelist of New York:
"Swami Vivekananda made a very pleasant impression on Ameri-
cans at first. I am afraid some of it was dissipated later. He did
not produce a ripple in the stream of Christian thought and progress,
Except for a mild curiosity to see how far Hindu dogmas might be
strained to suggest Christian ethics, I do not know that he produced
any effect on American Christian thought and practice."
Said Dr. Lyman Abbott of Brooklyn, editor of the Outlook:
"We have in the United States, especially in the great cities, con-
siderable numbers of people who flock to see and hear the latest
curiosity whether in art, music, literature or religion. From these
classes Swami Vivekananda has gathered considerable audiences,
especially in Boston and Chicago."
Henry Watterson, editor of the Courier-Journal of Louisville, Kentucky,
saw in the Hindu boast good material for an editorial. Said he:
"That our readers may not be misled, it is necessary to explain
NOTES 263
that Swami Vivekananda is not ... a tropical fruit or ... an idol,
or an insect, but the title and name of a person who is supposed to
have set on foot the conversion of the United States to Vedantism,
or some other sort of Indian religion. . . .
Possibly some hundreds
of people have professed to believe in Hinduism, but these are not
converts. They are mere dilletanti, who, having grown weary of
a course of hypocritical adherence to Christianity, are seeking some
new diversion and possible social distinction by professing conver-
sion to a religion whose tenets they no more understand than they
comprehend the religion which they have renounced. . . .
"Even if these few hundred men and women were in deadly
earnest, it would not signify anything whatever. So many converts
may be easily commanded in this country for any fantastical scheme
under the name of religion that any one chooses to invent. There is
an arrant fakir out in Illinois who claims to be Jesus Christ, who
has captured a number of people by his transparent lies, and is
running a harem which he calls Heaven, giving out that the chil-
dren born there have the Holy Ghost as their father. That many
of his disciples are in earnest is evinced by the fact that they have
surrendered their property to him, and work for him like slaves.
In various other parts of the country there are similar fakirs, teach-
ing all sorts of follies, and devoutly believed in by small bands of
foolish men and women, who accept their confident statements as
divine revelations."
35. Virajananda, Lije of Swam? Vivekananda, v. 2, p. 15; Farquhar,
Modern Religious Movements in India, p. 202.
36. This zeal for social welfare seems to have come from Christianity,
not from his master Ramakrishna, who always felt a disgust for service.
37. Nash, The Message and Influence of Swami. Vivekananda, p. 753.
38. Information supplied by Swami Bodhananda in person.
39. Bois, The New Religions of America, Porum, v. 77, p. 419-20.
40. Virajananda, Lije of Swami Vfoekananda, v. 2, p. 392.
41. The same, v. 2, p. 393.
42. Madhavananda, Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda, v. 1,
p- 9-
43. Vivekananda has no justification in either Vedanta or Christianity
for calling men "divinities". This is a rare kind of polytheism. He
seems here to have made a weird combination of Hindu pantheism and
Western personalism.
44. Farquhar, Modern Religious Movements in India, p. 357.
45. Urquhart, Pantheism and the Value of Life, p. 472.
"~46. The same, p. 475; quotations from Vivekananda, Jnana Yoga,
p. 67.
47. The same, p. 476; quotation from Vivekananda, Science and Phi-
losophy of Religion, p. 122.
48. Madhavananda, Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda, v. 1, p.
133. (Raja Yoga).
49* Urquhart, Pantheism and the Value of Lije, p. 477.
50. The same, p. 477; quotation from Vivekananda, Bhakti Yoga,
P. i.
264 NOTES
51. The same, p. 479; quotation from the same, p. 95.
52. The same, p. 482; quotation from Vivekananda, Karma Yoga,
p. 134.
CHAPTER V
1. The information about the growth of the Vedanta Movement was
obtained from Swami Bodhananda personally. See Vedantists in America
by S. Bose in Modern Review, Calcutta, March, 1930, v. 47, no. 3,
p. 309-
2. The information about Paramananda is obtained from his own
little Boston pamphlet, The Vedanta Centre.
3. See Directory for addresses.
4. See above, p. 70.
5. See above, p. 84.
6. See above, p. 83.
7. Ramakrishna Math and Mission Convention, 1926, p. 235.
8. The same, p. 285-88, showing that no centers outside these two
countries were represented at the great Belur Conference in 1926.
"
9. The same, p. 287; cf. p. 238.
10. See above, p. 70, 84.
11. This statement comes from Swami Bodhananda personally.
12. In the light of this answer we can now understand that intoler-
ant, anti-Christian remark of a Vedanta member. (See above, p. 102.)
He evidently assumed that the worthy Swami was attacking Christianity,
when he was only attacking hypocrisy in the name of Christ. Moreover,
his bigoted background must have kept him bigoted even after his con-
version to Hindu ideals. But perhaps the simplest explanation is that
intolerance will arise whenever dogma meets dogma. For all his sup-
posed Hindu tolerance, the great Sankara pounced on the Sankhya posi-
tion, and Ramanuja tried his best to make mincemeat of Sankara.
13. But the experience of God, curiously, is conceived as super-
rational.
14. Madhavananda, Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda, v. 1.
p. 365-81.
15. The same, v. 1, p. 423-24.
16. The same, v. 1, p. 45-46.
17. The same, v. 4, p. 141.
18. The same, v. 4, p. 263.
19. Vedanta Monthly Bulletin, v. 1, p. 129; "Healing Power of
Breath."
20. The same, v. 1, p. 115.
21. In reply to the question, "What books do you consider sacred?"
one of the swamis answered, "First the Upanishads, then the Gita and
Puranas, then the sayings of Ramakrishna, then the works of Vive-
kananda". He did not mention the Christian Bible or any other non-
Hindu book, although he claims to accept all religions as true. This
indicates the actual dogmatic basis of the Ramakrishna cult in India and
America.
22. The classical meaning of Moksha is liberation from the fetters of
the world and absorption into transcendent bliss.
23. Ramakrishna Math and Mission Convention, p. 207-08.
24. Support comes from Sunday offerings, a membership fee of $15
NOTES 265
a year, and free individual donations to the work and the swamis, who
keep no accounts, but claim to take just enough for their modest needs.
25. United States Census, 1926, "Vedanta Society," p. 5.
26. Quoted in Virajananda, Life of Swami Vivekananda, v. 2 and 3.
27. See above, ch. 4, note 34.
28. According to the principle of critical ownership of any religious
traditions, I joined the New York Vedanta Society, and became ac-
quainted with the two swamis and several of the members and adherents.
Then I sent out about 20 questionnaires to each of the five American
centers, including New York, receiving 37 replies in all, from New
York 6, San Francisco 7, Boston 11, and Portland (Oregon) 13. Owing
to the pre-occupation of one of the swamis, no reply came from Los
Angeles. Here is the questionnaire:
(1) Name and address (optional).
(2) Country of birth. (3) Age. (4) Sex. (5) Married?
(6) Nationality or race. (7) Occupation.
(8) Parents' religion (specify denomination).
(9) Of what church were you ever, or are you still, an active
member?
(10) How did you happen to become interested in Vedanta?
(11) Are you a member of any Vedanta society?
(12) About how much time and energy do you devote to Vedanta?
(13) In the light of Vedanta what system of belief or practice
have you felt constrained to give up?
(14) What persons or books in all the world have appealed to you
most?
(15) What methods of Vedanta do you use? Jnana, Raja, Bhakti
or Karma?
29. See above, p. 100.
30. Information from picture postcards published by the San Fran-
cisco Society. See also Drury, in Missionary Review/ v. 44, p. 281-83.
31. See especially the work of another American woman, E. A. Reed,
Hinduism in England and America, in which Mrs. Daggett's reports are
reflected, and Hinduism warmly denounced.
32. Most likely the work of Baba Bharati.
33. See above, p. 78.
34. See above, p. 80.
35. Daggett, in Missionary Review, v. 35, p. 214.
36. Literary Digest, v. 45, p. 64.
37. See above, p. 92.
38. Madhavananda, Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda, v. 1
p. 119.
39. The same, v. 1, p. 137.
40. Prepared by Swami Jnanesvarananda.
41. This is the wall, or rang, that Ramakrishna used to visualize so
vividly. See above, p. 48.
42. The rite of the Kundalini is not. mentioned in the classic Raja
Yoga of Patanjali, and I find no evidence that it was advocated by
Sankara, although he may have known it, for the Tantra works of the
Saktist cult in which it is found may have been extant in his time. He
did, however, accept the rite of Pranayama, developed on the basis of
266 NOTES
Patanjali, 1.34. See Vivekananda's comment in the Complete Works.
... p. 139, 223.
43. This rather mechanical combination of Prana and Kundattni indi-
cates their separate origin. Each is supposed to be an infinite power!
44. See above, p. 48. Each lotus has its special name, number, loca-
tion, color, number of petals, shape of central opening, and presiding
element.
45. The information in this paragraph was obtained from Swami
Jnanesvarananda personally. It applies to the system as practiced at the
present time.
46. Madhavananda, Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda, v. 1,
p. 123.
47. See above, p. 92, also Vivekananda's Raja Yoga, chapter on
Prana.
48. Madhavananda, Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda, v, 1,
p. 134.
49. See above, p. 101.
50. The same, v. 1, p. 148-50.
51. January-April, 1927, p. 15.
52. Vivekananda, Raja Yoga, beginning of Chapter III.
53. Madhavananda, Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda} v. 1,
p. 152.
54. See above, p. 106.
CHAPTER VI
1. From the East-West Magazine, November-December, 1928, p. 15-
16. The information contained in this whole chapter has been checked
by Swami Yogananda in person, just as the chapter on the Ramakrishna
movement was approved by Swami Bodhananda.
2. East-West, September-October, 1927, p. 20.
3. See Vivekananda, Raja Yoga, ch. 2, verse 1, and comment.
4. East-West, January-April, 1927, p. 5.
5. East-West, first issue, November-December, 1925. The chart used
is now published in America as Psychological Chart. Another school has
now been established at Gidni, Bengal.
6. The report of this Congress the seventh is recorded in the book,
New Pilgrimages of the Spirit.
I. This and the following quotations are from East-West, November-
December, 1925, p. 7-11.
8. The Swami wants it understood that this fee is used mainly to
support the work, and is not a fixed amount, no one being denied the
privilege of the course on account of poverty.
9. East-West, January-April, 1927, p. 43.
10. The same, May-June, 1927, p. 14,
II. Yogananda, The Science of Religion, p. 60.
12. The same, p. 72.
13. The same, p. 73-76.
14. The same, p. 80.
15. The same, p. 49.
16. The same, p. 60-61. Verses similar to this sentence appear in
the Bible in John 3:14 and 12:32.
NOTES 267
17. The same, p. 73.
18. The same, p. 82. Cf. article of Nicolai Husted in East-West,
May-June, 1928, p. 6, where the allegorical method is used in its
"moral" form.
19. See above, ch. 5, p. 122-27 and note 42.
20. Chapter 5.
21. This notion goes back to the Chandogya Upanishad. "When the
life has left it, this body dies. The life does not die." See above, p. 32.
The same notion is very prominent in Plotinus.
22. Pages 10-11,
23. Page 37. Note the adoption of modern psychological terms.
24. Pages 40, 42-43, 44-47, 53-54.
25. Vivekananda, Raja Yoga, ch. 3, verse 4 and comment. Here the
word is not samgama but samyama. See above, p. 122, 129.
26. The same, ch. 1, verses 30-31.
27. According to the old-fashioned method, we would know God
perfectly by contacting Him. The idea of knowing God only by serving
Him seems to be an American addition.
28.
The^ Swami wants it understood that he is willing to give his
course free in any educational institution that will pay its expenses. For
other methods of concentration and healing, see Barrett, Man: His
Making and Unmaking, f. 108. Until the Swami defines his aim with
more single-minded consistence, Western educational institutions may not
care to consider his system. I have tried the course, and found it helpful
in several ways, especially in improving the quality of sleep by previously
inducing a state of mental peace, and in offering new ways of "sugges-
tion". But while I accept elements out of it, its lack of united appeal
deters me from accepting it as a whole.
29. East-West, January-April, 1927, p. 34.
30. The same, May-June, 1927, p. 11.
31. Theosophy has a similar theory. Cf. Vivekananda Raja Yoga
ch. 3, verse 18.
32. East-West, September-October, 1926, p. 5.
33. The same, January-February, 1928, p. 3.
34. Dale Stewart in East-West, September-October, 1927, p. 10.
35. East-West, March-April, 1926, p. 24.
36. The same, p. 20.
37. While the facts of the yogi's trance experience need not be
doubted^ the hypothesis of reincarnation is at last as doubtful as the
hypothesis of disembodied spirits to explain the "manifestations" studied
by the Society for Psychical Research. It is always possible to account
for the facts in other ways. Yet the spiritualistic hypothesis may be,
in certain cases, the simpler, more fruitful and picturesque.
38. Here the dualism between God and the soul in ptactical life is
quite striking.
39- The doctrine of reincarnation, however, is not the only explana-
tion for the pre-existence of the soul.
40. Modern science does not admit that the circumstances are exactly
the same, and claims great significance for apparently trifling differences
at the start.
41. East-West, November-December, 1928, p. 5-7. The teachings
of the swami on some other subjects come from sources still wider
268 NOTES
apart. At the beginning he said in line with American tradition that
he believed in "common sense education, free from all mysticism," but
now he teaches "Contacting Cosmic Consciousness." He accepts the
Gtia doctrine of meritless works, yet preaches "reincarnation till free-
dom is won through merit." (East-West March-April, 1926, p. 21.)
With Sankara he states that true religion transcends all cults, creeds
and ceremonies, yet in line with American procedure he is busy establish-
ing a new cult with non-compulsory creeds such as "the medulla oblon-
gata is the mouth of God" (East-West, September-October, 1927, p. 7),
and technical ceremonies such as facing "North or East" while practic-
ing meditation. (Scientific Healing Affirmations, p. 42.)
He believes in the solitary spiritual Self, yet gives his support to
the utilitarian dogma, "the greatest good for the greatest number."
After telling us in Western fashion that pain is one of man's best friends,
because it warns him of danger, he insists on the Eastern teaching that
"pain is a man-made Delusion," for "the consciousnes of man is made
of God and is pain-proof." (East-West, May-June 1928, p. 4.) With
the East he says we know God only by meditation; with the West, we
know God only by service.
42. Swami Dhirananda, the associate and disciple of Swarni Yoga-
nanda, holds less to Schopenhauerian renunciation and Stoic resignation,
and more to Hegelian evolutionism. Demand great things, he says to
America in his Philosophic Insight. No demand is too great to be ful-
filled if you are fit for it. Great men not only make demandsthey
exist to create new and fresh demands. Not wealth, but vanity is bad.
The business man is of the same caste as the preacher. But remember
that Soul is All, the base and atmosphere of success. The good things
of the world cannot be enjoyed without the "sauce" of the higher knowl-
edge of the Soul. So reverence the Soul that crowns your activity with
success. Expand into the Universal Soul, be broadminded, tolerant,
liberal, appreciating even where you cannot agree.
Then he apologizes for the law of karma, and seeks to heal the long-
standing dualism between this formal law and the formless God. The
rigid law of cause and effect whether in nature or man, he says, is no
bar to our trust in the Soul. Although 75 per cent of our conduct may
be due to past cause and effect, 25 per cent is in our own power of
free will which is moved by final causes. The motive of Eternal Good
that is embodied in the Cosmic Law is in every atom, and in us too. The
universal reason is always ready to save its own property, the world. As
the past is within the Soul, so is the future. The fascination of the
unknown is only the fascination of progress in self-discovery, the growth
and blossoming of our own unknown into the known. This Self-develop-
ment is the reason for evolution.
43. Yozoda, p. 47.
44. This information about methods was obtained from Yogananda
in person, as well as from official literature.
45. Brahmacari Nerod is the resident teacher.
46. There is a center in Scotland and in Mexico, and there are three
Brahmacarya Residential Schools for Boys in Bengal. In Washington
there are two centers, one of which is "Afro-American." A list of cen-
ters is given in the Directory.
47. Yogananda claims about 25,000 Yogoda students of all kinds.
NOTES 269
In the 12 American centers, however, his secretary estimates about 3,000
contributing members, from among whom I received 50 replies: from
St. Paul 1, Detroit 1, Washington 3, Pittsburgh 3, Cincinnati 5, Phila-
delphia 6, Minneapolis 7, Boston 7, Buffalo 17, and one from the New-
ark group, making 51 in all. Three centers did not respond, one be-
cause it failed to receive the letters. The questionnaire is as similar as
possible to the one for Vedanta. See above, ch. 5, note 28.
48. Ferguson, Confushn of Tongues, p. 317-18.
49. Yogoda, middle insert.
CHAPTER VII
1. See Daggett, Missionary Review, v. 35, p. 210-14; Literary Di-
gest, v. 45, p. 64.
2. Information supplied by Miss Stephanie M. Worletsek, president
of the Benares League at St. Paul, and secretary of the Yogessar Class
at St. Paul, 670 Charles Street, St. Paul, Minnesota.
3. See Ferguson, Confusion of Tongues, p. 312,
4. See Book List, Chapter V.
5. General Prospectus, N. Y., 1928, p. 3-4.
6. Special Bulletin No. 3, A List oj Current Hindu Books on
India, is a valuable bibliography.
7. Ellinwood, Homiletic Review, v. 28, p. 497.
8. Natesan, G. A., ed., Ramanand to Ram Tirath, p. 244. Wording
altered.
9- The same, p. 251-54. Italics mine.
10. The same, p. 254.
11. The same, p. 255.
12. See Thompson, Rabindranath Tagore, and Maitra, S., "Rabindra-
natb and Bergson," in the Calcutta Review, May 1926, p. 189-205.
13. Ketkar, Hinduism: Its Formation and Puture, p. 157.
14. See his similar Upton Lectures, delivered in Manchester College
Oxford, and published as The Hmdu View oj Life.
15. Radhakrishan, The Hindu View oj Life, p. 79
16. The same, p. 91.
17. The same, p. 22.
18. The same, p, 23. Italics mine,
19. The same, p. 34.
20. Published as Hindu Mysticism.
21. The same, p. 17.
22. The same, p. viii.
23. At 6039: in the Nelson Evans Studio.
24. Maitra, Hinduism: the World Ideal, p. vii.
25. Coomaraswamy, The Dance oj Siva, p. 56.
26. The same, p. 1.
27. The same, p. 2.
28. This is consistent with the classic view that the world itself
is illusion.
29. The same, p. 12.
30. The same, p. 16.
31. Ferguson, Confusion of Tongues, p. 308-12.
32. The New York Times of May 6th, 1929, on page 27 mentions
270 NOTES
such a one by the name of Hernam Singh, possibly not a Hindu, but a
Sikh.
33. Confusion of Tongues, p. 302, 312.
34. From a certain green-colored Los Angeles newspaper of about
March 7, 1929.
35. See above, p. 185.
36. Information obtained from his former private secretary.
37. Das Gupta, Hindu Mysticism, p. vii.
38. For immigration in general see the American Review of Re-
'views, v. 37, p. 604-05, May 1908; R. K. Das, Hindustani Workers on
the Pacific Coast, Berlin, W. de Gruyter and Co., 1923; California
State Board of Control, California and the Oriental, Sacramento, Calif.
State Printing Office, 1920; R. E. Chase and Sakharam Ganesh, The
Eligibility of Hindus for American Citizenship, Los Angeles, Printed by
Parker, Stone and Baird Co., 1926; G. Mukerji, "The Hindu in America,"
Overland, (n. s.), v. 51, p, 303-08, Ap.; E. M. Wherry, "The Hindu
Immigrant in America," Missionary Review, v. 30, p. 918, Dec., 1907.
One of the Hindu professors is S. L. Joshi, Professor of Comparative Re-
ligion and Hindu Philosophy at Dartmouth. Another is Sudhindra Bose,
Professor in the State University of Iowa.
39. Literary Digest, July 13, 1912.
40. Nicholson, "Sufiism," ERE, v. 12, p. 11.
41. Sykes, History of Persia, v. 1, p. 459.
42. Dhalla, Zoroastrian Theology, p. 358.
43. Farquhar, Modern Religious Movements in India, p. 218.
44. The same, p. 227.
45. The same, p. 271.
46. Atkins, Modern Religious Cults and Movements, p. 132.
47. According to A. K. Swihart, a research student in Columbia
University in 1929, Mrs. Eddy's doctrine is like Sankara's illusionism,
only more extreme.
48. Page 234.
49. Ypgananda's statements have been checked by Swihart, who finds
no error in them. Mrs. Eddy's second reference is to p. 35-36 of Wil-
kin's translation of the "Bhagvat'Geeta" (ch. 2, verses 14-16), London,
1785. References are found to appear in editions 19, 20, 23 and 26,
the only editions available in the New York Public Library, and so
may very likely be found in all editions up to the 33rd, as Yogananda
claims.
50. Page 7.
51. See Bellwald, Christian Science and the Catholic Faith, p. 68-70.
52. Christy, "Emerson's Debt to the Orient," Monist, v. 38, p. 43.
53. The same, p. 47. Here spelled "Narayena."
54. The rame, p. 45.
55. The same, p. 56.
56. The same, p. 63.
57. See above, p. 24, 28-29, 32.
58. The same, p. 61.
59. Atkins, p. 125.
60. The same, p. 128.
61. Ferguson, Confusion of Tongues, p. 163.
62. Atkins, p. 108-09.
NOTES 271
63. Weber, History of Philosophy, p. 266.
64. Rawlinson, Intercourse between India and the Western World,
p. 142-43. Cf. p. 138, 140-41.
65. See also Harding, Prabuddha Bharata, Calcutta, March, 1928,
article "Vedanta and Christian Science/' and March, 1929> article "Ve-
danta and New Thought."
66. Curiously, Theosophy and Christian Science were also founded
simultaneously, in the year 1875.
67. Atkins, p. 225-26.
68. The same, p. 223.
69. The same, p. 224.
70. Ferguson, p. 158.
71. Atkins, p. 223. Ferguson, p. 168. According to the U. S.
Census of "Religious Bodies of 1926, Divine Science in that year had 22
churches with 3,466 members, who contributed $158,000 for the sup-
port of the work, including $11,000 for benevolence. Seventeen of
the churches reported Sunday Schools.
72. Ferguson, p. 216.
73. The same, p. 217.
74. The Nautilus magazine has been published since 1896 from
Holyoke, Massachusetts by Mrs. Elizabeth Towne, a New Thought
leader who defines New Thought after the manner of Vivekananda's
definition of religion as "the fine art of recognizing, realizing, and
manifesting the God of the individual." She writes such books as Just
How to Wake up the Solar Plexus, Just How to Concentrate, and
Just How to Cook Meals.
75. Marden is also a New Thought leader who preaches the "Gos-
pel of Getting On," and writes such books as The Victorious Lije, He
Can who Thinks, He Can, The Victorious Attitude, Self Improvement,
and Be Good to Yourself. See Ferguson, p. 174, and Atkins, p. 236.
76. One of the followers of New Thought, associated with Quimb?
and the Dressers. See Ferguson, p. 166, 169-
77. The same, p. 217.
78. Ferguson, p. 279-83.
79. Inge, Plotinusf
v. 1, p. 74, 109.
80. Windelband, History of Ancient Philosophy, p. 365.
81. See Whittaker, The Neo-Platonists, ch. 10, for this and the fol-
lowing statements.
82. See also Workman, Christian Thought to the Reformation, p,
197, 221, 227, and Harnach, History of Dogma, v. 6, p. 179, 185.
83. Spinoza was influenced by Bruno and Maimonides.
84. Fluegel, Philosophy, Oabbala, Vedanta, p. 75.
85. Weber, History of Philosophy, p. 587-88.
86. Fluegel, p. 222; quoting Schlegel, Language and Philosophy, p.
471.
87. The same, p. 187.
88. The same, p. 221; quoting Jones, Works, Calcutta ed., v. 1, p.
20, 125, 127.
89. The same, p, 191.
90. The same, p. 222.
91. See Aiyar, The Theosopkist, v. 35, p. 232.
272 NOTES
92. In the Missionary Review of the West, October 1917, p. 786.
See also the Hindu Missionary, July 2, 1917 July 23, 1924, organ of
reformed Hinduism, ed. by Gajanan Bhaskar Vaidya, c/o Vaidya Bros.,
Thakurdwar, Bombay. Society founded July 5, 1917.
93. la the Literary Digest, "A Hindu View of Christian Defeat," v.
46, p. 133.
94. Hinduism and Buddhism, v. 1, p. 191.
95. Quoted in Close, The Revolt of Asia, p. 252.
96. See Close, The Revolt of Asia.
97. See Atkins, Modern Religious Cults and Movements, ch. 2.
98. Rowe, History of Religion in the United States, ch. 8-10.
CHAPTER VIII
1. See above, p. 34, 70.
2. See above, p. 73.
3. See above, p. 142, 167, 176,
4. See above, p. 73-75, 142-45.
5. See above, p. 17, 20,
6. See above, p. 83, 102, 106, 113, 133.
7. See above, p. 117, 174, 228-36.
8. See above, p. 176.
9. See above, p. 118, 173-76.
10. See above, p. 119, 176.
11. See above, p. 160, 162-63.
12. See above, p. 107, 113, 133-
13. See above, p. 113, 166, 243.
14. See above, p. 75, 111, 140, 155.
15. Quoted in Bois, Forum, v. 77, p. 416.
16. See above, p. 99-100, 109-12, 160, 164, 166.
17. See above, p. 159-71.
18. See above, p. 114-16, 172-76.
19 In America, Leo C Robertson, for example, sees value in
every step of Vedanta. In particular, he shows that its original mo-
nism is not solipsistic, as many Westerners believe, but realistic. Ac-
cording to the solipsist, what appears to be other finite selves like
himself are in reality merely his experience. There are no other selves,
only he exists. Now the Vedantist, in affirming the sole reality of the
Atman, does not say that other selves are merely his experience, that
there is naught beyond his present self and its experience, what he
does is to identify himself with other selves, and even further with all
else/' See the Monist, v. 26, p. 234. In his high estimate of Ve-
danta Robertson seems to follow Paul Deussen, who is a well-known
Vedanta enthusiast. While Max Miiller is not so devoted, he is gen-
erous and somewhat uncritical in his sympathy. See his India, What
Can It Teach Us? For an appreciative study of the meaning of Hind-
uism as functioning in India itself, see J. B. Pratt's India and Its
Faiths, ch. 21.
20 Horatio W. Dresser, one of the founders of the New Thought
movement, admits that Vedanta induces a desirable peace and tranquillity,
but is quick to point out its failure to stress the values of purpose and
personality on which Western culture in the long run so strongly insists.
NOTES 273
See "An Interpretation of Vedanta," Arena, v. 22, p. 489-508. W. S.
Urquhart, in the final chapter of his book The Vedanta and Modern
Thought, takes essentially the same position. The main value of
Vedanta, he says, is to produce a feeling of "religious contentment" with
its "emphasis on the community of nature between the human and the
divine" (p. 222-23). But he laments Its negation of the positive
characters of social personality, and agrees with Tagore that "Flight
from the world is flight from God." (p. 230).
21. William Tully Seeger admires Vedanta for its genuine monism,
which he declares to be "the vital value of the Hindu God-idea". The
"identity of the Universal God with the Monad," he contends, does not
necessarily imply the loss of the self-consciousness of the one in the other,
but simply shows that the humanist symbols of father and son cannot
suffice for the person that has persisted in penetrating the heart of
religion. "The religion of the Divine Self is sure to make its way,
because it will, while upholding individualism, place it firmly upon a
higher basis having nothing in common with selfish motives . . . and
declare that every normally developed soul has the latent power to win
and must win its own freedom, especially the freedom from the control
of the 'natural man/
"
See the Hibbert Journal, v. 5, p. 75-76, 84. No
doubt an individualistic monism is implicit in Vedanta, but it seems that
until the present it has never become explicit, on account of its persistent
dualism. Either the monism swallows up the individualism as in San-
kara, or the individualism rebels again the monism, as in Ramanuja.
22. It is only this dualistic side of Vedanta that leads to "hazy mys-
ticism and scientific
futilty".
The monistic side leads to scientific uni-
versality and artistic loveliness. As Paul Carus says, the intrinsic gran-
deur, beauty and truth of Vedanta lies in its claim that all is God,
which Emerson made so famous and attractive. "God reveals Himself in
hammer and anvil, in action and reaction, in energy of all kinds, in good
and evil, in the aspiration of the worm that crawls in the dust, and in
the heaven-inspired prophet who longs for the beyond that he beholds in
his vision." See the Monist, v. 26, p. 299. S. P. Rice, of the Indian
Civil Service, holds a similar critical view of Vedanta. While the
religion dominant in Hindu philosophy has value, he says, it lacks de-
tailed accuracy and motive power. See the Asiatic Re-view (n. s.), v. 19,
p. 87-108.
23. Address the Messianic Publishing Co., 1001 Armour Ave., Los
Angeles, Calif., E. Schurra, editor, Tel., Capitol 1826, for a list of his
books and other information.
24. The Conquering Man, Los Angeles, Messianic Publishing Co.,
1001 Armour Ave., 1929, p. 58, 84 85, 22.
25. The Life of Man, p. 1, 3, 7, 27, and The Conquering Man,
p. 41.
BOOK LIST
CHAPTER I
Andrews, C. F. Mahatma Gandhi's Ideas. N. Y., Macmillan, 1930.
Archer, W. India and the Future. London, Hutchinson, 1917.
Besant, Annie. India, Bond or Free? N. Y., Putnams, 1926.
Buck, C. H. Faiths, Fairs and Festivals of India. Calcutta, Thacker, 1917.
Cape, J., and H. Smith. An Indian Commentary. N. Y., Garrat, 1930.
Datta, S. K. The Desire of India. London, Young People's Missionary
Movement, 1908.
Field, Harry. After Mother India. New York, Harcourt, 1930.
Fisher, F. B. India's Silent Revolution. N. Y., Macmillan, 1919.
Fuller, Sir Bampfylde. Studies in Indian Life and Sentiment. London,
Murray, 1910.
Gandhi, M. K. The Story of My Experience with Truth. Ahmedabad,
Navajivan Press, 1927.
Ganesh, ed. Mahatma Gandhi: His Life, Writings and Speeches. Madras,
Ganesh, 1921.
Gray, R. M., and M. C. Parekh. Mahatma Gandhi. Calcutta, Association
Press, 1928.
Holland, W. E. The Goal of India. London, United Council of Mission-
ary Education, 1917.
Howells, G. The Soul of India. London, Clark, 1923.
Jones, J. P. India: Its Ltje and Thought. N. Y., Macmillan, 1915.
Macnicol, Nicol. The Making of Modern India. N. Y., Oxford Univer-
sity Press, 1924.
Mookerji, R. The Fundamental Unity of India. N. Y., Longmans, 1914.
Rai, L. Young India. N. Y., Huebsch, 1917.
Unhappy India. Calcutta, Banna, 1928.
Ranken, G. P. "The Material Side of Hinduism," Edinburgh Review,
CCXL, 65-79.
Ronaldshay, L. J. The Heart of Aryavarta. London, Constable, 1925.
Smith, V. C. The Oxford Student's History of India, 4th ed. N. Y.s
Oxford University Press, 1924.
Sunderland, J. T. India in Bondage. N. Y., Copeland, 1930.
Van Tyne, C. H. India in Ferment. N. Y., Appleton, 1923.
Walker, F. D. India and Her People. London, United Council for Mis-
sionary Education, 1922.
Wood, Ernest. An Englishman Defends Mother India. Madras, Ganesh,
1930.
Woolacott, J. A. India on Trial. London, Macmillan, 1930.
CHAPTER II
Baijnath, Lala. Hinduism: Ancient and Modern. Meerut, Vaishya Hit-
kari Office, 1905.
Ballantyne, J. R., tr. The Vedantasara. London, Christian Literature
Society, 1898.
Barnett, L. D. The Heart of India. London, Murray, 1913.
Beck, L. Adams. The Story of Oriental Philosophy. N. Y., Cosmopolitan
Book Corporation, 1928.
Bhattacharya, J. N. Hindu Castes and Sects. Calcutta, Thacker, 1896.
Studies in Vedantism. University of Calcutta, 1909-
275
276 BOOK LIST
Burway, M. W. Glimpses of the Bhagawat Gita and the Vedanta Philoso-
phy. Bombay, Burway, 1916.
Crooke, W. "Hinduism," Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics, VI, 686-
Dasgupta, S. History of Indian Philosophy. N. Y., Macmillan, 1922.
Yoga as Philosophy and Religion. N. Y., Button, 1924.
Deussen, P. The Philosophy of the Upanishads. Tr. by A. S. Gedden.
Edinburgh, Clark, 1906.
Outlines of Indian Philosophy, Vol. I. Berlin, Curtius, 1907.
The System of the Vedanta. Tr. by Charles Johnston. Chicago,
Open Court, 1912.
Eliot, Sir Charles. Hinduism and Buddhism. London, Arnold, 1921.
3 Vol.
Farquhar, J. N. Modern Religious Movements in India. N. Y., Mac-
miilan, 1915.
An Outline of the Religious Literature of India. N. Y., Oxford
University Press, 1920.
Frazer, R. W. Indian Thought, Past and Present. N. Y., Stokes, 1915.
Garbe, R. "Yoga," Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics, XII.
Ghate, V. S. "Sankaracharya," Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics, XI.
Griswold, H. D. Brahman. N. Y., Macmillan, 1900.
The Religion of the Rjg Veda. N. Y., Oxford University Press, 1923.
Guenon, Ren?. Man and His Becoming, According to the Vedanta, Tr.
by C. J. Whiteley. London, Rider.
Hume, R. E., tr. The Thirteen Principal Upanishads. N. Y., Oxford
University Press, 1921.
Jacob, G. A., tr. The Vedantasara, 3d ed. London, Paul, 1891.
Keith, A. B. Buddhist Philosophy in India and Ceylon. N. Y,, Oxford
University Press, 1923.
The Religion and Philosophy of the Vedas and Upanishads, Harvard
University Press, 1925. 2 Vols.
Khedkar, R. V. A Handbook of the Vedanta Philosophy and Religion.
Kolhapur (India), Shri Venkateshwar Press, 1911.
Adwaitism and the Religions of the East. Kolhapur (India), Shri
Venkateshwar Press, 1915.
Kirtikar, V. J. Studies in Vedanta. Bombay, Taraporewala, 1924.
Macdonell, A. A. "Indian Buddhism," Encyclopedia of Religion and
Ethics, VII.
Macnicol, Nicol. Indian Theism. N. Y., Oxford University Press, 1915.
Majumdar, S. The Vedanta Philosophy. Barisal (Bengal), 1929.
Monier-Williams, Sir Monier. Brahmanism and Hinduism. N. Y., Mac-
millan, 1891.
Miiller, F. M. Three Lectures on the Vedanta Philosophy. N. Y., Long-
mans, 1901.
Narahari, Sri. Bodhasar, a Treatise on Vedanta. Tr. by Svami Dayanand.
Benares (India), 1906.
Oman, J. C. Tht Mystics, Ascetics and Saints of India. London, Unwin,
1903.
Pantulu, J. R. "The Scheme of Hindu Life," South Indian Association
Journal (Madras, 1913), IV, 111-129.
Radhakrishnan, S. Indian Philosophy. London, Allen and Unwin. Vol.
1, 1923; Vol. 2, 1927.
BOOK LIST 277
Rau, M. S., and K. A. Aiyar. The Panchadasi of Vidyaranya. Srirangam
(India), Sri Vam Vilas Press, 1912.
Rhys-Davids, T. W. "Buddhism," Encyclopedia Britannica, llth ed., IV.
Sarkar, K. L. The Hindu System of Religious Science and Art. Calcutta,
Sarkar, 1890.
Sastri, K. An Introduction to the Adivatta "Philosophy. University of
Calcutta, 1924.
Saunders, K. J. Epochs in JSuddhtst History. University of Chicago Press,
1921.
Shastri, P. D. The Doctrine of Maya. London, Luzac, 1911.
Seshacharri, V. C. The Upanishads and Sri Sankards Commentary.
Madras, 1898-1901. 5 Vols.
Sircar, M. The System of Vedantic Thought and Culture. University of
Calcutta, 1925.
Sukhtankar, V. A. The Teachings of Vedanta According to Ramanuja.
Vienna, Holzhausen, 1908.
Thibaut, G. The Vedanta Sutras with the Commentary of Sankaracharya.
In Sacred Books of the East. N. Y., Oxford University Press. Vols. 34
and 38, 1896.
The Vedanta Sutras with the Commentary of Ramanuja. Vol. 48, 1904.
Tripathi, M. S. A Sketch of the Vedanta Philosophy, 2d ed. Bombay,
1901.
Underbill, M. M. The Hindu Religious Year. N. Y., Oxford University
Press, 1921.
CHAPTER III
Abhedananda, Swami. The Sayings of Sri Ramakrishna. N. Y., Vedanta
Society, 1903.
Brahmananda, Swami. Words of the Master. San Francisco, Vedanta
Society.
Gupta, M. N. The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna. Madras, 1912.
"M." The Gospel of Ramakrishna. Calcutta, Advaita Ashrama Publishing
Department (28 College Street Market).
Macdonell, A. A. "Ramakrishna/' Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics, X.
Madhavananda, Swami, ed. The Life of Sri Ramakrishna. Almora
(India), Advaita Ashrama, 1925.
Majurndar, P. C. "Paramahansa Ramakrishna," reprint from Theistic
Quarterly Review, October, 1897. Calcutta, Udbodhan Office
(Baghbazar), 1915.
Miiller, F. M. Ramakrishna'. His Life and Sayings. N. Y., 1899.
Nivedita, Sister (Margaret E. Noble). The Master as I Saw Him.
London, Longmans, 1910.
Saradananda, Swami. Sri Ramakrishna, the Great Master. Madras, Rama-
krishna Math (Mylapore), 1920.
Vedanta Society, ed. Sri Ramakrishna's Teachings. San Francisco, Ve-
danta Society. 2 Vols.
CHAPTER IV
Banner]ea, D. N. India's Nation Builders. (Chapter on Swami Viveka-
nanda, p. 128-145).
Bois, J. (Jules-Bois). "The New Religions of America: V Hindu
Cults," Porum, LXXVII, 413-422.
278 BOOK LIST
Christian Literature Society. Swami Vivekananda and His Guru. London,
1897.
Dictionary of American Biography, Vol. 1. "Barrows, J. H."
Goodspeed, G. S. The World's First Parliament of Religions. Chicago.
1895.
Jones, J. L. A Chorus oj Paith. Chicago, Unity Publishing Co., 1893.
Madhavananda, Swami., ed. The Complete Works of the Swami Vive-
kananda. Almora (India), Advaita Ashrama, 1921-1924. 7 Vols.
Nash, J. V. "The Message and Influence of Vivekananda," Open Court.
XXXIX, 740-754.
Natesan, G. A., ed. Speeches and Writings oj Swami Vivekananda.
Madras, Natesan.
Ramakrishna Mission. The Lije and Teaching of Swami Vivekananda.
Dacca (India), Paresnath Chakrabarti, 1904.
Sastri, K. S. "The Life and Teaching of Swami Vivekananda," Brahma-
vadin (Madras), XI, 17-32, 81-103. (Cf. IX, 121-126, XVI, 235-
243, 301-307).
Thompson, E. W. The Teaching of Swami Vivekananda. Madras, M. E.
Publishing House, 1898.
Virajananda, Swami, ed. The Life of Swami Vivekananda. Almora
(India), Advaita Ashrama, 1924-1928.
Vivekananda, Swami. Raja Yoga. N. Y., Baker and Taylor, 1899.
Karma Yoga. N. Y., Baker and Taylor, 1901.
My Master. N. Y., Baker and Taylor, 1901.
[For complete works of Swami Vivekananda see Literature of the
Ramakrishna Movement in Book List under Chapter V.)
CHAPTER V
Abhedananda, Swami. "The Word and the Cross in Ancient India,"
Brahmavadin (Madras), VI, 237-250.
"The Religion of the Hindus," Brahmavadin, VI, 363-374, 413-444.
"Swami Vivekananda and His Work," Brahmavadin, VIII, 328-347.
"The Correct Interpretation of Vedanta," Arena, XXIII, 218-224.
Alexander, F. J. Hours oj Meditation, 3d ed. San Francisco, Vedanta
Ashrama, 1907.
Alexander, Mrs. Gross. "Hinduism in America," Methodist Quarterly
Review, July, 1912.
Atkinson, W. W. (Yogi Ramacharaka). Fourteen Lessons in Yogi
Philosophy and Oriental Occultism. Chicago, Yogi Publishing
Society, 1904.
The Hatha Yoga. Chicago, Yogi Publishing Society, 1904.
Advanced Course in Yogi Philosophy and Oriental Occultism. Chi-
cago, Yogi Publishing Society, 1905.
A Series oj Lessons in Raja Yoga. Chicago, Yogi Publishing So-
ciety, 1906.
A Series oj Lessons in Gnani Yoga. Chicago, Yogi Publishing
Society, 1907.
The Hindu-Yogi Science oj Breath. Chicago, Yogi Publishing
Society, 1909.
Avalon, Arthur (Sir J. G. WoodrofFe), ed. The Principles oj Tantra.
London, Luzac, 1914-1916. 2 Vols.
Tantric Texts. Calcutta, Sanskrit Printing Depositories, 1913-1918.
7 Vols.
BOOK LIST 279
The Serpent Power. London, Luzac, 1919.
Bodhananda, Swami. Lectures on the Vedanta Philosophy. N. Y.,
Knickerbocker Press, 1928.
Daggett, M. P. "The Heathen Invasion of America/' Hampton-Colum-
bian, XXVII, 399-411. Also Current Literature, LI, 538-540; Mis-
sionary Review, XXXV, 210-214. Same content in "Strange Gods
of American Women," Literary Digest, XLV, 64.
Drury, C M. "Hinduism in the United States," Missionary Review,
XLIV, 281-283.
Ellinwood, F. F. "A Hindu Missionary in America," Homiletic Review,
XXVIII, 400-406, 494-499.
"Vedantisrn in America," Current Literature, XXXI, 102.
Farnsworth, E. C., and Swami Abhedananda. "Vedanta Philosophy/'
Arena, XXIII, 212.
Fuller, J. F. Yoga: a Study of the Mystical Philosophy of the Brah-
mans and Buddhists. London, Rider, 1925.
Hartmann. Yoga Practice in the Roman Catholic Church. Chicago,
Theosophical Press.
Ingersoil, A. J. "The Swamis in America," Arena, XXII, 482-488.
Madhavananda, Swarm. Alrnora (India), Advaita Ashrama.
Sri Krishna and Vddhava, 1924.
Vivekachudamani of Sri Sankaracharya, 2d ed.
Mukerji, A. P. The Doctrine and Practice oj Yoga. Chicago, Yogi
Publishing Society, 1923.
Spiritual Consciousness. Chicago, Yogi Publishing Society.
Yoga Lessons. Chicago, Yogi Publishing Society.
Natesan, G. A., ed. The Mission of Our Master. Madras, Natesan.
Noble, M. E. (Sister Nivedita). Kali the Mother. London, Swann,
1900.
Religion and Dharma. London, Longmans, 1910.
The Master as I Saw Htm. London, Longmans, 1910. Also in
Hibbert Journal, IX, 431-435.
-The Web of Indian Life. London, Heinemann, 1914.
Paramananda, Swami. Patanjali for Western Readers. Chicago Theo-
sophical Press.
Ramakrishna Math, ed. Ramakrishna Math and Mission Convention.
Belur (Bengal, India), The Math, 1926.
Reed, E. A. Hinduism in Europe and America. N. Y., Putnam, 1914.
Saradananda, Swami. Sri Ramakrishna, the Great Master. Madras,
Ramakrishna Math (Mylapore), 1920.
Stray Thoughts in Religion and Literature. N. Y., Vedanta Society.
Sinha, H. N. "Nadisodhana, or, The Purification of the Nerves,"
Brahmavadin (Madras), IX, 571-584, 627-637, 695-706,
"Asuniyama, or, The Control of the Psychic Prana," Brahmavadin-,
IX, 762-774; X, 17-31, 75-89, 148-157, 192-200.
United States Census of Religious Bodies. The Vedanta Society. Wash-
ington, Government Printing Office, 1928.
Vishita, B. Practical Yoga. Chicago, Advanced Thought Publishing
Co.
Waldo, Ellen, Vedanta Philosophy. N. Y., Vedanta Society, 1897.
Wase, C. Inner Teaching and Yoga. Philadelphia, David McKay.
Wells, A. A. True and False Yoga. Chicago Theosophical Press.
Wood, E. Raja Yoga. Chicago Theosophical Press.
280 BOOK LIST
Woodroffe, Sir J. G. (Arthur Avalon). Skakti and Maya. N. Y.,
Oxford University Press, 1917.
Shakti, or, The World as Power. London, 1920.
LITERATURE PUBLISHED BY THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT IN AMERICA
The Following Literature is for Sale at the San Francisco Vedanta
Society:
Works of Swami Vivekananda
Complete Works, 7 *. East
f
and West
Raja-Yoga India and Her Problems
Jnana-Yoga Mother India
Bhakti-Yoga My Master
Karma-Yoga Harvard Address (on Vedanta)
Inspired Talks* Christ the Messenger
Religion of Love Chicago Addresses
Science and Philosophy of The Atman
Religion The Cosmos
Religion and Philosophy The Ideal of a Universal
Realization and^
Its Methods Religion
Study of Religion The Real and Apparent Man
Thoughts on Vedanta Women of India
(*A11 the works after Inspired Talks are pamphlets)
Works of Swami Abhedananda
Philosophy of Work How to Be a Yogi
Reincarnation Great Saviors of the World
Spiritual Unfoldment Self-Knowledge
Divine Heritage of Man Nine Lectures
Complete Works
(Single Lectures)
Woman's Place in Hindu Religion Religion of the Hindus
The Relation of Soul to God Who Is the Savior of Souls?
Spiritualism^
ana Vedanta Does the Soul Exist after Death?
Simple Living Scientific Basis of Religion
Unity and Harmony Divine Communion
Way to the Blessed Life The Word and the Cross in An-
Cosmic Evolution dent India
Philosophy of Good and Evil Christian
Science and Vedanta
Motherhood of God Why a Hindu Is a Vegetarian
Works of Swami Trigunatita
Essential Doctrines of Hinduism Health
Works of Swami Prakashananda
Inner Consciousness Universality of Vedanta
Mystery of Human Vibration
Works of Swami Prabhavananda
Dynamic Religion Super-Conscious Vision
Sub-Conscious Mind and Its Control Cosmology
Works of Sister Nivedita
An Indian Study of Life and Death Siva and Buddha
Notes on Some Wanderings with Notes from an Eastern Home
Swami Vivekananda Cradle Tales of Hinduism
(For other works see above)
BOOK LIST 281
Photographs
Christ in Yoga Posture Views of Temples of India
Sri Ramakrishna Views of the Hindu Temple, San
Swami Vivekananda Francisco
Other Swamis
The Following Literature Is for Sale at the Boston and Los Angeles
Vedanta Centres:
Works of Swami Paramananda
Rhythm of Life (Poems) The Path of Devotion (in French
The Vigil (Poems) also)
Soul's Secret Door (Poems) The Way of Peac* and Blessedness
Books of Daily Thoughts and Vedanta in Practice
Prayers Reincarnation and Immortality
Practical Series
Concentration and Meditation Creative Power of Silence
Faith as a Constructive Force Spiritual Healing
Self-Mastery Secret of Right Activity
Comparative Study Series
Emerson and Vedanta Christ and Oriental Ideas
Plato and Vedic Idealism
Booklets and Pamphlets
Problem of Life and Death Glorifying Pain and Adversity
Universal Ideal of Religion Science and Practice of Yoga
Power of Thought Yoga and Christian Mystics
Principles and Purpose of Vedanta Civilization and Spiritualization
Prayer Cards I-IV
Works of Swami Ramakrishnananda
The Search After Happiness True Self of Man
The Path to Perfection Wisdom and Devotion
Works of Sister Devamata
Sri Ramakrishna and His Disciples Days in an Indian Monastery
Pamphlets
The Practice of Devotion Eastern and Western Religious
The Indian Mind and Indian Ideals
Culture Development of the Will
Sleep and Samadhi What Is Maya?
Robert Browning and the Vedanta Health and Healing
Magazines of the Ramakrishna Movement
(Present)
Message of the East, the Vedanta taram-Babu St., 1897-date
Monthly, La Crescenta (Los (monthly).
Angeles Co., Calif.), Ananda Vedanta Kesari} Madras, Sri Ra-
Ashrama, 1911-date. makrishna Math (Mylapore),
Prabuddha Bharata (Awakened 1913-date (monthly).
India), Calcutta, 182A, Muk-
(Past)
Brahmavadin (The way of Brah- with the Vedanta Kesari
man), Madras, 1895-date (fort- monthly in 1913).
nightly: apparently merged The Pacific Vedantist, San Fran-
282 BOOK LIST
Cisco, Vedanta Society, v. I Vedanta Magazine, the Monthly
only, 1902. Bulletin, New York, Vedanta
The Sfar of the East, Melbourne Society, v. 1-5, 1905-1909.
(Australia), July, 1910-Dec, Voice of Freedom, San Francisco,
1911; later, The Vedanta Uni~ Vedanta Society, v. 1-7, 1909-
versal Messenger, Jan.-Dec, 1916.
1912.
CHAPTER VI
Barrett, E. B. Man, His Making and Unmaking. N. Y., Thomas Selt-
zer, 1925.
Gabrilowitsch, C. Why Be Nervous? N. Y., Harper, 1927,
New Pilgrimages of the Spirit. Proceedings and Papers of the Pilgrim
Tercentenary Meeting of the International Congress of Free Chris-
tian and Other Religious Liberals held at Boston and Plymouth,
Oct. 3-7, 1920. Boston, Beacon Press, 1923.
Vivekananda, Raja Yoga, New York, Vedanta Society.
LITERATURE OF THE YOGODA SAT-SANGA SOCIETY OF AMERICA
The Following Literature is for Sale at the Yogoda Book Dept., 3880
San Rafael Ave., Los Angeles:
East-West Magazine
Works by Swami Yogananda
Yogoda, 1923; 9th ed, 1928. Songs of the Soul, 1925; 5th ed,,
Scientific Healing Affirmations, rev. and enlarged, 1926.
1924; 3rd ed,, 1926. Songs for Piano (Sheet Music),
Psychological Chart, 1925; 9th Song of Brahma, My Soul Is
ed., 1926. Marching On, Om Song.
Science of Religion, 1924; 5th Yogoda Correspondence Course,
ed., 1926. 1925; 2d printing.
A Work by Swami Dhirananda
Philosophic Insight, 2d ed., 1926.
Works by Biahmacharee Nerode
Teachings of the East On the Wings of Bliss
Photographs of Swami Yogananda *
CHAPTER VII
Aiyar, K. N. "Professor Bergson and Hindu Vedanta," Theosophist
(Madras), XXXV, 215-234.
Atkins, G. G. Modern Religious Cults and Movements. N. Y., Revell,
- *
Baijnath, Lala. "Modern Hindu Religion and Philosophy," Transactions
of the Ninth International Congress of Orientalists. London, 1892,
I, 141-173.
Bellwald, A. M. Christian Science and the Catholic Faith. N. Y.,
Macmillan, 1922.
Buchanan, A. F. "The West and the Hindu Invasion," Overland (n. s.)
LI, 308-313.
Carrington. Higher Psychic Development. N. Y., Dodd, 1920.
Cheyne, T. K. The Reconciliation of Races and Religions. London.
Black, 1914.
Christy, A. E. "Emerson's Debt to the Orient," Monistt XXXVIII.
38-64.
BOOK LIST 283
Close, Upton. The Revolt of Asia. N. Y., Putnam, 1927.
Coomaraswamy, A. K. The Dance of Siva. N. Y., Sunwise Turn, 1918.
Daggett, M. P. "The Heathen Invasion," Missionary Review, XXXV,
538-540.
Dasgupta, S. Hindu Mysticism. Chicago, Open Court, 1927.
Dennett, Tyler. The Democratic Movement in Asia. N. Y., Association
Press, 1918.
Desai, S. A. "Brahma: the Central Doctrine of Hindu Theology,"
Hibbert Journal, X, 561-580.
Dhalla, M. N. Zoroastrian Theology. N. Y., 1914.
Dresser, H. W. A History of the New Thought Movement. N. Y.,
Crowell, 1919.
Dutton, E. P., ed. The Theosophical Movement. N. Y., Dutton, 1925.
Farquhar, J. N. A Primer of Hinduism. N. Y., Oxford University
Press, 1912.
The Crown of Hinduism. N. Y., Oxford University Press, 1915.
Modern Religious Movements in India. N. Y., Macmillan, 1915.
"The Greatness of Hinduism," Contemporary Review (London),
XCVII, 647-662.
Ferguson, C. W. Confusion of Tongues. N. Y., Doubleday, 1928.
Fleming, D. J. Attitudes Towards Other Faiths. N. Y., Association
Press, 1928.
Fletcher, Ella. The Law of Rhythmic Breath. N. Y., Fermo, 1908.
Fluegel, M. Philosophy, Qabbala and Vedanta. Baltimore, Fluegel,
1902.
Gandhi, V. R.
Indiefs Message to America. N. Y., Hicks, 1894.
Ganesh, ed. Swami Ram Tirtha: His Life and Teachings. Madras,
Ganesh, 1912. 2 Vol.
Garland, Marie (An Anglo-Saxon Mother). Hindu Mind Training.
London, Longmans, 1917.
Harding, Madeleine. "Vedanta and Christian Science," Prabuddha
Bharata (182A, Muktararn-Babu Street, Calcutta), March, 1928.
"Vedanta and New Thought," Prabuddha Bharata, March, 1929.
Harnack, A. History of Dogma. Tr. by Neil Buchanan. Boston, Little,
1899. 7 Vol.
Hume, R. E. "Hinduism and the War," American Journal of Theology,
XX, 31-44.
Inge, W. R. The Philosophy of Plotinus. N. Y., Longmans, 1918.
2 Vol.
Ketkar, S. V. The History of Caste in India. Ithaca (N. Y.), Taylor
and Carpenter, 1909.
Hinduism: Its Formation and Future. London, Luzac, 1911.
Kilmer, W. J. The Human Atmosphere. N. Y., Rebman.
Kingsland, W. Anthology of Mysticism and Mystical Philosophy. Lon-
don, Methuen, 1929.
Krishna Sastri, G. Democratic Hinduism. Poona (India), Oriental Book
Supply Agency, 1921.
Literary Digest, ed. "A Hindu Vision of Christian Defeat," Literary
Digest, XLVI, 138.
Macdonell, A. A. A History of Sanskrit Literature. London, Heine-
mann, 1917.
MacKenna, Stephen, tr. Plotinus. London, Medici Society, 1924-1926.
284 BOOK LIST
Macnicol, Nicol. Christianity and Hinduism. N. Y., International Mis-
sionary Council, 1928.
Maitia, H. Hinduism: the World Ideal. N. Y., Temple Scott, 1922. .
Martin, A. W. The Fellowship of Faiths. N. Y., Rowland, 1925.
Marvin, F. A. India and the West. N. Y., Longmans, 1927.
Massis, Henri. Defense of the West. Tr. by F. S. Flint. N. Y., Har-
court, 1928.
Radhaicrislinan, S. The Hindu View of Life. London, Allen and Unwin,
1927.
'The Ethics of the Bhagavad Gita and Kant," International Journal
of Ethics, XXI, 465-475. ,
_ .
xr.
cw
"The Ethics of the Vedanta," International Journal of Ethics, XXIV,
168-183.
"The Vedantic Approach to Reality," Monist, XXVI, 200-231-
"The Heart of Hinduism," Hihbert Journal, XXI, 5-19.
"Hindu Dharma," International Journal oj Ethics, XXXIII, 1-22.
Rawlinson, H. G. Intercourse between India and the Western World.
Cambridge University Press, 1916.
Rowe, H. K. The History of Religion in the United States. N. Y.,
Macmillan, 1924. . .
Sarda, H. B. Hindu Superiority. Ajmer (India), Rajputana Printing
Sarkar, B/K. "The Hindu View of Life," Open Court, XXXIII,
465-473.
Sen, N. N. The International Ideal Calcutta, 1902.
Shastri, K. D. Hindu Sexology in Spiritual Development. Minneapolis,
Indo-Aryan Publishing Co., 1917.
Singh, Puran. The Story oj Swami Rama. Madras, Ganesh, 1924.
Sircar, M. N. The System of Vedantic Thought and Culture. Univer-
sity of Calcutta, 1925.
Sundararama Aiyar, K. The Vedanta: Its Ethical Aspect. Srirangam
(India), Sri Vani Vilas Press, 1923.
Sykes, Sir Percy. A History of Persia. London, Macmillan, 1921. 2 Vol.
Tagore, R. N. Sadhana. N. Y., Macmillan, 1913.
Creative Unity. London, Macmillan, 1922.
"Towards Unity," Sociological Review, XVI, 90-102.
Thomas, F. W. "The Indian Ideas of Action," Proceedings of the
Aristotelian Society (London), (n. s.) XVIII, 138-157.
Thompson, E. J. Rab'tndranath Tagore: His Life and Work. N. Y.,
Oxford University Press, 1921.
Vasu, S. C. A Catechism of Hindu Dharma. Allahabad (India),
Panini Office, 1919.
Vaswani, T. L, Sri Krishna, the Saviour of Humanity. Madras, Ganesh,
1921.
The Aryan Ideal, Madras, Ganesh, 1922.
Warman, E. B. Hindu Philosophy in a Nutshell. Chicago, McClurg,
1910.
Weber, A. A History of Philosophy. Tr. by Frank Thilly. N. Y.,
Scribners, 1896.
WJbittaker, Thomas. The Neo-Platonists. London, Cambridge Univer-
sity Press, 1901.
BOOK LIST 285
Workman, H. B. Christian Thought to the Reformation. N. Y., Scrib-
ners, 1920.
Windelband, Wilhelm. A History of Ancient Philosophy, 3d ed. Tr.
by H. E. Cushman. N. Y., Scribners, 1910.
CHAPTER VIII
Carus, Paul. "Vedantism, Its Intrinsic Worth and Vagaries," Modist,
XXVI, 222, 298-307.
Deussen, Paul. The System of the Vedanta. Tr. by Charles Johnson.
Chicago, Open Court, 1912.
Dresser, H. W. "An Interpretation of Vedanta," Arena, XXII, 489-500.
Miiller, F. M. India, What Can It Teach Us? London, Longmans, 1883.
Pratt, J. B. India and Its Faiths. N. Y., Houghtpn, 1925.
Rice, S. P. 'The Hindu Outlook on Life," Asiatic Review (London),
(n. s.) XIX, 87-108.
Robertson, L. C. "The Conception of Brahma/' Monist, XXVI, 232-44.
Seeger, W. T. "The Vital Value of the Hindu God-Idea," Hibbert
Journal, V, 74.
Urquhart, W. S. Vedanta and Modem Thought. N. Y., Oxford Uni-
versity Press, 1928.
DIRECTORY
ADDRESSES OF CERTAIN HINDU ORGANIZATIONS IN AMERICA
VEDANTA CENTERS OF THE RAMAKRISHNA MOVEMENT
New York
Vedanta Society, 34 East 71 St. Swami Bodhananda in charge.
Boston
The Vedanta Centre, 32 Fenway. Swami Paramananda in charge, as-
sisted by Swami Akhilananda and Sister Daya.
Providence, R. I.
Vedanta Society, 381 Ives St. Swami Akhilananda in charge.
Los Angeles
Los Angeles Branch Centre, Music Art Studio Building, 233 South
Broadway and 232 South Hill St., Rooms 427-428. Swami Paramananda
in charge.
Pasadena, Calif.
Pasadena Branch Centre, 690 East Colorado St. Swami Paramananda
in charge.
Hollywood, Calif.
Hollywood Branch Centre, 1946 Iver St. Swami Prabhavananda in
charge.
La Crescenta, Los Angeles Co., Calif.
Ananda-Ashrama (Joy Retreat). Swami Paramananda in charge.
San Francisco
Vedanta Society, in the Hindu Temple, 2963 Webster St. Swami
Madhavananda in charge, assisted by Swami Dayananda.
Portland, Ore.
Vedanta Society, Wheeldon Annex, Tenth and Salmon Sts. Swami
Vividishananda in charge.
Chicago
Vedanta Society, 4454 N. Racine Ave. Swami Gnaneshwarananda
(Jnanesvarananda) in charge.
287
288 DIRECTORY
YOGODA SAT-SANGA CENTERS
India
Brahmacarya Residential Schools for Boys, located at Ranchi and
Puri, Bengal, India. The Maharaja of Kasimbazar is the patron of the
Ranchi School.
Los Angeles, Calif.
Mount Washington Centre, National Headquarters, Yogoda Sat-Sanga
Society of America, 3880 San Rafael Avenue, Los Angeles, Calif. Phone
Garfield 6406.
Cleveland, Ohio
Leader, Upadeshak Panditji, 6614 Carnegie Avenue. Phone Prospect
3559- Thursday evening services at 507 Carnegie Hall.
Boston, Mass.
Leader, Dr. M. W. Lewis. Meetings at 543 Boylston Street.
Cincinnati, Ohio
Leader, Mr. Ranendra K. Das, 2559 Eden Avenue, Phone Avon 3186.
"Weekly meetings at Hotel Sinton.
Detroit, Mich.
Leader, Countess Elektra Rosanka, 561 Book Building. Secretary,
Mrs. Maude Emerson, 49 Orchestra Place.
Minneapolis, Minn.
Leader, Mrs. Jenova Martin, 2915 Lyndale Avenue, N.
St. Paul, Minn.
Leader, Mr. George A. Young. Business address, 344 Minnesota St.
Pittsburgh, Pa.
R. J. Logan, Secretary, 714 Ardmore Boulevard, Wilkinsburg, Pa.
Washington, D. C.
Leader, Brahmacari Jotin, A.B. Several meetings weekly at 1424 K.
Street N. W.
Washington, D. C.
Afro-American Yogoda Sat-Sanga Association. Leader, Mrs. Minnie C,
Mayo, 123 T. Street N. W.
Buffalo, N. Y.
Leader, Mrs. Anna Krantz, 419 Wohlers Avenue.
Philadelphia, Pa.
Dr. A. D. Williams, Leader. Meetings at 200 West Johnson Street,
Germantown.
Mexico
Yogoda Center of Progress; General Caly Mayor, in charge; Esq. Ave
Coyoacan Y., Tacubaya, Col de Valle, Mexico, D. F.
Scotland
Yogoda Center of Progress. R. J. Calder, in charge. 14 Devon
Square, Alloa, Scotland.
DIRECTORY 289
THE BENARES LEAGUE
The organization of Yogi Hari Rama, who has returned to India.
133 West 42d Place, Los Angeles, Calif.
THE APPLIED YOGA INSTITUTE OF AMERICA
and THE HINDU YOGA SOCIETY
President and Director, Sri Deva Ram Sukul, 232 East Erie St.,
Chicago, 111.
YOGESSAR
The teaching of Swami Bhagwan Bissessar, P. O. B. 3, Oakland, Calif.
THE DHARMA MANDAL
(Aryan Religious Association)
Director, Mr. K. N. Das Gupta, Peace House, Fifth Ave. at 110th
St., New York.
THE THREEFOLD MOVEMENT
The Union of East and West, The League of Neighbors, and The
Fellowship of Faiths. Executives, Mr. K. N. Das Gupta, Mr. and Mrs.
C. F. Weller, Peace House, Fifth Ave. at 110th St., New York.
THE INTERNATIONAL SCHOOL OF VEDIC AND ALLIED RESEARCH
Director, Pandit J. C. Chatterji, Times Building, New York. Secre-
tary, Dr. G. C. O. Haas.
THE HINDUSTAN ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA
General Secretary, Mr. Sudhir Bose, International House, 500 River-
side Dr., New York.
THE INDIA SOCIETY OF AMERICA
Director, Mr. H. G. Govil, Times Building, New York.
THE INDIA FREEDOM FOUNDATION, INC.
Director, Mr. S. N. Ghose, 31 Union Sq., New York.
INDEX
Abhayananda, Sister, 80
Abhedananda, Swarm, 69, 82,
85, 103-04, 110-12, 115,
132, 234
acosmism, 23-24, 28, 38
Addams, Jane, 199
advaita, 55-56, 60, 61, 66
A. E. (Charles Russell), 204
Aged, 22
ahimsa, 13
Ainslie, Douglas Grant, 135
aJkafa, 34, 131
Alcott, Bronson, 231
Allah, 57, 97
Alvar, 39
ananda, 114
Ananda Asrama, 285
Andrews, Rev. C. F., 200
Anglin, Margaret, 189
anta:karana, 35
anubbava, 30
Applied Yoga Institute, 180
Aquinas, see Thomas Aquinas
Arhat, 26
Arjuna, Prince, 27
Arnold, Sir Edwin, 230
Arya Samaj, 107, 124
asana, 35, 121
asana-suddhi, 122
asirvad, 123
asrama, 104, 204
Ananda Asrama, 285
Santi Asrama, 86, 181
Sri Mariya Asrama, 182
Atkins, Gaius Glenn, 270-71
Atkinson, William Walker,
see Yogi Ramacharaka
atma-samarpana, 125
atman, 35
avatara, 52
Avery, Dr. L. M. Keuffner, 201
a, 32
T&abaji, 141
Bagley, Mrs. John J., 77
Baha, Abdul, 227
Bahalism, 226-28
Baranagar, 70
Barnard, George Gray, 189
Barrows, Charles M., 234
Barrows, Rev. John Henry, 75
Beck, L. Adams, 176
Benares League, 1 78
Bernard, Peter A., see Oom
the Omnipotent
Bernhardt, Sarah, 80
Besant, Dr. Annie, 155, 176,
192, 228
Bbagavad Gifa, 25-29, 38, 40,
71, 93-94, 98, 112, 142,
156, 167, 171, 217, 225,
230-33, 246, 249, 259
Bhagwan Bissessar, Swarm,
180
bhakii, 27, 40, 49, 54, 60
bhakti-yoga (method), 81, 93,
101, 121, 152
Bbakti Yoga (book), 91, 93
Bbarata Dharma M.aba M.an-
dala} 194
Bharati, Baba Premananda,
177, 218
bbuta-'suddbi, 122
Bhuvanesvari, 64
Bisey, Dr. Shunker A., 131
Blake, William, 213
Blavatsky, Helen Petrovna,
176, 228
Bodhananda, Swarm, 95-9<5,
99, 103-04, 107-09, 113,
116
Bodhhattva, 26, 62
Boock, Minnie C., 86
Bose, Prof. J. C., 165, 203
Bose, Prof. Sudhindra, 270
291
292 INDEX
Bragdon, Claude, 201
Brahma Samaj, 20, 44, 56, 59,
66, 107, 133, 186, 208,
246
brabmacar't, 84, 114, 169, 268
brahmacarya, 168
Brahmacarya Vidyalaya, 144
Brahma, see Brahman (God)
Brahman (God), 30-31, 37,
39, 53-55, 97, 132
Brahman (member of priestly
order) ,
see Brahmana
Brahrnana, 18, 23-24, 27, 29,
47/54, 205, 207, 209-10,
215, 231, 242
Brahrnananda, Swami, 84
Brahmanl, Bhairavl, 51-52, 59
Brahmavadin, 262
Bramham, W. C, 148
Broun, Heywood, 199
Buddha, see Gautama Buddha
Buddhism, 13-14, 26, 29, 36,
38, 62, 70-71, 91, 93,
113, 167, 186, 222-23
Bull, Mrs. Ole, 80, 120
Burbank, Luther, 136, 169, 175
Burdwan, Maharajadbiraja
Bahadur of, 192
Burnell, Dr. George Edwin,
236
Calamus (magazine, later
named Appreciation) ,
1 38
Calve, Madame, 80
Cams, Dr. Paul, 80, 273
caste, 20, 23, 31, 46
Catholicism, see Roman Cath-
olicism
Chaitanya, 51, 260
Chandra Devi, 44
Chanler, Mrs. Lewis Stuyves-
ant, 227
Chatterji, Pandit Jagadish
Chandra, 193-97, 200
Chattopadhyaya ( Chatterj I) ,
Harindra Nath, 211
Christ, see Jesus Christ
Christian missions, 18, 102,
106, 206, 214, 247
Christian Science, 13-14, 95,
112, 115, 117, 129, 145,
156, 162, 176, 229-33,
235-36, 255
Christianity, 14-15, 20, 44, 55,
58, 61-63, 71, 75, 83, 88,
90, 93, 100, 107-19, 133,
139-40, 153, 162, 167,
174, 176, 182, 199, 208,
215,217,237-38,240-50,
253-54
Christine, Sister (Miss Green-
stidel), 86
Close, Upton, 199
College of the City of New
York, 198
Conan Doyle, Sir Arthur, 192
CooJidge, President, 171
Coomaraswamy, Dr. Ananda
K., 199-204, 212-13
Cornell University, 207, 214
Cousins, Dr. and Mrs. James
H., 200
Crowley, R C., 146
Daggett, Mrs. Mabel Potter,
119-20
Daksinesvara, 47, 50, 57-58,
67
Das, R. K., 270
Das Gupta, Kedar Nath, 1 38,
185-93, 255
Das Gupta, Sureodra Nath,
210, 220
dasnami, 31
dasya, 49
INDEX 293
Datta, 64
Davis, Edward B., 163
Day, Dr. Allan, 80
Dayananda, Swaml, 105
Dayananda SarasvatI, Swaml,
124
Deussen, Dr. Paul, 82, 272
Deva Ram Sukul, $rt, 179-80
Devamata, Sister, 104, 112
Dewey, Prof. John
dharana, 121, 159
dharma, 61. See also
svadharma
Dbarma, 15, 28, 61-62, 72,
79, 113, 164, 185-87,
208, 210, 214, 217, 222-
223. See also manava-
dharma
Dkarma (magazine), 187
Dharma Mandala, 138, 185-
87, 235"
'
Dharmapala, Anagarika H.,
223
Dhirananda, Swaml, 134-35,
146-48, 169
dhyana, 121, 156
Downing, Joe, see Joveddah de
Raja
Dresser, Horatio W., 234, 272
dualism, 24, 42, 55-56, 88, 97,
252-55
Duggan, Prof. Stephen P., 194
dvaita, 55
Eddy, Mrs. Mary Baker Patter-
son, 229-35
Edison, Thomas, 175
Einstein, Albert, 175
Emerson, Ralph Waldo, 13-14,
87, 162, 176, 231-35,
241, 251, 273
Evans, Prof. Lovett, 165
Evans, Warren Felt, 235
Eynon, Mr. and Mrs., 146
Farmer, Sarah J., 78, 120
Fellowship of Faiths, see Three-
fold Movement
Ferguson, Charles Wright,
218, 235
Fiilmore, Charles, 176, 235
Fillmore, Myrtle (Mrs.
Charles), 235
Finley, Hon. Dr. John H., 194
Ford, Henry, 162, 175
Forman Christian College,
182, 206
France, Anatole, 204
Fuller, Governor, 171
Gadadhar Chatter]I
(original
name of Ramakrishna) ,
see Ramakrishna
Galli-Curci, Madame, 136
Gandhi, Manmohandas Ka-
ramchand, called Ma-
hatma, 13, 43, 91, 175,
202-04, 211, 215, 243-44
Ganesh, Sakharam, 270
Gaudapada, 33
Gautama Buddha (Siddhartha
Gautama Sakyamuni, 25,
45-46, 70, 108, 110
Gaya (Visnu-pada-Gaya) , 44,
260
Gherwal, R. S., 218
Ghose, S. N., 204
Gibbons, Prof. Herbert Adams,
200
Girt, 31, 141-42
Glta, see Bhagavad Glta
Gitanjati, 207
Gnaneshwarananda, Swarm,
see Jnanelvarananda,
Swaml
Gnosticism, 227
gopi, 45
Govil, Hari G., 198-99, 204
Govind Singh, Guru, 221
Govinda Rai, 54
294 INDEX
Greenstidel, Mrs., 86
Gulick, Dr. Sidney L., 199
guru, 34, 53, 56, 58, 120, 214,
261-63
guru-pranama, 122
gurubhai, 70, 82
Guthrie, Dr. William Norman,
189
Haas, Dr. George C. O., 193,
196, 241
Hale, George W., 78
Hampden, Walter, 163
Mannish, Ottoman Zar-
Adusht, 223
Hanuman, 49
Hari, 57
Hari Rama, Yogi, 178-79
HaridasI, Sister, 78
Harriman, Mrs. G. F., 146
hatha-yoga, 35, 179, 218
Hayes, Rev. Will, .138, 191
Heavenly Father, 15, 89, 97,
109, 140, 250
Hilton, Dr. G. W., 224
Hilton, Marie Elizabeth Ruth
(Mrs. G. W.), 224
Hindu Missionary Society, 242
Hindustan Association of
America, Inc., 197-99
Hindustanee Student, 197
Hocking, Prof. William E.,
194
Holmes, Dr. John Haynes, 189,
199
Hunsicker, Alrin, 146, 168
Husted, Nicolai, 267
Hylan, Judge John K, 168
Ida, 124-25
Inayat Khan, Pir-o-Murshid,
226
India Freedom Foundation,
Inc., 204
India Society of America, Inc.,
198-204
Indra, 22
International School of Vedic
and Allied Research, 14,
193-97, 242
Islam (" 'Muhammadanism'
'
) ,
44, 54, 58, 61-62, 153,
162, 208, 221, 226-27,
241
ista-dhyana, 123
Jadu Nath Mallik, 55
Jainism, 13, 186
Janes, Dr. Lewis G., 78
Jehovah, 57
Jesus Christ, 55, 57, 62, 69,
70, 76, 102, 108-09, 111,
118, 123, 155, 162-63,
175, 178, 183, 196, 213,
215, 217, 222, 226, 253
jwa, 40, 57, 124
jtvanmukti, 41
jnanat 54, 60
jnana-yoga (method), 79, 81,
93, 101, 121, 152, 181
Jnana Yoga (book), 91
Jnanesvarananda, Swaml, 95-
101, 105, 109, 113, 116,
118, 128, 132, 156
John, Saint, 210
Jones, Dr. E. Stanley, 176
Jones, Sir William, 231, 240
Joshee (Joshi) , Mr., 205
Joshi, Prof. S. L., 270
Journal of the International
School of Vedic and Al-
lied Research, 197
Joveddah de Raja, 14, 219-20
Judaism, 162, 217, 240, 249,
253-54
l 43-52, 59, 73, 123, 132
Kalidasa, 188
karma, 23, 25, 27, 39, 41, 61,
93, 181, 209, 222-223,
242
INDEX 295
karma-yoga (method), 81,
101, 103, 121, 155-56
Karma Yoga (book), 91, 93,
112
Kasimbazar, Hon. Maharaja
Sir Manindra Chandra
Nundy Bahadur of, 144,
151
Kayastba, 64
Keshab Chandra Sen, 44, 56-
57, 62, 66, 71
Keskar, Sbrt Vishwanath,
215-17
Ketkar Dr. Shridhar Venka-
tesh, 208, 215
Keyserling, Count, 204
khaddar, 188
Khalsa Dlwan Society, 222
Khudiram, 44
Kloh, Mrs., 114, 147
Klotz, Mrs. E., 146
Kokatnur, V. R., 204
Kripananda, Swaml, 80-81
Krishna, popular form of Kris-
na>
"
27, 25-26, 120, 123,
150, 153, 178, 196
Krishna Samaj, 177
kriya-yoga, 142, 155
Ksatriya, 23, 64
Kumarappa, Dr. Jagadisan M,,
200
KundalM, 48-49, 123-37, 155,
"*160, 179, 222, 250,
265-66
Kurtkoti, His Holiness Sbri
Swaml Shankaracharya
Dr., 187
Lahiri (Sri Syama Charan La-
hiri Mabasaya) ,
called
Maharaja, 141-42, 155,
171
Lall, Rama Krishna, 214
Landsberg, Herr Leon, see
Swaml Kripananda
Lanman, Dr. Charles Rock-
well, 194, 197
LaoTze, 213
lathi, 65
Leadbeater, Bishop Charles
W., 236
League of Neighbors, see
Threefold Movement
Leggett, Mr. and Mrs. Francis,
80, 85
Lewis, Dr. M. W., 146
.Liberal Catholic Church, 235
Lincoln, Abraham, 175
Lindsey, Judge and Mrs. Ben,
147
Louise, Madame Marie, see
Swarm Abhayananda, 79
Lovett, Robert Morss, 200
MacDowell, J. Harold, 168
MacLeod, Miss J., 80
Madhava, 28, 55
Maha Bodhi Society, 223
Maha Dev (great god), 83
Mahabbarata, 64
Mahadeo (great god), 39
Mahayana, 223
Maitra, Harendra Nath, 211
manas-puja, 123
manava-dbarma, 208
Manindra Chandra, see
Kasimbazar
mantra, 48, 53
mantra-yoga} 35
Manu, 46, 209
Marden, Orison Swett, 235
margaf 61
Martin, Dr. Alfred W., 191,
199
Martin, Mursbtd Rabia A., 226
mata, 61
Matarisvan, 22
matha, see Ramakrishna Matba
Mathur Nath Biswas, 47, 49,
54
296 INDEX
maya, 54, 232
Mayo, Katherine, 14, 184-85
Ma2daznan> 224-26
Mazumdar, Hari Das, 215
McLachlan, Hon. James, 148
medulla oblongata, 126,
151-53
Miilikan, Prof., 160, 165
MIsrow, Jogdesh, 211
moksa, 114, 210
monism, 24, 38, 42, 88, 252,
255
Mother India, 72, 184, 206
Mother India, 14
Mott, J. W., 146
Mozumdar (Mazumdar, A. K.,
253-54
Mukerji, Dhan Gopal, 176,
192, 200, 211
Mukerji, G., 270
mukti, 34
Miiller, Henrietta, 81, 84
Mullet, Max, 21, 82, 240
Munroe, Prof. Paul, 194
,
124
Nag, Dr. Kalidas, 204
Naidu, Mrs. Sarojini, 200, 202,
210-11
Nanak, Guru, 221
Narayana, Swarm, 184
Narendra Nath Datta( orig-
inal name of Vivekanan-
da), see Vivekananda
Neo-Platonism, 237-38, 241
Nerod (Niroda), Brahmacari,
169
New Historical Society, 227
New Thought, 17, 145, 156,
176, 193, 234-36, 251
Newton, Rev. Joseph Fort, 191
Nzbbana, 26
Nirmalananda, Swami, 69
Nirvana, 26, 181
Nivedita, Sister, 81, 84-86, 91,
99
niyama, 121
Noble, Margaret, see Nivedita,
Sister
Norwood, Hev. Dr. Robert, 191
Nyaya-Vaisesika, 195
Ojas, 156
Om, 125, 159, 222
Omkar, His Holiness Srimath
Swami, 181
Oom the Omnipotent, 218
Oriental Magazine, 198
Palmer, Hon. Thomas W, 78
Ptincatantra, 29
pandit, popularized as pundit,
* "
20, 45-46, 52, 227
pantheism, 38, 252
Paramananda, Swami, 103-05,
110, 112-13, 150, 249
Parafwatman, 232, 241
Parliament of Religions, 72,
74, 76, 80, 100, 102, 227
Patanjali, 35-36, 129, 135,
142, 155, 265-66
Patterson, C. F., 86
Paul, Saint, 155, 210
Person (God), 39-40
pingala, 124
Plotinus, 13, 132, 233, 236-39,
249
pluralism, 24, 255
Prabhavananda, Swami, 104-05
Prabuddba Bharata, 271
Prakashananda, Swami,
103-05
prakriti, 40
Praya, 125, 128-29, 132, 152,
156, 233, 266
pmnayama, 121, 128, 265
prasvida, 114
Pratt, Prof. James Bisset, 272
pratydbara, 121
INDEX 297
ayopavesana, 70
em Lai Adoris, 14, 219
Protestantism, 238, 248
Pun, 31, 141
Purusa (Person), 53
Quimby, Phineas Parker,
232-35
Radha-Krishna Temple, 177
Radha Vilas, *196
Radhakrishnan, Prof. Sarva-
palli, 14, 208-10
Raghavananda, Swami, 104
raja-yoga (method), 81, 85,
92-93, 101, 103, 121,
126-27, 131, 152, 155-56,
179, 181
Raja Yoga (book), 91-92,
121, 129, 142, 155-56
rajas, 225
Rakhit, Hemendra Kasore,
197-99
Ram Kumar, 43, 46
Ram Maharaj, Prince, 218
Rama, 45-46, 49, 123
Rama Tiratha, Swami, 182?
205-07
Ramacharaka, Yogi, 14, 185,
218
Ramakrishna (Sri Ramakrish-
na Paramahansa), 43-64,
66-71, 84, 96, 102, 115-
16, 118, 123-24, 141-42,
246, 260
Ramakrishna Matha, 70, 86,
106, 113-14,' 11 9, 133
Ramakrishna Mission, 68, 106,
113, 133, 247
Ramakrishna movement, 70-71,
83, 95-133, 173-76, 251
Ramakrishna Order, see Ra-
makrishna movement
Rarnakrishnananda, Swami,
112
Ramanathan, Paul, 205
Ramanuja, Saint, 24, 28, 30,
38-42, 55, 112-13, 246,
272,
R&mayana, 49, 64
rang, 48
Rao, J. S., 242
Rashid, Mr., 147
Rasmani, B&ni, 46
rebirth, 25, 39, 164, 175
reincarnation, see rebirth
renunciation, 68, 160, 249, 251
Rice, S. P., 273
Richdale, Mrs. E., 146
Rjgveda, 22-23
fisis, 24, 72, 144, 233
Robertson, Leo C, 272
Rogers, P., 148
Roman Catholicism, 117, 162,
238, 251
Rumi, 213
Russell, Bertrand, 204
Saccidananda (sat-cit-ananda) ,
Swarm, 103-04
vadhana, 33, 50-51, 97
sadhu, 45
sahasvara, 48, 122-26
Saint Denis, Ruth, 199
Sakta, see Saktist
Saktist, 49, 51
sakti, 47, 53-54
SaJkuntati, 188
samadhi, 48, 53, 58, 69, 101,
122, 124
Sambhu Charan Mallik, 55
samgama, 159
savnpradaya, 61
Sankara, Saint, 24, 28, 30-46,
52, 55, 60-61, 90, 135,
166-67, 182-84, 217,
229, 246, 248-49, 253,
273
Sankaracarya, see Sankara, Saint
Sankhya, 35, 39
298 INDEX
sankirtan, 70
sannyasa, 34, 45, 53, 72, 79,
206
sannyast, 31, 39, 45, 54, 65,
72, 81, 84, 114, 137, 142,
209
sannyaszn, see sannyast
sannyaszrii, 51
sansara, 23. .$> tf/J0 rebirth
sanskar, 242
Sanskrit, 20, 97, 99, 123, 194,
196, 227, 231, 240, 255
Santi Asrama, 86, 181
Saradananda, Swarm, 69, 82,
85, 104, 112, 260
Sarkir, Dr. S. L., 113
sastras, 30
Sastri, K. D., 217
sat-cakra~bheda, 125
'sat-cit-ananda, 34, 57, 152-54,
167
sattva, 224
Savttri, 138, 189
Schopenhauer, Arthur, 14, 92,
108, 233, 239
Scott, Mrs. C. P., 147
Seeger, William Tully, 273
Self (God), 30, 33-34, 37,
168, 206, 253-54, 273
Seligman, Prof, Edwin R. A.,
199
seva, 71
Shakespeare, William, 162
Shaw, George Bernard, 175
Shepherd, William R., 199
stdabi, 97
Sieber, Harry F., 170
Sikhism, 14, 186, 221, 241
Simmons, Mrs. F,, 147
Siva, 44-45, 47, 51, 57, 64-65,
71, 87, 97, 123-24, 212
Sivaite, 49, 97
Smith, Mr. and Mrs. 147
Sohrab, Mirza Ahmad, 227
Soul (God), 40
Speer, Dr, Robert E., 177
Spencer, Herbert, 66, 87, 132
Spinoza, Benedict, 13, 123,
238, 253-54
sraddha, 260
Sri Mariya Asrama, 182
Sruti, 30
Stowkowski, Mr. Leopold, 146
Street, Dr., see Yogananda,
Swaml
Sturdy, E. T., 81-82
Sudra, 23, 29, 46, 209
Sudraka, 189
Suflism, 54, 62, 226-28
Sunderland, Dr. J. T., 199, 201
Super-Akasha Yogi Wassan,
14, 217
surtsabda, 36
Suryananda, Brahmacari, 182
susumna, 48, 122, 124-25
svadesi, 188
svadharma, 61, 109, 181
svawj, 188, 244
stwamt, popular form of svami,
13, 45, 65, 67, 120,
247-48
Swarthmore College, 217
Swihart, A. K., 270
Tagore Rabindra Nath, 14, 99,
162, 175, 187-88, 192,
201, 203-04, 207, 209,
211, 273
Tai Hsu, Venerable Lord Ab-
bott, 223
tamos, 225
Tantra, 49, 51, 94, 179, 186,
218, 222, 265
Tarake^vara Siva, 70. See also
Siva
Tedrow, Mrs., 147
Telsa, Nicolas, 80
Tennyson, Alfred, 191
Thayer, Henry Richardson, 234
theism, 38, 252
INDEX 299
Theosophy, 13-14, 95, 117,
140, 176, 193, 218, 226,
228-29, 235-36, 255
Thind, Dr. Bhagat Singh, 221
Thomas Aquinas, 13, 238
Thompson, Beulah E., 241
Thompson, Francis, 162
Thoreau, Henry David, 231,
241
Threefold Movement, 14, 139,
187-93, 242
Totapuri, 51
Towne, Mrs. Elizabeth, 271
Trigunatlta, Swami, 103-04
Trine," Ralph Waldo, 176
Turiyananda, Swami, 69,
85-86, 103-04
Union of East and West, see
Threefold Movement
Union Theological Seminary,
217
United States, 13, 15, 106,
135> 247
Unity School of Christianity,
175-76, 234-36
University of Bombay, 17, 215
of Calcutta, 17, 65, 142, 246
of Chicago, 208
Upadeshak, Pandit, 169
Upanishads, popular form of
Upanisads, 23-25, 27-29,
32, 34, 38, 68, 99, 116-
17, 135, 155, 159-60, 167,
184, 232, 234, 238-41,
259
Brihad-Aranyaka, 259
Cbandogya, 267
Matin, 259
Mandukya, 33
Mundaka, 259
Katha, 29, 259
SvetaSvatara, 29, 38-40, 259
Urquhart, W. S., 273
Vaisya, 23
Vajiranana, Venerable Thera
P., 223
Vallabha, 51
Valyi, Felix, 204
varna, 23
Vaswani, T. L., 204
Vedanta, see Vedantism
Vedanta centers of the Rama-
krishna movement, 15-16,
21, 24, 64, 68, 73, 78, 85-
86, 95-133, 168, 171,
173-77, 193, 226, 234,
242, 246, 248, 250
Vedanta Sutras, 28, 259-60
Vedantin, see Vedantist
Vedantism, 21-42, 52, 92, 97-
98, 102} 109-10, 116, 206,
209-10, 230-31, 233, 236,
239, 252
Vedantist, 28, 39, 60, 88, 97,
141, 152
Vedas, 22-24, 28.29, 110, 239,
135, 178, 186, 230-231,
242
vidya, 33
Vidya-Vtiridbi, 194
Villard, Oswald Garrison, 199
visistadvaita, 55
Visnu, 39, 44, 52, 97
Visnuite, 39, 51, 97
Vtvekaciidwnam, 259
Vivekananda, Swami, 43, 48,
64-94, 96, 99-107, 110-
11, 114, 116, 118, 121,
123, 127-29, 131, 141,
145-46,149,155-56,172-
73, 234-35, 2^6-50
Vividishananda, Swami, 105
Von Kunits, Luigi, 175
Waldo, Miss S. E., 78
Ward, Prof. Harry F., 200
Weller, Rev. and Mrs. Charles
Frederick, 190
White, Rev. Eliot, 38
300 INDEX
Whitman, Walt, 138, 162,
176, 241
Wilcox, Ella Wheeler, 81
Wiley, Mrs. C. W., 147
Willatsen, Mr. and Mrs. A.,
147
Wilson, Dr., 146
Wise, Rabbi Stephen S., 189
World's Parliament of Reli-
gions, see Parliament of
Religions
Wright, Prof, J. H., 74, 80
Wyman, Prof., 80
Yajnavalkya, 38
Yama, 22
yama, 121
yoga, 34, 36, 48, 51, 54, 60,
119-21, 127-28, 130-31,
136-37, 143, 145, 160,
167, 172, 178, 180, 185,
206. See also bhakti-
yogaf
hatha-yoga, jnana-
yogaf karma-yoga, kriya-
yoga, mantra-yoga, raja-
yoga and surtsabda-yoga
Yogamata, Sister, 146
Yogananda, Swami, 134-76,
218, 229, 246, 248-50
Yogananda, Swami (Dr.
Street), 81
yoganidra, 35
Yogessar, 180
yogi 13, 35, 48, 55, 92, 129,
141-42, 159, 233, 246
yogin, see yogz
Yogoda Sat-sanga Society of
America, Inc., 14, 16, 24,
134-77, 193, 226, 242,
246, 248, 250-53
Younghusband, Sir Francis,
191
Yuktesvara (Srimath Swami
Sn YukteSvara Gtrijt) 9
142-43
