{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__schroeder___witchcraft_and_the_erotic_life.pdf","mytitle":"Witchcraft And The Erotic Life","mylang":"de"}
Witchcraft and the Erotic Life
By
THEODORE SCHROEDER
Frederiksted, V. I.
Reprint from
THE JOURNAL OF NERVOUS AND MENTAL DISEASE
Vol. 72, pp. 640-651; Dec. 1930
W ITCHCRAFT AND T H E EROTIC L IF E
B y T heodore S chroeder
OF COS COB, CONN.
Burnt alive unto his death. Such was the fate, in 1634, of Father
D’Urbain Grandier, Roman Catholic curate of St. Peters in Loudun,.
and Canon of the Church of the Hoi)' Cross. His alleged crime
was that, in the diocese of Poitier, by means of magic he had carnally
bedeviled the Ursuline nuns of Loudun, in France. The witnesses
against him were the nuns upon whom he had worked his satanic
art. It was only supernatural magic that made it possible for Father
Grandier to project his body invisibly even through the walls of
the convent, to accomplish the seduction of consecrated virgins who
had never even seen him, except by such magic. So Father Grandier,
by his disembodied spirit and the help of Satan, committed forni­
cations and adulteries with many pious women, who would not have
yielded their bodies to Grandier in the flesh. The judges were his
fellow priests. The executioners were the civil authorities, who must
act their subordinate role at the behest of the church, wherever its
supremacy over the state is fully admitted.
As the proceedings of this trial unfold, it will become increas­
ingly apparent that the witchcraft of the accused consisted wholly
in the fact that nuns and other deprived women had quite ordinary
erotic phantasies, in which Father Grandier officiated as would their
physical lover, if they could ever have tolerated a physical lover.
These dreams and visions are quite usual under the unusual condi­
tions in which nuns live. Having first been infected with ecclesias­
tical erotophobia, these women were compelled to defend themselves
strenuously against the possible imputation that their phantasmal
eroticisms were the product of their own organic need. Accordingly
their dreams of copulation with Father Grandier’s ghost, or dis­
embodied spirit, were given the certitude of his physical presence
and of superhuman seductiveness. Hence his alleged alliance with
the devil and his Satanic magic, were fully proven.
Father Grandier is said to have been “ a majestic and stately
man, . . . endowed with some natural and acquired perfection.”
Again it is said that, “ The curate of Loudun was a handsome, gen­
teel man, and a fine speaker.” Even his enemies credited him with
[640]
WITCHCRAFT AND THE EROTIC LIFE 641
“ extraordinary talent.” Evidently he was the ideal man to engage
the fancy of inhibited women, and those neglected of men. A
popular priest of unusual ability, withal a little arrogant, he was just
the man to excite also the envy and hatred of the less gifted priests.
He seems to have been an independent thinker and showed this spirit
in a manuscript he wrote in favor of marriage‘for priests. This
was horrible, of course, and while envious priests thereupon could
plausibly brand him as a lecherous heretical beast, some Protestants
began to regard him as being secretly in sympathy with them. His
zeal for independence may have enticed Father Grandier into another
dangerous situation. He was credited with being the author of an
anonymous libel entitled: “ La Cordonnaire de Loudun ” (the shoe­
maker's wife of Loudun), a libel which “ was very injurious to the
person and birth of Cardinal Richelieu.” Influential enemies help
to make witchcraft believable.1
In Loudun was a convent of Ursuline nuns, most of whom were
daughters of the nobility, and among them was Madame de Sazille,
a relative of Cardinal Richelieu. At this time Prior Moussaut, who
had charge of the spiritual welfare of these nuns, died and Father
Grandier, who had never had any connection with the convent,
offered himself as a candidate to succeed Prior Moussaut. This
bore its natural fruit in the dreams of the nuns. Erotic dreams of
women resulted in giving Father Grandier an unsavory reputation.
Accordingly Father Grandier’s pious enemies reported that he offered
himself as the spiritual guide for these nuns in order “ to make a
dishonest seraglio of their convent and as many filthy concubines
as there were handsome virgins.” The credulous and superstitious
enemies of Father Grandier afterwards said that he had resolved
“ to give plenty of work to the confessor and to his penitents.” Canon
Mignon, a friend of the bishop and an enemy of Father Grandier,
received the appointment of spiritual guide to these nuns. The con­
tinued erotic dreams of nuns, and Father Grandier’s temperament
combined to prepare the way, so that his enemies made a feared and
hated wizard of him. Naturally enough he became the center of
heated controversy, and of whispered scandals. Thus was the human
stage setting erected for Father Grandier’s undoing and death. It
was such conditions that gave his envious priestly enemies their
desired opportunity for a safe adventure, in desperate clerical politics.
His enemies say: “ Plis iniquities had rendered him the scourge
1 Aubin, Nicolas. Cruels effets de la Vengeance du Cardinal de Richelieu,
ou histoire des Diables de Loudun, de la Possession des religieuses Ursulines et
de la condemnation & du supplice d’Urbain Grandier, Cure de la metne Ville.
Amsterdam: Etienne Rogers, 1716.
642 THEODORE SCHROEDER
of the town, whose principal curate and greatest scandal he was
at one and the same time.” Believing himself secure by virtue of
a feeling of innocence and of a great popularity “ he treated those
from whom he differed with contempt, and in his preachings even
dared to question the privileges of the Carmelites. He publicly ridi­
culed their sermons and he even encroached on Episcopal jurisdiction,
by granting dispensations from the publication of marriage bans.
This last caused a sensation, and was reported to Louis de la Roche-
posay, Bishop of Poitiers, to whom at the same time were addressed
numerous complaints of the irregular conduct of the curate, and of the
scandal that he caused. The prelate had him arrested, and imprisoned
till his trial which took place on June 2, 1630.” At the trial were
priests claiming to have been spying on him, who offered strong cir­
cumstantial evidence tending to prove that his fornications and adul­
teries by “ magic ” had objective physical reality. Some of these
spiritual adulteries were alleged to have taken place even within his
church. What else could be expected by the godly, from a priest who
publicly ridiculed sermons of the Carmelites, who believed in a mar­
ried clergy, who presumed to dispense with the publication of mar­
riage bans, and who dared to libel Cardinal Richelieu ? Obviously he
must be a lecherous heretical beast, and presumably guilty of every­
thing, at least until proven innocent.
As might be expected, the ecclesiastical authorities of Poitiers
did find him guilty of magic or witchcraft (not plain, human forni­
cation nor mere physical adultery) and they inflicted the severest
penalties. He appealed to the Parliament of Paris, however, and
by its decree was referred to the presidial of Loudun, which declared
him innocent. The priestly witnesses who claimed to have been
spying upon Father Grandier, had retracted their evidence. A case
of priests having a conscience, Father Grandier’s friends called it,
but his enemies said that the priests were bribed to retract. Far from
showing humility, Father Grandier now, so his enemies complained,
“ looked upon his acquittal as a triumph, and returned to Loudun with
a laurel branch in his hands, for the mere purpose of insulting his
opponents.” How the obvious can be twisted to meet the needs
of hatred. Yet who can now tell what was the truth? Such inter­
pretation of his “ laurel branch ” brought its natural results.
“ He was not satisfied with having obtained the full meed he was
entitled to,” says his enemy. Perhaps a guiltless conscience, made
Father Grandier overconfident in judicial justice. “ He resolved to
carry his vengeance as far as law will allow him; and prepared to
prosecute before the courts all those who had taken steps against
WITCHCRAFT AND THE EROTIC LIFE 643
him. . . . God, who intended to cut off this gangrenous member
from the body of His Church, and make of him an example mem­
orable to all ages, abandoned him to his own wilful blindness.”
His fame for lechery and his vindication, together with his usual
physical and intellectual allurements, made Father Grandier ever
more important, as the ideal phantasmal lover for the unacknowledged
erotic urges of all psychologically inhibited or physically isolated
females, in the vicinity of Loudun. What is more natural therefore,
than that he should appear ever more persistently in the erotic hal­
lucinations, of nuns, and others, who were in need of a phantasmal
realization of their unconscious cravings, or their merely unacknowl­
edged and suppressed desires.
“ Extraordinary symptoms began to declare themselves within
the convent, but they were hushed up as far as possible, and not
allowed to be known outside the walls. . . . It was therefore
decided to work in the greatest secrecy, and to cure or at least miti­
gate the evil. It was hoped that God, touched by the patience with
which the chastisement was born, would Himself, in His mercy, send
a remedy. This was all that prudence could devise, but human
prudence, always infinitely limited in its views; Divine prudence is
quite another thing. God [or at least Father Grandier’s priestly
enemies] has resolved that the mystery of iniquity should no longer
lie buried. As the church at its birth, gained great credit through
similar events, so again, in this case, did they serve to revive the
faith of true believers, and so it will be again in future times. . . .
As usually happens, the extraordinary phenomena displayed in the
person of the nuns were taken for the effect of sexual disease. But
soon suspicions arose that they proceeded from supernatural causes;
and at last they perceived what God intended every one to see.”
“ Thus the nuns, after having employed the physicians of the
body, apothecaries and medical men [who knew not how to cure them
of their erotic hallucinations] were obliged to have recourse to the
physicians of the soul, and to call in both lay and clerical doctors,
their confessor no longer being equal to the immensity of the labor.
For they were seventeen in number; and every one was found to be
either fully possessed, or partially under the influence of the Evil
One.” The last resort must be tried. “ True Christians must
despise these grinning impostors. Exorcisms were then employed.
The demon, forced to manifest himself yielded his name. He began
by giving these girls the most horrible convulsions. He went so
far as to raise from the earth the body of the Superior who was being
exorcised, and to reply to secret thoughts, which were manifest
644 THEODORE i>CHROEDER
neither in words nor by any exterior signs. Questioned, according to
the form prescribed by the ritual, as to why he entered the body
of the nun, he replied, it was from hate. But when being questioned
as to the name of the magician, he answered that it was Urbain
Grandier. Profound astonishment seized Canon Mignon and his
assistants. They had indeed looked upon Grandier as a scandalous
priest, but never had they imagined that he was guilty of magic.
They were therefore not satisfied with one single questioning: they
repeated the interrogatory several times, and always received the
same reply.” So the devil, wanting in ordinary loyalty to his faithful
servant, betrayed his “ magician ” (Grandier) into the hands of his
priestly enemies.
The canon informed the magistrates, and Father Grandier pre­
pared for his defense. But the magistrates are said to have been
“ infected with heresy.” That is to say, the magistrates were sus­
pected of having more confidence in Father Grandier, than they had
in the objective realities of the Satanic seduction of the nuns. At
this third trial of Father Grandier his enemies among the magis­
trates, finding themselves in a minority, withdrew. The remaining
magistrates acquitted Father Grandier. “ Excitement rose in the
public mind, a thousand arguments on this or that side permeated
the town, and a thousand quarrels took place on all sides.”
The next step of Grandier’s enemies was to see to it that the
Queen was properly informed. She sent one of her chaplains to
investigate, personally, what was going on. Louis XIII also sent
a commissioner to Loudun but for another purpose. He too, saw
what a ferment the town was in . . . and the kind of man who
caused the commotion.” Father Grandier must really be guilty. It
could not by any possibility be that “ consecrated virgins ” just
naturally had erotic dreams, and because of priestly instilled erotic
phobias, explained them in terms of Satanic possession. “ The com­
plaints of those who were the victims of the Ihallucinatory satanic]
debaucheries, of the pride, or of the vengeance of the curate, touched
him, and it seemed to him to be important to put an end to the
scandal.” As is always the case in great excitement the essential
thing is to end the scandal, not to ascertain whether it had any basis
in objective facts. We always want order, without being troubled
to inquire as to who is most responsible for the disorder.
On his return, this commissioner “ informed the King and the
Cardinal Minister [Richelieu, the enemy of Grandier] of the facts.
Louis X III, from having been an extremely lecherous and erotic
child and youth had become fanatically pious and just as an over­
w it c h c r a f t a n d t h e e r o t ic life 645
compensation,2 perceived the greatness of the evil.” He appointed
M. de Laubardemont, the commissioner who had already accepted
Father Grandier’s guilt, to return and “ investigate the matter with­
out appeal; with orders to choose in the neighboring jurisdictions the
most straightforward and learned judges.” Of course, this meant
“ straightforward” from the point of view of'Grandier’s enemies.
The “ straightforward ” ones at Loudun had already acquitted Father
Grandier. Thus Cardinal Richelieu vindicated the reputation of his
relative, the nun, promoted the spiritual welfare of the church and
of its priests. With the former acquittals ignored, and with a hand­
picked, packed court, complete vengeance was guaranteed in advance
and without the right oi an appeal. All this, and Father Grandier’s
arrest without prior formal accusation, were justified then, as such
conduct is still justified whenever hysterical panic or collective per­
sonal interest runs high in “ King Mob.”
The two priests now retracted their former retraction. “ The
evidence of the nuns was also heard, and that of lay persons of both
sexes, among others two women, the one of whom confessed having
had criminal relations with Father Grandier [his ghostly double],
and that he had offered to make her Princess of Magicians, while the
second confirmed the evidence of the first. As regards the nuns, they
deposed that Grandier had introduced himself [spiritually] into the
convent by day and night for four months, without anyone knowing
how he got in; that he presented himself to them [“ spiritually”]
whilst standing at divine service and tempted them to indecent actions
both by word and deed; that they were often attacked by invisible
persons; and that the marks of the blows were so visible that the
doctors and surgeon had easily found them, and that the beginning
of all these troubles was signalized by the apparition of Prior Mous-
saut, their first confessor. The Mother Superior and seven or eight
other nuns, when confronted with Grandier, identified him, although
it was ascertained that they had never seen him save by magic, and
that he had never had anything to do with their affairs. The two
women formerly mentioned and the two priests maintained the truth
of their evidence. In a word, besides the nuns and six lay women,
“ sixty witnesses deposed to [‘ spiritual ’—hallucinatory] adulteries,
incests, sacrileges, and other crimes, committed by the accused, even
in the most secret places of his church, as in the vestry, where the
Holy Ghost was kept, on all days, and all hours.”
“ It may well be imagined that the mother, brother and friends
2 See Journal de Dr. Heroard; also Trenel, Louis XIII and His Epi­
lepsy. Aesculape, 1929. Ed.
646 THEODORE SCHROEDER
of the accused did not abandon him. They appealed to every pos­
sible authority. The details of these proceedings would be as weari­
some, as useless, as the Commissioner, by the very terms of his
Commission [which prohibited an appeal], was placed above all such
applications in that direction. He then questioned the accused as
to the facts and articles of accusation, and after having made him
sign his confessions and denials, proceeded to Paris to inform the
Court of what he had done.”
“ This precaution was necessary, for letters from the Bailly of
Loudun, Grandier’s chief supporter, to the Procurator-General of
the Parliament, were intercepted, in which it was asserted that the
possession was an imposture. The latter’s reply was also seized.
Monsieur de Laubardemont returned therefore to Loudun with a
Decree of the Council dated May 31, 1634, confirming all his powers
and prohibiting Parliament and all other judges fro-m interfering in
this business, and forbidding all parties concerned from appealing,
under penalty of a fine of five hundred livres. He caused Grandier
to be transferred from the prison of Augers to that of Loudun, so
as to have him at hand to confront with witnesses, if need be.”
“ But, first of all, he considered it necessary to examine the nuns
carefully; for this purpose, with the consent of the Bishop, he
sequestered them in different convents, and interrogated them so
severely that one might have thought that they themselves were the
magicians. ‘ He saw them all, one ofter the other, for several days;
and listened to their conversations, to observe their mode of thought.
He enquired minutely into their lives, their morals, their behavior,
not only secular but religious. His depositions, or notes, which repre­
sented the evidence of twenty girls, including not nuns, filled fifty
rolls of official paper, and were the admiration of all judges, so great
was the prudence and care they demonstrated
“ On the other hand the Bishop of Poitiers, after having sent
several Doctors of Theology to examine the victims, came to Loudun
in person, and exorcised them himself, or had them exorcised by
others in his presence for two months and a half. Never was such
work done with such care and attention.”
“All precognitions over, the Commissioner began to confront the
accused with the witnesses, and the latter maintained, face to face
with Grandier, the evidence they had given against him.” Obviously
they were honest enough in reporting their erotic hallucinations as
being objectively true. They were equally sincere in rationalizing
their sexual phobias so as to convert their hallucinatory copulations
into satanic rapes, adulteries, etc., etc.
WITCHCRAFT AND THE EROTIC LIFE 647
“As regards the nuns, it was observed that they never contra­
dicted themselves, whether questioned together or separately, though
they were examined often by different persons, and as skilfully as
possible. Now, criminals do not manage this, for the cleverest have
the greatest difficulty in avoiding contradictory statements. Those
writers, who have supported Grandier, have never discovered the
least discrepancy in the evidence of the nuns. Nor did Grandier ever
plead malice on their part as a defense, for they had never seen himr
nor had he had anything to do with their affairs, as we have said.”
But how could he possibly persuade “ spiritual ” maniacs that the
“ satanic possession ” of nuns were mere hallucinations?
“ If, as calumny asserts, the only thing sought was the death of
Grandier, here were sufficient proofs to burn him, if only for abusing
the privileges of his ministry and of his Church, or for the sacrileges
he had committed therein. But justice is not satisfied with punishing
one kind of crime, when she finds traces of another still more serious.
It was moreover a Christian duty to assist the views of God, who
permitted so strange an event, to confound the calumnies of the
Protestants, and to prove the demonstration the ' possession ’ of
the nuns, and the magic exercised by the accused. To this the Com­
missioner and the other judges applied themselves.” If Grandier’s
seductions had been real seductions, that would have been a lesser
crime. However that they were not physical, enhanced the crime
to that of satanic magic. That alone would justify the death penalty
upon Father Grandier, without mentioning his real offenses to Car­
dinal Richelieu and to the celibate clergy.
“ Thus, as it was a matter rather of religion than of jurispru­
dence [of magic rather than of physical sensualism] they resolved
to begin by a prayer to God, who is the father of all light, rightly
considering that all France was watching the trial with eager eyes,
that it was shrouded in a thick veil of obscurity, and that their verdict
would entail important consequences. They, therefore, prepared to
receive divine assistance and grace by frequent confessions, and by
often receiving the Holy Sacrament. Then they decreed a general
procession to implore celestial aid in so difficult a matter; and, to
excite the devotion of the masses by their example, they went in a
body, during the whole of the trial, to visit the churches of the city,
set aside by the Bishop for forty-hour services, and reached each,
in time for the elevation of the Host. Thence the Exorcists went
to the Church fixed upon for the Exorcisms, and the judges pro­
ceeded to the tribunal to continue the case; in the evening all returned’
to the Church for evensong.” By such strange mummery the preju-
-648 THEODORE SCHROEDER
dices against Father Grandier were intensified and sanctified. Even
now in these United States there are certain cases in which very
similar tactics are used and go unrebuked by our “ most worthy ”
judges.
“ The examination lasted forty days, during which Demons gave
them the clearest proofs of their presence in the bodies of the per­
sons exorcised, and every day added new evidence against Grandier,
and yet never said anything against him, which did not turn out
strictly true. These assertions merit distinct proof, which will be
found interesting.”
"As regards the presence of Devils in the possessed, the Church
teaches us in its ritual, that there are four principal signs, by which
it can be undoubtedly recognized. These signs are the speaking or
understanding of a language unknown to the person possessed, the
revelation of the future, or of events happening far away; the
exhibition of strength beyond the years and nature of the actor; and
floating in the air for a few moments.”
Speaking in some language previously unknown to the speaker,
or nonexistant, has always been a pious occupation for psychotic
religious zealots. There is abundant reference to it in the Bible
(tower of Babel), and every sect since then, down to our Mormon
friends, have exhibited these symptoms.3 Of course, all of us are
bedeviled if the making of lucky successful prophesies can prove
it. Hallucinatory levitations appear to be a dramatic phantasmal
portrayal of a feeling of “ light-headedness,” such as may come as
the psychologic consequence flowing from an erotically overcharged
organism. It is a mere visualization of the feeling, as if of flying,
floating, swimming, etc. This, too, has received some psychoanalytic
attention.4
It will be informing to reproduce a more detailed statement of
the evidence of one of these nuns as reported by a defender of the
whole proceedings against Father Grandier. M. de Morans, who
had heard nothing, ordered Sister Clara, who was likewise ignorant
of what had been said, to obey the intentions of M. Chiron. This
3 For a unique case see: Devotional Somnium of Rachel Baker . . . 1815.
For a psychologic study of “ talking in tongues ” see: Pfister, O., Psychological
Solution of Religious Glossolaly and Automatic Cryptography, Psychoanalytic
Review, Vol. 7, pp. 103-105; also Jahrbuch fur psychoanalytische Forschung,
Vol. 3, pp. 427—
466, 730-794. Early Mormonism is full of accounts of talking
in unknown tongues.
1 Horton, Lydiard H. How “ stimulus and reaction ” explains levitation
dreams, Journal of Abnormal Psychology, Vol. 15, p. 11. Sadgar, J. Sleep
Walking and Moon Walking, a medico-literary study, Psychoanalytic Review,
"Vols. 6, 7. Also in monograph form. Trans, by L. Brink, Ph.D. Nervous &
Mental Disease Monograph Series No. 31.
WITCHCRAFT AND THE EROTIC LIFE 649
young girl then fell into strange convulsions, blaspheming, rolling
on the ground, exposing her person in the most open manner, without
a blush, and with foul and lascivious expressions and actions, till
she caused all who looked on to hide their eyes in shame. Though
she had never seen the Prior, she called him by his name, and said
he should be her lover. It was only after some repeated commands,
and an hour’s struggling, that she took up the missal, saying, *I will
pray.’ Then turning her eyes in another direction, she placed her
finger on the capital S at the beginning of the introit aforesaid, of
which facts reports were drawn up.” 5 There was considerable other
evidence of mental disease on the part of some of these nuns.
And such was the evidence that she was influenced by satanic
magic, emanating from Father Grandier!
The great mass of people still believe in similar supernatural
magic. It is now the habit to emphasize the more soothing aspects
of it. That is to say, we think more in terms of the alleged benign
influence of God than the malignant influence of Satan, or of the
“ malicious animal magnetism ” of Christian Scientists. And yet
the psychologic need and its subjective processes are all just the
same now, as in the persecution of Father Grandier.
It remains to be seen if psychoanalytic theory can be read into
the foregoing facts, so as to enlighten us about them. We may
fairly suppose that all of the actors in this drama experienced a
childhood, wherein the inevitable subjective conflicts of the pre­
adolescent and prepubescent sexuality were more intense than usual.
It is by this uncommon intensity of the earliest subjective conflicts
over sex problems, that we explain the withdrawal of nuns and
priests from the ordinary social contacts, sexual temptations and
marital responsibility. The degree of emotional intensity, which is
necessary for such a result, implies a rather unusual obsession over
sex. By this we mean an obsessing conflict between irreconcilable
tendencies toward a sexual mania and phobia. Of course, the uncon­
scious function of the church is to accentuate just that conflict. After
that the chief glory of the church is that it supplies delusional reme­
dies for such ills of its own creation. If the delusional remedies
do not cure the psychologic pathology of priestly creation, then the
church supplies sadistic, pious, penalties, for the alleged unavoidable
5This narrative is mainly taken from: The history of the Devils of Loudun,
the alleged possession of the Ursuline Nuns, and the trial and execution of
Urbain Grandier, told by an eye-witness. Translated from the original French
and edited by Edmund Goldsmith. Privately printed, Edinburgh, 1887. Also,
under Grandier in : Dictionary, historical and critical of Mr. Peter Bayle, second
edition, J. J. and P. Knapton [et al.], 1736, Vol. 3, pp. 210 et seq.
650 THEODORE SCHROEDER
“ magic ” of its enemies. The church also claims to supply restraints
upon the extravagance of passions which it unconsciously fosters.
These alleged restraints must be also regarded as delusional because
they appear to work only where the church has failed to create a
sufficiently morbid impulse to induce overt criminal acts. When its
unconscious destructive work has failed, then the church delusionally
claims to have restrained antisocial impulses. The church receives
credit, chiefly from those whom it has first deluded with a theory of
inborn sinfulness.
Frustrated erotic impulses naturally find some kind of expres­
sion, at least in the phantasy life. In the condition of these nuns
of Loudun, erotic dreams in which they phantasied sexual relations
with an attractive priest was quite inevitable. However natural
such dreams may be, where the physical expression of the sexual
drive is piously inhibited or prevented, such dreams tend to be
unusually vivid. This vividness in turn supplies a convincing cer­
tainty of their being exact transcripts of an objective reality. The
church’s artificial associated fear and shame prevents the acknowl­
edgment, or even a recognition of the fact, that these erotic dreams
are a wish fulfillment, founded in an organic sexual need and the
resultant psychologic imperative. The witch’s sabbath was little more
than an imaginative sexual orgie, again a wish fulfilling phantasy.0
Upon such a foundation it is variously estimated that from 4,000,000
to 9,000,000 humans perished under condemnation made under the
“ infallible moral theology” of a pathologically “ infallible” priest­
hood. If one dare not admit sexual desire or phantasies, because the
church has taught us that all such are terribly sinful, then the only
righteous explanation for such lewdness of the imagination consists
in ascribing the dreams to superhuman (satanic) agency outside the
self, and imposed through one’s enemy. (Projection mechanism.)
Since Father Grandier appeared in the erotic dreams of frustrated
nuns, nothing seemed more reasonable to those sexual phobiacs than
to accuse him, the object of their envy and hatred, of being an
instrument of Satan, who seduced consecrated nuns by means of
supernatural power. It was all the devil’s magic power exercised
through Father Grandier. Nothing could be more logical for such
pious sexual psychopaths. The record shows that some laymen held
the common sense estimate of the morbid condition of these nuns.
This was probably the real determinant behind both acquittals. How­
ever, such a conclusion about the morbid sexuality of these nuns was
6 Margaret Alice Murray. The Witch-cult in Western Europe, Oxford,.
1921, pp. 126, 174, 183-4; The Compleat Wizzard, Lond. 1770, p. 248.
WITCHCRAFT AND THE EROTIC LIFE 651
necessarily offensive to many, if not to most clericals. It seemed to
ignore or even to discredit the supernatural virtue of sexual phobia.
By arguing for a married clergy, Father Grandier was repudiating
the glorified mask, provided by Holy Church “ moral theology ” for
all the sexual morbidity of its devotees. Accordingly the priests and
nuns must hate Father Grandier with a degree of intensity that was
exactly equal to the intensity of the sexual phobia which he had
discredited. So far as his local enemies were concerned, Father
Grandier was conclusively prejudged as guilty of spiritual seduction,
by means of satanic magic. Cardinal Richelieu had much motive
for seeing to it that no third acquittal should occur. He also had
enough influence with Louis X III, to prevent any appeal that might
again upset the foreordained verdict of “ guilty.” Father Grandier’s
personal enemies now had the backing of all the superstitious and
fearful ones, of all the infallible moral theology of the one and only
infallible, unchangeable and irreformable Holy Church. Institution­
alized Christianity has adopted and glorified the “ infallible ” moral
theology of its sexual psychopaths. These latter visited upon Father
Grandier, and innumerable others, the divine wrath for the magical
seduction of His consecrated women. A delightful, glorified and
sanctified sadistic orgie was enjoyed by the piously qualified ones,
when Father Grandier was burnt to ashes, in the year of our
Lord 1634.
