{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__spence___magic_and_mysteries_of_mexico.pdf","mytitle":"Magic And Mysteries Of Mexico","mylang":"de"}
THE MAGIC AND
MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
OR
THE ARCANE SECRETS AND
OCCULT LORE OF THE ANCIENT
MEXICANS AND MAYA
BY
LEWIS SPENCE .
AUTHOR OP
"ntE GODS OP MEXICO," " THB CIVILIZATION OP ANCIENT
MEXICO," "Tim MYTHS OP MEXICO AND PERU," " THE
PROBLEM OP ATLANTIS," "THE HISTORY OP ATLANTIS,"
"nm MYSTERIES OP BRITAIN," ''THE MYSTERIES OP
EGYPT,'' ETC.
(
(
\
4\0~0C'
-q. '3. 43
LONDON : RIDER & CO..
PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C. 4
•
I
Printed in Great Britain at
Tlu Mt~yftow•r Pr•ss, Plymftllt. WWiam Bre~adon & Son Ltd.
.J
TEZCATLIPOCA AS A WER-JAGUAR
I
TO
W. G. BURN MURDOCH, Esq.
OF WEST LOCH, BERWICKSHIRE
ARTIST AND PATRIOTIC SCOTSMAN
'
'
•
•
•
PREFACE
T
HIS, the first effort to include in one volume
all that is known regarding the arcane know-
ledge and occult lore of the ancient Mexican
peoples and their neighbours, the Maya of Central
America and Yucatan, is the result of more than
thirty-five years of research in a sphere which has
richly repaid the writer by the companionship of its
fascination, and which he hopes will prove equally
absorbing to the reader who seeks passing amusement
and to the serious student.
The book is so compiled as to be useful to both,
popular in its general treatment, yet sufficiently
authoritative in its sources and data to be of avail
either to the practical anthropologist or the student
of Mysticism. The historical passages essential to
the introduction of the main subject are -necessarily
sketchy, but embody sufficient information to permit
the reader ignorant of Central American chronicles to
approach the consideration of the curious knowledge
of the more enlightened peoples of Isthmian America
in the fields of pure Magic, Astrology, Witchcraft,
Demonology and Symbolism.
The chapters on the difficult question of Mexican
and Maya Astrology have been reduced to a simplicity
of presentation which, it is hoped, will render this
vexed subject plain to everyone, and its basic import-
ance to the whole survey of Mexican occult knowledge
has been demonstrated with an equal desire for
clarity.
9
10 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
That this astrological lore was inevitably accom-
panied by a philosophy of dualism, recalling that of
ancient Persia, is also shown, and that a system of
initiation resembling that connected with Asiatic and
European wisdom-religions was also in vogue in
Central America is now for the first time suggested,
and, it is hoped, adequately proved.
The mystical books of the Mexicans and Maya are
described and the relationships between the religions
of these people and their magical beliefs fully dis-
cussed. Nor have minor questions, such as popular
superstitions, augury, and the use of charms and
amulets been neglected. In fact, every effort has
been put forth to render the volume as complete a
treasury of the occult lore of Central America as our
present acquaintance with the facts permits.
The writer has, above all, striven to preserve the
romance inherent in the subject, and has tried to
cast light on the darker places by an occasional appeal
to fiction, but when such an aid is invoked its
imaginative character is duly indicated.
The Magic of old l\1exico, although it closely
resembles that of other lands, has distinct racial
characteristics of its own, and is capable of illuminat-
ing other systems through its peculiar preservation
of what many of them have lost or cast aside. Its
inherent unity of idea with the arcane systems of the
Old World makes it a valuable mine of analogy and
comparison, even if the differences brought about by
environment seem to render it superficially distinctive.
But, above all, its indwelling spirit of gloomy wonder
and mystical exclusiveness perhaps reveal it as the
most fascinating of the world's secret systems.
L. S.
CONTENTS
OHAPTER I
PA.OJ!I
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 17
Neglect of Mexican Magic as a subject-Difficulties
surrounding it-The Races of Mexico-The Nahua-The
Toltecs-Brinton'a theory that Toltecs were " mythical "
-The modern view-Maya sources-Attempt at a solu-
tion-Story of the fall of the Toltecs-The Aztecs-
Mexico at the period of the Spanish Conquest-The great
temple of Uitzilopochtli-Culture of the Aztecs-Their
system of hieroglyphic writing-Castes and classes-
Architecture and its remains-Sketch of Aztec history-
Tribal feuds-Aztec tyranny and human sacrifice-Fall
of the Aztec state.
CHAPTER II
THE MAGICAL AssoCIATIONS oF MEXICAN RELIGION • 44
Magic the basis of Mexican religion-The Rain-cult-
The Earth-Mother-Blood as a rain-maker-The festival
of the Xalaquia-Quetzalcoatl and the myths concerning
bim-Tezcatlipoca the wizard and his scrying-stone-
Legends regarding him-Uitzilopochtli, the humming-
bird wizard-The Spanish friars on his origin-Cinteotl,
the maize-god-Tlazolteotl, the witch-goddess, and Cuia-
coatl, the " Serpent-woman "-Xipe, lord of human sac·
riflce-As "Pied Piper" and vampire-Itzpapalotl, "the
obsidian-knife butterfly "-Gods of death and Hades--'
Mexican faith illustrates a phase in the development of
wisdom-religion-Its position at the period of the Con-
quest-Its inner significance.
CHAPTER ill
:MEXICAN MA.GIO
The naualli, or sorcerer class-Ancient accounts of them
-.,...use of drugs and intoxicants-Night as the sorcerer's
heyday-Higher castes of sorcerers-Devil-worship and.,-
its secret cult-Appearance and Magical customs of the
naualli--Divination-Magical character of religious fes-
tivals-The Obsidian Religion of Mexico-Lesser super-
stitions-The story of Total and the Naualli.
II
67
12 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
CHAPTER IV
PAOli
~b:XIOAN :MAGIC (continued) 96
..., The art of divination-Its several methods-Augury by
..., bird-habit-Through dreams and visions-The true tale
..,.of the Princess Papantzin-Amulets and charms-Talis-
~mans and symbols-Magical funeral rites-Meeting-places
of the Mexican sorcerers-The underground labyrinth at
:Mitla-Apparatua of the Mexican magician.
OHAPTER V
THII DEMONOLOGY OF MEXICO • 116
The Tzitzimime, or demons of the stars-A City of
Dreadful Night-Haunting shapes of Tezcatlipoca-The
Mexican banshee-The rolling death's head-Giants and
dwarfs-Xelhua, the giant of the Mexican Babel-The
Tlaloqne, or rain-making dwarfs-Legend of the Dwarf of
Uxmal-Mexican " fairies "-The Tepictoton, or elves-
The Ciuatete6, or "haunting mothers "-Shakespeare's
.J' Tempest" in American fairy lore-Mythical beaats-
"J The dragon or feathered snake-.4-The lightning-dog-The
demon bat-Fabulous birds.
CHAPTER VI
\VJTOHOBA.l!'T IN MEXICO • 129
Startling resemblance to Old World witchcraft-
Appearance of Mexican witches-The Ciuatote6-The
witch-mother Tlazolteotl-Smearing with ointment, and
levitation-Assembly at cross-roads-Intoxication byv
drugs-Sahagun on witch customs-Witch costumes and
ornaments-The " Hand of glory "-Shrines of the
witches- A "college'' of witches-Character of TJazol-
teotl-Her festival-Comparison between Mexican and
Siberian sorcery and Shamanism-
'The broom as ''the
witches' pe.lfry "-Prehistoric witchcraft in Europe-
Possible origins of Mexican witchcraft.
CHAPTER VII
"' MEXICAN AaTRoLOGY 144
'-J Mexican Astrology based on the Aztec ''calendar"-
'oo) " Book of the Good and Bad Days "-A book of augury
..J -Its signs and symbols-The Patrons of the days-The
Mexican " weeks "-Lords of the Night and Day-Re-
capitulation-Significance of the days-Their dominance
over the various parts of the body-Mexican astrology
and stellar astrology-The planet Venus-Effects of the
planets on human affairs-The points of the compass and
their influences.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER VIII
13
PA.GII
'.raE MYSTERIES OF 'NAOUALISK 159
The Nagualista a vast secret society-The concept of
the beast-guardian-Women pre-eminent in this cult-
Methods of the Na.gualists-Tra.nsformations and shape-
shifting-Annulment ofChristianceremonies-Invisibility
and transportation-Nagualism in modem times; a
recent case.
CHAPTER IX
TBE MAOIOAL Boou oF TBE AZTEcs 172
Destruction of the Mexican manuscripts-Survivals,
their history and adventures-Appearance a.nd general
character-The cla.sses of Mexican manuscripts-The
Codex Borgia and ita contents-Deciphering the MSS.-
The Teo-Amoxtli-The Codex Fejervary-Mayer, "The
\Vizards' Manual ''-Methods of using the tonalamatl-
Powers of concentration in Magic.
CHAPTER X
TJD: MAYA PEOPLE • 183
Maya origins-Downfall of Guatemalan centres-Maya
colonization of Yucatan-Politicalconfederacy of Yucatan~
-Disastrous wars-Maya culture-The Maya hierogly-
phioa.l system-Arithmetic and chronology-Maya archi-
tecture-The ruins of Palenque-Ake and Chichen-ltz8.--
Maya history-The Cocomes and the Tutul-Xius-The
1\laya in Guatemala--Orash of the Maya. states. J
CHAPTER XI
MAYA RELIGION 197
Pictured forms of the gods in the Maya manuscripts-
Names unknown, so designed by letters of the alphabet-
Places of origin of the manuscripts-The gods in their
alphabetic order--Comparison with forms on monuments
and in hieroglyphs-Old treatises on Maya religion-
Heavenly bodies as deities-Itzamn&-Identification of
known names with " alphabetic " gods-Other gods.
CHAPTER XII
THrJ MAGIO OJ' THE MAYA 218
The book of Nufiez de la Vega-Votan and his legend-
The eecret cavern of his cult-Classes of the Maya sor-
cerers-The Chilan or "Tigers "-Strange prophecies-
The oracle of Itzamul-Astrological system of the Maya
-Gods of the week-The Bacabs and the Uayayab
•
14 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
demons-Magical significance of the Maya months-The
Maya Venus period-Augury and superstitions-Demon-
ology-Magical beliefs of the Zapotecs-Their scrying-
stones-Oracle near Tehuantepec-Oharacter of Maya
Magic-Magical formula! employed instead of human
sacrifice-Maya faith as sun-worship-The Maya manu-
soripts-Brinton on Maya symboli~m.
OHAPTER XIII
MYBTIOAL BooKS OF THE MAYA 236
The Popol Vuh-Story of its discovery-The Quiche
Indians-Book I, Quiche Mythology-The creation of
man and his fall-The race of giants-The story of their
destruction-The Second Book-The heavenly twins-
Their adventures in the Underworld-The harrying of
Hell-Ordeals of the brethren-The Third Book-The
second creation of man-His subsequent history-The
Quiche tribes-Native character of the "Papal Vuh "-
A criticism of the book-The booka of Chilan Balam-
Their prophecies.
CHAPTER XIV
ARCANE PHILOSOPHY OF THE MEXICANS AND MAYA • 261
Kab-ul, " The Magic Hand "-The allegory of nature
..Jsymbolism-Maya thought founded on operations of the
'JCelestial bodies-Primitive astrology-The " Cosmic
Symphony "-Development of arcane thought--Quet-
zal~oatl as embodiment of the cult of rain-System of
Jdualism-Arcane meanings drawn from seasonal signifi-
cance-The victory of Black Magic in Mexico-Human
......, sacrifice takes the place of the lore of light--Enlightened
opposition to Black Magic-Nature of Mexican wisdom·
religion-Almost certainly an importation-Its tenets--
Enshrined a system of initiation-The phases of Mexican
initiation-Their analogy to other initiatory forms-
Tlaloc and the Minotaur-The Mexican ball game and
dualism-The Black Mysteries of Tezcatlipoce.-Faust in
"-- Mexico-Tezcatlipoca as a " fallen angel "-" Bowing the
knee to Mammon , -Christianity and Mexican Paganism
-The noble effort of Quetza.lcoatl-The " silent praise/'
or contemplation of the divine-The tireless war of evil.
\
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
TEzcA~rLIPooA. As A vVER·JAGUAR
MEXICO A'l1 THE TIME OF THE MONTEZUMAS
Fron.tUpieee
PACING PAOJ:
36
TEMPLE OF THE FE.\THERED SERPENT A'l' XoCHIOALoo 41
THE MEXICAN EARTH-MOTHER • 46
MEXICAN MAGICIANS CASTING LoTS • 97
TLAZOL'.rEOTL, QUEEN OF THE WITCHES 130
DAY•SIGNS OF THE ?.IEXICAN CALENDAR 146
THE DEltON OF THE PLANE'l7 VENUS SPEARmG A. GoDDEss 155
QUETZALCOATL IN HIS MEXICAN FORM 176
MAYA HIEROGLYPHS 186
THE "ALPHABET" oF MAYA Gons • 198
THE MAYA DAY-SIGNS 223
THE BAT-GOD 227
A PAGE FROM THE DRESDEN CoDEX 258
QUETZALCOATL AS THE FEATHERED SERPENT 266
THE MAYA !YIYSTERIES 274
15
•
..•
THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES
OF MEXICO
CHAPTER I
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT 1\IEXICO
T
HE Magic of ancient Mexico and the mys-
teries 'vhich accompanied it have been
some,vhat neglected owing to the extra-
ordinary difficulties attending the consideration o~
the Mexican past. Only within the last generation
has it been made possible to comprehend even dimly
the civilization of ancient Mexico as a whole and that
has been accomplished merely in a provisional manner.
It is therefore not surprising that the occult side of
Mexican life has been dealt with onlyin a fragmentary
way, and chiefly in connection with the religious
beliefs of the Aztecs and Maya.
The writings of the Spanish missionary friars who
laboured in Mexico subsequent to the period of its
conquest by Cortes frequently touch in the passing
on the question of the arcane beliefs of the Indians
to whom they ministered, but in no very illuminating
manner. Indeed, their notices of occult beliefs are
confused and exhibit a not incomprehensible terror
of the dark knowledge which they conceived it their
duty to extirpate. It is therefore not easy to arrive
at the facts and discover the principles underlying
Mexican arcane science.
B I7
18 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
In the following pages I shall essay the task, aided,
I hope, by a long acquaintance 'vith the 'vritings of
the Spanish conquistadores and the missionary friars,
and with practically all that has been penned within
our times on the subject of old Mexico. And it may
be that a strong personal predilection to,vards the
mysterious may further assist me to make the dark
places plain to the wayfaring reader.
Mexico pQ§§~§_seq ~-rp.~gic of her own as mystical in
its~essence_
and a§_grjzp.ly_r..omantic.as th~t_of any lana:
European or Asiatic. Yet its secrets are to be gauged
only by treading many obscure and difficult pathways.
If those 'vho follo'v me in the quest find any of these
corridors too dark or too difficult of access they must
not blame me, but rather the tortuous nature of the
study. I would advise them to "skip" the obscure
passages and to turn to those pages which retain
more of the atmosphere of that purely dramatic
interest which must ever cleave to the occult lore of
Mexico and Central America.
But the magic and sorcery of ancient Mexico cannot
well be understood unless the somewhat shadowy
path 'vhich leads to them is rendered more clear by
a brief account of the general circumstances of Mexi-
can life and custom in the past. When Hernan
Cortes conquered Mexico in 1519 he found it occupied
by several races of people of Indian stock, 'vho pos-
sessed a common culture, although they differed in
\ language and to some extent in religious outlook.
In the eastern regions the Nahua race, to which
the Aztecs belonged, 'vas in the ascendant, but the
eoastline 'vas occupied by immigrant tribes of Maya
or southern stock from Central America. In the
south-west the Mixtecs and Zapotecs, races 'vhich
had embraced civilization before the Nahua, formed
the bulk of the population, though Nahua elements
were also largely present in that region. In the
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 19
centre of the country dwelt the Otomi, the Zacatecs,
and other long-settled tribes, whilst the northern
pampas were the possession of nomadic bands. To
the south-east of Mexico lived the 1\iaya of Guate·
mala, Yucatan, and Central America, whose civiliza-
tion greatly pre-dated that.of Mexico proper, as we
shall see 'vhen 've come to consider their special
conditions.
The Nahua, or Aztecs, with whom ·we are princi-
pally concerned, were a people of much later estab·
lishment in the country than most of the other races.
They occupied a sphere extending from the present
site of Tlascala, no great distance from Mexico City,
to the Isthmus of Tehuantepec on the south, and 'vere
divided into tribes, most of whom o'ved allegiance
to the Emperor of Mexico, although they were
governed by their own immediate kings or chiefs.
Research has established the distant relationship of
the Nahua tribes with the Indians of British Columbia,
whose language, customs, religion and art bear a
close resemblance to those of the 1\·
lexicans, who, in
all likelihood, migrated at various periods to the·
region in which they are presently situated.
At the time of the Spanish Conquest 've find
several Nahua tribes grouped round the lakes in the
Valley of Mexico, the most notable being those which
occupied the borders of the Lake of Tezcuco. The
tribes composing these groups had entered the plateau
of 1\fexico about the tenth century A.D., but had been
preceded there by a much older civilization, the
Toltec. Legend said that the Toltecs had settled
there in the year 7 Tecpatl, or A.D. 887, coming from
the north by 'vay ofthe coast and then striking inland,
a journey which occupied one hundred and four years.
But the myth which recounts this exodus is almost
certainly of artificial origin. The Toltecs were
regarded by the older writers on Mexican affairs as
20 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
the great initiators and conservators of the occult
sciences, magic and astrology.
Perhaps no argument in the once passionate forum
of American Archreology was formerly debated with
such splenetic vigour and breadth of invective as the
obscure and intricate question of the origin and
identity of that earliest and most mysterious among
the civilized races of 1\fexico, the Toltecs. In their
simplicity the first Castilian chroniclers of the affairs
of New Spain accepted 'vithout demur the native
traditions ·which exalted the culture of this shadowy
race to a pitch which, as Prescott puts it, "almost
transcends the human." They 'vrite of the clever
architects and potters of the city of Tollan, which
lay about forty miles north of 1\-lexico, as inspired
sages from whom none of the secrets of ancient
civilization and few of those of modernity 'vere
hidden, and vaunt in epical periods the astonishing
excellence of the culture which they 'vere believed to
have spread broadcast over North America. The
ruler of this Mexican Corinth was that Quetzalcoatl
who is so frequently mentioned in Indian tradition
as the bringer of all culture and enlightenment to the
American isthmian regions. His descendants, 've are
assured, ruled in Tollan for several centuries, but were
at last finally defeated and dispersed by barbarous
Nahua invaders from the north, who destroyed the
brilliant metropolis of the Toltecs, and scattered its
inhabita_!lts, noblesse and plebeians alike, to the ends
of the American continent.
These accounts were, for the most part, based on
the histories of the half-blood chronicler Ixtlilxochitl,
whose relationship With the ancient kings of Tezcuco,
a famous town near Mexico City, manifestly biassed
his conclusions. Nevertheless, these were credited by
1\lexican and foreign antiquaries alike from the end
of the sixteenth century almost to the middle of the
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 21
nineteenth. The doubts hesitated by Prescott, ho,v-
ever, 'vere more vigorously expressed by Daniel
Garrison Brinton, the foremost Americanist of his
day, 'vho in 1887 published an essay, " Were the
Toltecs an Historic Nationality?" in which he
settled the question to his own satisfaction by the
dogmatic assertion that the Toltecs were a sept of
the Nahua or Aztec race whose sun-myths had sur-
rounded their fragmentary history with a legendary
brilliance which had the effect of dazzling those who
chronicled them with visions of a civilization which
never existed. " The mythical Tollan," he wrote,
" and all its rulers and inhabitants, are the baseless
dreams of poetic fancy, which we principally o've to
the Tezcucan poets. I have no hesitation in repe~ting
the words 'vhich I printed some years ago: 'Is it
not time that 've dismiss once for all these American
myths from the domain of historical traditions ? Why
should \Ve make an enlightened ruler of Quetzalcoatl,
a cultured nation of the Toltecs, when the proof is
of the strongest that they are the fictions of myth-
ology? '"
For a couple of decades Brinton's statement \Vas
accepted, in official quarters at least, as final. But
reaction from statements so positive was bound to
set in. From 1873 to 1887 Charnay, the French
archreologist, had been excavating at intervals on the
site of Tollan, the Toltec city, and his researches there
made it evident that the locality had at some distant
period produced a culture in some ways markedly
dissimilar from that of the later Aztecs on the one
hand, and on the other from the civilization of the
~faya of Central America. It became increasingly
clear that some definite name and description must
be conferred upon a civilization possessing such well-
marked architectural and other attributes of its own,
and, by degrees almost imperceptible, the old name
I
22 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
of " Toltec " was once more employed by archreolo-
gists to designate the peculiar type of art and the
strange symbolism which flourished not only in
Tollan, but whose rather isolated monuments are to
be encountered at intervals almost over the entire
length of the isthmian area of America.
It was, ho,vever, universally admitted that Toltec
culture could scarcely have preceded that of the Maya
of Central America. The antiquity of the Maya cities
of Guatemala indisputably reaches back to at least
the first century before the Christian era, whereas no
origin more venerable could possibly be assigned to
Toltec civilization than the seventh century A.D.
The contention, too, that the Toltecs were themselves
Maya who imported Central American progress into
the Mexican tableland was regarded as impossible of
acceptance for the good reason that the ancient
chroniclers were unanimous that the Toltecs were a
people of Mexican or Nahua origin, speaking a Nahua
tongue. But the comparative study of their archi-
tecture, symbolism and traditions with that of the
Maya clearly demonstrated that at some stage of their
development they must have been in close touch with
Maya civilization. To render the puzzle still more
involved, there were not wanting monumental evi-
dences of a Toltec cultural invasion of the 1\-laya
country of Yucatan, especially in the religious and
other edifices of the cities of Ake, Uxmal, and Chichen
Itza, where the peculiar Toltec serpent-shaped
columns and balustrades, open·work decoration on
the tops of the temple walls and caryatid pillars, as
well as hieroglyphs of Toltec design, are to be found.
But these were obviously later in date than the
corresponding remains in Mexico.
By a careful review of all the available data,
Holmes, Seier, Haebler and Spinden have made it
clear that in the first place Mexico must have been
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 23
indebted for her earliest culture to l\1aya sources. It
'vas already known that an early Maya people, the
Huaxtecs, had in primitive times worked their 'vay
from Central America up the east coast of Mexipo,
'vhere their remains still show obvious 1.\Iaya associa-
tions. A border tribe migrating between the races,
the Kuikatccs, are also more than suspect of culture-
carrying from south to north. The Nahua people of
Oaxaca, too, the Zapotecs, possessed a culture mid-
way between the Nahua and Maya types. The
traditions 'vere also insistent that progress in both
the l\1aya and 1\{exican spheres of civilization had
been introduced by a culture-hero known as Quetzal-
coati, who in the more northern area was regarded
as a deified king of the Toltecs, while in Central
America he 'vas 'vorshipped as a god of wind and
moisture. The cult of this god was markedly alien
to 1\Iexican ideas of human sacrifice, 'vith which his
worship was not associated, therefore it was manifest
that his ritual must be of foreign and intrusive origin.
Moreover, he was credited with the introduction of
the tonalamatl, or Book of Fate, which was ccrt'ainly
Maya in its beginnings.
Still, the clearly non-Maya racial origin of the Tal-
tees continued to perplex Americanists, who main-
tained a non-committal and conservative attitude on
the question of Toltec origins. Indeed, though the
monuments traditionally connected with the race arc
now definitely classed as "Toltec," official Ameri-
canist science has not yet committed itself to any
clear expression of opinion regarding the racial
affinities of this mysterious people.
If a solution may be ventured by one who has
followed the controversy with fascinated interest for
nearly a generation, some such explanation as that
'vhich follows may serve as a working hypothesis.
We are aware that at some time in the sixth century
24 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
of the Christian era the 1\.J:aya settlements in Guate-
mala 'vere more or less suddenly vacated by their
inhabitants. \Ve do not kno'v ·what prompted this
hasty and wholesale desertion of the splendid cities
of Palenque, Copan, and the neighbouring states.
Perhaps pestilence or invasion dictated their evacua-
tion, but, judging from the almost perfect state of
repair in 'vhich their temples and palaces still remain,
it seems probable that their inhabitants set out on
their northern pilgrimage on one of those religious
quests which frequently inspired the ~Iaya race.
They entered the peninsula of Yucatan, and in that
region continued, if they did not surpass, the archi-
tectural triumphs of the southern fatherland. But,
in the opinion of the writer, not all of them took this
route. Others probably pushed north,vard into
Mexico and found their way, perhaps in bands of
restricted numbers, to the neighbourhood of Tollan
and elsewhere in that region, where, following the
example of their kindred in Yucatan, they established
new settlements. Not only does the founding of
Tollan synchronize with the Maya exodus, but the
name of the city was that of the mythical home and
starting-place of the Maya tribes, and it is obvious
from their traditions that the Mexican Tollan took
its name from an older and probably legendary Maya
locality. ,
Tollan was prooably founded in the seventh century
of our era. It probably existed for several centuries
before the gradual entrance of the barbarous Nahua
peoples, the Chichimecs, Aztecs, and other tribes, into
the Valley of Mexico. Tradition says that they over-
threw the city, but good grounds appear for the
assumption that it had been deserted for some con-
siderable time prior to their arrival. I believe an
interregnum of comparative unoccupation to have
occurred between the invasion of two separate waves
I
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 25
of Nahua or l\lexican immigration. But it seems
inevitable that many people of Maya stock would
have remained in the neighbourhood of Tollan after
the first Nahua invasion, and that they would mingle
'vith the invaders, to 'vhom they would pass on the
l\laya culture. This mixed race, Maya and Mexican,
I believe to have been the Toltecs, who, in their turn,
were over,vhelmed by the second wave of Nahua
immigrants into the Valley of Mexico.
This would account for the circumstance that the
Toltecs were said to have been Nahua, and that they
spoke the Nahua language. As regards their later
entrance into the Central American sphere, where
their architectural remains are found, it is definitely
stated in many authentic documents that mer-
cenaries of the Nahua race served in the armies of the
Northern 1\faya Confederation in Yucatan, where they
acted as a species of Mamelukes or J anissaries, helping
the l\faya rulers to keep their people in the grip of one
of the cruellest ecclesiastical tyrannies the world has
ever seen. These mercenaries made Chichen Itza in
Yucatan their headquarters towards the end of the
twelfth century. This antedates the foundation of
Mexico City, and at that eP.och Toltec art had not
yet become merged into the more modern 1\fexican
or Aztec phase in which Cortes and his companions
found it. If these conclusions are found acceptable-
and they have the support of historical fact, as well
as that of their o'vn inherent probability-they may,
perhaps, serve as a temporary solution of the problem
of Toltec origins until such time as further excavation
and research cast fresh light in an enigma which has
baffled inquirers into the past of America since the
credulous century of Las Casas and Torquemada.
In the follo,ving narrative of the fall of the Toltec
power I have associated legend and probability with
fiction in an effort to supply the reader with a general
26 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
vic\V of the wondrous culture of the people of Quetzal-
coati and the cause of their national and racial
disappearance.
Near a thousand years have passed since Tollan
fell ; and this is the saga of its ruin. No\v shall you
hear ho\v that sin-laden city of the dark-souled
Toltecs crashed to dust and death beneath the spite
of the offended gods. Hearken, then ; but remember
that there is that which is stronger than the gods,
stronger than time-.:-for while the memory of Tollan,
the city ofhidden ecstasies and of men whose thoughts
were beyond good and evil, lives in the dreams of
but a few, if these few are as its sons, Tollan lives still.
Is the soul of Pompeii dead ? Is the spirit of Babylon
a withered thing ?
Tollan, city of the Toltecs, the race that preceded
the Nahua Aztec of Mexico, ruled the valley and its
subject races for wellnigh half a thousand years.
Great were its men in artistry, so that with the folk
of those days to say " Toltec '' was as who should
say " craftsman." Happy the people the use of
whose name is a constant praise on the lips of men.
Where are the songs of Tollan ? Under the hard
soil of the sad mound of Tula we still find its carven
capitals, its curious cups, its gems and gauds, the
variegated fragments of its glowing and many-
coloured life. Its foundations are laid bare to the sun,
its vases, its peristyles and columns, its chiselled
portals even in the riot of ruin, in the despond of
mutilation, fill men's mouths with praise and their
eyes with tears. But where are its songs ? Do they
still live in Indian lays, are they still to be heard
when the tortillas are being rolled and the maguey
tapped of its wine?
One of its songs I heard, the song of Huemac, the
saga of the do\vnfall of Tollan, the city of artists.
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 27
On a day when the chiselled walls resounded to the
chorus of the Festival of Flowers, Huemac the King
took his instruments of music and his painting tools
and, casting his crown on the floor of mosaic, called
to his son to pick it up and wear it in his stead if so
he chose-and having done so, he 'vent forth to his
villa outside the walls, followed by a great company
of musicians and men who were cunning in the draw-
ing of poems-poems in which the written words were
no mere meaningless signs, but birds, beasts, trees,
flowers and mountains.
Now, as Huemac passed through the forest-ways
alone-for he had bade those who accompanied him
leave him to his thoughts of song-he \Vas astonished
by a brightness which fell athwart his path ; and
behold, before him there stood the god Tlaloc, in the
a\vfulness of his majesty. His face was terrible with
the lines of tempest, and from his curved snout pro-
jected the gleaming serpent fangs. The blue stripe
palpitated upon his cheekbone; his eye gleamed as
a fire behind a thicket. His robe was spangled with
silver, symbol of the element he ruled. For a space
the great god of the clouds gloomed upon the King;
then he spake, and his voice was as the seed of
thunder when it has birth behind the mountains
and ere yet it has grown into the fuller oratory of
tempest.
" Huemac," said the god, " wherefore hast thou
done this thing-\vherefore given thy crown to a
bastard? "
Huemac trembled, and his heart became as water
\Vithin him. No word could he utter.
"Speak!" cried the god, with an awful gesture of
command. "Let thine evil lips defend thy wicked
heart if so they may, 0 Huemac."
" Is he not mine own flesh and blood, 0 divine
one?" faltered Huemac. "Many sons have I, but
•
-
28 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
is he not the fairest and the most fitted of all to wear
the cro\vn ? ''
"Huemac," thundered the god, "from the first
has thy heart been dark and alien to my law. But
thou art of the blood of the gods, therefore shalt thou
be spared. But not so thy son, in whose veins
the divine blood has become polluted. Long hath
thy race offended heaven, and now shall it be
destroyed utterly along \vith the accursed city it
has raised."
"Mercy, 0 divine one," gasped Huemac, prostrat-
ing himself. " Mercy, 0 lord of many waters."
"The day for mercy is past," replied the god
harshly, and \vrapt himself in a black cloud from
\vhich darted the mordant lines of lightning. Huemac
gazed after it until it disappeared as one deprived of
sense and motion, and then rising slowly and mightily
a~tremble, returned to the city.
He found his son \Vith Urendequa, chief of the
dancers. Now this \voman was past her prime and
ill-favoured of face. But of all the women in Tollan,
she was most desired. The Prince, now King, lay
with his crowned head in her lap in the chamber of
shells, picked from sea-beaches far away and en-
crusted on bricks of silver. The pair paid little
attention to Huemac's entrance, but when they
marked his face they·rose hastily.
"Acxitl," he cried, embracing his son, "Acxitl,
the prophecy has come to pass. We are a race
accursed of the gods. I have seen and spoken with
Tlaloc. He hath cursed us and our city because I
have bestowed my place upon you."
" Since when did the gods dictate their way to the
sons of Hueymatzin? '' sneered Acxitl, slim, sallo\v,
languorous, with a heavy mouth and woman's brows.
" Since when did Tollan cry mercy from the dotards
of heaven?''
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 29
Urendequa laughed deep do,vn in her bosom, but
Huemac paled and trembled.
" Peace I " he cried. " We are a race accursed.
'Ve must no more blaspheme but placate the gods.
Let us hasten to the Quetzalcoatl Teohuatzin, the
High Priest, and hearken to him how perchance we
may avoid the ruin that is near us."
But the sneer was heavy upon the thick lips of
Acxitl. " Let us hasten to where the scented octli
glitters in the cup, 0 my father," he said soothingly
but mockingly. " Let us forget what the god-fool
hath uttered. Come ! "
But Huemac shrank back. "It may not be, son,"
he muttered. "Go thou and feast if so it please
thee, but as for me, I will betake me to the temple."
" Every man to where his soul leads him," replied
Acxitl, lightly. "Come, Urendequa," and linking his
arm in that of the dancer, he went forth. Huemac
followed them, and watched them trip lightly do'vn
the carven staircase to the banqueting hall. Then he
crossed the courtyard and wended slowly up the hill-
side to where stood the temple of Quetzal. As ·he
reached its portals he turned and surveyed t~e city
beneath him, lying under the red veils of the evening,
smouldering and glittering in the immense last out-
pourings of the sun. The walls rich with mosaic and
rare stones, glistened in faint pearl and argentine.
Vermilion, iris, and the shimmer of sea-stone rose
from roof and capital, cornice, and pilaster. The
city, planned after no plan but as in a dream-night's
rhapsody, hung between the mists of the plain and
the golden peninsulas of the clouds as an island of
phantasy-a rare shell for the enclosing of some rich
and melodious secret, the coffer holding a life's
desire, the inaccessible home of a music which it was
not man's to grasp, of a fire which only a demi-god
might come at and filch for earth-use.
30 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
As Huemac gazed on in love and dismay the soft
innocence of evening descended with dove's 'vings
upon the roofs and quenched the fires of sun-blood.
A pale and curving moon s'vam pearl-like in the
unimpassioned sea of air, quivering at first like a
butterfly which sought to reach the sun's candle and
fall into its heart. The satyr-shapes of night came
down, and dancing, skirted the forest, flowers folded
and the stars came forth. A great and vastly solemn
calm fell on everything-even the very stones seemed
to have found a deeper quality of death. The sun
went out, and Huemac climbed the temple stairs in
the darkness to drink the hope of prayer.
Right rich was that feast-chamber where Acxitl
sat with Urendequa, they two alone. For the others
had gone to the house of Huemac outside the walls,
thinking there to find music and songs, little wotting
that Huemac was stretched on his face in the white
temple of Quetzal high up on the hill. The soft chime
of golden cups and the tinkle ofthe silver bells fringing
the painted curtains as the evening air stole in and
out of the place were louder than the whispers of
Acxitl and Urendequa the dancer. The high chamber,
with its narrow walls stamped in frette and painted
in sombre reds with a frieze of feathered gods in
panoply of war or worship, was meet for 'vhisperers.
Stark, clean, complete, decisive its plan, yet shado·wed,
the strong thing veiled, the sharp thing rounded by
shade rather than by chisel-the primal and gigan-
tesque screened by the mysterious. Here had been
carven a bas-relief of the loves of Tlazolteotl,
lewd goddess of luxury, the work done by the
light of torches so that it might only be revealed
beneath the tints of the glow in which it had been
chiselled.
Urendequa spoke. " So you do not tremble ? " she
asked. ~
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 31
Acxitl smiled slo·wly. " Tremble ? " he said, " at
'vhat, I pray you, Urcndequa?"
" At the 'vrath of the gods."
" 1tly friend," he said, " you have lived forty years
-as a dancer-do you find aught to tremble at in the
thought of death?"
" Aye," she replied. " Aye, one thing makes me
tremble."
"That you may not dance in Mictlan?"
" Aye so ; death ends all art."
" But age ; does not that end the dancer's art ? "
" It is so, Prince. I am 'veary ; I cannot foot it
as 'vhen I first danced before your father. My body
gro,vs heavy. Five years ago I feared death as the
extinguisher of art ; since then I had not thought of
it. No,v-this night-I see death as a disrobing-room
where there is rest for those who have danced out
their dance. But you are young and your limbs are
supple. You are young and wise. Why should you
desire death? "
" 0 Urendequa," replied the Prince, " 'veil has it
been said that the 'visdom of women-aye, even of
the wisest woman-is tethered to the earth. I am
wise-therefore I see this love of life and art to be
but a snare, a bait which·the unskilful gods have laid
to keep us here. Who lacking the instinct of life or
the love of art.would not willingly go down into the
vapours of Mictlan ? I tell you these gods-they have
miscarven this ugly world, but for the credit of their
godhead they must pretend that it is good.,. Hence
have they cursed us with a love of life so that we may
not affront them by fleeing the prison to which they
have doomed us. 'Tis well for them to measure out
a way for us. Oh, how easy it is for a god to point
the way to man, and how simple it were for a man to
play the god." .
"But this curse; no philosophy will--"
32 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
"I do not seek to meet it with philosophy. I will
play my manhood against their divinity. They curse
me because I am a man and not of their blood. I do
not seek life. But let the blame for my taking off
rest upon them alone. So shall it be said,' They slew
him because he found them out.' "
A sound as of a great tempest rushed through the
chamber and the torches flickered, waved, and went
' out. Urendequa screamed; Acxitllaughed.
" Fools," he snarled. " Strike if ye will, but spare
me such buffoonery as this ! " And he called for
torches. The faces of those who brought them seemed
pallid, and they trembled greatly.
" There is small need for torches, lord," faltered
one. "Behold!" and drawing aside the curtain from
an open casement, he pointed to where two great
volcanoes which overlooked Tollan belched black and
red into the emerald night. Above them, shadowed
on the sky, grisly apparitions reared their heads,
threatening the city 'vith terrible menace. Urendequa
clapped her hands over her eyes and sank into her
seat, moaning softly. Acxitl gave a thin, sneering
laugh and stood looking on as at a juggling enter-
tainment, applauding now and again when a more ·
than usually gorgeous effect of colour emanated from
one or other of the volcanoes, or when the gestures of
the mighty shades above them waxed more vehement
and threatening.
There was a hurrying of crowds through the streets
as people sought the temple. Voices cried out in the
extreme of woe and terror. Far away sounded the
monotonous beating of a great drum. The sin of the
Toltecs had found them out. The air was thick with
falling ashes and scorire, and the vengeful mutterings
coming from the volcanoes had now swelled into the
most terrific reverberations, which shook the city
from wall to wall, so that the gorgeous houses rocked
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 33
and the place of banquet in which Acxitl and
Urendequa still remained S\vayed like a ship in the
hollows of the sea.
"Save thyself, Prince!" cried a voice in passing,
the owner of which had evidently recognized Acxitl.
"Save thyself, for the anger of the gods has come
upon us., But Acxitl only smiled. A great stone
from one of the volcanoes struck the casement above
his head, but he moved not. Urendequa seized and
dragged him from the window as Huemac dashed into
the room. In the awful half-light of the smoky con-
flagration they saw that the old King's face was white
as parchment and his eyes a deeper red than fire.
"Fly," he cried. "Waste not a moment, boy.
The Chichimecs are at the gates ! "
The Chichimecs, the Huns of the Mexican plateau,
hung ever upon the Toltec borders, their wolfish
bands patrolling it for the capture of merchant
caravans or wealthy travellers. For generations they
had menaced Tollan. Now they were at her gates
clamouring for entrance so that they might spoil her
and return to enrich their mound-temples with her
golden cups and gauds of ritual. Already the clash
of weapons and the shouts of men in combat could
be heard at the gate hard by the palace.
But Acxitl stirred not.
" Up, Prince ! " cried Urendequa, " \vill you not
fight? ,
" ~ly quarrel is not with the Chichimecs," replied
Acxitl, "but with the gods."
"1\-ladman!" cried Huemac. "Quick, with me
to the temple. Let us prostrate ourselves. Even yet .
there is time."
" Wherefore has this thing happened ? '' asked
Acxitl dully. "Because, forsooth, our way has not
pleased the gods. Must we walk according to their
vanity ? Shall we toil constantly so that they may
c
34 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
have seed; shall we fight constantly so that they
may have blood ; shall we pray constantly so that
their vanity may increase? Do thou those things if
thou wilt ; but as for me, I have surprised their
secret, and I am no more their slave. The door of
escape from their prison-house is death, and he who,
knowing this, will not pass its portals is a slave. This
door I shall force them to open to me. Tollan has
been a city of music, of love, of rare converse, of a
secret spirit, of many rich pleasantries and richer
tears. Here have dwelt men who revelled in the
making of things. Of all this the dotards of heaven
are a-weary. They pine for praise, which is their food
as much as blood is."
A terrific shock caused the palace to rock to its
foundations. A great pillar, heavy with -.symbols,
swayed and crashed downwards, the sound of its fall
lost in the tumult of subterranean thunder. A shaft
of lightning clove the darkness and sho,ved them the
face of Urendequa lying crushed beneath the painted
capital. A dry sob sounded in Acxitl's throat, but
with a maniac shriek Huemac fled from the banquet-
ing hall into the street. Never again was the last
l(ing of Tollan beheld by mortal man, Toltec or
Chichimec.
Another lightning flash, and Acxitl groped his way
to a trophy of arms hard by the painted altar.
Seizing a maquahuitl, a club set with obsidian edges,
he staggered through the gloom out into the cause-
way. The streets were knee-deep with ashes, and
great stones hurtling through the air rang on roof
and wall, crushing the fine details of capital and
portico, mutilating wondrous carving. Still he groped
onwards, until he came to the place where stood the
temple of Tlaloc. Before the fane was a great statue
of the god, recumbent on elbows and with huddled
knees: typifying the hill-land whence came the rains.
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 35
As Acxitl gazed upon the massive block of greenstone
the tramp of armed men resounded on the cobbles
and gave him pause. Through the gloom he could
see a band of Chichimecs, a befeathered chief at their
head.
" Stand, brothers," he cried, " and hearken to me.
To-day I was King in Tollan ; we were too happy
here, and the gods grew 'vroth against us because we
neglected their worship. Happy, too, was I, until I
found that man cannot live save on sufferance of the
gods, and no snare of life or art shall now· hold me in
such servitude. Thus do I force the gods to open the
door of death.''
And raising high his maquahuitl, he smote the image
of Tlaloc full on the bended neck. The weapon
shattered, and its flinty blade tinkled in fragments
to the ground; but the head, mayhap by reason of
a flaw in the stone, nodded, fell, and rolled into the
gutter. Acxitllaughed aloud.
A jagged circle of flame burst from the heavens,
and a great thunderbolt hurtled earthward. Acxitl
was one 'vith the ashes which littered the causeway.
" Great indeed are the gods ! " whispered the
Chichimec chief in profoundest awe. "Great indeed
are they of 'vhom 've are the unworthy instruments.
This city was full of sin and its King was mad. His
fate be upon his head."
" Yet," said a shield-bearer beside him, " it is not
every man who can force the gods to slay him, so
that his blood may 'vitness against them. Is not he
who can coerce the gods almost as a god himself ? "
• • • •
Mter the " disappearance " ofthe Toltecs, one 'vave
of Nahua after another descended upon the Valley of
Mexico, until at last the Aztecs, or " Crane People "
settled on the borders of Lake Tezcuco. They were
'
36 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
a warlike and somewhat taciturn folk, with a deeply
rooted love of the mysterious, fond of dancing and
flowers, but dwelling under the shadow of one of the
most gloomy religions ever established by mankind,
a faith which chiefly manifested itself in human sac-
rifice and penitential exercises of a severe nature.
Yet they were and are, whatever some Europeans
and Americans may think, a people gifted with an
ability to regard the subtle side of things with extra-
ordinary nicety, as is shown by the rich and involved
character of the mythology they developed.
They entered the l\Iexican Valley at the beginning
of the fourteenth century, and in the course of the
two centuries or so between their settlement there
and the conquest of Cortes succeeded by warlike
prowess in bringing under their dominion ~early all
the tribes then dwelling in Mexico. At the period
of the Conquest the lacustrine city of Mexico-Tenoch-
titlan contained 60,000 houses and about 300,000
inhabitants, and the Lake of Tezcuco, on ·which it
was partly built, was ringed rou~d with other large
cities. The site was intersected by four great road-
'vays or avenues built at right angles to one another,
an-d laid four-square with the cardinal points. Situ-
ated as it was in the midst of a lake, it was traversed
by numerous canals, which were used as thorough-
fares for traffic. The four principal ways described
above were extended across the lake as dykes or
viaducts until they met its shores. The dwellings of
the poorer classes were chiefly composed of adobe,
but' those of the nobility were built of a red porous
stone quarried close by. They were usually of one
story only, but occupied a goodly area, and had flat
roofs, many of which were covered with flowers.
They were usually coated with a hard white cement,
which gave them an added resemblance to the
Oriental type of building.
,
MEXICO AT THE TIME OF THE l\IONTEZIDIAS
.·
•
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 37
To\vering high among these, and a little apart from
the vast squares and market-places, \Vere the teocallis,
or temples. These were not covered-in buildings, but
"high places," great pyramids of stone, built plat-
form on platform, and a coiling staircase led to the
summit, on 'vhich was usually erected a small shrine
containing the tutelary deity to whom the teocalli
had been raised. The great temple of Uitzilopochtli,
the war-god, built by King Ahuizotl, was, besides
being typical of all, by far the greatest of these votive
piles. The enclosing walls of the building were 4800
feet in circumference, and strikingly decorated by
carvings representing festoons of intertwined reptiles,
from which circumstance they \Vere called coetpantli
(walls of serpents). A kind of gatehouse on each side
gave access to the enclosure. The teocalli, or great
temple, inside the court \vas in the shape of a paral-
lelogram, measuring 375 feet by 300 feet, and was
built in six platforms, growing·smaller in area as they
ascended. The mass of this structure was composed
of a mixture of rubble, clay, and earth, covered with
carefully worked stone slabs, cemented together with
infinite care, and coated with a hard gypsum. A
flight of 340 steps circled round the terraces and led
to the upper platform, on which were raised t\vo three-
storied towers 56 feet in height, in which stood the
great statues of the tutelary deities and the jasper
stones of sacrifice. These sanctuaries, say the old
Conql.\istadores who entered them, had the appear-
ance and odour of shambles, and human blood was
bespattered everywhere. In this weird chapel of
horrors burned a fire, the extinction of which, it was
supposed, would have precipitated the end of the
Nahua power. It was tended with a care as scrupulous
as that with which the Roman Vestals guarded their
sacred flame. No less than six hundred ofthese sacred
braziers were kept alight in the city of Mexico alone.
38 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
The civilization of the people who inhabited l\lexico
was of a much higher order than that of many com-
munities 'vhich have enjoyed greater advantages.
Although its people were ignorant of the uses of iron
and steel, for 'vhich they substituted the sharp sherds
of the obsidian stone, they possessed many of the
refinements of the most cultivated nations of Europe
-a noble if bizarre architecture, a high sense of the
value of colour, an art which owed little to imitation
and much to nature and to their own imaginative
capacity, a useful if primitive system of writing, a
well-defined legal code and no mean skill in the
military art. If Aztec society was established on
rather hard-and-fast lines, it was still so perfectly
..J controlled that every individual had his niche, which
was, indeed, marked out for him at birth. A caste
system obtained in the case of craftsmen, but the
position of women appears to have been much more
free than in any other human society outside Europe.
The •Aztecs, and indeed the entire Nahua race,
employed a system of writing of the type scientifically
described as " pictographic," in which events, persons,
and ideas were recorded by means of drawings and
coloured sketches. These were executed on paper
made from the agave plant, or were painted on the
skins of animals. By these means not only history
and the principles of the Nahua mythology were
communicated from generation to generation, but
the transactions of daily life, the accountings of mer-
chants, and the purchase and ownership of land 'vere
placed on record. That a phonetic system was rapidly
being approached was manifest from the method by
which the Nahua scribes depicted the names of indi-
viduals or cities. These were represented by means
of several objects, the names of 'vhich resembled that
of the person for which they stood. The name of
King Ixcoatl, for example, is represented by the
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 39
drawing of a serpent (coatl) pierced by flint knives
(iztli), and that of l\1otequauhzoma (Montezuma) by
a mouse-trap (montli), an eagle (quauhtli), a lancet (zo),
and a hand (maitl). The phonetic values employed
by the scribes varied exceedingly, so that at times
an entire syllable would be expressed by the painting
of an object the name of which commenced with it,
at other times only a letter would be represented by
the same drawing. But the general intention of the
scribes was undoubtedly more ideographic than
phonetic; that is, they desired to convey their
thoughts more by sketch than by sound.
These pinturas, as the Spanish conquerors called
them, offer no very great difficulty in their elucidation
to modern experts, at least so far as the general trend
of their contents is concerned. In this they are unlike
the manuscripts of the Maya of Central America, with
which we shall make acquaintance farther on. Their
interpretation 'vas largely traditional, and was learned
by rote, being passed on by one generation of amama-
tini (readers) to another, and they were by no means
capable of being read by all and sundry.
The life of the people varied considerably with their
caste and avocations. The lower classes in the
country districts were almost wholly agricultural,
and acted as labourers in the maize fields, or hunters,
fowlers, and fishers, while the 'vorking folk in the
towns ·wrought at such trades as building, the making
of feather robes, jewellery, and so forth. Vendors of
flowers, fruit, vegetables, and fish crowded the large
markets and public squares, and each of these trades
and castes had its particular patron god. The upper
class was aristocratic and exclusive. The monarch
'vas regarded as a deity, and his office was an elective
one, but he might be appointed from the royal family
only, and at the instance of the great nobles alone.
The gulf betwixt the.autocratic class and the people
..
••
40 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
was a wide one, though pro\vess in war was capable
of bridging it and a doughty soldier might well be
advanced to the position of a knight.
The architecture of ancient 1\lexico, if bizarre, was
not undistinguished. In the cities the better houses
were built of stone, four-square and stable, and
ornamented with designs taken from Aztec sym-
bolism. They had flat roofs or azoteas, and heavily-
caved doorways. The city of Mexico has already
been described, but' it behoves to pay some attention
to the more celebrated architectural monuments in
other parts of the country.
Although Mexico is not so rich in ruins of her
great past as are Yucatan or Guatemala, where the
growth of forests lias protected the architectural
antiquities of these countries, it is not without several
striking examples of native building. In the northern
part of the states of Vera Cruz are to be found the
great pyramids of Teotihuacan and the beautiful
teocalli of Xochicalco. The former place was the
Mecca of the Nahua races, and its pyramids of the
Sun and Moon are surrounded by extensive ceme-
teries where the devout had been interred in the
hope that their souls would thus find entrance to the
. paradise of the sun. The teocalli of the moon has a
base covering 426 feet and a height of 137 feet. That
of the sun is of greater dimensions, with a base of
735 feet and a height of 203 feet. These pyramids
were divided into four stories, three of which remain
in each case. On the summit of that of the sun stood
a temple containing a great image of that luminary
carved from a rough block of stone. In the breast
was inlaid a star of the purest gold, seized afterwards
as loot by the insatiable followers of Cortes. From
the teocalli of the moon a path runs to where a little
rivulet flanks the "Citadel." This path is known as
" The Path of the Dead,'' from the circumstance that
..
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 41
it is surrounded by some nine square miles of tombs
and tumuli, and, indeed, forms a road through the
great cemetery.
Xochicalco, " The Hill of Flowers," near Tezcuco,
is a teocalli or pyramid of amazing beauty, built of
richly sculptured blocks of porphyry 12 feet in length,
depicting the god Quetzalcoatl as the great serpent-
bird. The site of Tollan, the Toltec city, is equally
impressive as regards its remains discovered by
excavation. Charnay unearthed there gigantic frag-
ments of caryatids, each some seven feet high. He
also found columns of two pieces, which 'vere fitted
together by means of mortise and tenon, bas-reliefs
ofarchaic figures of undoubted Nahua type, and many
fragments of great antiquity. On the hill of Palpan,
above Tollan, he found the ground-plans of several
houses with numerous apartments,frescoed, columned,
and having benches and cisterns recalling the implu-
t'ium of a Roman villa. Water-pipes were also
actually unearthed, and a wealth of pottery, many
pieces of which resembled old Japanese <;hina. The
ground-plan or foundations of the houses uncovered
at Palpan showed that they had been designed by
practical architects, and had not been built in merely
hapha~ard fashion. The cement which covered the
'valls and floors 'vas of excellent quality, and recalled
that found in ancient Italian excavations. The roofs
had been of 'vood, supported by pillars.
Only the briefest sketch of Aztec history can be
offered here. At the period when the Nahua tribes
proper first settled on the borders of Lake Tezcuco
their communities grouped themselves around two of
the larger sites, Azcapozalco and Tezcuco, which may
be described as the Athens of Mexico, the literary
and artistic capital. A fierce rivalry sprang up
between these cities, and ended in the discomfiture
of the former. From this time Mexican history may
42 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
be said to commence, the Tezcucan power over-
running the entire area from the ~fexican Gulf to the
Pacific. On the rise of the Aztecs in the fourteenth
century they allied themselves with the tribe of
the Tecpanecs of Tlacopan, and little by little sub-
dued most of the lacustrine communities, penetrating
also into the Otomi country to the north. Finally,
they subdued Tezcuco itself. ~he Tezcucans had
levied an embargo against their goods and refused
them intercourse. War followed, probably about
1428, and the Aztecs defeated the Tezcucan con-
federacy with great slaughter. An alliance ensued
between Aztec Mexico, Tezcuco and Tlacopan, the
allies overran many states far beyond the confines of
the Valley, and by the period of the Spanish Conquest
had extended their boundaries almost to the limits
of the present Mexican Republic. They levied a
strictly collected tribute from their conquered sub-
jects, manufacturing the raw material exacted from
them, which they sold 'again in its finished state to
the tribes under their s'vay, until at last Mexico
became the chief market of the empire.
When Montezuma I. came to the throne in 1440 he
I almost at once began to extend the Aztec dominions.
He had been both high priest of the kingdom and its
commander-in-chief, but now he displayed ability as
1 a town-planner, building beautiful palaces and
temples and the dykes or passage-ways which con-
nected the city with the mainland, and constructing
canals. But horrible human sacrifices disfigured the
civilization of this people, growing with the power of
the Aztec state, regarded as they were as a sign of
heavenly favour as manifested in conquest and
prosperity.
The peoples surrounding the Aztecs came to loathe
the hateful power which drew countless thousands of
victims to the smoking altar of the 'var-god Uitzilo-
A GLANCE AT ANCIENT MEXICO 43
pochtli, and when Axayacatl became king in 1468
several revolts broke out. But these were broken,
and when Montezuma II. began to reign, l\1exico
and all its dependencies were ripe for rebellion once
more.
No need to repeat here the story of the Spanish
Conquest. But that Castilian ru1e shattered a hege-
mony of monstrous evil, who can question ? The
Aztec state seemed never to have even a doubt as to
the inherent virtue resident in its sanguinary regime.
But Beneficence, which will not permit evil to reign
for ever, set over the Aztec people the rod of an iron
tyranny which seems in some measure the just due of
a race ·which had so \vantonly flouted those common
dictates of mercy and humanity which pe~ples far
less cultured than the Aztec have displayed. Whether
the l\fexican peoples are inherently cruel, or whether
the awful devil-worship they once indulged in has
rendered them so, \vho shall presume to say? But
an examination of their subsequent history lends
colour to the assumption that if they are not natively
the most barbarous among th~ world's na~ions they
have in this respect, along with outstanding virtues,
a " bad eminence " which even their well-wishers
cannot but deplore.l
1 For a full account of the history of the Mexican tribes, see the
writer's Civilization of Anciem Mexico (Cambridge University
Manuals), and T. Athol Joyce, Mexican Arc~ology.
CHAPTER II
THE 1\IAGICAL ASSOCIATIONS OF 1\IEXICAN
RELIGION
•
T
O understand Mexican Magic and the attitude
of the ancient Mexicans towards the super-
natural, it is necessary to explain the funda-
mental tendencies of religion as understood on the
plateau of Mexico. At first sight these appear as
inextricable, but in reality they are capable of very
simple treatment indeed. The basis of ~fexican
religion, it will be found, is really a magical one, the
gods sre magical figures, their rites arose out of
magical practice. As observed at the period of the
Spanish Conquest, Mexican religion appears complex
enough, but research has succeeded in referring almost
every one of its beliefs to very simple and even primi-
tive ideas-ideas, however, which contain the root
elements of magical knowledge and practice.
The tales which give us the clue to early religious
influences in Mexico are mostly associated with the
pre-Aztec or Toltec civilization. Many of them refer
to a god or culture-hero called Quetzalcoatl, who is
described as a magician and the inventor of the
astrological tonalamaa, or Book of Fate. The faith
he introduced differed greatly from that in vogue at
the period of the Conquest. It inculcated purification
and penance by the drawing of blood from the tongue
and thighs, and was unfriendly to the cannibal rites
later practised. But this cult was to a great extent
44
THE MAGICAL ASSOCIATIONS 45
superseded by that of other and earlier deities.
Beneath the 'vorship of these we can descry one out-
standing purpose-the desire to ensure such a supply
of rain by magical means as would result in a crop of
maize sufficient to keep the people in life~
Out of this ·was developed a rain-cult of such
elaborate character that a most complex theology,
pantheon, and system of ethical conduct came in turn
to be associated with it. The original native deities
of Mexico presided over vegetable and cereal growth,
and those who came to be identified with the creative
idea or 'vith the heavenly bodies were either gods of
growth to whom these attributes had become for-
tuitously attached, or 'vere the products of later
priestly speculation.
In a land so arid as l\1exico it is scarcely surprising
that the magical production of rain should have
become the chief religious endeavour of the people.
Famine and its accompanying evils followed upon a
dry agricultural season and subjected the race to all
the miseries of hunger and thirst. What wonder,
then, that they deified the powers of rain, exalted
them ab~ve all others, and by every supernatural
means strove to avert the disaster of a dry season?
The earth they regarded as the cipactli or dragon-
beast which brought forth the grain and which might
fail in its powers unless nurtured by draughts of
human blood. The more she 'vas nourished by this
dreadful wine the more she was capable of bringing
forth. Blood, human or animal, \vas conceived of as
rain in another form, of being capable·of transforma-
tion into rain, the fructifying essence which descended
from above.
The earth became in the popular idea the goddess
Coatlicue, to whom thousands ofhearts must annually
be offered up in the hope of a good harvest. There
were many other deities ofgrowth, probably of foreign
~·
46 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
importation, that is originally belonging to other
tribes than the Aztecs, but the dragon-statue of this
goddess, still preserved in the National l\Iuseum at
Mexico City, displays her as the earth-mother par
excellence, clad in her serpent-robe and hung with the
skin of a sacrificed 'voman, her merciless countenance
" .
covered by a serpent or dragon~s mask, surmounting
the grotesque riot of symbolic attributes by which
she is covered. Deeply rooted in the Mexican mind
was the idea that unless the gods ·were abundantly
refreshed with human blood they would perish of
hunger and old age and would be unable to undertake
their labours in connection 'vith the growth of the
crops. Whence came this idea? Undoubtedly from
that process of barbaric reasoning through which
1\Iexican man had convinced himself that the amount
of rainfall would be in ratio to the amount of blood
shed sacrificially. Eduard Seier, the German savant,
has indicated his belief in such a process of reasoning
by stating that" the one 'vas intended to draw down
the other, the blood which was offered was intended
to bring down the rain upon the fields." This, then,
is the precise nature of the compact between Mexican
man and his gods : Do ut des, " Give us rain, and 've
shall give you blood." Once this is understood the
basic nature of Mexican religion becomes clear, and
all the later additions of theology and priestly inven-
tion can be viewed as mere excrescences and orna-
ments upon the simple architecture of the temple·of
the rain-cult.
Many were the methods by which blood and hearts
were offered up to the gods, and the several festivals
at which this rite was in vogue differed slightly from
each other in ritual and procedure. But that which
may be regarded as supplying perhaps the most
general form of the horrid rite was that of the Xala-
quia, a festival held at the season when the magic
THR MEXICAN EARTH-MOTHER
•
THE MAGICAL ASSOCIATIONS 47
plant had attained its full gro,vth. The women of
the city wore their hair unbound, and shook and tossed
it so that by sympathetic magic the maize might gro'v
correspondingly long. Hymns were sung to the earth-
goddess Chicomecohuatl, a variant of Coatlicue, and
hilarious dances were nightly performed in the teopan
(temple), the central figure in which was the Xalaqu.ia,
a female captive or slave, with face painted red and
yellow to represent the colours of the maize plant.
She had previously undergone a long course of train-
ing in the dancing-school, and now, all unaware of
the horrible fate a'vaiting her, she .danced and
pirouetted gaily among the rest. Throughout the
duration of the festival she danced, and on its expir-
ing night she was accompanied in a kind of ballet by
the women of the community, who circled round her,
chanting the deeds of Chicomecohuatl. When day-
break appeared the company \Vas joined by the
chiefs and headmen, who, along with the exhausted
and half-fainting victim, danced the solemn death-
dance. The entire community then approached the
teocalli (pyramid of sacrifice), and, its summit reached,
the victim was stripped to a nude condition, the
priest plunged a knife of flint into her bosom, and,
tearing out the still palpitating heart, offered it up to
Chicomecohuatl. In this manner the venerable
goddess, 'veary with the labours of indu~ing growth
in the maize-plant, was supposed to be revivified and
refreshed. Hence the victim's name Xalaquia, which
signifies " She who is clothed with the Sand."
Apart altogether from the more primitive deities
of grain, were gods of some,vhat higher status, several
of whom were thought of as having introduced the
practice of magic into 1\lexico. The most remarkable
of these was Quetzalcoatl, the grand enchanter.
Regarding this Quetzalcoatl, ·we possess an extra-
ordinary amount of material which alone makes it
I
\
48 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
certain that he was a figure of primary importance.
Indeed, some modern authorities have proved to their
O\Vn satisfaction that he was a veritable human per-
sonage, and with this vie\v I am in general agreement.
Perhaps the best account of his history is that of
Sahagun, a Spanish friar of the sixteenth century,
who had exceptional opportunities of collecting the
traditions of the Aztecs.
Quetzalcoatl, he tells us, was a great civilizing a~ent,
who entered Mexico at the head of a band of strangers,
the Toltecs. He imported the arts into the country
and especially fostered agriculture. In his time maize
was so large in the head that a man might not carry
more than one stalk at a time, and cotton gre'v in all
colours without having to be dyed. He built spacious
and elegant houses, and inculcated a type of religion
.1 which fostered peace, and the rites of which included
the drawing of blood by way of penance. But sor-
cerers came against Quetzalcoatl and his people, the
Toltecs, and these, we are told, were the gods Tez-
catlipoca, Uitzilopochtli, and Tlacuepan. Tezcatli-
poca visited the house of Quetzalcoatl in the guise of
an old man, but was told that he was sick, and was
at first refused entrance. Later, however, he \vas
admitted, Quetzalcoatl observing that he had waited
for him for many days. Tezcatlipoca then produced
a draught of medicine which, he assured the sick king,
would intoxicate him, ease his heart, and carry his
,
thoughts away from the trials and fatigues of death
and departure. This latter statement inspired Quet-
zalcoatl to ask whence he must go, for that he had a
premonition of departure seems clear. "To Tollant-
lapallan," replied Tezcatlipoca, " where another old
man awaits thee. He and you shall speak together,
and on thy return thou shalt be as a youth, yea as a
boy." With little good,vill Quetzalcoatl quaffed the
medicine, and having once tasted of it, he drank more
THE MAGICAL ASSOCIATIONS 49
deeply, so that at last he became intoxicated and
maudlin. That which he had drunk 'vas the wine
made from the maguey-plant, called teoncetl (" drink
of the gods"). And so great a longing to depart came
upon him that at length he arose and went from
Tollan. Ere departing, Quetzalcoatl burned his
houses of shells and silver and buried many precious
things in the mountains and ravines.
He reached the coast after many adventures, inci•
dentally losing all his servants, 'vho perished through
cold 'vhilst traversing the snowy sides of a volcano.
At length he came to the sea, where he commanded
that a raft of serpents should appear, and in this he
seated himself as in a canoe, and set out for Tlapallan,
the mysterious country whence he had come.
Another Spanish friar, Torquemada, says of Quet-
zalcoatl and his comrades that they came from the
north by way of Panuco, dressed in long robes of
black linen, cut low at the neck, with short sleeves.
They came to Tollan, but finding the country there
too thickly peopled, passed on to Cholula, where they
were well received. Their chief was Quetzalcoatl, a
man with ruddy complexion and long beard. These
people multiplied and sent colonists to the Mixtec
and Zapotec countries, raising the great buildings at
1\Iitla. They \Vere cunning handicraftsmen, not so
good at masonry as at jewellers' ·work, sculpture, and
agriculture. Tezcatlipoca and Huemac conceived an
enmity to Quetzalcoatl, and as he did not wish to go
to war 'vith them he and his folk removed to Ono·
hualco (Yucatan, Tabasco, and Campeche).
~lendieta, a Castilian author, alludes to the manner
in which Quetzalcoatl originated the astrological
calendar. He says that the gods thought it well that
the people should have some means of writing by
which they might direct themselves, and t'vo of their
number, Oxomoco and Cipactonal, who dwelt in a
D
so THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
cave in Cuernavaca, especially considered the matter.
Cipactonal thought that her descendant Quetzalcoatl
should be consulted, and she called him into counsel.
He, too, thought the idea of a calendar good, and the
two addressed themselves to the task of making the
tonalamatl, or Book of Fate. To Cipactonal 'vas given
the privilege of choosing and writing the first sign or
day-symbol of the calendar. She painted the cipactli
or dragon animal, and called the sign ce cipactli (" one
cipactli "). Oxomoco the~ wrote ome acatl (" two
cane"), and Quetzalcoatl "three house," and so on,
until the thirteen signs 'vere completed.
We will also find Quetzalcoatl in l\laya lore when
we come to consider it, under the names of Kukulcan,
Gucumatz, and Votan. Quetzalcoatl later became
sanctified in godlike guise, and was worshipped as the
god of the trade wind which brings the fructifying
rains to Mexico. It was in this character that he was
supposed to depart to the land of refreshment to seek
the·nevi rain. But that originally he 'vas a real man
we cannot doubt, as indeed Dr. H. J. Spinden has
proved, and in my belief he was a primitive wizard
or medicine-man who introduced the magical art and
astrology into Mexico and Central America. Regarded
as the inventor of the tonalamatl, or Book of :fate, he
gained a reputation as the possessor of profound
wisdom, and came to be looked upon as the magician
or sage par excellence. The name implies " feathered
""' serpent," or, according to some other authorities,
" Precious Twin."
It is chiefly in the myths of Central America rather
• than in those of Mexico that the magical character
of Quetzalcoatl is to be remarked. These speak of
him most definitely as a magician, and the cult of the
Nagualists, a magi~al society, regarded him as its
peculiar patron.
The next magician-god we encounter is Tezcatli-
..
(
THE MAGICAL ASSOCIATIONS 51
poca, or "Fiery ~Iirror," so-called because he took-
his name from the obsidian scrying-stone of the
1\lexican seers. This stone had an especial sanctity
for the 1\fexicans, as it provided the sacrificial knives
employed by the priests, and we possess good evidence
that obsidian in its fetish form was worshipped even
so late as the eighteenth century by the .Nahuatl-
speaking Chotas, who comprised it in a trinity with
the Dawn and the Serpent. But another important
link connects Tezcatlipoca with obsidian. Bernal
Diaz states that they c~lled this stone or vitreous
glass "Tezcat." From it mirrors were manufactured
as divinatory media to be used by the wizards.
Sahagun says that it was kno,vn as ai~ztli (\vater
obsidian), probably because of the high polish of
which it was capable. Another such stone he men-
tions was called tepochtli, which I would translate
"wizard stone," and from which I think, by a process
of etymological confusion, Tezcatlipoca received one
of his minor names, Telpochtli, " the youth." The
name of the god means "Smoking Mirror," and
Acosta says that the Mexicans called Tezcatlipoca's
mirror irlacheaya (an obvious error for tlachialoni),
" his.glass to look in," otherwise the mirror or scrying-
stone in which he was able to witness the doings of
mankind. It is possible that the " smoke " which
was said to rise from this mirror symbolized the
haziness which clouds the surface of a divinatory
glass prior to the phenomenon of vision therein.
Thus from the shape beheld in the seer's mirror
Tezcatlipoca came to be regarded as the seer. That
into which the wizard gazed became so closely iden-
tified with sorcery as to be thought of as wizard-like
itself; for Tezcatlipoca is, of all Mexican deities, the
one most nearly connected with the wizard's art, the l.r
art of Black Magic. He is distinctively the nocturnal
god who haunts the crossways and appears in a myriad
52 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
phantom guises to the night-bound 'vayfarer.
"These," says Sahagun, "were masks that Tezcatli-
poca assumed to frighten the people."
He wears the symbol of night upon his forehead ;
he is the moon, ruler of the night, the wizard who
veils himself behind the clouds ; he bears as a magical
instrument the severed arm of a woman who has died
in childbed, as did the naualli or sorcerers of old
1\Iexico. From him all ominous and uncanny sounds
proceed : the howl of the jaguar (in which we per-
ceive Tezcatlipoca as the wizard metamorpho.sed into
tire wer-animal), and the foreboding cry of the uactli
bird, the voc, the prophesying bird of IIurakan in the
"Popol Vuh," the magical book of Central America.
Tezcatlipoca, at the period of the Conquest, had
developed attributes of a more lofty kind than any
of those deities already described. Like Quetzalcoatl,
and because he \vas a god of the wind or atmosphere,
he came to be regarded as the personification of the
breath of life. In the mind of savage man the wind
is usually the giver of breath, the great storehouse of
respiration, the source of immediate life. In many
mythologies the name of the principal deity is synony-
mous \Vith that for wind, and in many languages the
·words" soul" and" breath" have a common origin.
But it is as a sorcerer that we must regard Tez-
catlipoca in this place, and that side of his character
is well depicted in the myths concerning the manner
in which he plagued the Toltecs. Sahagun recounts
a myth which tells ho,v, disguised as a peddler named
. Toveyo, he behaved much as did the Pied Piper.
"This Toveyo adorned all his body with the rich
feathers called tocivitl, and commanded the Toltecs to
gather together for a festival, and sent a crier up to
the top of the mountain Tzatzitepec, to call in the
strangers and the people afar off to dance and to
feast. A numberless multitude gathered to Tollan.
'
THE MAGICAL ASSOCIATIONS 53
When they were all gathered, Toveyo led them out,
young men and girls, to a place called Texcalapa,
\vhere he himself began and led the dancing, playing
on a drum. He sang, too, singing each verse to the
dancers, who sang it after him, though they kne'v
not the song beforehand. Then \vas to be seen a
marvellous and terrible thing. A panic seized the
Toltecs. There was a gorge or ravine there, with a
river rushing through it called the ,Texcaltlauhco. A
stone bridge led over the river. Toveyo broke do,vn
this bridge as the people fled. He sa'v them tread
and crush each other down, under-foot and over into
the abyss. They that fell were turned into rocks and ' \
stones; as for those that escaped, they did not see
nor think that it was Toveyo and his sorceries that
had wrought this great destruction; they were
blinded by the witchcraft of the god, and out of their
senses, like drunken men."
Another of his sorceries is described as follows :
"And after this Tezcatlipoca wrought another witch-
craft against the Toltecs. He called himself Tlacave-
pan, or Acexcoch, and came and sat down in the
midst of the market-place of Tulia, having a little
manikin (said to have been the god Uitzilopochtli)
dancing upon his hand. There was an instant uproar
of all the buyers and sellers and a rush to see the
miracle. The people crushed and trod each other
down, so that many were killed there ; and all this
happened many times. At last the god-sorcerer cried
out on one such occasion: "What is this? Do you
not see that you are befooled by us ?· Stone and kill
us." So the people took up stones and killed the said
sorcerer and his little dancing manikin. But when
the body of the sorcerer had lain in the market-place
for some time it began to stink and to taint the air,
and the wind of it poisoned many. Then the dead
sorcerer spoke again, saying: 'Cast this body
f
54 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
outside the town, for many Toltecs die because of it.'
So they prepared to cast out the body, and fastened
ropes thereto and pulled. But the ill-smelling corpse
was so heavy that they could not move it. Then a
crier made a proclamation, saying: 'Come, all ye
Toltecs, and bring ropes with you, that we may drag
out and get.rid of this pestilential carcass.' All came
accordingly, bringing ropes, and the ropes were fas-
tened to the body and all pulled. It was utterly in
vain. Rope after rope broke with a sudden snap, and
those that dragged on a rope fell and were killed when
it broke. Then the dead ·wizard looked up and said:
' 0 Toltecs, a verse of song is needed.' And he himself
gave them a verse. They repeated the verse after
him, and, singing it, pulled all together, so that with
shouts they hauled the body out of the city, though
still not without many ropes breaking and many
persons being killed as before. All this being over,
those Toltecs that remained unhurt returned every
man tb his place, not remembering anything of what
had happened, for they were all as drunke~."
Other signs and wonders were 'vrought by Tezcatli-
poca in his r6le of sorcerer. A white bird called lztac
cui:xtli was clearly seen flying over Tollan, transfixed
with a dart. At night also the sierra called Zapatec
burned, and the flames \Vere seen from afar. All the
people were stirred up and affrighted, saying one to
another, "0 Toltecs, it is all over with us now; the
time of the end of Tollan is come ; alas for us, whither
shall we go ? "
\Vizard-like also was the god Uitzilopochtli. In-
deed the derivation of his name, " Humming-bird
wizard," makes this plain enough.1 " He was," says
Sahagun, " a necromancer and friend of disguises."
1 The older derivation of his name, "Humming-bird to the left,,
seems to me fantastic. '' Left '' inMexican, as in some other tongues,
has the significance of wizardry, of the " sinister.,
THE MAGICAL ASSOCIATIONS 55
His other name, Uitznauitl, shows that he was asso-
ciated also with prophecy and oracular speech, to
deliver \Vhich he sometimes took the shape of a bird.
He was, too, the brother of the " Four Hundred
Southerners," the stars of the Southern Hemisphere,
who were regarded as demons, and seem to have been
the same as the Tzitzimime demons, to be alluded to
later.
Clavigero, relating this myth, says: "Huitzilo-
pochtli, or Mexitli, was the god of war ; the deity
the most honoured by the Mexicans, and their chief
protector. Of this god some said he \vas a pure spirit,
others that he was born of a woman, but \vithout the
assistance of a man, and described his birth in the
following manner : There lived, said they, in Coatepec,
a place near to the ancient city of Tula (Tollan), a
woman called Coatlicue, mother of the Centzonhuiz-
nahuas (or Four Hundred Southerners), who \vas
extremely devoted to the worship of the gods. One
day, as she \Vas employed, according to her usual
custom, in \valking in the temple, she beheld descend·
ing in the air a ball made of various feathers. She
seized it and kept it in her bosom, intending after-
wards to employ the feathers in the decoration of the
altar ; but when she sought it after her walk was,at
an end she could not find it, at which she was
extremely surprised, and her wonder was very greatly
increased when she began to perceive from that
moment that she was pregnant. Her pregnancy
advanced till it \Vas discovered by her children, who,
although they could not themselves suspect their
mother's virtue, yet fearing the disgrace she would
suffer upon her delivery, determined to prevent it by
putting her to death. They could not take their
resolution so secretly as to conceal it from their
mother, who, ·while she \Vas in deep affliction at the
thought of dying by the hands of her o\vn chi!dren,
56 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
heard an unexpected voice issue from her womb,
saying, 'Be not afraid, mother, I shall save you with
the greatest honour to yourself and glory to me.'
"Her hard-hearted sons, guided and encouraged
by their sister Cojolxauhqui, who had been the most
keenly bent upon the deed, were now just upon the
point of executing their purpose, when Huitzilo-
pochtli was born, with a shield in his left hand, a
spear in his right, and a crest of green feathers on
his head ; his left leg adorned with feathers, and his
face, arms, and thighs streaked with blue lines. As
soon as he came into the 'vorld he displayed a twisted
pine, and commanded one of his soldiers, called
Tochchancalqui, to fell 'vith it Cojolxauhqui, as the
one who had been the most guilty ; and he himself
attacked the rest with so much fury that, in spite of
their efforts, their arms, or their entreaties, he killed
them all, plundered their houses, and presented the
spoils ~o his mother. ~lankind were so terrified by
this event that from that time they called him
Tetzahuitl (terror) and Tetzauhteotl (terrible god).
" This was the god 'vho, as they said, becoming the
protector of the Mexicans, conducted them for so
many years in their pilgrimage, and at length settled
them where they afterwards founded the great city
of Mexico. They raised to him that superb temple,
so much celebrated, even by the Spaniards, in 'vhich
were annually holden three solemn festivals in the
fifth, ninth, and fifteenth months ; besides those kept
every four years, every thirteen years, and at the
beginning ofevery century. His statue was ofgigantic
size, in the posture of a man seated on a blue~coloured
bench, from the four corners of which issued four
huge snakes. His forehead 'vas blue, but ·his face
was covered with a golden mask, while another of
the same kind covered the back of his head. Upon
his head he carried a beautiful crest, shaped like the
THE MAGICAL ASSOCIATIONS 57
beak of a bird ; upon his neck a collar consisting of
ten figures of the human heart ; in his right hand a
large blue twisted club; in his left a shield, or quin-
cunx, on which appeared five balls of feathers dis-
posed in the form of a cross, and from the upper part
of the shield rose a golden flag with four arro'\vs,
'\Vhich the 1\'Iexicans pretended to have been sent to
them from heaven to perform those glorious actions
which we have seen in their history. His body was
girt with a large golden snake and adorned 'vith
lesser figures of animals made of gold and precious
stones, which ornaments and insignia had each their
peculiar meaning. They never deliberated upon
making war without imploring the protection of this
god with prayers and sacrifices; and offered up a
greater number of human victims to him than to any
other of the gods."
Acosta says of his appearance : " Th:e chiefest idoll
of Mexico was, as I have sayde, Vitziliputzli. It was
an image of wood like to a man, set upon a stoole of
the coloure of azure, in a brankard or litter, in every
corner was a piece of wood in forme of a serpent's
head. , The stoole signified that he was set in heaven.
This idol had all the forehead azure, and had a band
of azure under the nose from one ear to another.
Upon his head he had a rich plume of feathers like
to the beak of a small bird, the which was covered
on the top with gold burnished very brown. He had
in his left hand a small target, with the figures of five
pineapples made in 'vhite feathers set in a cross.
And from above issued forth a crest in gold, and at
his sides hee hadde foure dartes, which (the Mexicaines
say) had been sent from heaven, which shall be
spoken of. In his right hand he had an azured staffe
cut in the fashion of a waving snake. All tho~e orna-
ments with the rest bee hadde, carried his sence as
the Mexicaines doe shew."
58 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
Horrible human sacrifices took place in honour of
this god, but with this side of his 'vorship we ha,~e no
concern here.
Cinteotl, the young god of the maize-pJant, has
certain affinities with witchcraft. A song in his
honour says :
'' I came to the place where the roads meet,
I, the Maize~god.
Where shall I now go ?
Which way shall I take?,
"The place where the roads meet'' is of course
the haunting-place of the Ciuateteo, or witches, later
to be described. The god complains that he has a
difficulty in finding his way at the cross-roads. This
was the precise reason for which they were made, so
that the witches should be puzzled by them and know
not which route to take to approach their victims.
Witches all the world over are baffled by cross-roads,
and formerly the bodies of suicides and vampires
were buried beneath them, so that, did their evil
ghosts arise, they would be puzzled by the multi-
plicity of directions, '' wandered," as the Scottish
country folk say, and baffied in their intent to haunt
the living. Cinteotl's mother, Tlazolteotl, as we shall
see later, fulfilled the Mexican idea of the Queen of
the witches, and he was the husband of Xochiquetzal,
who may be described as the ruler of the Mexican
Fairyland. Cinteotl must also be regarded as one of
the plutonic deities, as, indeed, most grain-gods are,
a figure associated with the Underworld, the place of
the dead, the realm in which the seed germinates ere
it sprouts above ground.
A terrible and phantom-like goddess was Ciuacoatl,
or " Serpent Woman," another of the deities of grain.
She·is depicted as dressed in gorgeous robes, but with
the face of a skull, her headdress ornamented with
sacrificial flint knives. She dispensed bad fortune,
THE MAGICAL ASSOCIATIONS 59
abjectness and misery. She was wont to appear to
men in the guise of a richly dressed lady, such as
frequented the court. Through the night she wan-
dered, howling and bello,ving. Occasionally this
ghost-like divinity was seen carrying a cradle, and
when she vanished, examination showed that the
resting-place of what was believed to be an infant
contained nothing but an obsidian knife, such as was
used in human sacrifice.
Xipe Totec was a dismal god of human sacrifice, \
who had likewise fiendish or ghostly characteristics. /
He was the god of penance, once a man, who betook
himself to the mountain Catcitepulz, a height covered \
with thorns, to lead a life of seclusion. The inter-
preter of the "Codex Vaticanus '' says of him:
" They hold him in the utmost veneration, for they
say that he was the first who opened to them the way
to heaven; for they were under this error amongst
others : they supposed that only those who died in
'var went to heaven, as we have already said. Whilst
Totec still continued doing penance, preaching and
crying from the top of the mountain which has been
named, they pretend that he dreamed this night that
he beheld a horrible figure with its bowels protruding,
which was the cause of the great abomination of his
people. On this, praying to his god to reveal to him
'vhat the figure signified, he ans,vered that it was the
sin of his people, and that he should issue an order
to the people, and cause them all to be assembled,
charging them to bring thick ropes and to bind that
miserable spectre, as it was the c~use of ali their sins,
and that, dragging it away, they should remove it
from the people, who, giving faith to the words of
Totec, were by him conducted to a certain wild place,
where they found the figure of death, which, having
bound, they dragged it to a distance, and drawing it
backwards, they fell all into a cavity between the two
6o THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
mountains, which closed together, and there they
have remained buried ever since; none ofthem having
effected their escape, with the exception of the inno-
cent children, \Vho remained in Tulan."
That portion of the story \Vhich details the burial
en ma.sse of the Toltecs is, of course, the widespread
tale of the disappearance of the old hero-race under-
ground-the fate which overtook Charlemagne and
his peers, King Arthur and " the auld Picts " at
Arthur's Seat, near Edinburgh, Barbarossa and his
men, and many another group of paladins. The
\Vhole may allude, in the ultimate, to mound-burial.
It is strange too--or quite natural, as we believe in,
or doubt, the penetration of America by alien influ-
ences-to find in l\iexico an incomplete variant of
the legend of the Pied Piper of Hamelin. I should
not be surprised to find that Xipe piped the Toltec
people into the Underworld, for Tezcatlipoca, \vith
whom he was identified, or at least the captive who
represented that god at the Toxcatl festival, and who
had a year of merriment in which to prepare himself
for his fate, went through the city at-intervals, playing
upon a flute. This almost universal myth may allude
to the ancient beliefthat the souls ofthe dead travelled
with the wind, aD;d \vere the cause of its sighing and
whistling. We kno\v, too, that the 'vhistling of the
night 'vind through the mountains was regarded by
the Mexicans as of evil omen, and that Yoalli Eecatl
(The Wind of Night) was one of the names of Tez-
catlipoca.
Xipe was also the "night.drinker," the vampire-
being who sucked the blood of penitents during the
hours of slumber. Few deities were more dreaded by
the wretched Mexican peasants, by malefactors, and
by the tribal enemies of the Aztecs, who \vere usually
sacrificed to him after a mock combat. That this
bloodthirsty being was regarded as the god of peni-
THE MAGICAL ASSOCIATIONS 61
tence arose, of course, out of the extraordinary
importance of blood in the Mexican religion, the
vehicle 'vhich sustained the gods in life and which
the Aztec penitents shed on the altars by pricking
their tongues and thighs with thorns.
Itzpapalotl, the horrible "obsidian-knife butter-
fly," was a supernatural being who combined attri-
butes of the butterfly, or soul, with ·the knife of
sacrifice. The butterfly in many mythologies is the
ghost of the dead, and in this ghastly creature we
find it associated with the horror of the altars of
blood. Indeed the very name appears as of deathly
and hideous omen. This goddess of weird propen-
sity has butterfly 'vings edged round 'vith stone
knives. Her dreadful face is tricked out with the
cosmetics of the l\lexican court ladies, rubber patches
and \vhite chalk. Her claws are borrowed from the
jaguar, and sometimes she is represented as having a
skull instead of a face, in the nasal orifice of \vhich is
set a sacrificial knife.
In other pictures she is painted as wearing a na1,.talli,
or disguise of butterfly form, a magical cloak worn by
all necromancers to change their appearance. She
also wears the witches' loin-cloth trimmed with a
hem of human teeth, probably taken from a grave-
yard. "\Vhen she "appeared" to men they could
see only her claw-edged feet. That she was a demon
is plain not only from her general appearance, but
from the fact that she is enumerated along with
those 'vho fell from heaven, Uitzilopochtli and
Tezcatlipoca among the rest.
That Itzpapalotl was associated with the story of
the fall from heaven or paradise is plain from the
account of her furnished by the interpreter of the
"Codex Vaticanus A," 'vho, however, e:rrs in regarding
her as a male deity. He says : " Yxpapalotl signifies
a knife of butterflies. He was one of those gods who,
\
\
\
\
/
62 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
as they affirm, were expelled from heaven; and on
this account they paint him surrounded with knives
and wings of butterflies. They represent him with
the feet of an eagle, because they say that he occa-
sionally appears to them, and they only see the feet
of an eagle. They further add that, being in a garden
of great delight, he pulled some roses, but that sud-
denly the tree broke and blood streamed from it;
and that in consequence of this they were deprived
of that place of enjoyment and were cast into this
world because Tonacatecutli and his wife became
incensed, and accordingly they came some of them
to the earth, and others went to hell. He presided
over these thirteen signs (certain symbols of the
calendar), the first of which the house (calli) they
considered unfortunate, because they said that
demons came through the air on that sign in the
figures of women such as we call witches, who usually
went to the highways, where they met in the form
of a cross."
'H Itzpapalotl was one of the Tzi~_imime, or demons
-J ~f dar~~~~-and as such syfii'bolicallYtook irisect
shape. I believe her to have been developed from the
idea of the deer, which is, after all, a surrogate of the
dragon, and indeed she is identified in one tale with
the mythical deer Itzcueye. We know, too, that the
butterfly, or ghost-symbol, was associated with the
Ciuatete6 or dead witches, to whose spirits the people
offered cakes stamped with a butterfly symbol.
The gods of death and the Underworld naturally
had a plutonic and magical significance. At the head
of these was Mictlantecutli, or " Lord of Mictlampa,"
the region of death, or Hades. He was depicted as a
skeleton, the arms and legs of which were painted
white with yellow spots pricked in red to symbolize
the bones of a newly flayed person. Beside him are
depicted the o1ninous symbols of the witches' cross-
THE MAGICAL ASSOCIATIONS 63
roads and the owl, the mummy-bundle and the grass
of the desert, along with a smoking dish of human
hearts.
The interpreterof "CodexVaticanusA''says ofMict-
Iantecutli : " He descends for souls as a spider lo,vers
itself with its head downwards from the \veb." Later
on he states that "he is the great lord of the dead
below in hell, who alone after Tonacatecutli {Lord of
the Sun) was painted 'vith a crown. . . . They
painted this demon near the sun, for in the same way
as they believed that the one conducted souls to
heaven, so they supposed that the other carried them
to hell. He is here represented (that is in the codex)
with his hands open and stretched to\vards the sun
to seize on any soul that might escape from him."
Mictlantecutli, it would seem, is neither more nor
less than a god of the dead, that is, his original con-
ception \vas probably that of a prince of Hades, a
ruler of the realm of the departed, who in time came
to possess the terrific aspect and the punitive attri-
butes of a deity whose office it was to torment the
souls of the erring. The fact that he presides over
the eleventh hour-the hour of sunset-indicates that
he was in a measure identified with_the nigpt, as
indeed certain aspects of his insignia would appear
to show. In a manner he must be regarded as the
earth which, in its·form of the grave, yawns or gapes
insatiably for the bodies of the dead. '
His terril?le wife, Mictecaciuatl, strongly resembles
him. Tepeyollotl, another of the Tzitzimimes, seems
to have represented both ghost and grave, earthquake
and cave, a horrid blending of the attributes of mor-
tality. But he seems also to have been the jaguar
in his form of wer-beast, something devouring,
annihilating.
From all this we clearly discern the true tendency
of l\lexican magic. The gods were not so much gods
64 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
in the usual acceptance of the term as magical forces
personalized, divine figures, \vho, in some cases, had
once been sorcerers or medicine·men. We have a
similar example in ancient Britain, \vhere Merlin, the
supreme 'vizard, came in time to be regarded as a
deity, and the whole island as his " place " or
" enclosure," the area of his magical scope.
Small 'vonder, then, that the ignorant among the
Mexicans, the people at large, feared and dreaded
the gods. But the instructed classes and the priest-
hood regarded them very differently. They strove to
understand the magical system which these beings
were thought to have initiated, and to 'vield it for the
general behoof according to their lights. They were
men engaged in the effort of comprehending and eluci-
dating a vast system of philosophical magic, contained
in myth, symbolism, and astrology, just as the
European magicians, astrologers, and alchemists of
the Middle Ages were in a similar manner devoted to
the study of a magical system of more various origin
bequeathed to them from the past in East and \'Vest,
which they attempted to standardize and use. In
the 1\fexican occult system, which was also the
Mexican religion, we behold a stage of the develop-
ment of magical science not at its most delectable,
perhaps, but rather at such an evolutionary phase as
all such wisdom-religions or occult philosophies must
pass through on the road to perfection, and there is
every indication that, had it not been cut short by
the Spanish invasion, it would have in time developed
into a system of magico-religious thought such as is
to be observed in earlier Brahmanism or in the
philosophy of ancient Egypt.
At the period when Cortes dealt it its first reverse,
this system was slowly emerging from a phase in
which the minds of its ministers were engaged in
grappling with the problem of demonism. They were
THE MAGICAL ASSOCIATIONS 65
in the process of discovering how, precisely, those
dark po\vers to whom they attributed the rule and
hegemony of this \Vorld and human society might be
persuaded to employ their might for the good of
man. The one means by ·which they considered it
possible to enlist the sympathies of the agencies in
\vhich they believed was by regaling them with
human sacrifices. We see in the earlier form of
British Druidism a similar condition and belief. We 1
know that the ancient system of worship once in
vogue in our islands inculcated the need for human
sacrifice, but that it also contained the germs of much
loftier ideas, that, in the course of centuries, it
excogitated a large philosophy of occult lore of a
most sublime character. Similarly, then, the Mexican
dispensation in vogue at the time of the coming of
the Spaniards contained within itself the seeds and
promise ofgreatly higher development. In the exalted
prayers to the gods, in the explanations of the priest-
hood, in the extraordinary mythology of the Aztecs,
we can trace the underlying conditions and psychology
of a great magical lore slowly coming to fruition.
Twisted and distorted out of all semblance to its
original form as it has been by the worthy friars who
have bequeathed to us its broken fragments, is it
remarkable that \Ve have not so far estimated it at
its true worth, but have regarded it as the mere
devil-worship of degenerate barbarism ?
Let us probe beneath the surface and try to discern
the inner significance of what was actually a well-
considered body of occult learning. In the first place
\Ye find an ancient and well-founded belief in a
supreme being, an all-father, a god behind the gods,
who, however, appears to have adopted a somewhat
remote attitude towards human affairs. This First
Cause the Aztecs called Teotl, or ".the god," and that
he was eternal and unfathomable in his nature all
E
L
'
66 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
authorities are agreed. The myths regarding the
creator of the universe are some,vhat conflicting, but
display a belief in the various demiurgic processes
familiar to most mythologies, and scarcely concern us
in this place. A myth of wide acceptance was that
which told of the periodic or epochal destruction of
the world and of man by the agencies of fire, air,
earthquake, and flood at dates the most distant and
remote. At the time of the Spanish invasion the
Mexicans were awaiting ·with considerable dread the
advent of a fifth cataclysm of the kind, and every
fifty-two years' the possibility of such a catastrophe
came round and might only be avoided by sacrifice
on a grand scale.
But the grand arcanum or secret of the ~lexican
priests seems to have resided in the belief that the
balance of the universe in which they lived could be
held only by the observance of penitential pro-
prieties which included not sacrifice alone, but the
study of omens and portents. Augury and astrology
were, indeed, the chief means by which humanity
might be safeguarded from destruction or sorrow.
Nevertheless, the entire wisdom of the priesthood by
no means resided in the proper use of the tonalamatl,
or Book of Fate, or in the observance of auspices, as
has too hastily been concluded. Side by side with
them the hierophant cultivated mysteries which con-
cealed and enshrined a system of thought of which
the astrological and divinatory systems were merely
the outward symbols, as will be shown later on.
CHAPTER III
1\IEXICAN 1\IAGIC
T HE "official" magic of Mexico was almost
entirely the preserve of a class of sorcerers
kno,vn as naualli, who may have been a
section of the priesthood especially deputed for this
service, although many of them practised their art
separately. Regarding the powers of this caste, we
possess sufficient information to give us a good general
indication of their beliefs and practices.
The Spanish priesthood has bequeathed to us
certain notices regarding the naualli which, however,
give us a somewhat confused notion oftheir attributes.
"The naualli," says the 'vriter who first mentions
them, " is he 'vho terrifies people and sucks the blood
ofchildren during the night." "These are magicians,"
says Father Juan Bautista in his instructions t·o con-
fessors, printed at Mexico in the year 1600, " who
conjure the clouds when there is danger of hail so
that the crops may not be injured. They can also
make a stick look like a serpent, a mat like a centi-
pede, a piece of stone like a scorpion, and engage in
similar deceptions. Others of them will transform
themselves to all appearance into a tiger, a dog, or a
weasel. Others, again, will take the form of an owl
or a cock.''
Nicolas de Leon, in a similar work, instructs the
priest to ask the natives such questions as : " Art
thou a soothsayer ? Dost thou foretell events by
67
68 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
reading signs, or by interpreting dreams, or by water,
making circles or figures on its surface? Dost thou
suck the blood of others, or dost thou wander about
at night, calling upon the Demon to help thee ? Hast
thou drunk peyotl, or given it to others to drink, in
order to find out secrets ? Dost thou know how to
speak to serpents in such \Vords that they obey
thee?"
The intoxicant peyotl, which the natives used to
induce trance, is a species of vinagrilla having a white
tuberous root, which was the part made use of. The
Aztecs were said to have derived their knowledge of
it from an older race who preceded them in the land.
The intoxication it caused lasted several days. The
natives masticated it and then placed it in a wooden
mortar, where it was left to ferment. Another medi-
cine employed by the naualli for the purpose of induc-
ing ecstatic visions was an unguent kno\vn as teopatli,
or " the divine remedy," a compound of the seeds of
certain plants, the ashes of spiders, scorpions, and
other noxious insects.
Magical enterprises and experiments were usually
timed by sorcerers to take place during the second,
""- fifth or seventh hours of the night, which were
naturally the most dreaded by the common people
because they were presided over by gods of evil
repute, and thus were considered favourable to the
appearance of demons or phantoms and the assemblies
of witches. Night, too, \vas naturally the heyday of
the sorcerer or naualli, and certain members of this
caste seem to have practised vampirism and to
have taken the shape of \Ver-wolves, or rather wer-
~ coyotes.
Those who desired to injure an enemy by spells
and other enchantments would go by night to the
dwelling of the naualli and bargain for the drug or
potion by means of which they hoped to be revenged.
./
MEXICAN MAGIC
From certain passages in the old authorities it would
seem that these sorcerers lived in huts built of
wooden planks gaily painted-perhaps a development
of the lodge of the medicine-man with its brightly
coloured symbolism. .
During the hours of da1·kness the priestly occupants
of the teocallis or temples carefully replenished the
braziers, whose fires ·were supposed to exercise a
deterrent influence upon all evil visitants to the
earth-sphere. At stated intervals, too, they beat
drums and sounded conch-shells to drive off the
demons of gloom, and the trembling peasant as he lay
in his reed shack and listened to the reverberation of
the tympani of serpent skins, the gongs, and the
rude horns of the sacred guardians of his peace, must
have been heartened by the distant and reassuring
clamour.
All the terrors of Spanish ecclesiasticism could not
put an end to the practice of magic among the 1\{exi-
cans. The minor feats of sorcery flourished in every
1\fexican town and village. Sahagun tells us how a
class of professional conjurers existed who could roast
maize on a cloth 'vithout fire, produce as from nowhere
a spring or well filled with fishes, and after setting
fire to and burning huts, restore them to their original
condition. The conjurer, asserts the chronicler, might
on occasion even dismember himself and then achieve
the miracle of self-resurrection.
Perhaps a higher caste of the naualli were the
" master magicians," who were also known as teo-
pia:qui and teotecuhtli or "sacred companions-in-
arms," and the nanahualtin, " those who know."
Entrance to these very select orders might be
attained only after severe and prolonged tests of
initiation:
The chief naualli or magician of Mexico was a
priest of high rank, an astrological adept, who was
. .
-
70 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
credited with the assumption of animal form at will
and the power of levitation. He acted as the guardian
of the city against sorcerers, and gave warning of
famine or pestilence.
The naualli caste were therefore not only suspect
of vampirism but had associations with witchcraft, as
we shall see. They also practised divination and
astrology, as indeed did the l\fexican priesthood as a
whole. The Spanish priesthood quickly discovered
t~at it was not so much a religion from which they
had to wean the native mind as an elaborate ritual
mingled with magical practice. The dusk of magic
'vhich shadowed the bizarre, cro,vded cities could
almost be felt by those courageous priests. It 'vas
easy enough to combat an idolatry regarding the
higher conception of which the people had only loose
ideas and legendary glimmerings. But the more
popular devil-worship which accompanied it had a
far stronger hold on the native affections. The Aztec
was enthralled by it. His whole life from the cradle
to the grave was ordered by its inevitable and ghastly
. .
prOVISIOnS.
No sooner had the Mexican aristocracy been
accounted for by slaughter or conversion than a
significant change took place in the tendency and
character of the native faith. The Aztec priesthood,
realizing that if its doctrines were to survive at all it
must make a powerful appeal to the mass mind of
the nation, threw every ounce of energy into the task
of shaping the superstitions of the lower orders into ·
a deadly instrument of vengeance against the 'vhites.
In this new movement magic of a repellent kind 'vas
joined with political conspiracy against Spanish
supremacy, and the extraordinary cult thus developed
had for its chief deity Satan himself, if we are to credit
the writings of those who opposed it and laboured
untiringly for its destruction.
MEXICAN MAGIC 71
This mysterious secret society had branches in all
parts of the country, and its members were classed in
varying degrees, initiation into which was granted
only after prolonged and rigorous experience. Local
brotherhoods or lodges were organized, and there
\Vere certain recognized centres of the cult. At each
of these places was stationed a high priest or master
magician, who had beneath his authority often as
many as a thousand lesser priests, and ·who exercised
control over a large district.
The priesthood of this guild was handed down from
father to son. The highest grade appears to have
been that of Xochimalca, or "flo\ver-weaver," prob-
ably because its men1bers possessed the faculty of
deceiving the senses of votaries by strange and
pleasant visions.
Indeed, the Spanish clergy never were quite posi-
tive whether a native Mexican was a Christian or a
pagan, and in many cases where it seemed the Indians
were of the most devout character, subsequent in-
vestigation proved them to be unrepentant demon-
worshippers.
Father Burgoa describes very fully a case of this
kind which came under his notice in 1652 in the
Zapotec village of San Francisco de Cajonos. He
encountered on a tour of inspection an old native
cacique, or chief, of great refinement of manners and
of a stately presence, who dressed in costly garments
after the Spanish fashion, and who was regarded by
the Indians with much veneration. This man came
to the priest for the purpose of reporting upon the
progress in things spiritual and temporal in his
village. Burgoa recognized his urbanity and wonder-
ful command of the Spanish language, but perceived
by certain signs which he had been taught to look for
by long experience that the man \vas a pagan. He
communicated his suspicions to the vicar ofthe village,
\
I
72 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
but met with such assurances of the cacique's sound-
ness of faith that he believed himself to be in error
for once. Shortly afterwards, however, a \vandering
Spaniard perceived the chief in a retired place in the
mountains performing idolatrous ceremonies, and
aroused the monks, two of whom accompanied him
to the spot where the cacique had been seen indulging
in his heathenish practices. They found on the altar
"feathers of many colours, sprinkled with blood
which the Indians had dra·wn from the veins under
their tongues and behind their ears, incense spoons
and remains of copal, and in the middle a horrible
stone figure, which "\vas the god to \vhom they had
offered this sacrifice in expiation of their sins, while
they made their confessions to the blasphemous
priests, and cast off their sins in the following manner :
they had woven a kind of dish out of a strong herb,
specially gathered for this purpose, and casting this
before the priest, said to him that they came to beg
mercy· of their god, and pardon for their sins they
had committed during that year, and that they
brought them all carefully enumerated. They then
drew out of a cloth pairs of thin threads made of dry
maize husks that they had tied two by t\vo in the
middle with a knot, by which they represented their
sins. They laid these threads on the dishes of grass,
and over them pierced their veins, and let the blood
trickle upon them, and the priest took these offerings
to the idol, and in a long speech he begged the god to
forgive these, his sons, their sins "\vhich were brought
to him, and to permit them to be joyful and hold
feasts to him as their god and lord. Then the priest
came back to those 'vho had confessed, delivered a
long discourse on the ceremonies they had still to
perform, and told them that the god had pardoned
them and that they might be glad again and sin
anew."
MEXICAN MAGIC 73
Acosta, the Spanish chronicler, writing of the 1\lexi-
can priests and their magical customs, says:
" The priests of the idols in l\Iexico were anointed
in this sort; they anointed the body from the foot
to the head, and all the hair Iike\vise, 'vhich hung like
tresses or a horse's mane, for that they applied this
unction \vet and moist. Their hair gre\v so, as in
time it hung down to..their hams, so heavily that it
\vas troublesome for them to bear it, for they did
never cut it until they died, or that they were dis-
pensed with for their great age, or being employe~ in
governments, or some honourable charge in the com-
monwealth. They carried their hair in tresses of six
fingers breadth, \vhich they dyed black with the fume
of sapine, of fir trees, or rosin; for in all antiquity it
hath been an offering they made unto their idols and
for this cause it \Yas much esteemed and reverenced.
They were always dyed 'vith this tincture from the
foot to the head, so as they were like unto shining
negroes, and that was their ordinary unction: yet
when as they went to sacrifice and give incense in the
mountains, or on the tops thereof, or in any dark and
obscure caves, where their idols were, they used
another kind of unction very different, doing certain
ceremonies to take away fear and to give them
courage. This unction was made with divers little
venomous beasts, as spiders, scorpions, palmers,
salamanders, and vipers, the which the boys in the
colleges took and gathered together, wherein they
were so expert as they were always furnished when
the priests called for them. The chief care of these
boys was to hunt after these beasts ; if they went
any other way, and by chance met with any of these
beasts, they stayed to take them with as great pain,
as if their lives depended thereon. By the reason
\vhercof the Indians commonly feared not these
venornous beasts, making no more account than if
74 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
they 'vere not so, having been all bred in this exercise.
To make an ointment of these beasts they took them
all together and burnt them upon the hearth of the
temple which was before the altar, until they were
consumed to ashes: then did they put them in
mortars with much tobacco or petum (being an herb
that nation us.eth much to benumb the flesh that they
may not feel their travail), with the which they
mingle the ashes making them lose their force ; they
did likewise mingle with these ashes scorpions, spiders,
and palmers alive, mingling all together, then they
did put to it a certain seed being ground which they
call ololuchqui, whereof the Indians make a drink to
see visions, for that the virtue of this herb is to
deprive man of sense. They did like,vise grind with
these ashes black and hairy worms, 'vhose hair only
is venomous, all which they mingled together with
black, or the fume of rosin, putting it in small pots
which they set before their god, saying it was his meat.
And therefore they called it a divine meat. By means
of this ointment they became witches, and did see
and speak with the devil. The priests being slobbered
with this ointment lost all fear, putting on a spirit of
cruelty. By reason 'vhereof they did very boldly kill
men in their sacrifices, going all alone in the night to
the mountains, and into obscure caves, contemning all
wild beasts, and holding it for certain and approved
that both lions, tigers, serpents, and other furious
beasts which breed in the mountains and forests
fled from them, by virtue of this petum of their
god.
"And in truth, though this petum had no power to
make them fly, yet 'vas the devil's picture sufficient
whereinto they were transformed. This petum did
also serve to cure the sick, and for children : and
therefore all called it the divine physic: and so they
came from all parts to the superiors and priests, as to
MEXICAN MAGIC 75
their saviours, that they might apply this divine
physic, wherewith they anointed those parts that were
grieved. They said that they felt hereby a notable
ease, which might be, for that tobacco and ololuchqui
have this property of themselves, to benumb the
flesh, being applied in manner of an emplaster, which
must be by a stronger reason being mingled 'vith
poisons, and for that it did appease and benumb the
pain, they held it for an effect of health and a divine
virtue. And therefore ran they to these priests as to
holy men, who kept the blind and ignorant in this
error, persuading them what they pleased, and
making them run after their inventions and devilish
ceremonies, their authority being such, as their words
were sufficient to induce belief as an article of their
faith. And thus made they a thousand superstitions
among the vulgar people in their manner of offering
incense, in cutting their hair, tying small flowers
about their necks, and strings with small bones of
snakes, commanding them to bathe at a certain time ;
and that they should watch all night at the hearth
lest the fire should die, that they should eat no other
bread but that which had been offered to their gods,
that they should upon any occasion repair unto their
lvitches, who with certain grains told fortunes, and
divines, looking into keelers and pails full of water.
The sorcerers and ministers of the Devil used much
to besmear themselves. There were an infinite
number of these witches, diviners, enchanters, and
other false prophets. There remains yet at this day
of this infextion, although they be secret, not
daring publicly to exercise their sacrilegious devilish
ceremonies and superstitions."
The statement that fortunes were told with grain
is worthy of passing notice. Grains of maize or beans
·were used to discover whether a patient would get
well, and the patroness of those diviners who used
76 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
this medium \Vas the golden Tozi, though the casting
of grains was usually performed before an in1age of
Quetzalcoatl, the patron of magic. Some twenty
grains \vere cast upon a cloth. If they fell in circular
shape it was held to typify a grave, and therefore
death, but if in a straight line, leaving two on each
side, the illness would have a happy issue. If a knot
tied in a string could be loosed by pulling it, recovery
would ensue.
A sick child would be held over a vessel of water.
If his reflection was dim he might not recover, that is
his " soul " or shadow was unhealthy.
Regarding these practices Father Clavigero says :
'' Besides the usual unction with ink, another
extraordinary and more abominable one \Vas prac-
tised every time they went to make sacrifices on the
tops of mountains, or in the dark caverns of the
earth. They took a large quantity of poisonous
insects, such as scorpions, spiders, and worms, and
sometimes even small serpents, burned them over
some stove of the temple, and beat their ashes in a
mortar together with the foot of the ocotl, tobacco,
the ololuchqu.i, and some live insects. They presented
this diabolical mixture in small vessels to their gods,
and afterwards rubbed their bodies with it. When
thus anointed they became fearless to every danger,
being persuaded they were rendered incapable of
receiving any hurt from the most noxious reptiles
of the earth or the wildest beast of the woods. They
called it teopatli, or divine medicament, and imagined
it to be a po·werful remedy for several disorders; on
which account those who were sick, and the young
children, went frequently to the priests to be anoin~ed
with it. The young lads who' were trained up in the
seminaries were charged with the collecting of such
kind of little animals; and by being accustomed at
an early age to that kind of employment they soon
MEXICAN MAGIC 77
lost the horror \vhich attends the first familiarity \vith
such reptiles. The priests not only made use of this
unction but had likewise a ridiculous superstitious
practice of blowing 'vith their breath over the sick,
and made them drink water 'vhich they had blessed
after their manner. The priests of the god Ixtlilton
were remarkable for this custom."
It is some,vhat difficult to separate from religion
proper those rites in which magic was employed in
public ceremonies. At the festival of the Ochpaniztli,
sacred to the goddess Tlazolteotl, the rite of the mys-
tical birth of her son Cinteotl was celebrated. Her
priest was decorated with her insignia, and thus
attired he came to the teocalli of Uitzilopochtli, where,
representing the goddess, he lay do\vn to be impreg-
nated by the spirit of the god. Another priest,
representing Cinteotl, stood by, and was regarded as
the son conceived from this intercourse. Thus, by
the aid of sympathetic magic, the new maize-spirit
was born.
The po,ver of sympathetic magic was also invoked )
in the horrible human sacrifices to Tlaloc, the god of
water, when the infants whose hair seemed to the
priests to resemble the eddies in the lake were cere-
nlonially drowned so as to ensure" life" to the waves
and \Vhirlpools. \
1\fagical, too, 'vas the sham fight indulged in at the
festival of Tlacaxipeualitzli, when young men, clad
in the skins of the wretched sacrificed victims with
others, typified, perhaps, the struggle of the renewed
earth with the forces of dearth and drought, a drama
similar to that of Osiris in Egypt.
In fact, if we carefully examine the circumstances
of the several Mexican religious festivals we find that
they practically all had a magico-dramatic character,
in which some particular mythical tale, the story of a
god or fetish, was enacted, and that the rite so enacted
\
78 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
was supposed by the power of sympathetic magic to
be efficacious in producing the effects alluded to in
the myth itself.
Thus at the festival of Tepeilhuitl, sacred to the
gods of rain and moisture, little serpents and moun-
tains were made of maize paste which were symbolical
of the legend that the rain-gods dwelt in the hills and
that they took the shapes of serpents, which typified
water. Several women, called after the goddesses of
fruitfulness, were sacrificed to give their representa-
tives new life along with one man who typified water.
The paste images were afterwards broken up and eaten
so that the people might partake of their qualities.
But the very apogee of sympathetic magic is
reached in what I will call the Obsidian Religion of
Mexico, for in this strange cult, which I personally
discovered, the obsidian stone was regarded as a
magical substance which came to wield an extra-
ordinary po,ver over every departn1ent of Mexican
life.
As everyone engaged in research is a'vare, there
comes a time when the subject of study assumes an
aspect so thoroughly at variance with one's ociginal
conception of it that the student is aghast at the
extraordinary change presented. Generally, such an
experience is the fruit of prolonged application and
contemplation. In my own case it required more than
twenty years of research and groping in the difficult
field of Mexican religion to realize that underlying
what I had always believed to be the official faith of
the Aztecs was a still earlier cult connected with the
obsidian stone.
I was, of course, well aware that obsidian played a
certain part in Aztec religion as a ceremonial object
in use on sacrificial and other occasions, but the full
measure of its importance did not dawn on me until
I began to arrange the gods of the Mexican pantheon
MEXICAN MAGIC 79
into groups. During this process I observed that the
names of at least three of these included the ~fexican
word for obsidian, itztli. One of these gods, indeed,
was known as ltztli, the other two being Itzpapalotl
(" obsidian butterfly ") and Itzlacoliuhqui (" curved
obsidian knife"). I kne\v that Tezcatlipoca, one of
the principal Mexican deities, was frequently repre-
sented as an obsidian knife, and that the native
Aztec paintings were crowded with pictures of this
symbol, which occurred so frequently that I could
scarcely be mistaken in placing a high value on its
religious significance.
I had before me at least one other analogy. The
importance of jade in Chinese Religion and Folklore
afforded me much food for thought. I knew that the
implications of the beautiful jade stone permeated
the \vhole of Chinese legend, folk-belief, and theology.
Then I observed that several ofthe Mexican gods were
represented as \Vearing sandals made of obsidian, and
the sandal, I had formerly discovered, must often be
taken as an indication of the significance of a Mexican
god. In fact, the longer I searched the more traces
of obsidian did I find in Mexican lore. The image of
the god Tezcatlipoca, the mirror in which he beheld
the doings of humanity, his death-dealing arrows,
"'ere all of obsidian. The very cloak he \vore was,
I found, merely an adaptation of the net bag in
which the Aztec hunter carried his obsidian arrow-
heads.
I found, too, that such deities as were connected
with obsidian were exclusively those worshipped by
the Aztec or Nahua tribes of Mexico, and that the
cults of Quetzalcoatl and Tlaloc, the deities of older
precedence in the land, were associated with it in a
secondary manner only, and very slightly at that-
that, indeed, their associations were with the chal·
chihuitl stone, or native jadeite.
l __
8o THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
I resolved to follow up these clues, and did so 'vith
the following results: Obsidian is a vitreous natural
glass, found in the upper volcanic strata of 1\Iexico
and California, which flakes readily from the core by
pressure and gains by mere fracture a razor-like edge
of considerable penetrative power. The principal
quarry of this volcanic glass was the mountain known
as the Cerro de las Navajas, or "Hill of the Knives,"
near Timapan, and from this centre obsidian was
'vidcly distributed by barter over a very considerable
area. There would seem to be proof that this mineral,
so suitable for the purposes of the nomadic hunter,
was anciently known far to the north of 1\Iexico.
The observations of Dr. G. M. Dawson in British
Columbia about 1890 satisfied him that trading inter·
course was engaged in by the coast tribes with those
of the interior along the Frazer River Valley and far
to the south. From the remotest times embraced in
their native traditions, the Bilquila of Dean Inlet
have possessed a trade route by \vay of the Bella
Coola River to the Tinne Country, along which trail
broken implements and chips of obsidian have been
found. Many of the routes in British Columbia have
also yielded chips and flakes of obsidian. The coast
tribes of British Columbia have been traders for
untold generations, exchanging oolactin oil for such
materials as they could make implements from, and
there seems to be no doubt that the Mound-builders of
Ohio, Wisconsin, and l{entucky \vere also acquainted
\Vith obsidian, \vhich they could only have obtained
through the process of barter. It was thus either to
be found in the regions from 'vhich the Nahua of
Mexico are thought to have come, or else obtainable
through the channels of trade.
The Nahua were thus probably acquainted \Vith
obsidian and its properties before their entrance into
Mexico. This theory is strengthened by the material
MEXICAN MAGIC 8I
difference in workmanship between their tools and
"reapons made of this mineral and the stone and
copper implements of the aboriginal peoples of
1\ftxico. It 'vas naturally as a hunting people that
they employed weapons of obsidian. The herds of
deer, on the flesh of which they chiefly lived, roamed
the steppes, and proof abounds that the customs of
the chase strongly influenced the religious ideas of
the.early Nahua. Certain of their gods, indeed, seem
to have been developed from deer forms, for among
barbarous races the animal worshipped is frequently
that which provides the tribe with its staple food, or,
more correctly, a great eponymous figure of that
animal is adored-for example, the Great Deer who
sends the smaller deer to keep the savage in life.
These deer-gods, or hunting-gods in some way con-
nected with the deer-Itzpapalotl, Itzcueye, Mixcoatl,
Camaxtli-had also stellar attributes. The deer was
slain by the obsidian weapon, which, therefore, came
to be regarded as the magical weapon, that by which
food was procured. In the course of time it assumed
a sacred significance, the hunting-gods themselves
came to wield it, and it was thought of as coming
from the stars or the heavens where the gods dwelt, ......._
in precisely the same manner as flint arrow-heads
were regarded by the peasantry of Europe as "elf-
arrows " or " thunder-stones "-that is, as something
supernatural, falling from above.
When the nomadic tribes, of which the Aztecs were
one, adopted an agricultural existence, obsidian had
doubtless been regarded as sacred for generations.
It was by virtue of this supernatural stone that the
nourishment of the gods was maintained by the
sacrifice of deer. By the aid of lances and arrows
fashioned from its flakes, deer were more easily
slaughtered than with clumsier stone weapons. With
these primitive hunters obsidian took much the same
I'
•
82 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
place as bronze did with the Neolithic peoples, and
came to be regarded as the chief agency through
which the necessities of life were acquired.
But when the Nahua embraced a more settled
existence the nourishment of the gods had neces-
sarily to be maintained by other means than the
sacrifice of deer, which were gradually disappearing.
Slaves and war-captives were sacrificed in the place
of deer, their wrists and ankles being tied together
precisely in the manner in which a deer is trussed by
the hunter. The transition of deer-sacrifice by
obsidian to a human holocaust and from the hunting
to the agricultural condition of life is 'veil illustrated
by an ancient hymn in praise of the goddess Itzpa-
palotl:
•
~' 0, she has become a goddess of the melon-cactus,
Our mother Itzpapa.lotl, the Obsidian Butterfly,
Her food is on the Nine Plains,
She was nurtured on the hearts of deer,
Our mother the earth-goddess."
The inference in these lines seems to be that
whereas Itzpapalotl was formerly a goddess of the
Nahua nomads of the steppes in the north of Mexico,
who sacrificed deer to her, she has now become the
deity of the melon-cactus patch and an agricultural
community.
Mexican traditions make it very clear that obsidian,
because of its blood and life-procuring properties,
came to be regarded as the source of all life, as the
very principle of existence. Tonacaciuatl, the creative
goddess, gave birth to an obsidian knife from which
sprang sixteen hundred demi-gods who peopled the
earth. In the native paintings, maize, the chief food
of the people, is often pictured in the form of an
obsidian knife-blade. Just as in many myths, both
in the Old World and the New, flint was regarded as
the great fertilizer because of its supposed connection
MEXICAN MAGIC
with the lightning, so was obsidian. Thus, all the
elements which go to make for growth and life came
to be regarded as having a connection 'vith this
mineral, even the sun itself being identified with the
mirror of Tezcatlipoca. The hunter's obsidian weapon
which supplied the necessary pabulum, became in
turn the weapon of the warrior who procured victims
for the holocaust, and the sacred knife of the priest
who sacrificed them to the deity. Obsidian 'vas thus
chiefly the 'var weapon and the sacrificial weapon,
but the traditions relating to it are associated with all
the offices of human art, industry, and activity, and
well illustrate the inter-relations of early religion and
magic with war, labour, art, and }a,v.
Probably after a long career as a fetish, obsidian
at last became personalized or deified, just as grain
achieved a personality as Osiris or "John Barley-
corn." The process of development from fetish to
god is a fairly clear one. From obsidian were manu-
factured the mirrors or scrying-stones, in 'vhich
wizards or necromancers pretended to see visions of
the past or the future. These were known as aitztli,
or "water obsidian," probably because of the high
polish they were capable of. One of these is carried
by Tezcatlipoca. Many deities when they arrive at
that stage of development when they take human
shape continue to be represented along with their
fetish or totem shape, and that this was so in the case
of Tezcatlipoca admits of no doubt, as one of his
minor names is Itztli, or " obsidian," and his principal
title itself means merely "Smoking 1\lirror," and, as
we have seen, his idol 'vas carved from obsidian.
Obsidian, the great life-preserver and food-getter,
became identified in the form of this god as one of
those magical stones which are considered capable of
raising a storm, and therefore with the 'vind, the
cause or b1·eath of life.
84 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
Obsidian thus came to be looked upon as the symbol
of life, \vith every manifestation of which it had inter-
relations. Just as the oak-cult of the Druids seems
to have given an oak-like virtue to the oracular birds
'vhich dwelt \vithin its branches, to the soil from
which it grew, to the sky above it, to the priests \vho
ministered to it, and to the sacred implements they
employed, just as the idea of jade permeated all
Chinese life and thought in early times, so the obsidian
idea came to have ramifications in every department
of Aztec life. In course of time this magical idea
gradually became amalgamated \vitli the rather more
" civilized " cults of Quetzalcoatl and Tlaloc. But
it left its mark upon 1\:t:exican religion to the last, its
symbolism persisted, and no view of Aztec life is
complete which does not take it into consideration
and regard it as a fundamental in the upbuilding of
one of the world's most interesting magico-religious
systems.
Thus the magic of obsidian assumed a religiou~
phase, and became one of the chief considerations in
Mexican life. It entered both into practical occultism
as the medium for divination, and into thought as
the supplier of blood. It had therefore a two~old
effect on the general arcane outlook of l\fexican
I
man.
Numerous superstitions came to be associated with
the central occult ideas in Mexican life. If hair could
be snatched from a sorcerer's head it was believed
,
that he would die the same night unless he could
steal or borrow something from the house of the
person who had taken it. The animal world held
many portents for man besides the ominous call of
the owl, the bird of Mictlantecutli, the god of death,
and it was considered unlucky to encounter a skunk
or a weasel. If rab~its or ants entered a house they
were certain to bring bad luck, and if a certain kind
MEXICAN MAGIC
of spider was found on the \valls of a dwelling the
inhabitant traced a cross upon the ground, in the
centre of which he placed the insect. If it should
cra,vl northwards it was regarded as a sign of death
for him who caught it, as the north was the compass
direction of the Underworld.
Scores of popular beliefs were current. Before
maize was cooked it was blo·wn upon "to give it
courage" or life, and to neglect to pick up maize-
grains lying on the ground was to court future want.
To step over a child was to arrest its growth, although
a back,vard step could avert the damage done. For
a girl to eat standing was to risk the loss of a husband.
Children's first teeth were placed in mouse-holes so
that their subsequent teeth might grovv strong, the
idea being that the proximity of rodents to the first
teeth would by sympathetic magic cause the next to
have good growing power. Sneezing \Vas an evil
omen, and it \vas thought that ill was being spoken
of the sneezer. The scent of flowers might be inhaled
from the edge of a bouquet only, as the centre belonged
to the god Tezcatlipoca.
In short, most of the superstitions which we our-
selves still indulge in were to be encountered among
the ancient Mexicans.
I shall try through the medium of fiction to afford
the reader a picture more or less complete of magic
in Old 1\lexico, for to my way of thinking one of
the most legitimate uses to which fiction can be
put is the illumination of the past by its imaginary
gleam.
From among the blue shadows of a night in Old
Mexico arose the great pyramid temple of Uitzil, god
of war, the braziers on its summit glowing sullenly in
despite of a moon of full sovereignty. Half-way up
the staircase which writhed around the white pile sat
a little old man, bald and ragged, with a curious,
86 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
carven face and wicked half-blind eyes. This was
Total, the rag-picker. Raking among the gutters of
the House of Archives, he had come upon a painted
manuscript, and thinking it a contract or such-like,
had pushed it into his sack with other street flotsam.
But appraising his discovery at night in his waterside
shack, he had spelled through its symbols, and as he
was a rag-picker rather through idleness than insuffi-
ciency he did not fail to comprehend that it enshrined
a mystery. It read as follows, according to his inter-
pretation, for writing by pictures lacks the exactitude
of writing by letters, and a pictorial manuscript may
find as many interpretations as it does readers :
"Beneath the ninety-third step of the teocalli of
Uitzil, the war-god, lies the casket of'Huemac of the
Strong Hand, the great and powerful magician. If
anyone remove the stone and obtain possession of the
casket and its contents he shall be as great as was
Huemac."
That is why Total sat on the ninety-second step of
the teocalli of the war-god and gazed sadly upon the
ninety-third step. It was nearly four yards long,
and weighed, perhaps, a ton. His imagination refused
to soar with the shadow of such a weight upon it.
The great block became his symbol for the impossible.
Wedged bet,veen its upper and under fellows in the
flight of steps it seemed steadfast as the teocalli its~lf.
Moreover, there was a never-ceasing traffic of priests
and penitents from dawn till dusk and from sunset to
sunrise. He peered over the sides of the pyramid.
The stones of the retaining wall were even more
massive than those of the stair,vay. Surely a devil
had painted this script for his undoing, some evil
fiend of Mictlan, the underworld of death and desola-
tion. Advice ? He, a pariah, dare turn for that
solace to none, much less to the priests or the mighty,
who would at once award him doom on the count of
MEXICAN MAGIC
premeditated profanation. No, he would seek out an
adviser from among the outcast like himself. But
that counsellor would be no less learned or acute
than priest or judge, even if he were reprobate, for
he would go to a naualli-a practitioner of black
.
mag1c.
Making his way to the huddle of huts on the water-
front where he knew such an one dwelt, he debated
with himself as to how much he would tell the naualli.
If he told him all, 'vould not the sorcerer desire for
himself so great a treasure as the box of the mightiest
of magicians ? Again, if he only told him so much
would the naualli be able to help him at all ? That
'vas his dilemma. Coming to the water-front, he sat
down upon a little jetty which the waves licked dis-
mally and tried to think. But he soon discovered
that he had arrived at an impasse. Should he tell
the magician all his story the confidence might cost
him his life ; if he refrained from doing so he must
for ever renounce all hope of possessing the casket of
Huemac.
Total was not a coward, but the thought of death
by magic made him feel already half-way on the road
to l\fictlan. When he had fortified himself at a drink-
ing-booth with a draught of octli, however, he took
heart once more and quickened his steps to the hut
of the naualli. Situated almost on the water's verge,
it was built of rough boards covered with crudely
painted protective symbols. Not a sound escaped
from the hut, and Total, peering through the chinks
in the boards, could discern nothing that was happen-
ing inside for black darkness. At last, frantically
courageous, he pulled the skin curtain ever so little
to one side and begged permission to enter. All he
could see was a circle of glowing embers over which
the shadow of a hand hovered for a moment. It
thrust a half-burnt torch into the red ashes and in a
88 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
halo of yello\V light, mingled with moonshine, Total
could see the naualli sitting, painted and fateful, with
sullen unseeing eyes staring deadly through a thick
fell of hair. He invited Total to enter by a grunt,
and the rag-picker drew near.
Spite of his terror the rag-picker succeeded in
making plain his errand. The naualli heard him in
silence, then asked for the manuscript. Having
perused it, he drew a small scrying-stone from among
his rags and gazed long into its polished surface. At
length he spoke :
" The casket is indeed underneath the ninety-third
step," he said. " It rests immediately beiow it. A
hollow has been made in the earth there to receive it.
It contains the magical implements of the mighty
Huemac of the Strong Hand."
"But how may it be recovered?" asked Total,
unconvinced.
"That is a simple enough matter to one who has
the sight," replied the naualli. " But what do you
intend to pay me if I recover it for you ? "
" I have thought of that," said Total, " and I do
not know how I can pay you unless by sharing the
contents of the box with you."
The naualli bowed. "The casket of Huemac of
the Strong Hand should contain enough for two, even
when one of them is a magician," he said. " Let us
go to the pyramid of Huitzil."
He whistled sharply on his fingers and two young
men not quite so dishevelled as himself insinuated
themselves into the hut. They were his pupils, and
less distinguished in the art of appearing great though
filthy. The naualli addressed them peremptorily in
what was evidently a caste dialect, and they quitted
the hut as unobtrusively as they had entered it. The
magician then rose and followed them, accompanied
by Total. By this hour the streets were deserted,
MEXICAN MAGIC
and when they reached the great pyramid all seemed
lifeless belo'v and above it save for the deep red glow
of the braziers on its summit, the flames of which
·waved like bannerets in the thin night zephyrs. At
the foot of the teocalli they encountered one of the
magician's pupils and he pointed upwards to signify
that his companion had climbed to the summit in
order to give notice to his master should anyone
descend 'vhilst the naualli was carrying out his
operations.
The sorcerer and the rag-picker mounted the
teocalli side by side, eyeing eac}i other aslant, and
counting the steps as they went. Arrived at the
ninety-third step, they halted, and the naualli fumbled
in the darkness at the side of the staircase. He must
have touched a concealed spring, for the step s'vung
outwards from the inner side of the staircase as if on
hinges. He groped in the space where it had been
and drew forth a curiously wrought box of some satin-
like \vood inlaid 'vith silver symbols. Then he s'vung
the step back into its original position.
Total and the naualli descended the steps, the rag-
picker more or less dazed after what he had seen, and
the magician thinking upon ·what he had achieved.
So far he was too elated to have yet given any con-
sideration as to whether he should strive to keep the
casket and its contents for himself, and too interested
in the possibility of what it might hold to actively
covet it. They hurried back to the hut by the water's
edge. The naualli stirred up the dying embers with
a new torch which, once alight, he placed in a socket
in the ·wall. The casket was bound up by a silver
chain, and, this burst in twain, a curious medley of
objects lay before them. Here was a magic rattle
which, if shaken in one way summoned spiritual
assistance, if agitated in another~ banned all demoniac
forces. There was a mirror in whose surface might be
'
90 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
espied fatal visions of days yet uncalendered. On
this side lay a heavy 'vand of power, cunningly inlaid;
on that a drumstick with 'vhich to beat a magical
tattoo such as would force multitudes to follow the
drummer. Fetish necklaces of human fingers, an
almanac in symbols more ancient than were kno'vn
to either the naualli or Total, a cap of invisibility,
phials of sleepful and potent draughts, and lastly, a
book of spells-such were the contents of the casket
of Huemac of the Strong Hand.
By degrees the naualli's first rapture ofinterest wore
off and the side glances which he directed at Total
became more and more frequent. Then covetousness
quickened speech.
"These things, 0 rag-picker, constitute the most
marvellous collection of magical objects it has been
my lot ever to behold,, he said ungrudgingly and even
enthusiastically. "They can be of small advantage
to such a person as yourself, \Vho cannot appreciate
or make proper use of them. For what sum will you
sell them? I will gladly pay you a goodly price for
those treasures. You see, I do not attempt to
belittle their value.''
'l'otal stood stock-stili, only his eyes moving and
shifting rapidly from side to side. He was thinking-
thinking swiftly and evilly.
"I will sell the box and all it contains for three
hundred quills of gold," he said, naming what seemed
to him far more than the naualli was likely to
possess.
The naualli turned, and groping in a recess of the
hut, drew forth a stained and aged leather bag, from
which he poured a bewildering heap of quills filled
with gold-dust-the higher currency of commerce in
Old Mexico-and began to count out the number
Total had asked. As he bent to his task, engrossed
in the counting, he did not see the rag-picker lift the
'
MEXICAN MAGIC 91
heavy wand out of the casket of Huemac. With a
dexterous turn of the arm Total brought do·wn the
thick heavily mounted baton with all his force upon
the nape of the naualli's bent neck, and the magician
without even a sigh fell face forward into the circle
of pink and grey ashes.
Total raised him and examined him carefully.
But the fish-like eyes were fixed and the lines of the
face were hard and grey as carven stone. Picking
up the body as he might a sack of refuse, Total
carried it to the water's edge. Espying a canoe on
the beach, he launched it, and tying a great stone to
the naualli's neck with his sash, he threw the body
aboard the tiny craft. Paddling out for some distance,
he backed 'vater and dropped the magician's body ..
over the side. Then he returned to the shore and
entered the hut. He would be a magician.
The naualli was dead ; he, Total, would take his
place. With the assistance of the casket of Huemac
he would be the greatest worker of magic in Mexico.
First he gloated over the heap of gold quills ; then he
turned to the box and handled the implements it
contained one by one. But the age-old symbols in
the book of spells revealed no secret to him, the
calendar was beyond him, the rattle he might shake
continuously without succeeding in summoning a
single spirit, and the mirror displayed no prophetic
visions to his eyes. Slowly it came to him that to be
able to use ~these things successfully one m1;1st be a
master in magic.
But he would learn. By the light of the still
flickering torch he addressed himself fiercely to the
task. All night he pondered upon the book of spells,
but 'vithout unriddling a single symbol, and the dawn,
peeping through the chinks of the windowless hut,
found him still poring over the painted agave leaves
in the patient determination of ignorance. And so
\
92 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
sleep came to him. He did not know that magical
secrets yield not themselves to the self-instructed, but
must be taught.
He slept long, and when he awoke it was late after-
noon. '\Vith the dogged persistence of superstition he
took up the task once more. Night fell. No one dis-
turbed him. The naualli's pupils evidently had orders
not to approach the hut unless expressly summoned.
But he was not alone after the torch had flickered
out. At first Total only heard the faintest whisper-
ings and rustlings. It was as if a number of very
quiet children were in the hut playing in whispers.
Then a voice named someone more loudly. It might
be one of his pupils QUtside whispering to the magician
through the chinks of the boards. Then the name
was spoken loudly, passionately, into Total's very
ear. He leapt from where he sat with a cry, and stood
trembling and quivering in horrible, irrational fear.
Now he realized that the familiars of the naualli
were with him, and that if he was to master the great
art he must accustom himself to their visits. Still
trembling, he resumed his squatting attitude and his
unavailing .study of the book of spells. The dis-
appearance of _
the lines of light from the chinks in
the wall of the hut showed that night had fallen
again. The horrid sounds around him multiplied.
I The flap and flitter of bats' wings sounded above his
head-or was it the sound of bats' wings? Something
alit and crouched for an instant upon his head. The
black air felt as if it swarmed. Abominations shoaled
about him. Once the leathern curtain before the
door was agitated and a huge body bounded aimlessly
round the hut and brushed behind him., Later the
curtain sagged and was partly withdrawn and t'vo
eyes looked in upon him for a moment with glo,ving
menace. At last a hand stroked his face, and a cheek,
hard and cold as stone, was laid lovingly against his.
MEXICAN MAGIC 93
\Vith a sob of terror he stumbled into the night,
never halting until he reached a little shrine of the
Emerald Lady, spouse of the Water-god, the goddess
of the fishers and fowlers of the \vaterside. Close to
this he crouched, nor did he quit its vicinity till
daylight.
But with the first glimmer of day his ambitions
returned to him. Such must be the experience of all
magicians, he told himself, and he retraced his steps
to the hut. Entering, he found all as before. The
box of Huemac still Iay 'vhere he had left it, half
covered by the brilliant panoramic pages of the book
of spells, and once more he set himself to its elucida..
tion. All day he laboured over the inexorable symbols
with no more success tban before. The light waned
and evening approached. 'Vhen night fell he remem-
bered that he had no fire. But he felt bolder. He
was in process of becoming a naualli and the things
of darkness must not prevail against him. A soft
yet ponderous body leapt upon his back. Something
seized one of his hands. A smooth warm tongue
brushed across his face. He could stand the sheer
abomination of his environment no longer, and
utterly broken down, he rushed from the hut into
the moonlight, the casket of Huemac under his arm.
In a frenzy of hate against the agency which had
caused his suffering, he jumped into a canoe and
paddled swiftly out into the lake. In what direction
he 'vas going he knew not. But at a certain spot he
stopped, and with a malediction hurled the casket of
Huemac into the water. It floated lightly upon the
surface. Apparently the silver which bound it was
not sufficiently weighty to sink it. As it swam
wickedly on the moonlit surface of the lake the water
was suddenly agitated from below and a black hand
with shrivelled, tenuous fingers grasped avidly at the
casket and seized it. Too paralysed at first to lift
94 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
the paddles, Total watched the seizing hand in a
transport of horror. As if pulling itself up by pur-
chase upon the box, the body of the naualli slo·wly
arose from the depths. First appeared the dishevelled
hair, then the dead fish-like eyes, fixed and unseeing,
then the mouth, hard and grim. With a shriek of
anguish which rang far across the water Total seized
the paddles and headed for the shore with a haste
that made for little speed. He glanced over his
shoulder. The naualli was swimming after him. For
five tense minutes he paddled, glancing ever behind
as he did so. But the sorcerer followed in his very
wake, the dark features showing against the line of
foam with fearful and threatening distinctness. Ere
he gained the beach Total leaped out into the shallows
and floundered ashore. The naualli was not far
behind him.
Total's one hope was protection from his patron
god, Uitzil. If magic had failed him, the strength of
the war-god might still succour him. Through the
quiet streets and alleys he sped at the breakneck
pace of a fear that was now delirious. And ever he
.a heard the patter of speedful feet in his rear. It was
dark in the lanes among the huddle of huts and
houses and he could not now glimpse his pursuer.
At length he came to the foot of the great teocalli of
Uitzil.· He sprang upon its stairway with limbs
which gave beneath him and a bursting heart. He
had gained the twentieth step when, looking back-
wards and downwards, he saw the naualli leaping
towards him. With ~ gasp he spurred his jaded body
to the ascent. On, on he struggled and scrambled,
but the naualli pressed him hard. At last, just as he
reached the ninety-third step, he felt hateful fingers
grasp at his shoulders and seize his throat. Then
· with fiendish might he was lifted off his feet and
hurled down the abyss-like slope of the teocalli.
MEXICAN MAGIC 95
The nattalli descended and walked over the dead
body of Total the rag-picker which lay at the base of
the pyramid. He sneered down upon the \vhite
wicked features. Then he took his way to the 'vater-
side, and re-entering his hut, squatted in front of the
grey ashes, the casket of Huemac in his hands.
,,
CHAPTER IV
1tiEXICAN MAGIC (continued)
T
HE art of divination was widely practised by
the 1\lexican priesthood. In ancient or pre-
Columbian Mexico there was a college of
augurs, corresponding in purpose to the Auspices of
ancient Rome, the alumni of which occupied them-
selves with observing the flight and listening to the
songs of birds, from which they dre'v their conclu-
sions and interpreted the speech of all winged crea-
tures. In 1\Iexico_th~-calmecac, or training ..college.of
the priests, had a department where divination was
taught in all its phases, and that the occupation was
no mere sinecure will appear later. Among the less
advanced' communities the.services of the diviner or
seer 'vere much in request" and the forecasting of the
future became, sooner or later, the chief concern of
the higher classes of priests.
The methods adopted by the priests in the practice
of divination scarcely differed with locality, but many
various expedients were made use of to attain the
same .end. Thus, some practised oracular methods.
in much the same way as did the priesthood in
ancient Egypt and Greece. The idols became the
direct medium by which Divine wishes were dis-
closed or the future made clear. Necromancy was
also extensively practised, the priests pretending to
raise the dead, whose instructions they commnnicated
to those who had consulted them. Still other classes
96
MEXICAN. l\IAGICIA..~S CASTING LOTS
MEXICAN MAGIC 97
predicted by means of leaves of tobacco, or the
grains or juice of coca, the shapes of grains of maize,
taken at random, the casting of beans, the appearance
of animal excrement, the forms assumed by the smoke
rising from burning victims, the entrails and vis-
cera of animals, the course taken by spiders, visions
seen in dreams, the flight of birds, and the direction
in which fruits might fall. The professors of these
several n1ethods \Vere distinguished by different ranks
and titles, and their training was a long and arduous
one, and undertaken in no mere spirit of flippancy.
It has been already mentioned that the Mexican
priesthood, or that class of it devoted to augury,
made a practice of observing the flight of various birds )
and of listening to their songs. This observation of J
birds for the purpose of augury \vas common to other
American tribes. The bird, with its rapid motion
and incomprehensible power of flight, appeared to
the savage as a being of a higher order than himself,
and its song-the only hint of music with which he
was familiar-as something bordering upon the
supernatural, the ability to understand which he had
once possessed but had lost through the potency of
some evil and unknown .spell. Some great sorcerer
or medicine-man alone might break this spell, and
this the shamans of the tribe sought assiduously to
achieve, by means of close attention to the habits of
birds, their motions and flights, and especially to
their song. "The natives of Brazil regarded one bird
in especial as of good augury," says Coreal, an early
eighteenth·century traveller, in his " Voiages aux
Indes Occidentales.'' He does not state to what bird
he alludes, but proceeds to say that its mournful
chant is heard by night rather than by day. The
savages say it is sent by their deceased friends to
bring them news from the other world and to en-
courage them against their enemies. Here, it would
G
98 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
seem, we have an example of bird-augury combined
with divination by necromancy, and that the same
held good in Mexico we know. Coreal probably
alluded to the goat-sucker bird \vhich, with the
screaming vulture, some South American tribes-the
Guaycurus of Paraguay, for example-suppose to act
as messengers from the dead to their priests, between
whom and the deceased persons of the tribe there is
thought to be frequent communication.
A typical example of augury by bird-habit has
come down to us in the account of the manner in
which the Nahua of Mexico fixed upon the spot for
the foundation of that city. Halting after years of
travel at the Lake of Tezcuco, they observed perched
on the stem of a cactus a great eagle with wings out-
spread, holding in its talons a writhing serpent.
Their augurs interpreted this as a good omen, as it
had been previously announced by an oracle, and on
the spot drove the first piles upon·which was after-
wards built the city of Mexico-Tenochtitlan. The
legend of its foundation is still commemorated in the
arms of the modern Republic of Mexico, and on its
coinage and postal stamps.
The business of divination by means of dreams
and visions, it is hardly necessary to say, was almost
completely in the hands of the priestly class. In
Mexico they were known as teopixqui or teotecuhtli,
"masters of divine things," in Maya speech,
cocome, "the listeners." Nearly all messages sup-
posed to be received from the supernatural came
through the medium of dreams or visions, and those
who possessed ability to read or interpret the dream
were usually placed in a class by themselves. The
priests held it as an article of belief that the glimpse
into futtl.rity, with which visions or dreams provided
them, was to be gained only by extreme privation
and by purifying the vision through hunger or the
MEXICAN MAGIC 99
use of drugs. To induce the ecstatic condition the
Indians made use of many different mediums, such
as want of sleep, seclusion, the pertinacious fixing of
the mind upon one subject, the swallowing or inhala-
tion of cerebral intoxicants such as tobacco, the
maguey, coca, ololiuchqui, the peyotl.
From dreams during the puberty-fast a person's
entire future was usually divined by the priests, his
spiritual affinities fixed, and his life's course mapped
out. The elaborate ceremonies known as "dances"
were usually adumbrated to the priests through
dreams, and the actual performance was made to
follow carefully in detail the directions supposed to
have been received in the dream or vision. Many
shrines and sacred places were also supposed to have
been indicated to certain persons in dreams, and their
contents presented to those persons by supernatural
beings whilst they were in the visionary state. The
periods for the performance of rites connected with
a shrine, as well as other devotional observances,
often depended on an intimation received in a dream.
" Visions " were also induced by winding the skin
of a freshly killed animal around the neck until the
pressure on the veins caused unconsciousness, and
dreams resulted, possibly from an overflow of blood
to the head. Some tribes believed that the vision
came to the proph~t or seer as a. picture, or that acts
were performed before him as in a play, whilst others
held that the soul travelled through space and was
able to see from afar those places and events of 'vhich
it desired to have knowledge. ·
A legend which reveals the manner in which the
Mexicans augured occurrences from dreams is that
ofthe Princess Papantzin, the sister of Montezuma II.,
who returned from her tomb to prophesy to her royal
brother concerning his doom and the fall of his empire
at the hands of the Spaniards. On taking up the
100 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
reins of government, Montezuma had married this
lady to one of his most illustrious servants, the
governor of Tlatelulco, and after his death it \Vould
appear that she continued to exercise her husband's
almost vice-regal functions and to reside in his
palace. In course of time she died, and her obsequies
were attended by the emperor in person, accom-
panied by the greatest personages of his court and
kingdom. The body was interred in a subterranean
vault of his own palace, in close proximity to the
royal baths, ·which stood in a sequestered part of the
extensive grounds surrounding the royal residence.
The entrance to the vault was secured by a stone
slab of moderate weight, and \vhen the numerous
ceremonies prescribed for the interment of a royal
personage had been completed the emperor and his
suite retired. At daylight next morning one of the
royal children, a little girl of some six years of age,
havin~ gone into the garden to seek her governess,
espied the Princess Papan standing ncar the baths.
The princess, who was her aunt, called to her, and
requested her to bring her governess to her. The
child did as she was bid, but her governess, thinking
that imagination had played her a trick, paid little
1 attention to what she said. As the child persisted in
her statement, the governess at last followed her into
the garden, where she saw Papan sitting on one of
the steps of the baths. The sight of the supposed
dead princess filled the woman with such terror that
she fell down in a swoon. The child then went to her
mother's apartment and detailed to her what had
happened. She at once proceeded to the baths with
two of her attendants, and at sight of Papan \vas
also seized with affright. But the princess reassured
her, and asked to be allowed to accompany her to
her apartments, and that the entire affair should for
the present be kept absolutely secret. Later in the
MEXICAN MAGIC IOI
day she sent for Ticotzicatzin, her major-domo, and
requested him to inform the emperor that she desired
to speak 'vith him immediately on matters of the
greatest importance. The man, terrified, begged to
be excused from the mission, and Papan then gave
orders that her uncle Nezahualpilli, J{ing of Tezcuco,
should be communicated with. That monarch, on
receiving her request that he should come to her,
hastened to the palace. The princess begged him to
see the emperor without loss of time and to entreat
him to come to her at once. Montezuma heard his
story with surprise mingled with doubt. Hastening
to his sister, he cried as he approached her : " Is it
indeed you, my sister, or some evil demon who has
taken your likeness ? " " It is I indeed, your
Majesty," she replied. Montezuma and the exalted
personages who accompanied him then seated them-
selves, and a hush of expectation fell upon all as they
were addressed by the princess in the following words :
" Listen attentively to what I am about to relate
to you. You have seen me dead, buried, and now
behold me alive again. By the authority of our an-
cestors, my brother, I am returned from theI dwellings
of the dead to prophesy to you certain things of
prime importance.
"At the moment after death I found myself in a
spacious valley, which appeared to have neither
commencement nor end, and was surrounded by
lofty mountains. Near the middle I came upon a
road with many branching paths. By the side of
the valley there flowed a river of considerable size,
the 'vaters of which ran with a loud noise. By the
borders of this I saw a young man clothed in a long
robe, fastened with a diamond, and shining like the
sun, his visage bright as a star. On his forehead was
a sign in the figure of a cross. He had wings, the
feathers of 'vhich gave forth the most wonderful and
102 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
glowing reflections and colours. His eyes were as
emeralds, and his glance was modest. He was fair,
of beautiful aspect and imposing presence. He took
me by the hand and said: 'Come hither. It is not
yet time for you to cross the river. You possess the
love of God, which is greater than you know or can
comprehend.' He then conducted me through the
valley, where I espied many heads and bones of dead
men. I then beheld a number of black folk, horned,
and with the feet of deer. They were engaged in
building a house, which \vas nearly completed. Turn-
ing to\vard the east for a space, I beheld on the \Vaters
of the river a vast number of ships manned by a
great host of men dressed differently from ourselves.
Their eyes were of a clear grey, their complexions
ruddy, they carried banners and ensigns in their
bands, and wore helmets on their heads. They called
themselves 'Sons of the Sun.' The youth who con-
ducted me and caused me to see all these things said
that it was not yet the will of the gods that I should
cross the river, but that I was to be reserved to
behold the future with my own eyes and to enjoy the
benefits of the faith which these strangers brought
with them ; that the bones I beheld on the plain
were those of my countrymen who had died in igno-
rance of that faith, and had subsequently suffered
great torments ; that the house being builded by the
black folk was an edifice prepared for those who
would fall in battle with the seafaring strangers whom
I had seen; and that I was destined to return to my
compatriots to tell them of the •true faith and to
announce to them what I had seen that they might
profit thereby."
Montezuma hearkened to these matters in silence
and felt greatly troubled. He left his sister's presence
without a word, and, regaining his own apartments,
plunged into melancholy thoughts.
MEXICAN MAGIC 103
Papantzin's resurrection is one of the best authen-
ticated incidents in ~iexican history, and it is a curious
fact that on the arrival of the Spanish Conquistadores
one of the first persons to embrace Christianity and
receive baptism at their hands was the Princess
Papan.
Amulets and charms were largely used among the
Mexicans and Maya. As in other parts of America,
the amulet was regarded in Mexico as a personal
fetish. The wholesale manner in which everything
pertaining to native worship or superstition was
swept away by the Spanish Conquistadores renders
a thorough knowledge of personal fetishism among
the Nahua peoples impossible, but scanty notices in
the writings of authors 'vho lived in the generation
immediately subsequent to the Conquest thtow some
light upon the description of charms and talismans
in use among the Aztecs and kindred peoples. They
appear to have been principally manufactured and
sold by the priests of the various deities, in much the
same manner· as the medicine-men of the North
American tribes make and sell such articles. The use
of charms was chiefly notable in connection with the
funerary customs of the Aztecs, as will be described
later. In the Dresden Codex the pinturas represent
the deceased on the road to Mictlan as wearing a
wooden collar, probably an amulet, to show that he
belongs to one or other of the Nahua deities. For
the same purpose, probably, he wears a plume on his
head.
The principal objects which have either come down
to us or are known to have served the purpose of
personal o' household talismans to the Nahua peoples
are:
Death-masks.-These were probably the skulls of
ancestors anawere kept in the houses oftheir descend:-'
ants. Some primitive peoples of Central America
104 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
\
still keep the shrunken heads of their relatives. They
consist of two classes : one in which the skull of the
deceased person has been inlaid with mosaic, and the
other in which a conventional image of the deceased
has been manufactured by inlaying mosaic upon jade.
These death-masks are not to be confounded with
the masks spoken of by many writers on Nahua
custom as being used by the priests in religious cere-
monial, or 'vith those placed on the faces of the dead
to ward off evil spirits. The mosaic work of which
they are composed is often of a very great beauty,
and excellent examples of it are to be seen in the
American Room at the British ~{useum. Specimens
of such 'vork are exceedingly rare, and are chiefly
confined to those objects sent to Europe at a period
immediately subsequent to the Conquest. Numerous
small masks and heads \vhich served as amulets have
been discovered on the site of Mitla, the city of
Mictlan, the god of the dead. Most of them are of
terraco'tta and of good workmanship.
The tepitoton, or diminutive deities.-These were
small figures of the Lares and Penates type, but not,
as has been thought, of the class of the Egyptian
ushabtiu, or servant figurines. They \Vere probably
relics of a shamanistic form of worship, and nearer
to the ancestor-idol type than the little fire-and-food
gods of the Romans, though they possibly partook
of the characteristics of both. At the close of the
great sun-cycle of fifty-t,vo years, when the Nahua
thought the universe \Vas in danger of perishing, they
broke those small figures in despair, believing they
could no more seek aid from them.
Travellers' staves.-These staves, decorated with
feathers, were carried by all merchants whilst on a
journey, and show that they were under the protec-
tion of Quetzalcoatl, the culture-god of Mexico, or
the great traveller. Sahagun gives an interesting
MEXICAN MAGIC 105
account of the worship of these stones by the 1\Iexican
itinerant merchants. On coming to their evening
halting-place they tied their staves in a bundle and
sprinkled them with blood taken from their ears,
tongues, and arms. Incense was brought and burned
before them, and food, flowers, and tobacco were
offered to them. Although the name of the staff,
coatl, means "serpent," it had, so far as its nomen-
clature was concerned, no connection with the god;
and, indeed, when the staves were gathered together
in a bundle the name they collectively bore was
Y acate~utli, the name of the patron of merchants or
pedlars. Still, the staff 'vas regarded as the invention
of Quetzalcoatl, the culture-hero, and those using it
practically placed themselves under his protection.
Amulets symbolic of the gods.-These 'vere
numerous, but fe\v are recorded. Chalchihuitlicue,
the goddess of water, \vas worshipped under the like-
ness of a frog, carved from a single emerald or piece
of jade, or sometimes in human form, but holding in
her hand a lily-leaf ornamented with frogs. In the
1\Iaya codices it appears as a symbol of water and
rain. Images of it, cut from stone or made from clay,
have been frequently discovered. They were kept
by the post-Conquest Indians as talismans. The
symbol or crest of Uitzilopochtli, the Aztec war-god,
\Vas, as is implied by his name, a humming-bird.
This crest, the huitziton, was carried before his priests
in battle, and it is probable that they and illustrious
members of the warrior class wore the symbol as a
talisman or decoration.
Flint talismans.-As elsewhere, the thunderbolts
thrown by the gods were supposed to be flint stones,
and these were cherished as amulets of much virtue
and as symbols of the fecundating rains. The Nava-
hoes of New Mexico still use such stones as a charm
for rain, and believe they fall from the clouds when
106 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
it thunders. The Chotas of l\fexico continued until
comparatively recent times the \Vorship of their
trinity-the Dawn, the Stone, and the Serpent.
Amulets·depicted in the ~fexican and ~laya pinturas,
or native MSS., give representations of what are
obviously ornaments and personal decorations of the
nature of amulets in great profusion, but, owing to
the highly conventional drawing displayed in the
Mexican pinturas, it is almost impossible to determine
their exact nature. The comparative clearness of
outline in the Maya ·pinturas renders it much easier
to speculate upon the nature of the objects repre-
sented therein. But it is only by induction that the
character of these objects can be arrived at, the
intolerance to which all native American objets d'art
were subjected having long since destroyed their very
names. It \viii be well, then, to glance at the Maya
MSS. while we attempt to discover what were the
amulets worn by the figures depicted in thein. We
find that these objects are usually worn by figures
representing gods, but it is well known that the symbol
or ornament of the god usually becomes the symbol
or ornament of his special worshippers-the people of
whom he is the tutelary deity. In Egypt the ankh
(the cruciform symbol of life carried by all the gods)
was worn very generally, as was the uzat (the sym-
bolic eye of Horus, which protected the wearer from
the evil eye and against snake·bite), and the thet, the
girdle·buckle of Isis. In early Scandinavia the raven-
wings of Odin adorned the helmet of the warrior ;
and, not to multiply instances, which are numerous,
we have already seen that the Aztecs wore amulets
depicting the frog-shaped rain-goddess Chalchihuit·
licue. Hence there is no reason to suppose that the
special worshippers of other Nahua deities did not
wear amulets depicting either their tutelary deity or
some ornament supposed to have been worn by him-
MEXICAN MAGIC 107
self, and perhaps representing one of his attributes
like the staff of Quetzalcoatl, or the humming·bird of
Uitzilopochtli. An examination of the three Maya
~ISS. which we possess-those of Dresden, 1\Iadrid,
and Paris-shows that most of the deities therein
represented are accompanied by certain distinct and
well-marked symbols which, it would seem, frequently
decorate the figures of priests and people in the same
MSS. As each god in the Maya MSS. is represented
with his monthly sign it is not unlikely that his
devotees would have worn these much in the same
manner as persons in Europe wear amulet-rings in
which are enclosed stones typifying the " virtues " of
the several months.
The principal amulets worn by the chief Aztec
gods occasionally resemble those of the Maya deities.
Uitzilopochtli wears on his breast a white ring made
from a mussel shell, which is described as " his
breast-mirror," that is his scrying-glass, while, as we
have seen, Tezcatlipoca wears a similar amulet, from
which, indeed, he takes his name, and sometimes a
white ring, resembling a large round eye, typical
probably of his gift of prophetic vision. At the waist
he sometimes has an ornament resembling the Maya
Kin sign of the five points of the compass and painted
blue.
Quetzalcoatl wears many amulets, a nape-appen-
dage of grouse or crow feathers, the significance of
·which may be much the same as those feather·bunches
worn by some of the North American Indians for
protective purposes. He has white ear-rings of hook-
like shape, a necklace of spirally voluted snail shells,
and on the breast a large ornamen,t sliced from a
shell, the symbol of life. These ornaments are all of
Maya origin and such have been taken from Maya
graves, where they had been placed as symbols of
resurrection. He is frequently depicted as wearing
108 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
a necklace of jaguar's teeth, the sign of the 1\laya
balam or tiger-priesthood, and the tiger-skin hat of
the same caste.
Cinteotl, the young maize-god, \vears a jadeite
stone to symbolize the green shoots of the young plant
over which he presides. The goddess Xochiquetzal
is seen in some ~ISS. wearing the wristlets or cuffs
made of opossum skin \vhich were put on the arms
of women in labour to give them the courage of that
animal in bringing forth. Tlaloc, the rain-god, wears
.. the square ear-plug typical of the four quarters of the
world, and bears a serpentine wand symbolic of water.
The magical amulets and spells employed at death
are described by Clavigero, who alludes to the spells
regarded as essential to the 'velfare of the spirit in
the Otherworld as follows :
"Ho,vever superstitious the Mexicans \vere in
other matters, in the rites \vhich they observed at
funerals they exceeded themselves. As soon as any
person died, certain masters of funeral services were
called \vho were generally men advanced in years.
They cut a number of pieces of paper with which they
dressed the dead body, and took a glass of water
with which they sprinkled the head, saying that that
was the water used in the time of their life. They
then dressed it in a habit suitable to the rank, the
wealth, and the circumstances attending the death
ofthe party. Ifthe deceased had been a warrior, they
clothed him in the habit of Huitzilopochtli; if a
merchant, in that of J acatectli ; if an artist, in that
of the protecting god of his art or trade ; one who
had been drowned was dressed in the habit of Tlaloc;
one who had been executed for adultery in that of
Tlazolteotl; and a drunkard in the habit of Tezcat-
zoncatl, god of wine. In short, as Gomara has well
observed, they wore_more garments after they were
dead than while they were living.
MEXICAN MAGIC 109
" \Vith the habit they gave the dead a jug of \Vater,
which \vas to serve on the journey to the other \Vorld,
and also ~t successive different times different pieces
of paper, mentioning the use of each. On consigning
the first piece to the dead they said : ' By means of
this you Will pass without danger between the t\vo
mountains w}l.ich fight against each other.' '\tVith the
second they said : ' By means of this you will walk
'vithout obstruction along the road which is defended
by the great serpent.' With the third : ' By this you
will go securely through the place where there is the
crocodile Xochitonal.' The fourth \Vas a safe pass-
port through the eight deserts, the fifth through the
eight hills, and the sixth was given in order to pass
'vithout hurt through the sharp wind, for they pre-
tended that it 'vas necessary to pass a place called
Itzehecajan where a wind blew so violently as to tear
up rocks, and so sharp that it cut like a knife, on which
account they burned all the habits 'vhich the deceased
had worn during life, their arms, and some household
goods in order that the heat of this fire might defend
them from the cold of that terrible wind.
" One of the chief and most ridiculous ceremonies
at funerals was the killing of a techichi, a domestic
quadruped, resembling a little dog, to accompany the
deceased in their journey to the other world. They
fixed a string about its neck, believing that necessary
to pass the deep river of Chiuhnahuapan or New
\Vaters. They buried the techichi, or burned it along
'vith the body of its master, according to the kind of
death of which he died. While the masters of the
ceremonies were lighting up the fire in \Vhich the
body was to be burned the otlier priests kept singing
in a melancholy strain. After burning the body, they
gathered the ashes in an earthen pot, amongst which,
according to the circumstances of the deceased, they
put a gem of more or less value, which they said
I
110 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
would serve him in place of a heart in the other
world. They buried this earthen pot in a deep ditch,
and fourscore days after made oblations of bread
and wine over it."
The localities where the sorceries of the Mexican
priests were held were usually caverns or the under-
ground portions of the temples. Such a place
at Mitla is described by Father Torquemada as
follows:
" When some monks of my order, the Franciscan,
passed preaching and shriving through the province
of Zapoteca, whose capital city is Tehuantepec, they
came to a village which was called Mictlan, that is
Underworld (Hell). Besides mentioning the large
number of people in the village they told of buildings
which were prouder and more magnificent than any
which they had hitherto seen in New Spain. Among
them was a temple of the evil spirit and living-rooms
for his demonical servants, and among other fine
things there was a hall with ornamented panels,
which were constructed of stone in a variety of
arabesques and other very remarkable designs. There
were doorways there, each one of which was built of
but three stones, two upright at the sides and one
across them, in such a manner that, although these
doorways were very high and broad, the stones suf-
ficed for their entire construction. They were so
thick and broad that we were assured there were few
like them. There was another hall in these buildings,
or rectangular temples, which was erected entirely on
round stone pillars, very high and very thick, so
thick that two grown men could scarcely encircle
them with their arms, nor could one of them reach
the finger-tips of the other. These pillars were all in
one piece, and, it was said, the whole shaft of a pillar
measured five ells from top to bottom, and they
were very much like those of the Church of Santa
MEXICAN MAGIC III
Maria Maggiore in Rome, very skilfully made and
polished."
Father Burgoa gives a more exact description. He
says:
" The Palace of the Living and of the Dead was
built for the use of this person (the high priest of the
Zapotecs). . . . They built this magnificent house or
pantheon·in the shape of a rectangle, with portions
rising above the earth and portions built down into
the earth, the latter in the hole or cavity which was
found below the surface of the earth, and ingeniously
made the chambers of equal size by the manner of
joining them, leaving a spacious court in the middle;
and in order to secure four equal chambers they
accomplished what barbarian heathen (as they were)
could only achieve by the powers and skill of an
architect. It is not known in what stone-pit they
quarried the pillars, which are so thick that two men
can scarcely encircle them with their arms.
" There were four chambers above ground and four
belQw. The latter were arranged according to their
purpose in such a way that one front chamber served
as chapel and sanctuary for the idols, which were
placed on a great stone which served as an altar.
And for the more important feasts which they cele-
brated with sacrifices, or at the burial of a king or
great lord, the high priest instructed the lesser priests
or the subordinate temple officials who served him
to prepare the chapel and his vestments and a large
quantity of the incense used by them. And then he
descended with a great retinue, while none of the
common people sa\V him or dared to look in his face,
convinced that if they did so they would fall dead to
the earth as a punishment for their boldness. And
when he entered the chapel they put on him a long
white cotton garment made like an alb, and over
that a garment shaped like a dalmatic, \Vhich was
)
I
112 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
embroidered with pictures of wild beasts and birds;
and they put a cap on his head, and on his feet a kind
of shoe woven of many-coloured feathers.
" And when he had put on these garments he walked
'vith solemn mien and measured step to the altar,
bo,ved low before the idols, rene,ved the incense, and
then in quite unintelligible murmurs he began to
converse with these images, these depositories of
infernal spirits, and continued in this sort of prayer
with hideous grimaces and 'vrithings, uttering inar-
ticulate sounds, 'vhich fi led all present with fear and
terror, till he came out of that diabolical trance and
told those standing around the lies and fabrications
which the spirit had imparted to him or which he
had invented himself.
"When human beings were sacrificed the ceremonies
'vere multiplied, and the assistants of the high priest
stretched the victim out upon a large stone, baring
his breast, 'vhich they tore open with a great stone
knife, while the body writhed in fearful convulsions,
and they laid the heart bare, ripping it out, and with
it the soul, which the devil took, while they carried
the heart to the high priest that he might offer it to
the idols by holding it to their mouths, among other
ceremonies; and the body was thrown into the
burial-place of their 'blessed,' as they called them.
"The last (underground) chamber had a second
door at the rear, which led to a dark and gruesome
room. This was closed 'vith a stone slab, which
occupied the whole entrance. Through this door
they threw the bodies of the victims and of the great
lords and chieftains who had fallen in battle, and
they brought them from the spot where they fell,
even when it was very far off, to this burial-place;
and so great was the barbarous infatuation of those
Indians that, in the belief of the happy life which
awaited them, many who were oppressed by diseases
MEXICAN MAGIC 113
or hardships begged this infamous priest to accept
them as living sacrifices and allow them to enter
through that portal and roam about in the dark
interior of the mountain, to seek the feasting-places
of their forefathers. And when anyone obtained this
favour the servants ofthe high priest led him thither
with special ceremonies, and after they allowed him
to enter through the small door they rolled the stone
before it again and took leave of him, and the unhappy
man, wandering in that abyss of darkness, died of
hunger and thirst, beginning already in life the pain
of his damnation, and on account of this horrible
abyss they called this village Liyobaa.
" When later there fell upon these people the light
of the Gospel, its servants took much trouble to
instruct them, and to find out whether this error,
common to all these nations, still prevailed ; and
they learned from the stories which had been handed
down that all were convinced that this damp cavern
extended more .than thirty leagues underground, and
that its roof was supported by pillars. And there
were people, zealous prelates anxious for knowledge,
who, in order to convince these ignorant people of
their error, went into this cave accompanied by a
large number of people bearing lighted torches and
firebrands, and descended several large steps. And
they soon came upon many great buttresses which
formed a kind of street. They had prudently brought
a quantity of rope with them to use as guiding-lines,
that they might not lose themselves in this confusing
labyrinth. And the putrefaction and the bad odour
and the dampness of the earth were very great, and
there was also a great wind which blew out their
torches. And after they had gone a short distance,
fearing to be overpowered by the stench, or to step
on poisonous reptiles, of which some had been seen,
they resolved to go out again, and to completely wall
H
114 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
up this back door of hell. The four buildings above
ground were the only ones which still remained open,
and they had a court and chambers like those under-
ground; and the ruins of these have lasted even to
the present day."
We must not close this chapter on Mexican magic
without some reference to the physical apparatus of
the Mexican magician. Perhaps the.. most striking
\ emblem of his craft was the naualli or disguise, a
cloak which gave him a resemblance to some
animal and 'vhich was symbolical of shape-shifth)g.
In certain ~iexican manuscripts we find illustrations
of these disguises, cloaks cut and painted to represent
symbolically dragons, butterflies, bats, and jaguars,
and most sorcerers probably owned several of these,
using them in the belief that they actually trans-
formed them into the animals or demons which they
purported to represent. They appear to have been
a" civilized version,, of the beast-disguises employed
by the ruder tribes of the prairies, bear-disguises,
wolf-disguises and so forth, as used in tribal secret
ceremonies by the medicine-men.
Th~magic.~t w.~<Lor baton was an outstanding
implement ofthe sorcerer, and Tezcatlipoca and other
gods are represented as bearing it and are described
as wielding it magically in the older Spanish writings
and the chronicles written by Indian half-bloods, such
as "The Annals of Quahutitlan." Quetzalcoatl
also bears such a staff, an upright with several pierced
cross-pieces, but it has a peculiar significance of its
own. He used it chiefly to beat upon the soil to render
it fruitful, and it has thus ~n analogy to those staves
used for a similar purpose by the officiating priests
of the Mysteries of Eleusis. At other times he is seen
holding a rattle-staff, the sound of which imitated
the falling of the rain, thus inducing its presence by
a.ympathetic magic.
MEXICAN MAGIC
Human knuckle-bones were among the para-
phernalia of the Mexican wizard. With these he cast
lots, as with dice, and foretold " fortunes " and cir-
cumstances by the manner in which they fell when
cast, as he did with beans and pebbles. That the
Mexican sorcerers also wore masks in the semblances
of beasts and demons seems to be proved from
illustrations in the manuscripts. The cloth or carpet
was likewise an almost inseparable adjunct to minor
sorcery, just as it is to legerdemain to-day.
CHAPTER V
THE DEl\IONOLOGY OF MEXICO
T
HE demonhood of ancient Mexico was,
perhaps, the most gruesome which ever
haunted any race of men. It took many
shapes, and varied somewhat with locality, and it
scarcely resembles any recognizable system of
demonology, European or Asiatic.
Those demons most dreaded were the Tzitzimime,
or " monsters descending from above," who were,
indeed, the stars. The interpreter of the "Codex
Telleriano" says of them:
" The proper signification of this name is the fall
of the demons, who, they say, were stars; and even
still there are stars in heaven called after their names,
whieh are the following : Yzcatecaztli, Tlahvezcal-
pantecuvtli, Ceyacatl, Achitumetl, Xacupancalqui,
Mixauhmatl, Tezcatlipoca, and Contemo~tli. These
'vere their appellations as gods before they fell from
heaven, but they are now named Tzitzimitli, which
means something monstrous or dangerous."
Tezozomoc mentions them in his Cronica Mexicana
in connection with the building of the great temple at
Mexico. He states that their images were at one
period still necessary for the completion of the build-
ing, and alludes to them as " angels of the air, holding
up the sky," and" the gods of th:e air who draw down
the rains, waters, clouds, thunders, and lightnings,
and who are placed round Uitzilopochtli." He further
II6
THE DEMONOLOGY OF MEXICO 117
says that these" gods of the signs and planets" were
brought to the sacred edifice and placed round the
idol of Uitzilopochtli.
They 'vere thought of by the :M~exicans in much the
same manner as the medireval Christians regarded the
fallen angels. An ancient myth tells us that at.one
time they dwelt in heaven, but because of their sins
were expelled from its delights. It was perhaps as the
dwellings of the Tzitzimime rather than as those
demons themselves that the stars were thought of,
but their connection with the orbs of night is clear.
They are represented in the manuscripts as taking
the shapes of noxious insects, spiders, scorpions, and
so forth.
One of the most terrifying figures in this stellar
demonology is the goddess Itzpapalotl, 'vho has the
attributes both of the butterfly and the dragon-a
hideous mingling of the insect and the earth-monster.
Another was Yacatecutli, a personification of the
merchant's staff, to whom the pedlars of old Mexico
oftered nightly sacrifices of their own blood, drawn
from their ears and noses, and smeared over a heap
of the staves or bamboo walking-sticks which they
generally carried. These, in the exigencies of travel-
ling, took the place of the idol of their patron deity.
Once a year, too, they celebrated his festival 'vith
sanguinary rites in their o"rn quarter of the city.
At certain seasons of the year the natives were in the
habit of sealing up every possible loophole in their
houses, doors, windo\vs, and chimneys, lest the
baleful influence ofthe stellar demons should penetrate
their dwellings and injure them or their children.
The beams of the stars were dreaded perhaps more
than anything else, and even the gods themselves
were not immune from baneful astrological influences.
When night descended upon the pyramid-temples
and market-places of Old Mexico, and the beneficent
f \ \
118 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
sun·god had betaken himself to the Underworld, it
was a grim company indeed that came from the spirit-
spheres to people the darkness. The demonology of
a ~lexican midnight \Vas eloquent of the harsh fatalism
of a barbarian people who had but ne\vly entered upon
the possession of an ancient civilization. From sun-
5et to sunrise ~lexico of the marshes was a city of
dreadful night indeed. Chief and most terrible of
the tyrnnts of its dismal hours was Tezcatlipoca,
"the Fiery Mirror," "He who Affrights the People,"
divine master of magicians, who took upon himself
many fearful shapes and grisly disguises. " These,"
says old Sahagun, one of the missionary fathers,
" were masks which he took to terrify the folk, to
have his sport with them."
Perhaps the most menacing of the nocturnal dis-
guises of this god, who wore the star of night upon his
forehead, was the uactli bird, a species of ha\vk,
'Whose cry of " yeccan, yeccan," boded a speedy death
to him who heard it. Another shape in which he
haunted the woods was as the " axe of the night."
As midnight approached, the watching acolytes in
the temple precincts might hear a sound as of an axe
being laid to the roots of a tree. Should the coura·
geous wayfarer penetrate the wooded places \vhence
the sound came, he was seized upon by Tczcatlipoca
in the form of a headless corpse, in whose bony
breast were " two little doors meeting in the centre."
It was the opening and closing ofthese, said the Aztecs,
which simulated the sound of a woodcutter at work.
A valiant man might plunge his hand into the grisly
aperture, and if he could seize the heart within,
~ight ask what ransom he chose from the demon.
But the craven who encountered this awful phantom
would speedily perish from fear. It is now believed
that this peculiar sound is made by a certain nocturnal
bird in the Mexican forests.
THE DEMONOLOGY OF MEXICO 119
Hauntings of all kinds, indeed, ·were regarded as due
to the agency of Tezcatlipoca. Especially feared were
those forms of him, headless and without feet, which
were said to roll along the ground, scattering maladies
and diseases as they went. These \Vere believed to
augur speedy death, either in battle or, still worse,
by sickness, for a "straw death" was looked upon
by the \varlike:rtiexicans as a disgraceful end, unworthy
of a soldier. But if the phantom \Vas boldly grappled
with and forced to purchase its release with a thorn
of the maguey-plant, it was thought that the earnest
thus secured would endow its owner with good
fortune for the rest of his life.
Sometimes Tezcatlipoca would appear as a coyote, )
sometimes as a turkey-cock. "They sometimes
painted him \vith cock's feet," says the priestly
interpreter of one of the native manuscripts, " for
they said at times only his feet were seen, and that at
others he appeared sideways," alluding probably to
the fact that fear-haunted \vretches imagined they
beheld him as they looked sideways out of the corners
of their eyes.
It is strange to find the banshee in ancient Mexico,
or at least a spirit which closely resembled her. The
natives knew her as Cuitlapanton, and Sahagun says
that she resembled "a little fairy." To see her, as
in the case of her Irish congener, meant death or over-
whehning misfortune. She had a short tail, long
matted hair, \Vhich fell to her middle, and, like the
banshee, she waddled like a duck, emitting a dolorous
cry the ·while. All attempts to seize her \Vere vain,
as she would vanish in one place and immediately
reappear in another.
Another grisly apparition of the l\Iexican night \
was a death's head ·which was in the habit of suddenly '
presenting itself to those bold enough to venture
abroad after dark. It would dance in circles on the
120 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
ground, making weird moanings. If one halted when
pursued by this ghostly skull, its gyrations ceased.
Like the Cuitlapanton, it could not be grasped because
of its protean habit of sudden disappearance, but it
persisted in following the person who fled from it
until he reached the door of his dwelling.
If Europe can boast of its Blunderbores and its
Famangomadans, its Skrymirs and other titans and
jotuns, its Tom Thumbs, and its Alberichs, America
has no reason to blush for her native giants and dwarfs.
American Indian legend, indeed, swarms with figures
monstrous and diminutive, the works of whose hands
is still popularly supposed to be visible in the immense
pyramids of Mexico and even in the mountains
and valleys of the Western hemisphere, which, we
are informed, were carved and shaped by their
agency.
The myth of Xelhua, one of the colossi of 1.-lexico,
bears a strange resemblance to the legend of Babel.
In the'' Codex Vaticanus," that strange book written
by Italian monks of the sixteenth century and
illustrated by Aztec artists, his story is to be found
in circumstances which, if they permit of the as~ump­
tion of an ecclesiastical origin, still seem to indicate
even more strongly the existence of a popular legend.
We are informed l that in the first age of 1tlexican
mythical history giants dwelt in the land. Seven of
the titan strain had escaped the Deluge, and, when the
earth began to grow populous once more, one of these,
Xelhua by name, betook himself to Cholula, and
began to build the great pyramid which still stands
in that place. His intention in raising the huge mound
or teocalli was to provide himselfwith a place of refuge
should the waters once more seek to engulf the earth,
' but when it had reached a towering height, lightning
from heaven fell and destroyed it. From the destruc-
tive bolt fell a precious stone in the shape of a toad, the
THE DEMONOLOGY OF MEXICO 121
symbol of a thunder-god, which spoke, reprimanding
the builders, "enquiring of them their reason for
'vishing to ascend into heaven, since it was sufficient
for them to see what was on the earth.,
A fearsome monster eno'v was that which plagued
the Toltecs, the legendary people of Mexico, and
helped to bring about their ultimate downfall. A
great convention of wise men of the realm met at
Teotihuacan, to find some means of appeasing the
gods after a visitation ofplague and war. During their
conference a giant of immense proportions rushed
into their midst, and, seizing them by scores in his
bony hands, hurled them to the earth, dashing their
brains out.
The dwarf in American legend is equally ubiquitous V
with the giant. Among the 1\{exicans, the Tlaloque,
the rain-makers, were regarded as dwarfish beings
who lived in four chambers surrounding a great court,
in which stood four immense water-casks containing
the "good" and the "bad" rains. When com-
manded to distribute rain over a certain tract of
country, they poured water from jars filled from the
huge butts, and if these broke, thunder and lightning
lvere sure to follow.
The " Dwarf's House " at Uxmal is the name of a
small temple on the summit of an artificial hill, to
which a charming legend is attached. An old woman, .
distressed by the loss of her family, found an egg,
and wrapping it up in cotton cloth, placed it in a
corner of her hut. One day she noticed that the shell
'vas broken, and soon after a tiny creature crawled
forth. This Yucatecan Tom Thumb, like his English
analogue, went to court, and challenged the King
to a trial of strength. The monarch, amused, asked
him to lift a stone weighing half a hundredweight,
which he did, and in other contests of a similar kind
defe~ted his antagonist. Thej{ing, enraged, told him
122 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
that unless he built a palace loftier than any in the
city, he should die. But his witch foster-mother came
to his aid, and next morning the court awoke to
discover, hard by, the palace or temple which still
stands gleaming in all its carven glory on the summit
of the mound. In Yucatan d\varfs were sacred to
the sun, and were occasionally sacrificed to that
luminary, so that the pigmy in question was probably
the Man of the Sun \vho emerges from the cosmic
egg.
America, like the Old World, carries its full quota
of fairy folk, sprites, and goblins. but whether these
have been created in an American environment or
imported from the more venerable hemisphere, it is
unnecessary to decide here. Quite a large proportion
of American fairies appear to have a native " pro-
venance," while others bear marks of importation
visible to the student of folk-lore. The fairy and her
kind were as familiar to the Red Man as to the White,
for the excellent reason that throughout all his
geographical ventures and peregrinations man has
ahvays been accompanied by these invisible playmates
as well as by his gods and other more exalted tribal
patrons. 1
From Hudson's Bay to Tierra del Fuego there
exists a \Vealth of traditional material relating to little
copper-coloured fairy folk-for the fairy invariably
takes on the racial colour of her environment. Nor is
the lubber fiend, Puck or Robin Goodfellow, awanting.
In America, as in the Old World, the realm of Faerie
implies a vast commonwealth of spiritual beings
recruited from many classes-gods degraded or half-
forgotten, sorcerers, demons, and the souls of the
human dead, in some instances associated with the
Underworld, in others with the moon, that great
reservoir of spiritual essence, where, it was thought,
the souls of the dead awaited re-birth.
THE DEMONOLOGY OF MEXICO 123
The ~fexican goddess Xochiquetzal strikingly
resembles the ?tforgan le Fay, Ursula, or "Venus" of
the Teutonic and Celtic Underworlds, 'vho, under one
form or another, enticed Ogier the Dane, Tannhauser,
and Thomas Rymour into her subterranean paradise.
The American and European forms differ in that
Xochiquetzal dwells on the summit ofa lofty mountain
rather than in its interior, but the general conditions
are the same. She is surrounded by minstrels,
dwarfs, and dancing maidens, and boasts that no
man is proof against her wiles; nor, once entrapped,
may her victims escape from her blandishments. ~ /;1'
There is, indeed, a strong general similarity between v
American and European fairy lore.
The Tepictoton were tiny Mexican spirits who seem
to have assisted the agriculturist in his labours,
coaxing the maize and agave plants to come to full
growth and fruition. Occasionally, however, like all
fays, they 'vere mischievously disposed, and assumed
the shape of spiders or scorpions. Other Mexican
sprites, the Ciuateteo, were actually malignant,
bringing strange diseases upon children, those time-
honoured victims of fairy spleen, epilepsy, and de-
formity. To behold them was to lose the sight of the
offending eye. They were, it was said, dead women
or "witches," ·who mourned for their own children,
and were vindictively disposed to the offspring of
others. Like the fairies of Europe, they were associated
with the moon, and an examination of their pranks
throws a strong comparative light upon European
fairyhood.
Among the Maya Indians of Guatemala the native
fairy tales have been enwoven with Spanish stories of
a similar character in a pattern at once most curious
and instructive to the amateur of folk-belief. The
story of " The Boy and the Sword," for example,
preserves both the incidents ofthe slaying ofthe giants
124 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
in " The Popol Vuh," a native book containing most
ancient traditions, and the European folk-tale of the
boy who sets out to seck his fortune. The llaya still
credit the existence of the Duenda, a capricious
goblin, obviously of Castilian origin. Indeed, Guate-
mala and some other of the Spanish-American
republics offer unrivalled fields for the accumulation
of that traditional material which was quenched in
Old Spain by the Inquisition, but still lingers in her
ancient colonies. There also exists in Guatemala an
extraordinary mass of beast fairy lore, regarding the
doings of such enchanted animals as the rabbit, the
wolf, and the jaguar.
We can even trace the origin of Shakespeare's
Ariel to American folk-lore. Indeed, the whole of
The Tempest is impregnated with American folk-
lore, and it seems probable that Shakespeare was
obliged for some of its incidents to contemporary
books of travel. D'Orbigny states that the Yuru-
cares of Brazil fabled that at the beginning of things
men were pegged Ariel-like in the knotty entrails of
an enormous bole until the God Tiri, like Prospero,
released them by cleaving it in twain. Nor does the
American influence visible in Shakespeare's fairy play
end here. The name Caliban is undoubtedly derived
from the word Carib, often spelt Caribani and Calibani
in older writers, and his " dam's god Setebos "was the
supreme divinity of the Patagonians 'vhen first
visited by Magellan, according to the Indian author
Pigafetta.
A rich field of comparative inquiry lies open to the
European investigator of fairy lore in America, by
means of which he can test and not infrequently
justify his conclusions regarding the Old World forms
which crowd the lesser Olympus of Elfheim. The one
drawback to such a work of collation is that American
native folk-lore is scattered over a literature so vast
I
THE DEMONOLOGY OF MEXICO 125
and of such rapid and luxuriant growth as to daunt
even the most courageous. But the Americanist,
even more than the biologist, requires the courage of
despair, that reckless bravado of the intellect, by
dint of which new provinces of knowledge have so
often been conquered. To squander precious time
upon the comparison of American and European
fairies may seem to many as wasteful and ridiculous
excess and as indicating a sadly frivolous tendency ;
but the writer wishes 'vith all his heart that grim
circumstance did not stand between him and con-
tinued pilgrimage in these realms of old enchant-
ment. ,
And just as old Europe had her dragons, her
phrenixes, and her basilisks, so the ancient world of
America could boast of a mythical fauna equally
weird and affrighting. Differences of environment
naturally dictated a certain dissimilarity in the form
and nature of the fabulous beasts of the New World
from those of the Old, yet on the whole a close resem-
blance between the types is evident enough, and
can only be accounted for by the spread of myth
by migration. But whether America owes her
mythical menagerie more to Europe or Asia is still
obscure, though the probabilities lean to an Asiatic
or1g1n.
The dragon, along with the quite excessive burden
of associated lore he carries on his scaly shoulders,
was no stranger to the Columbian imagination. But
the traditional form he takes in America is that of a
great snake or serpent rather than the type familiar
to us from Arthurian, Scandinavian or Chinese
sources. In ?tfexico and Central America we find him
taking on the local guise of a great bird-serpent, the
" feathered snake," symbol of the rain and the
accompanying trade-winds, and harbinger of the
months of growth and fertility. He was, indeed, a
126 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
beneficent rather than an unfriendly monster, and
had no such ravaging or maiden-snatching proclivi-
ties as made him the legitimate prey of champions in
quest of high emprise. Indeed, when humanized, as
he came to be, we rather find him in his man-like shape
possessing all the attributes of the culture-hero. His
vast serpentine form, with spreading flights of feather,
not of scale, is a frequent motif on the walls of the
ruined temples of Guatemala and Chiapas, and the
Indians of those regions still see in the massed clouds
'vhich cluster round their hill-tops the winged snake
of the rain, and murmur to one another that Quet-
zalcoatl is about to descend.
The Algonquins told a weird tale regarding a
serpent-woman, half-snake, half-female, 'vho, they
told their Paleface hearers, was the grandmother of
the human race. Closely resembling her was the
Coatlicue of the Aztecs, half-woman, half-serpent,
who was represented by them in her colossal statue,
still preserved in the National Museum of :M~exico, as
a huge two-headed serpent with the breasts of a
woman, attired in a robe of serpent skins, and having
dragon's feet and claws. Tradition spoke of her as
the mother of the God of War, and still later legend
as a " pious widow," beloved of the gods. It was to
this fearsome figure that the Aztecs sacrificed thou-
sands of war prisoners annually in order that the
crops might flourish. She appears to have had
many of the attributes of the Gorgons of classical
story.
Pek, the great lightning-dog of the ?tlaya of Yuca-
tan, descended from the heavens with open ja,vs and
fiery tongue, a sufficiently horrible figure, recalling
Cerberus. Possibly he was a relic of the time when
dogs were sacrificed to the Fire-god. He 'vas the
subject of many gruesome legends, which represented
him·in much the same guise as those ghostly canines
THE DEMONOLOGY OF MEXICO 127
which were formerly said to haunt certain localities
in our island.
Among the Maya a beliefwas current that in certain
remote and gloomy caverns there dwelt a huge and
exceedingly bloodthirsty bat, called Camazotz, who
swooped down upon and decapitated such venture-
some persons as chanced to disturb his dark domain.
Armed with enormous teeth and cla\vs and a nose in
the shape of a great flint knife, he pounced upon the
interloper and with one blow· of his razor-like snout
severed head from body. In such a manner did he
deal with one of the heavenly twins when they were
imprisoned in his cavern by the Powers of Evil. But
the survivor, catching a tortoise which chanced to be
ereeping past, clapped it to the bleeding trunk, which
was magically accommodated with a ne'v head. In
many drawings in the Aztec and Maya pictographs
Camazotz is represented as a fiend, \vith outspread
wings and 1\lephistophelean grin. Strange that the
Old World never created a demon-figure from the bat,
and that it was left to the genius of American art to
conjure up a monster so entirely appropriate to an
environment of gloom. Indeed, the Maya Hades was
peopled by demon creatures developed from the
shape of bat and owl. That Camazotz was regarded
by the Maya Indians with unconcealed terror is clear
enough from the accounts of many travellers, who
expressly state that no considerations of gain would
tempt their native camp-followers to venture near
the vicinity of one of his known haunts.,
Fabulous birds also exercised the imagination of
pre-Columbian Central America. Perhaps the most
remarkable of these was the Moan bird of the Maya,
a creature associated with the clouds, a species of
cloud-spirit, somewhat resembling an owl, or, as
some believe, a falcon. It is closely connected with
the God of Death, and had an ominous and sinister
128 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
significance. To the )laya cloudland had a relation-
ship with the Otherworld, and the 1\Ioan bird seems
to have been regarded by them as the spirit of death,
a fowl whose appearance and cry betokened dis-
solution to those it visited.
\
•
I
I
CHAPTER VI
WITCHCRAFT IN :MEXICO
T
I-lE cult of the witch appears to have been
as general in ancient Mexico as it was in
Europe and Asia, and in its American form
it bore so startling a resemblance to the ·witchcraft
of the Old World that it is difficult not to believe
that both can be referred back to a common origin.
Indeed, more than one of the zealous missionaries
arrived at such a conclusion. " These women,"
says one, writing of the 1\fexican sorceresses, "are
such as 've in Spain call witches." But, curiously
enough, in Old 1\.fexico, as in Burma, the sabbath
or convention of the witches was engaged in by
the dead as well as the living, the evil ghosts who
attended it being recruited from among those de-
ceased \vomen who had left young children behind
them, and who, in consequence of their bereavement,
were supposed to be particularly vindictive, wreaking
their spite and disappointment on all \vho were so
unlucky as to cross their path. They are represented
in the ancient paintings as wearing black skirts on
\vhich cross-bones were depicted, and round their
heads a fillet or band of unspun cotton, the symbol
of the earth~goddess. They carried the witch's broom
of dried grass, and they are frequently accompanied
by o'vls, snakes, and other creatures of ill~omen.
Their faces were thickly powdered with white chalk,
and sometimes the cheeks were painted with the
J 129
-~
130 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
figure of a butterfly, the emblem of the departed
soul.
One of the most trustworthy observers of native
customs says of them : " They vented their wrath
on people and bewitched them. When anyone is
possessed by the demons with a wry .mouth and dis-
turbed eyes ... they say he has linked himself to a
demon. The Ciuatete6 (Haunting ~!others), housed
by the cross-ways, have taken his form."
The divine patroness of the~e witches, who flew
through the air upon their broomsticks and met at
cross-roads, was the earth-goddess Tlazolteotl. The
broom is her especial symbol, and in one of the native
paintings she is depicted as .the traditional witch,
naked, ·wearing a peaked hat made of bark, and
mounted upon a broomstick. In other places she is
seen standing at the door of a house accompanied by
an owl, the whole representing the witch's dwelling,
with medicinal herbs drying beneath the caves. Thus
the evidence that the Haunting Mothers and their
patroness present an exact parallel with the witches
of Europe seems complete, and should provide those
who regard witchcraft as a thing essentially European
with considerable food for thought. The Mexican
sorcery cult known as Nagualism was also permeated
with practices similar to those of European witch-
craft, and we read of its adherents smearing them-
selves with ointment resembling the " witch-butter "
of the European hags, which was thought to aid flight
through the air, engaging in wild orgies and dances,
precisely as did the adherents of Vaulderie in Southern
France, and casting spells on man and beast alike.
But there is plenty of proof that living women
desired to associate themselves with the Haunting
Mothers. A monkish writer tells us that these betook
themselves to cross-roads by night and, throwing
aside their garments, drew blood from their tongues
.,.
TLAZOLTEOTL, QUEEN OF THE WITCHES
.Above: Riding on a. broom-stick. Bel<>w : Offering a child in sacrifice•
•
WITCHCRAFT IN MEXICO 131
to sacrifice to the Father of Evil, leaving their clothes
behind them as an offering.
Like their European sisters, the Mexican witches
were in the habit of intoxicating themselves with
some potent drug so that they might in spirit traverse
great distances or prophesy coming events. Says
Acosta: "To practise this art the witches, usually
old \vomen, shut themselves up in a house and
intoxicate themselves to the verge of losing their
reason. The next day they are ready to reply to
questions. Some of them take any shape they choose,
and fly through the air with wonderful rapidity and
for long distances. They will tell what is taking place
in remote localities long before the news could pos-
sibly arrive. The Spaniards have known them to
report mutinies, battles, revolts, and deaths, occur-
ring two hundred or three hundred leagues distant,
on the very day they took place, or the day after."
The high priest who presided over the Mexican
witches' revels at the cross-roads was the god Tezcat-
lipoca, a deity of ill-omen, who took the place of
Satan in the European witch-sabbath. He dis-
coursed music fo~ the sport of his devotees on a pipe
made of the arm-bone of a deceased woman.
Sahagun says of the Ciuateteo:
~ "The Ciuapipiltin, the noble women, were those
1
/-
who had died in childbed. They were supposed to v
wander through the air, descending when they wished
to the earth to affiict children with paralysis and other
maladies. They haunted cross-roads to practise their
maleficent deeds, and they had temples built at these
places, where bread offerings in the shape of butter-
flies were made to them, also the thunder-stones
which fall from the sky. Their faces were white, and
their arms, hands, and legs were covered with a white
powder, ticitl (chalk). Their ears were gilded, and
their hair done in the manner of the great ladies.
132 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
Their clothes were striped with black, their skirts
barred in different colours, and their sandals were
white." He further relates that when a woman who
had died in her first childbed 'vas buried in the temple-
court of the Ciuateteo, her husband and his friends
'vatched the body all night in case young braves or
magicians should s~ek to obtain the hair or fingers as
protective talismans.
In some manuscripts the 'vitches are represented
as clad in the insignia of the goddess Tlazolteotl, the
great mother-witch, with a fillet and ear-plug of
unspun cotton, a golden crescent-shaped nasal orna-
ment, empty eye-sockets, and the heron-feather
head-dress of the warrior caste, for the woman who
died in childbed was regarded as equally heroic with
the man who perished in battle. The upper parts of
their bodies were nude, and round the hips they wore
a skirt on which cross-bones were painted. They
carried the witch's broom of malinalli grass, a symbol
of death, and they were sometimes associated with
the snake, screech-owl, and other animals of ill-omen.
The face was thickly powdered with white chalk, and
the region of the mouth, in some cases, decorated
with the figure of a butterfly. These furies were
supposed to dwell in the region of the west, and as
some compensation for their early detachment from
the earth-life were permitted to accompany the sun
in his course from noon to sunset, just as the dead
warriors did from sunrise to noon. At night they
left their occidental abode, the Cuitlampa, or" Place
of Women," and revisited the glimpses of the moon
in search of the feminine gear they had left behind
them-the spindles, work-baskets, and other articles
used by Mexican women. The Ciuateteo were especi-
ally potent for evil in the third quarter of the astro-
logical year, and those who were so luckless as to
meet them during that season became crippled or
WITCHCRAFT IN MEXICO 133
epileptic. The fingers and hands of women who had
died in bringing forth were believed by magicians,
soldiers, and thieves to have the property of crippling
and paralysing their enemies or those who sought to
hinder their nefarious calling, precisely as Irish
burglars formerly believed that the hand of a corpse
grasping a candle, which they called the " hand of
glory," could ensure sound sleep in the inmates of
any house they might enter.
Further proof is forthcoming that living women of
evil reputation desired to associate themselves with
the Ciuatete6. Says the interpreter of" Codex Vati-
canus A " : " The first of the fourteen day-signs, the
house, they considered unfortunate, because they
said that demons came through the air on that sign
in the figures of 'vomen, such as 've designate witches,
who usually went to the highways, where they met
in the form of a cross, and to solitary places, and that
when any bad woman wished to absolve herself of her
sins she went alone by night to these places and took ~
off her garments and sacrificed there with her tongue
(that is, drew blood from her tongue}, and left the
clothes which she had carried and returned naked as
the sign of the confession of her sins."
The temples or shrines ofthe Ciuateteo ~ere situated
at cross-roads, the centres of ill-omen throughout the
world. That the Mexican witches had a connection
with the lightning is sho,vn by the fact that cakes in
the shape of butterflies and "thunder-stones" ·were
offered them. But they were also connected with
baneful astral or astrological influences, and are
several times alluded to in the Interpretative Codices
in this connection. The seasons at 'vhich they were
most potent for evil were those connected with the
western department of the tonalamatl, or '' calendar.''
~ut we have further evidence that an entire college
of witches existed in the Huaxtec region near the
134 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
coast, and that it was sufficiently powerful to invade
the Valley of 1\{exico in Toltec times. These witches,
who were also Amazons, appear to have succeeded
in establishing a military superiority at Tollan, the
capital, and in order to celebrate their triumph
resolved to sacrifice a large number of prisoners to
_ their patron goddess. Addressing their captives, they
said: "We desire to drench the earth with you, to
hold a feast with you, for till now no battle-offerings
have been held with men." The Huaxtec country,
whence they came, was a rich and closely settled
agricultural area, its people were of Maya or Central
American stock, and its chief goddess, Tlazolteotl,
whose priestesses these women were, represented the
earth-mother, the bounteous giver of all fruits and
grain. But they believed that this Mexican Ceres,
worn out by the production of foodstuffs, required
occasional refreshment. This had formerly been
administered by pouring libations of the blood of
animals on the hard, cracked tropical soil, ·which
appeared to absorb them thirstily. But, flushed with
triumph, these Amazons resolved to offer up a sac-
rifice which should outvie all former oblations. It is
also clear from their menacing speech that the festival
was intended to take the form of a cannibal feast, a
thing until then unheard of in Mexico, as their own
statement seems to make plain. The native records
insist upon the fact that the institution of ceremonial
cannibalism was due to these witches, for such there
is abundant evidence they were. Like the Hexen, or
witches of ancient Germany, they seem to have had
a penchant for human flesh, and further resembled
that cult in their tendency to vampirism.
The witch-cult in Mexico had thus a surprising
resemblance to that of Europe. Indeed, such amaz-
ing parallels can be drawn betwixt the t'wo systems
that there can be little doubt regarding their common
WITCHCRAFT IN MEXICO 135
origin. In both cases the chief minister was a great
"black man" (in the Mexican case Tezcatlipoca, who
appears as the witches' priest), the meetings were
held at cross-roads or in desert places, the devotees
of the cult flew through the air on broomsticks and
employed magical unguents to enable them to do so ;
they 'vore peaked caps, and took as their common
symbols the owl and the bunch of dried medicinal
"
herbs. They induced visions by drugs, and used dead
men's flesh and bones as charms. What is lacking
to prove the community of their origin ?
What was precisely the character of Tlazolteotl,
their patroness ? Will some consideration of her
cultus assist us in discovering the underlying nature
of 1\lexican witchcraft and indeed of witchcraft in
general?
She is usually depicted as having her face smeared
with white chalk, the upper part being surrounded by
a yellow band, the colour of the maize-plant. The
space about her mouth is painted black, the symbol
of sex. Sometimes she is clad in the skin of a sacri-
ficial victim. On her head she wears a cotton fillet
stuck full of spindles, emblematic of the woman's
craft and business in life. She carries a broom made
from stiff sharp-pointed grass. So far as her emble-
matic side is concerned, she is assuredly the goddess of
magic and of women, the bringer-forth in a dual
aspect.
That she had an aspect of variousness is clear from
one of her names, Ixcuine, or" The Four-faced," that
is, her idols were sometimes given four faces so that
they might look upon every direction whence the
rain might come. The witches who first made human
sacrifices appear to have been called by this name.
But I think we shall receive a more just impression
of her actual nature from a consideration of her
festival, the Ochpaniztli.
'
136 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
Dancing is one of the chief characteristics of this
festival, dancing to the drum, and a particular kind
of dancing, executed in silence and consisting mostly
in movements of the arms. It was attended by " the
medical women," that is the herbalists. A battle of
flowers was associated with it. The victim sowed
maize broadcast as she walked to the sacrifice. Her
skin was worn by the priest, another priest wearing a
mask made of it, along with a naualli, or disguise of
feathers. He was covered in the morning with other
feather-cloaks and bird-symbols. Processions were
marshalled, and more maize \vas sown. Also blood-
stained brooms figure in the ceremonies.
At the least, we can glean from the circumstances
of this bizarre festival a number of those inalienably
associated with the witch-cult as known both in
Europe and America, such as dancing silently to the
drum, herbalism, the sowing of seed. Do we find
such allegory and ritual in any particular region
whence they might have penetrated to Europe on
the one hand and America on the other, or have acted
as links between the analagous practices in those
continents ?
We appear to do so in Siberia. The system of
sorcery denominated Shamanism, which is widely
prevalent among the tribes of the plains and tundras
of the vast region known as Siberia appears to have
a close resemblance to it.
Authorities are divided as to whether Shamanism
is a form of primitive religion pure and simple or
merely a survival of magical practices formerly con-
nected with an ancient Asiatic faith, a species of
necromancy practised by a separate caste of priests
whose duty it was to communicate with the world of
spirits.
The shaman is either a professional practitioner of
his cult, or he may be a private individual 'vhose
WITCHCRAFT IN MEXICO 137
addiction to the ritual is confined to the family
circle. .
Sometimes the office o shaman is hereditary, h1.;1t
in any case the gift 0 supernatural vision, of medium-
ship, so to speak, is an essential qualification for
shamanhood. Strangely enough, nearly all the best
Russian authorities on the subject agree that a
neurotic condition in the shaman is necessary to
success. That condition is, of course, a well-known
accompaniment of the gift of mediumship. The
Siberian spiritualist is grave and reserved ; he is,
indeed, almost taboo to the people at large, whom he
seldom addresses, but among whom he has great
influence. Often among the civilized the nervous
diathesis creates the recluse.
l\fany women adopt the shaman's art. These are
not unusually persons of hysterical tendencies.
"People who are about to become shamans," says
Jochelson, "have fits of wild paroxysms, alternating
with a condition of complete exhaustion. They will
lie motionless for two or three days \vithout partaking
offood or drink. Final1y they retire to the \viJderness,
where they spend their time enduring hunger and cold
in order to prepare themselves for their calling."
When the shaman accepts the call he also accepts
the guardianship of one or more spirits by whose
means he enters into communication with the whole
spirit world. But the shaman receives his call through
the agency of some animal or plant or other natural
object, \Vhich he encounters at the critical period
when he is meditating on the life shamanic. This is,
of course, precisely what the Red Indian or Nagualist
does when he goes to seek his totem, and it seems to
me as if this analogy might thro\v a very considerable
light upon the nature and origin of Totemism, regard-
ing which there is at present great dubiety in scientific
circles. Totemism, we know, has a root-connection
I
,
138 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
with spiritism, and is also connected with ancestor-
worship. The spirit often appears and addresses the
would-be shaman, precisely as does the totem among
the American tribes.
The training of a shaman usually lasts for two or
three years, and is arduous in the extreme. The
mental part of his graduation consists in getting into
touch with the "right" spirits, that is, the guardian
spirits wh~ are to control the medium during his
career.
"The process of gathering inspiration during the
first stages," says J ochelson, " is so severe that a
bloody sweat often issues on the forehead and temples.
Every preparation of a shaman for a performance is
considered a sort of repetition of the initiative pro-
cess." The physical training consists of singing,
dancing and drum-playing. This latter business
requires considerable skill, and a prolonged course
of practice is essential to success in it. One
shaJllan told Sternberg that before he entered upon
his vocation he was exceedingly ill for two months,
during which time he remained unconscious. In
the night he heard himself singing shaman's songs.
Then spirits appeared to him in the shape of birds,
and one in human form, who commanded him to
make a drum and the other apparatus of the art.
Three kinds of spirits are associated 'vith the Yakut
shamans. These are the amagyat, the yekua, and the
kaliany. All shamans must possess the first. The
second are more obscure, and appear to be 'vhat is
known to students of folk-lore as spirits of the "Life-
index" type, that is, souls closely associated with
' the welfare and continued existence of the individual.
These are carefully concealed from the vulgar gaze.
" My yekua," said one shaman to Sieroszewski,
" will not be found by anyone. It lies hidden far away
in the mountains of Edjigan." These yekua almost
WITCHCRAFT IN MEXICO 139
always take on an animal incarnation like the familiars
of European witches, and the meaning of the word-
" animal-mother "-seems to give them an affinity
with the totemic spirits. If the yekua dies the shaman
dies. The kaliany are mere demons, obsessive or
.
possess1ve.
Among the Takuts a definite ceremony attends the
consecration of a young shaman. One of the older
among the brotherhood leads the youth about to be
initiated to the top of a high mountain or into a clear-
ing in a forest. Here he dresses the young man in
ceremonial garments, gives him a shaman's rattle,
and places on one side of him nine chaste youths and
on the other nine chaste maidens. Then he commands
him to repeat certain words. He tells him that he
must renounce all worldly things, and instructs him
as to the dwelling-places ofthe various spirits to whom ...
he is about to consecrate his life. An animal is then
sacrificed, and the novice is sprinkled with its blood.
This constitutes the primary ceremony, but there are
nine in all, and of these only a small proportion of
the brotherhood undergoes the whole. Some of the
later ceremonies are very involved, and have evidently
the cumulative practice and ritual of many ages
behind them.
Among the northern Siberian tribes the shaman
combines the offices of priest, medicine-man and
prophet. In the south the shamanic brotherhood is
divided into " black " and " white " shamans, the
first class acting as the mouthpieces of the evil spirits,
and the sepond as mediums between the beneficent
spirits and mankind. The white shamans take part
in marriage ceremonies, fertilization rites and the
curing of diseases, but the black are not necessarily
malevolent, and frequently employ their powers for
good. Again, all shamans are divided into " great,"
"middling," and "little," according to their powers.
140 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
Women among the southern Siberians are nearly
always black shamans, the reason given for this being
that their sex is more predisposed to the dark side of
the occult arts.
Shamanism is, then, a system of spiritism, but it
embraces certain equivalents to witchcraft-the use
of the drum and dancing, herbalism, the cultivation
of spiritual familiars. So far we seem to have traced
a connection between Asia and America. But whence
came the broom, "the witch's palfry," to America,
'vhence proceed the battle of flowers, the sowing of
seed?
The broom, in the ceremonies of the earth-goddess,
was made of stiff malinalli or mountain-grass tied to a
stick, and was the symbol of the spring florescence,
the outbursting of nature. It was splashed with the
blood of the sacrificed victim, 'vhich, I consider, was
thought to give it life, and I believe that thus splashed
it was originally regarded as the emblem of nature
revivified, and thatthe sweeping and cleansing process
for which it was used in the temples was merely an
afterthought. Bathed in blood, it partook magically
ofthe nature oflife, was looked upon as a living thing,
and together with the unguent of flight, which was
rubbed on the body, came to be thought ofas a magical
agent of levitation. Perhaps, by the law of sympa·
thetic magic, the heights whence its material was
gathered, conferred on it the ability to raise one in
the air, the idea of lofty motion. The strange thing
is that in America, a continent where no horse or
other animal suitable for riding was known in pre-
Columbian times, the notion of riding on the broom is
found, and this certainly looks as if the idea had been
imported.
I believe it to have been so in what are known to
students of Pre-history as Azilian times. In a rock-
shelter at the village of Cogul near Lerida in Spain
WITCHCRAFf IN MEXICO 141
some curious paintings have been discovered portray-
ing the rites of early witchcraft among the Azilian
population \vhich flourished in that area more than
ten thousand years ago. One of these depicts a
number of \Vomen wearing skirts and peaked hats
precisely like those of the witches of later times,
dancing round a black man, doubtless the priest or
" Great Black Man " of later witch-tradition.
It is known, too, that mummy-flesh or dead men's
flesh was employed for magical purposes by the witches
of both Europe and America.
Throughout the 'vitch-literature of Europe the
mummy is constantly alluded to as part of the
magical apparatus of the witch. When she failed to
obtain it she had recourse to using earth taken from
a newly-made grave as a substitute. So far as I am
aware, we do not find this practice in Eastern Asia,
but that it was in vogue in America is substantiated
by more than one instance. Allusion has already been
made to the magical employment of the hands and
fingers of dead women in 1\fexico, and Dawson, in his
"Rites and Observations on the Kwakiootl People of
Vancouver," alludes to an interesting case of it in
that part of America. He says that when a Kwakiootl
wizard desired to bewitch anyone, he tried to procure
a lock of his hair, or a part of his clothing. "These
are placed with a small piece of the skin and flesh of
a dead man, dried and roasted before the fire, and
rubbed and pounded together. The mixture is then
tied up in a piece of skin or cloth, which is covered
over with spruce gum. The little package is next
placed in a human bone, which is broken for the
purpose and afterwards carefully tied together and
put within a human skull. This again is placed in a
box, which is tied up and gummed over and then
buried in the ground in such a way as to be barely
covered••.• This is done at night or the early
142 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
morning and in secret, and is frequently repeated
until the enemy dies." The drying of the human
remains over a. fire shows quite clearly that what was
desired was a piece of flesh capable of desiccation and
admixture with other elements, as in the operations
of European witches. Benzoni tells us that the
medicine-men among the Borenquenos of the West
Indies took some small bones and a little flesh and
po,vdered them together as a purgative for the
sick.
My impression is, then, that the witchcraft ofMexico
drew its origin from two different areas: the Azilian
area of Spain, which, by the way, was the chief home
of the broom-riding witch-cult in the Europe of the
late :rt1iddle Ages, and the Shamanism of Siberia.
From the former area it may have penetrated by way
of one of the land-bridges which spanned the Atlantic
until comparatively recent geological times, whilst
it would draw elements from the latter by way of
Kamschatka and the Aleutian Islands.
I am not at all sure, however, that Mexico, or at
least some part of America, did not receive very
considerable religious and cultural gifts from Druidic
Britain, although I advance the suggestion with the
greatest possible reserve and as a suggestion merely.
The British peoples of the first .Christian century
were capable of building ships much larger and more
seaworthy than those of the Romans, so Cresar tells
us, and that both British and Irish Druids were
addicted to levitation and believed themselves
capable of flying through the air is clearly demon-
strated by legend. There is, indeed, nothing in
1\{exican witchcraft which might not well have
emanated from early Britain. May not Quetzalcoatl
have been a Druid priest? It would be comparatively
easy to bring a vast amount of evidence to prove that
he was, but that evidence would lack the certainty
WITCHCRAFT IN MEXICO 143
of historical corroboration and could rest on analogy
only.
As regards the presence of·the battle of flowers in
Mexico, I believe it to be of similar origin to that
presently to be observed in the South of France-
an ancient witch-area. It was the allegory of the
defeat of winter, or the dry season, by spring. How
many of those \Vho take part in it in the gay cities
of the Riviera are aware that they are perpetuating
a most ancient rite not unconnected with human
sacrifice?
'
CHAPTER VII
MEXICAN ASTROLOGY
T
HE Mexican system of Astrology, although
it has considerable resemblances 'vith those
of Europe and Asia, is really a system of
native growth and origin, and• must be studied
separately from all others. It is based on what is
known as the tonalamatl, or so-called " calendar ,
of the Aztecs. But I 'vill deal with it here very
practically, in order that students of other astrologies
may compare it with the system they study, and
because it is certainly time that this particular
American system should be presented to students
of the occult in a plain and understandable manner.
A thorough knowledge of the tonalamatl is essential
in order to grasp the fundamentals of Mexican
religion, but its significance has perhaps been height-
ened by the difficulties which certainly attend its
consideration. I have endeavoured to present the
subject here as simply as possible, and to keep all
distracting side-issues for later consideration and a·way
from the main proof. Most ofthese, indeed, have been
created by writers 'vho have too closely identified
the tonalamatl with the solar calendar, and have added
to the obscurity of the subject by the introduction
of abstruse astronomical hypotheses which have only
a problematical connection with it.
The word tonalamatl means '' Book of the Good and
Bad Days," and it is primarily a " Book of Fate,"
144
MEXICAN ASTROLOGY 145
fr9m 'vhich the destiny of children born on such and
such a day, or the result of any course to be taken or
any venture made on any given day, was forecasted
by divinatory methods, similar to those which have
been employed by astrologers in many parts of the
world in all epochs. The tonalamatl, was, therefore,
in no sense a time-count or calendar proper, to which
purpose it was not well suited ; but it was capable
of being adapted to the solar calendar. It is equally
incorrect to speak of the tonalamatl as a " ritual
calendar., It has nothing to do directly with ritual
or religious ceremonial, and although certain repre-
sentations on some tonalamatls depict ritual acts,
no ~etails or directions for their operation are
supplied.
The original tonalamatl was probably a day-count
based on a lunar reckoning. The symbols appear to
have been those of the gods or other mythological ..
figures. Thus cipactli was merely the earth-monster,
quauhtli the eagle, a surrogate for the Sun-god, and
~o on. Later the tonalamatl lost its significance as a
time-count when it 'vas superseded as such by the
solar calendar. It then took on the complexion of a
book of augury, so that the temporal connection it
had with the gods was altered to a purely augural
one. The various days thus became significant for
good or evil according to the nature of the gods who
presided over them, or over the precise hour in which
a subject was born or any act done. As in astrology,
a kind of balance was held between good and evil,
so that if the god presiding over the day was inaus-
picious, his influence might, in some measure, be
counteracted by that of the deity 'vho presided over
the hour in which a child first saw the light or an event
occurred.
The tonalamatl was composed of 20 day-signs or
hieroglyphs repeated 18 times, or 260 day-signs in all.
K
I
146 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
These 260 days were usually divided into 20 groups
of 13 days each, sometimes called " weeks." To
effect this division the numbers 1 to 13 were added
to the 20 day-signs in continuous series as follo'v :
No. Name Sign No. Name Sign
1 cipactli crocodile 11 ozomatli monkey
(good) (uncertain)
2 eecatl wind 12 malinalii grass
(uncertain) (unlucky)
8 calli house 18 acatl reed
(uncertain) (uncertain}
4 cuetzpallin lizard 1 ocelotl ocelot
(good) (bad)
5 coatl serpent 2 quauhtli eagle
(bad) (lucky)
6 miquiztli death's·head 8 cozcaqu- vulture
(unlucky) auhtli (bad)
7 mazatl deer 4 ollin motion
(unlucky) (uncertain)
8 tochtli rabbit 5 tecpatl flint knife
(good) (bad)
9 atl water 6 quiauitl
.
ra1n
(bad) (unlucky)
10 itzcuintli dog 7 xochitl flower
(lucky) (good)
and so on. It will be seen from this list that the
fourteenth day-sign takes the number 1 again. Each
of the ~ay-signs under this arrangement has a number
that does not recur in connection with that sign for
a space of 260 days, as is proved by the circumstance
that the numbers of the day-signs and figures (20
and 13), if multiplied together, give as a product 260,
the exact number of days in the tonalamatl.
The combination of signs and figures thus provided
each day in the tonalamatl with an entirely distinct
description. For example : the frrst day, cipactli,
was in its first occurrenc_
e 1 cipactli; in its second 8
\
'
~'
DAY-SIGNS OF 'l'HE )fEXICAN CALENDAR
•
MEXICAN ASTROLOGY 147
cipacUi ; in its third 2 cipacai ; in its fourth 9 cipactli,
and so on.
No day in the tonalamatl was simply described as·
cipacUi, coaa, or calli, and before its name was com-
plete it was necessary to prefix to it one of the
numbers 1 to IS as its incidence chanced to fall.
Thus it was designated as ce cipactli (one crocodile)
or ome coaa (two snake) as the case might be. Each
of the 20 groups of 13 days (which are sometimes
called " weeks '') was kno'vn as a division by the
name of the first day of the group, as ce cipactli_(one
crocodile), ce ocelotl (one ocelot), ce mazatl (one deer),
and so on.
Each of the day-signs of the tonala1natl was pre-
sided over by a god who was supposed to exercise a
special influence over it. These patron gods were as
follow:
Day-sign Patron god Day-sign Patron goa
Cipactli TonacatecutU Miquiztli Tecciztecatl
Eecatl Quetzalcoati 1\iazatl Tlaloc
Calli Tepeyollotl Tochtli Mayauel
Cuetzpallin Ueuecoyotl Atl Xi:uhtecutli
Coati Chalchihuit- Itzcuintli Mictlantecutli
licue
Ozomatli Xochipilli Cozcaqu-
auhtli
Itzpapalotl
l\lalinalli Patecatl Olin Xolotl
Acatl Texcatlipoca
(or variant)
Tecpatl Tezcatlipoca
(or variant)
Ocelotl Tlazolteotl Quiauitl Chantico
Quauhtli Xipe Xochitl Xochiquetzal
There are slight divergencies from the standard
list in some of the codices, but such are usually
accounted for by the interpolation of variant phases
of the deities given.
Each of the 20 tonalamatl divisions, or " weeks ,
148 THE MAGIC ANJ? MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
of 13 days each, as they are sometimes erroneously
but usefully designated, had also a patron god of its
own which ruled over its fortunes. The initial days
of these " weeks " gave the name to the entire
" week," therefore the designation of the 20 weeks
was the same as that of the 20 day-signs; but the
"weeks," or rather the week-names, did not follow
each other in the same incidence as the days, as will
be seen from the foregoing table.
The list of gods of the " weeks " would thus be as
follo,vs:
1 Ce cipactli • • Tonacatecutli
2 Ce ocelot! • Quetzalcoati
8 Ce mazatl . . Tepeyollotl
4 Ce xochitl • . Ueuecoyotl
5 Ce acatl Chalchihuitlicue
6 Ce miquiztli . Tecciztecatl
7 Ce quiauitl . Tlaloc
8 Ce malinalli 1\-layauel
•
9 Ce coati • Xiuhtecutli
10 Ce tecpatl . . Mictlantecutli
11 Ce ozomatli Patecatl
12 Ce quetzpallin Itzlacoliuhqui
18 Ce ollin . Tlazolteotl
14 Ce itzcuintli . Xipe Totec
15 Ce calli • • Itzpapalotl
16 Ce cozcaquauhtli . Xolotl
17 Ce atl • • Chalchiuhtotollin
18 Ce eecatl Chantico
19 Ce quauhtli • . Xochiquetzal
20 Ce tochtli . Xiuhtecutli and Itztli
Apart from the signs of the days themselves, the
presiding deities of the weeks and the gods of the
individual dates, the numerical signs also possessed #
a lucky or unlucky significance. Three and four were
MEXICAN ASTROLOGY 149
lucky numbers, five and six were generally ominous,
seven was invariably good, eight and nine bad, ten,
eleven, twelve, and thirteen good. The diviner took
into account all these possible influences in consider-
ing the fortune attached to a particular day.
Besides the patron gods of the days and the 'veeks
there were nine " Lords of the Night " which, I am
inclined to think with Seier, 'vere not " lords " or
governors of nine consecutive nights, but of the nine
hours of each night. '\tVe know the names of these
gods from the first interpreter of "Codex Vaticanus
A," who gives them as follo,vs, with their influences :
1 Xiuhtecutli
2 Itztli
3 Piltzintecutli
4 Centeotl
5 ~lictlantecutli
•
•
6 Chalchihuitlicue .
7 Tlazolteotl
8 Tepeyollotl
9 Tlaloc
•
•
Good
Bad
Good
Indifferent
Bad
Indifferent
Bad
Good
Indifferent
Gama describes these nine gods as Acompafiados
(Companions) and as Senores de la N oche (Lords of
the Night) and from his obscure rendering of Cristoval
de Castillo, as well as from the ''Manuel de 1\finistros
de Indios " of Jacinto de Ia Serna, we gather that they
held sway over the night hours from sunset to sun-
rise. The Mexicans divided the night into nine hours,
a,nd it is obvious from the astrological point of vie'v
that the Mexican soothsayers who used the tonalamatl
must have found it necessary to estimate not only
the "fate" of the several days, but also that of the
several hours and times of the day and night.
This of course applies 'vith equal force to the thir-
teen so-called "Lords of the Day," who almost
\
150 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
certainly acted as gods of the thirteen hours of the
day. They were :
1 Xiuhtecutli
2 Tlaltecutli
3 Chalchihuitlicue
4 Tonatiuh
5 Tlazolteotl
6 Teoyaomiqui
7 Xochipilli
8 Tlaloc
10
11
9 Quetzalcoatl
Tezcatlipoca
Mictlantecutli
12
13
Tlauizcalpantecutli
llamatecutli
Seier, in his "Commentary on the Aubin Tonal-
amatl," gives the following table of the gods of the
night and day hours :
•
(Noon)
7. Xochipilli-Cinteotl
6. Teoyaomiqui 8. Tlaloc
5. Tlazolteotl 9. Quetzalcoatl
4. Tonatiuh 10. Tezcatlipoca
3. Chalchihuitlicue 11. Mictlantecutli
2. Tlaltecutli
1. Xiuhtecutli (Day)
12. Tlaftizcalpantecutli
13. Ilamatecutli
IX. Tlaloc I. Xiuhtecutli
VIII. Tepeyollotl II. Itztli
VII. Tlazolteotl III. Piltzintecutli-Tonatiub
VI. Chalchihuitlicue IV. Cinteotl
V. Mictlantecutli
(Midnight)
This casts light on the method of augury of the
priests. Thus the hour of noon was auspicious
because it was connected with the mystic pumber 7,
and 9 was a number of good augury with sorcerers
because it gave the number of the underworlds and
of the night-hours. Recapitulating we find :
1. That the tonalamaa was a "Book of Fate," and
not in itself a calendar or time-count.
MEXICAN ASTROLOGY ISI
2. That it \Vas composed of 20 day-signs, repeated
13 times, or 260 day-signs in all.
8. That these were usually divided into 20 groups
of 13 days each, erroneously but usefully called
"weeks." The initial day of these "weeks" gave
the name to the entire " week."
4. To effect this division the numbers 1 to 13 were
added to the 20 day-signs in continuous series.
5. That by this arrangement each day-sign had a
number that did not recur in connection with that
sign for a space of 260 days.
6. That the name of a day-sign in the tonalamatl
was not complete without its accompanying number.
7. Each of the day-signs of the tonalamatl was
presided over by a god who was supposed to exercise
a special influence over it. (See list.)
8. Besides the patron gods ofthe days and" weeks"
there were:
(a) Nine " lords , or patron gods of the night·
hours.
(b) Thirteen "lords" of the day-hours.
Now we have seen that the day-gods each pos-
sessed a special sign, and that some wielded a good
and others an evil influence. The like holds true of
the gods of the weeks, the day and night hours. In
the balance and repercussion of their signs with and
on one another lay the whole art of Mexican " as-
trology," just as in the consideration of the evil and
good influence of the planets at a certain time the
astrologers of Europe and Asia were able to predict
certain occurrences and issues.
\Ve kno\V what certain of the signs portended for
the Mexicans. For instance, Sahagun says of the
sign Ce atl (one water) that the great lords and rich
merchants at the birth of one of their children " paid
152 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
the greatest attention to tllis sign," and the day and
hour at which the child was born. ·" They at once
inquired of the astrologers what fortune the child
might expect to encounter, and if the sign ·were pro-
pitious they had the infant baptized 'vithout delay,
whereas if it were the opposite they waited until the
nearest day 'vhich had a propitious sign."
It was believed that the "week" sign Ce quiauitl
(one rain) was especially ominous, because at this
season the dead witches, the Ciuateteo, descended
and inflicted maladies upon the people, distorting
their limbs and causing epilepsy, especially among
women and children. On this occasion they sacri-
ficed malefactors to these evil spirits. The same held
good of the "'veek" sign ce ozomatli (one monkey).
The sign ce acatl (one cane) was propitious and
denominated the star of Quetzalcoatl, the light of the
world, as were the thirteen days commenced by
Malinalli, the symbol of grass, presided over by
Patecatl, the drink-god. Of persons born on the day
five cipactli (crocodile) they said " that the men 'vould
all be rogues and the women prostitutes." :rtlen born
on thirteen quauhtli (eagles) would be valiant in war,
but those who saw the light under ollin (motion)
would be rascals and tale-bearers, this sign having a
protean character.
If a person were born under the sign six eecaa
(winds) he would be rich and prudent, but those who
came under seven quauhtli would suffer from incurable
diseases of the heart, the eagle sign probably inferring
height and therefore dizziness. A man born under
the symbol of one wind would be healthy in his
nativity, but did he fall into ill-health ·would suffer
from severe pains in the side and cancer.
The day of nine dogs applied to magicians, possibly
because of its arcane number, and especially to those
sorcerers who transformed themselves into beasts or
'
MEXICAN ASTROLOGY 153
serpents. The people in general therefore feared this
day exceedingly, 1\nd shut themselves up in their
houses in order that they m-ight not witness any
magical metamorphoses. The same applied to the
sign ollin.
~len born in the sign of one flo\ver would be musi-
cians, physicians or \Veavers. This sign \vas presided
over by Xochiquetzal, the Mexican Venus or Titania,
and was especially of good omen.
The sign of seven serpents was especially fortunate
for everything, but particularly for marriages, and
the symbol two canes indicated long life. But the
first sign of the serpent was evil for it signified the
loss of a limb. Expert huntsmen were those born
under one flint, and the fifth of the flint series por-
tended that a person born under it would be a jester.
If anyone bad his nativity beneath the signs ruled by
Tezcatlipoca let him be,vare, for all were unlucky,
and false evidence given on these days it \vas impos-
sible to rebut. It was also of evil omen in war.
The sign one house was unlucky and was under
the influence of the dead witches. Spies and impostors
were born under some of the signs of air, indeed there
is a great sameness in the fortunes of many of the
signs, of \Vhich it is impossible to give an entire list as
many of the significances of the series of 260 are
irretrievably lost.
Each sign 'vas held as applying to a certain part
of the body and as having dominance over it. Says
the interpreter ofthe " Codex Vaticanus " : " The sign
of the wind was assigned to the liver, the rose to the
breast, the earthquake to the tongue, the eagle to
the right arm, the!vulture to the right ear, the rabbit
to the left ear, th~ flint to the teeth, the air to the
breath, the monkey to the left arm, the cane to the
heart, the herb to the bo\vels, the lizard to the womb
of women, the tiger to the left foot, the serpent to the
I
•
154 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
male organ of generation, as that from which their
diseases proceeded in their commencement, for in this
manner they considered the serpent wherever it
occurred as the most ominous of all their signs. Even
still physicians continue to use this figure when they
perform cures ; and according to the sign and hour
in which the patient becomes ill they examined
·whether the disease corresponded with the ruling
sign, from which it is plain that this nation is not as
brutal as some persons pretend, since they observed
so much method and order in these affairs, and em-
ployed the same means as our astrologers and
physicians use, as this figure still obtains amongst
1 them, and may be found in their repertories."
It is in such passages as that found in the Cronica
Mexicana of Tezozomoc that we find the connection
between Aztec "astrology" as observed in the
tonalamatl or " calendar " and stellar astrology
proper. In Chapter 82 of that marvellous book is
to be found an account of the formalities observed
at the election of the Emperor Montezuma, a record
of the duties required from him in his royal position.
Among other things he was '' especially to make it
his duty to rise at midnight (and to look at the stars} :
at yohualitqui mamalhuaztli, as they call ' the keys of
Saint Peter ' among the stars in the firmament, at
the citlaltlachtli, the north and its wheel, at the
tianquiztli, the Pleiades, and at the colotl ixayac, the
constellation of the Scorpion, which mark the four
cardinal points in the sky. Toward morning he must
also carefully observe the constellation xonecuilli, the
'cross of Saint Jacob,' which appears in the southern
sky in the direction of India and China ; and he must
carefully observe the morning star, which appears at
dawn and is called tlauizcalpan teuctli."
These words outline the scope of Mexican astro-
nomical knowledge and are corroborated in the
•
THE DEMON OF THE PLAXET VENUS SPEARING A GODDESS
•
. MEXICAN ASTROLOGY ISS
seventh book ofthe original Mexican text of Sahagun's
great work, "Historia General," preserved in the
Palace Library, ~fadrid, in which the constellations
are represented by pictures, and among other stars,
the planet Venus, which had especial associations for
the ~Iexicans, who kept an unerring record of the
days when it appeared and .disappeared. They
regarded the morning star as connected with Quetzal-
coati, the father of all magic, and believed it to have
a special·magical significance. When he left Mexico,
according to one legend, he immolated himself by fire,
and his heart, flying upward out of the ashes, became
the star Citlalpol, or the planet Venus. In his form
as that planet the god was known as Tlauizcalpan
tecutli. On all days connected with the signs of the
alligator, jaguar, snake, water, reed, stag, and move-
ment the planet Venus had a dubious significance,
usually uncanny. Regarding its action on some of
these days an ancient story tells us:
"And as they (the ancients, the forefathers) learned.
When it appears (rises).
According to the sign in which it (rises).
It strikes different classes of people with its rays.
Shoots them, casts its light upon them.
When it appears in the (first) sign, '1 alligator,'
It shoots the old men and women.
Also in the (second) sign, '1 jaguar,'
In the (third) sign, '1 stag,'
In the (fourth) sign, ' 1 flower,'
It shoots the little children.
And in the (fifth) sign, '1 reed,'
It shoots the kings.
Also in the (sixth) sign, ' 1 death,'
And in the (seventh) sign, ' 1 rain,,
It shoots the rain,
It will not rain ;
And in the (thirteenth} sign,' 1 movement,'
156 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
It shoots the youths and maidens ;
And in the (seventeenth) sign, '1 water,'
There is universal drought."
In the Vatican and Borgian Codices especially we
see representatives of these various classes of people
struck by the evil spear of the planetary god.
Seier says on this point : " It is possible that we
have on these pages simply an astrological speculation
arising from superstitious fear of the influence of the
light of this powerful planet. By natural association
of ideas the rays of light emitted by the sun or other
luminous bodies are imagined to be darts or arrows
which are shot in all directions by the luminous body.
The more the rays are perceived to be productive of
discomfort or injury, so much the more fittingly does
this apply. In this way the abstract noun mioa or
meyotli with the meaning 'ray of light' is derived
from the Mexican word mitl, ' arrow ' . • • thus
miotli is the arrow which belongs by nature to a body
sending forth arrows, a luminous body•... When
the planet appeared anew in the heavens, smoke-vents
and chimneys were stopped up lest the light should
penetrate into the house.•.• It is hardly possible
to see anything else in these figures struck by the
spear than augural speculations regarding the influ-
ence of the light from the planet suggested by the
initial signs of the period."
This, then, seems to furnish us with direct proof
that at least one planet was regarded as controlling
human affairs, and in all likelihood the twenty day-
signs are capable of being collated with various
planets or stars, although this has not yet been
effected. Their early calendric associations seem,
indeed, to point to such a conclusion. The fact that
early Mexican myth lent to the stars a demonic sig-
nificance scarcely militates against this view. Indeed,
Tezozomoc says of the Tzitzimime demons that these
\
MEXICAN ASTROLOGY 157
were " gods of the signs and planets," that is of the
tonalamatl in its astrological sense.
That the several planets had ominous and usually
disastrous effects upon humanity is clear. Thus the
Abbe Clavigero tells us that at the festival of Orne
acatl, or "two reeds," that ·of the sun-god, the
people remained in the utmost suspense and solici-
tude, hoping on the one hand to find from the ne'v
fire a new century granted to mankind, and fearing
on the other hand the total destruction of mankind
if the fire by divine interference should not be per-
mitted to kindle. Husbands covered the faces of
their pregnant wives with the leaves of the aloe, and ·
shut them up in granaries, because they were afraid
that they 'vould be converted into wild beasts and
would devour them. They also covered the faces of
children in that way, and did not allow them to sleep,
to prevent their being transformed into mice.
The moon, Metztli, on the other hand, was regarded
as an active and malevolent wizard dwelling in an
incandescent cavern.
His influence upon mankind was occasionally
benevolent, as in the case of birth, but on the whole
was significant of evil humours and emanations.
Associated with the calendar was the system by
which the Aztecs regarded the several points of the
compass, or world-directions, as having a bearing on
their " astrological " ideas. The east was kno'vn as
Tlapcopa, the north Mictlampa, the west Ciuatlampa,
and the south Uitzlampa. To these a central or·
sometimes an up-and-down or " above-below" point
was added. With the east were associated all the
years which took in the cycle-sequence the primary
date acatl (reed): With the north the tecpatl (stone
knife) years, with the west the calli (house), and 'vith
the south the tochtli (rabbit) years. The gods and
colours governing these were respectively Tonatiuh,
158 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
the sun-god and yellow; l\Hctlantecutli, the death-god
and red; the corn-goddess and blue; and the water-
god Tlaloc and white, while Xiuhtecutli, the god of
the hearth-fire, governed the central point.
The day-signs were divided as follows, according to
the compass directions :
East--cipactli, acatl, coati, ollin, otl.
North-ocelot!, miquiztli, tecpatl, itzcuintli, eecatl.
WeSt:-mazatl, quiauitl, ozomatli, calli, quauhtli.
South-xochitl, malinalli, quetzpalin, cozcaqu-
auhtli, tochtli.
The eastern years were supposed to be fertile, the
north variable, the west good for man but evil for
vegetation, and the south years hot and waterless.
In Mexican ritual and divination the greatest
attention was paid to the compass directions•
•
CHAPTER VIII
TilE 1\tiYSTERIES OF NAGUALISl\1
T
HE breakdown of the Maya and Mexican
faiths \vas followed by a phenomenon so
curious that it is well worth the attention
of those students of history and comparative religion
who are looking for an illustration of what humanly
~ follows when an ancient faith is debarred from
popular practice and thrust into the background. In
the case of the Maya this resulted in the formation
of a vast secret ·society known as that of the Naguales,
in which the more popular and primitive forms of
native religion took the place of the loftier tenets of
the priesthood. In short, the ide~ of magic of the
lower cultus took the place of the higher wisdom-
religion formerly in vogue; and those traditional
notions born of totemism and the concept of the
beast-guardian which had been suppressed by the
enlightenment of the priestly caste came once more
into practice, accompanied by all the horrors of black
.
magic.
The general conception underlying this return to
primitive beliefs is well, if simply, outlined by Herrera
in his "General History" which dates from 1530.
He writes:
" The Devil deluded them, appearing in the shape '
of a lion, or a tiger, or acoyote, a beast like a wolf,
or in the shape of an alligator, a snake, or a bird,
which they called .naguales, signifying keepers or
159
16o THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
guardians, and when the bird died the Indian who
'vas in league with him died also, which often hap-
pened and was looked upon as infallible. The manner
of contracting this alliance was thus: the Indian
repaired to the river, wood, hill, or most obscure
place, where he called upon the devils by such names
as he thought fit, talked to the rivers, rocks or woods,
said he went to weep that he might have the same
his predecessors had, carrying a cock or dog to sac-
rifice. In that melancholy fit he fell asleep, and either
in a dream or waking saw some one of the aforesaid
birds or other creatures, whom he entreated to grant
him profit in salt, cacao, or any other commodity,
drawing blood from his own tongue, ears, and other
parts of his body, making his contract at the same
t ime with the said creature, the ~which, either in a.
dream or waking, told him, ' Such a day you shall
go abroad a-sporting, and I will be the first bird or
other animal you shall meet, and will be your nagual
and companion at all times.' Whereupon such friend-
ship was contracted between them that v1hen one of
them died the other did not survive, and they fancied
that he who had~o -nagual could not be rich."
This,. of course, is the c9ncept of the g';Jardian
spirit, as found widely distributed throughout North
America. The circumstances and ritual connected
with the cultus normally show a period of isolation
at puberty, a long ceremonial purification, an intent-
ness upon supernatural communication and "the
acquisition of the name and power and song of the
guardian spirit in a vision/' In fact, all ~he phe-
nomena of the early stages of initiation into the
mysteries as found in the Old World, but here com-
mingled with individual totemism, the cult" of the
animal protector or genius. The cult of Nagualism,
according to Brinton, still "prevails widely to-day in
Mexico anQ Central America, men and women join
THE MYSTERIES OF NAGUALISM 161
in the dances in a state of nudity, and the Christian
priests claim with probability that those rites ter-
minate in wild debauches."
'Vomen were pre-eminent in the worship of the
cult. In the chronicles of 1\'Iexican Nagualism it is
recorded that the n1arvellous power of the adepts in
transforming themselves into the brute form of their
guardian spirit (tonal). was first taught them by a
mighty enchantress, who herself could assume at will
any one of four forms.
This explains why in the later revolts of these
tribes, even down to that in Guatemala in 1885, we
find so often that the moving spirit, the prompter
and leader of the rebellion, is some warrior woman,
driven by a divine energy to seek the independence
of her tribe from the hated yoke of the whites. Such
was l\1aria Candelaria, the heroine of the Tzental
insurrection of 1712, a girl of twenty summers, but
fired by an eloquence and a resolution that summoned
to her banners fifteen thousand fighting men, and for
many months bade defiance to the arms of Spain.
Nor would she then have failed had it not been for
co,vardice and treachery in her own camp.
A popular illustration of Nagualism is that afforded
by Francisco Fuentes y Guzman. In his " History
of Guatemala," written about 1690, the author gives
some information regarding a sorcerer who on arrest
was examined as to the manner of assigning the
proper nagual to a child. When informed of the day
of its birth he presented himself at the house of the
parents, and taking the child outside, invoked the
demon. He then produced a little calendar 'vhich.
had against each day a picture of a certain animal
or object. Thus in the Nagualist calendar for January
the first day of the month was represented by a lion,
the second by a snake, the eighth by a rabbit, the
fourteenth by a toad, the nineteenth by a jaguar,
L
162 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
and so on. The invocation over, the nagual of the
child would appear under the form of the animal or
object set opposite its birthday in the calendar. The
sorcerer then addressed certain prayers to the nagual,
requesting it to protect the child, and told the mother
to take it daily to the same spot, where its nagual
would appear to it, and would finally accompany it
through life. Some of the worshippers of this cult
had the power of transforming themselves into the
nagual. Thomas Gage, an English Catholic who acted
as priest among the Maya of Guatemala about 1680,
describes in his " New Survey of the West Indies "
the supposed metamorphosis of two chiefs of neigh-
bouring tribes, and the mortal combat in which they
engaged, which resulted in the death of one of them.
But Nagualist po'v~r was by no means confined to
a single transformation, and was capable of taking
on many and varied shapes. Speaking of one of the
great musician-kings of the Quiche of Guatemala, the
" Popol Vuh," a native book, states that Gucumatz,
the sorcerer-monarch in question, could transform
himself into a serpent, an eagle, a tiger, and even into
lower forms of life. Many of the confessions of the
natives to the Catholic priests remind one forcibly of
those which were discovered by the European witch-
trials of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.
Thus an old man in his dying confession declared
that by diabolical art he had transformed himself
into his nagual, and a young girl of t'velve confessed
that the Nagualists had transformed her into a bird,
and that in one of her nocturnal flights she had rested
on the roof of the very house in which the parish
priest resided.
All Christian ceremonies celebrated by the friars
were at once annulled by the Nagualist priesthood.
If a child were baptised with the holy 'vater it was
immediately carried to the cave or secret meeting-
THE MYSTERIES OF NAGUALISM 163
place ofthe Nagualists, 'vhere the rite was" reversed"
by the aid of black magic. This was effected by en-
dowing the child with a nagual or animal guardian,
a totem protector, 'vhich was regarded as its spiritual
guide and mentor, to whom in all the difficulties and
perplexities of H;, it must turn for advice and
instruction.
But shape-shifting and witchcraft were not the
only magical resources of the Nagualists. Their arts
were manifold. They could render themselves
invisible and walk unseen among their enemies.
They could transport themselves to distant places,
and returning, report \Vhat they had witnessed. Like
the fakirs of India, they could create before the eyes
of the spectator rivers, trees, houses, animals, and
other objects. They would, to all appearance, rip .
themselves open, cut a limb from the body of another
person and replace it, and pierce themselves with
knives without bleeding. They could handle venom-
ous serpents without being bitten, as can their
representatives among the Zufii Indians of Arizona
to-day, cause mysterious sounds in the air, hypnotise
both men and animals, and invoke spirits who would
instantly appear. Of these things the missionary
friars believed them fully capable. What wonder,
then, that they were regarded by the natives with a
mixture of terror and respect ?
Does Nagualism survive in Mexico and Central
America to-day? No reasonable doubt can be enter-
tained that it does. I give here in·the form of a story
an account of an occurrence which took place in a
certain remote Mexican locality not very many years
ago. Naturally, I have had to alter the names of
persons and places.
Browning lounged on the verandah, the last long
drink of the stifling day untouched at his elbow.
164 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
Conscience \Vas having its \Vay with him. Beatrice
would sail from Southampton in a week, and he had
not yet told Jacinta that she must go. He had thought
that when the time came it would be easy enough.
Such things were done every day in Soconusco. But
what would have been easy to many men in the
Tropics he was finding horribly difficult. Scruples
rarely attacked him before the event, but, later,
crowded and battened upon him, finding congenial
soil in his rash sentimental heart. Yes, it would be
the deuce to do this thing after two years. He
cursed weakly and looked drearily over the coffee
slopes where the trade-wind rains had made the dull
green of the hardwood trees glisten like the plumage
of rare birds in the yellow of the tropic sundown.
If he fondly believed that the woman was all
unconscious of his intention he was badly at fault.
Vaguely brown young women with gazelle eyes and
the lithe grace of panthers are rather more amenable
to instinct than their white sisters. There had been
a thousand intimations of mood and manner on his
part, and a sneering hint from the major-domo. At
first she had accepted the news in the fatalistic spirit
of her race. Who could expect the love of a god with
chestnut hair and eyes 1ike the noon sky to last for
ever ? She had been blessed with two years of him.
It \vas strange that hope should have visited her at
all. Something more tenacious than is usually en-
countered in brown mlnds urged her not only to hope
but to act. And that is why, on the very evening that
Browning sat with distorted forehead on his verandah,
she drifted like a spirit in her white cotton nequen
through the thin woods which curtained the Hacienda
Mozara to the hut of Can-ek, the ah-kin or medicine-
man.
Central America has long been the home of two
religions, one official and white, the other quite
THE MYSTERIES OF NAGUALISM 165
unorthodox and brown, but none the less very much
alive. The few who know anything about it call it
Nagualism. After being baptized by the padre the
brown baby is carried to the ah-kin or native priest,
who, by some sleight of devildom, nullifies the sacred
power of the holy water and bestows on the child a
nagual or beast-guardian, a spiritual guide and mei1tor
in animal shape, who accompanies him through life,
and in whose shape he can disguise himself. Jacinta
had so far been without this dark benefit. Her
parents had been pious followers of the white man's
faith, for her father had strenuously believed himself
to be white, and cherished certain proofs that he was
not mistaken. But in his daughter the mother-race
\vas triumphant.
Can-ek was at home. He had known for some time
that Jacinta would come to him and he was prepared.
He was very dirty, and his bee-hive hut was the last
thing in native squalor. The pungent smell of fresh
peyotl arose from the wooden bowls, and strings of
dried herbs, alligators' tongues, and stuffed vampire
bats lent that professional touch of mystery on which
practitioners in all times and climes have relied to
impress ..the lay mind. Can-ek did not believe in
these, but he knew his clients did. He listened to
what Jacinta had to say with all tpe immobility of
the specialist.
"You have not been of us," he s.aid when she had
done at last, " yet you desire me to help you. You
know 'vell that \Ve help only those who believe in us."
" Would I have come to you did I not believe ?
Jacinta asked.
" That is a woman's answer," grunted Can-ek.
" Do not make me such replies. If you believe, you
must prove it. You must become one of us."
" And if I do so, Ah-kin ? "
" Then help will be forthcoming. But first the
166 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
water of the white priests that was shed on your face
must be washed away, and you must be made one
with the nagual."
" It is enough," said Jacinta, "I agree."
I cannot say precisely what happened in the bee-
hive hut because I do not know. No white man
knows. But when Jacinta left it half an hour later
her gazelle eyes seemed to have grown larger, and she
glanced furtively among the tree..trunks where the
night had now dr<"{oped in blue shadow. Once or
twice she cowered in the rank undergrowth and
moaned. And she hugged something in the bosom
of her dress.
Three days later Browning was aware of an unusual
flavour in his morning coffee. Being a good judge of
coffee, he sniffed it, and told the boy to take it away
and bring some more. And Jacinta, hanging upon
him that evening, was uneasily aware by his clouded
bro'\v and moody looks that the love-philtre of the·
ah-kin had not proved efficacious. Her heart sank,
and she muttered the strange words Can-ek had taught
her. Th~re was a rustling sound in the tall grass
beneath the eucalyptus trees, and Browning started.
" Cougar I " he whispered, pulling out his gun.
" Fancy him venturing this length. Brute must be
hungry.''
"Don't shoot I " almost screamed Jacinta. "Oh,
Mother of God, Don Jorge, don't shoot I"
"What on earth for?" he asked almost sulkily.
"Some of your beastly superstitions, I suppose.
Think if I shoot the beast I'll kill someone's double,
you little fool ? "
She clutched at his arm, pulling down the menacing
barrel, and unclasped his fingers from the stock. The
rustling sound passed like a breeze among the grass.
" Lord, child, you're al~ost white," he laughed
uneasily. "If I hadn't known you were a Christiano
THE MYSTERmS OF NAGUALISM t6?
I'd have thought you were one of those-what d'ye
call them ?-it's some meztizo name for devilry,
anyhow. Come on into the house. You and I have
got to talk to·night, Jacinta. Now, don't cut up
rough. It's all over, but I'll let you down easy as
easy. You'll see .•."
The incident had stirred him to the necessity for a
prompt straightening out of this entanglement. Half
an hour later the words of doom had been spoken.
It had been settled that she was to go in the morning
-not unprovided for, but go she must. Browning
had anticipated a scene. But she took the verdict
quietly-very quietly.
Next day she went, as had been ordained. There
was a loose handshake, a perfunctory peck on the
warm brown cheek, and that was all. She had told
him that she would go to her sister in San Thomas.
But only half a mile down the narrow white road she
turned abruptly and dived like a wild thing into the
woods. And as she waded through the tall grass
something unseen rustled cat·like not far off* keeping
pace with her steps.
About a month later he met Beatrice at Vera Cruz,
married her there at the British Consul's, and took
her home to Tampila.
All traces of Jacinta had carefully been removed,
indeed the memory of her had faded out of Brown-
ing's mind nearly a fortnight before, which goes to
show that people who feel very keenly do not, as a
rule, suffer very long. Beatripe had made up her
mind to like Tampila, and she succeeded. At first,
doubtless, she felt cut off from her kind, caught very
definitely in an environment of utter strangeness.
It was all so unlike what she had expected it to be.
She had thought of Soconusco in terms of Malay,
where a married sister had settled. The life was idle
and she enjoyed it, the fierce dry days, the enveloping
168 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
odour of coffee-dust, the long rides 'vith her husband
through the rich plantations and the encircling woods
with their frequent vestiges ofa ruined past, crumbling
temples and carven pillars, a memory of civilizations
eaten up 'vith tropical luxuriance.
Then, as she came to know the country around
Tampila, Beatrice insensibly formed the habit of
taking long lonely rides in the vicinity. At home
she had almost lived in the saddle, and her free life
in lonely Westmoreland had made her contemptuous
of the dangers which might lurk in such solitary
canters. As the weeks passed her excursions took a
1 larger compass. The unfamiliar and extraordinary
environment in which she found herself tempted the
spirit of exploration which had always stirred her,
and which she had hitherto found no way of satisfy-
ing. The white winding roads, the dark avenues of
the forest fringes, the dry, keen turf at the base of
the foot-hills, the warm still fragrance of the tropic
afternoons, jewelled with tiny, brilliant birds, painted
butterflies, and the wonder of exotic flowers made"it
impossible for her to remain in the stuffy air of the
hacienda living-room.
At first Browning had gravely warned her of the
risks she ran. Jaguars and cougars, he told her, were
, not infrequent in the neighbourhood, and poisonous
plants which cast a deadly pollen took toll of many
native lives. A local banditti made occasional and
half-hearted efforts at a hold-up. But Beatrice
seemed to care for none of these things. Besides,
was she not armed ? In vain her husband pointed out
that a revolver which might well have been pur-
chased at aBond Street jeweller's could scarcely be
regarded as an effective weapon. At last, really
alarmed at the wide circuits she made, he suggested
that one of the peons should accompany her, and to
his insistence on this she had no option but to agree.
THE MYSTERIES OF NAGUALISM 169
Pedro, a nephe'v of the major-domo, "·as told off as a
mounted bodyguard.
Beatrice did her best to ignore his presence, but
had to admit that on more than one occasion it had
been very welcome. Of late she had been dimly
conscious of a feeling that she was overlooked, spied
upon, and follo,ved. Had she been a native of the
region she 'vould have told herself that she was being
stalked. There was always the sensation of nearness,
that inexplicable instinct which registers human or
animal proximity so unerringly.
At times this sense was accompanied by more
material manifestations-by sounds like the passing
of the breeze among the long grass, or the patter of
stealthy steps on the dry soil. Even on the verges
of the foot-hills where there were few trees to conceal
man or beast it could at times be heard. When
Beatrice drew rein and allowed her mount to proceed
at a walk it died down to the shado'v of a sound.
And once and again there was sight of a long yellow
body dappled with black stars passing at dusk
between the slender trunks of the hardwood trees in
the clearing near the hacienda.
Beatrice had heard that certain wild animals fre-
quently stalked their prey for days before making
the final spring, as conscientiously and scientifically
indeed as a 'rhino hunter takes pains to make himself
acquainted with the habits of his quarry before
seizing the opportune moment for its dispatch. But
she was not greatly concerned, for had Pedro not his
rifle, and had she not her silver-mounted pop-gun?
As most very British people would have done, she
simply refused to let the matter get on her nerves, and
ignored it with all the sang-froid of her island.
Whether Pedro had noticed it or not, she disdained
to inquire-and he disdained to mention. We are not
the only self-contained people on this queer star.
I
170 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
Nevertheless the rides continued. There certainly
was misgiving, but Beatrice held on. She would not
speak of her private fears to Browning-her training
did not allo\v of that. So she cantered out every
afternoon with Pedro a lazy second, brushing the
verge of the woods and galloping the long stretches
of the foot-hill slopes. On the day it happened at last
she had ridden even farther than usual and had gone
on at a bridle-pace to a little old hacienda in the hills,
where she had tea and exchanged her text-book
Castilian for the quick-fire Spanish of a ·humorous
but stately Senora of eighty years, who had regarded
her much as she might have regarded a woman from
Mars, so alien were her ideas to those of eight decades
of seclusion. Two hours of this strange intercourse
brought evening, and in some haste at the thought
of the brief Soconuscan twilight Beatrice remounted
and galloped off as quickly as her English saddle
would allow her.
So f~st did she ride that she was almost home
before she noticed that Pedro did not follow. It was
on the fringe of woodland not half a mile from the
hacienda that the beast sprang at last, a yellow streak
of vindictive fury in the dingy gold of sunset-sprang
high over the horse's withers at her throat. Even so
she was prepared, the tiny revolver spat straight into
the grinning open jaws, and the mottled shape fell
noiselessly back into the long grass. With a fierce
thrust of the spur Beatrice drove her mount forward.
Now that all ·was over she was panic-stricken, and
galloped wildly as if pursued. As she rushed the
bend she was aware of a horseman coming swiftly
towards her. It was her husband.
"Rallo 1" he cried," I've had the wind up properly.
Where on earth have you been? Was that your
shot just now ? " Then, as he saw her face in the
gathering darkness, " My God, child, what's wrong ? "
•
THE MYSTERIES OF NAGUALISM 171
" Yes," she was breathing hard, " a jaguar, I shot
it, and killed it, I think. But I 'vas frightened and
simply couldn't stay to make sure."
" I should think not," he laughed, relieved. " Get
in at once, I'll ride on a bit and see if you bagged it.
Take your time. No danger now."
She trotted steadily a'vay into the eucalyptus
shadows, and Browning hastened forward. It was
almost dark no,v, and he could just see Pedro, who
had suddenly appeared as if from nowhere, bending
over something which lay in the long grass. As
Browning came up with the meztizo the man drew
himself erect, but said nothing.
"Is it a jaguar, Pedro ? " he asked casually as he
dismounted. But Pedro did not reply. Browning
peered through the darkness, where a crumpled shape
made a vague ·white patch among the green. Then
he stumbled backwards 'vith a cry like a wounded
man, for he had looked upon the dead face of Jacinta !
CHAPTER IX
THE I\fAGICAL BOOI\:S OF THE AZTECS
W
HEN the rainbow-coloured records of
aboriginal America were given to that
fire which was no brighter than them-
selves, when the flame-like manuscripts of Mexico
dissolved ih living flame, an art and tradition fan-
tastically and remotely beautiful were consumed on
the pyre of human superstition and intolerance.
Mystical secrets, occult wisdom expired in the smoke
of that holocaust, along with a delicate elfin gracious-
ness, a rich and grotesque imagery, and a kaleido-
scopic page of history was deliberately torn out of
human record and almost irretrievably lost. Fantasy
was conquered by fanaticism, the bizarre by bigotry,
for the glowing chronicles in which the Aztecs had
for generations taken a strange and mystical delight
were to the conquering Spaniards only " the picture-
books of the devil."
But a civilization so brilliant and complex as that
of Tropical America was not without its resources,
and as displaying a salient and peculiar phase of
human development its literature might not so easily
be quenched. When Archbishop Zumarraga decreed
the wholesale destruction of its chronicles and sacred
writings he could, of course, apply his ukase only to
the royal libraries and to such collections as his agents
were able to seize upon. Many examples of Aztec
literary art survived. But for generations these were
172
THE MAGICAL BOOKS OF THE AZTECS 173
carefully concealed by their pious owners, or else
discovered and collected by more enlightened Euro-
peans, who carried them 'vestward to enrich the
libraries of the Old \Vorld. Of these poor waifs and
strays some forty odd survive, lying like dead flowers
on the borders of the world's garden of literature,
unheeded, save by eyes sympathetic to their plaintive
loveliness.
The history and adventures of many of these
strange books, \vhose writers were also painters, are
among the greatest romances of literature. It was
frequently their fate to fall into the hands of those
who, utterly ignorant of their origin and significance,
took them for nursery books, the painted fables of
fairy-tale. Others rotted in Continental libraries
until, through the ~ction of damp or the attacks of
vermin, only their broader details might be descried
unless by the most painstaking scholarship. But,
little by little, and after centuries of application
almost unexampled in the records of research, their
ultimate secrets have been probed and they are no
longer regarded as meaningless daubs of barbaric
eccentricity, but have come into their own as among
the most precious and significant of those documents
which illustrate the development of literary processes.
In general appearance these Aztec manuscripts are
far removed from the European idea of the book, or
even from that of the Oriental manuscript. They
consist of symbolic paintings executed upon agave
paper, leather or cotton, and are usually folded in
"pages" which open out on the principle of a screen.
Taking that \vhich is, perhaps, most typical of all as
a general example, the "Codex Fejervary-Mayer," we
find its length to be about sixteen feet and its breadth
about seven inches. The general effect is that of a
dwarf fire-screen, somewhat extended, perhaps,
painted in the brilliant colours of the setting sun, as
174 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
behoves a manuscript of the 'Vest, and displaying a
seemingly inextricable symbolism. At first sight the
pages present such a riot of coloured confusion that
it is only after considerable practice and acquaintance
that the emblems which they contain can be separated
visually and reduced to individual coherence.
The Mexican manuscripts, or " papyri," as some
writers have named them, although the words pintura
and lienza are more frequently used by experts to
describe them, I have divided into t\vo classes:
those \Vhich deal 'vith mythological and astrological
•
matters, and those which represent either historical
narratives or fictional 'vritings. The first class.! have
again subdivided into "Interpretative" Codices,
the "Codex Borgia" group, and a third group 'vhich
I have labelled "Unclassified.'' The Interpretative
Codices are those \Vhich \Vere painted either by native
scribes under the superintendence of Spanish priests
of experience in Mexican affairs or by such priests
themselves who appended to them the lengthy inter·
pretations from which they take their name. The
Borgia group is made up of a number of coqices
painted by native scribes, and the several manuscripts
composing it obviously possessed a common area of
origin. The Unclassified Codices hail from various
Mexican areas and their contents differ considerably
from those of the other groups.
The manner in which these manuscripts reached
Europe is obscure, but some of them have passed
through extraordinary vicissitudes since their arrival
in the Old World. None of them, perhaps, has sm··
vived circumstances of such imminent peril as the
"Codex Borgia," by far the most important of them
all. It was bequeathed by the nephew of Cardinal
Borgia to the Library of the Congregation of Propa-
ganda at Rome,in the EthnographicalSection ofwhich
it is still preserved. Formerly it belonged to the Gius-
THE MAGICAL BOOKS OF THE AZTECS 175
tiniani family of Venice, to whom, probably, it \Vas
handed down by some seafaring ancestor. But it was
so greatly neglected that it fell into the hands of the
children of some of their household servants, \Vho, as
children will, after deriving all the amusement they
could out of it as a nursery book, made several
attempts to burn it. But the tough deer-skin on
-~vhich 1t is painted 'vithstood the fire, the marks of
which, however, remain on its edges. It 'vas rescued
by someone who seems to have had an inkling of its
value, and soon after,vards passed into the possession
of the Borgias, who, as literary cognoscenti, would
naturally appreciate its true significance.
If we examine this magnificent codex, by far the
finest example of native Aztec work extant, we find
that the first few sheets contain the astrological
calendar divided into groups of days by the simple
device of using the symbol of a black footpri~t as a
point or colon. The various days are represented by
such symbols as a monkey's head, a jaguar, a flower,
and so forth, as explained in the chapter on Astrology.
Of these there are twenty, for the Aztec ritual month
consisted of twenty days, the period betwixt the
waxing and waning of the moon. These signs were
repeated thirteen times, to make .up the content of
the 260 days of the tonalamatl, or Book of Fate, and
'vere again subdivided into weeks of thirteen days
each. Some of the signs weFe auspicious, others were
distinctly unlucky, and the tonalamatl or calendar
'vas thus capable of being used as a book of astrology,
or rather of augury, from which the fortunes of a
person born on any given day, or the success of an
act performed on that date, might be augured.
But the " Codex Borgia" is principally concerned
with the gods, their attributes, costume, and signifi-
cance. In its pages we encounter the terrible Tezcat-
lipoca, the deity of sacrifice and justice, the dread
176 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
recorder and chastiser of sin, the beautiful sun-god
Tonatiuh, 'vith the painted myth of his passage
through the heavens from morning to night, the pious
magician and priest Quetzalcoatl, the fertile maiZe-
goddess, and the myth of the planet Venus, which
occupies seventeen vignettes, and illustrates the
magical dangers to \vhich both kings and commonalty
are liable at the hands of this vindictive genius, who,
in Mexican mythology, is a male. Four folios are
devoted to the loves of the luxurious Xochiquetzal,
who may be called the Fairy Queen of 1\Iexico, and
the "book" concludes with pages dedicated to the
gods of pleasure and procreation and the ·hovering
and ever-watchful deities of death and sacrifice.
In many cases it has been only after long considera-
t!on and comparison with native-written accounts
and by dint of the most ingenious and involved
reasoning that the weird and uncanny gestures and
actions of the deities represented have been duly
explained and the intricate symbolism which sur-
rounds them unriddled. Indeed, this task alone has
certainly equalled in difficulty and perplexity that
presented by the solution of the hieroglyphic systems
of Egypt. But whereas Egyptology had its Rosetta
Stone, Mexican scholars were v.rithout such an aid to
enlightenment, so far as these manusc~ipts were
concerned. And are they accompanied by anything
in the nature of actual script? They are. Here and
there are to be found in their pages symbols which,
when read together in the manner of a rebus, supply
us 'vith names. But these are far more frequently
encountered in such of the paintings as deal with
tribute or legal conveyances of land. The name of
l(ing Ixcoatl, for instance, is represented by the
picture of a serpent (coatl), pierced by flint knives
(iztli) ; and that of Motequauhzoma (Montezuma) by
a mouse-trap (montli), an eagle (quauhtli), a lancet
QUETZALCOATL IN HIS MEXICAN FORM
•
THE MAGICAL BOOKS OF THE AZTECS 177
(zo), and a hand (maitl). The phonetic values em-
ployed by the scribes varied exceedingly, and they
certainly conveyed their ideas more by sketch than
sound.
A piece of Nahua literature, the disappearance of
which -is surrounded by circumstances of the deepest
mystery, is the .Teo-Amoxtli, or " Divine Book,"
which is alleged by certain chroniclers to be the 'vork
ofthe ancient Toltecs. Ixtlilxochitl, a native Mexican
author, states that it was written by a Tezcucan ~isc
man or wizard, one Huematzin, or " Lord of the Great
Hand," about the end of the seventh century, and
that it described the pilgrimage of the Aztecs from
Asia, their laws, manners, customs, religion, arts, and
magic. In 1888 the Baron de \Valdcck stated in his
"Voyage Pittoresque" that he had it in his possession,
and the Abbe Brasseur de Bourbourg identified it
with the "1\faya Dresden Codex" and other native
manuscripts. Bustamante also states that the native
chroniclers had a copy in their possession at the time
of the fall of Mexico. But these appear to be mere
surmises, and it seems unlikely that the Teo-Amo:ctli
was ever seen by a European.
The "Codex Fejervary-Mayer," or at least one side
of it, is known to 1\lexican specialists as " the Wizards'
~lanual." Its origin is unkno,vn, and it is the property
of the Liverpool Public 1\Iuseums, to which it was
bequeathed by a 1\lr. Joseph Mayer in 1867. One side
of this manuscript is generally alluded to as the
"day " or "priests' " side, and the other as the
"night" or "'vizards' " side, as it deals with the
lore of darkness, sorcery, and the occult. The \vhole
is divided into forty-four sheets.
Let us examine these passages devoted to arcane
matters:
Sheet 1 represents the five regions of the world and
their presiding deities, and the four quarters of the
/
178 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
tonalamatl, or "Book of Fate,, as well as the nine
lords of the night, in a direction opposite to their
usual sequence. The gods governing the five regions
in this sheet are :
Centre-Xiuhtecutli, the fire-god.
East-Mixcoatl, god of the chase; Tlaloc, the
rain-god.
North-Itztli, the stone-knife god; Xochipilli, god
of flowers and games.
West~Iztac Tezcatlipoca (the white or fruitful
Tezcatlipoca) ; Quetzalcoatl, the wind·god.
South-Macuilxochitl, god of pleasure; Xipe, god
of sacrifice.
Sheets 2-4 deal with the nine lords of the night
hours. ,
Sheets 5-14.-In these sheets are depicted the gods
of the five regions in a different sequence from that
shown in sheet I, that is, the deities represented pose
as pa.trons of the reversal of things, otherwise of the
Black Art. They are : ·
Centre-Tezcatlipoca; Iztac Mixcoatl.
South-Xopilli ; Xochiquetzal.
West-Tlaltecutli; Chantico.
North-Centeotl ; Xolotl.
East-Tlauizcalpantecutli; Patecatl.
.
These gods introduce a series of pages (sheets 15-18)
which deal with sorcery and occult lore, especially
with the subject of death by magic.
Sheets 88-43 (lower half).-The six earthly regions
are symbolized in these sheets. A tonalamatl resem-
bling that just described is shown, and in each picture
the earth-demon with a head like that of a badger is
depicted. The sequence is probably East, North,
West, South, Above-Below.
Sheets 41-42.-According to Seier, these show the.
THE MAGICAL BOOKS OF THE AZTECS 179
four forms of the god of the planet Venus in his rela-
tion to the cardinal points. In the eastern section
the bat-god is depicted; in the northern, Mixcoatl;
in the 'vestern, Xochipilli; and in the southern and
last, the eagle.
Sheet 43 once more depicts the five regions of the
universe, which here take the form of a crossway
showing the cardinal points and a double manual
indicator for the Above and Below regions.
Sheet 44 represents Tezcatlipoca as a wizard,
surrounded by the twenty '.' weeks " ofthe tonalamatl.
If we seek light on these magical pages we find that
Sheet 1 depicts the influence of the nine lords of the
night or the five quarters of the 'vorld. Xuihtecutli,
lord of fire, rules the centre, that is the hearth of the
world, for the hearth in Mexico usually occupied the
centre of the native dwelling. Mixcoatl, god of the
chase, rules the east, the direction of the rising sun.
He was,the Toltec Abraham, or patriarch, and sym-
bolized wisdom and knowledge. Tlaloc, the rain-god,
accompanies him, bringing the beneficent showers
\vhich caused growth and prosperity. These gods
are of good omen.
But from the dreadful north, the House of Fear in
lVIexico, descend Itztli, god of deat~ and the stone
knife of sacrifice. As a mitigating influence he is
accompanied by Xochipilli, the god of pleasure, so
that this world-direction was not regarded as alto-
gether ominous of evil. The west quarter takes
Tezcatlipoca, in his white or fruitful form, a benefi-
cent side of him, and Quetzalcoatl, always a good
sign. The south holds the picture of Macuilxochitl,
a pleasure deity, but is darkened by the figure of
the ghastly Xipe, Lord of Sacrifice, in his dress of
human skins. These beings ruled the fortunes of the
several earth-regions or compass-directions over
which they presided.
180 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
The Lords of the Night Hours who appear in sheets
2-4 have been dealt with in the chapter on Astrology.
In sheets 5-14 the gods of the five regions are shown
in reversed sequence. Thus in the centre region stand
Tezcatlipoca, the god of vengeance, showing that here
he governs the heart of things. With him is Mixcoatl
in his "white" character as a mitigating influence.
The South is ruled by Xopilli and Xochiquetzal,
both gods of pleasure, so that it is especially of good
omen in this place. The West, with Tlaltecutli and
Chantico, is not particularly fortunate, as being under
the influence of rain in the evil sense, the deluge of
fire which fell from heaven at the end of the water-
sun age. Chantico, moreover, represents the volcanic
fire imprisoned in the centre of the earth, so that he
has a plutonic and therefore a sinister significance as
a tonalamatl figure. As the North is governed by
Centeotl and Xolotl, it is favourable and fruitful of
good. The East has Tlaaizcalpantecutli, a sacrificial
god, and Patecatl, a drink deity, usually an unfortu-
nate symbol, therefore it can scarcely be said to be of
happy auspices. It is likely that this sequence repre-
sents the five regions as used astrologically for the
night hours, whereas the former were similarly em-
ployed by the augurs during the day.
Sheets 41-42 hold the bad influence of the bat-god,
which is, however, mitigated by the cheerful presence
of the god of sport and by the \visdom of Mixcoatl.
Sheet 48 is indicative of the witches' meeting-place,
the cross-roads ofthe terrible Ciuateteo, and shows the
do\vnward terrestrial influence in conjunction with
that from the above-world.
There is no question that the " books " of ancient
Mexico which dealt with sorcery were quite as much
in demand by the naualli or wizard class as were the
grimoires of the Middle Ages by the sorcerers of that
era. But they were more mnemonic than explanatory,
THE MAGICAL BOOKS OF THE AZTECS 181
that is, they held only the hints and outlines of magical
knowledge and procedure rather than a full exposition
of them. It could scarcely be expected that such a
system of WI"iting and symbolism as the 'ltlexicans
possessed could have achieved more than such a
sketch of any department of knowledge, and the
fanaticism of the Spanish conquerors has spared us
merely a fraction of that.
Before undertaking a magical act the naualli con-
sulted his tonalamatl and satisfied himself that the
astrological omens were favourable. He then applied
himself to the study of the ritual procedure, as illus-
trated by pictures in such a book as the " Codex
Bologna," the only surviving manuscript which gives
us a hint that such books actually existed. These
preliminary steps accomplished, he next betook him-
self to a desert place, and called upon one or other
of the presiding deities of magic, and possibly the god
of the hour, for assistance in his task.
If he had been " retained " by a client to employ
magical power upon a third party, he did so by means
of intense concentration. Sitting in his cavern or on
some wild hill-side, he brought all his mental powers
to bear on the idea of the person whom it was desired
to influence either for good or evil. Instances are
on record of Mexi<;an 'vizards who pitted their wills
and magical influences against one another. Says
Brinton:
"In these strange duels al'outrance, one would be
seated opposite his antagonist, surrounded with the
mysterious emblems of his craft, and call upon his
gods, one after another, to strike his enemy dead.
Sometimes one, 'gathering his medicine,' as it was
termed, feeling within himself that hidden force of
will 'vhich makes itself acknowledged even without
words, would rise in his might, and in a loud and severe
voice command his opponent to die I Straightway
182 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
the latter would drop dead, or yielding in craven
fear to a superior volition, forsake the implements of
his art, and 'vith an awful terror at his heart, creep
to his lodge, refuse all nourishment, and presently
perish."
•
CHAPTER X
THE MAYA PEOPLE
I
T is, indeed, deplorable that the study of the rich
and mysterious civilization of the Maya Indians
of Central America should not more generally
commend itself to British archreologists. Thousands
of people in Great Britain would, if they could, peruse
the wondrous story of those silent isthmian temples
with the delight of greater children for a grown-up
fairy-tale. But they can scarcely be expected to bur-
row among the bulletins of the United States Bureau
of ~thnology' even if they ever heard of that surpris-
ingly efficient, if rather dreary institution, and no
modern book in English gives an account at once
adequate and attractive of the marvellous panorama
of Maya progress. \Vhat is really required is a volume
neither of the etiolated proportions of the modern
textbook, nor on the other hand over portly, written
out of sound knowledge and setting forth in the
manner of a Prescott or a Layard the wondrous tale
of Maya history. It should tell in chapters of enthral-
ment, provided with good illustrations, of the deserted
temples of Guatemala and Yucatan, and provide a
picturesque account of what is kno,vn of the myth-
ology and religious customs of the Maya race. Nor
should such a volume be without a description of the
strange systems of writing and arithmetic employed
by this rgifted people, or of their extremely beautiful
and individual ~art and intricate symbolism.
--... - -
183
184 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
A brief summary of the results of recent research
in the study of ?tlaya antiquity is all that can be at-
tempted here in the hope that it may attract a larger
number of interested readers to such works as
presently await their attention. The 1\laya appear
to have emerged from barbarism during the first or
second century of the Christian era. Their earliest
dated monuments cannot with safety be ascribed to
a more remote period. No sooner had ?tlaya civiliza-
tion been fairly set upon its feet than it began to
progress with extraordinary rapidity. Regarding the
precise place of its origin authoritative opinion is
practically agreed.
The general character of the architectural remains
in the region lying between the Bay of Tabasco and
the foot of the Cordilleras and watered by the river
Usumacinta and the Rio de la Pasion in the modem
state of Chiapas, points conclusively to this district
as the first settlement of Central American civilization,
and the relatively archaic type of the hieroglyphs
found upon its monuments as well as the early dates
these contain give to this theory something of finality.
The oldest centres of Maya life are probably Tikal
and Peten·in Eastern "Guatemala. It is bclieved that
the development of tlle-southern Maya stat~s_ con-
tinued for nearly four hundred years, or until th~­
close of the sixth century A.D., about which time dis-
aster seems to- have come upon them with tragic
suddenness. '
We do not know the cause of the downfall of what
must have been a complex and highly-developed civili-
zation. tossibly a horde of barbarians from the north
swept down upon its~ settled communities. But
even to-day its gorgeous temples and palaces show no
s~gns of deliberate destruction such as 'vould surely
have been evident had they fallen into the hands of
savage marauders. More probably these cities 'vere
I
THE MAYA PEOPLE
emptied of their inhabitants by one of the migratory
impulses which reappear so frequently in American
native history. This theory is rendered possible by
the fact that the period oftheir desertion synchronizes
with that of the discovery by the Maya of Yucatan,
a region whose wealth in stone probably attracted
a nation of builders. But Yucatan is, on the whole, an
arid country, and it is still more likely that the retreat
of the Maya thence was dictated by the imperative
reason of self-preservation or by the command of the
tribal gods.
The most important of the older city·states were
Palenque, Piedras Negras, Ocosingo, Tikal, Yax·
chilan, and Quirigua, sites which are scattered over
Southern Mexico and Guatemala, while Copan, per-
haps the most important of all, is situated in Hon-
duras, the southern limit of Maya culture, so far as is
presently known.
Of the later sites in Yucatan, Chichen-Itza was by
far the most famous, Mayapan, Uxmal, and Labna
barely approaching it in celebrity. With the discovery
of Yucatan a new era opened up for Maya art and
social activity. ~t first the struggle for bare existence
on the inhospitable and p~bdy·irrigated plateau was
probably intense. But the ingenious immigrants
triumphed over conditions o(the most unhealthy k~nd,
and by degrees improved their agricultural knowledge
and astronomical_§~itmce fixing_the_ revolutionary
periods of the planets with accuracy. a!ld developing
the sola~ calendar. The ?.laya Renaissance was fully
under way by the end ofthe tenth century and edifices
'vhich recall the palmy days of Palenque and Copan
\Vere once more rising all over Yucatan.
About the year A.D. 1000 Chichen-Itza, Uxmal, and
~fayapan formed a political confederacy and under
the pacific conditions which followed the institution
of this league art and science blossomed forth anew.
\
186 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
Cities multiplied with astonishing rapidity and the
art of sculpture, which had now become merely an
adjunct to architecture, achieved an elaboration and
intricacy of design unsurpassed, perhaps, by any
people in any age.
With the disruption of what may be called the
Triple Alliance about the year 1200, an event pre-
cipitated by the conspiracy of the ruler of Chichen-
Itza against his colleague of Mayapan, a series of
disastrous wars ensued which lasted until the country
was discovered by the Spaniards. These endless
internecine struggles led to the employment of mer-
cenaries from the ruder tribes of 1\fexico, the presence
of whom set an indelible stamp upon Maya art and
manners, and we find the graceful Maya sculptors
forced to carry out the designs, and even accompany-
ing them with the completely different hieroglyphical
inscriptions, of a 1\t:exican military aristocracy. Had
they placed side by side ·with these the equivalent
Maya characters, modern science would have been
provided with an American Rosetta stone, as the
Mexican glyphs, unlike those ofthe Maya: can now be
deciphered with a reasonable degree of exactitude.
This brings us to the problem of Maya writing, which
is still almost entirely a closed book to investigators.
For the pursuit of this quest a far greater degree of
industry and ingenuity has been needful than for
the decipherment of the ancient writings of Egypt
or Sumeria. Certain of the" calculiform" or pebble-
shaped characters have been unriddled, especially
those which apply to the sun, moon, and planets,
those for " beginning," " ending," the symbols for
the year, "night," and the glyphs for the" months"
and "days." The most impo~tant texts, strangely
enough, are to be found in the older regions of Guate-
mala and Chiapas rather than in Yucatan, and in
the three 1\t:aya manuscripts that remain to us-the
The sip which means "sun.•• The symbol for" mooQ."
The sign for "~ginniQ&."
4
' DivisfoQ " is symbolised
by a Bint knifG.
The sign lor the year.
"The cod."
The serpent symbol for
.. water.''
This symbol is read,' Day of
the new year iQ the moQth.''
.MAYA HIEROGLYPHS
The sign for "might .. and
"sky. The dots represent stal"i.
"Tying together," "union.••
Sac.riAcial victim.
•
THE MAYA PEOPLE
Dresden, Paris, and l\Iadrid MSS.-the glyphs appear
as u number of small squares rounded at the corners
and representing human faces and other objects highly
conventionalized by generations of artistic usage.
They are arranged as a rule in two parallel columns
and are read two columns at a time, from left to right
and top to bottom. Formerly it was believed that
the work of Landa, Bishop of Yucatan, written in
1565, contained the " key " to the script. But it is
now known that the natives, exasperated at his
destruction oftheir manuscripts, deliberately deceived
him, and that with the exception of the symbols for
the days and" months" his" key" is quite misleading.
Much difference of opinion exists as to whether the
system is phonetic or ideographic in character. It is
probably both phonetic and pictorial to some extent,
but for the most part it appears to be of the nature
of rebus writing, in 'vhich the characters do not indi-
cate the meaning of the objects which they portray,
but only the sounds of their names. Thus, if English
were written in this manner, the picture of a human
eye might stand for the first personal pronoun, a
drawing of a bee for the verb " to be," and so forth.
But it seems probable that an ever-increasing number
of phonetic elements 'vill be identified, though the
idea of a glyph 'viii always be found to overshadow its
phonetic value. Through generations of use the sys-
tem came to possess a significance entirely ideographic,
and would not necessitate any such efiort of mental
translation as a people unused to rebus writing would
have to make in order to comprehend it readily.
The manner in which the arithmetical system and
dating of the Maya was discovered by Emile For-
stemann of Berlin is decidedly the greatest triumph
of American archreology within recent years. A dot
stood for 1 and a bar or line for 5. By various com-
binations of these the Maya expressed all the numerals
188 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
from 1 to 19 inclusive. Twenty was denoted by the
n1oon, as indicating the number of days in which
the moon waxes and \Vanes. But the manner in
which the " higher mathematics " of the Maya was
evolved is much too intricate a process to be described
here. Each of the periods of time in use among the
Maya was based on the period of revolution of one or
other of the heavenly bogies and was represented by
an appropriate hieroglyph, and when a date was
sculptured on a monument the number of periods it
contained, years, "months," and days, was set forth
in the glyphs which denoted them. These dates can
be collated with European chronology through the
agency of manuscripts known as the Books of Chilan
Balam, "The Tiger Priesthood," native annals of the
priestly hierarchy of Yucatan, in which the ancient
system of chronology is preserved. The annals in
question were fortunately continued into the post-
Conquest period, so that some of the events they date
in the native manner have known European equiva-
lents. If we count back\vards from these and reduce
the l\faya system of computing time to the terms of
our own, it becomes possible to interpret the dates on
the monuments with a fair likelihood of correctness.
Thus the period of the foundation of the city of
Palenque has been fixed at 15 B.c., that of Yaxchilan
at 75 B.c., Copan A.D. 84, Piedras Negras A.D. 109, and
the abandonment of Copan and Quirigua at A.D. 231
and A.D. 292 respectively. Perhaps no sphere of
archreology still offers such vistas· of conquest as
that of Central America, and the mysterious interest
which cleaves to the antiquities of the isthmus is by
no means yet dissipated by the searchl~ght of dis-
covery.
The architecture of the Maya was their greatest
artistic· and human triumph. The wonderful struc-
tures \vhich have aroused the admiration of genera-
THE MAYA PEOPLE
tions of archreologists, like the temples and pyramids
of Egypt or the palaces of Babylon, still occupy their
ancient sites and /are better capable than any other
manifestation of l\laya life of illuminating our ideas
on the subject of the civilization of Central America.
For the most part they are buried in dark and mys-
terious forests, although certain of them stand open
on the arid plains of Yucatan, where the native genius
which raised them arrived at its apogee.
The majority of these buildings were either raised
for the specific purposes ofreligion or royal occupation-
Fe'v old domestic dwellings survive in the Maya area,
these having been for the most part either constructed
of adobe, or merely of reeds, like the houses of the
~laya peasantry of the present day. But the greater
Maya buildings were usually erected upon a mound or
ku, either natural or artificial, as were some of the
Mexican religious edifices. The most general founda-
tion of the ?.Iaya temple was a series of earth-terraces
arranged in exact parallel order, the buildings them-
selves forming part of a square. They were con-
structed from the hard sandstone of the country.
But the Maya 'vere surprisingly ignorant of some of
what we would call the first principles of architecture.
For example, they were totally ignorant of the prin-
ciples upon \vhich the arch is constructed. This
difficulty they overcame by making each course of
masonry overhang the one beneath it, after the
method employed by a boy with a box of bricks, who
finds that he can only make " doorways " by this
means, or by the simple expedient- also employed
by the ?tlaya-of placing a slab horizontally upon two
upright pillars. In consequence it 'vill readily be
seen that the superimposition of a second story upon
such an insecure foundation was scarcely to be thought
of, and that such support for the roof as towered above
the doorway would necessarily require to be of the
190 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
most substantial description. Indeed, this portion
of the building often appears to be more than half the
size of the rest of the edifice. This space gave the
' Maya builders a splendid chance for mural decoration,
and it must be said they readily seized it and made
the most of it, ornamented fa9ades being perhaps
the most typical features in the relics of Maya
architecture.
Apart from this, the Maya practised a pyramidal
\ type of architecture of which many good and even
perfect examples remain. A first story \Vas built in
the usual manner, and the second raised above it by
making a mound at the back of the edifice until it was
on a level with the roof, and then building upon it.
But length usually took the place of height in Maya
architecture.
Survey, design, previous calculation, all entered
into the considerations of the Maya architects.
The manner in which the carved stones fitted into
each other shows that they had previously been
worked apart. In certain localities we discover various
methods. In Chiapas we find the bas-relief in stone
or stucco almost universally employed. In Honduras
the stiffness of design apparent implies an older type
of architecture, along with caryatids and pillars in
human form. In Guatemala there are traces of the
use of wood, especially in the lintels of doorways.
In the modern state of Chiapas are situated the
remains of the city of Palenque, one of the most cele-
brated and imposing of the 1\-faya communities,
nestling on the lower slopes of the Cordilleras and
built in the form of an amphitheatre. If one takes
his stand on the central ku or pyramid, he finds him-
self surrounded by a circle of ruined palaces and
temples raised upon artificial terraces. The principal
and most imposing is the Palace, a building reared
upon a single platform, and in the shape of a quad-
THE MAYA PEOPLE 191
rilateral surrounding a minor structure. On the walls
ofsome ofthe buildings are sculptures ofthe Feathered
Serpent, Kukulkan, or Quetzalcoatl.
The Temple of Inscriptions, perched on an eminence
some 40 feet high, is the largest edifice in Palenque.
It has a fa~ade 74 feet long by 25 feet deep, composed
of a great gallery 'vhich runs along th~ entire front
of the fane. The building has been named from the
inscriptions with which certain flagstones in the central
apartments are covered. Three other temples occupy
a piece of rising ground close by. These are the
'femple of the Sun, closely akin in type to many
Japanese temple buildings ; the Temple of the Cross,
in which a wonderful altar-piece was discovered;
and the Temple of the Cross No. II. In the Temple
of the Cross the inscribed altar gave its name to the
building. .In the central slab is a cross ofthe American
pattern, its roots springing from the hideous head of
the Earth-mother. Its branches stretch to where on
the right and left stand two figures, evidently those
ofa priest and an acolyte, performing some mysterious
rite. On the apex of the tree is placed the sacred
turkey, or "Emerald Fowl," to which offerings of
maize paste are made. The whole is surrounded by
inscriptions.
Ake, thirty miles east of Merida, is chiefly famous
for its pyramids, hockey or tlachtli courts, and the
gigantic pillars which once supported immense gal-
leries. One of its principal buildings is traditionally
known as" The House of Darkness," as it can boast
not a single 'vindow, the light filtering in from the
doorway alone. The " Palace of Owls " is note-
worthy for its diamond-shaped frieze, the work of
the earliest Maya builders in Yucatan.
Chichen-Itza, one of the most venerable of the
ruined cities of Yucatan, is chiefly remarkable for its
great pyramid-temple, known as El Castillo, which
192 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
stands on a mound whence temples and palaces
radiate in a circular plan. Its so-called "Nunnery"
is one of the most famous examples of Maya architec-
ture, and here dwelt the sacred women, dedicated to
the god Kulkucan. On the walls of the contiguous
building called "El Castillo " are base-reliefs repre-
senting Kukulkan and his priesthood.
But it is impossible in a work dealing 'vith the
occult sciences of these countries to afford more than
I
passing mention to their architecture, absorbing
though it be, and we must turn to Maya history.
This commences about the beginning of the Christian
era and in the area of Palenque, Piedras Negras, and
Ocosingo in Chiapas. Regarding the earlier centuries
've kno·w little or nothing, and light first shines for
us about the sixth century, when the 1\-laya of
Guatemala deserted t~eir cities, and answering some
unknown impulse decided to emigrate into Yucatan.
It is possible that they were forced to do so by a
Nahua invasion, traces of which are to be found in a
Kuikatec manuscript of early origin, but it is equally
likely that, as had happened before in their history,
and as is evident from the pages of" The Popol Vuh,"
which supplies a precedent, that they left their settle-
ments in the south because ofsome religious summons
sent by the gods through their priests. But not all
of the Maya race deserted their cities. Many re-
mained, and a cleavage between the customs of the
~laya of the south and those of Yucatan is hence-
forward to be remarked.
Everything points to a late occupation of Yucatan
by the ~laya, and architectural effort exhibits
deterioration, evidenced in a high conventionality of
design and excess of ornamentation. Evidences of
Nahua influence also are not wanting, a fact which is
eloquent of the later period of contact which is kno,vn
to have occurred between the peoples, and which
THE MAYA PEOPLE 193
alone is almost sufficient to fix the date of the settle-
ment of the 1\faya in Yucatan. It must not be thought
that the Maya in Yucatan formed one homogeneous
state recognizing a central authority. On the con-
trary, as is often the case 'vith colonists, the several
1\Iaya bands of immigrants formed themselves into
different states or kingdoms, each having its own
separate traditions. It is thus a matter of the greatest
difficulty to so collate and criticize these traditions
as to construct a history of the Maya race in Yucatan.
As may be supposed, we find the various city-sites
founded by divine beings who play a more or less
important part in the 1\faya pantheon. Kukulkan,
for example, is the first king of Mayapan, whilst
Itzamna figures as the founder of the state of Itzamal.
The founders of the northern city of Itzamal soon
formed a powerful state on a religious or priestly
basis, whereas those who settled in Chichen-Itza,
further to the south, were of more 'varlike disposition.
About the year 1000 a triple alliance was entered into
by Chichen-Itza, Uxmal and Mayapan, as has been
said, and this lasted for about 200 years.
The people of Chichen-Itza, ·who were ruled by an
aristocracy kno\vn as the Tutul Xius, came into con-
flict \Vith the Cocomes or Nahua aristocracy of
~layapan, who, after a struggle of nearly 120 years'
duration, overthrew them and made Chichen-Itza
a dependency. The ruling caste, the Tutul Xius,
fled southward, and settled in Potonchan, where they
reigned for nearly 800 years. They took into their
service a large number of Aztec and other Nahua
mercenary troops, -and commenced a campaign of
northward military extension, ultimately reconquering
the territory they had lost to the Cocomes.
Like the Romans, they made excellent roads, and
'vherever they made a conquest they founded a city.
This, indeed, was the period of the full blossoming of
N
194 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
Maya art, architectural and otherwise, and from the
shrines of Chichen and the island of Cozumel great
high,vays radiated in every direction for the conveni-
ence of pilgrims. But the rule of the Mexican Cocomes
still flourished and eventually became a tyranny.
'fhe other Maya states existed in a condition of com-
parative helotage to them, and even the Tutul Xius
had to pay a crushing tribute for the lands they held.
The Cocome aristocracy, secure in its armed might,
permitted itself every possible luxury and excess,
morality ceased to be regarded as a virtue among
them, and popular discontent was rife.
The dissolute habits of the alien Cocomes at length
aroused general disgust and a revolutionary feeling
gained ground. The Cocomes on their part now en-
gaged fresh mercenaries from 1\lexico, and when revolt
at last ensued, these stemmed the tide for some time.
The Tutul Xius were forced from their possessions and
settled in the city of 1\Iani. The Cocome ruler of
Mayapan, Hunac Eel, was of sterner make than his
degenerate nobles. Although tyrannical, he possessed
statesmanship and experience, and resolved to attack
the head and front of the rebellious states, the city of
Chichen-Itza. At the head of a great host he marched
against it and succeeded in inflicting a severe defeat
on the ltzaes. But he had shortly to face revolution
at home, and the defeated Itzaes had now joined forces
with his other enemies, the Tutul Xius. A terrific
onslaught was launched against the Cocomes, and in
1436 they and their city were destroyed. They fled
to Zotuta, a region in the centre of Yucatan, sur-
rounded by almost impenetrable forests.
But in crushing the Cocomes, the rulers of Chichen-
Itza had almost crushed themselves. Gradually their
city crumbled into ruin, political and physical, and
its aristocracy left it at last to seek the cradle of the
Maya race in Guatemala, or so tradition says.
THE MAYA PEOPLE 195
The ~laya people of Guatemala, the Quiches and
Kakchiquels, have a separate history of their own,
which is preserved for us in the pages of " The Popol
Vuh," their sacred book, a part of which the reader
'viii find outlined in the section which deals with the
arcane writings of the 1\faya.
As with the earlier dynasties of Egypt, considerable
doubt surrounds the history of the early Quiche
monarchs. Indeed, a period of such uncertainty
occurs that even the number of kings who reigned is
lost in the hopeless confusion of varying estimates.
From this chaos emerge the facts that the Quiche
monarchs held the supreme po,ver among the peoples
of Guatemala, that they were the contemporaries of
the rulers of 1tlexico City, and that they were often
elected from among the princes of the subject-states.
Acxopil, the successor of Nima-Quiche, invested his
second son with the government of the Kakchiquels,
and placed his youngest son over the Tzutuhils, whilst
to his eldest son he left the throne of the Quiches.
Icutemal, his eldest son, on succeeding his father,
gifted the kingdom of Kakchiquel to his eldest son,
displacing his own brother and thus mortally affront·
ing him. The struggle which ensued lasted for genera-
tions, embittered the relations between these two
branches of the 1\faya in Guatemala, and undermined
their joint strength. Nahua mercenarie~ were em-
ployed in the struggle on both sides, and these intro-
duced many of the crudities of Nahua life into Maya
existence.
This condition of things lasted up to the time of the
coming of the Spaniards. The Kakchiquels dated the
commencement of a new chronology from the episode
of the defeat of Cay Hun-Apu by them in 1492. They
may have saved themselves the trouble; for the time
'vas at hand when the calendars of their race were to
be closed, and its records written in another script by
196 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
another people. One by one, and chiefly by reason of
their insane policy of allying themselves 'vith the
invader against their own kin, the old kingdoms of
Guatemala fell as spoil to the daring Conquistadores.
Magic and divination played an extraordinary part
in the policy and administration of the Maya states.
No ruler 'vould act without the advice of his sooth-
sayers, and it may 'veil be said that seldom has a
state of fairly advanced human society acted so much
in accordance with the systems and dictates of the
arcane sciences. This does not in any way imply that
its downfall was due to the acceptance ofsuch wisdom,
for it was only upon the lack of observance of the
mystical rule which the wise priesthood of the Maya
applied that the city-states of Yucatan crashed into
ruin. Had the nobility pursued the custom of its
predecessors and hearkened to the divine voices
'vhich formerly dictated their policy their fall would
have been averted, but, like many another aristocracy,
they forsook a well-devised theocracy for an insensate
luxury and the degradations of profligate pleasure.
I
•
CHAPTER XI
1\IAYA RELIGION
T
HE most intensive examination of the gods
of the Maya people of Central America and
Yucatan has so far been directed to those
pictures of them which appear in the three principal
l\Iaya manuscripts remaining to us, the Dresden,
Paris, and Tro-Cortesianus Codices, and not to the
sculptured representations of divine forms on the
surviving monuments of that marvellous people.
The pictured forms of personages in the manuscripts
are, indeed, so obviously those of divinities that we
are justified in attempting to collate them with the
various members of the l\1aya pantheon alluded to in
literary sources, in the " Books of Chilan Balam,"
"The Popol Vuh," "The Book of the Cakchiquels"
and elsewhere. But the same can scarcely be said
of the sculptured figures which appear on the temple
walls and stelre of Central America. Certain of these,
indeed, are as manifestly divine as any of the forms
depicted in the manuscripts, and are capable of being
compared if not identified with them, but others,
again, are as obviouslyrepresentations, either modelled
from the life, or post-mortem sculptures, of great
leaders or hierophants. Nor is it always possible, in
view of our present poverty of data and knowledge,
to discriminate between these figures which had a
human and a divine significance.
The hieroglyphs which in almost every instance
accompany these pictures and sculptures in .human
197
198 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
form still remain undeciphered, and until these yield
their secret it will be impossible to identify the gods
or personages they name with any degree of certainty.
For nearly a generation the painted representations
of gods in the l\laya manuscripts have been for the
sake of convenience described by the letters of the
alphabet from A to P, a method which has been
found much more satisfactory than any dogmatic
system of nomenclature which might have affixed to
them the names of divine beings in Maya myth with-
out the absolute assurance that they actually applied
to the painted representations whose accompanying
hieroglyphic titles we cannot yet decipher.
The first student of Maya antiquities to apply this
provisional and ~ truly scientific system of nomen-
clature was Dr. Paul Schellhas, who, so long ago as
1897, introduced it to the notice of ·Americanists in
his "Representations of Deities in the Maya Manu-
scripts " as " a purely inductive natural science
method," essentially amounting to "that which in
ordinaty life we call ' memory of persons.' " By an
intensive examination of the pictures of gods in the
manuscripts he learned gradually to recognize them
promptly by the characteristic impressions they made
as a whole. H~ was aided in this not only by dis-
similarities iiJ. f~ce and figure, but by such details as
the constant occurrence in the case of each god of
some outstanding hieroglyph, ornament, or other
symbol. He dealt with the figur.es in the manuscripts
alone, and almost entirely avoided hypotheses and
deductions. The present writer, following in his path,
has, however, not refrained from application to those
other sources of information which he ignored, and
by degrees has been enabled to arrive at a rather
fuller comprehension of that extensive Maya godhead
for whose worship the gorgeous temples of tropical
America were erected.
A c D E
F G 8 1 K
L M N 0 P
,, 'b
THE ALPHABET F MAYA GODS (after Schellhas).
•
•
I
MAYA RELIGION 199
Schellhas candidly admitted his lack of knowledge
of the places of origin of the three invaluable manu-
scripts which preserve for us those graceful and deli-
cate representations of a forgotten Olympus. But
Dr. H. J. Spi~den, of the American Museum of
Natural History, in his monumental work on" Maya
Art," has, by a careful comparison of the art-forms
of those wonderful aboriginal paintings, dissipated
nearly all existing doubts on the question. The
"Codex Dresden" he assigns to the region south of
Uxmal in Yucatan. In the " Codex Peresianus " be
finds marked similarities to the art of the ·ruined
cities of Naranho, Quirigua, and Piedras Negras in
Peten, a district immediately to the south of the
Yucatan peninsula. As for the " Codex Tro-Cor-
tesianus," he believes it to have been the work of a
painter living in the northern district of Yucatan.
It is, of course, manifest that all of ·these must be
copies of much older manuscripts, and Spinden is of
opinion that the last-mentioned may be dated not
much later than A.D. 1200. This means that all
three originated in those districts which had been
colonized by the Maya after they had left their
original settlements in Guatemala and had been
driven northward into Yucatan by racial pressure or
other causes, and it is clear that all have reference
to the same deities and arose out of one and the same
religious impulse. It is possible, however, within
reasonable limits, to attempt to collate many of these
dra,vings with the gods of Maya myth. The figures
appear again and again, and there is in the manner
of their representation,a constancy and similarity of
form and attitude which justify the inference that it
is possible, as Schellhas thought, to verify a god from
his general appearance and his accompanying symbols.
The god first encountered in this alphabetic
sequence, God A, as he is generally described, is
200 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
without doubt that grisly genius who in all mytholo-
gies presides over the realm of the departed. He is
readily to be recognized by his skull-like countenance
and bony spine, and the large black spots, denoting
corruption, which cover the emaciated body. He
wears as a collar the ruff of the vulture, the bird of
death, and a symbol which usually accompanies him,
but 'vhich Schellhas was unable to decipher, un-
doubtedly rep~esents the maggot, evidently a kind
of hieroglyph for death. But the distinguishing glyph
for this god is a human head with eyes closed in
death, before which stands the stone knife of sacri-
fice. In one part of the " Codex Dresden " God A
is sho'vn with the head of an owl, the bird of ill-omen,
his almost constant attendant, and this recalls to us
a passage in the "Popol Vuh," a religious book of
the 1\iaya, which states that the rulers of Xibalba,
the Underworld, " were owls," the inhabitants of a
dark and cavernous place.
I believe Schellhas's God A to be Ah-puch, the
death-spirit mentioned by Father Hernandez. His
name means "the Undoer" or "Spoiler," and he
was also known as Chamay Bac or Zac, that is
"white teeth and bones." In some of his portraits
he is decorated with a feather, on which are seen the
conventional markings of the symbol of the flint
knife, and I have deduced from this that the glyph
for " feather " was synonymous with that for
"knife," a notion which I have substantiated from
the fact that in l\1aya the first wing feather of a
bird was called " a knife."
The personality of God B is a much debated one.
-He has a long proboscis and tusk-like fangs, and
certain writers on American antiquities have called
him "the elephant-headed god." Apart from these
peculiarities, his eye has a characteristic rim, and he
is easily recognized by the strange head-dress he wears,
\
MAYA RELIGION 201
which I take to be a bundle of " medicine " or n1agical
appliances. And here it may be as \vell to say that I
believe the head-dresses of these gods represent the
earliest symbols by which they were known to their
priests and \vorshippers in the period before writing
\vas invented or hieroglyphs came into use. They
\Vould thus rank as hieroglyphs, as something to be
immediately recognized or " read," and probably
acted as a definite step in the invention of written
symbols. But their earliest use seems to have been
as personal signs by which the gods could be readily
identified.
That God B has an affinity with water is plainly
evident. He is seen walking on its surface, standing
in rain, fishing, paddling a canoe, and even enthroned
on the clouds. He is connected with the serpent,
which is, in America, the water-animal par excellence.
In some places, indeed, his head surmounts a ser-
pentine body, and, like the priests of the modern
Zufii Indians of Arizona, he is represented as clutch-
ing tame serpents in his hands. Like the old British
god Kai-the " Sir Kai the Seneschal " of Malory-
he is seen in some parts of the manuscript carrying
flaming torches. Kai was a god of the waters ; so,
in some measure, is God B.
The " elephantine " aspect of this god is accounted
for by his wearing the mask of the medicine-man or
priest during the religious ceremo.ny. Indeed, in one
statue of his analogous Mexican form we see him in
the very act of removing this mask. In l\Iexico the
mask resembles the beak of a bird ; in Central
America it is more like a snout-whether that of an
elephant, tapir, or other animal I do not possess
sufficient data to form an opinion.
God B is, indeed, none other than Kukulkan, H The
Feathered Serpent," the Maya name for the Quetzal-
coati, the god of the rain-bearing trade-wind. But
-
202 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
in Central America proper, whence he originally
hailed, he is more intimately connected with water
than with wind, and the learned priests of his cult
explained him to the Spanish conquerors as " the
ripple wind makes on water," the ruffled feathers on
the serpentine stream. But in later times he came
to be regarded as the priest who conjured down the
rain by magic, and his possession of the caluac, or
rain-maker's wand, places his position in this respect
beyond all question.
Coming to the third letter of our alphabet of gods
we find God C simple of explanation. At first sight
his outward semblance may seem puzzling. His face
is framed by the painted border seen on the ~amach
or flat dish on which the Maya baked their tortillas
or maize pancakes. But xamach also means'' north,''
so that in this instance we have an ex~mple of that
rebus-writing on which the Maya hieroglyphical
system was undoubtedly based. There was, we know
from tradition, a god· called Xamanek, who repre-
sented the pole star, and that God Cis identical with
this deity scarcely admits of any doubt. In the
" Codex Cortesianus " we see his head surrounded by
a nimbus of rays which can symbolize only stellar
emanations, and in the same manuscript we find him
hanging from the sky in the noose of a rope. Else-
where he is accompanied by familiar planetary signs.
In D we have a god of night and the moon. He is
represented as an aged man with toothless jaws, and
is indicated by the hieroglyph akbal, "night." His
head, in the reduced cursive writing of the texts,
stands for the sign of the moon, and is frequently
accompanied by the snail, the emblem of birth, over
which function the moon had planetary jurisdiction.
Among the Maya deities Dis the only one who can
boast of a beard, a certain sign in the case of the
neighbo:uring Mexican pantheon that a god possesses
MAYA RELIGION 203
a planetary significance, and for this reason, no less
than because of his venerable appearance, I would
collate him with Tonaca tecutli, the Mexican creative
deity, father of the gods, the Saturn of their Olympus.
This figure was known to the Maya of Guatemala as
Xpiyacoc, but can scarcely be collated with Hunab
Ku, " The Great Hand," the " god behind the gods,"
invisible, impalpable, of whom we are assured that he
was represented in neither painting nor sculpture.
In God E we have such a definite picture of a
divinity connected with the maize-plant that we have
no difficulty in identifying him as Ghanan, the tra-
ditional 1\faya god of the maize, whose other name
was Yum Kaax, " Lord of the Harvest Fields." He
bears the maize-plant on his head, and this, becoming
in course of time the conventionalized form of an ear
of maize with leaves, composed his hieroglyph. His
face-paint, too, frequently bears the symbol of fer-
tility, and the rain-vase is depicted as an ornament
above his ear.
God F, in his insignia, is reminiscent of the Mexican
harvest-god Xipe, whose annual festival brought
forth such grisly horrors of human sacrifice. He has
the same distinguishing vertical face-mark, implying
" war," for plenteous harvests were only to be
secured by drenching the soil with the blood of
prisoners taken in battle. He is, indeed, a war-god,
and is occasionally represented in full war-paint, with
flint knife and blazing torch, setting fire to tents or
huts. In some places he is pictured underneath a
stone axe in the shape of a hand, with thumb turned
upwards, ·which probably had an inauspicious sig-
nificance.
God G is not often represented in the manuscripts.
He appears to be a sun-god, and his hieroglyph, a
circle enclosing four teeth, is believed by some
authorities to symbolize the " biting " ' nature of
\
,
2.04 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
tropical heat. His own teeth are filed to a sharp
point. His head-dress recalls that of the priesthood
of Yucatan, and in some of his representations has a
certain resemblance to the Egyptian wig. There is,
indeed, no question that it is a wig. He frequently
holds the flower symbolic of a life rendered to him in
sacrifice, and is occasionally depicted standing amid
tongues of solar flame, a central eye blazing upon his
forehead. That he is Kinich Ahau, the sun-god, is
scarcely open to dispute. Another of his hieroglyphs
consists of a composite picture, including a solar disk,
the sign been, which means " straw-thatch," and the
sign ik, which in this connection is to be translated
" fire which strikes upon the roof," in allusion to the
frequency with which the thatched roofs of the 1\laya
were ignited by the fierce rays of the sun of Yucatan.
The distinguishing characteristic of God H consists
in what is known as the chiccan or serpent-spot
appearing on his brow. He has practically no other
distinctive marks, and that he has some relation to
the serpent is clear. With I we come to the first
of the two goddesses represented in the list-a
divinity of water. She is scarcely prepossessing, and
has claws in place of feet. She wears on her head a
knotted serpent, and seems to pour the flooding rains
from a large vessel. But she is evidently not a bene-
ficent deity, for her face is distorted by an expression
of angry menace, and it is obvious that she personifies
water in its more harmful guise-the baneful flood
rather than the grain-bringing rain. In some of the
representations of her water belches from her mouth,
breasts, and a.rmpits, and she wields the rattle of the
thunderstorm.
Such data as we possess regarding the deity indi-
cated by the letter K is not of a kind that would
permit us to arrive at any very definite conclusions
regarding him. He closely resembles B, and has even
MAYA RELIGION 205
been confounded with him by some authorities. He
is frequently represented on the walls of the temples
of Copan and Palenque, so it follo·ws that he must
have been a divinity who ranked high in the galaxy
of gods. He has the same description of mask, with
elongated snout, as B, but his hieroglyph differs very
markedly from the symbol of that god, representing
as it does an almost ape-like head with a peculiar
foliation in the region of the forehead-a constant
feature in his pictures. From his position as lord of
the calendar years which belong to the east, Professor
Seier believes him to be Ah-Bolon Tzacab, "Lord of
the Nine Generations." In my view he is a variant
of B. The two most famous deities among the ~Iaya,
Kukulkan, and Itzamna, \Vere undoubtedly one and
the same in origin and essence, although in later times
they came to be regarded as rivals and as swaying
the fortune of opposing cities, and I believe K
represents ltzamna, as B is unquestionably Kukulkan.
A deity of darksome hue appears in God L, known
as" The Old Black God." In some of the pictures in
the "Codex Dresden" his face is entirely black, but
in the other manuscripts only the upper part of it is
so painted. From the insignia 'vhich accompany him
I have been led to the provisional conclusion that he
is in some manner connected with the synodical
appearances of the planet Venus, which bulked
largely in the Maya chronology as the basis of a time-
count for the calendar. He is also the fire-maker,
who kindles the new flame with the fire-drill on the
recurrence of the time-cycle.
In God ~~ we have an even duskier deity, a patron
of the native porters or coolies, and, like them, well-
nigh black through constant exposure to the tropical
sun. He has, in fact, an appearance almost negroid,
thick red lips, the lower drooping pendulously. He
bears on his head a bale of merchandise secured by
I
2.o6 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
thick ropes. Occasionally he is drawn 'vith the
skeleton-like frame of the death-god, and this, and
the circumstance that he usually carries arms, incline
me to the belief that he is symbolical of the great
risks run by the itinerant merchants of 1\lexico and
Yucatan, who frequently acted as spies upon neigh-
bouring tribes or as the advance-guard of an invading
army. He is, indeed, the god Ek Ahau, or Ek Chuah,
"The Black Lord," a cruel and rapacious deity,
whose general character reflects none too amiably
upon the methods of lV!aya commercial activity.
God N, another aged divinity, is the god of the
end of the year, and his head-dress contains the sign
for the year of 360 days. 0 is the only other goddess
of the group, and her picture does not appear else-
where than in the " Madrid Codex." She is also
depicted as advanced in years, and is usually repre-
sented as sitting at a loom. P, the last of the series,
is easily to be recognized as the Maya frog-god, whose
head-dress, like that of God N, contains the sign for
the year.
It is then possible to identify with reasonable like-
lihood six out of these sixteen figures, to label them
with the traditional names they bore, and to fix the
nature and characteristics of some of them. We now
come to those pictured representations of divinities
who are not included in the alphabetical series of
Schellhas. The Bacabs are deities of the four points
of the compass, and are represented in the Dresden
manuscript, especially in the familiar pages 25 to 28,
where they are co-ordinated with the signs for the
compass points. The Maya of Yucatan believed that
these Bacabs 'vere four brothers whom the gods had
placed at the four corners of the world to support the
heavens and keep them from falling. Landa says
that their collective names were Uayayab, " they by
whom the year is poisoned," and prefaces to this the
MAYA RELIGION 207
personal names Kan, Chac, Zac, and Ek, but these
titles merely imply " yello\v," " red," " 'vhitc," and
" black," and signify the colours associated with the
south, east, north, and \vest respectively. The
Bacabs had also a funerary significance, and their
heads in stone occasionally appear as the lids of
" Canopic " jars found in 1\Iaya tombs. In the
"Popol Vuh," the sacred book of the 1\'Iaya-Quiche,
these Bacabs are alluded to by the generic name of
Balan, and are associated \Vith the four winds.
Shooting stars are the burning stumps of gigantic
cigars which they fling down from heaven. When it
thunders and lightens they were said to be striking...
fire to light their cigars. The god Chac is sometimes
alluded to as if he were a personification of the Bacabs
collectively, and seems to be the same as Schellhas's
God B.
Zotz, the bat-god, appears to have been the deity
of the Ah-Zotzil, or bat-folk, a tribe long settled in
the vicinity of San Cristobal de Chiapas, as well as
of another clan, part of the Kakchiquels of southern
Guatemala. In the " Popal Vuh " the god of the
Kakchiquel is called Zotziha Chimalcan, and after
him the two royal lines of the Kakchiquel tribe were
named. He is a god of caverns, and had a twofold
form as well as a twofold name, which seems to signify
" Bat's House-Serpent Shield." Perhaps the name
might be read " Serpent Shield (or pond) in the Place
of Darkness," and may refer to these cenotes or
subterranean wells which are so frequently encoun-
tered in Yucatan, because of the constant connection
of the serpent with water by the Maya. In any case,
Zotz appears to have been connected \vith a cult \Vhose
worship was carried on in caverns, lik~ that of the
Nagualists.
The Maya designated the twenty-day period Zotz,
after this god, and his glyph is frequently encountered
208 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
on the Copan reliefs. On one of the temples of Copan
is a relief depicting a combat between this god and
Kukulkan, perhaps an allegory of the strife between
light and darkness.
In the Dresden manuscript a deity is represented
whose face appears to have animal characteristics.
IIis glyph contains an element which occurs in the
glyph of a god with a deer's head also to be found in
the Dresden manuscript, and in the "Codex Tro-
Cortesianus" in a glyph denoting weaving or em-
broidery.
The goddess who acts as regent ofthe Second Period
in the Dresden manuscript, does not seem to be met
·with elsewhere in the manuscripts, and is not men-
tioned in Schellhas's list. Seier believes her to rep-
resent the planet Venus. Her body is painted red,
and on the front of the trunk .are the vertebrre and
ribs of a skeleton. The nose curves do'vn like that of
God B, but she has not the long, crooked teeth and the
flourish on the bridge of the nose. A string of precious
stones, hanging over in front from the head-dress, has
attached to it by a bo'v the glyph of the planet Venus.
Seler also alludes to a deity who figures as regent ofthe
Fourth Period in the Dresden manuscript. He says,
"He is obviously a war-like divinity. A jaguar-skin
is 'vrapped around his hips, and he ·wears on his breast
a disk apparently bordered with jaguar-skin. As
head-dress he wears the conventionalized head of a
bird having a crest. An entire bird is 'vorn as an
ear-peg, with the head stuck toward the front through
the much enlarged hole in the lobe of the ear. There
is a serpent's head before his mouth (as a nose-peg?),
and the head of a bird projects over his forehead.
The face painting strikingly recalls that ofthe 1\fexican
Tezcatlipoca. . .. There is, in front, the element
which in the hieroglyph of the jaguar is combined
with the abbreviated jaguar head, and in other places
MAYA RELIGION 209
is associated with the cardinal point east, probably
denoting a colour (red). It is not difficult to recognize
the element kin; sun, at the right, and in the centre
a head 'vith a bleeding, empty eye-socket. All these
are elements which imply that he is a war-god.''
If we no'v look for any of these gods on the monu-
ments of Central America or Yucatan, we shall find
that little has been done to locate them there, or
collate them in any way with the figures of the
manuscripts. Indeed, this is a department of Maya
archreology 'vhich calls loudly for research. Dr.
Spinden 'vrites sanely on this subject and on the
methods of collating and recognizing deities in his
excellent monograph on Maya art. He says, " Because
of the natural exuberance of Maya art, identification,
even of gods, is far from easy. Fewkes declares that
in any attempt to classify the. 1\faya deities the
character of the head must be taken as the basis.
This statement is true within certain limits, simply
because characterization is more easily expressed in
the head than else,vhere, especially when the figures
are largely anthropomorphic. But in many cases
the character and decoration of the body are also
significant and should be examined." He proceeds
to compare certain sculptures with God B, whom he
collates with a long-nosed manikin god, as found in
sculptures at Quirigua, and sees his surrogate, God K,
on a vase in the American Museum ofNatural History,
the representation on which, however, might perhaps
equally well apply to the bat-god. But there are
clearer indications of his presence in details from
Copan and Yaxchilan. God D, too, he finds in t'vo
sculptures at Yaxchilan, in the form of the earth-
dragon. " On Stela I, at that city," says Dr. Spinden,
"there is a bust of a human being or of a god directly
over the centre of the planet strip that forms the
body of the two-headed monster, and its .resemblance
0
210 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
to God D of the codices is evident at the first glance.
The Roman nose, the open mouth with the lips drawn
back, the wrinkles on the cheek, the peculiar tooth
projecting outward, the ornamented eye and the
flowing hair and beard are all features that occur in
the Codices in connection with God D. The air of
old age is admirably characterized."
Spinden, too, sees another manifestation of God
Din the face-form of the glyph known to Mayologists
as Kin, which represents a single day, and he adduces
sculptures from Copan, Yaxchilan, Chichcn-Itza, and
Palenque to prove his contention. He finds, too,
further representations of this god in a sculptured
block from Copan and a detail from Piedras Negras,
on a pottery flask from the Uloa Valley, as well as
in the Atlantean figures that support the altar at
Palenque. He has seen, too, anthropomorphic figures
of the bat-god at Copan, and has identified his glyph
on the back of Stela D at that city.
God A and his attributes appear in connection with
many conceptions to be found on the monuments,
especiallyat Chichen-ltza, Copan, Tikal, and Palenque,
a distribution 'vhich bears witness to· a far-flung
worship of this divinity. Regarding the maize-god,
E, Spinden says: "On the monuments the repre-
sentation of this god may be discerned in the youth-
ful figure with a leafy head-dress•... It occupies a
secondary position on the monuments, but the
characters are constant and are, moreover, consistent
with those appearing on the figures in the Codices.
On Stela Hat Copan, several small human beings of
this type . . . may be seen climbing round and over
the interwoven bodies of serpents. At Quirigua the
occurrence is similar ... while at Tikal the head
... thrusts itself out of the eye of a richly embel-
lished serpent head, the upturned nose. of which is
shaped into the face of the Roman-nosed god (D)..••
MAYA RELIGION 211
In all these drawings the determining feature is the
bunches of circles enclosed in leaf-like objects that
may represent the ear of maize or bursting seed-pods.
In an interesting stucco decoration in the Palace at
Palenque • . . are shown comparable circular details
as well as maize-ears rather realistically drawn, while
the god himself appears at the top of the rJesign.
Details 'vhich seem to represent ears of maize or
bursting pods are recorded in a drawing by Waldeck
of one of the now lost tablets of Palenque. The
maize-ears in this instance seem to depend from the
inverted head ofthe long-nosed god. The form of the
maize-god in all these instances is distinctly human
and in marked contrast to the other deities so far
considered. The beautiful sculpture from the fa~ade
of Temple 22 at Copan, which ~Iaudslay calls a
" singing girl," may represent the youthful maize-
god. Other comparable figures from the same building
are in the Peabody Museum. . •. The head-dress
resembles that of this deity as given in the Codices.
There is clear enough evidence that the faces and
figures of the long-nosed god (B), the Roman-nosed
god (D), and the death-god (A) were used to decorate
the fa~ades of temples in this city, and the usage may
have included other deities as well. Two sculptured
stones from the terrace east of the Great Plaza at
Copan doubtless bear representations of the maize-
god.
The face of God C has also been found on the Hiero-
glyphic Stairway at Copan, part of which is now in the
Peabody ~Iuseum and in inscriptions at Palenque and
Copan. Gods F and H have so far not been clearly
identified in the sculptures, nor have L, 0, or P, as yet,
been encountered on stela or temple wall. The pene-
trative work of Spinden, notwithstanding the great
need of the further collation of the manuscript form.
of the gods with those depicted on the monuments,
I
2 12. THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
not only in major form, as found, but in lesser detail
and grotesquerie, is obvious.
Can 've now relate these forms, pictured and sculp-
tured, to 'vhat is known of 1\laya religious tradition,
and try to gather not only a clearer notion ofthe iden-
tity of the deities in question, but some knowledge
of their functions and worship ? Unfortunately,
the early contemporary notices of Maya religion are
extraordinarily scanty. They consist almost entirely
of the " Historia del Cielo y de la Tierra " of Pedro
de Aguilar, the" Historia de Yucatan" of Fray Diego
Lopez, the account, in Las Casas' " Historia de las
Indias," of Francisco Hernandez, the " Relacion de
las cosas de Yucatan" of Diego de Landa, and the
" Constituciones Diocesianus " of Nunez de Ia Vega,
as well as the " Documentos Ineditos," published at
Madrid, and containing fugitive and sometimes
anonymous notices of native beliefs and customs.
From these it is only a fragmentary account of the
Maya pantheon which we can glean. The religion of
the Maya seems to have possessed few divine figures of
1 note, as Hernandez remarks, and he adds that the
I
" principal lords " alone were acquainted with the
history of the gods, their myths and allegories. The
spirit of the religion appears to have been dualistic.
We witness, indeed, a dualism almost as complete as
that of ancient Persia-the conflict between light and
darkness. Opposing each other we behold on the
one hand the deities of the sun, the gods of warmth
and light, of civilization and the joy of life, and on
the other the deities of darksome death, of night,
• gloom, and fear. From these primal conceptions of
light and darkness all the mythologic forms of the
Maya are evolved. '\Vhen we catch the first recorded
glimpses of Maya belief've recognize that at the period
when it came under the purview of Europeans the
gods of darkness were in the ascendant and a deep
MAYA RELIGION 213
pessimism had spread over Maya thought and
theology. Its joyful side was subordinated to the
worship of gloomy beings, the deities of death and
hell, and if the cult of light was attended with such
touching fidelity, it was because the benign agencies
who 'vere worshipped in connection with it had
promised not to desert mankind altogether, but to
return at some future indefinite period and resume
their sway of radiance and peace.
The heavenly bodies had important representation
in the Maya pantheon. In Yucatan the sun-god was
known as l(inich-ahau (Lord of the Face of the Sun).
He was identified with the Fire-bird, or arara, and
was thus called Kinich-l{akmo (Fire-bird; lit.
Sun-bird). He was also the presiding genius of the
north. Sacrifices to him were made at midday, ·when
it was believed that the deity descended in the shape
of the arara or macaw. Such ceremonies were
especially performed in times of pestilence or de-
struction of the crops by locusts. But this god was
probably much less prominent in the public mind
than the greater solar deities, and his attributes \vere
occasionally assigned to Itzamna. He is certainly
God G.
Itzamna, one of the most important of the Maya
deities, 'vas a deity of moisture, the father of gods and
men. In him was typified the decay and recurrence
of life in nature. His name was derived from the
words he was supposed to have given to men regarding
himself: "ltz en caan, itz en muyal" ("I am the dew
of the heaven, I am the dew of the clouds"). He was
tutelar deity of the west. Itzamna may indeed be
regarded as the chief of the Maya pantheon. " He
received," says Brinton, "the name Lakin chan,
the Serpent of the East, under which he seems to
have been popularly known. As light is synonymous
with both life and kno·wledge, he was said to have
2 14 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
been the creator of men, animals, and plants, and was
the founder of the culture of the 1\layas. He was the
first priest of their religioiJ., and invented writing and
books; he gave the names to the various localities
in Yucatan, and divided the land among the people;
as a physician he was famous, knowing not only the
magic herbs, but possessing the power of healing by
touch, whence his name Kabil, ' the skilful hand,'
under which he was worshipped in Chichen·ltza. For
his wisdom he was spoken of as Y ax coc ahmut,
' the royal or noble master of knowledge.' " He was,
indeed, the son of Hunab-Ku, the great and unseen
divine spirit behind the pantheon of the 1\laya. The
centre of his cult was the city of lzamal, to which
pilgrimage was made from all parts of Yucatan. As
has been said, he is probably God K, although some
students of the Codices identify him with God D.
Ekchuah was the god of travellers, to whom they
burned copal. He is certainly God M. He is painted
the colour of cocoa, the merchant's staple of exchange.
There ·were quite a number of war·gods, and it is
difficult to know which of them should be identified
with God F of the Codices ; whether Uac Lorn Chaam,
"He whose teeth are six lances," worshipped at
Merida, Ahulane ." the Archer," depicted as holding
an arrow, whose shrine was on the island of Cozumel,
Pakoc, "the Frightener," or Hex Chun Chan,
" The Dangerous One." The last two were especially
gods of the ltzaes of Yucatan. Kac-u-pacat, "Fiery
Face," carried in battle a shield of fire, Ah Chuy
Kak, "Fiery Destroyer," Ah Cun Can, "The Serpent
Charmer," and Hun Pic Tok, "He of 8000 lances,"
were all divinities of war.
Now God F is pictured much more frequentJy in the
" Codex Peresianus " than elsewhere and, as 've have
seen, that manuscript probably came from the district
of Peten, immediately to the south of. the Yucatec
MAYA RELIGION 215
peninsula. We may then dismiss the idea that he is
closely associated with the war-gods of Northern
Yucatan, who were nothing if not distinctly tribal.
In all probability he is a much older warrior deity of
the people of the settled district of Peten. It is,
however, not a little strange that his body-paint
closely resembles that of the Nahua war-god Uitzilo-
pochtli.
Xamanek, the North Star, has already been identi-
fied with God C, and A with Ahpuch, the death-god.
D is evidently a lunar deity. But although we find a
moon goddess in Maya myth, Ix-hunye, there seems
to be no record of a male lunar-god. God E, as has
been said, is the maize-god, Yum Kaax, " Lord of
Harvests." God His rather puzzling. He is certainly
a deity of serpentine character, but that is to be in-
ferred from the serpent-skin mark upon his forehead.
I believe him to be a variant or surrogate of Itzamna,
one of whose minor names was Lakin Chan, " the
Serpent of the East," by which he seems to have been
popularly known.
All this goes to show that w·hile we can safely
identify several of the gods of Schellhas's list with the
known figures of the Maya pantheon, others cannot
be equated at present with any known Maya divine
figure. A (Ahpuch), B (Kukulkan), C (Xamanek),
E (Yum-Kaax), G (Kinich-ahau), K (Itzamna), and
M (Ekchuah), can reasonably be regarded as identified
with the names bracketed. The rest remain uncer-
tain or unknown.
It is not that the 1\faya pantheon has not many other
deities besides these embraced by the alphabetic gods
of the manuscripts. The names of many other Maya
gods are known to us, only we are either unaware of
their outward appearance, or the circumstances of
their descriptions do not tally with the pictorial forms
ofthe gods in the three Maya manuscripts. Of Ixtab,
216 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
the goddess of suicides, we know that she was also a
goddess of ropes and snares for wild animals, and
therefore probably had a textile significance originally.
She seems to be pictured in some of the manuscripts.
Cum Ahau, " Lord of the Vase," or of the Rains,
we may, perhaps, identify as a phase of Itzamna.
Zuhuy Kak, " Virgin Fire," appears as a patroness of
infants, and Zuhuy Dzip, is a species of Maya Diana,
a divine huntress of the woods. Ah Kak Nech was
the deity ofthe domestic hearth, and Ah Ppua and Ah
Dziz were divinities of fishermen.
Lesser departmental deities and caste gods
abounded. Acan was the god of intoxication, resemb-
ling the pulque gods of l\1exico. Ix Tub Tun, " She
'vho spits out Precious Stones," was the goddess of
'vorkers in jade and amethyst, and bears a marked
likeness to a Japanese goddess who similarly ejects
precious stones. Cit Bolon Tum was a god of medi-
cines, and Xoc Bitum a god of song. The Maya, to
their honour, had also a god of poetry, Ab Kin Xoc
or Pp'iz Hiu Tee, and Ix Chebel Yax was the first
inventress of coloured designs on woven stuffs.
We labour, then, under the dual disability of a lack,
almost unparalleled, of early descriptive sources and
the impossibility in many cases of collating 1\laya
divine figures as described in myth with the pictured
and sculptured representatives of the pantheon.
This would seem to imply that Maya mythology, as
we know it, belonged to a different age from the
manuscripts. The sculptured representations of the
gods, too, may represent a period apart from either.
We can, by means of the dates which usually accom-
pany them, fix approximately the period of the sculp-
tured forms which, so far as Guatemala is concerned,
are obviously older than the manuscripts or myths,
dating roughly as they do from about A.D. 880 to 600.
It would then seem to be indicated that we should
MAYA RELIGION 217
take as a basis these sculptured forms, conscientiously
collect and collate both those of Guatemala and
Yucatan, and fix their dates as far as possible, group-
ing them in chronological order. This task accom-
plished, a careful comparison of their forms should
be made with those in the manuscripts, a process \Vhich
should result in the approximate fixation of the dates
ofthese paintings, and enlighten us more convincingly
regarding their spheres of provenance. Then, with
increased confidence, it might be possible to apply
the mythic descriptions to this __better charted and
chronologically fixed picture-gallery of the Maya gods.
In some such system of examination and research,
in the writer's estimate, resides the best hope for an
increased knowledge of the Maya pantheon.
Until further research of this nature has been given
to the subject, it will, however, be \vise to retain
Schellhas's alphabetical nomenclature, which our
present knowledge ·and data have by no means out-
grown.
CHAPTER XII
THE MAGIC OF TilE MAYA
B
y far the most striking passage in the literature
dealing with the Maya which refers to magic is
that to be found in the " Constituciones Dio-
cesianos de Chiapas" of Nunez de la Vega, Bishop of
Chiapas, relating to a book in the Quiche tongue,
said to have been written by Votan or Quetzalcoatl,
·which the Bishop made use of in his work, but ulti-
mately destroyed in his holocaust of native manu-
scriptsatHeuheutlaninl691. One, OrdoiiezdeAguilar,
had, however, made a copy of it before its destruction,
and incorporated it in his "Historia de Cielo" MS.
In this work Votan declared himself " a snake," a
descendant of Imos, of the line of Chan, of the race of
Chivim. Taking Aguilar's account along with that of
Nunez de la Vega, as both rely upon the same author-
ity, we find that Votan proceeded to America by
divine command, his mission being to lay the founda-
tion of civilization. With this object in view he
departed from Valum Chivim, passing" the dwelling
of the thirteen snakes," and arrived in Valum Votan,
whence, with some members of his family, he set out
to form a settlement, ascending the Usumacinta
River and ultimately founding Palenque. By reason
of their peculiar dress the Tzendal Indians called
them Tzequitles, or" men with shirts," but consented
to amalgamate with them. Ordonez states that when
Votan had established himself at Palenque he made
I
218
THE MAGIC OF THE MAYA 219
several visits to his original home. On one of these
he came to a tower which had been intended to reach
the heavens, a project which had been brought to
naught by the linguistic confusion of those who
conceived it. Finally, he was permitted to reach
"the rock of heaven" by a subterranean passage.
Returning to Palenque, he found that others of his
race had arrived there, and with them he made a
friendly pact. He built a temple by the Heuheutan
River, known, from its subterranean chambers as
" the House of Darkness," and here he deposited .the
national records under the charge of certain old men
called tlapianes, or guardians, and an order of priest-
esses. Here also were kept a number of tapirs. A
quotation of the passage dealing with this temple
may be made from Nuiiez de Ia Vega:
"Votan is the third heathen in the calendar (that
is the deity who is ascribed to the Third Division of
the calendar), and in the little history written in the
Indian language all the provinces and cities in which
he tarried were mentioned; and to this day there is
always a clan in the city of Teopisa that they call the
Votans. It is also said that he is the lord ofthe hollow
wooden instrument which they call tepanaguaste (that
is, the Mexican drum or teponaztli) ; that he sa'v the
great wall, namely, the Tower of Babel, \vhich 'vas
built from earth to heaven at the bidding of his grand-
father, Noah; and that he was the first man whom
God sent to divide and apportion this country
of India, and that there, where he saw the great wall,
he gave to every nation its special language. It is
related that he tarried in Huehueta (which is a city in
Soconusco), and that there he placed a tapir and a
great treasure in a slippery (damp, dark, subterranean)
house, 'vhich he built by the breath of his nostrils, and
he appointed a woman as chieftain, with tapianes
(that is, Mexican tlapiani, " keepers ") to guard her.
'
220 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
This treasure consisted of jars, 'vhich were closed with
covers of the sa1ne clay, and of a room in which the
pictures of the ancient heathens who are in the calen-
dar were engraved in stone, together with chalchiuites
(which are small, heavy, green stones) and other
superstitious images; and the chieftainess herself
and the tapianes, her guardians, surrendered all these
things, which 'vere publicly burned in the market-
place of Huehueta when we inspected the aforesaid
province in 1691. All the Indians greatly revered
this Votan, and in a certain province they call him
'heart of the cities' (Corazon de los pueblos).''
This account gives us a general impression of the
arcane nature of Maya magic. It reveals that it was
practised by a separate caste and in secret, and that
Quetzalcoati or Kukulkan was its founder. Side
by side 'vith the official priesthood existed a class
devoted to the study of sorcery, known as ah-cuyah
and ah-tun, or ah-tzyacyah, with whom may be associ-
ated those called pulahoobs, or practisers of divination.
According to Landa, a high priest of the Maya of
Yucatan was called Abkin Mai, whose office was
hereditary.
We also find a class of priests known as the
Chilan, or" tigers," who appear to have been chiefly
devoted to oracular pursuits and studies. They
announced the will of the gods, whose mouthpieces
they were, and uttered prophecies. Says Daniel
Garrison Brinton in his pamphlet on " The Books of
Chilan Balam,'' the Tiger Priesthood:
" There are not wanting actual prophecies of a
striking character. These were attributed to the
ancient priests and to a date long preceding the advent
of Christianity. Some of them have been printed in
translations in the ' Historias ' of Lizana and Cogol-
ludo, aQd of some the originals were published by
the late Abbe Brasseur de Bourbourg, in t~e second
THE MAGIC OF THE MAYA 221
volume of the reports of the ' 1\Iission Scientifique au
Mexique et dans l' Amerique Centrale.' Their authen-
ticity has been met with considerable scepticism by
Waitz and others, particularly as they seem to predict
the arrival of the Christians from the East and the
introduction of the worship of the cross.
" It appears to me that this incredulity is uncalled
for. It is known that at the close of each of their
larger divisions of time (the so-called 'lcatuns '), a
' chilan,' or inspired diviner, uttered a prediction of
the character of the year or epoch 'vhich 'vas about
to begin. Like other 'vould-be prophets, he had
doubtless learned that it is 'viser to predict evil than
good, inasmuch as the probabilities of evil in this
\vorried world of ours outweigh those of good ; and
when the evil comes his words are remembered to his
credit, while, if, perchance, his gloomy forecasts are
not realized no one will bear him a grudge that he
has been at fault. The temper of this people was,
moreover, gloomy, and it suited them to hear of
threatened danger and destruction by foreign foes.
" Here is one of the prophecies in question :
' \Vhat time the sun shall brightest shine,
Tearful will be the eyes of the king.
Four ages yet shall be inscribed,
Then shall come the holy priest, the holy god.
With grief I speak what now I see.
Watch well the road, ye dwellers in Itza.
The master of the earth shall come to us.
Thus prophesies Nahau Pech, the seer,
In the days of the fourth age,
At the time of its beginning.' "
Father Lizana has much to say regarding the oracles
of the Maya city of,. Itzamal, in his tract on "Our
Lady of Itzamal," published in 1663. He tells us that
in the days of Maya paganism the numerous kus,
or pyramids, which are to be found in Yucatan,
were the seats ofdeities who spoke in frequent oracular
222 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO)
utterance to the priests. There horoscopes were cast.
In ltzamal was an idol known as Itzmatill, "that
which holds the substance of heaven," that is the rain.
Itzmatul, or Itzamna, once a living king, when dead
became an oracle, and people from far and near
crowded to his pyramid to consult his spirit, chiefly
about things to come. The dead were also frequently
carried thence in the hope that they might be re-
stored to life, and the sick that health might be
bestowed upon them.
For this particular purpose a second ku, or temple,
'vas raised to Itzamna in his form of Kab-ul, or " the
~Iagic Hand," the hand which could, with a touch,
bestow life. Here offerings of the richest kind were
made. Pilgrims came to the shrine by way of four
roads set in the directions of the four winds, which
extended to the extremities of the country.
The god was supposed to descend upon his altar at
midday, and the priests then acquainted the devotees
with the answer he gave to their petitions. These
priests were the Ah-kin, or prophets.
The astrological system of the ?.Iaya closely re-
sembled that of the Mexicans, but was of much more
ancient origin and had reached a higher level of
development though it did not occupy so prominent
a place in Maya ritual. Its significance and the
duratioh of its tonalamatl, or "calendar," were
identical with the Mexican, and its ritual" week" of
thirteen days was divided into four quarters, each of
which was under the auspices of a different quarter
of the heavens, and a particular deity. So far as
augural purposes were ·concerned it had no connection
with the calendar proper or the time-counts alluded to
in the chapter on Maya civilization. Indeed, we are
not here concerned with the question of time, but with
that of Maya occult lore, so cannot enter into a
discussion of the large question of Maya chronology.
•
Ik A k bo.l Ko.n
Chtcchan
Lamat
Oc Chuen Eb
•
Be"n 1x Men Cib
\
Co.ban Eoanab
THE MAYA DAY-SIGNS
THE MAGIC OF THE MAYA 223
From the account of Nufiez de la Vega, as from that
of Francisco Fernandez, it appears that each of the
twenty days of the week was dedicated to a
governing deity. They supply, ho,vever, no precise
list of these, and it is due to the industry of Professor
Paul Schellhas and Dr. Forstemann that we are
enabled to furnish an approximation to such a list.
Day-sign Presiding god
I. Kan (Maize) . God E
2. Chiccan (Serpent) . God H
3. Cimi (Death) . . God A
4. Manik (Deer ?) . God F
5. Lamat (planting ?) . Grain-god(?)
6. Muluc (cloud) . God K
7. Oc (dog?) • . Lightning-god
8. Chuen (monkey) . God C
9. Eb (grass) • . A goddess
10. Ben (reed) . . Chahalhuc (?)
11. Ix (jaguar) . Jaguar-god
12. :Men (moan bird) . God G (?)
13. Cib (vulture) . . The vulture-being
14. Caban (earth) . The Four Bacabs, or deities
15. Ezanab (knife)
16. Cauac (rain)
17. Ahau (god Ahau)
18. Imix (honey) •
19. lk (air) . •
20. Akbal (darkness)
of the four quarters
. God I(?)
. Tortoise-god
God D, or Ahau
. Honey-god
God B (Kukulkan)
. God L
The means by which these signs, and these of the
" months " were used for divinatory purposes were
the same as in the case of the Mexican system, that
is, the auspicious were weighed against the evil, and
thus a balance was struck.
2.24 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
We can now proceed to discuss the magical sig·
nificance of the various periods of time, but here there
is no need to treat of them as chronological units.
As we have seen, the Bacabs presided over the
points of the compass. These were thought of as
being beset by demons called Uayeyab, who were
driven out by magical ceremonies. Great statues of
stone representing the Bacabs were placed on the
several roads converging on a village7 and at the end
of the year pottery figures of the fertility god were
placed so as to influence them. The priests, accom-
panied by the people, gathered together and offered
incense to the idols of the Bacabs, sacrificing fowls
in front of them, then they placed the image dedicated
to the year on a litter and carried :t to the house of
the chief, where presents were placed before it, and
sacrifices made to it by drawing blood from the ears.
The statue was permitted to remain in position until
the five unlucky days at the end of the year were
over, when the Uayeyab was supposed to have been
scared away and the new year to have begun aus-
piciously. The four Bacabs had each a year in
which they were thus chosen as guardians and 'vere
opposed by different Uayeyabs, ·which took the names
of the four different colours of the compass.
As regards the significance of the months of the
Maya year and their days, Pop, the first month, was
regarded 'vith much solemnity. It was essentially a
time of purification, when houses were cleaned and
ashpits emptied, nor must one take condiments with
his food during its course.
During the month Uo the priests, mediciners, and
sorcerers held a festival for the hunters and fishers,
invoking the ~id of Itzamna, and examining in their
sacred books the omens for the year. They accord-
ingly took precautions against evil happenings. In
the month Zip the sorcerers gathered in their quarters
THE MAGIC OF THE MAYA 225
along with their wives for the ·worship of the Gods of
Medicine, Itzamna, Cit-Bolan-Tun, and Ahau-Chama-
hez, and the Goddess of:rtfedicine, Ixchak, and danced
symbolical and magical dances.
In the month Yax the prognostications of the
Bacabs were made. In the month known as Mac a
strange magical allegory 'vas celebrated. Wild
animals were assembled in the court of the temple of
the Rain-gods, and a priest carrying a vase of water
presided. He set fire to a heap of dry 'vood. He then
took the hearts from the captive wild beasts and cast
them into the flames, and as regards such animals as
were not available, their hearts were modelled in
incense gum and thrown into the blaze. Then he
extinguished the embers'of the flame with the water
he carried. The intention was to secure an abundance
of water for the grain during the year, and the magical
significance ofthe rite was the metamorphosis of blood
into rain, the fierce blood of the forest animals being
regarded as more intense in its action than any other.
From these notices it is clear that few of the
mensual festivals had a magical significance. Of the
astrological qualities of the several days of the year
or months we are ignorant, but it is most probable
that in this respect they were similar in their influence
to those in the Aztec tonalamatl.
The Venus period was also regarded by the Maya
as a season of magical influence. In the Dresden
manuscript 've see a god casting his spear at the
" various classes of people," as we are told was the
case in 1\{exico. These are the same as in the Aztec
1\ISS., but the Maya deities 'vho cast the missiles differ
from the Aztec. In the first place it is God K, in
the second the God Chac, in the third God E, whilst
the remaining two are obscure; but Seier believes
these figures to represent planetary conjunctions
having a special astrological and magical significance.
p
'\
226 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
He says: "It is hardly possible to see anything else
in these figures struck by the spear than augural
speculations regarding the influence of the light from
the planet, suggested by the initial signs ofthe periods.
We shall have to accept this as true, but not only for
the representations of the Borgian Codex group
(Mexican), but also for the pictorial representations
and the hieroglyphic text of the Dresden manuscript "
(Maya).
Augury was also influenced by the Bacabs, or deities
of the four quarters. These were called Kan, Muluc,
lx, and Cauac, and represented the east, north, west,
and south respectively. Their symbolic colours were
yellow, white, black, and red. They had an influence
upon certain years in the calendar. The'' astrology''
of the Maya is unfortunately most obscure owing to
the paucity ofthe data concerning it and the necessity
for much further study of the glyphs and calendar-
system, which is by no means so far advanced as that
of t}le Mexican tonalamatl.
The superstitions of the Maya are likewise difficult
to come at. During the five days at the end of the
year people in Mexico were careful not to fall asleep
during the day, nor to quarrel or trip in walking,
because they believed that" what they then did " they
would continue to do for evermore." We find the
same notion in Yucatan. On these days men left the
house as seldom as possible, did not wash or comb
themselves, and took special care not to undertake
any menial or difficult task, doubtless because they
were convinced that they would be forced to do this
kind of work throughout the 'vhole ensuing year.
The Mexicans were more passive in regard to these
days, inasmuch as they merely took care to avoid
conjuring up mischief for the coming year, while the
Maya did things more thoroughly, as we have seen
when dealing with the Uayayeb festival.
..
THE MAGIC OF THE MAYA 227
~laya demonology is obscure. A sinister figure, the
prince of the 1\laya legions of darkness, is the bat-god,
Zotzilaha Chimalman, who dwelt in the " House of
Bats," a gruesome cavern on the way to the abodes
of darkness and death. He is undoubtedly a relic
of cave-\vorship pure and simple. "The 1\laya,"
says an old chronicler, " have an immoderate fear of
death, and they seem to have given it a figure pecu-
liarly repulsive." We shall find this deity alluded to
in the "Popol Vuh," under the name Camazotz, in
close proximity to the Lords of Death and Hell,
attempting to bar the journey of the hero-gods across
these dreary realms. He is frequently met with on
the Copan reliefs, and a Maya clan, the Ah-zotzils,
were called by his name. They were of Kakchiquel
origin, and he was probably their totem.
Indeed, more than one l\laya tribe was called after
him, and he 'vas evidently a " nagual " or tribal
animal-sorcerer and guardian. The fact that he is
called "this Xibalba" in the "Popol Vuh" shows
that he is of plutonic nature, a deity of the Under-
world. He is also the vampire-beast of darkness who
combats the sun-god and swallows his light.
The dog, pelc, was the symbol of the death-god and
the bearer of the lightning. But he has also a stellar
significance, and probably represents some star or
constellation as at times he is dotted with spots to
represent stars. We see him also playing on the
medicine drum. Another horrible figure associated
with the death-god is the moan bird, a noxious cloud·
spirit, represented in the manuscripts by a bird of
the falcon species.
'Ve can glean much regarding the magical propen-
sities of the Maya priesthood from a study of the
customs of the related Zapotec priests of southern
Mexico, \vhose religion was of Maya origin. Their
high priests were known as Uija-tao, or " great seer,"
228 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
and their chief function was evidently to consult the
gods in important matters rela-ting either to the
community or to individuals. We have already seen
in Burgoa's account of 1\Iitla how the high priest
conferred with the deities on the occasion of a human
sacrifice, placing himself in an ecstatic state, and how
they were regarded as the living images of Quetzal-
coati or Kukulkan.
That they employed stones for scrying or visionary
purposes is clear from the following passage from
Seier's essay on "The Deities and Religious Concep-
tions of the Zapotecs."
" As Yoopaa, or Mictlan, was the holy city of the
Zapotecs, so Nuundecu, or Achiotlan, was the holy
city of the l\1ixtecs, where the high priest had his
abode and where there was a far-famed oracle, which
indeed King Motecuhzoma is said to have consulted
'vhen he was disturbed by the news of the landing
of Cortes. The chief sanctuary was situated on the
highest peak of a mountain. Here, as Father Burgoa
relates, there was among other.altars one of an idol
"'vhich they called the 'heart of the place or of the
country ' and 'vhich received great honour. The
material was of marvellous value, for it was an emerald
of the size of a thick pepper pod (capsicum), upon
which a small bird was engraved with the greatest
skill, and, with the same skill, a small serpent coiled
ready to strike. The stone was so transparent that
it shone from its interior with the brightness of a
candle flame. It was a very old jewel, and there is
no tradition extant concerning the origin of its venera-
tion and worship."
The first missionary of Achiotlan, Fray Benito,
afterward visited this place of worship and succeeded
in persuading the Indians to surrender the idol to
him. He had the stone ground up, although a
Spaniard offered three thousand ducats for it, stirred
THE MAGIC OF THE MAYA 229
the powder in water, and poured it upon the earth
and trod upon it in order at the same time to destroy
the heathen abomination entirely and to demonstrate
in the sight of all the impotence of the idol.
Burgoa says, writing of an oracle in the Laguna de
San Dionisio near Tehuantepec, that on an island
there "was a deep and extensive cave, where the
Zapotecs had one of their most important and most
revered idols, and they called it 'soul and heart of
the kingdom' {Alma y Corazon del Reyno}, because
these barbarians were persuaded that this fabulous
deity was Atlas, upon whom the land rested and who
bore it on his shoulders, and when he moved his
shoulders the earth 'vas shaken with unwonted
tremblings ; and from his favour came the victories
which they won and the fruitful years which yielded
them the means of living."
There was an oracle connected also with this
temple, and the last king of Tehuantepec, Cocijo-Pij,
is said to have received here from the god the informa-
tion that the rule o.f the Mexicans was at an end and
that it was not possible to withstand the Spaniards.
When the baptized king was later seized and im-
prisoned on account of his falling back into idolatry
the vicar of Tehuantepec, Fray Bernardo de Santa
Maria, sought out the island, forced his way into the
cave, and found there a large quadrangular chamber,
carefully swept, with altar-like structures around on
the sides, and on them many incense vessels, rich and
costly offerings of valuable materials, gorgeous
feathers, and disks and necklaces of gold, most of
them sprinkled with freshly drawn blood.
From what has gone before, it is clear that our
knowledge of Maya magic and all that it implies is
certainly not on a level with that relating to Mexican
occult science. This is owing chiefly to the paucity
of the records left us by the Spanish priesthood, and
\
230 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
by their endeavours to stamp out the memory of all
native culture and thought. We must also bear in
mind that ?tlaya origins and the ancient history of
the country, which greatly pre-dates that of ?tlexico,
have not as yet been thoroughly explored.
Yet a general conclusion may be reached. In all
likelihood the arcane knowledge ofthe Maya resembled
that of ?t-Iexico, which indeed had its roots in Maya
practice, and like it was founded on an alimentary
basis. The food supply was regarded in Guatemala
and Yucatan as the direct gift of the gods, maize,
honey, and all food products being regarded as the
donations of deities. Ifwe do not find human sacrifice
among the :rtlaya so rampant as in l\lexico it is simply
because the practice in the more southern sphere
remained, as in early Mexico, on a lesser scale owing
to the non-adoption by the l\Iaya of the a\vful eon-
elusion arrived at by the Aztecs that the more blood
shed the more rain would be likely to descend.
There is good evidence, too, that at a certain period
in their history the Maya, in some instances at least,
substituted human sacrifice by the use of paste
images of human beings, little cakes of maize paste
made in the shapes of distorted dwarfs. The dwarf,
we know, was in l\fexico an especial sacrifice to the
rain-gods, probably because he was thought to
resemble the Tlaloque, or small gods who poured
down the rain. Th~ more dwarfs despatched to help
them in this task, the more rain, argued the 1\lexicans.
This substitution seems to have been general among
the 1\laya, and to have supplanted human sacrifice to
a great extent.
But the gods 'vho sent the people food must them-
selves be kept in life, and for this purpose the 1\Iaya
appear to have employed magical formulre rather
than sacrificial means. They certainly gave blood
drawn from the tongue and thighs, as some of their
THE MAGIC OF THE MAYA 231
wall-carvings show, and this substitution of the part
for the whole exhibits a higher degree of civilized
thought than that obtaining in Mexico. But this
was not all. Their festivals, from 'vhat we know of
them, seem to have resembled the external shows of
the Egyptian Mysteries in enacting the myths of the
gods of growth, and thus they helped by sympathetic
magic to induce the gods themselves to enact the
drama of growth with benefit to humanity. In their
religion the deities of fruitfulness played a most
important part, and are adorned with symbols relat-
ing to agriculture. Indeed, it would seem that the
elements current in their hieroglyphic script were
borrowed from agricultural implements.
Maya religion may, indeed, be summed up in the
expression "sun-worship." In an illuminating pas-
sage Dr. Haebler writes:
" The varied representations of the gods in the
monuments and in manuscripts were certainly to
some extent only different forms of one and the
same divine power. The missionaries were able to
describe this consciousness of an underlying unity in
the case of the god Hunabku, who was invisible and
supreme; naturally their zealous orthodoxy saw here
some fragmentary knowledge of the one God.
" Hunabku does not appear very prominently in
the Maya worship or mythology ; of this the sun is
undoubtedly the central point. Kukulcan and Guku-
matz-probably in his essence Itzamna also-are
only variant names, originating in difference of race,
for the power of the sun that warms, lights and pours
blessings upon the earth. As the sun rises in the east
out of the sea, so the corresponding divinity of the
traditions comes over the water from the east to the
Maya, and is the bringer of all good things, of all
blessings to body and soul, of fruitfulness and learn-
ing. In the last character the divinity is fully
232 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
incarnated. He appears as an aged greybeard in white
flowing robes ; as Votan he divides the land among
the peoples and gives the settlements their names ; as
Kahil, the Red Hand, he discovers writing, teaches
the art of building, and arranges the marvellous per-
fection of the calendar. This part of the myth has
undoubtedly a historical connection with the sun-
myth, the real centre of all these religious conceptions,
and is further evidence of the powers of the priest-
hood and of the fact that their influence was exercised
to advance the progress of civilization. Fully
realistic is a conception of that particular deity which
is represented in the ~faya art by the widely prevail-
ing symbol of the feathered snake. This is also a
branch of the sun-worship. In the tropical districts
for a great part of the year the sun each day, at
noon, draws up the clouds around himself; hence,
with lightning and thunder, the symbols of po,ver,
comes down the fruitful rain in thunderstorms upon
the thirsty land. Thus the feathered snake, perhaps
even a symbol of the thunder, appears among the
Maya, on the highland of Central America, among
the Pueblo Indians, and also among some Indian
races of the North American lowland. It represents
the warm fruitful power of the heavens, which is
invariably personified in the chief luminary, the sun.
The symbols of the snake and of Quetzal, the sacred
bird with highly coloured plumage, are attributes of
more than one Maya divinity.
"Under different shapes in the Tzendal district, in
Yucatan to a large extent, and particularlyin Chichen-
Itza, they have so coloured the religious and the
artistic conceptions of the Maya that we meet with
traces of this symbolism in almost every monument
and every decoration. The dualism of the Maya
Olympus also originates in a mythological interpre-
tation of natural phenomena. The representatives
THE MAGIC OF THE MAYA 233
or the sun-light and life-are opposed to those of
the night-darkness and death ; both have nearly
equal powers and are in continual conflict for the
lordship of the earth and of mankind. 1tioreover, the
good gods have been obliged to abandon man after
expending all their benefits upon him, and have made
him promise of a future return, to support him in the
struggle, and to assure him of victory at the last.
Around these central mythological conceptions, which
in different forms are practically common property
among most early peoples, are grouped in the case
of the Maya, a large number of individual charac-
teristics, each diversely developed. Not only was
human life subject to the power of the gods in a large
and general way, since the gods had created and
formed it, but also religion-or, to be more exact,
the Maya priesthood-had contrived a special system
whereby a man's life was ostensibly under the per-
manent influence of the gods, even in the most
unimportant trifles. Upon this subject the quarters
of the heavens and the constellations were of decisive
importance ; careful and keen observation, lasting
apparently over a great period of time, had put the
Maya priesthood in possession of an astronomical
knowledge to which no other people upon a corre-
sponding plane of civilization has ever attained.
" This is, of course, reflected in the Solar Calendar
and the 1\Iaya tonalamatl. The solar year was con-
sidered in relation. to all other annual calculations,
and on it the priestly caste established a code of
astronomical laws. The ritual year of twenty weeks,
each of thirteen days, was of equal importance. Here
the four quarters of the heavens played an important
part, since to each of them a quarter of the ritual
year belonged. But in all this diversity the con-
sciousness of a higher unity clearly existed; evidence
for this is the special symbol of the four quarters of
234 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
the heavens-the cross-which the Spaniards were
highly astonished to find everywhere in the Maya
temples as an object of particular veneration. More-
over, an influence upon the motions of the earth wa·s
certainly attributed to the morning and evening stars
and to the Pleiades. Perhaps also the periods of
revolution for Venus, Mercury, and ~Iars were
approximately known and employed in calculation.
" The knowledge of these minute astronomical
calculations was the exclusive possession of the •
highest priesthood, though at the same time they
exercised a certain influence upon the whole national
life. Upon these calculations the priests arranged the
worship of the gods."
The principal Maya manuscripts which have escaped
the ravages of time are the Codices in the libraries of
Dresden, Paris, and Madrid. These are known as the
" Codex Perezianus," preserved in the Biblioth~que
Nationale at Paris, the "Dresden Codex," long
regarded as an Aztec manuscript, and the "Troano
Codex," so called from one of its owners, Senor
Tro y Ortolano, found at Madrid in 1865. T.hese
manuscripts deal principally with Maya mythology,
but as they cannot be decipheted with any degree of
accuracy, they do not greatly assist our knowledge
of the subject.
As has been said, these manuscripts have mostly an
astrological significance, but little if anything can be
gleaned from them which might be described as of
the nature of magic proper.
"Those who would follow Forstemann's (and my
own) views in understanding the codices," says Dr.
Brinton, " must accustom themselves to look upon
the animals, plants, objects, and transactions they
depict as largely symbolical, representing the move-
ments of the celestial bodies, the changes of the
seasons, the meteorological variations, the revolutions
THE MAGIC OF THE MAYA 235
of the sun, moon, and planets, and the like; just as
in the ancient zodiacs of the Old World we find similar
uncouth animals and impossible collocations of images
presented. The great snakes which stretch across the
pages of the codices mean time ; the torches in the
hands of figures, often one downward and one up,vard,
indicate the rising and the setting of constellations ;
the tortoise and the snail mark the solstices; the
mummied bodies, the disappearance from the sky at
certain seasons of certain stars, etc. A higher, a more
pregnant, and, I believe, the only correct meaning is
thus awarded to these strange memorials."
\
\
CHAPTER XIII
MYSTICAL BOOKS OF THE MAYA
T
HE Maya manuscripts themselves afford us
little light in the philosophy or practice of
the arcane sciences, except as regards as-
trology and the tonalamatl. It is rather from those
books written by Christianized natives that we glean
such knowledge as we possess of the spirit of Maya
sorcery. Unhappily these books, although published
and translated into English in some cases, are now
scarce and difficult to come by. The writer published
in 1908 a small popular pamphlet dealing with the
most important, "The Popol Yuh," and since that
date several good English translations of this have
appeared. The Abbe Brasseur de Bourbourg had
many years before translated it into French, and
Daniel Garrison Brinton had in a similar manner
dealt with the Book of the Cakchiquels and the
Books of Chilan Balam: But Americanists as well as
students of arcane knowledge still await the publica-
tion of a full-dress work dealing with these intensely
interesting manifestations of the Indian mind.
None of the scanty native records of America which
pre-date the discovery holds for us an importance so
great, both from the mythological and historical
viewpoints, as does the mysterious "Popol Vuh,"
the long-lost and curiously recovered sacred book of
the civilized Maya-Quiche people of Guatemaa.
'fhe Book of the Cakchiquels and the Books of Chilan
236
'
MYSTICAL BOOKS OF THE MAYA 237
Balam are both of moment and great interest because
of the historical data \vith which they provide the
student of the Central American past. But neither
contains a tithe of the rich mythological information
treasured up in the " Popol Vuh." The pity is that
its mythology has not a very direct bearing upon
that of the l\Iaya proper as we know it from the manu-
script paintings and sculpture of the l\Iaya people of
Yucatan, probably because it was written at a different
period from the Maya heyday. In all likelihood it is
more venerable, but precise criteria are lacking. But
it is certainly supplementary to Maya belief, it casts
a flood of light on the nature and actions of several
gods of the 1\Iaya and ~lexicans, sometimes under
different or slightly altered names, and, above all, it
gives us by far the clearest picture of Central American
cosmogony and theology which 've possess. Whether
it has been tampered with, sophisticated by late
copyists, is a problem almost as difficult of solution
as that of the alteration of the New Testament, but
such indications of this as seem to exist can scarcely
be dealt with faithfully in view of our slight knowledge
of the whole question.
The text we possess, the recovery ofwhich forms one
of the most romantic episodes in the history of
American bibliography, was written by a Christian·
ized native of Guatemala some time in the seventeenth
century, and was copied in the Quiche language,
in which it was originally written, by a monk of the
Order of Predicadores, one Francisco Ximenes, who
also added a Spanish translation. The Abbe Brasseur
de Bourbourg, a profound student of American archre-
ology and languages (whose interpretations of the
Mexican myths are as worthless as the priceless
materials he unearthed are valuable), deplored in a
letter to the Due de Valmy, the supposed loss of the
"Popol Vuh," 'vhich he was aware had been made use
238 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
of early in the nineteenth century by a certain Don
Felix Cabrera. Dr. C. Scherzer, an Austrian scholar,
thus made aware of its value, paid a visit to the
Republic of Guatemala in 1854 or 1855, and was
successful in tracing the missing manuscript in the
library of the University of San Carlos in the city of
Guatemala. It was after,vards ascertained that its
translator, Ximenes, had deposited it in the library
of his convent at Chichicastenango, 'vhence it passed
o the San Carlos library in 1830.
Scherzer at once made a copy of the Spanish
translation of the manuscript, which he published at
Vienna in 1856 under the titie of " Las Historias del
origen de los Indios de Guatemala, par el R. P. F.
Francisco Ximenes." The Abbe Brasseur also took
a copy of the original,·which he published at Paris in
1861, with the title, " Vuh Popol : Le Livre Sacre de
Quiches, et Ies Mythes de l'Antiquite Americaine."
In this work the Quiche original and the Abbe's
French translation are set forth side by side. Un-
fortunately the Spanish and the French translations
leave much to be desired so far as their accuracy is
concerned, and they are rendered oflittle use by reason
of the misleading notes which accompany them.
The late Dr. Edward Seier of Berlin was, prior to his
deatt.., engaged on a translation from the Quiche, but
it appears to have been left unpublished.
The name "Popol Vuh" signifies "Record of the
Community," and its literal translation is " Book of
the Mat," from the Quiche 'vords "pop" or" popol,"
a mat or rug of woven rushes or bark on w~ich the
entire family sat, and " vuh " or " uuh," paper or
book, from "uoch," to write. The "Popol Vuh, is
an example of a world-wide type of annals of which
the first portion is pure mythology, which gradually
shades off into pure history, evolving from the hero-
myths of saga to the recital of the deeds of authentic
MYSTICAL BOOKS OF THE MAYA 239
personages. It may, in fact, be classed with the
Heimskringla of Snorre, the Danish History of Saxo-
Grammaticus, the Chinese History in the "Five
Books," and the Japanese " Nihongi."
The language in which the" Popol Vuh "\Vas writ-
ten was, as has been said, the Quiche, a dialect of
the great l\faya-Quiche tongue spoken at the time of
the Conquest from the borders of Mexico on the north
to those of the present State of Nicaragua on the
south. But whereas the Maya was spoken in Yucatan
proper, and the State of Chiapas, the Quiche 'vas the
tongue of the peoples of that part of Central America
now occupied by the States of Guatemala, Honduras,
and San Salvador, where it is still used by the natives.
It is totally different from the Nahuatl, the language
of the peoples of Mexico, both as regards its
origin and structure, and its affinities with other
American tongues are even less distinct than those
between the Slavonic and Teutonic groups. Of this
tongue the "Popol Vuh" is practically the only
monument ; at all events the only work by a native
of the district in which it was used.
At the period of their discovery, subsequent to the
conquest of Mexico, the Quiche people of Guatemala
had lost much ofthat culture which was characteristic
of the Maya race, the builders of the great stone
cities of Guatemala and Yucatan. They were broken
up into petty states and confederacies not unlike those
of Biblical Palestine, yet seem to have retained the
art of writing in hieroglyphs. Whether or not the
"Popol Vuh" was first 'vritten in their own script
it is impossible to say, but the probability is that the
record of it was kept mnemonically, or memorized by
the priestly class, one of whose number reduced it to
writing in European characters at a later date. In-
deed, it seems unlikely that it was written down at
all until penned in the sixteenth century by the
240 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
Christianized native whose manuscript was found
by Scherzer, and who, knowing most of it by rote, was
doubtless inspired to preserve it much as Ixtlilxochit
in Mexico set down the history and traditions of his
race from patriotic motives.
The "Popol Vuh" is divided into four books, the
first three of which are almost entirely mythological
in their significance. The first book opens with an
account of the Creation. At the beginning was only
the Creator and Former, and those whom he engen-
dered were Hun-Ahpu-Vuch, the hunter with the
blowpipe; Hun-Ahpu-Utiu, the blow-pipe hunter,
the coyote; Zaki-nima-Tzyiz, the \vhite hunter, and
the Lord, the serpent covered with feathers, the
heart of the lakes of the sea. There were also the
father and mother gods, Xpiyacac and Xmucane.
Concerning the first three \Ve can only infer that they
were among the numerous hunting-gods ofthe Maya-
Quiche, who resembled the 1\laya archer-god Ahulane,
whose shrine was situated on the island of Cozumel
off the coast of Yucatan. "The serpent covered with
feathers" is obviously Kukulkan or Quetzalcoatl,
the Feathered Serpent of Yucatec and Mexican myth-
ology, while the parental deities seem to be the same
'vith the Mexican Cipactonal and Oxomoco, who may
be described as the Adam and Eve of the human
race, its first semi-divine progenitors.
Over the earth brooded the Creator and Former,
the Mother, the Father, and the life-giver of all who
breathe and have existence both in heaven, earth, or
in the waters. All was silent, tranquil and without
motion beneath the immensity of the heavens. All
was without form and void. Here the Creator seems
to be identified with the Feathered Serpent, and a
little further on he takes plural form, like the Elohim,
of Genesis. He is now "these covered with green
and blue, who have the name of Gucumatz." Gucu-
MYSTICAL BOOKS OF THE MAYA 241
matz is merely the Quiche name of Kukulkan or
Quetzalcoatl, but whether he was actually one and the
same with the Creator we are left in doubt, as 've are
now told that he held converse with "the Dominator."
The passage is confusing, and 've are left with the
impression that there were at least two deities of the
Gucumatz type. They took counsel, and the dawn
appeared. Trees and herbs sprouted. Then arose
the Heart of the Heavens, Hurakan, the wind-god,
from whom the hurricane takes its name, who is
known to be the same as the Mexican Tezcatlipoca,
the god of wind and fate.
Animals now appeared and birds great and small.
But as yet man was not. To supply the deficiency
the divine beings resolved to create manikins carved
out of wood. But these soon incurred the displeasure
of the gods, who, irritated by their lack of reverence,
resolved to destroy them. Then by the will of Hura-
kan, the Heart of Heaven, the waters were swollen,
and a great flood came upon the manikins of wood.
They were drowned and a thick resin fell from
heaven. The bird ~ecotcovach tore out their eyes;
the bird Camulatz cut off their heads; the bird
Cotzbalam devoured their flesh ; the bird Tecum-
balam broke their bones and sinews and ground them
into powder. Because they had not thought on Hura-
kan, therefore the face of the earth grew dark, and
a pouring rain commenced, raining by day and by
night. Then all sorts of beings, great and small,
gathered together to abuse the men to their faces.
The very household utensils and animals jeered at
them, their mill-stones, their plates, their cups, their
dogs, their hens. Said the dogs and hens, " Very
badly have you treated us, and you have bitten us.
Now we bite you in turn." Said the mill-stones,
" Very much were we tormented by you, and daily,
daily, night and day, it was sgueak, screech, screech,
g
I
242 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
for your sake. NO'\V you shall feel our strength, and
we will grind your flesh and make meal ofyour bodies."
And the dogs upbraided the manikins because they
had not been fed, and tore the unhappy images with
their teeth. And the cups and dishes said, " Pain and
misery you gave us, smoking our tops and sides,
cooking us over the fire, burning and hurting us as if
we had no feeling. Now it is your turn, and you shall
burn." Then ran the manikins hither and thither
in despair. They climbed to the roofs of the houses,
but the houses crumbled under their feet ; they
tried to mount to the tops of the trees, but the trees
hurled them from them; they sought refuge in the
caverns, but the caverns closed before them. Thus
was accomplished the ruin of this race, destined to be
overthrown. And it is said that their posterity are
the little monkeys who live in the woods.
There was now left on the earth only the race of
giants, whose king and progenitor was Vukub-Cakix,
a being full of pride. The name signifies "Seven-
times-the-colour-of-fire," and seems to have had
allusion to the emerald teeth and silver eyes, or golden
and silver body ofthe monster. Vukub-Cakix boasted
that his brilliance rendered the presence of the sun
and the moon superfluous, and this egotism so dis-
gusted the gods that they resolved upon his destruc-
tion. He seems indeed to have been, like the Baby-
lonian, Tiawath, the personification of earth or chaos,
or the material as opposed to the spiritual, and, as
the gods of the Babylonians sent Bel to destroy her,
the creators of the Quiches decided to send emissaries
to earth to slay the unruly titan. So the twin hero-
gods, Hun-Ahpu and Xbalanque, were despatched
to the terrestrial sphere to chasten his arrogance.
They shot at him with their blow-pipes and wounded
him in the mouth, although he succeeded in wrench-
ing off Hun-Ahpu's arm:
MYSTICAL BOOKS OF THE MAYA 243
He then proceeded to his d·welling, ·where he was
met and anxiously interrogated by his spouse Chimal-
mat. Tortured by the pain in his teeth and jaw, he,
in an access of spite, hung Hun-Ahpu's arm over a
blazing fire, and then threw himself down to
bemoan his injuries, consoling himself, however, with
the idea that he had adequately avenged himself
upon the interlopers who had dared ~o disturb his
peace. ,
But Hun-Ahpu and Xbalanque were in no mind that
he should escape so easily, and the recovery of Hun-
Ahpu's arm must be made at all hazards. With this
end in view they consulted two venerable beings in
whom 've readily recognize the father-mother divini-
ties, Xpiyacoc and Xmucane, disguised for the nonce
as sorcerers. These personages accompanied Hun-
Ahpu and Xbalanque to the abode of Vukub-Cakix,
whom they found in a state of intense agony. They
persuaded him to be operated upon in order to
relieve his sufferings, and for his glittering teeth
they substituted grains of maize. Next they re-
moved his eyes of emerald, upon which his death
speedily followed, as did that of his wife Chimalmat.
Hun-Ahpu's arm was recovered, re-affixed to his
shoulder, and all ended satisfactorily for the hero-
gods.
The sons of the giant had yet to be accounted for,
however. These were Zipacna, the earth·heaper,
and Cabrakan, the earthquake. Four hundred youths
(the stars) beguiled Zipacna into carrying immense
tree-trunks wherewith to build a house, and 'vhen
he entered the foundation-ditch of the structure they
overwhelmed him with timber. They built the
house over his body, but rising in his giant might he
shattered it, and slew them all. But, his strength
weakened by a poisoned crab, the ·divine brothers
succeeded in despatching him by casting a mountain
244 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
upon him. In a similar manner they accounted for
Cabrakan.
The Second Book takes for its first theme the birth
and parentage of Hun-Ahpu and Xbalanque, and the
scribe intimates that a mysterious veil enshrouds
their origin. Their respective fathers were Hunhun-
Ahpu, the hunter with the blow-pipe, and Vukub-
Hunahpu, sons of Xpiyacoc and Xmucane. Hunhun-
Ahpu had by a wife Xbakiyalo, two sons, Hunbatz
and Hunchouen, men full of wisdom and artistic
genius. All of them were addicted to the recreation
of dicing and playing at ball, and a spectator of their
pastimes was Voc, the messenger ofHurakan. Xbaki-
yalo having died, Hunhun-Ahpu and Vukub-Hunah-
pu, leaving the fonner's sons behind, played a game of
ball, which in its progress took them into the vicinity
of the realm of Xibalba (the Underworld). This
reached the ears of the monarchs of that place, Hun-
Came and Vukub-Came, who, after consulting their
counsellors, challenged the strangers to a game of ball,
with the object of defeating and disgracing them.
For this purpose they despatched four messengers
in the shape of owls. The brothers accepted the
challenge, after a touching fare\vcll w'ith their mother
Xmucane, and their sons and nephews, and followed
the feathered heralds down the steep incline to
Xibalba from the playground at Ninxor Carchah.
Mter an ominous crossing over a river of blood they
came to the residence of the kings of Xibalba, where
they underwent the mortification of mistaking two
wooden figures for the monarchs. Invited to sit
on the seat of honour, they discovered it to be a red-
hot stone, and the contortions which resulted from
their successful trick caused unbounded merriment
among the Xibalbans. Then they were thrust into
the House of Gloom, where they were sacrificed and
buried. The head of Hunhun-Ahpu was, however,
MYSTICAL BOOKS OF THE MAYA 245
suspended from a tree, which speedily became covered
with gourds, from which it was almost impossible to
distinguish the bloody trophy. All in Xibalba were
forbidden the fruit of that tree.
But one person in Xibalba had resolved to disobey
the mandate. This was the virgin princess Xquiq
(Blood), the daughter of Cuchumaquiq, who went un-
attended to the spot. Standing under the branches
gazing at the fruit, the maiden stretched out her
hand, and the head of Hunhun-Ahpu spat into the
palm. The spittle caused her to conceive, and she
returned home, being assured by the head of the hero-
god that no harm should result to her. This thing
'vas done by order of Hurakan, the Heart of Heaven.
In six months' time her father became aware of her
condition, and despite her protestations the royal
messengers of Xibalba, the owls, received orders to
kill her and return with her heart in a vase. She,
however, escaped by bribing the owls with splendid
promises for the future to spare her and substitute
for her heart the coagulated sap of the blood-wart.
In her extremity Xquiq went for protection to the
home of Xmucane, who now looked after the young
Hunbatz and Hunchouen. Xmucane would not at
first believe her tale. But Xquiq appealed to the gods,
and performed a miracle by gathering a basket of
maize where no maize grew, and thus gained her
confidence.
Shortly afterwards Xquiq became the mother of
twin boys, the heroes of the First Book, Hun-Ahpu,
and Xbalanque. These did not find favour in the
eyes of Xmucane, their grandmother, who chased
them out of doors. They became hunters, but were
ill-treated by their uncles Hunbatz and Hunchouen,
whom they transformed into apes. They cleared a
maize plantation by the aid of magical tools and
otherwise distinguished themselves thaumaturgically.
246 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
But the rulers of the Underworld heard them at play
and resolved to treat them as they had done their
father and uncle. Full of confidence, however, the
young men accepted the challenge of the Xibalbans
to a game of ball. But they sent an animal called
Xan as avant-courier 'vith orders to prick all the
Xibalbans with a hair from Hun-Ahpu's leg, thus
discovering those of the dwellers in the Underworld
who were made of wood-those whom their fathers
had unwittingly bowed to as men-and also learning
the names of the others by their inquiries and explan-
ations when pricked. Thus they did not salute the
manikins on their arrival at the Xibalban court, nor
did they sit upon the red-hot stone. They even passed
scatheless through the first ordeal of the " House of
Gloom.'' The Xibalbans were furious, and their wrath
was by no means allayed when they found themselves
beaten at the game of ball to which they had chal-
lenged the brothers. Then Hun-Came and Vukub-
Came ordered the twins to bring them four bouquets
of flowers, asking the guards of the royal gardens to
watch most carefully, and committed Hun-Ahpu and
Xbalanque to the " House of Lances "-the second
ordeal-where the lancers were directed to kill them.
The brothers, however, had at their beck and call a
swarm of ants, which entered the royal gardens on
the first errand, and they succeeded in bribing the
lancers. The Xibalbans, white with fury, ordered
that the owls, the guardians of the gardens, should
have their beaks split, and otherwise showed their
anger at their third defeat.
Then came the third ordeal in the " House of
Tigers" and the "House of Fire" without injury.
But at the sixth ordeal misfortune overtook them in
the " House of Bats," Hun-Ahpu's head being cut
off by Camazotz, " Ruler of Bats." The head was,
however, replaced by a tortoise which chanced to
MYSTICAL BOOKS OF THE MAYA 247
crawl past at that moment and Hun-Ahpu was
restored to life. Later the brothers performed other
marvels, and, having conquered the Princes of
Xibalba, proceeded to punish them, forbidding them
the game of ball and reducing their lordship to
government over the beasts of the forest only. The
passage probably refers to a myth of the harrying
of Hades, and the defeat of a group of older deities
by a new and younger pantheon, similar to the replace-
ment of Saturn by Jupiter, the elder gods becoming
"demons."
With the object of proving their immortal nature
to their adversaries, Hun-Ahpu and Xbalanqtie, first
arranging for their resurrection with two sorcerers,
Xulu and Pacaw, stretched themselves upon a bier
and died. Their bones were ground to powder and
thro·wn into the river. They then went through a
kind of evolutionary process, appearing on the fifth
day after their deaths as men-fishes and on the sixth
as old men, ragged and tatterdemalion in appearance,
killing and restoring each other to life. At the request
of the princes of Xibalba they burned the royal
palace and restored it to its pristine splendour, killed
and resuscitated the king's dog, and cut a man in
pieces, bringing him to life again. The Lords of Hell
were curious about the sensation of death, and asked
to be killed and resuscitated. The first portion of
their request the hero-brothers speedily granted, but
did not deem it necessary to pay any regard to the
second.
Throwing off all disguise, the brothers assembled
the now thoroughly cowed princes of Xibalba and
announced their intention of punishing them for their
animosity against themselves, their father, and uncle.
They were forbidden to partake in the noble and
classic game of bali-a great indignity in the eyes of
~laya of the higher caste-they were condemned to
248 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
menial tasks, and they were to have S\vay over the
beasts of the forest alone. After this their po,ver
rapidly waned. These princes of the Underworld are
described as being O\vl-like, with faces painted black
and white, as symbolical of their duplicity and
faithless disposition.
As some reward for the dreadful indignities they
had undergone, the souls of Hunhun-Ahpu and
Vukub-Hunahpu, the first adventurers into the dark-
some region of Xibalba, were translated to the skies,
and became the sun and moon, and with this
apotheosis the Second Book ends.
The Third Book opens with another council of the
gods. Once more they decide to create men. The
Creator and Former made four perfect men. These
beings were wholly created from yellow and \Vhite
maize. Their names were Balam-Quitze (Tiger with
the Sweet Smile), Balam-Agab (Tiger of the Night),
l\fahucutah (The Distinguished Name), and Iqi-
Balam (Tiger of the Moon). They had neither father
nor mother, neither were they made by the ordinary
agents in the work of creation. Their creation was
a miracle of the Former.
But Hurakan was not altogether satisfied with his
handiwork. These men were too perfect. They kne'v
overmuch. Therefore the gods took counsel as to
how to proceed \vith men. They must not become
as gods. "Let us so contract their sight so that they
I •
may only be able to see a portion of the earth and be
content," said the gods. Then Hurakan breathed a
cloud over their eyes which became partially veiled.
The four men slept, and four women were made,
, Cahu-Paluma (~ailing Water), Choimha (Beautiful
Water), Tzununiha (House of the Water), and Cakixa
(Water of Aras or Parrots), who became the \Vives of
the men in their respective order as mentioned above.
These were the ancestors of the Quiches only.
MYSTICAL BOOKS OF THE MAYA 249
Then were created the ancestors of other peoples.
They were ignorant of the methods of worship, and
lifting their eyes to heaven prayed to the Creator, the
Former, for peaceable lives and the return of the sun.
But no sun came, and they grew uneasy. So they
set out for Tulan-Zuiva, or the Seven Caves, and
there gods were given unto them, each man, as head
of a group of the race, a god. Balam-Quitze received
the god Tohil. Balam-Agab received the god Avilix,
and Mahucutah the god Hacavitz. Iqi-Balam received
the god Nicahtagah.
The Quiches no'v began to feel the 'vant of fire, and
the god Tohil, the creator of fire, supplied them with
this element. But soon afterwards a mighty rain
extinguished all the fires in the land. Tohil, however,
always renewed the supply. And fire in those days
was the chief necessity, for as yet there 'vas no sun.
Tulan 'vas a place of misfortune to man, for not
only did he suffer from cold and famine, but here his
speech was so confounded that the first men 'vere no
longer able to comprehend each other. They deter-
mined to leave Tulan, and under the leadership of
the god Tohil set out to search for a new abode. On
they wandered through innumerable hardships. Many
mountains had they to climb, and a long passage to
make through the sea, which was miraculously divided
for their journey from shore to shore. At length they
came to a mountain which they called Hacavitz,
after one of their gods, and here they rested, for they
had been instructed that at that spot they should see
the sun. And the sun appeared. Animals and men
'vere transported with delight. All the celestial
bodies were now established.
Following this many towns were established and
sacrifices offered, and the narrative shades into tribal
history mingled with legend. The four founders of
the Quiche nation died singing the song " Kamucu,"
250 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
" \Ve see," which they had first chanted when the
light appeared. They 'vere wrapped together in one
great mummy-bundle, the allusion being obviously
an retiological myth explanatory of the origin of
mummification and ·wrapping in ceremonial bindings
later prevalent among the Central American peoples.
The remainder of the account is genealogical and
semi-historical.
As regards the genuine American origin of the
"Popol Vuh,'' that is now generally conceded. To
anyone who has given it a careful examination it
must be abundantly evident that it is a composition
which has passed through several stages of develop-
ment; that it is unquestionably of aboriginal origin,
and that it has only been influenced by European
thought in a secondary and unessential manner. The
very fact that it was composed in the Quiche tongue
is almost sufficient proof of its genuine American
character. The scholarship of the nineteenth century
\Vas unequal to the adequate translation of the
"Popol Vuh." The twentieth century has as yet
shown no signs of being able to accomplish the task.
It is, therefore, not difficult to credit that if modern
scholarship is unable to properly translate the work,
that of the eighteenth century was unable to create
it. No European of that epoch was sufficiently versed
in Quiche theology and history to compose in faultless
Quiche such a work as the "Popol Vuh," breathing
as it does in every line an intimate and natural
acquaintance with the antiquities of Guatemala.
The " Popol Vuh " is not the only mythi-historical
work composed by an aboriginal American. In
~lexico Ixtlilxochitl, and in Peru Garcilasso de Ia
Vega wrote exhaustive treatises upon the history and
customs of their native countrymen shortly after the
conquests of Mexico and Peru, and hieroglyphic
records, such as the "Wallam Olum," are not un-
MYSTICAL BOOKS OF THE MAYA 251
kno\vn among the North American Indians. In fact,
the intelligence 'vhich fails to regard the "Popol
Vuh " as a genuine aboriginal production must be
more sceptical than critical.
At the same time it is evident that its author had
been influenced to some slight extent by Christian
ideas, though not to the degree believed in by some
critics. Many of the seemingly Pentateuchal notions
enshrined in the "Popol Vuh," such as the descrip-
tion of the earth as being " without form and void "
(though these are not the actual terms employed), are
common to more than one mythic system, and when
we depart from the cosmogonic account there is little
to strengthen the theory of Biblical influence.
In the cosmogony of the" Popol Vuh" 've can dis-
cern the sum of several creation-stories. A number
of divine beings seem to exercise the creative func-
tions, and it would appear that the account sum-
marized above was due to the fusion and reconcilia-
tion of more than one cosmogonic myth, a recon-
ciliation, perhaps, of early rival faiths, such as took
place in Peru and Palestine. We find certain traces
of the cosmogonic belief common to both Maya and
Mexicans that time had been divided into several
elemental epochs governed by fire, \Vater, wind, etc.,
each culminating in a disaster brought about by the
governing element. For the first creative essays of
the Quiche gods are destroyed in a manner reminis-
cent of the l'flexican destruction of suns. A disaster
to mankind by fire is mentioned, and the legend of
the giants serves to point to a similar overthrow by
earthquake. But the belief is evidently in an elemen-
tary stage. This might afford grounds for thinking
that in the " Popol Vuh " we have the remains of
cosmogonic ideas considerably earlier than these
formed either in Maya or Mexican myth, and the
supposition that the material it contains is more
252 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
ancient than either, pre-dating the fixed and carefully
edited cosmogonies of 1\lexico and Yucatan.
The 1\laya, as can be gleaned from the Book of
Chilan Balam of 1\fani, believed the \vorld to consist
of a cubical block, tem, " the altar." of the gods, on
\Vhich rested the celestial vase, curn, containing the
heavenly waters, ~he rains and showers, on which
depended all life in their arid country. Within it
grew the Y ax che, the Tree of Life, bearing the life-
fruit known as Yol. In the " Codex Cortesianus "
we find such a design. In the centre rises the Tree
of Life from the celestial vase. On the right sits
Xpiyacoc, on the left Xmucane, the Adam and Eve
of the Maya race. The earth is alluded to in the
"Popol Vuh "as" the quadrated castle, four-pointed,
four-sided, four-bordered," so that it is plain that
the same idea concerning its structure and shape was
entertained by the author of that book as· by the
later Maya.
As regards the mythology of the "Popol Vuh,"
we must bear in mind that we are dealing with
Quiche and not with Maya myth, but it is now possible
to draw certain parallels.
For Hun-Ahpu and Xbalanque, the" hunters with
the blow-pipe" or serbatana, I cannot conscien-
tiously trace precise parallels in either Mexican or
Maya myth. That they are hunting-gods seems
probable, but they appear to me to have charac-
teristics which might permit of comparison with the
Dioscuri or the (very obscure) Cabiri. They are
divine brethren, the sons of Xpiyacoc and Xmucane,
.a the Quiche "Adam and Eve." Hun-Ahpu means
"magician" and Xbalanque "Little Tiger/' and we
know that the jaguar balam was regarded as a god
among the Maya. The only parallel which occurs to
me is that of the " twins " Uitzilopochtli and Tez-
catlipoca, who also undertook a journey to the Under-
MYSTICAL BOOKS OF THE MAYA 253
'vorld, and who are respectively associated with magic
and the "tiger," or jaguar, and I consider it very
probable that they had a common and remote origin.
A word may be ventured regarding Xiba.lba, the
Quiche Underworld, described in the "Popol Vuh"
as a shadowy subterranean sphere not unlike the
Greek Hades. A hell, an abode of bad spirits as dis-
tinguished from beneficent gods, Xibalba was not.
T4_e 1\laya Indian was innocent of the idea of
maleficent deities pitted in everlasting warfare against
good and life-giving gods until contact with the
whites coloured his mythology with their idea of the
dual nature of supernatural beings. The transcriber
of the " Popol Vuh " makes this clear so far as Quiche
belief went. He says of the Lords of Xibalba, Hun-
Came, and Vukub-Came: "In the old times they did
not have much power. They are but annoyers and
opposers of men, and, in truth, they were not regarded
as gods." If not regarded as gods, then, what were
they?
" The devil," says Cogolludo of the 1\{ayas, " is
called by them Xibalba, which means he who dis-
appears or vanishes." The derivation of Xibalba is
from a root meaning '' to fear," from which comes
the name for a ghost or phantom. Xibalba was;
then, the Place ofPhantoms. But it was not the Place
of Torment, the abode of a devil who presided over
punishment. The idea of sin is weak in the savage
mind, and the idea of punishment for sin in a future
state is unknowninpre-ChristianAmerican mythology.
'' Under the influence of Christian catechizing,"
says Brinton, " the Quiche legends portray this
realm as a place of torment, and its rulers as malig-
nant and powerful; but as I have before pointed out
they do so protesting that such was not the ancient
belief, and they let fall no word that shows that it
was regarded as the destination of the morally bad.
2.54 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
The original meaning of the name given by Cogolludo
points unmistakably to the simple fact of disappear-
ance from among men, and corresponds in harmless-
ness to the true sense of those words of fear, Scheol,
Hades, Hell, all signifying hidden from sight, and
only endowed with more grim associations by the
imaginations of later generations."
The idea of consigning elder peoples who have been
displaced in the land to an Underworld, is not un-
common in mythology. The Xibalbans, or aborigines,
were perhaps cave- or earth-dwellers like the " wee
folk" of Scottish folk-lore, gnomish, and full of
elvish tricks, as such folk usually are. Vanished
people are, too, often classed with the dead, or as
lords of the dead. It is well kno·wn also that legend
speedily crystallizesaround the name of a dispossessed
race, to whom is attributed every description of magic
art. This is sometimes accounted for by the fact
that th~ displaced people possessed a higher culture
than their invaders, and sometimes, probably, by
the dread which all barbarian peoples have of a
religion in any way differing from their own. Thus
the Nor,vegians credited the Finns-their predeces-
sors in Norway-with tremendous magical powers,
and similar instances of respectful timidity shown by
invading races towards the original inhabitants of the
country they had conquered could readily be multi-
plied. To be tricked, the barbarian regards as a
mortal indignity, as witness the wrath of Thor in
Jotunheim, comparable with the sensitiveness of
Hun-Ahpu and Xbalanque, lest they should be out-
witted by the Xibalbans. Still, the story of the visit
of the younger hero-gods to Xibalba bears a close
resemblance to other legends, pagan and Christian,
of the " Harrying of Hell," the conquest of Death
and Sin by Goodness, the triumph of light over dark-
ness, of Ra-Osiris over Amenti. So, too, with the
MYSTICAL BOOKS OF THE MAYA 255
game of ball, which figures very largely throughout
the Third Book. The father and uncle of the young
hero·gods were worsted in their favourite sport by
the Xibalbans, but Hun·Ahpu and Xbalanque in their
turn vanquished the Lords of the Under,vorld. This
may have resembled the Mexican game of tlachtli,
which was played in an enclosed court with a rubber
ball between two opposite sides, each of two,or three
players. It was, in fact, not unlike hockey. This
game of ball between the Powers of Light and the
Powers of Darkness is somewhat reminiscent of that
between Ormuzd and Ahriman in Persian myth. The
game of tlachtli had a symbolic reference to stellar
motions.
The books of Chilan Balam are native compilations
of events among the Maya previous to the Spanish
Conquest, and 'vritten by l\iaya Indian scribes in the
characters invented and taught by the Spanish monks
as suitable to the Maya tongue. They embody the
old traditions lingering in the memory of individuals
concerning the doings of the Maya people before the
coming of the Spaniards, though some belong to
the end of the sixteenth and the first half of the seven-
teenth centuries. They exist in various transcripts in
Yucatan, and were first copied by Dr. Hermann
Behrendt, whose transcriptions were purchased by
Dr. Brinton. They may be regarded as offshoots ofthe
l\Iaya MSS. and treat in general of matters given in
portions of these ; they contain also a substratum of
historic information which has been preserved by
tradition. They are primarily brief chronicles,
recounting the divisions of time, the periods known
to the Mayas as katuns, which had elapsed since their
coming to 1t-layapan.
Spanish notices of what are known to the old his-
torians as the prophecies of Chilan Balam are rare.
The fullest is that of Villagutierre in his "Historia de
256 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
el Itza, ye de el Lacandon." The prophecies purport
to be those of the priest who bore the title-not
name-of Chilan Balam, whose offices were those of
divination and astrology. Villagutierre's statement
is to the effect that Chilan Balam, high priest of
Tixcacayon Cabick in 1tlani, prophesied the coming
of the Spaniards as follo,vs :
"At the end of the thirteenth age, when Itza is
at the height of its power, as also the city called
Tancoh; which is bet,veen Yacman and Tichaquillo,
the signal of God will appear on the heights ; and
the Cross, with 'vhich the world 'vas enlightened, will
be manifested. There will be variance of men's will
in future times, when the signal shall be brought.
Ye priests, before coming even a quarter of a league,
ye shall see the Cross, which will appear and lighten
up th~ sky from pole to pole. The worship of vain
gods shall cease. Your father comes, 0 Itzalanos !
Your brother comes, 0 Tantunites ! Receive your
barbarous bearded guests from the East, who bring
the signal of God who comes to us in mercy and pity.
The time of our life is coming. You have nothing to
fear from the world. Thou art the living God, who
created us in mercy. The words of God are good :
let us lift up His signal to see it and adore it : we
must raise the Cross in opposition to the falsehood
we now see. Before the first tree of the world now is
a manifestation made to the world: this is the signal
of a God on high: adore this, ye people of Itza!
Let us adore it with uprightness of heart. Let us
adore Him who is our God, the true God : receive
the word of the true God, for He who speaks to you
comes from heaven. Ponder this well, and be the
men of Itza. They who believe shall have light in the
age which is to come. I, your teacher and master,
Balam, warn and charge you to look at the import-
ance of my words. Thus have I finished what the
MYSTICAL BOOKS OF THE MAYA 257
true God commanded me to say, that the world might
hear it."
It is not difficult to see in this account of the pro-
phecy certain signs which at once mark it as spurious.
The chief of these are the scriptural character of the
language employed and the much too definite terms
in 'vhich the prophecy is couched.
These considerations lead us first to an examination
of the books with a view to discovering whether or
not they are genuinely aboriginal in character. There
can be no doubt that, as in the case of the Quiche
"Popol Vuh," a genuine substratum of native tradi-
tion has been overlaid and coloured by the Christian
influence of the early Spanish missionaries. The
genuine aboriginal character of this substratum is
clear from internal evidence, matters being dealt
with in a manner which betrays an aboriginal cast
of thought, and knowledge of Maya manners being
revealed in a way that no Spaniard of the period was
capable of achieving. At the same time, the evidence
of priestly editing is by no means far to seek, and
must be patent to the most superficial reader. The
evidence of language also points to the authenticity
of these productions. Such an idiomatic use of the
ancient Maya tongue as they betray could have been
employed by none but persons who had used it
habitually from infancy. The trend of thought, as
displayed in American languages, differs so radically
from that shown in European tongues as to afford
almost no analogy whatever; and this is well exem-
plified in these curious books. Their authenticity has
been called in question by several superficial students
of the American languages, whose studies have been
made at secondhand. But no authority of the first
class has doubted their genuine aboriginal character.
As regards the authenticity of the prophecies, it is
known that, at the close of the divisions of time
R
258 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
kno\vn as katuns, a chilan, or prophet, was wont to
utter publicly a prediction forecasting the nature of
the similar period to come ; and there is no reason
to doubt that some distant rumours of the coming
of the white man had reached the ears of several of
the seers. So far as the reference to the Cross is
concerned, it may be observed that the Maya word
rendered "cross" by the missionaries simply signifies
" a piece of wood set upright " ; but cruciform shapes
were well known to the 1\faya.
The natives were greatly disturbed at the destruc-
tion of their sacred records by the Spanish monks
and, as many of them had acquired the European
alphabet, and the missionaries had added to it several
signs to express Maya sounds foreign to Spanish ears,
a number of native scribes set to work to write out
in the new alphabet the contents of their ancient
records. In this they were, doubtless, aided by the
wonderful mnemonic powers ·which were so assidu-
ously cultivated by the American races, and they
probably further relied upon such secretly preserved
archives ~s they could obtain. They added much
new European lore, and omitted a considerable body
of native tradition. The result of their labours was
a number of books, varying in merit and contents,
but known collectively as " the Books of Chilan
Balam,'' these being severally distinguished by the
name of the village where each was composed or dis•
covered. It is probable that in the seventeenth
century every village contained a copy of the native
records; but various causes have combined to destroy
the majority of them. There still remain portions or
descriptions of at least sixteen of these records,
designated by the names of the several places where
. they were written, as, for example : the Book of
Chilan Balam, of Chumayel, of Nabula, of Kaua, of
Mani, of Oxkutzcab, of Ixil, of Tihosuco, of Tixcocob.
A PAGE FROM THE DRESDEN CODEX
•
MYSTICAL BOOKS OF THE MAYA 259
" Chilan," says Landa, second Bishop of Yucatan,
"'vas the name of their priests whose duty it was to
teach the sciences, to appoint holy days, to treat the
sick, to offer sacrifices, and especially to utter the
oracles of the gods. They were so highly honoured '
by the people that they were carried on litters on the
shoulders of the devotees." The derivation of the
name is from chij, "the mouth," and signifies" inter-
preter." The ·word balam means "tiger," and 'vas
used in connection with a priestly caste, being still
employed by the Maya Indians as a name for those
spirits who are supposed to protect fields and towns.
It is seldom that the names of the writers of these
books are given, as in all probability the compilations,
as 've have them, are but copies of still older manu-
scripts, 'vith additions of more recent events by the
copyist.
The contents of the various books of Chilan Balam
may be classified under: astrology and prophecy,
chronology and history, medico-religious practice, and
later history and Christian teachings.
The astrology is an admixture of Maya stellar
divination and that borrowed from European almanacs
of the century between 1550 and 1650, which are no
less superstitious in their leanings than the native
products. Prophecies such as that quoted at length
above abound.
The books of Chilan Balam are, however, chiefly
valuable for the light they throw upon the chrono-
logical system and ancient hiStory of the Maya. The
periods of events in which they deal are designated
katuns, and are of considerable length, but their
actual extent has not been agreed upon. The older
Spanish authors make their duration·twenty years
(the length of time alluded to in the text of the books),
but marginal notes imply that they consisted of
twenty-four years. As, however, these notes have
26o THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
been added by a later hand the original computation is
possibly the correct one. But it is still more likely
that the length of the katun was neither 20 nor 24
years, but 20 X360 days.
The cure of various diseases is exhaustively treated
by the authors of the books. Landa relates that
" the chilanes were sorcerers and doctors," and we
shall probably not be far wrong if we compare them
with the medicine-men of other American tribes.
The MSS. abound in descriptions of symptoms and
hints for diagnosis, and suggest many remedies. The
preparation of native plants and bleeding are the chief
among these, but several appear to have been bor-
rowed from a physic book of European origin.
Brinton states that Dr. Behrendt, who first copied
these books, and who was himself a physician, left
a large manuscript on the subject, entitled "Rece-
tarios de Indios," in which he states that the scientific
value of these remedies is next to nothing, and that
the language in which they are recorded is distinctly
inferior to the r~mainder of the books. He held
that this portion of these records was supplanted some
time in the last century by medical knowledge intro-
duced from Europe. This, indeed, is admitted by the
copyists of the books, who probably took them from
a medireval work on Spanish medicine known as
"El Libro del Judio," "the Book of the Jew."
CHAPTER XIV
ARCANE PHILOSOPHY OF THE MEXICANS
AND MAYA
T
HE nam~ Kab-ul, '' the Great or Magic
Hand,, is one which should signify for us
perhaps one of the most interesting and
arresting figures in Maya mysticism. He is, of course,
a type or phase of Itzamna, the personification of the
East or the rising sun, which brought the beneficent
mists and dews of the morning to the torrid land of
Yucatan. He was said to have come in his enchanted
boat across the 'vaters from the East, and therefore
he presided over that quarter of the world and the
days and years assigned to it. Says Brinton :
" For similar reasons he_received the name Lakin
chan," the Serpent of the East: under which he seems
to have been popularly known. As light is synony-
mous with both life and knowledge, he was said to
have been the creator of men, animals, and plants,
and was the foun er oft e culture of the Mayas.
He was the first priest of the"ir religion, and invented
writing and books; he gavetlie names to the various
localities in Yucatan, and divided the land among the
people ; as a physician he was famous, ~knowing not
only the magic herbs, but .POssessing th~ ~ower of
healing by touch, whence his name!Kabil, 'the skil-
J"UI fia~~/· under which he was 'vorshipped in Chicl~en-
:itza. For his wisdom he was spoken of as Y aro coc
ah-mut, ' the royal or~ nobltLmaster_of kno'Yled_ge.' "
261
262 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
His consort was the goddess Ix-chel, the Rainbow,
also kno\vn as Ix Kan Leom, "the spider's web,"
which catches the dew of the morning. She was
goddess of medicine, and her children "~ere the Bacabs,
the gods of the four cardinal points, who ruled over
the calendar, and represented the worship of the four
sections or houses ofthe heavens, each having different
colours, cycles, and elements mythically and magically
associated with them.
He is, so far as it is possible to judge, the" God l{ ,,
of Schellhas, and the "doublet" of Kukulkan, or
...
Quetzalcoatl, in the character of rising sun to Kukul-
kan's setting sun, much as Ra occupied the former
place and Osiris the latter in the religion of Egypt.
And, like Kukulkan, he is a great master of magic
and a repository of magical thought. That a whole
corpus of magical knowledge, well digested and quite
philosophical in its character, centred in the idea of
these twin deities who can doubt ?
That this arose out of a nature symbolism, as it
did elsewhere, seems certain. Indeed, the all~gQ_ry of
-
nature symbolism lies at the root of all ea:_rly f!!~g}cal
an pliilosophic
-ai lore. 'fne'Knowledge of the l\1aya,
their entire system of thought, was founded on the
operatiol_l~-
~f- the.~ceJestial bodies and fixed on the
temporal appearance and reappearance of these-
liodies, and the processes of growth.
The immovable brilliance of the fixed stars must
have imprinted itselfupon the eye and the imagination
of man almost frqm the first, must have intrigued and
puzzled him, or have been accepted by him without
emotion as a phenomenon duly to be explained away
in terms of myth.
He seems to have invested the planets not only
with godhead but with sex as well. The Sun was male
and the Moon female. But .as he advanced in know-
ledge and observation, he included the lesser lights
ARCANE PHILOSOPHY
in the celestial family. He found that Venus and
~lercury never travelled beyond a certain limit,
and these he associated 'vith the Sun as wife and son
respectively. Still later, taking the Earth as the
centre of the Universe, he arranged the Moon,
l\fercury, and Venus to the dexter side of the Sun,
regarding their alternation as morning and evening
stars as fortunate or the reverse. Mars, Jupiter, and
Saturn, 'vhich seemed to him less under the control
of the central luminary, he relegated to the sinister
sphere, permitting to Jupiter, however, a less bad
eminence because of his chiefship among the three-
an exception which finally resulted in something of a
beneficent reputation being achieved for that planet.
Mars and Saturn, however, were definitely evil, the
first a quick-moving, restless orb of destructive ten-
dencies, the other an ancient wizard of dire pro-
clivities.
I_h_e life of early~m~ -'!as cl9~~y .inte~e.late4 with
~he i~cidence of solar and lt~J_p)l~pom~na. Changes
of ~~mperature and weather affected h~s· hunting
_ ~xpeditions. The behaviour of the Moon and its
connection with the tides mu$t have strongly in-
fluenced his imagination, and in the event begot a
whole folk-lore of its own. It is now clear, too, that
she was regarded as the repository of magic, the great '
tank or reservoir whence the mystic influence of
mana, orenda, or faery emanated, and she had in-
fluence upon childbirth as the place whence new
souls were supposed to be sent to inhabit earthly
bodies.
The idea that the stars are gods or great men
translated to the heavens, is widespread among
savages and, in a measure, lies at the very roots of
astrological belief. The constellations are frequently
supposed to represent personages, and some, especi-
ally in A1;1stralia, are chiefly connected with the
264 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
totemic system of several of the tribes. 'I;h~ s_
tars,
among primitive people, haye a useful significance
and perform a more important function than the Sun,
for by their movements the times of feasts and·
ceremonies are determined, and they serve as a kind-
of calendar by means of'vhich the savage agriculturist
can regulate the cultivation of the soil. · Thus they
came to have a very real meaning for early man.
Strange omens and signs connected with them had,
also, a significance which, naturally, could not be
ignored. The germ of astrological belief is certainly
to be found among many savage peoples. Thus
Shortland discovered that the Maorics, when about
to attack a position, professed to be able to foretell the
result by the relative appearance of Venus and the
Moon. If the planet were above the Moon, the
attackers would be victorious; if beneath, the
defenders ·would triumph.
Once the idea of personality, of godhead, had been
connected with the planets, they were regarded as
powerful enchanters or deities who 'vere constantly
striving to direct the actions of man in such a manner
as to bring them into harmony with some vaster plan
of their own. ~he i~~ of a cosmic symphony had
been ~stablished.~an must :work in harmony with
the higher powers. But in due course it was observed
that the lesser planets differed from the great lumi-
naries of day and night in one important respect.
The paths of the latter were circular, while those of
the planets proper executed a curved line or epicycle.
They waxed and waned in magnitude. In the course
of a single night the early man of Europe or Asia
could behold almost all the stars visible in our latitude.
He fixed two lines for observational purposes, one
running east and west, the other north and south
from where he stood, and discovered a stationary
point in the north pole and the star lying nearest to it.
ARCANE PHILOSOPHY
\Vhen he had ascertained the eastern and western
points of his horizon and his meridian, he began
to relate the paths of the planets to these. This
naturally resulted in the division of the heavens into
" houses," in which the constantly changing courses
of the planets might be observed.
The 1\lexicans and 1\iaya divided the heavens into
four quarters, and these are reflected in their tonala-
matls, or "Books of Fate." Thus they have really
only four " houses " of astrological significance. But,
like the peoples of Asia and Europe, :they believed in
the _
repercussion of the planets on the various parts
of the human body. The several day-signs, which
were obviously stellar in their origin, were supposed
to govern the several human limbs and organs, as we
have seen in the chapter on Mexican Astrology.
We thus see how this species of arcane thought
began to take shape and to develop into a definite
system with amazing ramifications. But can 've go
farther and discover in it a .still deeper significance
than that which seems to have sprung merely from
a slowly evolved belief in the physical effects of the
heavenly bodies?
For this we certainly must look, for its beginnings, \
at least, to the figure of Quetzalcoatl~ or Kukulkan.
He is, as Seier says, '',.the_embodiment of the.. cult
which in its essentials 'vas solely established for the
purpose of obtaining ~o! }~:~!~ p~ople the rain ~eede_d
for their crops in sufficient q1;1antity and at the right
time. As the beginnings of this cult and the develop-·
ment of the priestly order certainly dated from hoary
prehistoric times, or at all events were supposed to do
S(,?, Quetzalcoatl himself further became the king,
J>riest, and tribal god of the nation of the Toltecs,
who were regarded as the first settlers, the inventors
of all culture, of all arts and knowledge. Indeed, it
is quite conceivable that to this association of ideas
•
266 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
corresponds a measure of historic truth that in this
first notion the rain-dispensing deity and the rain-
making priest 'vere merged in one, and by it this
special conception of the deity was transmitted to the.
fol owing generations. In any case it accords with
this view that the same god \Vas later regarded as
the inventor of all other priestly arts of vaticination,
witchcraft, calendric lore, and astronomy, and was,
in fact, identified with the Morning Star, the orb,
which, as we have seen, became the initial point of
the system of day-counts based on the combination
of the numerals 13 and 20. On the other hand, a
second feature which is amongst the most prominent
in the myth of this god-his wandering forth to the
land on the Atlantic seaboard, the Tlillan Tlapallan,
the Tlatlayan, ' the land of the black and of the red
colour,' 'the place of conflagration,' his death there,
combined with the expectation of a future return-
may have its explanation partly in actual historical
events, partly in other mythological notions."
\ Out of these ideas, then, arose the figure of Quetzal-
coati, the great magician, and a specific lore came to be
I
associated with him. He was said to be the creator-
god, and in other places the son ofthe creative deities.
He was also the Morning Star, Venus, to the course
of which the duration of the tonalamatl or " Book of
Fate" stands in relationship. His direct opposite is
Tezcatlipoca, the dark god. We have thus a system of
duality, in which Quetzalcoatl is the white magician
and Tezcatlipoca the black magician. All the lore of
light sprang from the former, all the magic of the lower
cultus from the latter. They fight, as do Ormuz and
1 Ahriman in Persian myth, and when Quetzalcoatl
retires, drought and evil naturally follow. But Quet-
zalcoatl will return and with him the good days.
So 'vhat had once a merely seasonal significance
came also to have an arcane meaning. At the time of
\
QUETZALCOATL AS THE FEATHERED SERPENT
(~L.wA FORM.)
•
ARCANE PHILOSOPHY
the Spanish conquest of J\1exico Quetzalcoatl's star
was certainly not in the ascendant, his priesthood
seems to have been rather under a cloud, and the evil
notion that Tezcatlipoca had conquered for a while led
to those abominable holocausts of humanity in sacri-
fice which have blackened the name of the ancient
1\Iexicans. The people really believed themselves to
be under the s\vay of the black magician Tezcatlipoca,
and when Cortes arrived they were joyful at first
because they were under the impression that the bene-
ficent Quetzalcoatl had actually returned. They were,
of course, speedily disillusioned, but that is beside the
question.
Assuredly Quetzalcoatl returned every rainy season
to water the crops. But there was another· and a
spiritual sense in which he did not return, and that \ ,
this was realized by the Mexicans is revealed by the
fact that at the period of the Conquest they relied
much 1nore on human sacrifice and the shedding of
blood to the maize gods to ensure good crops than on
the ancient rain-making ritual associated with Quet-
zalcoatl's cult. All Mexico sighed for his reappear-
ance, and saw his advent in the coming of Cortes.
When l\iontezuma learned of the Conquistador's
arrival he actually sent him the four costumes appro-
priate to Quetzalcoatl, and it was only \Vhen he heard
of the barbarities committed by the Spaniards that
he forbade their approach to the city of Mexico.
This makes it clear that the thinking classes of
1\lexico and Yucatan were desirous of Quetzalcoatl's
return, that they practised his cult, and probably
made every endeavour to hasten his advent by magical
means. The priesthood of Tezcatlipoca, on the other
hand, strenuously opposed the idea, and there is some
evidence that they had been engaged in doing so for
a considerable time. Quetzalcoatl is said to have
closed his ears with both hands when human sacrifices
268 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
were mentioned, and the ·wise Nezahualcoyotl, the
poet-king of Tezcuco, not only prophesied the return
of Quetzalcoatl, but cast doubt on the ability of the
sanguinary gods to aid him, saying:
"Verily, these gods that I am adoring, what are
they but idols of stone 'vithout speech or feeling ?
They could not have made the bea_
uty of the heaven,
the sun, the moon, and the stars which adorn it,
and which light the earth, with its countless streams,
its fountains and waters, its trees and plants, and its
various inhabitants. There must be some god, in-
visible and unknown, 'vho is the universal creator.
He alone can console me in my affliction and take
away my sorrow.''
Strengthened in this conviction by a timely fulfil-
ment of his heart's desire, he erected a temple nine
stories high to represent the nine heavens, which he
dedicated '' to the Unknown God, the Cause of
Causes." This temple, he ordained, should never be
polluted by blood, nor should any graven image ever
be sef up within its precincts.
What then resided at the heart of this dualism,
what was the particular nature of the philosophy
which inspired a belief in the wisdom-religion or
magic of beneficence, and what, alternatively, lay at
the roots of the magic of evil so prominent in Mexico ?
The '·'white magic" of Quetzalcoatl was evidently
the outcome of an imported system, possibly allied
to Buddhism, possibly to some European mystical
system. The Polynesian peoples cultivated a species
of debased Buddhism, but that which seems to have
penetrated to Central America appears to have been
of a more exalted type. The one alternative to
the theory of importation from Asia is that of the
introduction of some form of European mysticism,
Celtic or Mediterranean. Yet the peculiarly Asiatic
character of the statues of Kukulkan, Quetzalcoatl's
ARCANE PHILOSOPHY
Yucatecan type, and the similarity of ~laya architec-
ture and art to Asiatic forms rather discount the latter
theory. If we do not accept the idea of importation
we are left with the hypothesis of the native develop-
ment of the Quetzalcoatl cult, a highly improbable
contingency, having regard to all the circumstances.
Whatever its origin, the Quetzalcoatl philosophy
must inevitably be regarded as of the nature of a wis-
dom-religion inculcating the dogmas of the higher
mysticism, and founded on Mexican soil by an actual
person. It taught the belief in the return of the soul
to earth after a sojourn in a place of refreshment.
The whole circumstances of Quetzalcoatl's myth
bear such a strong resemblance to the rites and doc-
trines of initiatory ceremonies as found elsewhere
that we cannot surely be mistaken in equating them
with these as regards their general character.1
Quetzalcoatl, before passing to Tollan-tlapallan
falls sick, that is, the initiate is undergoing the usual
mental stress which precedes the ceremony, the
longing for Otherwhere. He is given a draught from
the sacred cup, and becomes " intoxicated," that is,
rapt in spiritual contemplation. He abandons his
palaces, his gold and silver, the treasures of this
world, as did the Greek mystics, and becomes" old"
in arcane experience. Preceded by flute-players, the
typical instrumentalists of the Mysteries, he proceeds
on his " journey," reaches the river of the initiates,
which is similar to the Styx of the Greek Mysteries,
or to that crossed by the heroes in the" Popol Vuh,"
and crosses it by a bridge.
He is next met by sorcerers 'vho ask him to abandon
his knowledge of the mechanical arts. Here it is
plain that the hierophants or presiding priests of the
l\1ysteries have been changed into ''wizards" by
1 See the writer's " Mysteries of Britain " and " Mysteries of
Egypt " for an account of the ancient systems of initiation on which
this analogy is based.
270 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
l~ter ignorant editors, 1\l.exican or Spanish. ·He obeys
them. Another " magician " then insists upon his
drinking a draught which he could give " to none of
the living," that is, the cup of forgetfulness employed
in all initiations at a certain phase. He loses his senses
after the draught, precisely as did the Greek initiates,
and when he awakes "tears his hair," perhaps in a
divine frenzy.
Next he passes between a mountain of snow and a
volcano. This is an analogy ·with the passage of the
neophyte through the infernal regions. Here his
attendants " die," that is, the epopts and musicians
leave the neophyte at this particular point. The
memorials of his progress were a court, in 'vhich the
mystical ball-game of tlachtli was played, and a cross,
which he made by transfixing one tree with another-
symbols of psychic stages traversed in the Mexican
Mysteries. Likewise he constructed subterranean
houses, which resemble those cells dug in the ground
employed in Britain by the Druidical mystics for
contemplation, and elsewhere he balanced a great
rolling stone, which was also part of the,initiatory
apparatus of the Druids. Then in his raft of serpents
he seated himself as in a canoe to reach the land of
Tl'apallan, a passage which renders it most clear that
the whole myth of his departure describes the initia-
tory process, the voyage resembling that of the
neophytes of the British 1\lysteries in the "rite of the
coracle," which seems to have taken place in Cardigan
Bay, or the Eleusinian rite of" Mystics to the Sea."
If we tabulate the circumstances of Quetzalcoatl's
myth, we shall find _
that they bear a striking resem-
blance to the known facts of initiation in Egypt,
Greece, and Britain. They are :
The state of longing for perfection.
The draught from the sacred cup.
....
ARCANE PHILOSOPHY
Spiritual "intoxication," i.e. rapt contemplation.
A'Qandonment of the things of this \vorld.
Recognition of arcane experiences.
Journey of the soul, accompanied by musicians.
Crossing of the "Styx" into the land of the Dead.
Abandonment of worldly knowledge at the behest
of the Subterranean powers.
The draught of oblivion.
Divine frenzy. _
Passage through the infernal regions.
Departure of accompanying epopts.
Passage through various psychic stages.
Contemplation in subterranean cell.
The rite of the rocking-stone.
Passage across water to the place of new life.
Regeneration in the place of new life.
Return to the mundane sphere as an initiate.
These stages are not arranged in the myth of Quet-
zalcoatl in the same incidence as in the case of the
Greek and British mysteries, but the majority of the
circumstances known to have been connected with
initiation in Greece and Britain are here present. It
is clear, then, that we must look for a mystical
system connected with the Quetzalcoatl cult which
had an almost precisely similar dogma and outlook
to those current in Britain and Greece. Do \Ve actually ....
discover this to be so ?
Comparing first the mystical cosmogony of Britain
with that of ~lexico__, we find the Universe divided
into three planes. In Mexico we find nine heavens
arranged as different planes of psychic progression.
We find Arthur in British myth descending into
Annwn, or Hades, to seek the Cauldron of Inspiration,
just as Quetzalcoatl in Mexico proceeds to Tlapallan
to seek the Fountain of Refreshment. But another
myth makes the Mexican god penetrate to Hades or
272 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
}lictlan to seek for maize, just as Arthur sought the
generating mistletoe in Annwn. It is precisely in
British and Mexican myth that we find the two best-
kno\vn examples of the " Harrying of Hell " and the
triumph of the gods of light over those of darkness.
The " Popol Vuh," which provides the transatlantic
evidence of this belief, is indeed a great book of
American initiatory experience.
Having thus satisfied ourselves that the outlines of
British and Mexican mysticism display similar beliefs,
do we find this to be the case as regards the Greek
and American systems? Generally speaking, '"e can
at once state this to be so. Both were fundamentally
based on the primitive idea of vegetable growth, out
of which sprang the allegory of the rebirth of the soul
of men. Demeter the Corn-mother is reborn as Core,
precisely as the Mexican ~laize-mother is reborn as
Cinteotl, the son, and as Quetzalcoatl, the rain-spirit,
the "finder" of maize, is "reborn" in Tlapallan,
, the place of bright colours.
More particularly, we must ask ourselves if we can
trace any system similar to that of the philosophy of
the Greek or Egyptian Mysteries in ?vlexico, where
the fragments only of such a system are apparent.
The outward form ofthe Greek and Egyptian mystical
philosophy WStS expressed chiefly in dramatic rite,
and in the festivals of Mexico we observe circum-
stances so obviously resembling these that we cannot
but believe in an ancient common origin. But as
regards dogma, we find a similar belief in the phe-
nomenon of rebirth, as expressed in the return of
Quetzalcoatl, the noti'on of a regenerating fountain
of the soul, as found also in Egypt, and the belief that
man had fallen and must be "reborn." Mexican
myth, like Greek and Egyptian arcane myth, was
fulfilled ofthis idea ofthe fall of man and the necessity
for his regeneration. Xochiquetzal, the ~lexican
ARCANE PHILOSOPHY 273
Venus, is said in the "Codex Telleriano-Remensis"
to have been "the first sinner," and is represented
in a picture in that 1\IS. as "weeping for her lost
happiness," having been driven from Paradise because
she had broken a flower. On the occasion of her
festival the people fasted on bread and water because
of her mortal sin, and we have seen that the same
myth held good of Itzpapalotl. 1 '
We may then feel that we are on fairly certain
ground if 've state positively that the idea underlying
the cult of Quetzalcoatl was the regeneration, the
rebirth of man, just as it underlay the British, Greek,
and Egyptian mysteries. That the possibility of
regeneration in Egypt applied in more ancient times
to the Pharaoh alone I have made plain enough in
" The Jtlysteries of Egypt," and that some such belief
also obtained in Mexico is also evident. The soul of
the Pharaoh, after death, 'vas thought of as winging
its flight to the sun-land, and we find a Mexican
legend 'vhich recounts how 1\{ontezuma, the ill-fated
Emperor of 1\iexico, flew to Tamoanchan, the place
of the setting sun.
Another link between the Hellenic and Mexican
1\{ysteries is that provided by the cult of the god
Tlaloc, which seems to resemble that of the Cretan
monster, the ~finotaur, who appears in the Greek
Mysteries, with his tribute of youth. Children were
annually" devoured" by the water-god, that is they
were drowned in the Lake of Tezcuco, and a specific
tribute of specially selected victims was paid to him,
while to his Maya equivalent virgins were sacrificed
by drowning in the cenotes or great reservoirs of that
arid land. That Tlaloc was developed from the form
of such a monster we can scarcely doubt, having
regard to his enormous tusks and large rolling eye.
He was probably the great serpent or dragon 'vhich
lay in the cavernous depths of the lake in wait for
s
274 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
drowning people, just as the Minotaur was the fiendish
hull-man who made the labyrinth of Gnossos his den,
that is, he was an earth-monster (for the bull is sym-
bolic of the earth and the earthquake), just as Tlaloc
was a water-monster, and both must be placated with
human sacrifice.
Whatever their origin, the 1\'lysteries of Mexico
display a decided resemblance to these of the Old
1Vorld, and it is therefore permissible to argue that
the system of arcane knowledge which they incul-
cated was much the same in essence as that in vogue
in the Eastern Hemisphere, yet interpenetrated by
novel and localized ideas.
We must then think of the cult of Quetzalcoatl as
a mystery cult, having a distinct initiation ceremony,
and that this survived in the practices ofthe Nagualist
Society is also obvious enough. It appears to have
had as its central object the rebirth of man and the
regeneration of his spirit in a sphere of Otherwhere,
whence he might return to earth for another existence.
Of this cult Quetzalcoatl seems to have been the
Dionysus or Osiris. The rite of the Zapotec high
priest who took the human form of Quetzalcoatl is
eloquent of the fact that a certain measure of orgiastic
frenzy was associated with his cult, and this reveals
the Bacchic resemblance. The Osirian association is
also clear enough. Quetzalcoatl, like Osiris, fares
across the water to seek regeneration in another
sphere, to drink of the fountain of youth.
His opponent is Tezcatlipoca, in Central America
Hurakan, the representative of Black Magic and all
evil, the protagonist of the worship and ritual of the
lower cultus. In 1\lexico 've find, indeed, as perhaps
nowhere else save in Persia, a distinct dualis:m of good
and evil. The amazing thing is that the ball-game
between the good and evil deities which figures so
largely in Iranian myth as having been played by
•
ARCANE PHILOSOPHY 275
Ahura Mazda, or Ormuzd, and Ahriman, is reflected
in the Mexican myth given by Mendieta, which tells
how Tezcatlipoca let himself down from the sky by
means of a spider's web, and coming to Tollan,
engaged in a game of tlachtli, or ball, 'vith Quetzal-
coati, in the midst of which he transformed himself
into a jaguar, and chased Quetzalcoatl to Tlapallan.
The olli, or ball, with which they played is the symbol
of light and darkness, as its bright and shaded sides
show. It was the symbol of the god Xolotl.
One of the hymns or songs given in the Sahagun ...
1\IS. says of Xolotl:
"Old Xolotl plays ball, plays ball
On the magic playing-ground."
The lt!exican game of tlachtli symbolized the move-
ments of the moon (but more probably of both sun
and moon). This, perhaps the favourite Mexican
amusement, was a ball-game, played 'vith a rubber
ball by two persons one at each end of a T-shaped
court, which in the manuscripts is sometimes repre-
sented as painted in dark and light colours, or in four
variegated hues. In several ofthe manuscripts Xolotl
is depicted striving at this game against other gods.
For example, in the " Codex Mendoza " we see him
playing with the moon-god, and can recognize him
by the sign ollin which accompanies him, and by the
gouged-out eye in which that symbol ends. Seier
thinks "that the root of the name olin suggested to
the Mexicans the motion of the rubber ball olli and,
as a consequence, ball-playing." It seems to me to
have represented both light and darkness, as is 'vit-
nessed by its colours. Xolotl is, indeed, the darkness
that accompanies light. Hence he is " the twin," or
shadow, hence he travels with the sun and the moon,
with one or other of which he " plays ball," overcom-
ing them or losing to them. He is the god of cclipse,
276 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
and naturally a dog, the animal of eclipse. Peruvians,
Tupis, Creeks, Iroquois, Algonquins, and Eskimos
believed the dog to be so, thrashing dogs during the
phenomenon, a practice explained by saying that the
big dog was s'vallowing the sun, and that by 'vhipping
the little ones they would make him desist. The dog
is the animal of the dead, and therefore of the Place
of Shadows. Thus also Xolotl is a monster, the sun-
swallowing monster, like the Hindu Rahu, who chases
the sun and moon. As a shadow he is" the double"
of everything. The axolotl, a marine animal found in
1\fexico, was confounded with his name because of its
monstrous appearance, and he was classed along with
Quetzalcoatl merely because that god's name bore the
element coatl, which may be translated either" twin"
or "snake." Lastly, as he was "variable as the
shade," so were the fortunes of the game over which
he presided.
At the same time he seems to me to have affinities
with the Zapotec and Maya lightning-dog peche-xolo
and may represent the lightning which descends from
the thunder-cloud, the flash, the reflection of 'vhich
arouses in n1any primitive people the belief that the
lightning is "double," and leads them to suppose a
connection between the lightning and twins, or other
phenomena of a twofold kind. As the dog, too, he
has a connection with Hades, and, said myth, was
despatched thence for the bones from 'vhich man was
created.
He is also a travelling god, for the shadows cast by
the clouds seem to travel quickly over plain and
mountain. As the monstrous dwarf, too, he sym-
bolized the palace-slave, the deformed jester who
catered for the amusement of the great, and this
probably accounts for the symbol of the white hand
outspread on his face, which he has in common with
Xochipilli and the other gods of pleasure. He bears
•
ARCANE PHILOSOPHY 277
a suspicious resemblance to the mandrake spirits of
Europe and Asia, both as regards his duality, his loud
lamentation when as a double-rooted plant he was
discovered and pulled up by the roots, and his symbol,
'vhich may be a reminiscence of the mandrake.
Now all this seems to me to thro\v light on the
dualistic character of 1\Iexican arcane thought.
Xolotl is the "twin" of Quetzalcoatl, that is, he is
Quetzalcoatl in another guise, as the ball-player, but
he wears nearly all Quetzalcoatl's symbols and his
dress, to say nothing of his long beard. He is also the
divine dog of the 1\lexican Mysteries, their Anubis, so
to speak, and in most of the Codices he is seen taking
on a canine appearance. He is also one of the
" dwarfish servants " of the god.
Quetzalcoatl, the alien and "civilized" god or
magician, the protagonist of white magic and the
civilizing mysteries, found Mexico unready for him.
He was " driven out," and his cultus remained on
sufferance and as an aristocratic and priestly one only.
Tezcatlipoca, the native god of obsidian, and the
Ahriman of Mexico, presided over a ritual not unlike
that of Siva in India. l\1exico groaned beneath his
bloodstained rites. Small \Vonder that he came to be
known by names so awful as " The Hungry Chief"
and "The Enemy;:' Montezuma seems to have felt
the justice of Cortes's rebuke that his gods were
devils, and his acceptance of the Christian faith
appears to have been sincere enough and to have
come to him as a great relief in the end.
But, like that of Quetzalcoatl, the cult of Tezcat-
lipoca had its own mysteries, degraded as they were.
These were the Mexican equivalents of the Black
Mass. A graceful young man was selected from
among the war captives and was during a whole year
permitted to lead a life of unrestricted pleasure. He
was clad in the finest robes, he ate and drank of the
278 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
best, he was hailed by the populace as a great lord, he
was given a harem of beautiful women, but at the end
of the year he must perish.
It ia the story of Faust in a 1\fexican setting, the
legend of the man who has sold himself to the Devil.
At the end of the year he '\vas immolated by having
his heart (soul) torn out and cast before the idol of
Tezcatlipoca.
For just as the legend of Faust reflects the tradi-
tional remembrance of a rite in which a man was
sacrificed to a demon, the story of the Mexican victim
of Tezcatlipoca affords us the description of that rite
itself. In the Faust legend the person " sells " himself
to the Devil ; in the Mexican rite he is " selected."
And that Tezcatlipoca was sufficiently demonic,
we know from the old Spanish chroniclers. " The
Mexicans," says Sahagun, " believed that he was
invisible and was able to penetrate into all places,
heaven, earth, and hell . . . and that he wandered
over the earth stirring up strife and war and setting
men against one another." He also remarks that,
"he was a true giver of prosperity, and extremely
capricious." Is this not Mephistopheles in propria
persona ? And, to complete the picture, Tezcatlipoca
is a friend of witches and, like the German demon,
and the fiends in the Welsh. legends of the Grail, is
lame.
Faust, under the guidance of Mephistopheles,
visited " the !\'Iothers," the Chonthian deities of
growth, who dwelt beneath the earth, and who were
represented in the Mysteries of ancient Eleusis.
At the Teotleco, a movable feast sacred to Tezcat-
lipoca, the footprint of the god was assiduously looked
for by the priests in a heap of maize. When it ap-
peared, the chief attendant cried, " The master has
arrived." On the following day a huge fire was
prepared and captives were burnt alive. Young men
ARCANE PHILOSOPHY 279
disguised as demons danced round it, hurling the
unhappy victims into the flames. Is this not the
myth of Satan and hell-fire dramatized ?
Tezcatlipoca in his cock shape (we will recall that
1\lephistopheles wore a cock's feather) 'vas the fiend
who deceived the first woman. But not only did he
deceive Hueytonantzin, " our great mother," but,
with the help of other demons he slew her, " founding
with her the institution of human sacrifice," offering
up her heart to the sun.
In many ancient Mexican myths we find both Tez-
catlipoca and Quetzalcoatl posing as creators, aiding
each other in framing the world. Both are said to be
the sons of Tonacatecutli and Tonacaciuatl, " who
had existed from the beginning," both in turn became
(or ruled) the sun for an "age." But Tezcatlipoca
fell from heaven, or Tamoanchan, like other gods, he
transgressed by plucking the roses and branches of
that delectable place. This has, of course, an arcane
significance, and implies that these deities broke the
sex-taboo placed upon the gods, for it is distinctly
stated that the' Mexican deities, although many of
them had female counterparts, were not united in
marriage, nor had they any marital relations whatever.
Tezcatlipoca and his erring brothers and sisters, the
Tzitzimime, 'vere therefore like Milton's angels, cast
out of heaven, some into "hell," others upon the
earth, to become the adversaries of mankind, and as
I have already said, Tezcatlipoca's minor names,
Yaotl, "Enemy," and Yaomauitl," Dreaded Enemy,''
make his character and position clear in this respect.
We can trace, then, the process by which the barbarous
obsidian cult of the Nahua tribes came to be regarded
by the more enlightened Mexicans as definitely evil,
whilst the civilized cultus of Quetzalcoatl was identi-
fied with aU that was good and delectable. Not
that the faith of Tezcatlipoca was altogether bad, for
280 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
it certainly possessed elements of goodness and pro-
gress, but its association with human sacrifice gradu-
ally occluded most ofthese, and in the end the worship
of the god substituted terror for conscience. To sin
against Tezcatlipoca was only to offend, and caused
him no sorrow but vindictive anger, which was
speedily assuaged by horrible punishment.1
To be a priest of Tezcatlipoca was to be a black
magician in every sense of the word, an associate of
witches, a shape-shifter, an invoker of demons. The
'
priesthood of Quetzalcoatl, on the other hand, was
philosophical and spiritual in its outlook. We see
here, clearly, then, not so much a religious state and
condition in Mexico, but one in which an opinion
much more purely magical had developed. ~Iexican
" religion," in a word, was not so much the worship
of a pantheon of deities mainly beneficent, with a
corresponding fear and hatred of a comparatively
small number of evil deities, as in Greece or Egypt,
or Babylon, nor was it even an acknowledgment of
"po,vers" of rather indefinite character, as among
the Teutons or the early Celts. It was a well-defined
national or tribal recognition of a good pantheon in
opposition to an evil one, in which the ignorant
accepted perforce the rule of the darker deities and
the enlightened the path of the higher gods, although
even these were compelled by popular opinion and for
political reasons to " bow the knee to ~{ammon,, and
to participate in the horrid orgies of supernatural
beings of a type almost ·wholly debased lest they
arouse popular clamour through their neglect of
forces which, it was believed, might withhold suste-
nance and vindictively bring the whole human race
1 The myths of the Nootka Sound Indians, however, seem to
point to an early version of this dualism. In them the gods Qua.utz
and Me.tlox are represented as the good and bad principles and
seem to me the prototypes of Quetza.lcoatl and Mictlan.
,
'
ARCANE PHILOSOPHY 281
to irretrievable ruin were they not periodically pla-
cated with sacrifices of the most revolting character.
Such a possible condition early European Christi-
anity dreaded and foresaw did it not deal faithfully
and manfully with the paganism it outrooted. Yet it
was even compelled to make certain terms with that
paganism, accepting by the famous bull of Pope
Gregory some of the less offensive rites and customs of
the lower faiths it had displaced. The colonial priest-
hood of Spain has frequently been blamed for the
ferocity of the measures it adopted in Mexico and
Central America. But if we cannot excuse its de-
struction of manuscripts and of some of the more
innocent monuments, \Ve can but applaud the forth-
right valour with 'vhich it extirpated the abominable
demonism of old Mexico and cast do,vn its sanguinary
high places. In time it came to recognize that the
wretched peoples to whom it had been sent to minister
were, for the most part, only too willing to believe in
and accept its comparatively mild tenets, as the noble
and Christ-like Las Casas discovered and demon-
strated to the confusion of his more fanatical country-
men. Yet even he, a second Quctzalcoatl, might
not altogether destroy the awful dread which genera-
tions of besott~d slavery to the doomful spirits of evil
\vhich had obsessed them had bred in the terrified
folk, caught in a maze of inextricable ritual and beset
by a thousand menacing taboos.
Quetzalcoatl fell with Tezcatlipoca, the good that
might not prevail, along with the evil that had pre·
vailed too long. But even his overthrowers recognized
the essential divinity of his serene and blameless
cult, and came to identify him \vith St. Thomas, who,
they thought, must have arrived in America, carrying
with him the Cross and the rite of Baptism.
Yet who will fail to admire the noble effort of the
priesthood of Quetzalcoatl, surrounded as it was by the
'
282 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
forces of death and hell ? \Vhen the good finds itself
in opposition to evil overwhelming and inveterate,
what may it accomplish save by fighting wrong with
its own weapons, by opposing magic with magic, as
did St. Columba, St. Patrick, and even the Founder of
Christianity Himself, by wielding the divine science,
the true ~Iagic, as a weapon to destroy the false?
This did Topiltzin Quetzalcoatl, the St. Columba of
Mexico. In Guatemala and Yucatan he seems to
have succeeded. In Mexico he might well have sung
to his Father the Sun as did the Hindu priest to Agni,
the deity of the sacrificial fire, as 've find in " The
Rigveda ''-
" Bright-gleaming warrior lord,
Protect us in the fray
From this dense devilish heathen horde
And all that scheme to slay.
* * * *
A welcome light to loyal hearts,
But terrible to face
For those that deal in magic arts,
And all the Atri race."l
For what Quetzalcoatl essayed was the conquest of
demons as we find it outlined in the Brahmanas where
the confusion of the As1,1ras is alluded to.
" The Asuras performed at the sacrifice all that the
Devas performed. The Asuras became thus of equal
power with the Devas, and did not yield to them.
Thereupon the Devas had a vision of the ' silent
praise.' The Asuras, not knowing it, did not perform
the 'silent praise.' This 'silent praise' is the latent
essence ofthe hymns. Till then whatever weapons the
Devas used against the Asuras, the Asuras used in
revenge against them ; but when the Devas had a
vision of the ' silent praise,' and raised it as a weapon,
the Asuras did not comprehend it. With it the Devas
1 Professor E. Vernon Arnold's translation. See " The Rigveda..,
('Popular studies in Mythology, Romance, and Folklore.)
ARCANE PHILOSOPHY
aimed a blow at the Asuras, and defeated them, for
they had no comprehension of this 'veapon. There-
upon the Devas became masters of the Asuras. He
'vho has such a knowledge becomes master of his
enemy, adversary, and hater."
" The silent praise "--contemplation of the divine.
In that, in piety and right-thinking, reside the true,
the real magic, which is even proof against the horrors
of the infernal world. Virtue, humble piety, simple
goodness constitute within themselves a magic of
such invincible potency that all the powers of Hell,
rushing to their overthrow, avail no more than the
boiling surf against the adamant of the sea-cliff.
A great and salutary lesson is to be learned from
Old Mexico, for our world is still demon-haunted, the
powers and principalities of Black Magic beset it, as
never before. We imagine, perchance, that which
we know as civilization may save us from evil, that
mere material knowledge may serve as armour ofproof
against embattled evil. Futile hope, for earthly
knowledge is not of the nature of true enlightenment,
nor has it any guarding sanction.
We cannot fall to such depths as did Old 1\lexico,
we believe. Yet, relatively, according to the light
vouchsafed us, have ~e already done so.
Evil is tireless. All evil works through a magic of
its o,vn, a black magic which expre~ses itself in forms
so numerous and so protean that it is frequently
undistinguishable from goodness and beauty. The
priests of Tezcatlipoca assured the Aztecs that unless
they rendered holocausts and human blood-sacrifices
to the gods these would 'vithhold sustenance from
them and they would perish. In a like manner does
the priesthood of the modern Mammon terrify the
people by the doctrine that they must indulge not in
legitimate competition, which is the soul of prosperity,
but in base commercial strife in which the most sordid
'
284 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
expedients are resorted to, other\vise they will
starve.
In the bloodstained shrines ofTezcatlipoca fantastic
rites 'vcre enacted which men believed essential to
human continuance and sustenance. " These were
the masks which Tezcatlipoca assumed," says the old
chronicler, "to play with the people, to have his
sport with the people." In such \vise do the false
gods of our age tantalize and torment humanity.
Tezcatlipoca, Asmodeus, Belial, Satan, by whatever
name you choose to call him, is the same in all times
and in all lands. That Satan had empery in Old
Mexico 'vho can doubt ? His personality is so obvious
in the guise of Tezcatlipoca that it is not to be gain-
said. The missionary priests of Spain only too
shrewdly realized this.
'fhe worship and philosophy of Tezcatlipoca are
scarcely to be distinguished from diabolism or devil-
worship. He is the great black man of the witch-cult,
who presides at their ceremonies, the demon to whom
the profane render praise and sacrifice in blood-
stained sanctuaries, the Master of Sin, the Terrifier
and Lord of Phantoms, the patron of thieves, and
with his twin brother Uitzilopochtli, the fosterer of
war and strife. The military side of Aztec life was
associated with immorality, the young women as yet
unmarried being companions of the youthful warriors.
The entire manifestation and content of the cult of
Tezcatlipoca and his brother ·were evil unalloyed-
evil, which, notwithstanding its might, seems to have
found as worthy antagonists in darkest Mexico as in
more fortunate Europe.
'\
INDEX
Acosta, on magical customs in
:Mexico, 73
Aoxitl, Prince of the Toltecs, his
le~end, 26-35
Agmlar, Ordonez de, 218
Ah-puch, a god, 200
" Alphabet " of gods, 198 ff.
Amulets, 103-110
Animals, mythical, in :
Mexico,
125-127
Arcane philosophy of the
Mexicans and Maya, 261 ff.
Arcanum, Grand, of the Mexican
priesthood, 66
Astrology, 144 ff.; symbols of;
145-154; gods of, 147-150;
connection between Aztec and
stellar, 154-5; origins of,
262 ff.
Augury, by bird-habit, 97-98 ;
by dreams, 98-99 ; among
the Maya, 226
Azcapozalco, 41
Aztecs, the, 35 ff. ; their hiero-
glyphic writing, 38-39 ; their
civilisation, 38 ; mode of life,
39; architecture and ruins,
40-41 ; History of, 41-43 ;
Religion of, 44 ff.
Babel, Tower of, 219
Bacabs, or gods of the four
quarters, 206-7 ; 224
Banshee in Mexico, 119
Bat, the demon, 127, 247
Battle of Flowers, 143
Bautista, on Mexican magicians,
67
Beast-guardianinNa.gualist cult;
159-161 ; story of the, 163 ff.
Birds, fabulous, 127-128
Blood, sacrificial, as rain, 46
Books, magical, 172, ff. ; how
employed, 181 ; of the Maya,
236 ff.
Brasseur de Bourbourg, the
Abbe, 236
Broom of the Mexican witches,
132; 140
Burgoa., on a case of heresy, 71
Cabrakan, a giant, 243
Caliban, derivation of the name,
124
Calmecac, or college of the
priests, 96
Camazotz, the demon bat, 127,
247
Chac, a rain-god, 207
Charms, 103-110
Chichimec tribe, 33
Chicomecohuatl, the goddess,
47
Chila.n, a caste of priests, 220 ff.
Chilan Bala.m, Books of, 197;
255-260
Christianity and paganism, 281
Cinteotl, a god, symbol of, 108
Cipactli, or earth-beast, 45
Ciuacoa.tl, a goddess, 58
Ciuatete~, or witches, 58; 129 ff.
Coa.tlicue, the goddess, 45-46;
126
Cocomes, a Maya dynasty, 193 ff.
Codex Borgia, 174-176
Codex Fejen·ary-Mayer, 173,
177 ff.
Codex Persianus, 214-5
Cosmogony, mystical, of 1\Iexico,
271 ff.
Creation-myth of the Quiche,
241 ff.
Ouitlapanton, a spi~it, 119
Day-signs, of the Calendar,
Mexican, 144 ff.; Maya, 223
Death, amulets used at, 108-
110
Death's head, 119-120
Death-masks, 103-104
285
286 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXICO
Demonology of Mexico, 116 ff.;
of the 1\!a.ya, 227
Devil-worship in Mexico, 70
Divination, Mexican, 75-77,
96-99 ; of the Maya, 228 ff.
Dog, sacrificed at death, 109
Dreams, divina.tion by, 99 ;
story of Princess Papa.ntzin,
99 ff.
Dresden Codex, 103, 197, 200,
206, 208
Druidism, did it reach America?
142-143
Dualism, 212-213, 232 ff. ;
268 ff.
Dwarfs of Mexico, 121-122
Ek chua.h, "the Black god,"
206, 214
Fairies, American, 122-125
Faust, the legend of, 278
Feathered snake, 125 •
Festivals, their magical char-
acter, 77-78
Frog-god, the Maya, 206
Giants of Mexico, 120 ff.
Gods, Mexican, 44 :ff.
Gods, Maya, "alphabet'' of,
198 ; represented on monu-
ments, 209; collation of, 212;
literary sources concerning,
212; the lesser, 214-215;
identification of, 215
Guatemala, !•'airy tales of, 123-
124
Gukumatz, 231
Haebler, Dr., on Maya religion,
231 ft.
Heavenly bodies in Maya pan·
theon, 213
Heresy, magical, in Mexico,
71-72
Horoscopes, casting of, 222
Huemac, King of the Toltecs:
his legend, 26-35 ; story of
the casket of, 85 ff.
Huna.bku, 231
Hun-Ahpu, a mythical hero,
242 ff.
Hurakan, a god, 248
Initiation in Mexico, 269 ff.
Ink, unction with, 76
Interpretative Codices, 174
Itza.es, a Maya sept, 194
Itzamal, tho oracle of, 221-222
Itzamna, a Maya god, 213-
214, 215, 222, 231 ff.
Itzpapalotl, a goddess, 61-63;
connection with Obsidian cult,
82; 117
Kab-ul, a form of Itzam.na, 222,
232, 261 ff.
Kakchic.1uels, 195
K.inich Ahau, the Maya sun-god,
204
Kukulkan, 193, 200-202, 205,
220, 231, 241
Kwakiootl Indians, rites of, 141
Leon, Nicolas de, on Mexican
magicians, 67
Libro del J udeo, a medical
treatise, 260
Magic, MexicBD, true tendency
of, 64 ; higher aspects of, 65,
67 ff. ; feats of, 69; among
the Maya priesthood, 227 fi.
Magical experiments, hours dedi·
cated to, 68-69 ; 73-78 ;
localities, 110 ff.; instruments,
114-115; books, 172 ff, 236
Magical significance of Maya
time-periods, 224 fi.
Magicians, Mexican, 67 ff; story
of a, 85 ff; apparatus of, 114-
115 ; books of the, 172 ff. ; of
the Maya, 220
Maize. divination by, 75-76;
superstition regarding its
cooking, 85
Maize-god, 210-211
Maya, the, 18 ; connection with
Toltecs, 22, 23, 25, 183 ;
cities, 185 ; history, 185-6 ;
192 ff ; writing, 186-7 ;
arithmetical system, 187-188 ;
astronomy, 188; architecture,
188; religion of the, 197, 231
ff. ; magic of, 218 ff. ; a.stro·
logy of the, 222 ft. ; sacrifice
among the, 230; festivals,
231; arcane lmowledge of,
230 ; gods of the, 197 fi.
INDEX
Mexico, Races of, 18-20;
History of the, 19-43 ; Maya
source of its culture, 23 ;
Religion of, 44 ff. ; Magic of,
67 fl.
Mexico-Tenochtitlan, Aztec city
of, 36-38
Mictlantecutli, Lord of Hell, 63
Mitla, or :M:ictlan, its subter-
ranean passages, 110 fi.
Montezuma I., 42
Montezuma II., 43; 99 ff.
Months of tho Maya year, their
significance, 224 ff.
Monuments, gods represented
on the Maya, 209
Mysteries, the, in 1-:Iexico, 269
Nagualism, 70-71; 159 ff.;
beast-guardian in, 159-161 ;
women in, 161 ; methods of
Nagualists, 161-163; story
of the, 163 ff.
Nahua race, 18-20
Naulli, or Mexican magicians,
67 ff. ; higher castes of,
69-70, 71 ; as vampires, 70;
story of a, 85 ft. ; apparatus
of, 114-115
Nezahualcoyotl, King of Te:x-
cuco, 268
N uft.ez de la Vega, 218
Obsidian cult, 78-84 ; its gods,
79; its trading associations,
80 ; its magical propensities,
83 ; as aymbol of life, 84
Ochpaniztli, festival of Tlazol-
teotl, 135 ff.
Ointments, magical, 74-75
Old Black god, 205
Ololuchqui, a. magical potion,
74-75
Oracles, divination by, 96; of
the Maya, 221-222, 229
Palenque, city of, 190-191,
218-219
Papantzin, the Princess, story
of, 90 ff.
Pek, the lightning-dog, 126-127
Petum (tobacco) as a magical
element, 74-75
Peyotl, a magical intoxicant,
68
\
Plants, astrological significance
of, 156-158
"Popol Vuh," the, 236-255; its
text, 237-238 ; its language,
239 ; its divisions, 240 ;
Book I., 240-244 ; Book II.,
244-248 ; Book III., 248-
250 ; genuine character of the,
250 ff.; Cosmogony of, 251·
252 ; mythology of, 252-253
Prophecy, 220-221, 256-257
Quetza.lcoatl, 20, 4:4, 47 ; hi.s
myths, 48-50 ; as inventor of
the tonalamatl, or Book of
Fate, 49 ; his Maya names,
50 ; amulets of, 107-108 ;
was be a Druid priest 1 142-
143; a.s planet Venus, 155;
218-220, 241, 265 ff., 269 ff. ;
his mystery cult, 274, 277 ff.
Quiches, 195
Races of Mexico, 18-20
Rain-cult of l!exico, 45
'' Rigveda,The,''quotationfrom,
282
Sacrifices, human, 46, 58
Schellha.s, Dr. Paul, his system,
198 ff.
Scrying stones of the Maya,
228 ff.
Shamanism, Siberian, 136-140
Spaniards, dreams and prophecy
of the coming of the, 99 ff.
Spinden, Dr. H. J., 199
Staves, magical, 104-105; 107
Superstitions of the Mexicans,
84-85; of the Maya, 227
Sympathetic magic, 78
Talismans, fiint, 105-106
Tecpanecs, 42 ,
" Tempest, The," Shapcspeare's
in American Fairy lore, 124
Teo-amoxtli, or " divine book,"
177
Teopatli, a magical medicament,
76
Teotihuacan, ruins of, 40
Teotl, the Aztec " First Cause,"
65-66
Tepeilhuitl, festival of, 78
288 THE MAGIC AND MYSTERIES OF MEXIC
Tepitoton, or diminutive deities,
104
Tezcatlipoca, the god, as
magician, 51-52 ; his myth,
52-54; in the Obsidian cult,
79, 83; 118-119; as witch-
master, 131 ; other references
to, 208; 267, 274 ff., 277 ff.
Tezcucans, 41, 42
Tezcuco, Lake of, 41 ; city of,
41
Tla.chtli, a ball-game, 275 ff.
Tlacopan, 42
Tlazolteotl, queen ofthe Mexican
witches, 58; 130; 132;
character of, 135; festival
of, 135 ff.
Tohil, a god, 249
Tollan, capital of the Toltecs,
20 ; Charnay's excavation of,
21; foundation of, 24; legend
of, 26-35; ruins of, 41
Toltecs, origin and history, 19-
35 ; migrations, 19 ; Brinton
on, 21 ; legend of, 26-35; as
people of Quetzalcoatl, 49;
myths of the, 52 ff.; 59-60
Tonacaciuatl as goddess of
Obsidian cult, 82
Tonalamatl, or Book of Fate :
its invention, 49-50 ; 66;
144:-154; signs of the, 145-
154 ; gods of the, 147-150 ;
used in magic, 181, 265 ff. ;
of the Maya, 222 ff. ; 233
'forquemada, his description of
Mitla, 110 ·
Total, story of, 85 ff.
Tzitzimime, or demons, 116-117
Uactli bird, 118
Uayayeb, 206-207, 224
Uitzilopochtli, god of War, 42 ;
his character, .54 ff.; myths,
55-57;appearance,57;huxnan
sacrifices to, 88
Valum Chivim, the settlement of
Votan, 218
Venus, the planet, its astrological
significance, 155-157 ; 208 ;
225 ff., 234
Visions, how induced, 99
Votan, 218-220, 232
Vukub·Cakix, a giant, his myths,
242 ff.
Witchcraft in Mexico, 129 ff. ;
its resemblance to European,
134-135; the mummy and,
141-142; origin of, 142
Witches, Mexican, 58 ; 129 ff. ;
their customs, 131 ; costume
of, 131-132 ; their meeting·
places, 133; college of in
Huaxtec region, 133-134 ;
dancing of, 136: Azilian
origin of their system, 140-
141
" 'Vizards' :Manual,, 177 ff.
Xalaquia., the festival of the,
46-47
Xamanek, a god, 202, 215
Xbalanque, a mythical hero,
242 ff.
Xelhua, a giant, 120-121
Xibalba, the Underworld, 244 ff.,
253 ff.
Xipe, god of sacrifice, 59 ff.
Xffiucane, a goddess, 243
Xochicalco, ruins of, 40, 41
Xolotl, a god, 275
Xpiyacoc, a. god, 243
Xquiq, the Princess, 245
Zipacna., a giant, 243
Zotz, the bat-god, 207-208
'
