{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__sullivan___psychotherapy_no_1_liverpool_college.pdf","mytitle":"Psychotherapy No 1 Liverpool College","mylang":"de"}
The various forms of treatment by suggestion or
stimulation have been joined under the term Psychotherapy,
but there is much more than this in the treatm ent by
Psychotherapy. Psychotherapy concerns itself with treat
ment of disorders of the mind and this is one of the ends of
the science. But this scientific method of Healing deals also
with alterations of behaviour, phobias, etc.
Psychotherapy does not concern itself with diseases of
the stomach, enteritis or other bodily diseases as distinct from
mental.
rjnted image digitised by the University of Southampton Library Digitisation Unit
X. BP fLl
In the case of bodily diseases we'use the term Psychiatry
and this term must not be confused with Psychotherapy.
Psychotherapy is not a treatment of the mind, but by the
mind. There are Very few Psychotherapists who can cure
directly by mental means but they use the mind of a patient
to effect a cure. Here we find a vast difference and there
are limitations.
(1) The patient may not be stimulated to eke out his reserve
forces to effect a cure.
(2) The patient may have no faith in himself or his physician.
(3) The patient does not wish to be cured.
In the above three cases the practitioner it at a dis
advantage and may find difficulty in seeking to effect a cure,
or he may not effect a cure at all.
W here a practitioner uses mental power direct he has
all the advantages, but this is expert and known only in
experience. The psychotherapeautic practitioner then gives
advise by means of words (suggestions) which involve
physical phenomena just as a man’s behaviour involves move
ments as well as ideas. The physician, who, in order to put
a suggestion into effect, says to his patient “ Take this, it
will do you good,” and gives his patient a placebo (bread pill)
or a capsule of a particular colour, uses a physical cause to
work up to a mental effect.
The question we ask ourselves is—Whether it is possible
to make an exact division between physiological and
psychological functions. The placebo has no physiological
effect upon the organism but the suggestion has upon the
mind which becomes psychological effect.
Neuropathic disorders are the expression of the
activity of the whole organism, its growth, its evolution and
its involution.
Psychology is not independent of physiology but it demands
a more delicate and more profound physiology than that of
the digestion or respiration. The study of mental and
nervous diseases, far from being able to do without
physiological and medical information will more and more
demand a more thorough physiology and medicine. Tretit--
ments of this kind should be included under the head of
psychotherapy. The very application of such forms of treat
ment will require psychological knowledge and methods based
upon psychological laws.
In diseases that do not disturb behaviour it is enough to
give the patient advice, or a prescription, or follow this diet,
go on a holiday, etc. This may not do for certain other
patients. It may not do to tell an hysterical anorexic to eat
more and a psychasthenic who has impulsions to overeat, to
eat less. It is not enough to give such patients advice or to
correct a fault.
Patients who have disorders of intelligence, belief or
will m ust be made to understand such advice, made to accept
it and carry it out. This is something entirely different and
the treatment remains for the most part a problem of
psychology.
The diagnosis of such delicate disorders of the organism,
the choice of treatments, the understanding of the effects of
treatment, cannot be effected except through psychological
studies and by virtue of psychological methods.
To understand such disorders of the organism’s evolution,
it will always be necessary to recognise the phenomena and the
degrees of depression, to study the stimulation brought about
by certain methods of treatment, to recognise it and distinguish
it from excitement, which is always difficult. All this requires
psychological investigation.
Psychology is distinct from physiology and therapeautic
methods are divided accordingly as they demand more of one or
the other.
One practices psychotherapy every time one applies the
laws of psychology.
Psychotherapy is a group of therapeutic processes of all
sorts, physical as well as mental, applicable to physical as well
as mental diseases.
Psychotherapy is an application of psychological science to
the treatment of diseases.
A psychotherapist is one who must necessarily have been
well grounded in physiological and psychological science. He
must be as well acquainted with the physical functions as the
mental and these the colleges seek to prescribe. But the
colleges cannot make a psychotherapist; long practice and
application only can make him that, even though he passes the
mental tests of his college.
