{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__prince_immanuel___red.pdf","mytitle":"Red","mylang":"de"}
Prince Immanuel of Jerusalem.
Ev'n tho* thrice again
The red fool-fury of the Seine
Should pile her barricades with dead.
<V !/
/ ,
t
Tennyson.
6
•
.
I
* C
.
at*
"UP Sw-f-'U
■
€
4
*
0
, 'i ’
f
'
i
P
p
&
r} &■ f
f t ,
y
) •
}A
/
/ ,
/ * ' / l
i
f .
7 /
L
/
’
fp4‘
i
S
vf i^ZA^
# * T 1 ■
\
APOLOGY FOR PROSE
I apologise to "Poets,Pipers,Platers,Jesters and such like Caterpillars of the
Commonwealth" for attempting a play in prosaic prose. I fwas educated in Stephen
Goseon's School of Abuse and am still proud of my Alma Mater despite Philippe
Sidnei1s Apologie for Poetrie.
According to Aristotle the drama should express itself eitherAin poetry,music,
subtle .ieux de mots or ieux d*esprit.(I've got to say it in French,because I
don't know the English for it. Well! life is full of contradictions.) I'm not
a genius and I'm ignorant of the dramatist's art,so have to confihe myself to
every-day language.
Besides,I want people to understand what I'm talking about,I want to make it
as clear as I can.I must,therefore, choose the medium that is most easily under­
stood, so that he who runs may read. O'Flahertie Wilde (Esoterists,please pardon
the disguise !) and Bernard Shaw are understood in drawing-rooms,Wagner by those
who can play him correctly (auditors excepted),Shakespeare is "caviare to the
general" and as blockaded as Russia since Bolshevism wallows in its own caviar.
(How much more embraceable would he be,if he had not laced the corset of blank
verse around his handsome figure!)
My theory id,All the world's not a stage.If it was,the scalpers would soon be
put out of business.So long as the majority of us mortals have to pay their
prices for a seat among the audience, we'll talk prose. I trust you see the point.
I understand certain races did once lisp in numbers.We talk at the top of our
voices in ciphers. Money talks ! Our modern poets are rooters (not to be con­
fused with the English,rotters).
Ofcourse,I do not wish to belittle the Wagnerian Cycle,the Shakespearean Drama,
Lady Windermere's Fan or Mrs. Profession,,
Every dog has his day. It's mine now.
Still, sometimes I'm like others,I want a song or some music or a hymn.Then I'll
call upon a Prima Donna or the Orchestra or Go to Church on Sunday.At other
times a lover,a prophet,a conqueror may intrude temporatily where he's not
wanted.Then,and only then,will I permit poetry to waste half my printing apace
( a piece of extravagance in these days of high cost of paper),for poetry is
sometimes the normal language of intense emotions.
Please accept my apology.
J
(rf &
y r%
J f S !
& >
PERSONS OP THE DRAMA :
Paul Petrovka,25,Russian.
Olga Oranovitch,25,Russian.
Florida Fairbanks,21,
Gerald Grant,25.
German Officers.
German Spy.
Harl Liebknecht,
Rosa Luxembourg.
Lenin.
Trotzky,
Fritz Platzen.
Czar.
0zarina.
Czarevitch.
Czarevnas.
Russian Nobles.
Bolshevik!.
Red Guard.
Russian Soldiers.
Corpse of Rasputin.
PERIOD :
The Great War.
PLACE s
America,Saitaerland,Germany,Russian Trenches,li.raky Prospect in Petrograd
Kremlin in Moscow
,j ACT 1. S©ene 1
.
Thtf^ooast near New York.A mansion at one side.The sea in the background.
Florida Fairbanks looking up at the sky above the sea,At the other side of
the stage Paul Petrovka reading a book.He has a beard and long hair.
Florida: My American eagle ! How brave he is ! Like an eagle he fights his
battles alone,other birds fight in flocks. Soon he will carry me
away on his pinions,up,up,in celestial flight,above the earth,above
the clouds,to some heavenly realm of bliss. How wonderful to be a
bird !
Birds,the free tenants of earth,air,and ocean,
Their forms all symetry,their motions grace;
In plumage delicate and beautiful,
> Thick with burthen,close as fish's scales,
Or loose as full blown poppies on the gale;
With wings that seem as they'd a soul within them,
They bear their owners with sueh sweet enchantment.
Isn't it wonderful to love ! The fulfilment of all our cravings !
Give me but
Something whereunto I may bind my heart,
Something to love,to rest upon,to clasp
Affection; s tendrils round.
What is this love f
It is to be all made of fantasy,
All made of passion,and all of wishes,
All adoration,duty,and observance,
All humbleness,all patience and impatience,
All purity,all trial.
No,it's not that,to me.
Love is a smoke raised with the fume of sighs
Being purged,a fire sparkling in Lover's eyes;
Being vexed,a sea nourished with lover's tears.
What is it else ? a madness most direct,
A choking gall,and a preserving sweet.
No,the poets cannot define it,we must ourselves feel it.Oh ! there
is nothing holier in this life of ours than the first consciousness
of love-— - the first flutterings of its silken wings — the first
rising sound and breath of that wind which is so soon to sweep
through the soul,to purify or to destroy.
(The whirr of a propeller is heard.Both Paul and Florida look towards
one of the wings of the stage.Suddenly Florida screams,and wishes to
dart to one side,but in her excitement she loses her head,and re­
mains on the spot.Paul rushes forward,and drags her away.An aero­
plane appears at one wing of the stage,rushes across,knocks Paul
down,but he is able to push Florida out of reach of the plane.The
aeroplane disappears in the other wing of the stage.)
What has happened ? That was Gerald's plane.Perhaps he's hurt ?
I was fascinated. Oh ! that man saved my life I "
(She runs towards the prostrate form of Paul and kneels beside him.
Enter Gerald Grant.) V ,
, x ;v
' 5
.
Gerald: Are you hurt,Flo ?
Florida: Oh ! Gerald 1 No,I'm only s^gred,but this man ? Is he dead ? Eg
saved me.
(Gerald kneels beside Paul and examines him.)
Gerald: Something happened to the wheel.Thank God you're alright.I'11 never
try to land near you again.
Florida: Is he alive ? Oh Gerald,I hope he's not dead.It'd be terrible.
fhat a wonderful face,it reminds me of Christ.He must be a poet.
Gerald: I can't feel his heart beat. What'll we do ?
Florida: Oh I Take him to the house I I'll get the servants. (She rises
rapidly.) We must fone for a doctor.
Curtain.
4
ACT 1. Scene 2,
Same as in Scene 1
. Fairbanks,Petrovka,Grant.
Florida; What are you looking for ?
Pauls A companion.
Florida: A companion ?
Gerald: If there were any graves here,I'd say you were a medium looking for
a spook.
Paul; Yes,I'm looking for a book.
Florida: But you said a companion.
Paul: The burning soul,the burden'd mind,
In books alone companions find. ;\
Florida: You are a poet? / x *
•
-
'
Paul: A poet ! Ho.But I love books as men.
Books are men of higher stature.
And the only men that speak aloud for future times to hear 1
Without books,God is silent,justice dormant,science stayed,philosophy
lame,letters dumb,and all things involved in Cimmerian darkness,
Gerald: Here's your chum.(He bends and pioks up a book.)
Paul: Thank you.(He takes the book.) Do you wish to see it,Miss Fairbanks ?
Florida: It must be poetry.I love poetry,(She takes the book and reads:)
Looking Backwards by Edward Bellamy.
Paul: It is a poem.The paean of the oppressed chanting their liberation.
Florida: I've read it. It really is beautiful.
Paul: And practical.
Gerald: Practical ! I thought it was merely utopian.
Pauli If it was merely utopian,you Americans would not have organized the
Nationalist Party to develop the methods advocated in Looking Backwards..
You ought to be proud of Bellamy,he was a pure-blooded American.
GerAidJ^Never heard of the Nationalist Party. I'm a Republican.But I expect
■
/it' e O.h.,if i t was organizod in God's own country,
Paul: America certainly is a wonderful country,and I'm proud that I am a
citizen of a country whose president kept ue out of war.But the country
of my birth,Russia,is not the Devil's own country,altho it looks so
at present.We have .aen as great as Bellamy,greater,I believe.Tolstoy
and Bellamy preached practically the same religion,but Tolstoy was a
Greater prophet.I am a Tolstoyan,altho I am an American citizen.
Florida: Please tell me what a Tolstoyan is. I've read his books,but I don't
quite understand what meaning you attach to the word Tolstoyan,
PauL:.Tolstoy says the people are everything,the higher classes nothing.
L
-
r’/^Progress is not synonymous with education.Compulsory education has
been attended with harmful results.Reading and writing play but a small
part in forming a man's mind and fitting him for life.They merely render
him more articulate.The people know what they want,and are thoroly
^» convinced that "in the great question of their spiritual development
~F “
‘ they will neither take a wrong step nor accept that which is false."
I "The people," he affirms,"are stronger,more independent,more just,more
4
^-yhuman,and,above all,more necessary than the upper classes. It is not
j /' they that should come to our schoolsjwe should learn of them." This,
as you see,is akin to the philosophy of Rousseau as- expressed in Egdle.
So even the French have produced their Bellamy.In fact,all nations
have their Looking Backwards.The idea has made a cycle from the ancient
Hebrews to the greatest of modem Hebrews,Theodore Herzl,in his Old
New Land.
Gerald: That sounds like rank Socialism,I.W.tf.ism to me. <7/ .
/
Faul| It is science.
Th© millions of human beings that make up a great, nation are reduced both
for itself and others,to a few thousand men,'who constitute its clear con-'
seiousnoas,and epitomise its social activity in all its aspects,its politics/
its industry,ita commerce,and its intellectual culture.Yet it is those mil­
lions of unknown beings — limited in node and place of existence,quietly
living and quietly passing away — that nalco up ^11 the rest 5 without them
there is nothing*They constitute the inexhaustible reservoir, from which,by
rapid or abrupt selection,a few come to the surface.But those favorites of
talent,power,or wealth themselves enjoy only an ephemeral oxistone©.
Degener­
acy — always fatally inherent in that which rises — will again lower them
or their race,while the ;ilent work of .the ignored millions will continue
to produce others,and to impress upon thorn a distinctive character.
Paul: You apparently do not love the I.W.W.?
Gerald: Love 'em I Yes,I love 'em,like poieon.They're all aliens.A bunch of
agitators.
Paul: Perhaps you are mistaken,Mr.Grant.I know them,and I know they are
mostly red-blooded Americans,As to being agitators,permit me to quote
in this connection the dictum of a very great statesmaa.He says: Fools
talk of agitators,there is but one — injustice.
Gerald: But you will not deny that they stir up discontent ?
Paul: Agitators do not make discontent: they merely give it leadership.Per­
haps if these men had votes,they would not have changed the SociAlist
slogan:"Strike at the ballot-box" into the I.W.W, slogan:"Strike at
the ballot-box with an axe."
Gerald: If they're red-blooded Americans,as you say,why don't they vote?
Every American has a vote.
Paul: To have a vote,you must live in one place for a definite period.The
I.W.W. is disfranchised because his work keeps him continually on the
move.He is not to blame.This floating labor is absolutely essential to
the welfare of the lumber industry,the farming industry,the backbone
of America.Without the I.W.W. the farmers would go out of business,we
should face economic disaster.
Geralds You talk as if you were a Wallaby yourself.
Paul: If you knew your own Qountrymen,Mr.Grant,you would not say so.As I
have told you,I am a Tolstoyan.I am opposed to direct action. I have
learned not to resist evil. The I.W.W. advocate direct action.Altho I
deprecate that part of their program,I cannot be unjust to them.Neither
will I judge them.
Florida: Is that also Toistoyism ?
Paul: Yes,Mi8s Fairbanks.Tolstoy says,"Judge not that ye be not judged" is
a logical result of "Resist not evil." Jesus denied the possibility of
human justice when he asked those who were not guilty to cast the
first stone at the woman taken in adultery.In other words Jesus said,
"You believe that your laws reform criminals;as a matter of fact they
only make more criminals.There is only one way to suppress evil,that is
to return good for evil without respect of persons." Our factories,
culture,art,science,civilization with its prison cells,houses of in­
famy,and state church are all based on violence and coercion in direct
opposition to the principles taught by Christ.
Florida: I see I should have called you a prophet,not a poet. But perhaps
the words are synonymous.The psalms are the most wonderful poems ever
written,I'm told.
Paul) I am only an ordinary working man,a factory hand.On Sundays I come into
the country to worship God by reading a good book.I wish I were a ^
prophet.Wo,I am merely a poor disciple. Sometimes I wish I could go
into the world to preach,but I lack courage,
Florida: I can't bel§&Ye that,in fact I know otherwise,and your appearance
seems to contradict your words. You know,Mr.Petrovka,you look like
Jesus,I really think so.
Paul: You mean like our pictures of Christ,but they are all fantastical,they
7U do not depict the features of a man of suffering.And we know they are
cvy wong.Saint Clement of Alexandria said, "Jesus had no beauty of face;
His person had no physical attractions;He only possessed beauty of
soul,which is the true beauty." Saint Irenaeus,a disciple of Saint
Polycarp,who was a disciple of Saint John, said that his master had
often heard the beloved disciple say that the hair of Jesus had already
turned white when He began His mission.That is my picture of Jesus,a
man of suffering.
6
Florida? I never heard that before.lt ie contrary to our accepted representa­
tions of the Saviour,but I see you are right,Mr.Petrovka.You seem
always to be right,and right in opposition to what we thought right.
(A train whittle is heard.)
Paul? I must go now,Miss Fairbanks,or I'll miss ay last train back to New
York. You have been very kiuhd to me,and I thank you.
Florida? Oh l you surely must not go just Jet?But you'll eome again,won't you,
Mr.Petrovka ? Next Sunday,or perhaps you can come Saturday afternoon,
and stay over ? Please don't thank me,you make me feel asajijaed of
myself,I should thank you.lho knows what might have happened to me,
if you had not risked your life for me ? Please promise to come .
Paul: I was about to ask you if you would object to my coming to the cliffs
again.The cliffs and the waves are very beautiful here.It was more than
I had hoped for to again have the opportunity of talking to you.I will
wait impatiently for next Sunday.
Florida: Saturday l
Curtain.
7
Sea 1. o f AX3^0t|aeaft. it s e lf -the immense
Aug&oiioip/ttMW?
$$n<em§ the feedveas in th eirW i^ i® W®; I
fhat awif&l gfgndeu* reminds thy hfary spaceJ
Thy, forge %yp world’s eternal earring swesps,
A^^Go^*®,.t|W »e rests on thy saleable dd?jps«
Gerald? Yah I
' and ability >
doesn’
t go hash‘0b-pu|sSe-.Ska, believe:in
war.YofUw o u l d n ' t **'Af f X W , W H ;
hf^'yeu'
in the j
a
w
,
.
.
.
.
See what'
an e|WWWjjr,Jgtffit W e there riW:'W^r^?&^lliena
are being killed in uaeleaa atoWttf*!^ X W S®
at.
onee^Sesms to-
a
m'
i
t
Ia-
. t o Vahawer^your-dOmtfyi'd''eall.
paul‘ 1 ta~ ,<tie " 1
Gerald; v
il, jpea4if;.|eu.w ant to jgo.I 11 'flat i t for you.You
Seltzerland and Austria,and a free':pasaage.Hem about it l
.
Paul? I'm to you,Mr.Grant.
To tell the truth,! never expected
Geraldi.
.kept t
i
l
s o
U
t
'
'
:
"d#'wWis; .
a
?I f a W W # so■r’
ye ,got’
;
;
'
t
o■
.he like the Irishmen,
"aginthe government„
wt
T
i11 you take my offer ?
Paul? Y®8,surely*as you said.it1s my duty.
Gerald: And,! .a^^leaae don’t ,
let on how you got your passage and passport,
don’
t evaa teil Miss Pairbanks.It’s a iatate secret,get n
i
e ?
Paid? I understand your desire to keep your philanthropy unknown.lt*s very
laudable,Hr.Grant,and I appreciate your generosity the more for it.
(They wialk towdrds the house*)
Curtain.
9
AOT 2. Seen© 1.
Switzerland. A meeting of Boleheviki in the room of Olga Oranovitch.Present:
Paul Petrovka,01ga Oranovitch,Karl liebknecht,Roea Luxembourg,Lenin,Trotzky,
Fritz Platzen,and several others.
Platzen: I have a proposition to make on behalf of the Kaiser.As you know
I am a Prussian official,and you may rely on my word when I tell
Liebknecht: What is the price ? The Haiser gives nothing for nothing.
Platzen: When we have gained control of the government,we must make peace
Liebknecht: And thus enable her to crush the West and then turn on the East.
Platzen: I have the Kaiser's word that he has no designs on Russia.
Luxembourg: A scrap of paper.
Platzen: He wants only economic advantages for the money and aid given us,
raw material,laborers....
Liebknecht: Soldiers,whom his satraps will impressjprovinces,which his peace
Lenin: Well,what is your advice ?
Liebknecht: Don't trust the Kaiser.
Trotzky: I learned in America that politics is to take what you can get.
Oranovitch: That's what they call in France an Opportunist.
Petrovka: That seems to be the way out of our dilemma.Let us pay unto Caesar
Trotzky: We will agree to any terms the Kaiser imposes.
Liebknecht: And take my advice,tear them up when you get in the saddle,or
you'll feel the bit in your own mouths,the spurs in your own flanks.
Lenin: Comrades,vote ! Against ? None ! Foe 1 All l
you that the arrangements I am going to disclose have already
been sanctioned.Three hundred of us are to be given a special
train across Germany to Russia.We will be supplied with funds,
and all the German sympathizers in Petrograd will aid us to over­
throw the government.
immediately with Germany.
treaty backed by occupation will wrest from you* a Prussian prince
on the throne of the Czar.
what is Caesar1s,provided we are enabled to stop this bloodshed.
No price is too dear.Then through the Social Democrats we may per­
haps be able to undermine the morale of the German soldiers.
Platzen: Make ready ! Tomorrow we'll go.
Ourtain.
AOT 2. Scene 2.
Same room, Olga Oranovitch and a German Spy.
Spy:
Olga:
Spy*
Spy:
Did you hear Liebknecht,Luxembourg,and that fellow Petrovka ? We'll
shoot the three of them,as soon as we get them across the frontier.
I understand Petrovka is an American citizen.
Then we%$ intern him.
But we're not at war with America yet.
We'll find some way.We won't let him pommunieate with the American
consul..It's just as good as war already.They're supplying our enemies
with powder and shot,they1
vs helped murder our br-aye soldiers and starve
our innocent children,,Here's your passport vis&.It's no use staging
here any longer.I'm going back to Beskin at onee.Auf wiedershhen I
Auf Wledersehen I (EjcLt 2py,)
I pity Paul,but what can X do f He's so obstinate ! I'd like to warn
him,he*s not one of them.But he's blind,and insensible,the first man
that 'is s&aeU'&i^ # # I -
n
o
..longer a
woman ? (she looks in the mlrros,rq^ s up her sleeve and caresses her
arm,lifts her skirt
. cnA^aAierfes hersalfS) I wonder if he is naturally
,or if he only forces himself to act so ? Some religious
perversion I There's plenty of them in Russia,just as there are of
the ether kind.Perhaps I would have been like him,if they hadn't given
me the Yellow Ticket.Who knows ? I've asked him, to come here and say
Good-bye.I*11 try him again.No man has ever...
. (The door opens and
Petrovka enters* He is embarrassed.)
I beg your pardon.I am intruding.
No,you are not.Please lofek the door,and come and sit next to me.l've
much to tell you.... Take this chair and don't speak too loud,Walls
have ears,... Paul,Why don't you like me ?
Paul: Why don't I like you ? But,I do like you,Olga. Why do you talk so
silly ?(She puts her bare arm round his neck.)
I mean more than like,Paul.
But I can't marry you,Olga.
I don't mean that,Paul, You're so stupid.
If things were different,I could,take a wife,It would be a sib now,
for I could not be sure that I would be able to give her a riof and
bread,or that circumstances would not compel me to leave her.You know
what Tolstoy says is the second commandment of Jesus :
"Thou shalt not be united physically to any woman except the one whom
L^s^thou hast AngMor originally known sexually.You commit a sin if yon ever
abandon that woman.Marriage is marriage,whether there have or have not
been any legal or ecclesiastical fpmalities, once there has been phy­
sical union*"
Olga:
Paul:
Olga:
Paul:
Olga: But,Paul,we would not be separated for ever.One day I would come to
you for good. 4*She caresses his hair.)
Paul: Let i
t
s Wait for that day,01ga,Let us bring peace to the world first,
then happiness to ourselves. (She is silent in thought.)
Olga: You cannot gotthrough Germany,you must stay here.They will arrest you.
Paul: Arrest me,after P^atzen's promise T Who told you ?
Olga: Don't speak so loud,Paul.I heard it,I know.You oan't go.
Paul: Then I'll go through Austria.
Olga: It will be the same.
Paul: I'll reach Russia through Archangel.I'll go to England... But.... but
where will I get the money ?.....I've my arms still.I'll work.
Olga: Will nothing stop you ?
Paul: Death will stop me.
Olga: Then I'll give you the money,
Paul: No !
f
f
l
l
g
a
: S'11 lend it you.
Paul: No !
Olga: Then I'll help you to go through Germany,
Paul: How can you do thfrt ?
Olga: A woman can do anything.I'11 give you my passport.
Paul: What use will that be ? Y0u're a woman.
Olga: You'll take off your beard,and disguise yourself in my clothes.You1
re
my height,your eyes are the same oolor as mine,you wear your hair just
the same as I do.
Paul* But what will you do ?
Olgas I'll stay here.But we'll have to make the change at once,and right
here.If you go to a barber,you'11 be watched.I've a scissors and de­
pilatory in my bag.Take off your coat and collar. (While he removes
his coat,vest,and eollar,she takes off her waist and drops her skirt.)
Paul: Isn't there another room ?
Olga: No,stay here,Paul,and don't waste any time arguing, (she removes her
shoes.)
Curtain.
12
roam, of W e psavious seen? haw been disguised.Several German
* e i 8 ^ i ^ W e '
'
‘
German Spy,Liebknecht,Luxembourg,Paul Fetrovka.
Officer: You Liebkneelii and Luxembourg are charged with plotting against.
the Fatherlai^lAYou will be tried for treason,and I hope you'll be
ahot.Haveyou anything to say ?
Liebknecht* There ie only one form of treason,that is treason against the
people.I have always been loyal to them! W e rest doesn't matter.
Luxembourg* ! will die like a mother giving birth to a child.You cannot
A ‘ *
' seed.
,
p
f woman is Imports!,it will lire to
Officer*
did;you come into possession
-
U
n
.\I
j
L
j7
f L j .
OUTg
earth o^ yoU smd'
,
y
f
u
r cafte.
sow ! And you,Petrovka,you are charged with travelling
Germany bn a false
of thls paper ?
Patil* I stole it*
Officer'! ^ ^ ip l yotf'steal a passport,when yeu were granted permission to
travel through Germany on your own ?
JPaul: I wanted to remain in Germany,
’
« my business.
Spy* To undermine the morale of German soldiers.I heard you in Switzerland,
and Olga Orshoyitoh will soon be here to corroborate my words.
Paul* Is she also a German spy ?
Officer* She is a faithful servant of the Fatherland ? Have you anything to
-
^ r- \ . ■
' :
K
:
" ;
Paul* £ have said too much.
(Enter Olga Oranoviteh.)
Officer* Pray be seated,Fraulein Oranoviteh.This man has just confessed
Wat he stole your passport for the purpose of remaining in Germany.
How did he obtain possession of your clothes ?
Olga:He took them by force after he had gagged me.
Officer* I understand that he'Wished to remain in Germany so that he might
attempt the subversion of our army.
Olga* I heard him express that desire.
Officer* Have, you anything to say ?
Paul* Nothing. If I were a Hebrew I should thank God for not making me a
woman.
Officer: Take them away l
(All exeunt except the Chief Officer and Olga Oranoviteh.)
Olga* Herr Lieutenant,I should like to see this man Petrovka alone.I think
— I could glean something of his plans.1 have reason to believe that he
knows a great deal about our enemies in America.
Officer* % can refuse you nothing,FrauleW.I will give you a pass.
Olga* Thank you,Herr Lieutenant I
Curtain.
AOT 2. Seene 4.
The previous room has been disguised.Paul Petrovka.
Paul: And I trusted her. What a fool I was,to think that I could turn the
current of a woman’s will.She sfc&d she loved me,and I believed her.
How could I beleive a woman who has no religion ! How could she tell
the truth 1 A man without religion is to be pitied,but a Godless woman
is a horror above all things.... Then I discover that she is nothing
but a common Prussian epy.If it were not for that,I might forgive her,
for the sake of her love,if she really does love me.
"Heav'n has no rage like love to hatred tumid,
No hell a fury like a woman scorn’
d*"
But a spy,in the hire of her country's enemies !,... And what is to
become of me ? What of my dream to enter Russia as an apostle of peace !
I was too presumptuous.lt is only within the power of the Almighty.0
God,give the earth peace.Let Isaiah’s words be fulfilled."They shall
beat their swords into ploughshares,and their spears into pruning-
forks,nation shall not lift up swfcord against nation,neither shall they
learn war any more*" Banish avarice,ambition,envy,anger,and pride,the
enemies of peace;and let in their place come equality,content,joy,
love,and meekness ! And tho I have failed,judge me not by the deed
but by the will.Deprive me not of thy blessing. "Blessed are the peace­
makers, for they shall be called the children of God !B
(Enter Olga Oranoviteh.)
Olgas Paul,can you forgive me ? I never expected they would discover you.
I never thought that that Prussian spy would travel nn your train.
Pauls Prussian spy I What are you ?
Olga: You are right,Paul,but they have promised to give Russia liberty.
Pauls The liberty they gave Liebknecht and Luxembourg.
Olgas But they will be freed as soon as peace is declared.
Paul: Then they will be dead,shot by traitors.You are not the only traitor
to the people.Prussia will treat us as it treats its own martyrs.lt
is only a Prussian trick,any fool can see through it.
Olgas Paul,I did not betray you.
Pauls That is why you lied to the Prussian officer.
Olgas You also lied.
Pauls I lied to shield you.
Olga: And I lied to shield you.
Pauls You lied to me in Switzerland,when you said you would remain there.
Olgas I thought I would remain there.lt was only when I heard that you had
been detained,that I came,to save you.
Pauls Another beautiful lie i
Olgas Do you think I would have come into Germany,to risk death,if I did not
love you ? I did not know that you would say that you had stolen my
passpprt.I came to take the blame,to exonerate you.
Pauls Then why didn't you ?
OlgasBecause my woman's intuition showed me a way of escape.
Pauls Yes,a woman can do anything.
Olgas You have reason to sneer,Paul,but I will prove to you that I have be­
trayed neither you nor my people.
Pauls Prove it to the people.
Olgas If you will only agree to my plan,we will both get into Russia.I'll
tell the officer that you are a pacifist,that you can do more good to
Bermany,if they let you through the German lines into the Russian
trenches,than if they kept you in Gertnany.l'll say you've promised to
try and persuade Russian soldiers to desert,and i'll go with you,Paul.
You'll see whether I've betrayed the Russian people.
Curtain. 14.
ACT 5« Scene 1
.
Russian trenches,paraphernalia o4 war. A grot?) of Russian soldiers,Paul
Petrovka,01ga Oranovitch.
A Soldier: If we had only had ammunition,we could have marched to Berlin.
Now we must again stick on the defensive.Great God,how could they
send us the wrong**sized shellIs,and allow us to bb murdered 1
Paul: You were murdered with those very shells.
Soldier: that do you say ?
Paul: Those shells were made in Russia,to fit German Qannon,and not to fit
Russian cannon.They knew you had no ammunition when they charged you.
But they found ammunition ready for their guns,the ammunition you had
left behind as useless.I heard it all in the German camp.
Soldier: It cannot be.Such treason,no,I won't believe it.No Russian would
be guilty of it.
Paul: That was not the only act of treason.You were led ihto a trap at the
Masurian Lakes.You were betrayed by Germans and Russians at the Russian
Court,and they it was who prevented help from reaching you.These trai­
tors removed the Grand Duke Nicholas,and placed traitors in his stead.
I heard it all in the German camp.
Soldier: It's a lie I The Little Father wouldn't send us to the shambles
like cattle.
Olga: Not the Little Father,but the Little Mother and her Rasputin.While
they are starving in Russia,the German armies are eating Russian bread.
Libau was stocked to overflowing with food and then surr^njisd by traitors
to the Prussians.Ihile the working men in Petrograd are striking for a
crust of blaek bread,caravans of white flour are being smuggled through
Austria into Germany.I heard it all in the German camp.
> Soldier: Why should the Czarina and Rasputin sell us to Prussia ?
Paul: Russia is honeycombed with German spies.They have bought Rasputin with
their women,and surrounded the Czar and Cxarina with enemies of the
peopbe.They tell her that if the Russians conquer the Germans,Germany
will be ruled by the S&cial Democrats,that democracy will spread to
Rus8ia,and that will mean the end of the dynasty.She had Grand Duke
Nicholas removed,the only leader that Russia could trust.Now you are
led by traitors.Better return to your homesAto save your wives and
children from starvation,to rid Russia of Traitors.
Soldier: Perhaps what you say is true,but it would be treason to desert.We
must stay,but we will watch our officers.
Paul: What will you gain by rejoining ? You will never be permitted to see
victory.And the people at home are being told that you are opposed to
tgera,be£qnse they are striking for bread.What else can they do ? They
ask only for bread;if it is given them,they promise to go back to work.
Men cannot work when they are starving.They ask that the traitors be
punished.What answer do they receive ? If you don't go back to work,
the armies will be recalled to shoot you down.Thus the Russian Court
is sowing enmity between the army and the people.It's not the people's
fault that you were supplied with ammunition fitted only for German
cannon.They starved to make what their superiors told them to make.
Soldier: Go and tell them the Russian army will never fire on the Russian
people.
Paul: Why should there be a Russian army at all ? What does the greatest
of all Russians,Tolstoy,say ? He says Christ's fifth commandment is,
"You have heard it sa&dlaid down of old that you must love those of
your own race and hate foreigners,but I say to you, love every one
1
5
without distinction of nationality."
Soldiers That is not patriotism.
Pauls Tolstoy knows it is hard for you to conceive this,but he teaches that
what is thought noble and grand — love of country,defence of one's
own country,its glory,fighting against one's country's enemies — is
not only an infraction of the law of Christ but directly denounced by
him.
Soldier* Where did Christ denounce war ?
Paul: Jesus did not forsee that men who believed in his doctrine of love
and fraternity would ever murder each other with premeditation,so
he did not in so many words forbid war.But what is his first command*
ment ? "Live in peace with all men." Thue Tolstoy interprets the words,
"Ye have heard it ever said by the men of old-time that thou shalt not
kill and that whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment,
but I say unto you whosoever is an^y with his brother shall be in
danger of the judgment." ^
Soldiers The priests pray for the destruction of our enemies.
Pauls Tolstoy was a devout churchman until he heard the priests during the
RussoyTurkish war pray for the destruction of the enemy,asking God
to help the Russians kill the Turks by the hundred thousand,then he
renouhoed the Gburch.He says the key to the Sermon on the Mount is
"Resist not evil." This means that we should not only never repay
evil with evil but that we should not oppose it with physical force.
When the churches approve armies,they act contray to Christ's teaching.
But the truth is,all so-called Christian society is actually based on
a denial of the truth of Christ's injunction not to resist evil.
Soldiers It seems true,but what are we to do ?
Pauls Tell the German armies opposite-t® you that you are not fighting the
German people,and they will refuse to attack you.What gain will either
of you derive from this wholesale murder ? I know the German workers
do not wish to fight the Russian workers.They are as tired of the war
as you are.They also desire to go home to their wives and children.
They are fighting the battles of their rulers,as you are fighting the
battles of your rulers,traitorous rulers.This is not a war of the
people.Nothing can be gained by this bloodshed,it will only enslave
the people more,give more power to their despots,thrust back farther
the dawn of the people's liberation.Stop this useless slaughter l He
who takes the sword will die by the sword l
Soldier* I believe you,brother.Go back home and tell the people we are with
them.Let them rid Russia of traitors.The Russian army is against the
German army,not against the Russian people,not even againt the German
people.We know the peoples of the world do not want to slaughter each
other.Send us our orders form the people,and we will lay down our arms.
Curtain.
16
AGT J. Beene: 2.
PiJ^apwt^Petfsograd^A gruup of Bolshevik!
ie guns on the tops of the houses around.
the people.
Paul Petrovka* Comrades,
<
I bring you a message from our Russian brothers in
the t^s*^hesMl?bey ere with you bocfeaud soUX.lt is a base lie,that they
are wii’
lpag to turn their guns against you*They will never aim their
weapons at a Russian breast.Aad the Cossacks here,who were brought to
e you,neither will they help to slaughter Russians*! have
me,ew»rn by the blessed;mpuaids of the
Lord,that no C0ssaek will quench his sword in your bioedvThey know your
demands are just,they see that you are starving,and that yeur strike is
for bread,only bread,black RhsMsn bread,,to feed your wives and your
Comrades,while you are dying for black bread,the Germans are eating
I khow it,I saw it with my own eyes. (Cries of treason.)
Comrades,while those machine guns are being pointed at you,to
slaughter you with bullets east in Russia,your brothers in the trenchs
are being slaughtered by shells cast in Russia, shells that were made
just a little, toe big for Russian oamnon,but exactly the right size
for German cannon.I know it,I saw it with my own eyes. (Cries of
Treaeoh*)
But let us not place our trust in bullets and shells,let us trust
in God.lith our bare arms let us demand bread,black bread,and pease.
Rot war,not violence,but love,and peace I
Comrades,you see those men in Khaki behind the machine guns,they are
nor Russian soldiers,they are secret police,disguised in uniforms,to
deceive you,to make you believe the Russian army is ready to slaughter
you.I know it,I saw it with my own eyes. (The populace look up and
shake their fists, shouting,Treason ! The machine guns open fire.The
people fall and seatter.Suddenly a company of Cossacks appears. Paul
is wounded,but he cries out:)
The sectet police have murdered the people 1
A Cossack leader shouts: They have disgraced the name of the Russian army I
Charge the machine guns I Let us join the revolution 1 Long live the
le I
Some of the Cossacks run into the houses to get the gunners,others
help the wounded.Suddenly a red flag appears,and Fritz P^atzen springs
on to the platform.)
Platzens T proclaim the Dictatorship of the Froletariat.Now is the time for
force,not love.Do not be fooled by pacifists,socialists,menshiviks.
Only we,the cemmunist6*eaa liberate the people.We spurn the half­
heartedness,hypocrisy and oo-operation of the decadent official Socialist
parties^w®,the Oommunists^ifiks^saai^^fesfldMbe the direct successors
of the heroic efforts and martyrdom of a long series of revolutionary
generations from Baboeuf to Karl Liebkneeht and Rosa Luxembourg.
Proletarisns of all lands I In the war against imperialistic barbarity,
against monarchy,against the privileged classes,against the bourgeois
state and bhnrgeois property,against all forms and varieties of social
and national oppression — Unite I
l
Cheers'and Curtain.
1
7
.
ACT 5. Scene 5
The Nevsky Prospect. The Bolshevik!.
Lenin: We must execute every member of the imperial family.They are plotting
to overthrow the government of the people.The Czar has ordered the
Soma to dissolve.
Paul: It will be murder.
Lenin: They did it in FRance.Cromwell did it in England.
Paul: That is why England is a monaeehy today.
Olga: But France is not a monarchy.
Trotzky: England would not be a monarchy today,it it had guarded against
foreign monarchies.We must have an army of the people,or foreign
monarchies will thrust a Ozar upon us again.Even France^and America,
the great republics of the modern world,will not sympatize with us.
They are railed by plutocrats who will finale our reactionaries to
destroy us.The abolition of plutocracy,aristocracy in Russia will
react on England,France,America,and they will be against us.
Paul: He who sheds man's blood by man shall hi& blood be shed.Jesus would
not sanction it.
Trotzky: That is why Jesus was crucified.
Paul: But his death made his religion eternal.
Trotzky: If people were Christians,Christian peoples would not be slaughtering
each <3fcher.His religion was crucified with him.Your Christian England,
your Christian America will send their troops to slaughter us,because
we wish to obey Christ's injunction and make peace with Germany.
Paul: A reign of terror will only turn them more against us.
Lenin: He who is not with us is against us.
Trotzky:You did not learn in C
, ristain America to turn the other cheek.There
every man is for himself,and the Devil take the hindmost.The police
protect the property of the employers,not the demands of the employees-
Didn't they use the troops to kill the/J^frigers ? What did our police
do here 1 Shot us down with machine guns. If we have not the military
force to protect ourselves against armed enemies,if we have not the
police force to execute our law as it does the capitalist law in your
Christain countries,we might as well get hammer and nails and hang ^
ourselves to the cross.. ( ,)
Paul: I would rather die than kill. ®
Lenin: My friend,you speak for yourself.One man can die for a people,but if
we do not follow Comrade Trotzk^is advice,all the people will perish
for nothing.And did not Christ say that he f§d brought a sword inpo
the world ? We must wield that;sword in self-defence or commit suicide.
And remember we have both the same end ih view — economic equality.
You agree with me there,do you not,Comrade ?
Paul: We are at one there,that is Christ's teaching,to divide everything with
the poor.It is Tolstoy's religion.I object to the means.
Trotzky: The end justifies the means.
Do not let us quarrel,Comrades,Now is the time to submerge our little
differences for the communistic good.Comrade Petrovka,the Soviet of
the People have decided to honor you with a great mission,to the
Czar in Moscow.Here is the treaty of peaee with Germany.Go to the
Czar,and in the name of the people,demand h«js signature,... There
may be danger,you will be placing your head in the lion's jaws.If,
therefoee,you would rather not go,tell us frankly,and we will send
another.Your services to the people have been valuable,and we can
employ you elsewhere.Yet it would be fitting that you fulfil this
mission,for the people appropiately call you the Apostle of Peace.
Comrade,let us hear your answer.
I will go. (Cheers.)
Curtain. 18.
ACT 2. Scene 4.
h flaxen in the Kremlin* The Czar,Czarina,the Czarevitch,Czar-
l
a
f
c
,ahd^i^bles.
A nobles Your Majesty,there is an envoy of the Bolsheviki without*,He desires
auMUnpe.The Kfjf Shard, accompany him,and they will not be denied.
Czarina: X would not receive Mm.Bid we not command the Buna to dissolve ?
Noble: Tour Majesty,the Duma has refused to dissolve,It says it was elected
by the people,and can be recalled by the people only.
Czarina: The sChm 1
Czars Must wegjrant him audience ?
Nobles Your Majesty,the Red Guard will force their way in,we cannot keep thorn
out.The l&perlal Guard are fraternizing with them.
Czars Then let him deliver his message,
Ozsrinas And bring my faithful Rasputin to me.
(Exit Noble.)
Czarevitch: Father,J am trembling*Something terrible is going to happen to
us*Let'us go away.i don’
t want to be’CUar.LUt &s go tie'some'
other country,to England,then I can get well and be happy with
othbf children.Tell him the Duma can rule Russia,and we will
go away.
(Enter Noble accompanied by Paul Petrovka,and followed by the
Red Suard.Paul1s arm is bandaged,he bends very lew,but is
ailent*)
bbles Your Majesty,this is Paul Petrovka,the envoy of the Bolsheriki.He
has a document which the peoie pray your Majesty will graciously
deigh to sign*(The Noble tak'&s the document and hands it to the
Czar who reads it while his hands tremble.)
I cannot sign this,it would bo treason to my Allies.I have promised
to support, them to the end*I cannot make peace with Germany,until my
_ Allies make pe&oe.Tell the people,I cannot sign it.
Paul: Your Majesty,the Russian people desire peace,they are starving and
weary of the war.They believe if Russia makes peace,all the other
nations will be compelled to make peace.They believe that God will
not allow the Kaiser to subdue Russia or any other European power,
tberefofe it is unnecessary to continue the war.We know that God will
destroy the Kaiser and frustrate his devlish plans.The Russian people
are willing to place their destiny in the hands of Providence*In the
name of the Russian people,! beseech your Majesty to give Russia peace.
Czarevitch: Father,sigh it.Se many people have been killed ^ y e adv.and they
are dying by thousands of starvation and diaeaee.Tell M m you will make”
peace.
Czarina: That is not an affair for a child to decide.Let the Ozar of all the j a
A?
Ruasias tell his subjecta his will.Where is my loyal servant Rasputin ?
I commanded you to bring him hither.
Noble: Your Majesty,the guard are searching him in the garden. ^
Czar:. If the Russian peoJAe desire peace,I cannot prevent it.B&fc I will not
sign this paper,it would be t^Lson.I will abdicate.Let the people make „
peace.Tell the people my will.1 will abdieate. erT.
(Suddenly a number of guards appear,dragging the bloody body of Ras-
putin.They all stare in horror*)
A Guard: Your Majesty desired the presence of your faithful servant,Rasputin."
Hare is the traitor,Rasputin.What is your Majesty’s pleasure of him ?
Czar: Who has done this ?
Czareviteh: Father I rahier i (The Czarevnas cover their faces.)
1
9
Czarinas The Russian people ! Canaille ! Cowards !
A Guards Canaille ! Cowards ! For ridding Russia of a traitor ? Comrades,
are we canaille,cowards ?
The Red Guards No ! No ! They're the traitors.Treat them as Rasputin l Down
with the Czar ! Long live the people ! Shoot them ! Shoot them l
(The imperial family huddle together in fear, surrounded by the
nobles.The Red Guard shoulder their rifles.Paul walks towards the
imperial group,turns and faces the Red Guard with his hands held up.)
Pauls Would you murder innocent children ?
A Guards Haven't our children been murdered by these traitors ? Shoot,
comrades,shoot I (He fires his revolver,and the Red Guard shoot,until
al1 drop,including Paul.)
Curtain.
20
ACT 4, Scene 1*
O
'
c
America. Same scenery as in Act 1
.
Florida: What is the worst of woes that wait on age ?
What stamps the wrinkle deeper on the brow ?
To view each lov'd one blotted from life's page,
And be alone on earth aa-Xjam now.
I wonder why I feel sg5^Lonesoi$&,so desolate today ? Geriid is com-
— "Tng to say Gk>od-byer.Perhaps~l shall never see him again.Then I have
never heard from Paul.He promised tojrite.Perhaps he has written
and I never received his 1etters<H^dly>e5iybne gets mail from Europe 0 /
7
,
nowadays.Perhaps something has happened to him.Oh,isn't it terrible u
to feel so alone in the world ! And there must be millions of others
who feel like me today,mothers,sisters,daughters,sweethearts who
have lost the only man they lived for.Paul was right,I feel it now.
War,cursed war,that robs us of all we love l
Were half the power that fills the world with terror,O
Were half the wealth bestow'd on camps and courts,
Given to redeem the human mindfs£" error, ^
There were no need for arsenals nor forts. /
The warrior's name would be a name abhorr'd,
And every nation that should lift again i
Its hand against a brother,on its forehead
Should wear forever more the cursee of Cain.
(Enter Gerald Grant in aviator's uniform.) v
Gerald{ Poetry again 1 Always communihg with the poets instead of with us
prosaio mortals.Perhaps if you had not become enamoured of them,
you might have learned to understand the prose of those who love
you.I envy them their muse.If I had only been bom a poet ! Then <
perhaps I could have told you what I feel as Shakespeare describes
my feelings at the present moment. ^
If I depart from thee,I cannot live? j
And in thy sight to die,what were it else
But like a pleasant slumber in thy f»ap ? ' i
,
Q
To die by thee,were but to die in jest. ^
From thee to die,were torture more than death.
Florida? Why Gerald,that's quite wonderful of you lWhen did you begin to
read Shakespeare ? It makes me feel quite good towards you.
Gerald} Sorry I don't know any more than.But I'll promise to read poetry
till the end of my life,if you'll only feel good towards me again.
Florida: I almost feel inclined to call it a bargain,for your sake.You don't
know what you miss in life by failing to read the great poets,
especially Shakespeare.
Gerald: Flo,perhaps you're right,no,l'm sure you are,but how do you expect
me to understand them,if you won't read them with me.Oome,Flo,let's
make a trade ! When I get back,I'll come ahd read poetry at your
feet.That'll be something to come back for,otherwise,what1s the use?
Might as well fertilize the poppies in Flanders
Florida: Don't talk like that,Gerald.You'11 come back again alright,perhaps
with a poppy of Flanders on your arm.There's plenty of pretty girls
over there,and you're not half a bad sort of chap,when you put
yourself out to please us.
Gerald: Flo,you make me feel reckless when you talk in that flippant way.
You know there s only one woman in the wrld for me,and she's in
America,right here.CsAit you forgive me ?Let's make it up,Flo *
i
21
I'm going i|n a couple of days,and who knows if i'll ever come back
again*Haven't I done everything in my power to show you that I was
a fool ? I've tried to make amends.Won't you forgive me,Flo ?
Florida* I've forgiven you long since,Gerald. (He seizes her-glands.)
Gerlld* Flo,can't you make it more than mere forgiveness ? ^
Florida* I don't know,Gerald.
Geralds I know,you can,you will. (With some hesitaney he puts his arms
round her,and she permits her head to fall on his shoulder.)
I knew you'd do it,Flo;l mean forgive me.(He raises her head and
kisses her lips.)
Florida* l'm almost sorry you're going now Gerald.Just when you've come back
to me,you've got to go away.
Gerald* I've got a hunch,Flo. i'll tell you,if you promise not to get mad.
Florida* What is it ?
Gerald: Will you promise ?
Florida* Yes,I promise.
Gerald: Well,you know what a bunch of fellows who're going across are doing ?
Florida: Ho,what are they doing ?
Geralds Well,I don't exactly mean the fellows,it's really their girls,who're
doing it for them.
Florida* I'll do anything the other girls are doing for the men.
Ger&ftd* You will ?
Florida* Ofcourse I will,but you're making me quite curious.Tell me what it
is.
Gerald1 You promise ?
Florida: I promise.
Geralds They're.... they're.... becoming war brides.
Florida* Oh l I didn't think of that.That's taking a mean advantage.
Gerald: You said you wouldn't get mad,Flo.
Florida* I'm not mad.
Gerald: And.... and you promised.
Florida* Did I ?
Gerald* And I'm going....going to hold you to it. (He folds her in his
arms. While he is holding her,he sees approaching Paul Petrovka( his
beard has grown) and Olga Oranovitch. He stares in amazement,then
suddenly hurts outs)
Holy smokes,by all the imps of Hell,Whiskers ! (Florida disengages
herself.) But,thank God,he's got a woman wi#h him 1 (Florida in
surprise looks at the approaching couple,then in confusion at
Gerald.)
How the devil did you get here,Petrovka ? I thought you were in
Russia.
Paul* Permit me to introduce my friend,Miss Oranovitch.
Gerald* (Aside.) Damn him !
Paul* Miss Fairbanks ! Mr.Grant 1 I left Russia because after we had made
peace with Germany,the B0lsheviki began to arm again,and not only that,
they also instituted a Red Terror.When I left Russia,America was at
peace with the world,when I reached America,you had also entered the
war,and I might as well have remained in Russia.
Geralds We had to enter the war,because Russia betrayed her Allies and made
a cowardly peace with Germany.
Paul* A cowardly peace ! Do I understand you correctly,Mr.Grant 7
Gerald* Yes,I said a cowardly peace.
Paul* But did you not send me to Russia to work for peace,Mr.Graht ?
Florida: Send you to Russia ?
Pauls Yes,Miss Fairbanks.Mr.Grant generously furnished me with passports
and a free passage,otherwise I would not have been able to go.
2 2 .
ACT 4, Scene 2.
The front part of the sitge represents an office in New York.There is
a sign : Draft Board. The back part of the stage remains the same as in
Scene 1,to facilitate the change to Scene 4. Three men form the Eraft Board
of whom one is Gerald Grant. Paul Petrovka,01ga Oranovitdh,and several other
persona.
Gerald: As you're an American citizen,you'11 have to do your share like the
rest of us.
Paul: But I am opposed to war.You know I am.I claim exemption on religious
grounds.
Gerald: Do you belong to any recognized religious body that preaches pacif­
ism as part of its doctrine ?
Paul: No,I do not,but as you have recognized this plea in the case of Quakers,
you cannot ignore it in my case.
Gerald: The law says you must belong to some established body. Anyone could
come along and claim to be a conscientious objector,and we'd have
to exempt him.Germany sent her conscientious objectors into the
trenches.
Paul: So America will imitate Germany.But as you go there for a precedent,
let me tell you what the greatest German,Luther,said about war :
n
,
War is one of the greatest plagues that can afflict humanity*it des­
troys religionjit destroys States;it destroys families.Any scourge is,
in fact,preferable to it,Famine and pestilence become as nothing in
comparison with it.Pestilence is the least evil of the three,and 'twas
therefore David chose it,willing% rather to fall into the hands of
God,than into those of pitiless men.
"Cannon and fire-arms are cruel and damnable machines.X believe them
to have been the direct suggestion of the devil.Against the flying
ball no valor avails,the soldier is dead ere he sees the means of his
destruction.If Adam had seeh in a vision the horrible instruments his
children were to invent,he would have died of grief."
Gerild: Pity Germany did not follow his advice.
Paul: Pity America did not follow his advice.But you Americans are no better
than we Russians,in spite of your veneer.You are treating me as Russia
treated the Doukobors.
Gerald: Never heard of them,but I expect they got whht was coming to then.
( C
Paul: If they got what was coming to them,in your sense,the Quakers would
not have raised the money to bjjlp them emigrate to Canada where they now i
are.The Canadian Government would not have allotted land to them,the
minister of justice woujjd not have said: Not a single offence has been
committed by the Doukobors;they are law-abiding,and if good conduct is.
a recommendation,then they ace good emigrants." If they had got what r
was coming, to them. Tolstoy would not have written and published Res- '
uxreotion to aid them.
Gerald: You needA't lose your goat about it.Who were they anyway ?
Paul: Scape goats,as you wish to mo|je me.Sixteen thousand honest human
beingB in the Caucasus who shared their property in common,made laws
of conduct for themselves,based on a simple form of religion unobscured
by ceremonies or ritual.They refused to serve as soldiers.Several of
their leaders were exiled,and some hundreds of than were condemned to
"be enrolled for three years in the so-called "disciplinary regiment."
That's where you'll put me,because you have the power,but I expect
I'll get what's coming to me,as the Doukobars got it in Canada,but
not as you mean it. You are welcome to my goat..... But why should
I go to Russia.What did America do with its pacifists,the Quakers ?
The books of Mary Fisher and Ann Austin were burned by the hangman,
as you burn our books today.They were signehed for signs of witchcraft,
imprisoned for five weeks,and then deported.On a first conviction you
cut off one ear, on the second the remaining ear, on the third you bored
their tongues with a hot iron.In Massachusetts you hanged women Quakers
for refusing to depart.Why should I expect to be treated more leniently ?
Yet a name as severed as that of Washington is that of William Penn,
a Quaker,a conscientious objector,a pacifist.
Olga: If you will permit me,Mr.Grant,I should like to say something.
Gerald: Certainly,Miss Oranovitch 1 Go ahead l
Olga: Mr.Petrovka does belong to an established religious body.The Tolstoy­
ans are as widely recognized in Russia as the Quakers in America.
Gerald: Then we'll draft him into the Red Oross.He'll have to do h|s share.
Isn't that your opinion? (He asks the other two on the Board.)
The two: Certainly.
(Everyone leaves the room,except a thickly veiled lady.As Grant
is about to exit, she raises her veil, and stops him.)
Gerald: Flo !
Florida: Yes,I heard it all,and after sending him to Russia in the cause
of peace,your treatment of him was,to say the least,unfair.Good­
bye 1
Gerald: Flo !
Florida: No doubt he will be as brave under the Red Cross as you under the
Stars and Stripes.He will not disgrace America.I am ashamed for
his sake'.Agairi;,GoodTbye}fo r ever ! (Exit,leaving Grant on the stage.)
Curtain.
4
25
ACT 4. Scene ?•
After the War. The room of the previous seene has been transformed to
represent.
.
a
nimmigration office.There is a sign * Immigration Office.
Grant is the Immigration Inspector.Paul Petrovka,Olga Oranovitch,and a
number of Reds.
Gerald* You are accused of Being a Red,and are liable to deportation.
Paul: I am an American citizen.I appeal to the law.
Gerald) An alien has no standing in a United States court.His fate rests
solely in the hands of the immigration inspector.
Paul* Idemand to have ailis^er.-■
G
e
r
a
l
d
.
) You are permitted to be advised by counsel,but cannot be represented
■
J
L
k
'these proceedings.
Fault Thien I demand that bail be accepted.
Geraldt You are not permitted to give bail,as only citizens of the United
States have this privilege.
Paul* But I am a citizen.
Geraldt Your papers have been revoked.The possession of first or final
papers does not protect an alien from deportation.
Pault What proof have you that I am a Red 1
Gsaldt You have attended meetings of the Communist Party}that is considered
sufficient proof that you have revolutionary leanings.The warrant
need not specify any particular offence other than to s&te that you
have violated the conditions under which you mere allowfed to enter
t
h
e
.United States.
Pault You sent me to Russia beacuse I had citizen papers.Now you revoke them
with little formality.I mas a citizen when you wanted my services,bat
I am an alien when you want to deport me.I was a citizen when you sent
me to Russia to change the Russian government,but I am an alien when
I desire the purification of the American government.
Gerald* There are constitutional methods designed for that purpose.
Fault What are your constitutional methods ? Your constitution mas written
by revolutionaries.As they had a right to t
h
o
r
n off monarchism and
aristocracy and adopt republicanism and democracy,mo have a right
to exchange so-called democracy for communism.The makers of your con­
stitution did not change the government by constitutional methods,they
used direct notion,blood-shed,rebellion.Have me less rights,than the
framers of the American Gonstitutioh t Were they as infallible as the
Pope ! Is humanity never to progress ? You Americans have not improved
one whit over the King of England;you have merely changed the hivine
Right of Kings to the Divine Right of the Constitution,which,by the
way,only thououghbred Americans know hem to circumvent systematically.
fT am not speaking against your Constitution.You know it.If the men
who framed it lived today,they would draw up a new one.Men who have
made a constitution would net be afraid to break it,to rewrite it.They
would know it as a human document,and therefore amenable to ehhnge by
humanity•
Constitutions are governed by the lam of evolution,as the
i Old Testament was,as monarchism mas.
Neither am I advocating the methods of the makers of the American
Constitution.You know it.I am opposed to direct action,bloodshed,
robollion.Our only weapon is the strike,the ballot is useless to us.
What do you do with our representatives when me elect them ?What do
you do with Socialist congressmen ?Expel them. Pshaw l Do not talk
to me about the ballot and Constitutional^methods ! YoU mill not
allow us to use them.Are you surprised that the workers talk of a
Dictatorship of -
t
o
e Proletariat ? Lot them elect their representatives
according to the iim£?ie$n @^astitutio%iet them sit in the American
.
$*§£#£*83'#»rioe®'^^p|i^»then,ty;J^era^^.mas^^o^ methods
you oitl arrive by evolution at an American form o
f
'government,forseen
a
n
.formulated by am American,Edward Bellamy. Withdraw constitutional
methfds f^om the American proletariat and they will attain their ends
b
j
rrevolution.
Geralds Thfy ©
t
i
g
h
t to elect loyal Americana.
Fault They did elect loyal Amerieans.You are confounding loyalty to America
with loyalty to the A
&
i
g
a
s
f
o
g
B
a
,Republican Party.Why oven your candidate
for the Republican presidency,Hffighes,8^s B
this action is absolutely
opposed to the fundamental principles of bur geveiimemt.Ifthere was
anything against these men as individuals,if they were deemed to be
guilty of criminal offences,th$y shbuldhave been charged accordingly.
But^tfcis action is not directed agtii&bt these five elected members as
individuals hut is virtually an attempt to indict a political party
and to deny it rfprescnittibn in the legislature.That is not American
governmbnt.Tbe go^@^in^'''C8mhot' b
e
'
s
£
i
r
<
S
&at‘
thb-cost of its bam
principles.Is it propped to drive the Socialists to revolution by
denying them legal opportunity for discussion of the proposed change
in the laws ? That will only convince them that the Reds are right
and that violence and revolution are the only available means at
their command*H
Geraldt These Socialists are opposed to democracy.
Paul; The pure idea of democracy,according to its definition,is the govern*
ment of the whole people b
}
tthe whole people equally represented.
Bemooracy,as usually conceived and hitherto practised,is the government
of the whole people by a mere majority of the people exclusively rep­
resented,The former is synonymous with the equality of all citizens;
the latter strangely confounded with it,is a government of privilege,
in favor of the numerical major!ty,who alone possess practically any
nice in the State.This is the inevitable consequence of the manner
in which the votes are now taken,to the complete disfranchisement of
minorities.
It does not occur to you that there is any medium between allowing
(
t
h
e smaller number to be equally powerful with the greater,and blotting
ut the smaller number altogether.
Nothing is more certain than that the virtual bl&tting out of the
minority is no natural or necessary consequenoe of freedom;that$
far form Saving any connection with democracy,it is diametrically
opposed to the first principle of democracy,representation in propor­
tion to numbers.No real democracy,nothing but a false show of democracy,
is postdhle without it.
Gerild! You mean to say the American people have no liberties ?
The people,it is true,have many liberties on paper,but they are fie*
titious,and will never be true and substantial so long as thoy depend
on the plutobraoy.Thus,for example,a workman may offer himself as a
.
e
m
b
e
r to 0engres8,but his want of money practically places-an insuper­
able barrier in the w
a
j
s of hkB ambition,for votes are bought,in spite
of the ballot,and every election costs a little fortune,
Nothing is
more easy than to evade the corrupt practices bill5 electoral corruption
can be practised in a hundred ways and under skilfully disguised forms.
27
But u
g
h
y don't you deport Bryan ? H
e
. aays exactly what I say :
"The Bemeemtie flirty will distinguish Between evctutiom and revolu-
tion*^fl^^teet^'fe^^eji of speech a
r
i
dpress to every one who advocates
ehanges ^ oonatituttonal methods,
"The pWoerdtfie $arty has for twenty years denounced private monoply
as i
inds|*^lble and intolerable.lt cannot surrender i
t
s
,position on
this subject now wbcn the beneficiaries of all the private monopolies
are mobilizing under the banner of the Republican party for a united
attack upon the right of the people to o
t
i
n and operate all necessary
monopolies in the interest of the public,
"The i|moeratibpes|% will continue to fight against the profiteer.
A government that restrains the individual f
d
f
j
a
.t
h
i
s use of forob in
the protection of his rights^jjpwoc solemn obligation to protect
the disarmed oiJgTzen f
f
c
e
m every arm uplifted for his injury^*
But you Can't deport him,because he's too powered,You c
a
n
s
l
j
d
?only
deport those who are not able to protect themselves.
At all times the CohsefvdtiYe phrty ,bhoh enough to enforce
its will,has,
been a party to persecution.It poisoned Socratesjit cru­
cified Christjit threw the Christians to the wild beasts in the Roman
amphitheatrejit established the inquisitionjit forced Galileo to con­
fess that the earth stands stilljit laid its paralysing hand upon Col­
umbusjit kindled the fires at Smitnfleldjit gibbeted Quakersjit per­
secuted Arkwrightjdt laughed at Fulton,etc«etc.
It always was,it is
now,and always will be,like a purblind bat,terrified at the breaking
of the dawn,fearful that the universe is to be given over with the ris­
ing sun to inextinguishable conflagration.
Geralds Will you deny that you are a B0lshevtst ?
Fault X am net a Bolshevist,except in so far as Bolshevism wishes to carry
out the ides of Bellamy,
Geralds Miss Oranovitch,didn t Petrovka represent the Bolshsfaiki in Russia ?
Olgas He was their envoy to the Czay with the peaee treaty,but he was opposed
to the Red Terror,
Geralds If he was their envoy,he was in sympathy with them,and we'll give
him a chanee to live under the Red Terror,
Pauls I belive you will not have that satisfaction,The Terror has been ab­
olished.Listen to this s
"Only the entente's renewal of armed intervention or the giving of
material help to rebellious czar'
s gefterals in attempts to overthrow
the position of the soviet government and the peaceful labor of the
workers and peasants towards the organization of socialistic respon­
sibility for the future will bring a reversion by the soviet government
to the drastic methods of the Red Terror.
"Therefore the all Russian special committee must decide,first,
to
discontinue forthwith the extreme penalty by sentence of the all-
Russian committee or local benchesJ second,to direct Comrade Ozer-
gninsky to bring before the soviet of people!s commissaries and be­
fore the all&R&ssian central executive committee a bill for total
abolition of capital punishment."
Gerald: I hope you'll have a good time then.If the Bolsheviki hadn't inter­
fered in American affairs,we might have let you stop here,
Paul: Interfered in American affairs ! What is the American army doing in
Siberia ? Who supplied ammunition and funds to Kolchak ? Do you know
what Kologak was ? Kolcgak was nothing but a reactionary,The people,
determined for peaee,were forced into the army,dressed in British
uniforms,and driven towards the front,Over all great Siberia the re­
actionary generals and Gossaek atamans raised and drafted armies
28
by cruelties that outdid the worst efforts of the Bolsheviki.All
Siberia echoed with the cries of the tortured men terrorized by the
orders of officers masters in the art of terrorism.Instead of reforms
by a loved assembly,Kolchak gave them only promises and terrorism.
This is what you Americans supported* lhat is Kolchak today ? A beaten,
lost.tragic figure whose ti$le of supreme ruler is a mockery and by­
word;
Gerald* The American army is being withdrawn.
Pauls The American ammy is retiring from danger,because its allies are de­
feated and discredited.
Geralds If things are like that over there,you ought to be glad to get back.
Anyway you1
ve got no kick coming.The Bolshevik! Government asked us
to send you home,and we're simply obeying their pleasure,Besides
don't you think it'd be a good thing for you to go and have a personal
try-out of the Bolshevik Government,before you try to force in on
us ? You ought to be glad of the opportunity to live under the govern­
ment of your choice,
I understand Russia is a wonderful country.Perhaps one day you will
be glad that we sent you back.lt may be a blessing in d^sgid.g®P!y """I
only fear is that millions of working men and idealists will follow
you at their own expense,if you people succeed over there.Perhaps it
would be better to give you a little comer in the U.S. to try out
your form of governmaat.
Your form of government may be O.K. for you people,but it doesn't
suit us.Everybody*gv got a right to his own idea of government.We
want ours,and we're only too glad to give you the opportunity of
enjoying yours.
We are not treating you as originals,we are simply expelling you,
as the Hugenots were expelled from Prance.You may win immortality
as they did.Now's your chance.Perhaps this is the finest thing that
could happen to Russia.Centuries ago Europe shipped its radicals
to America and helped build up the American Republic,We are now
shipping radicals back to Russia.Perhaps a similar result will take
place there.You may build up a great Russian Empire.
Paul: You are right,Mr.Grant.You sent me before as an apostle of peace,now
you are sending me as a protagonist of economic justice.May God give
me the strength to fulf&l my second and greater mission.lt is over
there that the emancipation of humanity is to be worked out,not here.
You are too young.I once thought we had a president who would keep
us out of war.I was dislllusioned.Then I thought we had a president
who had given hlSpanity a League of Nations.I was disabused.He plagiar­
ized it from Europe,form Gustaf Bjorklund's Fusion of the Nations.I
thank you for another free passage,a passage on the Ark. I only hope
I am not leaving you to a deluge.
(All exit except Petrovka,Oranovitch,and a Guard.)
I thought I should have the opportunity of Seeing Florida once more,
to tell her that I love her,that what I have done was for humanity
and not agifenet America.. .
. I had dreamed a dream,but how can I ask
her to follow me,an outcast,to Russia.Yet one day,sanity may reign
over this distracted earth again,perhaps I will be able to come back
to this country again,or I may be permitted to build a home for her
in a freer and happier Russia.... I have told it all to her,she will
understand me.Olga,will you take this letter to her ?Tell her what I
have told you, say Good-bye to her for me,or,perhaps she may come to
bid farewell to one who is branded an enemy of her country.(Olga takes
the letter.PeSrovka and the Guard exeunt.)
29.
Olga: Shall I do it ? Do I love him so much,that I should sacrifice my hap­
piness for his ? I would be a fool • Such things are done in melodrama,
not in real life.Even if he does not love me now,who knows what time
may bring forth ? When I have him back in Russia,I will not let him
escape do easily again.There I have means at my command,which I cannot
use here.... i'll tell her that he has prmised to marry me.Why shouldn'fi
I ? Everything's fair in love and war.There s Grant left for her,what
more does she want ? (She tears up the letter*)
Curtain.
ACT 4. Scene 4.
Scenery same as in Scene 1. Fairbanks standing on the cliffs reading ft^ijm
a newspaper,A ship in the distance.
Florida:
THE MELTIHG POT.
They come in their million,
From Russia, Austria,Italy,Syria,
China,Japan, spewed from the four comers of the earth.
Hurl them in,stir them,heap the fires high,let them singe !
Yet :
Seething,spluttering,curdling,the cauldron bol&s but to dross.
Thou Gjreat Elixir !
Canst not thou yet transmute the baser stuff •
Iherefor thy alchemy,0 arch democracy ?
Hurl them in,stir them,&eap the fires high,let than singe 1
Yet ?
Seething,spluttering,curdling,the cauldron b#du* but to dross.
Wouldst know the cause ?
The pure gold flows with washers' currents not,only the mud,
The cursed thirst of gold. The nuggets to the cradle cling.
Hurl them in,stir them,heap the fires high,let them singe 1
Yet :
Seething,spluttering,curdling,the cauldron boils but to dross.
Confess defeat !
Thji melting pot hath failed to make of these alloy.
No gold from debris such as this can be assayed.
Hurl them out,prod them,fill the currents full,let them sink I
For:
Seething,spluttering,curdling,the cauldron boiled but to dross.
lhat a confession for our great republic,once the asylum for the
oppressed of all lands i lhat has made us change so ? Selfishness,
and perhaps cruelty,learned on the battle fields of Europe, 0 America
I could weep for you !••■*• There's Gerald's plane,over their Ark.The
paper says he's going to give them a send-off.lhat heartlessness,
to vaunt over their headB as a falcon over its prey.Perhaps he is
gloating over what he thinks is my shame0Let him see me, I .... I .....
(A flame is seen falling from tfre sky*) My God,it's Gerald's plane,
it's burning and falling into the sea l He'll be killed * My God....
it's struck the water..... He's dead, I know it, something tells me
he's dead.... perhaps he sought death.......(Xenvy you,Gerald/if.
I were only dead ! 0 God ! Paul f Paul ! I thought you loved me,than
to aend._thatwoman to me ! No,he could not have done it.Perhaps she
lied.Coae-madneflS ! To doubt is worse than to have lost ! Paul 1
Paul ! I cannot suffer this„Spirits of peace,where are you ? Are
Jrou all gone ? and leave me here ,in wretchedhess behind you ? 0 God,
let me die.Come to me daeth,comejfo the happy you are terrible,to
the wretched you can but be a comforter,Come,come soon,come sweetest
death,and take me from this loathed light ! Take me.... Paul l Pay.1 !
(She leaps from the cliffs into the sea.)
-
a * * * i
* *
