{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__nsc___the_college_guide.pdf","mytitle":"The College Guide","mylang":"de"}
The Natianal Spiritualist College.
[<;stahlished 1 July, '1926. by the Spiritualists' National Union. Ltd.,
:md the British Spiritualists' Lyceum Unioi]:
"THE COLLEGE
GUIDE"
TO THE ESTABLISHMENT AND.
WORKING OF EDUCATION CLASSES
in connection with
LOCAL BRANCHES, CHURCHES.
LYCEUMS, STUDY GROUPS, Etc.
" The vision of the ideal guards monotony of work from
becoming monotony of life."
-Bishop Westcott.
Chairman of the Governing Board:
Mr. W. G. GUSH, D.N.U., F.N.S.C., 127, BLACKMOORFOOT ROAD,
CROSLAND MOOR, HUDDERSFIELD.
Hon. Secretary: Mr. A. T. CONNOR, F.N.S.C.,
4-.-ll.w.MKRS:f~~D, FOREST GATE, LO!>DON1 E.7.
/JC".<;;.,,.~--,,...'~~--- .
Printed by E. F. Roberts, Bradford Road, :Batley, for
The National Spiritualist College.
.1
2
CONTENTS.
Section. Page.
I. Introductory 4
I I. Advanced Scheme Regulations 9
I I I. Ditto. Syllabuses ... 13
Ditto. Exalllination Fees 15
TV. Where to get your Text Books 15
v. The Entrance Examination 17
VI. The Books selected for Study-
"Review'• by G. F. Berry. F.N.S.C.
..
19
VII. Hints on Class Work- 25
Formation 25
Conducting a Class 28
Suggested Order of Studies 32
VIII. For the Solitary Student 35
IX. How to Enter for the Examinations 36
x. How the Examinations will be Conducted 37
XI. How to do your best at the Examinations 39.
XII. The College and Clairvoyants ... 41
XIII. Establishing a Priesthood 43
-1
3
PREFACE.
This '' Guide '' has been issued by the College
Coverning Board, in the hope of anticipating and meeting
all difficulties likely to arise in establishing classes, and
preparing- students for the examinations in the Nation.al
Education Scheme. The S. N. U. and B.S. L. U. Education
Committees take this opportunity of thanking Mr. Berry
for his article on the Text Books, and Mr. Connor for
his work in planning and compiling the other sections
of the '' Guide. ''
October, 19a8.
4
INTRODUCTORY.
The National Spiritualist C01leg_e was founded in
July, 1926, and is recognised by the Spiritualists' National
Union. and the British Spiritualists' Lyceum Union as" an
Educational Institution, legally established as a Body
within the Orbit of the Union and an Integral part of its
Activities.'' The College is being conducted in close
co-operation with the National Joint Education Scheme;
the College Governing Board being also the Joint
Education Committee.
The special function of the Joint Education Commit-
tee is to lay down, courses of study, open to all
Spiritualists, and to hold annual examinations at whi..:h
i: is hoped all students will test the thoroughness and
efficiency of their studies. The special function of the
(;overning Board is to persuade and encourage Churches
and Lyceums to form classes for the study of
Spiritualism, and to lay down rules_ regulating the
activities of these classes-the prize being that eacn
Church or Lyceum (affiliated to its appropriate National
Body) which succeeds in entering at least ten students
for the examinations in the National Scheme (from the
Lyceum Oral Grade to the Final Grade of the Advanct;d
Scheme) becomes eligible to register as a Local Branch
of the College. The full scheme and the regulations will
be foun.d in The College Booklet (ltd. post free from
the College Secretary) ; this booklet has. been designed
to aid in the establishment of classes and to guide all
who are working the Education Scheme to obtaining the
very best results.
DESrGN AND SCOPE OF THE JOINT EDUCATION SCHEME.
The Scheme has been designed to provide Inquirers,
Investigators, and also convinced Spiritualists, with an
opportunity to take up a coherent, comprehensive and
progressive course of study, of subjects which will lead
or help towards a proper understanding of Spiritualism,
providing as it does the groundwork (1) of a wide course
of reading on matters occult, psychic and scientific; (2)
of a course of philosophy calculated to fit students to
defend their philosophic beliefs against all attacks; anrl
5
(3) of a study of Evolution which will confirm and
consolidate their belief that the chief law of the Un.iverse
is the Law of Eternal Progression operating through all
Nature.
In the Intermediate Crade the student is introduced
to the Principles and the early history of the Modern
Movement, and in Berry's Hints to Students to an
interesting an.cl instructive Guide whose services in all
the Grades will be found invaluable, especially when
considering Gow's Ideas and Ideals of Spiritualism and the
set chapters of Psychic Philosophy; the Logic primers
teach and apply the rules which Aristotle drew up as the
only sure basis of fruitful philosophic research; and the
text-book on Evolution shows, in particular, how existing
Life-forms support modern theories regarding life in the
distant Past.
The Subsidiary Crade builds on and expands the
Intermediate Reading Course, and introduces the study
of Comparative Religion and of the scientific and occult
aspects of mediumship and the exercise of psychic
powers ; leads us. onward from Logic to the study of
Psychology (so necessary for the full understanding and
essential discrimination of our mental, mediumistic and
psychic gifts and powers); and carries the story of
Evolution forward to the growth and development of
Man's social, religious and other institutions.
In the Final Crade the scope of the Reading Course
i; wider still, embracing Grant A,llen 's interesting informa-
tion, regarding primitive religious observances, together
with his theory of the evolution of the God-Idea among
men, and Sir William Barrett's experiences in psychical
rcsea,rch ; the Philosophy text-book gives an outline
account of the rise and development of the various
"schools" of philosophical speculation ; an.cl the story of
evolution is wound up with Drummond's great work on
man's climb up the ladder of progression-towards
spirituality, and a realisation of his potential Divinity.
THE OBJECT OF THE SCHEME.
The main object of the Scheme is to provide, for
every Spiritualist or inquirer who wishes to study
Spiritualism, a comprehensive basic course on wf1;ich each
6
could build as high and as widely as he or' she desired.
Each student takes the course as a student and not
merely as a prospective speaker or platform worker. So,
if you do not wish to be a speaker, the College provides
for you a course of study that you can pursue until you
have earned your Degree of Graduate (G.N.S.C.); if you
DO wish to be a speaker, the College takes you through
the course that the S.N. U. Exponents Committee insists
on as qualifying you to apply for the Diploma of Certified
Exponent. In either event, the College is out to help
you an.cl the Movement.
CRITICS PLEASE NOTE.
It is not claimed that the Scheme is perfect, but we
do claim that it is a sane, workable, and carefully thought-
out beginning; and we insist that its ultimate perfection
depends almost entirely not on its own merits, but on
"·hat Churches, Lyceums, and Individual Spiritualists are
prepared to do to help it towards the success which the
future of Our Movement demands that it should achieve.
\VH.\T WE ARE ATTEMPTING.
In this booklet we arc attempting to show Local
nranchcs of the College how to start their Branch Com-
mittees and establish their Branch activities; to induce
Churches and Lyceums not yet Branches to copy our
Branch system of classes, etc. ; to help the solitary
student to study " all on his own " and yet do well at
the examinations; and to supply would-be workers with
the information that will enable them to "do their bit "
in this great war against ignorance and superstition. It
is our hope that each of these will find in these pages just
the little bit of information and encouragement that is
required; and that, if what is wanted or needed cannot
be found, the inquirer will write to any one of the
Secretaries whose names and addresses are given here-
under. In. order to prevent confusion and waste of
t·ime, it is perhaps as· well that the following e«:planatory
outline of functions of the various bodies that combine to
conduct the Education Schemes should be given :-
EXPLANATORY.
The National Education Scheme is the joint concern
7
of the Spiritualists' National Union and the British
Spiritualists' Lyceum Union, but each Union has under-
taken to finance and administer a given Section.
The B.S.L. U. administers the Associate Section
(Oral Grade to Grade V); and the S.N. U. administers
the Craduate Section (Entrance Examination-which is
identical with Grade V-to Final).
The names of Final Grade candidates who obtain
not less than 75 per cent. marks are forwarded to the
S.N.U. Exponents Committee Secretary, to whom
these students may (if they so desire) apply for the
S.N.U. Diploma of Certified Exponent.
In addition, the College awards its Diploma of
Associate (A.N.S.C.) to Grade V students who obtain
not less than 70 per cent. marks; of Craduate
(G.N.S.C.), to Final Grade students who obtain not Iese;
than 75 per cent. marks, and of Dlplomist (D.N.S.C.),
to Graduates who obtain the S.N. U. Diploma of Certified
Exponent.
FoR INFORMATION ABOUT THE SCHEMES:-
For information about the Associate Section (i.e.,
Oral Grade to Grade V), apply to the Hon. Education
Secretary (B.S.L. U.) :-
Miss M. E. KITSON, B.A., F.N.S.C.,
~ ~..v...v"'"<' 37, So1,1th Sti::eet,
/:J C°~E/'?o.vr.- ?o~ Sa.¥ile Tmat,n,
~£Sr.- C,...«'" De111•11bury (Yoi::ks.,l.
,,,(o~_,, E /
For information about the Craduate Section (i.e.,
the Advanced Courses) apply to the S.N. U. Education
Secretary :;:- -
Mrs. E. PALING,
" Lucknow,"
Muriel Road,
Beeston, Notts.
8
For information about the National Spiritualist
College apply to the College Secretary and Secretary of
the Joint Education Committee:-
Mr. A. T. CONNOR, F.N.S.C.,
-4.... Palmei stun Road,
/'3 c,,c,,.,,.,E-'"'?oA/'r /C::,,..o F
- orest Gate,
London, E. 7.
For information about the Exponents Committee
and the Diplomas it awards, apply to
THE GENERAL SECRETARY,
S.N. U. Offices,
t:,,,,,,,., ,,e~,,.oe;c- 8-r.
?6""..,,.,,54,,..,...€
Broagwa31 Chamh@rs,
162, London Road,
Manchester.
9
ADVANCED !EDUCATION SCHEME.
Administered by tlhe Spiritualists' National Union
Education Committee.
JOINT EIOUCATDOIN SCHEIMIE-S.N.U. SECTION.
Regulations.
1.-The name of this S.N.U. Section shall be "THE
CRADlJATE SECTION." It shall consist of THREE Grades;
I~TERMEDJATE, SUBSIDIARY and FINAL; each divided into
THREE Courses; READING, PHILOSOPHY and EVOLUTION
-each Grade with an Annual Examination consisting of
·111REE three-hours' sessions, held on a Saturday afternoon
nnd evening and the following Sunday morning or after-
noon-bl!Bt special arrangements may be made or
sanctioned for special cases or occasions.
2.-The Text-books for this SectiOn shall be selected
by the Joint Education Committee, and shall not be
altered without reasonable notice- being given to all
students concerned.
3.-The Joint Education Committee shall appoint a
Body of Examiners, consisting of THREE OR MORE persons
who shall, under the direction of the S.N. U. EDUCATION
Co.MMITTEE, frame suitable questions based. on the Course
and Text-books set out in the Syllabuses and conduct the
Annual Examinations.
4.-Each Examiner shall set the Question in some
one Course or Subject, and shall, as far as possible, mark
all the Answers-but the Join.t Committee shall have
power to make any necessary arrangements for marking.
5.-(a) The three examinations must be taken in their
proper order, and ONLY ONE Grade may be taken in any
one year.
(b) The AGE of candidates for the INTERMEDIATE GRADE
(on the first day of the month in which the examination is
held) must be 20 years or over.
6.-ALL Candidates must l:ie bona-fide members of a
Church or Lyceum in affiliation and good financial standing
with its (respective) National Body, or Subscribing
Members of the S.N.U., and all entries and fees must be
10
forwarded direct to the Secretary of the S.N.U. Educntio11
Committee (unless and until other arrangements are
announced in the official Spiritualist Press).
7.-(a) Church Members and Subscribing Members
of the S.N.U. must, before entering for the INTERMEDIATE
Grade, pass an ENTRANCE EXAMINATION equal in difficulty
to the Grade V. Examination, with 70 per cent. of the
total marks. Candidates for the Entrance Examination
must be 18 years old or over.
(b) The nature and subjects of the Entrance Exami-
nation shall be as decided from time to time by the Join,t
Education Committee.
(c) Grade V. students who have passed with not less
than 70 per cent. marks, and Church Members or Sub-
scribing Members of the S.N. U. who have qualified by the
Entrance Examination, may sit at the next following
INTERMEDIATE Examination for which they are eligible
under Regulation 5.
9.-(a) The S.N.U.. Education Committee shall issue
CERTIFICATES to successful candidates in the Intermediate,
Subsidiary and Final Grades, as follows :-
PASS 60 to 74 per cent. of the total marks.
HONOURS ... 75 to 89 ,, 11 .,,
DISTINCTION 90 to 100 11 11 ,,
(b) Candidates who obtain less than 50 per cent. in
ANY ONE of the THREE COURSES of any Grade will be
adjudged to have failed in the examination for that Grade.
But any candidate who obtains 75 per cent. or more in
any two of these three Courses (although obtaining less
than the necessary 50 per cent. in the third Course} shall
be allowed to sit again for the Course in which he has
failed ; and if he obtains 50 per cent.or more in this special
examination, he wi11 be adjudged to have won a First
Class Pass in the Grade concerned and to be eligible for
the next following Grade.
(c) FINAL Grade students who pass with Honours or
Distinction shall be in addition entitled to APPLY FOR the
Degree of GRADUATE of the National Spiritualist College
(G.N.S.C.), and tp have their names forwarded to the
S.N. U. ExPONENTS Committee as Candidates for their
Diploma as a CERTIFIED EXPONENT.
11
(Non·Lyceumists will not, by passing the Entrance
Examination, qualify for the Degree of Associate of the
College (A.N.S.C.), which can be won only by passing
through the Crades of the e.s.L.U. Scheme).
10.-The Examinations shall be held at such times and
places as shall be announced in the National Spiritualist
and the Lyceum Banner and other organs of the
Spiritualist Press-but at least twelve months shall elapse
between the annual examinations, which shall if possible
be held in the same month each year.
11. -The S.N. U. Education Committee shall have
power to call upon the AREA REPRESENTATIVE concerned
to:-
(u) Make all necessary arrangements for the
housing and convenience and comfort of all Candidates
sitting at the Ce11,tre(s) in his area at which · any
examinations are being held. This will include the hire
(if necessary) and proper furnishing of a Hall or
Room(s) in which the Examinations could be held:
(b) Receive from the Education Secretary question
papers to be handed to the Candidates, and secure that
they shall be issued according to instructions ;
(c) Supervise the orderly carrying out of the
Examination; and
(d) Collect Answer papers from Candidates at the
dose of the time allowed, and transmit them· forthwith
to the Education Secretary.
(e) In the event of the Area Representative being
unable to make or conduct the above arrangements
personally, he shall submit tlie names of efficient sub-
stitutes (who have undertaken to deputise for him) not
less than four weeks prior to the date fixed for the
Examinations.
12.-The ExAMINATION FEES for each Candidate in
each Grade of the GRADUATE Section shall be as fixed
from time to time by the Joint Education Committee and
announced in the official Spiritualist Press.
13.-No regulation of the S.N.U. Exponents Com-
mittee shall in any way affect or contravene any of the
foregoing Regulations.
12
PLEASE NOTE VERY CAREFULLY.
ONLY the followi1i.g students are eligible to enter for
the Intermediate Grade Examination :-
(a) Lyceumists who have passed the B.S.L. U. Grade V
examination, and obtained not less than 70 per cent.
of the total marks ;
(h) Church Members (whether also Lyceumists or not) and
Subscribing Members of the Spiritualists' National
Union-who have passed the S.N. U. Entrance
Examination, with at least 70 per cent.;
(c) Holders of the present Dip]: S.N.U., if it was won
by examination (Ho11oris causa awards are not
recognised for Examination purposes).
SPECl·AL.-The " Intermediate Certificate " issued bv
the S.N.U. Exponents Committee refers to speaking
ability-only, and noEs NOT confer exemption from the
Entrance Examination.
NOTES ON THE REGULATIONS.
REG. 1.-This allows candidates to arrange with
their Supervisors to sit at times during the week-end that
will suit everyone concerned-so long as it does not inter-
fere with the interests or convenience of the local Church
or Lyceum-and to apply to Mrs. Paling to have the
arrangement approved or confirmed.
REG. ·g (a).-As the total marks in each of the Three
Courses have been, fixed at 100, the possible total is 300,
and the minimum for a First Class Pass is 180; so less
than 180 marks for the Grade, or less than. 50 marks for
any one Course, will mean failure. The Marking Scheme,
therefore, is as follows :-
Distinction 270 marks to 300 marks.
Honours 225 ,, 269 ,,
First Class 180 ,, 224 .,
Failure Less than 180 marks.
REG. 9 (b).-If you get 75 or more in Evobtion anrl
the same in Philosophy, but less than 50 in. the General
Reading Course (say), you may sit again in 1he Reading
Course, and, if you get 50 marks, you will get a
First Class Pass for the Crade and be eligible to sit fa.-
the next Grade. ·
13
The conditions of the second examination will be as
laid down by the S. N. U. Education Committee or its
~ecretary.
JOINT EDUCATION COMMITTEE DECISIONS.
(a) Ly.i;eumists 25 years old or over, who have been
members of a Lyceum or Lyceums for at least five years-
and who are also Church Members-will be allowed to
take both the S.N. U. and the B.S. L. U. Schemes at the
same time, if they so desire.
(b) Adult Lyceumists who are also Church Members
can sit at the Entrance Examination in the Graduate
(S.N.U.) Scheme.
Syllabuses of Work for the Intermediate,
Subsidiary and Final Grades.
INTERMEDIATE GRADE.
Reading Course.
Introduction to Spiritualism and Lyceumism (B.S. L. U.
· No. 1 Handbook). ·
Hints to Students of Spiritualism (Berry). ·
The Seven Pointed Star (Berry).
Spiritualism : Its Ideas and Ideals (Gow).
Psychic Philosophy (De Brath)-In,troduction and
Part I.
To show an intelligent " general knowledge "; to be
able to discuss and appraise the value of any given
incident or teaching ; to write a short essay on any subject
dealt with in this course.
Philosophy Course.
Primer of Log·ic (Jevons).
Essays on Reasoning (Connor).
To be able to " work " exercises or answer ques-
tions ; to be able to apply Logic to the study of
Spiritualism.
Evolution Course.
The Story of Creation (~loaaJ.
· To have a " general idea " of the Theory of Evolu-
tion and how it is supported by present-aay forms of life.
./""·
•
~~~:r~
i y
SUBSIDIARY CRADE.
Reading Course.
Students' Handbook No. 2 B.S.L.U..
Advent : The Begmnmgs o o ern Spiritualism
(Connor).
Practical Occultism, (Morse).
Comparative Religion (Jevons)-(the smalle1' book).
Psychic Philosophy (De Brath)-Part II.
To show an intelligen.t " general knowledge " ; to be
able to discuss and appraise the value of any given incident
or teaching; to write a short essay on any subject dealt
with in this Course.
Philosophy Course.
Know Your Own lVIind (Glover).
To be able to apply Psychology to the consideration
of Spiritualism and its Phenomena (all phases).
Evolution Course.
Anthropology (Marett).
To have> a '' gen.ernl idea '' of the growth and
development of :\Jan's Social, Relig-ious and other Insti-
tutions.
FINAL CRADE.
Reading Course.
,Spiritualism for the Student and Investigator (B.S.L. U
No. 3 Handbook).
Psychical Research (Barrett).
The Evolution of the Idea of GOD (Allen).
Psychic Philosophy (De Brath)-Part III.
To show an intelligent " general knowledge "; to be
able to discuss and appraise the value of any given incident
or teaching ; to write a short essay on any subject dealt
with in this Course.
Philosophy Course.
History of Philosophy (Webb).
To have an intelligent grasp of the development of
Philosophic ~easoning and Teachings, with some idea of
the various '' schools '' and of the new factor added by
Spiritualistic discovery and practice.
15
Evolution Course.
The Ascent of MAN (Drummond).
To be able to trace Man's climb from Animal to
Human Being; with some idea of its spiritual and religious
implications.
EXAMINATION FEES.
Entrance Examination, 2/- (to be sent with Entry
Form) ; Intermediate to Final Grades, each 2/6 (to be
sent with Entry Form).
All entries and fees for these Examinations must be
sent direct to the Secretary of the S.N.U. Education Com-
mitee. But members of a Study Class may appoint their
Tutor or one of themselves to forward all the entries and
fees for the Class. Local Branch Secretaries, of course,
forward all the Graduate Scheme entries from their respec-
tive Branches.
The necessarv Form can be obtained from Mrs.
Paling, the S. N. U. Education. Secretary, by sending a
stamped addressed envelope.
VERY IMPORTANT.
The above fees cancel and take the place of the fees
listed on page 30 of " The College Booklet."
WHERE TO Cl;T YOUR TEXT·BOOKS.
Requests are continually coming in for information
about how to get the text-books not published or stocked
by either of the two Unions. The following information
should help. For purposes of clearness in directing
where you should place your orders, the books for the
various Grades are mixed up, but each student can find
the particular books he wishes to procure.
To be obtained (post free) from the S.N.U. Offices,
Broadway Chambers, 162, London Road, Manchester:
7
7·
·O
16
The Seven Pointed Star, 4d.;
Hints to Students of Spiritualism, 7!d.
Psychic Philosophy, 5/-.
(It is hoped to obtain special prices for certi~ /J •
students). -(1$.<,V _...,.~...~ ·r~
To be obtained (post free) from M"lss IEitse111 6i,
-S01=1tk Street, Sauile Tou'J?s Q0 ur5b11ry, VePlc!":":
No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3 Handbooks, each 7d.
-
Essays on Reasoning, 5d.
Advent, 7d.;
-- ~.
Spiritualism : Bts Ideas and Ideals, 1/2.
To be ordered through your newsa en • The names
of the author anc t 1e pu 1s 1er of each book are given, as
they must be put on\.your order :
Published by Macmillan : Primer of Logic (Jevons),
1/9.
By the Cambridge University Press: Comparative ....
Reli ion (Jevons), 2/6; Know Your Own Mind
Glover), 3/6.
By the Rationalist Press : The Story of Creation
{Cload), 1/-; The !Evolution of the Idea of Cod
(Allen), 1/-.
By the Home University Library: Anthronoiogy
(Marett), Psychical Research (Bar.rett), and The
History of Philosophy (Webb), 2/- each.
By Hodder and Stoughton : The Ascent of Man
(Drummond), 6/6.
By The Two Worlds : Practical Occuitism (Morse),
1/-. J ~, izJ 7Lf/il~ ltk
When ordering give your ewsa~ent the name of the
book, and of its author and publisher-and don't forget to
give the price, for there are expensive editions of some
..(
--
- - - - ----------·---
17
of the above books, and you may have these very clear
books ordered instead of the cheap edition you want-
ancl which is just as good for your purpose.
Special Note.-An Errata List for Ps~chic Philosophy
has been issued, and can be obtained from the General
Secretary at the S.N. U. Offices (see abovej.
THE ENTRANCE EXAMINATION.
Church Members and Subscribing Members of the
S. N. U. must, before entering for the Intermediate Grade~
pass the Entrance Examination with not less than 70 per
cent. of the total marks. Candidates for the Entrance
Examination must be 18 vears old or over on the date of
the examination. (See Regulation 7.)
SYLLABUS:
(a) A study of various phases of Physical Mediumship
from an evidential standpoint, viz. : Trumpet Pheno-
mena, Levitations, Materialisations, Supernormal
Photogrp.pby and Automatic Writing.
(b) A study of Meaiumship; and a consideration of
Spiritualism from a religious, an ethical and a philo-
sophical viewpoint.
(c) The effects of Spiritualism on Science, Philosophy and
Religion.
(d) The various phases of Opposition to Spiritualism-
Religious, Materialistic and Agnostic-and a study of
various methods of meeting and combatting them.
As an introduction to the above studies, the Joint
Education Committee has approved the following as
basic handbooks :
I
\
18
Spi.ritualism for the Student and Investigator
(B.S.L. U. No. 3-7d.) and Essays an Reasoning
(B.S.L. U. No. 5-5d.); both post free from Miss Kitson.
The Syllabus for the Entrance Examination remains
as adopted in 1926, but a new text-book has been added
an.d the character of the examination has been altered
very considerably. To meet the requirements of the new
situation, a special 8-page Leaflet has been prepared and
issue, containing valuable information on the following:
1: Examination Regulations.
2. Hints to Tutors and Students.
3. Lesson-Plan for a 16-weeks' Course of Study.
4. Class or Group Work.
5. Examination Practice.
6. How to Answer Questions.
The Leaflet can be obtained from Mrs. Paling, for
1!d. post free.
1.MPORTANT TO LYCEUMIST STUDENTS.
A similar Leaflet, dealing with the B.S.L.U: Grade-
V Examination, can be obtained on the same teqns from
Miss K:itson~ d S' ,4 ,._,, o.IC',#"/&c
19
A Glance at the Books Selected for Study
under the National Joint Education Scheme.
By Ceo. F. Berry, Dipl. S.N.U., F.N.S.C.
'' Of making many books, there is no end, and much
study is a weariness of the flesh. '' So wrote the pessi-
mistic author of '' Ecclesiastes '' more than a thousand
years ago. His point of view is shared by many
moderns, but the student, eager and athirst for new
knowledge, will be undeterred by such pessimism.
Nevertheless, to avoid the unnecessary wandering over
a too wide field, the following books have been selected
in an endeavour to make the Joint Education Scheme
present a comprehensive whole. If it be objected that
book-knowledge is second-hand knowledge, let us stress
the point that books are only raw materials, and that
before their contents are built into the fabric of one's
beliefs, the raw materials must be diligently worked over
by the craftsman so as to remove spoilt · and unfit
material, and to shape and polish that which is good and
fit it into the appropriate corner in the edifice of our
soul's philosophy.
There are n,ineteen books for study, and these divide
naturally into five groups :-(1) Logic and Reasoning;
(2) Evolution of the World and Man ; (3) Evolution
applied to Religion and Philosophy; (4) Psychology and
Psychical ·Research; and (5) Spiritualism, its history,
phenomena and philosophy.
(1) Logic and Reasoning.
It will come as a surprise to many persons to learn
that thinking and reasoning need studied attention. Yet
it is true that thoughts flow through our minds, and that
thinking only begins when we arrest the flow and subject
the arrested thoughts to analysis ; and reasoning, in one
of its most important aspects, is the art of acquiring fresh
knowledge by the process of breaking up· some previous
knowledge into its component parts, and rebuilding the
p~rts so as to include newer portions. But there are
·pitfalls which the student must learn to avoid, and
20
fallacies in the modes of reasoning which he must learn
to detect in the arguments of himself and others.
A. T. Connor's " Essays on Reasoning " is an
elementary introduction to the subject of Logic with
useful illustrations showing the application of its
principles to the investigation of Spiritualism. Professor
,i\T. Stanley Jevons' " Primer of Logic," ·while still a
small book, is a more ambitious statement of the subject.
A very good working idea of >vhat thinking and reasoning
really are can be gained by a serious study of its twenty-
seven chapters. At the encl of the book will be found
a series of quite searching questions intended to test the
student's knowledge of the lessons taught.
(2) Evolution of the World and l\1an.
Since Darwin put forward his epoch making theory
of Evolution of Man from lower species, the theory has
won almost universal acceptance, and has been extended
to explain the origin of the Universe itself, as well as the
rise of religion and philosophy. In Edward Clodd's
'' Story of Creation,'' the student is introduced to the
extension of matter throughout space, and to the inter-
play of energies upon matter, bringing about the birth
of suns and systems of suns. The solar system is then
brought under survey, an,cl from some primordial fire
mist is seen slowly emerging· the familiar sun and its
attendant planets. Then follows in rapid succession the
story of the changes in the earth's crust until it is fit
to receive the life forms which in due time reveal them-
selves. Thereafter the story changes to show man
finally emerging from a long line of ancestral animal!
predecessors.
R. R. Marett, in his " Anthropology," next takes
up the tale, and in a rapid survey of the whole history
of man, reveals the growth of socia1 organisations and
of religious cults. He discusses the modifications of
these social efforts under the influences of naturaU
environment, race, language and law, and gives reasons
for thinking that these slow modifications require
hundreds of thousands of years instead of a mere six or
seven thousand. Law is held to be derived from the
religious obedience to the commands of a god.
21
Accordingly religion has to be defined in terms which will
include in its ambit the rites and ceremonies of the most
primitive peoples as well as the higher forms such a;
Buddhism and Christianity.
" The Ascent of Man," by Henry Drummond,
carries the theory of Evolution far beyond the materialism
of Clodd. Accepting without reservation animal
ancestry, Drummond unfolds a psychic element. in man,
ancl the possession of an indwelling· spirituality (with
l'oregleams of these hig·h qualities in the an,imals as they
approach the human standard), which carries man to a
destiny but a little lower than the Angels. Where the
materialist postulates the strug·gle for life of self, Drum-
morid adds the struggle for the life of others. His
chapters on the evolution of a father, of a mother, and
the concluding chapter on Involution are gems of
literature, and a noble prophecy of the greatness of Man
as he will be when in.folded in the bosom of the Immanent
Creator.
(3) Evolution applied to Religion and Philosophy.
(a) Religion.
A question that inevitably arises from the survey of
Religion as expounded by Marett is the relation of
Christianity to other and earlier forms of religion. F. B.
Jevons in '' Comparative Religion '' deals with this
problem in a simple way. He shows the principle of
evolution at work in the development of sacrifice, ancestor
worship, etc.' and traces their changing forms till
l\Ionotheism is found at the apex of the scale. To take
an instance, sacrifice. Jevons shows that it has been
universal, and began in animal offerings, so when we
come to Buddhism, Mahommedanism and Christianity,
where such sacrifices have disappeared, we must·
remember that these higher forms of religion are but
reforms or developments from the earlier types. It is
this recog·nition of one religion springing from another
hy way of reform, which justifies the· emergence of
Spiritualism in modern days, and shows it to be following
the normal law of evolution governing religious develop-
ment.
Grant Allen in " The Evolution of the Idea of God,"
22
takes the student much deeper into this fascinating realm.
Setting aside the existence or non-existence of God a'>
the Creator of the Universe, he asks the question " What
first suggested to the mind of man the notion of deity m
the abstract; and in view of the multiplicity of deitieo.;
which were prevalent in all primitive times and among
all races of man, how did the conception of a single great
and unlimited deity first take its rise?" The chapters on
the origin of tribal gods, corn and win.e gods, the gods
of Egypt and Israel, are fuller of detail and examples tha,1
anything in Jevons' book.
Of special interest to the Spiritualist is the discussion
on the evidence for believing that the fact of spirit
ret.urn lies at the root of all religion, and is earlier than
the acceptance of a god. Grant Allen traces this belief
in survival through three weJI defined stratas: (1) In the
lowest strata, the difference between the dead and the
living is inadequately perceived, and the aead are thought
to be still in bodily form. (2) In the next strata, death
i'i recognised as a physical fact, but regarded as tem-
porary, and hence men look for a physical resurrection.
(3) In the third strata, the soul is regarded as a separate
and distinct en.tity, and survives in a shadowy form.
(Tl) Philosophy.
Questions arise, concerning life and the great
Nature in which we have our being, as soon as the awe
and wonder of first acquaintance with them has subsided
a little. Religion, which may be said to represent the
awe and wonder at its greatest height, hlJ.S one answer.
Philosophy, which approaches the same problems from a
less. exalted state of mind, but more rigorous ·analysis,
gives another.
C. J. Webb, in his " History of Philosophy," gives
an easy outline of the questions asked by the Philosophers
from the davs of the Greek Thales to our modern times.
The story opens widi the observations of these early
thinkers on the fact that "_things were always coming
into .existence, and passing away," that in fact the whole
phenomena of nature were constantly undergoing trans-
formations.
Thales believed that, in spite of this constant flux,
23
somewhere there was a reality that aid not change. He
said it was water. Anaximander said this unchanging
reality must be a substance that included not only water,
but its opposite fire. Anaximenes identified this primal
substance with air; while Heraclitus believed it wai
fire. When Plato arrived on the scene, he declared that
there were a number of things having permanent reality ;
but that these things were not actually perceived through
our bodily senses; and these spiritual realities he called
" Ideas." :\fter Plato there is a long line of acute
thinkers. Their method appears to be to fasten on th1c:
weak part of the arguments of their predecessors anrl
find a more satisfactory answer from their larger
experience of life or of nature. So, as the centuries
advance, knowledge is added to knowledge, until the
spirit in man leaps out to view the universe, and ' to
measure and weigh the worlds in space.
In Stanley de Brath's " Psychic Philosophy," an
effort is made to gather up this product of Philosophic
thinking and to remould it by adding the psychic element
as the special contribution of this age to the thought of
the world. In his view psychic phenomena provide a
key to solve the social and ·economic problems of the age.
This thesis is worked out in three sections of his book.
The first part is a general statement of psychic fact and
mediumship, and its reactions on Christian Theology.
The second part discusses matter and ether as ·viewed by
modern thinkers and linked with the Platonic notions of
flux, mainly with the purpose of revealing a world beyond
the limits of materiality, where spirit beings may enjoy
an existence normal to their own state. The last part
reveals God as Immanent throughout His Universe.
(4) Psychology and Psychic Research.
In " Psychic Philosophy," the treatment of pheno-
mena and mediumship was necessarily brief, being largely
taken for granted in the larger purpose of applying its
principles to an enlarged view of life and its destiny. In
this section the subjects receive fuller treatment. In Dr.
Glover's " Know your own Mind,-'' the student is put in
possession of the main idea held by modem psychologists
regarding the normal working of the human mind. The
~
24
elementary factors· involved 'in perce1vmg normal sensa-
tions ru1d reacting to them is explained in a very simple
way. To the Spiritualist normal and super-normal sensa-
tions are a common heritage, and find their origins in the.
deeper stratas of consciousness. To know somewhat of
the wav in 'vhich the mind acts under normal circum-·
stances' provides a groundwork upon. which to begin to
understand the activities of the super-normal.
In Sir 'i\Tm. Barrett's " Psychical Research," the
student takes up the problem of our human personality, .in
that further stage which is revealed through the wide
range of activities lying on the borders of the normal,
fortified by his previous studies in the normal. The
psychic factors in mecliumship can be seen to be really
extensions of the ordi'nary faculties operating, say, on· a
higher octave of vibrations. All forms of psychic
activity, of the seance room and elsewhere, are dealt with
in masterly fashion by the author, until at last the fact of
survival is proved beyond reasonable doubt. In a closing
sentence, Barrett remarks, " Psychical Research, tliough
it may strengthen· the foundations, cannot take the place
of religion ..... the psychical order is not the spiritual,
·but· a stepping stone to the ascent of the soul to its own
self-apprehension;''
(5) · Spirituansm.
In spite of the opinion expressed by Barrett, the. fact
remains that Modern Spiritualism has developed on the
basis of a religious organisation, and is the religion of
thousands of people all over the world. Our studies have
shown the student that this development was not only ·
natural, but almost the inevitable line o1 evolution from
existing religious bodies~ Spiritualism, besides separatinf:
itself from surrounqing organisatons, has profoundly
inl'luenced religion, science and philosophy: These various
influences are briefly 'outlined in the booklets comprised
within this last section.
A. T. Connor's " Advent " gives a detailed account
·of the phenomena of the Fox family, ano the historic
events that flowed from tnose strange rappings. Furthe..
historic matter will be found in the B.S.L.U. Handbooks
Nos. 1 and 2, and in G. F. Berry's " Hints to
25
Students." Mediumship is explained in Handbooks Nos.
2 and 3, and in greater detail in J. J. Morse's " Practical
Occultism." D. Gow's book, " Spiritualism, its Ideas
and Ideals," is valuable for drawing the attention of the
student to some of the weaknesses and pitfalls that beset
the developing medium. G. F. Berry's " Seven Pointed
Star '' is a popular exposition of the Seven Principles of
Spiritualism and their application to the ordinary affairs
or daily life.
The same author's little book, " Hints to Students,"
is recommended as a model to students in methods of
preparing essays for the examination under this scfieme.
Four of its chapters give brief summaries of the informa-
tion covered bv the series of books outlined above. Its
value lies not -in any new matter presented, but in the
compactness in which the information is marshalled into
the space of a few essays., Chapter five contains a useful
list of books for the study of Spiritualism in its wider
aspects.
HINTS ON THE FORMATION OF CLASSES, AND
HOW TO CONDUCT THEM.
The ideas an.d ideals at the back of the activities
suggested for adoption by Local Branches, and Churches
and Lyceums generally, are set out very fully in pages 20
to 31 of The College Booklet. Herein, it is aimed to help
and encourage willing workers to establish these Local
Branch Classes (or an adaptation of them to suit local
conditions) wherever an opportunity presents itself, and to
show how they may be conducted to the mutual benefit of
the studen.t and our Movement.
FORMATION.
The Class or Classes should be approved, and their
formation ratified, at a special meeting of the Church or
Lyceum-with the President or Conductor presiding, sup-
ported by all other Officers and the Committee.
All arrangements should be put as resolutions and
voted on, so that the Church or Lyceum may publicly
26
declare itself as the patron of all the educational activities
carried on in its name.
The size and membership of the Committee of the
Branch should be decided at this meeting, and it is sug-
gested that, for the first Committee, volunteers should be
called for. This will ensure that the start-off of the
Classes will be in the hands of enthusiasts-and it must be
remembered that not less than half of the Committee must
be students.
This Committee having been elected or accepted, the
President or Conductor (if not among-st the volunteers)
should be co-opted as ex-officio members of the Commit-
tee. The election of the Branch Officers will take place
at the first meeting of the Committee.
The next task is to appoint or accept the offers of
service of Tutors and Leaders; and these appointed, the
meeting \viii know how many Classes it will be possible
to run and can arrange for these and the evenings on
which thev will be held. Of course, if the Church Hall
is big enough, and suitable for holding two or more
classes at once, all the cl~sses could be arranged for the
same night. But the Hall may not suit, or it may not be
available-and in this case suitable rooms must be found
(and generally enthusiastic supporters of education and
similar activities will offer the use of a room or rooms in
their homes for the use of one or other of the Classes)
where the classes can meet on the appoi~ted night or
nights.
The next business will be very important, for you will
need to decide the time at which your classes will meet ;
and if you are determined on success. you will also dedde
that no matter what happens the classes must start
promptly at the arranged hour. The surest possible way
of ruining a class of any sort is to let the members get
the idea that it doesn't matter at what tim~ they start;
or that it is not worth while attending at the proper time
as So-an.cl-So was sure to be late and the rest would have
to await his arrival. So if you arrange for 8 p.m., insist
that the class starts at the stroke of 8. If you cannf't all
be on hand at 8 sharp, arrange the start for the time when
you are all absolutely certain of being present and ready
27
to begin your work.
If you have been able to arrange your opening meeting
for a Saturday afternoon, the next business should be tea,
after which those present could indulge in a social evening
and conversazione, during which the songs, dances, etc.
could be held up for an occasional spell of ten minutes,
so that the Leaders could explain their ideas and give
some idea of the work they intended or hoped to carry on
during the winter.
Please Note.-The special meeting will be held under
lthe provisions of Article 8, and the Classes formed to
meet the requirements of Articles 4 and 8, of the Local
Branches Constitution. (See pages 20-21 and 25 of The
College Booklet).
But any Church or Lyceum is at liberty to follow or
adapt the procedure here recommended. The Movement
is calling for educationalists who will work to a system.
Don't allow it to call in vain.
Where possible, this General Meeting should be
arranged as an annual event, and held about the second
or third Saturday in August-so that the Committee will
have a decent chance of getting all Class and Rooms
arrangements in good going order for a start-off in Sep-
tember. " Well begun is half done."
The New Committee, at its first meeting, will find
itself confronted with several vital tasks, and on how it
does its duty to the Movement in its decisions and appoint-
ments will depend whether the work of the Winter Ses-
sion will be a credit or a reproach to its members. lt
must:
(a) Elect its Chairman, Treasurer and Secretary
(who is not to compete in any way with the Church or
Lyceum Secretary, or interfere with the work of
either), and instal them in office as soon as elected.
(b) Briefly discuss (in outline) the work of the
coming Winter Session and arrange provisionally the
necessary activities.
(c) Formally invite the Tutors and Class-leaders to
take a part in discussing the class-work. They have an
interest in it, you know.
28
(d) Discuss and formally approve any arrange-
ments that Tutors or Leaders may have been able to
make since the General Meeting-with regard to (1)
Students, (2) Rooms, and (3) Evening and Time of
Class meeting. These are matters that primarily
interest those concerned.
(e) Decide whether monthly lectures will be held;
and, if so, whether to invite the assistance of prominent
local Church or Lyceum workers.
(/) Adopt the Lyceum Bannl!r and the National
Spiritualist as the official organs of the Branch or
Education Class, and recommend that every student and
tutor shall buy a copy monthly of one or the other-
so as to keep in touch with developments in the
National Education. vVork. Important news and
announcements always appear first in these two.
CONDUCTINC A CLASS.
The object of these Church and Lyceum Classes is to
prepare students for the annual Education Examinations
held by the Education Committees on behalf of the
National College-and each class must be conducted with
this object (and this object only} always in view.
From this viewpoint, a student is only a Spiritualist
inquirer who wants to fit himself (or herself} for a fuller
and better understanding of Spiritualism; and a tutor is
only an enthusiast who has undertaken to guide and
supervise the students' studies, to check and advise upon
their preparatory work, and generally assist in ensuring·
a successful examination result to each, as a reward for
their intelligent and determined efforts to attain
Spiritualistic knowledge.
It is in this light that the following hints are offered-
as to two or more individuals who have assumed a
responsibility to themselves and the Movement, and who
want to know how they can honour that responsibility to
the greatest mutual advantage of everybody concerned.
At the first meeting of any Clllss the Tutor and
students should combine in drawing up a working time-
table for the Winter Session, to take the students right
up to the date of the examinations.
29
(a) De-cide on how long your class will sit each
week (not rnor_e than 1~ to 2 holll s)-and. that it must
close just as promptly to time as you insist that it must
open. 1
(b). Have all yopr text-books at hand, and decide
in what order you "-ill study them-but see our sug-
gestions in a following section.
(c) If you are ;preparing· for the En.trance Exami-
irntions, you will work to the plans suggested in The
Entrance Examination Leaflet (post free, ltd-, from
Mrs. Paling).
(d) But if you are preparing . for the Intermediate
or the Subsicli;iry or the Final C~rnde of the Graduate
Scheme, you must decide for yourself what time you
will be able to spend on each text-book-not only at
the class or classes, hut al home in-between-times.
Find out ho\\' much each of you can do in a week,
and then try to plan for a little less; it is very
encouraging to be able tu g·et just a little ahead ol
)'Olli'. work-a1~d very disheartening· to get ever such a
little bit behind. Su plan for being· able to keep afiead.
Besides, it is foolish to take on what you know
you cannot do. .
The more 1 brilliant rncrn bers of the class must take
the pace of the more stolid. The staying speed of a
team is the sp,eedl of the slowest.
(c) If you can have only one class-night a week,
you must try 1
at first to give half an hour to the
Readirig Course, half an hour to the Philosophy Course,
and half an ~our to the Evolution Course-any time
remaining to be used as the Tutor may think best or
most necessary (such as, to run quickly through the
corning week's work).
But il: may soon prove that the whole time will be
needed for the Philosophy and the Evolution work-
with perhaps one night in three or four. given to the
Reading work-and in this event it might be possible to
form an Excelsior Group to meet on Sunday mornings
and study the Reading Course. The whole Course
could be divided among the number of Sundays avail-
abl~ before the examinations, and it could be arranged :
..~
30
That at home the students should read carefully
the portion set out for the week, and that at the
Sunday morning meeting the Tutor should give an
address or paper (not exceeding twenty minutes) cover-
ing the teaching of the portion; and that the rest of the
time should be spent in discussion-passages in the
text-book concerned being underlined and noted, and
the students making notes, in their "Reading Course"
note-book, of important new points brought out in the
interchange of opinions and theories.
Or the students themselves could take turns with
the Tutor in giving the paper (addresses from students
rlebarred)-and this would be very valuable examination
practice-the Tutor taking every second Sunday, and
the students by alphabetic rota taking the otl'ter Sun-
days.
" Reading maketh a full man," said Lord Bacon-
but so does eating ; and in either case the healthy man
is he who properly digests what he has taken in. "A
well-stored mind '' really means a well-arranged mind,
and the weekly discussions of knotty points and the
expression of considered opinions will aid the student~
7 by compelling them to arrange their facts and ideas
under their own mental headings and groupings.
The Sunday morning " College Excelsior Group "
certainly seems worth a trial.
(f) The Reading Course having been satisfactorily
disposed of, all the time of the mid~week class can be
devoted to Philosophy and Evolution. And it might l:ie
found helpful to have these subjects " week about," so
as to be able to give a real close consideration to each,
instead of having, perhaps, to stop an interesting
discussion just because time had arrived to .take up the
other subject. So we suggest one week Philosophy
and the other week Evolution-it being, ot course,
understood that each fortnightly class will deal with a
fortnight's study and preparation..
(g) For each Course, each student should possess the set
text-book, a syllabus, a note book and two exercil!e
books. At the first class-meeting the Tutor would set
a number of helpful questions (four or five), and the
~ ------- --~----~
31
students would find the best answers they could
manage at home, and enter them in No. 1 exercise
book. This book would be left with the Tutor for
correction of the answers, and would be returned, with
useful hints, when. No. 2 book is handed in with the
second set of answers-and so on. The first half-hour
of class work would be devoted to discussing the
corrections and hints, and all important points should
be entered in the note-books, for future reference or
for use in revision work.
But it is well understood that many Tutors could
not possibly spare the time necessary for the · plan
recommended above-and for these the following alter-
natives are suggested :-
One plan would be that Tutors should read through
the answers and underline those parts with which they
are not quite satisfied, and bring these forward in
discussion at the next meeting of the Class.
Another plan would be for students to bring their
answers to the Class. Each question would be taken
in turn, and each student would read out his or her
answer; this being followed by a general discussion of
all the answers-a summary of the discussion. being
recorded by the students in their note-books before the
consideration of the next question. '
During " final revision," these discussion-sum-
maries should be memorised, and the questions set and
the students' answers read in the light of this
accumulated knowledge-and all that will r~main to be
memorised from the text-book will be technical rules and
lists ; the idea (the real, understanding, knowledge)
of the subject will have been absorbed and assimilated
by each student during the class-sessions.
The last half-hour of the class could be devoted to
the coming week's lessons; an.d the tutors could point out
passages deserving of special marking or special attention,
ending the class by dictating the questions to be answered
at home. The work to be done during the last six
weeks is left to the discretion of the individual Tutor,
who should know in what subjects his students are strong
or weak.
--------··--~-----
32
As the examination date approaches, examination
practice should be given by setting the papers set at
previous examinations-under examination conditions.
The Tutor should see that each student is supplied
with a copy of this booklet and a copy of the Entrance
Examination Leaflet or the Gracie V Leaflet, and that the
sections in the Leaflet on Examination practice and on
'' How to Answer Questions '' are thoroughly and care·
fully studied, insisting that all answers shall be written
as there directed. It would not be a bad plan to ask the
students to put down, before each answer, the kind of
answer that was required; and as the student will be
answering the questions at home, with his Leaflet before
him, it will be no hardship-but very good training for
the actual test.
N. IB.-It must be realised by all students that they
do not come to the Croup or the Mid-week Class to learn
their lessons, but to st11J1dY and discuss the lessons they
have learned at home. The Class should only be used for
the interchange of knowledge and opinions, under the.
guidance of the Tutor.
SUGGESTED ORDER OF STUDIES.
These suggestions arc g·iven with great hesitation,
as it is really impossible to lay clown a course of study
that will suit all circumstances. The only reason for
offering them at all is that they may suggest to new Tutors
and students some method of their own which can be
founded on what we propose and adapted to suit local
requirements.
There is not much choice about the Philosophy and
Evolution Courses in each Grade. The Text-books have
to be memorised, and if the system of alternate classes
just advocated is adopted, the text-books will be studied
together. All that has to be done is to divide the num-
ber of pages in taFh by the number of weeks, and the
answer will give Tue number of pages that have to be
learned each week.
But the Reading Course is very different, for there are
a number of books to be read and discussed and under-
stood, and it is a hard matter to make up one's mind as
33
to which is the most important. And to avoid having to
make such a decision, we suggest that you should try to
determine which leads on to all the others, and, finally,
which one leads from all the others. This is the method
adopted hereunder.
This Cuide is, of course, not intended for Grade V
or Entrnnce Examination students, who have their own
Leaflet, but we must .pause for a word to these, as a
preliminary to our main suggestions. We would ask
them to remember that the Grade V or Entrance Exami-
nation Course is their first introduction to the study of
General Spiritualisrn, and that this examination is only
preliminary to at least three years of hard study an.cl
preparation, and to three stiff examinations which they
arc determined to pass, and that their progress in the
Graduate Scheme Proper vvill depend entirely on the
foundations of exact in formation and correct studying-
methods which they will lay in their Qualifying Courses.
Each Course in each Grade Syllabus prepares for arid
leads to the next, so if the earlier Courses are studied
thoroughly, the Courses will get easier as the student
advances from Grade to Grade.
Grade V and Entran.ce candidates should begin with
Ess'ays on Reasoning, and then tackle No. 3 Handbook
with the aid of the Series of Notes prepared by Mr. W.
G. Gush, F.N.S.C., and pliblished in the Lyceum Bariner
from Sepember, 1927, till February, 1928, studying the
various articles in conjunction with the appropriate
Essays as recommended in the Lesson Plan laid down in
their Leaflet.
It will now be necessary to take the three Grades
separately, and see if we can find any natural order of
succession in the Reading Course of each. Mr. Berrv,
in his article on the text-books, has pointed out the
general .plan of the Scheme: it is for us to decide on an
order of reading and study that will accomplish what !·.,
aimed at. It will he assumed that the Sunday morning
class is heing· held in el']ch qlse.:._but that time will not
allow of thC' whole of the books' being taken then.
In the Intermediate Lesson Plan (which can be
obtained from Mrs. Paling for 11-d. stamp) a Reading
34
Course of 26 weeks is suggested (you will have to sub-
stitute Gow's book for " Modern Spiritualism ") and in
it six weeks are allowed for Berry's " Hints "-and De
Brath's " Psychic Philosophy " gets fourteen for a first
reading and six more for a second reading (which should
be confined to notes and underlined passages). In your
Sunday morning you could take these as planned for tlle
first hour-and-a-half, and give the final half-hour to a chat
about the " Seven Pointed Star,'' No. 1 Handbook, and
Gow's " Ideas and Ideals." And Gow's book should be
read as a model of balanced argument and temperate
statement of a case, worth copying in your own essays
and answers. Questions will not be set on the Fables,
etc., but they should not be left unread. And let us keep
in mind that the only sections that have to be learned by
rote are the Logic and Evolution sections. All that is
required in the Reading section is " to show an intelligent
general knowledge " ; and any discussion or opinion asked
for will be on a given incident or passage, which means
that the passages, etc., will be quoted. So there is no need
to memorise the Reading texts, and careful reading and
full and frank discussion in class (as suggested) should
be adequate preparation.
For Subsidiary Grade students the best plan would
seem to be to start with Advent (which they will find to
be an amplification of part of No. 1 Handbook, with some
fresh problems for consideration) and Practical Occultism,
and follow up with No. 2 Handbook (especially the" Rise
and Progress of the British Lyceum Movement," with
which every Spiritualist should be familiar) and Jevon's
smaller book on Comparative Religion, which again will
prepare the way for the second section of De Brath's book.
The Psychology and Ev~lution text-books are written so
entertainingly that it will not seem a task to have to
memorise and master them, and the student can please
himself whether he studies them in turn or together.
Comparative Religion and Psychic Philosophy (with
Morse's book, if tir1:1e allows) are recommended as the
special " Sunday morning " books.
In the Final Grade, the order of the Syllabus seems
to need little if any alteration, but some may prefer to
35
read Grant Allen's book before attacking Barrett's. The
obvious '' Sunday morning '' selections are The Idea of
Cod and Psychic Philosophy, with Psychical Research if
lime permits. And again the Philosophy and Evolution
text-books are so absorbingly interesting that learning
them will not be a task.
* * * *
These are our suggestions for an order of study. It is
left to the tutors and students to decide whether they will
adopt, adapt, or ignore what is here offered. All we have
tried to do is to offer advice-it does not lie with us to
attempt to dictate. But whatever the tutors and students
may decide to clo, we wish them the best of good luck.
FOR THE " SOLITARY STUDENT."
Very little now remains to be said, as even the
student who has to work " on his own " can act on most
of the suggestions offered in the preceding sections. His
greatest handicap will be that he will have no fellow
students with whom he can compare notes, and no Excel-
sior Class at which he can practise.
He should assimilate as much as possible of Mr.
Berry's " Review," and then follow the order of books
suggested for the Classes. He will have to " learn off "
the Philosophy and Evolution text-books, whether he
belongs to a doss or not ; and while studying ·· for the
examination he should make the Reading Course books
his only source of reading, and have them as his only
companions.
At his first reading of a text-book he should mark
or underline all important passages; at his second
reading he should make notes of the marked passages;
and then he should learn the notes; only turning up
relative passages when the notes do not seem clear. And
with the solitary student, as with the other students, the
one thing needful Is constant application-and onlv that
will give a guarantee of success at the examin~tions.
* * * *
Any student who finds any difficulties in his studying
36
should write at once to Mrs. Paling for advice.
And please send an envelope big enough to hold
what you have written to ask for.
HOW TO ENTER FOR TIHE EXAMINATIONS.
For the Associate ( B.S.L.U.) Section Exam.:
l\4-i.s,; Kit~n, 1J1e B.S.L. U Education Secretary, sends
out an Entry Fon11 to your Lyceum Secretary; so
you just give your name to the Lyceum Secretary, join
the Cracle Class, and he (or she) and Mis!! ~itson. will
arrange for everything else. · e
This is possible because l!.yceinms, in general, have
adopted the Lyceum l!Jnion Education Scheme as a normal
part of Lyceum teaching, and therefore the Lyceum
Secretary doe's the examination preparation work as a
matter of course.
For the Craduate (S.IN.11.J.) Section Exam.: Mrs.
Paling·, the S.N.U Education Secretary, will sen~
nH1 an Entry Form, which vou will fill in and return
to her, with ·the proper Examination Fee, not later than
n .g:iven fixed date.
This is necessary because Churches have not yet
admitted that Classes for education work are a normal
part of Church-work, and therefore the Church member
must make all necessary arrangements himself.
· But the College has arranged with the S. N. U. Edu-
c-nt ion Committee that the following variations from the
s1 rict reading of the Regulations will be allowed :-
(a) if your Church or l!.yce11.11m is registered as a Local
. Branch of the College, your Local Branch Secretary
can obtain a supply of Entry Forms, get each
intending candidate to fill one up, and then return
all the Forms-in one envelope, with a postal order
to cover the total Examination Fees-to Mrs.
Paling.
(Ii) Or if you have formed a Study Croup, or a Prepara-
tion Class, vour Leader or Tutor can. act for all of
you in obtaining- and rct·urning· Entry Forms, and
paying tfie Examination Fees.
37
(c) If, however, your Church or Lyceum is not a Local
Branch, or if you do not belong to a Study Group or
Class, or if you are a Subscribing Member of the
Union-and not also a Church Member-you must
arrange direct with Mrs. Paling.
N.B.-This will not be a handicap to vou, as Mrs.
Paling is the one who will suffer in having to deal with
single ones instead of half-dozens; but she won't mind,
as the more trouble of this kind she gets the more she
i.; aware that her propaganda \vork is bearing fi:uit and
leading to the success of the Scheme, and its adoption by
the Churches as a normal part of their education respon-
sibilities to inquirers and members. S'o don't hang back
just because you are the only one from your Church or
Lyceum or District-think of yourself as the first one,
and that you arc setting a worthy example " to all whom
i': may concern."
HOW THE EXAMINATIONS WILL BE
CONDUCTED.
There are some of our students who have had very
little experience of written examinations; and for their
benefit the following explanations are given. First, re
the Entrance Examination-although it says that the
second paper may be taken on the Saturday, Sunday or
Monday, it does not mean that the members of any one
Centre can sit separately; it only means that the Centre
may decide whether candidates will sit for the second
paper on one or other of these given clays. But ALL
the candidates at that particular Centre must sit at the
same time.
The same applies to the Intermediate, Subsidiary and
Final Grade candidates. They have tliree sittings (one
for each section of the syllabus) and may sit on the
Saturday afternoon and evening AND the Sunday morning
OR afternoon-unless other arrangements have been
allowed by Mrs. Paling-as may best suit the convenience
~..
38
of the candidates or supervisors, or fit in with the times
at which the Hall or Rooms are available. BuT, all the
candidates at any given Centre must sit at the same
time on the same day for the Reading, the Philosophy or
the Evolution paper.
Any time-table that suits everybody concerned may
be drawn up; but whatever time-table is adopted must be
observed by all candidates sitting at any given Centre for
any Grade of the Advanced Graduate Scheme.
Let us suppose that at your Centre it is decided to
sit for the Reading Course paper on Saturday evening
from 6.30 till 9.30; for the Philosophy paper on Sunday
afternoon, from 2.30 till 5.30; and for the Evolution
paper on Monday evening, from 7.0 till 10.0. Also that
there are candidates sitting in each of the three Advanced
Grades-Intermediate, Subsidiary and Final (your
Entrance students, of course, will have sat with the
Lyceumist Grade V in February). The following hints
are addressed to " you," but they are for everybody
who sits.
You will be at the Examination room and seated
at your table by 6.20 on Saturday-ready for the Super-
visor to give you a sheet of official paper and your paper
of questions. The only thing you will bring with you
will be your pen, ink, and blotting paper and the paper
of Instructions to Candidates sent you along with the
order about the place of examination. You must not
bring any books or notes. As soon as you get your
double sheet of official foolscap, THE FIRST THING you do is
to fill up the slip attached to it, an.cl then the lines at the
top of the sheet itself. The only place you must put your
NAME is on the attached siip. Having done this, you will
follow the routine outlined in our section on " How to
do your best at the Examinations," until you hear the
Supervisor say " time's up." At that signal you will
gather up your papers and· hand them in to the Super-
visor, but keeping YOlllr question paper, and go home to
supper-bearing in mind that on the morrow you must
be in your place in time to start off again at 2.30 p.m. ;
and that if you are late the time will be taken off your
three hours r
39
With the Philosophy paper you will do exactly the
same as with the Reading paper; and before you go
away you will make sure that you know all about the
arrangements for Monday evening and the Evolution
paper-which must be dealt with like the other two.
But on each occasion, before leaving the examination
room, find out if the :-<EXT sitting· "·ill be in the same room
or hall (for you might have to go to different halls or
rooms for your second and third papers-and if you went
to the wrong place you would lose your chance of sitting
for that particular paper-<mJ so would FAIL in the
Examination, entirely through your own neglect or lack
of foresight).
HOW TO DO YOUR BEST AT THE
EXAM INATIONIS.
l. The most important detail, of course, is that you
should have thoroughly studied your text-books and
thus obtained a sound knowledge of all the subjects set
for examination.
2. But many candidates who have studied hard and
car~fully fail to do themselves justice-mainly because
they get nervous and flustered.
3. You can avoid this, by practising the following
routine and acting· to it in the examination room :-
(a) Get to the Examination Hall not less than ten
minutes before the set time for the examination to
begin, and take your seat.
(b) Make sure that you have your pen, and that
it 01· vour ink-bottle is full of ink.
(c) See that you have blotting-paper.
(d) The Supervisor will give you a supply of
oflicial Examination sheets with a little slip gummed
across the front. On this slip write your name in full
(Christian name or names and surname-if you are
married don't give your husband's Christian name),
so that it is available for your certificate; your age and
address, and any other information the slip may ask
for.
40
(e) See that you don't put your name anywhere
but on the slip.
(f) Fill in the information asked for at the top of
. the Examination Sheets.
(g) On these sheets put nothing else but your
answers to the questions.
(h) By this time the Supervisor will have given you
your Question paper, and you should now have about
five minutes in which to read through it before your
three-hours' session begins.
(i) The first thing to do is to read the Instructions
to Candidates at the head of the questions, and find
out how many Answers are asked for. (As a rule it is
five).
(j) Then see if you are allowed to answer ANY five
of the questions, or if there are any you MUST try to
answer. If you find any (one paper in 1928 said-
" Answer question I or 2, and four others "), mark
the compulsory ones with a big " C " in the margin,
and then make a tick against other questions you
think easiest until you have made up the five you are
g·oing to answer.
(k) Or the paper may be divided into sections,
with questions to be answered in each section. In 1928
the Intermediate Reading Course paper was divided
in.to five sections; each section contained three ques-
tions on one of the books in the Reading Course ; and
of these three NOT MORE THAN ONE had to be answered.
In such a case, read the fifteen questions, and in each
section mark the one that you think you can answer
best.
(l) Your choice of questions made, read the
chosen ones again an.cl decide which one you will start
with-always the one you can answer with least diffi-
culty. And no make sure that you have grasped what
the question is asking for BEFORE you begin to write
your answer.
(m) Keep in mind that five questions in three hours
allows you exactly six minutes to plan out your
answer and thirty minutes to write it down, and
(n) Every minute over 30 you spend on any
41
answer is leaving you so many less minutes for some
other answer.
(o) So start on the easy ones, as every minute
under 30 saved on an answer can be added to the time
for some harder answer.
(p) And DON'T TRY to set down all you know.
Give the best ans\Yer you can manage in half an hour.
Imagine that an intelligent friend of yours, who admits
that he knows nothing about Spiritualism, has asked
you the question, and that you have only half an hour
to spare in which you can write him your reply. Tell
the Examiner exactly \vhat you would tell your friend
-and that is all the Examiner expects from you.
(q) Ahvays start your answer by putting in the,
margin the number or the question. In the Reading
Course paper you will, or course, also give the Letter
or the Section (as A, 3; B, 2; C, l; etc.).
(r) If you have any time left, after answering your
FIVE questions, read ali your answers through--and
make sure that you have not left out any point you
intended to put in.
(s) In case you SHOULD find you had left out
something-leave three or four blank lines between
your answers, so that you will have room to write it
jn.
(t) AND KEEP COOL.
THE COLLECE AND CLAIRVOYANTS,
MEDIUMS, etc.
It has been complained that the College and the
Advanced Scheme are catering only for the Normal
Speaker, and doing nothing whatever for the Clair-
voyant, the Controlled Medium, or the Inspirational
Speaker.
It is not the function of the College to do anything
specifically for any Speaker or other public worker. The
prime aim of the College is to provide a course of
42
Spiritualistic study for EVERY Spiritualist who wishes to
have a well-ordered knowledge of Spiritualism. Its
object is to persuade Churches and Lyceums to combine
in a national movement for the establishment of educa-
tional mid-week classes; and to adopt the Joint Education
Committee's Courses of study: testing the efficiency of
their studies by sitting at the annual examinations. The
t\\'o Education Committees concerned presen.t certificates
to their successful students-and the College, in addition,
awards its Degrees as laid down in its Constitution.
vVhen a student at last passes his Final Grade examina-
tion with Honours or Distinction the Graduate
(G.N.S.C.) Degree is awarded, and the studen.t's name
i" forwarded to the S.N.U. Exponents Committee.
The only body in Organised Spiritualism that can
grant a Diploma for Public Workers is the Exponents
Committee of the National Union. All the College
Diplomas are for educational successes-and no Spiritual-
ist is debarred. The clairvoyant, the medium and the
inspiration.al speaker can all take the Education Courses
and gain the College Degrees. If they desire further hall-
marks of their abilitv to work for the Movement thev
will then go on and win the Diploma of Certified
Exponent-on which the College will award its Diplomist ·
Degree, for which· only holders of the Certified
Exponent Diploma are eligible.
.To anticipate the old-time objections-if we really
helieve that like attracts like, we must admit that the
result of this would inevitably be the raising of the
standard of the work, both public and private, performed
by those who had thus developed their mentalities and so
made themselves fitter instruments for the purposes of
their Spirit Friends-and worthy representative teachers
in a progressive eaucational Movement.
Every Spiritualist who wishes to study Spiritualism
is catered for bv the Education Scheme and the College
-and many of us cannot see why a Clairvoyant or a
Medium or Psychic of any lllnd should not take a Course
of Study ; if only in the attempt to understand their own
special gifts or powers.
43
ESTABLISHING A PRIESTHOOD.
Some very. earnest Spiritualists have expressed the
fear that the College and the Advanced Education Scheme
will surely lead to the establishment of a Spiritualist
Priesthood. But we would suggest to these friends that
their apprehension has come rather late in the day, seeing
that the Spiritualists' National Union., in 1902, intro-
duced their Diploma scheme with the expressed intention
of establishing " a recognised oody of public Exponents
or Demonstrators (whether men or women) who should
be regarded by the Council of the Union, and by British
Spiritualists generally, as holding a position in
Spiritualism similar to that held by the Minjsters,
Preachers, Missioners, or Teachers, in the Protestant
Free Churches in England and Wales." Taking this at
its face meaning, it would seem that Our Movement has
already established a priesthood, and that the rank and
file has accepted it-by default in making no protest.
But there is no real danger in a Priesthood, as such.
The real danger comes when the priesthood is the only
section. of the community allowed to study or to teach and
preach. We can prevent any Clanger arising from our
Priesthood by all becoming students of Spiritualism, and of
those allied subjects which allow us to draw helpful know-
ledge from the information gained in our inquiries and
investigations ; and it seems to us that the College, by
its Education Schemes and its Class-work, is destined to
save Spiritualism from a priestly domination.
In the first place, we are trying to persuade our
speakers and mediums to take up a course of study that
will turn them into, at tlie very worst, an educated
priesthood instead of being mere blind leaders of the
blind. In the second place, we are trying to in.duce the
rank and file to take up the very same course of study as
our " priests," so that our speakers will be kept in their
proper place as leaders of thought only, who will speak
as equals to equals and supply material, for con-
sideration at leisure, on matters of mental and
psychic and spiritual interest or importance. And
this being our object we claim that every Spiritualist
-----------·--·-·-·
44
who opposes our Scheme is a supporter of priestly ,
domination. Think of the following : - Every
Spiritualist who has declared a preference for this or that
speaker or medium ; every Church and District Council
that has drawn up a list of " approved workers "; every
Union that has conducted examinations or provided
c:ourses of studv for speakers only-all these have cohtri-
lmted towards the establishment of a " priesthood " anti
given it a position of superiority. The College Scheme is an
antidote to these wrong methods of treatment in the
past. The strength of a priesthood depends on the
ignorance of the rank and file-and a rank and file such
as we are aiming to build up will have nothing to fear
from any priesthood, however well organised.
So, if you do not want a dominating priesthood, take
up the College Scheme ; study, and induce others to study ;
identify yourself with our vital educational Movement;
and work in every way possible for a well educated
Spiritualism in which the rank and file will be the edu-
cational equals of the " priests," and the " priests " take
their proper status as a· ministry of national an,d inter-
national service to mankind, with their zeal for mission
work the onlv difference between them and other members
of the cult-a difference full of honour to them, but giving
them no special privileges and no special and inalienable
power to dictate to others.
