{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__nsc___the_college_booklet.pdf","mytitle":"The College Booklet","mylang":"de"}
The National Spiritualist College.
Established in July. 1926, by the Spiritualists' National Union, Ltd.,
and the British Spiritualists' Lyceum Union.
"THE COLLEGE
BOOKLET."
CONTAINING :
THE COLLEGE CONSTITUTION.
~ODEL CONSTITUTION FOR LOCAL BRANCHES.
INTERPHETATIONS OF VARIOUS REGULATIONS
BY THE EMERGENCY COMMITTEE.
HINTS ON CONDUCTING LOCAL BRANCHES.
~
A useful Guide to Church or Lyceum Officials
and
To all interested in our Educational Work.
" These things shall be. A loftier race
Than e'er the world hath known shall rise :
With flame of Freedom in their souls,
And light of Knowledge in their eyes."
-JOHN H. SYMONDS.
Chairman of the Governing Board :
Mr. W. G. GUSH, D.N.U.. F.N.S.C., 127, B!.ACKM()ORFOOT ROAD,
. CR03!.AND MOOR, HUDDERSFIELD.
Hon. Secretary : Mr. A. T. CONNOR, F.N.S.C.,
19, OAKHtHtsr RtJAD, FOREST GATE, LONDON. E.7.
/j C°iC.,,.s:t>'i!E"-""?OA/""'T." ??o.-P_a .
Printed by E. F. Roberts, Bradford Road, Batley, for
The National Spiritualist <:allege.
2
CONTENTS.
Foreword
COLLEGE Constitution
Page.
3
5
fnterpretations by the College Board 13
Decisions by the Joint Education Committee 15
DrsTRICT CENTRES-Suggested Activities 16
Ditto General Remarks .. . 17
Ditto Suggested Organisation
LOCAL BR!\NCHES-
Model Constitution
Ditto Hints and Suggestions to Officials ...
18
20
27
)
3
FOREWORD.
The National Spiritualist College was founded in
July, 1926, ;ind is recognised by The Spiritualists'
National Union, Ltd:, and The British Spiritualists'
Lyceum Union, as " an Educational Institution legally
established as a Body within the Orbit of the Union and
an Integral part of its Activities."
The College is being conducted in close co-operation
with the National Education Scheme; the College
Governing Board being also the Joint Education Com-
mittee. But there is no confusion of duty or function.
The function of the Joint Committee is to carry on the
Advanced Education Scheme and conduct the Grade
Examinations (through the S. N. U. Education Committee
-which forms a section of the College Board) ; and the
function of the Governing Board is to organise and
supervise and encourage the Educational and Class work
carried on by the Churches and Lyceums, operating as
Local Branches of the College.
The COLLEGE Constitution was adopted by both
Unions in 1926 ; the Local. Branch Constitution has since
been drawn up as a Guide to all legitimate activities
under Article 11 (b) of the College Constitution, and also
to enahle Churches and Lyceums to organise themselves
as Units of the College. Where any question has arisen
as to the application of any article or articles, the
Emergency Committee of the College Board has gi'ven
Interpretations which wiH be found appended to the
Constitution affected. Hints and suggestions on organisa-
tion, etc., for Local Branch officials and members, and
Interpretations of Advanced Education Scheme Regula-
tions which may be of service to students and tutors,
have also been included in our little Booklet.
It is hoped that all eligible Churches and Lyceums
wil1 adopt it as an item of normal policy to join the
College and establish Local Branch activities in vigorous
operation-and that those not yet eligible will set up
Education Committees on lines similar to those laid down
for Branch Committees, and make. active membership of
the College their educational objective. In ensuring the
4
success of ·the College they will "be· raising the status of
the Organised Movement, and thus bringing honour to
themselves as members of such a Movement and as
pioneers in its educational and progressive efforts.
~\ · There is one thing we must remember. The long
threatened attack on· our position has begun, with the.
usual accompaniment of misrepresentation and abuse. Our
reply to that is not to rush into print to defend our Cause
-which is in no need of apology-but to set to work and
build up an educated Movement, every member of which
will be able to defend his or her belief both scientifically
and philosophically. To do this all must study, and it is
the· duty of all who are zealous educationists to 'York
without ceasing in our individual Districts as missionaries
of educational Spirituali'sm until the absolute necessity of
study is realised-and acted upon-by every Body attached
to the S.N.U. and B.S.L.U. And when this great work
has been accomplished we may rest as·sured that the Spirit
Organisers- of our Movement will open up new vistas of
progress and give us new opportunities of working for
the mental and spiritual advancement of mankind. But
we n~d not waste time looking forward and wondering
what tasks the future will bring. forth. Let us do the
duty· that lies nearest us; our next duty will then have
become· clearer. So will our Movement be raised to the
position "it was destined to occupy, and so shall each of us
be aqle to .say that we have done our utmost to help in
the accomplishment of its destiny. ·
'' ·Let ea~h· man· do his best;
Who does the best his circumstance allows
Doe·s well, ads ·nobly-angels could do no more."
On behalf of the College. Board,
J ~ .A. T. CONN~R, F.N.S.C., Sec1'eta1'y.
:W.p. GUSH, D.N.U., F.N.S.C., Chairman•
.. r.
5
THE NATIONAL SPIRITUALIST COLLEGE.
CONSTITUTION.
ARTICLE 1. NAlVIE.
The name of this College shall be " THE NATIONAL
SPIRITUALIST CuLLEGE. ''
ARTICLE 2. BASIS.
The National Spiritualist College shall, under the
auspices of the Spiritµalists' National Union, Ltd., and
the British Spiritualists' Lyceum Union, co-ordinate and
control all the educational work of the Organised
Spiri'tualist Movement; and may receive into afliliation,
o:· work in co-operation vvitb, any other· educati011'al
Spiritualist Body.
ARTICLE 3. 013JECTS.
The object of the College shall be to promote the
welfare of the educational work of Organised Spiritualism
by:-
(a) Working in conjunction and co-operation ·with
(and eventually absorbing or replacing) the Spiritualists'
National Union and British Spiritualists' Lyceum Union
Education Committees.
(b) Laying down Courses of Study in the Religion,
History, Science and Philosophy of Spiritualism.
(c) Drawing up Syllabuses from time to time, and
prescribing and/or publishing Text-books.
(d) Holding Periodical Examinations,
Certificates and/or Diplomas to successful
(e) Establishing DISTRICT CENTRES
BRANCHES (or SCHOOLS).
and granti1ig
students.
and LOCAL
(f) Any other educational activities authorised by a
two-thirds majority vote of those present and voting at the
Spiritua~ists' National Union and British Spiritualists'
Lyceum Union Conferences held in the same year.
6
ARTICLE 4. MANAGEMENT.
(a) The COLLEGE BoARD shall consist of the two
Education Committees as appointed respectively by the
Annual Conferences of the above Unions.
(b) The GovERNING BOARD shall consist of six mem-
bers, three. appointed by the Spiritualists' National Union
and three appointed by the British Spiritualists' Lyceum
Union, from and through the members of their respective
Education Committees.
(c) The College Board, in its administration of the
'vork of the College, shall be free from interference and
dictation by. either Union; but shall have no power to
initiate educational policy, unless with the previously
obtained consent of the Annual Conferences (meeting in
the Whitsuntide and July of the same year).
ARTICLE 5. MEMBERSHIP.
(u) Membership of the College shall be open to all
Alliliatcd Churches and Lyceums, which have at least TEN
members taking the Examination Course in one or both
of the National Education Schemes conducted by or
through the College ; and to District Councils (or District
Groups) and Lyceum District Councils FIFTY PER CENT.
·of whose affiliated bodies are eligible for membership of
the College.
(b) Churches and Lyceums in membership may call
themselves " The ...........................................Branch
of the National Spiritualist College."
Distri'ct Councils (or Groups) in membership may ca11
themselves '' The ..........................................District
Centre of the National Spiritualist College."
Where there are two or more Councils or Groups in
a District, these sh~ll be registered (and numbered) in
strict order of priority of affiliation wi'th the College.
E.g., "The Leeds (No. 1) District Cantre ....,""The
Leeds (No. 2) District Centre ....., etc.
ALWAYS PROVIDED that members of every Church or
Lyceum affiliated with its National Body shall be entitled
to enter for the Annual Examinations, on payment of the
stipulated Examination Fees, whether the said Church
7
or Lyceum is a member of the College or not; and such
students shall be awarded the various College Degrees,
if they attain the necessary educational standard and
make the necessary application to the Secretary of the /~
College.
This provision applies also to Subscribing Members
of the Spiritualists' National Union, Ltd.
ARTICLE 6. BUSINESS.
(a) For administrative and executive t•urposes, the
COLLEGE Board shall divide itself into its (Spiritualists'
National Union and British Spiritualists' Lyceum Union)
constituent parts, each of which, as an Education Com-
mittee, shall administer that section of the Joint Education
;Scheme sponsored by the Union by which the Committee
was appointed; that is to say, the British Spiritualists'
Lyceum Union Committee shall administer the AssocIATE
Section (Oral Grade to Gracie V.) and the Spiritualists'
National Union Committee shall administer the GRADUATE
Section (Intermediate to Final Gracie).
(b) The several Educat£on Committees shall meet at
such times and places as they may deem necessary for the
proper transaction of their administrative and executive
business ; and a report of the work done shall be forwarded
as soon as possible to the College Secretary. These
. reports, together whh any suggestions that may be
received from either Union, or from any Affiliated Body,
shall be fully considered by the Governing Board, and the
consequent discussion, decision and/or recommendation
recorded in full in the Minutes of the meeting at which
the discussion takes place.
(c) The administrative work of the College (as such)
shall be deputed to the GOVERNING Board, who shall also
issue the DIPLOMAS of the Ass~ciate and Graduat:!
Degrees, and any others that the College may decide to
award. The Governing Board shall meet at such times
and places as may be arranged, to consider and transact
the business of the College ; and shall have power to
make all necessary rules and regulations for the conduct
of the business when such are not provided f,,f in the
College Constitution.
8
(d) The Governing Board shall function as the Joint
Education Committee of the.Spiritualists' National Union
and British Spiritualists' Lyceum Union, and shall (in
consultation and agreement with the two Education Com-
mittees) have power to publish, or to arrange with other
bodies for the publication of such Text-books as may be
deemed necessary for the success of the educational work
of the College. Also, with the consent of the two said
Committees, it may issue a combined " National
Spiritualist College Results List," the cost thereof to be
apportioned between the two Unions as may be previously
agreed.
(e) The Governing Board shall not, under any circum-
stances, interfere with the. Departmental work . of the
Education Committees, which (while they continue to exist
and function) are as such responsible each to its own
Annual Conference and to that alone. (See Article 3 (a).)
ARTICLE 7. OFFICERS.
(a) Each Education Committee shall elect or appoint
such Officers as it may deem necessary or expedient.
(b) At its first meeting after the Annual Conferences
i~ each year, the Governing Board shall elect its Officers,
who shall hold office (if remaining members of the Board)
until the corresponding meeting in· the following year.
Vacancies occurring through retirement or any other
cause shall be filled as decided by the COLLEGE Board.
The Officers shall be a Chairman and a Secretary
(elocted annually from and by the members of the
GovERNING Board) and a Trustee-Treasurer, as laid down
in Article 9. These shall be (also) the Officers of the
National Spiritualist College.
(c) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the
Board at which he is present, and shall perform such other
duties as may be assigned to him. In the event of his
absence, a chairman shall be appointed from among the
members present.
(d) The Secretary shall receive and attend to all
correspondence, take and record the Minutes of all
meeti'ngs of the Board, and perform such other duties as
9
the Board may assign to him.
He shall receive all moneys in the name of the
College, pay such small accounts as he may arrange for
with the Treasurer, to whom he shall remit the balance ~
monthly or quarterly (as may be arranged), less necessary
and authorised .expenses and an agreed sum for emer-
gency and current expenditure.
(e) All additional duties assigned to the Chairman
and/or Secretary shall be recorded in full detail in the
Minutes of the meeting at which the additional duties are
assigned.
(/) The College Treasurer (see Article 9) shall
receive all College moneys, less actual authorised ex-
penses, as laid down in Section (d), from the Secretary,
pay all bills over £ ......... for goods or work authorised
by the College Board, and deposit the surplus in such
hank as may be selected by the College Trustees. He
shall prepare an Annual Financial Statement, which
(together with the Auditors' Report, and a report of the
work of the College) shall be forwarded by the College
Secretary to the Spiritualists' National Union and
British Spiritualists' Lyceum Union General Secretaries,
for publication in the Official Spiritualist Press and pre-
sentaton to their respective Annual Conferences.
The Treasurer, as such, need not be a member of the
Governing Board.
AR.TICLE 8. FINANCE.
The Finances of the College shall be derived from :-
(a) Membership subscriptions from Churiches and
Lyceums, as fixed from time to time by the College Board.
(b) Contributions, donations, bequests and/or endow-
ments, etc.
(c) Publication of Text-books (see Article 6, Section
(d).).
(d) Any other method approved by a two-thirds
majority vote of those present and voting at the Spiritual-
ists' National Union and British Spiritualists' Lyceum
Union Conferences held in the same year. 1
10
ARTICLE 9. TRUSTEES.
(a) There shall be three Trustees: one a Trustee (on
the panel) of the Spiritualists' National Union; one a
Trustee of the Brititsh Spiritualists' Lyceum Unicm (who is
not on the Spiritualists' National Union panel); and one
who is a Trustee of both Unions (that is, who is on the
panel of the Spiritualists' National Union and also one of
the Six Trustees elected qy the British Spiritualists'
Lyceum Uni'on). This last Trustee shall act as Treasurer
to the College, under the conditions laid down in Article
7, Sections (d) and (!).
The remaining two Trustees shall act as Auditors.
(b) The duties, powers and liabilities of the COLLEGE
Trustees, and the conditions governing their appointment,
services and dismissal, shall be as laid down in the College
Trust Deed and in the College Constitution-and which
must not contravene the provisions of the Artides of
Association of the Spiritualists' National Union, Limited.
ARTICLE 10. AUDITORS.
The two Trustees who represent respectively the
Spiritualists' National Union and the British Spiritualists'
Lyceum Union shall audit the accounts and books of-the
College, and shall present a written report to the General
Secretaries of the two Unions, which (together with the
Financial Statement and the College Report) shall be
published in the LYCEUM BANNER for May and NATIONAL
SPIRITUALIST for June, and submitted for publication in
other organs of the general Spiritualist Press.
ARTICLE 11. AUXILIARY BODIES.
(a) DISTRICT CENTRES may submit Schemes for
Educational work (such as Classes, Lectures, Study
Courses, etc.) in connection with the College ; and these,
if and when approved by the Governing Board, shall be
administered by the District Centre conc~med.
(b) LocAL BRANCHES shall establish educational
classes, and may also arrange with other Branches in
the same locality for Combined Classes, or for Courses
of Lectures (or Lessons) on the College curriculum. All
11
such arrangements must be submitted to the District Cen-
tre concerned (or, in case of dispute, to the Governing
Board) for approval, before being put into operation.
· (c) District Centres and Local Branches shall render
to the College Secretary quarterly Report~ of the work
done or being done.
ARTICLE 12. REPRESENTATION AT THE
CONFERENCES.
(a) At the Spiritualists' National Union Conference,
the College shall be represented by a British Spiritualists'
Lyceum Union member (or Offrcer) of the Governing
Board.
(b) At the British Spiritualists' Lyceum Union Con-
ference, the Colleg~ shall be represented by a Spiritualists'
National Union member (or Officer) of the Governing
Board.
ARTICLE 13. COLLEGE DIPLOMA.
(a) Each Education Committee shall issue CERTIFI-
CATES to its successful students, according to the Scale
laid down in the Schemes which they respectively
administer. But these Certificates shall be independent of
the DIPLOMAS issued by the COLLEGE, for which application
must in all cases be made to the College Sercetary.
(b) The DIPL.OMAS shall be for the SPIRITUALIST
DEGREES of :-
AssocIATE of the National Spiritualist College
(A.N.S.C.), for students who have passed Grade V. with
70 per cent. marks.
GRADUATE of the National Spiritualist College
(G.N.S.C.), for students who have passed the Final Grade
with 75 per cent. marks.
DIPLOMIST of the National Spiritualist College
(D.N.S.C.), for all Graduates who have (also) obtained
the S. N. U. Exponents' Committee's Diploma as a CER-
TIFIED EXPONENT.
(c) NoNE of the above Degrees are HoNORARY. But
the Degree of FELLOW of the National Spiritualist College
(F.N.S.C.) may be conferred on Spiritualists who have
J
12
done conspicuous national service for the Educational
work of the CoUege or of the Organised Movement-by
the Annual Conferences, on the recommendation of the
COLLEGE BOARD. The names of those recommended, with
the reasons for recommending them, shall be included
(and published) in the College Annual Report.
13
INTERPRETATIONS BY THE COLLEGE BOARD.
Re ARTICLE 5 (a)-LOCAL BRANCHES.
(a) When ten or more candidates have been entered /"""
for an examination, and less than ten are able to sit, the
Emergency Committee, if satisfied with the reasons given
on behalf of the absentees, may consider that the Church
o:- Lyceum concerned has fulfilled the conditions of Article
5 (a) of the College Constitution and is eligible for mem-
bership as a Local Branch.
(h) /\ Church and its Lyceum are TWO bodies,
working under two different Constitutions, and will have
to apply separately for enrolment. Either can apply with-
out the other. They will (at present) form two Local
Branches-but under Article 4 (u) of the Constitution for
Local Branclws, they can work together if they so
desire.
(c) If not less than twentv students from a Church
and its Lyceum sit at the annu~l examinations (in any one
year), in one or more of the Grades of the National Edu·
cation Scheme (Oral Grade 10 Final Grade), and not less
than ten of these are Church members as well as Lyceum
Members-or 7Jice versa-BOTH the Church and the
Lyceum are eligible for enrolment as Local Branches of
the College.
(d) APPLICATIONS FOR MEMBERSHIP.
Eligible Churches must apply for registration on the
official Application Form-which is supplied on request
by the Cm.LEGE REGISTRAR (whose duties are heing at
present performed by the College Secretary).
MEMBERSHIP FEE. The Registration (or Member-
ship) fee of five shillings is an annual payment, and must
in all cases be enclosed with the application for enrol-
ment or re-enrolment.
MEMBERSHIP runs from Whitsun to vVhitsun, the
year of expiration being as shown on the Local Branch
Certificate. (Of course, a Church or Lyceum can enrol
as soon as it learns of its eligibility-but the membership
;r
14
would run to Whitsun of the following year.)
ASSOCIATE DIPLOMAS.
"""""'· No Fees have to be paid by applicants for a Diploma,
a.,; the Degree is an honour awarded by the College.
Degrees must be applied for, on the official Application
Form, which will be supplied on request by the COLLEGE
SECRETARY.
15
JOINT EDUCATION COMMITTEE DECISIONS.
THE FOLLOWING DECISIONS BY THE JOINT EDUCATION
COMMITTEE WILL BE OF INTEREST TO ALL STUDENT
MEMBERS OF LOCAL BRANCHES : -
1. Holders of the present Spiritualists' Natioi1al
Union Diploma (if it was obtained by examination) are
exempt from the Entrance Examination and eligible to
proceed at once with the Intermediate Grade of .the
Graduate (Spiritualists' National Union) Scheme.
2. Lyceumists, 25 years old or over, who have been
members of a Lyceum or Lyceums for at least five years-
and who are also Church Members-will be allowed to
take both the Spiritualists' National Union and the
British Spiritualists' Lyceum Union Schemes at the same
time, if they so desire.
3. Students in the Graduate Course, who obtain 80
per cent. or more in two of the three subjects set for
examination in any Grade, but less than the necessary 50
per cent. in the third, shall be allowed to sit again
specially for the subject in which they have failed-the
conditions of the second sitting being laid down by the
Spiritualists' National Union Education Committee.
[So a student who obtains 80 per cent. in (say) the
Reading Course and the Philosophy Course, 6ut gets less
than 50 .per cent. in (say) the Evoluti'on Course, will be
allowed to sit again (after an interval for further study)
for the Evolution Course; and if he obtains 50 per cent.
or more, he will be adjudged to have passed the examina-
tion for the Grade concerned.]
16
D_ISTRl.QT CENTRES.
SUGGESTED ORGANISATION AND ACTIVITIES.
~- Article 11 of the College Constitution lays Clown that
(a) District Centres may submit scheme's for Educa-
tional work (such as Classes, Lectures, Study Courses,
etc.), in connectioi:i with the College; and these, if and
when approved by the Governing Board, shall be adminis-
tered by the District Centre concerned.
(c) District Centres . . . . . shall render to the
College Secretary quarterly reports of the work done or
being done.
ALso, should Local Branches combine for joint work·
ing-
(b) All such arrangements must be submitted to the
District Centre concerned (or, in cases of dispute, to the
Governing Board) for approval, before befog put into
operation.
The Quarterly Report to the College Secretary shall
bt' signed by the Chairman and Secretary, and forwarded
not later than the tenth day of January, April, July and
October~
17
GENERAL REMARKS AND CONSIDERATIONS.'·
It is in the provision of halls and tif. necessary)
speakers, and in the helpful supervision of Branch activi- ,dlllC
ties, that our District Councils-acting as DISTRICT /
CENTRES-could render invaluable aid to the cause of
Spiritualism. One of the weaknesses of the Spiritualist
Movement is the attraction it has for cranks and faddists
-each crank being convinced that without his particular
fad Spiritualism is and will remain incomplete; and to the
District Centres wnt fall the task of saving the College
from these cranks, who never seem to· realise that being
appointed to a position of trust imposes on them the
obligation to " play the game " with those who appointed
them ! To this end, all Courses of Lectures must be
approved by the District Centre (with, of course, tpe right
of appeal to· the Governing Board}, to ensure that only
subjects on the Syllabus shall be taught. The approval
by the Board of District arrangements will be necessary
a!> a part of national organisation, so that tqe Governing
Board shall have full knowledge and control of all the
activjties carried on in the name of the Col1eg~, which
must strive to be in fact, as well as in name, a National
Body.
It will have to be left to the District Councils to
decide how they will organise themselves to carry_ out
the duties of District Centres. Each will have to decide
for itself in a'ccordance with the nature and extent of its
District. For instance, North East Lanes., Scotland and
Tyneside· would develop an organisation different from
that of London or Manchester. In some Districts a strong
Central Committee-in others a small Central nucleus,
with power to co-opt from the Branches-would seem
to be the obvious machinery. The main consideration
would be the existence of an advisory, supervisory District
Body to direct, advise and encourage the Local Bodies.
The planning· of courses of lectures would be re~arded as
being (for the present at any rate) of secondary ~mpor­
tance, and done at first through the agency of the
Bra:nches-'-until these latter became firmly established,
an~ tlaeit work to be regarded as a normal part of Chutch
18
and Lyceum activities.
SUGGESTED ORGANISATION.
Each District Council registered as a Distrkt Centre
shall elect annually a Committee to be known as the
N.S.C.: .............. ."........ District Central Committee, on
one of the following plans, the Council President and
Secretary being ex officio members :-
(a) In a compact District (such as London or Man-
chester) the Central Committee shall consist of not less
than seven members, of whom at least half shall represent
Local Branches. This Committee shall appoint its own
Chairman, Secretary and District Advisor (but the Secre-
tary may also act as Advisor).
(b) In a scattered Di'strict (such as Scotland or
Southern Counties), the District Council shall elect the
Chairman, Secretary and District Aclvisor-(see Section (a)
above-as a nucleus of the Central Committee, with power
to co-opt a representative of each Local Branch in the
District (or Group). '
DUTIES OF OFFICERS AND COMMITTEE.
The Chairman shall perform all the usual duties of
the offiice, and countersign all reports, drculars, etc.,
issued by the Secretary.
The Secretary shall perform all the usual duties of his
office, and shall draw up and forward the quarterly report
to the College Secretary-and a copy thereof to the
Council or Group Secretary. He may also act as Advisor.
The Advisor sfiall, if possible, visit each Local Branch
in his District, and send to the Central Secretary a report
with his opinion of the work being done-not later than
seven days after the visit. He shall also, if called upon,
advise the Branch officials on the proper conducting of
class-work, etc. Also, when applied to by the Secretary
of a Local Branch, he shall organise the Lectures and
Classes of the Branch applying. Such organisation shall
be subject to the approval of the Central Committee.
The Committe'e shall meet as soon as possible after
its election, to appoint its officers and formulate plans for
19
the work of the Winter Sessions, and to instruct the
officers on general lines of policy. All subsequent
meetings shall be on the summons of the Chairman and
Secretary. It shall approve all schemes for lectures or
classes drawn up by the Officers; consider the reports of
the District Advisor and bring any cases of serious mal-
administration to the notice of the Governing Board ;
arrange that lectures or classes do not interfere with the
work of any Local Branch ; assist Branches to find
meeting or class rooms and lecturers or class leaders-
and, generally, supervise, direct and advise the Local
Branches ana encourage them in their efforts.
The Central Committee is a special Committee of the
District or Group, and, except in its educational work, is
not in any way independent of the Council or its Executive.
The Central Committee may draw up further regula-
tions for its own activities, but these must be approved
by the Governing Board.
0
/,4111r
20
MODEL CONSTITUTION FOR LOCAL
BRANCHES.
1. NAME.
This Church (or Lyceum) has been registered as the
............................................. Branch of the National
Spiritualist College, and, for the purposes of the College
or the National Joint Education Scheme, shall be so
known.
2. OBJECTS.
(a) To provide educational class facilities for students
studying for the various Grades of the National Education
Scheme.
(b) To engage, where possible or practicable, speakers
or lecturers to address the students on the general aspects
of any subject being studied in the classes.
(c) To induce members of the Church and/or Lyceum,
who are not already interested in the educational side of
Spiritualism, to take up one or other of the prescribed
Courses of Study.
3. AIM.
To establish within the Church and/or Lyceum, as
a normal integral part of its activities, an educational body
providing for every member who wishes to study, a sound
education in the Religion, History, Science and Philoso-
phy of Spiritualism.
4. WORKING ARRANGEMENTS.
(a) Each Church and Lyceum Branch shall elect or
appoint a Branch Committee, each such Committee to
make full provision for its own Branch's classes and
tutors, and also to arrange for lectures and lecturers-
BUT
In the case where both a Church and its Lyceum are
registered as Local Branches, they may, from their res-
pective Branch Committees, appoint a Joint Branch
Committee to make proper provision for lectures or
21
courses of lectures by qualified exponents-and any other
activities which can be carried on conjointly.
NOTE.-This Branch Committee is only a Special /""'"
Committee of the Church or Lyceum, and, except in its
educational activities, is not in any way independent of
the Church or Lyceum and its General Committee. Its
funds and property are Church or Lyceum funds and pro-
perty-earmarked for a special purpose.
·(b) A class or classes, sufficient to cater for all who
desire to sit at the examinations under the National Edu-
cation Scheme, shall be held at least once a week-and
lectures at least once a month.
(c) All Associates or Full members of the Church or
Lyceum shall be entitled to attend the classes under the
provi'sions of this Constitution (but Branch Committees
may make local regulations limiting the dates beyond
which new members will not be allowed to join classes
preparing for any Grade examination). Also, earnest
inquirers recommended by the Church or Lyceum Com-
mi'ttee, and approved by the Branch Committee, may be
invited to attend occasionally at the classes.
The Lectures should be thrown open to the public.
(d} Members of affiliated Churches or Lyceums in
the District which do not provide educational classes, may
attend the Branch classes if invited by the Branch Com-
mittee concerned.
(e) Where there are more than one Local Branch
situated in any local area, clashing of efforts may be
avoided by all the Local Branches combining for the
©uroose of each monthly lecture. The Branch in whose
Hall (or locality} any such meeting_ is held shall make all
necessary arrangements, in consultation with the other
Branches-OR a Joint Committee, composed of the Chair-
man and Secretary of each Branch concerned, may be
appointed to organise the meetings for any Winter (or
other) Session.
In any such combined efforts, each Branch concerned
shall pay an equal share of the authorised (or approved)
expenses, and take an equal share of any profits.
NOTE.-Article 11 (11) of the College Constitution
22
lays down that " All such arrangements must be sub-
mitted to the District Centre concerned (or in cases of
dispute to the Governing Board) for approval, before
being put into operation.'' Where there is. no District
Centre in being, all schemes must be submitted direct to
the Governing Board, whether drawn up by a Local
Branch or a combination of Local Branches.
(f) Each member of the Branch shall be supplied
monthly with a copy of " The National Spiritualist " and/
or "The Lyceum Banner," in or~er that (s)he may be kept
in touch with the educational work of the Organised
Movement. These Journals shall be obtained by the
Branch Treasurer, and sold or distributed to the Branch
mem!:. ts (as the Branch Committee may see fit).
5. MANAGEMENT.
(a) The Branch Committee shall consist of not less
than seven members elected annually by and from the
Church or Lyceum concerned-of whom not less than half
shall be students in the National Education Sc4eme-with
the President and Secretary of the Church or the Con-
ductor and Secretary of the Lyceum (if not already mem-
bers of the Committee) as e.r officio members.
In cases of maladministration by the Branch Com-
mittee, alleged and substantiated by the Branch mem-
bers or students, the Committee may be dissolved by the
Church or Lyceum, and a new Committee appointep.
(b) The Branch Committee shall appoint from its
members the following Officers-a Chairman, a Secretary,
arid a Treasurer.
(c) Conductors of Church or Lyceum Circles, and
Tutors of classes (if not already members of the Com-
mittee) may be invited to attend the Committee meetings,
with power to speak but not to vote.
6 DUTIES OF OFFICE-HOLDERS.
(a) THE BRANCH CHAIRMAN shall preside at all meet-
ings of the Branch at which he is present. In his absence
a temporary ch<iirman shall be appointed by the members
present. He shall countersign all reports, and his signa-
2S
ture to the Minutes of any meeting shall be evidence that
they are a true and impartial record of the proceedings.
It will be his special duty to maintain harmonious rela-
tions between all Classes, Groups and Efforts. He shall
see that all the educati'onal activities of the Branch are ~
carried on with the greatest possible efficiency and bene-
fit to all concerned, and devote all his energies to prevent
or remove friction. He shall be responsible to the Church
or Lyceum for the rnccessful working of the Branch.
(b) THE BRANCH SECRETARY shall take the Minutes
of meetings ; keep a roll of Classes and Students; engage
Speakers, etc., selected by the Branch Committee; and
prepare and despatch all reports. He shall also collect
the entries of all students taking the Advanced Scheme
E.xaminations (Entrance Examination to Final Grade) and
see that they are forwarded, at the proper time and with
the proper fee, to the Spiritualists' National Union Edu-
cation Secretary. He shall forward to the College Sec-
retary n quarterly report of all work done or being done,
not later than the tenth day of January, April,
]uly and October; and a copy thereof to the Church or
Lyceum Secretary, for consideration by the General Com-
mittee.
(c) THE BRANCH TREASURER shall receive and disburse
all moneys, and render an account (audited by two mem-
bers of the Branch who do not hold any office in the
Branch) to the Annual meetings of the Branch and the
Church or Lyceum. For disbursements he shall act at
all times on ·the instructions of the Branch Committee.
Accounts of One Pound (£1) and over shall not be paid
by him until they have been signed by the Branch Chair-
man and Secretary.
(d) THE BRANCH COMMITTEE shall meet at such times
and places as it may deem necessary for the proper
transaction of Branch business-but not less often than
once in every two months, and never on the evenings set
apart for classes or lectures. Its main duties shall be to
arrange class nights and provide class-''. rooms ";
appoint or approve tutors; draw up Syllabuses or plans
of work (where the official Plans of the Joint Education
24
Committe·e are .not considered practicable) ; arrange series
of lectures and select speakers and lecturers; and; ·in
general, put into operation all fnstructi'ons received from
the Branch General Meeting(s).
7. FINANCE.
(a) All Full and Associate members of the Church or
Lyceum n:iay become Branch members by requesting the
Branch Secretary (in writing) to place their hames on the
Branch Roll. Each member so enrolled shall pay .to the
Branch Treasurer a membership subscription of THREE-
PENCE per week, or such ·larger sum as may be agreed
to-payment to continue· during such time as the educa-
tional .classes and lectures are being held.
(b) Inqui'rers invited to attend the classes may be
allowed to attend on the same financial terms as Branch
members-or special terms may be arranged, at ·the
discretion of the Branch Committee.
(c) The Treasurer shall pay from the Branch funds
the expenses of all classes or lectures, and receive all
income derived from these efforts. He shall also pay the
Examination Fees of all Branch members entering for
the National Education Scheme c;mminations, and
defray ·any incidental exp~nses arising from the holding of
these examinations.
"(d) Any balance remaining at the end of the financial.
year may be devoted to provicing text-books for any
vfould-be students who are unable to afford them ; building
up· a Branch Library of books providing a wider course
of reading on the subjects being studied-or to any purely
educational purpose on which the Branch Annual Meeting
may decide.
(e) Should the Branch for any reason be dissolved,
any cash remaining after all just debts are paid shall be
handed to the Church or Lyceum Treasurer, to be held
over for future educational work. The Branch Library,
if in being, shall be held under .the same conditions by
the Church or Lyceum Committee.
25
8. MEETINGS, CLASS WORK, Etc.
. (a) The Annual General Meeting of the Branch shall
be' held as soon as can be arranged after the annom1ce-
1i1erit of the Exami11ation Results. A Branch General
NJeetirig, should be held not less than a fortnight before
the opening of each \\Tinter Session, for the clisctission of
Session Plans, nomination of Classes and Tutors, etc.
Other General Meetings may be called, if and when
required, by the Branch Committee.
(b) A class or classes shall be held every .............. .
evening, from the month of ..................till the month of
..................... (inclusive). Tutors and students are
requested to be in attendance each class nig·ht at such
time as to allow a prompt start at ......... p. m.
At the first class meeting in each Session, the Brandi
Committee shall announce its arrangements for the coming
period.
(c) At the request of Branch members who do not
wish to enter for the examinations, but desire to studv
some book or books in the Syllabuses, a class shall b~
established under a competent Leader appointed by the
Branch Committee.
9. ELIGIBLE AND NON-ELIGIBLE BODIES.
To be eligible for regi'stration as a Local Branch of
the College ; a Church or Lyceum
(a) Must be in affiliation and good financial standing
with the Spiritualists' National Union, Ltd., or the British
Spiritualists' Lyceum Union.
AND
(b) Must have at least TEN members who have studied
' and entered for the Annual Examinations (in the year in
which application is made) in any or all of the Grades of
the National Education Scheme (Oral Grade to Final
Grade).
Registration is for a year-from Whitsun to Whit-
sun.
28
(c) Churches and Lyceums not yet eligible for regis-
tration, but anxious to work for the Scheme, may establish
" Education Sections " and appoint Education Commit-
tees to carry on the foregoing activities. ~ut .these Educa-
tion Committees must not be called Branch Corrul}ittees
until the Church or Lyceum become~. regist&ed a.s a Local
Branch. •.
SOME HINTS AND SUCCESTIONS FOR LOCAL
BRANCH OFFICIALS.
Some of these hints and suggestions may read like /""'7
repetitions of the Regulations; but in such cases the
importance of the regulation is being emphasised. In
most cases an attempt is being made to explain the
meaning of, or reason for, the rule laid down.
A MATTER OF PROPAGANDA.
The first effort of the Local Branch should be to
provide facilities for all members studying for the various
Grades of the National Education Scheme (Oral Grade to
Final Grade). Many who start studying at the beginning of
the winter session give up before the date of the examina-
tions for no other reason than the difficulty of carrying on
their studies. It will be the duty of the Local Branch to see
that all such difficulties are removed and every student
e11cou.raJ;ed to go on and take the examination. And in
order to make the study more interesting by giving the
students a general grasp of the educatfonal plan of the
Grades, a monthly meeting (in addition to the ordinary
class night) should be arranged, for which the Branch
Committee would enga,ge qualified speakers and lecturers
to deal with the general aspects of any subject being
studied. On this night all the classes could combine.
Another obvious duty of the Branch Committee would be
to induce members of the Church and/or Lyceum, not
already interested, to take up one or other of the courses
of study. To this end it might be found beneficial to
invite tutors of classes and conductors of circles to attend
the Committee meetings, with power to speak but not to
vote. In this way a great interest in the aims and work
of the Committee would gradually filter right through the
Church or Lyceum, and thus attract the attention of
many who otherwise might not think of studying.
THE CHOICE OF A BRANCH EXECUTIVE.
Too much trouble and care dmnot be exercised in
choosing. the Officers and Committee of the Branch-as
on the ability and zeal and sincerity of the Executive will
28
depend the success or failure of the Branch's. work.
The composition of the Branch Committee should riot
be decided without careful consideration. It must be
borne in mind that the aim of the Branch should be to
transform the Church or Lyceum into an educational body
providing, for every member who wishes to study, a sound
education in the Religion, History, Science and Philosophv
of Spiritualism. So we suggest a committee elected fro~
Church or Lyceum members-of whom a dear majority
should be students-with the P·resident and Secretary of
the Chui-ch, or the Conductor and Secretary of the Lyceum
(if not themselves students), as ex-officio members. But
each Branch must act as circumstances permit. It need
not be a large committee, but it must be composed of
educational enthusiasts, who will not measure the labour
entailed but concentrate on the work to be accomplished.
vVith such a committee, there is no limit to the possible
achievements of the Branch.
The Chai-nnan should be a man (or woman) of proved
tact a11d judgment, for not only would he have to preside
at business meetings and countersign all reports, etc., but
it would be his special' duty to maintain harmonious rela-
tions between all classes, groups and efforts. He would
see that all the educational activities of the Branch are
carried on with the greatest possible efficiency and benefit
to all concerned, and would devote all his energies to
prevent or remove friction.
OUR NATIONAL JOURNALS AND A "COLLEGE
BOOKSTALL "(?).
[Article 4 (!). J
Every student should make a special point ?f reading
our two National Journals. Each of them contams matter
of interest to all Branch members and students-and the
information in them· is mainly exclusive. to their pages.
Besides ordinary Education Notes, all Natio al announce-
ments will be found first in their columns.
With an energetic Treasurer who wo !cl throw him-
self into the work, this supplying of HE NATIONAL
SPIRITUALIST and THE LYCEUM BANNER m y be expanded
29
to a profitable degree-if the Branch obtained permission
from the Church and Lyceum to establish a Bookstall for
the sale of these Journals and also of Educational Pam-
phlets and Handbooks at the Services and Sessions. And /"'
the idea might be turned into good propaganda and
advertisement if the stall came to be known as " The
College Bookstall." ..... TRY IT.
BRANCH MEMBERSHIP-AND SOME POSSIBLE
DIFFICULTIES.
All Associate or Full Members of the Church or
Lyceum are eligible; and earnest inquirers, recommended
by the Church or Lyceum and approved by the Branch
Committee, could be invi'ted to attend occasionally at the·
weekly classes and urged to attend the m~nthly lecures-
it being pointed out to these latter that 1'.f they desire to
join the cla.~ses they must first join the Church or Lyceum.
Jn this way useful educational propaganda work could be
done-and the financial strength of the Branch increased.
Also; as an act of grace and true brotherhood, members
of other Churches or Lyceums in the district could be
nllowed to attend the Branch classes on the same terms
as Branch members, if accepted by the Branch · Com-
mittee.
The foregoing applies to cases where only the Church
or the Lyceum enrols as a local Branch. The ideal situa-
tion would be that both Church and Lyceum should be
enrolled... In that case, each could work on its own
account, with its own Committee-care being taken that
there was no clashing of arrangements for classes or
lectures. But it would be much better that a Joint Com-
mittee·, composed of equal numbers of Church and Lyceum
members, should conduct all the educational activities of
the two Branches-with tlie exception that each Branch
~vould select and appoint its own tutors and be responsible
that its own classes were regularly held. In this way
Church and Lyceum would soon be so inter-related that
practical fusion would be automatically and unconsciousl~·
brou}!ht about.
Where Churches and Lyceums have no Halls in which
80
they can meet for mid-week classes without incurring extr_a
expense, the Church could give one Sunday evening a
month to the Branch Committee, who would recommend a
speaker to deal with a specified subject; and the Branch
funds could be drawn upon for the hire of a hall or room
for the classes. Or this latter difficulty could be sur-
mounted by various members taking turns in offering the
use of a room in their homes. This is a problem that
must in each case be solved locally, and all we can hope
is that the few suggestions we have made will be found
helpful.
And what of the Districts where three or four
Churches are very close together, and may hold their
monthly lectures on the same date? Well, let them go a
step farther, and hold their meetings in the same hall,
as one joint effort. The initial expenses would thus be
divided, and any consequent profits could be shared. If
there were three Branches, and each took a turn at
offering its Hall, it would only mean giving up o!ie night
per quarter for the sake of our Movement and its educa-
ti'.onal pro[;ress. And the general comradeship thus
engendered would be well worth the effort. There is no
need for rivalrv and ruinous competition, or for friction
of any kind, ju.st because there are more than one Church
or Lyceum in any locality; and the suggestions we have
made should make friction impossible.
REASON FOR THE WEEKLY SUBSCRIPTION.
The weekly subscription of threepence or· more may
seem rather large and unnecessary. But we must think of
what has to be done with the money. (1) There may be a
weekly rent to pay; (2) the Examination Fees of all can-
didates have to be paid-and in the Advanced Graduate
(Spiritiialists' National Union) Scheme these are:-
. · Entrance Examination ... ~ -o/'-=
Intermediate Grade .!a-f-] .,/i:;;
Subsidiary Grade >f=. 7-
Final Grade .Jef-
There is also the annual Branch subscription to the
College-another 5/-and incidental expenses of the
Exami"nations. And, IF there is any surplus, after these
81
have been paid, every ambitious and progressive Branch
will want a Branch Library, containing at least supple-
mentary books for wider reading on the subjects being
studied. If the Winter Session lasts thirty weeks, each
Branch member will pay at least 7/6-surely not an exor-
bitant sum when we consider what has to be clone.
TEMPORARY " EDUCATION COMMITTEES."
The provisions of Article 9 (c) will help to solve two
problems. The first is that of the Church or Lyceum
which HAS been a member of the College-but for some
reason or other has temporarily dropped below the
qualifying standard of ten entrants; and yet does not want
to give up its Local B'ranch work. The second is that of
new " converts " to Educational work, who want to start
off at once en organised College work without having
to wait a year or so before they become eligible as Local
Branches. In each case, the Church or Lyceum could
carry on with one of these " Education Committees "
until the next examinations provided an opportunity of
att;tining to the necessary qualification.
The ANNUAL registration ensures that no body can
lay claim to being affiliated after its qualification (the
termination of which is stated on the Local Branch
Certifica!e issued on enrolment) has expired.
~. : ! 1·1 .•.•.
'·
,.--'1.· ! .. ~Y~.. ~:
,·. ·::..- 1·,,1
1_.'f'"''•','' .•
··~· q .. ·.: :!
·.·! •-;·_..;,, ~:·;'
~~ l\i~:
i· .· .·
.. ~·-~.:. .. ~
