{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__pavri___theosophy_explained.pdf","mytitle":"Theosophy Explained","mylang":"de"}
THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
IN
QUESTIONS AND ANSW ERS
BY
P. PAVRI. B.Sc,, L.C.E.
Third Edition (Revised)
. . . . . . . To be had from ■ . ,
THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISH ING HOUSE
Adyar, Madras, India
i93o
Available for sale also from :
Mr. P. PAVRI, B.Sc., LiC.Ev,
Theosophical Society,
Adyar, Madras.
INDIAN BOOK-SHOP,
B enares City.
IN HIS NAME
s g = a fo s s .< > (s § » e . .... . "g ..... n r ,igo
FOREW ORD
As beginners in the study of Theosophy ask numerous
questions, an attempt has been made in this book to
present the broad teachings of Theosophy in a systematic
way in the form of questions and answers. The material
collected here is drawn from over hundred books and
pamphlets, mainly the works of that wonderful occultist.
Bishop C. W . Leadbeater, and the famous President of
the Theosophical Society, Dr. Annie Besant. The purpose
of this book is to make the study of Theosophy a little
easier in its elementary stage, before more advanced and
comprehensive books, dealing with abstruse and meta­
physical questions, are taken up for study.
My sincere thanks are due to Mr. Ernest Wood,
Secretary, Theosophical Educational Trust, and Principal,
Sind National College, and to Mr. H. C. Kumar, Vice-Prin­
cipal, Sind National College, for many useful suggestions
and practical help.
P. Pavri
FOREW ORD TO TH E SECOND EDITION
Advantage is taken of the increasing demand for this
book* to revise, enlarge and bring it up-to-date.
I have to thank Mr. Yadunandan Prasad, M.A.
[Cantab.], B.Sc. (Lond. & All.), for his valuable help, as
well as Mr. F. B. Patell, the author of Theosophy in
Gujarati, which forms the basis of the earlier, part
of this book.
PREFACE
Ever since the year i875 witnessed the revival of
Theosophy in the world of modern thought, particularly
through the agency of the Theosophical Society, thinking
people in every country have been steadily adopting its
explanations of life’s difficulties and mysteries. Many
who have studied deeply have been convinced, by experience
or thought, of the truth of its accumulated teachings, and
hundreds of thousands of others of less studious disposition
have come to regard them as in the highest degree probable
—the safest and most reliable guide in human life. Though
many of the statements with regard to such matters as the
life after death, the law of justice (karma), and the pilgrim­
age of the soul to human perfection through repeated
rebirths or reincarnations, come to us on the distinct
authority of great Himalayan Adepts, sages and seers, and
their assistants in the outer world, supported by the teach­
ings of many religions and the experiences of many ancient
and modern mystics and philosophers of East and. West,
those statements are deeply satisfying to the scientific and
logical mind, and the requirements of our best,moral
opinions and conscientious intuitions. In addition to this,
many private investigators along the line of self-training
advocated for those eager for direct knowledge have
learned by their own immediate supersensuous experience
of the truth of one or more of the facts presented to the
world. The philosophy thus satisfies all the three human
B
X
instruments of true knowledge: authority, reasoning and
direct perception.
Yet it is not merely a subject for philosophers and
the schools. Above all, it is for “ the man in the street ”,
It brings to him that mind and heart-satisfying knowledge
which makes life a perpetual joy, full of purpose and
power. It makes him realise the deceitfulness of most of
life’s difficulties and trials, and their true place as instru­
ments of immediate progress ; so that like the swan of
eastern fable, he becomes able, almost without effort, to
separate the milk from the water of common life. By it
he learns that both labour and unselfish love are never
denied their fruits and their full satisfaction.
It is with regard to this practical aspect of Theosophy
that Professor P. T. Pavri has compiled his work, so as to
place the whole subject in clear and decided light before
the general reader. His work has been a labour of love
resulting from careful studies extending over several years
in the intervals of his duties as an Engineer and later as
student at Adyar and as Professor in the Sind National
College. That his presentation has been eminently
successful will be apparent to all who glance through the
pages of the book, which is most conveniently arranged so
that it is equally useful to the continuous reader and one
who prefers to dip here and there.
I should strongly recommend this book also to Theo-
sophical study groups in Lodges and elsewhere, particularly
as a Theosophical dictionary or companion to be resorted
to when difficulties and doubts arise. It is up-to-date,
and full of useful detail.
E rnest W ood
CONTENTS
PAGE
Foreword . . . . . . vii
Preface . . . . . . . ix
CHAPTER I
What Theosophy Is
Whether Theosophy is a religion ■ . . . 1
Deeper problems of life . . . . 1
General belief that problems relating to man, God,
luck or fate, death, etc., are beyond the ken of man 2
Whether matters, not specifically dealt with by
particular Scriptures, should be considered by the
followers thereof as true . . . 2
Reasons why so many people not only show a dislike
to Theosophy, but are positively against it . . 2
Fundamental principles of Theosophy . .' 3-
Rough outline of the teachings of Theosophy . . 4
Theosophy and the Theosophical Society ;the founding
of the T. S. (Theosophical Society) . .4
Proofs of the usefulness of Theosophy . .5
Need for the starting of the Theosophical Society . 6
Whether every one can study Theosophy . . 7
Advantage of the spread of Theosophy • . 7
Three objects of the Theosophical Society: first
object: Universal Brotherhood of Humanity . 7
How universal brotherhood is possible in spite of
religious quarrels amongst followers of the same
religion . . * . . . 7
Second object : Comparative study of religion . S
xn
PAGE
How fundamentally all religions are one even though
the different world-religions apparently differ so
widely . . . . . , 8
How essentials of all religions are the same ; reason
why Truth, though found in all religions, appears
so dissimilar in different religions . . . 9
Central ideas or key-notes of different religions . 11
Whether, after all. Theosophy also cannot be called
• a religion . . . . . . 1 5
Whether the T. S. objects,to its members following
, any particular religion . . . . 1 7
Points of difference between Theosophy and what is
ordinarily called a religion . . . . 1 7
Third object of the T. S. (Theosophical Society) . 18
Whether Modern Science is antagonistic to Theos-
- ophy . . . . . . . 1 8
Whether Theosophy is a science . . . 1 9
What Theosophy teaches of philosophy . . 2 0
Whether certain things posited by Theosophy about
man and his evolution, Reincarnation and Karma,
existence of the Masters, etc., are facts that can be
demonstrated. . . . . 2 1
Whether T. S. members are all required to be vege­
tarians and teetotallers . . . . 21
Reason why, many prominent T. S. members are
strict vegetarians . . . . . 2 1
Vegetarianism and the true relation of the physical
body to the inner man . . . . 22
Whether vegetarianism is practicable ; whether a man
, can live without flesh diet . . . . 23
)Vhy vegetarian diet is superior to flesh food . . 24
Merely washing the body and putting on clean clothes
• is not cleanliness ; meaning of real purity . . 31
JSven though, according to modern theories, every­
thing is living, why we should not as well eat
animals as vegetables . . . . 32
Even though bigger animals live on smaller ones,
why man should not follow that rule and live on
• animal flesh , . . . . . 33
xiii
PAGE
Reason why we should improve on our ancestors who
lived on m eat; whether nature intends man to be
carnivorous . . . . , . . 33
Why those who give up meat-eating become ill, and
what they should do . . . . . 35
Whether a man suffering from a fatal disease or a
( chronic illness may not take flesh under medical
orders when the only remedy is flesh diet . . 38
Whether Theosophists eschew wine and narcotics . 39
Whether the rules of the T. S. require members to
remain unmarried . . . . . 39
Why Theosophists spend their time and energy in the
study of Theosophy instead of utilising them for
research and inventions that may alleviate the
great misery of the world . . . 40 *
How to rid the world of all kinds of pains, miseries
; and,diseases . . . • . . 41
How to guard against and prevent disease, accidental
death, etc., simply by knowledge . . • . 41
How to know the cause which produces all the pain
and misery of the world . . . .42
How Theosophy helps one. in acquiring a fuller
. knowledge of the laws of life and nature ; reasons
why one should be a Theosophist . . . 4 3
Advantages of becoming a member of the T. S.
instead of merely studying Theosophy and even serving
humanity without joining the organisation . 44
CHAPTER II
God and the Solar System
Whether Theosophists believe in God . . , 49
Conception of God according to Theosophy . . 50
Whether the One without a Second builds our solar
system . . . . . 51
Whether the existence of. God can be proved , . 55
Object of God in creating the universe . . 56
xiv
How our solar system is formed . .
Seven states or kinds of matter ; planes of nature
What the seven planes of nature have to do with our
earth ; how our earth is formed
Whether our earth is formed of mere physical matter
How different kinds of matter occupy the same space
without displacing one another
Where the seven planes of nature are located on our
earth . . . . . .
Namdfe of the seven planes or interpenetrating
worlds . . . .
How each plane is subdivided ; substates of matter *
Whether the different worlds or planes as well as
subplanes arecomposed of different kinds of
matter . . . . . «
Detailed explanation of above as far as the physical
world is concerned . .
Why we are not normally conscious of the seven
planes existing all round us .
How the existence of things not cognised by the
physical senses can be proved.
How to prove the existence of supernatural powers in
man . . . . . . .
How far the matter of the subtler worlds extends
Our connection with the higher worlds or planes
CHAPTEE III
The Constitution of Man
What Theosophy has to say on the subject of the
constitution of man in addition to what is known
to western science . . .
How Theosophy explains the constitution of man
How the Monad, the true self, manifests himself in
the lower worlds even when he stays all the while
in the Monadic or Anupadaka world; the three
elemental . * . * ..
PAGE
57
59
60
60
60
61
61
62
63
63
65
65
66
67
67
68
68
69
XV
PAGE
Mental and astral elementals * . . * 7 1
Physical elemental, its functions and nature . . 76
Why the real man wants so many bodies or vehicles ;
whether he cannot work without these coverings or
garments . . . . . . 7 7
What the causal body is ; why it is so called . . 7 8
Shape and use of the causal body . . . 7 9
Whether undesirable qualities acquired by a man in
the course of his evolution pass into his causal
body . . * . . . - . 8 0
How we can help on the growth of our causal body . 81
Mental body of man and its function . . . 8 2
How the mind body grows . . . . 83
Why some persons have a fine head for mathematics
and some a fine ear for music, while others have
these faculties practically undeveloped , . 84
Functions of the astral body . . . . 8 4
Improvement of the astral body . . . 8 6
Change in the astral body during sleep ; its functions
during the waking and sleeping states of man . 87
What Theosophy adds to our knowledge of the physi­
cal body as acquired through western science . 88
Proofs that each cell in our physical body has a life or
consciousness of its own . . . . 8 9
Life in a piece of stone . . . . . 9 0
Whether it is the ‘ 1 * manifesting through the body,
or the particles which make up the cells of the body,
that die at the time of the man's death . . 90
What the etheric double is . . . . 9 1
Why one man has a beautiful etheric double and
another a defective one . . . . 9 3
Whether the physical body and its etheric double
having to stay together are dependent on each other
for their existence . . . . . 9 3
Pate of the etheric double at the time of death . 94
Etheric double—the vehicle, of Prana or vitality ; what
Prana is . . . . . . 9 4
xviii
PAGE
Whether the fate of deformity of the physical body
is not horrible in the case of a person who has to
be cruel for the ultimate good of others . . 167
Whether it is always the case that a child born of
parents of low type is entirely low, and that a
highly developed child will be born of parents of a
high state of development . . . . 168
Whether there is a continuous series of incarnations
in the same sex, or whether a man in one incar­
nation can he born as a woman in another . . 169
Whether very sinful people are ever born in animal
bodies, as many Hindus are said to believe, to suffer
for the actions of their past lives . . . 171
How to account for the statement in The Light of Asia
that Buddha was able to remember His incarnation
in a tiger’s form . . . . , 1 7 3
At what stage reincarnation finishes for an ego and
how . . . . . 174
Interval between lives, the time that elapses between
two incarnations of the same individual . . 175
CHAPTER Y
Karma
Whether there is anything like fate or destiny; the
Law of Karma . . . . . 180
Two other explanations of human destiny : the Will
of God ; the Result of Chance . . . 181
Third explanation of human destiny—the Law of
Karma . . . . . . 181
When Karma began . . . . . 185
How a man becomes master of his own destiny ; the
three threads of the cord of fate . . . 186
Kirst thread of the cord of fate—how thought builds
character . . . . . 186
Second thread of the cord of fate—how desire makes
opportunities and attracts objects . . . 187
PAGE
Third thread of the cord of fate—how action gives
physical environments . 188
Whether the conception of destiny controlled by the
Law of Karma eliminates God from the world . 190
Meaning of sin . . . . . . 191
Forgiveness of sins . . . . , 192
Whether repentance of sins does any good . . 195
Whether karma can be transferred from one person
to another—
-the idea underlying the Christian
doctrine of vicarious atonement . • * 197
Whether we are helpless slaves of destiny ; whether
Karma is a doctrine of fatalism . . . 198
How a man is guided into his environments of nation­
ality and family . . . . . 199
Whether the motive of a particular action affects its
result . . . . . • 201
Why some persons with good motives yearning to
help others find their way blocked either from want
of power, defective capacity or lack of opportunity . 203
Why a man has a *bad heredity ’ or congenital
diseases . . . . * . 204
Necessity and free-will .. * . . 204
Whether astrology is true, and how it can be reconciled
with free-will . , . . . 206
How a man instead of being liberated from the bonds
of karma allotted for one life, forges new links in
the chain of karma . . . . . 207
If someone injures us, how we can know whether it
was the result of our own PrSrabdha—karma allot­
ted for our present life ; actions done under the
pressure of Prarabdha and those done by our own
free-will . . . . . . 208
Whether the pressure of karma allotted for our present
life makes us helpless slaves with no free-will of
our own . . . . . 209
Reason why a murderer should be hanged or a thief
punished for theft even though there is pressure of
Prarabdha in all actions and also though one is
responsible simply for Kriyamana (new karma
created) and not for the actual action done . . 210
PAGE
How we can escape the effects of the two kinds of
Prarabdha, the not-fixed and the fixed-not-fixed,
though Dradha (fixed) Prarabdha is supposed to be
unavoidable . . . . . . 210
Why exertion is advisable in all cases, and how effort
or exertion of free-will helps a man even when he
is bound by Dradha (fixed) Pr&rabdha . . 211
Whether it will not be interfering with the justice of
Karma if a man can alter Prarabdha by the force of
his free-will . . . . . 212
Why we should try to help the blind, the crippled or
other deserving people in difficulty even when we
may believe them to be suffering inevitably as a
result of their karma . . . . 213
Whether prayers for averting sorrow or winning
happiness are useless. . . . 215
How a selfish man has to suffer in his next life by
Karma . . . . . . 215
How a bad man can ultimately become good even
though a vicious man comes back in his next life
more vicious than before . . . . 216
Why a good man fails in business while a bad man
succeeds . . . . . 217
Whether all our sufferings are the result of our past
karma . . . . . 218
Whether the wrong we suffer is invariably the effect
of our own karma of a past life ; reason of holy
persons very often suffering in this world . , 218
Keason of accidents or seismic catastrophes wherein
many suffer together . . . . 219
Whether, in order to settle his karmic accounts, a
man will have to meet all those affected by his
actions . . . . . . 220
Whether the exact time and manner of a man’s death
are decided at or before his birth . . . 221
Karma among animals ; reason why one animal is
being kindly treated and well fed, while another is
subjected to brutality and left to starve and fight for
a bare living . . . . . . 222
PAGE
How a man can mould his karma deliberately and so
modify bis destiny . . . . . 224
How a man can cease generating new karma and
exhaust all past karma in order to attain liberation 225
What binds the Masters to earth though They have no
desires which can draw Them back ; why They
leave the indescribable bliss of Nirvana for the lower
levels of the world of men . . . . 227
CHAPTER YI
L ife a f t e r D eath
Advantages of the knowledge, during life, of the con­
ditions on the other side of death ; why a man
should try to find out the facts for himself during
life even though he may be able to do so after death 228
What becomes of a man on the other side of death . 229
How the real man separates himself from his physical
body at death . . . . . 230
Whether a man suffers terribly during his death-
struggle . . . . . . 231
What becomes of the separated etheric double after
death . , . . . . . 232
Reasons why cremation is preferable to burial . 232
What becomes of the man in his desire-body after he
has shaken off the etheric double and is separated
from Prana . . . . . . 235
Desire-elemental and the dead man . . . 235
Whether a man can prevent rearrangement of the
desire-elemental after death, and, saving himself
from being confined to the lower divisions one after
another from below upwards, retain his liberty of
seeing any astral object of the matter of any sub­
division . . . . . . 237
State of an ordinary man in K&maloka immediately
after death . . . . . . 238
Surroundings of the astral world . * . 242
Whether there is any hell . . . . 245
PAGE
Conditions in Kamaloka of a very bad man, an ordinary
man, and a man with some rational interests . 247
After-death conditions of those who die by accident
or who have committed suicide . . . 250
Use of terrible suffering in the astral world even
though there is no hell . . . . 254
Explanation of the Christian doctrine of *Salvation 9
even though there is no hell . . . . 256
Factors which determine a man’s detention in any
section of the astral world ; time and method by
which an ordinary man passes from the astral to
the heaven-world . . . . . 259
Violent grief of those who mourn the loss of their
departed dear ones . . . . . 261
Value of prayers for the dead ; how they should be
offered . . . . . . 262
How and when to help a person about to die . . 264
Whether we shall meet our loved ones who have
passed on before us . . . . . 265
Why a sudden death is undesirable for a man. . 265
Astral world inhabited by others besides the dead . 267
Fate of the astral corpse after the man passes on to
Devachan . . . , . . 268
What happens to a man in Devachan or heaven . 269
Every one has not the same kind of heaven, or the
same intensity of bliss there . . . 272
What happens to children in the heaven-world . 273
How we find our friends and dear ones in the heaven-
world . . . . . . , 274
Whether a dead man in heaven waits for and watches
his friends and dear ones on earth . . . 2 7 5
Opportunities of development for a soul during his
long stay in Devachan between two incarnations . 275
Seven different heavens ; whether a man passes
through all these heavens successively as in the
case of the astral plane . ' . . . 276
What happens to a man in the higher mental world
in his causal body at the end of his heaven-life in
the lower mental world , . . . 2 7 7
xxiii
CHAPTER VII
Thought-Power, its Action and Use
page
What thought is ; how it shows itself . . . 279
What the Scriptures of the different world-religions
say on the subject of thought. . . . 280
Effects of thought (i) Upon the man himself, (ii)
External to the man . . . . . 281
Effects of thought upon the man himself . . 281
One of the two effects of thought external to the
man—a radiating vibration . . . . 283
What an ordinary man’s astral body looks like when
seen clairvoyantly . . . . . 286
Second effect of thought outside of the man—a float­
ing thought-form . . . . „ 287
Classification of thought-forms . . . . 290
How to use the knowledge of the action or effect of
thought . . . . . . 295
How to forward our own evolution through a know­
ledge of the power of thought . . . 295
How to keep our mind and emotions under control . 296
How to build character by the power of thought . 298
How to avoid waste of energy . . . . 300
Other advantages of controlling the mind and
emotions and husbanding energy . . . 301
What should be done by a man who has constantly
failed to control his thought or passions . . 302
How to utilise the power of thought to help others . 303
How to help one given to drink or irritability . 301
Prayers for the well-being of the living or of the dead . 305
How to help by thought even when out of the
physical body during sleep . . . . 306
How to affect even physical matter by the power of
thought; effect of thought on physical health . 308
xxiv
CHAPTER YIII
The Evolution of Life
page
Meaning of the evolution of life . . . 310
Motive power of evolution . 313
Meaning of the Three Great Outpourings . . 313
Reason why from the Perfect the imperfect comes
forth and thence returns into perfection whence it
came ; goal and purpose of the evolution of life . 319
How the Divine Life in the first upward stage of
evolution in the mineral, vegetable and animal
kingdoms evolves in the germinal life the power to
respond . . . . . . 321
Whether man is descended from the brute as the
Darwinian theory asserts . . . . 323
Whether each plant and each animal is a separate
soul like man . . . . . . 323
Rate of animal or plant after death . , . 324
Number of physical bodies attached to each group-
soul . . . . . . . 326
Whether the evolving life begins from the lowest
manifestation in each kingdom and ends with the
highest . . . . . . 327
Seven Rays or fundamental types of life . . 328
Method of individualisation from the animal
kingdom . . . . . . 330
Difference between the highest animal and the lowest
man . . . . . . . 333
Method of human evolution . . . 334
Root-race and sub-race . . . . . 336
Round, Chain of globes and Scheme of evolution . 338
First stage of the unfolding consciousness in man
from the early beginnings . . . . 342
Law of the four successive steps for orderly evolution
in the later growth of humanity , . . 343
Origin and use of evil . . . . 346
Meaning and use of pain . . . . 350
XXV
CHAPTER IX
Brotherhood
page
Beason why *Brotherhood of Humanity9 is made
the one obligatory object of the Theosophical
Society . . . . 357
How brotherhood of humanity can be established . 357
Basis of the brotherhood of man ; reason why we do
not realise it though recognising it intellectually . 358
Where brotherhood can be fully realised . . 358
Brotherhood and equality ; how brotherhood can exist
with inequalities all round among men . . 359
No equality in the make-up of society . . . 360
Theosophical conception of brotherhood in the social
system * . . . . . 360
Beason of inequality in different people and in
different nations . . . . . 361
Indications of the Law of the Brotherhood of humanity
on lower planes in addition to the basis of spiritual
unity.on higher planes . . . . 362
Principle of brotherhood worked out in ancient and
modern worlds . . . . . 363
Whether ancient India by her system of castes
preached and practised inequality rather than
brotherhood . . . . . . 363
How the recognition of the principle of brotherhood
as a definite fact affects our attitude towards those
around us . . . . . 365
How to hasten the realisation of brotherhood in
practical life . . . . . . 366
Our duty as brothers to those above us, those on a
level with us, and those below us in the great family
of humanity . . . . . . 366
Special reason for emphasising Brotherhood in the
Theosophical Society. . . . . 367
Whether we are united only to the human family by
ties of brotherhood , . . . . 368
How to help our younger brethren in the lower
kingdoms . . . . . . 369
Our individual duty as regards brotherhood in general 370
D
xxvi
CHAPTER X
The Masters and the Way to Them
What is a Master .
How to show Masters as facts ; evidence of Their
existence . . . . . .
The Great Brotherhood ; object of its existence
Some information about the Great Ones in the Hier­
archy ; places where They live ; Their personal
appearances . . . . . .
Reason why the Adepts, though having physical bodies
of Their own, want others on this occasion of the
coming of the World-Teacher or at other times
Work of the Masters . . . . .
Why an Adept, even though His work lies almost
entirely on higher planes, needs a physical body .
Reason why the Masters with so much power and wis­
dom do not take more pupils ; why They withhold
knowledge ; why They do not remove crime and
misery from the world .
Why the Masters with such spiritual powers permit
the conquest and humiliation of .Their countries
like Egypt and India . . . . .
Whether an ordinary man meeting a Master on the
physical plane would recognise Him as such
How a man is brought to the portals of the Path of
spiritual development . . . .
How the Theosophical Society helps an aspirant in his
approach to the Path . . . . .
How a householder, a man in the world surrounded
with social duties, family obligations and worldly
activities, can lead a spiritual life and thereby pre­
pare himself for the Path ; his initial stages of
purification . . . .
The first step or the most important qualification
necessary for approach to the Path ; the mark
whereby the man preparing to enter the Path can
be known . . . . . .
PAGE
372
373
375
383
415
418
421
421
423
423
424
427
429
432
PAGE
Difference between a man preparing to enter the Path
and an ordinary man when both are engaged in the
same kind of useful work in the world . . 433
Second step or qualification for approach to the Path . 433
Meaning of being a pupil of the Master ; expectations
from and work of one who aspires to become a
pupil . . . . . . . 434
Why the Masters do not use the many aspirants who
earnestly desire to be taken as pupils and trained in
order to help the world . 436
What we should do to attract the attention of the
Master . . . . . . 439
How a Master knows whether any person among the
myriads of men in the whole of humanity is fit for
the Path . . . . . . 439
The way in which a man is led to seek the Master . 440
The two requirements from the probationary
disiciple, i.e.. Discipline of Life and Qualifications
for Discipleship ; meaning of the first requirement. 441
The second requirement—qualifications demanded
from an aspirant ere entrance to the Probationary
Path . . . . . . . 443
Object of the stage called Probation ; how and why a
man is taken first as a probationary pupil . . 445
Ordinary faults in everyday life which act as hin­
drances to the progress of the probationary pupil . 447
How the senior pupil guides the younger pupil in his
progress . . . . . . 450
Work to be accomplished by one who enters on the
Probationary Path ; life of the disciple in its early
stages . . . . . . 451
Whether the Master gives to the probationary pupil
any special work to be done or any advice and
instruction . . . . . 456
What becomes of the pupil after he has acquired
the Four Qualifications in the probationary stage ;
period of that stage and his relation to his Master
during that and the other following stages . . 459
Meaning and object of Initiation . . . 463
xxviii
PAGE*
Path which finally leads to Perfection . . , . 465
Conditions or qualifications for fitness for"Initiation . 466
Level of progress at which a pupil is initiated . . 467
How a pupil gets initiated and becomes a member of
the Great White Brotherhood . . . 469
Initiations as found among the Christian doctrines . 472
Life of the new Initiate ; his work to attain final
salvation . . . . . . 478
How the Adept becomes a Master . . . 486>
ILLUSTRATIONS
PAGE
The Astral Body of the Developed Man (Frontispiece)
The Mental Body of the Developed Man . . . . 8 2
The Astral Body of the S av ag e..................................................... 84
The Astral Body in Intense A n g e r ..........................................291
Radiating Affection and Grasping Animal Affection . . 292
Vague Religious Feeling and Self-Renunciation . . 2 9 3
Thought-Forms at a F u n e r a l ............................................ 295
The above seven plates are reproduced, by the courtesy
of the Theosophical Publishing House, London, from
Man Visible and Invisible, and Thought-Forms, by
C. W. Leadbeater.
The underlines on the plates refer not to this book,,
but to the original books from which the plates are
reproduced
CHAPTER I
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS
Question. Is Theosophy a religion ?
Answer. Theosophy is not a religion in itself, but is the
truth which underlies all religions alike, the hidden root
from which all the different religions have sprung. It is
the same as the Gnosis of the Christians, Brahma VidySL
of the Hindus, and Sufism of the Muhammadans. cTheos­
ophy 9 is made up of the two Greek words, Theos9
God, and Sophia, wisdom, and means Divine Wisdom,
without the help of which it is impossible for man to know
anything about the deeper and perennial problems of life.
Q. What are those deeper problems of life ?
Ans. Why was the universe created, whence, how ;
whither does it tend ; what am I, what is the purpose of
my existence, what the goal; what is God and where; how
am I connected with Him and the universe ; what is the
explanation of the apparent injustices of life ; what is the
meaning and the use of suffering and pain; what is luck,
fate or destiny; what are dreams, and how are they
caused; what is life, what death—these and many such
questions which the ignorant in all ages think to be
inexplicable, can be understood only with the help of
Theosophy.
2 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Q. But is it not the general belief that such things
cannot be known by man ?
Ans. There is nothing in the world which man cannot
understand and know; but the reason for his ignorance of
such matters is his pride, mental inertia and undeveloped
intellect.
Q. But some raise the objection that the matters not
dealt with in their Scriptures should not be considered as
true.
Ans. The fact that particular subjects are not dealt
with in particular Scriptures does not prove the falsity of
those subjects, and so it is foolish to say that the study of
Theosophical subjects, not found in particular religious
Scriptures, is against truth or against that religion. As a
matter of fact, most of the present-day sciences are not
dealt with in religious Scriptures; would it, therefore, be
right to say that they should not be studied ?
Q. If Theosophy can explain the “ inexplicable ”
mysteries of nature, how is it that so many people not
only show a dislike to it, but are positively against it ?
Ans. One reason is that though Theosophy, like a
river, contains shallows in which a child can wade, there
are depths in it which the strongest diver cannot fathom.
Thus, though some of its teachings are so simple and
practical that any person of average intelligence can
understand and follow them, it is not a subject to be easily
grasped or understood in its higher details without special
efforts. Mental inertia hates being disturbed, and selfish­
ness prefers an easy-going lie to the greatest truth,
if the latter requires sacrifice of one’s smallest com­
fort. Then again, the unselfish code of Theosophy
can appeal only to the limited few wT
ho may be pre­
pared to lead a life of great purity. One more reason
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 3
is that Theosophy kills out superstition and bigotry
masquerading as religion, and so when truths are present­
ed which flatly contradict many of the human vagaries
cherished by sectarians, they are not acceptable to those
who have not made a deep study of their own religion and
who naturally prefer to cling to their old beliefs. Such is
human nature, and it is not easy to uproot long-cherished
ideas, false though they be. Moreover, there is the un­
familiar character of the Theosophic teachings, and a
glance at the history of any new thought, religious or
philosophic, will show that all possible impediments have
always been put in its path by those who hate innovations.
As a man makes intellectual progress, his ideas
about religion undergo a great change, and his bigotry also
is reduced in proportion. But bigots and fanatics of all
religions who, in spite of their ignprance of even the ele­
mentary principles of other religions, consider their own
particular religion as the only true one and show contempt
for all others, simply proclaim their own folly. Similarly,
none of those who show a dislike to Theosophy and believe
it to be against their own religion, is found to have truly
understood his own religion or studied even the first
principles of Theosophy.
Q. Now, what are the fundamental principles of Theos­
ophy ?
Ans. There are two such principles. The first is the
Immanence of God. God is everywhere and in everything.
The Divine Life is the spirit in everything that exists, from
the atom to the Archangel. All thought, all consciousness
are His, for He is the One, the Only, the eternal Life.
Thus the essence of Theosophy is the fact that man being
sharer of His life can know the Divinity and is himself
divine and immortal, nay eternal; for immortality is only
4 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
endless time, and what in time begins, in time must end ;
while man is eternal as God Himself is eternal, and death
is merely the dropping of one garment before donning
another.
But if there be one Life, one Consciousness in all
forms with God immanent ,in all, then as an inevitable
corollary to this supreme truth comes the fact of the
solidarity of all that lives, of all that is—a Universal
Brotherhood. The Immanence of God, the Solidarity of
Man, these are the basic truths of Theosophy.
Q. Can you give a rough outline of its teachings ?
Am. Its teachings can be outlined thus:
1. That there is one eternal infinite Reality, one
incognisable real Existence.
2. That from That proceeds the manifested God,
unfolding from unity to duality and from duality to trinity.
3. That the whole universe with everything within
it is a manifestation of the life of God.
4. That there are many mighty intelligences called
Archangels, Angels, Devas, who have come out of the
manifested God, and are His agents for carrying out His
thought and will.
5. That man like his Heavenly Father is divine
in essence, his inner Self being eternal.
6. That he develops and evolves by repeated in­
carnations, into which he is drawn by desire under the Law
of Karma in the three worlds, the physical, the astral and
the mental, and from which he is set free by knowledge
and sacrifice, becoming divine in potency as he had ever
been divine in latency.
7. That there are Masters, Perfected Men, Men
who have completed Their human evolution, have attained
human perfection and have nothing more to learn so far
as our human state is concerned.
Q. What is the relation of Theosophy to the Theo-
sophical Society and when was the latter started ?
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 5
Am. Theosophy in its teachings and ethics, though not
in name, is as old as man, but the word “ Theosophy ” is
said to date from the third century a .d . when the Eclectic
Theosophical System, which later on developed into Neo-
Platonism, was started by Ammonius Saccas and his dis­
ciples in Alexandria, though Diogenes Laertius attributes
that system to an Egyptian priest in the early days of the
Ptolemaic dynasty.
The Theosophical Society as such was founded by
Madame H. P. Blavatsky and Colonel H. S. Olcott at
New York, on i7th November, i875 a .d . In the beginning
people not only did not appreciate, but even opposed this
really useful movement which is designed for the spiritual
uplift of humanity.
Q. But how canyou prove the usefulness of Theosophy ?
Am. The usefulness of Theosophy lies in the true con­
ception of the Plan of God, in the proper understanding
of the purpose of life, in the sure confidence in Divine
Justice, in the mental and emotional consolation, in the
absolute freedom from helplessness and hopelessness, in
the utter absence of fear and worry and in the opportunity
of intelligent and willing co-operation with the Divine
Plan and of quick attainment of the goal of human life.
But the test of its usefulness lies in its adoption by sensible
and intelligent people, in the consequent improvement of
their conduct in daily life, and in its gradual permeation
of world literature. The Theosophical Society, once
started, went on expanding through its numerous
branches in different parts of the world and still does
so. No other system of thought whatsoever has made
such rapid progress throughout the world amongst
people of different religions during a period of a little
over fifty years.
6 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
The growth in the number of branches belonging to
the Theosophical Society since its birth, as shown in the
following table, proves its usefulness.
Y ea r N u m be r of !
i875 ... ... 1
1880 ............... 11
i885 ............... 118
i89o ............... 235
i895 ............... 4oi
i9oo ............... 595
i9o5 ............... 864
i9io ............... 1200
i9i5 ............... i554
i920 ............... 1923
i925 ................ 2489
i928 ............... 273i
Again, every member of the Theosoj
has friends and relations who have studied the Theo­
sophical literature and are Theosophists without being
members of the Society.
Q. You said Theosophy is as old as man ; then what was
the needfor the starting of the Theosophical Society ?
Ans. The old truths had been forgotten and required
re-proclamation. Materialism was making very rapid
advances amongst the civilised nations of the West, and
Science in its progress was drifting towards materialism,
so much so that agnosticism was becoming the distinguish­
ing characteristic of the scientific man who believed that
beyond the senses and the intellect man was possessed of
no instruments for the gaining of knowledge. Even the
East, which used to be the fountain whence Wisdom
sprung, was about to be swamped by the advancing wave
of materialism which threatened to cover the "world. And
so it was thought wise to re-proclaim the eternal truth in
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 7
a new form suited to the mind and attitude of the man of
the. time; but instead of revealing a new religion as so
often before, the Theosophical Society proclaimed the
common source of all religions, so that any man seeing
that all religions are branches from a single tree and
have the same teachings, may understand and derive
inspiration from the inner, hidden meaning of his own
particular faith.
Q. Can every one study Theosophy ?
Ans. Of course anyone can study Theosophy provided
he has an open mind and an intelligently receptive attitude,
and is eager in his search after truth wherever found, in
whatever religion or philosophy. He should have neither
the blind faith of the unintelligent and the biassed person,
nor the blank and militant incredulity of the materialist.
But Theosophy is not meant for those who prefer their
own prejudices and preconceived ideas to truth revealed
by others, nor for those bigots and fanatics who believing
their own religion to be the only true one show the utmost
contempt for other religions.
Q. What is the advantage of the spread of Theosophy ?
Ans. The Society has three objects, and tremendous
would be the advantage if even one of those objects were
really fulfilled.
Q. What are those objects ?
Ans. The first and most important object is “ to form
a nucleus of the Universal Brotherhood of Humanity,
without distinction of race, creed, sex, caste or colour ”,
and acceptance of such a Universal Brotherhood is the
only condition of admission into the Society.
Q. How is it possible to have a Universal Brotherhood
when persons of even the same religion quarrel amongst
themselves?
8 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Ans. If the second object be understood and followed,
Universal Brotherhood is not impossible, and that second
object is “ to encourage the study of comparative religion,
philosophy and science
Q. Wherein lies the advantage then ?
Ans. A study of comparative religion proves that the
origin and essence of all religions are the same, and that
fundamentally all religions are one, teaching the same
truths and inculcating the same ideals of conduct and life.
Q. How is that possible when the different world-
religions apparently differ so widely ?
Ans. The Immanence of God is the basis of Religion,
and the various religions are methods by which man
carries on his search after God—and here lies the justifica­
tion for variety. There are many types of mind, and
different religions were planned to appeal to different races
and temperaments.
Again, people are in different stages of evolution,
and what suits one stage may not suit another. For
example, a young or savage nation—that is, a nation
whose people have not had much experience and
training in a series of human incarnations, and whose
chief pleasures are eating and drinking and hunting for
food—would require a very simple kind of religion which
would teach that there is a God who is good, that they
should do right to please Him and gain happiness after
death, but that if they did wrong, He would punish them
and make them suffer after death.
But when the same men have passed through many
more earth-lives, and have been born into more civilised
nations, they would require a higher and more spiritual
form of religion as they would have greatly developed
their intellectual and moral faculties. By the evolution of
9
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS
humanity through ages their intellect would have grown
stronger and their love wider and deeper, so that they would
be able to understand more of the great truths than their
forefathers were ever able to do. Again, what was suited
to the needs of the people even two thousand years ago
obviously cannot be fully suitable for them to-day with
their wider knowledge of nature.
The apparent differences between various religions
are due to the national and racial characteristics and the
varying stages of intellectual growth of the people con­
cerned, as well as to the accretions of rites and ceremonies
and the serious misrepresentations, distortions and wrong
interpretations of basic truths taught by their Founders.
Again, Truth may be expressed in a hundred
different ways, but the whole can never be fully expressed.
Men are now making the discovery that Truth is infinite
while creeds are finite, that just as it is impossible to
reduce the illimitable to a geographical atlas, so it is vain
to endeavour to encompass the whole of truth in the most
elastic confession of faith. But each religion has its own
characteristic perfection or key-note, its message to man­
kind, and the study of all religions is thus necessary to
know the many-sided Truth.
Thus following the second object one sees that no
one particular religion is in sole possession of Truth, and
so one does not feel prejudiced against other religions.
Hence brotherhood is more likely to be practically realised
amongst all men, as it is already a fact in nature, all being
children of the same Father.
Q. You say that the essentials of all religions are the
same ; how so ? Moreover, if Truth is found in all re­
ligions, why does it appear so dissimilar in different
religions ?
2
10 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Ans. All religions have grown round some great
Teachers—in fact their very names are taken from those
Founders—like Christianity, Buddhism, Zoroastrianism,
Muhammadanism. The Founders of religions are all Divine
Men under the World-Teacher, members of a Great
Brotherhood who guide mankind and are in charge of a
body of teachings, called the Ancient or Divine Wisdom.
When a portion of mankind is ready for some new
teaching, one of the Brotherhood is born amongst them to
found a new religion, who ever brings with Him the same
truths, the same teachings, but shapes the form of those
teachings to suit the conditions of the time, such as the
intellectual stage of the people to whom He comes, their
type, their needs, their capacities. “ Cows are many-
coloured, but the milk (of all) has but one colour. Look
on knowledge as the milk, and on the teachers as the
cows.,, Thus owing to the common divine origin, the
essentials of all religions are the same, though the non-
essentials vary.
Religions are like vessels into which water is poured ;
the water takes the shape of the vessels, but retains its
fitness to quench thirst. So spiritual life is poured into
religions, and takes shape according to the different
religions-—
the needs of the time, the intellectual stage of
the people concerned, etc.—-but remains one spiritual life
all the same, able to quench the thirst of the spirit for the
knowledge of God.
As one white light includes all colours within itself,
so the different religions represent the varied colours which
in their union form the one white ray of Truth. As water
in differently-coloured glass tumblers appears differently
coloured though really colourless, as the same sun seen
through differently-coloured glasses appears differently
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS II
coloured, similarly the same Truth appears different owing
to the outer garbs of different religions, necessary for its
expression, being differently coloured according to the
needs and capacities of the different types of people for
whom it is primarily intended.
Each religion marks a step forward in civilisation and
also brings out some feature valuable to mankind, on which
less stress had been laid in the religions that preceded it.
Mankind has to learn many lessons and develop different
qualities which are given by special religions, adapted to
emphasise particular teachings. These teachings are
embodied in civilisations, and humanity, developing the
qualities imparted by the civilisations and learning the
necessary lessons taught by World-Teachers and incorpo­
rated in religions, gradually shows an advance, with ever-
enriched qualities. Thus, though all the great truths are to
be found in each faith, there is also something in each faith
which dominates the rest—its central idea or key-note—
giving to it its own peculiar colour and evolving in it
its own peculiar characteristics.
Q. What are the central ideas, the key-notes, of the old
religions so far known ?
Ans. While it is true that every religion contains some
universal teachings, each is dominated by a spirit peculiar
to itself. Every religion has its own note, is marked by a
dominant quality or seems to have selected one virtue or
truth upon which to lay special stress ; and all these notes
do not sound out a monotone, but a splendid chord, when
heard together.
According to Dr. Miller, the well-known Presbyterian
founder of the Christian College of Madras, the contribu­
tion, as it were, of the Hindu religion to the great universal
religion, is the doctrine of the Immanence of God and the
12 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Solidarity of Man. Admitting that the universal Life lives
in all humanity, the brotherhood of man is only the earth­
ward side of that great spiritual reality; and growing out
of that recognition of the unity of man is the dominant
note of social obligations, of Duty, a sense of duty
between members of a community, the duty of man to
man.
The teaching of the World-Teacher Tehuti or Thoth—
or Hermes according to the Greek—which dominates the
civilisation of Egypt is that of Science, the study of man
and the worlds around him. And because its central
teaching was of Light, Egypt had as the key-note of its
faith Scientific Knowledge, so that the “ Wisdom of Egypt ”
has come down through the ages, and even the very name
of Chemistry is derived from Chem or Khem, the old name
of Egypt, the land of science in the past. Thus the
contribution of Egypt to the world’s evolution is in the
value of science and knowledge of the physical world
the doctrine of Law, for Law is the symbol of Knowledge
as Duty is the flower of Truth.
The basis of the civilisation which the World-Teacher
built up in Persia as Zoroaster is Purity, “ purity of thought,
purity of word, purity of deed”. He preached the.doc­
trine of Fire, and took Fire as the symbol of God, because
fire is the great purifier.
In Greece the Great Teacher as Orpheus gave the
key-note of Beauty, the beauty which is divine; and
Beauty is the note of the Greek religion and Greek
civilisation, mighty among the older civilisations of the
world. Greece worked the beautiful into the lives of her
people, and that beauty spoke in her wondrous literature,
in her exquisite architecture, in her statues open to-the
masses of the people.
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 13
As Greece spoke of Beauty by Art, Rome spoke of
Beauty by Law—the duty of the citizen to the community
—for without Law, Beauty cannot be. Rome thought
little of the individual; the State was the Roman ideal,
and no true freedom for a nation can exist without the
omnipotence of Law.
The central idea of the great religion founded by
the Lord Buddha in India was Knowledge—right know­
ledge of wisdom, of compassion and obedience to law, of
learning how to live and seeking in all things to understand.
The note of the Hebrew religion is Righteousness—
Righteousness of God, of “ the righteous Lord who loveth
righteousness ”.
In Christianity, the Faith on which has been built
the civilisation of Christendom, two notes are struck,
the one naturally following upon the other. The first
is the key-note of Individualism. Older nations built
their civilisations with the family as the unit and not
the individual. Christianity struck the key-note of
Individualism, and in order that it may be thoroughly
developed, some of the doctrines including that of reincar­
nation, taught in the primitive Church, were wisely
dropped for about a thousand years. It was necessary to
build the individual, and the idea of a single life gave the
individual an activity which he would not have had if he
had thought that many lives stretched before him and
behind him. For the last two thousand years individual­
ism has worked its way, until in the Teutonic sub-race,,
individual character has become extremely self-centred,
full of “ I ”-ness, of self-ness. This was perhaps neces­
sary, for without this quality strongly built, there would
be no foundation for a future co-operation. • Truly has it
been said: “ You cannot synthesise weaknesses.’*
i4 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Then there is the idea, not so much by precept as
by the exquisite example of the Founder, that when power
has been gained, it is to be used for service, that when
strength has been acquired, it is noble only when it is
bound to the uplifting of the weak, that knowledge and
power and strength are human only when they are vowed
to the service of the race, that the greatest is to be as he
that does serve and that the measure of his power is to be
the measure of his duty. That sounded the note of Self-
Sacrifice which in time will become the dominant note of
the Christian nations. Thus Christianity links to love
of God the service of one’s neighbour, and that has
come from the lips of the World-Teacher in order that
the human race may be able to step one rung further
up the ladder of truth and of love. An English scientist,
Huxley, catches up and proclaims the great word
of a Master of Wisdom and Compassion that the
law of the survival of the fittest is the law of evolution
for the brute, but the law of self-sacrifice is the law of
evolution for man.” Self-sacrifice, the life-note of
the Lord of Compassion, the Christ, could not be
understood clearly even by His earnest followers until
they had developed individual strength of mind and
personality. The disciple Peter furnishes an instance
of this in his denial of his Lord. With a larger under­
standing comes the recognition of the duty of self-
sacrifice, and individual duty begins to take the place of
individual rights.
Muhammadanism speaks of Resignation to the will
of God, and states that there is but one path to God,
which is through Resignation to the Divine Will.
So looking over these religions of the world one
finds that their central ideas are like the pieces of a
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS l5
great mosaic and need to be put together before one
can see the grandeur of the full effect, that each faith
has its own note of music, and one cannot afford to
lose any of the dominant key-notes, any of the jewels
of the different faiths, as all the religions of the world
are the intellectual presentments of the one great spiritual
verity, the different colours of the one white light of the
spiritual Sun of Truth.
We read in one of the Eastern Scriptures, the
Bhagavad-Glta of the Hindus: “ Mankind comes to Me
along many roads, and on whatever road a man ap­
proaches Me, on that road do I welcome him, for all
roads are Mine.” That is a great truth. God is the
centre, the religions are all on the circumference; and
as all the radii lead to the centre, so all religions lead to
God at last. What is wanted is that each one of us
should deepen and spiritualise his own religion and see
the essential identity of all religions, by an unbiassed study
of comparative religion, assisted by the deeper truths and
esoteric teachings of Theosophy.
Q. After all, cannot Theosophy also be called a
religion ?
Ans. Theosophy is the basis of all religions, though from
a certain point of view we may think of it as a religion in
itself, giving its followers a rule of life, not based on com­
mands, but on plain common sense proved by facts. Theos-
ophists regulate their conduct in accordance with the
Divine Will expressed in the laws of nature and avoid
infringing them, not to escape the wrath of some imaginary
offended deity, but to avoid bringing discomfort on
themselves.
It may be called a religion also because it shows us
the ordinary course of evolution/ and at the same time
i 6 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
points out the short cut to the goal of human life through
quicker progress by means of conscious effort. Further,
as by a study of comparative religion Theosophy
proves all religions to be identical in essence and origin, it
can be called the key to all religions. It gives a common-
sense explanation of matters considered as mere super­
stition in religions. It has nothing to do with external
ceremonies of any one religion, but is concerned only with
the truth underlying them all.
The members of the Society are not compelled to
accept all the statements of Theosophy on blind faith, but
are free to accept as much as appeals to them as true.
That policy rests on a very sure foundation, the founda^
tion that no man can really believe a truth, until he has
grown to the extent which enables him to see it as truth
for himself. A teaching is not really part of a man’s
spiritual life ; it comes within the mental life, into that part
of his nature which is said to be knowledge, the intellect;
and the intellect is able to see only that which is akin to
itself. It is the truth in a man which recognises the truth
outside him, when once the inner vision has been opened.
Hence one object of the Theosophical Society is the study
of the great fundamental truths of all religions. No one
is asked what he believes in. All are left to study for them­
selves. As soon as the eyes of the spirit open, a man at
once recognises the truth, because the faculty of truth in
his own nature tells him that it exists. He sees by it as
he sees by the light of the sun. As long as a man is blind,
the light of the sun is nothing to him ; but for him who
has eyes, no argument is necessary to prove the existence
of the light by which he sees. Hence the motto which the
Society has adopted : HThere is no religion higher
than T ruth/ 1
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 17
Q. tf&
g T. S. object to its members" following any
particular religion ?
Ans. Certainly not. It has persons of all religions as
its members. “ Pare thoughts, pure words, pure deeds ”
being the sum total of all religions, he who practises these
in one religion can be considered a follower of any other
or all religions.
Q. Are there any points of difference between Theos-
ophy and what is ordinarily called a religion ?
Ans. There are two points of difference. The first is
that Theosophy does not demand blind faith from its
followers. They are asked either to know a thing by
experience, reasoning or intuition, or suspend judgment
about it. As beginners naturally cannot know for them­
selves, they are asked to accept as probable the statements
made by experts till they can themselves verify them and
convince themselves of their truth.
The second point of difference is that Theosophy
does not try to convert any man from the religion he holds
and does not emphasise the superiority of one religion
over others. On the contrary, it explains to him the inner
and deeper meanings of statements and ceremonies of his
own ‘religion, arouses in him a deeper appreciation of his
faith than what he possessed before he took up its study,
teaches him to live his religion better than he did before,
and in many cases gives him back, on a more intelligent
basis and a higher level, the faith in it which he had all but
lost.
The cardinal policy of the Theosophical Society,
maintained since its inception, has been that differences of
religious belief are to be respected. Finding the same great
truths as to life, death and conduct enshrined in all great
religions, the Society seeks to work for all religions rather
i 8 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
than for one. It believes that the existing faith of any
particular country is, on the whole, best suited to its people,
and it tries to strengthen and purify that faith rather than
implant an alien faith in its stead. Thus it works in
India for the revival and purification of Hinduism, in
Ceylon for the cause of Buddhism, and in Europe and
America for the true interpretation of the glorious religion
of the Christ. As Mrs. Besant once pithily said about the
Theosophical position, u Theosophy asks you to live your
religion, not to leave it.”
Q. Now what is the third object of the Society ?
Ans. It is ct to investigate the unexplained laws of
nature and the powers latent in man ”. Spiritual intuitions
in man have to be kept alive, and bigotry in every form—
religious, scientific or social—has to be opposed and
counteracted. For this purpose we have to try to acquire
a knowledge of all the laws of nature, i . e invariable
sequences existing in nature, and especially encourage the
study of those laws least understood by modern men—the
so-called occult sciences—which are really based on a true
knowledge of nature, not on superstitious beliefs. Again,
man has within him certain latent powers which it is
the object of the Society to investigate and develop,
whereby suffering may cease and peace spread throughout
the world.
Q. But is not Modern Science antagonistic to Theos­
ophy ?
Ans. Theosophy or Divine Wisdom embraces all science,
ancient and modern, as no knowledge can be outside
Divine Wisdom. There is but one Science, so long as
facts remain the same; what is strictly scientific is
Theosophical, and what is truly Theosophical is entirely in
harmony with all the facts, and so in the highest degree
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS l9
scientific. But the fundamental difference of view between
Theosophy and Modern Science is that the one concerns
itself with a study of Life and of Consciousness ; the other
with a study of form and of the vehicles of Consciousness,
with the physical phenomena of this and other worlds and
with what can be brought into consciousness through the
physical brain and senses alone. Modern Science is a
systematised knowledge of sense-phenomena only, and many
of its conclusions are erroneous as it hesitates to go beyond
the senses even where physical phenomena like sleep and
trance manifestations are concerned. “ In old times
Religion and Science were one, wedded together, and there
was no discord between the Intelligence and the Spirit.”
Modern Science in its self-sufficiency and materialism once
derided Theosophy and was antagonistic, but materialism
with its absurd theories is happily now a thing of the
past, while opposition and disbelief have gradually
subsided.
No fair-minded or impartial student can study
The Secret Doctrine—the masterpiece of Theosophical
teachings—without being struck with admiration at the
depth of knowledge it reveals, and without observing how
Modern Science is advancing on lines traced and antici­
pated by the gifted, though much-maligned, author of that
monumental work.
Q. Then is Theosophy a Science ?
Ans. It is truly a science, because the truths it
proclaims are matters not of mere theological belief but of
direct knowledge acquired by study, investigation and
painstaking observation. Being a Science of Life, a
Science of the Soul, it teaches that the world is a
manifestation of the divine thought in all grades of matter
interpenetrating one another. Man has got other bodies
20 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
besides the physical, and when sufficiently evolved by
repeated incarnations can unfold new senses, acquire
higher powers of mind, observe the phenomena of nature
in finer matter and understand the underlying laws.
But in every science a student must be qualified to
study and must have the necessary time and capacity if he
wants to know at first hand. Similarly, a student of
Theosophical science must have reached a certain stage
in evolution and must have his physical, astral and mental
bodies well purified to act as perfect instruments for
research into the worlds of subtler matter. In fact
Modern Theosophy is defined as a synthesis of the
essential truths of religion, science and philosophy.
Q. The departments of religion and science have been
explained, but what does Theosophy teach of philosophy ?
Ans. “ To reach the knowledge of the One is the aim
of every philosophy ”, said Bruno. Philosophy is the
knowledge of Unity by the Reason, apart from the
multiplicity of objects ; Science is merely the observation
of objects by means of the senses. Only he who knows
the Unity is a philosopher. “ Such a one,” said Plato,
*
*I esteem as a God.”
Theosophy is a philosophy of life and explains
that the solar system is a magnificent manifestation of the
Divine Life with man as a part of it. It states that man
as seen by developed faculties is not a body having a soul,
but is a soul and has a body—in fact several bodies, to
act as vehicles in various worlds. There are several
worlds interpenetrating one another and simultaneously
present with us here all the time, though in our waking
consciousness we are aware of only the lowest world, the
physical. Man progresses life after life under the Laws
of Reincarnation and Karma till he realises the unity of
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 21
all that is, and reaches the knowledge of the One. He is
the master of his own destiny, reaping in another life as he
sows in one. It also explains that thought and feeling
are not aggregations of matter, but are the causes oi those
aggregations, and declares with Sir William Crookes that
we must see life the moulder and shaper of matter.
Q. You have posited certain things about man and his
evolution, about reincarnation and karma, about the
existence of the Masters, etc. Are they facts that can be
demonstrated ?
Ans. As a mathematician cannot demonstrate an
abstruse theorem to a lad unless the latter has acquired by
diligent study a knowledge of elementary mathematics, so
a rigid training is necessary to perceive Theosophical
teachings as facts. They are, however, laid down as facts
by those who have verified them. Certain psychic faculties
and spiritual powers, to be developed by training, are
necessary before the facts of Theosophy can be demon­
strated, though a complete verification of all facts is pos­
sible only to Perfected Men. * Yet before one develops
psychic powers, one can see the necessity of reincarnation,
karma, the pilgrimage of the soul, the Masters, etc., by the
soul’s power of reasoning on the phenomena and experience
Of human life.
Q. Is it true that the members of your Society are all
required to be vegetarians and teetotallers ?
Ans. Nothing of the kind. Our Society merely expects
all its members to try to serve other people and be kind
and unselfish in their dealings with them. Its members
should live the Law of Brotherhood, the i
strict vegetarians ?
Society, and be tolerant to all religions.
Q. Then why are many of your pro
22 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Ans. The study of Theosophical truths is not hindered
by the use of flesh diet or alcoholic drinks. But really
earnest students wish to do more than mere theoretical
study. They want to study Occultism, the Secret Science
which teaches the secret potency of things in Nature and
develops the hidden powers latent in man. They want
to acquire wisdom and power by occult study in order to
help others, and to know the truth by direct personal
experience and not to take it on trust.
Now the first thing an aspirant learns is the true
relation of the physical body to the inner man and the
supreme importance of the latter over the physical sheath.
Q. But how is that knowledge concerned with vege­
tarianism ?
Ans. The earnest student knows that the physical
body must be maintained perfectly pure if a complete
mastery over that body with its passions and desires is to
be attained.
Again, flesh diet not only affects the physical body
for the worse, but also has a coarsening effect on the man
himself.
A modern scientist has shown that animal tissue,
however cooked, retains marked characteristics of the
animal to which it belongs; while occult science proves
that when that flesh is assimilated by man as food, it im­
parts to him some of the characteristics of the animal it
comes from, coarsening and animalising the man. Such
evil effects are greatest from the flesh of large animals, less
from birds and fish and practically none from vegetables.
Even amongst animals there is a deal of difference
between the herbivorous and the carnivorous. The former
like cows, goats, lambs, horses, parrots, doves, etc., have
pure physical bodies which look clean and delicate, so that
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 23
one is tempted to approach and caress them, while on the
contrary the carnivorous animals like tigers, lions, foxes,
rats, crows, etc., give out offensive smells and are always
unclean. Flesh-eaters themselves, in the so-called civilised
countries, do not eat carnivorous animals, because the flesh
of those animals is very coarse and rank, and birds living
on fish are avoided for the same reason. There is a differ­
ence even in the natures of the herbivorous and carnivorous
animals, the former being gentle, and the latter ferocious.
Moreover, the animals really useful to man like horses,
bullocks, cows, buffaloes, elephants, goats, lambs, etc., are
practically all herbivorous.
Besides this, a Theosophist is averse to causing pain
to other creatures or injuring them, as he knows that the
animal-world does not exist merely to satisfy man’s
cravings, but has an evolution of its own.
Q. Vegetarianism seems a beautiful theory, but is it
practicable ? Can a man live without flesh diet ?
Ans. The objection is founded upon ignorance. Thou*
sands and millions live without flesh as food, and it is a
pity that men and women, otherwise morally clean,
should be taught that they cannot subsist without
the corpse of a slaughtered animal as their necessary
dietary.
Q, But can you say that a vegetarian diet is superior
to flesh food ? If so, please give reasons.
Ans. Certainly.
i. Vegetables have more nutrition than an equal
amount of dead flesh.
“ It must be honestly admitted that weight by
weight vegetable substances, when they are carefully
selected, possess the most striking advantages over animal
food in nutritive value. . . . I should like to see the
24 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
vegetarian and fruit-living plan brought into general use,
and I believe it will be.”
— S ir B e n ja m in W. R ic h a r d so n , m.d ., f .r.c .s.,
“ Foods for Man—Animal and Vegetable—A Comparison.’*
There are four elements necessary for the repair
and the upbuilding of the body: (i) Proteins or nitro­
genous foods; (2 ) Carbo-hydrates; (3) Hydrocarbons or
fats ; (4) Salts. These elements are found in a larger
proportion in vegetable than in animal tissue. Nuts, peas,
beans, milk and cheese have a large percentage of nitro­
genous matter. Wheat, oats, rice and other grains, fruits
and most of the vegetables are mainly carbo-hydrates,
i.e.9 starches and sugars. Nearly all the protein foods
and vegetable oils furnish hydrocarbons or fats, while the
Valuable organic mineral elements of iron, potassium, lime,
soda, etc., which serve as eliminators, antiseptics, blood-
purifiers and producers of a kind of electro-magnetic
energy, are mostly found in the plant kingdom, the main
supply coming from fruit and vegetables. Meat contains
an excessive amount of acid-forming elements and needs
to be combined properly with foods rich in bases of
mineral nature—milk, leafy vegetables and fruits. Fruits
and vegetables, owing to their alkaline contents, also aid
in establishing an alkali reserve in the blood which is
essential #to maintain its capacity to carry carbon dioxide
to the lungs for elimination.
But recently, since i9o6, certain substances have
been discovered in food-stuffs, in the absence of which an
adequate number of calories (3,600 calories per day for an
adult for ordinary mental and physical activities), supplied
in the form of proteins, carbo-hydrates, fats—the three
collectively being termed the “ organic nutrients ”—and
the purifying and recuperative mineral salts, can alone
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 25
neither promote growth nor support life indefinitely- Of
these necessary dietary factors, called vitamins, five are
already on the map of Science. Most malnutrition is due
to absence of these vitamins, and their lack in diet causes
the so-called “ deficiency diseases ”—Xerophthalmia, beri­
beri, scurvy, rickets, pellagra, eta—the diseases of malnu­
trition or of dietary deficiency.
Vegetables are the most important sources of
vitamins in everyday diet—especially those that can be
eaten raw—and the humble tomato, because of its wealth
of the three main types of vitamins, is considered, along
with lettuce, spinach and cabbage, one of the elect, one
of “ the big four ” that head the vegetable kingdom.
Vitamins A and B are not appreciably affected by
ordinary cooking methods, with the exception of frying,
provided the vegetable liquor is saved ; but the anti­
scorbutic Vitamin C, found practically only in fruits,
tomatoes and green leaf vegetables (and partly in fresh
milk), and so essential in warding off scurvy and necessary
for sound bone formation and healthy teeth, is very
delicate and is rapidly destroyed when foods are dried,
dehydrated, preserved or canned, and also under all
processes of heating unless this latter is done under pres­
sure, in absence of air and with a‘Short period of heating.
Milk, a <
fcomplete proteid food ”, is better than
meat, not because its protein is superior to that of meat,
but because it furnishes other valuable elements—vitamins
and minerals. Thus a diet containing whole milk, fresh
fruits like oranges, lemons or pineapples, vegetables—
especially the leafy vegetables and salads—and bread and
cereals—preferably whole wheat and other entire grain
from which the outer covering has not been removed—
with butter, will be an ideal one, being rich in all the
4
26 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
vitamins. Fruits and those vegetables which can be eaten
raw have a special and very important role in nutrition as
carriers of anti-scorbutic substances. Fruits and vege­
tables also have great value as correctives of faulty
elimination, whether taken raw or cooked.
2. It causes less disease.
Flesh is affected to an enormous extent with
terrible diseases like cancer, consumption, intestinal
worms, etc., which are readily communicated to man. In
his fifth report to the Privy Council in England we find
Professor Gamgee stating that “ one-fifth of the total
amount of meat consumed in England is derived from
animals killed in a state of malignant disease ”, while there
is hardly a disease transmitted by vegetables.
A very large number of medical men who are
progressive and who have studied the matter of “ Diet
in relation to health ”, forbid their patients to eat any
flesh—not only as a means of alleviating such ailments as
gout, rheumatism, etc., but also as a preventive of uric-
acid maladies and diseases of many kinds, including
cancer, appendicitis and tuberculosis. Wounds heal
more quickly and fever is less readily caught—and if
caught, more readily cured—among people who do not
eat animal corpses.
u The man who suffers from gout, or rheuma­
tism is sick because he daily swallows these maladies at
the dinner-table, possibly at every meal he eats. As long
as a man keeps on eating gout, in the shape of juicy
beefsteaks and mutton chops, etc., he must expect to have
painful twinges in his toes.
“ Eminent French and English physicians have,
in recent years, shown that a large share of the maladies
from which human beings suffer are due to uric acid.
“ Dr. Haig, the eminent English physician, has
shown that most uric acid diseases are due not only to the
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 27
failure of the body to destroy or eliminate its uric acid,
but to the introduction of uric acid with food. The
following are a few of the startling facts wdiich these
investigators have brought to light.
“ A pound of beefsteak contains fourteen grains
of uric acid.
<
cA pound of liver contains nineteen grains of
uric acid.
“ A pound of sweetbread contains seventy grains
of uric acid.
“ The following list of maladies due to uric acid
are copied from Dr. Haig’s great work entitled ‘ Uric Acid
and Causation of Disease5:—Gout, rheumatism, headache,
epilepsy, convulsions, chorea, hysteria, neurasthenia, ner­
vousness, mental depression, lethargy, vertigo, syncope,
insomnia, paralysis, asthma, dyspepsia, congestion of the
liver, glycosuria, diabetes, Bright’s disease, albuminuria,
dropsy, gravel, and calculus, neuritis, retinitis, cerebral
and spinal degeneration, local inflammations of all kinds,
appendicitis.
“ The above maladies are due to eating uric acid
and it is evident they cannot be cured while a person
continues to eat the uric acid by which they are produced.
,£A person’s liver and kidneys may be able to des­
troy and eliminate the uric acid produced in his own body,
while not at all prepared to deal with five, ten or. twenty
times the quantity.”
J. H. K ello g g , m.d .,
Medical Superintendent of the Battle Creek Sanitarium, Michigan.
“ To-day, there is the scientific fact assured—that
Man belongs not to the flesh-eaters, but to the fruit-
eaters. To-day, there is the chemical fact in the hands
of all, which none can gainsay, that the products of the
vegetable kingdom contain all that is necessary for the
fullest sustenance of human life.
“ Flesh is an unnatural food, and, therefore, tends
to create functional disturbance. As it is taken in modern
civilisation it is affected with such terrible diseases (readily
communicable to man), as cancer, consumption, fever,
intestinal worms, etc., to an enormous extent. There is
28 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
little need for wonder thaf flesh-eathing is one of the
most serious causes of the diseases that carry off ninety-
nine out of every hundred people that are born.”
Josiah O l d f ie l d , d .c.l ., m.a., m.r.c.s ., l .r .c.p .,
Senior Physician, Lady Margaret Hospital, Bromley.
“ Seventy-five per cent, of the most terrible dis­
eases under which we suffer (they are not, in fact, diseases
at all, but poisonings by unnatural foods), our increasing
insanity, our increasing cancer, our debility, and our
deterioration, may be due, not improbably, to the neglect
of Nature’s teaching. And Nature says, in a way that
there is no misunderstanding, that Man is a frugivorous
and not a carnivorous animal.”
A l e x a n d e r H a ig , m.a ., m.d ., f .r .c.p . (i9o6).
3. It is more natural to man whose teeth hav
not the slightest resemblance to those of carnivorous
animals, and whose alimentary canal seems better adapted
for vegetarian than for meat diet,
“ Man is a frugivorous animal, and neither his
internal organs, his teeth, nor his external appearance,
resemble in any way those of carnivorous animals.”
“ The body of Man and that of the anthropoids are
not only peculiarly similar,” says Haeckel, “ but they
are practically one and the same in every important
respect. The same 200 bones in the same order and
structure, make up our inner skeleton; the same 3oo
muscles affect our movements ; the same hair clothes our
skins ; the same four-chambered heart is the central pulso-
meter in our circulation ; the same 32 teeth are set in
the same order in our jaw s; the same salivary, hepatic
and gastric glands compass our digestion; the same
reproductive organs ensure the maintenance of our race.”
P rofessor J. H o w a r d Moore,
(Chicago University), “ The Universal Kinship
“ Man resembles no carnivorous animal. There
is po exception, unless Man be one, to the rule of herbi­
vorous animals having cellulated colons. The orang-
outang perfectly resembles Man both in the order and in
the number of his teeth.
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 29
“ The orang-outang is the most anthropomorphic
(man-like) of the ape tribe, all of whom are strictly
frugivorous. There is no other species of animals which
live on different foods in which this analogy exists.”
P r o fe sso r B aron C u v ie r ,
“ Lecon d’Anatomie Comparative.’*
4. It gives greater strength.
Flesh-eaters boast of their vigour of body, but
they have not the endurance of vegetarians. The former
may do a large amount of work for a short time when
well-fed, but soon get hungry and weak, while the latter
can endure long periods of work under the most trying
conditions.
“ A series of experiments were made at Yale
University by Prof. Irving Fisher, in i9o6 and i9o7, to
test the relative endurance of flesh-eaters and flesh-
abstainers. Forty-nine subjects were used, the flesh-eating
ones being athletes, and much care was used to obtain
exact evidence, with the following results:
In the contest of holding the arm extended, the
maximum limit of the flesh-eaters (22 minutes) was barely
more than half the average of the abstainers, one of whom
held out for 160 minutes, another i76, and yet another 200
minutes.
In deep bending of the knee the average of the
flesh-eaters was 383 times, and that of the abstainers
73i times.
Similar experiments made at Brussels University at
about the same time revealed the same facts, and demon­
strated an average superiority of 5o per cent, in labour and
endurance capacity in favour of the vegetarians. And the
dynamograph recorded that in the case of the latter only
one-fifth of the time was necessary for recovery from
fatigue as compared with the time required by the
flesh-eaters.”
Charles Darwin wrote: S
i I have always been
astonished at the fact that the most extraordinary workers
I ever saw, the labourers in the mines of Chili, live
3o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
exclusively on vegetable food, including many seeds of
leguminous plants/’
(Darwin’s Letters)
li Meat is absolutely unnecessary for a perfectly
healthy existence, and the best work can be done on a
vegetarian diet. . . . It is being realised that every
means should be resorted to so as to prevent the accession
of disease rather than merely attempt to cure it when it
comes, and the Vegetarian Movement will, I think, do a
very great deal towards this.”
P rof. G. S ims W o o d h e a d , m.d ., f .r.c.p ., f .r .s.,
Professor of Pathology, Cambridge University.
fCThat it is easily possible to sustain life on the
products of the vegetable kingdom needs no demonstration
for physiologists, even if a majority of the human race
were not constantly engaged in demonstrating it, and my
researches show not only that it is possible, but that it is
infinitely preferable in every way, and produces superior
powers both of mind and body.”
A l ex . H a ig , m.d ., f .r.c.p .,
u Uric Acid in the Causation of Disease ”
'“ As a medical man I desire to add my testimony
both from the results of personal experience, and from
observations throughout many years of hospital and
private practice. I maintain that flesh-eating is unneces­
sary, unnatural and unwholesome.
“ That it is not necessary for the highest develop­
ment of mind and body is proved by the phenomenal
success achieved by vegetarian athletes, and by the numer­
ous instances of celebrated philosophers, writers, and
scholars, both ancient and modern, known vegetarians.
“ The habit is unnatural, for it is a violation of the
Law of our being. Man is created a frugivorous, or fruit­
eating creature. This scientific fact is evident from a
comparison with the carnivorous animals, from whom he
differs completely in respect of his internal organs, teeth
and external appearances; whereas, anatomically, he is
most intimately allied to the anthropoid apes, whose diet
consists of fruits, cereals, and nuts.
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 3i
ff That the eating of the dead bodies of slaughtered
animals is unwholesome is abundantly evident from the
wide-spread disease which results.”
J ohn W o o d , m.d . (O x o n ).
5. It produces less animal passion.
Flesh diet intensifies man’s lower nature and
produces a craving for strong drink, which in turn increases
animal passions.
As a practical proof of the superiority of a vegetable
diet over flesh-food the following instance is quoted:
ct For six months during i9o8, 10,000 children in
London were provided with vegetarian meals by Miss
F. I. Nicholson, Secretary of the London Vegetarian
Association, and at another kitchen provided by the
London County Council a meat diet was provided for the
same number of children; at the end of six months the
children of both parties were examined by medical men,
and it was proved that the vegetarian children were better
in health, heavier in weight, firmer in muscle, and clearer
of skin than the children fed on meat diet.
“ Many thousands of the poorest children of London
are now fed on vegetarian diet by the London Vegetarian
Association under the superintendence of the London
County Council, and at their request.”
Then there is the question of cruelty to animals, the
sin of slaughter and the degradation of the slaughterman.
He who feeds upon dead flesh encourages that work and
has his share in that horrible guilt.
Thus we can understand how unclean flesh-eaters
must be in spite of their external wash of the body and
their scented clothes.
Q. If you do not consider mere washing of the body
and putting on of clean clothes as cleanliness, what would
you call real purity ?
Ans. Of course external wash and clean clothes are
necessary, but these things alone do not constitute purity.
32 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
The physical body of man is only one of his seven constitu­
ents, while the skin of the body is not even the hundredth
part of that body; then how little can the whole body,
much less the whole man, be considered clean by simply
washing the skin ? That body alone can be called pure,
the whole of which, including blood, muscles, bones, etc.,
is composed of pure particles. But if it be made a grave­
yard by introducing corpses of dead animals into it, it can
never be really clean.
“ The lamp burns bright when wick and oil are
clean.” Flesh-food makes the physical body a worse
instrument, and puts difficulties in the way of the soul by
intensifying undesirable passions and emotions.
It is true that the purity of the heart and of the
soul is more important to a man than that of the body.
Yet that is surely no reason why we should not have both.
There are quite enough difficulties in the way of self-
control, and we need not go out of our way to add another
to the list. Although a pure heart will do more for us
than a pure body, yet the latter can certainly do a great
deal, and we are none of us so far advanced along the road
towards spirituality that we can afford to neglect the great
advantage that it gives us.
Q. If, according to modern theories, everything is
living, why may we not as well eat animals as vegetables ?
Ans. For the obvious reason that animals have a very
sensitive nervous system, and vegetables have not. And
would not the cannibal, if he could, add man to the list
and pertinently ask a similar question: “ Why may we
not as well eat men as animals and vegetables ? ” The life
in the tree is not sufficiently unfolded to be conscious of
pleasure or pain, except in a very general way; a vague
pleasure is felt in sunlight and rain; a vague pain in
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 33
drought. The vegetarian takes living things as his food
just as does the flesh-eater, for all things live; but he
chooses the living things which do not suffer pain in being
used as food. So also, though we constantly breathe in
myriads of living creatures, they are none the worse for
their sojourn in our lungs.
Q. But we see in nature that bigger animals live on
smaller ones, big fish on small fish*; then wherein lies the
objection if man, too, follows that rule and lives on animal
flesh ?
Ans. You cannot apply the laws of animal nature to
man. Though a strong animal kills a weaker one and
makes it its food, you cannot accuse it of murder, but a
man following a similar course will render himself liable
to punishment. Similarly, a dog or a cat eating its own
young ones does not commit sin nor is it punished. The
responsibility of good or evil is proportionate to intel­
lectual and moral development, and so animal laws cannot
apply to man.
<?. But many of our ancestors lived on meat all their
lives and were no worse ; then why should we try to improve
on them ? Does not nature intend man to be carnivorous ?
Ans. There are man-eating savages even now in some
parts of the world, and they may with equal force bring
forward the same argument, inasmuch as the flesh of man
seems so delicious and natural a diet to them. Some
people eat crickets, rats and other* insects and animals
which look to us so loathsome. Similarly, the devouring
of dead flesh, though natural and pleasant to some, seems
to others disgusting and opposed.to the law of mercy.
As seen before, the scientific world is being more
and more convinced of the fact that “ man belongs not to
the flesh-eaters, but to the fruit-eaters ”, though the human
5
34 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
alimentary system seems so adapted as to enable man to
live either on flesh or vegetable food whatever be provided
for it. But even if we cannot lay it down that nature
intends man to be either carnivorous or frugivorous, it
seems that he is intended to make changes in his customs
and habits as he advances in intellect and spirituality
and understands the distinction between right and wrong.
A wrong thing does not cease to be wrong because many
do it. Man is defined as a thinking animal, and he should
not give up his right of independent judgment, but should
apply the test of common sense to all affairs of life. A
habit or custom proved by increase of knowledge and
experience to be wrong or pernicious is a bar to higher life
and detrimental to human progress.
Not only does flesh diet make the physical body a
worse instrument for man, but the man by thus introducing
loathsome impurities into it builds for himself a coarse
and unclean astral body also with strong animal passions.
As he has to live the first part of his life after death in that
astral body, it follows that he will have to suffer acutely
from the working out of those passions.
So instead of feeding on flesh merely because our
forefathers did it, we should consider it our duty to live on
vegetarian diet when knowledge and common sense prove
it to be purer, healthier and better suited to man.
Again, man’s body is a temple of God, and should
not be made a graveyard. None of the occultists, proph­
ets or other light-bringers has ever lived on this disgust­
ing diet or commended its use as food. Amongst the
thousands of reliable witnesses to the sufficiency and
superiority of fruitarian diet are to be found the following
well-known names:—Pythagoras, Plato, Aristotle, Socra­
tes, Hypatia, Iamblichus, Diogenes, Plutarch, Seneca,
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 35
Buddha, Zoroaster, the Christian Apostles—James,
Matthew, James the Less and Peter—the Christian
Fathers—Tertullian, Origen, Chrysostom, Clemjent and
others—Milton, Isaac Newton, Benjamin Franklin^ Nelson,
Wellington, Shelley, Paley, Wesley, Swedenborg, Newman,
Michelet, Annie Besant, Bernard Shaw, Edison, General
William Booth and W. Bramwell Booth.
Q. But it is said that those who give up meat-eating
grow ill and have again to resume that diet. Why is it
so, and what should they do ?
Ans. Not only has each one of us his own individual
consciousness as “ I,” but each atom, each molecule, each
cell in our body, has its own individual consciousness.
The “ I ” in us is conscious of the body as a whole, but
not of the cells individually. Similarly, the cells have no
consciousness of the dweller in the body. Now if these
cells be trained along a particular line or be given a par­
ticular habit or tendency, they go on acting accordingly till
actively prevented. This is due to what is called the
“ unconscious memory of the cells,” and so if the cells of
the whole body are given a particular tendency, that be­
comes a habit with them. Physical tricks of manner are
formed in this way and are difficult to get rid of when
once acquired. Similarly, a child trying to learn to write
will have the same trouble either with the right or with
the left hand, but when once it has learnt to do so with
either hand, that hand starts writing as soon as the pen is
held, which cannot be said of the other hand which has
not got that tendency. Thus the difficulty of breaking
the meat habit is easily explained. When foolish parents
thrust morsels of that detestable stuff into the mouths of
children, the children first show a natural dislike, but when
the cells of the body are regularly taught to obtain
36 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
nutrition from such matter, they get a tendency along that
line, acquire the habit and demand the same impure stuff.
When children thus brought up later on find out their
mistake and want to give up flesh diet, they are put to
great trouble, as the cells of the body habituated to that
evil tendency revolt against the change, and the physical
body sometimes even breaks down under the stress of
the unsatisfied cravings.
But that does not mean that flesh diet is necessary.
When by persistence or repeated efforts those cells become
habituated to vegetarian diet, they leave off their old evil
tendency and get accustomed to the new diet, until the
man, who was once heartily fond of flesh food, now not
only shrinks from the very smell of it, but comes to enjoy
a vegetarian diet even more heartily. Also, in many cases
people who become vegetarians suddenly, find a marked
improvement in their health.
“ I have seen children of all ages who have been
accustomed to eating meat, and who have suddenly come
under conditions where no flesh-food was given. 1 have seen
young men and middle-aged men, some of whom had been
abstemious livers, and some of whom had been luxurious
ions vivants, and who immediately and entirely gave up
meat altogether and all with the happiest results.
“ I have had under my observation those who for
60 to 7o (and in one case fo.r 75) years had lived on the
ordinary dietary, and who at a single stroke had all meats
and meat extracts and gravies cut off, and in not a single
instance could I say that I ever saw any injurious result
following, whereas in the majority of cases I noticed an
improved vigour, while a sense of lightness and freedom
was experienced, just as if some weight or burden had
been removed from the vitals.
“ If I am asked ‘ Did these people who gave up
eating meat lose tone or become weaker?’ my answer
would be that in the majority of cases they confidently
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 37
stated that they found themselves stronger and more
powerful in body, and clearer and more vigorous in mind.”
J o siah O l d f ie l d , d .c .l ., m.r .c.s., l .r .c.p .,
Senior Physician of the Lady Margaret Fruitarian Hospital, Bromley.
The safe way, however, to change over from meat
eating to a meatless diet is to cease from it gradually.
One should first drop pork in every way, shape and form.
A heavy meat eater, one who eats meat three times a day,
should eat it only twice a day for a fortnight; thence once
a day for a fortnight, then once a day every other day for
a fortnight, then twice a week for a fortnight, then once
a week for the same length of time, and then drop it.
Sometimes people when they begin to be vegetarians
misunderstand the whole business. As meat is gradually
eliminated, what is to take its place ? Most people com­
mence at once to eat an increased quantity of bread,
porridge, cakes, pies, and everything containing sugar.
With the loss of the meat stimulation comes a craving for
something to take its place. Tea, coffee and sugar seem
to meet the demand to a nicety, and they are indulged in.
The body commences to pile on fat, often there is illness,
in almost every case there is digestive disturbance more or
less serious, the results of which do not appear for a long
time. Again, the idea of some English people who have
been living principally on meat with cabbage and potatoes
is to give up meat and live on cabbage and potatoes.
Now potatoes being all starch, and cabbage mostly water,
they could not live on starch and water, but must have
other flesh-forming foods. Recent books on the subject
of diet tell us what amount and what proportion of differ­
ent kinds of food are needed, how much of the flesh­
forming, bone-forming and blood-forming foods are
necessary, carbohydrates, proteins, etc. They also give
3 8 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
long lists of foods, though only some of them may suit
particular bodies, and a person wishing to live on vege­
tarian diet should find by trial what would suit him best.
I f he finds some difficulty with his digestive organs, he is
takin g the wrong kind of food. He should try other
th in gs and unless he is hopelessly diseased, he will always
fin d a way out. Uncooked vegetables and fruits are
recommended. The utmost care should betaken to avoid
a n y increased consumption of starchy foods, sugar, tea
o r coffee. Salads of uncooked vegetables should take
t h e place of the missing meat, and uncooked fruits
sh o u ld be eaten freely. Whole meal bread only should
b e used.
Q. If a man be suffering from a fatal disease or a
ch ron ic illness, and the only remedy is fleshfood, may it
be taken under medical orders ?
Ans. The question is based on an unlikely or impossible
assumption. It is like asking : f*If a square were round,
h o w many corners would it have ? ” There is no illness for
w h ic h the eating of flesh is the only remedy. In fact,
fle s h diet is never meant as a remedy for any illness. The
g iv in g of flesh in serious cases by European doctors is
gen era lly a sign that the patient is beginning to recover.
E v e n if such a case as is assumed in the question be at all
p o ssib le, the person concerned should take into consider­
a tio n his duty and his position in spiritual evolution. A
S a n y a s i or a spiritually evolved soul might let his body
d i e under such conditions, whereas an ordinary man of the
w o r ld would wish to preserve it.
In case of a"serious or chronic disease, with medical
a d v ic e to take meat, the patient should change his doctor
in s te a d of his diet. Doctors differ as much as laymen,
a n d we should choose a doctor whose opinions on these
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 39
matters do not clash with our own. Many prominent
doctors all over the world have come to the conclusion
that meat-eating is at the root of most diseases, and
are substituting for it a non-meat diet. As stated before,
meat produces great quantities of uric acid, and this causes
consumption, gout, and many other serious diseases.
Q. Then you also eschew wines and narcotics ?
Ans. Alcohol in any form has a directly pernicious
effect on certain centres in the brain and does a man more
harm than even meat, as it hinders the development of his
inner powers and stunts his moral and spiritual growth.
All narcotic drugs are similarly injurious, though less so
than wines or spirits.
Q. Is it true that your rules require the members to
remain unmarried?
Ans. We require nothing of the kind as there is perfect
individual freedom of opinion and action in our Society.
Moreover, only very few can have complete control over
their passions, and discouragement of marriage means
increase of immorality.
Again, a married man has to look after and
maintain his family, wherebythe qualityof unselfish love
is developed within him life after life, so much so that
later on he learns to labour for and love the whole world.
On the contrary, he who refrains from marriage is ordina­
rily wholly absorbed in self-interest, and is consequently
likely to develop the base quality of selfishness; so a
married life is advisable for all ordinary men who, though
earnest and ardentworkersfor Theosophy, have still
ties binding them to the world. But for him who
has for ever done with worldly life, who desires only to
know Truth in order to help others and who is
most earnest to gain his end, celibacy is generally
4o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
advisable, because just as one cannot serve two masters,
it is impossible for such a man both to pursue occultism
and lead a worldly life. If he tried to do this, he would
fail in doing either properly. Hence celibacy is desirable
and even necessary for the few who are determined to
tread the path which leads to the highest goal. Marriage
is also incompatible with some special forms of Yoga—-the
systems which seek an expansion of self-consciousness
above the physical state—and men and women who want
to practise those must become celibates. On the other
hand, there are cases in which marriage is necessary to
provide bodies for certain types of soul or to perpetuate
some useful race or family. Moreover, if occultists
were married to occultists, they would help rather than
hinder one another.
Q. We find more misery than happiness in the world;
then why should we waste our time and energy in the
study of Theosophy instead of utilising them for new
researches and inventions which may alleviate a little of
the great misery of the world ?
Ans. All the pain and misery in the world can be
classed under three heads: i. Adhyatmic, 2 . Adhibhautic,
3. Adhidaivic.
The first includes all pains of body and mind;
the second all pains and miseries caused by theft, by the
ravages of tigers and other wild animals, by bite of
serpents and poisonous insects as well as by accident or
breach of trust; while all kinds of unhappiness brought
about by natural causes such as the sun, electricity,
earthquake, cold, heat, wind, rain, etc., are included in
the third.
All the miseries in the world fall under one or
other of these three classes. Now if we take the first
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 4i
class, viz., the afflictions of body and mind, we find that
in spite of thousands coming out as medical men and
inventing new specific cures for all diseases to which flesh
is heir, we have not yet been able to exterminate bodily
suffering. Even if the whole of humanity turn its atten­
tion to medical science, we cannot abolish all bodily and
mental diseases, because some of them are congenital, like
congenital insanity or congenital blindness or deafness or
lameness, and no physician can ever cure these.
Coming to the pains of mind, non-acquisition of a
thing desired, contact with undesirable objects, loss of a
desired object or of a friend or a dear one by death, are
some of the causes that produce such pains, and what
power have we to overcome them ? Even supposing that
all pains And afflictions mentioned under the first heading
are guarded against or removed, what security can we
have against pains and miseries caused by the other two
sources, i.e., by wild animals or poisonous insects, by theft
or breach of trust, by sunstroke or lightning, by scarcity
, of rain and consequent famine, etc. ?
Q. How, then, can we rid the world of all kinds of
fains, miseries and diseases ?
Ans. There is only one remedy and that is knowledge.
Q. But how can we guard against and prevent bodily
disease, snake-bite, sunstroke, accidental death, congeni­
tal disease, etc., simply by knowledge ?
Ans. It is clear that to cure a disease after getting it is
something like trying to extinguish a fire after it has
started, and just as the fire is bound to do some damage
however quickly it may be put out, diseases once contract­
ed are bound to give some pain however quickly they
are cured. Again, we have no powder to prevent the
recurrence of diseases. Just as by eating, hunger is only
6
42 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
temporarily satisfied, and is felt over again after a time,
so nearly all the present-day cures are meant for diseases
after they have come and are in no way preventives or
remedies against their invasions.
Till we know the root-cause of all the pains and
miseries of the world, we cannot put an end to them;
our time is taken up merely in fighting the diseases after
they have started. This does not imply that the treatment
of diseases is useless. On the contrary, it is as necessary
to treat a disease as it is to put out a conflagration. But
rather than be continually putting out a fire in a haystack
started by a child playing about with a match-box, it is
better to remove the cause—the child or the match-box.
Similarly, it is obviously better to remove the cause of
disease or evil in the world and thus put an end to all misery.
There is a law of cause and effect in the world,
which means that there can be no effect without a cause.
Now if we know the cause which produces pain and
misery, we can by removing that cause, put a stop to and
prevent all the pain and misery of the world.
Q. But how is it possible for us to know the cause ?
Ans. The root of all evil and misery is ignorance. Lord
Buddha said that all suffering came from ignorance ,*
“ Dispel ignorance, make men wise, and then all difficulties
will vanish.” Says a Master of the Wisdom: “ Those
who are on His (God’s) side know why they are here and
what they should do., and they are trying to do it; all the
others do not yet know what they should do, and so they
often act foolishly.” The ordinary man has no idea of
the laws of Nature in the physical world, much less in the
mental and moral worlds. Not knowing who he is and what
his true happiness consists in, he foolishly goes after the
wrong thing and in consequence suffers pain and misery.
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 43
So until he has acquired a knowledge of the laws of life
and Nature by the study of Divine Wisdom or Theosophy,
he is not likely to be free from pain and suffering.
Q. How will Theosophy help me in acquiring a fuller
knowledge of the laws of life and Nature and why should
I be a Theosophist ?
Ans. As explained before, Theosophy is a synthesis of
religion, philosophy and science. Science has made much
progress in the past, but now is practically at a deadlock.
Theosophy can help it with an intelligent theory of the
universe from the primary substance, the objective universe
with its countless lives and related to man by means of his
body and the senses, the seven planes of nature, etc. Thus
Theosophy, the Science of the Soul, takes the scientific
student by the hand and leads him along new avenues of
thought.
Then also Theosophy is the basis of Religion and
the Philosophy of Life. We see all kinds of social
problems—extreme poverty and extreme riches, desperate
misery and heart-rending degradation, side by side with
great progress in science and arts. The teachings of
Theosophy explain the root-causes of evil and point out
the sure way of escape.
“ Ten Good Reasons for Theosophy ” are sometimes
given as under:
1. —It solves the Riddle of the Universe: harmonising
the facts of Science with the fundamental truths of
Religion.
2. — It proves life worth living; rendering it
intelligible, and demonstrating the justice and the love
which guide its evolution.
3. —It removes all fear of death, and much of its
sorrow; recognising birth and death, joy and sorrow, as
alternating incidents in a cycle of endless progress.
44 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
4. —It insists upon the optimistic view of life;
proclaiming man the Master of his own destiny; child
of his past; parent of his future.
5. —It demonstrates the Power, the Wisdom, and
the Love of God ; notwithstanding all the sorrow and
misery of the world.
6. —It brings hope to the hopeless ; showing that no
effort is ever wasted, no error irretrievable.
7. —It proclaims the Fatherhood of God; hence the
Sonship of Man, and his ultimate attainment of perfection.
8. —It declares the universality of the Law of Causa­
tion ; maintaining that “ whatsoever a man soweth, that
shall he also reap ”, in this, and in all other worlds.
9. —It regards the world as a school to which man
returns again and again until all its lessons are acquired.
io.—It affirms the Brotherhood of man; and provides a
basis of union for all who desire to work for its realisation.
“ Theosophy gives Science new realms to conquer ;
it lifts the hopelessness from social conditions; it shows
the way to perfect self-sacrifice; it teaches Reincarnation,
Karma and Brotherhood. These are some of the reasons
why you should be a Theosophist.”
Q. But one can be a Theosophist at heart, study
Theosophy and also serve humanity in all possible ways
without joining the organisation. Wherein, then, lies the
advantage of becoming a member of the Society ?
Ans. Persons should come into the Society not f to
get ’ but 4to give ’; to become co-workers with God by
spreading on every side the light of the knowledge they
have gained ; to toil, to work for the future, and by the
realisation in their hearts of what is coming, help to make
it come more quickly; to be enrolled amongst the Servants
of Humanity who are working for the coming recognition
of a spiritual brotherhood amongst men.
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 45
Thus it is a privilege to join the Society, and work
for the Society is its own reward, while the opportunity
grasped now will give a member a larger opportunity
for unselfish work in the future. This in itself is a great
personal gain to a member who in addition becomes part
of a living organism and shares its life, which is of a
higher order, both in quality and quantity, than his own life
as an individual. In other words, his consciousness be­
comes linked with that of the leaders of the movement and
through them to the Masters of the Wisdom, the real
founders of the Society.
Again, the practical application of Theosophy is
philanthropy, and the true Theosophist is ever a philan­
thropist. Now, people dissipate their energies and do not
succeed in breaking down a wall in front of them when
each individual is knocking independently at a different
place. But work is more useful and effective when carried
on with concerted effort by a group or a society than when
undertaken by independent individuals, and the problems,
of the spiritual and social progress of the world can be
dealt with much better by such a Society under the guid­
ance of the Great Ones than by individual men, however
sincere and well-intentioned they may be.
Many could not help coming into the Society, for they
have in the past taken great pains to study the Ancient
Wisdom and laboured and worked for the dissemination of
spiritual knowledge. Their brains may not remember,
they may not be aware of it, but their ego knows and in
their superconsciousness that knowledge resides. The
proof that the memory is there, that the consciousness is
awake on the higher planes, lies in the fact that, unlike
otherwise clever people who feel a sort of intellectual
vagueness in the study of Theosophy, they are able quickly
46 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
to grasp all the main Theosophical principles, and feel
like traversing old ground, reviving ancient memories
of the knowledge imbibed in the past. Law is law ;
opportunities earned cannot be withheld; and it was
their good karma to join the Society, as in the past they
had won the right to come into it, and by past well-doing
had merited the present privilege of again spreading the
Theosophical knowledge.
“ Of perfect service rendered, duties done
In charity, soft speech, and stainless days :
These riches shall not fade away in life.
Nor any death dispraise,.”
One chief value of membership in the Society lies in
the insight it gives a member into certain fundamental truths
—Laws of Reincarnation and Karma and Brotherhood
of Man—knowledge of which makes for contentment and
hopeful endeavour, ignorance of which leads to misery and
despair. Of course, knowledge is valueless save as it is
transmuted into service, and membership in the Society,
meaning added knowledge through the companionship of
others who know, emphatically means increased and more
effective service.
A man by joining the Society may be able to serve
as a channel through which spiritual life may be poured
into the religion to which he belongs, and may thus be
honoured by being used by the Guardians of Humanity in
Their great work of quickening evolution and of lifting
the world.
A Great Teacher once said that in all the world
there are only two kinds of people: those who know and,
because they know, are working; and those who do not
know and are therefore idle. But only that knowledge
which is woven into life, which is acted upon, whose precepts
WHAT THEOSOPHY IS 47
are practised, is real knowledge. As a man lives the
truths, they become part of him. Outsiders may profess
belief in the principles of Theosophy and may yet rest
content with that belief. But, like “ Handsome is that
handsome does ”, a tcTheosophist is who Theosophy does ”,
and members of the Society, having accepted the first
object—Universal Brotherhood of Humanity,—must try to
make themselves instruments of impersonal help in all
departments of life ; they must be in the forefront of all
movements striving to spread brotherhood, become sources
of true spiritual happiness to their fellow-creatures and
bring enlightenment into people’s lives; in short, they
must strive to school themselves by actual service to be
instruments in the hands of the real Founders pf thp
Society, the Masters of the Wisdom ; and thus their
membership protects them against their lower nature of
sluggishness and indolence in the work of practical
brotherhood and the welfare of humanity.
Members of the Society, all the world over, have the
same ideals and beliefs, and these naturally bind them
into a close friendship. From this friendship there grows
a great co-operation, and with co-operation comes a
realisation of their strength. For the Society is like a
great power-house and has behind it a great force, both
spiritual and temporal, for the helping and guiding of
humanity; and membership in the Society confers the
privilege of wielding that power and of being one of the
guiding and spiritualising forces of the world.
A few members of the Society grouped together
form a centre through which the Masters work, for One of
the Greatest of Them has said : “ Where two or three are
gathered together in My name, there am I in the midst of
them.” Thus They are always ready to give of Their
48 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
power and strength where a pure channel is made, and
membership in the Society provides such a channel for
Their blissful influence and offers to the members an un­
equalled opportunity of doing Them true and laudable
service by acting as an instrument ready to Their hands,
an instrument self-conscious yet readily adaptable—men
who realise themselves as a connected unity and whom
They can use in Their great work of the spiritual
regeneration of humanity.
Finally, if a member truly in earnest cares, in the
ways of inner purification and outer unselfish action, to
commit himself to be a disciple of one of the Great Masters
of the Wisdom, he will greatly be helped in his effort by
first joining the outer Theosophical Society and then,
after a certain prescribed period, its Inner School which
teaches men how to hasten their progress on the Path, to
compress into a few lives the evolution which would
otherwise take many thousands of years, as explained
in Chapter X.
The Great Ones want workers, and some must
be Their agents and helpers in the lower worlds. Why
should it not be you and I who may serve Them in Their
grand and glorious work of the spiritual and social progress
of the world and the evolution of mankind ? ,
CHAPTER II
GOD AND THE SOLAR SYSTEM
Question. Do you believe in God?
Answer. If you mean an extra-cosmic and anthropo­
morphic God, or if you think that the relation between
God and the universe (or our world) is as that between the
potter and the pot, such a God we absolutely deny for
several reasons. First, He is called by His devotees
infinite and absolute. Now form implies limitation, a
beginning and an end; and if God be infinite, limitless
and absolute, how can He be thought of . as limited
to a form ? Secondly, if He be limitless, He must be every­
where ; and if He be everywhere, He cannot create an
external universe, for where lies the space for creation ?
Thirdly, thinking and planning is necessary before
creation, but how can the Absolute think, because thinking
implies a relation with something thought of, limited and
finite? Fourthly, a creator must make some movement
in space to create a universe, which seems impossible for
the Infinite who is already everywhere. Fifthly, if God is
separate from His universe, that is, if God is one thing
and the universe something else, like the potter and the
pot, whence did God bring the material for creation when
it is believed that there was nothing but God in the
7
5o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
beginning ? Therefore we cannot believe in such an ultimate
extra-cosmic God.
Again, God is called all-just and all-merciful on the
one hand, and on the other He is believed to be the dis­
penser of gloom and glory, of pain and happiness to
mankind. But if one person leads a happy life from birth
to death and another has to suffer all through his life, at
the sweet will of God, such a God can either be only all-
powerful (without being just) or all-just (without being
powerful).
Moreover, some people who profess to believe that
God is all-mighty, at the same time believe that Satan
must be the cause of all misery and pain in the world.
But if so, it implies that such a God is powerless against
Satan, and consequently not all-powerful.
Once again, God is called all-knowing or omnis­
cient, that is, knower of past, present and future. In the
same breath it is said that His own angel went against
Him and turned Satan. This suggests that God had not
the prescience to know that His own angel would go
against Him, and consequently He cannot be called all-
knowing.
Yet again, God is considered to be infinite and
omnipresent, but He is expected to be seen and met with
in heaven only. These two things seem incompatible. If
infinite or without form or limit, how can He be in heaven
alone, or sit or stand at any particular place ? Such a
God seems merely to be the creation of the imagination of
the childish and the thoughtless, and is a philosophical and
logical absurdity,
Q. Then please explain your conception of God.
Ans. We believe in the one Existence, the One who is
the centre of all life ; an Omnipresent, Eternal, Boundless
GOD AND THE SYSTEM 5l
and Immutable P r in c ip l e , o —
aHH^SDeorfKation is
impossible ; the One only without a^ sm od ^ on e Infinite
Eternal, Changeless Existence; the A ll; one Eternal Now
without past, present or future ; out of space and time, the
Unmanifested Logos ; Boundless Space—Zarwane Akrane
—of Zoroastrianism; the Ineffable Thrice-unknown
Darkness of the Greek Orphic System; called by the
Hindus, Parabrahman—the Supreme Brahman; Param-
atman—-the Supreme Self; also the Nirguna Brahman—
the Brahman without attributes or the unconditioned
Brahman—to distinguish the unmanifested state of
Brahman, the All, from the manifested state, in which
Brahman is called the Saguna Brahman—the Brahman
with attributes, or the conditioned Brahman; Brahman
revealed—the Supreme Ishvara with His universe.
From That all comes forth; to That all returns.
That includes within itself all that ever has been, is, and
can be. As a wave rises in the ocean, a universe rises in
the All. As the wave sinks again into the ocean, a uni­
verse sinks again into the All. As the ocean is water, and
the wave a form or manifestation of the water, so is there
one Existence, and the universe is a form, or manifestation,
of the Existence. “ All this verily (is) Brahman.5
5 Thus
all universes rise and fall in the All, are born and die in
that immensity.
Q. Then does the One without a Second build our
Solar System ?
Ans. No, not directly. Coming forth from the depth of
the One Existence, a Logos, by imposing upon Himself
a limit, becomes the manifested God, and tracing the
limiting sphere of His activity outlines the area of His
universe. The manifested and the unmanifested are
merely “ the two states of Brahman 5
5
. This manifested
52 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Logos is not “ a Second ”, but “ The One ” in manifestation,
the Saguna Brahman, the Brahman with attributes, men­
tioned above, the Cosmic Logos, the Supreme Ruler of the
universe, the self-existing One, the Root and Cause of all
beings, also sometimes called Purushottama, the Supreme
Spirit, The Self. With Himself as Spirit He reveals the
other side of the All, which is named Mulaprakriti, the
Root of Matter. He manifests a part of Himself, estab­
lishes the universe with a portion of Himself, all-tran­
scending, all-embracing, the manifested God, limiting
Himself by manifestation. He then unfolds Himself into a
threefold form, the three great Logoi of cosmic evolution,
so that Trimurti or Trinity is the aspect towards the
universe of the Manifested God.
Associated with the work of the Cosmic Logos in
the Universe are seven Embodiments of His nature, called
the Seven Cosmic Planetary Logoi. All the stars in the
universe, which are centres of great evolutionary systems,
belong to one or other of these great Seven, and are in
some way expressions of Their life, as They in turn are
expressions of the One Life of the Cosmic Logos.
In the One Existence are innumerable universes;
in each universe countless solar systems. Each solar
system is energised and controlled by a mighty Being,
Ishvara, the Solar Logos, the Solar Deity. As a Star, the
Lord of a System among the myriads of stars, He lives and
moves and has His Being in His Father-Star, one of the
great Seven; yet does He mirror directly the Life and Light
and Glory of the One without a Second. He is to that
system all that men mean by God. He permeates it ;
there is nothing which is not He. He is immanent in
every atom of the system, all-pervading, all sustaining, all-
evolving. He is in everything, and everything is in Him.
GOD AND THE SOLAR SYSTEM 55
Out of Himself our Solar Logos has called our solar
system into being, and we who are in it are evolving
fragments of His life; from Him we all have come; into
Him we shall all return.
Yet He exists above His system, living a stupendous
life of His own among His Peers—other Solar Logoi,
Brother-Stars of His Company. “ Having pervaded the
whole universe with a fragment of Myself, I remain/’ Of
that higher life of His, we can know nothing, but when
He puts Himself down into such conditions as are within
our reach, His manifestation is ever threefold. In the
evolution of any solar system, three of the highest
principles of the Logos of the system (generally called
the three Logoi of the system) correspond to and res­
pectively fulfil the functions of the three Great Logoi of
cosmic evolution. And so the manifestation of the Logos
of our system is threefold ; three, yet fundamentally one ;
three *Persons (for person means a mask), yet one God,
showing Himself in those thrte aspects which are but facets
of Him. Thus there is a very real meaning in the
insistence of the Christian Church that“ we worship one
God in Trinity, and Trinity in Unity, neither confounding
the Persons nor dividing the substance ”—that is to say,
never confusing in our minds the work and functions of
the three separate Persons (literally—masks) or manifes­
tations, each on His own plane, yet never for a moment
forgetting the Eternal Unity of the ‘ substance/ that
which lies behind all alike on the highest plane.
The aspect of Ishvara in which He creates the
worlds is named Brahma by the Hindus, and the Holy
Ghost by the Christians. That aspect in which Ishvara
preserves and maintains the worlds, is named Vishnu
by the Hindus, the Son by the Christians. The aspect
54 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
in which He dissolves the worlds when they are worn out
and of no further use, is named Shiva or Mahadeva by the
Hindus, the Father by the Christians.
Next below the Solar Deity, yet also in some
mysterious manner part of Him—like the Cosmic Logos
and His -seven Embodiments, the seven Cosmic Planetary
Logoi—come His seven ministers, the seven expressions of
His nature, the seven channels of His inexhaustible Life,
called the seven Solar Planetary Logoi or the Planetary
Spirits. In Hinduism they are called the seven Prajapatis
(Lords of Creatures), in Zoroastrianism the seven Amesha
Spentas (Immortal Holy Ones), in the Hebrew and
Christian tradition the “ Seven Spirits before the throne
of God *\ The energies of these Seven control and direct
all that takes place within the solar system. They are the
rulers of the planets Vulcan, Venus, Earth, Jupiter,
Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. Each of the Seven is the
Head and Ruler of hierarchies of creative entities who
work under His direction in the building and sustaining
of the solar system; under each are ranged Devas or
Shining Ones or Angelic hosts, called Adityas, Vasus,
Dhyan Chohans, etc., in Oriental religions, or Angels,
Archangels, Thrones, etc., in the Christian tradition—
manifestations of the One, the innumerable ministers of
the Supreme Will.
Presiding over our world there is a great Official
who represents the Solar Deity. He is the true King of
this world, in absolute control of all evolution that t&kes
place upon our planet, and under Him are ministers in
charge of different departments.
Thus the God we believe in, the Supreme Lord of
our system, manifests Himself in the system under a triple
form, a Trinity; the Regenerator, the Preserver, the
GOD AND THE SOLAR SYSTEM 55
%
Creator ; spoken of by the Theosophist as the First, the
Second and the Third Logos; the Father, the Son and
the Holy Spirit of the Christian; Shiva, Vishnu and
Brahma of the Hindu; the Kether, Chochmah and Binah
of the Hebrew Kabbalist; Ahura, Mazda and Ahura -
mazda—the Life, Wisdom and the One Existence—of the
Zoroastrian. He is everywhere and in everything, and
is everything. The whole world is but a manifestation
of Him. He is manifested in countless forms, in countless
grades of living intelligences who all come forth from
Him, as later on from Him come forth vegetable, animal
and man. Thus there is only the One Life manifested in
infinite forms. Man, vegetable, mineral, are all expressions
of that Life. The grain of dust could not be, were God
absent from it ; the loftiest Archangel is but another
expression of Him, of the One. Thus God being im­
manent in all, all are sharers in one Life and form one
great Brotherhood.
Q. Can the existence of God be proved ?
Ans. No purely intellectual process of reasoning affords
a complete demonstration of the existence of God, satis­
factory to all minds. That existence can be proved
indirectly by reason, devotion and purity of life. Long
and careful study of nature proves the probability of a
‘ Divine Architect * who builds the worlds; the One
Existence is seen to be a philosophical necessity, and the
manifestation of the primal Duality—Pratyagatma and
Mulaprakriti or the root of Spirit and the root of Matter—
a cosmic necessity ; Pratyagatma emotionally contemplat­
ed, is God, the Supreme Lord.
Devotion to God enables a man to feel His exist­
ence, and to gain strength and peace from Him. As a
man grows purer, nobler, more loving, he begins to know
56 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
God, and no more needs proof of His existence than he
needs proofs of the light by which he sees.
But the ultimate and direct proof lies in the Self
within. His u only proof is the consciousness in the Self
Each of us is quite sure that he himself exists; thus we
have many existences, each sure of itself; but these
cannot arise severally and independently, any more than a
fountain can spring up in the air where there is no water;
these selves arise from One Self, are parts of One Self,
and that Self is God. Hence is the conviction of the Self
His only proof, the realisation of the Divine in us, our
true Self, that recognises the Divine Self without us by
identity of nature. Thus only by realising the - Divine
Self in ourselves can we know the Divine Self outside
ourselves, the Self in which “ we live and move and have
our being
Q. What is the object of God in creating the universe ?
Ans. The term 4creation ' is popularly used in modern
days to mean making *something out of nothing~an
impossible feat. The unreal hath no being; the real
never ceaseth to b e”, says Shri Krishna in the most
famous jewel of Aryan literature, the Bhagavad-Gita.
This idea of creation arose in an unphilosophic age among
ignorant people. In older days that which is now called
creation was regarded as rearrangement—the rearrange­
ment of existing matter into fresh shapes, and such terms
as the Heavenly Builder, the Great Architect, the
Fashioner, the Artificer, the Worker, were used instead
of Creator. The word ccreation ’ is still used in this sense
of shaping anew what exists, when it is said that an artist
■
creates ’ a picture or a statue.
That emanation, not creation, is a manifestation of
Divine Life, the natural expression of a phase of the
GOD AND THE SOLAR SYSTEM 57
Divine Nature. The question: “ what is the object of
emanation ?9
9 has been answered in various ways. There
are many possible reasons, but a kitten cannot understand
why a man spends his time reading a book instead of
running after a leaf on the ground, because the conscious­
ness of the kitten is not developed enough to read a book ;
and we are all nearer to the kitten than to God in one
sense, that is, in our comprehension of His nature. Still,
some say that the love of God wanted to bring to self-
consciousness many beings able to share His bliss and love ;
some say that Love desired to be loved. The Christians
say that it is to show forth His glory. The Sufi says :
“ He was a hidden treasure and desired to be made mani­
fest.” The Upanishat says: “ He willed: f I will multiply.’ ”
The final answer seems to be that in the Universal, the
All, all universes, everything that was, is and can be, exist
eternally; but that in time and space, one or another
universe appears and then disappears. *God ’ is the
manifested, the Saguna Brahman, or the Ishvara, the
Lord of a universe, and He gives objective existence, in
time and space, to part of that which ever is, in eternity.
What seems certain is that the object of mad being here is
to unfold his capacities and to reflect the divine perfec­
tion—to reach “ the measure of the stature of the Christ
<?. How is our solar system formed ?
Ans. At the earliest point of history that we can reach,
the opposites of spirit and matter, of life and form, are
already in full activity. What we commonly call force
and matter are in reality two varieties of spirit at different
stages in evolution. The ultimate root-matter as seen
at our level is what scientists call the aether of space ; in
Theosophical studies it is spoken of as Koilon, ‘ the
emptiness the primordial negation of matter, because to
58 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
every physical sense the space occupied by it appears
empty. This substance, perceptible only to highly devel­
oped clairvoyant power, originally filled all space, but some
Being, infinitely higher than our Solar Deity, changed this
condition of rest by pouring out His spirit or force into a
certain section of the matter, a section of the size of a
whole universe. The introduction of that force formed
within the aether an incalculable number of tiny spherical
bubbles, spoken of in The Secret Doctrine as the holes
which Fohat digs in space. Each *bubble ’ or point of
light is where Koilon is not; each bubble is in reality a
point of His consciousness, and persists only so long as He
wills to keep back the enveloping Koilon.. These bubbles
are the ultimate atoms, final units, of which what we call
matter is composed; and thus matter is nothing but
holes in aether.
When the Solar Deity begins to make His system,
He finds this material consisting of an infinite number of
tiny bubbles ready to His hand. He first defines the limit
of His field of activity, a vast sphere with a circumference
far larger than the orbit of the outermost of His future
planets. Within the limit of that sphere He sets up a kind
of gigantic vortex, sweeping together all the bubbles into a
vast central mass—the material of the nebula that is to be.
Acting through His Third Aspect He sends forth into this
stupendous revolving sphere seven successive impulses of
force, gathering together the bubbles into ever more and
more complex aggregations, as explained in the Three Great
Outpourings in Chapter VIII. In this way are formed
seven gigantic interpenetrating and concentric worlds of
matter, all one in essence because built of the same kind of
matter, but differing in their degree of density. These
seven types of matter or kinds of atoms are freely
GOD AND THE SOLAR SYSTEM 59
intermingled, so that specimens of each type would be
found in the smallest portion of the sphere taken at
random. The grossest of these seven kinds of atoms—the
ultimate physical atoms—are then drawn together into
certain aggregations, thus making a number of different
kinds of what may be called proto-elements, and these
again are joined together into the various forms which are
known to Science as chemical elements.
This process extended over long periods of time,
but as ages rolled on, the stage of a vast glowing nebula
was reached. As the sphere cooled, still rapidly rotating,
it flattened into a huge disc and broke up into rings sur­
rounding a central body which later on formed our sun.
The Deity then set up in the thickness of each ring a
subsidiary vortex, collecting therein a great deal of the
matter of the ring which formed a planet round the
central body. The collision of the gathered fragments
having caused a revival of the heat, the resulting planet
was for a long time a mass of glowing gas, but gradually it
cooled once more until it became fit for human habitation.
Each of the planets of our solar system is thus com­
posed of seven types of atoms, aggregations of which yield
the seven fundamental types of matter found in the system,
each denser than its predecessor, and called planes of
nature.
Q. Ordinarily we know of only three states of matter,
solid, liquid and gaseous. Then what are these seven
kinds, and what do you mean by planes of nature ?
Ans. What we usually call solid, liquid and gaseous are
merely substates or subdivisions of the lowest, the physical
kind of matter. The whole matter of the solar system is
made up of seven types of atoms of varying densities, from
the grossest to the rarest, and each region with its matter
6o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
composed of a particular type of atoms and correlated
with a distinct stage of consciousness is called a plane or
world, and hence we recognise seven such planes in the
solar system,
Q. What have these planes to do with our earth and
how is our earth formed ?
Ans. These seven types of matter interpenetrating one
another are partly aggregated into planets, worlds or
globes, and are not evenly spread over the whole area of
the solar system. The three finest do spread over the
whole, and are thus common to the system, but the four
denser kinds compose and Surround the globes and planets*
The, earth we live on being one of those planets, the seven
kinds of matter make up its constitution.
<
2
* Then is not our earth formed of mere physical
matter ?
Ans. Our earth is not built up only of the matter of the
lowest or seventh plane or world, but has also an abundant
supply of the matter of the sixth, the fifth and other
worlds. Particles of matter even, in the hardest substance
never actually touch one another, as has been fully proved
by men of science. The atoms are extremely minute in
proportion to the spaces between them, each being like a
solitary speck of dust in a large hall. So all the other
kinds of atoms of all those other subtler planes have ample
room, not only to lie between the atoms of the denser
matter, but also to move freely among and around them.
Consequently the globe upon which we live is not one
world composed of matter of one type only, but seven
worlds made up of matter of different types, interpenetrat­
ing one another and all occupying the same space.
Q. How can different hinds of matter occupy the same
space without displacing one another ?
GOD AND THE SOLAR SYSTEM 6 r
Ans. That is possible owing to the space between the
atoms always being proportionately much larger than the
size of those atoms. Take the example of a sponge or a
cloth-ball dipped in water. The solid matter of the ball
or the sponge occupies a certain space, but all the holes
or interspaces in that sponge hold water, and thus water
practically occupies the same space as the sponge. At
the same time minute particles of air are held suspended
in the water, and thus the solid, liquid and gaseous matters
occupy the same space in that sponge.
Q. Where are these different planes located on our
earth ?
Ans. The subtle worlds are all around us, though
we are normally unconscious of their existence. They
are not one over the other like the layers of an onion, but
are contained one within the other, the solid physical earth
being embedded in the very heart of them all. The
sixth world is larger than the seventh—the physical—and
extends much farther into space, but at the same time
permeates the physical matter of the earth everywhere.
The fifth extends beyond the sixth, but permeates the other
two like water vapour spreading through the air. Thus
the world in which we live is not one world, but seven
interpenetrating worlds all occupying the same space
except that the finer kinds of matter extend further from
the centre than do the grosser kinds.
Q. How are these seven planes or interpenetrating
worlds named ?
Ans. The highest or the subtlest region is called the
Mahaparanirvanic, or the Adi or the Divine. The second
is named Paranirvanic or the Anupadaka, also called
Monadic, because therein dwell the sparks of the Divine
Life, the human Monads, it being the birth-place and
62 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
habitat of the human Self, the Monad, the God in man.
The third is called the Nirvanic or the Atmic, as the
highest spirit in man—Atma—as now constituted, functions
in it. The fourth is the Buddhic or the Intuitional world,
the world of the highest intuitions. The last two are also
called the spiritual planes, for there the man realises
himself as divine. The fifth, still more dense is called the
Manasic, the Intellectual, or the mental, the mind of man
being formed of the matter of that plane. The sixth is the
Astral or the emotional and passional world, because the
emotions and passions of man cause undulations in its
*matter; the seventh is the physical world, part only of
which we cognise with our senses. Of the above planes
the two highest cannot be touched by man at present, as
we have to be self-conscious only on the other five to
reach our goal as Perfect Men for our present age or
dispensation.
Each of these planes is again subdivided into seven
and has seven substates of matter.
Q. How is each plane subdivided and what are those
substates of matter ?
Ans. Each plane is divided into seven subdivisions,
th us having seven substates of matter.
The physical plane has seven subdivisions, repre­
sented by seven degrees of density of matter. Rising from
the gross to the subtle, the matter of those subdivisions is
called solid, liquid, gaseous, etheric, super-etheric, sub­
atomic, and atomic. The four finer kinds of matter are
made up of what is ordinarily called ether of four densities
or grades, ether itself being physical though invisible to the
normal human eye. All these substates of matter belong to
the physical plane only. The finest or the ultimate physical
atoms of the atomic subplane aggregate into what are
GOD AND THE SOLAR SYSTEM 63
called proto-elements, and the latter again join together
into various forms known to science as chemical elements.
The astral plane is similarly divided into seven, but
has two main divisions, the lower astral having four sub­
divisions and the higher astral the remaining three.
Similarly, the fifth plane, the mental, has two main
divisions, the Rupa Loka and the Arupa Loka, or the
Form Level and the Formless Level, with four and three
subdivisions respectively. It includes, though it is not
identical with, what is called Devachan or Devaloka, the
land of the Gods, or the heaven. Devachan, the state of
happiness, bears that name because of its nature and
condition, nothing interfering with it to cause pain or sor­
row. It is a specially guarded state into which positive evil
is not allowed to intrude, a blissful resting place for man to
peacefully assimilate the fruits of the past physical life.
The other planes are also similarly subdivided into
seven each.
Q. Are the different worlds or planes as well as the
subplanes composed of different hinds of matter ?
Ans. Each world has its own type of matter, the matter
of the atomic subplane, and has also its own substances
or aggregations of that matter arranged into seven sub­
states ; but any type of matter is formed out of the
grossest matter of the world next above, and thus the
matter of which all the interpenetrating worlds are built
is essentially the same though differently arranged and
of different degrees of density.
Q. Please explain this in detail as far as the physical
world is concerned.
Ans. Formerly it was believed by Science that chemical
atoms were the ultimate units of all physical forms ; but
later on they were found to be complex structures, so
64 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
much so that Sir William Crookes in a remarkable paper
read before one of the English scientific societies advanced
the theory of a primitive substance, named protyle,
underlying physical matter of all kinds, while now the
existence of electrons or ultimate particles is the prevail­
ing belief of Science.
Any physical object, normally visible, expands by
the application of heat which increases the vibrations of
its compound molecules, and after a certain point breaks
up and passes from its normal condition to that next above
it. Thus any substance can be transformed from the solid
to the liquid condition (i.e,9 can be melted, like ice into
water) and from the liquid to the gaseous (like water into
steam) by increasing the vibrations of the compound
molecules till they are shaken apart into simpler molecules,
and this process of changing from one substate to a subtler
one can be repeated by certain methods with any physical
substance till that substance is finally reduced into ultimate
physical atoms. The reason is that though all forms of
the first or atomic subdivision are built by the compression
into certain shapes of the physical atoms (typified
for the moment by bricks), to make the matter of the
next lower or second subdivision a certain number of the
physical atoms (or bricks) is first gathered together and
cemented into small blocks of four atoms (or bricks) each,
or five or more atoms each, and these blocks used as
building-stones ; while for the next lower or third subdivi­
sion the building-stones are formed by several of the blocks
of the second subdivision cemented together in certain
shapes, and so on to the lowest.
Thus all physical substances, gross or fine, are
found to be made up by different arrangements and
combinations of ultimate physical atoms; and the latter
GOD AND THE SOLAR SYSTEM 65
being all identical, except that some of them are positive
and some negative, any substance can be transmuted into
another by first reducing that substance into ultimate
physical atoms and then rebuilding those atoms by a dif­
ferent arrangement into the other substance, thus trans­
ferring alchemy from the realm of superstition into that
of reality.
The ultimate physical atom can again be broken
up by certain methods into the matter of the grossest
subdivision of the astral plane. Similarly, the finest or
ultimate astral atom can be broken up into atoms of the
grossest subdivision of the mental plane,
Q. If these seven planes exist all round us, why are
we not normally conscious of their existence ?
Ans. Man becomes ordinarily conscious of anything
only with the help of one or more of his five senses, but
obviously he can be nothing but unconscious of the
existence of a thing which he can neither see, nor smell,
nor taste, nor touch, nor hear. Even in case of things
physically gross enough the senses cannot be entirely relied
on for several reasons:
1. Owing to long distance; the planet Neptune is
not seen, though it exists.
2. Owing to close proximity; the collyrium in the eye.
3. Owing to weakness of senses; sounds are not
heard owing to deafness.
4. Owing to minuteness; water particles in the
surrounding air.
5. Owing to the predominance of another thing still
greater; the planet Mercury is not seen in the light of
the sun.
Q. Then how can the existence of things not cognised
by the physical senses be proved ?
9
66 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Ans. It can be proved by the acquisition of superphysi­
cal powers at present latent in man. If Science has made so
much progress when only the three lowest substates of the
physical plane are known, it can make immeasurable
progress for the good of all if a knowledge of even the
fine ethers be acquired, thus fulfilling, though only in
part, the third object of the Society.
Q. This merely carries the difficulty a stage further
hack. How can you prove the existence of supernatural
powers in man ?
Ans. There is nothing supernatural as everything takes
place within the domain of natural law.
Hypnotism, mesmerism,, clairvoyance, telepathy,
etc. are now facts acknowledged by the scientific world.
A *subject * made artificially clairvoyant in his sleep by a
hypnotist is able to see anything in any part of the
world, which he cannot do by means of the physical
eye, and this proves the existence of some superphysi­
cal power. Again, researches in spiritualism prove
the existence of the astral plane and the survival of
man after death, though neither can be sensed by sense-
organs.
Moreover, we are conscious of the effects of only a
few sets of vibrations in air or ether, and these we call
sound, electricity, light, etc., while we are oblivious of the
existence of innumerable other kinds of vibrations pro­
ducing other sounds, colours, lights, forms, etc. This
again is admitted by Science.
Theosophy has proved on the strength of actual
experience that in every man there are some inactive
senses which, when stimulated, can make investigation
possible into the realm of matter normally lying unper­
ceived around us.
GOD AND THE SOLAR SYSTEM 67
Occultists there have been and are* who by devel­
oping their superphysical senses have investigated the
etheric part of our world and other higher realms, and
their investigations are priceless in their value to humanity.
Again, there are Masters, Perfected Men, who have
fully awakened Their subtle senses as They have completed
Their human evolution and remain in touch with the
world only to assist humanity in its growth ; and Their
disciples also awaken and develop subtle senses one after
another under Their directions and verify Their statements.
Q. I understand that the world we live in is not one
world, but seven interpenetrating worlds of finer and finer
matter all occupying the same space; but you have added
that the finer kinds of matter extend further from thb
centre than the grosser kinds do. Then how far does the
matter of the subtler worlds extend ?
Ans. The matter of the astral world stretches to a little
less than the mean distance of the moon. Thus the two
physical globes—the earth and the moon—being about
239,ooo miles apart, their astral spheres touch each other
when the moon is at a point in its orbit nearest the earth,
i.e., in perigee, but not when she is most remote from the
earth or in apogee. The mental world is a still larger
sphere of mental matter, while with the higher globes we
have spheres large enough to touch the corresponding
spheres of other planets of our Solar System.
Q. If these planes or worlds cannot be ordinarily
known to us, what have we to do with them ?
Ans. We have regularly to come into close contact with
at least some of them at our present stage, but to under­
stand that we must know something of the constitution
of man as explained in Chapter III.
CHAPTER III
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN
Question. When the constitution of man is so well
known to Western science, what more can Theosophy have
to say on the subject ?
Answer. Western science describes only the physical
body of man, which is not the real man, but the vehicle of
the real f I ’ within. To regard the physical body as the
real man is like considering the house as the inmate of the
house.
Q. How, i
then, does Theosophy explain the constitution
of man ?
Ans. According to Theosophical teaching, man is, in
essence, a Monad, a fragment of Divinity, a ray of God, a
spark of the Divine Fire, dwelling all the time in the
Monadic or Anupadaka plane of nature. He is an
individual, a son that has to grow, to evolve, into the
likeness of his Divine Father. This Monad, being a
fragment of the Divine, has within himself all goodness, all
perfection, in potentiality. As he stands, divine though he
be, he appears incapable of acting or working down upon
lower planes, and does not possess the power of grasping
physical details or acting in physical matter with definite­
ness and precision. W hat he has to do, in the course of
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 69
such evolution as may come to him, is to unfold all his
latent powers. For the purposes of human evolution the
true Self, the Monad, manifests himself in lower worlds. He
clothes himself in garment after garment, each of which is
made of matter belonging to a definite region of the universe.
Thus the Self is enabled to come into contact with each
region and thereby to gain knowledge of it. At the present
stage of human development, human evolution takes place
only in five out of the seven planes of nature.
Q. But if the Monad stays all the while in the Monadic
or Anupddaka world, how can he manifest himself in the
lower worlds ?
Ans. When the Monad descends one stage and enters
the spiritual world, he shows himself in three aspects, of
which the first, remaining always in that world, is called
Atma or Spirit in man. The second manifesting itself in
the Intuitional or Buddhic plane is spoken of as Buddhi
or Intuition in man, while the third, showing itself in the
higher mental plane, is called Manas or Intelligence in
man. This threefold manifestation of the Monad on the
three levels, showing itself as Atma-Buddhi-Manas, or
spirit, intuition and intellect, is called the Ego or the In­
dividuality, and this ego is the man during the human stage
of evolution in the world of manifestation or the five-fold
universe, and is described as a seed, a germ of Divine Life,
containing the potentialities of his own heavenly Father, his
Monad, which are to be unfolded into powers in the course
of evolution; he is the nearest correspondence, in fact, to
the ordinary conception of the soul. The ego takes upon
himself a vehicle, called the causal body, built of the
matter of the higher mental plane. Thus man as we know
him, though in reality a Monad residing in the monadic
world, shows himself as an ego in the higher mental world,
7o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
through a vehicle called the causal body, formed of three
higher subplanes of the mental world.
Now the ego before descending to the physical
world has to pass through the lower mental and astral
worlds, and in doing so draws round himself veils of the
matter of those planes, which are later on formed into the
mental and astral bodies. Only after having assumed
these intermediate vehicles can he come into touch with
the baby physical body and be born into the physical
world, living his physical life and working there to gain
knowledge of it. At the end of his life, when the physical
body is worn out, he reverses this process of descent,
drops first his physical body and centres his life in the
astral body in the astral world, later casts that vehicle aside
and stays in the mental world in the mental body for a long
time, and when that too is cast aside, is once more the ego
in his own world. After a time he again repeats the
process of descent into denser matter, and assumes once
more a mental, an astral and a physical body.
The ego grows, but otherwise lives unchanged till
he attains his goal of being merged into Divinity. He is
not affected by births and deaths, but living on in the
permanent causal body from life to life, retains the memory
of the experiences of all his personalities; what is com ­
monly spoken of as a lifetime is merely a day in his real
life, and the physical body which is born and dies, is
simply a garment put on for the furtherance of his evolution.
This, then, is the real constitution of man. He is a
Monad, a spark of the Divine, and of that Monad the ego,
clothed in the causal body, is a partial expression, formed
that he may enter evolution and return to the Monad
with developed qualities and knowledge acquired through
experience. The ego in his turn puts down part of
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 71
himself, called a personality, which again wears three
bodies, the mental, the astral and the physical. Therefore
when we think and say that we know a man on the
physical plane, it would be a little nearer the truth to say
that we know a thousandth part of him. The ego is a
part of the Monad, somewhat in the proportion of an ear
to the whole body, and the personality similarly being a part
of the ego, what we usually think of as the man is
merely a fragment of a fragment of the real man.
Thus that part of the Individuality or the Ego,
also called the ‘ Higher Self ’, which is manifested in a
reincarnation, at a given time, in a particular race, and
either as a man or as a woman, is the personality or the
elower self The relation between the individuality
and the personality has been expressed by many
symbols, one being that of a string of pearls, where the
string represents the individuality, and the pearls the
separate personalities in successive incarnations. One
personality only, however, is made by the individuality for
the purpose of the work to be done in one incarnation,
and that personality at rebirth takes a new mental, a new
astral and a new physical body.
Each of these bodies, again, has a life and con­
sciousness of its own, quite distinct from the life and con­
sciousness of the personality which uses the bodies. This
*body-consciousness ’ of the mind-body is known as the
‘ mental elemental ’, that of the astral body as the desire-
elemental \ and of the physical body as th e4physical
elemental \
Qt Please explain first, what are the mental and astral
elementals ?
Ans. The matter of the mental and astral bodies is not
dead matter. In fact, there is no such thing as 4dead
72 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
matter * anywhere within our ken ; for all matter has been
vivified by the First Outpouring from the Third Aspect of
the Logos, while all forms are also ensouled and further
vivified by the Second Outpouring, which is generally called
' elemental essence but which is often described as monadic
essence, especially when it is ensouling the atomic matter of
each of the planes on its downward course (see the Three
Great Outpourings, Chapter VIII). The body-conscious­
ness of the mental and astral bodies, called respectively the
mental and astral elemental, is the life of the elemental
essence of the mental and astral matter in their respective
vehicles. In the cell-life which permeates them there is as
yet nothing in the way of intelligence, but there is a strong
instinct always pressing in the direction of what is good
for its development.
What the elemental essence needs for its develop­
ment is vibration; for it grows, as we ourselves do at a
much higher level, by learning to respond to impacts from
without. The living essence in the matter of the mental
body is therefore always reaching out for varieties in
vibration and has the strongest possible objection to being
held down for a long time to one definite rate. This we
find to be the case in our endeavours at concentration,
when something within us seems constantly to impel us
to wandering thought and vigorously to resist our effort to
hold it down to one definite line.
The life animating the matter of which mental and
astral bodies are built is upon the downward arc of evolu­
tion, moving downwards or outwards into matter, so that
progress for it means greater materiality, i.e., descending
into denser forms of matter and learning to express itself
through them. Unfoldment for the man is just the
opposite of this; he has already sunk deeply into matter
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 73
and is now rising out of that towards his source—rising
from the material to the spiritual, and responding only to
the more delicate vibrations of high aspirations. There is
consequently a constant conflict of interests between the
man within and the life inhabiting the matter of his
vehicles, inasmuch as its tendency is downward, while his
is upward.
The astral elemental, (i . e the life animating the
molecules of matter in the astral body,) also called desire -
elemental, desires for its evolution such undulations as it
can get, of as many different kinds as possible, and as
coarse and as strong as possible. Its evolution, like that
of the mental elemental, is by vibration, and vibration in
the astral plane is always the result of passion or emotion
of some sort. The next step in its evolution will be to
ensoul physical matter, and become used to its still slower
oscillation ; and as a step on the way to that, it desires the
grossest'and strongest of the astral vibrations. It cannot
be said to possess any intelligence, because it is not yet
even at the level of a mineral. Yet it has an extraordinary
power of adapting itself to its surroundings, and extracting
from them what it needs, which certainly does sometimes
look very much like a partial intelligence or very keen
instinct.
The life in the mass of molecules in the astral body
has a sense, though a vague one, of itself as a whole—as
a kind of temporary entity. It does not know that it is
part of a man’s astral body ,* it is quite incapable of under-*
standing what a man is ; but with its curious instinct it
realises in a blind way that under its present conditions it
receives many more waves, and much stronger ones, than
it would receive if floating at large in the atmosphere, in the
general sea of essence outside. Then would it catch only
10
74 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
occasionally, as from a distance, the radiation of man’s
passions and emotions; now it is in the very heart of them,
it can miss none, and it gets them at their strongest*
Therefore it feels itself in a good position, and makes an
effort to maintain that position of advantage. The
particles of the astral body are perpetually being thrown
off and changed, just as is the case with particles of the
physical body ; but nevertheless the feeling of individuality
is communicated to the new particles as they enter, and the
essence which is included within each man’s astral body
undoubtedly feels itself a kind of entity, and acts accord­
ingly for what it considers its interests.
These interests, as previously stated, are usually
diametrically opposed to those of the soul. Hence there
is a perpetual struggle betwen the two, i.e.} the desire-
elemental and the soul, or, as St. Paul describes i t : tc the
law in the members warring against the law of the mind
But it goes further than this. The entity finds involved
within itself finer matter of some sort—the matter of the
man’s mental body; and it comes to feel that if it can
contrive to involve that finer something in its own
undulations, they will be greatly intensified and prolonged.
Since astral matter is the vehicle of desire, and mental
matter the vehicle of thought, this instinct, when translated
into our language, means that if the astral body can
induce us to think that we want what it wants, it is
much more likely to get it. Thus it exercises a slow
steady pressure upon the man, a kind of hunger on its
side, but for him a temptation to what is coarse and
undesirable. If he be a passionate man, there is a gentle
but ceaseless pressure in the direction of irritability; if he
be a sensual man, an equally steady pressure in the
direction of impurity.
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 75
That pressure which is neither the prompting of
bis own nature, nor a temptation of an imaginary devil,
is natural, not to the man but to the vehicle which he is
using ; its desire is natural and right for it, but harmful
to the man. Hence it is necessary that he should resist
it. It ought to be rather humiliating to allow himself
to be defeated or to be used as a tool by something which
is not even a mineral yet. But if he does so resist, if he
declines to yield himself to the feelings suggested to him
and to gratify the lower desires, he gradually changes the
astral elemental essence within him and builds quite a
different creature—a different entity—because the coarse
particles within him which need those gross vibrations
become apathetic for lack of nourishment, and eventually
atrophy and fall out from his astral body, and are
replaced by other, higher and finer particles, whose
natural wave-rate is more nearly in accordance with
that which the man habitually permits within his astral
body.
This gives the reason for what are called prompt­
ings of the lower nature during life. If the man yields
himself to them, such promptings grow stronger and
stronger until at last he feels as though he could not
resist them, and identifies himself with them—
-which is
exactly what this curious half-life in the particles of the
astral body wants him to do. But if he controls his
desires and lives the Theosophical life, he will close his
present incarnation with a very much better type of
desire-elemental than what he brought with him at
birth, and will consequently commence his new incarnation
with a much finer type of that elemental. The astral
‘
elemental also plays an important part in the life of a man
just after death, as described in Chapter VL
76 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Q. What, tzow, i$ /A# physical elemental, and what are
its functions and nature ?
Ans. The physical elemental—the body-consciousness
of the physical body—is the life of the mineral, vege­
table and animal streams of life which make up the
physical body. That body is built up of cells, each of
which is a tiny separate life animated by the Second Out­
pouring, (mentioned in the Three Great Outpourings in
Chapter VIII) which comes forth from the Second Aspect
of the Deity. All cells combined together into the body
serve as vehicle of a loftier form of consciousness than any
which they know in their separated lives. This conscious-
ness, limited as it is, is sufficient for the purposes of the life
and functions of the physical body. It is this physical body-
consciousness—physical elemental—which attracts the
attention of the individual when there is need for it, i.e.,
urges him to rest when the body is tired, or creates in
him the desire for food and drink when the body is in
need of those things. The body with its physical ele­
mental is also clever enough, through long ancestral habit
of heredity, to protect itself; when attacked by disease
germs, it marshals its army of phagocytes to kill them ;
when scratched or cut or wounded, it hurries the white
corpuscles to the spot to try to build together new cells ;
when the physical body is asleep and tenantless, with the
owner away in his astral body in the astral world, it pulls
up the bedclothes to cover itself against the cold, or turns
over to rest in a new position.
Many of these manifestations of the physical
elemental are natural enough, and need not be interfered
with by the consciousness of the tenant of the body ; but
sometimes such interference is necessary, as when there is
work of danger to be done, and the elemental, fearing for
THE CONSTITUTION OF HAN 77
its life, wants to run away, and yet must be held to its
task by the will of the owner ; or when a duty has to be
performed and the body is tired and objects, and yet must
be forced to work. A Master of the Wisdom says: “ But
the body and the man are two, and the man's will is not
always what the body wishes. When your body wishes
something, stop and think whether you really wish it.
. . . When there is work that must be done, the physical
body wants to rest, to go out walking, to eat and drink ;
and the man who does not know says to himself : *I want
to do these things, and I must do them.' But the man
who knows says : f This that wants is not I, and it must
wait awhile.’ Often when there is an opportunity to help
someone, the body feels: ‘ How much trouble it will be
for me ; let someone else do it.’ But the man replies to
his body: *You shall not hinder me in doing good work.’ ”
In children, the physical elemental is most pronounced;
when a baby cries and screams, it is.the elemental, and
not the soul of the baby, that gives expression to its
objections, which, though reasonable to it, are often
unreasonable to us.
Q. But why does the real man want so many bodies
or vehicles ? Can he not work without these coverings or
garments ?
Ans. These different garments are necessary for the
development of the ego, because through these specialised
organisms of matter alone is he able to receive vibrations
to which he can respond, and thereby unfold his latent
faculties. To acquire full consciousness in any given
world, i.e., to perceive and respond to all vibrations in a
world, he must make a connection with it through a
garment of the matter of that world. There are different
worlds or planes of nature, as explained before, and the
78 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
real man wants different bodies to work in those differen ^
regions. Think of the different material vehicles a persor. {
requires to travel in by land, sea or air. On land he has ,
to use a train or carriage of some sort; on water a ship is
necessary, while in the air a balloon or an aeroplane is
required. In these cases though the vehicle is changed
to suit the requirements, the person himself remains;
the same.
During our waking hours we work through our
physical body, but in sleep we temporarily slip out of that
body every night and go about in the astral world in the
astral vehicle. When we die, we leave behind us for good
the physical body and work in the astral plane with the
astral body. Similarly, the mental and causal bodies are
required for work—concrete and abstract thoughts—in
the lower and higher mental planes respectively. Of
course under the cover of these wrappings the light of the
real man, the individual, is greatly obscured. Just as the
light of a lamp appears dim and of a dull colour when we
put a chimney, a globe and a coloured shade round the
flame, so the real man, though a spark from the great
Flame which is God, appears quite different when clothed
in so many coverings, and shines out with more or less of
his brightness according as the bodies he puts on consist
of finer or coarser materials.
Q. Tell me something about each of these bodies.
First, what is the causal body, and why is it so called ?
Ans. The causal or the intellectual body, the body of
Manas, the form aspect of the individual, of the true man,
is the permanent vehicle of the ego in the higher mental
world and consists of the matter of the first three sub­
divisions of that world. Everything woven into it endures.
It is the treasure-house in which are stored up all the
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 79
experiences acquired during life in the three planes—the
physical, astral and lower mental worlds.
It is called the causal body because in it reside all
the causes which manifest themselves as effects on the
lower planes ; because in it lies the cause of our slower or
faster progress, as it is upon the treasure stored in this:
body that we have to depend for our character and ca­
pacity each time we take a new birth on earth. When the
individual takes on a new set of bodies for his next stay
on earth, he draws from the storehouse of the causal body
higher powers of heart and mind than were his during the
last life, and during the new incarnation he will build up
still higher qualities and pass them on to enrich his causal
body.
Q. What is the shape and use of the causal body ?
Ans. This soul-body, so called because the soul of man
—an individual and permanent Consciousness—lives in
this body, is a human form, neither of man nor of woman
with sex characteristics, but more of the angel of tradition*
It is surrounded by an ovoid of fiery, luminous matter, yet
delicate as the evanescent tints of the sunset. This form,
called the Augoeides, and the ovoid of luminous matter
surrounding it, make up the soul’s permanent habitation,
the causal body; and in that body the soul lives, undying
and eternal.
To a clairvoyant this body appears as an ovoid
surrounding the physical body and extending to a distance
of some eighteen inches. In the early stage of a eyoung
soul or a primitive ‘man differing little from the animal
stage he has left behind, the causal body is small, almost
colourless, resembling a bubble or a delicate film and grows
very slowly. Its matter, the matter of the higher mental
world, is not active until the advancement of the man
8o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
gradually stirs it into alertness by vibrations from the lower
bodies; but when the man reaches the stage of abstract
thought or unselfish emotion, the matter of the causal body
being aroused into response, the rates of undulations show
themselves in that body as colours, so that instead of being
a colourless empty film it becomes a shining globe of light,
full of glorious colours and delicate hues, flashing out rays
of love and helpfulness in all directions.
As the man begins to develop in spirituality, or
even higher intellect, the real individual—the ego—begins
to have a persisting character of his own, apart from that
moulded in each of his personalities in turn by training
and surrounding circumstances: and this character shows
itself in the size, colour, luminosity and definiteness of the
causal body just as that of the personality shows itself in
the mind-body, except that this higher vehicle is naturally
subtler and more beautiful. In the case of a pupil who has
made some progress on the Path of Holiness, the causal
body is a sight wonderful and lovely beyond all earthly
conception, while that of an Adept (or Master) is a
magnificent sphere of living light, whose radiant glory no
words can ever tell.
The colours in the body also are significant. The
vibration denoting the power of unselfish affection shows
itself as a pale rose-colour; that indicating high intellec­
tual power is yellow; that expressing sympathy is green ;
blue betokens devotional feeling, while a luminous lilac-
blue typifies high spirituality.
Q. But a man in the course of his evolution acquires
undesirable qualities also. Do they pass into this causal
body, too ?
Ans. No. Such qualities as pride, sensuality, irrita­
bility, are also reducible to vibrations, but, being vibrations
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 8l
of the lower subdivisions of their respective worlds,
they cannot pass on to the causal body, as it is built of the
matter of only the three higher subplanes of the mental.
He can build nothing but good qualities into his ego. The
evil qualities are but the play of the lower bodies when
those bodies are not controlled by the ego. They are thus
negative, and represent a lack of development in the
causal body. As the ego gains in strength, the activities of
body and mind that we call evil diminish, and they
disappear entirely when the causal body is perfect and
the man reaches the end of his earthly pilgrimage of births
and deaths.
The difference between the causal body of a savage
and that of an advanced man of saintly wisdom is that the
first is an empty colourless bubble, extending about eighteen
inches beyond the physical body, while the second is a
globe of brilliant light and dazzling radiance which may
extend to a radius of a hundred yards or so.
Q. How can we help on the growth of our causal
body ?
Ans. There is not much to be done by direct action, but
by working at the improvement of the lower bodies and
building up a pure and noble character a man will improve
his causal body and cause it to grow. In it the man deals
with abstractions and knows truth by intuition, not
reasoning. It is therefore fed and developed by abstract
thinking, such as the higher mathematics and deep scien­
tific and philosophical imagination, by strenuous medita­
tion, by the yoking of intellect to service, by unselfish love
and self-sacrifice. This body attains enormous dimensions
— about a mile in radius—in an Adept, while the Lord
Buddha is said to have had a causal body extending to
three miles all round.
11
82 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Q. Now what is the mental body and what is its
function ?
Ans. The mental body is built of the matter of the
lower mental world, that is, the four lower subplanes of
the mental plane. It expresses the concrete thoughts of
the man or answers by its vibrations to the changes of
thought in him. It is the vehicle of the ego, who is the
Thinker, for his reasoning work—for his manifestation as
intellect—and varies greatly in different people. It is oval
in outline, interpenetrating the physical and astral bodies,
surrounding them with a radiant atmosphere as it develops.
The size and shape of this body depend on those of
the causal body. The mind body literally grows in size
with the advancing evolution of man.. In an unevolved
person it is so little developed that it is even difficult to
distinguish i t ; but in a more advanced man, one who is
not spiritual but who has only developed the faculties of
his mind and trained his intellect, the mind body is seen as
a definitely developed and organised vehicle of activity
with a clear outline and full vigour.
The colours in this and the astral body have the
same significance as in the causal body, but as we approach
the physical matter, the hues are grosser by comparison,
less delicate and less living, while we also find some addi­
tional colours in the lower bodies. We see the thought of
pride as orange, irritability as brilliant scarlet, avarice as
bright brown, selfishness as grey-brown and deceit as grey-
green. Again, the good qualities of affection, devotion and
intellect may be tinged by selfishness, and are then seen as
impure and muddy owing to their distinctive colours being
mingled with the brown of selfishness. There are in the
higher vehicles additional colours of which we can form no
idea in the physical world.
XXII
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 83
Qt *How does the mind body grow ?
Ans. It grows by thought, by study, by the exercise of
good emotions, aspirations and beneficent endeavours,
and by regular, strenuous meditation. Our thoughts are
the material we build into the mind body, and by the use
of artistic powers and higher emotions we literally build
the mind body day by day- If we do not exercise our
mental faculties, but constantly accept thoughts from
outside instead of forming them from within, our mind
body cannot grow. When a man uses his mental body, it
not only vibrates for the time more rapidly, but tempo­
rarily swells and increases in size. By a prolonged thought
this increase becomes permanent, while the characteristics
built by good and useful thoughts into the mental body
are handed on to the permanent causal body to be carried
•over for future incarnations, enabling the man to obtain a
more highly developed mind body in the next incarnation,
’
with those qualities showing themselves as innate faculties.
Good thoughts produce vibrations in the finer matter
of the body, which by its specific gravity tends to float in
the upper part of the ovoid ; whereas bad thoughts, such as
selfishness and avarice, are oscillations of the grosser
matter, which tends to gravitate towards the lower part of
the ovoid. Consequently, the ordinary man who frequently
yields himself to selfish thoughts of various kinds tends to
expand the lower part of his mental body, which thus
appears like an egg with its larger end downwards. On
the other hand, the man who has devoted himself to higher
thoughts and repressed the lower ones, expands the upper
part of his mental body, and therefore presents the appear­
ance of an egg standing on its smaller end. The subject
of the power and use of thought will be dealt with in a
separate chapter.
84 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Q. Why have some persons a head for mathematicsf
while others are unable even to add correctly ? Why do
some persons understand and appreciate music, while
others do not know one tune from another ?
Ans. In the mental body there are certain striations
which divide it into irregular segments, each corresponding
to a certain department of the physical brain, so that
each type of thought has to function through its duly
assigned portion. The mental body of the ordinary man-
being not fully developed, a great many of the special
departments in him are not yet in activity, and any
attempt at thought belonging to those departments has to
travel round through4
some inappropriate channel which
happens to be fully open. The result is that his thought
■on these subjects is clumsy and uncomprehending.
From a study of the colours and striations in a
man’s mental body, the clairvoyant can perceive his
character and the progress he has made in his present life-.
From similar features of the causal body he can see what
progress the ego has made since its original formation
during individualisation.
Q. What is the function of the astral body ?
Ans. Built of the matter of the seven substates of the
astral world, this is the body of man’s Kamic conscious­
ness, the seat of all animal desires, the centre of the senses
where all sensory impressions become sensations, the
vehicle of passion and inferior emotion in man. In size
and shape it is like the two higher bodies, the mental and
the causal, just described. Every one is constantly working
through the astral body, but few work in it separate from*
the physical. In an undeveloped person this body presents
a very inchoate appearance with its outline undefined and
its material dull, coarse and ill-arranged, resembling a
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 85
rolling cloud of unpleasant colours. When withdrawn
from the physical body, as in sleep, it is a mere shapeless
shifting cloud, unfit to act as an independent vehicle; but
in a man of intellectual culture and spiritual growth it
shows the progress of the owner by the definiteness of its
outline, the luminosity of its materials, and the perfection
of its organisation.
The colours in the astral body bear the same mean-
ing as those of the higher bodies, but are several octaves
of colour below them; while that body has also additional
colours expressing less desirable feelings in man which can­
not show themselves in the higher vehicles. For example,
black shows malice and hatred ; deep heavy grey signifies
depression, while a livid pale grey indicates fear. Sensual­
ity is shown by the presence of a lurid brownish-red
colour; scarlet flecks in the astral body indicate irrita­
bility, while jealousy is seen as a peculiar brownish-green,
its extreme activity being shown by bright scarlet flashes
of anger which pierce it.
When the astral body is comparatively quiet (it is
never actually at rest), the colours seen in it indicate those
emotions to which the man is most in the habit of yielding
himself. But when the man is experiencing any particular
feeling, the rate of vibration which expresses the feeling
dominates for a time the entire astral body. For example,
if it be devotion, the whole of his astral body is flushed
with blue, and so long as the emotion remains at its
strongest, the normal colours appear faintly through a veil
of i t ; but when the vehemence of the sentiment dies away,
the normal colours re-assert themselves. But because of
this spasm of emotion that part of his astral body which
is normally blue has been increased in size. Thus a man
frequently feeling high devotion soon comes to have a
86 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
large area of blue permanently existing in his astral
body.
Q. How can we improve the astral body so that it may
cease to vibrate in answer to the lower impulses and begin
to answer to the higher influences of the astral world ?
Ans. As the astral body lies between the physical and
mental bodies, its improvement hinges on the one side on
the purification of the physical body, and on the other on
the purification and development of the mind. Being
composed of the matter of the seven subplanes of the
astral, the greater the proportion of finer astral matter it
has in each subplane, the purer it becomes and the better
is it fitted to act as a vehicle of consciousness and to travel
long distances when separated from the physical body
during sleep.
Astral matter is peculiarly susceptible to impressions
from thought as it responds more readily than physical
material to every impulse of thought, strong thought taking
a covering of astral matter and persisting as an entity for
a long time. So the astral body thrills in answer to every
thought that strikes it, whether the thoughts come from
within the mind of the owner, or from without, from the
minds of other men, and changes its colour continuously
as it vibrates under thought impacts. If thoughts are high
and noble, they demand finer mental matter and conse­
quently finer astral matter in the astral body to respond to
them. The astral body thus has to lose grosser and denser
particles from each subplane and gain finer and rarer
kinds, and thus become pure. Again, the pure astral body
attracts to itself pure thoughts like a magnet, and these
in their turn react on it and make it purer.
The astral body is also affected by the purity or
impurity of the physical body. If we unwisely build into
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 87
our body coarse physical particles of an impure kind by
including in our diet animal flesh, alcoholic drinks or
narcotic drugs and other foul and degrading articles, we
attract to ourselves correspondingly impure types of astral
matter. On the other hand, by feeding on clean food and
drink we not only improve our physical vehicle, but also
purify the astral body ,by taking from the astral world
delicate and fine materials for its construction. With all
the three bodies thus purified, new possibilities open up
before the man, and knowledge gradually flows into him^
a wider universe unfolding on every side.
Q. Is there any change in the astral body during sleep ?
What are its respective functions during the waking and
sleeping states of man ?
Ans. Studying a person when awake and when asleep
we find a marked change in his astral body. When
awake, astral activities—changing of colours, etc.—•
manifest themselves in and around the physical body;
but when he is asleep, the astral body slips out and-floats
with the real man inside it in the air, above the physical
body lying in the bed.
In a person of undeveloped type the separated
astral body is a shapeless mass with an irregular
outline resembling a rolling cloud of unpleasant colours.
It cannot go far from the physical body and is useless
as a vehicle of consciousness. The man within it
is in a dreaming condition, almost as much asleep in his
astral body as in his physical. If anything should occur
to drive it from its physical partner, the latter will awaken
and the astral will quickly re-enter it. The astral body
of an average man in sleep assumes the likeness of the
physical. Such a man, however, cannot work consciously
on the astral plane. In his astral body he drifts toward
88 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
persons to whom he is attracted, but his attention is turned
inwards, and he communes with his friends mentally only.
At a stage a little higher, his mind is very active and
receptive, and can work out problems presented to it more
easily than in the physical body, when, it is said, C
esleep
brings counsel
But a pure and self-controlled man who shows
an earnest desire for service to his fellow-men in
the physical world and who has his astral body fully
evolved and properly organised by moral and mental
activities, is often *awakened * in the astral world by a
more advanced person—usually a pupil of a Master—who
induces him to turn his attention outwards, to wake up to
his astral surroundings and attend to what is going on
around him instead of merely remaining immersed in
thought. In the case of such a developed person who is
trained and is accustomed to function in the astral world,
the man himself in his astral body is in full consciousness
when that body slips out of his physical during sleep.
His astral body is clearly outlined and definitely organised,
bears the likeness of the man and can be fully utilised as
a vehicle in which he can work more actively and more
conveniently than in his physical body, and can travel any
distance with great freedom and rapidity without disturb­
ing the physical body. Of course, as is most often .the case,
if the man has not learned to link his physical and astral
bodies, there will be a break in his consciousness and he will
not be able to remember the things done during his sleep.
Q. We know everything at least about the physical
vehicle through Western science. Has Theosophy anything
to add to our knowledge ?
Ans. The physical plane having seven subplanes as
explained already in Chapter II, the physical vehicle is
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 89
composed of the matter of all those states. The ordinarily
visible physical body, Sthula Sharira, has matter of the
three lower subplanes, i.e., solid, liquid and gaseous, while
the matter of the four ethers composes what is called the
etheric double or Chhaya Sharira (shadow body). Both
these function together on the physical plane for one
physical life, and are cast aside by the man at death.
The body exists for us, not we for the body. It is
an instrument to be refined and improved, and also trained
and made of such constituents as may fit it to be a vehicle
on the physical plane for the highest purposes. One of its
peculiarities is that once it gets accustomed to working
along particular lines, it will continue to follow those lines
of its own accord. If a bad habit be required to be
changed, the body will first offer considerable resistance,
but if it be compelled to alter it and be forced to act as
the man desires, then after a time it will, of its own accord,
repeat the new habit imposed on it and contentedly pursue
the new method as it pursued the old one. The reason of
this is the unconscious memory of the cells in the physical
body, as explained in Chapter I in connection with
Vegetarianism.
The human organism is made up of innumerable
living bodies called ‘ cells/ each of which has a conscious
life of its own, and all combine to make the body a single
whole.
Q. How can yoU say that each cell has a life or con­
sciousness of its own?
Ans. There are several kinds of consciousness in the
body; one is the ‘ I * consciousness which manifests through
the body as an organism;another is the purely physical con­
sciousness which may be the physical elemental, mentioned
before, and which is the aggregate of the consciousness
9o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
of the individual cells. The selective action of the cells
in taking from the blood what they want and rejecting what
is not wanted is an instance of this self-consciousness of
the cells, and so is also what is called by physiologists the
“ unconscious memory of the cells Science tells us
that our physical body is made up of innumerable tiny
*lives’ or cells, and that these are continually changing,
some passing out from us to the world around, and others
being taken in, in their place, to form part of our body, so
much so that no man has, at any moment, in his physical
body one particle of the matter of which it consisted seven
years before. According to Occult Science not only are our
own bodies, but also the bodies of animals, plants and even
minerals, built of such living particles (including bacteria,
microbes, etc.), some of which are so tiny that they can
only be seen under a powerful microscope. Each particle,
whether organic or inorganic, is a life, and these build up
the material and its cells. The recent experiments of
Dr. J. C. Bose conclusively prove that both the mineral
and the plant partake of the same life as the animal and
the man.
Q. Then is there life also in a piece of stone ?
4ns. Certainly. But though each particle is a life, the
ordinary man calls a body living when the movement of
its particles is so rapid as to be visible to him through his
senses. When this movement is not so visible, he calls
the body dead. But the fact that the movement in the
stone is too subtle to be visible to the gross physical
senses, is no reason why the stone should be called
inanimate. ?
Q, Then who dies at the time of the death of the man ?
Is it the 1V manifesting through the body or is it
the particles which make up the cells of the body that die ?
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 9 i
Ans. Nothing really dies. A cell is an aggregate of
lives, as each particle which goes to the making up of the
cell is a life; and even when the cell is broken up, these
lives cannot be destroyed but go to the making up of other
forms. Similar is the case with the whole body which is
made up of innumerable cells, each with a life of its own;
the combined life of all the cells making up the life or body-
consciousness of the whole physical vehicle, which may be
the physical elemental, spoken of before. All that takes
place at death is that the ‘ I ’ consciousness which was
manifesting through the body during the man’s life on the
physical plane merely slips out of that body; it cannot
die, as the real man is immortal. The death of the physi­
cal body occurs when, with the withdrawal of the life-
energy, the many lives (microbes), kept under control in
the form of the body by that life-energy, go their own
separate ways, as the soldiers of an army disbanded by a
General go their respective ways, and what we call decay
sets in. The body is equally alive in both the cases that
we call living and dead. When considered as living, it
has a particular organised form controlled by the life-
energy or Prana ; when called dead, it is equally alive in
the form of separate microbes, though owing to the with­
drawal of the life-energy its outward form no longer
persists. Our ordinary test of a living or dead thing is
movement, and if the body were really dead, there should
be no movement of putrefaction or the growth of hair on
the body after the man had finally left that vehicle.
Q. Now what is the etheric double ?
Ans. The etheric double is so called as it is composed
of the matter of the four ethers, i.e., the four finer sub­
planes of the physical, and is an exact double or counter­
part of the physical gross body, particle by particle, its
92 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
shadow as it were. Because of this it is sometimes called
Chhaya Sharira (shadow body). It is also sometimes
spoken of as the wraith, the fluidic body or simply the
double. It is faintly luminous and violet-grey in colour,
interpenetrating the physical body and extending about
one-fourth of an inch beyond its periphery. Its four
ethers may mingle in finer or coarser combinations like
the constituents of its denser counterpart; but the dense
body and its double vary together in quality, so that if a
man refines and purifies his physical body by pure food
and drink, the etheric double becomes purified without
any further effort.
This invisible part of the physical body is the
vehicle through which flow the streams of Prana or vital­
ity which keep the body alive, and without it, as a bridge
to convey undulations of thought and feeling from the
astral to the visible denser physical matter, the ego could
make no use of the cells of the brain.
On the shape and build of the etheric double
depend the shape and build of the physical body, so it is
the mould of the latter body. All alterations in the
physical body from youth to old age first occur in the
etheric double before they pass on to the physical body,
and if an etheric double be defective and of a certain
shape with fine or coarse ethers for its constituents, the
physical body will be built on that etheric mould, with
similar defects and shape and composed of similarly fine,
or coarse, dense particles.
The observations of the N-rays, made by M. Jean
Becquerel in the course of his study and communicated by
him to the Paris Academy of Sciences early in the present
century, show that animals under chloroform cease to
emit N-rays, that these rays are never emitted by a
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 93
corpse, that flowers and metals alike which normally give
out these rays cease to emanate them under the action of
chloroform. These N-rays are due to the vibrations in
the etheric double, causing waves in the surrounding
ether. Chloroform expels the etheric double, and hence
the waves cease. At death the etheric double leaves the
body, and the rays consequently can no longer be observed.
Q. Why does one man obtain a beautiful etheric
double, and another a defective one ?
Ans. Man evolves by reincarnation under the Law of
Karma as will be explained later on, and so receives
different kinds of etheric doubles for different lives. He
has for each life an etheric double just suited for the pur­
pose of reaping in that life as he has sown in past lives.
It enables him to acquire experience which is the neces­
sary outcome of his good or bad actions, and a physical
body being formed on that etheric mould, the man has to
reap therein as he has sown. These two bodies ordinarily
stay together.
Q. If the physical body and its etheric double have to
stay together, are they dependent on each other for their
existence ?
Ans. Being a mould for the physical body, the etheric
double comes into existence before its grosser counterpart,
and follows its own line of quiet disintegration after the
man leaves his physical body at death. It is separable
from its physical counterpart although unable to go far
from it. In normally healthy persons the separation is
difficult and even unwholesome, though the double is torn
out from its dense counterpart by anaesthetics, and in
diseased or defective bodies and in persons called material­
ising mediums it slips out without great effort and is seen
by clairvoyants as an exact replica of the physical, united
94 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
to it by a slender magnetic thread". It possesses vortices
through which forces pour, and is the medium of the life-
forces and their transmitter to its dense comrade. Apart
from that comrade it is helpless and unconscious, a drifting
cloud with force-centres, useless when there is nothing
to which it can transmit the forces playing through it, and
subject to manipulation from outside entities who can use
it as a matrix for materialisation.
Q. What becomes of the etheric double at the time of
death ?
Ans. Death means for the etheric double just what it
means for the physical body—the breaking up of its con­
stituent .parts* It is the vehicle of vitality or Prana which
animates the whole physical body. At the hour of death
it oozes forth from the body, when it is seen by the
clairvoyant as a violet light, or violet form, hovering over
the dying man, still attached to the physical body by the
slender thread already mentioned. Consciousness in the
body then grows less and less vivid till at the death of the
physical body the thread snaps, thereby breaking the last
magnetic link between the dense body and the remaining
principles of the human constitution. Being of physical
matter the etheric double remains in the neighbourhood of
the corpse and disintegrates slowly, its remnants being
sometimes seen in graveyards as violet lights hovering
over graves. It is better for several reasons to burn the
dead than bury them, as will be explained in Chapter VI.
Q. You spoke of the etheric double as the vehicle of
Prana or vitality. What is that Prana ?
. Ans. In order that the physical body may live, it
requires food for its digestion, air for its breathing, and
vitality for its absorption. Vitality is essentially a force, but
when clothed in matter it appears as an element existing
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 95
in all the planes of nature. Vitality is a force coming
originally from the sun, and everything and every one is
immersed in an ocean of that life, called Jiva or the solar
life-principle, like fish in an ocean of water. Every one
appropriates this life, thence called Prana, the human life-
principle or vital force; it is colourless, though intensely
luminous and active, as it comes from the sun, and
is not directly useful to the body for assimilation till
absorbed through the etheric part of the spleen and
specialised and transmuted into rose-coloured particles.
The earth’s atmosphere is full of this force at all
times, though specially active in brilliant sunlight. As
blood circulates through arteries and veins in a man, so
does vitality flow along the nerves in tiny globules of lovely
rosy light, the brain being the centre of his nervous
circulation, and any irregularity in the absorption or flow
of vitality at once affects the etheric double precisely as
any abnormality in the flow of blood affects the physical
body. When that vital force no longer flows along the
nerves as in a limb benumbed by cold, or is withdrawn
by a mesmerist by magnetic passes, there is no sensation in
the limb, and what is called local anaesthesia is produced.
When the rosy nerve-ether—the rose-coloured
particles—has been absorbed, the superfluous Prana finally
radiates from the body in every direction as bluish-white
light. In a healthy man the spleen does its work so
generously that more vital force than is necessary is con­
stantly radiating from the body in all directions. A man
in perfect health, therefore, can impart some of it to an­
other intentionally by mesmeric passes or otherwise, though
unconsciously he radiates strength and vitality all around
him. On the other hand when a man is unable through
weakness or other causes to specialise a sufficient amount
96 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
of this force for his own use, he unconsciously acts as a
sponge and appropriates to himself the already specialised
vitality of a sensitive person who is unfortunate enough to
come near him and who feels an unaccountable weariness
and langour afterwards.
There lies the danger of healthy children sleeping
by the side of weak and old persons, and the lassitude felt
by persons attending spiritualistic stances without pre­
cautions against the drain upon their vital force during
manifestations is similarly explained.
When that specialised Prana circulates in the body
more rapidly than necessary, the man becomes excitable
and hysteric. On the other hand when that vital force
is not specialised in sufficient quantity or circulates
very slowly in the body, the man feels langour and
lassitude.
Prana cannot be separated from the physical vehicle
and its etheric double during life, and the three always
stay together in the waking or sleeping state of man.
When Prana ceases to circulate in any part of the body,
that part dies with a local death in the body, (blindness,
deafness, etc. are often thus produced,) and similarly,
when it separates from the whole body, there is general
death. This Prana should not be confounded with what is
commonly called physical vitality measured by chemical
actions in the body. These are the effects of Prana which
is itself more analogous to electrical conditions and is the
cause of chemical and other effects.
Q. Is a man the same while asleep and while awake, or
is there any change during sleep ?
Ans. While the man is alive and awake in the physical
world, he is limited by his physical body, for he uses the
astral and mental bodies only as bridges to connect himself
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 97
with the physical. But that last named body soon becomes
fatigued, and needs periodical rest; so the man leaving
that body with its etheric double and Prana every night
withdraws into the astral body which, so far as we know,
does not get fatigued and needs no rest.
The man thus liberated from his physical body in
sleep can move about in the astral world in his astral body.
The primitive savage does not go far from his sleeping
body and has practically no consciousness during sleep,
as explained before. All the cultured people belonging to
the more advanced races of the world have at the present
time their astral senses very fairly developed, so that if
they were sufficiently aroused to examine the realities which
surround them during sleep, they would be able to observe
them and learn much from them. But in the vast majority
of cases they are not so aroused, or ‘ awakened,’ as
Stated before, and they spend most of their nights in a
kind of brown study, pondering deeply over whatever
thought may have been uppermost in their minds when
they fell asleep. They have the astral faculties, but they
scarcely use them; they are certainly awake on the astral
plane, and yet they are not in the least awake to the plane,
and are consequently conscious of their surroundings only
very vaguely, if at all. But an advanced man can travel
in his astral body wherever he likes and has full conscious­
ness in the astral world, although he is generally unable
to impress on his waking memory the events of his astral
life during sleep. Sometimes when he does remember any
incident, he calls it a vivid dream, though more often his
recollections are hopelessly entangled with events of his
waking life and impressions on the etheric brain. But with
advancing evolution a time will come for every man when
he will remember every incident of his astral life and will
13
98 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
have a continuous memory. (See “ Dreams ” in this
Chapter.)
Q. If a man leaves his physical body during sleep every
night as well as at death, does he die every night and come
to life again every morn ?
Ans. No. The physical body by itself would soon dis­
integrate and could not be used as a vehicle unless there
were with it the co-ordinating force of Prana acting through
the etheric double. The physical body and its double
can be compared to a coat and its lining. One must
put them on and off together, but once they are separated
or torn apart, they cannot be put on again. Therefore
when during sleep a man goes to the astral world, he leaves
his physical body together with the etheric double and
Prana as a vehicle on the bed, and the real man comes
out in the astral body taking with him his other bodies*
But at the time of death only the physical body
is separated, and the whole man comes out of it
in the etheric double, and then leaving that etheric
double also after some time slips out of it in his astral
body. Thus during sleep the real man with four princi­
ples temporarily leaves the physical vehicle made up
of the three lower principles, i.e., the physical body,
etheric double and Prana, while at death only one
principle, the physical body, is permanently separated
from the rest of the man, i.e.9 from the other six
principles.
Q. You have fully explained the constitution of man,
but y ou spoke of the seven principles of man. What are
they ?
Ans. Speaking in another way, man is called a sevenfold
being, and has a septenary constitution, or is composed of
seven principles.
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 99
N am es of P r in c ip l e s
Higher Triad
f i. Atma or Spirit.
2. Buddhi or Intuition, or Vehicle
<
{ of Atma.
3. Manas or Thinker or Intelli­
gence.
4. Kama or Passional and emo­
tional nature.
5. Prana or Vitality or Life-
JLower Quaternary -{ energy.
6. Etheric double, or Vehicle of
Prana.
7. Physical body.
These principles are, it will be observed, divided
into two groups, one containing the three higher principles
and called the Higher Triad, the deathless part of man’s
nature, the cspirit ’ and ‘soul ’ of the Christian terminology ;
and the other containing the four lower and therefore
called the quaternary, the mortal or transitory part, the
*
*body *of Christianity.
Q. Please explain them a little in detail. The three
lowest have already been explained, but what is Kama ?
Ans. Kama literally means desire, and is the passional
and emotional nature including all animal needs as hunger,
-thirst, sexual desire, etc., and also passions as love (in its
lower sense), hatred, envy, jealousy, etc. It is the desire
ior experience of material joys, is the activity of conscious­
ness corresponding to the astral body, is the grossest of all
our principles and binds us fast to earthly life. It functions
in Kama rupa (desire body) or the astral body which has
been described before.
100 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Q. What, now, is Mams ?
Ans. Manas, from the Sanskrit man3 to think, means
Thinker, (spoken of vaguely in the West as mind,) and has
in it the matter of the mental plane. It is the tenant in
the house made up of the quaternary. We have already
spoken of it as the Intelligence in man. It is the activity
of consciousness corresponding to the mental and causal
bodies.
In each incarnation, the Manas is dual. It projects
a part of its substance, the projection being called the
lower Manas; and united to Kama as Kama-Manas, it
becomes the normal human brain intelligence, the personal
self of man. The quaternary as a whole is the personality
spoken of before, and the higher Manas gives the individu­
alising touch that makes the personality recognise itself
as ‘ I though the lower Manas makes the thought “ I
am this ”, confusing the self with its personal vehicles.
The heaven-aspiring mind, the higher Manas, with
Buddhi and Atma is called the ego, as explained before..
The lower Manas is engulfed in the quaternary, clasping
Kama with one hand and retaining with the other its*
hold on its father, the higher Manas. The life problem
of each incarnation is whether the lower Manas shall be
dragged down by Kama and torn off from the higher
Triad to wdiich it belongs by nature, or whether it will
successfully rejoin its 4Father in Heaven ’—the higher
Manas in the Triad—and carry with itself the experiences-
of its last life. It must be understood, of course, that
these possibilities represent two extremes, and that in the
case of the average man the lower Manas will partially
aspire upwards and partially tend downwards.
Q. What are the two higher principles, Atma ancfc
Buddhi?
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN IOX
Ans. Atma, spoken of before as the spirit in man, is
the most abstract part of man’s nature, the one reality
which manifests on all planes, the essence of which all our
principles are aspects. The one Eternal Existence rays
forth as Atma, the very self alike of the universe and o f
man. It clothes itself in Buddhi, spoken of before as the
Intuition in man. The latter has in it matter of the
Buddhic plane and is the principle of spiritual discern­
ment. Atma-Buddhi is a universal principle, but requires
individualising to gather experience and attain self-con­
sciousness, and so the mind principle is united to these
two higher principles to form the ego. The four lower
principles are common both to animal and man.
Q. If the four lower principles are found both in
animal and man, why do we see so great a difference
between them ?
Ans. Though Kama is manifest more or less even in
animals, the difference between animal and man is due to
the presence of the fifth principle, Manas, in man. Kama-*
Manas is the human soul, while Kama is the animal souL
So long as man is animated by Kama, by desires and b y
passions alone, he is on a level with the animals, because
Kama has no higher consciousness ; and so long as Kama
is predominant, Manas cannot work, and the man acts
like an animal. That is also the reason why a man in a
violent passion is insensible to reason or advice. Through
these principles the man comes into contact with different
planes of nature.
Q. How does he come into contact with those planes by
means of his different principles ?
Ans. Man comes into contact with things on th e
physical plane by means of his physical body or is con­
scious of their existence with the aid of one or more of h is
102 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
five physical senses ; similarly he comes into contact with
higher planes by means of his other principles, and thus
becomes conscious of their existence. Different planes do
not occupy different places or different divisions of space,
but interpenetrate one another. The same being the case
with the different principles of man, to go from one plane
to another is not like going from London to New York,
but is merely to transfer consciousness from one to the
other plane. For example, in the waking state, we are
conscious of the pain of wounds in our physical body;
but when we are fighting with others in great excite­
ment, we are not conscious of the physical pain of those
wounds, as our consciousness is temporarily acting on the
astral plane, though as soon as we cool down, we again
become conscious of the pain. Similarly, a philosopher in
deep thought forgets hunger and thirst, bodily comfort and
disease, family and physical belongings, as well as anger
and avarice, hate and love, and similar emotions and pas­
sions, because he is for the time working on the mental
plane. An ordinary man thus comes into contact with
different planes in his waking life, though he goes to the
astral plane temporarily every night during sleep. After
death he spends a time first in the astral condition and
afterwards in the mental, the latter being a specially
guarded part of the mental world which is called Devachan.
For each of these worlds he has a body or vehicle, as
already explained in this Chapter.
Q. The Seven Principles of Man have been explained,
but how many bodies has he ?
Ans. He has three immortal and three mortal bodies :
The Atmic, the Buddhic and the causal bodies are
immortal, while the mental, the astral and the physical
are mortal.
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 103
The Atmic body is bat an atom of its own lofty
world, the finest film of matter, an embodiment of Spirit.
Into this body will pass the result of all experiences, the
two lower bodies gradually merging themselves into it.
The Buddhic or the Bliss body, sometimes called
the Christ body by the Christians, is of the Buddhic world.
It is fed by lofty and loving aspirations, by compassion and
all-embracing tenderness. It has hardly begun to be formed
in the majority of mankind. Its special characteristic is
that when it is formed and the consciousness of a man
begins to be active in it, he loses the sense of separateness
from all other individuals and understands the unity
underlying all manifestation.
The third immortal body, the causal body, as well
as the three mortal bodies, the mental, the astral and the
physical have already been described in detail.
The man casts off his physical body at death, and
the astral when he enters the heaven-world in his mental
body. That mental body also disintegrates when he has
finished his heaven-life and is clad only in his three immor­
tal bodies which are subject neither to birth nor death. On
descending for rebirth he takes on a new mental body as
well as a new astral one, conformable to his character, and
these attach themselves to his physical body, and the man
then enters by birth a new period of mortal life.
Q. What, now, are dreams, and how are they caused ?
An$. This question, so frequently asked, requires
detailed study, but only a cursory explanation of the
phenomena can be given here. The various branches of
the subject may be arranged thus : first, to consider the
mechanism, physical, etheric and astral, by means of which
impressions are conveyed to our consciousness; secondly,
to see how the consciousness in its turn affects and uses
io4 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
this mechanism; thirdly, to note the condition both of the
consciousness and its mechanism during sleep ; and fourthly,
to enquire how the various kinds of dreams are thereby
produced.
i. T he Mechanism
(a) Physical
There is in the body a great central axis of nervous
matter, ending in the brain, and from this a network
of nerve-threads radiates in every direction through the
body. It is these nerve-threads, according to modern
scientific theory, which by their vibrations convey all
impressions from without to the brain, and the latter upon
receipt of these impressions translates them into sensations
or perceptions; so that if a man puts his hand upon some
object and finds it hot, it is really not his hand that feels,
but his brain, which is acting upon information transmitted
to it by the vibrations, running along its telegraph wires,
the nerve-threads.
AH the nerve-threads of the body—those of the
hand or foot or the bundle of them called the optic or
auditory or olfactory nerves—are the same in constitution,
though some of them have, through long ages of evolution,
been specialised to receive and transmit to the brain most
readily one particular set of rapid vibrations.
The brain, which is the great centre of the nervous
system, is very readily affected by slight variations in the
general health of a man, and most especially by any which
involve a change in the circulation of the blood through it.
If too much blood is supplied to the brain, congestion of
the vessels takes place; if too little, the brain (and
TilH VnS*rtTVTU'>X u¥ MAS i©5
f h c rr h n v flu* nrrvnw ■ c y . t r m 1 U ro im -. first irritable and
th ru lrth;ir|^r, T b * b b ^ d 4 *
. it n » n rw . through th r body
ha . t a ** jtiiip ijnil fmirfiMfr, to perform tn supply uxyi;rn
a 11*i pn h l\r nnti if b n t«t thr d i f b r m t nrtpinsnf tin* 1mm1\%
If thr ^lj #jd\ <4 f *\\ ,s I! ft >t b ’ limit* hr drtirirnt, if ht*rni«r'»
Sunm d with r n’h »n db\id«% and hruvittr*, ami
b ih a in p \»u\ •,b a l l y . \ rfa% in a t m w iird ami ill *
ventilated t*man Apatn, if tb- . p w l with which th r blood
l!' a < tin* rjrh 11m \»*o«*ls !«* f*fo *
*
tr,i 1, if (u*«ulm ra f e v e r ;
if t ♦*» J »w*fhr it acasn bf h i r /\ b «an rd.
Il h uhvi-ri , th*’frf, *rr, that the brain, through
w hi* h .ill [diva* a! mtfnr', .iuir, run t p a v , muv hr ead ly
db? srhrd in fb* dm m o fo tm aitcr of it1
, fmelif >n *by r,u i,r;
4}?i a n fitly t r h b h to which a m w w mid pay no attention
r v o during wakisy? hours and of which h r w a d d hr
"!;Un*!v Til awn! d o flfT a b r p
Ui»r j*n nliai dv of Ibis phvbrwl n j r barn an b ita
irinai halar trm huu'y f ? t**pr,i? a o lo m a b w llv \ d ira fb n t to
wha h 3! j . u t o sto m ^ l t o r^n|*
•*i*ift II b th r guopertv of
fh** btatti w hfih b m .|ri»Ml4r f.tf all Iwdilv habits and
Is e b- *4 nunin'i wSin It am entirely independent *4 Ihr will,
and an* *4t«*n ♦ dine tlf ! ** anjmn ; and if pSa v* an e m i
i n n - 1 ini; a tan! ^ u f -! ia;i}( sleep fI*at* it dare
w iwn i; li n t .
1; * /
1 t h > ' ! 1 a t n a t n a , ■ i *n
4 ! r ( " ’ J 1. t a a ’ j uj " Is'■ 1
r ! h »• t | - i < » l t * 4 ! iif tit'- *;'•» V
W ' l t a t , n * 4 fin- t - . * ! ' ' ' - i - ' r
, ‘,'j r \ • ' nss.v ^n b '’- a . a
t i e \ - * ! ’ n i M ’ i r ;f
$4
%!s
fi:
f i fi; sf"<aain. tJjr hi.dfj
;nhu J!-sa '4 f r a i u al m.,; tin*
■
tin< ilian n^ <
n tin* m^rr
r*n d^ii 4tid vi ahh- j* ah*an
%i
1
!4n i. <
u. fSm* an^. * $1
1
4 fSawr lifr .’irfrii? , Will atm 4
io6 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
the condition of the etheric portion of the brain and bring
about hysteria, langour, lassitude, etc., as stated before.
As the denser and etheric matters of the brain are both
parts of one and the same physical organism, any
irregularity in either will so dull or disturb the receptivity
of the brain as to produce blurred or distorted images of
whatever is presented to it.
(c) Astral
The astral vehicle is even more sensitive to external
impressions than the gross and etheric bodies, for it is
itself the seat of all desires and emotions—the connecting
link through which alone the ego can collect experiences
from physical life. It is peculiarly susceptible to the
influence of passing thought-currents, as explained in
Chapter VII, and when the mind is not actively controlling
it, it is perpetually receiving these stimuli from without,
and eagerly responding to them. This mechanism also,
like the others, is more readily influenced during the sleep
of the physical body.
2 . T h e Ego
All these different portions of the mechanism are
in reality merely instruments of the ego. The ego is
himself a developing entity, and in the case of most men
he is scarcely more than a germ of what he is to be one
flay, as explained for the causal body already and for
The Evolution of Life in Chapter VIII. Therefore the
grasp which this reincarnating ego has of his various
instruments and, consequently, his influence over them,
are naturally small in his earlier stages. Neither his mind
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 107
nor his passions are thoroughly under his control. Con­
sequently in sleep the different parts of the mechanism
are very apt to act almost entirely on their own account
without reference to him, and the stage of his spiritual
advancement is one of the factors to be taken into account
in considering the question of dreams.
Again, what the vibrations of the nerve-threads
present to the brain are mere impressions, and it is the
work of the ego, acting through the mind, to classify,
combine and rearrange them for the formation of our
conceptions of external objects. For example, when a
person looks out of the window, and sees a house and a
tree, and instantly recognises them for what they are,
the information really conveyed through his eyes and the
nerve-threads to the brain is that in a particular direction
there are certain varied patches of colour bounded by
more or less definite outlines. It is the mind which from
its past experience is able to decide that one particular
small white object is a house and another rounded green
one is a tree, and that they are both probably of such and
such a size, and at such and such a distance from him.
Thus mere vision is by no means sufficient for accurate
perception, and the discrimination of the ego acting
through the mind has to be brought to bear upon what
is seeh ; furthermore, this discrimination is not an inherent
instinct of the mind, perfect from the first, but is the
result of the unconscious comparison of a number of
experiences.
3. C o n d it io n of S l e e p
In deep sleep, the physical body of a man with
its etheric double and Prana lies quietly on the bed,
io8 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
while the ego, in the astral body, floats with equal
tranquillity just above it.
(a) The Brain
When the ego has for the time resigned the control
of his brain, that brain does not therefore become entirely
unconscious, as the physical body has a certain dim
consciousness of its own—probably the physical elemental,
spoken of before—quite apart from that of the real self, and
apart also from the mere aggregate of the consciousness
of its individual cells. The grasp of this consciousness
working in the physical brain is far feebler than that of
the man himself, and consequently, all the causes (quantity,
quality and circulation of blood) which were mentioned
before as likely to affect the action of the brain, are now
capable of influencing it to a much greater extent. This
is why indigestion, as affecting the flow of the blood, so
frequently causes troubled sleep or bad dreams.
But even when undisturbed, this strange, dim
consciousness has many remarkable peculiarities. Its
action seems to be to a great extent automatic, and
the results are usually incoherent, senseless and hopelessly
confused.
It seems unable to apprehend an idea except in the
form of a scene in which it itself is an actor, and therefore
all stimuli, whether from within or without, are forth­
with translated into perceptual images. It is incapable
of grasping abstract ideas or memories as such ; they
immediately become imaginary percepts. For example, the
idea of glory, suggested to that consciousness, could take
shape only as a vision of some glorious being appearing
before the dreamer.
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN io9
Again, every local direction of thought becomes to
it an absolute spatial transportation, so that, in absence of
the discriminating ego to balance the cruder impressions,
any passing thought suggesting Delhi and Bombay could
image itself only as an actual instantaneous transportation
to those places, and the dreamer would suddenly find
himself there, never seeming at the time to feel any
surprise at startling transitions of this sort.
Another source of the extraordinary confusion
visible in this self-consciousness is the manner in which
the law of association of ideas works in it. Every such
association, whether abstract or concrete, becomes a mere
combination of images ; and as our association of ideas is
often merely by synchronism, as of events which, though
really entirely unconnected, happen to us in succession,
it may be readily imagined that the most inextricable
confusion of these images is of frequent occurrence.
Another 'peculiarity of this curious consciousness
of the brain is that while singularly sensitive to the slight­
est external influences, such as sounds or touches, it yet
magnifies and distorts them to an almost incredible degree.
For example, the prick of a pin is magnified into a fatal
stab received in a duel, while a slight pinch is translated
into the bite of a wild beast.
(b) The Etheric Brain
This part of the organism, so sensitive to every
influence even during waking life, is still more susceptible
when in the condition of sleep. Clairvoyantly examined
under these conditions, streams of thought are seen to be
constantly sleeping through it—not its own thoughts, for it
has no power to think—but the casual thoughts of others
n o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
which are always floating around us, as mentioned in
Chapter V II; and in sleep, it is more than usually at the
mercy of these thought-currents, since the ego is for the
time in less close association with it. Again, it is noticed
that when by any means these currents are shut out from
the etheric brain, it does not remain absolutely passive,
but begins very slowly and dreamily to evolve pictures for
itself from its store of past memories.
(c) The Astral Body
As mentioned before, the appearance of this vehicle
in which the ego is functioning during sleep, differs very
greatly according to the stage of development of the ego.
But in every case, this body is, as ever, intensely impres­
sionable by any thought or suggestion involving desire.
(d) The Ego in Sleep
Much as the condition of the astral body during
sleep changes as evolution goes on, that of the ego
inhabiting it changes still more. Where the former is in
the stage of the floating wreath of mist, the ego is
practically almost as much asleep as the body lying
below him and is blind to the sights and deaf to the
voices of his own higher plane. If a man in this
primitive condition remembers anything at all of what
happens to him during sleep, it will almost invariably
be the result of purely physical impressions made
upon the brain either from within or from without—any
experience which his real ego may have had being
forgotten. Sleepers may be observed at all^ stages from
this condition of blank oblivion, up to full and perfect
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN III
consciousness on the astral plane, though the latter is
naturally comparatively rare. Even a man who is suffi­
ciently awake to meet with important experience in this
higher life, may yet be unable so far to dominate his brain
as to check its current of inconsequent thought pictures
and impress upon it what he wishes it to recollect, and
may thus have on awakening a most confused memory or
no memory at all of what has really happened to him.
But whether he remembers anything when physi­
cally awake or not, the ego who is fully or even partially
conscious of his surroundings on the astral plane, is
beginning to enter into his heritage of powers transcending
any that he possesses down here; for his consciousness when
thus liberated from the physical body has very remarkable
possibilities.
He has a transcendental measure of time and space,
i . e his measure of time and space is so entirely different
from what we have in waking life that from our point of
view it seems as though neither time nor space existed for
him. An illustration may be given of the story of a man who
was awakened by the firing of a shot, which yet came in
as the conclusion of a long dream, in which he had become
a soldier, had deserted and suffered terrible hardships, had
been captured, tried, condemned and finally shot—the
whole long drama being lived through in the moment of
being awakened by the sound of the shot.
Another remarkable peculiarity of the ego is his
faculty or habit of instantaneous dramatisation. In the
cases of the shot and the pinch mentioned above, the
physical effect which awakened the person came as the
climax to a dream apparently extending over a consider­
able space of time, though obviously suggested in reality
by that physical effect itself. Now the news of this physical
1X2 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
effect, whether of sound or of touch, has to be conveyed
to the brain by the nerve-threads, and this transmission
takes a certain space of time, only a minute fraction of a
second. But the ego, when out of the body, is able to
perceive with absolute instantaneity without the use of the
nerves, and is consequently aware of what happens just
that minute fraction of a second before the information
reaches his physical brain, and in that barely appreciable
space of time he appears to compose a kind of drama or
series of scenes, leading up to and culminating in the event
which awakens the physical body.
Another result which follows from the ego’s super­
normal method of time-measurement is that in some degree
prevision is possible to him ; he foresees at times events that
will be of interest or importance to his lower personality,
and makes more or less successful endeavours to impress
them upon it.
Again, the ego when out of the body during sleep
appears to think in symbols, so that what down here
would be an idea requiring many words to express it, is
perfectly conveyed to him by a single symbolical image.
Such a thought or symbol, when remembered in the waking
consciousness of course needs translation. Often the
mind duly performs this function, but sometimes the
symbol is recollected without its key, and then confusion
arises. Most dreamers agree that to dream of deep water
signifies approaching trouble, and that pearls are a sign
of tears.
4. Dreams
It is thus seen that the factors in the production of
dreams may be:
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN Il3
1. The ego, in any state of consciousness from utter
insensibility to perfect command of his faculties, and with
possession, in the latter condition, of certain powers far
transcending those that he possesses in his ordinary waking
state.
2. The astral body, ever palpitating with the wild
surgings of emotion and desire.
3. The etheric brain, with a ceaseless procession of
disconnected pictures sweeping through it.
4. The physical brain, with its infantile semi-con­
sciousness and its habit of expressing every stimulus in
pictorial form.
Of course, real dreams are actual experiences, which
have occurred to the ego on the astral or higher planes,
when wandering away from his sleeping physical body.
(a) The True Vision
This is a case where the ego either sees for himself
some fact upon a higher plane of nature, or else has it
impressed upon him by a more advanced entity. He is
made aware of some fact which it is important for him to
know, or perhaps sees some glorious vision which encour­
ages and strengthens him.
(b) The Prophetic Dream
This, too, must be attributed exclusively to the
action of the ego, who either foresees for himself or is told
of some future event for which he wishes to prepare his
lower consciousness. Sometimes the event is one of serious
moment, such as death or disaster, while often the
prophecy is evidently intended as a warning.
16
u4 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
(c) The Symbolical Dream
This also is the work of the ego and might be called
a less successful variant of the preceding class, for it is
after all an imperfectly translated effort on his part to
convey information as to the future.
(d) The Vivid and Connected Dream
This is sometimes a remembrance of a real astral
experience which has occurred to the ego while wandering
away from his sleeping physical body ; more frequently it
is the dramatisation by that ego, either of the impression
produced by some trifling physical sound or touch, or of
some casual idea which happens to touch him.
{$) The Confused Dream
This, the commonest of all, may be caused in
various ways. It may simply be a more or less perfect,
recollection of a series of the disconnected pictures and
impossible transformations produced by the senseless
automatic action of the physical brain: it may be a
reproduction of the stream of casual thought which has
been pouring through the etheric brain : if sensual images
of any kind enter into it, it is due to the ever restless tide
of earthly desire, probably stimulated by some unholy influ­
ence of the astral world: it may be due to an imperfect
attempt at dramatisation on the part of an undeveloped
ego: or it may be, and most often is, due to an inextricable
mingling of several or all of these influences.
Q. You have explained how dreams are caused, but
can you give some practical suggestions as to how to
remember them ?
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN i i 5
Ans. Some people, in whom the ego is undeveloped
and earthly desires of various kinds are strong, never
dream at all; many others are now and then, under a
collocation of favourable circumstances, able to bring back
a confused memory of nocturnal adventure. But if a man
wishes to reap in his waking consciousness the benefit of
what his ego may learn during sleep, it is absolutely
necessary for him to acquire control over his thoughts,
subdue all low7
er passions, and attune his mind to higher
things.
When a man leaves his body at night, he remembers
all that he did the night before and during the day—in
fact, he has the whole of his present waking memory, plus
that of his nightly astral life. The astral memory includes
the physical, but his physical brain does not remember the
astral experience, for the simple reason that it had no
share in it.
A special link must be made, or rather an obstacle
must be removed, in order to bring the memory through
into the physical brain. In the slow course of evolution
the power of perfect memory will come to every one, so
that there will no longer be any veil between the two
planes.
If a man enters the state of sleep with his thought
fixed upon high and holy things, he thereby draws
round him the elementals (see Chapter VII) created
by like thoughts in others; his rest is peaceful, his mind
open to impressions from above and closed to those from
below, for he has set it working in the right direction. If,
on the contrary, he falls asleep with impure and earthly
thoughts floating through his brain, he attracts to himself
all the gross and evil creatures who come near him, while
his sleep is troubled by the wild surgings of passions and
ii6 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
desires which render him blind to the sights/and deaf to
the sounds, which come from higher planes. Thus through
what seem at first but the portals of dream, entrance may
perchance presently be gained into those grander realms
where alone true vision is possible.
Sometimes a man may wake in the morning with a
strong feeling of elation and success, without in the least
being able to recall in what he has succeeded. This
generally means some good piece of work well done, but it
is often impossible for the man to recover the details. At
other times he may bring back with him a feeling of
reverence, and this means that he has seen a vision and has
been in the presence of some one much greater than
himself. Sometimes, on the other hand, a person may
wake with a feeling of terrible fear. That is sometimes
due only to the alarm of the physical body at some
unaccustomed sensation; but it is sometimes also due to
having encountered something horrible in the astral world.
Or again, it may arise merely from sympathy with some
astral entity who is in a state of terror, for it is a
frequent thing on the astral plane that one person should
be strongly influenced by sympathy with another’s
condition.
In coming back to the physical body from the astral
world there is a feeling of great constraint, as though one
were being enveloped in a thick, heavy cloak. The joy of
life on the astral plane is so great that physical life in
comparison with it seems no life at all. Many men who
can function in the astral world during the sleep of the
physical body regard the daily return to the physical world
as men often do their daily journey to the office. They do
not positively dislike it, but they would not do it unless
they were compelled.
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN II7
Nine persons out of ten, when in the astral body,
thus do not at all like returning to the physical body, and
few care whether the physical brain remembers or not.
But if a man specially wishes to get into the habit of
remembering, the procedure recommended is the following:
1. As his last thought before he sinks to sleep is
of immense importance, and affects him physically,
mentally and morally, he should make a special point of
raising his thoughts to the loftiest level of which he is
capable, before allowing himself to sink into slumber,
though, as stated before, he invariably ought to do this
whether he wants to remember his astral experience or not.
2. When he lies down to sleep, he should think
of the aura (see end of this Chapter) which surrounds
him, and will strongly for some minutes that the outer
surface of that aura—especially the materials of the three
lower subplanes of the astral and mental worlds—shall
become a shell to protect him from the impingement of
influences from without—from the turbid current of the
thoughts of others—and the auric matter will obey his
thought: a magnetic shell will really be formed around
him, and the outside evil thought-stream will be excluded,
even though his etheric brain may go on evolving pictures
(from within) for itself.
3. When he is out of the body, he should first
try to remember that he is in the astral world.
4. Then, to make the link between the physical
and the astral memory, he should remember (when out
of the body) that he wishes to do so, and that it would
be a comfort to the physical consciousness if memory
could be carried through.
5. Then he must determine to come back into
the body slowly, instead of with a rush and a little
THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
I l8
jerk, as is usually the case; it is this jerk which prevents
him from remembering.
6. He should stop himself and say, just before he
awakes: “ This is my body; I am just about to enter
it. As soon as I am in it, I will make it sit up and write
down all it can remember.” Then he should enter it
calmly, sit up instantly and write down all he might be
able to remember at once. If he waits a few minutes, all
will usually be lost. But each fact that he brings
through will serve as a link for other memories. The
notes may seem a little incoherent when he reads them over
afterwards, but he should not mind that; it is because
he is trying to give an account in physical words of the
experiences of another plane. In this way he will gradually
recover the memory, though it may take a long time.
He should be systematic in his efforts. Every time
that he succeeds in bringing something through, it will
make it easier to remember next time, and will bring
nearer the period when there will be habitual automatic
recollection. At present there is a moment of unconscious­
ness between sleeping and waking, and this acts as a veil.
It is caused by the closely-woven web of atomic matter
through which the vibrations have to pass.
Q. Can we recognise a friend or acquaintance in the
astral or the mental world by his appearance in the absence
of his physical body ?
Ans. The shape of all the higher bodies is no doubt
ovoid, but the matter composing them is not equally dis­
tributed throughout the egg. In the midst of this ovoid
is the physical body. The physical body strongly attracts
astral matter which in its turn strongly attracts the mental.
Therefore by far the greater part, i.e., about ninety-nine
per cent, of the matter of the astral body, is compressed
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN Il9
within the periphery of the physical frame, and the same
holds good for the mental body. If we see the astral body
of a man in its own world, apart from the physical body,
we shall still perceive the astral matter aggregated in
exactly the shape of the physical, although, as the astral
matter is more fluidic in its nature, what we see is a body
built of dense mist, in the midst of an ovoid of much finer
mist. The same is true of the mental body. Therefore,
if in the astral or the mental world we should meet an
acquaintance, we should recognise him by his appearance
just as instantly as in the physical world.
Q. But what is the aureola seen sometimes in pictures
round the heads of saints ?
Ans. Every human being is surrounded by a luminous
cloud, called the aura, a subtle portion of fine matter
extending all round the physical body to a distance of
eighteen to twenty-four inches. It is oval in shape, hence
is sometimes spoken of as the auric egg, and has no well-
defined outline, its edges gradually fading into nothingness.
Part of that aura, more developed for a saint, is shown as
a circle of rays round the head of the portrait and is called
the aureola or glory. Not alone around the human body
but also around animals, trees and even minerals, the aura is
to be seen as a cloud of light surrounding or emanating from
them, though less extended or complex than that of man.
The human aura consists of matter in different
states, and five of its component parts are visible to a
clairvoyant sight, each, as it were, an aura in itself, occu­
pying the entire space if the other four were withdrawn.
The first, called the health aura, from the fact that
its condition is greatly affected by the health of the physi­
cal man, is composed purely of fine physical matter, is a
faint bluish-white, almost colourless, and for a healthy man
120 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
is striated in appearance with a number of straight lines
radiating from the body on all sides. These lines, rigid
and parallel during health owing to the constant radiation
of an abundance of life-force from the healthy body, be­
come, during disease, erratic, confused and drooping like
the stems of faded flowers.
The second is called the Pranic aura as it consists
of the matter of specialised Prana, constantly radiating
from the body in all directions, and has a faint bluish-white
hue, though the Prana circulating in the body has a rosy
colour. It is to the radiation of the Pranic aura that the
parallelism of the health aura is due. The Pranic aura is
often spoken of as the magnetic aura and is used in the pro­
duction of many of the physical phenomena of magnetism.
The third aura is that which expresses Kama or
desire, ix., is the field of manifestation of Kama. From it
is formed the astral body for the man to travel in the astral
world during the sleep of the physical body. There is
little of permanency about its manifestations, as its colours,
brilliancy and rate of vibration are changing every
moment; for example, a fit of passion will charge the
whole of the aura with deep red flashes on a background
of sooty blackness, while a sudden fright will turn the
whole into a palpitating livid grey mass.
The fourth is the aura of the lower Manas, the
manifestation of the personality. From this aura the
mental body of the ordinary man is formed. It is also
used to make the mayavirupa, a body which functions on
the mental plane, but brings its owner into touch with the
astral at the same time. A person travelling consciously
in his mental body leaves his astral body behind him along
with the physical, and if he wishes to show himself upon
the astral plane for any reason, he does not send for
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN 121
fiis own astral vehicle, but just by a single action of
his will materialises one for his temporary need. Such
an astral materialisation is called the Mayavirupa, and
it is used on both the astral and mental planes by
Adepts and some of Their disciples and others who are
able to form it. In this aura are seen beams of spiritual­
ity and intellectuality, while strong desires habitually
repeated in the K&mic aura, setting up corresponding
vibrations in this aura, produce there a permanent tinge of
the same colour wherefrom the general disposition and
character of a man can be read. This aura is thus the
record of the progress of the personality, as explained
before in the case of the mental body.
The fifth aura, that of the higher Manas or Indi­
viduality, not distinguishable round every person, is of in­
conceivable beauty and is in fact the causal body, the
vehicle of the Reincarnating Ego, and shows by its condi­
tion the degree of his advancement since individualisation.
The same colour significance obtains in all these
auras, as explained before for the various bodies.
When a man during sleep passes on to the astral
plane in his astral body, he takes the lower and higher
M£nasic auras also with him, leaving behind with his
physical body in bed the first two auras together with a
pale residuum of the third not wanted in the formation
of the astral body. Of course if he passes in a subtle
vehicle to the higher mental plane, he leaves very much
more behind him.
A sixth and a seventh aura also exist, but no
information about them is at present available.
These auras are not mere emanations, but are mani­
festations or expressions of the man on different planes.
REINCARNATION 123
h -
by long experience and many lessons. As a bird soaring
in the air dives into water to catch his prey, and then rises
again into his own habitat, so is it with the real man, the
spiritual being belonging to the higher worlds, who plunges
^ -down to earth to gain the experience which is the nourish-
I ment for the Spirit's unfolding and which he carries home
with him for assimilation into innate capacities and powers,
^mental and moral. When the experience of one life is
assimilated, he returns to the earth for another life, in
order to gain more.
He first comes to the earth and takes a body prepared
for him, generally the body of a savage, to learn the first
| lessons of human experience. He then passes to the other
t side of death and learns by the lessons of pain the errors
N he has made, and by the lessons of enjoyment the right
thoughts and feelings he has had, while during the latter
part of that post-mortem life he assimilates what he has
gathered on earth. When that experience is assimilated,
he comes to earth again for further gain and enters a better
body suited to his more unfolded condition. His real life
thus covers millions of years, and what we commonly con-
aider as his life is only a day in his life, as a life of about
sixty years in this world is ordinarily succeeded in the
higher worlds by a period of two to twenty times that
length according to development. Each life is a day at
school, and each time we return to earth, we resume our
* lessons where we have left off before, aided by what we
have gained by home-study—study in heaven which is die
home of the soul. The savage is just commencing his
human education, while a spiritually developed man is
nearing his graduation in this world-school. Some pupils,
being apt, learn quickly, while other egos are like dull boys
who take a longer time to learn their lessons. No pupil
124 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
ever fails, but the length of time he takes to qualify himself
for the higher examination is left to his own discretion. A
wise pupil, seeing that this school-life is merely a prepara­
tion for a wider one, makes the best of his time and tries-
hard to master the rules of the school and shape his life in
accordance with them.
Q. But have we not sufferings enough in one life ? The'
thought of being reborn to suffer over and over again is
horrible.
Ans. Dislike for, or lack of understanding the purpose1
of, existence does not alter facts. If suffering and sorrow
were unknown in the world, would we not be filled with
extreme pain to leave this land of bliss when the call of
death came, and would we not in that case welcome re­
incarnation ? Thus what we object to is not reincarnation,,
but the trials and sufferings of earthly life. But the diffi­
culties and sorrows give us experience, teach us some of
the grandest lessons of life and force us to develop
powers which would otherwise never be awakened into-
activity. As will be explained later in Chapter V,.
we reap as we sow, suffer in the present life for the
misdeeds of the past, and none but ourselves can cause us
suffering.
Q. But is it not unjust for us to be punished for for*
gotten misdeeds perpetrated long ago in a past life ? Why
should a man suffer for what he is not conscious of having
done ?
Ans. A man may suffer from a disease in ignorance of
the conditions under which its germs were sowm in his
body, but the right sequence of cause and effect is not
imperilled by his ignorance, for there is no such absurdity
in the universe as an effect without a responsible*
cause.
REINCARNATION 125
Again, does forgetfulness of misdeeds destroy their
consequences, and does he not equally enjoy the fruit of
good deeds which he does not remember doing ?
As a matter of fact, the real man, the ego, does not
forget his misdeeds, but remembers them as we remember
what we did yesterday, though the physical-brain memory
of the new body does not recollect what was done in the
body he wore in the last life. A boy stealing apples to-day
requires punishment when caught the next day even though
he may have put on a different suit of clothes. The ego
that makes the karma reaps the karma. The labourer
that sowed the seed gathers in the harvest, though the
clothes in which he worked as sower may have worn out
during the interval between the sowing and the reaping.
The physical as well as the astral and mental garments
of the ego have similarly fallen to pieces between seed-time
and harvest, and he reaps in a new suit of clothes; but
he who sowed also reaps, and if he sowed but little
seed or seed badly chosen, it is he who will find a poor
harvest when he goes forth as reaper.
If we were to remember all our past misdeeds, we
would be staggered by the painful vision of a past always
full of weakness, even when free from the actual stain of
crime ; and if we knew that each one of our past errors,
ever present before our eyes, would carry with it its punish­
ment, would we not be haunted by fear at every step in
our present life, and would not life be transformed into
an endless torment out of all proportion to the actual sin ?
Talking only of one life, many a criminal would go
forward if only he could forget; but the memory of his
crime is a fetter preventing his recovery and progress ; and
how much happier many of us would be if we could forget
much of the past of this one life. Not until we are strong
126 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
enough to bear the memory of the present life without
regret, remorse or anxiety, and above all without resentment,
should we desire to add to that burden of one life the
burden of a long millennial past.
So it is a merciful Banker who saves us all the
trouble of keeping accounts and, whenever we are ready
to start a new ledger, strikes the balance and turns over
our net proceeds with all accrued interest.
Again, after death the soul, free from his illusory
sheaths, makes an impartial review of the past, notes his
errors and failures with their motives, and by knowledge
thus gained grows in wisdom and in power, in intelligence
and in conscience.
Q. But why have we no memory ofpast lives ? We
remember whatever we have experienced and if we have
lived before, why should we forget ?
Ans. First let us note the fact that we forget more of
the present life than we remember. We do not remember
learning to read, but the fact that we can read proves the
learning. We avoid being burnt by fire, but do not
remember at what particular time we first got burnt and
learnt the lesson. Again, these events are not wholly
forgotten; they are submerged, not destroyed, and may be
drawn from the depths of memory, may be recovered from
a person’s subconsciousness if he is thrown into a mesmeric
trance. If this forgetfulness be true of experiences en­
countered in our present body, how should we expect our
present brain to remember experiences in which that brain
and body had no share at all? Our causal and higher
bodies remain with us throughout the whole series of
incarnations, but the physical, astral and mental bodies
fall away at each incarnation ; and when we are reclothed
for a new life in three mortal bodies, those new bodies
REINCARNATION 127
receive from the reincarnating spiritual intelligence, not
the detailed experiences of the past, but the qualities,
tendencies and capacities made out of those experiences ;
and our conscience, our instinctive response to emotional
and intellectual appeals, our assent to fundamental prin­
ciples of right and wrong, are traces of past experience.
There are many unconscious memories, manifesting
in faculty, in emotion, in power—traces of the past im­
printed on the present and discoverable by observations on
ourselves and others. We gain our physical bodies,
according to our karma, from our parents through what
is called physical heredity; but the mentality that we
have, as well as our very character, we have built up for
ourselves. Each life we bring with us certain tendencies,
which are the summed-up memories of past lives; certain
powers which are likewise the summed-up activities of the
past; and certain characteristics, certain faculties, which
soon show themselves in the child, which tell us what we
have done or have not done during earlier lives on earth.
Hence memories of the past may be clear and definite,
obtained by the practice of yoga—a system of training
and discipline—or may be unconscious but shown by results,
and closely allied in many ways to what are called instincts,
by which we do certain things, think along certain lines,
exercise certain functions, and possess certain knowledge
without having consciously acquired it. In the researches
of psychology to-day, many surges of feeling, driving a
man to hasty, unpremeditated action, are ascribed to the
subconscious, i.e., the consciousness which shows itself in
involuntary thoughts, feelings and actions; they come to
us out of the far-off past, without our volition or our
conscious creation. Our instincts are memories buried in
the subconscious, influencing our actions and determining
128 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
our choices; our moral instinct is Conscience, a mass
of interwoven memories of past experiences, speaking with
the authoritative utterance of all instincts, deciding on
4right’ and ‘ wrong’ without argument or reasoning,
and giving warning of dangers experienced in the past*
Innate faculty—what is it but an unconscious
memory of subjects mastered in the past ? Here we have a
proof of the accuracy of Plato’s idea that all knowledge is
reminiscence. Having learnt a subject, e.g., Mathematics,
in this life and forgotten it for years, we can re-learn it
very quickly as it is a mere traversing of old ground.
Similarly, when a science or philosophy is quickly grasped
and applied, or an art mastered without much study, the
memory of past lives is there in power, though the facts of
learning are forgotten. Thus it is that a man who had
studied occultism in a past life, coming across Theosophy
in this life, takes it up immediately as if resuming an old
thread and makes rapid progress, while another studying
it for the first time in this life does not go far.
Again, when we feel at home with a stranger at the
very first meeting, or fall in love at first sight, memory is
there, the Spirit’s recognition of a friend of former lives,
the call of Ego to Ego, old friends clasping hands in
perfect confidence and mutual understanding. Similarly is
memory present when we shrink with a feeling of repul­
sion from an apparent stranger, which is but the recog­
nition of an ancient enemy.
Memory of past lives is, however, occasionally
found in children having fleeting glimpses of their past life
and sometimes remembering full details, especially if they
died a violent death in the last life. Moreover, such
memory can be gained, though the gaining requires a
steady effort and prolonged meditation to control the ever
REINCARNATION 129
restless mind and to make it sensitive and responsive
to the Spirit manifested as an ego, who alone stores
all memories of the past; then the scenes of the past are
recalled, old friends recognised, old links seen. The fact
is that the ego has been through all these events, and has
in the heaven-world after death worked up the experiences
into faculties and character, into intellect and conscience.
But only when a man reaches the memory of the ego and
becomes one with him consciously, can he remember all in
his new brain.
No brain can store the memory with all the details of the
events of numerous past lives, and even if it could, as mere
details they would be worthless to a man who had to act
•on the spur of the moment If each time we came near a
fire, we had to remember all the pains of being burnt pre­
viously, we should be burnt time after time before we could
go through all the details of the past memories and deduce
from them a line of conduct. But when these events are
concreted into moral and mental judgments, they are
available for immediate use. The memory of numerous
murders committed would be a useless burden, though the
instinct of the sanctity of human life is an effective memory
of them.
An elderly man is wiser and more intelligent than a
young lad, because he has gained greater experience.
Similarly, a civilised man is wiser than a savage because
he has passed through more incarnations.
Q, But it is not always that an elderly man is wiser
and more intelligent than a boy; a civilised youth of
twenty years is more intelligent than a coolie of fifty.
Ans. This only strengthens the theory of reincarnation.
A boy of ten years and ten days is wiser than another boy
of five years and fifty days, as days count nothing before
17
i3o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
years. Similarly, because years count nothing before lives,
a youth of twenty years and probably one thousand lives
behind him must be wiser than a coolie of fifty years and,
say, of only one hundred lives. But if we do not accept
reincarnation, all children ought to be born with the same
amount of intelligence, which is not the case. Reincar­
nation alone explains the difference between them—the
difference in their growth due to the different ages of the
soul.
Q. But if a negro boy be nurtured and trained in-
Europe, will he not be as intelligent and wise as a
European boy ?
Ans. If intelligence depended on education in youth,
two children of the same parents, similarly trained and
brought up, ought to be equally intelligent and equally
wise or foolish. Not only is this not so, but very often it
is just the reverse, as one brother is wise and virtuous*
while the other is foolish and vicious. Again twins, un­
distinguishable in their infancy, grow widely different in
spite of similarity of training and education in all respects..
The negro is bright up to a certain point, and then
suddenly stops, to the disappointment of his teacher who
thought he would go far. Reincarnation explains that a.
child comes into the world with a character, with qualities,
characteristics, powers and deficiencies, that we may to
some extent mould and modify that character, but that our
powers in that respect are very limited. As Ludwig:
Buchner s a i d “ Nature is stronger than nurture.”
Q. But the physical, mental and moral peculiarities of
children come from the parents by the Law of Heredity ;
what wonder, then, that a European child is intelligent
and a negro one stupid ? Does reincarnation ignore that
law?
REINCARNATION i 3i
Ans. No ; on the contrary it endorses that law on the
physical plane. In providing physical bodies parents
stamp them with their signet, and so the molecules in the
child’s body carry with them the habit of vibrating in
definite ways. Thus are hereditary diseases conveyed to
children, and little tricks of manner and habits are also
similarly transmitted.
But transmission of mental and moral likenesses
and* peculiarities is true only within limits, and not to the
extent taken for granted. Etheric atoms are contributed
by parents like physical ones, as are also kamic elements,
especially by the mother; and these, working on the mole­
cules of the brain, give to the child the passional charac­
teristics of the parents, partly modifying the manifestations
of the ego of the child. Reincarnation, while admitting
all these parental influences on the child, goes further and
states that there is an independent action of the ego,
the inherent tendency of his nature, and thus gives
a full explanation of differences as well as similarities.
Heredity can explain only similarities, not differences.
Again, heredity though explaining the evolution of
bodies, throws no light on the evolution of intelligence
.and conscience, and later studies show that acquired
qualities are not transmissible and that genius is often
.sterile.
There are conspicuous violations of the law of
Heredity which are easily explained by reincarnation, and
the following cases prove the inadequacy of merely
.hereditary influences:
1. Children of same parents, not equally in­
telligent, nor of equal moral tendencies.
2. The life-history of twins showing that two
individuals born under precisely identical conditions and
THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
1 32
having exactly the same heredity often differ greatly m
physique, intellect and character.
3. The wide differences in character and intellect
between father and son in spite of their physical resem­
blance.
4. The birth of geniuses in humble and com­
monplace circumstances, furnishing abundant evidence
that the individual soul outstrips the bonds of physical
birth.
5. Mediocre children of distinguished parents,,
showing the inadequacy of hereditary influences in mental'
and moral powers and capacities.
6. Profligates born to saintly parents.
7. Saintly children born to profligates.
8. Great moral geniuses, like Buddha, Zoro­
aster, Jesus, etc., whose birth cannot be explained by
heredity.
9. Musical instinct or artistic tendency in one*
brother, without the other brother having even an ele­
mentary notion of the art.
All these cases can be satisfactorily and easily-
explained by reincarnation.
Q. Can there not be special creation by God for each
soul ? There can be three explanations of human inequali­
ties, of differences of faculties, opportunities and cir­
cumstances : the scientific Law of Heredity, special cre­
ation by God, and Reincarnation. You have refuted the-
first; what about the second ?
Ans. The Law7 of Evolution is accepted on all hands,
for everything except man. What begins in time, must
end in time, and the idea of special creation involves the:
correlative of annihilation at death ; but the spiritual
intelligence called man is supposed to have no individual
REINCARNATION i3 3
past though it is admitted to have an endless future,
which looks like a stick existing with one end only.
A man’s character on which his whole destiny
depends is, on this hypothesis, specially created for him by
God and imposed on him without any choice of his own.
If he is gifted with a noble nature and fine capacities, he
may be thankful, though he has done nothing to deserve
them. If he inherits a congenital disease, congenital
criminality or evil nature, or if he is born a cripple or an
idiot, he has equally done nothing to deserve them-
Everything depends on mere chance, or on the whim or
arbitrary will of God. But if this be so, where is the
justice of the All-just God, to say nothing of the love of
the All-loving Father ? It is sometimes said that all these
things will be adjusted in the life to come. This may be
so, but it does not give any rational explanation as to why
they are so in the life here, nor does it seem reasonable
specially to exclude human life on earth from the scope of
the law and order, of the exquisite design and purpose,
which obtain everywhere in the natural world.
Again, a babe dies a few hours after birth, after a
spirit was specially created for it. That spirit will be the
poorer for ever for missing that life and its experiences on
earth. But if earthly experiences have no use later on,
and if life on earth has no permanent value except that of
being judged for eternal hell or eternal heaven, a spirit
coming into a body which lives up to old age may be said’
to be badly treated, as it has to endure trouble, misery and
sins, and to run the risk of going to hell at last, whereas
the babe runs no risk, suffers no misery and is as well off
in the end as the other spirit.
Moreover, this theory makes God a servant of man
as He may have to wait for creating a new soul till a man.
THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
134
impelled by his passions, provides material for a physical
body.
Again, though on the one hand God is said to
punish those who go astray, on the other hand He Himself
creates a new soul for bodies thus provided by immoral
means. Hence the theory of special creation also seems
illogical, unjust and absurd, leaving only reincarnation as
the most reasonable and just explanation.
Q. One more objection. If there be no special creationi
there must be a fixed number of human egos who return to
earth over and over again. How can then the increase of
population in the world be explained ?
Ans. There is now a fixed number of human spirits,
about sixty thousand millions, that form our humanity.
Up to a certain point in evolution there was an influx
from the animal to the human kingdom, but that point is
long since past. Of course a few from the animal kingdom
still occasionally get individualised and enter the human
kingdom, but that number is inappreciable, as is also that
which leaves our humanity for superhuman evolution;
thus the number of spirits that form our humanity practi­
cally keeps constant.
Though the number of egos is thus fixed, those
actually in incarnation at any one time form a very
small minority, about i in 32, of the total number, the
population of the whole world being counted at about
i,85o millions against a total number of spirits of about
60,000 millions. Many are in the astral and mental planes
and remain longer away from the earth as they evolve,
the advanced souls incarnating more slowly than the less
developed ones. The world can be compared to a town
hall which may be half empty, full or overcrowded, the
total population of the town remaining comparatively
REINCARNATION l35
constant; and a little quickening of reincarnation or
shortening of heaven-period would increase the physical
population of our globe very greatly without any increase
in the total number of incarnating spirits.
Moreover, there is no reliable proof that the popula­
tion of our earth has increased, for though the census may
be fairly accurate in some countries, it is mere guess work
in a thickly populated country like China.
Q. Now about reincarnation ; what is its necessity ?
Am. Reincarnation is necessary logically, scientifically
and morally.
Q. Please explain each in detail. First, what is the
argument from logic ?
Ans. Reincarnation is necessary logically, as without
it, with nothing to satisfy the reason, life is a hopeless
riddle.
Is there .any purpose in our life between the cradle
and the grave ? Do we, or do we not, prepare ourselves
in some way for the life beyond death ? If there is a life
of happiness on the other side of death, it is earned in
some way, either by resisting temptation or by positive
well-doing. If effort is necessary for earning the heavenly
life, the case seems hard for a babe who dies in infancy
and has no chance. Or perhaps it is that such a one,
having done no wrong, enters heaven. Then it seems
hard for others who have to live a long life of temptation
and dangers and run the risk of going to hell at last, while
again in that case every mother should pray, not that her
new-born babe might live and thrive, but that it should die
immediately. Also if the result be the same, so that a
babe dying in infancy and a good man living up to a ripe
old age both go to heaven, then life is a snare and worse
than useless as it is full of needless pain and misery.
i36 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Moreover, if heavenly life is to be earned by individual
effort, equal chances must be given to all. But we see th at
it is not so when men are born differently with different
powers, capacities and opportunities and amid different
circumstances and environments, one a savage, an imbecile
or a congenital criminal, and another endowed with good
tendencies and favourable opportunities. Nor can it be
that little is expected from the one and much from th e
other, for it would be but an admission that this life is
needless and that it is right that the one should pass here
a life of ignorance and pain, and the other of refinement
and pleasure, and yet both reap the same result. Nor w ill
it do to say that the one receives a higher seat in th e
heaven-world, because of his greater difficulties here, for
then the other may demand that he, too, should receive an
equal chance to reach the highest.
All these problems seem difficult to solve, but the
theory of reincarnation makes everything readily intelli­
gible.
Take a savage without mind or morals who finds
his own wife the most convenient thing for dinner, eats his
parents when they are no longer useful and his ow n
children because they are not yet useful; he murders, he
robs, he drinks, and is eventually killed by one stronger
than himself. Is that narrow brutal life all that the
world has to give him, the world which to some is so fair,
marvellous and full of beauty ? What is to become of him
on the other side of death ? He cannot be sent to heaven,
yet it is hardly fair to send him to hell.
Now look at him in the light of reincarnation. A fter
his physical body is struck away and he goes to the in ter­
mediate world, he discovers that those he killed are all
living, and that not having forgotten the past they have a
REINCARNATION i37
very unpleasant welcome for him there. He thus begins to
learn his first lesson that if he kills a man one day, he will
meet him the next day. He does not learn that in one life,
but takes many lives to do so. Again, some good after­
death experience he will have in the heaven-world. He
will have had some little affection for his wife and children
before the greater need of hunger overbore it, and that
little germ will grow and make him happy and will be
changed into a moral quality with which he will be reborn
and will also bring a tendency to hesitate before slaying.
Thus each life he gathers experiences, transmutes them
into qualities and faculties, and thereby grows a little
more civilised till he comes to the point at which our
children are being born to-day.
Again, if reincarnation be not a fact, what becomes
of the qualities which we build even in one life with effort
and difficulty ? A man becomes wise when he has attained
old age, but he dies when he is most valuable; and if,
being irretrievably saved or damned, he is taken into worlds
where that knowledge acquired through many experiences
is useless for ever, the whole of human life becomes
irrational. But reincarnation explains that the man is
reborn with those qualities as a part of his character and
that therefore nothing is lost. Thus the more one thinks
on reasonable and logical lines, the more inevitable is
reincarnation seen to be.
Q. What is the scientific necessity for reincarnation ?
Ans, Science now demands reincarnation in order to
complete its theory of evolution. There are two great
doctrines of evolution which may be said to divide the
scientific world. The first is the evolutionary teaching
of Charles Darwin; the second is the later teaching of
Weissmann. Both these doctrines, important as they
18
•138 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
are, need the teaching of reincarnation in order to
complete them; for under both certain questions arise
to which reincarnation gives the only answer.
Taking Darwin’s evolutionary teaching in the
broadest possible light, two great points come out as
dealing with the progress of intelligence and of morality.
First, the idea that qualities are transmitted from parent
to offspring, and that by the accumulated force of that
transmission intelligence and morality develop. As step
after step is taken by humankind, the results of the
climbing are transmitted to the offspring, who, starting as
it were from the platform built up by the past, are able
to climb further in the present, and transmit enriched to
their posterity the legacy that they receive. Secondly,
side by side with that stands the doctrine of conflict, of
what is called f Survival of the fittest’ ; of qualities
which enable some to survive, and by the survival
to hand down to their progeny those qualities that gave
them an advantage in the struggle for existence.
Now those two chief points—transmission of quality
from parent to offspring, and survival of the fittest in the
struggle for existence—are two of the problems that are
very difficult to deal with from the ordinary Darwinian
standpoint. Taking at first the second point, how are
social and moral qualities evolved ? Certainly not by the
struggle for existence. The qualities that are the most
purely human, e.g., compassion, love, sympathy, the sacrifice
of the strong for the protection of the weak, the willingness
to give one’s life for the benefit of others, are the qualities
that we recognise as human against the qualities that we
share with the brute. The more of these qualities show
out in man, the more human is man considered to be.
But those who sacrifice themselves die out. Among the
REINCARNATION 139
social animals and even among the fiercest, the beasts of
prey, the mother sacrifices herself for her helpless offspring,
conquering the law of self-preservation. The mother-bird
or the mother-animal, will sacrifice her own life in-order to
draw away her enemy, man, from the cave or the hiding
place where her young ones are hidden, mother-love
triumphing even over the love of life. But she dies in
the sacrifice. Those who show it most perish—sacrifices
to maternal affection. And among men, the social and
moral qualities are evolved, not by the struggle for
existence where the keenest brain and the most unscru­
pulous conscience carry the day. The humane qualities
of tenderness and compassion can be evolved only by self-
sacrifice ; but there, as in the animal kingdom, the man
who sacrifices himself dies ,*and if the social virtues or the
humane virtues tend to kill out their possessors, and to
leave the more selfish and more brutal alive, how can we
explain in man the growth of the spirit of self-sacrifice, the
continuing growth of the most divine qualities which in­
capacitate the man for the struggle of existence ?
Those who have studied Darwinian writings know
that this question is not fully faced there, and is rather
evaded than answered. Reincarnation gives the answer,
that in the continuing life, whether of the animal or of the
man the self-sacrifice stirs up on the side of character a new
power, a new life, a compelling strength, which comes back
over and over again to the world in ever higher and higher
manifestations; that though the form of the mother
perishes, the mother-soul survives, and comes back time
after time; and that those who are such mother-souls are
trained onward, first in the brute kingdom and then in the
human kingdom, so that that which is gained by the soul
at the sacrifice of the body comes back in the reincarnating
140 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
soul to bless and to lift the world. Thus every martyr
who dies for truth, every hero who sacrifices his life for
his country, every doctor who loses his life in a combat
with some terrible disease, every, mother who sacrifices
herself for her child, comes back to earth the richer for the
sacrifice, with those qualities wrought into the soul’s very
nature, and reaps the results of the self-sacrifice in greater
power to help.
Then, regarding the first point, ix ., transmission of
qualities, Weissmann has established two fundamental
facts, first the continuity of physical life—and it will be
seen that to be complete it needs the continuity of intellec­
tual and moral life. The reason for the latter along the
Weissmann line is his second fundamental fact that mental
and moral and other acquired qualities are not transferred
to offspring, that they can only be transmitted when they
have worked themselves slowly and by degrees into the
very fabric of the physical body of the people concerned.
Mental and moral qualities not being transmitted, where
can we have the reason for human progress, unless, side
by side with the continuity of protoplasm, we have the
continuity of an evolving, developing soul ? That con­
tinuity of the evolving soul is necessary, also because,
along with the same theory, backed up as it is by facts of
observation, we find that the higher the organism, the
greater the tendency towards sterility or towards a very
great limiting of the number of offspring produced.
In fact, it is becoming almost a commonplace in science
that “ genius is sterile”, and by that it is meant that
the genius does not tend in the first place largely to
increase the number of the race, and secondly, that
even where the genius has a child, the child does not
show the qualities of the genius, but for the most part is
KKINOAKNATMN i 4i
commonplace, tending even to !«• below the average of the
time*
denies is to he found along two special lines •*
*
that of pure intellect or virtue, and that of art which
demands a co-operation of the physical hotly- The
first ask.; little or nothing fu.tn phy ieal heredity, hut we
cannot have the great geniui in music unless wc h a v with
it a specialised physical bodv with a delicacy of nervous
organisation, a idleness of touch ami a keenness of ear.
Those physical factors are required in order that musical
genius may show itself forth at its highest. There the
cooperation of physical heredity is demanded. When
we rend the stories of a musical genius we find that he is
generally Ixirn in a musical family ; that for two or three,
generations Iwfore that of the gostt genius, sane amount
of mm ieal talent has been marked in tie- family in which
he appear.; and that when the genius appears, the
urn msd talent dies out, and the family goes hack into the
firdinaty rut of average people, The family tlowets in
the genius; he does not hand on his genius to his
posterity.
N*»w these problem, and pu.vles of heredity
find fhetr rational explanation in the teaching of He­
in*so nation. A tundra! g'usius has need of a special­
ised body born in a must* d family under the Law of
IIrtrdifv ; but, a , already explained, that law holds
good f‘*r the phvsirnl (tody alone, and mental and
moral character is not transmissible, And the genius does
not come into the world, suddenly <jod created, or as a
mere *j>ort of nature, or the result of some fortunate
accident He comes with the njualitio he has gradually
devclojH-d by struggle in ins past. At the lHt»om of the
human ladder of progress stands the lowest savage ; at tin
i4a THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
top of that human ladder, the greatest saint and the noblest
intellect, geniuses built by slow degrees, built up by count­
less struggles, by failure as well as victory, by evil as well
as good. The evils of the past are the steps whereon man
rises into virtue, so that even in the lowest criminal we see
the promise of divinity. He too shall rise where the saint
is standing, and in all the children of men God shall at
last be seen.
That explains why man should have progressed, even
though Weissmann be right when he says that acquired
qualities are not transmitted; for those mental and moral
qualities are not the gift of the parent, they are the hard-
won spoils of victory of the individual soul; and each soul
comes back to his birth into the new body with the results
of his past lives in his hand to work with in the present
Thus reincarnation with its lessons in the evolution of
life fills up the gaps in the scientific theory and makes
intelligible the progress of character and intelligence, side
by side with the evolution of form.
Again, wherever we go through nature, looking at things
of the same kind, we find them at different stages of
growth ; and we constantly find in the more developed
creature marks of the past along which he has evolved.
And similarly, when we look at man, we see all stages of
intelligence and all stages of moral growth. How are
they to be explained scientifically ? Certainly not by
the principle—thrown out everywhere by science—of
sudden creation, of a sudden appearance without cause,
without antecedents, without anything to explain it.
Then why these great differences ? Or why even the small
differences ? If we say ‘ Growth ’, we are on sound
scientific ground, because everywhere in nature we see
growth, differences of size, differences of development;
REINCARNATION 143
and the marks of growth of intelligence and of morality
that we see among men are clear signs of a past, of
differences of soul-age. Moreover, we find in human
intelligence marks of its past, similar to the marks of the
past in human bodies ; intelligence in a new body swiftly
runs over its past evolution, as all careful observers of the
unfolding of intelligence in the child know well.
Q. Now what do you mean by the moral necessity for
reincarnation ?
Ans, The third necessity, the moral one, is the most
potent argument for reincarnation, as otherwise there can
be no divine justice, no love in this universe. The
two other possibilities for human inequalities, i.e., heredity
and special creation, have already been shown to be
unreasonable. One is born a cripple, another an athlete.
Why ? One is a congenital idiot, another a genius gifted
with brilliant intellectual powers; one magnanimous,
another greedy and grasping. Again why ? If God made
the difference, it means injustice, helplessness and conse­
quent hopelessness. One soul born in the slums from a
harlot mother and a drunkard father, taught nothing but
crime and curses, compelled to steal for his supper, know­
ing nothing of kindness or love, becomes a habitual crimi­
nal, and striking someone hard in passion, while
drunk, kills him and is sent to the gallows. Where
would he go after death ? He is too foul for heaven, while
he cannot be sent to everlasting hell when he had no chance
at all in life. Another soul is reared in a refined family
and tenderly guarded by loving parents. He is coaxed
into virtue and given the best education. Throughout life
he is laden with prizes for the abilities he did not make
and dies after a life of usefulness and glory. What has he
done to deserve all this ? If each has been born under
i44 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
special creation with everlasting heaven or hell to follow
after death, is it Divine Justice ? Has not the criminal the
right to demand of God: “ Why didst Thou make me so ? ”
But Reincarnation restores justice to God and
power to man and explains that the criminal is a young
and unevolved soul, a savage who has started in the stream
of evolution at a later period than the other who is a soul
of long experience with many lives behind him, that both
are the results of their past, and that the differences
between them are only those of age and growth.
Amongst many others, Reincarnation solves the
following problems:
1. It explains the present inequalities of social
condition and privilege.
2. It removes the metaphysical necessity of
having to place in the very heart of the Supreme the
principle of injustice.
3. It introduces into the moral and spiritual
worlds the same order which observation and science have
discovered in the physical.
4. It explains the appearance of men of genius
in families *destitute of unusual abilities in its other
members.
5. It explains the frequently occurring cases of
unfitness of environment which often embitter disposition
and paralyse endeavour.
6. It explains the violent antithesis between
character and condition by showing that it is the result of
growth, not of divine fiat.
7. It explains the variations of the moral sense
in mankind, i.e., problems of conscience.
8. It explains the occurrence of accident, misfor­
tune and untimely or sudden death.
REINCARNATION l45
9. It explains the possession by individuals of
psychic powers.
10. It gives the reason for and rationale of
Darwinian Evolution.
11. It affords a rational solution of the problem
of what will be the future of men who, having been granted
a physical existence by God, have never learned to value
it, e.g.9 the miser, whose only enjoyment is to count a
number of yellow pieces of metal; or the sensualist who
has no higher conception of life than bestiality.
12. It explains the tremendous contradiction
which often exists between our desires and our will, our
character as known to ourselves and our actions as seen
by others.
13. It solves the difficulty of reconciling the
Love of God with His Power.
14. It explains the apparently meaningless
caprice of death.
Q. What about the new-born babe who dies immediate­
ly after birth ? How can you explain that useless
birth ?
Ans. One of the factors under which reincarnation
takes place is the Law of Karma or the law of cause
and effect (see Chapter V), and such an ego had become
indebted to that law by causing the death of someone
without malice or intention, killing merely through careless­
ness like throwing away a burning match, after lighting a
cigar, which fell on a heap of straw, set fire to a house and
burnt its inmate to death. Such an ego has to pay for
his carelessness, not criminality, by a brief delay in taking
a new body. He pays by the early loss of the child-body
and consequent delay, but immediately takes another,
ordinarily within a few months.
19
146 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
But ft is the parents who suffer most in such cases.
Why ? Possibly those parents in a previous life had been
guardians to a distant relative’s orphan child simply for
appearance’ sake and had shown unkindness or active
cruelty to him, so much so that the child had died. By
the Law of Karma, they reap as they had sown, and they
have to pay the debt standing against them, for their
lack of love, in the loss of the body of their own child, dear
to their hearts, and thus learn tenderness and kindness for
all children alike. The child dying immediately after birth
loses nothing: only his progress is delayed a little; but the
parents suffer, as they deserve by their karma in the loss
of their long-hoped-for child. Their karma is thus
brought into touch with that of the person who owes the
debt of life, and both destinies are worked out in the death
of the child.
Q. To what extent is the belief in Reincarnation
found in religions and philosophy, ancient and modern ?
What is the approximate number of people who believe
in the idea of Reincarnation as part of their religious
creed ?
Ans. The philosophy of Reincarnation antedates the
remotest antiquity all over the world as it is a necessary
corollary of the immortality of the soul. Reincarnation is
taught in the great epics of the Hindus as an undoubted
fact on which morality is based. The Egyptians undeni­
ably taught this doctrine, and their conception of it as
shaped by the priesthood is displayed in their classic, The
Book of the Dead, one of their chief Scriptures, describ­
ing the course of the soul after death, a copy of which was
deposited in each mummy case. In the old Persian faith
it is scarcely discernible in the extant writings of the Avesta
—the major part having been irretrievably lost—though a
REINCARNATION 147
passage is found in the Vandidad—the most orthodox of
the Zoroastrian books—which refers to the doctrine of
the transmigration of animal life. The Buddha taught it
and constantly spoke of His past births. Among the
scattered remnants of old races on the American continent,
the belief is occasionally found, as among the Zuni
Indians. The Hebrews now do not seem to accept rein­
carnation, though taught in the Kabbalah, and belief in it
in the old times peeps out from it here and there. In the
Wisdom.
- of Solomon it is stated that coming into an
undefiled body was the reward of “ being good At the
most, a few thousands among those reckoned as Christians
believe in it at the present time, and Christianity now re­
jects it though the Christ accepted it by telling His disciples
that John the Baptist was Elijah ; while Origen, the most
learned of the Christian Fathers, declared that “ every
man received a body according to his deserts and his
former actions.” The Sufi Muhammadans hold that
belief, and it comes to us in the Middle Ages from a
learned son of Islam, Jakl-ud-Din Rumi, the Persian
poet and mystic:
“ I died from the mineral, and became a plant ;
I died from the plant and reappeared in an
animal;
I died from the animal and became a man,
Wherefore then should I fear ? When did I grow
less by dying ?
Next time I shall die from the man,
That I may grow the wings of the angel.”
As Max Muller truly remarked, the greatest minds that
humanity has produced have accepted Reincarnation.
Pythagoras taught it, and Plato included it in his philo­
sophical writings. Virgil and Ovid take it for granted.
The Neo-Platonic schools accepted it, and the Gnostics
i48 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
and Manichaeans believed in it. In later time we find it
taught by Schopenhauer, Fichte, Schelling, Lessing, Henry
More, Herder, Southey, Bulwer, Pezzani, to name but a
few among the western philosophers and authors. Hume
declared that it was the only doctrine of immortality a
philosopher could look a t ; Goethe in his old age looked
joyfully forward to his return. Emerson, the Plato of the
nineteenth century, as well as Wordsworth, Rossetti,
Gosse, Tennyson, Browning, Coleridge, Collins, Bailey,
Sharp and other poets believed in it. The reappearance of
the belief in Reincarnation is not, therefore, an emergence
of a belief of savages among civilised nations, but a sign
of recovery from the de-rationalisation of religion, which
has made life an unintelligible tangle of injustices and
partialities and has given rise to so much scepticism and
materialism.
Generally speaking, the people who at the present
time believe in Karma and Reincarnation are the Hindus
and the Buddhists. The Hindus number about 25o,ooo,ooo*
in the total population of India of nearly 320,000,000. The
number of Buddhists is not easy to ascertain accurately
as we know hardly anything about the huge population of
China. Rhys Davids, relying on census returns, gives the
number of Southern Buddhists as 3o,000,000 and that of
the Northern Buddhists, (counting the total population of
China, arrived at mainly by lumping it in,) as 47o, 000,000
thus making a total of 5oo,ooo,ooo Buddhists, though
Dr. Findlater places the total number of Buddhists in
China alone at “ more than 34o millions Thus even at
the present moment it would seem that nearly half the
human race hold a belief in Karma and Reincarnation,
while in the past the proportion would be very much
greater as these doctrines were also current in the lands
REINCARNATION 149
then dominated by Chaldean, Egyptian and Greek
thought.
Q. But is not the doctrine of Reincarnation, though
found in the Hindu, Buddhist, Egyptian, Greek and
Roman religions, alien at least to Christianity ?
Ans. This question of profound importance is being
much discussed to-day by thinkers in the West, and is
arousing a good deal of controversy and antagonism which
seem rather to be based on ignorance than on study. The
doctrine of the pre-existence of the soul and reincarna­
tion branches out along two lines in the early Christian
writings, and in the writings of the Jews who preceded the
Christians , Sometimes stress is laid upon the fact that
the soul did not come into existence with the body, that
he is eternal in his nature, or to speak more correctly,
the Spirit is eternal and comes forth from God. This
branch of the doctrine, then, commonly distinguished as
“ the pre-existence of the soul” simply asserts that the
Spirit in man is eternal, comes forth from God; that there
came forth also from God many Spirits who are not
incarnate in human form, and that these passed on
through various stages and through various worlds until
some of them came into the physical world, where they
underwent a training which prepared them for a higher
evolution, gradually climbing back with the experience
that they had gathered into the original purity that they
had lost. That doctrine, in the form roughly sketched
here, may be said to be universal, both among the Jews
and in the early Church. In the more precise and
scientific form of reincarnation, i.e,, repeated rebirths
into the physical form of man on a physical earth, it is
found in some of the writings of the early Church, but
not in all. Some speak vaguely of pre-existence, others
i5o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
definitely of repeated births into the world. In both, the
principle is the same, the idea that the human Spirit
coming forth from God is not inherently holy, save by his
derivation from the One Supreme Holiness; that the
holiness in nature which is due to his being derived from
God may be partially lost for a time. When the Spirit
has lost his primitive innocence, then he is spoken of as
the soul—the soul being the intermediate state between
the Spirit and the body, that which gathers experience,
that which passes through the various worlds in the
universe, and returns ultimately with the experience he
has gathered to his primal home in God.
Now it is found that the Fathers attacked very bitter­
ly and denounced very vehemently one form of the doctrine
which was current among the Greeks and the Romans, in
the literature of their time ; and that is the idea that the
human soul can pass into an animal form. But the
very fact that that is the only form of pre-existence and
reincarnation that they denounced makes all the stronger
their general acceptance of the principle just described.
But in order to understand the position in which
the Church of Christ arose, a comprehension is necessary
of the Jewish environment and the thoughts and views
of the Jewish people to whom, of course, the Apostles
and the early disciples belonged, and among whom, accord­
ing to genealogy, Jesus Himself took birth. In the Old
Testament, the verse from Jeremiah: “ Before thou
earnest forth from the womb I sanctified thee, and I
ordained thee a prophet” (i, 5), is one that is referred to
by several Fathers of the Church in this very relation
of the pre-existence of the human soul. Both Origen
and Jerome distinctly refer to the statement, that
before Jeremiah was born he was sanctified as a prophet,
REINCARNATION l5 l
as one of the proofs from the Holy Scripture of the pre­
existence of the soul. For Origen specially points out
that Divine Justice cannot possibly be defended unless
a man, sanctified as a prophet, or born to some great
service in the world has earned that pre-eminence by
former righteous living or has climbed to that blessing by
meritorious action in the past. Then there is the very
definite statement in Malachi (iv, 5), that Elijah will
return. Again, there is a very interesting passage in the
book of the Wisdom of Solomon, in which Solomon says
“ I was a witty child and had a good Spirit. Yea,
rather being good, I came into a body undefiled ” (ix, i5).
Thus there is the distinct statement that because Solomon
was already a good Spirit that he came into a body
undefiled. Then again, certain definite statements as
regards the Jews of his own time are given by the famous
Jewish writer, Josephus. With regard to the Pharisees,
in his De Bello Judaico (ii, 8), he says: “ They say that
all souls are incorruptible; but that the souls of good
men are only removed into other bodies—but that the
souls of bad men are subject to eternal punishment.”
There is one still better notice in Josephus as to the
general beliefs in his own day with regard to the
reincarnation of the soul. Having defended the fortress of
Jotapata and taken refuge in a cave with some forty of the
soldiers who desired to kill each other in order to prevent
themselves from falling into the hands of the Romans,
Josephus himself addressed the following argument to
them : “ Do you not remember that all pure Spirits who
are in conformity with the divine dispensation, live on
in the loveliest of heavenly places, and in course of time
they are again sent down to inhabit sinless bodies; but
the souls of those who have committed self-destruction
152 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
are doomed to a region in the darkness of the under­
world ?” Now it has fairly been argued by Professor
Victor Rydberg, in relation to these words, that the fact
that Josephus addressed an argument of this sort to
rough soldiers and uneducated men—not to philosophers
who are known by their writings to believe and teach
reincarnation in those days—shews that the doctrine was
generally current among the Jews of his time. Again, in
the writings of Philo this doctrine is found distinctly
laid down as one of the bases of the great Jewish
Alexandrian School. Thus, so far as the Jews were
concerned, that doctrine was regularly received among
them, and that is important to remember while coming
to the words of the disciples of Jesus and their question
as to the sin of the man born blind, for it is seen
that they were only referring to the current belief of
their day.
Glancing at the New Testament, the first interesting
thing to notice there is the alleged fulfilment of the
prophecy of Malachi as to the return of Elijah, the
prophet. It is perfectly true that when S. John the Baptist
was asked: C
i Art thou Elias ?” he answered : “ No.”
But Jesus Himself stated exactly the opposite, and said :
“ This is Elias.” The denial of S. John the Baptist is
easily explained by the fact that the memory of a past life
passes over death and rebirth only in very rare cases as
explained before, so that the absence of knowledge on the
part of the Baptist is no evidence against the reality of
reincarnation, while the twice-repeated statement of the
Christ Himself that S. John the Baptist was Elijah
(S. Matt, xi, i4 and xvii, I2 -i 3), speaking as He did with
knowledge of the past, surely very much outweighs the
denial of the Baptist on a point that he could not be
REINCARNATION l53
expected to remember. It is interesting also to notice the
repetition of character, which is exactly what might be
expected—both were preachers of righteousness, both were
ascetic by training and fiery by nature, brave in the
rebuke of evil in high places, the strong vigorous
character of the prophet Elijah reappearing in the
equally strong and vigorous character of S. John the
Baptist. Again, they bore an outward resemblance to each
other with similar peculiarities of dress. Elijah was
“ a hairy man, and girt with a girdle of leather about his
loins ”, while John the Baptist had “ his raiment of
camel’s hair, and a leathern girdle about his loins Their
home was the solitude of the desert. Elijah journeyed
forty days and forty nights unto Horeb, the mount of God
in the Wilderness of Sinai (I Kings, xix, 8). John the
Baptist was in the Wilderness of Judea beyond Jordan
baptising {Mark, i, 4). And their life in exile—a self-
renunciating and voluntary withdrawal from the haunts
of men—was sustained in a parallelly remarkable way by
food bird-brought or wing-borne. “ I have commanded
the ravens to feed thee ”, said the voice of Divinity to the
Prophet (I Kings, xvii, 4), while locusts and wild honey
were the food of the Baptist {Matt., iii, 4). Thus with the
identity of character, certain outward resemblances and
the twice-repeated solemn declaration of Jesus Himself,
it is difficult to escape the conclusion that S. John the
Baptist was really a reincarnation of Elias, if the Gospel
be reliable.
Then, the case of the man born blind (S.John, ix)
does not need labouring. The question is so plain : “ Who
did sin, this man or his parents ?” The disciples realised
that this must be the result of some sin or folly ; and their
question is as to whose sin it was that had brought about
20
THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
l54
this deplorable result. Was it that the parents had been
so wicked that they deserved to have the sorrow of a
blind son; or was it that in some previous state of ex­
istence the man himself had sinned, and so brought upon
himself this pitiable fate ? Obviously, if the latter were the
true solution, the sins which deserved this punishment
must have been committed before he was born—that is to
say, in a previous life. Thus both the great pillars of
Theosophical teaching—Reincarnation and Karma—are
clearly, implied in this one question. Those who imply
by the answer of Jesus “ neither did this man sin nor
his parents,” a non-belief in reincarnation, will have to
take up the extraordinary position that the parents of the
man were sinless, for the two are put on exactly the same
ground: ‘‘ Neither this man nor his parents.” Rut an
unbiassed mind, not desiring to twist the text in order to
support a preconceived idea, will naturally see in that
answer, spoken by One Himself by birth a Jew, and
spoken to Jews among whom the doctrine of Reincarnation
was current, the simple and direct statement that this man’s
blindness was not due to sin in a former life, any more
than to the sin of the parents who gave the blind child
birth. The Master assigns another and mystical reason,
“ that the works of God may be manifest in him ” ,* but
surely, had He deemed that the conception of rebirth,
which was clearly in the minds of His disciples, was
erroneous in itself, He would have stated so, as He did
elsewhere when they needed correction, and would have
rebuked them for their folly with the only answer: “ W hy
ask me the foolish question whether the man is born blind
because of his sin ? How could he sin before birth ? ”
Again, the phrase in John, xvi, 2, “ In my Father’s
house are many halting places”, is very significant.
REINCARNATION i55
The word mistranslated ‘mansions ’ is a word used for
the rest-houses along the roads of the empire. This
is a very suggestive reference to the many rests which
the human soul or ego takes in the Father’s house between
the lives of effort on earth in which his stature is grow­
ing. “ Be ye perfect ” would be an idle command of the
Christ if spoken to poor stumbling humanity with but a
few years to live, or to drunken loafers whose thoughts are
centred on the nearest public house, but a glorious promise
if spoken to men who had time in which to grow to the
“ measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ ”. Says
the Christ Himself: f£The disciple is not above his Master,
but every one when he is perfected, shall be as his Master ”
(5. Luke,v\, 4o).
There is another text in the Revelation which
implies reincarnation. It is the verse in which the
Son of Man, addressing one of the Seven Churches of Asia,
makes the statement of the one who overcomes: ec I
will make him a pillar in the temple of My God,
and he shall go forth no more.” That cgoing forth ’
which comes to an end with the final overcoming refers to
the repeated goings forth of the soul from the heavenly
places, which come to an end when the soul is perfected
and becomes “ a pillar in the temple of My God
a Watchers and Holy Ones, pillars in the temple of God
who shall go out thence no more ” (Rev,, 3, 12).
Pre-existence and rebirth are referred to by many of
the Christian Fathers, and were cardinal doctrines among
the Gnostics, who represented for several centuries the
purer stream of the spiritual and philosophical teaching
of the Christ.
In the writings of Origen—the most celebrated
pupil of S. Clement of Alexandria and perhaps the most
i56 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
brilliant and learned of all the Ecclesiastical Fathers—
especially in his great treatise De Principiis, there is a
mine of information as to the teachings of the early
Christians, in the second century.
His was the evolutionary view. Referring to
S. John the Baptist being filled with the Holy Ghost in his
mother’s womb (I, vii, 4), he says that some “ may think
that God fills individuals with His Holy Spirit, and
bestows upon them sanctification, not on grounds of justice
and according to their deserts, but undeservedly. And
how shall we escape that declaration, ‘ Is there unright­
eousness with God ? God forbid.’ Or this: cIs there respect
of persons with God ?’ For such is the defence of those
who maintain that souls come into existence with bodies.”
S. John the Baptist was only filled with the Holy Ghost
in his mother’s womb because by previous righteous living
he had earned that blessing. Origen adds that God
“ disposes everything according to the deserts and moral
progress of each individual ”, and that this is necessary
“ to demonstrate the impartiality and righteousness
of God, that, conformably with the declaration of the
Apostle Paul, ethere is no acceptance of persons with
Him.’ ”
Origen further declares that the condition of a man
is a judgment of God on the deeds of each individual
and proceeds to illustrate his argument by the famous case
of Jacob and Esau (II, ix, 7). That case has sometimes
been used as an argument by the Calvinist School for the
direct predestination of man by God either to eternal
happiness or eternal misery. But according to the teaching
of Origen, man being born free could not be predetermined
by another will either to happiness or misery, save in the
course of justice, as the man himself had deserved it. It
REINCARNATION 157
would be unjust if God loved Jacob and hated Esau
before the children were born, and the only way to recon­
cile that declaration with the justice of God is to say that
Esau was reaping the fruits of past evil, while Jacob was
reaping the fruits of past good. This is the declaration
made most definitely alike by Origen and also by Jerome.
For Jerome {Letter to Avitus) says : f£ If we examine the
case of Esau, we may find that he was condemned because
of his ancient sins in a worse course of life ” ; and so
also Origen declares : “ It is found not to be unrighteous­
ness that even in the womb Jacob supplanted his brother,
if we feel that he was worthily beloved by God, according
to the deserts of his previous life, so as to deserve to be
preferred before his brother.’5 He adds that this must be
ct carefully applied to the case of all other creatures,
because, as we formerly remarked, the righteousness of
the Creator ought to appear in everything.” “ The
inequality of circumstances preserves the justice of a
retribution according to merit.”
Origen deals admirably with the case of Pharaoh
whose heart, it is written, was hardened by God, and
points out that in this world it is not always the
rapid cure which is the most effective : “ Sometimes it
does not lead to good results for a man to be cured
too quickly, especially if the disease, being shut up
in the inner parts of the body, rage with greater
fierceness” (III, i, 17). And he declares that the
hardening of the heart was intended only to enable
Pharaoh to see the evil of his ways, so that in future
lives, having learned the lesson that it was a bitter thing
to sin against God, he also might turn to righteousness of
living, as a good physician of souls sets the remedy to the
disease with which the man is afflicted.
i58 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
From these quotations it can be seen that there is
no possibility of challenge of the idea that reincarnation
was taught by Origen. But one more quotation may be
added, the strongest of all, to demonstrate that Origen
has in his mind repeated births into this world, and not
only previous experiences in other worlds. “ Those who,
departing this life in virtue of that death which is common
to all, are arranged in conformity with their actions and
deserts—according as they shall be deemed worthy—some
in the place which is called the *infernus others in the
bosom of Abraham, and in different localities or mansions.”
These are the conditions in the invisible worlds after
death. u So also from these places, as if dying there, if
the expression can be used, they come down from the
‘ upper world * to this <hell \ For that ‘ hell ’ to which
the souls of the dead are conducted from this world is, I
believe, on account of this distinction, called the ‘ lower
hell5
. . . Every one, accordingly, of those who descend
to the earth is, according to his deserts, or agreeably to
the position that he occupied there, ordained to be born in
this world in a different country, or among a different
nation, or in a different mode of life, or surrounded by
infirmities of a different kind, or to be descended from
religious parents, or parents who are not religious; so
that it may sometimes happen that an Israelite descends
among the Scythians, and a poor Egyptian is brought
down to Judea ” (IV, i, 23 ). There can hardly be a more
definite statement than that as to the rebirth of souls.
If a soul can be made good, then to make a soul
evil is impossible to a God of Justice and Love. It cannot
be done. There is no justification for it, and the moment
it is recognised that men are born criminal, as they are
born every year, one is either forced to the blasphemous
REINCARNATION l59
position that a perfect and loving God creates a ruined
soul and then punishes him for being what He has made him,
or else that He is dealing with growing, developing crea­
tures whom He is training for ultimate blessedness, and if
in any life a man is born wicked and evil, it is because he
has gone amiss and must reap in sorrow the results of evil
in order that he may learn wisdom and turn to good. It
is for Christians to realise how it illuminates life and
makes rational the burning hope of the Apostle that
“ Christ be formed in you ”, a hope not possible for the
best of men in a single life, and one ludicrously impossible
and meaningless if set before the dejected mass of the
slum-population, drink-sodden and sin-stained, yet far
more sinned against than sinning.
Thus Reincarnation is a Christian doctrine, and if a
Christian accepts it by the exercise of his reason and
thought, and comes to the conclusion that Reincarnation is
true, he ought not to take it as an alien doctrine, coming
from the Hindu, Buddhist, Egyptian, Greek, and Roman
religions, but should take it as part of his Christian
birthright, as part of the faith once delivered to the saints.
Q. If Reincarnation is thus a Christian doctrine,
why has it disappeared and has no place in modern
Christianity ?
Ans. Not a word of judgment, criticism or warning
is found in the New Testament against this doctrine,
which, as we saw before, formed a considerable portion of
the philosophies and faiths of the Jews and the Gentiles,
On the contrary, the Scriptures contain numerous pas­
sages that are illumined, and only rendered understandable,
by the light shed upon them by the doctrine of Reincar­
nation. But that doctrine was condemned and ruled out
of orthodox Christianity by the Second Council of
l6 0 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Constantinople in the sixth century (a .d . 553). That is the
reason why the doctrine disappeared out of official
Christianity represented by the Roman Catholic Church ;
but it did not disappear from Christendom. It persisted
and was preserved in the teaching of many a m ystical
—so-called heretical—sect and in the songs of many a
wandering minstrel. The School of Albigenses, w hich
gave so many martyrs through its clinging to the original
truth of the Gospel, taught Reincarnation, and that doctrine
appears from time to time in the Church in the m ost
remarkable way. In the seventeenth century the R ev.
Mr. Glanville, Chaplain of Charles II, was a man o f
unchallenged position in the Church ; and yet in his book.
Lux Orientalis, he lays down step by step exactly the
doctrine of Reincarnation that is found among the early
Fathers and is familiar in the mouths of Theosophists
to-day. In the eighteenth century also there was a regular
outburst of this doctrine when several books were written,
proving it to be an integral part of Christianity.
Thus though the teaching of reincarnation only
disappeared for a time in the flood of ignorance that
swept over Europe after the decay of the Roman Empire,
this splendid conception is steadily coming back into
western thought through books, lectures or articles
by philosophers, poets and even clergymen in recent tim es.
Q. What are the principal factors which determine the
next birth of a man ?
. Ans. There are three principal factors :
The first is the Law of Evolution which presses the
man into a position in which he can most easily develop
the qualities he needs. Every man has to become perfect
by unfolding all the divine possibilities latent in him, a s
the object of the entire scheme is this unfoldment. For
REINCARNATION 161
that purpose he is guided precisely to that race and sub­
race which, with its surroundings and conditions, is best
fitted to develop within him the special qualities in which
he may be deficient.
But the action of this law is limited by the Law of
Karma or the law of cause and effect. If a man has
made karma for himself, which brings about limitations,
he may have to go without the best possible opportunities
and rest content with the second best ones.. In such a
case one’s own past actions restrain the free play of the
Law of Evolution.
The third factor which still further limits the action
of the Law of Evolution is the influence of the group of
egos with whom he has formed strong ties of love or hate
in former lives. His relation with those egos whom he
must meet because of past connections is an important
factor, acting for good or evil, in determining his
next birth.
Evolution for man is God’s will, and the Law of
Evolution will give a man whatsoever is the most suitable,
but, as said above, the best opportunities are limited by
the man’s past actions and his links with other souls. A
man may be able to learn certain lessons in a hundred
different positions; but he may be debarred from more
than half of them by his past karma ,* and out of the
balance a choice may be made mainly owing to the
presence in a family, or in the neighbourhood, of souls with
whom he had formed ties of love or hate in the past.
Of course it is philosophically true to say that a
man always gets the best opportunities, because be obtains
the conditions best suited to his imperfect character and
necessary for the removal of his imperfections. It is just
the same in schools where we cannot give the best
21
162 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
text-book to a young student, because he could not under­
stand or profit by it as it would be too advanced for him.
Q. Then do we again come into contact in a new life
with the people we love or hate in this life ?
Ans. Certainly. First of all in the long heavenly life
the whole of the time is spent with people we loved on
earth; and when we come back, we tend to do so in
groups, along with the same loved ones.
Love is a link formed between egos, and death
cannot break it; and loving egos in new bodies recognise
one another as friends wearing different suits of clothes.
Still it does not follow that the egos will have the same
earthly relationship as in the past life. The link of pure
love remains, but the husband and wife of ope life may be
born as two brothers, or sisters, or as brother and sister,
or may have the relationship of parent, or child, or grand­
parent, or grandchild, or of any such tie by blood. But
if for reasons of karma they are born in different families
in the same neighbourhood or even in far-away countries,
they are brought together and drawn to each other as
lovers or intimate friends, as nothing in heaven or earth
can slay love, or break its tie.
Sometimes the links being those of hatred and
wrong-doing, ancient enemies are drawn into one family,
there to work out in misery, or sometimes in ghastly fami­
ly tragedies, the evil results of the common past. From
some people we shrink back at sight, and that is the warn­
ing of the ego against an ancient foe. The bond forged by
hate can melt away only in the fire of love, as “ Hatred
ceases not by hatred at any time; hatred ceases by love.”
Thus back we come, old friends together—old enemies
together, too—though dressed in new garbs, with new
vehicles in each life.
REINCARNATION l63
In the eighteenth and last volume of the works of
the late Max Muller, a noteworthy passage appears,
distinctly stating his belief in reincarnation :
“ I cannot help thinking that the souls towards
whom we feel drawn in this life are the very souls whom
we knew and loved in a former life, and that the souls who
repel us here, we do not know why, are the souls that
earned our disapproval, the souls from whom we kept
aloof in a former life.”
He is only one more witness in an ever-growing band,
but each man of mark who adds his testimony increases
the rationality of the doctrine in the eyes of the many who
are swayed by the authority of well-known names.
The idea of instinctive dislike at first sight—the
so-called Dr. Fell policy—is well expressed in the
following verse :
“ I do not like thee, Dr. F ell;
The reason why I cannot tell;
But this enough I know full well,
I do not like thee, Dr. Fell.”
Q. Please describe how the new mental, astral and
physical vehicles are formed for a new life.
Am. When physical death takes place, a man casts off
his physical, astral and mental bodies one after another,
as described in Chapter VI. Thus discarded, those bodies
disintegrate, their particles mingling with the materials of
their respective planes. But each man as a spiritual
Triad—the triatomic Atma-Buddhi-Manas, the Jivatma—
has annexed to himself from the very beginning a lower
triad of permanent atoms, an atom each of the physical and
astral planes, and a molecule or unit of the lower mental
plane, called physical permanent atom, astral permanent
atom and mental permanent unit, respectively. These
permanent atoms are carried over by a man from life to
i64 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
life, are stored up, after the disintegration of the three
lower bodies, as a brilliantly scintillating nucleus within
his causal body, and are thus all that remains to him of
his bodies in the lower worlds. They are really epitomes
of the bodies which gather round them each life, and their
use is to preserve within themselves, as vibratory powers,,
the results of all the experiences through which they have
passed. Thus the astral and mental bodies hand on to
the ego, or the real man, the germs of the qualities and
faculties of that earth-life, which are then stored in
the causal body as seeds for his future astral and mental
bodies.
People sometimes wonder why the evil qualities
which a man shows in one life should so often persist in
later lives. The reason is not only that because the
opposing good quality is undeveloped, there is an oppor­
tunity for evil influences to act upon the man in that
particular direction, but also that the man carries with
him from life to life the permanent atoms of his lower
vehicles, and these tend to reproduce the qualities shown
in his previous incarnations. Yet the carrying over of
the permanent atoms is necessary if the developed man is
to fulfil the purpose of human evolution and be master
of all the planes. If it were conceivable that he could
develop without those permanent atoms, he might possibly
be a glorious archangel upon the higher planes, but he
would be absolutely useless in these lower worlds, for he
would have cut off from himself the powr
er of feeling
and thinking. The permanent atoms must therefore be
purified and not dropped.
After his stay in the higher world is over, a thrill
of life from the ego arouses the mental unit which acts
as a magnet, drawing towards itself materials with
REINCARNATION l65
vibratory powers resembling, or accordant with, its own,
to form a new mental body, representing the mental stage
of the man with all his mental faculties.
After the mental body is partially formed, the life-
thrill awakens or vivifies the astral atom to provide an
astral body representing the desire-nature and repro­
ducing the qualities evolved in the past.
Then the life-touch from the ego reaches the
physical permanent atom, and the key-note of that atom
is one of the forces which guide the selection of the
materials of the future physical body, for none can be
chosen that cannot, at least to some extent, be attuned
to that atom. But it is only one of the forces; the
karma of past lives, mental, emotional, and in relation to
others, demands materials capable of the most varied
expressions ; out of that karma, certain mighty beneficent
Intelligences, called Lipika or Lords of Karma, holding
the threads of destiny for every man, choose such as is
congruous, i.e.} such as can be expressed through a body
of a particular material group; this congruous mass of
karma determines the material group, overriding the
permanent atom, and out of that group are chosen such
materials as can vibrate in harmony with the permanent
atom, or in discords not disruptive in their violence.
Thus the Lords of Karma choose the race, the nation,
the family, etc., and guide the reincarnating ego to
the environments required in accordance with the
three factors which determine reincarnation as described
before.
The mould of the new physical body, suitable for
the expression of the man’s qualities and for working out
the causes set going in the past, is given by those Great
Ones, and the new etherie double, a copy of the mould, is
x66 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
accordingly built in the mother’s womb, while the dense
body is built into that etheric double, molecule by m ole­
cule, physical heredity thus having full sway in the
materials provided. Thoughts and passions of surround­
ing people, especially of the mother and father, influence
the building of the bodies. The new astral body coming
into contact with the etheric double exercises a great
influence over its formation, and through it the mental
body works upon the nervous organisation. This building
of brain and nerves, and their correlation to the astral
and mental bodies, go on till the seventh year when the
connection between the real man and his physical vehicle
is complete.
il ’Tis but as when one layeth
His worn out robes away,
And, taking new ones, sayeth :
4These will I wear to-day.’
So putteth by the Spirit
Lightly its garb of flesh,
And passeth to inherit
A residence afresh.”
And this long life of his lasts until he attains that
goal of Divinity which God means him to attain.
Q. But why are some persons born deformed, dw arf,
crippled ?
Ans. The karma of cruelty inflicted on others in past
lives results in deformed physical bodies. The inquisitors
of old and the vivisectors of the present day, as well as
schoolmasters ruling by fear instead of by love, terrorising
the children and abusing the power put into their hands,
are born in such bodies.
Evil thoughts and desires, hatred and passion,
cause a deformed body in extreme cases, and in all
cases result in a body deficient in strength or in
REINCARNATION i67
beauty and refinement. Nothing is outside the Law of
Karma.
Q. Is not this fate horrible in the case of a person who
has to be cruelfor the ultimate good of others ?
Ans. Cruelty is the worst crime as it sins against the
Law of Love. Good intentions are pleaded as excuse;
inquisitors wanted to save men’s souls, and vivisectors
pretend to save men’s bodies, but surely there ought to be
better methods of doing these. Similarly, the school­
master ought to eradicate faults in children by love and
good example, as weak children cruelly treated not only
suffer physically at the time, but become cowardly
and servile, and often cruel in their turn when they grow
strong.
But the effect of really good intentions is not lost.
As explained in Chapter V, each force works on its own
plane. The good intention will react on the man’s
moral nature, and he will be born with a gentle and
patient character ; though having inflicted pain on others
on the physical plane, he must endure physical agony
as a result, and that he does through his deformed
physical body.
Cruelty, among its other horrible results, very often
brings insanity in another life. On certain occasions it is
found to bring a sort of repayment in kind, i.e.} a man
who has been cruel, is himself put in a position, in
another life, in which he suffers great cruelty. Often it
has also resulted in a remarkable and cataclysmic descent
in the social scale, and a person who had been cruel in a
reasonably good position finds himself thrown down among
the dregs of the populace because of that cruelty.
“ The fate of the cruel must fall also upon all who
go out intentionally to kill God’s creatures and call it
i68 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
4sport The same thing is true with regard to certain
articles of dress. There are certain kinds of feathers,
certain kinds of decorations, that can only be procured at
terrible cost to animal life—not only by the death of the
creatures concerned, but generally also of the young ones
depending on the mother for life. People who wear these
things, though not desperately or intentionally cruel, are
certainly criminally careless. They are simply doing what
other people do, and 4
4try to excuse their brutality by
saying that it is the custom: but a crime does not cease to
be a crime because many commit it ”, and the fate of the
cruel will overtake all such sooner or later.
Q. Is it always the case that a child born ofparents of a
low type is entirely low, and that a highly developed child
will be born of parents of a high stage of development ?
Ans. Ordinarily like attracts like, and an ego is drawn
to parents of similar development to get a physical body
suited to his needs as well as to settle his accounts with the
parents and relatives-to-be, with whom he very likely had
dealings in past lives. But there are exceptions or abnor­
mal cases. Sometimes among a degraded type of people
in a slum we find a saintly child growing up like an un­
stained flower from ,the mire of slum-life, while sometimes
again in a noble family we come across a 4black sheep
These cases can be explained by the Law of Karma, in the
link made with other egos in the past. The 4black sheep *
by a kindly deed in a past life may have linked himself to
the nobler ego, and is in his new life collecting the old
debt from his late beneficiary in the form of advantages of
good surroundings.
In some cases a great soul, moved by a spirit of
self-sacrifice, may be born among people of a low type,
simply to uplift the degraded and encourage them by his
REINCARNATION i69
example to rise to a higher level. Instances of this sort
can be seen in some of the greatest Saints of Southern
India born among the Pariahs and in the well-known
negro Booker Washington.
Q. Is there a continuous series of incarnations in the
same sex or can one, born as man in one incarnation, be
born as woman in another ?
Ans. Men and women are complements rather than
duplicates. There are important differences between the
two sexes—social and biological.
Professor Edward Lee Thorndike, the famous edu­
cational psychologist of Columbia University, has classified
the specific differences in the mentality of the sexes*
Women, he says, excel in spelling, English, foreign
languages, immediate memory and retentiveness. Men,
he says, take the forefront in history, ingenuity, physics,
chemistry and accuracy of movement.
According to physiology the feminine body has a
much larger development of the glandular system, while in
the man there is a much greater development of the
muscular system. Emotional development going with the
glandular system, which nourishes, such development is
consequently found greater in the glandular system of
woman than in the corresponding system in man. These
fundamental physiological differences between man and
woman are necessary in order that the qualities corre­
sponding to these might be developed in the Race. “ For
fathers men were created, as for mothers women/’ said the
Manu. That is the mark of difference which governs the
body of each—Motherhood and Fatherhood—causing the
fundamental difference of type ,*the woman is the nourish-
er, the protector, the helper; these are the special qualities
of the Mother—tender, gentle, patient and enduring—so
22
THEOSOPHY -EXPLAINED
i7o
that even if we take the masculine quality, the quality of
courage, woman’s courage is very different from the cour­
age of man* The courage of a man is the great impulse
of his nature to assert himself as against opposition. The
courage of woman springs from love or devotion, and she
will be as brave as, braver sometimes than, the bravest man ;
but it will be in defence of some one, some thing that she
loves, and not with the mere desire of rivalry against an
opponent. That runs all through, though at a later stage
in evolution those qualities of the two sexes will blend.
It is quite true that sometimes we find some of the
opposite qualities developed in each sex, i.e., in the noblest
man much compassion and in the noblest woman great
strength and courage. But it is a blending of the opposites,
in order that the perfect human being, in whom all the
qualities are developed, may gradually appear on our earth.
Still no premature attempt to force that perfection is
desirable, as we have not yet reached the perfection of
separate qualities. That awaits further evolution. Hence
the great modern mistake of trying to make women into
men, to carry them along exactly the same lines, to forget
the difference and the value of the difference. The
masculine woman who has flost sex 5is no more attractive
than the effeminate man.
Incarnations are taken by the ego to acquire all
good qualities and to develop all faculties, thus becoming
perfect in the end; and different egos requiring different
kinds of experiences have to be born among different races,
countries, religions and families.
The ego is sexless, and sex is a characteristic of the
form, of the vehicle only; but, as stated before, at this
stage of human progress we ordinarily find strength, cour­
age, firmness, etc., evolved along the male line, and
REINCARNATION i 7 i
tenderness, purity, endurance, etc., evolved along the
female line, and therefore each ego has to dwell in male
and female bodies to acquire the qualities lacking at any
stage. Again, the infliction of wrong by one sex on another
may, as a karmic result, draw back the wrong-doers into
the wronged sex to suffer for their sins of past life.
As a general rule an ordinary ego takes no less than
three and not more than seven successive incarnations in
one sex before changing to the other, but in the case of a
developed ego considerable elasticity is allowed, and he
is likely to be born into the sex and race best suited to
give him an opportunity to strengthen the weak points of
his character.
Q. If a man is born in a body suited to the actions of
his past life and has to suffer or enjoy therein, have very
sinful people to be born in bodies of animals as many
Hindus are said to believe ?
Ans, Indian Sages have taught three distinct phases in
the process of rebirth: Resurrection, Transmigration or
Metempsychosis, and Reincarnation.
As explained before, our body is a kind of colony of
atoms and molecules, mircrobes and bacteria, each having
a life of its own. We are all the time emanating millions
of lives which are drawn into different kingdoms of nature
according to the tendency we have given them, while at
death these life-atoms in the body are scattered all over
the earth and are directed to new organisms of similar
tendencies. The doctrine of resurrection is thus true only
for atoms and emanations sent out by man during the
course of his life and at death.
The kamic elements of a man persisting as a shade
or a shell (see Chapter VI) for some time after his death
are finally disintegrated in the astral world. They then
i7a THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
transmigrate, or are, according to the law of attraction and
repulsion which controls universal selection, drawn into the
kamic elements of animals and men of inferior type. “ A
drunken priest becomes a worm, a stealer of corn a rat ’*
means that the elements which had served as the basis
for passions in a man pass after his death into the
bodies of animals possessing similar passions.
But a man, it is argued, may be born as an animal
to suffer for the horrible crimes of his past life. Those who
argue in this wray forget that there is very little suffering
in a mere animal body. Thus suppose that he is born as
a tiger. That tiger, according to his nature, would prey
upon weaker animals and would lead a life of comparative
ease up to his death, probably even dying painlessly by
being shot in the end. But if the same soul wT
ere compelled
to be reborn as a man, would he not suffer more for his
sins of past life if, for example, he had to lose all his
patrimony and remain unemployed, and then to see his
child die of slow starvation before his very eyes, his wife
thereby committing suicide and he himself turning a maniac ?
A divine spark constituting the soul by individual­
isation must find an adequate expression of its divine
nature, and having once risen from the animal stage to that
of man it would be as impossible for a human spirit to
dwell in an animal body as it would be for a gallon to be
contained in a pint measure.
Still when an ego, a human soul, by vicious
appetites forms a strong link of attachment to a particular
type of animal, the astral body of such a person, after the
soul has left the physical body, may assume a form
resembling that of the animal which represented his
passions on earth, and the soul may thus be embodied in
that animal vesture. Either at this stage or when he is
REINCARNATION 173
returning to reincarnation and is again in the astral world,
the soul may, in extreme cases, be linked by magnetic
affinity to the astral body of an animal of similar vicious
appetites and be chained as a prisoner to that animal’s
physical body through its astral. He cannot go to heaven
if so chained in the astral world just after death, nor can he
be reborn as a man if the chaining takes place while the
soul is descending towards physical life. That human
entity has all his faculties and consciousness in the astral
world, but cannot express himself, because in the first
place the animal body is not suited for human self-ex­
pression, and secondly because the animal still controls its
own body. But such animal obsession, i.e., undergoing penal
servitude while chained to an animal, and cut off for the
time from progress and self-expression, is not reincarnation,
for reincarnation means entering into a physical vehicle
which belongs to and is controlled by the ego. Thus we
understand that the soul of a man does not become the
soul of a brute, but that the former is bound to the soul of
a brute and carried in the animal organisation with all the
energies of that rational soul absolutely impeded.
In minor cases short of absolute imprisonment the
ego may take human birth, but the physical body will be
impressed with the animal characteristics like pig-face or
dog-face.
Q. Then how do you account for the statement in ( The
Light of Asia ’ that Buddha was able to remember His
incarnation in a tiger's form ?
Ans. To account for this, we require neither the birth
of human souls in animal bodies nor the theory of a per­
sistent individual consciousness in animals.
First of all that statement is merely a repetition of
an exoteric legend and may or may not be correct.
174 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Even taking it as correct, we are to remember that
Adepts can trace Their past incarnations right back to the
beginning when They became men, and Buddha is a Being
whose powers are far higher than those of Adepts; and
He could look back and read the Akashic records of a
previous Manvantara when, out of the Monadic essence
that was then evolving through the tiger’s form, the human
being that was later to develop to a Buddha was individual­
ised, i.e., when that Monadic essence which is now
Himself was part of a block of such essence ensouling the
bodies of many tigers.
Q. At what stage does reincarnation finish for an ego
and how ?
Ans. The ego has to descend to lower worlds and
work there garbed in different vehicles till he attains the
goal appointed for him by the Law of Evolution, by
acquiring knowledge and purity enough to be able to func­
tion self-consciously on the five planes of nature up to
Nirvana, with full mastery of matter therein.
What draws him back to earth is first his Karma, and
secondly ‘ Trishna (in Pali, ‘Tanha ',) thirst, desire for
sentient existence on the physical plane. Desire is useful
so long as experience is lacking, and its thirst remaining
unslaked, the ego returns to earth again and again. But
desire is personal and therefore selfish, and the condition
of Arhatship being unceasing activity without any personal
reward, the ego in the upward climbing must free himself
from one desire after another, desire for personal enjoy­
ment, personal pleasure, personal gain or attainments, and,
last and subtlest of all, desire for personal perfection.
Action is not to be stopped, but activity being carried on,
reward for the fruit of action is not to be desired. Thus
wearing out of all karma and killing out of desire for all
REINCARNATION i75
sentient existence are necessary for liberation from the bond
of birth and death. But desire cannot be killed out till
knowledge is acquired, and so liberation cannot be had
without knowledge. In fact, liberation is not a thing
to be acquired; we are all free, but in order to know,
to realise that we are free and not bound, self-knowledge
is necessary, and we find in The Voice of the Silence:
“ Shalt thou abstain from action ? Not so shall gain
thy soul her freedom. To reach Nirvana one must reach
Self-knowledge, and Self-Knowledge is of loving deeds
the child.”
Again in the same book we read: “ Inaction in a
deed of mercy becomes an action in a deadly sin.” The
failure to realise this distinction between action and the
desire for the fruits of action has led to the stagnation
and passivity characteristic of the eastern nations, since
spiritual selfishness and indifference brought on their
decay.
Q. What is the interval between lives, the time that
elapses between two incarnations of the same individual ?
Ans. The period between incarnations, i.e.y between
death and the next physical birth, is largely spent in the
lower heaven-world—Devachan—and the length of life
there depends on the amount and intensity of aspiration
during the earthly life. That period varies widely in
length with different persons.
Three principal facts have to be taken into
account: i. The class to which an ego belongs, that class
depending on the time when that ego attained individualisa­
tion, that is, passed from the animal to the human stage.
2. The mode in which he has individualised, either by any
of the right ways or normal lineSj i.e.yof intelligence, will
and emotion, or by wrong ways or irregular methods, i>e.,
i76 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
of pride, fear or hatred, and intense desire for power over
others. 3. The length and nature of his last life.
The whole can be well understood by taking
instances of different classes of egos.
1. Those who are already on the Path and are
about to reach the goal of liberation ordinarily take a
continuous succession of incarnations ; being disciples of the
Masters of the Wisdom, they are eager to continue the work
on the physical plane for their Masters, and so renounce
the happiness of the heaven-world that is their due, in
order to serve mankind with their work. Their Masters
choose for them when and where they shall be born, and
usually, after death, they reincarnate within a few months
or years, not discarding their astral and mental bodies
before rebirth, as is normally the case, and taking only new
physical bodies. But if for some reason these developed
souls do not follow that course, their interval between lives
is from fifteen hundred to two thousand years or more.
Their stay on the astral is very short or rapid and
unconscious, the greater portion of the interval being spent
on the highest level of the lower mental plane or heaven-
world, and about one-tenth of that interval being passed
by the ego on his own plane as conscious life in the causal
body in the higher mental world.
2. For those who are approaching the Path, the
interval is about twelve hundred years if the ego has been
individualised slowly by intellectual development, and
about seven hundred years if he has been individualised
suddenly by a rush of emotion or by a stupendous effort
of will. They spend on an average about five years on
the astral plane and the rest in the heaven-world, except­
ing about fifty years in the causal body on the higher
mental plane.
REINCARNATION l77
Persons distinguished along artistic, scientific or
religious lines have the same interval, with a tendency to
a longer astral and a shorter causal life.
3. A large class of people, gentlemen with a keen
sense of honour and above the average in goodness,
intellect and religious feelings, including, for example, the
best types of professional men, city-merchants and country-
gentlemen, and others who are well developed and
altruistic, has an interval from six hundred to one thousand
years including twenty or twenty-five years spent on the
astral, the balance being spent in various stages of the
heaven-world with only a touch of consciousness in the
ego on his own plane.
4. Another class, like most city-merchants, gentle­
men still, a little below the average in goodness, intellect
and religious feelings, who turn their intellect to more
material ends and have a life less elevated than the
professional man, has an interval between lives of five
hundred years, twenty-five in the astral and the rest in the
heaven-world. They have no conscious life in the causal
body, though they have the flash of memory vouchsafed to
each ego when he touches his own plane between two
physical incarnations.
5. The great mass of the lower middle class, of the
type of small shopkeepers, shop assistants or farmers, con­
ventional, dull and narrow, though well-intentioned, has an
average interval of two hundred to three hundred years
with forty years on the astral and the rest spent on the
lower levels of Devachan.
6. The so-called working classes, the skilled labour­
ers working both with hands and heads, men of respectability
and good character, have an interval varying from one
hundred to two hundred years, of which about forty are
23
i78 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
spent on the middle level of the astral and the rest on the
lower subplanes of the heaven-world.
7. The vast mass of unskilled labour, well meaning
but careless, and also the high types of savages have an
interval from sixty to a hundred years, whereof forty to
fifty are spent on the lower part of the astral and the
remainder on the lowest subdivision of the heaven-world,
8. Savages of comparatively mild type, some hill
tribes of India, and also the wastrels, the unemployable and
the drunkards among all nations, as well as slum-dwellers,
are absent from the world from forty to fifty years, spent
entirely on the lowest subdivision but one of the astral
plane.
9. The lowest specimens of humanity, the most
brutal of savages, the habitual criminals and the wife- and
child-beaters spend about five years on the lowest subplane
of the astral before being reborn, unless they are earth-
bound by crime, which not infrequently happens.
In all the above cases those individualised by
intellect tend to take the longer of the two intervals men­
tioned as possible for them, while those who attained
individualisation by other modes tend to take the shorter
interval.
When a child dies, he, too, has his short astral life
and his Devachan before return to rebirth; the interval
between the two lives may vary from a few months to
several years, according to the age and the mental and
epiotional nature of the child.
But the length and nature of the last life are also a
great factor in determining the interval. An ego dying
young, not having an opportunity to generate great spirit­
ual force will have a shorter interval than an ego living to
old age, and will also have a greater proportion of astral
REINCARNATION 179
life, because most of the strong emotions are generated in
the earlier part of the physical existence, while the more
spiritual energy is ordinarily generated during the later
part and continues to be so generated up to the end of that
earth-life. The character of the man during his earth-
life also greatly influences the interval, as some men
lead a long life without much of spirituality in it, thus
naturally tending to shorten the interval between their
incarnations.
Again, egos are closely associated in groups or
families, and this association tends to equalise the intervals
between lives as they have to be brought into incarnation
together, thus involving an increase or decrease of the rate
at which the spiritual force in individual cases discharges
itself. But there is no injustice anywhere—each one reaps
•exactly as he has sown.
CHAPTER Y
KARMA
Question. Is there anything like luck, fate or destiny>
or is there a law to guide the countless lives to happiness
or misery, to birth and death ?
Answer. A belief in pure luck or predestination is not
correct, for though it is a fact that there is luck or des­
tiny, man himself consciously or unconsciously makes that
destiny, is the master of his own fortune, and gets happi­
ness or misery, birth and death, etc., according to the Law
of Karma, reaping in each life as he has sown in past
lives.
Why some are born rich and others poor: some
having wealth only to corrupt, defile, deprave others-
therewith; while meritorious poverty struggles all unaided :
some gifted with beauty and health of body and mind
others pitiably lacking in either or both : some with nobility
of nature from birth; others with brutal, criminal propen­
sities congenitally: some passing through life along a
road strewn with roses; others along a road, paved
with failure and misery, heart-burning and despair:,
some living to ripe old age ; others but for a moment, to
be born, gasp and die—these and such other perplexities
of life can be resolved only through an understanding of the
Law of Karma.
KARMA i 8i
Q. You speak of the Law of Karma, but are there not
two other explanations or theories of human destiny—one,
the Will of God, and the other, the Result of Chance ?
Ans. Of course, one theory is that destiny is the Will
of God, that at His command things are bestowed or are
withheld, that we are like puppets moved by His hand and
no exertion can change our destiny. But a consistent
application of this theory means that God blinds children
and breaks the hearts of strong men, permits the innocent
to suffer for the guilty and creates a world with souls
born as cripples or idiots or congenitally diseased for no
fault of theirs. And for what purpose ? We know not
why we come into the world and whither we tend, treated
unjustly so long as we stay here. But this theory of human
destiny shows God to be unjust and capricious.
Again, if destiny be the result of chance, life is
merely a hotchpotch of circumstances. If there be God,
He does not concern Himself with the world He has
created. Human bodies might be born through parents
swayed by passion in a hovel, or in the home of refined
persons, without a law governing birth, without any choice
on our part or justification of the conditions or environ­
ments, everything being the result of chance. Then we
can never be certain of results; we might toil for years,
and after all might fail by chance. Science is possible
because nature is organised by law. Why should there be
law and order in all things in the universe except in human
events and human existence ?
Q. Then what is the third explanation of destiny, this
Law of Karma ?
Ans, Karma literally means Action. Every action has
a past which leads up to it as well as a future proceeding
from it. An action implies a desire which prompted it*
182 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
and a thought which shaped it, as well as the visible move­
ment called the *Act \ A desire stimulates a thought,
and the latter embodies itself in an act, while sometimes
it is a thought, in the form of a memory, that arouses a
desire, and the desire bursts into an act. fevery cause
was once an effect, and each effect in turn becomes a cause.
An action is the outer form of an invisible thought and
desire, and in its very accomplishment gives birth to a
fresh thought and desire, the three forming a circle per­
petually retraced. The relation of these three as 4Action \
and the endless interlinkings of such actions as causes and
effects are all included in the word Karma, a recognised
succession in nature, i.e.t a law. Hence Karma is called
the Law of Causation or the law of cause and effect.
The Law of Karma is the law of cause and effect,
of force and the effects produced by it. This force is of
the physical world of movement, or of the astral world
of feeling, or of the mental world of thinking. Each
man is using all three types of force, the first with the
activities of his physical body, the second with the feelings
of his astral body, and the third with the concrete and
abstract thoughts of his mental and causal bodies. To
aspire, to dream, to plan, to think, to feel, to act—all
this means to set in motion forces of three worlds, and
according to the use made by him of these forces, he
does good or evil karma—-he helps or hinders others.
Since he is one unit in a humanity of millions of indi­
viduals and not an individual by himself, each thought or
feeling or act of his affects each of his fellow-men,
in proportion to the nearness of each to him as the
distributor of force. Each such use of force by him,
which helps or hinders the whole, of which he is a part,
brings with it a result to him, a resultant reaction of his
KARMA l83
action to others. In the physical world, an injury
inflicted by him on others will bring the reaction of pain,
while the karma or reaction of a kind act is a force
which adjusts material circumstances so as to produce
a comfort; in the astral world, dislikes will react as
griefs, while sympathies will bring happiness; in the
lower mental world, criticism of others will work itself
out in worries to him, while search for truth will produce
inspirations; and in the higher mental world, aspirations
will give ideals to be followed life after life.
But first it should be understood that the Law of
Karma is a natural law and not an artificial one laid
down by an external authority. An artificial law has
penalties attached to it, which are local, changeable and
escapable. A thief may escape detection altogether
or may get light or heavy punishment if caught. But
a natural law is not a command like an artificial law ;
it is a simple statement of successions or sequences.
That ‘ fire burns’, that ‘ if you put your hand into fire,
it will burn ’, is the statement of a natural law. It is not
a command not to put your hand into fire, nor does
it lay down a penalty for its breach, but lays down an
invariable sequence of conditions—such a condition being
present, such another condition will invariably follow;
and the sequences never vary. The first condition is
called the cause, the <
second the effect. But if a new
condition is introduced, the succeeding condition will
be altered, the effect now being the resultant of both.
It has nothing of the nature of command; it leaves
us free to choose, but points out that such and such
thing will inevitably happen as the sequence of our
choice, and whatever the condition we choose, we must
accept with it the inevitable sequence. Wanting to
i84 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
produce water by the union of oxygen and hydrogen,
we require a certain temperature which we can obtain
from the electric spark. If we insist on keeping the tem­
perature at zero, or substitute nitrogen for hydrogen,
we cannot have water. Nature does not supply or with­
hold water, but merely lays down conditions for its pro­
duction. We are free to have it or go without it. If we
want it, we must bring the things together and thus make
the conditions. Without those conditions, no water is
formed ;with those conditions, inevitably water is produced.
Are we bound or free ? Free as to making the conditions,
bound as to results when we have made them.
It is an invariable law, and invariability of law
does not bind—it frees. Science proves that knowledge
is the condition of freedom and that only as a man knows
can he compel—nature is conquered by obedience. The
scientific statement of this law is : “ Action and reaction
are equal and opposite.”
Its religious version cannot be better put than in
the well-known verse of a Christian Scripture: “ Be not
deceived ; God is not mocked ; whatsoever a man soweth,
that shall he also reap.” Let us add also : “ Whatsoever a
man reaps, that he has sown in the past.”
In the fine matter of the higher worlds the reaction
is by no means instantaneous, often spreading over long
periods of time, but it returns inevitably and exactly.
a Though the mills of God grind slowly,
Yet they grind exceeding small;
Though with patience stands He waiting,
With exactness grinds He all.
“ It knows not wrath nor pardon ; utter true
Its measures mete, its faultless balance wr
eighs;
Times are as nought, to-morrow it will judge,
Or after many days.”
KARMA i85
Q. When did karma begin ?
Ans. The question shows a misconception of the very
nature of Karma. A general law of nature cannot be
said to have either a beginning or an ending. Wherever
there is any manifestation, any universe, any world, there
general laws are also present, inherent in the very nature
of things. Hence Karma, being a general law, is eternal;
it is a perpetual condition of existence in matter, neither
beginning nor ending. Where there is matter, eternity
can only reflect itself as endless succession, and hence
matter is said to be the “ cause of the generation of
causes and effects
If the form of the question be modified and it be
asked: “ When did the karma of a particular creature
Jbegin ? ” then the answer is : “ At the time the particular
creature came into existence.” When the eternal Spirit
takes to himself a garment of matter, he steps into condi­
tions in which Karma is perpetually working. His stepping
into the conditions begins his particular karma. At first
it is the karma of the mineral, i.e.9the play upon him of
surrounding force and matter, and the reaction from him on
his surroundings. These.actions and reactions weave the
links of his karma, and the chain draws him into one or
another type of the vegetable kingdom. There his reaction
is more complex, and the complicated web of karma
ultimately lifts him into some animal type. In that king­
dom his increasing sentiency enters into karmic causes,
and pains inflicted by him react as pains on him. The
feeling of pain is due to the evolution in him of the power
to feel; the law is the same, it is still action and reaction,
but whereas in the mineral these were unaccompanied by
feeling, in the animal feeling results in pleasure and pain.
With the development of reason another strand is added
24
- 1-86 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
to the karmic web, and the action in the thought-world
is added to that in the acting and feeling worlds. Hence
though a powerful factor is added to the reaction, the law
is working on the same lines.
Applying this law in the realms of mind and morals,
man shapes his future and becomes master of his destiny.
Q. How does a man become master of his own destiny ?
Ans. There are three subsidiary laws under the general
Law of Karma, and a knowledge of the method of their
application is necessary to shape one’s future. The three
threads of the cord of fate are :
x. Thought builds character.
2. Desire makes opportunities and attracts objects.
3. Action makes environments.
Q. Taking the first thread of the cord of fateyhow does
thought build character ?
Ans. Character in man is the totality of his mental and
moral qualities. Man means ‘Thinker/ and the connection
of thought and character is recognised in the Scriptures
of all nations. An Indian Scripture declares: “ Man is
created by thought; as a man thinks, so he becomes ” ;
while in the Bible we read: “ As a man thinks, so is
he ” ; and again : “ He that looketh upon a woman to lust
after her, hath committed adultery already with her in his
heart ” ; and He that hateth his brother is a murderer
The rationale of these facts is that when the mind dwells
on a particular thought, a definite rate of vibration in
matter is set up, and the oftener this vibration is caused,
the more does it tend to repeat itself in the matter of
the mental body automatically till it becomes a habit, as
explained in Chapter VII.
To create a habit of thought a man should choose a
desirable quality—a virtue, an emotion—and then think
KARMA l87
persistently on the chosen quality. He should think
deliberately of it every morning for a few minutes and
persist in that thought-creation until a strong habit is
formed and the virtue is built into his very nature—
-which
is the case especially when he acts out the thought in daily
life. Everything being under law, he cannot obtain mental
abilities or moral virtues by sitting still, but can build his
mental and moral nature by thinking strenuously and
acting accordingly. His aspirations become his capacities,
his repeated thoughts his tendencies and habits. In the
past he made his character with which he was born in this
life, and he is now making the character with which he
will die and with which he will be reborn ; and character
is the most important part of karma. (See “ How to build
character ” in Chapter VIII.)
If a man is clever in a certain direction, it is because
in a previous life he has devoted much effort in that direc­
tion. Genius and precocity are thus satisfactorily explained.
High aspirations in one life result in capacities in a
future life, while the strong will for unselfish service results
in spirituality.
Q. Now how does desire make opportunities and
attract objects ?
Ans. Will is the energy of the Self, an interior con­
centration, prompting to action. When that energy is
drawn out by pleasure-giving or pain-giving outside
objects, it is called desire—desire to possess, which is love
or attraction ; desire to repel, which is hate or repulsion.
Between the desire and the desired object there is a
magnetic tie, and our desire draws to us what we wish to
possess as the magnet attracts and holds soft iron. There
may be obstacles or difficulties, but inevitably that desire
will be accomplished, sometimes even in the same life,
l8 8 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
sometimes in after-lives. Occasionally a man is found to
be fortunate or lucky, and everything he touches turns to
gold. But if that man’s past be known and studied, it
will be found that he had a great desire for wealth; that
he followed it steadily; that he strove for it, worked for
it, sometimes sinned for it, and that desire has to be accom­
plished, and therefore he becomes a man who seems so
fortunate that others envy him. Desire brings him oppor­
tunity. A man strongly desiring to visit a country will
probably find an opportunity to do so at some time of his
life. Desire draws one towards the place where the object
of desire is obtainable and is thus one of the causes that
determine the place of one’s rebirth. Thus desire draws
together the desirer and the desired, or makes opportu­
nities and attracts objects.
Hence we should be careful of what we desire and
should test the value of the object of desire; for inevitably
it will come to us later, and it may prove a desire that is
as ashes in the mouth. Many a man has desired wealth
and gained it, and then found it a burden instead of a joy.
Many a man has grasped some object of desire, and has
found it pain-giving instead of pleasure-giving. We
should therefore measure our desires, try to see in what
they will result and weigh the value of the desired object.
Then gradually we will learn naturally to desire the things
that are righteous and pure, good and uplifting. With
every one this careful watch over the desire-nature is
necessary, for only when the desires go in harmony with
the Divine Will can they prove sources of happiness when
they are gratified, and not sources of pain.
Q. How does action give us ourphysical environments ?
Ans. The third thread of our cord of destiny appears
on the physical plane as action, and is the least important
KARMA l89
of them all as it only slightly affects the Inner Man directly.
Actions are effects of our past thinking and desires, and their
karma is for the most part exhausted in their happening,
though they affect us indirectly by giving rise to fresh
thoughts and desires. The spinning of this thread brings
into our destiny outward happiness or outward misery.
As a man has made people physically happy or physically
miserable, so will he reap karmically from his action
favourable or unfavourable physical circumstances, con­
ducive to physical happiness or physical suffering. His
nearest circumstance, the expression of his past activity,
is his physical body, and this is shaped for him according
to the mould of the etheric double, as explained before.
Wisdom in the present life is the result of experiences in
past lives, while conscience is similarly built of painful
experiences in the past.
Thus the reaction of our thoughts on ourselves is
the building of character and of faculties ; the reaction of
desires on ourselves is the gaining of opportunities, of
objects and of power, making us ‘lucky *or 4unlucky ’ as
the case may b e; the reaction of our activities on our­
selves is our environment, the conditions and circum­
stances, the friends and enemies that surround us. Two
parts of our karma we bring with us, our thought-nature
and desire-nature ; the third part we are born into, our
environment, including our physical body.
We are what we are because of our past thoughts,
desires and actions, there being no favouritism in Nature.
With this idea properly grasped, envy and resentment
become impossible, and we cease the useless swearing at
fate. We reap in this life as we sowed in the past; as we
are now sowing, so shall we reap in the future ; and as we
are now spinning, so shall our cord of fate be for future
i9o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
life. Thus man is the creator of his future, moulder and
master of his own destiny.
“ Who toiled a slave may come anew a prince.
For gentle worthiness and merit won ;
Who ruled a king may wander earth in rags
For things done and undone.”
“ That which ye sow ye reap. See yonder fields !.
The sesamum was sesamum, the corn
Was corn. The silence and the Darkness knew,
So is a man’s fate born.”
“ The pepper plant will not give birth to roses nor
the sweet jessamine’s silver star to thorn or thistle turn.”
“ Thou canst create this day thy chances for thy morrow.”
“ Act thou for them to-day, and they will act for thee
to-morrow.”
“ Look ; the clay dries into iron,
But the potter moulds the clay ;
Destiny to-day is master,
Man was master yesterday.”
Q. But does not this conception of destiny controlled
by the Law of Karma eliminate God from the world ?
Ans. No. On the contrary our idea of God becomes
grander than before, because instead of believing Him a
bad architect who has built the world badly, so as to
require constant interference to set things straight, we see
in Him the Perfect Architect of the Universe, guiding that
universe by exquisitely balanced natural and moral laws,
perfect in their working even to the minutest detail.
Transgression of these laws brings misery; obedience to
them confers happiness.
The Laws of Nature are only the most material
expressions of the Divine Mind, of the Divine Will, and they
are like rocks. Man goes and bruises himself against
them. If he will not learn in any other way, if he will not
learn by precept and example, then he must learn that
KARMA l9 l
way—by the hard facts of the Laws of Nature—though it
means suffering and evil. That is what Shri Krishna means
when He says: “ I am the gambling of the cheat.5' That
man, the cheat, has something to learn from his cheating,
and it is the only way in which that poor soul can learn it.
He induces evil by his stupidity and wrong-headedness, but
that is all within the Divine Knowledge, all that is part
of Him. His mind, although he is misusing it, is yet part
of the Divine Mind; and although he is doing wrong, yet,
out of the wrong which he does, good for him will come, be­
cause he will learn by that, and by failure he will learn
to step on to the right path. It is, as it were, a last resort,
but it is a resort and therefore within the Divine Plan.
The man had both precept and example, and had he
chosen, he would have avoided all evil and suffering. He
would not take it and he must evolve. Therefore, if there
is no other way in which he will learn, then under the
Divine Laws he learns by the evil that he does and the
suffering that follows upon that evil. Thus there is a
sense in which everything absolutely is God.
Q. What is sin ?
Ans. Sip is popularly supposed to indicate a defiance
of the Divine Law—the performance of some action which
the actor knows to be wrong. But in almost every case
man breaks the law through ignorance, heedlessness or
lack of experience, and not of deliberate intention. When
once a man really knows the Divine Intention, he
inevitably comes into harmony with it, for two reasons:
at an earlier stage, because he sees the utter futility
of doing otherwise; and later because, seeing the glory
and beauty of the design, he cannot but throw himself
into its execution with all the powers of his heart
and soul.
192 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
But it may be objected that in daily life we con­
stantly see people doing what they must know to be
wrong; but this is a misstatement—or at least a misunder­
standing—of the case. They are doing what they have
been told is wrong, which is quite a different matter. If a
man really knows that an action is wrong, and that it will
inevitably be followed by evil consequences, he is careful
to avoid it. A man really knows that fire will burn him ;
therefore he does not put his hand into it. He has been
told that the fire of hell will burn him as the result of
a certain action, but he does not really know this, and
therefore when he feels the inclination—or is tempted—to
do the action, he does so in spite of the threatened
consequences. It will also be found that every one who
does wrong justifies the wrong action to himself at the
time of its commission—thus proving wr
ant of real know­
ledge—whatever he may think about it afterwards in cooler
moments. Even in those who, for once, know an action to
be sinful, lack of experience is still there, for the sorrow
that follows on sin has not yet made a sufficiently deep
impression, and always, until that impression is made, the
man will ignorantly go aside from righteousness.
So sin is not a perversity to be met with punishment
and savage persecution, but is the result of an unfortunate
condition of ignorance or lack of experience, which can
only be dealt with by enlightenment and education. Of
course, by the selfish action called sin a man sets in motion
certain causes which will bring him unavoidable results by
the educative, and not punitive, Law of Karma—the law
of cause and effect.
Q. Is there any forgiveness of sins ?
Ans. Forgiveness of sins posits retaliation in some
form. The conception of punishment for sins belongs to
KARMA 193
a degraded idea of God as a limited Deity raised above
men by superior power, but of like passions with the men
He rules.
Our progress through evolution consists in the
gaining of wisdom under the Laws of Reincarnation and
Karma, and a child learning to walk may well be supposed
to ‘
be punished by its falls just as a man is supposed to be
punished for his sins when he reaps the results of his
ignorance and mistakes.
Moreover, we do not expect laws of Nature to
forget or forgive an infringement, and Karma is a law of
the Divine Nature, in which there is no variableness, neither
shadow of turning. If a man flings himself against a wall,
he will bruise himself; law is like a wall, and doing wrong
is flinging oneself against the wall. Repenting does not
cure past bruises.
The Divine Law operates as invariably in the mental
and moral worlds as in the physical. A man falling into
a fire will burn his body, and neither pra}7er nor repentance
can save him from the pain. He will not even dream of
asking the Law of Gravity for forgiveness if he infringes it ;
why then should he expect forgiveness if he has infringed
mental or moral laws ? The false teaching that a man can
do wrong and be forgiven, i.e., escape the consequences of
his wrong-doing, is very demoralising.
Karma is not a punishment for sin, but the unavoid­
able result of the causes set in motion, and sorrow is ever
the plant that springs from the seed of sin. After sowing
evil seeds our salvation lies not in asking for forgiveness,
but in trying to make amends and doing better thereafter.
Again, Karma is the readjustment of harmony in
the universe, broken by a selfish action called sin ; and the
method of adjustment being that the Law of Love shall
25
i9 4 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
rule all in all, to ask for forgiveness is to ask that harmony
might not be restored. In a world of law, there can be no
punishment for sin, i.e., no arbitrary penalty, inflicted in
anger and not sequentially related to the sin. Therefore
to suppose that a man could burn in hell because he had
not believed in some particular dogma, or that the wicked­
ness of a finite lifetime, however persistent, can merit the
torments of an eternal hell, is to do violence, not only to
our sense of justice, but even to our ordinary common
sense. But the good Law is educative, and it is reasonable
to suppose that if a man, rolling in wealth and living in
luxury, is totally unsympathetic or indifferent to the urgent
needs of those connected with or around him, he will be
given a chance of learning sympathy and righting the wrong
done, in a future life, and of thus restoring harmony in the
universe, by himself being born a pauper next life and
understanding the hardships of poverty from personal
experience. The Law of Karma “ knows not wrath nor
pardon ”, otherwise it would no longer be absolutely just
and absolutely inviolable and could not be trusted.
Thus there can be no interfering with the due
operation of the Law, no arbitrary letting off as is
ordinarily implied in forgiveness. But the word ‘forgive­
ness ’ is sometimes used in the Christian Scripture in the
sense of deliverance from spiritual darkness and consequent
*rightness with God \ In the selfish action called sin the
will and desire of the lower nature of the man are set in
opposition to the Divine Will—the Divine Law—and that
opposition may be quite suddenly removed by some appeal
from the outside, through a spiritual teacher or somebody
dearly loved, or a subtle change in the very heart of the man,
brought about sometimes by sheer satiety or by some great
calamity. The spiritual darkness being thus suddenly
KARMA 195
dispelled, the human will, which has been persistently
directed against the Will of God, may turn round and be
transformed almost in a moment. Thus in the Gospel when
the Lord Christ uses the words : “ Thy sins are forgiven
thee ; go in peace ” or “ Her sins which are many are for­
given, for she loved much ”, the word cforgiveness *implies
something quite different from the mere release from punish­
ment and is meant to describe the sense of rightness which
comes with such an experience, as can be distinctly seen in
numerous passages in the New Testament where it is said
in so many words that one truly rforgiven ' can sin no more.
But even with this forgiveness, this sense of right­
ness, with the will of the sinner redeemed, the effects of
his previous sins are not blotted out; that which he has
already sown, he will have to reap, though he will sow
evil seed no more. He is free and forgiven, because he
has rightly resolved and is now working with the Divine
Will and not against it. Similarly, in the Bhagavad-
Gita, Lord Krishna, speaking of a man who has
turned from seeking the gratification of the lower
self and lifted his eyes to the God within and around him,
says that such a man, though of evil life, may be at once
counted amidst the good—“ he hath the right way chosen,
he shall grow righteous ere long.” But, again, it may
happen that when the sinner has chosen the right way
and also when the outer reaction of evil is worn out,
someone with higher knowledge seeing the chain of cause
and effect, may declare the suffering ended, as was done by
the Christ with the glad words of liberation : “ Take up
thy bed and walk.”
Q. Does repentance of sins do any good ?
Ans. A man should not be carried away by delusions
about remorse and repentance. If he thinks over a
1.96 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
fault, he creates a thought-form of that fault; the
more sorry he feels, the more often he turns the matter
over in his mind, the stronger the thought-form grows.
<
rWhat you think upon, that you become ”, and therefore
by brooding over a fault within himself, he simply
strengthens it. So when he has strayed away from the
right path, instead of giving himself to repentance and
remorse, he should say : “ Well, that is a foolish thing to
do; I will never do it again.” He should remember
what Talleyrand said: “ Any man may make a mistake;
we all make mistakes ; but the man who makes the same
mistake twice is a fool.”
Thus the idea of remorse, of repenting one’s
sins, is a delusion. It is a waste of time and energy, and
none should let himself be carried away by it. He should
put it behind him and go on from where he may be,
making up his mind not to make the same mistake again.
This is very strongly put in The Voice of the Silence;
C
i Look not behind or thou art lost.” A Master once said :
“ The only repentance which is worth anything is the
resolve not to do it again.”
Of course, this does not imply that he will escape
the consequences of his evil karma already done. He has
sown evil .seed and must reap its evil harvest. But his
repentance is a new cause, as it sets him against his sin ;
it is a force to undo the deterioration of character which
is the worst result of the wrong-doing. And his turning
away from the sin, towards God, is like turning his face
away from a wall, towards the sun; the sunlight
warms and cheers him, and this warming and cheering of
the heart is what the repentant sinner feels and calls
*forgiveness \ He can then gladly accept the suffering
which follows his sin. Thus the only good of real
KARMA 197
repentance, i.e., the resolve not to do it again, is that in
future he will be proof against temptations of the same
kind and hence will not be liable to further consequences
or evil effects.
Q, Then can karma be transferred from one person to
another ? Does not transferability of karma underlie the
Christian doctrine of vicarious atonement ?
Ans, As already explained, punishment of sins has no
place under the Law of Karma. Moreover, vicarious
atonement is grossly misunderstood. In the early Church
the teaching on the Atonement was, that Christ, as the
Representative of humanity, fought and conquered Satan
who had held humanity in bondage, and set his captive
free. The Christian teachers lost touch with spiritual
truths and began to preach that Christ suffered the wrath
of God for man’s sins.
The Law of Sacrifice underlies all systems; it lies
at the root of evolution, and universes are built on it. In
the doctrine of the Atonement it takes a concrete form in
connection with men who have reached a certain stage in
spiritual development when they realise their oneness with
all mankind. When it is said that Christ suffers for men,
His purity replacing their sin, His wisdom their ignorance,
it means that He so becomes one with them that they
share with Him and He with them. There is no substitution
of Him for them, but the taking of their lives into His and
the pouring of His life into theirs ; for having risen to the
plane of unity He is able to share all He has gained. His
at-one-ment with His brethren is not by a vicarious sub­
stitution, but by identity of nature, by the unity of a com­
mon life. He is sinful in them, and His purity purges
them ; in them is He the Man of Sorrow. Thus identity
of nature was mistaken for a personal substitution, and
198 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
from that doctrine narrowly seen grew the idea of vicarious
atonement as a legal transaction between man and God
where the Christ took the place of the sinner.
A man’s karma is his personal identity, what he
has made himself, and none can eat his food for him, or
live his life for him, or bear his karma for him, without
annihilating him. A man can certainly help another to
bear his own karma, but cannot take from him bis
appointed means of advance by manly endurance. Thus
vicarious atonement setting a premium on a man’s laziness
and committal of sins is unreasonable and unmoral.
Q. But if all be the working out of law and a compel*
ling forcet are we not helpless slaves of destiny ? Is not
Karma a doctrine offatalism ?
Ans. Fatalism implies that we are so bound by circum*
stances that no effort of our own can free us. “ Ignorance
of nature is the source of all suffering, and there is no
ignorance so fatal, so disastrous, as knowledge of only one
side.” A little knowledge of this Law is often distinctly
dangerous and has a certain paralysing effect, because one
of the results of knowing a little about it is the tendency to
sit down and say: “ Oh, it is my karma.” It is like a
man knowing something of the Law of Gravitation sitting
down helplessly at the foot of the stairs and saying: “ As I
must move to the centre of the earth, I cannot go up.”
The Law of Karma like all other laws of Nature
binds the ignorant and gives power to the wise; it is not a
compelling, but an enabling, force, and says that while we
are bound by what we have done in the past, we can
each moment mould and modify the future by the choices
we make, and that, exertion or the effort of the present, is
greater than destiny or the result of the past, as explained
also by Bhishma, the Master of Dharma.
KARMA l99
Our karma is of a mixed character, not a great
stream to sweep us on, but one made up of currents run­
ning in various directions, some neutralising one another,
with an extremely small net result. Thus all weights in
the balance of karma not being in one scale, and those
weights being evenly balanced, a finger's weight can turn
the scale ; and though out of the past thoughts, desires and
actions some are with us and some against us, forming our
so-called destiny, by our present exertion we can easily
turn the scale either side we like and conquer our past.
Again, w
T
hen an opportunity presents itself, we need
not hesitate to take advantage of it, fearing our resources
as inadequate to discharge the responsibility. That oppor­
tunity would not be there unless our karma had brought
it to us as a fruit of past desires, and the very effort to
seize it would awaken latent powers within us. We
should aim at a little more than we think we can do, and
the karmic force acquired in the past comes to our aid ;
and even if we fail, the power put forth passes into the
reservoir of our forces, and the failure of to-day will be
the victory of to-morrow. Circumstances may be adverse,
but we may have reached a point when one more effort,
a little more exertion, may mean success.
Q. I understand that the bonds of a man are of his
own making, but how is he guided into his environments
of nation and family ?
Ans. In one single life an ego cannot reap all the harvest
of the past, nor discharge the obligations contracted
towards other egos.
The etheric mould of the reincarnating ego is
guided, as explained in Chapter IV, to the country, the
race, the family and the social surroundings which afford
the most suitable field for the working out of the karma
200 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
allotted to that particular life-span, though sometimes, at
a later stage in evolution, he is guided to a particular place
for the exercise of the faculties and qualities which are
already developed in him but which are required for
helping others.
He is placed where he can come into relationship
with egos related to him in the past. A country is chosen
where the conditions are suitable for his capacities, a race
selected of which the characteristics resemble some of his
faculties, and a family found with a physical heredity suit­
able for his physical constitution to work out his karma
allotted for that life. Thus “ the accident of birth is no
accident at all, but just an inevitable result of causes,
attractions, affinities, set up by an ego, during his past
lives, which impel him, when he is ripe for rebirth, to that
incarnation which is best fitted to give them physical
expression
Sometimes an ego after having gained certain men­
tal faculties is given some task of an uncongenial nature.
If ignorant of karma, he will perform his distasteful duties
grudgingly and think regretfully of his “ wasted talents,
while that fool X is in a much higher position ” ; but he
should “ chafe not at Karma, nor at nature’s changeless
laws ”, and should realise that X has to learn his lesson
. there, and that he himself having learnt it would gain no­
thing by repeating it, and should set himself to learn the new
lesson by addressing himself contentedly to the uncongenial
task, seeking to understand what it has to teach him.
Again, an ego wanting to help in a larger work
finds himself encumbered with family duties. If ignorant
of Karma, he frets against his bonds, or even breaks them,
not knowing that he is thereby ensuring their return in
future. The knower of Karma will see in these duties the
KARMA 201
reactions from his own past activities, and will patiently
accept and discharge them. He knows that when his
debts are fully paid, these duties will drop away from him
leaving him free for higher work, and that meanwhile they
have some lessons to teach him which it is incumbent upon
him to learn in order to become a more efficient helper.
Q. If one particular action be done with different
motives, does not the motive affect the result?
Ans. Every force works on its own plane. From
physical agony inflicted results physical agony endured,
and motive does not mitigate the result just as the pain
of a burn is not mitigated because the injury was sustained
in saving a child from fire. Motive is a mental or astral
force, according as it arises from will or desire, and it
reacts on mental and moral character or on the desire-
nature severally. A person may be born deformed, but
with a gentle and patient character, showing that he had
worked in his past life with a good motive intellectually
misdirected, like a vivisector or an inquisitor. But the
causing of physical happiness or unhappiness is a physical
force and must work out on the physical plane.
Three men may contribute to presenting a free
hospital or school to a town from different motives—the first
from a purely philanthropic motive, the second from mere
ostentation or from a selfish desire to get a title, and the
third from mixed motives. Each man’s physical action
brings relief to the suffering or knowledge to the ignorant,
irrespective of the different motives, so all the three contri­
butors will receive equally comfortable physical environ­
ments next life, but their motives will severally affect their
characters in their future incarnations for improvement or
degradation. Moreover, the use which each man makes of
his wealth and the happiness which he derives therefrom
26
202 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
will depend on his character, the first man using it for
philanthropic and charitable, and the second for selfish,
purposes. Though the selfish man will get easy and
pleasant surroundings on the physical plane as the reaction
of his contribution to the hospital or school fund, his
selfishness will also sow according to its kind, and mentally
and morally he will reap that harvest also, a harvest of
disappointment and pain. By giving money to deserving
charity either through a selfish motive or through compul­
sion or force of circumstances in one life, a man may gain
riches in another life, but this he may lend at a high interest
and may be too selfish and niggardly to spend. The miserly
rich, who simply go on hoarding money without being them­
selves happy by its use or making others so, are thus
explained.
Even where heavenly enjoyments are gained by
charity, it is the charitable heart rather than the nature of
the gifts made which wins heavenly enjoyment. Gifts of
money which cause widespread happiness bring, as their
karma, worldly prosperity in another life; the loving
thoughts which prompt the gifts bear fruit in heaven.
Gifts made grudgingly or with a selfish object in view,
even when they bring worldly prosperity, do not bring
happiness. Therefore it is that the Bhagavad-Gita dis­
tinguishes between the three kinds of charity, Sattvic,
Rajasic and Tamasic; of harmony, of passion, of darkness
—alms given in a fit place and time to a worthy person
without thought of reward, that given grudgingly with a
view to receiving in return, and that given, disrespectfully
and contemptuously, at an unfit, place and time and to
unworthy persons, respectively.
Hence motive is of more importance than action
and a mistaken action done with a good motive is better
KARMA 203
than a well-chosen action with a bad motive. The motive
reacts on character and gives rise to a long series of effects,
for the future actions guided by that character will all be
influenced by its nature ; whereas an action bringing on its
doer physical happiness or unhappiness, according to its
result on others, has in it no generating force, but is
exhausted in its results.
Q. But how is it that some persons with good motives
yearning to help others find their way blocked either from
want of power, defective capacity or lack of opportunity ?
Ans. Opportunities for service taken in one life result
in enlarged opportunities of service in another, while
wasted opportunities result in limitations in the body or
unfortunate surroundings, and are thus transformed into
frustrated longings. The etheric brain may be built defec­
tively, and the. ego though full of plans may lack executive
ability. Such a man can advise others to their advantage,
but is himself unsuccessful when following his own advice.
The karma of a good life is not the acquisition of
wealth, or even of high intellectual endowments, but wider
opportunities for service, either in the line followed in the
past or in new lines opening up before the ego, to make him
a better instrument, in the hands of the Higher Powers, for
the helping of the world. Any person who is using all the
powers he has for the service of others and without thought
of self is very likely to receive new powers. It is the old
parable of the talents over again. Those who made good
use of their talents were given charge of far greater work.
It was said to each of them : “ Thou hast been faithful over
a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things;
enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.,, The joy of the Lord
— the joy of the Logos—is in His work. For tc God has a
plan, and that plan is evolution ” ; He has chosen to throw
204 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Himself absolutely. into His mighty work of evolution;
that is the joy of the Lord, the joy of carrying out this
splendid plan of pouring out His love through the universe.
He who wishes to enter into the joy of the Lord, i . e take
part in the work of evolution and in the bliss which it
brings, should therefore use every talent he already has
and see that he is using it to the utmost.
Q. Why does a man have a *bad heredity 1or congeni­
tal diseases ?
Ans. A ‘ bad heredity * is the reaction from wrong
activities in the past. The drunkard of a previous life
will be born into a family with nervous diseases like
epilepsy, while a profligate will get birth in a family
tainted with diseases of sexual vice. Congenital diseases
result from a defective etheric double given to the ego by
the Lords of Karma for his excesses and errors of the past*
When desires in one life are bestial, cruel, unclean, they
are the causes in another life of congenital diseases, of
weak and diseased brains, giving rise to epilepsy, catalepsy
and other nervous disorders.
Q. Now what solution does Theosophy give of the old
problem of necessity and free-will? Is a man completely
under the sway of destiny or necessity with no roomfor
free-will, or does he enjoy unfrustrated free-will ?
Ans. Only the One is absolutely free, but man is rela­
tively free within self-imposed limitations, and while
powerless to stop the march of evolution, the Will of the
Divine, he can work for or against the evolutionary law,,
hastening or retarding his own progress within certain
limits according to his will. He has by the exercise of his
free-will created necessities for himself, made habits by
repetition of actions guided by his own will, which habits
then become limitations.
KARMA 205
It is advisable to grasp a few simple principles and
apply them to solve details, instead of taking up separate
details without any idea of underlying principles. First r
the spirit in man, the Jivatma, the Self, is a fragment
of the Divine, a “ portion of Myself, a living being
Secondly: this Spirit on the Atmic plane is free and
omniscient, but he wills to live also on other planes, to
see, hear, taste, etc., on denser planes of being; the exercise
of powers gives pleasure and he wills to experience
this. Thirdly: when he thus plunges into denser matter,,
his powers cannot assert themselves, and he is as a seed,
a germ of Divine Life, enveloped in avidya or ignorance p
he becomes bound from outside. Fourthly: slowly he
learns to shape the matter, so that he can express himself
through it, and his efforts at first are mere blind pushings
and gropings in different directions, some bringing him:
pleasure and others pain. Fifthly : he desires pleasure ^
he thinks how to obtain it ; he acts according to his
thought. Thus he makes fetters for his future; for he
must go to the place where his desires can be gratified
he must work in the mental body which his thoughts have
formed ; he must be surrounded by the circumstances his
acts have created ; thus he becomes bound from within
by the three threads of the cord of fate, explained before..
Sixthly: but, amid all these outward and inward bindings,,
he himself remains the free Divinity; he can exer­
cise his free-will, even though the carrying out of that will
is hampered by the outer bonds which he has voluntarily
assumed for the sake of experiencing the phenomena of
the denser planes, and by the inner bonds which he has
forged in his struggles with the denser matter.
All our circumstances are the result of our karma,
which creates necessities for us, but in spite of being limited
206 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
by these self-imposed bonds we can mould the future and,
though we cannot transcend the limits suddenly, we can
extend them gradually, till we acquire for ourselves practi­
cally unbounded freedom in the direction of good. Our
brain and nervous system, constituted now according to our
own thoughts of the past, are the marked necessities of life
for us and limit us, but they can be gradually improved.
Ignorance is the cause of bondage, while knowledge brings
liberation and freedom of will, for through wisdom a man
knows himself as one with the Divine Life and acts as a
free and responsible agent in harmony with the Divine
Will.
But tewe have a very distinct consciousness of
free-will in the choice between good and evil at every
step through life, and we need not confuse our sense of
that freedom by going into the highest metaphysics of the
problem.”
Q. Is astrology true ? If so, how can it be reconciled
with free-will ?
Ans. Modern astrology, being very fragmentary, is
often very uncertain in its results; but there is a true
science of Astrology, and here and there a real astrologer
may be found. Even modern astrology, however, is often
fairly accurate in the delineation of character. For the
most part, modern astrological prognostications of events
are unreliable, and the predictions are not always true,
because all the conditions are not known. Every star
has its own magnetic sphere, and these spheres intermingle
in a very intricate way; according to the constitution of
the human being, some magnetic conditions are favourable
to him, and others unfavourable.
There is no antagonism between astrology and
free-will. A horoscope, if correctly drawn, shows the
KARMA 207
results of a man’s past karma in his character, tendencies,
circumstances, etc. An astrologer may correctly predict
certain events or circumstances, but knowing only one
of a pair of forces, he cannot forecast the resultant
and cannot predict how the man will react on those
circumstances by his free-will. The reaction, in the case
of a feeble soul, will be slight and cause but small changes,
whereas, in the case of a strong soul who can bring all the
force of his free-will to bear on circumstances, it is bound
to be great and may upset all calculations. Hence the
astrological proverb: 4
4The wise man rules his stars,
while the fool is ruled by them.”
<?, Now instead of being liberated from the bonds of
karma allotted for one life, how does a manforge new
links in the chain of karma ?
Ans. The Lords of Karma in carrying out Their
work use other persons as Their instruments of help
or injury. Thus though we are being used as mere
tools in Their hands for the settling of different people’s
accounts, we have a false idea that we are free agents..
So when a man injures us, we do not understand that he
was merely instrumental in giving us our due, but become
angry with him and try to retaliate, thereby creating fresh
karma, and forget the remarks in the Gospel on that
subject: “ It must needs be that offences come, but woe
to that man by whom the offence cometh.” None in this
world suffers for the sin or fault of another, though
through our short-sightedness we believe ourselves wronged
by others for no fault of ours.
The wise, knowing this, and understanding that they
should “ chafe not at Karma nor at nature’s changeless
laws ”, get angry with none, and suffering the wrong or
dishonour without grumbling, liberate themselves from the
208 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
karma allotted for one life (called Prarabdha), while the
ignorant through anger and grumbling create new karma
(called Kriyamana), which being added to the accumulated
karma of past lives (called Sanchita), comes back again in
a new life as Prarabdha. Thus through, ignorance a man
creates new karma before the old karma is exhausted, and
so can have no chance of liberation from the bonds of birth
and death.
Q. But if some one injures us, how can we know
whether it was the result of our Prarabdha ? Bound by
Prarabdha, what action do we do under its pressure and
what by our own free-will ?
Anst In a universe of perfect justice none suffers w ith­
out cause or for the fault of another, as stated before, and
the fact that we could be injured proves that we deserved
the injury by our Prarabdha, even though the man who
inflicted the injury, acting as a tool of the Lords of
Karma, thinks that he acted on his own initiative.
Karma is divided into three parts or is of three
kinds:
1. Sanchita (=accumulated) karma, that is, karma
which has accumulated during many lives. In the earlier
lives as a savage it is natural that there should be on the
whole more of evil karma than good. So only a portion
of his whole karma is given to him to be worked out in
the next life and the balance kept as Sanchita, as other­
wise the undeveloped ego would be crushed under the
entire result of his actions. Again, some of a man’s
actions need more time for their working out and have to
pass into Sanchita.
2. Prarabdha f=commenced, to be worked out
in this life,) or ripe karma, karma selected from the
Sanchita by the Lords of Karma for a man to discharge in
KARMA 209
his present life. This is what we ordinarily call fate,
luck or destiny. Out of the total karma of the past only
a portion can be exhausted within the limits of a single life.
There are some kinds of karma which are too incongruous
to be worked out in a single physical body of one particular
type ; there are liabilities contracted towards other souls
who are not all likely to be in incarnation at the same
time ; there is karma requiring to be worked out in some
particular nation or particular social position, while the
same man may have other karma needing an entirely
different environment. Part, therefore, of his total karma
of the past is selected by the Lords of Karma to be worked
out within the span of a single life, and this is called his
Prarabdha. It is such karma that can be sketched out in
a horoscope cast by a competent astrologer.
3. Kriyamana, the karma which is in the course
of making while Prarabdha is being worked out, and which
being added to Sanchita karma will, when ripe, be meted
out as Prarabdha in a future life.
It is wrong to believe that whatever we have to do
unwillingly is the result of Prarabdha and that which we do
willingly or carelessly is the result of our free-will. The
Law of Gravitation applies equally to a mountain as well as
to an atom ; similarly Prarabdha applies to all our actions,
big or small.
Q. But that means that we are slaves of our Prarabdha
and have no place for free-will.
Ans* The pressure of Prarabdha lies in some measure
on our actions, but not on our free-will. Though limited
by Prarabdha we enjoy Purushartha or free-will, and our
Kriyamana depends on that. When doing any action our
attitude of mind is a matter of free-will, and that makes
our Kriyamana. Take the instance, given before, of the
27
210 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
three men who give a million pounds each for a charitable
institution, one doing it from a philanthropic motive,
another in the hope of reward, and the third from
mixed motives. The Kriyamana of all the three would
be different according to the motives, as explained before;
and that karma being added to Sanchita would be meted
out, when ripe, to each as his Prarabdha in a future life,
and would be the chief factor in causing a difference in
their future destinies. Kriyamana thus depending on our
free-will even when we are under the influence of Prarabdha,
the Prarabdha of our future lives is in our own hands.
Q. But if one is responsible simply for his Kriyamana,
and not for the actual action done, and if there is pressure
of Prarabdha in all actions, why should a murderer be
hanged for murder or a thief punished for theft ?
Ans. If we admit that a man is responsible for his
Kriyamana we must punish murderers and thieves, because
their present Prarabdha is the result of their past Kriya­
mana for which they are responsible. Again, every actual
action is a blend of Prarabdha and Kriyamana—never one
or the other alone.
Though all actions, big or small, are, in some
measure, under the influence of Prarabdha, they can be
stopped or altered in their effect. Prarabdha is in fact
divided into three classes: ist—Dradha, fixed, unavoidable,
or inevitable. 2nd—Adradha, not fixed, avoidable. 3rd—
Dradhadradha (Dradha-adradba), fixed-not-fixed. Of
these the Dradha Prarabdha karma cannot be avoided,
but the other two kinds can be avoided or altered in their
effects by the force of free-will.
Q. Supposing that Dradha Prarabdha is unavoidable,
how can we escape the effects of the other two kinds of
Prarabdha ?
KARMA 211
Ans. The Dradha Prarabdha karma cannot be altered
at all; Dradhadradha can be altered in its effect by great
•effort, while Adradha Prarabdha can be easily altered or
shaken off. As on a rope in a tug-of-war, each action has
two forces playing on it at the same time—Prarabdha and
free-will. Where the force of Prarabdha is greater than
that of free-will, th e. resultant lies with Prarabdha, and
free-will cannot alter it ; when both forces are nearly equal,
it is Dradhadradha, and where the force of free-will is
greater than that of Prarabdha, it is Adradha. Thus
though in the bondage of Prarabdha, a man can liberate
himself in proportion to his free-will.
A man pits his force against that of a ball thrown
towards him. If it is a cannon-ball that is discharged, he
cannot catch it or prevent its action. That is Dradha
Prarabdha. A cricket ball can be caught with great effort
or at least have the direction of its motion altered; that is
Dradhadradha Prarabdha. A light rubber ball caught
with very little effort typifies Adradha Prarabdha. Very
few actions in our life are unavoidably fixed. We come
across few cannon-balls of destiny in life, but many cricket
and rubber balls, and should therefore exert the full force
of our free-will against any evil karma.
Q. You advise exertion in all cases, but if a man be
bound by Dradha Prarabdha, how is effort or exertion of
Purushdrtha {free-will) going to help him ?
Ans. There are cases where the force of the karma of
the past is so strong that no effort of the present can suffice
to overbear it entirely. Yet should we make all effort to
escape every kind of evil Prarabdha, first because one
cannot know whether a karma was Dradha or Adradha
Prarabdha, and, at the worst, the effort diminishes
the karmic force for the future; and secondly
212 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
because one creates good Kriyamana by the effort one
makes.
It may seem that the limits of a man’s power to
choose between different courses in life are very narrow,
apart altogether from the metaphysical argument; that
there he is, with his character got at somehow, established
as a very commanding impulse in his nature, and that the
circumstances in which he is placed, are there also, with
no choice of his ; how can he help following the bent of
his nature ? But that is his karma. Of course it is a very
difficult thing to escape from its influence—in one sense
impossible. But karma is a growing force, and our free­
will does enable us to modify its growth ; and our bent in
the next life will be either still more defined in its present
direction, or inclined in a different direction according to
whether in this life we yield to it without resistance or
press against its influence.
A man with a tendency to steal should fight against
it to the last iota of resistant power, and though he may
fail and commit the crime, its force will growTweaker in
the future. Carelessness creates new bad Kriyamana to
come hack as bad Prarabdha in future lives.
The bulk of the karma of an ordinary man may be
classed as Dradha. He has not much will and therefore
accepts the ruling of external circumstances which are due
to his past actions. All the events of his life could be
foretold in considerable detail from his horoscope, which
is not the case with a man of strong will who has great
power over his circumstances owing to the force of his
free-will.
Q. But if a man can thus alter Prarabdha by the
force of his free-will, will that not be interfering with the
justice of karma ? Suppose A has injured B in a past life
KARMA 2lS
and that B is now in a position to injure A according to
his karma. But if B by his ownfree-will declines to injure
A, how is the latter to get his due ? If every one did
like that, will that not prevent the working out of karmic
laws ?
Ans. None need flatter himself with the idea that his
will is strong enough to interfere even a tittle with the
karma of others. Again, though anyone may be used as a
tool in giving happiness or misery to others as destined
for them, if a person forbears doing an evil deed by the
exercise of his free-will, those destined to’ suffer do not
escape their misery, but the Lords of Karma arrange some
other way to mete out the suffering through other agents
and by other means.
Q. If every person has thus to suffer inevitably accord­
ing to his karma, why should we interfere with karmic
justice by trying to help the blind, the crippled or other
deserving people in difficulty, who may simply be undergo­
ing the just punishment of their past karma ?
Ans. It should again be remembered that there is no
reward or punishment in karma. Karma is educative,
not punitive, and is merely a sequence of conditions as
explained before.
“ Ho ! ye who suffer ! know
Ye suffer from yourselves. None else compels;”
It is true that all kinds of evils and sufferings
around us are the results of karma, but that is no reason
why we should not labour to change them. None suffers
aught which he does not deserve, but our duty is simply to
help and leave the carrying out of the Law in Divine
Hands.
“ Let thy soul lend its ear to every cry of pain
like as the lotus bares its heart to drink the morning sun.
214 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
“ Let not the fierce sun dry one tear of pain before
thyself hast wiped it from the sufferer’s eye.
“ But let each burning human tear drop on thy
heart and there remain ; nor ever brush it off until the
pain that caused it is removed.”
Moreover, we do not know at what time a man has
fully paid his debt of pain and suffering, and if he is to
receive his due relief karmically, why should we not be­
come the agents of such good deeds ? Even selfishly we
should try to help when another suffers under his karma,
for, if we do not do our best, we are making a karma which
will entail absence of help in the hour of our own need.
The act of relieving suffering contracts the domain of
suffering both here and hereafter, both as regards the
recipient of relief and the agent in conferring that relief ;
while cruelty and callousness to suffering augments it in
both directions.
Again, it is absurd to believe that high Beings like
the Lords of Karma and Their agents will be confounded
in their work by the interference of such petty creatures
as ourselves. If a man does not deserve help, or if the
proper time has not come for his relief, he will not be
benefited by our help, eg., he may drop the money given
him through a hole in his pocket, but we shall be creating
good karma and acquiring merit by our unselfish act.
Moreover, we should not have come in contact with the
man unless relief was due to him at the time. So we should
try to help all sufferers to the best of our ability and give
up the foolish idea that we can interfere with another’s
karma. In fact, it is the highest ideal of its kind to con­
sider our contact with every one whom we meet, even
casually, as an opportunity given us for the helping of that
person by all possible means.
KARMA 2 1 5
Q. If the Law of Karma is irresistible, are prayers
for averting sorrow. or winning happiness, useless ?
Ans. This question is often asked, but it springs from a
confused idea of karma. Karma is a result of the past
which is continually being strengthened or weakened, a
cord of destiny made up of innumerable threads of desires,
thoughts and actions, some working in one direction and
some in another. The answer in any given case depends
on the constituents of the karma which is acting. If it is
very strong in one direction, i.e., is Dradha karma, enough
desire, thought and action cannot be put against it in
the present to neutralise the past, or turn the result
ia the opposite direction. But if it be weak in one
direction, i.e., be Adradha or Dradhadradha karma,
very strong desire, thought and action, brought to bear
in that direction, may be able to overbear it. Prayer
may thus turn the balance where the scale of karma
is not heavily weighted, for prayer, being a strong
desire, is of the nature of one of the constituents of
karma.
Q. How is a selfish man punished in his next life by
karma ?
Ans. There is no punishment or reward in karma as
stated before, but there is the effect following inevitably
from causes set going. Selfishness is a mental attitude,
and its immediate results must be on the mental plane.
There is an intensification of the lower personality, so that
the man grows steadily more selfish life after life and is
deprived of the opportunity to progress. Again, there
would be karma generated on the physical plane by the
unkind acts of selfishness, and as one result he may be
reborn among selfish people and learn through suffering the
heinousness of this vice.
2l6 theosophy explained
Q. You say a selfish man grows steadily more and
more selfish in each succeeding life ; but if a vicious man
comes back in the next life more vicious than before, and
so on and on, how can a bad man ever become good ?
Ans. There are certain counteracting forces which
have to be considered.
1. Unhappiness follows on vice, to some extent in
this world, to a great extent in the next. The drunkard
develops a bloated, coarsened body with nerves shaken and
health ruined and regrets his folly, while the suffering
grows keener after death in the astral world. At the end
of his heavenly life the good side of him is strengthened
and his faculties are improved, but on his return to earth
he also brings with him, as the result of his sad experience,
a shrinking from the evil in which he delighted in his past
physical life.
2. Humanity as a whole is being slowly carried
forward by the great current of evolution, and an evil-doer
is compulsorily carried wuth it even though he may foolishly
retard his progress greatly. But this wilful setting of the
individual will against the universal Will causes a friction,
that becomes intolerably painful and compels the man to
cease from his evil course.
3. The evil-doer may read a book, hear a dis­
course or meet a person, that may arouse in him a
recognition of the folly of his course, and he may open his
eyes to the suffering he is creating for himself and may
thereby make an effort to change.
4. The disapproval of those he loves and honours
and the desire to gain their affection, may act upon him as
an incentive to better life.
3. The mere fact of his own growth, the unfolding,
however slow, of the Divine Spirit within him, inevitably
KARMA 217
quickens the inborn tendency to good and causes a
struggle against evil.
Q. But if Karma is the Law of Justice, why does a
good man fail in business while a bad man succeeds ?
Ans. There is no causal connection between goodness
and money-making. One might as well say: “ I am a good
man, why can't I fly in the air ? ” Goodness is not a cause
of flying nor does it bring in money. Virtue is its own
reward, and if we are truthful, our reward consists in the
happiness arising from our nature growing more truthful.
If a man acts in harmony with the Divine Law, happiness is
the result of such harmony. This question is usually asked
owing to the error of identifying worldly success with
happiness and of disregarding the element of time.
If a business man who is determined to be truthful
does not become discouraged when he sees unscrupulous
persons going ahead of him, but stands firm and works in
harmony with the Divine Law, regardless of immediate
worldly results, he wins inner peace and happiness though
great financial success may not accrue to him. Even that
may fall to his lot in the long run when his reputation has
been established, so that he will ultimately come to enjoy
both the good-will and the custom of the public.
Material prosperity, again, is very often the worst
enemy of virtue, and though welcomed as good karma, is
often the reverse in its results. It is a matter of common
experience that many a man who does fairly well in adver­
sity becomes intoxicated with worldly success and
prosperity, and falls away from the path of virtue.
We should not therefore think of the rewards of
good karma as consisting solely in material objects. The
opportunities of spiritual development, which a poor and
even a sorrow-stricken man may enjoy in any given life,
28
2 l 8 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
may benefit him in the long run so greatly as to have out­
weighed the evil of poverty and transitory sorrows. A
good karma may sometimes have produced a life, the mere
outward troubles of which we should be apt, if we are
hasty, to set down to bad karma. Similarly, a bad karma
may temporarily disguise its effect in materia] prosperity
that may bring great suffering in its train in the long run,
by furnishing the possessor with so many more opportunities
of accentuating an evil bent. This is the significance of
the Indian story of a poor man who having won a case
against his rich adversary, when asked by the king to
suggest the punishment, begged that more wealth might be
bestowed on his rich but evil-minded enemy.
Q. Are all our sufferings the result of ourpast karma ?
Ans. A large proportion of a man’s suffering is what
is called ‘ ready money karma’, not due to the result of
actions of past lives, as nine-tenths of our suffering is
merely the outcome of mistaken action through ignorance
in the present life.
Q. Is the wrong we suffer the working of our own
Prdrabdha karma of a past life, or is it possible that
sometimes this is not so ? Why do we see good and holy
persons very often suffering in this world ?
Ans. The ‘ fate ’ selected for the individual is not
absolutely rigid and immutable, as a man can and does
change his fate sometimes, by an unusual reaction to
circumstances. For example, suicide is not in a man’s
fate though his visible and invisible circumstances with
their griefs and worries may, seemingly to us, be too
much for his strength. Again, a man’s karma may be,
as it were, put out of gear by the actions of others which
are not provided for in his life-karma. Similarly, he
may take an opportunity not specially arranged for him;
KARMA 2l9
for instance, by taking advantage of the presence of some
religious teacher whose appearance is not specially related
to him, he may make for himself a new opportunity.
Still nothing can happen to a man which is not due to his
own karma. There is a large reserve of karma not
actually in operation, i , e Sanchita karma, as stated before,
and the new karma is deducted from or added to this
reserve, so that finally there is no favouritism or injustice.
Every one has a vast store of Sanchita karma
which must be worked out before he can be finally liberat­
ed. But as soon as he understands the purpose of life,
and taking his own evolution earnestly in hand endeav­
ours to eradicate the evil and rapidly to develop the good
within himself in order to become ever a more and more
perfect channel of the Divine Love, the Lords of Karma, in
recognition of his earnest desire, increase the amount of
evil karma to be worked out in the present life and help
him to discharge his old debt quickly. Thus many holy
and earnest souls seem to suffer because they are making
very rapid progress and are quickly paying off the debt
(since they have made themselves strong enough to do so)
in order that it may be cleared out of the way of their
future work.
Q. Then what about the so-called accidents/ say a
railway accident or a shipwreck, or seismic catastrophes
like an earthquake, where many suffer together ?
Ans. People with appropriate individual karma are
gathered together to suffer collectively in such cases.
Again, souls are gathered into groups of families, castes,
nations, races, etc., considered as larger individuals and
have their own collective karma ; and it is here that room
is found for the so-called accidents as well as for the
adjustments continually being made by the Lords of
220 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Karma. Nothing can happen to a man that is not in his
karma as an individual, but a man can still enjoy or suffer
through family or national ties in a way not inherent in
his life-karma, and so receive or pay karmic debts, before
they are due, as we may say. The rise and fall of nations,
seismic changes like earthquakes, volcanoes and floods, or
national catastrophes like plague and famine, are all
cases of collective karma.
Each person has made a large and varied collection
of evil karma in the course of ages, and so advantage is
sometimes taken of a catastrophe or a cellective accident,
like a shipwreck, to enable a man to work off a portion
of the evil karma—Sanchita karma—not normally due in
the life in which it occurs, to pay a karmic debt, as it
were, before it is due. Such an opportunity, offered by
an accident, would be generally taken by the choice of the
ego, especially if he happened to be an advanced ego,
over whom some unpaid debt of sudden death had been
hanging for several lives as a kind of shackle or fetter,
preventing his going on and hindering his progress.
Still, unless he owed such a death to the Law, or, with
such a debt, was advanced enough to take advantage of
that opportunity, he could not die, but would furnish one
more instance of the miraculous escapes of which we so
frequently hear.
Q. As every man's actions invariably affect many
others around him, will he have to meet all those to settle
his karmic account ?
Ans. The effects in many cases are trivial, though in
some they may be of a serious character. Trivial effects,
good or bad, are merely small debits or credits in our
account with Nature, though greater effects of either kind,
especially when there is a distinct personal relationship of
KARMA 22 1
love or hatred, makes a personal account which has to be
settled with the persons concerned. A man giving a meal
to a hungry beggar or causing a petty annoyance to
another need not meet that other man, as he will receive
the result of his good or bad action from the general
fund of Nature, but if he changes the current of another’s
life by a great benefit or a serious harm, he must, sooner
or later, meet that other man to adjust the debt. In
short, small debts go into the general fund, while big ones
must be paid personally.
Q. Are the exact time and manner of a man*$ death
decided at or before his birth ?
Ans. No. Even astrologers cannot actually foretell
the death of a man, but can merely say that at a certain
time malefic influences are strong and the man may die,
but that if he does not, his life will continue until other
evil aspects threaten him. These uncertainties are points
left open for a later decision, depending on the use the
man makes of his opportunities and the modifications
he introduces by his actions during that life.
There are certain causes which work towards a
man’s leaving his physical body, and during the course of his
life-period his past karma may bring him several times to
what may be called a rather critical stage; but other causes
may be brought to bear upon him, and upon the resultant
of these forces will depend whether he passes out of the
physical body at that time or not. Thus though the time
of a man’s dying out of the physical body is not fixed,
the life-period which he has to spend under physical
conditions is fixed, and if he passes out of earthly life before
that period is completed on the physical plane, he has to
live on for the remainder of it under what may be called
partly-earth-life conditions in the astral world. His
222 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
physical body has been struck away before its life-period
is over. But the normal condition after death only sets
in when that earthly life-period is fully exhausted. A number
of verses in the Indian Shastras imply that death only
comes at a fixed time, and, normally, death does so come.
But when it is said : f<Before the period comes, a lance will
not kill; when it comes a blade of grass is enough to kill ”,
the true conception is that, when the time comes, the
smallest cause will bring about the striking away of the
physical body, but that if the time has not come, even a
violent cause—a lance—cannot alter the life-period, still
it may strike away the physical body.
People whose minds are not clear over the question
say: “ If a person’s life-period is fixed, if the death-hour
is fixed, it is no good nursing him or calling in a doctor ;
he will live or die according to his karma.” That is a
serious mistake, for, as explained before, at a critical period
like this, exertion or present activities may considerably
modify or even entirely change the result and ensure him
the use of his physical vehicle up to the end of his life-
period.
Thus the fact is that the period of life under
physical conditions is fixed ; the period of striking off the
physical body is not fixed. At one point or another death
may come. There will be times when, because of the
Dhradha karma, death cannot be averted, but there
may be other periods (of Adhradha or Dhradhadhradha
karma) when an added force may turn it away
like any other kind of karma. There are points that
are certain, and there are those that may be varied by
exertion.
Q. Is there karma among animals? If not, how do
you account for the difference in their conditions, one
KARMA 223
being kindly treated and well-fed, and another subjected
to brutality and left to starve and fight for a bare living ?
Ans. One should know first that an animal often does
make a good deal of karma through the group-soul, though
not individually; and secondly, that well-treated animals
have not so much advantage as they seem to have. The
sporting dog is taught to be more savage and brutal, killing
for the lust of destruction, whereby his group-soul makes bad
karma, for which that group-soul will have to suffer later on
through other dogs which are but expressions of it ; while a
lap-dog loses all canine virtues and earns the karma of
selfishness for his group-soul. A group-soul with its many
animal manifestations may be compared to a whole body
with several limbs and organs, and if an organ or limb is
afflicted with pain through disease, we do not speak of
such a limb as an individual worthy of compassion, as
something apart from the whole body.
If an animal be ill-treated by a man, it must be a
spontaneous act of injustice on that man’s part, as it cannot
be the result of a previous karma on the part of that
particular animal which, not having been individualised, is
incapable of carrying over karma, Still the thing could
not happen unless the group-soul of which that ill-used
animal forms a part had acquired bad karma in the past,
which is now paid by the group-soul through the manifesta­
tion of that particular animal, that bad karma being created
by intentional fights between bulls, stags, dogs, cats, etc.,
where pain is wilfully inflicted, though the prey killed by a
wild beast for food does not suffer appreciably.
Any way f the human beast ’ treating an animal
cruelly and causing it to fight and inflict pain on others,
instead of helping that animal placed in his hands to
receive stimulus for evolution by human contact, is storing
224 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
up exceedingly heavy karma for himself, and in many and
many a life to come will suffer the just result of his
abominable brutality.
Q. You have explained the working of karma%
but how
can a man mould his karma deliberately and so modify
his destiny ?
Ans. He should first examine the three threads of the
cord of fate explained before, inspect carefully his stock-in­
trade, inborn faculties and qualities, good and bad, powers
and weaknesses, present opportunities and actual environ­
ments ; then selecting the qualities which are desira­
ble to strengthen he can set to work and modify his.
character very rapidly, taking the qualities one by
one as stated before, and using thought-power to
acquire them, never thinking of the weakness but
its corresponding power; and thus thinking on that
which he desires to be, inevitably though gradually he be*
comes that under the Law. If he made mistakes in the past,
he can modify the results considerably by setting in operation
neutralising forces. Thus if he sends a strong thought of
love immediately after he has made the mistake of thinking
a thought of hate, he can overcome what otherwise would
have been the inevitable effect of hate. Vibrations of
hatred generated in past lives can also be similarly
neutralised by setting up against them vibrations of love ;
and moreover, if another sends him a thought of hate, he
can neutralise its effect, and even kill out that hate, by
sending back a thought of love as “ hatred ceaseth by love
Looking to the second thread of the cord of fate,
the desire-nature cannot be changed by desire, but can be
modified by thought. He should mentally create thought-
forms of the opportunity he wants and fix his will on those
forms, drawing them within reach, thus literally making
KARMA 225
and grasping the opportunities not presented by past karma.
Again, suppose he is fond of dainty food and has the weak­
ness of gluttony; he should then think of the disastrous
results of the vice, i.e., getting bloated and helpless with a
disordered digestion, and by reining in the desire he should
breed a disgust for that vice.
His environments are the hardest of all to change as
they are in the densest form of matter, but he should set
himself to change such undesirable part of them as can be
changed by strenuous effort, while such as he cannot change
he should accept and learn what it has to teach, when it
will drop away like a worn-out garment. For example,
in an undesirable family he should adapt himself to
his circumstances and fulfil every obligation cheerfully
and patiently to all egos drawn to him by his past,
learning patience through their annoyances, fortitude
through their irritations, forgiveness through their
wrongs.
Thus working with free-will and necessity—with
free-will but under conditions he has created by his past
thought-nature, desire-nature and physical nature—he can
mould his karma and make his future destiny.
One should study karma and apply the knowledge
to the guidance of his life. Many people say: “ Oh ! how
I wish I were good ”, but they do not take the trouble
to create the causes which result in goodness. It is
as though a chemist should say: “ O h! how I wish I
had water ”, without making the conditions which would
produce it.
But since a man must return to earth over and
over again till he has exhausted all his individual karma,
and since a good karma drags a man back to birth as
relentlessly as a bad one, how is he to cease generating
29
226 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
new karma and exhaust all past karma in order to attain
liberation ?
Ans. A good karma done with the thought of reward
will bind the man to earth by chains of gold as effectively
as an evil karma binds him by chains of iron, and though
he may get as his karmic due worldly wealth and position,
giving him many comforts and happiness, yet without any
inspirations or ideals from his past his life may be merely
one of agreeable futility. The ignorant, in the enjoyment
of senses, do not consider a good destiny as a bond, but
the wise knowing it to be such try to be rid of good and
evil destiny alike.
An action is prompted by desire, desire for the fruit
of action moving a man to activity, and the enjoyment of
the fruit rewards his exertion. Desire for fruit or
attachment to the fruit of action is then the binding
element in karma. To every action is bound its fruit, and
desire is the cord that links them together, while with the
burning of desire the connection is broken. So when a
man longs for liberation, he has to practise renunciation of
the fruit of action, gradually eradicating in himself the
wish to possess any object for his own separate self. He
should desire to sow no seed for his own harvesting;
desire only to sow that seed the fruit of which shall feed
the world.” He should not neglect any duty, but dis­
charge every duty perfectly while remaining indifferent to
the fruit it brings forth. All his actions then partake of
the nature of sacrifice, the fruit being given freely for the
helping of men. Thus neither disliking nor desiring any
object, he ceases to generate new karma. “ ’Tis from the
bud of renunciation of the self, that springeth the sweet
fruit of final liberation.” “ Man winneth not freedom from
action by abstaining from activity.” €
<The harmonised
KARMA 227
man, having abandoned the fruit of action, attaineth to
the eternal Peace; the non-harmonised, impelled by
desire, attached to fruit, are bound.”
He has then to get rid of old chains and also
to cease from the forging of new ones ; and for this know­
ledge is necessary. Looking back into his past lives he
has to neutralise forces coming out of the past by sending
against them forces equal and opposite, and burn up his
karma by knowledge. He has also to meet the souls whom
he has wronged and to pay his debts, thus working out
karmic obligations which would otherwise hamper and
retard his progress.
Q. A man is drawn back to earth by desires, but the
Masters having no desire, what is it which binds Them to
earth ? Why do They leave the indescribable bliss of
Nirvana for the lower levels of the world of men ?
Ans. There is nothing that the world can offer Them
which can draw Them back to earth; but They stay in
the world to help mankind. Even though feeling pity for
men They do not come in the way of the karmic law, as
Their interference may really cause confusion; still in
accordance with the Law They do sometimes help men
in suffering. Their work is not to put out fire, but
to prevent its catching; not to remove suffering, but to
dispel ignorance, the root-cause of all suffering which
binds man to earth through evil deeds. Thus They stay
in this world to help Their younger brethren, and labour
century after century for nothing this world can give Them
save the joy of seeing other souls growing into Their
likeness.
CHAPTER VI
LIFE AFTER DEATH
Question. What is the advantage of the knowledge,
during life, of the conditions on the other side of death ?
Why should a man trouble his mind about these matters,
when he is sure to find out the facts for himself after he
dies ?
Answer. This contention is defective in several ways.
It takes no account of the terror which, from ignorance,
overshadows the lives of so many, nor of the sorrows of
separation and the anxiety felt by the survivors about the
fate of the departed dear ones. The dread is inspired not
so much by the definite expectation of anything appalling,
as by the feeling of dim uncertainty, the horror of a vacant
abyss. The above contention also ignores the fact that man
after death does not immediately realise his mistakes, and
that owing to his inability to correct them by the light of
truth he has frequently to suffer much. The ordinary
man without knowledge is bound on the astral plane by the
desire-elemental, to be explained presently, and does not
understand the possibilities of the life after death, thus
missing many opportunities of service and progress.
Although the laws of Nature are ever carrying us
on with them whether we know it or not, yet if we know,
we can co-operate with them to our great advantage.
LIFE AFTER DEATH 2 2 9
This we cannot do if we are in the darkness of ignorance.
To know is like walking in the light, and to understand
the laws of Nature is to gain the power of quickening our
evolution by taking advantage of those laws that hasten
our growth and avoiding the working of those that would
retard or delay it.
Moreover, from a knowledge of the after-death
existence a man realises the true proportion between the
physical fragment of life and the rest of it, and so does
not waste his time in working merely for the physical
period which is but one-tenth or one-twentieth part of the
whole life between two incarnations. Also when he
reaches what is called the astral world, after death, he
does not become alarmed, as he understands his surround­
ings and knows the best method of work there, and so has
courage and confidence. Even a man who has heard
Theosophical truths but once in a lecture, realising in the
world after death the general accuracy of the remarks,
tries to recall detailed suggestions as to conduct therein,
and having at least one point of contact with the known
can avoid much of the discomfort, bewilderment and fear,
felt there by others through complete ignorance. But the
greatest advantage of such knowledge is that he feels con­
fident enough to lend a helping hand to others and thus
generates good karma for himself.
Q. Then what becomes of a man on the other side of
death ?
Ans. In order to know that, one should understand
properly what death is. There is a vast amount of utterly
unnecessary sorrow, terror and misery which mankind in
the aggregate has suffered and still suffers through igno­
rance and superstition about death which is looked upon
as a formidable and terrible leap into an unknown abyss.
232 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Ans. Death-struggles and death-rattles are usually only
final spasmodic movements of the physical body after the
conscious ego has left it. In almost every case actual
passing away is perfectly painless, even when there is long
and terrible suffering in the illness. That is proved by the
peaceful look which so often comes over the face after
death, as well as by the direct testimony of most of those
to whom the question has been put immediately after
death.
Q. What becomes of the separated etheric double after
death ?
Ans. The physical body, left to the rioting of the
countless lives previously held in constraint by Prana act­
ing through the etheric double, begins to decay, and its
particles pass into other combinations as its cells and
molecules disintegrate, and the etheric double remaining
near its dense counterpart, shares the same fate, in a few
weeks or months, for precisely the same reason—that the
co-ordinating force of Prana is then withdrawn from it.
It must not, however, be supposed that these two dis­
integrations depend upon each other. Clairvoyants see
these etherial wraiths, which float in churchyards over
graves where the coarser physical bodies are buried,
sometimes showing a likeness to the dense body and some­
times as violet mists or lights. It is advisable for several
reasons to burn the dense body rather than bury it.
Q. Why is cremation preferable to burial ?
Ans. There are several reasons for it.
i. Nothing that is ordinarily done to the physical
corpse need make any difference to the real man living on
the astral plane, though it sometimes does do so owing to
his ignorance and foolishness. The length of a man’s stay
in the astral world after death depends on two factors—
LIFE AFTER DEATH 233
the nature of his past physical life, and his attitude of
mind after his death. During his earth-life he affects the
building of his astral body directly by his passions and
emotions, and indirectly by the action upon it of his
thoughts from above, and of all the details of his physical
life—his continence or his debauchery, his food and his
drink—from below. If by persistence in evil passions and
desires during earth-life he builds for himself a coarse
astral vehicle, he will find himself after death bound to the
astral plane during the long and slow process of that body’s
disintegration. On the other hand, if by decent living he
gives himself a vehicle mainly composed of finer material*
he will have very much less discomfort after death and
will pass through the astral plane very rapidly.
This much is generally understood, but the
second great factor—his attitude of mind after death—
seems often to be forgotten. The desirable thing is for
him to realise that he is at this stage withdrawing steadily
towards the plane of the true ego, and that it is his business
to disengage his thoughts as far as possible from things
physical, and fix his attention more and more upon those
spiritual matters which will occupy him later on upon
Devachanic levels. By doing this he will greatly facilitate
the natural astral disintegration and avoid the common
mistake of unnecessarily delaying himself upon the lower
levels of that plane.
Many people, however, simply will not turn
their thoughts upwards. Earthly matters are the only
ones in which they have ever had any living interest, and
so they cling to them with desperate tenacity even after
death. Of course the mighty force of evolution is
eventually too strong for them, and they are swept on in
its beneficent current; yet they fight every step of the way,
30
234 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
not only causing themselves unnecessary trouble and sorrow,
but also seriously delaying their upward progress. Now in
this ignorant opposition to the cosmic will a man is
much assisted by the possession of his physical corpse
as a kind of fulcrum on the physical plane. He is
naturally in very close rapport with it, and if he be
so foolish as to wish to do so, he can use it as an anchor
to hold him down firmly to the lower levels until its
decomposition is far advanced. Thus while neither the
burial nor the embalming of a corpse can in any way force
the ego to whom it once belonged to prolong his stay upon
the astral plane against his will, either of these causes
is a distinct temptation to him to delay, and facilitates his
doing so if he foolishly wish it. So cremation saves the
man from himself in this matter, for when his body has
been thus disposed of, his boats are literally burnt behind
him, and his power of holding back is greatly diminished.
2. Whether the dense body is burnt, or allowed to
decay slowly in the usual loathsome manner, or indefinitely
preserved as an Egyptian mummy, the etheric double
pursues its own line of quiet disintegration entirely un­
affected ; still cremation is advisable from a sanitary point
of view, as it averts many dangers to the living by the
swift dissociation of the physical remnants.
3. Cremation entirely prevents any attempt at
partial and unnatural temporary reunion of the principles
by the galvanising of the etheric corpse in the neighbour­
hood of the dense body just after death, or at the grave
even after burial.
4. It entirely prevents any endeavour to make use
of the corpse for the purposes of the horrible rites of black
magic, which very seriously affect the condition of the man
on the astral plane.
LIFE AFTER DEATH 235
Q. What then becomes of the man in his desire-body
after he has shaken off the etheric double.and is separated
from Prana ?
Ans. When the physical body is dropped at death, the
whole arrangement of the sheaths of the personality begins
to break up, and the astral body commences to disintegrate.
The desire-elemental, the vague body-consciousness of
the astral body, mentioned in Chapter III, feels it instinc­
tively and at once takes fright. It fears that it will lose the
habitation which enables it to remain apart from the rest
and thus get an unusual opportunity for progress, and that
the final dissipation of the astral body will end its
own (elemental) life as a separate entity; so It immediately
sets to work to protect itself by a very ingenious method.
The matter of the astral body is far more fluidic than that
of the physical, and the elemental, seizing upon its particles,
rearranges them, so that the rearranged astral body may
resist as much of encroachment, friction or disintegration
as its constitution permits, and may therefore retain its
shape as long as possible. During earth-life the various
kinds of astral matter intermingle in the formation of the
astral or desire-body, but the rearrangement consists in the
separation of its materials according to their densities into
a series of seven concentric shells—the finest within and
the densest without—each shell being made of the matter
of one subplane.
Q. But how does this rearrangement by the desire-
elemental affect the dead man ?
Ans. The physical body acquires its information from
without by means of certain organs which are specialised
as instruments of its senses. But the astral body has no
separate organs, and what in the astral body corresponds
to sight is the power of its molecules to respond to impacts
LIFE AFTER DEATH 237
because he is now incapable of appreciating any of their
better qualities. Under these circumstances it is no wonder
that he considers the astral world a hell,* yet the fault is
in no way with the astral world, but with himself—first,
for allowing within himself so much of that ruder type of
astral matter, and secondly, for letting that vague astral
consciousness dominate him and rearrange that astral
matter in that particular way.
In course of time he will pass on to the higher
subplanes, one after another, with the partial wearing out
of each of the concentric shells, but the astral life of the
man is thereby unduly prolonged and the progress of the
soul retarded.
Q. You spoke of allowing the rearrangement through
ignorance ; then can a manprevent it and, by saving himself
from being confined to the lower subplanes, one after
another, from below upwards, retain his capacity of seeing
any astral object of the matter of any subplane ?
Ans. During life he can refuse to gratify his lower
desires, replace all the low particles by higher and finer
ones, and thus change the astral matter within him, build­
ing for himself an astral elemental of a high type.
Again, the ordinary man having no knowledge of
these things quietly accepts the rearrangement after death,
especially as the desire-elemental transfers to him its own
fear of indescribable danger and destruction ; but the man
should simply resist that unreasoning sense of dread by
a calm assertion of knowledge, and declining to permit the
case-hardening, which would confine him to a single
subplane, he should insist upon keeping open his com­
munications with the higher astral levels as well. He can
thus escape the thraldom of the desire-elemental by slowly
but steadily wearing out its resistance ; and being then in
238 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
practically the same position as that in which he used to
function when he passed into the astral world in sleep
during earth-life, he will be able to move about freely and
to retain his power of seeing the whole of the astral world
as before, and not merely the grosser and baser part of it.
Then he can also help his friends by showing them how
to liberate themselves. The habit of turning the thoughts
inwards in meditation and the practice of directing the
emotions by the will and intellect also prevent this 4shell­
ing’, which is not usual among self-controlled people.
Q. What, then, is the state of an ordinary man in
Kamaloka immediately after death ?
Ans. It is not certain that when the man is free from
his etheric double, he will at once become conscious of the
astral world, especially if he dies suddenly. For he has in
him a good deal of the lowest kind of astral matter, and a
shell of this may be made around him. Yet if he has
learnt in good time to keep in check sensual desires of
various kinds, his consciousness will not be in the habit of
functioning through such matter. In the rearranged
astral body that matter will gather outside, and will there­
fore be the only channel open to external impressions. Not
being used to receiving this order of vibrations, the man
cannot now develop all at once the power to function
consciously through it and may therefore remain uncon­
scious of all the unpleasantness of that lowest subplane,
until that gross matter gradually wears away, and some
matter which he is in the habit of using comes to the
surface. Such an occlusion, however, is scarcely ever
complete, for even in the most carefully made shell
some particles of the finer matter occasionally find their
way to the surface, and give him flitting glimpses of his
surroundings.
LIFE AFTER DEATH 239
Normally a dead man is unconscious until he has
freed himself from the etheric double, and so when he
awakens to a new life it is that of the astral plane.
But some men, through ignorance, cling so desperately
to physical existence, that they will not relax their hold
upon the etheric double after death. They feel that that is
at least some sort of link with the only world that they
know. They may be successful in so retaining their hold
for a considerable time, but only at the cost of great dis­
comfort to themselves. The etheric double being only a
part of the physical vehicle and not a vehicle in itself—a
body to live and function in—such men cannot come fully
into touch with the world of ordinary earth-life for want
of physical sense-organs, while they are not conscious
of the astral world owing to the shell of the etheric matter
which surrounds them. They are thus shut out from both
worlds, and find themselves surrounded by a dense grey
mist, through which they see very dimly the things of the
physical world, but with all the colour gone from them.
Struggling terribly to maintain their position, they drift
about in this condition of loneliness and misery, until from
sheer fatigue their hold fails them, and they slip into the
comparative happiness of astral life. Sometimes in their
desperation they grasp blindly at other bodies—a baby
body or even the body of an animal—and try to enter into
them, and occasionally they are successful in such an
attempt, though at the cost of further suffering to them­
selves in the near future. All this trouble and unhappiness,
arising entirely from ignorance, can never happen to one
who understands something of the conditions and laws of
the life after death.
An ordinary man awaking on the astral plane after
death will notice but little difference from what he has
2 4 o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
been familiar with in the physical world. The astral world
stretches to a little less than the mean distance of the orbit
of the moon as explained in Chapter II, and the types of
matter of the different subdivisions interpenetrate with per­
fect freedom, with a general tendency for the denser matter
to settle towards the centre, whereby though the various
subdivisions do not lie one above the other like the coats
of an onion, the arrangement of the matter of those sub-
divisions partakes somewhat of that character.
The man who has not allowed rearrangement in his
astral body has freedom of the whole astral world and can
float about in any direction at will, though he generally
stays in the neighbourhood to which he is accustomed,
that is, where his interests lie.
Again, astral matter interpenetrates physical matter
as though the latter were not there,* still each subdivision
of physical matter has a strong attraction for astral matter
of the corresponding subdivision. Hence every physical
body has its astral counterpart, and the dead man is thus
able to perceive his house, room, furniture, relatives and
friends. The living think of the dead friend as lost, but that
friend, though not seeing the physical bodies of the living,
sees their astral bodies, i.e., the astral counterparts cor­
responding exactly to the outlines of the physical bodies.
He is thus aware of the presence of his friends, though he
cannot make any impression upon them when they are
awake with their consciousness in the physical world, nor
communicate with them or read their higher thoughts.
He can also see their emotions by the change in colour in
their astral bodies. The friends, too, when asleep,
are conscious in the astral world and can communicate
with the dead one as freely as during physical life, though
they may again forget everything when awake.
LIFE AFTER DEATH 24l
A man is in no way changed by death, but is in
every respect the same man minus his physical body. His
thoughts, desires and emotions are exactly the same, and
his happiness or misery depends upon the extent to which
the loss of the physical body affects him. He often does not
believe he is dead as he sees the old familiar objects and
friends about him, but the realisation comes as he finds
that he cannot always communicate with them. He
speaks to them even at once after death, and they do not
seem to hear; he tries to touch them but finds himself
making no impression on them. For a time he persuades
himself that he is dreaming, but gradually discovers that
after all he is dead.
Then he usually begins to bepome uneasy because
of the defective teaching which he has received. He does
not understand where he is, or what has happened, since
his situation is not what he expected from the orthodox
standpoint. As an English general once said in a similar
condition: “ But if I am dead, where am I ? If this is
heaven, I don’t think much of i t ; and if it is hell, it is
better than I expected.”
A great deal of totally unnecessary uneasiness and
even acute suffering has been thus caused by the baseless
and blasphemous hell-fire theory, for it has worked evil
beyond the grave as well as on this side. But presently the
man will meet with an astral helper, or some other dead
person who has been more sensibly instructed, and will
learn from him that there is no cause for fear, and that
there is a rational life to be lived in this new world, just
as there was in the old.
He will find by degrees that there is very much that
is new, as well as much that is a counterpart of what he
already knows; for in this astral world thoughts and
31
242 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
desires express themselves in visible forms, though they
are composed mostly of the finer matter of the plane.
These become more and more prominent as his astral life
proceeds and as he withdraws further and further into
himself. As time passes, he pays less and less attention to
the lower matter w
7
hich forms the counterparts of physical
objects, and is occupied more and more with that higher
matter of which thought-forms are built—so far, that is, as
thought-forms appear on the astral plane at all. So his
life becomes more and more a life in a world of thought,
and the counterpart of the world which he has left fades
from his view—not that he has changed his location in space,
but that his interest is shifting its centre. His desires still
persist, and the forms surrounding him will be very largely
the expression of these desires, and whether his life is one
of happiness or discomfort will depend chiefly upon the
nature of these.
The whole astral life after death is a constant and
steady process of withdrawal by the ego into himself, and
when in course of time the soul reaches the limit of that
plane, he dies to it in just the same way as he died to the
physical plane. That is to say, he casts off the body of
that plane and leaves it behind him, passing on to the
higher and still fuller life of the heaven-world.
Q. What are the surroundings of the astral world ?
Ans. To a large extent people make their own
surroundings there. The astral world, as explained in
Chapter II, is divided into seven subdivisions. These fall
into three classes; and counting from the highest, sub­
divisions one, two and three form one class, and four, five
and six another, the seventh standing alone. As explained
before, though these subdivisions interpenetrate freely, the
matter of the higher subdivisions is found on the whole at
LIFE AFTER DEATH 243
a greater elevation above the surface of the earth than the
bulk of the matter of the lower subdivisions. Thus
though any person on that plane can move on it anywhere,
his natural tendency is to float at a level corresponding to
the specific gravity of the heaviest matter in his astral
body. A man who has not permitted the rearrangement
in his astral body can float anywhere at will, but the man
who has submitted to that rearrangement is confined to
only one level, not because he cannot rise to the highest
or sink to the lowest, but because he is able to sense clearly
only that subplane, the matter of which at that time hap­
pens to be on the outermost of the concentric shells of his
astral body.
The lowest or seventh subplane, the astral slum
with its gloomy and depressing atmosphere below
the surface of the earth, is the most hideous and re­
pulsive, and is populated by the scum of humanity—
murderers, ruffians, drunkards and profligates—floating
in darkness and cut off from the other dead, though only
those are conscious there who are guilty of brutal crimes
or deliberate cruelty or possessed of evil appetites. Persons
of a generally better type, i.e.} suicides who had sought
self-murder to escape the penalties of crimes, are also
found there.
Subdivisions four, five and six may be said to be
the astral double of the physical. The great majority of
people make some stay on the sixth which is simply like
physical life minus the physical body and its necessities,
while the fifth and fourth are merely etherealised copies of
the sixth, and life is less material there.
The first, second and third levels, though occupying
the same space, give the idea of being much further
removed from the physical, as men inhabiting them lose
244 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
sight of the earth and its belongings and are deeply self-
absorbed.
The third region is the summerland of the spiritual­
ists where the dead, by the power of their thought, call
into existence schools and churches and temples, houses
and cities, or beautiful scenery like pleasant flower-gardens,
lovely lakes and magnificent mountains. These are mere
collective creations of thought, but people live there con­
tented for years.
The second section is the material heaven of the
ignorantly orthodox, the habitat of the selfish or unspiritual
religionist who wears here his golden crown and worships
his own grossly material representation of the particular
deity of his time and country. It is the happy hunting-
ground of the Red Indian, the Valhalla of the Norseman,
the houri-filled paradise of the Muslim, the golden jewelled-
gated new Jerusalem of the Christian, the lyceum-filled
heaven of the materialistic reformer.
The first or the highest region is occupied by in­
tellectual men and women pronouncedly materialistic, or
wanting to gain knowledge by physical modes of study,
from motives of selfish ambition or for the sake of intellec­
tual exercise. Many politicians, statesmen and men of
science ate to be found there.
The astral life is the result of all feelings which
have in them the element of self. If they have been direct­
ly selfish, they bring their owner into conditions of great
unpleasantness in the astral world ; if, though tinged with
thoughts of self, they have been good and kindly, they
bring him a comparatively pleasant though still limited
astral life. Such of his thoughts and feelings as have been
entirely unselfish produce their result in his life in the
mental world; therefore that life in the mental world
LIFE AFTER DEATH 245
cannot be other than blissful. The astral life, which the
man has made either miserable or comparatively joyous
for himself, corresponds to what Christians call purgatory;
while the lower mental life, which is always entirely happy,
is what is called heaven.
Q. Then is there no hell ?
Ans. Man makes for himself his own purgatory or
heaven, which are not places, but only states of conscious­
ness. Hell does not exist and is only a figment of the
theological imagination. The ordinary belief of the
Christian in eternal fire and everlasting punishment is
nothing but a peculiarly pernicious superstition taught by
the mediaeval monks. The only thing which, from the
Christian point of view, ought to be of any importance is
what the Christ Himself said on the subject. There are
eight passages in which He is supposed to mention
eternal punishment, and every one of these eight instances
can be quite plainly shown to have nothing to do with the
popular idea which is attributed to them. There is a
book called Salvator Mundi, written by a Christian
clergyman, the Rev. Sandal Cox, who goes very care­
fully into the original Greek of what the Christ is
alleged to have said, and explains what the Christ did
mean, and gives the other words which He must have
used, if speaking in Greek, in order to fit in with the
popular interpretation. He had not meant what people
usually think He meant. That shows that there is no
rational basis for the belief in everlasting punishment,
and of course one can refute it also from many other
points of view. One can say that if there be a God,
and if He be a loving Father, the cruelty of eternal
punishment with its apparent injustice is absolutely
impossible.
246 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Still there comes a period in human development,
though not for millions of years yet—the so-called Day of
Judgment in the middle of the Fifth Round (see Chapter
VIII)—when the young soul or the man who has set
himself steadily against evolutionary progress does drop
out, not into an everlasting hell, but into a condition of
comparatively suspended animation in which he awaits the
advent of another scheme of evolution which offers him,
in its earlier stages, an opportunity of advancement more
within the limits of his feeble capacities.
He is simply in the position of a child who has been
unable to keep pace with his classmates. He cannot work
with them through the later and more difficult portion of the
course of study appointed for the year, so he must wait until,
at the beginning of the next school-year, another set of boys
are commencing the studies which he failed to grasp. By
joining them, and thus going over the same ground once
more, he is enabled to succeed where previously he
succumbed to the difficulties of the path. This is all that
it means, and may be called seonian condemnation ; for that
is the real translation of the words which have been so
grossly misinterpreted ceternal damnation \ It is not a
damnation at all, not even a condemnation in any bad sense:
it is simply a suspension for the present aeon or dispensa­
tion. But the diseased imagination of the mediaeval monk,
always seeking the opportunity to introduce grotesquely
aggravated horrors into his creed in order to terrify an
incredibly ignorant peasantry into more liberal donations
for the support of Mother Church, distorted this per­
fectly simple idea of f aeonian suspension * into ‘ eternal
damnation \
Still a man by living foolishly may make for himself
an unpleasant and long-enduring purgatory, though neither
LIFE AFTER DEATH 247
heaven nor hell can be eternal, as a finite cause can
produce only a finite result.
Q. What, then, are the conditions severally, Kama-
or astral world, 0
/ # ordinary
man and a man with some rational interests ?
Ans. The conditions of after-death life are almost
infinite in their variety. Every ordinary man who has
allowed the rearrangement in his astral body after death
has to pass through the seven subdivisions in turn, though
every one is not conscious in all of them. An ordinary
decent person has not in his body sufficient matter of the
lowest subplane to form a heavy shell. He usually has
matter of the sixth mixed with a little of the seventh, and
so after death he ordinarily finds himself viewing the
counterpart of the physical world.
But a drunkard or a sensualist who has been in the
grip of a lust strong enough, during physical life, to over­
power reason and feelings of decency or family affection,
finds himself after death in the lowest subdivision of the
astral world, for his longings had been such as needed a
physical body for their gratification. Such a craving
manifests itself as a vibration in the astral body, and
while he was still in the physical world, most of its strength
was used up in setting in motion the heavy physical
particles. But being in the astral world without the
physical vehicle to deaden and retard the force of the
desire-vibrations, he feels the appetite perhaps a hundred
times more strongly, yet is absolutely unable to satisfy it
for want of a physical body ; and then life is a real hell, the
only hell there is. Yet he is reaping the perfectly natural
result of his own action and no external power is punishing
him. Here most of the suffering results from the non­
satisfaction of vicious desires strengthened and encouraged
248 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
while in the physical body; the sinner is his own execu­
tioner. All this was perfectly well known in the ancient
world, even among the Greeks, by whom it is clearly imaged
in the myth of Tantalus, who suffered always from a
raging thirst, yet was doomed for ever to see the water
recede just as it was about to touch his lips.
A murderer, living through the scenes of the
murder and the subsequent events over and over again in
Kamaloka, ever repeating his diabolical act and going
through the terrors of his arrest and execution, is expe­
riencing hell indeed; fire and brimstone are mere stage
properties in comparison. In many cases the murderer,
while going over and over again in thought the crime
which he has committed, will, by such ceaseless round of
half malevolent, half horror-stricken meditation, produce
something in the nature of a haunting at the scene of his
violent deed.
But none of these conditions are eternal and none are
punitive. They are the inevitable working out of causes
set in motion in the physical world, and conditions only last
while their causes endure. In course of time the force of
desire wears out, but only at the cost of terrible suffering to
the man, and as in the astral world time can be measured
by means of sensations alone, there being no other time-
measure such as we have in the physical world, each day
seems to him somewhat like a thousand years. The
blasphemous idea of eternal damnation seems to be a
distortion of this fact.
The fate of Sisyphus of Greek mythology typifies
exactly the after-life of the man of worldly ambition. The
former was condemned for ever to roll a heavy rock up to
the summit of a mountain, only to see it roll down again
the moment success seemed within his reach. The man
LIFE AFTER DEATH 249
bf selfish ambition has all his life been in the habit of
forming selfish plans, and hence he continues to do so in
the astral world; he carefully builds up the plan till it is
perfect in his mind, and only then finds out that he has
lost the physical body which is necessary for its achievement.
Down falls his hope ; yet so ingrained is the habit that
he continues again and again to roll this same stone up
the same mountain of ambition until such time as the
vice is completely worn out. Then at last he realises
that he need not roll up his rock, and he lets it rest in peace
at the bottom of the hill.
Now take the case of an ordinary colourless man
who has no particular vice, but who is still attached to
things of the physical world—who has had no ideas
beyond gossip or what is called sport, who has thought of
nothing beyond his business or: his dress, and whose life has
been devoted merely to making money or to aimless social
functions. The astral world is a place of weariness for
him, because the things he craves for are not possible to
him as there are no business engagements in that world,
and no conventionalities upon which society in the
physical world is based.
Yet for all but a very small minority, the state after
death is happier than the life upon earth, since it is no
longer needful to earn a living. The astral body feels
neither hungry nor cold, nor suffers from disease, and
each man in the astral world, by the mere exercise of his
thought, clothes himself as he wishes. For the first time
since early childhood the man is entirely free to spend the
whole of his time in doing exactly what he likes.
Men with similar tastes and pursuits drift naturally
together there just as they do on the physical plane, and
there is no lack of profitable occupation for a man with
3Z
z5o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
rational interests, provided they do not need a physical
body for their expression. A lover of the beauties of
nature can travel rapidly, about a hundred miles per
second, without fatigue, to the loveliest spots in the world ;
another delighting in art has the world’s masterpieces at
his disposal, while a student of science has libraries and
laboratories of the world open to him. He can visit all
scientific men and catch their thoughts. For a man who
during earth-life has learnt to delight in unselfish actions
and to work for the good of others, this world will be one
of the most vivid joy and the most rapid progress. To a
man who is both intelligent and helpful, who understands
the conditions of this non-physical existence and takes the
trouble to adapt himself to them, it opens a splendid
vista of opportunities alike for acquiring fresh knowledge
and for doing useful work. In fact, he may do more
good in a few years of that astral existence than ever he
could have done in the longest physical life. Thus there
are ample possibilities both for enjoyment and progress
there.
Q. What of the after-death conditions of those who die
by accident or who have committed suicide ?
Ans. In the first class, there is a great variety; in the
second, the definite life-period has to be lived out. It is the
period fixed for the working out of the karma of that life
as already explained in Chapter V in connection with the
exact time and manner of a man’s death.
When death is by accident, it is not infrequently
the ending planned by the Lords of Karma for that
incarnation ; but sometimes it is not so intended, and the
accident is therefore an interference by new forces brought
to bear on the life—an exercise of initiative by the individu­
al himself (when he chooses to pay a debt, before it is due,
LIFE AFTER DEATH 25l
sas stated before,) or by others whose actions directly affect
him. In such a case, the disturbed plan will be adjusted
in the beginning of the next life, so that there will not be
in the end anything lost to the soul whose destiny has been
changed for the moment by himself or by others. But in
no case is suicide ever in the plan of a man’s life; for such
an act the man is directly responsible, though that responsi­
bility may also be shared by others.
In the case of those who die either from old age
*or disease, the hold of earthly desires is sure to be
more or less weakened, and probably the very grossest
particles are already got rid of, so that the man will
most likely find himself on the sixth or fifth—or perhaps
<even a higher—subdivision of the astral plane ; the princi­
ples have gradually been prepared for separation, and the
shock is therefore not great.
But in the case of accidental death or suicide
none of these preparations have taken place, and the
■withdrawal of the principles from their physical encasement
has been very aptly compared to the tearing of the stone
<out of an unripe fruit; a great deal of the grossest kind
of astral matter still clings around the personality, which
is consequently held in the seventh or lowest subdivision
of the plane.
The victims of sudden death whose earth-lives have
been noble and pure have no affinity for this plane, and so
the time of their sojourn upon it is passed either in “ happy
ignorance and full oblivion, or in a state of quiet slumber,
a sleep full of rosy dreams ”. But if their earth-
lives have been low and brutal, selfish and sensual, they
will, like the suicides, be conscious to the fullest extent in
this undesirable region, and are liable to develop into
terribly evil entities.
252 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
The ordinary suicide is committed either from*
weakness or cowardice*—due to a momentary despair,
or a shock which the person is not strong enough to
bear, or a sudden misfortune coming upon him from some-
wrong action which he fears will be discovered and the
penalty of which he wishes to escape. It is sometimes-
the deliberate, but often the hurried, action of a man who*
is trying to get out of a trouble and escape from it.
Yet he cannot escape from it. When he has struck,
away his body, he is wide awake on the other side of death,.,
exactly the same man as he was a moment before, except
that his physical body is thrown off; he is no more changed
than if he had merely taken off his coat. The thing which
drove him to suicide was mental or emotional, as the
case may be. He has not got rid either of his mind or
his emotions. All that part of him that drove him to
suicide is there ; it was not a mere bodily action. The
result of his losing the physical body is that his capacity
for suffering is very much increased. He is subject to the
same forces as those which may have driven him to
suicide. There is, however, one peculiarity in relation to-
it, that he generally goes through *in imagination ’, as we
call it, all that led up to the point when he killed himself,
repeats automatically the feelings of despair and fear
which preceded the self-murder, and goes through the
act and death-struggle with ghastly persistence.
That curious automatic effect, the repeating of a.
thing over and over again in Kamaloka, is also a character­
istic of the murderer when he passes over, as mentioned
above, whether the murder is found out or not. Of
course if he is found out and hanged, then it takes place-
in rapid sequence. That is also one of the ways in which
the savage learns that murder is wrong. In his case, it
LIFE AFTER DEATH 253
cannot be said to be much of a crime as he kills without
thinking; yet he has to learn that murder is a thing he
must not do. So, in the post-mortem life, he has a short
suffering of this kind, short because there was very little
mental effort behind, and because there was merely the
sudden emotion, leading to the commission of that action*
That is part of the useful instruction which helps in the
evolution of the savage : he learns that murder is wrong by
finding that it wr
orks out painfully for him. But of course
those who are more evolved would suffer for at-very much
longer period if they committed a similar offence.
The folly in suicide is that people, erroneously
expect to escape life, and then they find themselves still
alive. That is the futility of the whole thing. Suicide
depends chiefly upon ignorance. If people be convinced
that they cannot escape, that the results of actions are
inevitable, that will work upon their minds when there is
a sudden impulse to suicide from the desire to escape*
They cannot escape, but, on the contrary, fall, as it were,
from the frying-pan into the fire ; they have to suffer there
more than on the physical plane, because they are working
in subtler matter, in which the impact of feeling, owing to
less of wastage in moving the light astral matter, is
stronger in its effect upon consciousness than on the
physical plane. ;
The suicide is very apt to turn up at a spiritualistic
seance. He may be induced by the people who try
to help him on the other side of death, to accept the
inevitable results of his action patiently and quietly;
but often he rejects the good advice and attempts to
regain a hold upon life by wrongful means. Such a man—>
as well as a victim of sudden death whose earth-life has
been brutal, selfish and sensual—inflamed with all kinds of
254 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
horrible appetites which he can no longer satisfy nowTthat
he is without a physical body, often tries to gratify his
earthly yearnings and loathsome passions vicariously
through a living proxy—a medium or any sensitive
person—whom he can obsess. Unfortunately if he
succeeds in doing so, he is enabled to prolong enormously
his dreadful astral life and to renew for perhaps an
indefinite period his power to generate evil karma and
so prepares for himself a future incarnation of the most
degraded character, besides running the risk of losing
a large portion of such mind-power as he may happen
to possess. But if he is fortunate enough not to meet
with a sensitive through whom his passions can be vicari­
ously gratified, the unfulfilled desires will gradually burn
themselves out, and the suffering caused in the process will
probably go far towards working off the evil karma of the
past life.
But it must be remembered that the guilt of suicide
differs considerably according to circumstances, from the
morally blameless act of Seneca or Socrates, or from a
suicide which has been committed from a noble motive and
is an act of love and self-sacrifice, through all degrees
down to the heinous crime of the wretch who takes his
own life in order to escape from the entanglements into
which his villany has involved him; and of course the
condition after death varies accordingly.
Q. If there is no hell, what is the use of so much ter­
rible suffering in the astral world ? How does the system
of purgation help the man ?
Ans. There is no hell, no senseless, useless eternity of
torment for the mere gratification of the cruel malignity of
an irresponsible despot in which orthodox theology asks
its devotees to believe ; but there is a purgatory which is
LIFE AFTER DEATH 255
simply the necessary, the only effective and therefore the
most merciful process for the elimination of evil desires.
Terrible though the suffering may be, any evil desire
gradually wears itself out, and only when all evil desires
have done so, can the man pass on into the higher life of
the heaven-world.
Because a particular evil desire is burnt out,
the man is definitely freed from it, and he need not
take up the burden of it again in his next incarnation
unless he wills it. Though the desire itself is dead, there
still remains the same weakness of character which made
it possible for him to succumb to it. In his next life he
will be born with an astral vehicle containing such matter
as is necessary for the expression of the same desire—with,
so to speak, an outfit which would enable him to repeat
his last life in that respect. He receives that matter
because in his last incarnation he sought it and made use
of i t ; but though he is provided with it this time, he is in
no way bound to employ it in the same way as before. If
from the result of his previous actions he should have the
good fortune to find himself as a child in the hands of
careful and capable parents, and so be trained to regard
such a desire as evil, and to gain control over it and re­
press it as it appears, then the matter which would have ex­
pressed it will remain unvivified and gradually become atro­
phied for want of use, like many of our physical muscles.
The matter of the astral body is slowly but con­
stantly wearing away and being replaced, precisely as is
that of the physical body; and as that which is atrophied
disappears, it will be replaced by matter of a more refined
order which is incapable of responding to the strong, coarse
vibrations of that grossly sensual desire, and thus that
particular abomination will become impossible to him. He
256 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
will, in fact, have grown beyond it and finally conquered
it, so that never again in all his long series of future lives
will he repeat that mistake, for he has now built into his
ego the opposite virtue of complete self-control as far as
that vice is concerned. Through a life of successful
struggle against that desire the victory over it has been
won; and now there is no longer a struggle, for he sees
the vice in its true colours and it has not the slightest
attraction for him. Thus the suffering on the astral
plane which once seemed, and was, so terrible to him, has
been in reality a blessing in disguise, since through it he has
been enabled to gain this immense moral victory, to take
this decided step upon the path of evolution ; and so far
there seems no other method than that of suffering by which
such splendid results could possibly have been achieved.
Q. If there be no hell, how do you explain the Christian
doctrine of ‘ Salvation ’ ?
Ans. Salvation (L. Salvus, saved) is not escape from
eternal damnation or from the mythical hell. To
be saved means really to be on the right side when a
certain division of the human race takes place in the
future, on the Day of Judgment, as mentioned before;
that division has been described as the separation between
the sheep and the goats, the saved and the lost. There
cannot be any such idea as ‘ the lost ’ in the whole of
God’s world, because God intends us all to evolve; and
evolve we most certainly shall. But the question is whether
we have attained individualisation early enough, and also
whether we shall choose to go willingly along the path of
evolution or whether we shall give ourselves and others a
great deal of trouble by resisting the divine guidance.
That is the only meaning of salvation—that a man
is sure to come out on the right side in that future
LIFE AFTER DEATH 257
judgment—a decision as to whether he is or is not ready to
go on in the higher and more evolved world. If he is not,
he drops out and goes on with the next wave of evolution
—the next chain of globes—like the child at school, men­
tioned before, who not being up to the level of his standard,
is unable to go on to a higher class with his comrades but
has to wait and do the same year's work over again.
As regards the progress that lies before us in this
particular chain of worlds (see Chapter VIII), the great
majority of us are by no means yet what is technically
called ‘safe ’ or ‘ saved ’.W e reach that desirable position
only when we have become members of the Great White
Brotherhood which lasts from eternity to eternity, by pass­
ing the First Great Initiation as explained in Chapter X.
Those familiar with the Christian teaching will
remember how the great Initiate, S. Paul, pointed out that
it was the intention of the Christian religion to bring about
the birth of the Christ within the individual believer, and
that the Christ-child, thus born in the human spirit, was
to grow and develop until the full stature of the Christ
was reached in man. There is within each one of us a
Christ principle, which as yet in most of us lies dormant;
but it can be awakened, and the awakening of that Christ
principle is the birth of the Christ within the heart of each
man. We find in the Christian Scripture “ Christ in you,
the hope of glory ”, and it is the presence of that Christ
principle within each heart that brings the hope of glory
to every human soul. That principle is closely connected
with the Second Person of the Blessed Trinity, that Son
of God who became incarnate, who descended into flesh
and became Himself part of us in order that through Him
we might rise to greater glory. Without that Christ
principle we should indeed be lost, and belief in that true
33
258 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Christ is necessary for salvation. As one Angelus Silesius-
in the seventeenth century has said:
“ Though Christ were yearly born in Bethlehem,,
and never
Had birth in yourself, then were you lost for ever ;
And if within yourself it is not reared again,
The Cross at Golgotha can save you not from pain.”'
And it is the belief, the certainty, that the Christ-
power is within each one of us which will enable us to
reach that stage of safety, and to live the life which we
ought to live. In that sense it is true to say that belief in
the Christ is necessary for salvation, but it is the Christ
within ourselves in whom we must believe. Belief in the
mere story of a life lived by the Christ on the physical
plane cannot possibly affect our future. It is the knowledge
of the Divine within man, and its power to respond to the
Divine without, which will save us and help and strengthen
us on our way.
“ We all may be
The Saviours of the world, if we believe
In the Divinity which dwells in us
And worship it.”
The birth of the Christ within the heart of man is a
very real thing. In that sense we may truly say that the
Christ is the Saviour of the World, for it is only then that
man can attain that which God meant him to attain, and
entering consciously into the glory and the fulness of the
Christ Himself, realise the God within.
Thus the development of the Christ principle within
us is necessary for escape from recurring births and deaths.
As that principle *unfolds, we realise that our separate
consciousness is nothing but an illusion—that we are all one
in God. And as we realise that Fatherhood of God, we
realise also the true Brotherhood of Man.
LIFE AFTER DEATH 25£
That awakening of the Christ principle is also called
the attainment of the Buddhic consciousness. Saints
in their moments of bliss unconsciously touch the glory of
that wonderful consciousness and realise the Christ within
them. But there are others who set themselves deliber­
ately and scientifically to gain this splendour and con­
sciously enter into the glory and the fulness of the Christ,
realising the God in man because they themselves are
consciously part of that God whom they realise. That is
the true birth of Christ within the heart of man. The true
man, being a spark of the Divine Flame, is already divine
and needs no salvation. All he wants is to be able to
•realise himself in all the worlds and at all possible levels
and to be a channel of the Divine Power in the carrying
out of the Divine Plan.
Among the eastern nations salvation carries the idea
of the escape from sorrow and evil to the condition of being
safe—the escape from repeated incarnations, from the wheel
of birth and death, from what the schools of Orphism in
the sixth century b .c. called the ‘ Circle of Generation
from what the Buddhists call the Sansara, the Wheel
of Life.
Q. On what factors does a man's detention in any
section of the astral world depend ? In what time and
how does an ordinary man pass from the astral to the
heaven-world ?
Ans. The ego steadily withdraws all his forces into
himself, leaving behind him section after section of
astral matter. His detention in any section is in propor­
tion to the amount of matter of that section present in
his astral body, that proportion depending on the life
lived, the desires indulged in and the kind of matter thus
attracted and built into the body.
26o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Therefore a man can, by pure living and high
thinking, so minimise the quantity of matter belonging to
the lower astral levels which he attaches to himself, and
so raise it in each case to what may be called its critical-
point, that the first touch of disintegrating force would
shatter its cohesion and resolve it into its original condition,
leaving him free at once to pass on to the next sub-plane.
His attitude of mind after death also influences his
stay there, as by understanding his position and fixing his
attention on spiritual matters he can facilitate astral
disintegration and cut short his sojourn on the lower levels.
In the case of a thoroughly spiritually-minded
person who has purified his astral body with the constitu­
ents drawn from the finest grades of each division of astral
matter, the condition of the critical stage, mentioned above,
would be attained with reference to all the subdivisions of
astral matter, and the result would be a practically
instantaneous passage through that plane, so that
consciousness would be recovered for the first time in the
heaven-world. A less developed but pure and temperate
man will pass through that plane less swiftly, though
dreaming peacefully, unconscious of his surroundings, till
having thrown off one astral shell after another he awakens
in the heaven-world. Of course as stated before, the sub­
planes interpenetrate one another and are not divided
from one another in space, so when it is said that a person
passes from one subdivision to another, it does not mean
that he moves in space at all, but simply that the focus of
his consciousness shifts from the outer shell to the one next
within it.
The average time taken by different classes of persons
in the astral world has been already given at the end of
Chapter IV.
LIFE AFTER DEATH 2 6 l
Finding himself in the sixth section, still hovering
about the places and persons with which he was most
closely connected while on earth, the average man, as time
passes on, finds the earthly surroundings gradually growing
dimmer and of less and less importance to him, and
thenceforward tends more and more to mould his entourage
into agreement with the more persistent of his thoughts.
By the time that he reaches the third level he finds that
this characteristic has entirely superseded the vision of
the realities of the astral world.
When all the lower emotions and desires with the
thoughts of a selfish nature have worn themselves out, and
the ego with his steady process of withdrawal has passed
even beyond the finest kind of astral matter, there comes
a time when the astral body, not entirely disintegrated, is
finally shaken off by an astral death, and the soul, except
that of an unusually wicked man who has no spark of love
or kindness for another or who has slipped into irredeem­
able sin and bestiality, has a kind of gestation period and
sinks into a brief, peaceful, dreamy f predevachanic un­
consciousness to be awakened by a sense of intense bliss
into that part of the heaven-world to which he belongs by
his nature. There is not necessarily a movement in space,,
but the man’s consciousness is now focussed into the lower
mental world, where are found also those animals who,
before death, became 4individualised ’, and attained to the
stature of a human soul.
Q. If death is not the end of life, but is only a stef
from one stage of life to another, what about the violent
grief of those who mourn the loss of their departed dear
ones ?
Ans. Their grief is, as already explained, not for a real
loss but an apparent one, the result of a delusion and
THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
2 6 2
ignorance of Nature’s laws, and represents unnecessary
■suffering to the mourners themselves. The departed one
is still with them, and while their physical bodies are
asleep, they talk with him ; but as soon as they are awake,
they revert to the old delusion that they have lost him
and think thoughts of sorrow all day long, making the
dead man very miserable and unhappy in that emotional
world.
Not only that, but uncontrolled grief and wild
outbursts of sorrow produce a very painful effect on the
departed one when he is sinking peacefully into the un­
consciousness which precedes his awakening into the glory
of the heaven-world. He is often aroused from his
dreamy happiness into a remembrance of the last earth-
life by the passionate sorrow and desires of his friends on
earth, which awaken corresponding vibrations of sorrow
with a hundredfold strength in his liberated desire-body,
causing him great discomfort and depression, and very
seriously delay his onward progress.
Again, this unrestricted grief of ignorant, though
well-meaning, relations puts great obstacles in the way of
astral helpers who try to help the dead by explaining to
them the conditions of the astral world and to cheer and
comfort them in their new surroundings.
Forgetfulness is not counselled, but the remem­
brance should take a form which is helpful and not
harmful, and the selfish unavailing regret should be substi­
tuted by earnest and loving good wishes for perpetual light
and eternal peace.
Q, Then have prayers for the dead any value ? If so,
how should they be offered ?
Ans. Prayers always have value for the living as well
as for the dead as they are dictated by love ; but a
LIFE AFTER DEATH 263
prayer is efficacious in proportion to the concentration
of thought expressed in it, the purity and strength of
the will by which it is directed to the person concerned,
and the knowledge possessed by its utterer. A prayer,
like a thought, creates a form, an artificial elemental*
*an active beneficent power \ which goes to the person
for whose benefit it has been called into existence, and
helps him as opportunity occurs. This energy expended
on the astral plane can affect any person in the astral
body, and a dead man can be helped and protected by
such thought-forms so long as he remains in the astral
world.
A man with knowledge, understanding the constitu­
tion of the astral body and the powr
er of thought, can
enormously increase his aid by deliberately sending an
artificial elemental to assist in the disintergation of the
astral shells which imprison the soul, and thus help the
quickening of his passage towards Devachan, Some of
the mantras of the Hindu Shraddhas (ceremonies for the
dead) have this object in view and are very efficacious
when employed by a holy and wise man.
But the ordinary man knows so little of the condition
of the dear ones who have passed away, that he might well
fear to set in motion a force which might be ill-directed for
want of more exact knowledge of their need. Such a one
cannot do better than use that beautiful antiphon which
appears so often in the services for the dead by the
Christian Catholic Church : “ Eternal rest grant unto him,
O Lord, and let light perpetual shine upon him.” For its
two clauses express exactly the conditions which are most
desirable for the dead ; first, perfect rest from all earthly
thought and care, so that his progress towards the heaven-
world may be undisturbed; and secondly, the perpetual
264 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
light of divine love shining clearly upon him through
the higher and more spiritual part of his own nature,
drawing him ever upward towards itself, so that his progress
may be rapid. Truly the earth has little more of assistance
to give to a man for whom such a prayer is being earnestly
and constantly offered. In this way anyone can help his
dead friends or dear ones by raising himself to a higher
level—forgetting himself and the delusion of his apparent
loss—sending thoughts of i perpetual light and eternal
peace ’, and substituting selfish and unavailing regret by
earnest and loving good wishes for their swift progress
from the astral to the heavenly world.
Q. Can we do anything to help a person about to die ?
If so, how and when ?
Ans. We can certainly do a great deal to help him.
If we have access to him physically during his illness, we
can explain to him the conditions after death, and a
rational explanation of these with a confident and cheery
talk about the life beyond the grave will greatly relieve
his mind.
If, however, physical communication is impossible,
the dying man can be acted upon from the astral plane.
One should fix the intention of aiding that particular
person in his mind before going to sleep with arguments to
be presented. The main object of the helper is to calm
and encourage the sufferer and induce him to realise that
death is a perfectly natural process, and to explain to him
the nature of the astral plane and the preparations neces­
sary for progress towards the heaven-world.
The helper himself must have the qualifications
of single-mindedness in the work of helping, perfect self-
control over his temper and nerves, perfect calmness,
serenity and joyousness, knowledge of higher planes and
LIFE AFTER DEATH 265
unselfishness with a heart filled with love—if he would
help effectively the dying and the dead.
The dead may be unconscious after death for a
moment or a few minutes, hours, days, or even weeks, and
though a trained person can observe it for himself, an
untrained man should be ready to help several successive
nights in order not to fail when the dead man regains his
consciousness on the astral plane.
Q. Shall we meet our loved ones who have passed on
before us?
Ans. Assuredly we shall, for the attraction will act as a
magnet and draw us together. If the loved one has died
recently, we shall find him on the astral plane ; but if he
has left this earth long ago, he may' have passed the
astral and entered the heaven-world ; and when we our­
selves reach that world, we shall have him with us, always
at his best, through our thought-form or mental image,
vivified by the ego of that friend, as will be explained
presently. Those whom we have loved are not lost; the
reunion is sure where affection exists, as love is one of the
mightiest powers of the universe, whether in life or in
death.
Q. Why is sudden death injurious to a man, and what
is the reason of the old prayer of the Church: ((From
sudden death, good Lord, deliver us ”?
Ans. The condition of a man’s life after death depends,
firstly, on the length of time he stays on any subplane,
and secondly, on the amount of his consciousness upon it,
while the length of time on any subplane depends on the
matter of that subplane built into the body. Thus both
the factors of the post-mortem existence depend not on
the nature of death, bat on the nature of life lived, and no
accident can affect the man.
34
266 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Still, though a sudden death does not necessarily
affect a man’s position in the astral world for the worse, it
does nothing to improve it. The slow wasting away of the
aged or the ravages of lingering disease invariably loosen
and break up the astral particles, and wear out most of
the lower desires, so that when a man recovers his con­
sciousness on the astral plane, much of his work there is
already done for him by the particles belonging to the
lower levels already having been burnt out of him, whereas
a victim of sudden death having a much stronger astral
body to manage may have his residence slightly prolonged
on the lowest level of the astral plane. At the same time,
if he learns to use that life well, it may be productive of
much more good karma than what he would have been
able to make in the same time on the physical plane, so
that there are always two sides of the account to take into
consideration.
Again, the mental terror and agitation in a sudden
death often persist after death and are not favourable
preparations for astral life. At our present stage of
evolution wr
e often spend almost or even quite the
entire night in revolving and considering the last definite
thought in our mind before we go to sleep. Similarly,
the last thought in the mind before death is not
unimportant, especially in the case of an undeveloped
person with vague and inchoate astral consciousness,
as his last thought would occupy his mind for a
long time, and would to some extent set the key­
note to which a good deal of his astral life might be
tuned. Thus it would be worth while taking some trouble
to see that it is a good one; but this is not possible in the
case of sudden death. Of course, in the case of ordinarily
evolved and intelligent people it would be the general tone
LIFE AFTER DEATH 267
of the mind—the general trend of their thought—during
earth-life that would give the key to its probable working
during astral life, and the particular idea which occupied it
at the moment of transition from one state to the other
would not matter much.
Q. Is the astral world inhabited by others besides the
dead ?
Ans. The astral world is inhabited not only by the
dead, but also by about one-third of the living who have
temporarily left their physical bodies during sleep. Astral
matter being very plastic under the influence of thought,
a man appears in the astral world in the likeness of himself,
wearing the clothes of which he thinks. It is likewise the
dwelling-place of Adepts and Their pupils, of psychically
developed persons not under the guidance of a Master, and
of black magicians and their chelas.
That world has also a great number of other human
inhabitants without physical bodies, some considerably
above human level, like Nirmanakayas, pupils of Masters
awaiting reincarnation, etc., and some below, like astral
shades and shells of the dead, shells vitalised for black
magic, dead black magicians and their pupils, etc.
Non-h,uman beings like the astral elemental essence
of our evolution and astral bodies of animals also find
their place there; while nature-spirits of various kinds called
fairies, elves, brownies, fauns, satyrs, goblins, etc., having a
different line of evolution and usually wearing a miniature
human form, as well as Devas or angels far higher in
evolution than man, form a large part of its population.
Again, it is the habitat of artificial entities, the
elementals formed unconsciously by ordinary men and
consciously by Adepts and black magicians, as well as of
human artificials employed in spiritualistic seances.
268 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Thus we are neither the only nor the principal
inhabitants of the astral world, as that world is largely
inhabited by beings of other lines of evolution running
parallel with our own, which, though they pass, through a
level corresponding to that of humanity, do not pass
through humanity at all.
The inhabitants of the astral world have their
senses normally capable of responding to the undulations
of their own world only. A man living in the physical
world sees, hears, feels, by vibrations connected with the
physical matter around him. He is equally surrounded
by the astral and mental and other worlds which are
interpenetrating his own denser world. But he is normally
unconscious of them because his senses cannot respond to
the oscillations of their matter, just as our physical eyes
cannot respond to the vibrations of ultra-violet light. A
being living in the astral world might be occupying the very
same space as a being living in the physical world, yet each
would be entirely unconscious of the other and would in no
way impede the free movement of the other. The same is
true of all the other worlds. We are all along surrounded
by the worlds of finer matter, as close to us as the world
we see, and their inhabitants are passing through us and
about us, but we are entirely unconscious of them.
Q. What becomes of the astral corpse after the man
passes on to Devachan ?
Ans. A mar? at death separates himself completely
from the physical body, but an ordinary man identifies
himself closely with his lower desires during life and thus
allows the lower Manas to be so entangled with Kama,
that the ego with all his indrawing force cannot separate
himself completely from it. So when the man finally
breaks away from the partially disintegrated astral body
LIFE AFTER DEATH 269
he leaves behind a part of the Manas, imprisoned in and
entangled with the desire-body. This fragmentary entity,
called a shade, has thus a certain vitality, and moving
freely in the astral world with past memories, fragmentary
consciousness and tendencies to repeat automatically
familiar vibrations of love, desires and thought without
intelligence, is often mistaken for the man himself by the
ignorant at seances.
At a later stage—in a few hours, or in a few months
or years, according to the spiritual or material nature
of the ego who has passed on into the heaven-world—
the fragmentary consciousness dies out of the astral
body, though it does not return to the ego to whom it
belonged, and then the astral corpse without any trace of
its former life, now called a shell, slowly disintegrates
in the astral world as did the physical body in its own
world.
Q. What then becomes of the man when he passes on to
Devachan or heaven ?
Ans. Devachan—the abode of the gods, or the place of
light or bliss—is a specially guarded part of the mental
world from which sorrow and evil are kept away by the
action of certain Devas.
It is not really a place but a state of consciousness,
and is here round us at this very moment, as near to us as
the air we breathe.
After his second death in the astral world the man
awakens to a new glory of life and colour, and lives in the
radiant mental body in the heaven-world. He awakens
gradually to a sense of joy unspeakable and bliss inde­
scribable, softest melodies breathing round him, his being
suffused with light, and the faces loved on earth dawning
through the golden haze.
270 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Every ordinary man is, during earth-life, surround­
ing himself with a mass of thought-forms, those represent­
ing the main interest of his life growing strong and
remaining with him even after death. The force of the
selfish thought-forms, of anger, ambition, pride, greed,,
gluttony, drunkenness, sensuality, etc., pours down into
astral matter and is exhausted in the astral world when
the man is burning that lower part of his nature in that
purgatorial life. But his unselfish thoughts, whether
purely intellectual or of the nature of love, compassion,
tenderness, devotion, etc., belong to his mental body, and
these he carries with him into Devachan, as he can
appreciate the heaven-world only through these refined
thoughts.
Now his mental body is a vehicle which is by no
means fully developed like the astral, and it shuts him
out from the mental world about him instead of enabling
him to see it, as only those parts of his mental body are in
full working order which he had used in an altruistic
manner in his earth-life. The high, refined thoughts and
noble, unselfish aspirations which he poured out during
earth-life then cluster round him and make a sort of shell
about him, through the medium of which he can respond
to certain types of vibrations in the refined matter of the
mental wT
orld.
These thoughts surrounding him are the powers by
which he draws upon the wealth of the heaven-world ; and
though that world is a store-house of infinite extent—all
glory and beauty conceivable—he can draw upon it just
according to his power of unselfish thoughts. Each such
thought-form is a window through which he looks out from
his mental body upon the glory and beauty of the mental
world. If he has chiefly regarded physical things during
LIFE AFTER DEATH 2?X
his earth-life, then he has made for himself but few
windows through which this higher glory can shine upon
him. An utterly unselfish and highly evolved soul is all
windows—has full consciousness here, can move about in
his mental vehicle as freely as the ordinary man employs
his physical body, and through it survey vast fields of
higher knowledge lying open to him. Yet every man will
have had some touch of pure, unselfish feeling, even if it
were but once in all his life, and that will be a window
for him now. Every man, except the utter savage at a
very early stage, will as surely have something of this
wondrous life of bliss. Therefore as a matter of fact,
instead of some men going to heaven and some to hell,
most men have their share both of purgatory and heaven,
and it is only their relative proportions which differ.
To think a loving or noble thought, to appreciate a
fine writer or a lovely work of art in the physical world,
is to open a window into the heaven-world; to make a habit
of high, unselfish thought is to keep that window always
wide open. But the condition of a man in the heaven-
world is chiefly receptive, and his vision of anything
outside his own shell of thought is of the most limited
character ; he cannot build a new window along new lines
of activity if he took no interest in these during his
physical life. There are many directions which the higher
thought may take, some of them personal, like affection
to a person or devotion to a personal deity, and some
impersonal. Among the latter are art, music and philoso­
phy, and a man whose interest lay along any of these lines
finds both measureless enjoyment and unlimited instruction
waiting for him—that is, the amount of enjoyment and
instruction is limited only by his power of perception.
Like a labourer returning home with his earnings of the
272 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
day, the man draws from Devachan as much as he has
prepared himself to take by his efforts during earthly life.
On this plane exists the infinite fulness of the Divine
Mind, open in all its limitless affluence to every soul, just
in proportion as that soul has qualified himself to receive.
It is a world whose power of response to a man's aspira­
tions is limited only by his capacity to aspire. In the East
it is said that each man brings his own cup, of which some
are large and some small, but each cup, large or small, is
filled to its utmost capacity; the sea of bliss holds far more
than enough for all.
Q. Then has not every one the same hind of heaven, or
the same intensity of bliss there ?
Ans. The mental images (or thought-forms) of unselfish
thoughts which had stayed like seeds in the mental body
begin to manifest like trees in Devachan, so that when a
man has formed many mental images through aspiration
for knowledge or unselfish desire to help humanity, though
those images had then looked like castles in the air in the
physical world, they now materialise in the finer matter of
the mental world, and the man sees himself doing there
everything according to his desire.
Mental matter being more subtle than physical
matter, thoughts are things in the mental or heaven-world,
and by the power of thought every one in heaven creates
his own world according to his desires. As are a man’s
thoughts, so is his Devachan, and the thoughts of no two
persons- being alike, their heavens also must differ accord­
ingly. Still every one finding himself each moment exactly
according to his desire, all are extremely happy though
enjoying different degrees of bliss.
Again, if the joys of heaven were of one particular
type only, as the orthodox theory holds, there would
LIFE AFTER DEATH 273
always be some who would soon get weary owing to
their inability to participate in those joys, through want
of taste in that particular direction or from lack of
necessary education. Thus one man’s heaven cannot
be imposed on all, as a slum-child cannot be happy
in the glorious surroundings of the artist, and what gives
happiness to one may not give any happiness at all to
another. As it is, each one creates his own heaven by his
thought-forms, by selection from the ineffable splendours
of the Thought of God Himself. He decides for himself
both the length and the character of his heaven-life by the
causes which he himself generates during his earth-life;
therefore he cannot but have exactly the amount which
he has deserved, and exactly the quality of joy which is
best suited to his idiosyncrasies. Thus this is the only
imaginable arrangement which can make every one happy
to the fullest extent of his capacity for happiness.
Q. What happens to children in the heaven-world ?
Ans. Of all those who enter that world, children are
the happiest and the most entirely at home. They do not
lose the parents, the brothers, the sisters or the playmates
whom they love ; it is simply that they have them to play
with during what we call the night instead of the day ; so
that they have no feeling of loss or separation. During
our day they are never left alone, for, in that world as in
this, children gather together and play together—play in
Elysian fields full of rare delights and are always full of
joy and often even riotously happy.
Even those children whose thoughts turn more
naturally to religious matters never fail to find that for
which they long. For the angels and saints of old exist
and are not mere pious fancies; and those who believe in
them and need them are surely drawn to them and find
35
LIFE AFTER DEATH 275
sometimes imprisoned in a physical body, but to the ego
who can thus simultaneously respond to the affection of
even a hundred friends, as no number of representations
on a lower level can exhaust the fulness of the ego, any
more than any number of lines can make a square, or any
number of squares a cube.
Thus every man in the heaven-world will always
have around him all the friends and relatives he wishes to
have, and they are with him always at their best, as they
are then two stages nearer the reality than in the limita­
tions of the physical world.
The same remarks hold good if a man was inspired
by devotion to a personal deity. The deity is always
present with the dead man even more vividly than on the
physical plane.
Q. But does a dead man in heaven wait for and watch
his friends and dear ones on earth below ?
Ans. No. How could the dead man be happy in heaven
if he looked back and saw his dear ones in sorrow or in
the commission of sin, say, his wife grieving for his loss,
or, worse still, marrying another shortly afterwards ?
The case of waiting is scarcely better, for then he
will have a long wearisome period of waiting, often ex­
tending to years, while again the friend may arrive so very
much changed as to be no longer sympathetic. But
according to the arrangement provided by nature, these
difficulties are all avoided, and those whom the man loved
are ever with him and alwa)7
s at their noblest and best,
while no discord or change can come between them since
he receives from them all the time exactly what he wishes.
Q. If a soul spends so much of his time in Devachan
between two incarnations, what are his opportunities of
development during that stay ?
276 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Ans. i. Through qualities in himself he has opened
corresponding windows in the heaven-world, and by
continued exercise of those qualities for a long time he
will greatly strengthen them and return to earth richly
dowered in that respect. Thoughts being intensified by
reiteration, a man spending hundreds of years in pouring
out unselfish affection will certainly know how to love
strongly and well. Devachan is a life of assimilation, and
the thought-forms of aspirations or of mental and moral
experiences gathered on earth are worked in the texture
of the soul as mental and moral faculties, and become the
powers and qualities, capacities and tendencies, for his
next life on earth.
2. Through his aspirations he will come into
contact with some of the great orders of spirits and learn
much from them. For example, he may learn marvellous
new combinations in music from the Gandharvas—
a great order of Angels who are especially devoted to
music.
3. He will gain additional information and
instruction through the mental images made of others, if
these people themselves are sufficiently developed to be
able to teach him. One having a strong image of the
Master will thus get definite teaching and help through it.
Q. Aye there seven different heavens as is ordinarily
believed, and does a man pass through all these successively
as in the case of the astral plane ?
Ans, As explained in Chapter II there are seven sub­
divisions in the mental as in the astral world. The three
highest, the Arupa Loka or Formless levels, are the
habitat of the ego in the causal body, while the four lower
ones, the Rupa Loka, form the heaven where the man
passes his heaven-life in the mental body.
LIFE AFTER DEATH 277
There being nothing in the mental body corre-
sponding to the redistribution of the astral matter, a man
does not pass through the successive stages or regions of
the heaven-world one after another as is done in the
astral world, but is drawn to the level which corresponds
most closely to the degree of his development, and spends
his whole life there in the mental body.
The dominant characteristic of the lowest or seventh
subdivision is unselfish family affection, all selfish tinges
being required to be worked out on the astral plane. The
sixth has the characteristic of anthropomorphic religious
devotion, while the fifth has that of devotion expressing
itself in work of some sort. All the above three subdivisions
are concerned with the working of devotion to personalities,
either to family, friend or personal deity.
The fourth section has for its dominant note the
wider devotion to humanity, which includes activities
connected with unselfish pursuit of spiritual knowledge,
high philosophy or scientific thought, unselfish literary or
artistic ability, and service for the love of service.
At the end of the heaven-life, which lasts for
different periods as explained in Chapter IV, the mental
body in its turn drops away as the others have done,
and the man’s life in the causal body begins.
Q. What happens to the man in the higher heaven—the
three higher subplanes of the mental world—in his causal
body at the end of his heaven4ife in the lower mental
world ?
Ans. All the mental faculties which express themselves
on the lower levels are drawn into the causal"body with
all the germs of passional life which were drawn into the
mental body from the astral at the time of leaving the
astral shell, and the Thinker having finished a round of
278 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
his pilgrimage dwells for a time in his own native land.
Here the soul needs no windows as all the walls have fallen
away; but the majority of men, having only a dim con­
sciousness of their surroundings at this height, rest there
for a short time, scarcely awake, yet assimilating the
small results of the closed earth-life. Still, with develop­
ment, the life of the man on the formless level becomes
longer, richer and deeper as his causal body grows bigger
and better organised, and he returns to earth-life with
greater knowledge and more effective power to help him­
self and others.
On the highest subplane live the Masters or Adepts
and Their higher pupils; on that next below, the souls
whose higher evolution is attested by their inborn culture
and natural refinement when in earthly bodies; and on
the third subplane, the vast majority of the sixty thousand
millions of souls, spoken of before, who form the mass of
our as yet backward humanity.
The length of a man’s stay in the higher mental
world depends on the stage of his evolution as well as on
his deep thinking and noble living during earth-life, as
described in Chapter IV.
Still, to every man, however unprogressed, there
comes a moment of clear vision before his return to earth,
when he sees his past life with the causes working from it
into the future, and, glancing forward, he also sees the
next incarnation that awaits him with its possibilities and
opportunities. Then the clouds of matter close upon him
and obscure his vision, and the cycle of another incarna­
tion begins with the awakening of the powers of the lower
mind through Tanha, the blind thirst for manifested life,
as already explained in Chapter IV on Reincarnation.
CHAPTER VII
THOUGHT-POW ER, ITS ACTION AND USE
Question. What is thought and how does it show itself?
Answer. Thought is a change in consciousness corre­
sponding to a mode of motion in the matter of the mental
plane. There is Manas, the Thinker, who thinks or knows,
and the mind is merely his instrument for obtaining know­
ledge, an organ of consciousness in its aspect as knower.
We see objects when the light-ether is thrown into waves
between those objects and our eye ; when we think of an
object, the thought-ether, i . e the matter of the mental
plane, is thrown into weaves between that object and our
mind. Not only do we create these waves, but the waves
of thoughts created by others also impinge on our mental
body and modify the arrangement of its materials, and in
concrete thinking we experience over again the impacts of
the original thought-waves.
We have seen in Chapter III that man possesses a
vehicle corresponding to each of the interpenetrating worlds
of our solar system, that his astral body is the vehicle of
his desires, passions and emotions, and that similarly his
mental body is the vehicle for the expression of his
thought. It is in the matter of the mental body that
thought first shows itself as a vibration to clairvoyant
sight—a vibration which produces various effects as
THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
280
definite in their action upon the fine type of matter as is
the power of steam or electricity over physical matter.
Only a few rich men can have steam or electrical
power to do useful work, but every human being, rich or
poor, young or old, has at his disposal a considerable pro­
portion of the forces of the finer types of matter which
respond to the influences of human thought and emotion.
This power, though possessed by all, is intelligently used so
far only by few. Possession brings responsibility with it,
but most men are wrongly using this power through igno­
rance, and instead of thoroughly utilising these magnificent
possibilities are unintentionally doing harm both to them­
selves and to others.
Q. What have the Scriptures of the different world-
religions to say on the subject ?
Ans. “ Thoughts alone cause the round of births,”
says a Hindu Scripture, “ let a man strive to purify his
thoughts; what a man thinks on, that he becomes.” “ As
he thinketh in his heart, so is he ”, says the wise King of
Israel. “ All that we are is made up of our thoughts ”,
declared the Buddha. Purity (of thoughts, words and
deeds) is the key-word of the Zoroastrian religion;
“ Purity ”, it says, “ is the greatest bliss ”, the purity of
words and deeds being evidently dependent on that of
thought. “ Whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after
her, hath committed adultery with her already in his
heart ”, said the Christ. And again : He who hateth his
brother, is a murderer.”
Thought is real in two senses, directly and indirect­
ly. Everybody recognises the indirect action of thought,
for it is obvious that a man must think before he can do
anything, and thought is the motive power of the act just
as water is the motive power of the mill. But people
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 2 8 1
generally do not know that thought has also a direct action
on matter, and that whether or not a man translates his
thought into deed or word, the thought has already pro­
duced its effect. Again, thought being the parent of action,
a man can mould his character and therefore his destiny
hy the exercise of this power.
Q. What then are the effects of thought ?
Ans. They can be broadly divided into two groups, the
effects produced upon the man himself, and those pro­
duced outside of the man.
The effects upon the man himself are: First, the
effect upon the mental body itself, i.e., a habit of readily
repeating a particular thought, and secondly, the effects
produced on the other two vehicles, the astral and causal
bodies, which are below and above the mental body re­
spectively, in degree of density, i.e., the effect upon his
emotions temporarily and the building up of qualities in
the ego permanently.
The effects outside of him are the production of a
radiating vibration and a floating form.
Q. Please describe in detail, first, the effects upon the
man himself.
Ans. The effect on the mental body of the man is that
it sets up a habit because the thought tends to repeat
itself Though there are different types of matter in the
mental body, each with its own special rate of vibration to
which it readily responds, a strong thought sets the matter
of the whole body swinging at the same rate, and if a man
accustoms his mental body to a certain rate of vibration,
that body learns to reproduce it easily and forms a habit of
readily repeating that particular thought. Again, a mind
tenanted by certain thoughts acts as a magnet to attract
like thoughts from others and intensifies the original effect.
36
282 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
For example, by thinking even one noble thought a man
sets up an attractive centre to which other noble thoughts
will come of their own accord drawn by magnetic affinity*
and his mind will be helped and strengthened by these
thoughts flowing in from without, and so he gains more
than what he gives.
Secondly, there are the effects upon the astral and
causal bodies. The disturbance in one type of physical
matter is communicated to another type, denser or finer ;
for example, the wind disturbs the surface of the sea, and
the earthquake produces a mighty wave in the ocean.
Similarly, a disturbance in the gross matter of the astral
body, i.e., an emotion, may cause undulations in the finer
matter of the mental body, i.e., a thought corresponding
to the emotion ; and conversely, a movement in the mental
body may affect the coarser matter of the astral, a thought
provoking an emotion. Thus a man may, by brooding
over what he considers his wrong, easily lash himself into
anger, though by thinking calm thoughts he can prevent
that anger.
Again, the mental body will also act upon the finer
causal body, whereby the habitual thought builds up
qualities in the ego himself. Thought builds character
as already explained in Chapter V on Karma. The
qualities forming the character of the personality, i.e., the
character which is moulded in each of his personalities in
turn by training and surrounding circumstances and which
shows itself in the mind body, are absorbed in the causal
body and become the persisting character of the individual;
and the man returns to earth with-these qualities as his
stock-in-trade for the new life.
Thus looking at the effects on the man himself we
see that in the first place thought tends to repeat itself and
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 283
iforms a habit, and that in the second place it acts not only
on his emotions temporarily, but also permanently upon
his character, upon the man himself. One more effect
upon the man of his self-centred thoughts we shall see
presently under Thought-forms.
Q. Of the two effects of thought external to the man,
■please describe the first, i.e., the radiating vibration.
Ans. The thought itself appears first to clairvoyant
sight as a vibration in the mental body and may be
either simple or complex. If it be purely intellectual by
the man thinking over a philosophical question or
solving a mathematical problem, the resulting vibration
will be confined to the mental world; if the thought be
of a spiritual nature, if it be tinged with love, aspiration
or unselfish feeling, it will rise to the realm of the
higher mental or even upwards into the Buddhic plane,
•and may be glorious and exceedingly powerful. But the
majority of human thoughts are by no means simple.
Absolutely pure affection exists, but very often we find
it tinged with pride or selfishness, with jealousy or animal
passions ; and thus when a thought is tinged with personal
desires, its vibrations draw downward with most of their
:force spent in the astral world. There being thus at
least two separate vibrations—one in the mental and the
other in the astral body—the radiating vibration will be
a complex one, while the thought-form will show several
colours instead of only one.
Thus the first effect of thought, outside of the man,
is a radiating vibration—simple or complex, according to
the nature of the thought—in the sea of mental matter
alone or in both the mental and the astral, like that pro­
duced by a stone thrown into a pond. These undulations,
acting upon their respective levels like vibrations of light
284 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
or sound in the physical world,, radiate out in all directions,,
becoming less powerful as they go farther away from
their source. The thought-radiations affect not only
the sea of the surrounding mental matter, but also other
mental bodies moving in it. The vibrations of a note
struck on a piano are carried through the air and set
the corresponding note sounding on another piano tuned
exactly to the same pitch. Similarly, a thought-vibration
in a mental body being conveyed through mental matter
tends to reproduce itself in another mental body, i.e.,
produces in the other mental body thought of the same
type as that in the mind of the thinker who sent forth the
vibration; in other words, thought may be said to be
‘infectious
The strength of the radiation is poured out chiefly
upon one of the four levels of the lower mental world
but a man’s thoughts, being centred mostly round himself,
are undulations of the lowest subdivision of the mental
world, while owing to his mental body being still
undeveloped, the higher portions of that body are yet
quite dormant.
The distance covered by such a wave and the force
and persistence with which it impinges upon the mental
bodies of others depend on the strength and clearness of
the original thought, the thinker being in the same
position as a speaker who sets in motion waves of sound
in air radiating in all directions and carrying his message,,
the distance to which his voice can penetrate depending
upon the strength and clearness of its enunciation. Thus
a strong thought will carry much farther than a weak or
undecided one, but clearness and distinctness are of
more importance even than strength. Again, like a voice
falling upon heedless ears a strong wave of thought may
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 285
sweep past without affecting the mind of a man already
engaged in some other line of thought.
This radiating vibration conveys the character of
the thought, but not its subject, and is extremely adaptable.
It may reproduce itself exactly if it finds a subject readily
responding to it in every way, otherwise it produces a
decided effect upon lines broadly similar to its own..
The devotional vibrations rippling out from a Hindu
sitting rapt in devotion to Shri Krishna, striking upon the
mental or astral body of another Vaishnavite will arouse*
in the latter, thought and feeling identical with the
original, but the same vibrations striking upon a
Muhammadan or a Christian may arouse in him the
sentiment of devotion to Allah or to Christ (or the
Blessed Virgin) respectively, and even touching the
mental body of a materialist without any idea of devotion
would still produce an elevating effect by stirring the
higher part of his mental body into some sort of activity,:
though they cannot create a type of vibration to which
the man is totally unaccustomed. Thus a man thinking
along high lines is doing missionary work though he may
be entirely unconscious of it.
On the contrary, a man thinking of another with
hatred or malice radiates a wave tending to provoke
similar passions in others; and though his feeling of
hatred be for someone quite unknown to those others*
making it impossible that they should share it, yet the
radiation will stir in them an emotion of the same nature
to a totally different man. They may, thereby, even
commit a murder in the heat of passion, but the first man.
who radiates the wave, lending strength to the murderous
blow, will have to share the karma of the murder as one
of the originators of that passion.
286 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Q. What does an ordinary man's astral body with his
passions and desires look like when seen by clairvoyant
sight ?
'
Ans. The average astral body—of not a specially bad,
impulsive or passionate man, but just the ordinary average
man—when looked at clairvoyantly, is seen to be one
whole swirling mass. Instead of certain striations with
colours clearly marked and circulating as they should do
on the surface of his astral body, there are seen fifty or
sixty little vortices or whirlpools in violent circulation,
each of which makes a hard knot, like a wart on the
physical body, owing to the rapidity of its motion.
These things stud the man’s astral body all over and make
it impossible for him to think with the clearness and
definiteness which he could command if he got all that
into order. Because of these little whirls going on all the
time, most men’s thoughts are never entirely clear, while
their emotions are neither definite nor one-pointed.
On being analysed, these whirls are all found to
have originated either in some little outburst of temper, or
little worries, or little feelings of offence, jealousy, envy,
perhaps even of hatred, which the man has had some time
within the last forty-eight hours, because such things
persist at least that length of time. If the man should
renew the same kind of thought about the same person,
he will make a much larger vortex, which will last much
longer. If, however, he thinks one angry thought about a
person, it will set up one of these disturbances in the
matter of his astral body which will last about a couple of
days, even though he may forget within ten minutes that
he had the transitory feeling of annoyance or may believe
the effect to have completely disappeared. These vortices
gradually subside, but their places are taken by others;
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 287
and nine out of ten men, just the ordinary men in the street*
unconsciously contrive to keep their stock of these vortices
pretty well at the same level, and are always dotted over
with these ugly-looking warts which utterly warp them
from thinking or feeling as they otherwise would.
All these whirls, from the viewpoint of psychic force*
are like open sores through which the will-power of the
man is leaking out all the time ; and the first thing for a
man who wants to conserve his energies and do good work
with them is to check all these sources of waste and keep
his astral and mental bodies perfectly calm by control of
temper and by avoiding all petty worries and undesirable
little feelings and thoughts.
Q. Now what is the second effect of thought outside of
the man ?
Ans. The second effect of thought external to the man
is the creation of a definite, floating thought-form.
The mental and astral bodies are chiefly concerned
with the appearance of thought-forms. Every thought
produces correlated vibrations in the matter of the mental
body, accompanied by a marvellous play of colour, and
the body under this impulse throws off a vibrating portion
of itself, shaped by the nature of the vibrations. This
portion gathers round itself similar matter from the mental
elemental essence which surrounds us in all directions,
producing a thought-form of only one colour if the
thought is a simple one. But when the man’s energy flows
outwards towards external objects of desire or is occupied
in passional or emotional activities, this energy works, not
in the mental matter, but in the grosser matter of the astral
or desire body. Thus when a man’s passions are excited,
or a wave of emotion sweeps over him, his astral body is
thrown into violent agitation with various characteristic
288 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
colours flashing through it. The astral body then gives
rise to a second class of entities, similar in constitution to
the simple thought-form, but limited to the astral plane,
and caused by the activity of Kama-Manas or the mind
dominated by desire. This body when vibrating throws
off a portion of itself, shaped as before by the nature of
the vibrations, and this attracts to itself some of the
elemental essence of the astral world. Such a thought-
form has for its body this elemental essence and for its
soul the desire or passion which threw it forth, while its
force will be proportionate to the amount of mental energy
combined with the desire or passion. Thought-forms of
this second kind are by far the most common, as few
thoughts of ordinary persons are untinged with desire,
passion or emotion.
The elemental essence, spoken of in connection with
the Second Life-Wave in Chapter VIII, that strange half-
intelligent life which surrounds us in all directions, is not
differentiated into stable or persistent forms. The matter
of the astral and mental worlds, irrespective of a soul who
makes a vehicle out of it, is alive with this elemental essence
•
=
—a peculiar kind of life, which is delicately sensitive, quick
with life, and is not individualised. The effect produced
on the particles of water in a cup as an electric current is
passed through it may give a faint idea of the vitality and
energy of mental and astral grades of matter as elemental
essence of the first and second and third types affects and
vivifies them. This vivified matter is, as it were, in a
4critical state \ ready to precipitate into thought-forms
the moment a vibration of thought from a thinker’s mind
affects it. It thus responds readily to the influence of
human thoughts and feelings, every thought or impulse
clothing itself in a temporary vehicle of this vitalised
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 289
matter. Such a thought or impulse becomes for the time
a living creature, the thought-force being the soul and the
vivified matter the body, and is spoken of as a thought-
form or an artificial elemental. A thought-form is a
living entity with a strong tendency to carry out the inten­
tion of the thinker, but is neither self-conscious nor capable
of experiencing pleasure or pain. There is an infinite
variety in the colour and shape of such thought-forms, for
'each thought draws round it the matter which is appro­
priate for its expression, and sets that matter into vibration
in harmony with its own. According to the type and
quality of the thought is the thought-form made out of
mental or astral elemental essence. These thought-forms
are fleeting, or lasting for hours, months or years ; and
hence they are classed among the inhabitants of the in­
visible worlds under the name of *elementals \ There are
four genera] principles underlying the production of all
thought-forms:
1. Quality or character of thought determines
colour.
2. Nature of thought determines form.
3. Definiteness of thought determines precision
or clearness of outline.
4. Steadiness and strength of thought determine
duration and size.
The colours indicate the character of the thought,
and are in agreement with those which have been already
described in Chapter III as existing in the bodies.
The work of a thought-form is much more limited
but much more precise than that of the radiating undula­
tion. The form cannot reach so many persons—indeed it
cannot act upon a person at all unless he has in him some­
thing harmonious with the energy ensouling that form;*
37
2% THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
but when it does act, it produces in the mind-body which
it influences, not merely a thought of a similar nature, but
actually the same thought. A radiation may affect
thousands and stir up in them thoughts on the same level'
as the original, yet none may happen to be identical with
the original thought; but a thought-form, though it can-
affect only one or a few, reproduces exactly the initiatory
idea.
Q. Please make the matter clearer by some sort of
classification of thoughtforms.
Ans. All thought-forms may be divided into three,
groups:
I. Those which take the image of the thinker*
When a man thinks of himself as in some distant place, or
wishes earnestly to be in that place, he makes a thought-
form in his own image which appears there, and which*
being sometimes seen by others, is taken for the astral
body of the man.
II. Those which take the image of some material
object. When a man thinks of a friend, a room, a land­
scape, or a book, he forms within his mental body a tiny
image of that friend or of any of the things thought of*
This image floats in the upper part of that body, usually
in front of the face of the man, and at about the level of
his eyes. It remains there as long as the man is contem­
plating that object and usually for a little time afterwards,
before it is externalised or passes out, the length of time
depending upon the intensity and the clearness of the
thought.
III. Those which take a form entirely their own,,
expressing their inherent qualities in the matter which they
draw round them. To represent thought-forms of the
first or second group would be merely to draw portraits or
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 2<?I
landscapes, as in those types we have the plastic mental or
astral matter moulded in imitation of forms belonging
to the physical plane, but in this third group we have
.a glimpse of the forms natural to the astral or mental
planes. We are concerned here simply with the last
group which may be subdivided into three classes :
1. Thoughts definitely directed towards another
person or persons.
2. Thoughts not directed to others, but con­
nected chiefly with the thinker, i.e.} self-
centred thoughts.
3. Thoughts neither aimed specially at any
person nor centred round the thinker.
Thought-forms of the above three classes of the
third group mainly manifest themselves upon the astral
plane, as most of them are expressions of feeling as well as
of thought. The vibration of a thought with something
of personal desire turns downwards and draws round itself
a body of astral matter in addition to its clothing of
mental matter, and the resultant thought-form can act
upon the astral bodies of men as well as upon their minds;
and so it can not only raise thought within them but can
also produce emotions.
i. Thoughts aimed at others :
Suppose a man sends a thought of affection or devo­
tion, of envy or hatred ; that thought will, like any other,
produce a radiating vibration which will affect all within its
sphere of influence; but the thought-form thus created has
a definite intention, and so as soon as it breaks away from
the mental and astral bodies of the thinker, it goes straight
to the person thought of and fastens itself upon his aura.
It is a kind of Leyden jar existing for the sole purpose of
^discharging itself and seizes the first opportunity of doing
292 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
so. The astral and mental elemental essence forms the
jar, while the energy of the thought corresponds to the
charge of electricity. If the man to whom it is directed
is in a passive condition or is thinking along a line similar
to the nature of the thought-form, it will at once discharge
itself, provoking or intensifying an undulation similar to
its own ; but if he be actively engaged in some other work,
the thought-form hovers around him and waits for a suit­
able opportunity to discharge itself.
But a thought, good or evil, in order to fulfil its
mission, must find, in the aura of the object to whom it is
sent, materials capable of responding sympathetically to
its vibrations, otherwise it cannot affect that aura at all,,
but rebounds from it with a force proportionate to the
energy with which it impinged on that aura. Conse^
quently, an evil thought projected at a holy person re­
bounds from his body, and being flung back with its*
own energy flies backward along the magnetic line of least
resistance and strikes its projector who has within his
astral and mental bodies matter similar to that of the
thought-form. Thus 6
Ccurses (as well as blessings) come
home to roost
A thought full of intensity, say of a pure desire full
of love or benevolence, will build a form of exquisite beauty,
both in shape and colour, while a thought of anger, hatred,
revenge or any other evil passion, will build up a form
hideous in its deformity, which is the very devil of evil'
filled with the desire to injure and destroy. A mother’s
love produces a beautiful thought-form full of tenderness,,
hovering round the children as a shielding and protecting
agent, seeking all opportunities to serve and defend, cheer­
ing them in sorrow and, like a veritable guardian angel*
warning and protecting them in danger or temptation.
13
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 293
2 . Self-centred thoughts:
A thought aimed at some other man flies like a
missile towards him, but if it be connected with the
thinker himself, it remains floating near its creator, ready
to react upon him and to stir in his mind the same
thought once more whenever he is for a moment in a
passive condition. The majority of thoughts and feelings
of an ordinary man are self-centred, and so their forms
remain clustering round him. Usually each definite
thought creates a new thougth-form; but if a thought-
form of th e same nature is already hovering round
the thinker, under certain circumstances, a new thought
on the sam e subject, instead of creating a new form,,
coalesces w ith and strengthens the old one, so that by long
brooding over the same subject a man may sometimes
create a thought-form of tremendous power. Thus every
man has built for himself a shell of thought-forms, veri­
table garments, both of feelings and of thoughts, and the
man travels through space always surrounded by a host of
such forms and enclosed within a cage of his own building.
So long as his mind is occupied with other thoughts, these
forms hover round him and bide their time; but when the
train of his thoughts is exhausted or his mind lies fallow
or passive* he being the nearest to those forms is reacted
upon by them at the first opportunity, and, feeling the
pressure o f his evil thoughts as of a suggestion from out­
side, believes himself to be tempted by the devil. Thus a
man habitually thinking of dishonesty or coveting another’s
goods may commit theft in a weak moment.
On the contrary, a man with habitual thoughts of
purity m ay, by the pressure of his thought-forms, be able
to do good things which, being much above his normal
power, seem to him to have been done with the help of
294 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
angels, though both the above instances are merely cases of
natural reactions of the respective men’s habitual feelings
and thoughts.
3. Thoughts neither self-centred nor directed
specially to any person :
A thought-form generated by this class of thought
neither hovers round the person, following him wherever
he goes, nor shoots straight away from him, aiming at a
definite objective, but simply remains idly floating in the
atmosphere where it was created, radiating vibrations
similar to those originally sent forth by its creator. If it
does not come into contact with any other mental body, its
stock of energy is gradually exhausted by the radiation, and
the form falls to pieces. But if that thought-form succeeds
in awakening sympathetic vibrations in any mental body
near by, it is attracted to and usually absorbed by
that mental body. An ordinary man thinks numerous
thoughts of this class and leaves them behind him as a
sort of trail which marks the route of their creator.
The whole atmosphere is thus filled with vague
thoughts of this last type, and.walking along and, as it
were, picking our way through these vague, wandering
fragments of other people’s thoughts, our minds are serious­
ly affected by them if not definitely occupied. Sweeping
through a mind lying idle the majority of such forms do not
arouse any special interest, though occasionally comes one
which attracts attention, and the mind, fastening upon it,
►entertains it for a moment or two and dismisses it a little
stronger than it was on its arrival. Not one-fourth of our
thoughts are our own, but are simply fragments picked up
from the atmosphere, in most cases valueless and with a
general tendency distinctly more towards evil than towards
good.
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 295
Every ordinary man is producing these three classes
of thought-forms all through his life.
We are peopling our atmosphere either with angels
of beauty and virtue or with hideous devils of ugliness and
vice, purifying or befouling the minds of our generation,
and if ever we could see them, the sight would make us
pause and be always careful to discard all evil or impure
thoughts. Thus we can no longer say that at least our
thoughts are our own, or that while we should certainly
be careful about our words and actions, it does not matter
at all what our thoughts are. As a matter of fact our
thoughts are less our own than our words or actions, for
the former travel to a far greater distance from us than
the latter two, and their influence working directly on the
minds of others is stronger and far more widely spread.
Such is the power or action of thought on our­
selves and on others. We not only affect ourselves
strongly by forming our habits and character in the
astral and mental bodies and building permanent qualities
in the causal body, but we also influence others for good
or for evil by the radiating vibrations and the thought-
forms of various kinds.
(X The action or effect of thought is now understood,
but how should we use this knowledge ?
Ans. There are two main uses:
1. We can forward our own evolution.
2. We can help our fellow-men.
Q. How can we forward our own evolution through
a knowledge of the power of thought ?
Ans. Since every thought or emotion produces a per­
manent effect by strengthening or weakening a tendency,
and since, furthermore, every thought-vibration and
thought-form must inevitably react upon the thinker, we
296 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
must exercise great control and care as to the thought or
impulse we allow within ourselves. An ordinary man
allows himself to yield to all kinds of emotions and
thoughts, but by a scientific study of the action of these
forces as explained above, he would realise that it is his
interest as well as his duty to have all his emotions and
thoughts absolutely under control. The stage of evolution
at which we have arrived is the development of the mental
body, and.a man, recognising that the mind is not the man
but an instrument for his use, should assist that develop­
ment by not allowing the mind to indulge in its vagaries
•and by endeavouring to assert control over it.
We should therefore forward our evolution, first, by
keeping our mind and emotions under control and thereby
building our character, and secondly, by not foolishly
wasting our energy which can be utilised for better work
and higher purposes.
<2- What should we do to keep our mind and emotions
under control, and avoid evil, idle or useless thoughts
which trouble the mind ?
Ans. Instead of allowing every surging or upwalHng of
emotions to sway us, we must learn to keep them under
•control by the mind. The reins of mind in the hands of
the driver, or the real man, must be able to control and
guide the horses of desires drawing the chariot of the
physical body.
The first step to control the mind is to keep it use­
fully occupied. It must not be allowed to remain idle, as
thereby any passing thought-form may drift into it, and
while lying fallow it is more likely to take up evil im­
pressions than good ones. The best way is to keep at the
back of our mind some high thought or some inspiration
to noble living. The mind can only occupy itself with
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 297
one thing at a time ; the good thought chosen should
be the opposite of the evil thought which continually
intrudes; a few words or a sentence should be chosen
which embody the good thought, and when the evil
thought comes into the mind, the mind should instantly
begin repeating the chosen passage, and either repeat
it many times, or repeat it once and then dwell upon
it. At odd times during the day when the mind is
unoccupied, the passage should be repeated. In this way
the evil thought will gradually cease to trouble, the
mental atmosphere created being unfavourable to its
reception. A few words taken from some Scripture and
fixed in the mind in the early morning will recur to
the mind again and again during the day, and will be
found repeating themselves whenever the mind is dis­
engaged.
The second point in training the mind is to do
thoroughly everything which has to be done. That means
acquisition of the power of concentration. A man of
devotional temperament should create an image of the
object of his devotion and should concentrate his mind on
it ; and the heart being attached to that object, the mind
will dwell on it with ease. A non-devotional man should
take for concentration some profound idea with intellec­
tual interest. A man not attracted to a personality can
choose a virtue and concentrate on it. This will appeal to
his heart by its intellectual and moral beauty, and the
mind shaping itself to it, the virtue will become part of his
character. This is a hard task as anyone trying to keep
his mind absolutely on one subject for a few minutes will
find out quickly. But we should try to acquire this power
of concentration by focussing our attention on everything
we do in our daily life and by trying to do it to the best of
38
298 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
our ability. Thus in writing a letter we should write it
well and accurately without carelessness in detail; in read­
ing a book we should read it with attention, trying to grasp
the author’s meaning.
Again, a person training his mind should maintain
an attitude of watchfulness regarding the thoughts coming
into the mind and should exercise a constant selection.
The practice of refusing to harbour evil thoughts, their
prompt ejection when they effect an entry, and the re­
placement of an evil thought by one of good character,
will so tune the mind that it will act automatically, repel­
ling the evil and attracting the good.
Q. Now how to build character with the knowledge of
the power of thought ?
Ans. This is the third method of concentration, recom­
mended, above for a non-devotional man, and has been
already described in Chapter IV on Karma as one of the
threads of the cord of fate. It may again be described
here in brief.
Examining his character a man should pick out
some distinct defect, say, irritability. But he should not
forget that, as thought builds, fixing thought on irritabi­
lity would make it more permanent instead of getting rid
of it. He should always take, as the object of his thought,
the opposite of any weakness in him; e . g to remove
inaccuracy, he should meditate on the exactly opposite
virtue of truth. Thus taking the virtue which is the
exact opposite of the weakness of irritability, namely
patience, he should, in the early morning before going out
into the world, sit in retirement in a quiet place for five
minutes, and think and meditate on patience, its value, its
beauty, its practice under provocation, etc., and write, as
it were, a mental essay on patience, recalling the mind
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 299
when it wanders away and bringing it back again and
again from various side-issues it might have wandered
into. He should think of himself as a model of patience
with a vow that he would feel and practise that virtue
that day in practical life. For a few days there may not
be any perceptible change, and though he may still show
irritability, he should go on meditating every morning.
Then as he says an irritating thing, a thought will flash
into his mind that he ought to have been patient. Still
going on, the thought of patience will arise with the
irritable impulse and the outer manifestation will be
checked. With a little more practice the irritable impulse
will grow feebler ; and irritability disappearing, patience
will become the normal attitude. Thus one virtue after
another can be taken and an ideal character created by
the power of thought, until passions, appetites and lower
nature are dominated and thoroughly brought under control.
Of course a
. large number of people in the world
are in the habit of taking the character of which they are
possessed as a sort of inalienable something which is given
to them, like a lame leg. If a man has a bad temper or a
weak will, or finds himself full of desires for the grosser
things, he says: “ That is howT I am made; it is my
nature.” He does not realise that he made himself by
his past lives and that therefore, taking hold of any weak­
ness, he can change it by his present exertion. But he
does not knowTthat he can change a nature which is
undesirable, and, furthermore, he does not see particularly
why he should. It is no easy matter for a man to change
his character which is the very fundamental basis of him.
Perhaps there is no sufficient inducement or adequate
reason held out to the average man as to why he should
take all that trouble. But if he understands God’s Plan,
3oo THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
if, because God is Love, he learns to love God and to seek
to co-operate with Him, then he has the most tremendous
of all possible motives for making himself fit to co-operate
in the great work of evolution. Again, with a knowledge
of reincarnation, he knows that his present life is not the
only life, but that he has all the lives he needs, that the
point at which he leaves off in one life is the point where
he takes up his work of improving his character in the
next life, that the interval, however great, which may elapse
between the end of one life and the beginning of the next,
does not in the least degree interfere with the unity of the
life-process, and that therefore he can change himself,
make the most fundamental changes in his character and
disposition. Thus it is only the higher knowledge which
Theosophy gives that supplies a really sufficient incentive
to any serious change of character.
Q. What, then, should we do to avoid wasting our
energy ?
Am. Each man has a certain amount of energy and
he is responsible for its use in the best possible way, but
an ordinary man foolishly wastes his force. He is simply
a centre of agitated vibration; he is constantly in a con­
dition of worry or deep depression or is unduly excited
about some trifle, communicating, though unconsciously,
his vibrations of unrest to all others who may be unfor­
tunate enough to be around him.
Another common way of wasting energy is by
unnecessary argument on matters of politics or religion,
or on incidents of ordinary life. A wise man does not try
to enforce his opinion on others, and, knowing that what
another believes is no business of his, simply declines to
waste his time and energy in unprofitable wrangling, though
he is quite willing, to give information when asked.
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 3oi
People age more by worry than by work. Worry
is the process of repeating the same train of thought over
and over again with little alteration, without coming
to any result. Many thus fritter away their energy in
forecasting evil for themselves and their loved ones, with
the fear of death or financial ruin. But they need not try
to cross a bridge before they actually come to it and should
also know that the world is governed by absolute justice,
that none can wrong them save as an instrument of the Law
and that nothing which they have not deserved by their
past karma can ever come to them, and should therefore
learn to ,train the mind to rest on the Good Law and
establish a habit of content.
Again, a wise man declines to take offence at the
statement or action of another or to let his serenity be
disturbed thereby, as he knows that an irritating remark,
even when intentionally spiteful, can in no way harm him
except in so far as he foolishly allows himself- to be
wounded in his feelings and thus to lose control over his
vehicles.
“ Am I to set my life upon a throw,
Because a bear is rude or surly ? No.
A modest, sensible and well-behaved man
Will not insult me, and no other can.”
Q. Is a quickening of our own evolution the only advan­
tage of controlling our mind and emotions and of
husbanding our energy ?
Ans. In addition to forwarding his. own evolution, a
man thereby makes himself useful to his fellow-men,
avoids doing harm to them and learns how to do them
good. For example, if he allows himself to be angry, he
not only sets up an evil habit and injures himself, but by
radiating vibrations of anger seriously acts upon those
302 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
who may be trying to control their irritability, though he
may not be thinking of them at all.
Every time he sends out a wave of anger, he tends
to arouse a similar vibration in another if it did not pre­
viously exist in that latter, or to intensify it if it be already
present.
Thus he makes his brother’s work of self-develop­
ment harder for him, though simply by controlling his
emotions and radiating soothing vibrations he can greatly
help that brother on his way. In this way we realise our
responsibility for even a single impure or evil thought
which may spread as moral contagion among our fellow-
men. There are thousands of persons with latent germs of
evil which may atrophy and die for want of nutrition; but
if we yield to an unholy thought, its radiating vibrations
may awaken the latent germs of evil in some man and
cause them to grow into activity, starting that soul in a
downward course of evil actions which, in their turn, may
in future seriously affect thousands of other men. Happily
this is also true of good thought, and a man by his
thoughts can become a veritable sun radiating love, calm
and peace all around him, and this magnificent power is
within the reach of all, rich and poor alike.
Q. But what should a man do who cannot control his
thought or passions and who, though he has often tried to
do so, has constantly failed ?
Ans. We should look at the problem scientifically. If
an evil quality or habit has a certain amount of strength,
it is because we have not tried to repress that strength,
but have allowed it to accumulate and gather a mo­
mentum which makes it difficult now to deal with it. It
means we have made it easy for ourselves to move along
certain lines and difficult, though not impossible, to move
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 3o3
along others. But even if we have devoted several lives
to the gathering of such energy, the time so devoted has
been limited, and the amount of momentum after all can
only be finite. If we now realise the mistake and want to
control that habit, we should put forward exactly as much
strength in the opposite direction as we originally spent in
gathering that momentum. Of course we will have to
work patiently as we cannot instantly counteract the
work of lives, but as souls we can go on generating force
indefinitely, and though we may often fail, each effort
will reduce the store of the evil force till it is finally
exhausted.
Q. Now how should we utilise our knowledge of this
power of thought to help others ?
Arts. We can make thought-forms intentionally and
aim them at another with the object of helping him. This
is one of the lines of activity adopted by those who desire
to serve humanity. We must first remember to think of a
person as we wish him to be, for the image that we make
of him will act powerfully upon him and tend to draw him
into harmony with itself. Again, in thinking of our friends
we must fix our thoughts on their good qualities. In
trying to help a friend to get rid of a weakness, we should
not imagine him as having that evil quality we want
removed, but think of him intently as possessing the
opposite virtue, because by thinking of any quality we
strengthen its undulations and therefore intensify it.
From this consideration it follows that the habit
of gossip or scandal, in which many people thoughtlessly
indulge themselves, is a horrible wickedness, as in such
discussions they fix their thought, not upon any good
quality one may possess, but upon some alleged evil.
About gossip a Master says thus :
3o4 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
“ If you think of the evil in another, you are doing
at the same time three wicked things :
“ i. You are filling your neighbourhood with
evil thought instead of with good thought, and so you are
adding to the sorrow of the world.
<
e2. If there is in that man the evil that you
think, you are strengthening it and feeding it; and so you
are making your brother worse instead of better. But
generally the evil is not there, and you have only fancied
it ; and then your wicked thought tempts your brother to
do wrong ; for if he is not yet perfect, you may make him
that which you have thought him.
“ 3. You fill your own mind with evil thought
instead of good ; and so you hinder your own growth, and
make yourself, for those who can see, an ugly and painful
object instead of a beautiful and lovable one.”
Q
* But how should we help one, for instance, under the
sway of the evil habit of drink or irritability ?
Ans. We should think helpfully of those whom we love
or want to help. We should hold before them in thought
a high ideal of themselves and wish strongly that they may
be able to attain to it. Knowing a certain defect in a
man’s character we should not dwell upon it, but should
formulate a strong thought of the contrary virtue and send
out waves of that thought to him. If we want to help a
man addicted to drink, we should first ascertain when the
patient’s mind is likely to be unemployed, such as his
time of going to bed ; for it would be all the better if that
man be asleep. Then sitting down we should picture very
vividly the image of that man seated before us, and fixing
attention on that image should address to it slowly and
distinctly the thoughts we want to impress on his mind and
present them as clear mental images as if laying arguments
before him. In this case we should place before him a
vivid picture of the disease and misery entailed by the
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 3o5
drink-habit and the consequent nervous break-down with
its inevitable end. We should not try to control the man,
but his intelligence should be convinced and his emotions
aroused and purified. If the man be asleep, he will be
drawn to us and will animate the image of himself before
us, but success depends on the concentration and the
steadiness of our thought and upon the man’s mental con­
dition at the time, though if he be occupied with thoughts
of his own, our thought-form will bide its time and do its
errand of mercy when his train of thoughts exhausts itself*
In trying to help an irritable man we should similar­
ly impress on his mind mental images of the disadvantages
of his loss of control over himself and, wishing him to be
calm and serene, send him strong, soothing influences.
Q. What about help by prayers for the well-being of
the living or of the dead ?
Ans. The effect of prayers for the ‘living’ and the
cdead ’ has already been explained in Chapter VI. A
strong wish for a man’s good, sent to him as a general
protective agency, will remain about the man as a thought-
form for a time proportionate to the strength of the
thought and, acting as a barrier to dangers, will guard
him against evil.
Sometimes we cannot do anything for a sufferer as
his physical brain may be closed to our suggestion by
prejudice or religious bigotry, but his astral and mental
bodies are always open for us to help.
The aid rendered to another by prayer is largely of
this character, the greater effectiveness of prayer over
good wishes being due to the greater concentration and
intensity thrown into the prayer, though sometimes prayers
call the attention of superhuman intelligences, and direct
aid may be rendered by Them.
39
3o6 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
The phenomena of mind-cure and faith-cure show
the power of thought even in the physical world, but since
it can act more easily in astral and mental worlds, we can
exercise that power while we see someone suffering from
sadness or depression as we walk along the street, or ride
in a tram-car or a carriage. Sending him soothing and
calm thoughts may help him, and though it may be
difficult for us to believe that we are at all influencing
and helping persons by our thoughts, anyone with a
practice of such efforts will find strong evidence of his
success.
The absence of physical bodies in those we want
to help is no barrier to the force of thought, but on the
contrary makes our work easier, because there is no heavy
physical matter to be set vibrating, as is necessary in the
case of a living man before the thought can reach his waking
consciousness; and so we can help, cheer, soothe and counsel
the dead by our strong thoughts or by prayers as already
explained in Chapter VI.
Again, there is the power of combined thought or
combined prayer to help a common object, and the con­
templative Orders of the Roman Catholic Church, as
well as recluses of the Hindu and Buddhist faiths, diffuse
through the world lofty and noble thoughts, doing infinite
service to humanity in the mass.
Q. Can we help by thought even when we ourselves are
out of the physical body during sleep ?
Ans. We can do very effective work when our bodies
are lying peacefully asleep. Freed from the burden of
physical bodies we are really more powerful in the effect
we can produce by thought. An ordinary man during
sleep is usually engrossed in the subjects which interest him
during waking life, and several times when he sleeps over
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 3o7
a thing before deciding, “ the night brings counsel ” and
advice for the important decision. The problem needing
solution should be quietly held in the mind when going to
sleep; it should not be debated or argued over, but simply
stated and left. The Thinker will deal with it when out
of the body and impress it on the brain, though it is
advisable to keep paper and pencil by the bed to note
down the impression immediately on awakening.
In the same way we can, during our sleep, help a
friend, dead or alive. We must picture the friend in our
mind before sleep and determine to find and help him.
The mental image will draw him to us, and we will
communicate with him in the astral world. During waking
hours we can help anyone whom we know to be in sorrow
or suffering by sitting down and forming a strong thought-
image of the sufferer and then pouring out a stream of
compassion, affection and strength; but during night we
ourselves can go in the astral body to the bed-side of the
sufferer and, instead of offering merely general consolation,
can help more effectively by seeing the exact requirements
of the case. But we must be perfectly calm ere going to
sleep and should not allow any emotion to be aroused by
the thought of the friend, as it may cause a swirl in our
astral body, which may either scare the friend away or
make it impossible for mental vibrations from us to pass
outwards. Much good work can be done in this way as
an astral helper, though we may remember nothing in our
waking consciousness.
One more form of good done either in or out of
physical bodies by the power of thought is the helping of
good causes or of public movements beneficial to mankind.
We can assist, inspire and advise all sorts of people who
may be unlikely to listen to us physically. We can
THOUGHT-POWER, ITS ACTION AND USE 3o9
and pictures of our room reflect those thoughts and
feelings. The chair, the desk and all surrounding objects
are unconsciously magnetised by our strong repeated
thoughts and possess the power of suggesting the same
type of thoughts to others who come under their influence.
Thus it was found that a certain prison-cell was so charged
with the thought of suicide, that all prisoners who were
put into it committed suicide one after another. The
efficacy of some kinds of talismans or amulets depends
on the same principle, the object forming the talisman
having been impregnated with certain definite kinds of
vibrations by concentrated thought.
Thus wrong thought is as swift for evil as right
thought is for good; and thought, which is within the
power of the rich and the poor, the old and the young
alike, can wound as well as heal, distress as well as
comfort. Such is the Law of Thought and such its
power or effect, and happy are they who use it wisely.
C H A P T E R V I I I
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE
Question. What doyou mean by the cEvolution ofLife 9?
Answer. The word ‘ evolution’ from the Latin verb
‘ evolvere ’—to roll out, is used to denote the unfolding
of ever higher and higher forms out of lower ones.
According to Herbert Spencer, “ evolution is the homo­
geneous becoming the heterogeneous, the simple becoming
the complex.” As Darwin pointed out, all nature is in a
state of evolution, lower forms ever giving place to higher,
simpler ones to more complex, as the bud to the flower,
the flower to the fruit.
But the doctrine of evolution did not wait for
Darwin to give it expression, though the credit of
propounding it scientifically belongs to him. Science and
Religion are both summed up in the saying of a Persian
mystic : “ God sleeps in the mineral, dreams in the vege­
table, wakes to consciousness in the animal, to self-
consciousness in the man, and will awake to divine con­
sciousness in the man made perfect.” Those deeply
versed in the esoteric teachings of any religion may find
anticipations of many truths which modern science has
not yet reached, and if science made common cause with
religion, the progress of humanity would be greatly
accelerated.
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 3ll
The grosser side of manifestation of the One Life
is that which is described as matter. Now there are two
poles in manifestation: the form-side, or the pole of
matter, on the one hand, and the life-side, or the pole of
Spirit, on the other. They are the two opposite aspects of
the one Eternal Life, and the process of evolution consists
in that life in its dual aspects going outwards to cause
diversity, and when the limit of diversity is reached,
drawing inwards to reintegrate the diverse separated units
into a mighty and enriched unity. The outward-going
life seeks diversity and may be said therefore to tend to
the pole of matter; the inward-turning life seeks unity,
and may be said therefore to tend to the pole of Spirit.
The Law of Evolution, as propounded by the
Darwinian School, demonstrates with scientific accuracy
the gradual perfection of forms and has for its foundation
the universal presence of Protoplasm—the physical basis of
life. In the lowest forms of animal life this protoplasm is
undifferentiated, existing simply as a homogeneous jelly-like
mass, but in higher forms it is educated into cells of differ­
ent shapes, sizes and functions, and the animal kingdom is
classified into Orders, etc., according to the relative
complexity of the structures involved. This classification
indicates that the more evolved the life, the more elaborate
will be the form through which it functions.
In the details of Embryology lies the proof of
Evolution itself, since it shows all animal forms to have
passed, during the stages of their development, through the
whole gamut of all the lower species. At the moment of
fertilisation, the ovum consists of a single cell, which mul­
tiplies rapidly by division, and it is during these subsequent
stages of development that the differences first appear
which, later on, result in the production of all the
3l2 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
countless varieties of forms. 'But a study of the embryos of
different animals has shown that all of them pass in turn
through exactly the same stages. That is, a comparison
of the embryos of a fish, fowl, calf and man reveals
the fact that the primary stages through which all of
them pass are identical, the lower and less evolved
forms ceasing, one after the other, from further develop­
ment, dropping out of the race, as it were, when the
appointed standard of development is reached, until
only the human embryo is left to complete the course.
This so-called Recapitulation Theory means that during
the course of its development each animal gives an epitome
of its race, showing step by step all the stages through
which forms have evolved during the course of countless
ages.
Evolution may correctly be defined as the study of
evolving forms during the unfolding of consciousness.
Science studies only the evolving form under the ‘Law of
Evolution ’, but Theosophy studies also the unfolding life
under the Law of Reincarnation, as the one Law is the
necessary concomitant of the other, and both these Laws
are necessary for a complete understanding of life.
Thus though evolution, according to science, is
merely the building together of higher and more compli­
cated organisms, these organisms are really meant to
express with greater and greater perfection the Divine
Life that is seeking manifestation in the universe. The
great point to remember here is that there is an evolution
not only of form, but also of life. In fact, the evolution
is primarily of life, and not of form—though forms also
evolve and grow better, mainly in order to be suitable
vehicles for the more advanced life. In a scheme of
evolution the Divine Life involves itself more and more
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 3l3
deeply in matter in order to receive through it certain
vibrations which cannot affect the Life directly. These
vibrations or impacts from without arouse corresponding
vibrations, within the Life, so that the Life learns to re­
spond to them and later on to generate them from within
itself, thereby developing the spiritual powers folded
within it.
Thus all evolution consists essentially of an evolving
Life passing from form to form as it evolves and storing
up in itself the experiences gained through the forms, until
the original germ of life becomes the perfect image of God.
Q. But what is the motive power of evolution ?
Am. It is the Life which involves itself in matter
before it evolves complicated organisms of every kind, and
its whole course may be thought of in two stages—the
gradual assumption of grosser and grosser matter, i.e.,
involution, and then the gradual casting off of vehicles
which have been assumed, i.e., evolution. But to under­
stand this a conception of the Three Great Outpourings
is necessary.
Q. What is meant by the Three Great Outpourings ?
Ans. The impulses which built the seven inter­
penetrating worlds with their elements from the ocean
of interstellar space, as stated in Chapter II, came
from the Third Logos, from Brahma, and are called the
First Great Outpouring, or the First Life-Wave.
Acting through His Third Aspect He sends forth the
successive impulses of force into the stupendous sphere
which defines the limit of His field of activity. The first
impulse sets up all through the sphere a vast number
of tiny vortices, each of which draws into itself forty-nine
bubbles, and arranges them in a certain shape. The
groupings of bubbles so formed are the atoms of the
40
3i4 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
second of the interpenetrating worlds. The whole number
of bubbles is not used in this way, sufficient being left in
the dissociated state to act as atoms for the first or
highest of these worlds. In due course comes another
impulse which seizes upon nearly all these forty-nine-
bubble atoms, leaving only enough to provide atoms for
the second world, draws them back into itself and then,
throwing them out again, sets up among them vortices,
each of which holds within itself 492 or 2,4oi bubbles.
These form the atoms of the third world. The next
impulse in the same way seizes upon nearly all these
2,4oi-bubble-atoms, draws them back into their original
form, and again throws them outward once more as the
atoms of the fourth world—each atom containing this
time 493 or 49 X 2,4oi bubbles. This process is repeated
for an atom of the fifth or mental plane with 49* or
2,4oiX2,4oi bubbles, for an atom of the sixth or astral
plane with 495 or 49X2,4oiX2,4oi bubbles and for an
atom of the seventh or physical plane with 496 or 2,4oiX
2,4oiX2,4oi bubbles, with a definite number of bubbles in
addition, owing to the peculiar formation of the physical
atom.
Thus does this vast Wave of Life well forth
from the Logos, pulsating through the whole solar system
and breaking itself into endless fragments—as the smooth
current dashing itself over a precipice breaks into
myriads of separate drops—in order to become the
life-atoms called matter. There is not one atom, one
particle of matter, that has not the life of God as its
life. There is nothing that is dead. Hence what
science calls matter is really spirit-matter, Spirit made
manifest, and of this living matter are the worlds built.
Matter is the necessary vehicle of manifestation for Spirit;
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 3l5
neither can exist without the other, and the Divine Life
becomes Spirit only when it ensouls matter*
When the atoms of each of the seven planes
have been created, then the Third Logos creates the
subplanes of each plane. The atoms of each plane
are swept into groups of two, three, four, etc., to make
its subplanes. The first or highest subplane is composed
of the single atoms themselves, while the second, third
and other lower subplanes are made by combinations
of these atoms. Thus, as stated before in Chapter II,
the highest subplane of the physical plane is composed
of simple physical atoms, of two varieties—the positive
and the negative—and by the combinations of these atoms
are built the remaining subplanes of that plane. It is
in the course of building the subplanes of the physical
world that the chemical elements are produced which
are the basic materials for the building of all physical
forms. In this way the lower subdivisions of each
plane come into existence, and the Divine Spirit becomes
more and more veiled in matter in its descent.
Then into the matter thus vivified the Second Out­
pouring of Life descends from the Second Aspect of the
Deity, Vishnu, w^hich combining the elements, or aggre­
gations of atoms, into organisms and ensouling them gives
characteristics or qualities to matter, enabling the matter
to answer in different ways to different stimuli from out­
side, one kind of atom and its aggregations answering to
changes of thought, another responding to changes of
emotion and desire, and so on.
This Second Life-Wave, called the Monadic essence
especially when clothed in atomic matter of various planes,
having descended through higher planes, comes to the
mental plane, where it throws the matter of that plane,
3i6 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
already by the nature of its atoms capable of responding
by vibrations to thought-changes, into combinations fit to
express thoughts—abstract thoughts in the subtler matter,
concrete thoughts in the coarser. Out of these two kinds
of mental matter, the higher and the lower, are made later
the causal and the mental bodies. As the first and second
elemental essence, the Wave^ builds on this plane the first
and second elemental kingdoms in its higher and lower
levels respectively. Passing onwards into the astral
plane, the Life-Wave forms on each subplane the
combinations fit to express sensations (out of which astral
matter or desire-stuff is made later the desire body),
builds on that plane the third elemental kingdom and
is named the third elemental essence or the elemental
essence of the astral plane. At its two latter stages as
the second and the third elemental essence, it is very
intimately connected with man, as it enters largely into
the composition of his various vehicles, and influences
his thought and action, as already described for mental
and astral elementals in Chapter III. Descending
further into the physical world it forms on each subplane
the combinations fitted to constitute physical bodies—the
future chemical elements, as they are called on the three
lower subplanes—and builds on that plane the mineral
kingdom, when it is sometimes called the mineral monad;
but at the central point of that stage the downward
pressure ceases and is replaced by an upward tendency ;
the Outbreathing or involution has ceased, and the
indrawing or evolution commences. The work of
the second Life-Wave, being that of forming combi­
nations which show qualities, is spoken of as the giving
of qualities. The var}ung powers of each atom and
its aggregations are given by this Life-Wave on its
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 3l7
downward sweep until it reaches the lowest point
of its huge circle, i . e the middle stage of the mineral
kingdom, and then the Life-Wave begins to climb
upwards, building forms out of the matter which now
shows the qualities imparted to it on the downward
sweep. This matter, now showing qualities—powers of
response, i.e., of internal rearrangement under the impact
of stimuli—is drawn together and aggregated into forms—
mineral, vegetable and animal forms, and lastly forms of
animal man. It is the energy of the Second Logos which,
ensouling the matter of the seven planes, enables it to
build forms. Each form persists only so long as the
Life of the Second Logos holds the matter in that form*
Now for the first time appear the phenomena of birth,
growth, decay and death; a form is born because the
Life of the Second Logos has the work of evolution to do
through that form ; it grows while that work is progress­
ing ; it shows signs of decay when the Second Logos
slowly withdraws the life from the form ; it dies when
finally the Second Logos withdraws all of the life, in
order to send it back again to build a newer and better form,
which can give to the life the new experiences necessary
for its further growth. The second Life-Wave thus
gives qualities to matter and then builds forms from that
matter, viz., the seven kingdoms of nature—the three
elemental kindoms, and the mineral, the vegetable, the
animal and the human kingdom. The last kingdom has
only its form given to it in the beginning, and the real
tenant takes possession of that house only after the
Third Great Outpouring has acted upon it.
There are five spheres from the physical up to the
Nirvanic plane, which make up the field of evolution.
Beyond these on the highest, the Mahaparanirvanic
3x8 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
plane, dwells in the perfection of His own nature the
Lord of the system, Ishvara unmanifest. On the second
plane shine out His Aspects, manifested powers, the
Logoi from whom the Life-Waves come, Powers
which make matter and build forms, and the Regenera­
tive Power from whom the Third Life-Wave is to
come. There also dwell the seeds of Divinity, the Monads,
emanations which are to be human spirits in the field of
evolution; and the Third Life-Wave consists of these
human spirits sent to ensoul and utilise the bodies
prepared for them through long ages of evolution, the
slow climbing from mineral to plant, from plant to
animal, from animal to animal-man. Then comes the time
when the human-divine spirits—the Monads—that have
been waiting the time for their advent, hover over the
human forms that are being prepared for them, though they
are yet unable to guide or control them. These form the
Third Great Outpouring, the fragments of Divinity
ensouling the forms prepared for their coming, and
making them tabernacles worthy of God.
Thus the First Life-Wave came forth from the
Third Logos of the Theosophist, Brahma of the Hindu,
the Holy Spirit, the Third Person of the Christian Trinity,
formed the atoms ensouled by Him, drew them together
and built up the numerous aggregations of the various
types of atoms into elements; ue., built the seven great
planes, with their subplanes, of the solar system. The
Second Life-Wave descended from the Second Logos,
Vishnu, the Son, the Second Person of the Christian
Trinity, gave to matter characteristics or qualities and
built forms; while the Third Life-Wave came from the
First Logos, Shiva or Mahadeva, the Liberator, the
Father, the First Person of the Christian Trinity, and
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 3l9
poured out the human spirits to ensoul the forms. These
three great Waves or currents of evolution are distinguish­
able on our earth in connection with humanity: the making
of the material, the building of the house, and the growing
of the tenant of the house; or the evolution of spirit-
matter, the evolution of form, and the evolution of self-
consciousness.
So the outpoured Life was involved in matter, and
these germs of Life, these myriad seeds, all came from one
Ishvara. Qualities are to be brought out of these seeds,
and these qualities are powers, but powers manifested
through matter ; and evolution consists in the drawing out
of these powers. Evolution can therefore be summed up
in one phrase thus: it is latent potentialities becoming
active powers.
Now it is the infolded Deity that is the hidden
motive power and makes evolution at once possible and
inevitable, the upward lifting force that overcomes every
obstacle and is the guarantee of man's final triumph.
Q. But does not the Life cowing from Ishvara contain
in itself everything already developed, every manifested
power, every possibility realised as actuality ? Why from
the Perfect should the imperfect comeforth and then return
into that perfection whence it came ? Why this long
evolution and what is the goal or purpose of this evolution
of life ?
Ans. The question is based on a fundamental mis­
understanding. The One willed to multiply. Multipli­
cation necessarily means division and therefore limitation,
and limitation necessarily implies imperfection. That
limitation is also shown by the use of the word ‘spark '
for the universe, or ‘sparks’ for individual lives. It
shows the limitation that comes with manifestation, and
320 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
gives the idea that the spark fed with suitable fuel will be
developed into the likeness of the Fire whence it came, and
also that the spark is of the same nature as the Flame,
the Supreme Brahman. That spark contains everything in
latency, but nothing at first in manifestation. It has every­
thing in germs but nothing at first as developed organism.
Into the matter brought into manifestation by
Brahma, Vishnu places not Himself with the force of His
unfolded powers, but the seed of His life, capable of evolu­
tion, containing everything within it potentially, but
showing forth nothing in manifestation. The germs from
the life of Ishvara evolve step by step, stage by stage, all
the powers that reside in the generating Father; from
that seed is to evolve a life rising higher and higher until
a centre of consciousness is formed capable of expanding
to the consciousness of Ishvara, while remaining as a
centre still, with the power to come forth as a new Logos
from whom new universes may evolve.
The building of such centres is the purpose of the
evolution of life, the building being done stage by stage as
the life passes from form to form, till the Son becomes
what he has ever been potentially, one with the Father.
What issues forth from the Divine is only a mass
of Monadic essence without individualisation, not human
Monads, still less all-wise and all-good ones. The differ­
ence between its condition when issuing forth and when
returning is exactly like that between a mass of nebulous
substance and the solar system evolved out of it. The
nebula is beautiful but vague and useless, while the sun
formed from it by slow evolution pours down light and
heat upon many worlds.
Speaking in more homely language, when we start­
ed on our long pilgrimage we were, as it were, asleep, but
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 321
having passed through numerous stages in all kinds of
forms, we shall, at the end of our journey as man, have
achieved the goal marked out for us during this age or
dispensation, and become Adepts or Beings of goodness,
power and wisdom, but our evolution will continue beyond
that level till each one of us becomes a God.
Q. How did the Divine Life, in the first upward stage
of evolution in the mineral, vegetable and animal
kingdoms, evolve in the germinal life the power to
respond ?
Ans. The whole working of the Life can be summed
up as the receiving of vibrations from matter without
and the answering of vibrations froipi itself within. In
the mineral kingdom—in metals, stones and what is known
as inorganic matter—the Life, the Monad of form, Atma-
Buddhi, the outbreathed Life of the Logos, has the
capacity to respond, but in a limited manner, partly
owing to its germinal nature and partly owing to the
rigidity of its surrounding vehicle. “ God sleeps in the
mineral ”, and so the brooding life of Vishnu modifies and
softens the rigidity of its material and calls the inner
essence into activity by blows, by vibrations, by tremendous
impacts like earthquakes and volcanoes—the crushing
and grinding of materials on a gigantic scale—until a stage
of plasticity is reached with a lessened opposition from
the form without and a more active response from the life
within, when the beginnings of the vegetable world can be
brought into existence.
After the life in the mineral has developed the
power of response to outside impacts, the next stage in
evolution, attained in the vegetable kingdom, is that the
response takes on the form of sensation : the power of
responding to the outside impact by a feeling within the
41
322 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
life, the sensation appearing as pleasure when the life
responds to harmonious impacts from without, and as
pain when the impacts are discordant.
Then we come to the stage which is manifested
when life evolves through the animal kingdom. Pleasure
and pain are now acutely felt, but in addition, a germ of
recognition called perception, connecting objects and sen­
sations, begins. The dawning life develops the power of
forming a link between the object that impresses it and the
sensation that responds to that object; and when the life
knows an object as giving pleasure or pain, i.e., perceives
the object, the faculty of perception, the making of links
between the outer and inner worlds, is evolved, and mental
power begins to germinate in that organism, as we find in
the higher animals. But all along it is the evolving
life which carries on from an outworn form, as well
as from a lower kingdom of nature to a higher one—from
the mineral to the vegetable, and from the vegetable
to the animal kingdom—the experience which it has
gained.
With the power of moving from place to place the
opportunities of animals for gathering experience increase,
as they can thus themselves come into contact with
externa] objects, instead of having to wait, like the mineral
and the vegetable, for the coming to them of those objects
before responding to them. With the struggle for exist­
ence—the tremendous competition in nature for food—
with the love of fellows which appears in the mother and
father instinct, the leader instinct (bulls), and gregarious-
ness, by vicissitudes, by hunting and being hunted, the
animal develops craft, foresight, powers of self-defence,
bravery and other higher qualities which eventually make
possible the coming of man, though even when the
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 323
animal-man appears on the stage of life, there is some­
thing yet wanting for real manhood.
Q. Then is not man descendedfrom the brute ? Is he not
evolved out of the animal as the Darwinian theory asserts ?
Ans. That is not true. It is only a fragment of truth
half seen and hence distorted. The matter of his lower
vehicles has been prepared in previous ages by evolving
through the lower stages of the elemental, mineral, vege­
table and animal kingdoms in order that it may be built
into the form of man.
In previous cycles, forms had been evolved that
might fairly be described as half-ape, half-human, that were
never occupied by the triple-Self and that consequently
belonged to the animal, and not to the human kingdom.
In the present cycle the human form evolved, passing
rapidly through the lower stages on the way to the human,
as does a foetus in pre-natal life, and therefore has stamped
upon it the stages through which it has passed. It will
thus be seen that man is not merely a development from
the animal as is believed by those who take the somewhat
crude view of the theory of evolution. The matter has
been made plastic in the animal, but the man in his form
is the result of a higher working, and the germ of his life
can never develop into the animal. It develops only into
the human, as more life having been folded into it, that
germ must unfold along a line of direct human growth. It
is the Third Great Outpouring, the Third Life-Wave,
which brings down those human spirits which have been
waiting to take up their habitation in the forms prepared
for their reception and to ensoul and utilise those bodies as
explained before.
Q. Has each plant and each animal a separate soul
like man ?
324 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Ans. No. Each man is a soul, but not each animal or
plant. When the Second Outpouring came from the Deity,
it might have been homogeneous ; but when it first comes
within practical cognisance on the Buddhic plane, it is seen
not as one huge world-soul, but as many souls; not one
Monad, but many ; while in humanity it is seen broken up
into millions of little souls of individual men; so in the
intermediate condition the world-soul is already subdivided,
though not to its utmost limit of individualisation as found
in man. Thus man as a soul manifests through one body
at a time in the physical world, while an animal soul mani­
fests through a number of animal bodies, except in the
most advanced animals in a state of domestication, each of
which has really become a separate reincarnating entity,
although not yet possessing a causal body—the mark of
what is usually called 4individualisation \
<
2* Then what becomes of the animal or plant after
death ?
Ans. When a man dies or lays aside his physical body,
he, being a soul by himself, remains separate from other
souls ; but when an animal, say a tiger, dies, he not being
a permanently separate soul, that which formed his soul
is, after some period of conscious life in the astral world,
poured back into that mass, called a group-soul, from
which it came and which provided souls for many other
tigers. The true animal is not the body, but an invisible
life which acts to the animal form as does the soul of man
to man’s body. This invisible life, energising the animal
form, is called the group-soul. The group-soul is a cer­
tain definite quantity of mental matter charged with the
energy of the Logos; this mental matter contains a
definite life at the animal grade of evolution. An animal
group-soul was in the previous cycle a vegetable group-soul.
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 325
and in the earlier cycle still, a mineral group-soul, so that
any animal group-soul is already highly specialised as the
result of its experiences in vegetable and mineral matter.
Each group-soul has attached to it a number
of animal bodies, say one hundred tiger bodies for one
particular group-soul. Then each of these tiger bodies
has one-hundredth of a group-soul attached to it, and, like
man, is quite separate during physical life, but that tiger
is not a permanent individual, and, after death and the
short astral life that follows it, has his soul merged back
into his own group-soul.
This can be more easily conceived by an analogy.
Suppose there is a bucket containing one hundred tumblers
of water, the water representing the whole group-soul, and
the hundred tumblers the hundred tiger bodies. Each
tumbler dipped into the bucket takes out a tumblerful of
water which takes the form of that tumbler and is separate
temporarily from the water remaining in the bucket and
from the water in the other tumblers. Now if some-
colouring matter is put into each separate tumbler, that
represents the qualities developed by each of the separate
tiger souls during his life-time. The death of the animal
will be typified by pouring back the water from the tum­
bler into the bucket. But as the colouring distributed
through the whole water in the bucket will be much fainter
than when it was confined to one tumbler, the qualities of
one tiger are shared after his death by all the tigers in the
whole group-soul, though in a smaller degree. Also we
can never get the identical tumblerful of water a second
time from the bucket, while every tumblerful taken from
it in future will give some trace of the colouring of all the
different tumblerfuls of water poured back into it. Simi­
larly, no tiger can be reborn with the identical portion of
326 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
the group-soul, while the qualities developed by a single
tiger become the common property of all the tigers to be
born from that group-soul in the future, though in a lesser
degree than that in which they existed in the original tiger.
Thus appear inherited instincts, the continually repeated
experiences stored up in the group-soul, ‘ accumulated
hereditary experiences 5 in the new forms, and this ex­
plains why a duckling hatched by a ben takes to water
without having to learn swimming, why a chicken just out
of its shell will cower at the shadow of a hawk, and why
a bird, artificially hatched, knows how to make a nest,
without ever having seen one, according to the traditions
of its kind.
Reincarnation, therefore, is in reality a process
that affects all life in all organisms, though it is usully
thought of as peculiar to the souls of men. The life of
the rose that dies returns to its subdivision of the Rosaceae
group-soul, and then incarnates as another rose; the
puppy that dies of distemper returns to its Canidae group-
soul and later incarnates as a puppy of another litter.
With man the only difference is that, being an individual
consciousness, he does not at death return to any group-
soul, but reincarnates with all the faculties of his previous
lives as his exclusive possession without sharing them with
other individuals.
Q. How many physical bodies has each group-soul
attached to it ?
Ans. Countless millions of smaller insect bodies are
attached to one group-soul, quadrillions of flies or mosqui­
toes, millions of rats or mice, hundreds of thousands of
rabbits or sparrows; while a plant-soul has attached to
it an enormous number of plant bodies, perhaps, in some
cases of grass, a whole species.
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 327
The differences of climate and other variations in
environment draw out of the individual forms differences
of response in the indwelling life, according to the part of
the country where that life is being manifested; each
form takes back to its group-soul a particular type of
experience and tendency. As time passes and experiences
accumulate, the group-souls gradually develop well-marked
divisions and afterwards break up, each splitting into two,
like a cell separating by fission, and again subdividing and
splitting, so that higher up in the animal kingdom com­
paratively a small number of physical forms represents
one group-soul. In fact, just as genera subdivide into
species and families, so too does each group-soul slowly
divide itself into smaller and smaller group-souls, contain­
ing more and more specialised characteristics and tenden­
cies. In this way as the experience grows ever richer,
the group-souls grow smaller but more numerous, until at
the highest point we arrive at man vrith his single indi­
vidual soul, which no longer returns into a group, but
remains always separate.
Q. Does the evolving life begin from the lowest mani­
festation in each kingdom and end with the highest ?
Ans. The life-force goes through a definite course of
evolution, ordinarily beginning from the lower manifesta­
tions of a kingdom and ending with the highest. In the
vegetable kingdom, for example, the life-force might com­
mence its career by occupying grasses or mosses and end it
by ensouling magnificent forest trees. In the animal it
might commence with mosquitoes or animalcula and might
end with mammalia. Still if the group-soul or the life
ensouling a group of forms or bodies has ensouled forest
trees, when it passes into the animal kingdom, it will omit
all the lower stages, not inhabiting insects or reptiles, but
328 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
will begin at the level of lower mammalia, while insects
and reptiles will be vivified by group-souls which have left
the vegetable kingdom at a lower level. Similarly, the
group-soul which has reached the highest level of animal
kingdom will not individualise into primitive savages, but
into men of a somewhat higher type, while the primitive
savages will be recruited from the group-souls which have
left the animal kingdom at a lower level.
The whole process is one of steady evolution from
the lower and simpler forms to the higher and more
complex ones, but, as stated before, the evolution is
primarily of life—differentiated into seven fundamental
types or Rays— and not of form, though forms also
evolve and grow better, mainly in order to he suitable
vehicles for the more advanced life ; and when that life
has reached the highest level in the animal kingdom, it.
passes into the human kingdom by individualisation.
Q. What are the seven Rays or fundamental types into
which the One Life differentiates itself ?
Ans. All life comes from God, but it comes from Him
through different channels. The Seven Spirits before
the throne of God, His seven great Ministers, art* very
much more than mere servants or messengers ; they are
rather God's very members in and through whom He
works, channels of His power, part of Himself. The
Divine Life pours forth through these seven Ministers,
and it is coloured by the channel through which It passes ;
through all its long evolution it bears the stamp of one
or other of these mighty Spirits; it is always life of that
type and of no other, whether it be at the mineral,
vegetable, animal or human stage of its development.
Thus the One Life, long before it begins its work
in .mineral matter, differentiates itself into seven-great
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 329
streams or fundamental types of life, called Rays,
each of which has its own special and unchanging
characteristics.
Hence it follows that these seven types are to be
found among men and that all men must belong to one
or other of them. Fundamental differences of this sort
in the human race have always been recognised; a
century ago men were described as of the lymphatic
or the sanguine type, the vital or the phlegmatic; and
astrologers classify them under the names of the planets
as Jupiter men, Mars men, Venus or Saturn men, and
so on. But there is a better method of stating the basic
differences of disposition due to the channel through
which men happen to have come forth, and the special
qualities or principal characteristics of each of the seven
Rays may be given respectively as i. Strength, Will
or Power; 2. W isdom; 3. Adaptability or T act; 4.
Beauty or Harmony ; 5. Science (detailed knowledge);
6. Devotion; 7. Ordered Service (ceremonial magic
which invokes angelic help).
In the Occult Hierarchy (see Chapter X) the seven
Rays are clearly distinguished. The First or Ruling Ray
is governed by the Lord of the World ; at the head of the
Second Ray stands the Lord Buddha ; and under These
come respectively the Manu and the Bodhisattva of the
root-race which is predominant in the world at any given
time. The Mahachohan, parallel in rank with the last
Two, supervises all the other five Rays, each of which
nevertheless has also its own Head at the level of the
Chohan Initiation.
The seven Rays have their expression and corre­
spondences in the seven tones of the musical scale
and the seven colours of the solar spectrum. Each of
42
33o THEOSOI’HY EXI>
LAINED
these Rays influences the world in turn. The S i\ih or
Devotional Ray was dominant during the Middle Ages ;
as its power waned, there was a period of <iM«*lief,
irreligion and profound ignorance of the inner side of
life. The Seventh Ray involves the study and u.r of
the inner forces of Nature, and intelligent co-operation
with the Powers which wield them. That i- the
influence which is now dawning upon the world, and
therefore the Seventh Ray is just now coming into
operation.
The Fourth and Fifth Rays are predominantly
positive or masculine, and the Third and Sixth Kavs
predominantly negative or feminine, while the S>'<ortd
Ray is dual but about equally balanced, the Fir o Ray
dual but with the masculine intensified, and the Seventh
Ray dual but with the feminine intensified.
Each of these seven streams or Rays again
differentiates itself into seven modifications, called Mile
rays. These forty-nine variants of the One Life-stream
follow their forty-nine distinct channels through nil the
great kingdoms, and there is no mingling of one t\ pe of
life with another type.
Q. Now, how does the individualisation from the
animal kingdom take place, and what is its method ?
Jns. The method of individualisation is to raise the
soul of a particular animal to a level so much higher than
that attained by its group-soul that it can no longer return
to the latter.
The individualisation from the animal kingdom
usually takes place through association with the humanity
of the period. It cannot be done with every animal, but
only with such as have their brains develop'd to a certain
level, mainly through close contact with man.
•THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 33i
All wild animals can be arranged into seven lines—
the seven fundamental types of life or Rays, mentioned above
— leading up to domestic animals, the fox, the jackal, and the
wolf culminating in the dog; the lion, the tiger, the leopard,
the jaguar and the ocelot leading up to the domestic cat,
and so on. Individualisation is possible only from domestic
animals, and at the head of each of the seven types stands
some kind of domestic animal like the dog, the cat, the
elephant, the monkey, the horse; and a group-soul, say,
of two hundred foxes may divide at a later stage by
breaking up, as explained before, into ten group-souls of
twenty dogs each.
Now, a dog treated kindly unfolds intellectual
powers in trying to understand and please his master, and
develops affection for that human friend; while the
thoughts and emotions of the master, constantly acting
upon those of the dog, tend to raise him to a higher level
intellectually and emotionally till the development has
proceeded far enough to enable the dog to remain as a
separate entity without his soul being poured back into the
group-soul, and while doing so, to become a vehicle for
the Third Great Outpouring. It is by the junction of this
Outpouring with the fragment of the group-soul that the
individual is formed ; thus individualisation takes place by
the Third Great Outpouring effecting a junction with the
Second Great Outpouring.
This Third Great Outpouring from the First
Logos, Mahadeva, does not affect thousands simultane­
ously, but comes to each one individually.
The specialisation of an animal out of a group-soul,
say, of a dog out of a dog-group-soul, is due not only to
the higher vibrations sent towards him from the dog’s
master and friends, but also to the fact that a Monad, 1a
332 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
fragment of Divinity ’, is seeking to form an ego or soul in
order to begin his human experiences. This Monad long
ago attached to himself an atom of each of the planes as a
centre on each, as an earnest sent in advance with a view
to his future work. These permanent atoms, spoken of
before in Chapter IV, were sent out into the elemental,
mineral, vegetable and animal group-souls in succession,
there to receive whatever experiences they could. When
the permanent atoms find themselves in touch with a
highly specialised part of the animal group-soul, like the
soul of the dog, then the Monad sends down from his high
plane certain influences in response to the outer work done
for the soul of the dog by his human friends. Descending
no lower than the Buddhic plane he effects a junction, like
the formation of a water-spout, with the soul of the
domestic animal who makes an upward leap from below.
The energy of the Monad pours into the mental matter
which has stood to the dog as his little soul; that mental
matter rearranges itself into a causal body, to become the
vehicle of this “ Son in the Bosom of the Father ” who has
descended to become a human soul. Thus the soul-matter
of the dog, the water in the bucket, mentioned before,
becomes itself a vehicle for something much higher—for
the Third Great Outpouring—and instead of acting as a
soul, it is itself ensouled. There is no exact analogy on
the physical plane except that of pumping air into water
under high pressure and thereby making it aerated water.
If that symbolism be accepted, the water which was
previously the animal soul has now become the causal
body of a man ; and the air pumped into it is the ego—the
soul of man which is but a partial manifestation of the
Monad. This descent of the ego is symbolised in ancient
mythology by the Greek idea of the crater or Cup, and by
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 333
the mediaeval story of the Holy Grail; for the Grail or the
Cup is the perfected result of all that lower evolution, into
which is poured the Wine of the Divine Life, so that the
soul of man may be born. So what has previously been
the animal soul becomes in the case of man what is called
the causal body, which exists in the higher part of the
mental plane as the permanent vehicle occupied by the ego
or human soul. The young ego, the newly formed human
soul, absorbs into himself all the experiences which the
matter of his causal body has had, so that nothing what­
ever is lost, and he carries these on with him through the
ages of his existence. Thus is formed in the higher mental
world an ego, a permanent individuality, which endures
through all incarnations till the man, transcending even
that individuality, reaches back to the divine Unity from
which he came.
From the time that the soul of a dog separates him­
self from his group-soul, the dog has in reality ceased to be
a dog, though he has still a dog’s form. From this point of
separation up to the actual formation of the causal body
there are several stages of transformation, until finally as
a result of the increased outpouring from the higher planes
by the Monad, the causal body is made. These stages can
be hastened by the proper understanding by men of the
process of individualisation, so that our animal friends
may pass swiftly to the reception of that Divine Outpour­
ing which makes of each a soul of man.
Q. Then what is the difference between the highest
animal and the lowest man ?
Ans. At individualisation, all that has been the highest
of the animal becomes now merely a vehicle for a frag­
ment of Divinity, the Monad. In making the ego, the
fragment of the group-soul which was always playing the
336 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Q. What do you mean by a root-race and a sub-race ?
Ans. Root-races are gigantic divisions of humanity as
the Lemurian, the Atlantean and the Aryan races, while
sub-races are divisions of these, but still consisting of very
large bodies of men. Sub-races in turn are divided into
nations, and what are called branch-races.
In the history of a globe there are recurring
cycles or successions of events—the shadows in our
lower world of events on higher planes—which follow
one another in a definite order, manifesting principles
rather than details, and which are repeated in the
course of history on larger or smaller scales. Each recur­
ring cycle is the shaping and evolution of a new human
type, embodying as its dominant characteristic one of the
seven stages of consciousness of our humanity: i —3.
Vitality embodying itself in etheric and dense matter, the
triple embryonic and birth stages; 4. the passional rising
to the emotional (Kamic) ,* 5. the mental (Manasic) ; 6. the
purely rational (Ruddhic) ; 7. the spiritual (Atmic). The
embodiment of each of these stages is called a root-race,
and there are seven such in the life of a globe. Our physi­
cal bodies show out two subdivisions, dense and etheric.
The first two races evolved these and were not yet
definitely physical, while the third built the human form,
with lower astral and germinal mental, by its middle stage.
All that we read in bgoks upon ethnology refers to the
development of the Atlantean and the Aryan, the fourth
and fifth root-races; but there was another which preceded
the Atlantean race and to which the name of Lemurian
has been given. This third root-race was concerned with
the development of the physical body. The Atlantean race
which succeeded it was concerned with the development
of the astral or emotional body. The great Aryan race to
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 337
which the majority of the population of Europe, India and
America belong, is concerned principally with the mental
body—what we call the mind.
A root-race thus is a great type according to which
the foremost peoples of the world are evolving. Within each
root-race there are seven subdivisions or sub-races, each
one of which represents in an incomplete and imperfect
manner the characteristics which the corresponding root-
race is to show in their perfection. The ultimate object of
human evolution being the production of the perfect—all­
round—man, that evolution goes on in this regular w ay: a
race embodies the germs of several special qualities, while
a sub-race develops specially one of these, dominating the
other qualities, which are necessary in the man, separated
for that purpose. Thus all root-races and sub-races are
needed, and every one of them has its place in the ultimate
perfect humanity which shall evolve on our globe.
Each of these great races predominates in the world
for millions of years; but they run concurrently to the
extent that one begins before the other has finished; so
that although the Aryan race now rules nearly all the
world, there are still vast numbers who clearly belong to
the Atlantean race, and some few—the most backward of
savages—who retain strong traces of Lemurian blood. The
fifth or Aryan root-race as a whole, although it has existed
in the world for sixty thousand years, is still not in its
prime, and has a long time to run yet, probably a
million years or so.
The beginning of a coming root-race is in the sub­
race of its own number in the reigning race. Thus the
fifth root-race grew out of the fifth sub-race of the fourth
root-race, and the sixth root-race will grow out of the
sixth sub-race of the fifth root-race. We are standing now
43
338 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
in the primary stage of such a cycle recurring for the
sixth time. The third root-race, the Lemurian, and the
fourth, the Atlantean, are far behind us, and the smalt
cycle of the sixth or Austral-American sub-race, of the fifth
or Aryan root-race, from which (sub-race) the sixth root-
race is to arise, is already in the early stages of its growth in
Australia, New Zealand and the United States of America.
We who are now human beings in this chain of globes
ought all of us to attain Adeptship b}^the end of the seventh
round of our chain and pass away from this scheme of evolu­
tion altogether by one of the seven paths which open out
before the Adept, as explained in Chapter X, while what is
now our animal kingdom ought, by the end of this chain,,
to attain individualisation, and therefore to be ready to
furnish the humanity for the next chain, the fifth of our
earth-scheme. We know, however, that two-fifths of our
humanity will drop out at the critical period in the middle
of the fifth round—the Day of Judgment, spoken of before.
Q. What do you mean by a ‘ Round’, a ‘ Chain of
globes ’, and a ‘ Scheme of evolution ’ ?
Atts. Our solar system at the present moment contains
ten chains, each consisting of seven globes, and these are
all evolving side by side, though at different stages. A
scheme of evolution is taking place upon each of these ten
chains, and in the course of each scheme its chain of globes
goes through seven incarnations. The globes of each chain
present us with a small cycle of evolution descending
into denser matter and then ascending out of it, and in an
exactly analogous manner the successive incarnations of a
chain also descend into denser matter and then ascend out
of it. Our own chain is at the present moment at its
lowest level of materiality, so that of its seven planets or
globes three are on the physical plane, two on the astral
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 339
and two on the lower mental. The wave of Divine Life
passes in succession from globe to globe of this chain,
beginning with one of the highest, descending gradually to
the lowest and then climbing again to the same level as that
at which it began.
We may, for convenience of reference, label the
seven globes by the earlier letters of the alphabet, and
number the incarnations in order. Thus, as this is the
fourth incarnation of our chain, the first globe in this
incarnation will be 4A, the second 4B, the third 4C, the
fourth (which is our earth) 4D, and so on.
As the number of globes on any plane which a chain
has at any given time depends upon the stage of its evolu­
tion, these globes are not all composed of physical matter.
-4A contains no matter lower than that of the mental world ;
it has its counterpart in all the worlds higher than that,
but nothing below it. 4 B exists in the astral world; but
4C is a physical globe and is in fact the planet which we
know as Mars. Globe D is our own Earth, on which the
life-wave of the chain is at present in action. Globe E is
the planet which we call Mercury—also in the physical
world. Globe F is in the astral world, corresponding on
the ascending arc to globe 4B in the descent, while globe
4G corresponds to Globe 4A in having its lowest manifes­
tation in the lower part of the mental world. Thus we
have a scheme of globes starting in the lower mental world,
dipping through the astral into the physical, and then
rising into the lower mental through the astral again.
Such is the condition of affairs in the fourth incar­
nation. But just as the succession of the globes in a chain
constitutes a descent into matter and an ascent from it
again, so do the successive incarnations of a chain ;
■and therefore the third incarnation commences not on the
34o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
lower level of the mental world, but on the higher*
Globes 3A and 3G are both of higher mental matter,
globes 3B and 3F of the lower mental, and globes|3C
and 3E of the astral, while only globe 3D is visible in the
physical world. The corpse of this physical globe 3Dy
of the third incarnation—now long past—of our chain is
still visible to us in the shape of that dead planet, the
Moon,* whence that third incarnation is usually called
the lunar chain.
The fifth incarnation .of our chain which still lies very
far in the future, will correspond to the third, though,
of course, the planet 5D which will be in the physical
world is not yet in existence. The other incarnations of
the chain follow the same general rule of decreasing
materiality.
Of the ten chains of our solar system, each existing
with a scheme of evolution of its own, seven are represented
upon the physical plane by one or more globes, but the
three others exist only on higher planes. These seven
are: i —that of an unrecognised planet Vulcan, very
near the sun, which is in its third incarnation and so has
only that one visible globe; (the existence of Vulcan
was accepted by some astronomers a century ago; but as
it cannot now be found, the scientific men of the present day
hold that the earlier observations were incorrect; in fact,
some occultists believe that Vulcan has now passed into its
sixth incarnation ;) 2—that of Venus which is in its fifth
incarnation, and has therefore only one visible planet; 5
—that of the Earth, Mars and Mercury, which has three
visible planets because it is in its fourth incarnation ;•
(a great bulk of the human race has passed through a
*
series of incarnations on the planet Mars, and when our
present occupancy of the earth ends for a time we shall
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 34x
all pass on to the somewhat less material life of the planet
Mercury ;) 4—that of Jupiter. 5—that of Saturn, 6—
that of Uranus, all in their third incarnation ; and 7—
that of Neptune and the two unnamed planets beyond
its orbit, which is in its fourth incarnation, and therefore
has three physical planets like our terrene chain.
In each incarnation of a chain (commonly called a
chain-period) the wave of Divine Life moves seven times
round the chain of seven planets, and each such movement
is spoken of as a round. The time that the life-wave
stays upon each planet is known as a world-period, and in
the course of a world-period there are seven great root-
races, divided into sub-races and the latter again subdivided
into branch-races, as explained before. For convenience
of reference this is stated in a tabular form, thus :
7 Branch-races make i Sub-race
7 Sub-races 33 i Root-race
7 Root-races n
i World-period
7 World-periods 9J I Round
7 Rounds 99 i Chain-period, or Incar­
nation of a chain, or
Manvantara
7 Chain-periods 93 I Scheme of Evolution, or
Planetary Scheme, or
Mahamanvantara
o Schemes of Evolution ,, Our Solar System
The fourth root-race of the fourth globe of the fourth
round of a fourth chain-period would be the central
point of a whole scheme of evolution, and we are at the
present moment only a little past that point. The
Aryan race, to which the majority of us belong, is the
fifth root-race of the fourth globe, so that the actual
middle point fell in the time of the last great root-race,
the Atlantean. Consequently the human race as a whole
is very little more than half-way through its evolution,
342 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
and those few souls who are already nearing Adeptship
(see Chapter X), which is the end and crown of this
evolution, are very far in advance of their fellows.
Q. Now what are the first stages of the unfolding
consciousness in man from the early beginnings ?
Ans. In the stage of the savage the consciousness of
I ” and “ Not I ” slowly establishes itself within him.
e
cNot I ” touches him, and he feels i t ; “ Not I ” gives
him pleasure or pain, and he knows or experiences it.
Thus commences intelligence, and a root of self-conscious­
ness begins to develop; a centre is formed to which
everything goes in and from which everything comes out.
After that an object is recognised as having given pleasure
before, and a repetition of the pleasure is expected. That
expectation is the dawn of memory and the beginning of
imagination, the memory causing an outflow of desire to
have that object and go forth in search of it.
An animal goes in search of food only when goaded
by a feeling of hunger, but with the gratification of the
desire he again becomes quiescent. The pull comes from
outside. The savage was long in that animal stage, but
now having memory of the pleasure, he desires that
pleasure and goes in search of it, and his consciousness is
thereby stimulated to activity by motion initiated from
within instead of from without. Thus the gratification of
desire is the law of his progress and evolution in the early
■stages. For him there is no morality, no distinction be­
tween right and wrong. Experience is the law of life. He
cannot discriminate between right and wrong unless there
be experience of both good and evil. Patanjali aptly terms
the mind in this stage the ‘ butterfly mind darting from
flower to flower with no stable purpose. But later the
man finds out that he lives in a world of Law, getting
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 343
pleasure when the Law is followed and pain when the
Law is disregarded ; and thus with experiences of pleasure
and pain he develops discrimination.
Then also come Teachers to help his evolution and
tell him of the existence of the Law—what is right, what
wrong, or, in other words, what is wise as being with the
stream of evolution and what unwise as being against it.
When he disregards the teaching, penalty follows and he
suffers, as he was told by the Teacher. Thus the memory
of a command proved by experience makes a great
impression on his consciousness, and by the declaration of
the fundamental principles of morality his intelligence is
immensely stimulated. When he does not obey the
declared Law, he is left to the hard teaching of experi­
ence and pain, and the lesson he would not learn from
the lips of love is taught him by the whip of suffering
till the desire for evil things is rooted out of his nature.
After this preliminary training, the great law of
orderly evolution in later human growth is the law of the
four successive steps which take a man to the end of his
journey for this age or dispensation, and make him more
than man.
Q. What is that law of thefour successive steps for
orderly evolution in the later growth of humanity ?
Ans. That law comes into operation in every nation
after a certain stage of evolution has been reached, but it
was proclaimed in ancient India as a definite law of
evolving life, as the underlying principle by which every
one may understand and follow his Dharma—Dharma
being the inner nature of a man at the point he has
reached and the law of his growth for the next stage.
The first Dharma or duty is that of service, and no
matter in which land a soul may be born, after the early
344 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
stages the inner nature demands the discipline of service
to acquire the qualities needed for the next stage. There
is a tendency in such souls, called Shudras, to yield to
outside impulse without a developed judgment. It is the
stage of confusion, of illusion, the confused mind ” of
Patanjali. To this class belongs the serving type, the
Shudra, and the law of his growth is obedience, devotion,
fidelity. With little judgment of his own, his Dharma
is blindly to obey the one he serves, like a soldier under
the command of his superior, and he is not expected to
show higher virtues.
Having learnt the lesson of obedience and fidelity
in many lives, he approaches the next stage, that of the
Vaishya or the old type of merchant, where the Dharma
or duty is to take up an occupation and acquire wealth,
thereby evolving the characteristics of just dealing, keen­
ness, shrewdness, fair payment in fair exchange, frugality,
etc. Liberality will be the law of further growth for the
Vaishya, but not the liberality of carelessness or overpay­
ment. He gathers wealth with energy and shrewdness
and spends it with careful discrimination and liberality on
noble objects and schemes for public good.
The third stage is that of the Kshattriya, or the
ruler and the warrior, where the inner nature is combative
and aggressive, ready to protect every one in the enjoyment
of his right. His strength is the barrier between the
oppressor and the oppressed, and right for him is the
following of war and the struggle in the jungle with the
wild beast. He develops courage, fearlessness, endurance,
splendid generosity, devotion to an ideal, loyalty to a
cause, throwing away of life Jn defence of the weak and
in the performance of duty. During this stage when the
outer vehicles are plunged into bloodshed, mutilation and
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 345
death, the inner life is learning that there is something
greater and nobler than the physical body and the physi­
cal existence. The man learns to sacrifice himself for an
ideal, recognising the service of an ideal as evolving the
real life, and the body as a garment to be thrown aside
at the call of duty.
Then comes the last stage, that of the Brahmana,
whose Dharma or duty it is to teach. The soul must
have assimilated all the lower experiences before he can
teach, and if he had not obtained wisdom through
obedience, exertion and combat, through the three
previous stages, how could he teach his more ignorant
brethren ? The hero or the martyr of former lives becomes
now the Saint, the Seer, with worldly things detached
from him. The law of his growth is knowledge, piety,
forgiveness, gentleness, being the friend of every creature ,*
while self-sacrifice is the fundamental law of his life, because
though the struggle for existence is the law of evolution for
the brute, the law of intelligent self-sacrifice is the law of evo­
lution for man. His emotions will be pure and lofty, and his
intellect well-trained with the mind steady and controlled.
His moral nature will be noble and strong, and side by side
with purity and mental strength for himself he will have
a tender sympathy for others, and though himself beyond
the power of suffering, will be able to enter fully into the
pain of another by the remembrance of his own past.
He will be able to control all his bodies and function on
the higher planes and will give himself most joyfully
in self-surrender to be a channel of the life of the Logos.
With such perfection the end of his growth is liberation.
He stands on the threshold of superhuman progress by the
side of the lofty Beings, the Adepts, reaches the goal of
humanity and becomes the Perfect Man. He has thus
44
346 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
mounted the Ladder of Lives to the top-rung of human
perfection, though many rungs lie still above with another
and more splendid evolution opening out before Him.
Q. You have traced the broad outline of human evolu­
tion; but will you explain why man, divine in his origin)
eould not have remained pure and untouched by evil all
through that process of evolution ? Since God is good,
why is there imperfection or evil in what He has produced ?
In short, what is the origin of evil and what is its use ?
Ans. The One Existence—Brahman—is absolute and
undivided ; the One without a Second is absolute unity,
absolute identity, without multiplicity or diversity, without
conditions or limitation. But no manifestation can occur,
no multiplicity can become, unless there be limitation.
The very moment the universe comes into being, there
must come in conditions, there must be limitation. Limita­
tion is, in fact, a condition of manifestation, for the very
moment we arrive at the point of manifestation, a circum­
ference must be drawn from the central point, the circle of
a universe; without that, thought is lost in the absolute
oneness, the identity. Within that circle thought may be
exercised, and the very word £manifestation ’ implies at
once this limitation. When that is understood, the next
step is simple. Having diversity, having limitation, there
is at once imperfection implied. The perfect is unlimited,
the limited imperfect. Thus imperfection must be the
result of limitation. In the totality there is perfection ; in
the whole, but not in the parts. The very moment there
is multiplicity, variety of bodies, each body separately
considered is imperfect, because it is less than the whole,
and only the wr
hole can have perfection predicated of it.
Thus manifestation implying limitation, and imperfection
being the result of limitation, imperfection is co-eternal
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 347
with the universe. Imperfection, in short, is a necessary
condition of limitation, so that whenever there comes a
universe into existence, imperfection comes into existence
at the same time. The fact of manifestation is thus the
origin of imperfection, of what is called evil.
Although the essence of imperfection is in the very
existence of the universe, that which we call evil is its
imperfection in its relation to the rest rather than the
necessary imperfection of separated bodies. But in the
very words cgood and evil ’ relativity is fundamentally
implied, the ‘ pairs of opposites ’ necessary to thought; the
word ‘ good ’ cannot fairly be predicated of anything until
the idea of evil is recognised—the £not-good ’; good and
evil are correlative terms, and the one can only be dis­
tinguished as being the opposite of the other—like light
and darkness—which is implicitly present in the mind at
the same time. In fact, evil does not exist in and by itself,
does not reside in the things, but like good, lies in the
relationship between one thing, and another ; it is relative,
not absolute. What we speak of as evil in one place may
not be evil in another ; for evolution implies this changing
character, and what is good at one stage may be evil at
another.
When a man begins to understand what evolution
means, he regards as ‘good ! all that is working in harmony
with the Great Law, and calls ‘ evil *all that is working
against it—all the tendencies which persist from the
stage of evolution in which greater diversity was sought,
1Good ’ might therefore be defined as that which
helps man forward in his evolution, ‘evil9as that which
hinders him. Therefore qualities now regarded as evil—
avarice, desire for material gain, etc.—were good
during the descent of the outward-going life into matter.
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 349
falsity and render true the life which we are developing.
So also with every other virtue, with good in its totality.
Courage is developed in the presence, not in the absence,
of an object which we fear. If there were no objects
which give rise to the sensation of fear, then courage could
never be evolved. Thus man could never develop strength
to hold to the good, unless he gained it through conflict
with evil.
Another fundamental use of evil is the evolution of
the power to discriminate between good and evil, and thus
of volition or choice. There could be no knowledge of
good without the experience of evil, just as we should have
no knowledge of light unless we at times experience dark­
ness. There are these pairs of opposites throughout nature,
and neither of the two opposing terms of a pair could
exist without the other. We can distinguish Truth only
by discerning it as different from that which is not true,
and can learn its value only by finding from experience
the destructive effects of falsehood, in man and in
society. Thus, only by recognition of evil can we know
good, and to recognise evil, experience of evil is necessary.
Useful also is evil as a scourge which drives us
to good. For as evil is discordance with the evolving
forces of the Divine Life in manifestation, it must result
in pain. Hence evil inevitably brings suffering as a result,
not by an arbitrary penalty but by an inherent necessity.
Suffering in its turn gives rise to a feeling of repulsion
towards the cause of suffering and drives man away from
evil and towards good.
This being so, we should look with understanding
and absolute charity on all forms of evil which surround
us. If we see a human soul struggling in corruption and
evil, we should feel no anger, intolerance or hatred, but
35o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
should remember that, just because of the evil with which
the soul is struggling, he will gradually gain strength
enough to conquer it and at last become triumphant
By making this a habitual attitude we shall come to
realise that the Divine is in everything, in good and
in evil alike ; that as the Bhagavad-Gita says, the Lord
is the gambling of the cheat as well as the truth of
the truthful.
Q. You say that evil inevitably results in pain. What>
then, is the meaning of pain, and what is its use ?
Ans. The spiritual Self or the Monad—Offspring of the
universal consciousness—is conscious on his own plane from
the very beginning; but as he clothes himself in body after
body of matter—the mental, the astral and the physical
body—he becomes blinded by the veil of matter. Now
it is this blinded self that comes into the manifested
universe for the sake of learning and of gathering
experience. He is drawn to all sorts of external objects.
Some of these give him the sensation of pleasure and he
is attracted; others the sensation of pain and he is
repelled. This happens again and again until he finds
that indiscriminate gratification of desire—over-eating
or over-drinking, for example—is always followed by
suffering, and when that experience has been repeated
over and over again, this Spirit, which a£ mind is able to
think, connects the gratification of the desire with the
pain which follows on that gratification, and in this way
gradually comes to understand, through repeated im­
pressions on the infant mind, that there are laws in the
universe connected with his physical body, and that
when coming into contact with those laws he tries to
violate them, suffering is the result. Thus with one
object of desire after another this lesson is learnt, until an
‘ THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 35r
accumulated mass of experience is gradually gained by
the Spirit, and he learns by pain to regulate his desires, no
longer letting the horses of the senses gallop whithersoever
they will, but curbing and reining them in, and permit­
ting them only to go along the roads that are really
desirable.
And so gradually by this process of education
the knowledge of Law in the external world grows up,
whereby the meaning of pain is seen to be hostile contact
with Law, the effort to break a law that never can succeed
—a law which will prove its existence by the suffering that
is caused when the Spirit tries to fling himself against that
barrier. Thus the first use of pain is the gain, through it,
of the knowledge of Laws, and the consequent guiding and
education of the lower nature by the reasoning intelligence.
A second use of pain is the gradual extirpation of
desire. As we have seen, it is desire which draws the soul
outwards to the external, and the education of the soul
consists in this passing out into the external, gathering
knowledge, and then by experience losing all taste for the
externa] and carrying inwards the knowledge so obtained.
But if the objects of desire remained desirable, there would
be no end to the revolution of the wheel of births and
deaths, no garnering of knowledge, and no real evolution
of the higher possibilities. It is necessary, therefore, that
the manifesting soul shall not only gather knowledge, but
shall also carry it back with him and make it part of his
own future being; and in order that this may be done,
desire must gradually change its nature until at last it
vanishes away. In the beginning, every desire, as the
soul gratifies it, intensifies the pleasure; so he gratifies it
again and again. But after a while he finds that the
pleasure is transitory, for he cannot always be with the
352 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
object of his desire, and separation from it brings pain.
Further, the objects of desire are themselves transitory,
and a time comes when they are taken away from him,
apparently for ever, and the pain is greater than before.
Then again, even if they remain with him to the end of his
life, he finds he cannot take them with him at his death,
and again there is pain. Thus he learns to avoid those
objects of desire which are found to be transitory, and to
fix his desire on those which he believes to be permanent.
But these, again, he finds to be only relatively permanent*
and after a while they also pass from him and he suffers.
Thus one after another the objects of the lowest external
world, of each phase of the external world—subtle or
physical—become undesirable to the soul that has gained
knowledge; everything becomes undesirable save the
Eternal, which is the essence of the soul himself : and so
gradually the soul learns, by pain in the physical universe*
to get rid of desire.
There is no other way in which desire can be con­
quered. The mere forcible abstaining from the gratifi­
cation of desire is a very elementary stage of the progress
of the soul. The very root of desire has to be cut off, and
that can only be by the objects that once attracted losing
their power of attraction, so that they no longer can draw
the soul outwards ; then the soul having exhausted every­
thing that he can learn from the object, and having found
it productive of pain in the end, no longer finds it desirable,
but casts it aside, and, like a bee visiting the flower for
honey, carries away the knowledge he has gained. And
unless he can get rid of desire for the things of the
physical world, he can never feel the inner drawing, first
to the things of the mind, and then to those of the higher
life, which is the very object of the soul’s evolution.
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 353
The next lesson to be learnt through pain is the tran­
sitory nature of all that is not of the essence of the Spirit
himself. There is no other possible means by which the soul
can learn this lesson and be led from the unreal to the Real,
from darkness to Light, from death to Immortality. By
disease and misery, by poverty and grief, he learns that
everything which surrounds him—not only in the physical,
but also in the region of desire and in the region of the
mind itself—is transitory, and that in the changing
he who is changeless may never find rest. In the early
stage he finds that every form of suffering springs
originally from the desire for some impermanent object,
and ceases to give pain as soon as the desire is trans­
ferred to a higher object. So at first he turns from the
sensuous to the intellectual, from the transient to the
relatively permanent, and learns to cultivate the mind
and the intelligence and the artistic side of his nature,
instead of seeking the gratification of the senses which he
has in common with the lower forms of animal life.
Even here is a great gain. For the things of sense are
limited, and men fight the one with the other in order to
get their share of the limited quantity ,* but the things
of the higher nature are practically unlimited, and no
man is the poorer because his brother is richly gifted
artistically or intellectually. In the region of intellect
and of the higher tastes and emotions, all may share
what they have, and find themselves, after the sharing,
the richer and not the poorer for the giving. And so
humanity progresses from competition to co-operation and
learns the lesson of Brotherhood.
But even then it is found that satisfaction does not
lie that way, for though a step upwarc iiis drawing away
of desire from the body to the mine ^from the senses to
45
354 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
the internal organ, from sensations to ideas and images,
is still of the nature of desire. And by seeking grati­
fication of desire, one never finds happiness, for every
desire that is gratified gives birth to a new desire; and
happiness does not lie in having more of the things
one already possesses, nor in the increasing grati­
fication of desires, but rather in the transmuting of the
desire for the transitory into the aspiration for the
Eternal, and the complete changing of the nature from
that which seeks to enjoy to that which seeks to give.
And thus after a while, by this absence of satisfaction,
which is pain, the realisation comes to the soul that this
is not the road, and he grows weary of the change. All
the outer objects of body and of mind lose their attractive
force. He went outward to the senses and failed; then
he withdrew into the mind, but the mind is outward
from the standpoint of the Spirit, and again he failed.
Always beaten back by pain and by the dissatisfaction
that is the most wearisome pain of all, he finally learns
his lesson, and from that which is without he turns to
that which is within, treads the path which leads out of
desire to the realisation of the Self, and finds the
beginning of peace, the first touch of the real, of essential
satisfaction.
Another use of pain is of a more inner character,
for here pain can be used as an instrument to destroy
personality. The soul has not yet got outside the
reach of pain, for he is still seeking and has not quite
found his centre. Although he knows that he is not the
body, nor the senses, nor the mind, he still finds himself
susceptible to pain that comes from within, of contacts
that translate themselves as pain. And coming into
contact with others—with the thoughts, feelings and
THE EVOLUTION OF LIFE 355
judgments of others—he constantly finds himself pained by
misjudgments and misrepresentations, by unkind thoughts
and unkind feelings; and having by this time gained
wisdom he asks himself: “ Why do I still feel pain ?What
is there, not in the outside, but in me that gives rise to
pain?” For he realises that nothing can touch him save
himself, and that if he feels pain, it is a sign of imper­
fection, that he is not withdrawn wholly from the lower
nature which is not himself. And then he begins to use
pain instead of merely feeling it ; he is no longer at the
mercy of pain, but takes pain into his own hands as an
instrument and uses it for his own purpose; when he finds
this pain coming from unkind action, or from misjudgment
of motive or of conduct, the soul takes the pain in hand as
a sculptor might take a chisel, and with this instrument of
pain he strikes at his own personality and cuts off his
personal weakness, for he knows that if it were not for this
personality which is selfish, he would not feel the pain at
all, but would remain serene and untroubled amid the
conflicts of the world.
And pain has still another use. The soul that means
to be strong, not for himself, but for the helping of the
world—the soul that knows that he can only learn to live
for others if he is strong in himself—now deliberately chooses
pain, because only thus can he learn endurance and pa­
tience. Those who never suffer always remain weak, and
only in the stress and agony of combat does the soul
learn to endure; and the strength gradually working in
the soul, that which once was anxiety and struggle becomes
the calm serenity of perfect strength.
And for one other thing will the soul choose pain—
that he may learn sympathy. For even the strong soul
would be useless if he had not learnt sympathy. Nay, the
356 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
strong soul might become rather dangerous if he became
strong without compassion and learnt to gather force
without learning to guide that force aright. So the
stronger he is, the more eagerly will he seek this lesson of
pain, in order that by feeling pain he may learn to feel
for others, and that by his own pain he may learn how
the pains of the world shall be healed.
Thus all kinds of pain that a soul has in his im­
perfection are, as it were, the stones with which the temple
of the perfect Spirit is finally built. Pain in the end there
will not be, though pain in the building there must be.
But as the Spirit goes onward and grows freer, peace
takes the place of struggle, and joy takes the place of
pain. Moreover, pain lies merely in the sheaths in which
the Spirit is clothed and not in his essential nature. The
Spirit is bliss, not sorrow; he is joy, not pain. And pain
is passing, bliss is eternal; for bliss is the inner essence of
Brahman, the Self of all- “ Of bliss are all things born ” ;
says the Upanishad, “ in bliss they live, and to bliss they
return.”
CHAPTER IX
BROTHERHOOD
Question. Why is Brotherhood of Humanity made the
one obligatory object of the Theusophical Society, the
single “ article of belief9
9binding on all the members ?
Answer. The recognition of this principle of brother­
hood intellectually and the endeavours to live it practically
are very stimulative to the higher nature of man. To live
it even to a small extent cleanses the heart and purifies the
vision; to live it perfectly is to eradicate all sense of
separateness. That recognition is the first step towards
the realisation of non-separateness which is so necessary
for the progress of a disciple, making him sensitive to the
sorrows of all and training him in self-identification with
the whole of humanity, in order that he may at last become
a definite co-worker with God, with his entire nature dedi­
cated to His purposes.
Q. But how can you establish the brotherhood of
humanity ? Looking around, we merely find that men,
according to Lawrence Oliphanfs graphic expression,
u kill one another for Brotherhood's sake and fight as
devils for the Love of God *\
Ans. The brotherhood of man is not something which
needs to be established. Brotherhood is : it is a fact
in nature. It already exists and requires merely to be
realised. No one can make a simpler or more perfect
358 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
declaration of it than the Christ, when He said : C
i One is
your Father, even God, and all ye are brethren.”
People deceive and kill one another, because they
forget the truth of brotherhood, but men’s ignorance does
not change the laws of nature nor vary her irresistible
march. Her laws crush those who oppose them. No
nation can endure, no civilisation can last, that outrages
brotherhood, and we have to attune our lives in harmony
with that law.
Q. What is the basis of the brotherhood of man, and
why do we not realise it though recognising it intellec­
tually ?
Ans. Human life is a portion of that one Father-life
whereof we all are offspring. Sharers in one life, all form
one brotherhood, the solidarity of man being one of the
basic truths of Theosophy as already explained in
Chapter I.
The intellect is a separative principle, spontaneously
combative and self-assertive, its very nature being to assert
itself as separate from others ; and not on the lower planes
with their sense of separateness and a conflict of interests
can brotherhood be realised.
Q. Where then can brotherhood befully realised ?
Ans. Not on the lower planes, not even on the intel­
lectual, but on the spiritual planes, the Atmic and the
Buddhic, can this brotherhood be fully realised as it has its
foundation only there.
The self in man being a ray of the Universal Self,
unity resides in that Self, and that unity is felt with perfect
Sympathy once the Buddhic plane is attained. When once
a man becomes conscious on that plane at a certain stage
of his pilgrimage, called the First Initiation, as explained
in Chapter X, he actually realises the union of all living
BROTHERHOOD 359
beings ; nay, of all things, for everything has the same
Divine Life within it. He then knows what he had hitherto
only believed, and sees all things as himself and feels that
all he has is as much theirs as his, nay, more theirs than
his, as their strength being less, their need is greater than
his; and so Those whom we call the Masters, but who love
better the name of Elder Brothers, have ever been marked
by Their outwT
elling compassion and tenderness, using
Their power to protect Their younger brethren, Their
wisdom to guide them, Their strength to sustain them.
That is the ideal, the perfect Brotherhood where Brother
means a Servant of mankind.
Q. Does not brotherhood imply equality ? If not, how
can there be brotherhood with inequalities all round
among men ?
Ans. We know the motto of the French Revolution,
“ Liberty, Equality, Fraternity”, where it is taken for
granted that Liberty and Fraternity imply Equality. Now
what is Equality ? If it be thereby meant that all men are
equal in their origin and that every one, born of the divine
nature, will, after having unfolded potentiality into power;
ultimately reach the manifested Divinity, then in that sense
Equality is true. But in the course of evolution, in the
long changing struggle between spirit and matter, inequali­
ties will arise; while in Spirit all men are equal, in the
flesh they are radically unequal.
Where is the equality between a man of genius and
a fool, between a cripple and an athlete, between a saint
and a savage ? Except in the rare instances of twins and
triplets, brotherhood implies a difference in age of physical
bodies and, consequently, differences in strength, in clever­
ness, in capacity, in duty; and these differences, except
that of age, are found even among twins and triplets.
36o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Brotherhood implies a community of interest, all members
of a family profiting if the family be rich, but the individual
interests of brothers will be absolutely different. In a large
family some brothers may be grown-up men working in
the world, while others may be in the school-room, and
others again in the nursery. But what interests has a boy
of fourteen in common with his brother of four, and what
cares the elder brother of twenty-four, fighting his way in
the world, for all the prizes of school-life won by the second
brother ? Duty differs according to age, and every one
striving to do his duty according to his state in life pro­
motes the evolution of the human family as a whole.
Q. Then is there no sort of equality in the make-up of
society ?
Ans. In the building-up of society, the most that can
be asked—because the most that is possible—is that there
shall be equality of rich and poor before the law, so that
no man may, artificially, by a man-made law or custom, be
placed at an unfair disadvantage. Again, as far as pos­
sible, every man should be given equal opportunities,
opportunities to develop every faculty he brings with him
into the world, though it should be remembered that the
radical inequality which no society and no human law can
remove lies in the power to grasp an opportunity when it
comes.
Q. What, then, is your conception of brotherhood in i
the social system ? f
Ans. We should build a social system where social 1
service may be demanded from every member according to j
his capacity and social help given to him according to his j
needs, every man thus having the opportunity of develop­
ing every faculty he brings with him into the world.
Thereby the brute law of struggle-for-existence will be
BROTHERHOOD 361
changed into the law of life—the social law of self-sacrifice
for the quick evolution of humanity. As already stated; an
Indian Master says : “ The law of the survival of the fittest
is the law of evolution for the brute, but the law of self-
sacrifice is the law of evolution for man.”
In the light of that high ideal we see that inequality
of age means inequality of capacity and power and there­
fore inequality of duty, and that the strong exist not for
tyranny but for service, not for trampling the weak under
foot but for protecting them with the tenderest compassion-
To the spirit of brotherhood weakness is a claim for help
and not an opportunity for oppression. Each age has its
own duty, the younger to learn and serve, the older ta
direct and protect, all alike loving and helpful in the great
family of humanity.
Q. But why is there inequality in different people and
in different nations ?
Ans. The inequality between different people is due
chiefly to the age of the soul and, consequently, the
stage reached by the soul in evolution. Some started their
journey much earlier than others, and thus having had
a longer time than their younger brethren, have unfolded
more powers.
Nations are composed of souls mostly of a certain
stage of development, who are born together to acquire
certain experiences according to their karma and the stage
reached by them in evolution.
We do not despise a flower because it is not yet the
fruit, nor despise a babe because it is not yet the man ; we
do not despise ourselves because we are not yet as Gods*
and so we need not despise baby-souls who are not yet as
much developed as we are. In the ladder of human life
we occupy the middle rungs with the Elder Brothers at
46
362 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
the top and the younger souls at the bottom, and the very
word cbrotherhood ’connotes identity of blood and inequal­
ity of development. Men shut themselves out from their
brothers’ hearts by differences of caste, creed, class, clan,
country or colour, but the wise man rising above all those
external differences sees all as part of his family, as
children of one Father, with identity of essential life.
“ Small souls enquire, *Belongs this man
To our own class, kith or clan ? *
But larger-hearted men embrace
As brothers all the human race.”
Q. Is spiritual unity the only basis for the law of the
Brotherhood of Humanity or do we find any indications
of this law on the lower planes also ?
Ans. First on the physical plane the particles of our
dense bodies pass from one person to another, modified by
the body in which they dwell for a time. We have seen
in Chapter III that our dense bodies are made up of tiny
lives or cells in a state of constant motion, which are
continuously passing from us to the air outside and thence
to other bodies, and are being replaced by cells from the
bodies of others ; and this constitutes a brotherhood of our
physical bodies.
Similarly, we have seen in Chapter VII on Thought-
Power that many of our desires, emotions and thoughts
come to us from the unseen vibrations radiating from
other astral and mental bodies, and being j^iodified for
better or for worse by their passage through our vehicles,
pass out again to affect others.
Thus we are all along influencing other people in
the three lower planes by what we are, by what we say
and do, and by what we desire and think, and are in turn
being influenced by them. We are all inextricably linked
BROTHERHOOD 363
together, and no one can advance or recede without helping
or hindering the progress of others, thus disclosing a true
unity in humanity amidst all its apparent diversity.
Q. But do we find this principle of brotherhood worked
out in the ancient or the modern world ?
Ans. The ancient ideal of Kingship was drawn from
the perfect example of the Great White Brotherhood of
liberated Spirits, the Masters, and from that recognition of
the Elders during the childhood of the root-races of the
world we come to the historical facts of Divine Dynasties
and Divine Kings in Egypt, India and China, where the
life of a king who knew that “ the tears of the weak under­
mine the throne of kings ”, was not the life of pleasure and
enjoyment, but of service and sacrifice. Still by many
of the great Empires of the later past, built on a founda­
tion of selfishness, on a foundation of the misery of the
masses of the people, Brotherhood was denied. And now
these ancient Empires, Babylonia, Assyria, Egypt, Greece,
Rome, have all passed away; only one contemporary
nation, India, remains, because in her literature she
taught the law of Brotherhood. But India ceased
to live out that law in practice, and that marked the
beginning of her decline in later times.
Q. But did not ancient India by her system of castes
preach and practise inequality rather than Brotherhood ?
Ans. It has already been explained that Brotherhood
does not imply equality. The old theory of castes was
based on the law of Brotherhood, which recognised
inequality in the age of the soul and the consequent
inequality of development. It is on this truth that differ­
ences among the various castes and classes of society rest,
brothers of different ages in the human family having
different duties, occupations and responsibilities.
364 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
The Shudra who serves, being a young and unde­
veloped soul, was the younger child in the National house­
hold, and there is no humiliation in being a younger child
in a family. By the Vaishya, the merchant, the house­
holder of the Nation, wealth was to be acquired, but in order
to be dispensed for supporting the other Orders in the State
and for worthy and noble causes. Charity is still ingrained
in the Vaishya, though all that is wanted at present in
that charity is to change its direction—to build schools and
universities and to train the youth in religion and morality,
instead of building lofty temples, of which there are already
too many in the land, and which, owing to want of proper
education, would perhaps be deserted by those youths
when they grow up. Then came the Kshattriya, the
warrior, with his right to splendour and enjoyment, but
also with a duty to sacrifice everything—life, family, love
—in protecting the people. Lastly came the Brahmana,
the teacher, pure in conduct and ascetic in life, who was
not to be wealthy save in wisdom. But now there is all
confusion in caste, and the Brahmana is seldom a teacher.
The Law of Brotherhood is denied to one-sixth of the
population—the “ untouchable ”, the sweeper and the
scavenger—which is left in foulness and degradation. The
Law of Brotherhood was the pivot of ancient Indian
society in all her splendour, but her practical denial of that
law for her outcaste population has brought on her the
penalty of decay.
We must realise the duty and the responsibility
which lie upon us of improving both the surroundings and
the characters of our younger brethren in the depressed
classes by every means in our power. We should use our
knowledge of the higher laws in their favour, thus enabling
them to shorten their stay in this low stage of evolution.
BROTHERHOOD 365
By teaching their children the elements of right living, we
draw out and cultivate the powers of the soul, while by
checking and repressing the faults as they become manifest
and improving their food and environments, we help them
to build better bodies for the habitation of the more
unfolded souls. This is the help we both can and ought
to give to these our successors on the stage of the world,
and small will be our claim to the help of the Greater Ones
if we refuse our help to these little ones of the human race.
W e dare not plead to the Lords of Compassion to stoop
to us and help us to rise, unless we, in our turn, stoop to
those below us and seek to raise them up.
In London one-tenth of the population die in the
work-house, the prison and the hospital, but England still
tries to do her duty to her outcaste population by edu­
cating them, by building houses for them and by giving
them decent living and short hours of work. Justice being
the divine law, India by making outcastes of her younger
children is herself enslaved.
Q. How does the recognition of this principle of
brotherhood as a definite fact affect our attitude towards
those around us ?
Ans. With the recognition of brotherhood our attitude
towards all around us changes radically and becomes a
posture ever of helpfulness and deepest sympathy, for we
see that the true interests of all are in fact identical and
that nothing that clashes with their higher interest can be
the right thing for us to do.
We also naturally become filled with the widest
possible tolerance and charity, because our philosophy
shows us that it matters little what a man believes so long
as he is good and true, and because our wider knowledge
enables us to make allowance for many things and to
366 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
comprehend more of human nature, as we realise how the
sin appeared to the sinner at the moment of its commission.
We thus feel not only sympathy, but positive love,
towards all mankind, and adopt an attitude of watchful
helpfulness, as we feel that every contact with others is
for us an opportunity to help or advise them with the
additional knowledge acquired through our study.
Q. How can we hasten the realisation of this brother­
hood in physical life ?
Ans. Though that realisation is fully attainable only on
the Buddhic plane as explained before, we can hasten it on
the physical plane by altruism. But we shall have to
keep in mind that different brothers need different kinds of
help owing to their inequality of development, and that
it is of greater importance to help our brother to grow
than to save him from some physical suffering.
Extensive schemes of social reform are useful in
their own way and also in educating public opinion by
bringing vividly before the minds of men the suffering in
which their less fortunate brothers are living, but greater
good can be done by efforts to help persons individually.
We should try to study each individual who wants help,
find out his ideal, and showing him how to realise it put
before him an ideal slightly higher. We can thus help
him and accelerate his growth by showing him how he can
help himself and by giving him our loving sympathy and
encouragement.
Q. What is our duty as brothers to those above us,
those on a level with us, and those below us in the great
family of humanity ?
Ans. We cannot know the measure of the burdens of
our Elder Brethren as we are yet too weak and too igno­
rant to understand Them ; still we can make that burden
BROTHERHOOD 367
less and lighten some of the load by yielding to Them
ready obedience, loving service and unfailing devotion
until we become strong and wise enough to share con­
sciously in Their glorious work.
Towards our equals we should have an attitude of
friendliness, implying trust and good faith, breaking down
the barriers of pride, distrust and suspicion between
strangers, and thus encouraging people of different nation­
alities with help, sympathy and comradeship to get rid of
prejudice and to see the good in other nations.
As regards our younger brethren, e , g savages,
occupying less developed bodies than ourselves, we should
show them justice and kindness when we come into contact
with them ; while as regards the lower classes in our own
land, we should see that they do not starve, but earn enough
money honestly to live a decent life. They should all be
guided, helped and protected as they have a right to be on
account of their younger soul-age.
Q. Is there any special reason for emphasising
Bvotherhood in the Theosophical Society ?
Ans. It is important that all members should realise a
close fellowship, a feeling of real unity by forgetting their
personal feelings and interests, as the heart of the Society
is making for itself a body on the Buddhic plane as a
channel for the Great Masters of the Wisdom to work
through. That channel is as yet imperfect, as each
member thinks too much of himself individually and too
little of the good of the whole.
The two Masters connected with the founding of
the Theosophical Society, Master Morya and Master
Kuthumi, will shortly commence the work of starting the
new root-race and are looking for suitable assistants in
Their work ; and only those devoted and earnest members,
368 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
who recognise and realise a close fellowship and a feeling
of real unity, can hope to have the privilege of being
chosen to serve Them.
But different nations ought to be drawn together
in brotherly feeling especially now as per teachings of the
World-Teacher who has recently come—the Bodhisattva
of the Buddhist, the Christ of the Christian, the Shri
Krishna of the Hindu, the Lord Maitreya, the great spirit­
ual Teacher who is at present founding a Kingdom of
Happiness on our earth.
Q. Are we united only to the human family by ties of
brotherhood ?
Ans. As explained in Chapter VIII on Evolution,
there are six other kingdoms in nature, and we are closely
linked with all of them. The life sustaining our physical
bodies has passed through all these kingdoms and has there
built up more and more evolved and complicated forms
which have eventually developed into human bodies. Not
only that, but we are dependent even now for our very exis­
tence on the work of these lower kingdoms, especially of
the vegetable and the animal kingdoms.
Again, we share the Divine Life, not only with every
human being, but with every animal, plant and stone, and
even with every particle or atom in all kingdoms, with every­
thing that is. The Divine Life is the spirit in everything
that exists from the atom to the archangel, as explained
for ‘the Immanence of God * in Chapter I, and thus the
inner unity, the One Life dwelling equally in all, shows
that there is not only a Brotherhood of Humanity, but an
all-embracing fraternity, a universal brotherhood in nature.
Professor Overstreet, while trying to show how
the conception of God is gradually changing from that
of an extra-cosmic judge to that of an immanent Presence
BROTHERHOOD 369
—“ the figure of myriad lives* and yet of one vast
group-life* in ceaseless activity; . . . a God* in short*
that is the world in the spiritual unity of its mass-life ”—
says: “ The genetic sciences are everywhere convincing
us that there is no fundamental break in continuity
between the lower animals and man, that, as Forel states
it: *All the properties of the human mind may be
derived from the properties of the animal mind/ and that
therefore ‘the doctrine of evolution is quite as valid in the
province of psychology as it is in all the other provinces
of organic life/ There remain two great steps still to be
taken. Below the animal is the plant; below the plant
is the so-called inorganic . . . We have rid ourselves,
of the notion of a difference in kind between the human
and the lower animal, we are increasingly doing so-
between the animal and the plant . . . The inorganic may
be at or near the lower limit of variation . . . If this
should prove to be true, then the inorganic is fundamental­
ly the same in kind as the most advanced forms of life.”
Q. How* then, can we help our younger brethren in the-
lower kingdoms ?
Ans. Our lives are closely bound with the animal and
the vegetable world* and so first we owe a fraternal duty
to the vast animal kingdom which surrounds us. Our
attitude towards our younger brethren should not be one
of harshness, injustice and thoughtlessness or of cruelty for
self-amusement and personal gain, but that of protection
and guardianship with gratitude for their service to us.
They are brought in relation with us in order that we may
do something in fostering the budding mentality within
them, as well as raise them to a higher level emotionally
and thus quicken their individualisation. We should alsa
refuse to share the sin of slaughter by eating meat or fish*
47
37o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
or by wearing articles obtained only by the slaughter of
animals, like sealskin or feathers of birds.
Nature-spirits or fairies and gnomes work out the
wonderful forms of the mineral and the vegetable world
under the direction of the Great Builders of the Universe,
and our duty to these kingdoms lies in thinking of those
spirits with friendliness and in forbearing from thoughtlessly
injuring their work. Moreover, plants and flowers have
the beginning of an astral body with the power of feeling
pleasure and pain, as explained in Chapter VIII, and we
should carefully abstain from injuring those living things.
We have a duty even towards lower forms of life
than the mineral, i.e., the elemental essence which sur­
rounds us everywhere and forms the three elemental king­
doms. That essence progresses by means of the effect
which we produce upon it by our thoughts, passions, emo­
tions and feelings, and our duty towards those kingdoms
will be fully discharged only if we carry out our higher
ideals and see that our thoughts and emotions are of the
highest possible type.
Q. Finally, what is our individual duty as regards
Brotherhood in general ?
Ans. We should realise that the very condition of the
spiritual life is to see the same Self dwelling equally in all.
As regards our younger brethren in the lower
kingdoms, that duty has been already explained.
In the human family we ought to remember that
the Self dwells in the most degraded as well as in the
purest. No obstacle should therefore be placed in the
way of anyone attaining his highest growth, but facilities
should be given to all to develop every faculty brought
by them into the world. All are members of one family
with different duties, and we should not despise or look
BROTHERHOOD 371
down upon our fellow-workers, however humble their
work ; these should rather be thought of more lovingly as
they do the more unpleasant work. Essentially one in life,
the whole of humanity forms one body, and poison in any
part, even the lowest, may paralyse the whole body. We
can make no real gain at the cost of someone else, while
any benefit or advance in the path of spirituality is some­
thing secured not for us alone, but for all. We should
ever maintain towards those around us an attitude of help­
fulness and deep sympathy, and of the widest possible
tolerance and charity, nay, of positive love all around.
It is the law of the Spirit that, unlike Matter, which
perishes in the using, it lives by giving, and increases by
using. Truth never diminishes in the sharing. Knowledge,
if not shared, becomes a cancer in the brain, but if we
share it with our ignorant brethren, the torch of knowledge
might light a thousand other torches without any diminu­
tion in the original flame. We are pure only in order to
go to the impure, for real purity can never be stained or
soiled, though it may purify others and lift them to a
higher standard. So the law of the Brotherhood of
Humanity lays on us a duty—to raise the sinner and the
debased to our own purity, to teach the ignorant, to rescue
the miserable, to feed the starving, to nurse the diseased.
Parts of one brotherhood, we live in and for others,
influencing all and being influenced by them. We cannot
slip a single step backward without weakening the whole
of humanity, nor rise one step higher without lifting the
whole towards purity. We should therefore strive to work
for the good of the whole human family with perfect peace
and harmony.
CHAPTER X
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM
Question. What is a Master ?
Answer. There are Perfect Men, called Adepts, with
Divinity unfolded in Them—human beings who have com­
pleted Their human evolution and have nothing more to
learn so far as human experience in our chain of worlds is
concerned; who have reached what the Christian calls
‘salvation’, and the Hindu and the Buddhist ‘ libera­
tion 9; and who having trodden the ordinary path of men
have climbed the steeper Path which rises to the super­
human state. The Path which we have to tread They have
already trodden, and reached its furthest point, having
passed from Initiation to Initiation and widened out Their
consciousness, till They know not only this, but all the five
worlds up to Nirvana. A conception of evolution implying
a gradual expansion of consciousness embodied in ever-
improving forms underlies the conception of Adeptship,
and at the apex of such a long evolution stands the Adept,
embodying in Himself the highest intellectual, moral and
spiritual developments, possible to man. The One Eternal
Light is in all of us ; only He has cleansed the glass and
learnt to manifest that light. He has learnt all the lessons
of humanity and acquired all the experiences the world can
give. Beyond this, evolution is superhuman.
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 373
A few of these great Adepts, though free from the
wheel of birth and death, voluntarily take up the burden of
the flesh and live in physical bodies on earth for the help­
ing of men, and take pupils who, forsaking all, desire to
evolve more rapidly than the bulk of their fellow-men in
order to serve humanity unselfishly. Such Adepts are
called Masters. A Master is a man made divine, an Elder
Brother sharing the same humanity, but elder by the
greatness of His evolution. A Master must be in a physi­
cal body and should, as the name*implies, take pupils—or
rather apprentices—less advanced men, to tread the road
which takes them by a short cut to the summit of human
evolution. Many other Adepts who reach this level no
longer take human bodies, but using only the spiritual body
pass out of touch with this earth, while again there are
others at this level who are concerned with other lines of
service to the world.
Q. How can you show Masters as facts ? What is the
evidence of Their existence ?
Ans. There are some to whom even the ideal of Masters
is valuable and inspiring though they do not know Them
as facts, for high is the ideal of Mahatmas, i.e., Great
Spirits.
First, then, taking the existence of Masters as
a theory, it is a probable theory on the lines of
natural evolution ; for if evolution were true and reincar­
nation a fact, there must be such men somewhere.
Considering the enormous difference between the lowest
savage and the highest man of to-day, and also consider­
ing the space of time for evolution that has elapsed
since man first trod this earth, it is not improbable
that the evolution of some individuals has carried them
as much above the higher civilised man of to-day as
374 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
tbe latter is higher than the lowest type of savage in
existence. Again, looking backwards we find traces of
mighty civilisations which show7 that there must have
existed men of a most advanced type to start them.
Then there is the testimony of religions, for there
is no great religion that has not founded its belief on a
Divine Man as its Founder and does not look back to its
Teacher as to a Man divine in His life.
Again, there is the historical evidence of religious
Scriptures with a depth of spiritual knowledge, of philo^
sophic thought and of insight into human nature, greater
than what the greatest minds of our time can produce.
This is not a question of tradition, but of books ; not a
question of theory but of fact; and these books with
teachings of morality so pure, philosophy so sublime, and
knowledge so vast, must have had authors. Those authors
were the Divine Men in the past who have left the
testimony of Their existence in mighty and sublime
literatures with Their teaching identical in its main out­
lines-and its moral force.
There is, furthermore, the testimony of first-hand
experience, for there are many men in India and else­
where, who have personal knowledge of the Mahatmas,
of the Masters who train Their pupils in the higher path of
what is called the Raja, or the Kingly, Yoga—the Yoga
which primarily trains the mind rather than the body
and which works by concentration of the mind, by medi­
tation, and by the evolution of the higher mental faculties.
The wonderful book. The Secret Doctrine, and the
masterpiece of prose-poems, The Voice of the Silence,
were written by H. P. Blavatsky, as she herself declared,
with the help of such Teachers and are in themselves the
best testimony to the sources whence they came.
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 375
But if a man wants first-hand evidence, absolute
demonstration of Their existence, he will have to pay the
price and will have to take the trouble of being trained, of
acquiring knowledge and wisdom and of treading the
Path which the Masters Themselves had to tread before
They became Members of the Great White Brotherhood.
Q. What is the Great White Brotherhood of which a
Master is a Member, and what is the object of its existence ?
Ans. Each globe within the solar system has a body of
Ministers and other mighty Officers of the Solar Logos
who carry out His Plan and form the Occult Hierarchy or
Inner Government for that globe. Similarly, our world is
under the control of a definite Spiritual Government,
carried on from the higher plane, invisible to the physical
eyes, and there is, beyond and behind all physical happen­
ings, a mighty Hierarchy of graded order, in the hands
of which lies the government of the world. It is the
Members of the Occult Hierarchy who guide all evolu­
tion, administer the laws of nature and direct the affairs
of the world. They are in a graded order, ruling,
teaching and guiding the world, each rank having its
multifarious duties and carrying them out in perfect
harmony. They are the Guardians of our humanity
and are the true Rulers of men and worlds, of whom the
earthly kings, teachers and guides are but the shadows
or the symbols. They set up and pull down the so-called
leaders of the people; They select and reject the candi­
dates for high offices ,* kings and statesmen, generals and
politicians are the pawns in Their mighty game. The
game is evolution, and its end is the redemption of
humanity from ignorance into Knowledge, from darkness
into Light. “ Guardians of the World ” They are some­
times called, because the world is divided into areas.
376 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
each of which is under the care of a Member of the
Hierarchy.
As the Logos, when in manifestation, works as a
Trinity—the First, the Second and the Third Logos,
Shiva, Vishnu and Brahma, or the Father, the Son and
the Holy Ghost—so the Occult Government of the world
is in three great departments, and the representation for
our world of that Great Triangle,“ eternal in the Heavens ”,
is another Triangle, composed of the three Departmental
Heads, who are not merely reflections of the Three Aspects
of the Logos, but are in a very real way actual manifesta­
tions of Them. They are the Lord of the World, the Lojrd
Buddha and the Mahachohan who have reached grades of
Initiation (to be explained presently) which give Them
waking consciousness on the planes of nature beyond the
field of evolution of humanity, where dwells the manifested
Logos. The Lord of the World is one with the First
Aspect on the highest of our seven planes and wields the
Divine Will on earth or brings down to humanity the
energies of the Atmic or Will or Power Aspect of the
Logos; the Buddha is united with the Second Aspect
which dwells on the Anupadaka plane, and distributes to
the world the Wisdom Aspect, which is incarnate, as it
were, in Vishnu ; the Mahachohan is utterly one with the
Third Aspect, which resides on the Nirvanic plane, and
exercises the divine Activity, i . e is the channel of His
Divine Mind, Creative Activity, for our world.
The first and second Members of this great Triangle
are different from the third, being engaged in work of a
character that does not descend to the physical plane, but
only to the level of the Buddhic body in the case of the
Lord Buddha, and the Atmic plane in that of the great
Agent of the First Aspect. Yet without Their higher
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 377
work none of that at lower levels would be possible, so They
provide for the transmission of Their influence even to the
lowest or physical plane through Their Representatives,
the Manu Vaivasvata and the Lord Maitreya, respectively.
These two great Adepts stand parallel with the
Mahachohan on Their respective Rays, both having taken
the Initiation that bears that name, and thus another
Triangle is formed, to administer the powers of the Logos
down to the physical plane.
The three departments or groups in the Spiritual
Government, ruling, teaching and guiding the world under
its inner Spiritual Head who is the King and Monarch of
our world, are sometimes called the Groups of Rulers,
Teachers and Guides.
The first, the Ruling Department—the Department
of Laws—guides outer evolution, changes the face of the
surface of our globe, builds and destroys continents, controls
the destiny of nations, and shapes the types and courses of
races of men—each race bringing out its characteristic quali­
ties and gradually contributing its share to the final perfec­
tion of humanity. This first group, of Rulers, acts by Will-
Power, which in its lower form is Ichchha or desire. Will and
Power are the natural characteristics of the Rulers and it
is the force of the Will, by which the Occult Rulers of the
world work. The Lord of our world is the supreme Head
of the Hierarchy as well as the Head of the Ruling
Department or the Group of Rulers. He rules not humanity
alone, but all the visible and invisible kingdoms of the
earth—the mineral, vegetable, animal and human kingdoms,
as well as the vast realms of the elementals and the nature-
spirits and the grand and glorious kingdom of the Angels.
Under the direction of this august Head and His three
Lieutenants—the Mighty Four—the One who builds up a
48
378 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
particular race and is the Representative, in that race, of
the Ruling Department, is the mighty Being from whom
our very name of 6man *is drawn. He is the Manu, the
Ideal Man, the type of each race as it is gradually built,
the perfect man of every race, who gradually develops in
the race the qualities embodied in Himself. And as the
name Man means the thinker, the reasoner, so this name of
the typical man, the Manu, stands for the Ruler, the Law­
giver of the Race. The Manus are specially related to the
evolution of races. There is only one Manu to a race,
and there is always a Manu at work whenever a great race
is to be born into the world. He directs the physical
development of the race, forming the new race-type by
modification from that already existing, according to the
Plan of the Logos set before Him by the Lord of the
World, guides its migrations, gives each people its polity
and directs each to do its appointed work. His term of
office begins with the slow gathering of the egos or the
souls who are going to work under Him at the commence­
ment of the new race, and through all the successive sub­
races as they appear one by one. During the hundreds
and thousands of years of the history of a root-race, He
directs the building of variant after variant of the sub­
race, and Himself incarnates in each sub-race to set the
form for it.
The second or the Teaching Department—that of
Religion and Education—is under the Lord Buddha, as
stated before, who, as the Head of the Second Ray in the
Occult Hierarchy of our globe, devotes Himself to that
part of the work which lies in the higher worlds and entrusts
the work for the lower planes to His Assistant and
Representative, whom we know as the Founder of every
faith, the Inspirer of every prophet, the Guide of spiritual
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 379
evolution, the Master of Masters, the World-Teacher, the
supreme Teacher of Angels and men. He is known as the
Jagat-Guru (World-Teacher) among the Hindus, and as
the Bodhisattva (He whose essence is wisdom) among the
Buddhists. The World-Teacher watches over the emotion­
al and intellectual development of His race, and arranges
for each people such religions, arts and sciences as shall
enable it to play its role in the drama written by the Logos.
He definitely undertakes as His work to look after the
religious welfare of the world and its education along
evolutionary lines; guides, blesses and maintains the
various religions of the world, founded in outline by Him­
self ; appoints one of His assistants as the special Guide
or Protector of a special religion—-His own benedic­
tion flowing ever upon all the living religions of the
time—and manifests from age to age to inspire a new
religion, to strike anew the note of a fresh chord of
spiritual life, to proclaim the ancient message in a new
form in the world of men. As the races are built into
the final perfection of humanity, so the religions also
are built to bring about, one by one, the great qualities
which are needed in spiritual evolution, until both
outer and inner perfection shall crown the working out
of the mighty Plan, made by the Divine Architect for
our humanity. This second Group of Teachers acts by
Jnanam or Knowledge. Having, as Teachers, the detailed
knowledge of our world, They act as the channel of the
Wisdom Aspect of the Logos, so that when a new type of
man is formed by the Rulers, the Teachers step in to
teach that new type and to help it to evolve. As the
Ruling Department shapes the material destiny of man
and his earth, so does the Teaching Department shape the
spiritual destiny of man.
38o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
The third great Group, the Group of Kriya or
Activity—the Department of Guides—carries on all the
activities of our world,, outside the ruling and the teaching,
under the Mahachohan who is the great “ Keeper of the
Records ” of the evolutionary processes of the globe, and
who supervises and directs all the activities of the Mem­
bers of the Great Brotherhood, as They develop stage by
stage the great Plan.
For the entire period of a root-race the Manu,
building up all new human types, works out the details of its
evolution, and the Bodhisattva, as World-Teacher, Minister
of Education and Religion, helps its members to develop
whatever of spirituality is possible for them at that stage,
while the Mahachohan directs the minds of men so that the
different forms of culture and civilisation shall be unfolded
according to the cyclic plan. Head and Heart are These,
and the Hand with five fingers, all active in the world, mould­
ing the Race into one organic being, a Heavenly Mam
The Logos, a Trinity in activity, has an aspect of
Him as the Unmanifested. Similarly, behind the Great
Three—the King who rules, the Prime Minister who plans,
and the General who executes—is a Fourth, the Silent
Watcher, who in the last Round was the Lord of the
World of our globe, and now tcwatches and waits ” behind
the Three, doing for man and God mighty actions which
are incomprehensible to our present limited human
consciousness.
On the Path of Holiness a man has to pass through
four stages before attaining to the level of the Asekha or
Adept, which is the goal set before humanity during this
chain-period to become free from the necessity of reincar­
nation. Seven paths then open before Him for His
choosing : He may enter into the blissful omniscience and
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 38l
omnipotence of Nirvana, 4taking the Dharmakaya
Vesture5; He may enter on ‘ the Spiritual Period
‘ taking the Sambhogakaya vesture ’ ; He may become
part of that treasure-house of spiritual forces on which
the Agents of the Logos draw for Their work, 4taking the
Nirmanakaya vesture 5; He may remain a Member of the
Occult Hierarchy which rules and guards the world in
which He has reached perfection ; He may pass on to the
next chain, to aid in building up its forms; He may enter
the splendid Angel or Deva Evolution; He may give
Himself to the immediate service of the Logos—join the
‘ Staff Corps of the Logos ’—to be used by Him in any
part of the Solar System. Thus a limited number of
Those who have attained the Asekha level still work
directly for humanity and are divided into two classes,
Those who retain physical bodies and Those who do not.
The latter, spoken of under the name of Nirmanakayas,
suspended, as it were, between this world and Nirvana,
devote Their time and energy to the generation of
spiritual forces poured into a kind of reservoir for the use
of the Members of the Hierarchy in Their work of helping
humanity.
The still more limited number of Adepts who
retain physical bodies remain in close touch with us,
doing all the work necessary for our evolution, and it
is these Supermen who form the Occult Hierarchy.
They are a small number of advanced men of different
nations, not living together, though in continual commu­
nication on higher planes. In many cases They continue
to live each in His own country, and Their powers remain
unsuspected among those who live near Them.
The Great White Brotherhood includes the Occult
Hierarchy of Adepts as well as the initiated disciples—
382 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
disciples who have passed through one or more of the
four great Initiations—official examinations with subse­
quent expansion of consciousness at each stage—to be
explained presently, and who live and labour for the most
part unknown in the everyday world, carrying on the
work assigned to them by their superiors.
The four lower grades consist of initiated disciples ;
the grade of the Master is the fifth in the Brotherhood,
reached at the fifth of the great Initiations, that which
gives *liberation * or ‘salvation \ The grade beyond
the Masters is entered, as are all the grades, by its own
Initiation, the sixth or the ‘ Chohan 9Initiation—a Rajput
word used as a title of respect, like the English word
f Lord ’ applied to a judge or a bishop. These great
Beings, the Chohans, guide all the forces which make
for evolution in our world, and the countless Intelligences
that guide and shape these are under Their direction.
There are seven main lines of evolution, seven Rays,
spoken of before, and the Chohans are concerned with
these, with a Chohan as the Head of each Ray, while
the Masters work under Them, each in His own group,
or in the line along which He has evolved. Then the
seventh of the great Initiations qualifies for the higher
offices, those of the Manu, the Bodhisattva and the
Mahachohan. An Adept of the First Ray who takes the
seventh Initiation usually enters thereafter upon the
arduous duties of a Manu of a root-race on a globe.
After His work as Manu is completed, He passes
on to take the eighth Initiation as a Pratyeka Bud­
dha, and aeons later to take the ninth Initiation, that
of a Lord oi the World. The tenth Initiation is the
one taken by the Silent Watcher in the Great White
Brotherhood.
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 383
The Buddha Initiation is the highest achievable on
this earth on the Second Ray, and it is taken by a Bodhi-
sattva or World-Teacher as the crown of His work of ages
for humanity. Of the other five Rays from the third to the
seventh, the highest Initiation as a member of this humanity
is that of the Mahachohan. This office is held only by one
Adept at a time, and according to the dominant influence
in evolution, at any given epoch, of a Ray and its sub­
rays, is the type of the Adept who holds that exalted office.
The object of the existence of the Great White
Brotherhood is to do God’s Will by carrying out His Plan,
which is evolution, and all the members of that Brother­
hood work in true hierarchical order, according to their
qualifications, each having his work in a particular
department of the Plan. Into the hands of the Adepts
of the Brotherhood the Logos commits His Power,
Wisdom and Love, and They distribute the energy of the
Logos into all the many departments of human activity.
Religion and philosophy, science and art, culture and
civilisation, are inspired and guided by Them ,* either
incarnating among men, or from the invisible, They move
men and nations as pawns on a board, striving to win
men over to co-operate with the Divine Plan which is the
evolution of humanity as a whole in the solar system.
Q. Can you say something of the Great Ones in this
Occult Hierarchy ? Where do They live ?
Ans> i —4. ‘ The King ’ and His three Pupils.—*The
King ’, the Lord of the World of our globe, is not an
Adept of our humanity ; the position which He fills is too
high to be held by an Adept of our human evolution.
About six and a half million years ago, during the
middle of the third—the Lemurian—root-race, there
arrived on our earth a band of Great Ones from the planet
384 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Venus which is considerably further advanced in evolution
than our earth-chain. With the Leader of the band came
His three Lieutenants and twenty-six other Adepts as
assistants. Most of these Great Ones, called Lords of the
Flame and Children of the Fire-mist, also Sons of the
Light and Sons of the Fire, have long ago done Their
work of helping our evolution and have passed away from
our earth, but Their Leader—the Great Ruler of this
world under the Solar Deity—-still holds the position of
the King who guides and controls all evolution upon our
planet and represents the Logos as far as this world is
concerned. Within His consciousness is recorded every­
thing which happens on all the seven planes of our globe.
Since His mighty aura interpenetrates and surrounds the
entire earth, He is aware of all that happens within that
aura, and no act is so secret but He knows. Without
approval of the King—the One Initiator—none can be
initiated into the Great White Brotherhood, and it is His
Star which flashes in assent over the head of the Adept-
Initiator. When that “ Star of Initiation ” so flashes out,
it is not sent there by an effort of His will, because it was
already there. His mighty aura, the influence of His
power, surrounds the whole globe ; but when for purposes
of His own He chooses to make that tremendous power
manifest at a certain spot, that portion of the mighty aura
flashes out for a moment in the likeness of the Star, the
symbol of His immanence for our earth.
In His mind He holds the whole Plan of evolution
at some high level of which we know nothing ; He is the
Force which drives the whole world-machine, the Embodi­
ment of the Divine Will on this planet; and strength,
courage, decision, perseverance and all similar character­
istics, when they show themselves down here in the lives
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 385
of men, are reflections from Him. In His hands are the
powers of cyclic destruction, for He can deal directly with
cosmic forces outside our chain of worlds. His work is
probably connected with humanity en masse rather than
with individuals, but when He does influence any single
person, it is through the Atma, and not through the ego,
that His influence is brought to bear.
At a certain point in the progress of an aspirant on
the Path, he is formally presented to the Lord of the
World, and those who have thus met Him face to face
speak of Him as a handsome youth in appearance, dignified,
benignant beyond all description, yet with a mien of
omniscient, inscrutable majesty, conveying such a sense of
resistless power that some have found themselves unable
to bear His gaze, and have veiled their faces in awe.
Hindu tradition calls Him Sanat Kumara, the
“ Eternal Virgin-Youth ”, for His body, though physical,
is not born of woman, but was made by Kriyashakti or
will-power, and it never ages, and He is in appearance not
a man but a “ Youth of sixteen summers Round Him
stand the Four Great Devarajahs or the Rulers of the
Elements, who adjust the Karmas of men, and the great
Devas and Angels are His courtiers, ready to do His
bidding.
During each world-period, there are three successive
Lords of the World, and the present Holder of the Office is
already the Third. Once in every seven years He conducts
at Shamballa a great ceremony, when all the Adepts and
even some Initiates below that grade are invited, and have
thus an opportunity to come into touch with Their great
Leader. At other times He deals only with the Heads of
the Official Hierarchy, except when for special reasons
He summons others to His presence.
49
386 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
With Him are His three pupils and Lieutenants,
named Sanaka, Sanandana and Sanatana in Hindu tradi­
tion, who too came from Venus. When the life-wave
shall pass from Earth to Mercury, it is these Three who
will become in turn Lords of Mercury, and guide all
evolution on that globe. Popular Buddhism speaks
of Them as Pratyeka Buddhas, the “ Solitary Buddhas
They are given this name because They stand at
the level of the Buddha or Supreme Teacher. And
because They did not teach or establish world-religions,
Their work being that of the Rulers and not of the
Teachers, men in their blindness, dimly groping after
the fact of this superhuman existence, spoke of Them
as solitary Buddhas—alone, isolated-—and even went so far
as to apply to Them the monstrous adjective ‘ selfish \
Their love is as great as that of the Buddhas, but belong­
ing to the First or Ruling Ray, They give to men Power,
and not Wisdom as done by Those belonging to the Second
or Teaching Ray.
The Hindu Puranas speak of these Kumaras— the
Four”, “ the One and the Three 9
9
—as living in an oasis
in the Gobi Desert, in the mystic city of Shamballa, which
is often spoken of as the White or the Sacred Island,
in remembrance of the time when it was an island in the
Central Asian Sea, and which is part of Central Asia, very
carefully guarded from intrusion, but still existing.
5. The Lord Gautama Buddha.—The present
Buddha is the Lord Gautama who took His last birth in
India about two thousand five hundred years ago, and in
that incarnation finished His series of lives as Bodhisattva,
and succeeded the previous Buddha Kasyapa as Head
of the Second Ray in the Occult Hierarchy of our
globe. Seven Buddhas appear in succession during a
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 387
world-period, one for each root-race, and each in turn takes
charge of the special work of the Second Ray for the
whole world, devoting Himself to that part of it which lies
in the higher worlds, while He entrusts to His Assistant
and Representative, the Bodhisattva, the office of World-
Teacher for the lower planes.
Our present Buddha was the first of our humanity
to attain that stupendous height, the previous Buddhas
having been the product of other evolutions. A very
special effort was needed on His part to prepare Himself
for this lofty post, an effort so stupendous that He is
spoken of constantly by the Buddhists as the Mahabhinish-
kramana, the Great Sacrifice. Many thousands of years ago
there arose the need for one of the Adepts to become the
World-Teacher of the fourth root-race, for the time had
come when humanity had to provide such a Teacher for
itself or go unaided ; but we are told that no one had quite
reached the level required for the incurring of so tremendous
a responsibility. The first-fruits of our humanity at that
period were two Brothers who stood equal in occult
development, One being He whom we now call the Lord
Gautama Buddha, and the Other our present World-
Teacher, the Lord Maitreya. Out of His great love for
humanity the Lord Gautama instantly offered to make
Himself ready to undertake whatever additional effort
might be necessary to attain the required development,
and life after life He practised special virtues, each life
showing out some great quality achieved.
After His nomination as Bodhisattva He came
many times as a great Spiritual Teacher and incarnated
Tinder different names through a period spreading over
hundreds of thousands of years. Little is known of His
work in the fourth root-race, but He came several times to
388 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
the sub-races of the fifth or the Aryan root-race, and used
a symbol a little different each time, but always enwrapping
the same fundamental Truth.
To the stock of our race, the first sub-race of the
Aryans, the Great One came in Central Asia, about 60,000
B.c., under the name of Vyasa, and gave in that far-off
time the Sanatana Dharma, the Eternal Religion, the
Wisdom Religion with its Vedas and its Puranas, and
taught the one truth by the figure and symbol of the Sun;
that the Sun in the heavens—the visible symbol of the
Godhead—and the Sun in the heart of man—the Self
individualised in him—were both indentical, that Self is one,
“ the Person in the Sun ”, that all selves are rays of that
Sun, and that man must find the Reality within himself ere
he can know it as a certain truth outside him.
To the second sub-race He came in ancient Egypt
and Arabia about 4o,ooo b .c., under the name of Tehuti
or Thoth, known later in Greece as Hermes—Hermes
Trismegistes, the Thrice Greatest—who was called the
Father of All Wisdom. He then clothed His message in
the symbology of Light, and said that the Light in the
heaven above us is identical with the Light in the heart
within us, and that when men have once seen the Light in
their own hearts, then they can look abroad and see it
everywhere in heaven and earth.
To the third sub-race—the Iranians—who founded
the mighty empire of Persia lasting from 3o,ooo b .c. to
2 ,0 0 0 B.c., He went about 29,7oo b.c. under the name of
Zarathushtra, better known as Zoroaster—the first and
greatest of the twenty-nine Zoroasters—and garbed the one
truth in Fire—Fire in the heart of man, Fire in the temple
for the worshippers, Fire in the sky that gave light to the
world. Zoroaster was the Messenger of the Fire, drew
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 389
down Fire from heaven, was caught up, when His mission
was over, in a cloud of Fire and rapt away from the sight
of men.
Once again He came to the fourth sub-race—the
Keltic, the ancient Greeks and the Romans—about 7,ooo
b .c ., and now as Orpheus He spoke in Music, and by the
mysteries of Sound and Harmony, He taught the unfolding
of the Spirit in man.
Then the Great One returned to earth but once
more, this time to the original root-stock, transferred from
Central Asia to India by constant migrations between
i8,875 b .c . and 9,7oo b .c. His life then on earth as
Siddhartha Gautama has been wonderfully told in Sir
Edwin Arnold’s The Light of Asia. Born in 623 b .c. as
Prince Siddhartha of the Gautama clan in Northern India,
He became an ascetic, counted all worldly things as dross,
wandered in the forest for six years to seek the Cause of
Sorrow and the Ending of Sorrow, got final illumination
under the Sacred Tree at Gaya, became a Buddha, an
Enlightened One, and founded the Buddhist religion,
which, with about five hundred million followers, still
outnumbers any other faith on earth. The attaining of
Buddhahood is a definite step, and when a World-Teacher
takes that step and becomes a Buddha, He passes away
from this globe into wider fields of work. So when after
teaching for some forty-five years of life, proclaiming the
Four Noble Truths, the Noble Eightfold Path and the
Triple Gem, and drawing round Himself all those who in
previous lives had been His pupils, Gautama Buddha
passed away from earth in 543 b .c., He handed over His
office of World-Teacher to His beloved Brother who had
come side by side with Him through many ages, the Lord
Maitreya, the Great One who is the World-Teacher of
39o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
to-day, and is honoured through all India under the name
of Krishna and whom Christendom calls the Christ.
We are told that because of the great strain of
many ages of effort there were certain points in the work
of the Lord Buddha which He had not time to perfect
utterly. It is usual for a Bodhisattva when He has lived
His final life and become a Buddha—when He has entered
into glory, bearing His sheaves with Him, as it is put in
the Christian Scriptures—to hand over His external work
entirely to His Successor, and devote Himself to His
labours for humanity at higher levels. Whatever may be
those manifold activities of a Dhyani Buddha, they do not
bring Him again into birth on earth; but because of the
peculiar circumstances surrounding the life of the Lord
Gautama, two supplementary acts were performed.
The first was the sending by the Lord of the World,
the One Initiator, of one of His three Pupils, who are all
Lords of the Flame from Venus, as stated before, to take
earthly incarnation immediately after the attainment of
Buddhahood by the Lord Gautama in order that by a
very short life spent in travelling over India He might
establish certain centres of religion called mathas. His
name in that incarnation was Shankaracbarya—not he
who wrote the commentaries, but the great Founder of his
line, who, more than two thousand years ago, founded a
certain school of Hindu philosophy, revived Hinduism by
putting new life into its forms and by gathering together
many of the teachings of the Buddha, forbade animal
sacrifices and accomplished certain occult work in
connection with the higher planes of nature, which was
of considerable importance to the later life of India.
The second supplementary act was undertaken by
the Lord Gautama Himself. Instead of devoting Himself
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 39i
wholly to other and higher work, He has remained suffi­
ciently in touch with His world to be reached by the invo­
cation of His Successor when necessary, so that His advice
and help can still be obtained in any great emergency. He
also undertook to return to the world once in each year,
and to shed upon it a flood of blessing. The occasion
selected by the Lord Buddha for giving this blessing to the
world with a wonderful outpouring of His own special type
of force is the full moon day of the Indian month of
Vaishakh (called in Ceylon Wesak, and usually corre­
sponding to the English month of May), the anniversary of
all the momentous occurrences of His last earthly life—His
birth, His retirement to the jungle, His attainment of
Buddhahood, and His departure from the physical body.
In connection with this visit of His, and quite apart
from its tremendous esoteric significance, an exoteric cere­
mony is performed on the physical plane, on a small plateau
surrounded by low hills, on the northern side of the
Himalayas, near the frontier of Nepal and about four
hundred miles west of the city of Lhassa, at which the
Lord Buddha actually shows Himself in the presence of a
crowd of ordinary pilgrims.
After the performance of certain ceremonies by the
Lord Maitreya and other members of the Great Brother­
hood, “ the Lord Buddha appears as a gigantic figure
floating in the air just above the southern hills. ” “ The
Figure which floats above the hills is of enormous size, but
exactly reproduces the form and features of the body in
which the Lord last lived on earth. He appears seated
cross-legged, with the hands together, dressed in the yellow
robe of the Buddhist monk, but wearing it so as to leave
the right arm bare. No description can give an idea of
the face—a face truly God-like, for it combines calmness
392 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
and power, wisdom and love in an expression containing
all that our minds can imagine of the Divine. We may
say that the complexion is clear yellowish-white, and the
features clearly cut; that the forehead is broad and noble ;
the eyes large, luminous and of a deep dark-blue ; the nose
slightly aquiline ; the lips red and firmly set; but all this
puts before us merely the outer mask and gives but a little
grasp of the living whole. The hair is black—almost blue-
black—and wavy; curiously it is neither worn long accord­
ing to Indian custom nor shaved off altogether in the
manner of Oriental monks, but is cut off just before it
reaches the shoulders, parted in the centre and swept back
from the forehead. The story is told that when the Prince
Siddhartha left home to seek the truth, he seized his long
hair and cut it off close above bis head with a sweep of his
sword, and that ever afterwards he kept it at the same
length.” The order in the bands of colour in the aura of
the Lord, as He thus appears floating in the air, is this:
after intense white light nearest to the Figure, blue, yellow,
crimson, white, orange-red and the five colours in their
order radiating laterally. That aura, spoken of in
Chapter III, is described in Oriental Sacred Books as
including people who were three miles from Him when
last He was on the physical plane.
Though the Lord thus shows Himself before the
pilgrims, it is not known whether He shows Himself to the
pilgrims; they all prostrate themselves at the moment
when He appears, but that may be only in imitation of the
prostration of the Adepts—some of whom generally
materialise Themselves so as to be seen by the pilgrims—
who do see the Lord Gautama. It is probable that some
at least of the pilgrims have seen Him for themselves, for
the existence of the ceremony is widely known among the
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 393
Buddhists of Central Asia, and it is spoken of as the
appearance of the Shadow, or Reflection, of the Buddha.
All members of the Great White Brotherhood,
except the King Himself and His three Disciples, usually
attend this ceremony, and any earnest Theosophist can be
present at it in his astral body by so arranging matters as
to put his physical body to sleep an hour or so before the
exact moment of full moon, and to be undisturbed until
about an hour after it.
6. The Lord Maitreya.—The Lord Maitreya took
up the office of Bodhisattva when the Lord Gautama laid
it down. One of His first steps at that time was to take
advantage of the tremendous magnetism generated in the
world by the presence of the Buddha, by arranging that
great Teachers should simultaneously appear in many
different parts of the earth; so that within a comparative­
ly short space of time we find not only the Buddha
Himself, Shri Shankaracharya and Mahavira in India,
but also Mithra in Persia, Lao-tsze and Confucius in
China and Pythagoras in ancient Greece.
Twice He has Himself appeared—as Krishna in
the Indian plains, and as Christ amidst the hills of Pales­
tine. First He came to His ancient people in India
twenty-five centuries ago, and founded that cult which
even now holds within it the vast majority of the Indian
people. Manifesting as Krishna—that marvellous Child
of eastern stories who is an embodied Love—He pro­
vided a supreme Object of devotion for those to whom
Bhakti (devotion) is the most direct road to the truth.
The first time that each World-Teacher comes, He is
born in the usual way, though subsequently He generally
takes a body prepared for Him by a pupil of special purity
and spiritual development; and so coming as Shri Krishna
50
394 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
He naturally did take birth as a little child ; but His life
on earth was then very brief, for He passed away as a
youth. Still so marvellous was His out-welling love, so
exquisite His compassionate tenderness, that even those
few years of mortal life have changed, as it were, the
whole aspect of Hinduism, and have made it a religion of
Devotion whereas before it was rather a religion of
Knowledge. Through high philosophy and intellectual
thinking, India was losing her faith in devotion, and the
work of the Supreme Teacher then consisted specifically
in making her what she is to-day—a land where the divine
Form of Shri Krishna holds the hearts of two hundred and
fifty million people captive in chains. This incarnation as
the Child Krishna—the Krishna of the Gopis—who
appeared in Braja about 5oo B.C., is different from that of
Shri Krishna of the Mahabharata, about 3,ooo b .c ., though
in both cases it was the Lord Maitreya who appeared,
having been overshadowed, in the earlier incarnation, by
the then Bodhisattva, the present Lord Buddha.
Five centuries later He came again, but was not
born as a Child. All Christian legends which centre
round the childhood belong to the Master Jesus, not to the
Lord Christ. The duality of Jesus and the Christ is a
very, very old idea. The Gnostics taught it in the early
century of the Church, and the Manichaeans held it
among many others.
In the record of the New Testament we find the
story of a Hebrew youth, born about a century before the
beginning of the Christian era, trained partly in Egypt,
and partly in the monasteries of the Essenes, coming forth
at about the age of thirty to be a teacher among his
people. On him decended the Spirit of the Holiest, and
descending on him it abode, and that moment of descent
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 395
was the coming of the Christ to occupy the chosen body
which He had selected for His stay on earth. This is
described in the New Testament as the Baptism of Jesus
in the Jordan, when there came down upon him this new
Power—that is, when the Lord of Love took over the
body of the disciple—and he was thenceforward known as
Jesus the Christ. It was after this that the Ministry
began, and the Lord Himself then preached and healed,
and gathered disciples. Very probably He did not hold
the body all the time, but may well have left it at times to
the original occupant who, in such cases, always stands
by as an attendant.
After a brief life of three years among men in the
days of Queen Salome, a life of uttermost beneficence,
wondrous healings and exquisite teaching, the body in
which He had dwelt was murdered by a terrible stoning
during a riot in the city of Jerusalem, in the very court of
the Temple itself, and afterwards taken up and hanged
in mockery on a tree by those who had slain Him. The
death of the physical body did not interrupt the work of
the Christ, as He continued to teach His disciples, visiting
them in His subtle body, for over forty years, probably for
many more.
In the incarnation of the Bodhisattva as Krishna,
the great feature was always love ; and again in His birth
in Palestine, love was the central feature of His teaching.
He said : “ This new commandment I give unto you, that
ye love one another as I have loved you.” His closest
disciple, S. John, insisted most strongly upon the same
idea: “ He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is
Love.”
Even so long ago as 2 2 ,6 o5 b.c., as the High Priest
of the great Atlantean religion, the Lord Maitreya preached
396 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
the doctrine of love which is so characteristically His own,
telling all the pilgrims to a certain holy city in Yucatan
the emphasis that must be laid upon that quality : “ Love
is life,” He said, “ the only life that is real. A man who
ceases to love is already dead. All conditions in life are
to be judged fortunate or unfortunate according to the
opportunities that they offer for love. Love will come
under the most unlikely circumstances, if men will but
allow it to come. Without this all other qualifications are
only as water lost in the sand.”
The ordinary Orientalists in the West do not
understand why the Krishna -cult with its unbounded
devotion and perfect self-surrender to the Object of love,
which suddenly sprang up five centuries before the
Christian era, is, in many points, so very like Christianity
why it has so much said in it of divine grace, of the
helping of man by God, of the lifting up of the helpless
and the sinner. They cannot understand how these
strange likenesses to Christianity appear in a pre-Christian
form of worship. They do not dream that the secret
lies in the fact that it is the same Lord of Love
who is the central Object of devotion in both, who is
worshipped under the name of Krishna in India as
He is worshipped in Christendom under the name of
Christ.
The Bodhisattva also occupied occasionally the body
of Tsong-kha-pa, the great Tibetan religious reformer, about
the fourteenth century a.d. Though as the Lord of the
Religions of the World, He is responsible for all the religions
in the original form in which they were founded, He does
not always go out personally into the world, but sends some
of His disciples, for minor activities. Hence throughout
the centuries He has sent forth a stream of His pupils
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 397
including Nagarjuna, Aryasanga, Ramanujacharya
Madhvacharya and many others, who founded new sects
or threw new light upon the mysteries of religion, and
among these wras one of His pupils who was sent to found
the Muhammadan faith.
In the person of the Lord Maitreya the influence
that is especially noticeable is the radiance of His all-
embracing Love. He is wearing a body of the Keltic race
at the present time, though, in addition, now that He has
recently come forth to the outer world to teach His people,
as stated below, He makes temporary use of a body pre­
pared for Him by one of His Indian disciples. “ His is a
face of wondrous beauty, strong and yet most tender, with
rich hair flowing like red gold about His shoulders. His
beard is pointed, as in some of the old pictures, and His
eyes, of a wonderful violet, are like twr
in flowers, like
stars, like deep and holy pools filled wT
ith the waters of
ever-lasting peace. His smile is dazzling beyond wwds,
and a blinding glory of Light surrounds Him, intermingled
with that marvellous rose-coloured glow which ever shines
from the Lord of Love/ 7
The aura of the Lord Maitreya in its normal
condition is about two and a half miles in radius. The
arrangement of the bands of colour in this aura is different
from that in the aura of the Lord Gautama. The heart
of the aura of the Lord Maitreya, the “ Buddha of
Compassion ”, is blinding white light just as in the case of
the Lord Gautama, the “ Buddha of Wisdom ” ; but in
the former, after the central white light, come in succession
the bands of rose, yellow, vivid green, blue and violet,
and outside the violet again a broad band of the most
glorious pale rose, into which the violet imperceptibly
melts ; outside of all comes the radiation of mixed colours
398 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
just as in the case of the Lord Gautama, or of any Master
or even Arhat.
A point which seems worthy of notice is that in the
aura of the Lord Maitrej^a the colours come exactly in the
same order as in the solar spectrum, though orange and
indigo are omitted. First the rose (which is a form of
red), then the yellow, shading into green, blue, violet, in
succession. And then it goes on into the ultra-violet,
melting into rose, the spectrum beginning again in a higher
octave, just as the lowest astral follows upon the highest
physical.
“ We may think of Him as seated in the great front
room of His house in the Himalayas, the room with many
windows, that overlooks the gardens and the terraces and,
far below, the rolling Indian plains; or in flowing robes
of white, edged with a deep border of gold, as walking
in His garden in the cool of the evening, among the
glorious flowers, whose perfume fills the surrounding air
with a rich, sweet fragrance.”
This garden is on a southern slope of the Hima­
layas, overlooking a vast expanse of the plains of India.
It is sheltered, lying in a hollow, and protected by a
pinewr
ood at the back w
T
hich curves round on the right.
Beyond this wood, and a little eastwards, is the very
ancient stone house, with pillared and wide verandah,
wherein dwells the Manu of our Race, the great Lord
Vaivasvata.
The time being ripe once more, the Lord Maitreya
has appeared again on the physical plane, since 28th
December, i925, to found a Kingdom of Happiness on our
earth. It is stated by those who know that the same mode
of manifestation has taken place in the present day and
that the Great Teacher had prepared for His coming by
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 399
training one of His Indian disciples—J. Krishnamurti—to
serve Him as Jesus had served Him long ago. There is
not a going out and a coming in, but a taking up of the
consciousness of the disciple into the consciousness of the
Teacher, a “ taking of the manhood into God
7. The Mahachohan.—He is the Chief of the
Guides, the Head of the third great Group, and all who
work on the five cut of the seven lines of evolution for our
world—the seven Rays—outside the Ruling and the
Teaching, are in subordination to Him, so that everything
may be quite orderly, and all the Groups may co-operate
in the evolution of the world as a whole.
The Mahachohan is the type of the Statesman,
the great Organiser, though He has also many military
qualities. He wears an Indian body, and is tall and thin,
with a sharp profile, very fine and clear-cut, and no hair
on the face. His face is rather stern, with a strong,
square chin; His eyes are deep and penetrating, and
He speaks somewhat abruptly, as a soldier speaks. He
generally wears Indian robes and a white turban. His
aura has been observed to have a radius of two miles in
its normal condition.
8, 9. The Manus, Lord Chakshusha and Lord
Vaivasvata.—Only two Manus now remain with our human­
ity, the Manus of the fourth and fifth root-races. The
Lord Chakshusha Manu who founded the fourth root-race,
the Atlantean, over a million years ago, is still charged
with the care of the larger part of the population of the
globe and looks after those .hundreds of millions of Asiatic
peoples—
-the fourth-race nations—of whom the chief are
the Chinese, the Japanese, the Burmese and the Siamese.
The Manu Chakshusha is a regal figure, Chinese
by birth, and of very high caste. He has the high
4oo THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Mongolian cheek-bones, and His face looks as though
it were delicately carven from old ivory. He generally
wears magnificent robes of flowing cloth-of-gold. As a
rule old pupils of the Masters do not come into contact
with Him in their regular work, except when it happens that
they have to deal with a pupil belonging to His root-race.
The Lord Vaivasvata Manu is the Manu of the
Aryan or the fifth root-race. A million years ago. He
began the slow process of selection of likely members for
His far-off race. About 100,000 b .c. He drafted these
into a tribe and, in order that His work may be started
definitely, He separated it off from the then existing fifth
sub-race of the Atlantean or the fourth root-race. He
led off His people, in 79,797 b .c., from an island in what
is now the Atlantic Ocean, took them across Africa to
Arabia, and settled them there for a time. Later on, He
led and settled His infant Race by several migrations on
the shores of the Gobi sea, now a vast desert in Asia. A
fairly satisfactory type was reached after many troubles
and massacres, and from 60,000 B.c. onward that fifth
root-race grew and flourished exceedingly.
Manu Vaivasvata sent off many great emigrations
from time to time and often led them Himself. With one
of these, He built up the second sub-race in the empires of
Arabia and South Africa, about 4o,ooo B.c.; and with
another, the third sub-race in Persia, about 3o,000 b .c. ;
one spread over Europe, making Greece and Rome, the
fourth sub-race, and another shaped the fifth sub-race,
the Germans and the English. He took down into India
the dwellers in the Gobi sea settlement—the Mother of the
fifth root-race—by several migrations between 18,875
b .c. and 9,7oo b .c.^ -«,nd they conquered India, settled
down and reared a Wne civilisation. The Hindus look
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 401
upon the Manu as their Law-giver, and still call them­
selves the “ Sons of Manu ” owing to the peculiarity about
th e work of Manu that the whole of the root-race takes
origin in Him and that He is literally the Father of His
Rlace. He is now building a new sub-race, the sixth, the
Austral-American, chiefly over in America and also in
Australia and New Zealand. Out of that fine type, the
future Manu, the Master Morya who is at present the
Lieutenant of Vaivasvata Manu, will choose the materials
fo r His sixth root-race, and later on will settle them in a
Colony in Lower California and shape them into the new
typ e given to Him by the King.
The Lord Vaivasvata Manu is the tallest of all the
Adepts, being six feet eight inches in height, and perfect­
ly proportioned. He is the Representative Man of our
fifth root-race, its prototype, and every member of that
race is directly descended from Him. The Manu has a
very striking face of great power, with an aquiline nose, a
fu ll and flowing brown beard, and brown eyes. “ Our
M anu is living in the Himalayas, not far from the house
o f the Lord Maitreya, and He comes sometimes to His
great Brother’s house. He is a magnificent-looking man,
w ith a great beard rolling down over His chest in glowing
w aves of brown shot with gold, and masses of glorious
hair, wave-like, crown a lion-head of unsurpassable force
an d power. Tall is He, and of king-like majesty, with keen
ey es piercing as an eagle’s, tawny and brilliant with golden
lights.”
io. The “ Nilgiri Master ” or Rishi Agastya.—What
th e Lord Vaivasvata Manu does for the whole Aryan root-
race and the lands it occupies, this Maha-Rishi, “ Seventh
o f the Seven”—of the seven sages or Saptarishi—
a lso on the First Ray, does for India, the Mother-Country
51
402 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
of the Aryans, and the treasure-house of their Ancient
Wisdom.
His historical achievements are mostly concerned
with the Aryanising of the South of India, by leading
down and establishing colonies of Brahmanas from the
North, many centuries b.c., after the migrations of the
first Aryans iron Central Asia to India between i8,875
b.c . and 9,7oo b.c. as stated before. These Brahmanas lived
under the protection of the Dravidian Kings, the Rishi
Agastya Himself being named the Royal Priest of the
Pandyas. In this capacity He compiled the first Tamil
Grammar, giving literary form to the rude Dravidian
dialect and much enlarging its scope. He founded and
presided over the first Tamil Academy, at Madura, probably
named after the Northern Mathura. This Madura was
destroyed by a flood, but a second Academy grew up and
flourished, also under His presidency, though several
centuries later, not far from modern Madura. Thus acting
directly through a continuous physical incarnation or
influencing the course of events more subtly through His
disciples, it was Rishi Agastya who shaped Tamil culture.
The name of the Pandya King, who was advised by
the Rishi Agastya, means “ He who survived the flood ” ;
and several legends show that the Rishi was actively con­
cerned in the shaping of India after the great cataclysm
which sank the greater part of Lanka, leaving only Ceylon,
while raising the Himalayas and the northern plains.
This Great One to whom the name Jupiter was
assigned in the book Man: Whence, How and Whither,
is deeply absorbed in the abstruser sciences of which
Chemistry and Astronomy are the outer shells, and lives
near Tiruvallum, about eighty miles from Adyar, Madras,
where He may be approached by the few who know—and
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 4o3
was so visited by Bishop C. W. Leadbeater and Swami
T. Subba Row in |His Nilgiri retreat—though the idly
curious find themselves somehow thwarted in all attempts
to intrude on His privacy. He diverges slightly from
what may, with all reverence, be called the usual type of
the physical body of the Adept. Says Bishop Leadbeater :
“ He is shorter than most members of the Brotherhood
and is the only One of Them, so far as I am aware, whose
hair shows streaks of grey. He holds Himself very up­
right and moves with alertness and military precision. He
is a landed proprietor, and during the visit which I paid
to Him with Swami T. Subba Row, I saw Him several
times transacting business with men who appeared to be
foremen, bringing reports to Him and receiving instruc­
tions.”
i i . The Master M. (Morya).—It was the Master Morya,
the Lieutenant and destined Successor of the Lord Vaivas-
vata Manu, and the future Manu of the sixth root-race,
who with Master Kuthumi founded the Theosophical
Society through H. P. Blavatsky and H. S. Olcott, both
disciples of Master M. He has almost always been a ruler
in past lives, and now wears an Indian body and lives in
Tibet near Shigatse, at a little distance from the house of
His Brother, the Master Kuthumi. He is a Rajput King by
birth, and has a dark beard divided into two parts, dark,
almost black, hair falling to His shoulders, and dark
and piercing eyes, full of power. He is six feet six inches
in height, and bears Himself like a soldier, speaking in
short terse sentences as if He were accustomed to being
instantly obeyed. He is generally dressed in white and
wears a turban. He appears to be a man absolutely in
the prime of life—possibly thirty-five or forty years of
age ; yet many of the stories which His pupils tell of Him
404 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
assign to Him an age four or five times greater than that,
and Madame Blavatsky said that when she first saw Him
in her childhood He appeared to her exactly the same as
at the present time. She also often described how she
met Him in Hyde Park, London, in the year i85i , when
He came over with a number of other Indian Princes to
attend the first great International Exhibition.
In the presence of the Master Morya, who is a
Representative of the First Ray at the level of Chohan
Initiation, there is a sense of overwhelming power and
strength, and He has an imperious dignity that compels
the deepest reverence.
12. The Master K. H. (Kuthumi) —Very often a
priest or teacher in past lives, He was the Egyptian priest
Sarthon; Chief Priest of a Temple at Agade in Asia
Minor, about i,5 3 o b .c . ; the great philosopher Pythagoras,
about 6 0 0 b .c .; the flamen (Priest) of the Temple of
Jupiter in Rome during the reign of Tiberius; also
Nagarjuna, the Buddhist teacher, about a.d. i7o.
The Master Kuthumi wears the body of a Kashmiri
Brahmana, and “ is as fair in complexion as the average
Englishman. He, too, has flowing hair, and His eyes are
blue and full of joy and love. His hair and beard are
brown, which, as the sunlight catches them, become ruddy
with glints of gold. His face is somewhat hard to de­
scribe, for His expression is ever changing as He smiles ;
the nose is finely chiselled, and the eyes are large and of a
wonderful liquid blue He generally wears white clothes,
but is not seen wearing a head-dress of any kind, except
on the rare occasions when He assumes the yellow robe of
the Gelugpa sect or clan, which includes a hood somewhat
of the shape of the Roman helmet. He has the appear­
ance of being about the same age as His constant friend
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 4 o5
and companion, the Master Morya; yet it has been said
that He took a University Degree in Europe just before
the middle of last century, which would certainly make
Him something very like a centenarian.
The Master is a great linguist, and besides being a
fine English scholar has a thorough knowledge of French
and German. He has composed some music, and has
written notes and papers for various purposes. He is also
much interested in the growth of physical science, although
this is especially the province of one of the other great
Masters of the Wisdom.
The Masters Morya and Kuthumi occupy houses
on opposite sides of a narrow ravine, near Shigatse in
Tibet, the slopes of which are covered with pine trees, and
at the bottom flows a small stream. Paths run down the
ravine past Their houses, and meet at the bottom, where
there is a little bridge. Close to the bridge a narrow
opening leads to a system of vast subterranean halls
containing an occult museum, the contents of which appear
to be intended as a kind of illustration of the whole
process of evolution and of which the Master Kuthumi is
the Guardian on behalf of the Great White Brotherhood.
In the vestibule leading to these vast halls are kept
the living images, to be explained presently, of those pupils
of the Masters Morya and Kuthumi who happen at the
time to be on Probation. These images are ranged round
the walls like statues, and are perfect representations of
the pupils concerned. It is not probable, however, that
they are visible to physical eyes, for the lowest matter
entering into their composition is etheric.
A rough and uneven track leads down the valley by
the side of the stream. From either of the two houses of
the Masters the other house can be seen. These houses,
4o6 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
which are of stone, very heavily and strongly built, are
both above the bridge, but it is doubtful whether both
could be seen from it, since the ravine bends round. If
the path be followed up the valley, which faces south, past
the house of the Master Kuthumi it leads to a large pillar
of rock, beyond which, the ravine bending round, it passes
out of sight. Some distance further on, the ravine opens
out into a plateau on which there is a lake.
The Master has a large garden of His own. He
possesses, too, a quantity of land, and employs labourers
to cultivate it. Near the house there are flowering shrubs
and masses of flowers growing freely, with ferns among
them. Through the garden there flows a streamlet, which
forms a little waterfall, and over it a tiny bridge is built.
“ Here He often sits when He is sending out streams of
thought and benediction upon His people ; it would no
doubt appear to the casual observer as though He were
sitting idly watching Nature, and listening heedlessly to
the song. of the birds, and to the splash and tumble of the
water. Sometimes, too, He sits in His great armchair,
and when His people see Him thus, they know that He
must not be disturbed; they do not know exactly what
He is doing, but suppose Him to be in samadhi. The
fact that people in the East understand this kind of
meditation and respect it may be one of the reasons why
the Adepts prefer to live there rather than in the W est”
Every morning a number of people—not exactly
pupils, but followers—come to the Master’s house, and sit
on the verandah and outside it. Sometimes He gives
them a little talk—a sort of lecturette ; but more often He
goes on with His work and takes no notice of them beyond
a friendly smile, with which they seem equally contented.
They evidently come to sit in His aura and venerate Him.
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 4 o 7
Of the Master’s family but little is known. There is
a lady, evidently a pupil, whom He calls fsister’. Whether
she is actually His sister or not is not known ; she might
possibly be a cousin or a niece. She looks much older
than He, but that would not make the relationship im­
probable, as He has appeared of about the same age for a
long time. Her principal work seems to be to look after the
housekeeping and manage the servants. Among the latter
are an old man and his wife, who have been for a long
time in the Master’s service. They do not know anything
of the real dignity of their employer, but regard Him as a
very indulgent and gracious patron, and naturally they
benefit greatly by being in His service.
From time to time the Master Kuthumi rides on a
big bay horse, and occasionally, when Their work lies
together, He is accompanied by the Master Morya, who
always rides a magnificent white horse. The former
regularly visits some of the monasteries, and sometimes
goes up a great pass to a lonely monastery in the hills.
Riding in the course of His duties seems to be His prin­
cipal exercise, but He sometimes walks with the Master
Djwal Kul, who lives quite near to the great crag which
gives a view of the lake.
The union of pupil with Master is closer than any
tie imaginable on earth ; closer still, because at a higher
level, was that between the Master Kuthumi and His
Teacher, the Master Dhruva, who was in His turn a pupil
of the Lord Maitreya, during the time when the latter took
pupils. Thereby the Master Kuthumi also became one
with the Lord Maitreya, and as at Their level unity is still
more perfect, the Master Kuthumi is one with the Bodhi-
sattva in a very wonderful way. He is the Assistant and
destined Successor of the World-Teacher just as the
4o8 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Master Morya is the Assistant and destined Successor of
the Lord Vaivasvata Manu. In the person of the Master
Kuthumi, as in that of His Chief, the Lord Maitreya, the
influence that is especially noticeable is the radiance of
His all-embracing Love. The Representative of the
Second Ray on the level of Chohan Initiation at present,
many centuries hence He will succeed the great Lord
in His high Office, and assuming the sceptre of the
World-Teacher, become the Bodhisattva of the sixth
root-race.
13. The “ Venetian” Master.—At the Head of the
Third Ray stands the great Master, the Venetian Chohan,
so called because by birth He is a Venetian. In the people
of that Ray the characteristic of Adaptability appears
very strongly, and those who are advanced on this Ray
have a great deal of tact and a rare faculty of doing the
right thing at the right moment.
Perhaps the Venetian Chohan is the handsomest of
all the Members of the Brotherhood. He is very tall—
about six feet five inches, and has a flowing beard and
golden hair, somewhat like those of the Manu ; and His
eyes are blue. Although He was born in Venice, His
family undoubtedly has Gothic blood in its veins, for He is
a man distinctly of that type.
14. The Master “ Serapis ’’.—The Fourth Ray is under
the care of the Master Serapis, and so the special line of
this Chohan is Harmony and Beauty. He helped and
taught Colonel Olcott in the early days of the Theosophical
Society, when his own Master, the Master Morya, was
otherwise engaged for a time.
The Master Serapis is tall, and fair in complexion.
He is a Greek by birth, though all His work has been done
in Egypt and in connection with the Egyptian Lodge. He
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 4o9
is very distinguished and ascetic in face, somewhat
resembling the late Cardinal Newman.
15. The Master Hilarion.—Once Iamblichus of the
Neo-Platonic School, the Master Hilarion gave through
Mabel Collins The Light on the Path and through H. P.
Blavatsky The Voice of the Silence, and is a “ skilled
craftsman in poetic English prose and in melodious
utterance ”. As the Head of the Fifth Ray, this Chohan
influences most of the great scientists of the world by His
splendid quality of scientific accuracy. Of course, His
science extends beyond what is commonly called by that
name, and He works with many of the forces which Nature
introduces into the life of man.
Though living in Egypt, the Master Hilarion is a
Greek and, except that He has a slightly aquiline nose, is
of the ancient Greek type. His forehead is low and broad,
and resembles that of the Hermes of Praxiteles. He, too,
is wonderfully handsome, and looks rather younger than
most of the Adepts.
16. The Master Jesus.—He was a disciple two thousand
years ago, when at the age of thirty, after His Baptism,
the Spirit of God descended upon Him, and He surren­
dered His pure body to the Christ. He was born again as
Apollonius of Tyana, sometimes called the Pagan Christ,
in the year one of the Christian era, and attained Adept-
ship in that incarnation. Taking up the work, He then
travelled far and wr
ide as a Messenger of the Great White
Lodge, and made in various places in Europe centres of
occult force to be used nowadays when again the
Great Teacher has appeared. Those secret centres,
existing as they do in Europe, and having physical objects
(talismans) buried thereat, linked to Jesus in His causal
body with their influence consequently lasting through the
52
4lO THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
ages, are the various points of future importance, whence
the Light shall spread, and whence the Teaching shall go
forth. He again appeared in Southern India as the
teacher Ramanujacharya to revive the devotional element
in Hinduism in the eleventh century a.d .
The Chohan Jesus rules the Sixth Ray, that of
Bhakti or Devotion. This is the Ray of the devotional
saints and mystics of every religion, and this Master has
charge of such people under whatever form they may
worship the Divine Being. He is the Master of devotees,
and the key-note of His Presence is an intense purity, and
a fiery type of devotion that brooks no obstacles. He has
the Christian religion as His special charge under the
World-Teacher, and the spiritual forces liberated during
Christian ceremonials come directly through Him. He now
wears a Syrian body, has the dark skin, dark eyes and
black beard of the Arab, and generally wears white robes
and a turban. He lives amongst the Druses of Mount
Lebanon, and is just now flooding His Church with the
Mystic Christianity so noticeable in these days.
i7. The Master Rakoczi.—This last survivor of the
Royal House of Rakoczi, known in France as Comte
de S. Germain in the history of the eighteenth century,
was born in that century in Hungary and is, we are told,
known to some in that same body.
In his first life of historical importance he belonged
to a noble Roman family and was known as St. Alban,
having suffered martyrdom in the great persecution of the
Emperor Diocletian early in the fourth century at the
town of his birthplace, Verulam in England, now called
St. Albans after him. Verulam was at that time the
capital of E5man England, though it is now but a small
place. Sobn after that he had another very important
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 4X1
incarnation in Constantinople in the year a .d . 4 i i when
under the name of Proclus, which in after life he was
destined to make famous, he was one of the last expo­
nents of Neo-Platonism and overshadowed the mediaeval
Christian Church with his influence.
The next thing that is definitely known of him at
present is that he was reborn in the year 1211, and in that
life as Roger Bacon, a Franciscan friar and a great
experimentalist and scientist, he was a reformer both of
the theology and science of his day. In i375 came his
birth as Christian Rosenkreuz, a birth of very great
importance, for he founded the great secret society of the
Rosicrucians, which, though supposed to have died out, is
still in existence, while its teaching is found in a somewhat
different form in Theosophy and partly in Freemasonry.
He again took birth some fifty years later as John
Hunyadi, an eminent Hungarian soldier and leader, and
again about a.d . i5oo he had a life as the monk Robertus
somewhere in middle Europe. After that comes one of
the very greatest of his births when in the year i5 6 i he
was born as Francis Bacon. In fact, as known largely by
means of a cipher story written by him secretly in the
works which he published, he was the first son of no less a
personage than Queen Elizabeth, who had married Sir
Robert Dudley, afterwards the Earl of Leicester, when
they were both prisoners in the Tower. That marriage
having been legalised at a later time, he should have been
King of England instead of James I, but owing to various
reasons he had bound himself by a pledge 'to his mother
not to let the fact be known. He set to work to constitute
the English language as we know it to-day, and that he
did largely by writing those plays attributed to Shakespeare
(Shakespeare is proved to have been an illiterate man who
412 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
could not spell his name in the same way two or three
times consecutively), and also, perhaps chiefly, by editing
the authorised version of the Bible, which was then being
translated by a committee of forty-eight under the direc­
tion of King James I.
A century later he is said to have taken birth as
Ivan Rakoczi, a prince of Transylvania. He was the
Comte de St. Germain at the time of the French Revolu­
tion. He was also Baron Hompesch, or he may have
disguised himself as Baron Hompesch, for they belong
almost to the same period. Hompesch was the last of the
Knights of St. John of Malta, who arranged to transfer the
Island of Malta to the English.
A disciple through many laborious lives, but now a
Chohan, this “ Hungarian Adept ” of The Occult World
still lives in a body which has no appearance of great age
and it is known that He still uses the name 4Rakoczi *
sometimes. But beyond that considerable mystery
surrounds His movements. He moves about Europe
incognito and turns up at intervals, but what He does
in the interim is not known. He is in charge
of a great deal of work in Europe, and is also the
Head of the Seventh or Ceremonial Ray, the in­
fluence of which, superseding that of Devotion—the
Sixth Ray—is now gradually spreading all over the
world. Naturally he is deeply interested both in the work
of the Christian Church and in Freemasonry (and Co­
masonry)—cults which are in reality two expressions of
the same eternal truth, though they are popularly supposed
to be diametrically opposed—and is also much concerned
with the political situation in Europe, and the growth of
modern physical science. He works to a large extent
through ceremonial magic, and employs the services of
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 4 i3
great Angels who obey Him implicitly and lovingly*
Though He speaks all European and many Oriental
languages, much of His working is in Latin, the language
which is the special vehicle of His thought. He has a
suit of golden chain-mail, which once belonged to a Roman
Emperor, and in His various rituals He wears wonderful
and many-coloured robes and jewels.
The Master the Comte de St. Germain resembles
the Mahachohan in many ways. Though He is not
especially tall, He is very upright and military in His
bearing, and He has the exquisite courtesy and dignity of
a grand seigneur of the eighteenth century. His eyes are
large arid brown, and are filled with tenderness and
humour, though there is in them a glint of power ; and the
splendour of His Presence impels men to make obeisance*
His face is olive-tanned; His close-cut brown hair is
parted in the centre and brushed back from the forehead,
and He has a short and pointed beard. Often He wears a
dark uniform with facings of gold lace—often also a
magnificent red military cloak—and these accentuate His
soldier-like appearance. He travels much though He
usually resides in an ancient castle in Hungary that has
belonged to His family for many centuries. He was met
physically in Rome in a.d. i9 o i by Bishop Leadbeater
who had a long conversation with Him.
18. The Master D. K. (Djwal Kul).—He was formerly
the philosopher Kleinias, a disciple of Pythagoras in Greece,
and was later the Buddhist teacher xAryasanga, about
a .d . 600.
The body of this Master, like that of the Nilgiri
Master, diverges slightly from what may be called the
usual type of the physical body of the Adept. He is still
wearing the same body in which He attained Adeptship
4i4 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
only a few years ago, and perhaps for that reason it has
not been possible to make that body a perfect reproduction
of the Augoeides. His face is distinctly Tibetan in
character, with high cheek bones, and is somewhat rugged
in appearance, showing signs of age. In order that He
might have an abiding-place quite near to the Master
Kuthumi—His own Master—He constructed for Himself
with His own hands, in the days of His pupilage, a small
hut or cabin, further up the hill, near to the great crag
mentioned before, at a little distance from the house and
grounds of His Master, on the left bank of the stream
running between the houses of the Masters Morya and
Kuthumi.
i9, 20.—Those who in Their last earth-lives were
known as Sir Thomas More and Thomas Vaughan are
also now Masters.
These are some of the Great Ones publicly known,
living in different countries scattered over the world.
Beyond the necessity of birth, when one body is worn out
They (with the exception of the Four Kumarasj choose
another wherein it may be most convenient to work, not
attaching any importance to the nationality of the body,
though the body will be usually splendidly handsome and
always perfectly healthy, while again a new body taken in
a subsequent incarnation will be almost an exact re­
production of the old one. Moreover, owing to perfect
health and absence of worry, They are able to preserve
Their physical bodies much longer than we can. Our
bodies grow old and die for various reasons, from inherited
weakness, disease, accident and self-indulgence, wr
orry and
overwork. But in the case of an Adept none of these
causes is present, though we must of course remember that
His body is fit for work and capable of endurance
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 4 l5
immeasurably beyond those of ordinary men. Almost
all the Masters of whom we know appear as men in the
prime of life, yet in many cases there is testimony, as stat­
ed before, to prove that Their physical bodies must have
long passed the ordinary age of man.
Sometimes an Adept for some special purpose wants
a body to use temporarily amid the bustle of'the world.
As ^stated before, the World-Teacher has already taken
possession of a body specially chosen by Himself and
prepared for His use by one of His Indian disciples,
J. Krishnamurti, who also abides in the same vehicle. It
is told by those who know that several other Adepts, acting
as His Lieutenants, temporarily borrow the bodies of Their
pupils when They need them, and so it is necessary that a cer­
tain number of such vehicles should be ready for Their use.
Q. But, since the Masters have physical bodies of Their
own, why do They need others on this occasion of the
cowing of the World-Teacher or at other times ?
Ans. Those who, attaining the level of Adeptship,
choose as Their future career to remain upon this world
and help directly in the evolution of Their own humanity,
find it convenient for Their work to retain physical bodies.
In order to be suitable for Their purposes, these bodies
must be of no ordinary kind. Not only must they be
absolutely sound in health, but they must also be perfect
expressions of as much of the ego as can be, manifested on
the physical plane.
The building up of such a body as this is no light
task. When the ego of an ordinary man comes down to
his new baby body, he finds it in charge of an artificial
elemental, which has been created according to his karma.
This elemental is industriously occupied in modelling the
form which is soon to be born in the outer world, and it
4 l6 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
remains after birth and continues that moulding process
usually until the body is six or seven years old. During
this period the ego is gradually acquiring closer contact
with his new vehicles, emotional and mental as well as
physical, and is becoming accustomed to them; but the
actual work done by himself upon these new vehicles up
to the point at which the elemental withdraws is, in
most cases, inconsiderable. He is certainly in connection
with the body, but generally pays but little attention to it,
preferring to wait until it has reached a stage where it is
more responsive to his efforts.
The case of an Adept is very different from this. As
there is no evil karma to be worked out, no artificial
elemental is at work, and the ego himself is in sole charge
of the development of the body from the beginning, finding
himself limited only by its heredity. This enables a far
more refined and delicate instrument to be produced, but
it also involves more trouble for the ego, and engages for
some years a considerable amount of his time and energy.
In consequence of this, and no doubt for other reasons as
well, an Adept does not wish to repeat the process more
often than is strictly necessary, and He therefore makes
His physical body last as long as possible.
A body thus made suitable for higher work is
inevitably a sensitive one, and for that very reason it
requires careful treatment if it is to be always at its best.
It would wear out as ours do if it were subjected to the
innumerable petty frictions of the outer world, and its
constant torrent of unsympathetic vibrations. Therefore
the Great Ones usually live in comparative seclusion, and
appear but rarely in that cyclonic chaos which we call
daily life. If They were to bring Their bodies into the
whirl of curiosity and vehement emotion which surrounds
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 4l7
the World-Teacher now that He has come, there can
be no doubt that the life of these bodies would be greatly
shortened, and also, because of their extreme sensitiveness,
there would be much unnecessary suffering.
By temporarily occupying the body of a pupil, the
Adept avoids these inconveniences, and at the same time
gives an incalculable impetus to the pupil’s evolution.
He inhabits the vehicle only when He needs it—to deliver
a lecture, perhaps, or to pour a special flood of blessing ;
and as soon as He has done what He wishes, He steps
out of the body, and the pupil, who has all the while
been in attendance, resumes it, as the Adept goes back to
His own proper vehicle to continue His usual work for
the helping of the world. In this way His regular
business is but little affected, yet He has always at His
disposal a body through which He can co-operate, when
required, on the physical plane, in the beatific mission
of the World-Teacher.
This plan of borrowing a suitable body is always,
adopted by the Great Ones when They think it well to
descend among men, under conditions such as those which
now obtain in the world. The Lord Gautama employed
it when He came as the original Zoroaster, 29,7oo B.c.,
taking the body of the second son (our present Master
K. H.) of the then king of Persia (our present Master
M.), and also when He came, twenty-five centuries ago,
to attain Buddhahood, and the Lord Maitreya took
the same course when He visited Palestine two thousand
years ago. The only exception is that when a new
Bodhisattva assumes the Office of World-Teacher after
His predecessor has become the Buddha, on His first
appearance in the world in that capacity He takes birth
as a little child in the ordinary way, as was done by the
4i8 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
present Bodhisattva, when He took birth as Shri Krishna
on the glowing plains of India, as stated before-
The number of Adepts who retain physical bodies
to help the evolution of the world is small, about fifty or
sixty, but the great majority even among These do not
take pupils, as They are engaged in quite other work.
Q. What is the work of the Masters ?
Ans. In countless ways They help the progress of
humanity- From the highest sphere Their light pours
down in general benediction like the light of the sun,
illuminating and blessing all. A man may open the
windows of his room and let the sunshine flood the room.
Similarly, anyone may open the windows of his soul to
let his spirit be flooded with Their light and strength in
proportion to his receptivity.
Then there are general organisations, religious
communities, into which a special Master will pour down
His blessings, strength and spiritual energy. Great
religions are like mighty reservoirs or great vessels of
different shapes and forms, all containing the one spiritual
water for the quenching of the spiritual thirst of man.
Next comes the great intellectual work on the
higher mental plane where the Masters help the world of
thought by raining down noble ideals, inspiring thoughts,
devotional aspirations and streams of intellectual help on
all men, whereby a discovery flashes into the mind of a
patient searcher after truth, or the answer to a long-
studied problem illumines the intellect of a lofty phi­
losopher. Thus great thoughts of beauty will enter the
mind of a genius in art, or thoughts of patriotism be
received by a political genius. On the same higher mental
plane They impress more liberal ideas upon great
preachers and teachers, and send Their wishes to Their
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 419-
disciples about the work they should do. On the lower
mental plane They teach those who are in the heavenly
world and generate thought-forms to influence the
concrete mind and guide it along useful lines of physical
activity.
In the astral world They have the helping of the
dead, general supervision of the teaching of pupils and
the sending of aid in numerous cases of need, while in
the physical world They watch the tendency of events
and neutralise, as far as the Law permits, the undesira­
ble currents, strengthening the good and weakening
the evil.
They work also with the Angels of Nations and
guide the spiritual forces as the latter guide the material
ones, choosing or rejecting actors in the mighty Work,
influencing kings, statesmen and councils of men. Again,
They stand as a Guardian Wall around-humanity, within
which it can evolve without being crushed by the tre­
mendous cosmic forces which play around our planet.*
From time to time one of Them comes forth into the
wwld of men as a great religious teacher or prophet to
spread a new form of the Eternal Verities, suited to the
need and capacity of the people of the time or to the
civilisation of a new race.
Though the number of Adepts is small, They have
arranged that in all the world no life shall be disregarded
or neglected ; so They have divided the earth into special
areas in somewhat the same way as in older countries
the Christian Church has divided the whole land into
parishes. The parishes of the Adepts, however, are not
country districts or parts of towns, but huge countries
and even continents. As the world is at present divided*
one great Adept may be said to be in charge of Europe,.
420 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
and another looks after India ; and thus the whole world
is parcelled out. The parishes do not follow our political
or geographical boundaries, but within His territory the
Adept has all the different grades and forms of evolution
to regard—not only the human kingdom, but also the
kingdoms of the Angels, the various classes of nature-
spirits, and the animals, vegetables and minerals beneath
us, as well as the kingdoms^of the elemental essence and
many others of which so far nothing has been heard
by mankind,* so there is a vast amount of work to be
accomplished.
A large part of the Adepts’ work lies at levels far
beyond the physical, as They are engaged in pouring
out Their own power, and also the force from the great
store filled by the Nirmanakaya. The Great Ones also
take advantage of the ceremonies of all religions to pour
out Their power over the world on the lower planes, and
thus to stimulate in as many men as possible the spiritual
growth of which each is capable. But it is not only
in connection with religious ceremonial that this is done,
for the Brotherhood makes use of every opportunity that
offers. If there be a gathering of people or pilgrims who
are all under the influence of devotion, all bent for the
time being upon nobler and higher thought, such a
gathering offers to the Adepts an unusual opportunity,
since it forms a focus which They can employ as a channel
for spiritual influence.
But the activities on the lower planes are mainly
entrusted to Their disciples. They Themselves deal
rather with the egos in their causal bodies and devote
Themselves to pouring spiritual influence upon them,
thereby evoking from them all that is noblest and most
beneficial for their growth.
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 421
Normally, although incarnate, the Members of the
Occult Hierarchy remain in retired and secluded spots in
order that They may carry on the helpful work which
would be impossible of accomplishment in the crowded
haunts of men and the tumult of human life. But at
certain times in human history, in serious crises, Masters
and even loftier Beings, come out into the world of men.
Q. Then why does an Adept, whose work seems to lie
almost entirely on higher planes, need a physical body
at all?
Ans. It is really no concern of ours, but if speculation
on such a matter be not irreverent, various reasons suggest
themselves. The Adept spends much of His time in
projecting streams of influence, and while, so far as has
been observed, these are most often on the higher mental
level, or on the plane above that, it is probable that they
may sometimes at least be etheric currents, and for the
manipulation of these the possession of a physical body is
undoubtedly an advantage. Again, most of the Masters
have a few pupils or assistants who live with or near
Them on the physical plane, and a physical body may be
necessary for their sake. Of this we may be certain, that
if an Adept chooses to take the trouble to maintain such
a body, He has a good reason for it ; for enough of Their
methods of working is known for us to be assured that
They always do everything in the best way, and by the
means which involve the least expenditure of energy.
Q. But with so much power and wisdom why don't the
Masters take more pupils ? Why do They withhold know­
ledge ? Why do They not remove crime and misery from
the world ?
Ans. They are waiting and waiting with tireless
patience to find some human heart opening itself out,
422 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
someone willing to be taught. But people’s hearts are
fast closed against Them with the lock of gold, of power,
of fame, of sloth and indifference, of sin and worldly
enjoyment; and unless they are unlocked, the Teacher
waiting outside cannot cross the threshold and illuminate
the mind. “ Without Him,” says a newly-chosen pupil, “ I
could have done nothing, but through His help I have
been able to succeed.” Only it should be remembered
that help is ready and waiting for every one; therefore
whenever there is any delay, it is on the side of the pupil
that the difficulty lies, never on His. Much as a man may
desire to find his Teacher, the Teacher is a thousandfold
more constant in His desire to find him, because many
are wanted, while only a few are found, who, being
trained, may go out into the world to help suffering
humanity.
Thus the Teachers do not withhold knowledge
because They grudge the giving, but They are hampered
by the want of receptivity, by the closing of the heart.
They cannot force humanity along any line of progress,
though They help when the slightest opportunity is offered.
If They bent our wills to Theirs, civilisation would be
more perfect than now, but we should be only like obedient
children instead of developing strength and initiative of
self-reliant manhood.
Again, no cure of misery can be permanent so long
as the cause of the mischief is kept going. The miseries
growing out of men’s selfishness can be removed perma­
nently only by striking at the root of causes. The Root of
all evil is ignorance, as already stated at the end of
Chapter I, and the Masters are always ready to teach
if only They find persons willing to be taught. “ For
when the disciple is ready, the Master is ready also.”
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 423
4
4Therefore in the hall of learning, when he is capable of
entering there, the disciple will always find his Master.,,
Q* If the Masters have such great spiritual powers,
why do They permit the conquest and humiliation of Their
countries like Egypt and India ?
Ans. It has already been said that Masters are of
many races, and that They seek to aid the progress of
men of all races spiritually rather than materially. More­
over, They are Themselves obedient to the Law, and
cannot interfere with the karma of nations. They help
those who are willing, by suggestion, warning or encourage­
ment, but cannot take into Their han ds the destiny of
persons or nations. Again, the races have to develop, not
into puppets pulled by strings in Masters’ hands,, but into
self-reliant entities by lessons of experience according to
karmic laws and by a freedom of choice which is a dawn­
ing manifestation of the God within.
Q. If an ordinary man met a Master on the physical
plane, would he recognise Him as such ?
Ans. Very probably not. He would certainly know-
that he was in the presence of one who was impressive,
noble and dignified with a serenity and benevolence ex­
pressing the peace within, but there would be no external
peculiarity by which he could divine the fact that the man
was an Adept. A Master would be more silent than most,
for He does not waste His force in idle conversation, and
speaks only with the definite purpose of encouraging and
helping or warning. He would be seen to be wise and
kindly, and to have a keen sense of humour. But to know
Him as an Adept, it would be necessary to see His causal
body with its greatly increased size—His enormous aura
which in many cases extends a mile or more on
all sides of Him—its all-round development and its
424 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
special arrangement of colours. It is a law in nature
that we can only recognise that to which we can respond,
only recognise in proportion as we reproduce, and as
Maeterlinck puts it: “ it is only by revealing the divine
that is in us, that we may discover the divine in others.”
So an ordinary man who has not yet unfolded divinity in
himself, though certainly impressed by the physical
presence of the Master, will not recognise His occult
powers.
Q. How is a man brought to the portals of the Path,ta
the beginning of the path of spiritual development ?
Ans. According to the eastern books there are four
Such means:
i. Sat-sang—companionship of those who have
already entered upon the Path. The influence exerted
by one who is already on the Path is not in any
sort limited by the teaching which he gives. It is
the influence of the life, the influence of the vi­
brations radiating from him, that is so powerful. The
principal thing is that the disciple shall be with the teacher.
In India, if the teacher be a peripatetic philosopher—as so
many of them are—if he wanders from place to place, his
band of followers or disciples goes about with him, just as
the disciples of Jesus travelled with Him through
Palestine. And that is entirely scientific. The aura of
the teacher—his higher vehicles generally—is keyed up to
a somewhat higher rate of vibration than the auras of his
pupils. Therefore his mere proximity acts upon their
vehicles and helps them to vibrate at a rate similar to his
own. Thus by living always in the aura of a less worldly
man the pupils themselves become less worldly than they
otherwise could. The higher vibration being quite con­
stant in its pressure, the disciples, whether awake or
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 425
asleep, are in close contact with it and are absorbing it
with a consequent change in their character. In ordinary
physics we know that the stronger vibration will dominate
the weaker, and the same is the case on the higher planes.
So it has always been recognised that the actual presence
of the teacher counts for enormously more than the words
he can say, and helps the pupil rapidly to change his
character—a slow and tedious business ordinarily, yet a
thing quite necessary for one who wishes to enter the Path.
2. Shravana—hearing or reading of definite
teaching on occult philosophy. It may happen that a
man may hear or read a teaching of this kind which will
commend itself to his intuition, and then he will naturally
seek to satisfy his desire to find out more about it. This
is a result of previous karma, of karma in a previous life.
He has already come in contact with the truth and
convinced himself of its beauty and reality in another life,
and so when it comes before him in this life, he knows it
is true. There may be hundreds and thousands who may
hear and read the same teaching and yet may not receive
any impulse from it. It simply means that these latter
are at a stage when it is all foreign to them and therefore
does not awaken in them the response that it awakens in
those who have the good karma of having understood it
before and are therefore able to see in it that- which they
have brought with them the power to see.
3. Manana—enlightened reflection. By sheer
force of hard thinking and close reasoning a man may
arrive at the truth and solve the riddle of life. He may
come to see that there must be a Plan of Evolution, that
there must be Those who know all about it, the evolved
and perfected Men, and that there must be a Path by
which They may be reached. And the man who comes to
54
426 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
that decision of course sets out to look for the Path and
find his way to the Great Ones. Those who travel by
this Path are probably few, but the thing is a possibility.
4. Nididhyasana—practice of virtue through
4meditation \ It should be remembered that though
the practice of virtue leads to the commencement of
the Path, it is by no means the end of it, as the
average Christian is apt to believe. In the early days
of Christianity, Purification—or Saintship which they
nbw set before themselves as their goal—was only the
first step. The early Christian teachers certainly held
that it was a man’s duty to become a saint; but at the
same time they held that it was the first stage only ; and
S. Clement of Alexandria, who was in many respects the
greatest of the early Fathers of the Church, speaks rather
slightingly of that stage: 4
4Purity, why, it is only a.
negative state and is valuable chiefly as a condition of
insight.” The chief use of being pure is that unless a
man is pure he cannot see clearly. The thing itself is
merely negative. Being good is in itself only a condition,
necessary for further progress. A man must become a
saint, but after he has become a saint, he has to begin
to attain the second stage of Illumination. This was
what S. Peter meant when he said to his pupils:
“ Add to your faith, knowledge.” Only those who had
fully gained that illumination with arduous labour were
allowed to pass into the third stage of Initiation. S. Paul
said: “ We speak wisdom among those that are perfect
and the word 4perfect ’ here implies a certain level of
occult progress. In every Occult School there are
things which can only be spoken to those of the higher
degrees, others which can only be spoken to those who
are pupils of the Master. So in early Christianity there
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 427
were those three terms used, Purification, Illumination and
Perfection.
Now the statement that the practice of virtue leads
a man to the beginning of the Path seems like going back
to the old theory: “ Be good and you will be happy.’5 But
in reality it means that though the man who leads a good
life through many incarnations may not thereby develop
intellect, he will presently acquire sufficient intuition to
carry him into the presence of the people who do know, to
bring him in fact to the feet of someone who is a servant
of the Master. But this method takes thousands of years
and many lives. The man who practises virtue and
does not do anything else will reach the portals of the
Path eventually, but it is a slow pi*ocess. He can hasten
his progress and save himself much time by following
:S. Peter’s advice and acquiring knowledge; for then his
progress will be much swifter.
When by any of these methods a man reaches a
certain level, he inevitably attracts the attention of the
Masters and comes into contact with Them, usually
through one or other of Their advanced pupils.
Q. How, then, does the Theosopliical Society help an
aspirant in his approach to the Path ?
Am. It happens that, in lands which have only the
European culture, almost the only way in which a man can
get the inner teaching put clearly before him is by coming
into the Theosophical Society, or by reading Theosophical
works. There have been mystical or spiritualistic works
which have given some information, which have gone a
long way, but there are none which state the case so clear­
ly, so scientifically, as the Theosophical literature has done.
Human progress is slow, but it is constant; there­
fore the number of the Perfected Men is increasing, and
428 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
the possibility of attaining to Their level is within the
reach of all who are willing to make the stupendous effort
required. In normal times aspirants should need many
births before they could gain Adeptship, but just now it is
possible for them to hasten their progress on that Path, to
compress into a few lives the evolution which otherwise
would take many thousands of years. That is the effort
which is being made by many members of the Theosophi-
cal Society; for there is in that Society an Inner School
which teaches men how to prepare themselves more
rapidly for this higher work. That preparation needs
great self-control, determined effort carried on year after
year, and often with but little to show outwardly in the
way of definite progress; for it involves the training of
the higher bodies far more than the physical body, and the
training of the higher does not always manifest itself very
obviously on the physical plane.
It is said that whenever a person joins the outer
Theosophical Society the Master looks at him, and further­
more that in many cases the Great Ones guide people to
join the Society because of their previous lives. So it
would seem that They usually know a great deal about us
before we know anything about Them. The Adept never
forgets anything. He appears to be always in full posses­
sion of all that has happened to Him, and so if He does
cast even a most casual glance at a person He will never
thereafter overlook that person. When a person joins the
Inner School a definite link is formed, not yet directly
with an Adept, but first of all with the Outer Head of the
School, and through the Outer Head with the Master
Morya who is the Inner Head.
All those in the Inner School are thus in touch with
the Master Morya, though they are often working on
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 429
other lines than His, and will become pupils of other
Masters when they are taken on Probation. Under such
circumstances, however, they will receive the influence
of their own future Master through these channels, because
the Adepts, although living far apart physically, are in
such very close contact that to be in touch with one of
Them is really to be linked with all.
This Path has many steps grouped into three great
divisions:
(1) The probationary period, or the Probationary
Path, before any pledges are taken, or Initiations given
to the pupil.
(2) The period of pledged discipleship, or the Path
Proper, at the end of which the pupil attains Adeptship.
(3) The official period in which the Adept takes a
definite part in the government of the wr
orld. The subject
of this official period is far above ordinary comprehension.
Q. B u t how can a householder, a man in the world
surrounded with social duties, fa m ily obligations and
worldly activities, lead the spiritual life and thereby
prepare him self fo r the Path ? What are his initial stages
of purification ?
Ans. Ordinary men have first to be trained in Karma
Yoga—action whereby union with the Divine may result.
The three gunas or properties of matter, Sattva, Rajas and
Tamas, make the manifested universe, and the ordinary
man, identifying himself with these activities, runs wild
under their influence. Karma Yoga consists in the training
of these gunas. The use of Tamas or darkness—sluggish­
ness, negligence, indifference, laziness, inertia—inthegrowth
of man is that it acts as a force to be struggled against
and overcome, so that strength may be evolved, power of
will developed and self-control acquired. So rites and
43o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
ceremonies of religion are ordered to train man to over-
come sloth and laziness, heedlessness and obstinacy of the
lower nature. They are imposed as duties on him to train
him to higher life and to compel the lower nature to walk
along the right path determined by the will.
Then Rajas or mobility, leading to hurry, bustle
and constant effort to accomplish material results and
gratify the lower nature, has to be directed, purified and
transmuted by Karma Yoga into Sattva—rhythm or
harmony—to serve the purpose of the Higher Self, and the
life of the householder is the best preparation for the
spiritual life.
A householder must perforce live for others, and
unselfishness is the chief harvest that he may reap in the
rich field of home. Pity or compassion for weaker things
is a virtue that he has full opportunity to cultivate there,
while endurance and patience are the twins that take their
birth most easily in the family-life. Again, liberality,
hospitality, free and courteous, charity to the poor and to
animals, the acquirement of the power of steady rule and
of training younger souls, aloofness of spirit in which the
spirit owns nothing even when the body is rolling in
wealth, are some of the other virtues acquired in the
householder's life. Such are some of the lessons to be
learnt in an earlier series of lives by the householder who
has fixed his eyes on the goal and who seeks to use his life
for the treading of the Probationary Path. In fact, such
life is the best training-ground for the life of the disciple.
Now an ordinary man acts for fruit to gratify his
lower nature, for desire of reward, of money, under the
sway of rajasic quality, but a man who aspires to a
spiritual life must change his ideal from selfishness to
service, change his motive in the work he may be doing,
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 431
and begin to do that, not because it brings him livelihood
—though there is nothing to be ashamed of in its bringing
him the wherewithal to live here—not because he wants to
gain something, but because it ought to be done. He may
teach, heal, argue, trade or enter into commercial relations
of all kinds, not for the mere money that it brings or the
power that it yields, but in order that the great work of the
world may be done and that by his service and help to
humanity he may be a co-worker with the Divine in the
world. Spirituality is the recognition of God everywhere
and in everything, and whether a man is of the world
worldly or of the spirit spiritual depends, not upon the
environment, the outer circumstances, but upon the inner
attitude. It is not a question of what one does, but how
one does it.
Thus Karma Yoga substitutes duty for self-grati­
fication, but there is something greater even than duty,
and that is when all action is done as sacrifice, when will­
ing and spontaneous sacrifice takes the place of duty. In
the outer daily life the man, formerly working for fruit in
the world and for heaven after death, does everything
first as duty and then as a free-will sacrifice, a joyful
giving of everything. Without Divine Sacrifice, Divine
self-limitations, there would have been no universe, none
of the worlds which fill the realms of space; and as the
life of the world is based on sacrifice, all true life is also
sacrificial. That which binds is not action, but the desire
for the fruiv of action ; and the only action that does not
bind is saci fice ; and so carrying out every function of
family and civic life as though he realised himself as an
embodied God, with every action done as sacrifice, the
householder, the man of the world, becomes the perfect
or spiritual man. These are the first steps to the Path of
432 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Discipleship for a man living in the world, leading him
onwards towards the finding of the Guru, leading him to
higher life till he has lost all attachment, is at heart the
unattached, the wanderer, and by renunciation and self-
sacrifice is filled with knowledge and devotion.
Q. What, now, is the first step or the most important
qualification necessary fo r approach to the Path ? What is
the mark whereby we can know whether a man is prepar­
ing to enter the Path Y
Ans. The first step without which no approach to
the Path is possible is the Service of Man. “ To live to
benefit mankind is the first step,” says The Voice of the
Silence. The life of the man approaching the Path is
marked by unselfish service of others, by his willingness to
sacrifice all for the good of others, by his readiness to
give up all, that worldly men account valuable, in devotion
to an ideal or to a cause which he believes to embody the
right. That is the mark of the man who is approaching
the Path. Such a man, developing hirnself by means of
service to others, realises the truth of the words which the
Christ Himself uttered: “ Inasmuch as ye have done it
unto the least of these My brethren ye have done it
unto Me.”
There is no distinction between various kinds of service,
provided it is unselfish and strenuous. It may be purely
intellectual, the work of the author or the writer trying to
spread among others the knowledge he has found; or it may
be along the line of art, wherein the musician, the sculptor,
the painter, puts before himself the ideal of making the
world a little more beautiful, a little more full of grace ; or
it may be along the line of social betterment where a man,
moved by sympathy for the poor, pours out his life into
the work of helping, or tries to change the old social
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 433
environments or customs which retard the progress of
mankind ; or again the work may be along political lines
with the life of a nation as the object of service, or it may
be along' the lines of healing. Any useful work may be
chosen according to capacity ; commerce, industry, supply­
ing men’s necessities, all come within service.
Q. But every one is engaged in one or other of these
activities. Where, then, lies the difference ?
Ans. The difference lies in the motive with which the
work is undertaken True, men are writers and authors,
politicians, social reformers and doctors ; they take part in
industry and commerce; but moved by what motive ?
Ordinary men are moved by motives of personal success,
not of service, nor of lifting a little of the heavy karma of
the world, of raising the world a little higher though at
the same time earning their livelihood therein. Of course
working for the fruit of action is necessary at a lower
stage, but the ideal of service, helping the weak, teaching
the ignorant, uplifting the oppressed, that unselfish service
which gives everything and asks for nothing in return, not
a choice, but an overpowering impulse, is the first step to
the Path.
Q. What, then, is the second step or qualification for
approach to the Path ?
Ans. Being possessed by an idea, so that no argument,
no personal advantage, can turn him away from it, marks
the second step. The fixed idea may be that of a maniac,
but that is a false idea. If the idea be a true one, turning
to the service of man, such an idea-possessed man, like an
enthusiast, a hero, a martyr, is near to the entrance of the
Path. When a man believes a thing to be true, it is
easier for him to die a martyr like Giordano Bruno than to
deny that truth. A man is judged more by his motive for
55
434 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
an action than by the action itself. The laurel-crown
of heroism is not for the brows of only the successful and
the strong; he also is heroic who aspires, even though,
aspiring, he fails. The efforts to realise a noble and lofty
Ideal transforms the life into the Great and the
Heroic. So making our action as wise as possible, we
should give ourselves wholly to Service, keeping nothing
back and helping wherever an opportunity for work
is seen, and should devote ourselves entirely to some
great ideal and follow it both in peace and in storm.
Q. What, now, does it mean to be a pupil of the
Master ? What is expected of him who aspires to become
one, and what is the work he has to do ?
Ans. The Masters have definitely dedicated Them­
selves to the service of humanity. Their force, though very
great, is still limited, and so They are very careful to use
it to the best advantage. A Master may take a man as a
pupil only when He sees that the amount of force used in
training him will produce greater result in the end than
any other method of expending the same amount. No
person, however benevolent, kind and earnest he may be in
his desire to help others, can be taken as a pupil if he is
still full of minor imperfections, or has some weakness
which may prove a serious obstacle in his way. If an
individual is to receive special help, he must show special
receptivity. A Master has no favourite. He has His
private affections just as we have, and assuredly He loves
some men more than others; but He will never allow such
feelings as those to influence His attitude in the very
slightest degree when the work is in question. He will
take much trouble over a man if He sees in him the seeds
of future greatness, if He thinks that he will prove a good
investment for the amount of time and force spent upon
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 435
him. There is no such possibility as the faintest thought
of favouritism in His mind. He considers simply and
solely the work which has to be done, the work of evolu­
tion, and the value of the man in relation to it. Only
unselfish service, or altruistic undertaking without thought
of self, a loving, selfless, helpful nature, catches the atten­
tion of a Master, and He turns towards that possible
disciple, putting opportunities in his way to test his strength
and to call forth his intuition.
To become a pupil of a Master therefore means that
the aspirant too must have the same outlook on life as the
Master, must absolutely forget himself and have no per­
sonal desire at all, must be willing to sacrifice everything,
and himself first of all, must order his whole life according
to the work he has to do, and must forsake all and follow
Him. According to the Christ: c
<He that loseth his life
shall find it,” while the Lord Buddha says: “ Kill out the
thirst for life, if you desire the Way.”
The pupil is employed by the Master in many
different ways. Some have to do the astral work of help­
ing the living and the recently dead ; others assist the
Master personally in the work being done ; some are sent
astrally to deliver lectures to audiences of less advanced
souls, or teach others who are free in the astral world
temporarily in sleep or permanently after death. The
newly dead have to be soothed and comforted, to be
delivered, when possible, from the terrible though un­
reasoning fear which but too often seizes them and retards
their progress to higher spheres in addition to causing them
unnecessary suffering, and to be explained, as far as
possible, the condition in which they find themselves and
the course of action which is most desirable for them.
They have also to be enabled, to the extent of their
436 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
capacity, to comprehend the future that lies before them.
Every astral helper has a number of regular cases. Most
of the training to a new pupil in astral work is given by
some of the older pupils, though the Master Himself may
sometimes give him some special instructions.
Pupils are also employed by the Powers of Good as
agents for the answering of prayers, and as channels for
the pouring forth of Their energy. They are further­
more trained to work by suggestion, i.e., simply to put
good thoughts into the minds of those who are ready to
receive them and suggest true and beautiful thoughts to
authors, poets, artists and musicians. Without these
influences humanity would be poor indeed, though for the
most part it knows little of the source of its true wealth.
The Adepts Themselves cannot turn aside from Their
exalted work to do these lower and easier tasks, because if
They did, the whole machinery of evolution would suffer.
Thus the pupils do a great variety of work in every
branch of civilisation and human culture, all of which is
part of the Adepts’ work in the world; being also
apprentices, as stated, before, at their lower level they serve
as channels of influence and transmitters of the force of
the Masters to the world at large.
Q. But with so much work requiring to be done, why
does not the Master use the many aspirants who are so
devoted to Him and who earnestly desire to be taken as
pupils and trained in order to help the world ?
Ans. There may be many reasons why He does not.
Sometimes a person will have some prominent fault which
is in itself quite a sufficient reason. Not infrequently, it is
pride. A person may have so great a conceit of himself,
that he is not amenable to teaching, although he thinks
that he is. Very often in this civilisation of ours the fault
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 437
is irritability. We live to a large extent in a civilisation of
torturing noises ; and above all things noise jars the nerves
and causes irritation. Some slight, unpleasant, temporary
feeling, which passes out of mind in ten minutes, perhaps,
may yet produce an effect on the astral body lasting for
forty-eight hours. The vibrations do not settle down
again for a considerable period of time. Thus a good and
worthy person will have his nerves all ajangle, so that it
would be impossible for him to be drawn into very close
and constant touch with the Master. Sometimes the
impediment is curiosity—curiosity about the affairs of
other people, and especially about their occult standing
or development. It would be quite impossible that a
Master should draw near to Himself one who had that
failing.
Another common hindrance is readiness to be
offended. Many a good and earnest aspirant is so easily
offended as to be of practically no use in the work, because
he cannot get on with other people.
Again, many persons, instead of looking at the good
points in the work or character of others, are ever ready
to find fault and indulge in destructive criticism. But a
Master says : iCThere is a higher criticism which pounces
upon a pearl as eagerly as your criticism flies at a flaw.”
Many people have failings of this kind ; but they
do not like if their fault is pointed out to them, and do
not generally believe that they have it.
Self-centredness is only another form of pride,
but it is very prominent at the present day. The person­
ality which we have been building up for many thousands
of years has grown strong, and often self-assertive,
and it is one of the hardest tasks to reverse its attitude
and compel it to acquire the habit of looking at things
438 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
from the standpoint of others. One must certainly step
out of the centre of his own circle, if he wishes to come
to the Master.
It sometimes happens, however, that the aspirants
have not any particular outstanding defect, but they are
not yet big enough, and must grow a little all-round before
they will be worthy. It requires some strength and
bigness to put oneself in the attitude towards the work
which the Master Himself adopts, because, in addition
to any defect of our own, we have the whole pressure
of the thought of the world against us—the steady
pressure of opinion from without—for millions of people
all around us are thinking personal thoughts.
The astral and mental bodies of an aspirant ought
to be continually exhibiting four or five big and splendid
emotions—love, devotion, sympathy and intellectual as­
piration among them. But instead of a few great
emotions vibrating splendidly and clearly with fine colour,
the astral body is generally seen to be spotted over with
red and brown and grey and black vortices, often a
hundred or more. They are somewhat like a mass of
warts would be on a physical body, preventing the skin
from being sensitive as it should be. The candidate
must see to it that these are removed, and that the usual
tangle of petty emotions is entirely combed away.
There can be no half measures on the Path.
Many people are in the position of those much-maligned
individuals, Ananias and Sapphira. They do not give
everything, but keep back a little bit to themselves—not
of their money, but of personal feeling deep down, which
holds them back from the Master’s feet. In occultism
that will not do. Aspirants must follow the Master
without reserve, not saying within: “ I will follow the
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 439
Master so long as He does not want me to work with
such-and-such a person ; I will follow the Master so long
as all that I do is recognised ! ” They must not make
conditions. This does not mean that they should give
up their ordinary physical plane duties, but simply that
their whole self should be at the Master’s disposal. They
must be prepared to yield anything, to go anywhere
—not as a test, but because the love of the work is the
biggest thing in their lives. They must adopt an alto­
gether different attitude towards life in general; that has
been expressed by one of the Masters in the phrase:
“ He that wishes to work with Us and for Us must leave
his own world and come into Ours.”
Q. What should we do to attract the attention of the
Master ?
Ans. If we work along the same lines as He works we
shall come more and more into sympathy with Him,
and our thoughts will become more and more like His.
This will bring us nearer and nearer to Him both in
thought and activity, and in so doing presently we shall
attract His attention, for He is all the time watching
the world in order to find those who will be of use in
His work. Noticing us, He will presently draw us
nearer to Him for still closer and more detailed obser­
vation. That is usually done by bringing us into contact
with one who is already His pupil. It is thus quite
unnecessary for anyone to make any direct effort to
attract His attention.
Q. But among the myriads of men in the whole of
humanity how can a Master know whether any person is
fit for the Path ?
Ans. On the background of human selfishness, in the
night of human struggle, a heart on fire with the love and
44o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
service of humanity glows like a lamp in the dark, like the
flame of a light-house in the darkness of the night, and the
Master knows at once that a future disciple is there.
As a man standing on a mountain-top sees a light in
a single cottage because the light shines out against the
surrounding darkness, so a man having lighted his soul,
catches the eye of the Watcher on the mountain. But a
rigid self-discipline is necessary before a man can become
even a candidate for discipleship.
Q. In what way is a man led to seek the Master ?
Ans. Truly has it been declared in an eastern Scripture,
the Bhagavad-Gita of the Hindus : “ By whatever road a
man approaches Me, even on that road do I welcome him,
for all roads are Mine.” And again : c
eThe ways to God
are as many, as the breaths of the children of men ” is the
exquisite saying of the Sufis, the mystics of Islam. But
all these various methods may be classed into three groups :
Jnana Yoga, Union by Knowledge,* Bhakti Yoga, Union
by Devotion; Karma Yoga, Union by Action; all the
three blending into one at a later stage when each acquires
the qualifications of the other two. In the first, one is
moved by an intense desire for knowledge, by the longing
to understand ; in the second a man approaches the seeking
by intense love for some person or loyalty and devotion to
a leader embodying an ideal; while in the third great type
one has the will-aspect aroused in him by the realisation
of the terrible suffering of so many around him. When
people have reached a point when they feel they must
know or perish, when they feel they must have a perfect
ideal or lose all heart to live, or when they feel they must
find a remedy for human pain, then something comes in
their way to stimulate a conscious search for a Master—a
comparatively insignificant thing or incident, a book, a
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 44r
lecture, a picture—and then knowledge comes to them
of the great facts of Reincarnation, of Karma, of the
existence of the Path, of the existence of Those who have
trodden the Path ; and with that comes a longing not only
to understand, but to be an instrument for the working out
of the Divine Plan in the scheme of evolution. Such a
person discovers that there is a science called the Science of
Yoga or the Science of Union, and he sees stretching
before him the beginning of the Path, and learns the
qualifications necessary for its treading.
Yoga is the application of the laws of evolution o f
the human mind to the individual, so that a man can
thereby quicken the evolution of his mind and outstrip his
race in order to help the world; it is the way by which
a man may hasten his evolution, expand his consciousness
and rise into union with the Divine. But Yoga requires a
Discipline of Life. The ordinary laws of Nature carry us
along ordinary evolution, but if we increase the stress for a
swifter evolution, we must strengthen those parts of
ourselves which are subjected to that strain. A man
wanting to do in a brief space of time what the vast
majority of his race will take hundreds of thousands of
years in accomplishing must prepare his unprepared body
and his untrained mind by the Discipline of Life and
acquire, at least to some extent, the Qualifications for
Discipleship before he can enter even the Probationary
Path.
Q. Of the two requirements, the Discipline of Life and
the Qualifications for Discipleship, what is meant by the
first ?
Ans. The Discipline of Life is a rigid self-discipline for
purification—purification of all the temporary vehicles, of
the physical body and the lower nature, of the emotions
56
442 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
and the mind. Alcoholic drinks of all kinds should be
given up, because the practice which leads to the seeking
of a Master necessitates meditation, concentrated and
definite, intended to stimulate and develop certain physical
organs in the brain, and alcoholic vapours and narcotic
drugs have a poisonous effect upon those organs.
Again, flesh-food of all kinds is to be dropped, for
it coarsens the body as explained in Chapter I. Apart
from the question of compassion, a student of Yoga
requires a body, strong and resistant, as well as sensitive
and responsive to the vibrations from the subtle worlds of
matter and of life.
The aspirant should then purify the astral body and
acquire self-control, training the lower nature until it is
absolutely subject to the will. He should cleanse the
desire-nature from every touch of the personal self and
purge it of everything which makes it separate from those
that are below as well as from Those that are above, thus
breaking down the walls of separateness. But while
striking away everything that is personal, he must retain
the essence of all the numerous qualities which he has
acquired as the result of his incessant climbing of the
Ladder of Life.
For the better understanding of the purification of
the lower nature some illustrations may be found useful.
Let us first take that mighty force which is developed in
the lower stages of the growth of every human being, but
which is now required to be purified—the force of anger
or wrath. We see it in the undeveloped man in the brutal
form of passion, beating down all opposition to the gratifi­
cation of his will. In order to train that passion of anger the
man first gets rid of the personal element by forgiveness
of injury as one of his duties, giving love for hatred,
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 443
overcoming evil with good. There still remains an imper­
sonal anger. He sees a poor man oppressed or an animal
ill-treated, and he gets angry with the .oppressor. That
impersonal anger, noble indignation, nobler than stolid
indifference, has to be transmuted into the quality of doing
justice both to the weak and to the strong, compassionating
the wrong-doer as well as the wronged, as the wrong-doer
through ignorance injures himself more than the person
wronged, by his storing up of evil karma for the future,
and therefore requires help and training. The man stops
the wrong-doing because it is his duty to do so, but
recognising the Divine even in the heart of the wrong-doer,
is gentle to him, transmuting the anger by spiritual
alchemy into perfect justice which stops all wrong, and
helps the tyrant as well as the slave, the oppressor as well
as the oppressed.
So again with love, sensual love that showed itself
in forms, foul and vile, becoming nobler and less selfish,
moralised, refined and purified, being transmuted by
spiritual alchemy into a love that in going out to others
seeks to serve them rather than to serve itself, seeks how
much it may give rather than how* much it may take, and
thus gradually becomes divine in its essence.
Similarly, covetousness, selfishness and other pas­
sions of the lower nature must be burnt up and purified
all through, in the Discipline of Life. Yoga is thus
accomplished by temperate self-control, by the deliberate
training of the lower nature, by quietly choosing pure
materials for food and by care and moderation in all
physical activities.
Q. Now as to the second requirement; what are the
qualifications demanded ere entrance to the Probationary
Path be gained ?
444 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Ans. The first of the qualifications, necessary to a con­
siderable extent before discipleship is possible, is control of
thought. When we say that a man is self-controlled, what
we ordinarily mean is that his intellectual or higher nature
with its mind and will, with its reasoning power and judg­
ment, is stronger than his lower nature with its passions
and emotions. That self-control in the ordinary sense of
the word is an admirable quality truly, but very much
more than that, more than control of the lower nature by
the higher, is wanted by a candidate for discipleship. We
have already studied the creative power and influence of
thought in Chapter VII, and thus know that a deliberate
control of thought is necessary in the systematic training of
the mind—thinking deliberately and with a purpose behind
the thought, refusing to harbour the cast-off fragments of
the thoughts of others and concentrating thought on one
idea by constant practice in daily life.
This control of thought is a necessary condition for
discipleship, because when a man becomes a disciple, his
thoughts gain added power and increased vitality and
energy. By a thought a man can kill another or heal a
disease ; by a thought he can influence a crowd or create
a visible illusion; and so before these mighty powers come
within his reach, he should learn to control his thoughts,
check all evil in them and harbour nothing save what is
pure, beneficent and useful.
Another important qualification is meditation, the
deliberate and formal training of the mind in concentration
and in fixity of thought. Daily practice of meditation,
devotional as well as intellectual, is necessary. The candi­
date in the hour of his morning-meditation should learn to
concentrate his mind on the Divine Ideal, the Teacher
whom he ultimately hopes to find; while for intellectual
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 445
meditation which is concerned with the gradual and con­
scious building of character, he should choose some good
quality as the subject of his meditation and should build it
in his life by the conjoint process of meditation and action.
He should meditate on purity, truth, compassion, fearless­
ness, forgiveness, chastity, etc., one after another, and
should build a noble character by working out those virtues
in the speech and actions of daily life.
Every one who meditates upon the Master makes a
definite connection with Him, which shows itself to clair­
voyant vision as a kind of line of light. The Master
always subconsciously feels the impinging of such a line
and sends out in response a steady stream of magnetism
which continues to play long after the meditation is over.
The regular practice of such meditation and concentration
is thus of the utmost help to the aspirant, and regularity
is one of the most important factors in producing the
result. It should be undertaken daily at the same hour,
and he should steadily persevere with it, even though no
obvious effect may be produced. When no result appears
he must be especially careful to avoid depression, because
that makes it more difficult for a Master’s influence to act
upon him, and it also shows that he is thinking of himself
more than of the Master.
Thus control of thought, daily meditation and noble
character are the three main qualifications for Probation
or probationary discipleship, but one quality underlies
them all, and that is earnestness, the earnestness which has
recognised its object and definitely seeks its goal.
Q. What is the object of the stage called Probation ?
How and why is a man takenfirst as aprobationary pupil ?
Ans. When an aspirant has by the practice of Yoga
purified all his vehicles, and has, by unselfish labour for
446 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
human good, by devotion, piety, purity and self-sacrifice,
by control of thought, meditation and nobility of character,
struggled onwards to the front crest of the advancing
human wave, showing a selfless nature all through in
the service of man, then he finds his Master, or rather
his Master finds him. But before He definitely accepts
him as a pupil, He takes special precautions to assure
Himself that the man is fit enough to be drawn into
intimate contact with Himself; and that is the object of
the stage called Probation. The Master subjects the
aspirant to the test of time, for many people, swept
upwards by enthusiasm, appear at first to be most prom is­
ing and eager to serve, but unfortunately become tired
after a while, and slip back. Throughout the struggle
those gracious eyes have been watching his progress, and
at a certain stage in that progress when he receives,
through a senior pupil, the Master's summons to enter into
His physical presence which he usually does in his astral
body, the Master reveals Himself to him and places him
definitely on Probation. There is not generally much
ceremony connected with this step ; the Master gives a few
words of advice, tells the new pupil what will be expected
of him, and often, in His gracious way, He may find som e
reason to congratulate him on the work that he has already
accomplished.
A pupil is put on Probation in response to a demand,
made by him to the Guardians of Humanity, to be given
opportunities for a swifter progress than is normal w ith
ordinary humanity. His individual karma has at the
same time to be readjusted, freeing him from such types o f
karma as may limit his further usefulness and giving him
greater opportunities for wider knowledge and m ore
effective service.
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 447
When a Master takes an aspirant as a probationary
pupil, it is with the expectation of presenting him for
Initiation in that life. But simply because a Master has
responded to his aspiration, it does not follow that the
pupil will succeed: the opportunity is given to him
because he has earned it as a karmic right, but what he
makes of that opportunity depends solely on himself. Still
he is very likely to succeed if he “ means business ” and
works strenuously in the service of the world.
Q. What are the ordinary faults in everyday life which
act as hindrances to the progress of the probationary
pupil ?
Ans. Irritability is a common fault; the torturing noises
of our present civilisation and the pressure of so many
astral bodies vibrating at different rates make it very
difficult to avoid irritability—especially for the pupil,
whose bodies are more highly strung and sensitive than
those of the ordinary man. Of course, this irritation is
somewhat superficial; yet some slight temporary feeling
may produce an effect lasting for forty-eight hours. When
such a fault as this is known, it can most effectually be
removed not by focussing attention upon it, but by en­
deavouring to develop the opposite virtue, as explained
before. One way of dealing with it is to set one’s thought
steadfastly against it, but there is no doubt that this course
of action arouses opposition in the mental or astral ele­
mental, so that often a better method is to try to develop
consideration for others, based of course fundamentally on
one’s love towards them. A man who is full of love and
consideration will not allow himself to speak or even to
think irritably towards them. If the man can be filled
with that idea the same result will be attained without
exciting opposition from the elementals.
448 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
There are many other forms of selfishness that can
delay the pupil’s progress very seriously. Laziness is one
form of these. A person enjoying himself very much with
a book will not like to leave it in order to be punctual;
another will write very badly, careless of the inconvenience
and the damage to the eyes and the temper of those who
have to read his caligraphy. All such things tend to make
one less sensitive to high influences, to make life unitidy and
ugly for other persons, and to destroy self-control and
efficiency. Efficiency and punctuality are essential, if satis­
factory work is to be done. Many people are inefficient;
when a piece of work is given to them, they do not
finish it thoroughly, but make all kinds of excuses ; or when
they are asked for some information, they do not know
how to find it. People differ much in this respect. One
person may be asked a question, and he will answer: I
don’t know ” ; but another will say: iCWell, I don’t know,
but I will go and find out ”, and he returns with the
required information.
Yet in all good work the pupil must always think
of the benefit that will result to others and of the oppor­
tunity to serve the Master in these matters—which even
when they are materially small are great in spiritual
value—and not of the good karma resulting to himself,
which would be only another and very subtle form of
self-centredness.
Other subtle effects of the same kind are to be seen
in depression and jealousy, and aggressive assertion of
one’s rights. An Adept has said: “ Think less about
your rights and more about your duties.” There are
some occasions in dealing with the outside world when
the pupil might find it necessary gently to state what he
needs, but amongst his fellow-pupils there are no such
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 449
things as rights, but only opportunities. If a man feels
annoyed, he begins to shoot out from himself aggressive
feelings; he may not go so far as actual hatred, but he
is setting up a dull glow in his astral body and affecting
his mental body as well.
Similar disturbances are frequently set up in the
mental body, and are equally disastrous in their effects.
If a man allows himself to be greatly worried over some
problem, and turns it over and over again in his mind
without reaching any conclusion, he has thereby set up
something like a storm in his mental body. There are
some argumentative people who must argue about every­
thing, and apparently love the exercise so much that they
scarcely care on which side of the problem they are
engaged. A person of that sort has his mental body
in a condition of perpetual inflammation, and the in­
flammation is liable on very slight provocation to break
out at any moment into an actual open sore. For such
a one there is no hope of any kind of occult progress,
until he has brought balance and commonsense to bear
on this diseased condition.
Those approaching the Masters must be utterly free
from all that is boisterous and rough. Again, there is
sometimes a tendency towards inane giggling which has a
very bad effect on the astral body. It weaves round it a
web of grey-brown threads, very unpleasant to look upon,
which forms a layer which hinders the entrance of good
influences. Joyousness should not be allowed, on the
one hand, to be tinged by any sort of roughness or
rudeness, nor, on the other, to degenerate into silly giggling.
Especially is it necessary for the aspirant to avoid
all fidgetiness or fussiness; for by yielding to these
failings, he sets up around him such an aura of tremulous
57
45o theosophy explained
vibrations that no thought or feeling can pass in or out
without distortion*
A clairvoyant who can see the effect upon the
higher bodies of the various undesirable emotions finds
no difficulty in understanding how important it is that
they should be controlled. But because most persons
cannot see the result they are liable to forget it, and allow
themselves to become careless. If the pupil who has
been put on Probation could see, while awake in his
physical body, the living images that the Master makes, he
would understand much more fully the importance of
what may seem to be but minor details. If he can
cultivate the habit of taking the right point of view, of
acting for the right reasons, and of being in the right
attitude, all along, and can work strenuously and un­
selfishly under the guidance of a senior pupil of the
Master, he will considerably quicken his progress and
will steadily draw nearer and nearer to the ideal of
the Masters.
Q* How does the seniorpupil guide they oungerpupil in
his progress ?
Ans. Very much help by example as well as by way of
definite instructions on all sorts of matters including the
formation of character is often given to the aspirant, both
probationary and accepted, by the presence of an older
pupil of the Master. As stated before, when a guru
selected his chelas in the early days in India, he formed
them into a group and took them about with him wherever
he went; and though often they received no instruction,
yet they made rapid progress, because all the time they
were within the aura of the teacher and were being
brought into harmony with it, instead of being surrounded
by ordinary influences. The Masters cannot adopt that
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 45l
plan physically, but They have sometimes arranged
matters so that some of Their elder pupils can draw round
themselves a group of the younger ones, and attend to
them individually, much as a gardener would deal with his
plants, raying upon them day and night the influences
needed to awaken certain qualities or strengthen weak
points. The older pupil rarely receives direct instructions
with regard to this work ; though now and then the Master
may make some remark op comment.
The fact that the pupils are together in a group also
assists their progress; they are influenced in common by
high ideals, and this hastens the growth of desirable
characteristics. It is probably inevitable in the course
of karmic law that one who is aspiring shall be brought
into contact with someone more advanced than himself,
and receive much benefit through his ability to respond to
him ; and generally the Master does not advance or raise
any person unless he has been with an older pupil who can
guide and help him, though there are exceptions, and each
Master has His own way of dealing with His pupils. Thus
the aspirant is trained and makes rapid progress under the
guidance of some senior pupil of his Master.
Q. Now what is the work to be accomplished by one
who enters on the Probationary Path ? What is the life
of the disciple in its early stages ?
Ans. The work is entirely moral and mental, and the
probationer has to bring himself up to the point when he
will tf meet his Master face to face ”. He now finds that
there are certain qualifications laid down for the treading
of the Probationary Path, the Path of Purification of the
Christian Church, and that he has to acquire them not
by a vague wish, but by daily meditation and practice
in life.
452 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
There are four qualifications required of a proba­
tionary pupil before he can become an accepted disciple,
though in this stage nothing like perfect performance is
demanded from him. Those qualifications are given in
detail in that admirable little book, At the Feet of the
Master, which has been translated into twenty-seven
languages and of which there have been some forty editions
or more with over a hundred thousand copies printed; we
can simply give an outline here with their technical names
in Sanskrit (used by Hindus) and Pali (used by Buddhists).
I. Viveha—discrimination between the real and
the unreal, between the eternal and the transitory; also
between the right and the wrong, the important and the
unimportant, the useful and the useless, the true and the
false, the selfish and the unselfish. The pupil should
develop a discrimination between fleeting things like fame,
power and social position, and lasting things like mental,
moral and spiritual qualities. He must learn to discern
the God within from the passions and follies without, and
seeing the Divine, the best, in every man and in everything
—no matter how evil he or it may appear on the surface—
must learn to identify himself with that best in order to
help. This quality is called Manodvaravajjana or the
opening of the doors of the mind, among the Buddhists.
II. Vairdgya—desirelessness or dispassion. The
ordinary desires, fleeting fancies, likings and dislikings,
making up so much of a man’s life, have not to be killed
out, but to be transcended and transmuted into the higher,
to be changed into the one desire to be in perfect accord
with the Divine Will. For example, weak, selfish human
love can have its animal side transcended with that love
turned into selfless love for all humanity. As the disciple
sees the unreality of things around him, worldly objects
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 453
lose their attractive power, and out of indifference to the
objects grows indifference for their fruits which also are
recognised as unreal and impermanent. He is not to
cease from activity; yet he is not to be ambitious, though
working like those who are so. One test of desirelessness
is that he should be able to see without a pang of regret
his whole project of years crumbling into dust. All
disappointment or regret comes from thought of self and
implies desire for the fruit of action. Moreover, so long
as an ungratified desire can cause him unhappiness, he is
still identifying himself with his desires. He should
“ never wish to shine or to appear clever, have no desire
to speak” and “ be accustomed to listen rather than to
talk ”, sternly repressing “ the wish to meddle in other
men’s business ”. Thus when Viveka is really felt, not
merely said, all desire for worldly objects ceases, and
Vzirdgya follows in the wake of Viveka. as the wheels
follow the horse. Among the Buddhists it is known as
Parikamma, preparation for action ; indifference to the
fruit of action, acquired by doing right without consider­
ing one’s own gain or loss.
III. Shatsampatti—the sixfold group of mental
qualities or attributes, mental endowments, sometimes
called Good Conduct, qualities most necessary for the
pupil; called Upacharo, attention to conduct, among the
Buddhists. Those qualities are given as •
i. Shama—quietude, control of thought. It is
more often the mind that controls the man than the man
that controls the mind. There should be the control of
temper with the mind calm and courageous, without worry
or depression, and this self-control as to the mind is
absolutely necessary, for unless the mind moves only in
obedience to the guidance of the will, it cannot be a perfect
454 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
instrument for the Master’s work in the future. Thi
qualification is a very comprehensive one, and include
within itself both the self-control and the calmness neces
sary for astral work.
2. Dama—subjugation, control of conduct, self
control in action, control in act and speech. Mucl
mischief is caused by thoughtless or unkind speech o:
careless repetition, but if the thought be right, conduc
will follow suit. “ Before the voice can speak in th<
presence of the Masters, it must have lost the power tc
wound.” The pupil should do all his ordinary duties, be
constantly active in good work and “ be always ready tc
offer help where it is needed, but never interfere ”.
3. Uparati—cessation from bigotry, tolerance ; a
kind and noble tolerance of all around him, able to under­
stand all and demanding from none more than he can give.
It is the recognition of the right of another to think for
himself without the slightest interference from others. With
this tolerant attitude he should look on all from within and
see their aspirations, desires and motives, and though know­
ing that no ceremonies are necessary, should yet refrain
from condemning those who cling to them. Freed from all
bigotry and superstition, he should learn to be tolerant of
all forms of religion, all varieties of custom, all beliefs and
traditions of men, knowing them as so many outward
appearances of the same fundamental Truth.
4. Titiksha—endurance. This virtue is also
translated as cheerfulness, as it implies the readiness to
bear, with cheerfulness and gladness, whatever one’s karma
may bring, and to part with anything and everything
worldly whenever it may be necessary. The pupil under-,
stands that <
cNothing matters much and most things
matter not at all ”, and unperturbed by joy or sorrow
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 455
knows that “ This too shall pass away ” and that “ What­
ever is, is best Realising that whatever comes to him in
the form of troubles of mind or body, of family or business,
is of his own creation in the past, and that those who do
him wrong are but the instruments of his own karma, he
hears all, not only with a total absence of resentment, but
with absolute cheerfulness. He also knows that he is of
little use to the Master till his evil karma is fully worked
out, and so he cheerfully welcomes any quickening of his
karma, working out now in one or two lives what otherwise
might extend over a hundred, thus paying in enormous
difficulties and troubles for what he gains in time.
5. Shraddha—faith, confidence. It is the deep
inner conviction of his own divinity and therefore of his
power to achieve; the strong faith in his own divinity, not
yet realised but felt; the perfect confidence in his Master
and in himself. Knowing that “ Unless there is perfect trust,
there cannot be the perfect flow of love and power ”, he
trusts to the uttermost his Master who has taught and
guided him and who will lead him through the thorny path
to the gate of Initiation; and through confidence in his
divine self he believes that “ What man (now his Master)
has done, man (he himself) can do
6. Samadhana—balance, composure, peace of
mind, equilibrium unshaken by sorrow or joy. It is one-
pointedness in the Master’s work which the pupil has set
before him to do ; one-pointedness in following the Path
from which no temptations, worldly pleasure or affections
can turn him aside even for a moment.
IV. Mumukshutva—desire for liberation
(from the-wheel of births and deaths) as the Hindu calls
it; Anuloma—
^lirect order or succession—as the Buddhist
names it, its attainment following on the other three
456 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
qualifications. It is really the will to be one with the
Supreme; and because the Supreme is Love, and because a
person who would become one with Him must be filled with
perfect unselfishness and love, love raised from the human
to the divine, a Master names this fourth qualification as
Love, and brands the three vices of gossip, cruelty and
superstition as sins against love. The pupil must not only
refrain from evil, but must be active in doing good and
must ever be on the watch to render service to all men,
animals and plants around him. He must yearn to be
one with God, not for his own sake, but in order that he
may be a channel through which His love and life may
flow to others.
The perfect attainment of these accomplishments
and qualifications is not expected at this early stage,
but when the pupil has acquired them so as to mark his
character, he is called the Adhikari by the Hindu and the
Gotrabhu (one in the condition of fitness for Initiation) by
the Buddhist. fe Only those actions through which shines
the light of the Cross are worthy of the life of the disciple ”,
says one of the verses in a book of occult maxims ; and
this means that all that the aspirant does should be
prompted by a fervour of self-sacrificing love. He has
trodden the Probationary Path which leads up to the
“ Strait Gate ” of Initiation, beyond which is the ancient
narrow w ay”, the path “ difficult to tread as the sharp
edge of the razor ”, the “ Path of Holiness
Q. Does the Master give to the probationary pupil any
special work to be done or any advice and instruction ?
Ans. In the case of elder people put upon Probation,
they are left to a large extent to find the most suitable
work for themselves; but with the younger people He
sometimes quite definitely puts a piece of work in the
THE MASTERS AND THE W
AY TO THEM 457
way of one of them and watches to see how he does it.
He condescends sometimes to give special messages of
‘
encouragement and instruction to individuals among these
young people, and even to give special advice as to their
training. For the guidance of other young people who
•desire to follow along the same path extracts from some
of those messages are given here:
“ I know that your one object in life is to serve
the Brotherhood ; yet do not forget that there are higher
steps before you, and that progress on the Path means
sleepless vigilance. You must not only be always ready
to serve; you must be ever watching for opportunities
— nay, making opportunities—to be helpful in small things,
in order that when the greater work comes you may not
fail to see it.
“ Never for a moment forget your occult relation­
ship ; it should be an ever-present inspiration to you—not
only a shield from the fatuous thoughts which float around
us, but a constant stimulus to spiritual activity. The
vacuity and pettiness of ordinary life should be impossible
for us, though not beyond our comprehension and
compassion.
“ Each must realise that there are other points
of view than his own and that they may be just as worthy
of attention. All coarseness or roughness of speech, all
tendency to argumentativeness, must absolutely dis­
appear ; one who is prone to it should check himself when
the impulse towards it arises; he should say little, and
that always with delicacy and courtesy. Never speak
without first thinking whether what you are going to say
is both kind and sensible.
“ Thoughts and feelings of an undesirable kind
must be rigorously excluded ; you must work at them
until they are impossible to you. Touches of irritability
ruffle the calm sea of the consciousness of the Brother­
hood. Pride must be eliminated, for it is a serious bar
to progress. Exquisite delicacy of thought and speech is
needed—the rare aroma of perfect tact which can never
58
458 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
jar or offend. That is hard to win, yet you may reach
it if you will.
<
f Definite service, and not mere amusement, should
be your aim ; think, not what you want to do, but what
you can do that will help someone else; forget about
yourself, and consider others. A pupil must be consistently
kind, obliging, helpful-—not now and then, but all the
time. Remember, all time which is not spent in service
(or fitting yourself for service) is for us lost time.
“ When you see certain evils in yourself, take them
in hand manfully and effectively. Persevere, and you will
succeed. It is a question of will-power. Watch for
opportunities and hints ; be efficient. I am always ready
to help you, but I cannot do the work for you ; the effort
must come from your side. Try to deepen yourself all
round and to live a life of utter devotion to service.
“ You have done well, but I want you to do better
yet. I have tested you by giving you opportunities to
help, and so far you have taken them nobly. I shall there­
fore give you more and greater opportunities, and your
progress will depend upon your recognising them and
availing yourself of them. Remember that the reward of
successful work is always the opening out before you of
more work and that faithfulness in what seem to you
small things leads to employment in matters of greater
importance. I hope that you will soon draw closer to Me,
and in so doing will help your brothers along the Path
which leads to the feet of the King. Be thankful that you
have a great power of love, that you know how to flood
your world with sunlight, to pour yourself out with royal
prodigality, to scatter largess like a king ; that indeed is
well, but take care lest in the heart of this great flower of
love there should be a tiny touch of pride, which might
spread as does an almost invisible spot of decay, until it
has tainted and corrupted the whole blossom. Remember
what our great Brother has written : ‘ Be humble if thou
wouldst attain to wisdom ; be humbler still when wisdom
thou hast mastered.’ Cultivate that modest fragrant
plant, humility, until its sweet aroma permeates every fibre
of your being.
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 459
te I welcome you, the latest recruit to our glorious
hand. It is not easy for you to forget yourself entirely, to
yield yourself without reservation to the service of the
world ; yet that is what is required of us-—that we should
live only to be a blessing to others, and to do the work
which is given us to do. You have made a good beginning
in the process of self-development, but much yet remains
to be done. Repress even the slightest shade of irritability,
and be ready always to receive advice and instruction ;
^cultivate humility and self-sacrifice, and fill yourself with
a fervid enthusiasm for service. So shall you be a fitting
instrument in the hand of the Great Master, a soldier in
the army of Those who save the world. To help you in
that I now take you as a probationary pupil.”
Q. W hat, now, becomes of the pupil after he has
acquired the four qualifications in the probationary
stage ? What is the period fo r that stage and what is his
relation to his Master during that and the other follow ing
stages ?
Ans. When a man has acquired the qualifications
necessary for entrance upon the stage of the probationary
pupil, the Master calls him astrally into His presence as
stated before, takes him upon Probation, and keeps him
under close observation for an average period of seven
years, though that period is known to have been lengthened
to thirty years in the case of an unsatisfactory candidate
and reduced to only a few weeks in one quite exceptional
case. During that period of Probation the pupil, though
receiving during sleep much teaching from his Master,
using his astral body as a vehicle of consciousness for
the astral work of help, and learning also much of the life
of the mental plane during meditation, does not come in
-direct communication with his Master and hears or sees
■nothing of Him.
The Probation or proving of the pupil consists in
testing him to see how far he can withstand the shocks of
46o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
his karma which has to be hastened, and yet remain firm
in his altruism, in spite of the fact that his life becomes
more barren of those satisfactions and delights which make
life worth living for most men. He is also tested to see if
he understands that <
fA small thing which is directly
useful in the Master's work is far better worth doing than
a large thing which the world would call good ”, and
adapts himself sufficiently to be an eager worker and
servant of the Master in His numerous activities for the
evolution of humanity. The pupil is thus put on Proba­
tion less to gain knowledge from the Master and more to
train himself as an apprentice to help the Master in His
work. He is consequently expected to harmonise his
methods of work to those of his Master, to be ready ta
co-operate with his fellow-apprentices and in all ways to.
prove that an Ideal of work weighs more with him than
his personal satisfaction as a worker. But then during
this period, though full of tests and trials of all sorts on all
planes, relieved at times by encouraging experiences and
hints and help, no special difficulties are, as a rule, put in
his way, and he is simply watched carefully by the Master
in his attitude towards the little daily troubles of life..
For convenience of observation the Master makes what is
called a £living image ’ of the pupil—that is to say, He
moulds out of mental, astral and etheric matter an exact
counterpart of the causal, mental, astral and etheric
bodies of the neophyte, and keeps that image at hand, so-
that He may look at it periodically. Each image is-
magnetically attached to the person whom it represents,
so that every variation of thought and feeling in him is
accurately reproduced in it by sympathetic vibration, and
thus by a single glance at the image the Master can see at
once whether during the period since He last looked at it
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 461
there has been any sort of disturbance in the bodies which
it represents—whether the man has been losing his temper,
or allowing himself to be a prey to impure feelings, worry,
depression, or anything of the kind.
If that prospective pupil’s progress in the acquisi­
tion of the four qualifications, outlined before, as well as in
the perfectly accurate record of his thoughts and feelings,
read through the living image, is found satisfactory,
another summons comes from the Master who then dis­
solves the living image and takes the pupil into the far
closer relationship of the second stage—the stage of the
accepted pupil—and gives him illuminating teaching to-
help him more swiftly on his way. He now becomes a
channel for the forces of the Master and an intelligent
co-operator with Him, an outpost of his Master’s con­
sciousness. In order to have his vehicles harmonised and
attuned by close association with the Master, he is taken
into his Master’s consciousness so intimately, that whatever
he sees or hears is within the knowledge of the Master
and if unfortunately some thought, unfit to be harboured
by the Master, comes into the consciousness of the pupil,,
the Master has at once to erect a barrier to shut off that
vibration from Himself. But as that directs the attention
of the Master and takes a certain amount of His energy,
the pupil has to guard himself very carefully against
thoughts, not only definitely evil or selfish, but even trifling:
or critical. Being in this way in close touch with his
Master’s thoughts, he can at any time see what that
thought is upon any given subject, test his judgment by
the judgment of the Master on the subject by raising his
consciousness for the moment to touch the fringe of his-
Master’s consciousness, and thus save himself from error ;
while the Master can at any moment send a though*.
462- THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
through the pupil in the form of either a suggestion or a
message, though in the earlier stages the pupil supposes
those ideas to have arisen spontaneously in his own mind.
Then there is the third stage of even more intimate
union when the pupil becomes what is called the ‘ Son *
of the Master, and the link is such that not only the lower
mind but also the ego in the causal body of the pupil is
enfolded within that of the Adept. That is brought about
only after the Master has, through considerable experience
of the man as an accepted disciple, satisfied Himself that
nothing unworthy, requiring to be shut off, will ever arise
in the mind or astral body of the pupil; for though the
accepted pupil can be switched off when desired, the
’
‘ Son drawn into a close and sacred union, cannot be so
shut off or have his consciousness separated from that of
the Master even for a moment. He who is a Son of the
Master either already is or will soon become a member of
the Great White Brotherhood also. Being a ray of his
Master’s consciousness, the pupil now comes to possess a
depth of wisdom which is not his own, but is given to him
for use by his Master. Nevermore can the pupil be alone;
in griefs and in joys, in darkness and in light, the Master’s
consciousness enfolds that of the pupil, even though at
times the latter may not be aware of that glorious fact.
At each stage, from Probation to Acceptance and
thence, to Initiation, the Master formally presents His
pupil to the Mahachohan and the pupil’s name and rank
are entered by that Keeper of the Records of the Occult
Hierarchy in His imperishable Record.
The intervals of time between the various stages on
the Probationary Path depend upon the initiative and
the capabilities of the pupil. It may occasionally happen
that behind some particular pupil there may exist a great
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 463
accumulated karma of service which may give him the
strength and the opportunities which others have not
earned. Still a forceful and determined pupil may
override all obstacles and “ enter the Path ” swiftly, while
one who lets opportunities slip by may have to spend
decades in one stage before passing to the next. All
pupils receive the inspiration of the Master equally, but
each assimilates from it according to his own capacity.
The probationary discipleship, the accepted disci*
pleship and the sonship are merely personal relations,
between the Master and the pupil, and have nothing to do
with Initiations or steps on the Path Proper, which are
tokens of the man’s relation to the Great White Brother­
hood and its august Head.
Q. What is Initiation and what is its object ?
Ans. It is the expansion of consciousness, the widening
out of consciousness to embrace the superphysical as well
as the physical, the ceremony of Initiation being a series
of actual events through which a man, out of the physical
body, passes in the presence of the great assembly of the
Masters. The man with his expanded consciousness as
with a new sense conferred on him, with the key of know­
ledge opening up to him new vistas of power and know­
ledge for the service of humanity, becomes conscious of a
new world which then comes within his power of study,
within his faculty to investigate and to know. On the
three lower planes—the physical, the astral and the
mental, often spoken of as ‘ the three w orld sth e well-
known Triloki or Tribhuvanam of the Hindu cosmogony
—is proceeding the normal evolution of humanity. On
the next two planes—spiritual, those of Wisdom and Power,
the Buddhic and the Atmic—goes on the specific evolution
of the Initiate, after the First of the Great Initiations.
464 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
The First Initiation admits the disciple as a member
of the lowest rank in that great Brotherhood which governs
the world. The Initiation is given by an appointed Member
of the Brotherhood in the Name of the One Initiator,
and the ceremony of Initiation is an official examina­
tion, demonstrating the candidate’s fitness so to use
the new powers to be conferred on him that he may
become a better helper in the world of men. The mysteries
of Greece and Rome, as well as modern Freemasonry, are
faint imitations of the real ceremony itself and of the tests
which the candidate undergoes.
Most people when they think of Initiation have in
mind a step to be gained for themselves. They think of
the Initiate as a man who has developed himself very
highly, and has become a great and glorious figure, as
compared with the man of the outer world. That is true;
but the importance of Initiation does not lie in the exalt­
ation of an individual, but in the fact that he has now
become definitely one with a great Order, thef Communion
of Saints ’, as it is very beautifully put in the Christian
Church, though few ever pay attention to the real meaning
of those words.
The entry into the Brotherhood of Those who rule
the world is the third of the great critical points in man’s
evolution. The first of these is when he becomes a man—
when he individualises out of the animal kingdom and
obtains a causal body. The second is what is called by
the Christian, ‘ conversion ’ and by the Hindu, the acquire­
ment of discrimination, or Vivsha, as explained before.
The third point is the most important of all, for the
Initiation which admits him to the ranks of the Brother­
hood also insures him against the possibility of failure to
fulfil the divine purpose in the time appointed for it in the
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 465
present stream of evolution, and not drop out at the fDay of
Judgment ’—at the critical period in the middle of the next
or fifth round. Hence those who have reached this point
are called in the Christian system*the ‘ elect *, the ‘saved *
or the *safe 5
. The words used in admitting a candidate
to the Great Brotherhood at the stately ceremony of the
First Initiation include that very verse: “ You are now
safe for ever ; you have now entered upon the stream;
may you soon reach the further shore ”—the further shore
being Adeptship, the next great stage for the Initiate,
Of these Initiations—these ceremonials on the Path
leading to Perfection—there are five, the Fifth being that
of the Adept (or the Master). At the First Great Initiation
there is the definite union of the ego and the personality
of the candidate. He has to pass the Second, Third and
Fourth Initiations before he reaches Adeptship, which is
the Fifth ; but when he gains that Fifth, he unites the
Monad and the ego just as before he had united the ego
and the personality; so that when he has achieved the
union of the higher and the lower self—when his person­
ality no longer exists except as an expression of the ego—
he has to begin the very same process over again, as it
were, and make that ego an expression ofj the Monad
before attainment of Adeptship, which signalises his
departure from the human kingdom and his entry into the
superhuman.
Q. What, then, is the Path which finally leads to
Perfection ?
Ans. The Path leading to Initiation and thence to the
Perfecting of man is recognised in all great religions, and
its chief features are described in similar terms. In the
Roman Catholic teachings it is divided into three parts:
i. The Path of Purification or Purgation. 2. The Path
59
466 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
of Illumination. 3. The Path of Union with Divinity.
Among the Musalmans, in the Sufi—mystic—teachings of
Islam, it is knowm as the Way, the Truth and the Life.
In Hinduism and Buddhism we find it divided into two
parts, again subdivided. The Probationary Path of the
Hindu and the Buddhist, where certain moral qualifica­
tions have to be developed, is the Path of Purification of
the Christian. For this portion of the Path, while the
Christian lays more stress on the passive fact of purifica­
tion, the Eastern lays more stress on the active acquire­
ment of high qualifications—one rather the negative side,
and the other the active side of positive achievement.
The Path of Holiness, the second part of the Path accord­
ing to the Hindu and the Buddhist, is divided into four
stages, of which the first two represent the Path of
Illumination, and the last two the Path of Union, of
the Christian. Each of these four stages is marked
by an expansion of consciousness and is entered by
a special Initiation, symbolised among Christians as
the Birth, Baptism, Transfiguration, and Crucifixion
and Resurrection of the Christ. At the end of the
fourth stage comes the attainment of Adeptship, (or
Masterhood,) Liberation, Final Salvation, symbolised by
the Ascension of the Christ and the Descent of the Holy
Spirit.
Q. On what conditions or qualifications does thefitness
fo r Initiation of the pupil depend ?
Ans. The question as to whether a man is approaching
fitness for Initiation involves three separate sets of con­
siderations, all depending upon one another. The first is
as to whether he is in possession of a sufficient amount of
the necessary qualifications as laid down in At the Feet
of the Master, and that means that he must have a
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 467
minimum of all, and very much more than a minimum of
some of them. Secondly, the ego must have so trained
his lower vehicles that he can function perfectly through
them when he wishes to do so ; he must have effected what
in our earlier Theosophical literature was called the
junction of the lower and the higher self—of the personality
and the ego; and thirdly, he must be strong enough to
stand the great strain involved, which extends even to the
physical body.
Q. At what level of progress is a pupil initiated ?
Ans. There is a great variety as to the levels of
progress at which pupils are initiated. All Initiates are
unequal in development just as all men who have taken
the degree of M.A. are unequal in knowledge. A man
might have done exceedingly well in many of the subjects
required, and be far beyond the total minimum, and yet
be seriously deficient and below the minimum standard in
one subject; it would, then, of course be necessary for him
to wait till he had the minimum in that neglected subject,
and no doubt while he was acquiring that, he would be
developing the others still further. It is therefore obvious
that while there is a certain attainment required for
Initiation, some of those who are presented for it may
have achieved far more than that in some directions. It
will be thus seen that there is likely to be considerable
variation in the interval between Initiations. One man
who has just now been able to take the First, may never­
theless possess a considerable share of the qualifications
for the Second ; therefore for him the interval between the
two might be unusually short. On the other hand, a
candidate who had only just sufficient strength in all
directions to enable him to pass through the First, would
have slowly to develop vrithin himself all the additional
468 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
faculties and knowledge necessary for the Second, so his
interval would probably be long.
We have now entered upon a period in the world’s
history in which progress at all levels of evolution can be
very rapid, because the recent advent of the World-Teacher
has set up so strong a tide of thought and feeling about
spiritual things, all in the direction of progress, that
anyone who now makes an effort along that line finds
himself swimming with the current and advancing swiftly.
A rapid occult progress is a very decided strain, and
the student of occultism who sets before himself the idea
of hastening his development should remember that one of
the necessities is good physical health. He wishes to make
in one life the progress which under ordinary circumstances
would be distributed over fifty or more, and as the
amount that has to be done is the same in either case, for
no reduction whatever has been made in the standard of
the requirements for Initiation, he must obviously work all
his vehicles very much harder if he is to succeed.
Hitherto, except very rarely, persons have been
initiated only after their physical bodies have come to
mature age, and after they have proved by their activities
in life that their hearts are pledged to the work of the
Logos. During the last few years, however, certain egos
whose bodies are still young have been given the privilege
of Initiation, and this has been done in order that the Lord
who has now come may find a band of young workers
ready to serve Him. Since His arrival, the World-Teacher
wields the wondrous consciousness of the Brotherhood,
and the more helpers dwelling in physical bodies that He
draws round Him at any given place, the more is His
work facilitated. He can use the services of any
ordinary man of the world to the extent of that man’s
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 469
capacity; but one who is already an accepted pupil of the
Master would be of far more use to Him in many directions
than the man of the world could ever be; and of almost
infinitely greater use still would be one who had passed the
portal of Initiation and had awakened all the multiple
links which bind together the members of the Brotherhood.
It is always the ego who is initiated ; the age of the physi­
cal body which it happens to be holding at a given time
has little to do with the case.
Q. How, then, does the pupil get initiated and become
a member of the Great White Brotherhood ?
Ans. When the Master, after close identification of the
pupil's consciousness with His own, is satisfied with him—
coincident usually just before or after sonship—He presents
him before the Brotherhood for the solemn ceremony of
the First Initiation. The candidate is proposed and
seconded by two of the higher members of the Brotherhood
—of the rank of Adepts—one of Them being his own
Master. The presentation is made in the first instance to
the Mahachohan, who then appoints one of the Masters to
act as the Hierophant-Initiator. Either in the Hall of
Initiation, or in some other appointed place, the candidate
is then formally initiated at a stately ceremony by the
Hierophant-Initiator, who in the name of the One Initiator
receives the plighted vow of the candidate, and puts in his
hand the new key of knowledge which he is to use on the
level now attained.
Of the account of a First Initiation given to a
candidate on the night of May 27th, i 9i 5, it is said : i€ In
this case the Lord Maitreya was the Initiator, and con­
sequently the ceremony took place in His garden. When
the Master Morya or the Master Kuthumi performs the
rite, it is usually held in the ancient cave-temple, the
47o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
entrance to which is near the bridge across the river
between Their houses. There was a large gathering of the
Adepts, all those whose names are familiar to us being
present. The glorious garden was at its best; the rhodo­
dendron bushes were one blaze of crimson blossom, and
the air was fragrant with the scent of the early roses. The
Lord Maitreya sat in His usual place on the marble seat
which runs round the great tree in front of His house; and
the Masters grouped Themselves in a semicircle on His
right and left, on seats which were placed for Them on the
grass terrace from which the marble seat rises by a couple
of steps. But the Lord Vaivasvata Manu and the Maha-
chohan sat also on the marble seat, one on each side of the
arms of the specially raised carved throne which faces
exactly south, which is called the Throne of Dakshina-
murti.”
What happens to the candidate is truly an ‘ initia­
tion i,e.9 a beginning. It is the beginning of a new form
of existence, where the personality becomes steadily more
and more a mere reflex of the ego, and the ego himself
begins to draw upon the powers of the Monad. The soul
of man is really that highest part of him which is the
Monad ; but from the moment when the Monad made the
causal body out of the animal group-soul at individuali­
sation, the “ spark hangs from the Flame by the finest
thread of Fohat The ego, though linked thus to the
Monad, has had, up to the moment of Initiation, no means
of communication with that highest aspect of himself.
But at Initiation, at the call of the Hierophant, the
Monad descends into the causal body to take the vow of
Initiation, to pledge himself to devote all his life and all
his strength thenceforth to promote the work of evolu­
tion, to forget himself absolutely for the good of the world,
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 471
to make his life all love, even as God is all Love, and to
keep secret those things which he is told to keep secret.
From that moment, the *finest thread of Fohat *becomes
as a bundle of threads, and the ego, instead of hanging
merely as a ‘ spark’, becomes as the end of a funnel,
which reaches downwards from the Monad and brings life
and light and strength to the candidate.
After his Initiation, the candidate is taken by his
Master, or by a senior pupil, to the Buddhic plane, to be
taught to function there in his Buddhic vehicle. Here
now happens what has not happened before. Each night
when the pupil left his body to work on the astral or the
mental plane, his physical body, or his astral—one or both
as the case may be—has been left behind on the bed, to be
donned wr
hen he returned to them. When he now leaves
the higher mental plane for the Buddhic plane, he of
course leaves his causal body ; but this causal body,
instead of remaining with the physical, astral and
mental bodies, vanishes. When the pupil, from his
Buddhic vehicle, looks down on to the higher mental
plane, no causal body is there any longer to represent
him. The Christ said: “ He that loseth his life for
My sake shall find it.” As Christ represents the
Buddhic principle, the words mean : “ He who for My
sake—for the Christ development within him—will put
aside the causal body in which he has been living for so long
will find himself—will find the truer, grander and higher
life.” It needs some courage to do it. The first time a
man is wholly in the Buddhic vehicle and finds that his
causal body upon which he has been depending all these
thousands of years has vanished—it is rather startling,
and yet that is the way. He must lose his life for Christ’s
sake, if he wants to find it for all eternity. It is true that
472 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
when the pupil-initiate returns from his Buddhic body, he
finds himself in a causal body again ; but it is not the
causal body which he has had for millions of years since
the day of individualisation, but a causal body which is a
replica of that age-long house of his. With his first
Buddhic experience the Initiate understands that he is not
the ego, but something more transcendental, and also
knows, not merely believes on faith, the Unity of all that
lives—how all men’s lives, their griefs as well as joys,
failures as well as successes, are inseparable from his life.
To attain to the level of the First Great Initiation,
a man must dominate his body by means of his soul; he
must so arrange that all his feelings are in harmony with
the highest feeling. When the second of the great steps
comes, the same process is carried a stage further, and the
man’s mind, and not only his feelings, is brought into tune
with his Master’s mind. It is of course, still infinitely
below it, for he is only man, and very frail and human,
while the Master rises above humanity as a Superman ;
but nevertheless the pupil’s thoughts should lie along the
line of his Master’s thoughts. Just as the man who is
beginning to tread the Path says: tc In these circumstances,
what would the Master have done ? Let me do the same.”
So the man who has passed the second stage should watch
his thought every moment, and say to himself: “ What
would the Master have thought in such a case as this ?
How would this thing have envisaged itself to him ? ”
Of these Initiations—these great ceremonials on the
Path Proper—there are five as stated before.
Q. How do we find these Initiations among the
Christian doctrines ?
Aris. The life of the Christ is not only a historical
record, but is also the story of the unfolding human spirit
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 473
through the gateways of Initiation. He in whom the
Christ is born, the Christ-child, the new Initiate, is spoken
of all over the world as the ‘little child 9 born in the new
life of the spirit ,* and the expansion of consciousness he
attains consists in his having opened to him the great
spiritual world, in which all truths are known by intuition
and not reasoning, knowledge becoming intuitive instead of
rational. Because of the new world into which he is born,
he is called twice-born; born on earth indeed many times,
hut always born into the life of matter ; born now into the
life of the spirit, which becomes his for evermore; and so
also the First Great Initiation is spoken of as the 4second
birth the ‘birth of the Spirit \
Thus the First Initiation is symbolised among the
Christians by the Birth of the Christ when the Star in the
East rises over the young Child; the Second by the Bap­
tism where the Spirit descends upon Him and dwells with
Him for evermore; the Third by the Transfiguration on
the Mount, where the inner Deity shines through. The
Fourth Initiation is indicated by the suffering in the
Garden of Gethsemane, the Crucifixion and the Resurrec­
tion of the Christ, while the Fifth is the Initiation of the
Master, of the Perfected Man who has attained to the
stature of the fulness of the Christ, the Saviour of men,
and is symbolised by the Ascension of the Christ and the
Descent of the Holy Spirit.
The First Initiation is aptly symbolised in the
mystery-drama by the Birth of the Christ, because at
that stage there arises within the man a great change
and a new power, which is well expressed by the idea
of a birth. At the Second, there is a wonderful down­
pouring of force from the Initiator to the candidate,
which is typified by the Baptism of the Christ, or rather
60
474 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
by the Baptism of which He spoke—that of the Holy-
Ghost and of Fire; for it is the power of the Third
Person of the Blessed Trinity that is outpoured at
that moment, descending in what may but inadequately
be described as a flood of fire, a flaming tide of
living light.
The Third Initiation is typified in Christian
symbolism by the Transfiguration of the Christ. He
went up into a high mountain apart, and was trans­
figured before His disciples: <
f His face did shine as the
sun, and His raiment was white as the light,” “ exceeding
white as snow, so as no fuller on earth can white them.”'
This description suggests the Augoeides, the glorified
man, and it is an accurate picture of what happens at this
Initiation, for just as the Second Great Initiation is
principally concerned with the quickening of the lower
mental body, so at this stage the causal body is especially
developed. The ego is brought more closely into touch
with the Monad, and is thus transfigured in very truth.
Even the personality is affected by that wondrous
outpouring. The higher and the lower self became one
at the First Initiation, and that unity is never lost, but
the development of the higher self that now takes place
can never be mirrored in the lower worlds of form, although
the two are one to the greatest possible extent.
Now in these steps, especially in the third, not
only does the man come face to face with himself, with
the God within him (the Monad to the ego, the ego to
the personality, each is the higher self in relation to
that which is below it), but he comes face to face also-
with the *King \ the One Initiator. In His name all
Initiations are given, but in the first and second steps some
Master acts for Him as a Deputy or Hierophant-Initiator,
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 475
although He acts only with the King’s express per­
mission through the Mahachohan, as stated before.
But the man who is so fortunate as to reach the third
great step must come face to face with the King who,
at this third step, either confers the Initiation Himself,
or deputes one of His Pupils, the three Lords of the
Flame who came with Him from Venus, to do so ; and
in the latter event the man is presented to the King soon
after the Initiation has taken place. Thus the Christ is
brought into the presence of His Father; the Buddhi
in the Initiate is raised until it becomes one with its
origin on the Nirvanic plane, and a very wonderful union
between the first and the second principles in man is
then effected. That is why, in connection with the Feast
of the Transfiguration comes also the Feast of the
Presentation of Christ in the Temple, sometimes called the
Purification of the Blessed Virgin Mary, or Candlemas
Day.
The mystery-drama of the Christ-life symbolises
not only man’s progress, but also the descent of the
Second Logos, the Second Person of the Blessed Trinity
into matter. First came the Annunciation, when the
Third Person of the Blessed Trinity sends the First
Outpouring down into matter, and so hovers over and
permeates the virgin seas of matter which are typified in
the Christian system by the Blessed Virgin Mary, whose
Latin name, Maria, is plural of Maree, the sea. So she is
the seas of matter of the different planes. The whole
thing is a vast and beautiful allegory, in which that first
descent is symbolised by the Annunciation; and a long
time after that—the way having been slowly prepared by
that Third Aspect, God the Holy Ghost—the Second
Aspect, God the Son, descends into matter, and is born as on
476 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Christmas Day. But that fructification of matter, that
vivifying of it, takes tim e; and so in the allegory it shows
its result forty days later in the Festival of the Purification
of the great seas of matter, which means their vivification
and their elevation by the presence in them, the blossoming
out through them, of this Second great Aspect. This
result appears when the new-born Christ is presented to
the Father; that is to say, when the Third Outpouring
which comes from the First Aspect, the First Person of
the Blessed Trinity, comes upon it; and that perfected
purification of matter is typified by the presentation of the'
Christ in His House, His Temple, to His Father.
The Fourth Initiation differs from all the others in
that it has this strange double aspect of suffering and
victory. Each of the earlier Initiations was symbolised in
the Christian system by one definite fact, the Birth, the
Baptism, the Transfiguration; but in order to represent
this Fourth Initiation, a series of events has been found
necessary. The Crucifixion and all the varied sufferings
of which it was the culmination were employed to typify
one side of this Initiation, while the Resurrection with its
triumph over death represents the other side. Always at
this stage there is suffering, physical, astral and mental;;
always there is the condemnation by the world, and the
apparent failure; always there is the splendid triumph
upon higher planes—which, however, remains unknown to
the outer world. The peculiar type of suffering which
invariably accompanies this Initiation clears off any arrears
of karma which may still stand in the Initiate’s way ; and
the patience and joyousness with which he endures them
have great value in the strengthening of his character, and
help to determine the extent of his usefulness in the work:
which lies before him.
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 477
The Crucifixion and the Resurrection which sym­
bolise the actual Initiation are thus described in an ancient
Egyptian formula:
“ Then shall the candidate be bound upon the
wooden cross, he shall die, he shall be buried, and shall
descend into the under-world; after the third day he shall
be brought back from the dead.”
In Christian symbolism the Ascension of the Chirst
and the Descent of the Holy Spirit stand for the attainment
of Adeptship, for the Adept does ascend clear above human­
ity, beyond this earth, although if He so chooses, as did the
Christ, He may return to teach and help. As He ascends,
He becomes one with the Holy Spirit, and invariably the
first thing He does with His new power is to pour it down
upon His disciples, even as the Christ poured down tongues
of fire upon the heads of His followers at the feast of
Pentecost. The triple Atma, the threefold Spirit of man,
lies in the lower part of the Nirvanic or Spiritual plane,
while the lowest manifestation of the Third Person, God
the Holy Spirit, is in the higher part of the same plane.
The Adept becomes one with the latter at that level and
that is the real explanation of the Christian feast of
Whitsun Day, the festival of the Holy Spirit.
This is the ancient pathway called the 4Kingdom
of Heaven 9 or the ‘ Kingdom of God ’ ; also called the
4Way of the Cross *; and the Cross is the symbol of life,
of life triumphant over death, of Spirit triumphant over
matter. There is no difference in the Path between the
East and the West. There is only one occult teaching
and one Great White Lodge. The Guardians of the
spiritual treasures of our race recognise only qualifications
and open the Gateway in the ancient fashion, which allows
the man to tread the narrow, ancient Path. Those who
478 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
seek find, and to those who knock, the door is opened ;
before those who knock with the hammer of the four
qualifications, the door is swung open that they may find
Him. Five, including the first, are the Portals on the
Path, the fifth leading to the final divine Perfection of
Manhood ; and the life of the Initiate, between the First and
the Fifth Great Initiation—with the initial stage of the
Birth of the Christ and the final one of the attainment of
His full stature—is spoken of as the Christ-life.
Q. What is the life of the new Initiate and what is his
work to fulfil the ideal of Divine Manhood, to attain
liberation or final salvation ?
Ans. We now come to the Path Proper with its four
stages, the full treading of which with the crossing of the
fifth portal makes a disciple on the Path Superman as
he attains his goal at the Fifth Great Initiation. Each
Initiation must be prepared for by adequate experience
and self-training. The First Initiation corresponds to the
matriculation which admits a student to a University, and
the attainment of Adeptship to the taking of a Degree at
the end of a course. Continuing the simile, there are
three intermediate examinations, usually spoken of as the
Second, Third and Fourth Initiations, Adeptship being
the Fifth.
The stages on the Path of Holiness, as this process
of spiritual unfoldment is called, are marked by expansions
of consciousness, as stated before, and by the gift by the
Great White Brotherhood of new knowledge and new
powers to the Initiate. But before he can pass from one
stage to another, the Brotherhood requires from him a
record of work done for humanity, a freedom from
specified mental and moral defects, and the possession of
certain spiritual faculties. In particular, there are ten
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 479
Samyojana, or fetters, which bind man to the circle of
rebirth and hold him back from Nirvana, and which the
pledged disciple—the Initiate—must therefore cast off one
by one, before he can finally attain Adeptship. Here the
Guru takes upon Himself the guidance, instruction and
guardianship of His Chela who must now be entirely
free of these clogs and must develop every quality
completely, and not partially as during the probationary
stage. The inner life of the disciple is full of joy, but it
is not a life of ease, as the work which he has to do—the
work of compression, into a few short lives, of the evolution
of millions of years—often involves a terrible strain on his
vehicles. He has to be very careful in everyday trifles,
because, leading the occult life, he knows that <
fTrifles
make perfection, and perfection is no trifle In the world
of men his sincerity of purpose is often mistrusted, he is
rejected and despised by all who surround him, and
personal motives are attributed to him in all that he does.
I. After the First Great Initiation, after the Birth
of the Christ within the pupil, he, who so far was Pari-
vrajaka (the Wanderer, one who feels no place in the three
lower worlds as his abiding-place or refuge) according to
the Hindu, becomes Kutichaka, the Builder, the builder of
the vehicles that he requires, or he who builds a hut; he has
reached a place of peace. For the Buddhist he is Sotapatti
or Sohan, 1he who has entered the stream the further
side of which is Masterhood. The Initiate now must
completely eradicate three weaknesses of human nature,
must utterly get rid of three fetters which hold him back.
i. The delusion of self, or the sense of separate­
ness (Sakkayaditfhi). The sense that he is separate from
another, the eI a m i ’ consciousness which, as connected
with the personality is nothing but an illusion, is still hard
48o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
to get rid of. But the First Initiation having brought him a
touch of the Buddhic plane, the Chela has felt the complete
unity of all that is ; and when the Initiate realises that, he
realises his identity with the vagabond and the sinner as
well as with the highest saint.
2. Doubt or uncertainty (Vichikichcha). This
does not mean that a blind unreasoning adhesion to certain
dogmas is claimed or unquestioning faith is demanded from
the disciple. The casting off of this fetter means the arriv­
ing at absolute certainty, based either upon individual
experience and personal first-hand knowledge or upon
mathematical reasoning. The doubt which the pupil must
for ever leave behind is that regarding certain facts in
nature—facts of reincarnation and karma, of the existence
of the Masters, and of the efficacy of the method of
attaining the highest good by the Path of Holiness. There
are many stages in doubt, from rank disbelief to the
acceptance of a truth as a • working hypothesis \ A lofty
idealism, based on working hypotheses, will lead a man
through the gates of Initiation; but there comes a time
when some at least of his working hypotheses must be living
facts of his inmost consciousness—facts, not accepted on
authority or blind belief,.but known to be true because, by
outer observation and inward realisation, they are evermore
part of his individuality.
3. Superstition : taking the unessential for the
essential and the outer ceremony for the inner reality
(Silabbataparamasa). This fetter to be cast off compre­
hends all kinds of unreasoning or mistaken belief, all
dependence on the efficacy of outer rites and ceremonies.
The pupil knows that rites and ceremonies have their place
in human evolution acting as bridges for ordinary men to
reach the unseen reality, but that they are no longer
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 48l
necessary for him who has learnt to depend upon himself
alone. Above all, he is free from the superstition of the
wrath of the Power behind evolution, and knows that all
that exists is within the Universal Love.
II. After the pupil has utterly cast aside the three
fetters he passes the Second Initiation. But before he
can proceed to the Second Initiation, the Initiator of that
occasion demands evidence as to how the candidate has
used the powers acquired by him at the First Initiation,
and one of the most beautiful features of the ceremony
is the part when those who have been helped by the
candidate come forward to give their testimony. It is
also requisite for this Initiation that the candidate shall
have developed the power to function freely in his mental
body, for although the ceremony of the First Initiation is
held on the astral plane, that of the Second takes place in
the lower mental world.
If the Lord Maitreya acts as Initiator, the cere­
mony usually takes place either in His garden or in His
great room. He Himself is present in His physical body,
and so in many cases is the Lord Vaivasvata Manu, who
lives close by. All others present are usually in the astral
vehicle in the case of the First Initiation, but in the
mental body in the case of the Second. The Great Ones
present focus Their consciousnesses with perfect ease at
whatever level is required, and there is of course on the
astral and mental planes a perfect counterpart of every­
thing on the physical.
The pupil is now Bahudaka (Bahu Udaka or Many
Waters—he who goes on pilgrimages at holy places) accord­
ing to the Hindu. For the Buddhist he is Sakadagami—
‘the man who returns but once ’—which means that he who
has reached that level should need but one more incarnation
61
482 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
before attaining Arhatship, the Fourth Initiation, after
which there is no compulsory physical rebirth. Thus only
one more physical birth is obligatory on him, and at the
end of his next physical life, having already attained
Arhatship, he can, if he so chooses, complete the remain­
ing stages of the Path without returning to incarnation.
In the Gospel story, which, rightly read, is less the history
of a Person, than a mighty drama of the Initiation of the
Spirit, it is called the Baptism, when the Spirit of God
came down upon Jesus and abode with Him. The Spirit
which comes down is the Spirit of Intuition ; and before
he can go further, the pupil must learn to bring it down
through his enlarged causal and mental bodies to his
physical consciousness, so that it may ‘ abide on him ’
and guide him.
During this period which is usually one of con­
siderable psychic and intellectual advancement no addi­
tional fetters are cast off, but the pupil has to build up
and perfect all his subtle bodies and thus develop psychic
faculties and acquire superphysical powers belonging to
perfect superphysical bodies. He now has astral con­
sciousness at his command during his waking life, and
during sleep the heaven-world will be open before him—
for the consciousness of a man when away from his
physical body is always one stage higher than it is while
he is still burdened with the house of flesh. This stage,
during which a very great and rapid development of the
mental body takes place, is, as a rule, a short one after
which the pupil passes the third Portal.
III. The aspirant who has passed the third great
Portal, called Transfiguration in the Christian story, is
spoken of by the Hindu as the Hamsa, the Swan, the bird
of heaven, the symbol of the recognition of the *I ’ as
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 483
one with God ; he who realises *I am That \ For the
Buddhists he then becomes Anagami, ‘ he who does not
return so called because it is expected of him that he will
attain the next Initiation—Arhatship—in the same incarna­
tion and because, consequently, birth in a physical body,
unless he so chooses, is no longer necessary in order to
attain to the final goal. The work can be done in the
invisible worlds, and the Initiate can, from there, if he so
decides, proceed to the Fifth Initiation.
During the time intervening between the
Third and Fourth Initiations he has finally to get rid of
the remains of two more weaknesses.
4. Attachment to the enjoyment of sensation typi­
fied by earthly love (Kamaraga). It is not by any means that
he will not feel the attraction of what is pleasant or beautiful
or clean, nor the repulsion of the opposites of these things,
and will not take them into account in the course of his
work. But he will not let them be a deciding element in
duty, and will override them entirely on those emergency
occasions when it is necessary for his work. We see in the
Gospel allegory how the Christ threw aside the attraction
of all that would hold Him back from the approaching
Passion. But the noblest human love never dies ; his love
for humanity has increased and widened till it embraces
all with the same fervour which at first was lavished on one
or two ; though, while gaining this wide affection, all his
affection for his closer friends—that between egos—is
enormously intensified and becomes that“ perfect love that
casteth out fear
5. All possibility of anger or hatred (Patigha).
At this stage he is willing to help an enemy as readily as a
friend, and takes as much joy in helping a foe as in the
helping of the dearest relative. In the Gospel allegory we
484 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
see how all repulsion had ended for the Christ when “ the
woman who was a sinner ” was allowed to approach Him,
to bathe His feet with her tears, to wipe them with her hair.
The disciple here learns to rise above attraction and
repulsion.
IV. Between the Third Initiation and the Fourth
there is the gulf of silence where the disciple hangs alone in
the void with nothing on earth to trust to, nothing in heaven
to look to, with even the vision of the Supreme blurred
and dimmed as symbolised by the Agony in the Garden.
Passing onward through the stages of the Passion he sees
himself betrayed, denied, rejected, held up upon the cross
of agony for all men to mock at and to despise; hears the
taunt of his enemies: “ He saved others, himself he cannot
save”, utters the cry of the breaking heart: 6
1My God,
my God, why hast Thou forsaken me ? ” finds himself in
that uttermost loneliness for evermore, and losing the
God without him, ultimately finds the God within.
Then the Fourth Initiation—the Crucifixion and
the Resurrection of the Christ—is accomplished. He
it is who has become the Christ crucified and therefore the
helper of the world. Loneliness for him is over for ever,
for he has found the One Life and knows it for evermore.
He becomes the Paramahamsa, cHe who is beyond the 41
am He *’, according to the Hindu phraseology, where
there is no longer even the distinction between 41 9and
‘ He ’, but where there is only the One; the Arhat,4the
Venerable9, the perfect, the Worthy, according to the
Buddhist nomenclature, with no more compulsory incarna­
tion for him. Henceforth the consciousness of the
Buddhic plane is his while still in the physical body,
and when he leaves that body in sleep or trance, he passes
at once into the unutterable glory of the Nirvanic plane.
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 485
At this stage, between the Resurrection and the
Ascension of the Christian drama, he has completely to
cast off five more weaknesses or fetters. When he stands
upon the step of Arhatship, half his path from the First
Initiation to Adeptship may be said to have been trodden,
for he has then cast off five of the ten great fetters in an
average of seven incarnations, and before him lies the task
of casting off the remaining five, for which also, if he so
chooses, an average of seven incarnations is allowed, though
this average is in no sense a rule. The five remaining
fetters of which the last remnants have to be cast off are:
6. Desire for beauty of form or for existence
in a form (Ruparaga), either in the physical or even in the
heaven-world. All clinging to life in form is to be
thrown off.
7. Desire for formless life (Arupariga), on the
highest and formless planes of the heaven-world or even
on the Buddhic plane, which would merely be a less
sensual form of selfishness.
8. Pride (M&no), Ahamkara, the *I ’-making
faculty which realises itself as apart from others.
9. Agitation or irritability (Uddhachcha). He
must be perfectly unruffled by anything whatever that
might happen to him.
io. Ignorance (Avijja). He must get rid of all
that stands in the way of his acquisition of perfect know­
ledge as regards our planetary chain.
All the attributes and faculties are developed by the
Chela in himself with very little help beyond guidance from
his Master. “ An Adept ”, says an occult aphorism, “ be­
comes. He is not made.”
V. The Initiate thqn passes through the Fifth
Initiation, symbolised by the Ascension of the Christ and the
486 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Descent of the Holy Spirit* and becomes the Jivanmukta,
the liberated life, of the Hindu ; the Asekha, one who has no
more to learn, of the Buddhist. With the cycle of humanity
accomplished and the ideal of Divine Manhood fulfilled *
He stands the Perfect Man, Master of life and death*
freed from all fetters that can bind, and with all powers
given to Him in heaven and on earth. He has been born
for the last time and has attained final salvation. He has
gained eternal life and stands among the many Brethren of
whom the Christ is the First-born, has “ become a pillar
in the temple of my God who shall go out no more ”, and
has now attained to the stature of the fulness of the Christ.
Q. How does the Adept now become a Master ?
Ans. Having accomplished His pilgrimage, the Adept
now sees, as stated before, seven paths stretching before
Him, seven paths of glory and of power, leading Him on*
wards in the great realms of superphysical life, all of which,
save one, free Him for ever from the burden of human
flesh, and stretch onward, far away from our earth. As
He stands gazing at these seven pathways, through the
exquisite music which surrounds Him, there sounds a sob
of pain, and He hears a cry from the world in its darkness,
in its misery, in its spiritual starvation, in its moral degra­
dation—the cry of humanity in bondage—and sees the
gropings of the ignorant, the helpless and the blind. Then
out of compassion, out of old sympathy for the humanity
of which He is the flower, He turns backward to the world
that He had left, and instead of casting away the burden
of the flesh He takes it up and bears it still, in order that
He may help humanity. By treading the Path of Holiness,
He has reached Perfection, has conquered death and won
Immortality; He has achieved Freedom and lives in the
Eternal. But being Perfect, He remains to help us who
THE MASTERS AND THE WAY TO THEM 487
are imperfect; having realised Eternity, He stays amid
the shadows of time until we also realise ; He has opened
the gateway of Bliss, and He holds it open, standing
beside it, that we may all enter in before Him, for He who
was the first to achieve has made Himself the last to enjoy.
His feelings may be very faintly echoed thus in the words
of Mrs. Annie Besant:
iCI will not have final peace till my brothers share
it; I will not have final liberty that is not shared by my
brothers and enjoyment which is not theirs. I will not take
Nirvana for myself and leave my brothers in the bonds of
birth and death, in their ignorance and in their darkness,
in their helplessness and in their folly. If I have won
wisdom, I have won it for their enlightening. If I have
won strength, I have won it for their service. If I have
%
learnt to vibrate in agony for man, what avail is it then to
throw aside the sheaths and go on where r\o agony is
useful ? I will stay where I am and will work for man.
Every pain of man shall strike me. Every agony of man
shall touch me, and shall wring my heart. Every folly of
man shall be my folly by identification with humanity, and
every sin and crime of theirs my suffering until the whole
of us are free.”
And so He becomes what we call a Master, a link
between God and man, a liberated Spirit who is still
willing to bear the burden of the flesh, in order that He
may not lose close contact with the humanity that He
loves, and who puts Himself at human service by the
supreme act of renunciation, to remain in bondage till
all are free, and to go to Nirvana when all can go hand
in hand with Him.
He and such as He, rising in grade beyond grade of
superhuman wisdom and power, form the Occult Hier­
archy which consists of the Guardians of the World, who
remain with us to rule, to teach, to guide and definitely tq
help humanity along the difficult way of human evolution.
488 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
He has become a Saviour of the world, and having
suffered and conquered all He is able to *help to the
uttermost ”, not by substitution of person, but by identity
of nature; not by taking the place of the weak or the
sinner, but by infusing His own strength into the weak,
by permeating the sinner with His purity. He thus
knows the identity of nature which makes His the weak­
ness of the weakest as well as the strength of the strongest,
which makes His the sin of the guiltiest as well as the
purity of the purest, and thus the lowest is as intensely
loved as the highest, is as much part of Him as the loftiest
and the purest.
He aids the progress of humanity in countless ways
as stated before. Every man that stretches out his hands,
His hand is ready to help; of every brother of His race
that asks for guidance, His heart answers to the cry. He
is seeking through the world 'for some wdio have ears to
hear the Wisdom, -and who will answer His appeal for
messengers to carry it to humanity at large, with the
words: “ Here am I ; send me.” He stands there waiting
until we are willing to be taught, and give Him the
opportunity which He has renounced Nirvana to secure.
The Path to the Masters of the Wisdom is always
open, and any one of us can tread it and achieve the goal
that They have achieved ; born of the Eternal Spirit it is
the true birth-right of the human Spirit to know his own
Divinity and then to realise and manifest it, to know the
possibilities of his own nature and then to fulfil the
purpose for which he came into the world ; for the world
exists for the unfolding of the Spirit and nothing less than
Divinity is the true goal of man.
Shanti
APPENDIX
Key to the Meaning of Colours
Blue=Religious feeling.
Deep, clear blue (Deep blue of summer sky)==Heartfelt
devotion (Unselfish devotion).
Dark brown-blue=Selfish religious feeling.
Pallid grey-blue= Fetish worship tinged with fear.
Light blue (Ultramarine or cobalt)=Devotion to a noble
spiritual ideal.
Pale azure blue=Self-renunciation.
Violet (a kind of blue, composed of pink and blue)=
Devotion mixed with affection.
Luminous lilac-blue (Delicate violet)=High spirituality
(Capacity of absorbing and responding to a high ideal.
The accompanying sparkling golden stars represent
elevated spiritual aspirations).
Crimson or rose=Affection.
Dull crimson=iAnimal love.
Red rose mixed with brown-grey= Selfish affection.
Red rose mingled with dull green=Jealous love.
Full clear carmine=Strong healthy affection.
Delicate rose= Unselfish, pure love.
Delicate rose tinged with lilac= Spiritual love for
humanity.
62
49o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
Green=Adaptability, evil and deceitful or good and
sympathetic.
Slimy or grey-green=Deceit and cunning.
Brown-green (with flashes of sea rlet)= Jealousy.
Emerald-green= Versatility in order to please or help
others.
Delicate, luminous blue-green= Deepest sympathy and
compassion.
Yellow= Intellect.
Dull yellow ochre=Intellect used for selfish purposes.
Golden yellow (clear gamboge) = Strong intellect of a
high type.
Pale luminous lemon or primrose yellow = High intellect
used most unselfishly.
Deep orange=Pride or ambition.
Scarlet colour or deep red flashes on a black ground=
Anger.
Lurid red from dark brown clouds=Brutal anger.
Brilliant scarlet=Noble indignation.
Lurid, sanguinary red (colour of dragon’s blood) =
Sensuality or sensual desires.
Clear brown (burnt sienna) or dull brown-red (rust
colour) = Avarice.
Lurid pale grey=Fear.
Dull, hard brown-grey=Selfishness.
Deep heavy grey= Depression.
Black=Hatred and malice.
ILLUSTRATIONS
T h e Astral Body of t h e S a v a g e ( P a g e 84)
T h e p o in t to b e n o tic ed in th is v e h ic le of d e sir e is th e
ir re g u la r ity o f th e o u tlin e , th e g e n e r a lly b lu rred effect an d
th e m a n n er in w h ic h th e co lo u r s a re a r r a n g e d , in te rm in ­
g lin g or m e ltin g in to o n e a n o th e r w ith o u t th e s lig h te s t
ten d e n c y to lie in re g u la r b a n d s. -
An enormous proportion of this body is occupied ex­
clusively by sensuality, proclaimed by the lurid tinge of the
very unpleasant sanguinary red. The broad band of
dirty green shows forth deceit, treachery and cunning,
while the dull brown-grey and the dull brown-red—
almost rust colour—express selfishness and greed. Fierce
anger is implied by the smears and blots of dull scarlet.
Affection is scarcely indicated at all, and such intellect and
religious feeling as appear are of the lowest possible kind.
T h e M e n t a l B o d y o f t h e D e v e l o p e d
M a n ( P a g e 82)
The outline of this glorious vehicle is definite and
regular, while all undesirable qualities have disappeared.
The colours which are very lovely and delicate lie in
regular bands without melting into one another, typifying
the higher forms of love, devotion and sympathy, aided
492 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
by an intellect refined and spiritualised, and by aspirations
reaching ever towards the Divine. The golden stars
which ascend from the upper part of the oval proclaim the
activity of high spiritual aspiration, and this upward
rushing is itself a channel through which divine power
descends upon him and radiating out through that mental
body reaches many who are not yet strong enough to
receive it directly.
T h e A s t r a l B o d y o f t h e D e v e l o p e d M a n
( F r o n t i s p i e c e )
This astral body agrees closely with its mental, though
its colours are somewhat naturally coarser. Allowing
for the difference between what may be called the octaves
of the colour—between the hues belonging to the astral
and lower mental planes—it is almost a reproduction of
the mental body and indicates that the man has his
desires thoroughly under the control of the mind and is no
longer liable to be swept away from the firm base of
reason by wild surges of emotion.
Astral Body in Intense Anger (Page 29i)
This is the case of a person who is absolutely trans­
ported with rage and, having for the time being utterly
lost control of himself, is capable of murder or of the most
atrocious cruelties.
Here the astral body of the man is taken as a basis or
background, though during the passage of that fit of
passion that background is temporarily obscured by the
rush of feeling, by strong and vivid thoughts of malice and
ill-will. Those thoughts express themselves as well-defined
ILLUSTRATIONS 493
and solid-looking coils or vortices, heavy, thunderous
masses of sooty blackness, lit up from within by the lurid
glow of active hatred. A sort of the same dark cloud
defiles the entire astral body, tingeing to some extent all the
other hues, and here and there condensing itself into
irregular floating wisps, while the fiery arrows of uncon­
trolled anger shoot among them like flashes of lightning.
These coils, each of which is in reality a thought-form of
intense anger, fly through the air on their way to the goal
—the person against whom the anger is felt—and even
should the man through the discipline of education check
the outward manifestation of such anger, the terrible
flashes are penetrating other astral bodies like swords, and
the man is injuring those about him as really as if he
assaulted them physically. Though the case selected for
illustration is an extreme one, every one who falls into a
passion exhibits these characteristics to some extent.
R a d ia t in g A f f e c t io n and G r a spin g A nim al
A ff e c t io n (P age 292)
This thought-form in constant motion, clear and precise,
with the numerous rays of the star commendably free from
vagueness, is steadily widening out as though there was an
exhaustless fountain welling up through the centre from a
higher dimension. It is generated intentionally by a man
who is making the effort to pour himself forth in love to
all beings.
Several colours bear their share in the production of the
dull unpleasing hue of the thought-form of Grasping
Animal Affection. The rose colour of love is tinged with
the lurid gleam of sensuality and deadened with the heavy
—brown-grey—tint of selfishness. The re-entering curves
494 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
or curving hooks, which proclaim a strong craving for
personal possession, make it evident that the fabricator of
this thought-form has not the slightest conception of the
self-sacrificing love which pours itself out in joyous service
without a thought of return.
V a g u e R e l ig io u s F e e l in g a n d S e l f -R e n u n c ia t io n
(P a g e 293)
The thought-form of Vague Religious Feeling, common
among those in whom piety is more developed than
intellect, is a shapeless rolling cloud of blue, betokening a
sensation of devoutness rather than of devotion. It is
often found in many a humble fane rather than in fashion­
able places of worship and is seen in the form of a great
cloud of deep dull blue floating over the heads of the
congregation—indefinite in outline because of the indistinct
nature of the thoughts and feelings which cause it ; flecked
too often, owing to ignorance in devotion, with the brown
of selfishness and the grey of fear.
The thought-form of Self-Renunciation, somewhat
suggestive of a partially opened flower-bud, is of the
loveliest pale azure with a glory of white light shining
through it. Thoughts of pure devotion, of self-surrender
and sacrifice, of utter selflessness and self-renunciation,
constantly assume flower-like forms—they sometimes bear
a certain resemblance to shells or leaves or tree-shapes—
exceedingly beautiful, varying much in outline, but
characterised by curved upward-pointing petals like
azure flames.
T h o u g h t -F orms at a F u n e r a l (P ag e 295)
A comparison between the two thought-forms, observed
clairvoyantly at a funeral, exhibiting the feelings evoked.
ILLUSTRATIONS 495
by the contemplation of death, in the minds of two of the
mourners, affords a very impressive testimony of the value
of Theosophical knowledge, of the fundamental change
produced in a man's attitude of mind by a clear under­
standing of the meaning of death. The thinkers stood in
the same relation to the dead man, but while one of them
was quite ignorant of the knowledge regarding super­
physical life, the other had the inestimable advantage of
the light of Theosophy.
The thought of the former expresses nothing but fear,
depression and selfishness. The fact that someone has
died has evoked in the mind of the mourner the thought
that he, too, one day may die, and the anticipation of this
is very terrible to him ; but since he does not know what
it is that he fears, the clouds in which his feeling is
manifested are appropriately vague. His only definite
sensations are despair and the sense of personal loss, and
these manifest themselves in regular bands of brown-grey
and leaden-grey, while the curious downward protrusion,
which actually descends into the grave and enfolds the
coffin, is an expression of strong selfish desire to draw
the dead man back into physical life.
But a wonderfully different effect is produced by the
very same circumstances upon the mind of the man who
comprehends the facts of the case and consequently ex­
presses nothing but the highest and most beautiful senti­
ments. At the base of the thought-form created by him
there is a full expression of deep sympathy, wherein the
lighter green indicates appreciation of the suffering of the
mourners, while the band of deeper green shows the
attitude of the thinker towards the dead man himself.
The deep rose-colour betokens affection towards both the
living and the dead ; the upper part of the cone and the
496 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
stars arising from it testify to the feelings aroused in the
mind of the thinker by the consideration of the subject of
death, wherein the blue expresses its devotional aspect, and
the violet shows the thought of, and the power to respond
to, a noble ideal, while the golden stars indicate the
spiritual aspiration which its contemplation calls forth.
The band of clear yellow in the centre of the thought-
form signifies that the man’s whole attitude is based upon
his intellectual comprehension of the situation, and this
is further shown by the regularity of the arrangement
of the colours and the definiteness of their outlines.
INDEX
PAGE
Abraham i 58
Accidents, Karma of
2 19— 220
of birth 200
Accounts, Karmic
2 2 0 — 221
Action makes environ­
ments 186, iS8—i9o
Motive of, affects
character 2 0 1 — 203
Motive of, has no
effect on physical
plane 2 0 1 — 2o3
Actions, What are i89
Adaptability, Character­
istic of 4o8
Ray of 329, 4o8
Adept, The, see Master
How He becomes a
Master 486—488
Initiation of 465
Seven Paths before
338, 38o—38i, 486
Why He needs a
Physical body 421
Adepts, The 345
see also Masters
can trace Their past
incarnations 174-
Number of, having
physical bodies 4i 8
PAGE
Adepts, The
Parishes of 4i9—420
Why They prefer to
live in the East 4o6
Adeptship 338, 342, 465,
479, 485
Attainment of 429, 477
Adhikari 456
Adi plane 61
Adityas 54
TEonian condemnation 246
suspension 246
iEther of space 57
Agastya, Rishi 4o i—4o3,4i3
Appearance of 4o3
Historical achieve-
ments of 402
Residence of 4o2
Transacting business
4o3
Work of 4 o i— 4 0 2
Agnosticism 6
Ahuramazda 55
Akashic records i 74
Alban, S. 4 io
Albigenses, The School
of 160
Alchemy 65
Spiritual 443
Alcoholic drinks, Effect
of 39, 342
498 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Alexandrian School, The
Jewish i 52
Amesha Spenta 54
Ammonius Saccas 5
Anaesthesia, Local 95
Anaesthetics 93
Anagami 483
Ananias 438
Angel evolution 38x
Angels, The 4, 54, 267,
377, 385, 4x3
Kingdoms of 420
of music 276
of Nations 4i9
Anger, Colour for, in
astral body 85
Disadvantages o f
3oi—3o2
Fetter of 483—484
Method of purifying
442—443
Animal after death
324—326
and man, Difference
between i o i ,
333—334
Brotherhood to 369
Cruelty to 3i
evolution 23
form, Incarnation
into i5o, i 7 i — i73
g r o u p - s o u l 324
— 326, 33i, 332, 476
Ill-treatment of 223
Individualised, i n
heaven-world 261
Karma of the i85
-soul 101, i73,
323— 324
Animals, Karma among
2 2 2 — 223
PAGE
Animals,
W hy they should
not be eaten 32—33
Anuloma 455
Annunciation, The 475
Anupadaka plane 61, 376
Apollonius of Tyana 4o9
Apostle James, a vege­
tarian 35
James the Less, a
vegetarian 35
Matthew, a vege­
tarian 35
Peter, a vegetarian 35
Architect, Divine 55, 379
of the Universe i9o
The Great 56
Argumentativeness 457
Bar to ocqult pro­
gress 449
Effect of, on mental
body 449
Arhat* The 484
Arhatship 482, 483, 485
Condition of i74
Aristotle, a vegetarian 34
Arnold’s (Sir Edwin)
The Light of Asia 389
Artificial elemental 263,
267, 4i5, 4i6
entities 267
Human 267
Arupa Loka 63, 276
Aruparaga 485
Aryan root-race 336,
337, 338, 34i, 388, 4oi
Aryasanga, Master D. K.
a s 4 i 3
p u p i l of L o r d
Maitreya 397
INDEX 499
PAGE
Ascension of the Christ,
The, 466, 473,
477, 485
Asekha, The 486
Aspirant, An
Attitude of, towards
life 439
Bigness necessary
for 438
Emotions necessary
for 438
Forms of selfishness
to be removed by
448~45o
How he catches
attention of the
Master 435
How helped by the
T .S . 427—429
on the Path present­
ed to the King 385
Requirements from 442
to Discipleship 435
Why he is subjected
to test of time 446
Aspirants, Why more are
not taken as pupils
436—439
Aspiration, Karma of
i83,i87
Association of ideas
during sleep io9
Astral body, The
Appearance of, seen
clairvoyantly 286
Change in, during
sleep 87—88
Concentric s h e l l s
after death in 235,
236, 237, 243
PAGE
Astral body, The
death of 23o, 242,
261, 269
Effect of rearrange­
ment after death
in 236—237
feels neither hungry
nor cold 249
Function of 84
Functions of, during
sleep 87—88
has no sep a r a t e
organs 235
High Initiates do
not discard, at
death i76
How affected %
by
mental body 86
How affected by
physical body 86
How formed 163— 166
How to pre v e n t
rearrangement of,
after death 237—238
Improvement of 86
is clothed by exercise
of thought 249
is fully developed for
ordinary man 27o
Matter of 86
Meaning of colours
in 85
New for each life 126
of advanced man 85
of average man
during sleep 87
of developed man
during sleep 88
of undeveloped man 84
of undeveloped man
during sleep 85, 87
5oo THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Astral body, The
Rearranged in con­
centric shells after
death 235—238,
24o, 243
Shape of 84
Size of 84
suffers not f r o m
disease 249
Time of disturbance
lasting in 286
Use of 78
Warts on 286, 287, 438
What is 279
When cast off 10 3
Whirls in 286
Astral consciousness 482
corpse, Fate of the
268— 269
counterpart 24o, 242
death 23o, 242, 261, 269
elemental 7 i—75,
3i6, 447
see also Desire-
elemental
elemental essence
72, 267, 289, 292,
3i6, 37o, 420
elemental essence,
How to change 75
helper 24i , 262,
3o7, 436
helper, Qualifica­
tions for an 264—265
lecture 435
life, Advantage of
good use of 266
life after death,
What is 242
memory i i 5, i i 7
p a g e
Astra] object, How per­
ceived 236
permanent a t o m
i63, i65
plane 62
shade i7i , 267
shade, What is 269
shell i 7i , 263,267, 277
shell, What is 269
slum 243
subdivisions, Three
classes in the 242
work 459
work, Qualifications
for 454
Astral world, The
Arrang e m e n t of
matter of its sub­
divisions 24o
Average time for
persons in i76—
x79, 260
Extent of 67,24o
Factors of detention
in a section of
259—26o
Inhabitants of 267—268
Method of passing
from 259,261
Movement in 243
Possibilities for pro­
gress in 25o
Rate of travel in 25o
Surroundings of
242—245
Time of passing
from 259—260
Two factors fo r
length of stay in
232—234
INDEX 5 o i
PAGE
Astral world, The
Why we are uncon­
scious of 268
Astrologer 207, 209, 221
Astrology and free-will
206—207
Real 206
Atlantean root-race 336,
337, 338, 34i, 387
Atma 99, 100, 122, 385, 477
-Buddhi 321
The triple 477
What is 69, 100— 101
Atmic aspect 376
body 102
body, What is io3
plane 62, 376
Atonement, C h u r c h
teaching on the
doctrine of i97
Vicarious i97—198
At the Feet of the Master,
referred to 466
quoted 3o4, 335, 453
Editions of 452
Translations of 452
Augoeides 4i4
What is 79
Aura n 7
Colours in the Ii9—121
Component parts of
the n 9
Health-, What is n 9
Higher Manasic 121
Kamic 120
Lower Manasic 120,121
of Lord Buddha
392, 397
of Lord Maitreya
397—398
PAGE
Aura of the Lord of the
World 384
of the Mahachohan 399
of the Master 398, 423
of the teacher 424, 45o
Pranic 120
Shape of the n 9
Size of the i i 9
What is the n 9
Auras, Seven 121
Aureola of Saints n 9 — 121
Auric egg 1 1 8 ,i i 9
Austral-American sub­
race 338,4 o i
Avarice 83
Colour for, in mental
body 82
Avesta i4 6
Avijja 485
B a b e , Death of a i33, i35
Death of a, ex­
plained by Rein­
carnation i45—i46
Ego of a, dying
young i45
Bacon, Francis 4n
Roger 4 n
Bahudaka 48i
Bailey believed in Rein­
carnation i43
Balance (Samadhana) 455
Baptism, The 466,
473—474, 476, 482
of Jesus 395, 4o9
of the Holy Ghost
and of Fire 474
Beauty by Art in Greece i3
by Law in Rome i3
Key-note of 12
Ray of 329, 4o8
502 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
BecquerePs (M. Jean)
observations of N -
rays 92—93
Belief in God 49—5o
Beri-beri 25
Besant, Dr. Annie, quot­
ed ' 18,487
a vegetarian 35
Bhagavad-Gita, quoted
i5, 53, 56, i 9 i , i95,
202, 226—227, 35o, 44o
Bhakti Yoga 44o
Bhishma i98
Bible, The, quoted 186
Authorised version
of, edited 412
Bigotry 18,454
Killed out by Theos­
ophy 3
Bigots 7
Binah 55
Birth, Accidents of 200
of the Christ 473, 479
of the Spirit 473
Second 473
The 466, 473, 476
Blavatsky, Madame
H. P.
Disciple of Master
M. 4o3
founded the T. S.
5, 4o3
met Master M. in
London 4o4
The Voice of the
S i l e n c e given
through 4o9
wrote The Secret
Doctrine and The
V o i c e of the
Silence 374
PAGE
Bliss body io3
see a l s o Buddhic
body
Bodhisattva, The 368
see also World-
Teacher.
Initiation of 382
of a root-race 329,
379, 38o, 39o, 4i8
Representative of
Lord Buddha 387
takes birth as a
child on fir s t
appearance in the
world 4i7
takes Buddha Initi­
ation as the crown
of His work 383
Bodies of man, Reason
for various 77—78
of man, Three im­
mortal 102—103
of man, T h r e e
mortal 102—io3
Body-consciousness 71,
72, 76, 9i
Bondage, Cause of 206
Book of the Dead, The i46
Booth, General W., a
vegetarian 35
W. B., a vegetarian 35
Bose’s (Dr. J. C.) ex­
periments on pl a nt -
life 9o
Brahma 53, 55, 3i8, 376
Brahmana and Brother­
hood 364
Dharma of the 345
Brahmanas, Colonies of,
in South India 402
INDEX 5o3
PAGE
B r a i n consciousness
during sleep, Peculi­
arities of 108—io9
Brotherhood as duty
towards elemental
essence 37o
Law of 21, 364
on Lower planes 362
Our, to lower king­
doms 368—369
S h e w n to lower
kingdoms by our
help 369—370
to animals 369
Universal 4, 7, 9,
47, 55, 368
Brotherhood of Man,
The 7, 12,44,47, 258
of Man and caste
system in India
363—365
of Man and equality
359—360
of Man, Basis of
358
of Man, Duty to­
wards elders 366
of Man, Duty to­
wards equals 367
of Man, Duty to­
wards savages 367
of Man, Duty to­
wards younger
souls 367
of Man, Emphasis
on, in the T. S.
367
of Man, How to
hasten realisation
of 366
PAGE
Brotherhood
of Man in ancient
world 363
of Man in social
system 36o—361
of Man in the T.S.,
Principle of 357
of Man is a fact in
Nature 357
of Man, Realisation
of 358—359,366
of Man, Recogni­
tion of 357
The ideal of 359
Brotherhood, The Great
White io, 257,
384, 4o5, 462, 465
Consciousness of 468
Gifts of powers by,
to Initiates 478
Grades in 382
Initiations of Mem­
bers in 382—383
Object of existence
of 375,383
stimulates spiritual
growth of hu­
manity 420
There is only one 477
What is 375—383
Brownies 267
Browning believed in
Reincarnation i48
Buchner, Ludwig, quot­
ed i3o
Buddha, Dhyani 39o
Initiation 383
Lord Gautama, see
Gautama Buddha
Lord Kasyapa 386
Pratyeka 382, 386
5o4 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Buddhahood, Attain­
ment of 389
Buddhas, Seven, in suc­
cession in a world -
period 386
Buddhi 99, ioo, 122, 475
What is 69, 100— 101
Buddhic body, What is
102—io3
consciousness 259, 484
experience 472
plane 62, 69, 101,
47i,484
Bulwer taught Reincar­
nation i48
Burial, Cremation pre­
ferable to 94, 232—234
C a l v i n i s t School, The i56
Candlemas Day 475
Carbohydrates 24, 37
Carelessness, Karma of 212
Causal body, The 7o,
102, io 3 ,464
and undesirable
qualities 80
Developed at Third
Initiation 474
How formed 332— 333
Matter of 69, 79
Meaning of colours
in 80
Method of growth of 81
Nucleus within i64
of a Master 80, 81, 423
of an advanced man 81
of a pupil 80, 462
of a savage 81
of Lord Gautama
Buddha 81
Same for all lives 126
PAGE
Causal body, The
Shape of 79
Size of 79
Use of 78, 79
vanishes at First
Initiation 47i—472
What is 78—
>79
Why so called 78—79
Celibacy 39—4o
Central ideas of reli­
gions 11—15
Centre of his circle 438
Ceremonial, Christian 4io
magic 4i 2
magic, Ray of 329,
33o, 4i 2
Ceremonies, Outer 48o
Ceremony of First Initi­
ation 469, 48i
of Second Initiation 48i
Chain, Incarnation of a
338, 339, 34o, 34i
Lunar 34o
of globes 257
of globes. Meaning
of 338—341
-period 34i, 38o
Chakshusha Manu, The
Lord
Appearance of 399
—4oo
Dress of 4oo
Nationality of His
body 399
Work of ^ 399
Character, Built by
thought 186— 187, 282
Delineation of 206
Explained by Re­
incarnation 137
How formed 129, i89
INDEX 5o5
PAGE
Character
How to modify 224
is not transmissible i 4i
Not imposed on
man by God i33
P r o g r e s s of, ex­
plained 142
Charity, Result of 202
Cheerfulness 454
Chemical elements, How
formed 59, 63
Chhaya Sharira, Why so
called 92
see also etheric double
Children of the Fire-
mist 384
Chochmah 55
Chohan Initiation 329,382
What is a 382
Christ, Church of i5o
The Pagan 4o9
Christ, The, referred to 39o
quoted i 52, i54,
i55, i95, 280,
358, 432, 435, 47i
accepted Reincarna­
tion i47
and Jesus, Duality
of 394
and the Atonement
i97—i98
and the Passion 483,484
Ascension of 4o6,
473, 477, 485
at the Feast of
Pentecost 477
Baptism of 473
Belief in 258
Birth of 473, 479
Birth of, in man
257, 258, 259
PAGE
Christ, The
-body io3
see also Buddhic
body
-Child 257,473
Crucified 484
Death of the body of 395
Disciples of 477
Life-note of 14
Life of 472
-Life, What is 478
Lord Maitreya as
394—395
occupied body of
Jesus 394, 395,
399, 4o9, 4i7
on Forgiveness of
sins i 95
On Reincarnation
i 52, i 53, i 54, i 55
Presentation of, in
the Temple 475
Presented to His
Father 475, 476
principle, Awaken­
ing of 259
principle, Develop­
ment of 258
principle, What is 257
represents Buddhic
principle 47i
Saviour of the
World 258
Second Advent of 368
see also World-
Teacher, Coming
of
The F i r s t-b,o r n
Brother 486
The Man of Sorrow
197
64
5o6 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE PAGE
Christ, The
Thought vibrations
of devotion to 285
Transfiguration of
466, 473, 474—
476, 482—484
Christianity, Founder of i4
Key-notes of i3—14
Modern, and Re­
incarnation i59— 160
Official, and Re­
incarnation 160
Reincarnation in i49
—159
Christian Scripture, re­
ferred to 194
quoted i84,257
Chrysostom, a vegetarian 35
Churches of Asia, The
Seven i55
Church of Christ i5o
Roman Catholic 160
‘ Circle of Generation 5 259
Clement of Alexandria,
referred to 35, i55
quoted 426
Cleverness, Cause of i87
Coleridge believed in
Reincarnation i48
Collins believed in Rein­
carnation i48
Collins, Mabel 4o9
Comasonry 4i 2
Communion of Saints 464
Concentration, H i n ­
drance to 7z
Condemnation, ^Eonian 246
Confidence (Shraddha) 455
Confucius 393
Conscience, Evolution of i 3i
Conscience
Formed by past ex­
perience 127,129, i89
How built i89
Problems of, ex­
plained by Rein­
carnation i44
What is 128
Consciousness, Astral 482
Attainment of Bud-
dhic 259
Body- 7i, 72, 76, 9i
Brain-, during sleep
108—io9
Expansion of, at
Initiation 437,478
“ I ”- 89, 9i
Individual 35
Kamic 84
of bodies 7r
of Buddhic plane
259, 484
89
481
of cells
of Masters
of the Great White
Brotherhood 468
Physical 89
Self-, of cells 9o
Stages of unfolding
human 342— 343
Constitution of Man 68— 121
Control of thought Ii5 ,
444, 453
of thought, How to
acquire 302—3o3
Self- 429, 448, 453
Conversion i 7 ,464
Cosmic Logos 52, 53, 54
Council of Constanti­
nople, The Second i59
INDEX 5o7
PAGE
Cox’s (Rev. S.) Salvator
Mundi on hell 245
Creation, Object of 55—57
Principle of sud­
den i42
Theory of special
i 32—i34, i43
Cremation and etheric
double 234
preferable to burial
94, 232—234
Criminal i42
What he is i44
Criticism, Destructive 437
Higher 437
Karma of i83
Crookes, Sir William,
quoted 2i
and protyle 64
Crucifixion, The 466,
473, 476—477, 484
Cruelty called eSport5 168
Crime of i67
Results of i67, 2i4
Sin against love 456
to animals 3i
Curiosity, Hindrance to
discipleship 437
Cuvier, Prof. B., quoted z9
Dama (Control in act
and speech) 454
Damnation,Eternal 246, 248
Darkness of ignorance 229
Spiritual i94
Darwin, Charles, re­
ferred to 3io
quoted 29
Evolutionary
teaching of i37—i 42
PAGE
Darwinian evolution i45
theory 323
Davids, Rhys^referred to i48
Day of Judgment, The
246, 256, 338, 465
Dead, Helping the 4i9, 435
man and etheric
double 239
man c 1i n g i n g to
etheric double 239
man, Friends of the
24o, 24i
man in heaven wait­
ing for and watch­
ing his friends 275
Prayers for the 262—264
Death, Advantage of
k n o w l e d g e of
condition after 228
—229,239
and desire-elemen­
tal 235
Animal after 324—326
Astral (or second)
23o, 242, 261, 269
at old age, Advan­
tage of 251, 266
Attitude of mind
after 260
Change in a man
after 24i
C o n d i t i o n of a
drunkard a f t e r
247—248
Condition of a mur­
derer after 248, 252
Condition of a
savage after 252—253
C o n d i t i o n of a
sensualist after
247—248
5o8 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Death, Condition of a
suicide a f t e r
25o—254
Condition of man of
unselfish action
after 25o
Condition of man of
worldly ambition
after 248—249
Condition after, of
man who dies
by accident 25o—
25 i , 253—254
Condition of man
with some rational
interests a f t e r
247, 249—25o
Condition of ordi­
nary man after
238—242, 247,249
Condition of very
bad man after
247—249
Etheric double at
94, 23i
Grief of mourners
after 261—262
Last thought before
266— 267 .
Life after, What is 242
Meeting loved ones
after 265
of a babe i33, i35,
i45— i46
of physical body,
What is 9o—9i
Plant after 324— 326
Prana at 23i
Rearrangement of
astral body after
235—238, 24o, 243
PAGE
Death, Review of past
life after 126
Review of past life at 23o
Second or astral
23o, 242, 261, 269
-struggles, What are
23i — 232
Sudden, Why injuri­
ous 265—267
Time and manner
of, according to
karma 221—222
Time of unconsci­
ousness after 265
Two factors of exis­
tence after 265
What is 229— 23o
What is astral life
after 242
Debt, Karmic 2i 9, 220, 227
4Deficiency diseases ’ 25
Depression 453, 46i
Colour of, in astral
body 85
delays p u p i Y s
progress 448
Helping a man in 3o6
in meditation 445
D e s i r e - e l e m e n t a l
228, 3x6, 447
-elemental at death 2 35
-elemental. H i g h
type of 237
-elemental, Instinct
of the 73
-elemental, Occlu­
sion by the 238
-elemental, Rear-
r a n g e m e n t o f
astral body by the
235—238
INDEX 5o9
PAGE
Desire
-elemental, ‘ Shell­
ing *by the 238
-elemental, Thral­
dom of the 237
-elemental, What is
7 i—75
Extirpation of 35x
—354
for wealth 188
is the cord to bind
action and its
fruits 226
makes opportunities
186, i 87— 188
Use of i74
What is i87
Desirelessness [Vai-
ragya) 452—453
Test of 453
Destiny and God i9o— i 9i
Even good, is a
bond 226
Explained by Law
of Karma 181— 184
First thread of the
cord of 186
How to modify
224—225
Human, T h r e e
explanations for 181
Result of chance 181
Second thread of the
cord of 186, i87, 224
Slaves of i98
Third thread of the
cord of 186, 188—i9o
Three threads of the
cord of 186, 2o5, 224
What is 209
Will of God 181
PAGE
Deva 54, 267, 269, 385
evolution 381
Devachan 175, 263, z7z
Man in 269—z7z
What is 102
Why so named 63
Devarajahs, The Four
Great 385
Devotion, Colour for, in
astral body ' 85
Colour for, in mental
body 82
Ray of 329, 33o,
4io, 4i 2
to God 55
Devotional Ray 329
Ray, Dominance of 33o
Ray, Head of 4io
Ray, Influence of 4i2
Dharma of the Brah-
mana 345
of the Kshattriya 344
of the Shudra 343
of the Vaishya 344
What is 343—344
Dharmakaya Vesture 38i
Dhruva, The Master
Pupil of Lord
Maitreya 4o7
Teacher of Master
K. H. 4o7
Dhyan Chohans 54
Dhyani Buddha 39o
Diogenes, a vegetarian 34
Laertius 5
Disciple, Inner life of a 479
Training ground for
life of a 43o
Discipleship, Bigness
necessary for 438
5io THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Discipleship
Ea rnestness neces-
sary for 445
First steps on the
Path of 43i—432
Hindrances to 436— 439
Qualifications for 441
Requirements from
aspirant for 442
Discipline of life, What
is 44i—443
Discrimination (I^iveka) 452
Diseases, Cause of con-
genital 204
Dislikes, Karma of i83
Divine Architect 55, 379
Justice i43, i44,
i56, i5 7
Law i9 i, i94, 2 1 7
Life 2 0 , 56, 6 i, 69,
2 o5 , 2 0 6 , 3 i 2 , 3i5,
321, 328, 333, 334,
339, 34i, 349, 359,
368
Love 57, i45, 2i9,
264, 348
Mind i9o, i 9i , 272
Plan i9 i, 259, 299,
379, 38o, 383, 44i
Plane 61
Self 56
Will i4, i5, 188,
i9o, i94, x95,
2o4, 206, 376, 384
Wisdom 18
Djwal Kul (D. K.), The
Master
Appearance of
4i3—4i4
as Aryasanga 4x3
as Kleinias 4i3
PAGE
Djwal Kul, The Master
House (Cabin) of
4o7, 4i 4
Master of 4i4
Nationality of His
body 4i4
W a l k i n g with
Master K. H. 4o7
Doubt, Fetter of 480
Dream, Vivid 97
Dreams, Causes for ter­
rible fear during 116
Confused n 4
Factors in its pro­
duction 112—n 3
Feeling of reverence
during 116
How to remember
n 4— 118
Kinds of n 3 —n 4
Mechanism for
io4—106
Peculiar i t i e s of
physical mechan­
ism in io5
Prophetic n 3
Real, What are n 3
R em em bered by
savages n o
Symbolical i i 4
True Vision in
ii3 , 116
Vivid and connect­
ed n 4
What are and how
caused io3—xi4
Drink, How to cure
another of the habit
of 3o4—3o5
Druses, The 4io
Dudley, Sir Robert 4i i
INDEX 5 ll
PAGE
Duty, Key-note of, in
Hinduism 12
towards elders
366—367
towards elemental
essence 37o
towards equals 367
towards savages 367
towards yo u n g er
souls 367
Dying and g o i n g to
sleep, compared 2 3 i
Helping the 264
Process of 23o— 23i
E a r t h planet 54, 339, 386
planet, How formed 6o
planet, Incarnation
of 34o
planet is composed
of seven worlds 6o
Edison, a vegetarian 35
Effect of a l c o h o l i c
drinks 39, 442
o f argumentative­
ness on m e n t a 1
body 449
of fussiness 449
of good intentions i67
of inane giggling on
astral body 449
of irritability 286,
437, 447
of narcotic d r u g s
39, 442
of past thinking i89
of t h o u g h t on
astral body 282
of thought on causal
body 282
PAGE
Effect of thought on
m e n t a l b o d y
281— 282
of thought-vibra­
tions of hatred 285
of u n d e s i r a b l e
emotions 45o
of worry on astral
body 286
of worry on mental
body 449
on pupil lending his
body to Master 4i7
Efficiency 458
h a s t e n s spiritual
progress 448
Ego, The 7i, 82, 92,
122, 332,333,334,
385, 474
and encumbrance of
family duties
200—201
and parents 168
and p e r m a n e n t
atoms i64
and sleep of physi­
cal body 108
and suitable physi­
cal body 168
and task of uncon­
genial nature 200
and vicious appe­
tites i 72—i73
b e c o m e s as end
of a funnel from
Monad at Initia­
tion 47r
Character of 80
Condition o f, in
sleep n o — 112
THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
512
PAGE
Ego, The, Conditions for
final liberation of
i74—x75, 2i 9
Control of, over his
instruments io7
Descent of 332
Development of 77
Formation of 332—333
Functions of 7o
Habitat of 276
has no sex i7o
Higher powers of,
during sleep
III—112
His 1i n k of at­
tachment to an
animal i72
How guided to en-
v i r o n m e n t s o f
nation and family
i 99—201
How he creates new
Karma 207—208
How his progress is
seen 84
Instantaneous dra­
matisation b y ,
during sleep 111
Instruments of 106
is a developing en­
tity 106
is initiated, not the
body 469
Linked to Monad 47o
Memory of 126, 129
of a babe dying
young i45
of a Master taking
a new body 4i 6
of a savage in sleep n o
of pupil 462
P
A
G
E
Ego, The,
of the child i3i
Outer garment of 23o
Peculiarities o f,
during sleep i n —112
Personality becomes
a reflex of 47o
Prevision by, during
sleep 112
Qualities built into
81, 282
Real life of 123
Recognition of old
friends by 128
Record of progress
of 121
Representations of 275
reviews past life at
death 23o
Separating himself
from p h y s i c a l
body 280—23i
States of conscious­
ness of i i 3
stores all memories
of the past 129
Symbolical image
by, during sleep 112
Taking a new baby
body 4i5—4i 6
Thought-form vivi­
fied by 265,274
Union of, with
Monad 465
Union of, with per­
sonality 465, 467
What draws him to
reincarnation i74
What is 69—7i, 100
Withdrawing after
death 268
INDEX 5i3
PAGE
Ego, The,
Work of, in accurate
perception of ob­
jects io7
Egos are associated in
groups i79
Hatred between 162
Link between 162
Love between 162
Number of human i34
Relation between 161
Relationship be­
tween 162
Egyptian mummy 234.
religion, Symbologv
of 388
Electrons 64
Elemental, Artificial 263,
267, 4i5, 4i6
Artificial, What is 289
Astral 71—75, 3i6,447
Desire-, or astral
71—75, 228, 235
—238, 3x6, 447
essence 72, 289,
292, 420
essence, Duty to­
wards 37o
essence, What is 288
group-soul 332
kingdoms 3i6
Mental 7 i—75, 3x6, 447
Physical 7i, 76—77,
89, 9i
Elemental n 5 , 377
What are 289
Elijah, referred to i47,
i 5i , i52
and S. John the
Baptist, compared
x53
PAGE
Elizabeth, Queen of.
England 4 n
Elves 267
Emerson believed in Re­
incarnation i48
Endurance (T i t i k s h d )
454—455
Energy, How to avoid
waste of 3oo—3oi
How to conserve 287
Environments given by
actions 186, 188—i9o
How to change 225
Esau i56, i57
Essence, Astral elemen­
tal 75, 267, 289,
292, 3i6
Elemental 72, 75,
267,289,292, 3i6,
37o, 420
Monadic 72, x74, 3i5
Eternal damnation 246,
248
punishment 245
Etherial wraiths 232
Etheric brain during
sleep xo9. n 3
corpse and black
magic 234
corpse galvanised 234
double 89, 95, 99,
io7, i65, 166,
i89,23o
double after death 232
double, Appearance
of 9i
double and crema­
tion 234
double and dead
239
65
man
5i4 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Etheric
double and physical
body, Relation
between 93—94, 96
double at death 94, 23i
double, Cause of
beautiful 93
double, Cause of
defective 93
double, Colour of
92, 231
double, Effect of
anaesthetics on 93
double, Effect of
chloroform on 93
double, Fate of,
after death 232
double, Function of 92
double. Matter of 9i, 92
double, Shape of 92
double, Size of 92
double, Vortices in 94
double, What is 9 i—93
mould i99
Evil, Origin and use of
3 4 6 _ 3 5 o
Origin of 346—348
Use of 348—350
Evolution, Compression
of 479
Darwinian i45
Deva 38i
for man, Law of i4, 36i
for the brute, Law
of i4, 36i
How to forward
our, by thought
295—296
Human, see Human
evolution
Ideal of, in religions 335
PAGE
Evolution
Illustration of its
process in Occult
Museum 4o5
is God’s Plan 203,
299—3oo, 383
is God’s Will 161, 2o4
Law of i32, i 6 o,
i 6 i, i74, 3 u , 3i2
Motive power of
3i3, 3i9
of animals 23
of conscience i3r
of form i 42
of human qualities i39
of Life i 4 2 , 3io—
3i3, 3x9—321
of Life, Meaning of
3xo—3i3
of Life, Purpose of
3x9— 321
of social and moral
qualities i38
of the Initiate,
Planes for 463
People in different
stages of 8’
Plan of 384, 425
Proof of 3 n — 3 i 2
Reason for rapid
progress in, at
present 468
Scheme o f,— 1 1 s
meaning 338— 341
Evolutionary teaching of
: Darwin i37— 142
teaching of Weiss-
mann i37— i 42
Exertion and Destiny 211
and Karma i98, i99
INDEX 5i5
PAGE
Experience is transmut­
ed into faculties 137
F a c u l t y , H ow fo r m e d
137, i89
Innate, What is 128
Fairies 267, 37o
Faith 455
Blind i7
Fatalism, W h e t h e r
Karma is a doctrine of
i98
Fate, see D e s t i n y .
can be changed 218
Fear, Colour of, in astral
body 85
Fell Policy, Dr. i63
Fetter 1st (Delusion of
self) 479—480
2nd (Doubt) 48o
3rd (Superstition)
48o—481
4th (Attachment to
the enjoyment of
sensation) 483
5th ( A n g e r or
hatred) 483—484
6th (Desire for
beauty of form) 485
7th (Desire for form­
less life) 485
8th (Pride) 485
9th (Irritability) 485
10th (Ignorance) 485
Fetters, The Ten 479, 485
The Ten, Time
taken to cast off 485
Fichte taught Reincar­
nation i48
Findlater, Dr. i48
Fisher, Prof. I. 29
PAGE
Flesh diet
causes disease 26
coarsens astral body 34
coarsens p h y s i c a l
body 34, 442
coarsens the man 22
increases a n i m a l
passion 3i
Inferior to vege­
tarian diet 23—3i
under m e d i c a l
orders 38—39
unnatural 3o
unnecessary 3o
unwholesome 3i
Fohat 47o, 47i
Four Noble Truths, The
389
Franklin, Benjamin, a
vegetarian 35
Freemasonry 4i i , 4i2, 464
Free-will 211
Actions by 208
and astrology 206—207
and karma 2o9—210
and n e c e s s i t y
204—206, 225
French Revolution, The
359, 4i2
Fussiness, Effect of
449—45o
G am gee, Prof., quoted 26
Gandharvas 276
Gautama Buddha, The
Lord, referred to
13,132,386— 393,394
quoted 42, 2 8 0 , 435
Appearance of
39i—392
5i6 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Gautama Buddha, Lord
a p p e a r s at the
Vaishakh cere­
mony 39i, 392
as Bodhisattva 386
as Hermes 12,388
as Orpheus 12,389
as Prince Sid-
dbartha 389
as Tehuti or Thoth
12, 388
as Vyasa 388
as Zoroaster 12,
388,4 i7
Assistant of 378, 387
Aura of 392, 397
a vegetarian 35
became H e a d of
the Second Ray
386
blesses the w o r l d
once a year 39i
Causal body of: 81
had b o r r o w e d
a body as the
Buddha 4i7
had b o r r o w e d a
body as Zoroaster
4i7
handed over office
of World-Teacher
389
Head of the Second
Ray 329, 378, 386
Head of the Teach­
ing Department 378
How He became the
World-Teacher 387
Manifest a t i o n of
Wisdom Aspect
of the Logos 376
PAGE
Gautama Buddha, Lord
Reflection of 393
remembered His
incarnation as a
tiger i73—174
Representative of
377, 378, 387
Shadow of 393
Successor of 39i
taught Reincar­
nation i47
Two supplementary
acts by 39o—39i
Work of, in Aryan
root-race 388—389
Genius, and Law of
Heredity i 32
Explained by Rein­
carnation
i4o—142, i44
Found along two
lines i 4i
How built i 4o-—
142,
i 87
is sterile i4o
Musical i 4i
of art x4i, 4i8
of intellect i 4i
of virtue i 4i
Political 4i 8
Gethsemane, Garden of
473, 484
Giggling, Effect of inane,
on astral body 449
Glanville’s (Rev.) Lux
Orientalis 160
Gnomes 37o
Gnostics, The i47, i55, 394
God and Destiny i9o—i 9i
and the solar system
49—67
INDEX 5l7
PAGE
God
Anthropomorp hi e ,
Reasons for non-
belief in 49—5o
Belief in 49—5o
Devotion to 55
His Plan is Evolu­
tion 203,
299—3oo, 383
Immanence of 3, 8,
i i , 368
Proof of His exis­
tence 55—56
Theosophical con­
ception of 5o—5i
Three Aspects of 53
What is meant by
52—53
Will of ^ 181
Goethe on Reincarnation
148
Good and evil 347—348
Gospel, The, referred to
i 6o; 483
quoted i9 5 ,207
Gosse believed in Rein­
carnation 148
Gossip, Sin against love 456
W i c k e d n e s s of
3o3—3o4
Gotrabhu 456
Greek Orphic System 5i
Group of Guides 377,
38o, 399
of Rulers 377
of Teachers 377, 379
Group-soul 223,
324—326, 327,
328, 33o, 33i,
332, 333, 334, 47o
Breaking up of a 327
PAGE
Group-soul
Number of bodies
for each 326—327
What is a 324—326
Guru and Chelas of
ancient days in India
424, 45o
H a b i t of thought, How
created 186—187
Habits, Cause of bodily io5
Tricks of, How
transmitted i3i
Haeckel, quoted 28
Haig, Dr. Alexander,
quoted 26, 28, 3o
His Uric Acid in
the Causation of
Disease 27, 3o
Hamssl 482
Happiness, O u t w a r d ,
How gained i89
Outward, is due to
action 203
Hatred between egos 162
Colour for, in astral
body 85
Fetter of 483—484
How to kill out 224
Karmic relationship
of 220—221
Heaven, Dead man in,
waiting for his
friend 275
Dead man in, watch­
ing his friend 275
Higher, Man in 277
Higher, Stay in 278
Intensity of bliss in
272—273
Joys of 272
5i8 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Heaven
Kinds of z7z—273
-life, Character of 273
-life, Length of 273
Man in 269—z7z
Material 244
No eternal 247
of an artist 273
of a slum-child 273
What is 245, 269
Heavenly Man, The 38o
Heaven-world, The 23o
Average period for
persons in
i 7 6 _ i 79, 277
Babies in 274
Children in 273—274
Condition of a man
in 27i
Deity in 275
Dominant charac­
teristics of its sub­
divisions 277
Enjoyment in 27i
Entering 269
Friends in 274—275
How to draw upon
the w e a l t h of
27o — 27i
Opportunities for
progress in 275—276
Seven subdivisions
of 276
Windows in 27o,
27i , s 78
Hebrew religion, Key­
note of i3
Hell i58, .i94, 237,
24i, 247, 27i
-fire theory 24i
Lower i58
page
Hell
Mythical 256
Non-existence of
245— 246, 254
Helper, Astral 24i, 2 6 2 ,
3o7, 436
Astral, Qualifica­
tions for 264—265
Helping a man in depres­
sion 3o6
by prayers 3o5—3o6
others during our
sleep 3o6—3o8
the dead 4i 9
the dying 264
the newly dead 435
Herder taught Reincar­
nation 148
Heredity, Cause of bad 204
Law of i3o—132,
i4i, i43
Law of, and moral
genius i32
Law of, and musical
instinct i 32
Physical 127, i4i, 166
Problems of i 4 l
Violations of the
Law of i3r
Hermes of Praxiteles 4o9
Trismegistes 388
Trismegistes, Teach­
ing of 12
Higher heaven z77—278
Self, Development
of 474
Self, What is 7x
Triad 99, 100
Hilarion, The Master 4o9
Appearance of 4o9
as Iamblichus 4o9
INDEX 5i9
PAGE
H ilarion , The Master
gave Light on the
Path 4o9
gave The Voice of
the Silence 4o9
Head of Fifth Ray 4o9
Nationality of His
body 4o9
Residence of 4o9
Work of 4o9
H induism , Key-note of 12
H oliness, Path of 38o,
456, 466, 478, 48o, 486
H o ly Ghost, The 53, i56
376,475
Ghost, Baptism of
the 474
Grail, The 333, 334
Spirit, The 55, 3i8
Spirit, Descent of
the 466, 473, 485
Spirit, Festival of
the 477
H oroscope 206
H ouseholder, Lessons to
be learnt by a 43o
Spiritual life for a
429—432
H u m a n artificial 267
consciousness, Stages
of unfolding342—343
destiny 181
evolution 4, 69
evolution, Method
of 334—335
evolution, Planes
for 463
evolution, Purpose
of i64
evolution, Steps for
orderly 343—345
PAGE
Human
evolution, T h r e e
critical points in 464
Spirit 488
Humanity, Brotherhood
of, see Brotherhood
of Man
Hume, quoted i48
Humility 458
Hungarian Adept, The,
see Rakocxi, The
Master
Huxley, quoted i4
Hydrocarbons 24
Hypatia, a vegetarian 34
Iamblichus, a vege­
tarian 34
Master Hilarion as 4o9
Ignorance, Darkness of 229
Fetter of 485
is the c a u s e of
bondage 206
is the root of all
miseries 42, 422
Illumination, Stage of,
in Christian Church
426,466
Image, Living 4o5,45o, 46i
Living, What is 46o
Perceptual 108
Symbolical, during
sleep 112
Immanence of God 3, 8,
ix, 368
Imperfection, What is
346—347
Incarnation into animal
form i5o, i7i—173
of a chain 338, 339,
34o, 341
520 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Indian Scripture, quoted
186
Shastras, quoted 222
Individualisation 84,121,
i72, i75, 324,
338, 464
Method of 33o—333
Modes of i75
Right ways of i75
W r o n g ways of
i75— i76
Individualism, Key-note
of, in Christianity i3
Individuality 7x
an d personality,
Relation between 7i
What is 69
Inequality in Nations 361
in people, Reason of
361
Initiate and the Ten
Fetters 479
Gifts of powers to
the, by the Great
Brotherhood 478
Life of the 478—486
Planes for his evolu­
tion 463
P u p i l - , presented
to the King after
Third Initiation 475
Requirements from
the, before pass­
ing on 478
Work of the 478—486
Initiates are unequal in
development 467
would be useful to
World-Teacher
who has come 469
Initiation 372, 376, 382, 447
PAGE
Initiation
and age of physical
body 468,469
Buddha 383
Ceremony of 464
Chohan 329, 382
Egos in y o u n g
bodies initiated 468
Expansion of con­
sciousness at 473,478
Fifth Great 477,
478, 483, 485—486
First Great 257, 358,
463, 464, 467,
469—472, 478,
479—481
First Great, Ac­
count of a 469—47o
First Great, Causal
body vanishes at
47i—472
First Great, Cere­
mony of 469
First Great, Cere­
mony of. held on
astral plane 481
First Great, Given
by 464
First Great, Higher
and lower self be­
come one at 474
First Great, Lord
Maitreya as Initi­
ator at 469
First Great, Soul
dominates feel­
ings at 472
First Great, The
Lord Vaivasvata
Manu at 47o
INDEX 521
PAGE .
Initiation
First Great, The
Mahachohan at 47o
Fourth Great 476—
477, 478,482,483,
484—485
Fourth G r e a t ,
among the Egyp­
tians 477
F o u r t h Great,
Double aspect of 476
Fourth Great, Suf­
fering at the stage
of 476
Given by 464
Hall of 469
Importance of 464
Level of progress
for 467—468
Mahachohan 377,
382, 383
No reduction in
standard of re-
quirements for 468
Object of 463
of the Lord of the
World 38a
of the Master 473
of the P r a t y e k a
Buddha 382
of the S i 1e n t
Watcher 382
Physical h e a l t h
necessary for 468
Portal of 469
Qualifications for
fitness for 466—467
Second Great 468,
478, 481—482
PAGE
Initiation
Second Great, Cere­
mony of, held on
mental plane 48i
Second Great, Evi­
dence of proper
use of powers
before 48r
Second Great, Lord
Maitreya as Initi­
ator at 481
Second Great, Lord
Vaivasvata Manu
at 48i
Second G r e a t ,
Mental b o d y
quickened at 474
Second Great, Soul
dominates mind
at 472
Star of 384
“ Strait Gate ” of 456
Third Great, 474—
476, 478, 482—484
Third Great, Causal
body developed
at 474
Third Great, con­
ferred by the King
Himself 475
Third Great, Pupil
Initiate presented
to the King after 475
Third Great, Pupil
of the King de­
puted to confer 475
Vow of 47o
What is 463—465
Initiations ^ 429
among Christian
doctrines 472—478
66
522 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Initiations
Intervals between 467
The Ten 382
Initiator, Hierophant-
469, 470,473,474,
481
Lord Maitreya as
the 469—47o, 48i
Master K. H. as the 469
Master M. as the 469
The One 384, 39o,
469, 474
Injury, Karma of i83
Instinct, Moral, What is 128
Musical, and Here­
dity i32
Instincts, What are 127, 326
International Exhibition,
The first great, in i 85i 4o4
Interval between lives
i75—i79
Factors for i75
for a child i78
for an ego dying
young i78
for city-merchants 177
for country-gentle-
men 177
for farmers 177
for habitual crimi­
nals 178
for Initiated Disci­
ples i76
for prof e s s i o n a 1
men 177
for savages of brutal
type i7S
for savages of high
type i78
for savages of mild
type i78
PAGE
Interval between lives
for shop-keepers 177
for the lower middle
class 177
for the mass of un­
skilled labour i78
for the working class
(Skilled labour) i77
for those approach­
ing the Path i76
Intuition 69, 101, 473
Spirit of 482
Intuitional plane 69
see Buddhic plane
Involution 348
Irritability 74, 80, 457
Colour for, in astral
body 85
Colour f o r , i n
mental body 82
Cure another of the
habit of 3o4—3o5
Effect of, lasts for
48 hours 437, 447
Effect of, on astral
body 286
Fetter of 485
Hindrance to Dis-
cipleship 437
Hindrance to pro­
gress of pupil 447
How to get rid of
298—299, 447
Repression of 459
Ways of dealing
with 447
Jacob i56, i57
Jalal-ud-Din Rumi,
quoted i 47
INDEX 523
PAGE
James, S., a vegetarian 35
I, King of England
4 n , 4i2
the Less, a vegeta­
rian 35
Jealousy, Colour for, in
astral body 85
Jeremiah i5o
Jerome and Reincarna­
tion i5o
His Letter to Avitus i57
Jesus, The Master i 32,
4o9—4IOj 482
Appearance of 4io
as Apollonius of
Tyana 4o9
as R&manujacharya 4io
Baptism of 395, 4o9
Body of, taken by
the Christ 394,
395, 399, 4o9, 4i7
Disciples of 424
Dress of 4io
Duality of, and the
Christ 394
has Christian reli­
gion as His special
charge 4io
Head of Sixth Ray 4io
Key-note of His
Presence 4io
Master of devotees 4io
Nationality of His
body 4io
Residence of 410
Work of 4io
J e w i s h Alexandrian
School, The i 52
J e w s , Reincarnation
among i49—i52, i54
Jivanmukta, The 486
PAGE
Jivatma, The i63, 205
Jnana Yoga 44o
John, S., quoted 395
the Baptist, S. i47,
i52, i56
the Baptist and
Elijah, compared i53
Josephus’s De Bello
Judaico, quoted i5i
Joyousness 449
Judgment, The Day of
246,256,338, 465
Jupiter men 329
planet 54
planet, Incarnation
of 341
The Master, see
Agastya, R i s h i
Justice, Divine i43, i44,
i56, i57
Kabbalah, The, Rein­
carnation in i47
Kama 99, 101, 268
Kama-Manas 100, 101, 288
Kamaraga, Fetter of 483
Kama rupa 99
See also astral
body
Kamic aura 121
consciousness 84
elements i7i, i72
Karma 180—227
Accum ulated, o f
service 463
among a n i m a l s
222—223
and exertion i98, i99
and failure in busi­
ness lof good men
2i 7—218
524 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Karma and fatalism i98
and free-will 2o9—210
and opportunity i99
and prosperity 2i7
and sufferings of
holy people 218
and time and man­
ner of d e a t h
221—222
and viciousness 216
Arrears of 476
Beginning of i85— 186
Beginning of, for a
particular creature
i85
Binding element in 226
Burnt up by know­
ledge 227
Collective 220
has neither begin­
ning nor ending i85
How to exhaust past
individual 226—227
How to mould deli­
berately 224—225
Human i85—186
is a growing force 212
is eternal i85
is no punishment
for sin i93
is readjustment of
harmony i93
Kriyamana 208,210
Law of 122, i45,
146, 161, 168, 180,
181—184, 192,
x93, i94, 198
Law of, and prayer 2i5
Law of, Interfering
with 212—2i4
page
Karma, Law of, is a
natural law i83
Law of, is an invari­
able law 184
Law of,' is educative i94
Law of, Religious
version of 184
Law of, Scientific
statement of i84
Law of, What is
181—184, i93, 2i5
Law of, Whether it
eliminates G od
i9o—i9i
Life- 218
Lords of, The, see
Lords of Karma
No punishment in
213, 215
of accidents 2i9—220
of a good life 203
of agreeable futility 226
of aspiration i83, i87
of carelessness 212
of criticism . i83
of cruelty 2i 4
of dislikes i83
of injury i83
of kind act i83
of Nations 423
of relieving suffer­
ing 214
of repeated thoughts i87
of search for Truth i83
of sudden death 220
of sympathies i83
of the animal i85
of the mineral i85
of the vegetable i85
of truth 217
of want of sympathy i94
INDEX 525
PAGE
Karma of will for unsel­
fish service i87
Opportunities are
earned by 447
Prarabdha 208, 212
Prarabdha, How to
escape effects of
210—211
Prarabdha, Three
classes of 210
‘ Ready-money 1 218
Reward of good 2i7
Sanchita 208, 209,
210, 2x9, 220
Sanchita, What is 208
Sufferings and past 218
Three k i n d s of
208—209
Tools of 2i 3
Transferability of
197—i98
Yoga 43i,44o
Yoga—What is 429
Karmic accounts, Set­
tlement of 220
—221
debt 2 i9 ,220, 227
dues 226
obligations 227
relationship of love
or hatred 220—221
right 447
Kasyapa Buddha, The
Lord 386
Kellogg, Dr. J. H., quot­
ed 27
Kether 55
Key-mote of Buddhism x3
of Christianity i3—14
of Egyptian religion 12
of Greek religion 12
PAGE
Key-note of Hebrew reli­
gion 13
of Hinduism 11— 12
of Muhammadanism i 4
of Roman religion i3
of Zoroastrianism
12,
Key-notes of religions
9, 11—15
*King, The ’ 383—385, 393
Aura of 384
Coming face to face
with 474—475
Coming of, to our
earth 384
confers Third Ini­
tiation Himself 475
Pupils of 383, 386,
39o, 393, 475
represents the Logos
on our earth 384
Work of ^ 385
Kingdom of Happiness
368, 398
Kleinias 4i3
Knowledge is necessary
for liberation 227
is the remedy for all
miseries 4 i—42
Key-note of, in
Buddhism i3
What is real 47
Koilon 57,58
Krishna, Shri, referred
to 368, 39o
quoted 56, i 9i , i95
Child- 394
-cult 396
Lord Maitreya as
393—394
of the Gopis 394
5z6 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Krishna, Shri, of the
Mahabharata 394
Thought vibration
o f devotion to
285
Krishnamurti, J. 399, 4i5
Kriyashakti(Will-power)385
Kumaras, C
i The Four ”
386,4 i4
Kuthumi (K.H.), The
Master 4o4—4o8
quoted 42,77
Accomplishments of 4o5
Age of 4o4—4o5
Appearance of 4o4
Arm-chair of 4o6
as Initiator 469
as Nag&rjuna 4o4
as Pythagoras 4o4
as second son of
King of Persia 4i7
Assistant of Lord
Maitreya 4o7
Bodhisattva of sixth
root-race 4o8
Chohan of Second
Ray 4o8
Constant friend and
companion o f
4o4—4o5
Dress of 4o4
Exercise of 4o7
Family of 4o7
Followers of 4o6
Garden of 4o6
Guardian of Occult
Museum 4o5
Horse of 4o7
House of 4o3,4o5—
4o6, 4i4
PAGE
Kuthumi (K.H.), The
Master
Influence noticeable
in 4o8
Languages spoken
by 4o5
Lecturette by 4o6
Living images of
pupils of 4o5
Master of Master
Djwal Kul 4i4
Nationality of His
body 4o4
One w i t h the
Bodhisattva 4o7
Past lives of 4o4
Real Founder of the
T. S. 45, 47, 267, 4o3
Riding with Master
M, 4o7
Sending benediction
4o6
Servants of 4o7
Successor of Lord
Maitreya 4o7
Teacher of 4o7
t o o k University
Degree in Europe4o5
Kutichaka (Builder) 479
L ank a, Sinking of 402
Lao-tsze 393
Law, Doctrine of 12
of Brotherhood 2 1 , 364
of Cause and Effect,
see Law of Karma
of Evolution i 32,
1 6 0 , 1 6 1 , i7 4 ,
3 n , 3i2
of evolution for
i4, 36i
man
INDEX 527
PAGE
Law of evolution for
the brute i4. 36i
of Heredity, see
Heredity
of Ka r ma , see
Karma
of Karma and igno­
rance i98
of Love i67, i93
of Sacrifice i97
of Self-sacrifice i4, 36i
Laws of Nature and
ignorance i98
of Nature, What
are i9o—i 9i ,
x93, 228
Laziness delays spiritual
progress 448
Leadbeater, B i s h o p
C. W., quoted, 4o3
met Master Rakoczi
4x3
visited Rishi Agas-
tya 4o3
Lemurian (Fourth) root-
race 336, 337, 338, 383
Lessing taught Reincar­
nation i48
Liberation 227, 372, 382,
478
Conditions neces­
sary for x75, 2i 9
Desire for 455—456
How to attain 226
Life, Divine, see Divine
Life
„Evolution of, see
Evolution of Life
in a stone 9o
Light, Central teaching
of
PAGE
Light of Asia, The,
referred to i 73, 389
quoted 46, i 84,
i9o, 2i 3
Light on the Path,
quoted 422—42 3
given by Master
Hilarion 4o9
Lipika, The i65
Living image 4o5, 45o, 46i
image, What is a 46o
Logoi, Solar 53
The Seven Cosmic
Planetary 52, 54
The Seven Solar
Planetary 54
The Three, of the
Solar System 53
Logos, Cosmic 52, 53, 54
First 55, 3i8,376
Manifested 52,376
Plan of the 378
Second 55, 3i8, 376
Second, Descent of
the 475
Solar 52, 53, 54,
375, 384
Staff Corps of the 38i
Third 55, 3i8, 376
Unmanifested 5i, 38o
Lord of the World, The
378, 383—385, 39o
see also fThe King’
Appearance of 385
Aspirant on the Path
presented to 385
Aura of 384
Ceremony by 385
Coming of, to our
earth 384
12
528 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Lord of the World, The
governs the First
Ray 329
Head of the Occult
Hierarchy 377
Head of the Ruling
Department 377
Initiation of 382
is the One Initiator
384
Lieutenants of 377,
384, 386
Manifestation of the
First Aspect of
the Logos 376
Our, is the third
Holder of that
Office 385
Pupils of 383, 386,
39o, 393
Representative of 377
represents the Logos
on our earth 384
Work of 385
Lords of Karma, The
i65, 204, 2 o7 , 208,
209, 213, 2l4, 2i9, 25o
of Mercury 386
of the Flame, The
384, 39o, 475
Love at first sight 128
between egos 162, 483
Divine 57, i45, 2i 9,
264, 348
Earthly 483
Karmic relationship
of 220—221
Law of i67, 193
Power of 458
Qualification of 456
Selfish human 452
PAGE
Love, Sensual, How puri­
fied 443
Sins against 456
Universal 48i
Luck, Cause of 188, i89
What is 209
Lunar Chain 34o
M a d h a v a c h i r y a , Pupil
of Lord Maitreya 397
Maeterlinck, quoted 424
Magic, Black 234
Ceremonial 4i 2
Ray of Ceremonial
329, 33o, 412
Magnetic affinity i73
shell n 7
thread 23o
tie i87,23i
Magnetism, Phenomena
of 120
Mahabhinishkramana 387
Mahachohan Initiation
377, 382, 383
Mahachohan, The 377, 475
Appearance of 399
at First Initiation 47o
Aura of 399
Dress of 399
Head of Chohans of
five Rays 399
Head of the Group
of Guides 399
Initiation 377,
382, 383
Keeper of the Re­
cords 38o,462
Manifest a t io n o f
Third Aspect of
the Logos 376
index 529
PAGE
Mahachohan, The
Nationality of His
body 399
Office of 383
Pupil presented to,
at each stage 462
Pupil presented to,
before Initiation 469
Resemblance of
Master Rakoczi
to 4i3
supervises five Rays
from Third to
Seventh 329
Work of 38o
Mahadeva 3i8,33i
Mahamanvantara 34i
Mahaparanirvanic plane 6i
Mahavira 393
Maitreya, The Lord,
referred to 387,
393_399
quoted 47,396
See also World-
Teacher and
Christ
Appearance of 397
as High Priest in
Atlantis 395
as Initiator at First
Initiation 469
as I n i t i a t o r at
Second Initiation 48i
as Shri Krishna of
the Gopis 393—394
as Shri Krishna of
the Mahabharata 394
as the Christ 394—395
Assistant of 4o7
at the V a i s h a k h
ceremony 39i
67
PAGE
Maitreya, The Lord
Aura of 397—398
Central feature of
His teaching 395
Coming of 368, 398
First step of, as
World-Teacher 393
Garden of 398, 469
47o, 481
had borrowed body
of Jesus 394, 395,
399, 4o9, 4r7
has borrowed body
of J. Krishnamurti
399, 4i5
House of 398, 4oi
How to think of 398
Influence noticeable
in 397,4o8
Marble seat of 47o
Mode of manifesta­
tion of 398
Nationality of His
body 397
occupied body of
Tsong-kha-pa 396
Pupils of 396—397
Representative o f
Lord B u d d h a
377, 378, 387
Successor of Lord
Gautama 39i
Teacher of Master
Dhruva 4o7
took birth as Shri
Krishna 4i8
took o v e r the
office of World-
Teacher 389
Unity between, and
Master K. H. 4o7
530 THEOSOPHY-.EXPLAINED
PAGE
Man and animal, Differ-.... .
ence between io i,
333—334
Brotherhood of 7,
12, 44, 47, 258
Constitution of 68
. — 121
Descent of 323
Karma of i85— 186
Seven principles of
98—99
Solidarity of 4, 12
Sou] of,—What is
69, 79,.i5o, 332
S u p e r p h y s i c a l
powers in 66
T h r e e immortal
bodies of 102—io3
Three mortal bodies
of 102—io3
True goal of 488
Whether he is
carnivorous by
nature 33—35
W h y h e w a n t s
various bodies 77
Man : Whence, How and
Whither 402
Manana 425—426
Manas 99, 101, 122, 279
Higher ; 100
Lower 100,268
What is 69,100
Manasic aura 120, 121
plane 62
Manichseans, The x48, 394
Mano (Pride) 485
Manodvaravajjana 452
Manu, The
See Vaivasvata
. r . Manu
...... PAGE
Manu, The
of a. root-race 329
of a root-race,
Initiation of 382
of a root-race, Term
of office of 378
of a root-race, What
is 378
of a r o o t - r a c e ,
Work of 378,38o
Manvantara i74, 34i
Marriage and Theosophy
39—4o
Mars men 329
planet 339
planet, Incarnation
of 34o
Mary, Blessed Virgin 475
Master, A, quoted i96
437, 439, 448
An Indian, quoted
i4, 361
What is 372—373
Master, The
See also Adept
Accepted pupil of
46i, 462, 469
Advice by, to pro­
bationary p u p i l
456, 457—459
Aura of 398, 423
Causal body of 80,
81, 423
Confidence in 455
Ego of, enfolding
ego of Son 462
forgets nothing 428
has no favourites 434
How He chooses a
possible disciple 435
INDEX 53l
PAGE
Master, The
How He knows a
future d i s c i p l e
439—440
How He places a
pupil on Proba­
tion 446
How He s p e n d s
much of His time 421
How to attract at-
tention of 439
Image of, in heaven-
world 276
Initiation of 473
Link of Son with 462
looks at a person
joining the T. S. 428
Meditation on 445
Pupil of 434—436
Pupil taken in con­
sciousness of 46i
Pupils living with 421
Radiation of colours
in aura of 397—398
Recognition of, by
ordinary man 423
—424
Relation of, to ac­
cepted pupil 46i
Relation of, to pupil
459—46o,46i, 462
■
—463
Search for 44o—44i
Son of 462
Taking a new baby
body 4i6
Union of pupil with 4o7
Why He does not
take m o r e a s ­
pirants as pupils
436—439
PAGE
Master, The
Why He makes His
physical body last
long 4i 6
Why He needs a
physical body 421
Work given by, to
p r o b a t i o n a r y
pupil 456—457
Masters, The
See also Adepts
Age of 4i5
and Brotherhood 359
and the Way to
Them 372—488
are all linked to­
gether 429
are of many races 423
Bodies of, Healthy
and long pre­
served 4x4
borrow bodies tem-
f porarily 4i5—4x8
can focus T h e i r
consciousness at
all levels 481
Coming out as reli­
gious teachers 4i9
deal mostly with
egos 420
do not w i t h h o l d
knowledge 421—422
Doubt about exis­
tence of 48o
Evidence of exis­
tence of 373—-375
Force of 434, 436, 461
guide people to join
the T. S. 428
Helping the dead 4x9
532 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Masters, The
Historical evidence
about 374
Influencing gather-
ings'of pilgrims 420
Parishes of 4i9—420
Real Founders of the
T.S. 45, 47, 367, 4o3
Testimony of first
hand experience
about 374
Testimony of re­
ligions about 374
Thought-forms by 4i9
What binds Them
to earth 227
Where They live 278
Why They do not
remove crime and
misery 421—4-22
Why They live in
c o m p a r a t i v e
seclusion 4 i6 ,421
Why They permit
conquest of Egypt
and India 423
Work of 277, 4i8—
421, 435, 436
Materialism 6, i9
Materialist, Incredulity
of the 7
Mathas 39o
Mathematics, Why some
learn it quickly 128
Mathura, Northern 402
Matthew, S., a vegeta­
rian 35
Max Muller, P r o f . ,
quoted i47, i63
Mayavirupa, What is
120— 121
PAGE
Meat habit, Difficulty of
breaking 35
habit, How to break
35—38
Meditation, Depression
in 445
How to p r a c t i s e
444—445
on the Master 445
Prolonged 128
Regularity in 83, 445
Medium 254
Mediums, Materialising 93
Memory, Astral n 5 , n 7
Dawn of 342
of past lives 126—129
of past lives can be
gained 128
of past lives is found
in children 128
of the ego 125
Physical n 5 , n 7 , 125
Unconscious, of the
cells 35, 89, 9o
Mental body, The 82
Functions of 82
Growth of
High Initiates do not
discard, at death i76
How formed i63— 166
is not fully devel­
oped 27o
Matter of 82
Meaning of colours
in 82
Method of growth of 83
New for each life 126
of advanced man 82
of undeveloped man 82
Q u i c k e n e d at
Second Initiation 474
INDEX 533
PAGE
Mental body, The
Segments in 84
Shape of 82, 83
Size of 82
Use of 78
What is 82,279
When cast off io3
Mental elemental 71—
75, 3i6, 447
elemental essence
289, 292
permanent unit i63, i64
plane, What is 62
world, Extent of 67
Mercury, Lords of 386
planet 339,386
planet, Incarnation
of 34i
Mesmeric passes 95
Mesmerist 95
Metempsychosis i71
Michelet, a vegetarian 35
Middle Ages, The i47
Miller, Dr., on Hindu­
ism 11
Milton, a vegetarian 35
Mind, How to control
3o2—3o3
M i n e r a l group-soul
325, 332
Karma of the i85
Miseries, Cause of all 42
Classification of 4o
Remedy for all 4i
Misery, Outward, How
brought i89
Mithra 393
Monad, The 7o, 324,
33i, 332, 333, 334,
35o, 474
PAGE
Monad, The
d e s c e n d s into
causal body at
First Initiation 47o
Ego becomes as end
of a funnel from,
at Initiation 47i
Ego linked to 47o
Manifesting himself
in lower worlds
69—7i
Mineral 3i6
of form 321
takes vow of Initi-
ation 47o
Union of, with ego 465
What he is 68-69, 3i8
Monadic essence, 72, i74
essence, What is 3i5
plane 61,69
Moore, Prof. J. H., quot­
ed 28
More, Henry, t a u g h t
Reincarnation i48
Sir Thomas, now* a
Master 4i4
Morya (M,), The Master
Age of 4o3
Appearance of 4o3
as Initiator 469
as King of Persia 4i7
Assistant of Lord
Vaivasvata Manu
4o8
Chohan of F i r s t
Ray 4o4
Constant friend and
companion o f
Master K. H. 4o4
—4o5
Disciples of 4o3
534 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Morya (M.), The Master
Dress of 4o3
Future M a n u of
s i x t h root-race
4oi, 4o3
Horse of 4o7
House of 4o5—4o6, 4i4
Influence noticeable
in 4o4
Inner Head of the
Inner School of
the T. S. 428
Lieutenant of Lord
Vaivasvata Manu
4oi, 4o3
Living images of
pupils of 4o5
Ma s t e r of H. P.
Blavatsky 4o3
M a s t e r of H. S.
Olcott 4o3,4o8
Nationality of His
body 4o3
Place of H is re­
sidence 4o3
Real Founder of the
T. S. 45, 47, 367, 4o3
Riding with Master
K. H. 4o7
Successor of Lord
Vaivasvata Manu
4o3, 4o8
Motive of action affects
character 201—203
of action h a s no
effect on physical
plane 201—203
What is 201
Motives of action 433
Mourners, Grief of, after
death 261—262
pa g e
Muhammad, P u p i l of
Lord Maitreya 397
Muhammadanism, Key­
note of 14
Mulaprakriti 55
What is 52
Mumukshattva (Desire
for Liberation) 455—456
Music, Angels of 276
Musical genius i 4 i
instinct and Here­
dity 132
N ig a r j u n a , M a s t e r
K.H. as 4o4
Pupil of Lord
Maitreya 397
Narcotic drugs, Effect of
39, 442
Nations, Angels of 4i9
Karma of 423
Nature-spirits 37o, 377, 420
Necessity and free-will
2 0 4 — 2 0 6 ; 225
Nelson, a vegetarian 35
Neo-Platonic Schools,
The i47,4o9
Neo-Platonism 5 ,4 n
Neptune planet 54
planet, Incarnation
of 34i
Newman, Cardinal 35, 4o9
Newton, Isaac, a vege­
tarian 35
Nididhyasana 426—427
Nilgiri Master, The 4oi
—4o3, 4i3
see also Agastya, Rishi
Nirmanakaya Vesture 381
Nirm&nak£yas, The 267, 38i
store filled by 420
INDEX 535
PAGE
Nirvanic plane 62, 376,
38i, 475, 477, 484
N-Rays 92,93
O b s e s s io n 254
Occult Government of
the World 376
Hierarchy 378,386,421
Hierarchy, Head of 377
Hierarchy, Rays in 329
Hierarchy, What is
375, 38i, 487
Museum 4o5
progress 449, 468
relationship 457
Occult World, The 4i 2
O c c u l t i s m , No half
measures in 438
Offence, Taking 3oi
Taking, is a hin­
drance to Disci-
pleship 437
Olcott, Col. H. S., Disci­
ple of Master M,
4o3, 4o8
founded the T.S. 5, 4o3
Taught by Master
Serapis 4o8
Oldfield, Dr. J o s i a h,
quoted 28, 36—37
Opportunities are earned
by karma 447
are made by desire
186, i87—188
fo r p r o g r e s s in
heaven 275—276
Grasping 225
Making 457
only, no rights for
pupil 449
PAGE
Opportunities
Small, bring greater
45, 2o3
to help 458
Wasted, result in
frustrated long­
ings 203
Opportunity and karma i99
How gained i89
How to make 224— 255
Watching for 457, 458
“ Organic nutrients ” 24
Origen, quoted i56, i57, i58
a vegetarian 35
His De Principiis i56
on Reincarnation
i5o, i55—158
Orpheus, Buddha as 12,389
Orphism, The Schools
of 259
Outpouring, The First
Great 72, 3i 3—
3i5, 3i8, 475
The Second Great
72, 76, 3i5—3i7,
3i8, 324, 33i
The Third Great
3i7—3i8, 323,
33i, 332, 334, 476
Outpourings, The Three
Great 58, 72, 76, 3i3
—3i9
Overstreet, Prof., quoted
368—369
Ovid and Reincarnation i47
P a g a n Christ, The 4o9
Pain, Meaning and use
o f ^ 35o— 356
Paley, a vegetarian 35
Pandya kings 402
536 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Paramahamsa 484
Paranirvanic plane 61
Pariah i69
Pcirihamma 453
Parishes of Masters
4x9—420
Parivrajaka (Wanderer)
vav 479
Patanjali, quoted 342, 344
Path, The, 425,426, 427,477
Aspirant on 385
First qualification
for approach to 432
is always open 488
Leading to Perfect­
ing of Man 465—466
Noble Eightfold 389
No half measures
on 438
of Dis c i p 1e s h i p,
First steps on
43i—432
of Holiness 38o, 456,
466, 478, 48o, 486
of Illumination, of
Christian Church
426—427, 466
of Perfection of
Christian Church
426—427
of Purification of
Christian Church
426—427, 45i,
465, 466
of Union (or Perfec­
tion) of Christian
Church 466
Official period of 4a9
Portals on 478
Probationary 429,
43o, 44i
PAGE
Path, The
Progress on, has­
tened by T. S. mem­
bers 428
Proper 429
Proper, Four stages
on 478
Qualifications for
Probationary
443—445
Requirements for
Probationary
44i—445
Second Qualification
for approach to 433
Three divisions of 429
Paths, Seven, before the
Adept 338, 38o—38i
Patience, How learnt 225
Patigha 483
Paul, S., quoted 74, i56,
257, 426
Pellagra 25
Perception, What is 322
Perceptual images 108
Perfection, Path leading
to 465
Stage of, in Chris­
tian Church 426
Permanent atom, Astral
i63,i65
atom, Physical i63, i65
atoms 332
atoms, Use of 164
unit, Mental i63, i64
Personality, The 437
and individuality 7i
becomes a reflex of
ego 47o
Character of 80
INDEX
PAGE
Personality, The
Destroyed by pain
354—355
How its progress is
seen 84
Record of progress
of 121
Union of, with ego
465, 467
What is 71,i o o
Peter, S., referred to i4, 427
quoted 426
a vegetarian 35
Pezzani taught R e i n-
carnation i48
Pharisees, The i 5i
Philanthropy 45
Philo on Reincarnation i52
Philosophy and Theos­
ophy 20—21
of life 20
Physical body, The
and Theosophy 88—89
Bad habits changed
in 89
Cause of its shape i89
consciousness 89
during sleep io7—io9
Effect of thought on
3o8—3o9
How formed i63— 166
Peculiarity of 89
Reason for de­
formed 166
Physical brain during
sleep 108—io9, i i 3
elemental 8 9 ,9i
elemental, Functions
of 76—77
elemental, What is
7i, 76—77
537
PAGE
Physical
heredity 127, i 4 i , 1 6 6
memory n 5 , i i 7 , 125
permanent a t o m
i6 3 , i6 5
plane 62
Plane, Adi, What is 61
Anupadaka, What is 61
Astral, What is 62
Atmic, What is 62
Buddhic, What is 62
Divine, What is 61
Mahaparanirvanic,
What is 61
Mental, What is 62
Nirvanic, What is 62
Paranirvanic, What
is 61
Planes of Nature, The
Seven
Contact of men with 67
How man contacts
them 67, 101— 102
Location on earth of 61
Meaning of 59
Names of 61—62
Relation to earth of 60
Subdivisions of each
of 62—65-
Why we are nor­
mally unconscious
of 65
Planetary Logoi, Cosmic
52, 54
Logoi, Solar 54
Scheme, What is 34i
Spirits 54
Planets, How formed 59
Plato, quoted 20, 128
a vegetarian 34
on Reincarnation i47
538 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Plutarch, a vegetarian 34
Population of the world
Increase of, ex­
plained, 134—135
Powers, Development of
latent 18
Proof of superphysi­
cal, in man 66—67
Prajapatis 54
Prana 9i, 99, io7, 3o8
and physical vehi-
cle 96
Fate of, at death 23i
What is 94—96
Prsinic aura 120
Pratyagatma 55
Pratyeka Buddha, The
Initiation of 382
Why so called 386
Work of ^ 386
Prayer, Combined 3o6
Prayers and Law’ of
Karma 2l5
for the dead, How
offered 262—264
for the dead, Value
of 2 6 2 —263
Helping by 3o5— 3o6
Predestination 180
Pre-existence of the soul
i49, i5o, i 5i , i55
Presentation of Christ
in the Temple 475
Prevision by ego during
sleep 112
Pride 8 0 ,4 5 8
Bar to progress 457
C o l o u r for, in
mental body 82
Fetter of 485
PAGE
Pride, Hindrance to
Discipleship 436
Principles of Man, Seven
98—99
of right and wrong 127
Probation 4o5, 429, 45o
Ceremony of 446
consists in testing
pupil 459—46o
Elder people on 456
Method of taking a
man on 445—447
Object of 445—446
Period of time for 459
Tests of 46o
Younger people on 456
Probationary Path, The
429, 43o, 44i
Intervals between
stages on 462—463
of the Buddhist 466
of the Hindu 466
Qualifications f o r
443—445
Qualifications f o r
a p p r o a c h to
432—433
Requirements f o r
441—445
Probationary Pupil, The
Advice to , b y
Master 456—459
Expectations from 46o
Four qualifications
required f r o m
452—456, 461
Hindrances to 447—45o
Life of 45i—456
Relation of, to his
Master 459—460
INDEX 539
PAGE
Probationary Pupil, The
Work given to, by
Master 456—457
Work to be accom­
plished by 45i—456
Problems of life, Deeper I
Prosperity and Karma 2x7
Proteins 24, 37
Proto-elements, H o w
formed 59,63
Protyle 64
Psychic powers i45
Punishment, Eternal 245
No, in Karma 2i 3—2i5
Pupil, Accepted
can be switched off
by Master 462
Ego of 462
Relation o f, to
Master 46i
Taken into Master’s
consciousness 46i
Useful to World-
Teacher now that
He has come 469
What is 461
Pupil, Causal body of
8o,482
Effect of lending his
body to Master 4i 7
Expectations from
one who aspires
to Be a 434—435
How he catches at­
tention of Master 435
-Initiate 472
-Initiate, Presented
to the King after
Third Initiation 475
Meaning of 434—435
Mental body of 482
PAGE
Pupil, Method of his
getting initiated
469—472
Method of taking
him on Probation
445—447
Opportunities only,
no rights for 449
Presented to the
Mahachohan at
each stage 462
Presented to the
Mahachohan be­
fore Initiation 469
Probationary, see
Probationary pupil
Relations between
Master and 459—
46o, 46i, 462, 463
Senior 446
Senior, g u i d i n g
younger p u p i l
45o—45i
Senior, takes new
Initiate to Bud-
dhic plane 47i
Son of the Master 462
Son’s link with the
Master 462
Tested during Pro­
bation 459—46o
Three stages of his
c o n t a c t with
Master 459—462
Training in astral
work to 436
Why he is put on
Probation 446
Work of a 434—436
Younger, guided by
senior pupil 45o—451
54o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Pupils, Higher, Where
they live after
death 278
living with a Master 421
of Lord Maitreya
396—397
of the King 383, 386,
39o, 393, 475
of the King, Names
of 386
of the King, Work
of 386
Puranas, The Hindu
386, 388
Purgatory 27i
Long-enduring 246
Use of 254— 256
What is 245
Purification, Festival of
the 476
Stage of, in Christian
Church 426—427,
45i,465, 466
Purity is a negative
virtue 426
Key-note of, in
Zoroastrianism 12,
280
Real, What is 3 i—
-32
Pythagoras 393,4i3
a Vegetarian 34
Master K. H. as 4o4
taught Reincarna­
tion i47
Qualities, Evil, persist
in later lives i64
Evolution of social
and moral i38
Feminine i69—i 7i
: How formed i37
PAGE
Qualities, Human, How
evolved i39
Masculine i69—i7x
Transmission of i38,
i 4o, i42
Quaternary, Lower 99
Radiating vibration of
thought 283—285
Raja Yoga 374
Rajas 429,43o
Use of 43o
Rakoczi, The Master
4io—4i3
Appearance of 4x3
as Baron Hompesch
412
as Christian Rosen-
kreuz 4 ii
as Comte de S.
Germain 4io, 4i2
as Francis Bacon 4 n
as Ivan Rakoczi 4i2
as John Hunyadi 4 n
as Proclus 4 ii
as Robertus the
Monk 4 n
as Roger Bacon 4 n
as S. Alban 4io
Dress of 4i3
Head of Seventh
Ray 4i2
Influence of the
splendour of His
Presence 4i3
Languages spoken
by 4i3
Manners of 4i 3
Met by Bishop
Leadbeater 4i3
INDEX 541
PAGE
Rakoczi, The Master
resembles the Maha-
chohan 4i3
Residence of 4i3
Robes worn by 4i3
Work of 4i2
wrote plays as
Shakespeare 4n
Ramanujacharya, Master
Jesus as 4io
Pupil of Lord
Maitreya 397
Ray, Each, has a Chohan
as its Head 382
Ruling or First 329
Ray, The xst (of Strength
or Power) 329
„ Head of 329
„ Highest Initia­
tion on 382
The 2nd (of Wis­
dom) 329
„ Head of 329,
378, 386
„ Highest Initia­
tion on 383
The 3rd (of Adapta­
bility or Tact) 329
„ Characterist i c
of 4o8
„ Head of 4o8
The 4th (of Beauty
or Harmony) 329
„ Head of 4o8
The 5th (of Science)329
„ Head of 4o9
The 6th (of Devo­
tion) 329
„ Dominance of 33o
„ Head of 4io
„ Influence of 4i2
PAGE
Ray, The 7th (of Ceremo­
nial magic) 329
„ Head of 4i 2
;, Influence of
33o, 4x2
„ What it in­
volves 33o
Rays, The Seven 33i,
382, 399
,, Initiations on
328—383
„ What are 328—33o
Recapitulation Theory,
The 3 i2
Recognising a f r i e n d
astrally 118
Reincarnation 122—179
A Christian doctrine
! 49_ i 59
among the Jews
i49— i 52, i 54
and conscience i44
and D a r w i n i a n
evolution i45
and death of a babe
145—x46
and difference be­
tween children x3o
and Divine Justice x44
and genius i44
and Law of Here­
dity i3o—i 32
and misfortune i44
and modern Christi­
anity 159— 160
and psychic powers i45
and sex i69—i 7 i
and social condition i44
and s o l u t i o n of
several problems x44
542 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Reincarnation
Belief among Bud­
dhists in i 48
Belief among Hindus
in 148
Character explained
by ^ i 37
C o n d i t i o n s for
finishing i74—175
Criminal explained
by i44
F a c t o r s w h i c h
determine 160— 162
Genius explained by
i4o—i 42
Goal of i74
in religions i46—149
into animal bodies
i5o, i 7i —i73
Jerome on i5o
Method of 123
Moral necessity for
i43—i45
Necessary logically
i35—137
Necessity for i35—145
Number of people
believing in i46—149
Object of 122. i7o
Origen on i5o, i55
—158
Savage explained by
i36, i 4i , i44
Scientific necessity
for 137—143
What draws an ego
to i74
What is 122
Religion, Basis of 8
for a savage nation 8
page
Religion, Study of com­
parative 8, i5, 16
Religions, All, have same
teachings 7
Essentials of all, are
the same 9, 10
Founders of 10
Great, are like re­
servoirs of one
spiritual water 4i 8
Key-notes of 9, 11—15
Origin and essence
of all, are same 8
Reason for variety
of 8
Reasons for appar-
e n t difference
between 9
Spiritual life in 10
S t u d y of all, is
necessary to know
Truth 9
V a r i o u s , are
methods of search
after God 8
Religious version of the
Law of Karma i84
Repentance of sins i93,
i95—i97
Result of activities on
ourselves i89
of aspirations i87
of charity 202
of cruelty i67, 2i4
of experiences i89
of lack of experiencei92
of much effort i87
of obedience t o
Law i9o
of opportunities of
service grasped 2o3
INDEX 543
PAGE
Result of painful experi­
ences i89
of relieving suffer­
ing 2l4
of repeated thoughts
i87, i89
of selfish feeling 244
of selfishness 202, 2i5
of strong desire i87, i89
of transgression of
Law i9o
of want of sympathyi94
of wasted oppor­
tunities 203
of will for unselfish
service i87
Resurrection i 7i
The 466, 473,
476-4 7 7 , 484, 485
Revelation, The i55
Richardson, Sir B. W.,
quoted 24
Rickets 25
Right and wrong 128,
342, 343
Principles of 127
Righteousness, Key-note
of, in Hebraism i3
Roman ideal i3
Root-race 334, 34i, 378,
38o,387
Aryan (Fifth) 336,
337.338, 341, 388,4oi
Atlantean (Fourth)
336.337.338, 34i,387
Lemurian (Third)
336, 337, 338, 383
Meaning of 335—338
Sixth 337, 338, 367,
4oi, 4o3, 4o8
Rosenkreuz, Christian 4 n
p a g e
Rosicrucians, The 4H
Rossetti believed in Re-
incarnation i48
Round, The Fifth 246,
338, 465
The Seventh 338
What is a 338, 34i
Rupa Loka 63, 276
Ruparaga 485
Rydberg, Prof. Victor,
quoted 152
Sacrifice 43i
Law of 197
The Great 387
Sakadagami 48x
Sakkayaditthi 479
Salvation 372, 382
Christian doctrine
of 256—259
Final 466, 478, 486
Idea of, a m o n g
eastern nations 259
Meaning of 256
Samadhdna (Balance) 455
Sambhogakaya Vesture 38i
Samyojana 479
Sanaka 386
Sanandana 386
Sanatana 386
Sanat Kumara 385
See a l s o T h e
“ King” and the
L o r d of the
World
Sansara 259
Sapphira 438
Sattva 429
Use of 43o
Saturn men 329
planet 54
544 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Saturn
planet, Incarnation
of 34i
Satyrs 267
Savage, A
Causal body of 81
Condition of, after
death 252—253
Condition of, during
sleep 97
Dreams remem­
bered by n o
Ego of, during sleep n o
Explained by Re­
incarnation 136,
i 4i , i4 4
Interval between
lives for i78
Our duty towards 367
Schelling taught Rein­
carnation i48
Schopenhauer t a u g h t
Reincarnation i48
Science, Modern—Its
antagonism t o
Theosophy 18— 19
Modern, What it is i9
Ray of 329, 4o9
Scientific accuracy 4o9
knowledge, K e y ­
note of 12
necessity for Rein­
carnation i 37— i43
statement of Karma x84
Scripture, Ch r i s t i a n,
referred to . i94
quoted i8 4 ,257
Hindu, quoted 280
Indian, quoted 186
Zoroastrian, quoted 280
Scurvy 25
PAGE
Second or astral death
23o, 242, 2 6 1 , 269
Secret Doctrine, The,
referred to i9, 374
quoted 58
Self-centredness 437,448
-consciousness o f
cells 9o
-control 453
-control, How ac­
quired 429
-control. How de­
stroyed 448
Delusion of 479—48o
Development of the
higher 474
Higher 7i, 474
Lower and higher,
become o n e a t
First Initiation 474
-sacrifice 168,446
-sacrifice, Growth
of, e xp I a in e d
139—i4o
-sacrifice, Key-note
of, in Christianity i4
-sacrifice, Law of
i4, 36i
Selfish affection. Thought-
form of 283
feeling, Result of 244
love 452
Selfishness 2, 83, 348, 43o
Colour for, in
mental body 82
Forms of 448
Method of burning
up 443
Miseries of, How
removed 422
Result of 202, 2i5.
Selfishness, Spiritual
What is
Seneca
a vegetarian
Sensual love, How puri­
fied
Sensualist, Condition
after death of a 247—248
Sensuality 80
Colour of, in astral
body 85
Serapis, The Master
A p p e a r a n c e of
4o8—4o9
Head of Fourth
Ray 4o8
Nationality of His
body 4o8
Special line of 4o8
taught Col. Olcott 4o8
Work of 4o8
Service i4, 434, 446, 459
Accumulated karma
of 463
Definite 458
Kinds of 432
of Man 432
Result of unselfish i87
Unselfish 435
Unselfish, First step
to the Path 433
Sex and Reincarnation
i69—i 7i
Ego has no i7o
Number of incarna­
tions in each i 7i
Shade, Astral i 7i , 267
Astral, What it is 269
Shakespeare 4 n
Shama (Control of
thought) 453—454
545
PAGE
Shamballa 385, 386
Shankaracharya, Shri 393
established Mathas 39o>
forbade a n i m a l
sacrifice 39o>
revived Hinduism 39o
Sharp believed in Rein­
carnation i48
Shatsampatti ( Go o d
Conduct) 453—455
Shattriya and brother­
hood 364
Dharma of the 344
Shaw, Bernard, a vege­
tarian 35
Shell, Astral i 7i , 263,
267, 277
Astral, What is 269
Magnetic n 7
Shelley, a vegetarian 35
Shiva 54, 55, 3i8, 376
Shraddha (Confidence) 455
Shradhas, Object of
Hindu 263
Shravana 425
Shudra and brotherhood 364
Dharma of the 343—344
Silabbataparamasa 48o
Silent Watcher, The
Initiation of 382
What is 38o
Work of 38o
Silesius, A n g e l u s,
quoted 258
S i n, Forgiveness of
l92—195
is the result of
c o n d i t i o n of
ignorance 192
What is i 9i — i 92
INDEX
PAGE
i75
2l5
254
34
443
546 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE PAGE
Sins against love 436 Solar System, By whom
Sisyphus, Myth of 248 built 5i—55
Sleep and death, com­ S y s t e m , H o w
pared 23l formed 57—59
and death, Differ­ Solidarity of Man 4, 12
ence between 98 Son of the Master 462
Astral body in 85, Sonship 469
87—88, n o , n 3 Sorrow, Use of 124
Condition of a man Soul, Age of the i3o,
during 96--98 i43, i44
C on d i t i 0 n of a Animal- iq i. 323—324
savage during 97 Animal group- 324
Condition 0 f ad- —326, 33r, 332, 47o
97
97
vanced man dur­
ing
Condition of ordi­
nary man during
Ego in iio—i i 2
Ego of a savage in iio
Etheric brain dur­
ing io9, Ii3
Helping others dur­
ing our 3o6—3o8
Last thought before i i 7
Physical body dur­
ing io7—io9
Physical brain dur­
ing 108—io9, i i 3
Whether a m an
dies during 98
Socrates 254
a vegetarian 34
Sohan 479
Solar Deity 58, 384
Logos 53, 54, 375
Logos, What He is 52
Planetary Lo g o i ,
Seven 54
System 34r
System and God
49—67
Body for the 79
Elemental group- 332
Great, born among
the degraded 168
Group-, see Group-
soul
Home of the 123
Mineral group- 325, 332
Mother- i39
of animal ioi, i73,
323—324
o f m a n i o i , i73,
47o, 472
of man. What is 69,
79, i5o, 332
Plant- 326
P r e-existence o f
the i49, i5o, i 5i , i55
reviews past life
after death 126
Vegetable g r o up-
324, 332
Southey taught Rein­
carnation i 4S
Spencer, H e r b e r t ,
quoted 3io
Spirit 99, 123, i49, 359
Birth of the 473
INDEX 547
PAGE
Spirit, Festival of the
Holy 477
Human 488
in man 2o5, 477
in man, What is 69
Liberated 487
of Intuition 482
The Descent of the
H o l y 466, 473,
477, 486
The Holy 55, 3i8
Spirits, Planetary 54
Seven, before the
throne of God 54, 328
Spiritual darkness i94
life for a house­
holder 429—432
selfishness i75
Spiritualist 244
Spiritualistic seances 96,
253, 267
Spirituality, What is 43i
Star in the East, The 473
of Initiation, The 384
Subba Row, S w a m i
T., v i s i t e d Rishi
Agastya 4o3
Sub-planes 62—65
Sub-race 34i,378
Austral-American 4oi
Meaning of 335—338
Sufferings a n d past
karma 218
in astral world, Use
of 254—256
of holy p e o p l e ,
Cause of 218—219
Sufis, The, quoted 57, 44o
and Reincarnation i47
Suicide, Folly in 252—253
Guilt of 254
PAGE
Suicide is not in a man’s
fate 218
Suicides and spiritual­
istic seance 253
are found in astral
slum 243
Condition of, after
death 25o—254
Summerland 244
Superstition 454
Fetter of 48o—48i
Killed out by Theos­
ophy 3
Sin against love 456
Survival of the fittest
i4, i38
Swedenborg, a vege­
tarian 35
Sympathy, Karma of i83
Talismans 4o9
Talleyrand, quoted i96
Tamas, Use of 429
Tamil Academy 402
Tanha i74, 278
Tantalus, Myth of 248
Tehuti or Thoth 388
Teaching of 12
Tendencies, What are 127
Tennyson believed i n
Reincarnation i 48
Tertullion, a vegetarian 35
Testament, New, referred
to i59, 394, 395
quoted i 52, i95
Old, quoted i5o
Theosophical c o n c e p ­
tion of God 5o—51
k n o w l e d g e and
vegetarianism 22
lecture 229
548 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Theosophical literature 6,
427
principles 46
science, Student of 20
Theosophical Society,
The
Advantages of join­
ing 44— 48
and Brotherhood
21, 357
and Vegetarianism
21—39
Aspirant helped by
427—429
Cardinal policy of i7
Emphasis on Bro­
therhood in 367
First object of 7
Founded by Master
M. t h r o u g h
H. P. B. and
H. S, O. 4o3
Founding of 367
Growth of 6
hastens progress of
aspirant 428
Inner Head of the
Inner School of 428
Inner School of 428
is a power- house 47
Master looks at a
person joining 428
M a s t e r s guide
people to join 428
Member o f , a n d
religion i7
Members of, have
freedom of belief 16
Motto of 16
Need for starting 6
p a g e
Theosophical Society,
The, #
One chief value of
joining 46
Outer Head of the
Inner School of 428
Real Founders of
45, 47, 367, 4o3
Second object of
8—9, 16
The one obligatory
object of 357
Third object of 18
Three objects of 7
When started 4—5
Why its members
a r e vegetarians
21—22
Why many cannot
help joining 45
works for all religions
i7
Theosophical S y s t e m ,
Eclectic 5
teaching, Pillars of i54
truths 229
Theosophist, Who is a 47
Why one s h o u l d
become a 43—44
Theosophy, Advantage
of the spread of 7
and Constitution of
Man 68— 121
and marriage 39—4o
and modern science,
Antagonism be­
tween 18—19
and narcotics 39
and philosophy 20—-21
and physical body
88—89
INDEX 549
PAGE
Theosophy and religion,
Difference between i7
and r e l i g i o u s
scriptures 2
a n d Rosicrucian
teaching 4 n
and the T.S., Rela­
tion between 4
and wine 39
Basis of all religions i5
Facts of, Whether
demonstrable 21
Fundamental prin­
ciples of 3
Hidden root of all
religions i
is a science i9 —20
Key to all religions 16
kills out supersti­
tion 3
may be called a re­
ligion in itself i5—16
Modern, What is 20
Objection to 2
Outline of teachings
of 4
Practical applica­
tion of 45
Teachings of 2, 3
Ten good reasons
for 43—44
Test of usefulness of 5
Unselfish code of 2
Usefulness of 5
What is i —48
Why many people
dislike 2
Why some m an
takes it up imme­
diately 128
PAGE
Thorndike, Prof. E. L. i69
Thought aimed at others,
Action of 29i — 292
b u i l d s character
186—187, 282
can modify desire-
nature 224
-control, How to
acquire 302—3o3
Control of n 5 ,444,453
Direct and indirect
actions of 280—281
Effect of, on astral
body 282
Effect of, on causal
body 282
Effect of, on mental
body 281—282
Effect of, on physi­
cal matter 3o8—3o9
Effects of, on man
281—283
Effects of, outside of
man 281, 283—
285, 287—29o
-form and aura of
person thought of 292
-form. Colours in 289
-form, Duration of
time of 289
-form of a fault 196
-form of anger 292
-form of love by
mother 292
-form of s e 1fi s h
affection 283
-form, Principles for
production of 289
-form vivified of
ego 265, 274
-form,What is 287—289
55o THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Thought-form, Work of
289—29o
forms a habit 281
-forms by Masters 4i9
-forms by prayer 263
-forms, Classification
of 29o—295
-forms in a s t r a l
world 242
-forms, Selfish 270
-forms, Three classes
of 29i—295
-forms, Unselfish, in
heaven 2?o
Habit of. How cre­
ated 186—187
How it shows itself
279
Last, before death
266—267
Last, before sleep ii7
-power 444
-power, Action and
use of 279—3o9
-power, Character
built by know­
ledge of 298—3oo
-power, Evolution
forwarded by 295
-power, How to help
others by know­
ledge of 3o3
-power, Scriptures
of the world on 280
- p o we r , Uses of
knowledge of 295
Radiating vibration
■* of 283—285
-radiation 283—285
PAGE
T h o u g h t radiation,
Adaptability of 285
-radiation, Distance
covered by 284
-radiation. Effect of 284
-radiation, Strength
of 284
Result of repeated
i87, i89
Self-centred, Action
of 293—294
Useless, How to
avoid 296—298
Vague, Action of
294— 295
What is 279
Throne of Dakshina-
murti 47o
Tiiiksha (Endurance)
454—455
Tolerance (Uparati) 454
Transfiguration, Feast
of 475
The 466, 473, 474—
476, 482—484
Transmigration i 7 i — i 72
Triad, Higher, 99, 100
Spiritual i63
Triangle, The Great 376
Tribhuvanam 463
Triloki 463
Trinity 52, 53, 54
Trishna i74
Truth, Karma of 217
Reason for its ap­
parent difference
in religions xi
The many-sided 9
Truths, Theosophical 229
Tsong-kha-pa 396
INDEX 55i
PAGE
U d d h a c h c h a 485
Unconscious memory of
the cells 35, 89, 9o
Undesirable emotions,
Effect of, on higher
bodies 45o
Universal Brotherhood
4, 7, 9, 47, 55, 368
Love 481
Unselfish thoughts in
heaven 27o
Upacharo 453
Upanishat, The, quoted
57, 356
Uparati (Tolerance) 454
Uranus planet 54
planet, Incarnation
of 34i
Vaira gy a (Desireless-
ness) 452—453
Vaishakh ceremony 39i
—393
ceremony, Theoso-
phists at 393
Vaishya and Brother­
hood 364
Dharma of the 344
Vaivasvata Manu, The
Lord
Appearance of 4oi
Assistant of 4o8
at First Initiation 47o
at Second Initiation
48x
Emigrations of, for
sub-races 4oo
House of 398, 4oi
Lieutenant of 4oi, 4o3
on Sex i69
PAGE
Vaivasvata Manu, The
Lord
Representative Man
of fifth root-race 4oi
Representative of
the Lord of the
World 377
Successor of 4o3, 4o8
Work in hand by 4oi
Work in the past
of 4oo
Valhalla of the Norse­
man 244
Vcmdidtid, Thet Reincar­
nation in i47
Vasus 54
Vaughan, Thomas, now
a Master 4i4
Vedas, Hindu 388
Vegetable group-soul
324, 332
Karma of the i85
Vegetarian diet
Endurance tests for 29
gives greater endur­
ance 29—3i
More natural to
man 28—29
produces less animal
passion 3i
Proof of its superi­
ority over flesh
food 3i
Superior to flesh
diet 23—3i
Vegetarianism 21—39
Whether it is prac­
ticable 23
Venetian Master, The
Appearance of 4o8
Characteristic of 4o8
552 THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
PAGE
Venetian Master, The
Head of Third Ray 4o8
Nationality of His
body' 4o8
Venus men 329
planet 54, 386
planet, Incarnation
of 34o
planet, Lords of the
F l a m e c a m e
from 384-, 39o, 475
Vicarious atonement
j97—i 98
Vichikichha 48o
Viciousness and Karma 216
Vigilance, Sleepless 457
Virgil and Reincarna­
tion 147
Vishnu 53, 55, 3i8, 376
Vision, Clear, before
rebirth 278
Viveka (Discrimination)
452, 453, 464
Voice of the Silence, The,
quoted i75, i96,
2i3—2i4, 432
How given 4o9
How written 374
Vulcan planet 54
planet, Incarnation
of 34o
Vyasa, The Buddha as 388
W a s h i n g t o n , B o o k e r
i69
Wealth, Cause of 188
Desire for 188
Web of atomic matter 118
Weissmann’s evol ution-
ary teaching i37— i 42
Wellington, a vegetarian 35
PAGE
Wesley, a vegetarian 35
White Island, The 386
Whitsun Day 477
Will, Divine, see Divine
Will
What is i87
Wisdom Aspect of the
Logos 376, 379
How gained i89
Ray of 329
Wisdom of Solomon, The,
quoted x47,i 5 i
Wood, Dr. J., quoted 3i
Woodhead, Prof. G. S.,
quoted 3o
Wordsworth believed in
Reincarnation i48
Work, Astral 459
Reward of success­
ful, is more work 458
World-period 385, 387
-period, What is 34x
World-Teacher, The 10,
11, 12, i4
See The Christ,
a l s o L o r d
Maitreya
Assistant of 4o7
Assistant of Lord
Buddha 378
Coming of 368, 398,
4o9,4i5,4i7, 468
Crown of His work 383
Helpers o f , in
physical b o d y
468—469
Initiation of (the
Bodhisattva) 382
Method of His
coming 393
INDEX 553
pa g e
World-Teacher, The
passes away from
the world on
attainment o f
Buddhahood 389
Representative of
Lord B u d d h a
377, 378, 387
takes Buddha Ini­
tiation 383
What is 379
Work of 379, 38o
Worry 453,46i
Effect of, on astral
body 286
Effect of, on mental
body 449
What is 3oi
X e r o p h t h a l m i a 25
Y o g a , Bhakti 44o
How accomplished 443
PAGE
Yoga. Jnana 44o
Karma 429, 43i, 44o
Practice of 127
Raja 374
Requirements of 442
Science of 441
What is 44i
Z e r w a n e A k r a n e 5 i
Zoroaster i 32
a Vegetarian 35
Buddha as the first 388
Original, had bor­
rowed a body 4i7
Zoroastrianism 10, 51,
54, 55
Key-note of 12, 280
Reincarnation in
i 46~~i 47
Symbology of Fire
in 388
Zoroastrian Scripture,
quoted 280
Printed by A. R. Sitarama Shastri, at the Yasanta Press, Adyar, Madras.
THEOSOPHY EXPLAINED
In Questions and Answers
BY
P. PAVRI, B.Sc., L.C.E.
(Third edition, revised)
Over 550 pages with 7 coloured illustrations
P r ic e : C loth and gold, Rs. 4-8. Boards R s. 3-12
First Edition
“ , . . This work of Mr. Pavri will undoubtedly be
found very useful by a large number of those who are
approaching Theosophy. The questions have been
carefully selected and deal with ten topics—
“ W h a t T h e o s o p h y Is ; God a n d t h e S o l a r S y s t e m ;
T h e C o n s t i t u t i o n o f M a n ; R e i n c a r n a t i o n ; K a r m a ;
L i f e a f t e r D e a t h ; T h o u g h t P o w e r ; I t s A c t i o n a n d
U s e ; T h e E v o l u t i o n o f L i f e ; B r o t h e r h o o d ; a n d t h e
M a s t e r s a n d t h e W a y t o T h e m .
“ . . . He will have a circle of students to whom this
book will bring great help. The answers are*very
readable, and the easy style of writing enables the
author to keep the attention of the enquirer. The book
is a welcome addition to our Theosophical literature
C . J i n a r a j a d a s a
“ It is impossible to over-estimate the value of this
book. Every one of the rather troublesome questions
that are continually being propounded to the Theos-
ophist is here stated and adequately dealt with. The
answers to the supposed questions are all clear and
exhaustive. We realise that this definite and orderly
method of instruction is one of the many assets of the
scientific mind . . . We can confidently recommend
this volume to every class of Theosophist.”
Theosophy in Australia.
ii
“ . . . It is with regard to this practical aspect of
Theosophy that Prof. P. T. Pavri has compiled his
work, so as to place the whole subject in clear and
decided light before the general reader . . . That
his presentation has been eminently successful will
be apparent to all who glance through the pages of
the book, which is most conveniently arranged so
that it is equally useful to the continuous reader and
one who prefers to dip here and there.
“ I should strongly recommend this book also to
Theosophical study groups in Lodges and elsewhere,
particularly as a Theosophical dictionary or companion
to be resorted to when difficulties and doubts arise.
It is up-to-date, and full of useful detail”
E r n e s t W o o d ,
Principal, Sind National College.
“ . . . Prof. P. T. Pavri of the Sind National
College has just written the above book . . . Alto­
gether the book is an acquisition to Theosophical
literature. It will be a splendid class book for groups
of students as well as a propagandist. Members of
the T.S. will do well to present it to enquiring
friends . . . 9
9
The Cherag.
Ten chapters presenting Theosophy in systematic
form. A Theosophical dictionary; up-to-date and
full of useful detail . . .
The Messenger.
Ill
Second Edition
. Pavri’s book is a mine o£ information on Theo-
5 subjects . . . his arrangement of this material
sidedly original, and he displays it in lucid and
aient form. The book is practically a com-
im of the whole Theosophic philosophy, and one
t touch any given subject—Vegetarianism, the
rs, Hell or the Constitution of Man—without
g it exhaustively dealt with. The orderly
d of this book makes it useful for study in class
11 as for the general reader, and a copious index
it the value of a dictionary. It is worth the
of every Theosophist to possess this useful book.
Ihe Australian Theosophist.
. It has been well arranged in ten sections,
, with a copious index, makes it an easily
ible reference on all main Theosophical issues,
ok of great usefulness to those who aspire to
rm work, and an Encyclopaedia of Theosophy to
lent students.
Theosophy in New Zealand.
. This is a work which is, in effect, an encyclo-
o£ Theosophy, . . . the most useful introduction
t subject put out by the Theosophical Publishing
5
. It makes use of the question-and-answer
d, and is therefore a reference work which will
olj meet the exact need of most enquirers.
The Occult Digest.
IV
The second edition o£ this excellent vade-mecum o£
Theosophy is greatly enlarged, and forms a veritable
mine of information on Theosophy and allied subjects.
It is a bulky volume of nearly 550 pages, with an
exhaustive alphabetical index, which adds to its use­
fulness . . . The book may be aptly termed 4th eo s­
ophy in a Nutshell ” as it touches upon almost all the
subjects treated in the vast Theosophical literature . . .
The Cherag.
This book, in the form of questions and answers on
the broad teachings of Theosophy, both in their funda­
mental principles and their application in life, . . .
has become nearly double its original in size and up-
to-date in its contents. The book is sure to continue
its usefulness to Theosophical students and others who
wish to understand what Theosophy stands for.
The Theosophist.
To he had o f ;
T. P. H., Adyar, Madras.
Indian Book-Shop
Benares City
Mr. P. Pavri, B.Sc., L.C.E.
Theosophical Society
Adyar, Madras.
first book op theosophy
In Questions and Answers
By P. PAVRI, B.Sc., L.C.E.
with a foreword by
C. J1NARAJADASA, M.A. fCantab.,
Vice-President, Theosophlcal Society
337 pages with 6 coloured illustrations
Price: Cloth and gold, Rs. 2-8
Several writers have tried to expound
Theosophy in the form of question and answer,
but few so successfully as Mr. Pavri, who is a
deep student of all that has been written on
Theosophy by its leading exponents. Mr. Pavri
is an excellent guide, and I cordially recommend
him to inquirers into Theosophy.”
C. JINARAJADASA.
To be had of:
T. P. H., Adyar, Madras.
Indian Book-Shop
Benares City
Mr. P. Pavri, B.Sc., L.C.E.
Theosophical Society
Adyar, Madras.
V
I
*t r t a w r *
(TOTS 3T5TR %
THEOSOPHY (in Hindi)
In Questions end Answers
467 Pages. Price Re. 1
“ . . . 3ft w tf t. i s 'ts'^
§ r o r r a S k s j i i t o t t q g % t f t a ? k f s t
fawhft f t ^ 3^r% ^ 5tt ^ I ’Sr^ ^
H
3
l% ST
^Hf t ............
“ ifcft I =?nt sft^^TT% tf
5
n
%3?fa ft ^ k 3rst%s^r 0\
HJT3R TOT 3n?fr I | H f H 3^HE ^ ^
%
=psnf?i^NV R w f e i f ........”
nTOflj^
*t
t
^ t f t ^ n f. $.
Indian Book-Shop
T. S. Compound
Benares City
Prof. R. K. Kulkarni
Theosophical Book-Depot
Lashkar, Gwalior
l
a
n
Evolution
P
lan
es
of
L
ogic
M
anifestation
M
anifestation
TABLE OF THEOSOPHIOAL TERMS
Constitution of Man
Seven P lanes of Mature
.8*3
pi s
Atomic
Subplane
iS .-g
fc.S
^ C
Q'S
u u O
o ofe:
.2 /
S is lower
Subplanes
T
he
atom
ic,
subatom
ic,
superetheric
and
etheric
m
atters
o
f
th
e
ph
ysical
plane
are
also
called
ether
N
o.
1,
eth
er
N
o.
2,
eth
er
N
o.
3
and
ether
No,
4
respectively.
0
5
Planes of Elemental, Mineral, Y egetab le, Animal and
Normal Human E volution
Planes of Su
Physical Plane, or
Physical World
m
a
* f 9
i l l I
p j P j gq o
O
-
I
3
Astral or K am ic
Plane, or A stral or
Em otional W orld
£ a
3 <
5,
CD ET
Mental or Manasic
Plane,or Mental World
(including Devachan
or Heaven)
St*
’
S i? :
2
w 4 r o
S V 3 g
sls.
Buddhic PI
or
Intuitional
cdm
•
x
?_i
1*1
O®
C
On
03
U&
2. tr
f I
03
P
&
P
a
p
r
Q
§
03
o
O
u
03
P
&
.
o &
03®
*
K O
D
O ^
®M
03 g.
8-S.
sr
.
Three Mortal Bodies Three Im:
TABLE OF ORIENTAL TERMS
{Corresponding to previous table)
fa
>
o
w
<
£
o
0
3
o'
y
L o k a s T a t t v a s
K o s h a s o r
S h e a t h s
S h a r i r a s o r
B o d i e s
S t a t e s o f
C o n s c i o u s n e s s
( o f A v e r a g e
M a n )
N a m e s o f
JlV A T M A OR
S e l f
1. ^= f *
= A d i
or
Mahat
Goloka <
ii i
i
I J
2.
r = i =A nupadaka
or Ahankara
Yaikuntha -
t
3. l= E p = A k aslia 1 1
Satyaloka « (Iodra Deva)
i
I
i
