{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__pike___indo-aryan_deities_and_worship.pdf","mytitle":"Indo-aryan Deities And Worship","mylang":"de"}
DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Contained in the
ALBERT PIKE
1872
19 in
THE STA3STDABJ3 PRINTINO CO.
Louisville
CopyrigU, 1930,
by
The Supreme Council, 33, Ancient and Accepted
Scottish Rite of Freemasonry, for the
Southern Jurisdiction of the
United States of
America
PREFACE.
It. is quite uncertain, now that I have this book finished, whether I
shall ever care to publish it. It was not commenced for that purpose;
and it may always remain a monotype, in manuscript.
For it has been written as a study, and not as a teaching for myself
and not for others. It is not at all the fruit of a meditated purpose, and
was not commenced as a diagnosis of the Deities of the Veda, an attempt
to discover the distinctive personality and individuality of each, which it
afterwards became, and the fruits of itself to myself have been sufficient
to reward me abundantly for the labour it has cost. Nothing has ever so
much interested me, as this endeavour to penetrate into the adyta of the
ancient Aryan thought, to discover what things, principles or phenomena
our remote ancestors worshipped as Gods, what Indra, Varuna, Mitra,
Aryaman, the Agvins, Vayu, Vishnu, SavitJfi and the others really were,
in the conception of the composers of the Vedic hymns.
It has had a singular charm for me, this inquiry into the true mean-
ing of the epithets and phrases, often, in appearance, indiscriminately
applied to different Deities, often seemingly inappropriate, and the expres-
sions of a wild and riotous imagination; into the true meaning of names and
epithets and phrases that became, literally accepted and misunderstood,
the sources, seeds or germs of the legendary myths and many of the Deities
of the Grecian mythology and the Brahmanic fables and pantheon.
And I have felt the most intense satisfaction in deciphering, as it seemed
to me I did, these hieroglyphs of ancient Aryan thought; in bringing myself
into relation (en rapport) with 'these old Poets and Philosophers, under-
standing them in part, and thinking with them; in deciphering their hiero-
glyphics, infinitely better worth the labour than all that are engraved on
the monuments of Egypt and Assyria, and in solving one by one the
enigmas contained in their figurative and seemingly extravagant language,
whose meaning was only to be discovered by beginning with their simplest
notions and conceptions, and making the curious processes of their thought
my own trying as it were, to be them, intellectually, and to think their
thoughts.
Thus I satisfied myself that every one of their Deities had for them a
perfectly distinct and dear personality and individuality; that their ideas
were not in the least vague, incoherent or confused; that their imagination
was perfectly -^ell-regulated, and that every epithet and phrase was logically
appropriate and correct. So also, upon a partial examination, I found it
to be in the ancient Zarathustrian G&tMs, which are, I do not doubt, even
older than the Vedic hymns.
I found in both, the most profound philosophic or metaphysical ideas,
which those of every philosophy and religion have merely developed; and
that, so far from being Barbarians or Savages, the old Aryan herdsmen
and husbandmen, in the Indus country under the Himalayan Mountains,
on the rivers of Bactria, and, long before, on the Scythic Steppes where
they originated, were men of singularly clear and acute intellects, profound
thought and an infinite reverence of the beings whom they worshipped.
The inquiry has opened to me an entirely new chapter of the history of
human thought, and given me an infinitely higher conception of the Aryan
intellect. I now see how, out of the primitive simplicity of a natural and
reasonable religion, and of ideas simple and yet profoundly philosophical,
there grew the most monstrous and debasing faiths, the most absurd and
delirious fables, and themostabominablesuperstitions, the worshipof animals,
legends of the amours and adulteries of the Gods, conceptions of monstrous
idols, the most incredible fables, the most irrational mysticism, and the
Phallic and Lingam worship with its disgusting obscenities and Priapean
abominations, as well as the incoherent notions of the Kabbalah and the
vagaries of Gnosticism.
But I also see, growing out of, or rather developing, the same ancient
ideas, the doctrines of Plato and Philo which long ruled and in their turn
became fruitful of the modern philosophies and psychology, of the doctrines
of emanation and of creation by the Word, the self-revealing, and manifesta-
tion of the "Inconceivable Deity."
The requital of my labour is already ample; and as to any notoriety that
might come of publication, what is that worth to me who can have but
little more to do with this world, and the evening of whose life has come?
But to anyone who may read this book, whether it be published or
remain unpublished, I wish to offer a few words of explanation.
I am quite aware of my very imperfect qualifications as an interpreter
of the antique hymns of the Veda, and how little it becomes me, knowing
little of the Sanskrit and less of the Zend, to speak ex cathedrd in regard to
the meaning of the texts, either of the Veda or the Zend-Avesta, or to
think that I can explain what scholars like Wilson, Miiller and Muir are
obliged to confess they do not understand. Of course I have fallen into
many errors, and been unfortunate in my interpretations of many passages.
I console myself for the certainty of that, with the reflection that these
great scholars have done the same; and that there are hundreds of passages
in the Veda, where the "interpretations" of the English and Hindu com-
mentators alike, are only hazardous and wild guesses; and with the certain
and positive assurance that if I am not always right, I am not always wrong,
but have lifted at least a corner of the veil that hid the real meaning of
the Veda.
I was led to study, first, such portions of the Rig-Veda as were accessible
to me translated by Professor Max Miiller, by a desire to ascertain the
origin of. the Hindu Ineffable Word OM or A. U. M. of which it is said
that the Brahmins themselves knew neither the origin nor real meaning;
but which, to them, represents the divine TrimQrti or Triad, of Brahma
the Creator, Vishnu the Preserver, and Siva the Destroyer.
I found it in the initials of the names of the Vedic Deities, Agni, Aryatnan,
the AQVUIS, Varuna, Vayu, Vishnu, Ushas, Mitra, the Maruts, and others;
but found myself utterly at a loss to determine what several of these
Deities were. I found that the commentators themselves had no clear and
definite ideas as to many of them, and did not even attempt to conjecture
what they were. Some were sometimes one thing and sometimes another,
to the same commentator. The personality that they assigned to some
was directly contradicted by the dear letter of texts translated by them-
selves.
Agni plainly was Fire, domestic, sacrificial and celestial; but also he
was Wise, Intelligent, Bestower of Benefits, and invested with a multitude
of attributes and characteristics, seemingly incoherent, confused and extrava-
gant, which the commentators made no effort to explain, in any manner,
philosophic or otherwise. Ushas was unmistakably the Dawn, and Surya
the Sun, and the Maruts the Winds. Soma, the juice of a plant (the
Haoma of the Zend-Avesta), was also a Deity, invested with the most
extraordinary powers, and also said to be sometimes the Moon* Indra
was said to be the Firmament; but this many texts contradicted. As to
Varuna, Mitra, Aryaman, the Agvins, Vishnu, Vayu, Yama, Rudra,
Tvashtri, Brahmanaspati, Brihaspati, and Vanospati, there was, as to
part of them, not even a conjecture, and as to none, anything more than
contradictory guesses or feeble and helpless suggestions.
It seemed as though the most of the Deities were mere names, without
intellectual reality; and as though the Vedic Bards had no fixed, distinct,
definite and consistent ideas in regard to any but a few of their Gods.
The Veda seemed hardly to have been worth the trouble of translating,
and the Brahmanic commentaries only made the confusion worse con-
founded.
At first, I only proposed to ascertain, if I could, by comparison of the
texts, to find out what Agni, Varuna and Mitra were, to the composers of
the hymns; and this, not with the least view to publication, but with
reference, entirely, to the ineffable Hindu word, in which, for reasons that
do not concern the general reader, I had a special interest.
Vll
The process which I adopted, appears in the following pages. Pro-
curing Professor Wilson's translation of the Rig-Veda Sanhito, I first copied
the principal passages addressed to or speaking of Agni. I then summed
up the significant portions of these, referring also to Dr. Muir's Original
Sanskrit Texts, and to the articles of Professor Miiller; and from the whole
endeavoured to attain to an understanding of the Vedic conceptions in regard
to that Deity. This diverted me from my first purpose, and led me to
make a like inquiry, in the same manner, as to Indra, and thence as to the
other Deities in succession; until what I wrote grew into a book.
I state these things, to show I set out with no theory as to the nature
of any of the Gods. I did not think of looking for other meanings and
interpretations of the texts; or of learning more in regard to the Deities,
than the learned scholars whose works I had could tell me.
But soon discovering that they did not themselves know what most of
the Gods were; that they sometimes considered the same God as one thing,
and sometimes as another; that the notions of Sayana and the other Hindu
commentators were utterly worthless; and that Indra could not be the
firmament, nor Savitrji the sun, nor the Agvins and Varuna and Mitra
what they were supposed to be, I endeavoured to discover from the texts
themselves what first one God, and then the other, was.
In some cases, I was long at a loss, confused by many texts, out of all
which it seemed impossible to extract any definite idea, a single one at last
gave the key to the rest, and enabled me to comprehend and reconcile
them all.
Sometimes I came to a wrong conclusion, before I had collated all the
texts relating to a particular God; and afterwards, by the aid of other
texts, found what I deemed to be the true solution. That was the case as
to the Agvins, whose number, two, and the three wheels, supports, etc., of
their chariot, greatly perplexed me.
I thought, for a time, that Varuna and Mitra meant the calorific light
of the sun, or Day, and the light, without heat, of the luminaries of the
Night. Rudra and Tvashtri were enigmas, as Vishnu was, which I did
not solve to my own satisfaction, without first falling into more than one
error.
I knew very little of the Sanskrit, and have had to rely almost wholly
upon the translations. But these often themselves enable one to discover
the real meaning which they conceal, when, giving the modern sense, second-
ary and derivative, of the ancient words of the tongue so long dead, they
enable one to go back to the more simple, original and radical meaning.
And when one understands the kindred languages, Greek, Latin, and
those that have descended from the Latin, and has the original texts given,
VUl
as Dr. Muir gives it in his fourth volume, and as Professor Wilson commonly
does, where the meaning of particular phrases is doubtful, he may not always
be bound to take a translation upon trust, and may even sometimes detect
an error, where preconceived opinions have caused persistent adherence to
particular renderings of words. And this, especially, when the translator
uses words which, in their present meaning to us, could not possibly have
had equivalents to the Aryan Bards, and perhaps have no definite meaning
even to us such as "heaven," "firmament," and "worlds."
Perhaps what I have written here, even if it be found to be of little
value, may help to make our remote ancestors somewhat better known to
their descendants, and, followed up by those who are far more competent
and better qualified, may result in a truer interpretation of the thoughts
of the Aryan Poets. To the reader, whoever he may be, if what I have
written is published, I have only to say, in the words of Ovid:
Da veniam scriptis, quorum non gloria nobis
Caussa, deo utilitas officiumguefmt.
March 20, 1872. ALBERT PIKE
NOTE.
There are many more letters in Sanskrit than there are in English-
each letter representing a distinct sound; wljile in our language the same
letter often represents two or three different sounds.
The Sanskrit letters, which are not represented by simple English
letters, are, in part, not represented by the same marks by the different
writers. I prefer to following Eichhoff (ParaWe des langms de VEurope
et de rinde), and Eastwick's translation of Bopp's Comparative Grammar
of the Sanskrit, Zend, etc., where they agree, and one or the other, where
they do not.
As to the following, they agree:
& representing a long.
$ representing ee long.
& representing oo long.
$ representing t hard.
fh representing t harcl, aspirated.
$ representing d hard.
$h representing d hard, aspirated.
V representing n hard,
In the following I prefer Bopp's notation:
ri [Eich. AR and r liquid; sound r with ee hardly heard],
ri [Eich. ^|R and r. long; sound ree Eng. or ri French],
2, equivalent of ai, French.
d, equivalent of au, French.
A nasal, French n, at end of word, ntfi or gn. Eich. fL
In the following, Eichhoff:
$, representing sh hard.
$ht representing sch.
Eichhoff also uses g to represent sh, soft, or $; as Agvins, for A$wins.
INTRODUCTORY.
The RIG-VEDA SANHITA is a collection of S&ktas (hymns) to the
Aryan Deities: the word SanMtd meaning a "collection."
In the Rig-Vedas are something over a thousand Sfiktas.
These are divided into eight Khandas (portions), or Ashtakas (eighths),
each of which is subdivided into eight Adhydyas or lectures.
Another plan classes the Sflktas under ten Mandates (circles), sub-
divided into rather more than one hundred Anuv&kas, or sub-sections.
The Sflktas are divided into Vargas (paragraphs or verses), of about
five stanzas each.
The principal part of the Rig-Veda has been translated into English
by Professor H. H. Wilson; and it is from this translation that the much
larger portion of the texts copied in this book have been taken. A large
number of the hymns have been translated by Dr. Muir, in Volume iv. of
his Original Sanskrit Texts; and some by Miiller, in his Lectures on Language,
and Chips from a German Workshop, The extracts from the translations
of Professor Wilson refer to Ashtaka, Adhy&ya, Anuvdka and Sftkta; those
from Dr. Muir and Miiller, to Mandala and Sfikta.
In some cases I have given the later as well as the earlier translation
of the same hymn.
Professor Mliller's translation of a part of the hymns, lately published
in England, I have not seen.
THE VEDA.
The Veda is certainly the second oldest book in the world, and it con-
tains the religious hymns of our ancestors; for we, of whatever mixture of
European blood, are wholly of the Aryan race. Germans, Gauls, Franks,
Latins, Saxons, Kelts, Sclaves, all are of one blood and family; and the
English and all other European languages, and the Sanskrit, Zend and
Persian are but varieties of one and the same original language, produced
by intermixtures with various others. We are by nature Aryan, Indo-
European, not Semitic. There is no mixture of Semitic in the European
languages. The indigenous peoples whom the Aryans conquered, and
with whom they mixed, were of a race or races totally different from the
Semites. Our spiritual kith and kin are to be found in India, Persia,
Sclavonia, Greece, Italy and Germany; not in Mesopotamia, Egypt or
Palestine.
No literary relic carries us back to so child-like a state in the history of
man, as the Veda. The Hebrew books which compose the Pentateuch
represent the ancestors of that people as having from the beginning attained
to the comprehension of a single creative Deity, above the powers of Nature,
and as not regarding these powers as in any sense Deities, but merely
forces of Nature. Before the Flood, it assures us, there were performers on
the harp and organ, and artificers in brass and iron, and men were gathered
together into cities.
The exodus from Egypt, according to the approved chronology, occurred
1,648 years before Christ. The Vedas were compiled 1,400 years before
Christ, when the language in which the hymns were written had become a
dead language, and kingdoms had been founded and grown grey with age,
since they were sung in the country of the Five Rivers.
The book of Genesis records the ancient traditions of the Semitic race,
and makes known to us the ancient thought, the ancient feelings, joys,
hopes and fears of those who were the ancestors of the Chaldaeans, Phoeni-
cians, Kenanim, and Hebrews and of the grand Arabian race. The Vedas
bring us face to face with our ancestors, in their tents and pastures, adoring
the fire, the light and the luminaries of heaven. Nowhere else is there a
sign, a jest or a glimpse of the old Asiatic humanity.
Veda meant "knowing," or "knowledge." It is the same word as the
Greek oI6a, "I knew," and appears in the Gothic vait, the Anglo-Saxon
wdt, the German weiss, and the English "wise, wisdom," and "to wit."
2 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
There are four collections of the hymns, the Rig-Veda, Yojur-Veda,, Sdma-
Veda and Atharva-Veda; but for tracing the earliest growth of religious
ideas in India, the only real Veda is the Rig-Veda.
Rig-Veda means the Veda of "Hymns of Praise, Rich," which before
the initial soft letter of Veda is changed to Rig, being derived from a root
which in Sanskrit means to celebrate. The Sanhit^, a collection of it con-
sists of ten books, containing altogether 1,028 hymns.
Muller ascribes the composition of the Vaidic hymns to a later period
than Bunsen does; and in his fear of shocking English prejudices, is exceed-
ingly vague and unsatisfactory upon that point. Even Bunsen is careful
not to say that the Veda is older than the Hebrew books. The Biblical
chronology, the necessity of considering mere myths and legends as historical,
and the supposed inexorable necessity of admitting that all mankind has
descended from .one man and woman, are sadly in the way of exhaustive
inquiry as to the origines of human races and human languages. These
sagacious and astute inquirers thoroughly satisfy and convince us that all
the European languages are from the same ancient source as the Indian
and Persian, but their attempts to show a relationship between these and
the Semitic tongues are lamentable failures. As to the Turanian languages,
that is, the thousand languages of Asia, Africa and America that have
nothing in common with each other, they very faintly suggest a common
origin with the Aryan and Semitic tongues; and are not quite bold enough
to claim that they also are the descendants of ancestors of our race, and
emigrants from Airyana Vaj&.
Muller well says that
the real history of man is the history of religion, the ways by which the different
families of the human race advanced towards a truer knowledge and a deeper love
of God: that this is the light, the soul and the life of history.
There is nothing of it in the history of the early Semitic races. When the
Hebrews were carried away to Babylon, they had made no such advance;
for they had no truer knowledge of the Deity than Abraham the Chaldaean
had. (Muller: Chips i, 21.)
The oldest, most primitive and simplest form of Aryan faith finds its expres
sion in the Veda. No idols or animals are mentioned in it, as objects </' vos>j'ti,,
In fact idols and images are not mentioned at all. They below, .;!:
* ? i&
anthropological faith. They do not represent the light aMj ;i-r !v, .:ii,
The Veda does not invest its Deities with the human form. ,U <:!o, * >:KH
represent any of them as coming down in visible shape and hr^rn^ u/^
merce with men.
THE VEDA 3
The Veda, by its language and its thoughts, supplies that distant background
in the history of all the religions of the Aryan race, which was missed, indeed, by
every careful observer, but could formerly be supplied by guesswork only.
How the Zarathustrian religion had its origin, and while inculcating the
worship of the Supreme Being, Ahura Mazda, still permitted fire to be a
symbol of him,
how the Buddhists came to protest against temples and sacrifices, how Zeus and
the Olympian Gods came to be what they are in the mind of Homer, or how such
beings as Jupiter and Mars came to be worshipped by the Italian peasant, we can
now understand by a simple reference to the Veda.
The original religion was adoration of the supposed superior beings of which
fire and light were manifestations. The Aryan name for God, Deua, is
the original of the Latin Deus, as Dyaus is of the Greek Zeus: and Varuita
is the Ouranos of Hesiod.
The religion of the Veda is not the source of all the other religions of the Aryan
world,
for it was itself an advance, an improvement upon and the successor of a
more ancient faith, as the Sanskrit is not the mother, but the sister, of the
Greek and Latin languages. But
we can watch in the Veda, ideas and their names growing, which we meet with in
Persia, Greece and Rome only as full-grown or fast decaying. We get nearer to
that distant source of religious thought and language which has fed the different
national streams of Persia, Greece, Rome and Germany:
and clearly see that the human mind had made a great advance when it
had come to worship, not the fire itself but the unseen and intelligent Spirit
of the Fire, of which the light was deemed a manifestation.
Many of the Vedic hymns are childish, low, tedious, commonplace. The Gods
are constantly invoked for material benefits, for wealth, especially food, horses,
cows, large families and a long life. Many prayers are addressed to the Deities
for aid against enemies; and Indra is a veritable God of War, the Ares of the Greeks
and Mars of the Romans.
No one supreme God is invoked, like Jehovah or Brahm: and no doubt
the religion of the Veda is polytheism.
But whenever one of the Deities is invoked, Agni, Varuna, Mitra or Indra, he is
not conceived of as inferior, or as limited by the powers of any other. In many
respects, the same attributes of power and supremacy are ascribed to all. Each
is Supreme and Absolute; each as good as all.
4 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Among you, Gods, there is none that is small, none that is young. You are all
great indeed.
This, Miiller says, is indeed the keynote of the ancient Aryan worship.
It is the key, we think, by which we may unlock its hidden meanings. All
the powers and names of all the other Divinities are distinctly ascribed to
Agni; but nothing is said in disparagement of the others. Indra, also, is
declared to be greater than all. And Varufla is said to be
Lord of all, of heaven and earth, king of all, both Gods and men.
Some of the hymns ascribe to the Gods sentiments and passions unworthy
of the Deity, as the Hebrew writings do anger, revenge, cruelty. They
delight in sacrifices, as the God of the Hebrews did. Many of the hymns
are unmeaning and insipid; and it is only rarely that we find prayers in
which we ourselves could join. Nevertheless there are such. And
in some of the hymns the mercy of the Deities is confidently appealed to, and their
readiness to forgive errors due to the inherent frailty of human nature is relied on.
'It was not our own doing, Varuna/
the hymn exclaims,
'it was temptation, an intoxicating draught, passion, dice, thoughtlessness. The
old is there to mislead the young; even sleep brings unrighteousness.'
Words, verses and even whole hymns, of the Rig-Veda, are and perhaps will
remain a dead letter to us. But in many we find old thoughts, old hopes, old faith
and old errors, the old man altogether old now, but then young and fresh, and
simple and real in his prayers and praises.
There is at least nothing slavish or brutal, sensual or grovelling in these
hymns, nothing of the barbarian or savage. A spirit of grave thought-
fulness pervades them; they are highly devotional and reverential; of
philosophy there is little; and yet the idea that there was a spirit, of whom
no cognition could be had, in fire, a spirit intelligent, wise and powerful,
was of the same profound nature as that of the immortal soul, united with
the body, or of the divine soul in Nature. It was not the idea of a savage
or a child, but of a philosopher and metaphysician; and I think that as
these hymns are better understood, and we penetrate more deeply, into the
thought of the Poets who composed them, we shall find ideas there, of
emanation and manifestation, of the. principle and essence, itself beyond
our cognition, and only attainable by the intellect, limiting itself by form,
and positing itself in place, its manifestation of itself, and yet not all or
its Very Self, which have re-appeared in all the great philosophies of the
world, and been essential in all the great religions.
THE VEDA 5
It is true, as Miiller says, truer even than he thought it, that,
There are hymns in the Vedas so full of thought and speculation, that, at that
early period, no Poet in any other nation could have conceived them. (Chips i. 77.)
But I doubt whether it is true that
we find in the Veda that which is really the very essence of all religion, and with-
out which there can be no religion, a belief in personal immortality.
I do not agree that a belief in personal immortality is essential to religion.
There is a total absence, in the Hebrew writings, of any teaching or any
evidence of a belief that the soul lives on when the body dies: and even in
the time of the Apostles, the Sadducees who sat in the same council with
the High Priest, openly denied the resurrection. And yet, certainly, the
ancient Hebrews had a religion, and were not without one altogether
until they learned the doctrine of the immortality of the soul from the
Persians. The man who believes in a God or Gods who reward the good
and punish the bad in this life, and may be propitiated by adoration or
sacrifice, has a religion.
Moreover, the soul may exist after this life, in one or more successive
states of existence, and yet not be immortal. It is doubtful if any of the
ancients believed in an existence absolutely without end. We have assur-
ance of another life, but not of an eternal life. As God alone is infinite,
so, it may be, He alone is by His nature eternal.
Nor do we clearly see that in the Veda there is any evidence of a belief
in another life, and still less of a belief in a real immortality. In many
places it is sure that the word "immortal" is a mis-translation. Food
gives the immortality of the Veda; and the original word, in general,
evidently means only continuance, and not even great length, of life.
Professor Miiller, from whom our unacknowledged quotations have
been made, says:
We have in the Veda, ancient thought expressed in ancient language. We see
reflected in it a phase of the intellectual life of man, to which there is no parallel
in any other part of the world. In its hymns we see man left to himself, to solve
the enigma of this world and life. (Chips i. 69.)
We see him with the simple desires of a simple life in the forests and
plains; for almost all the hymns express the wants and wishes of the herds-
man, and the dweller in the woods only traversable by,paths, or in the plains,
where only the luminaries of the day and night could be his guides. Some
show the occupation of the worshipper to be that of husbandman. They
are villagers, and not denizens of towns and cities. Continually the prayer
is for wealth and treasure, but these seem always to mean only horses and
6 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
cattle, and for food. (Fire is produced by attrition; not, probably, from
necessity, for they were not savages, but as perfectly pure when thus pro-
cured, and because it had been for ages a part of the ceremonial to pro-
duce it so; and evidently the sacrifices were generally offered up in the open
air.)
This herdsman or husbandman sees that fire and light are indispensable
to human existence, and that they alone reveal to man the existence of
the material universe. What they reveal, they seem to create. He is
awakened by the dawn or the sun, or, watching before the dawn sees the
light-bearer, the beautiful and brilliant Morning Star rise calmly into the
sky and smile kindly upon him; and he adored the dawn, the sun, the
Morning Star as manifestations of the one great universal light; but I do
not find that, as Miiller says he does,
be calls Him whom his eyes cannot behold, and who seems to grant him the daily
pittance of his existence. His life, his breath, his brilliant lord and protector^
in the sense that he invokes the favour of a God, who is not fire nor light,
nor any force or power or essence or principle of Nature, but a being invisible
and incomprehensible, above Nature and its forces. I think I can most
positively assert that there is no such conception in the Veda.
He makes the Fire a person, and invests it, as a universal, with the charac-
teristics of spirituality. He adores the Fire-Spirit, the universal Light-
Principle, the Heat-Principle, as Gods; and they become not merely
Powers, but Persons, to him, protectors and benefactors, who hear his
prayers and are intelligent and wise. Under various names he adores the
same light and fire as variously manifested in shape, place and limitation
of forms, as the sun, moon, planets and stars. Even prayer, adoration
silent or uttered, and food itself, become Deities, by a strictly logical
process of thought, and not by mere vagary of fancy or imagination. He
adores the fire and light, also, in the dawn, the Aurora and the lightning.
The winds are Gods for him, and even the rivers become Goddesses. The
sacrificial Fire fed by the fuel which also he deifies, is the messenger of the
Gods and his mediator with them.
We study in the Vedaatheogony [Professor Miiller says], of which that of Hesiod
is but the last chapter. Wecan study therein man's natural growth, and the results
to which it may lead, under the most favourable conditions.
And we can study the intellect and the intellectual development of the last
created and noblest race of men, whose history is that of.the civilized world.
THE VEDA 7
That the hymns which compose the Veda, must have existed for ages,
before they were compiled, admits of no doubt.
In different songs the names of different kings occur, and we see several generations
of royal families pass away before us, with different generations of Poets. Old
songs are mentioned, and new songs are mentioned. Poets whose compositions
we possess are spoken of as the seers of older times; their names in other hymns
are surrounded by a legendary halo. In some cases, whole books or chapters can
be pointed out, as more modern and secondary in thought and language. But on
the whole, the Rig-Veda is a genuine document, not later, even in its most modern
portions, than the time of Lycurgus. It exhibits one of the earliest and rudest
phases in the history of mankind ; and brings us as near the beginnings, in language,
thought and mythology, as literary documents can ever bring us, in the Aryan
World. (Mutter, Chips LU.)
One thing that has an important bearing on the age of the Vedic hymns
has not, I think, as yet been noticed. The sea is sometimes mentioned
in them. All the commentators agree that all the older hymns, at least,
were written or composed while the Aryans dwelt in the Punjab, on the
upper Indus, in sight of the Himalayas; and before they crossed the Sutiej
and entered the Ganges country. The composers of the hymns, there-
fore, could have known nothing about the ocean. And it inevitably
results that the hymns were not composed in the Punjab, but, at a much
later day, in lower India, and when the sea had become a familiar object;
or else those who composed them had seen and known and were familiar
with, some other sea. This latter hypothesis can only be satisfied by
supposing them to have meant the Caspian and the Sea of Aral; and that
these hymns in which the sea is spoken of, are of much older date, and
were composed in Sogdiana, when the men of the race roamed the steppes
as herdsmen. For other reasons, I believe this to be the true solution.
We have some knowledge of times still more ancient
of the perioxi during which the as yet undivided Aryan nations formed their myths.
Comparative philology has this whole period within the pale of documentary history.
It has placed in our hands, a telescope of such power, that where formerly we could
see but nebulous clouds, we now discover distinct forms and outlines; nay, it has
given us what we may call contemporary evidence, exhibiting to us the state of
thought, language, religion and civilization, at a period when Sanskrit was not yet
Sanskrit, Greek not yet Greek, but when both, together with Latin, German, and
other Aryan dialects, existed as yet as one undivided language. (Muller, Chips
ii. 17,)
What is commonly called Hindu mythology is of little or no avail for compara-
tive purposes. The stories of Siva, Vishnu, Mahideva, Parvati, Kali, Krishna,
etc., are of late growth, and indigenous to India. But a whole world of primitive,
INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
natural and intelligible mythology has been preserved in the Veda. In it there is
no system of religion or mythology. Names are used in one hymn as appellatives,
in another as names of Gods. The same God is sometimes represented as supreme,
sometimes as equal, sometimes as inferior to others. The whole nature of these
so-called Gods is still transparent; their first conception, in many cases, clearly per-
ceptible. There are as yet no genealogies, no settled marriages between Gods and
Goddesses. The father is sometimes the son, the brother is the husband, and she
who in one hymn is the mother, is in another the wife. As the conceptions of the
Poets varied, so varied the nature of these Gods. The Veda is the real theogony
of the Aryan races, while that of Hesiod is a distorted caricature of the original
image. If we would know whither the human mind, though endowed with the
natural consciousness of a divine power, is necessarily and inevitably driven by
the irresistible force of language, as applied to supernatural and abstract ideas,
we must read the Veda. (Muller, Chips ii. 75-76.)
However imperfect and absurd the notions of Deity of the ancient Aryans may
seem to us to be, it must be admitted that no people was ever so anxious to per-
form the service of the Gods, as these ancestors of our European races. It is the
Gods who conquer their enemies, who give them wealth, health, children, friends,
and plentiful harvests. They humbly acknowledge their dependence on their
Deities, and touchingly express their trust in their beneficence and kindness.
Mr. Cox (Mythology i. 40 et seq.) says:
The mental condition of the men of those early ages determined the character
of their language; and that condition exhibited in them, as in children, how, the
waking of a feeling which endowed all outward things with a life not unlike their
own. Of the several objects which met their eyes, they had no positive knowledge,
whether of their origin, their nature or their properties. But they themselves had
life, and therefore all other things must have life also. They were under no neces-
sity of personifying them, for they had for themselves no distinctions between
consciousness and personality. They knew nothing of the conditions of their own
life, or of any other; and therefore all things on the earth or in the heavens were
invested with the same vague idea of existence. The sun, the moon, the stars,
the earth, the clouds, winds, fire, storms and lightnings, were all living beings.
Could they help thinking that these also were conscious beings like themselves?
Their very words would, by an inevitable necessity, express this conviction. Their
language would admit no single expression from which the attribute of life was
excluded, while it would vary the forms of that life, with unerring instinct. Every
object would be a living reality, and every word a speaking picture. For the
herdsman of the valleys or the steppes, there would be no bare recurrence of days
and seasons, but every morning, the Dawn would drive her bright flocks to the
blue pastures of Heaven, before the birth of the Lord of Day from the toiling womb
of Night. Round the living progress of the new-born Sun there would be grouped
a lavish imagery, expressive of the most intense sympathy with what we term the
operation of material forces, and not less expressive of the utter absence of even
the faintest knowledge. For every aspect of the material world he would find
some life-giving expression; and whose aspect would be scarcely less varied than
his words. The same object would, at different times, or under different conditions,
awaken the most opposite or inconsistent conceptions.
THE VEDA 9
But it is merely fanciful to say, that
life would be an alternation of joy and sorrow, of terror and relief;
because of the uncertainty whether, when the Sun set, he would rise again,
and Dawn come again to chase away the darkness. It does not need
science to assure men of that. The American Indian on the plains feels as
certain of it as the man of science does. The feeling of certainty in the
permanence of things was never absent from any men, at any time. Hence
the terror of the savage at an eclipse.
But the poetic imagination would connect with the Sun
both mournful and inspiriting ideas, ideas of victory and defeat, of toil and pre-
mature death. He would be the Titan strangling the serpents of the night before
he drove his chariot up the sky: and he would also be the being who, worn down
by unwilling labour undergone for men, sinks wearied at evening into the arms of
the mother who bore him in the morning. Other images would not be wanting:
the dawn and the clouds would be no less real and living to them than the sun.
In his rising from the East, the Sun would leave the fair Dawn, whom he would
see no more until his labour drew near its close. And not less would he love and
be loved by the Dew and by the Morning herself, while to both his life would be
fatal, as his fiery car rose higher in the sky. So he would speak of all other things;
of the thunder, earthquake and storm, not less than of summer and winter. (Cox,
i. 41-42.)
We do not find in the Vedas the idea of daily labour connected with the
luminaries, or that they were regarded as
free beings kept in temporary servitude, chained for a time, and bound to obey a
higher will.
Miiller imputes it to the ancient Aryans. But we cannot find that they
conceived of any higher will, or of servitude as connected witk the sun,
moon or stars.
Nor do we agree with Cox that there was no personification in the original
notions of the objects which were regarded as living beings. To regard
the Sun as a person, or Deity, must have been one of the earliest notions
of every people in their infancy. But we agree with him that there was
no allegory or metaphor; but it was to them a veritable reality, which they
examined and analyzed as little as they reflected on themselves. The
Peruvians and Nachis worshipped the Sun as a person and living being;
and intellectually these were but children.
Phrases and emblems to which we now attach a purely spiritual signi-
fication, have acquired these meanings gradually, as the ruder ideas which
belonged to the infancy of the human race faded from the mind: and the
10 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
translators of the Veda certainly use many words in senses that are spiritual
now, and thus misrepresent the ancient ideas, which would be faithfully
reproduced, only if the English phrases used had their original material
and sensual meaning.
The history of words carries us back to an age far beyond the Veda.
When they were composed, it could not be truly said that men had every-
thing to learn, and no experience to fall back upon. They had advanced
so far as to conceive of and to adore, in the fire and light and their manifes-
tations, the invisible Spirits of Fire and Light, to which they imputed intelli-
gence, forethought and divine attributes. They had not attained to the
conscious acknowledgment of one Deity, or of one life as the source of all
the life which they saw around them. We do not think, with Cox, that
any of the Vedic hymns "express the hopes and fears of men who had not
yet grasped the notion of any natural order whatever." They could not
have thought "that the return of daylight might depend on the caprice of
the arbitrary being whom they had watched through his brilliant but brief
journey across the heaven." The questions asked during the night do not
"betray a real anguish," nor do the exultations that greeted the dawn show
that they really "feared, every night, that the dawn might not come again."
The questions and the exultations are merely rhetorical embellishments.
It is truly said by Mr. Cox, that
the dawns, as they came round, made men old; but the Dawn herself never lost
her freshness, and sprang from the sea-foam, as fair as when she first gladdened
the eyes of man. Men sickened and died, but the years that brought to them
sickness and death, could not dim the light of the sun, or make any change in the
familiar constellations.
But these ideas were not expressed by the Poets of the Vedas. For them,
the life they lived here seems to have been sufficient, the things of this world
all that were to be cared for; and they neither lament the brevity of life,
nor concern themselves about or anticipate another.
LANGUAGE AND TRANSLATION.
Professor Miiller says,
It is not in the power of language to express, originally, anything except objects
as nouns, and qualities as verbs. The only definition we can give of language,
during its early state, is, that it is the conscious expression in sound, of impres-
sions received by all the senses. There were then no abstract nouns.
There are many dialects of the present day that have none. I have found
none in several of the American Indian languages of the Southwest.
An abstract word is an adjective raised into a substantive.
Virtue is not a substantive thing, but the habit and succession of virtuous
acts, or the natural inclination to act virtuously. It is a quality of the
heart, or mind, or character.
Originally, words like 'day* and 'night,' and 'spring/ 'summer/ Mawn* and
'twilight/ 'storm' and 'thunder
7
[Miiller says], were abstract, and are so still, in
form.
Certainly these are not things, but so neither is "life," meaning the time
during which we live, nor "light," nor "heat," nor the "rainbow.
5 *
But
time is a reality to the simple and unlearned man. It is only metaphysical
subtlety that argues it into nihility, making it a quality raised by language
into a substance. Light and darkness are realities to the Indian, and so
they were to the ancient Aryans.
To all of these the early men imputed individuality, and to them that
individuality was invested with reality, and with each the idea of sex was
connected; but that this was "because the name of each had necessarily a
termination expressive of gender," seems to us doubtful. Certainly that
is not the reasqn why God is regarded as a male wherever monotheism pre-
vails in the world.
It is true that
as long as people thought in language, it was simply impossible to speak of morning
or evening, spring or winter, dawn or night, the winds or any other natural or ideal
object, without giving to these conceptions an individual and active character,
nor that it should not at last become personal and sexuaL They were not nothings,
as they are to our withered thought, but somethings; and being somethings, they
could not be conceived of as mere Powers, but as powerful Beings.
12 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
We now talk of the powers and forces of Nature, but we cannot conceive of
them as existences or entities. There is life and blood now, in all our
abstract terms. We call this poetic diction, and regard it as exaggeration
in the Poet to address Religion, Humanity, Winter, Ambition, Frost, Snow,
Age, the Hours, Storms and Seasons, as persons, as Wordsworth does in a
single poem:
but it is no exaggeration to the Poet, nor was it to the ancient Poets of language.
Poetry is older than prose, and abstract speech more difficult than the outpouring
of a Poet's sympathy with Nature. It requires reflection to divest Nature of her
living expression, to see in the swift-riding clouds nothing but vapourous exhalations,
in the frowning mountains mere masses of stone, and in the lightning, electric
in the light, only undulations of invisible ether, in the rainbow, only an
effect and not a thing. It is, indeed, simply impossible for men to talk or
write, without personifying visible objects and the various phases of Nature.
And when Wordsworth speaks of
the last hill that parleys with the setting sun,
it is a thought not yet translated into the prose of our traditional and emaci-
ated speech; one such as the men of old would not have been ashamed of
in their common everyday conversation. (Condensed from Mutter: Chips
from a German Workshop ii. 54 to 58.)
If we ourselves, in speaking of the sun or the storms, of sleep and death, of
earth and dawn, connect either no distinct idea at all with these names, or allow
them to cast over our mind the fleeting shadows of the poetry of old; why, if we,
when speaking with the warmth which is natural to the human heart, call upon
the winds and the sun, the ocean and the sky, as if they would still hear us; why,
if plastic thought cannot represent any one of these beings or powers, without
giving them, if not a human form, at least human life and human feeling, why
should we wonder at the ancients, with their language throbbing with life, and
revelling in colour, if, instead of the grey outlines of our modern thought, they
threw out those living forms of Nature, endowed with human powers, nay, with
powers more than human, inasmuch as the light of the sun was brighter than the
light of a human eye, and the roaring of the storms louder than the shouts of a
human voice? We may be able to account for the origin of rain and dew, of storm
and thunder; yet, to the great majority of mankind, all these things, unless they
are mere names, are still what they were to Homer, only perhaps less Beautiful,
less poetical, less real and living. (Mutter: Chips ii. 59.)
And I am greatly mistaken, if, when we better understand the thoughts
and conceptions of the Poets of the Veda, we do not find still more abundant
reason to agree with Miiller, that,
LANGUAGE AND TRANSLATION 13
as far as we can trace back the footsteps of man, even on the lowest strata of history,
we see that the divine gift of a sound and sober intellect belonged to him from the
very first; and the idea of a humanity emerging from the depths of an animal brutal-
ity can never be maintained again.
I do not apply these words to races of men like the lowest Africans, Austra-
lians and American Indians; but to the great races whose history is the
history of civilization. The Aryan race was never a race of barbarians.
The earliest work of art, wrought by the human mind, more ancient than any
literary document, and prior even to the first whisperings of tradition, the human
language forms an uninterrupted chain, from the first dawn of history down to
our own times. We still speak the language of the first ancestors of our race: and
the formation of language attests from the very first the presence of a rational mind.
(Mutter: Chips 'ti. 8.)
Language [Mr. Swinton says] is a living original. It is not made, but grows.
The growth of language repeats the growth of the plant. At first it is only root:
next it puts forth a stem, then leaves, and finally blossoms.
One must not [says William Von Humboldt] consider a language as a product
dead and formed but once: it is an animate being, and ever creative human thought
elaborates itself with the progress of intelligence; and of this thought language is
a manifestation. An idiom, therefore, cannot remain stationary: it walks, it de-
velops, it grows up, it fortifies itself, it becomes old, and it reaches decrepitude.
The primary and natural signification of words, Frederick Schlegel says,
often no longer exists, or at least is rarely traceable: and tihat there was in
the original stem-syllable and radical words of some languages a deep spirit-
ual significance and characteristic meaning.
Professor Franz Bopp says that the Sanskrit is more complete, more
distinct, and more organic in its structure, than any other tongue, and
exhibits, moreover, a conspicuous originality of grammatical structure. It
contains, in its original state, not a single exotic term, and nothing but
simple roots in their primitive form; and is, on the other hand, the most
successful of inflected languages. In the Sanskrit family of languages, if
its oldest state is consulted in those which have continued most pure, the
root appears as a circumscribed nucleus, which is almost unalterable, and
which surrounds itself with foreign syllables, whose origin we must investi-
gate, and whose destination is to express the secondary ideas of grammar,
which the root itself cannot express.
From one of the two classes of roots in the Sanskrit, spring verbs, and
nouns (substantives and adjectives), which stand in fraternal connection
with the verbs, not in the relation of descent from them; not begotten by
them, but sprung from the same shoot with them. All these roots are
mono-syllabic, but subject to no further limitation, and may consist of
several letters, as sthA, to "stand," and skawl, to "go." In the earliest
14 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
period of language, a single vowel is sufficient to express a verbal idea; and
nearly all tlie individuals of the Sanskrit family of languages express the
idea to "go," by the root i.
Eichhoff,
in his Parallble des Langues, gives all the known Sanskrit roots,
with words derived from each, in the various languages of the family. To
find the root was not difficult, in cases where it appeared in words in several
of the languages; but the exact original meaning of the root is generally a
matter of deduction.
The tendency of words is always to change their meaning, to put on
various meanings, figurative and derivative, among which will at length be
found, perhaps, meanings the opposites of each other. Of course it follows
that in the more ancient compositions the meanings of the words used will;
be those that are nearest to the roots, i. e., those most simple and less figuraf"
tive and abstract. It is only by that rule that the Veda can be truly in-
terpreted.
Professor Wilson has translated the Rig-Veda in accordance with scho-
lastic commentaries, such as we find in India, from Ytska, in the fifth centu-
ry before Christ, down to Siyafia in the fourteenth century after Christ.
Many hymns, that are mere prayers for food, cattle, wealth or a long life,
have been translated, as to whose real intention there can be no doubt; but
with the exception of these simple petitions, the whole world of Vedic ideas
is so entirely beyond our own intellectual horizon, that instead of translating,
we can as yet only guess and combine. Here it is no longer a question of
skilful deciphering. We may collect all the passages where an obscure
word occurs, we may compare them, and look for a meaning which would
be appropriate to all; but the difficulty lies in finding a sense which we can
appropriate, and transfer by analogy into our own language and thought.
We must be able to translate our feelings and ideas into their language,
at the same time that we translate their poems and prayers into our language.
We must not despair even where their words seem meaningless, and their
ideas barren or wild. What seems at first childish may at a happier moment
disclose a sublime simplicity, and even in helpless expressions we may recog-
nize aspirations after some high and noble idea. When the Scholar has done
his work, the Poet and Philosopher must take it up and finish it.
We must discover ourselves the real vestiges of these ancient Poets; and
if we follow them cautiously, we shall find that with some effort we are
still able to walk in their footsteps. We shall feel that we are brought
face to face and mind to mind with men yet intelligible to us, after we have
freed ourselves from our modern conceits. (Mutter: Chips i. 75, 6, 7.)
But no translation will reproduce to us the Rig-Veda, if words are habitu-
ally used, which in their original sensuous meaning would faithfully render
LANGUAGE AND TRANSLATION 15
the Vedic words, but in their present meaning with us utterly misrepresent
it. I think the context often proves that certain words,
'
'truth'
*
for instance,
are thus mis-employed by Professor Wilson; and that habitually, the words
and phrases that he uses impute to the Vedic Poets ideas much more meta-
physical than they possessed.
Even when the Seventy translated the Old Testament, when the Hebrew
could hardly be called a dead language, there were many of its words, the
original meaning of which the most learned Rabbi would have found it
difficult to define with real accuracy. We all know what doubts exist as to
the meaning of many words in Shakespeare. Few of the most learned
divines in England would find it easy to read and to understand correctly
a theological treatise written in England only four hundred years ago. The
Common English translation of the Oriental books that compose the Old
Testament continually misrepresent the ancient Semitic thought : for greater
violence is done by successive interpreters to sacred writings, than to any
other relics of ancient literature. Ideas grow and change, yet each genera-
tion tries to find its own ideas reflected in the pages of their early prophets:
and, in the case of the Hebrew books, the ideas of a prosaic Northern race
are substituted, by abusive employment of words whose modern meaning
in no way reproduces the ancient thought, for the figurative and fervid
sensuous ideas of an Oriental and Semitic people.
And in addition to the ordinary influences which blur and obscure the
sharp features of old words, artificial influences have been at work distorting
the natural expression of words which have been invested with a sacred
authority. Passages in the Veda that do not bear on religious or philosophi-
cal doctrines, are generally explained simply and naturally, even by the
latest commentators. But as soon as any word or sentence can be so turned
as to support a doctrine, however modern, or a precept, however unnatural,
the simplest phrases are tortured and mangled, until at last they are made
to yield their assent to ideas the most foreign to the minds of the authors
of the Veda and Zend-Avesta.
i* Not for the same purpose, but to the same effect, by the use of words
that cannot be equivalents of the Vedic words, the Veda is distorted and
denaturalized by Professor Wilson.
Our word "create" was originally a fit word to represent the Hebrew
word bara, in the book of Genesis, because the meaning of creo was "bring
forth, produce, make, create or beget." Gigno, whence "Genesis," meant
to "beget, bring forth, bear, produce"; and bara had these meanings in the
Hebrew. We find its correct meaning in the phrase, "the only begotten
Son of God." But now the word "create" has come to have the meaning of
"cause to exist from nothing," and therefore it is a false rendering of bara,
16 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
as every scholar knows. It would be easy to multiply instances of such
translations, all false and some fraudulent. "Lord God" is no manner of a
translation of Jehovah-Elohim, nor "Almighty," of Al Shaddai. "Holy
Ghost" gives no idea of the real meaning of the original Greek.
To find out, Miiller says, how the words of the Old Testament were
understood by those to whom they were originally addressed, is a task
attempted by very few interpreters of the Bible. The great majority of
readers transfer without hesitation the ideas which they connect with words
as used in the nineteenth century, to the mind of Moses, or of his contem-
poraries, forgetting altogether the distance which divides their language
and their thoughts from those of the wandering tribes of Israel.
How many words there are in Homer, that have indeed a traditional
interpretation, as given by our dictionaries and commentaries, but the exacj
purport of which is completely lost, is best known to Greek scholars. Ordi-
nary English readers of Virgil do not attach to the word "pius," as applied
to ^Eneas the sense in which Virgil used the word. To translate many
French words derived directly from the Latin, by the English derivatives
from the same Latin words, would produce a caricature.
As examples of words that have changed their meaning, we need instance
only a few, for they meet us everywhere. "Sacrament," originally Sacra-
mentum, a deposit or pledge by a party to a suit at Rome, afterwards came
to mean a military oath, then any oath whatever; and now means a wholly
different thing. "Pagans" (Paganf) were originally those who lived in
hamlets and villages, and not in cities and towns. Afterwards, when, these
did not embrace Christianity as soon as the dwellers in the cities, the word
came to mean those who were not Christians. "Heathen" were originally
the wild Germans who lived on the heaths, when Christianity was introduced
there.
"Passion" originally meant suffering; and "passionate" men were
suffering men. A "libertine" was originally a free-thinker; now it means a
sensual profligate. "Plague" was plaga, a blow or stroke; and "pain,"
poena, punishment. It would be a most profitable and interesting study,
to take, one after the other, a hundred Latin verbs, and trace the process of
thought by which a great number of derivative or figurative meanings
became attached to each, until the original meaning of many of them became
obsolete*
Take the first word that presents itself, "obsolete." It is from cbsolesco
and obsoleo, meaning to lose smell, scent or odor. "Derivative" is from
de-rivo, to take water from a river; "attached,"* from attingo or adtingo,
ad-tango, to touch or touch against; and "figurative" is fromfiguro, form,
fashion or shape. Firmamentum is anything used for fortifying or strength-
LANGUAGE AND TRANSLATION 17
ening ("fort," "fortress" and "fortifying" being from fortis, strong); thence
a stay, support, strength, prop; then reason, proof, main point. Yet it has
come to mean the sky.
Now we "endorse" a man's character, from in dorso, on the back; and
Milton wrote "an elephant endorsed with towers." We speak now of the
"virtue" of women, and the virtues of herbs; but the Latin virtus meant
"virility," avdpeia: and of a man of good "disposition;" but dispositio meant
arranging, putting in order; and "provisions" are food; but pravisio (from
pro-video) was foresight.
The Vedic hymns unquestionably embody a faith that was already
ancient at the time when the earliest of them were composed. When the
mythological ideas of those who were their authors are better understood,
there will undoubtedly be many additional data for determining the succes-
sion, and with some approximation to accuracy, the epochs of the several
Aryan emigrations. Already their order of succession has been in part
settled by philological evidence, the separation of the Persians from the
parent stock being clearly the latest, as the close resemblance between the
Zend and Sanskrit languages proves. The streams that flowed into Greece
and Italy must have emanated from the source, long before the Persian, but
long after the streams that flowed into northern Europe, and intermixing
with the native races, formed the Sdaves, the Goths, the Germans, and the
various Keltic nations^ The greater divergence of language, and the
smaller proportion of identical words, proves the greater antiquity of the
separation: and the student may with profit devote himself to this study,
with the aid of Bopp's Comparative Grammar, Eichhoffs ParalTMedes
Languesran.d the books of Miiller, Bunsen and some others. I have hardly
adventured in it beyond the shore.
That those streams which flowed into northern Europe were the earlier
outflowings is also evident from the fact that the Aryans, as Dr. Muir clearly
shows in his Original Sanskrit Texts, came into the Punjab or Indus country
from the northwest. A race of men originating in a southern latitude would
hardly have emigrated into the cold and inhospitable regions of the north,
when they were the superiors in hardihood and bravery and intellect of
thqse resident to the southward of them, in more tempting lands.
It also follows from this that the cradle of the Aryan race must have been
north of the Himalayas, and it was undoubtedly this great mountain range
of enormous elevation that caused the first streams of emigration to flow
to the westward.
That the original seat of Aryah civilization was in that northern region,
afterwards known as Sogdiana, and that those remote ancestors of ours
18 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP"
ranged as herdsmen, like the Tartar tribes, over the Asian Steppes, is indi-
cated by the first Fargard of the Vendidad, and is proven by many of the
hymns. In one of them, the sacrifice of a horse (Dadikra) is described, and
the eating of the meat by the worshippers, a kind of sacrifice which it is evi-
dent had long been obsolete when the later Aryans lived in the Punjab.
And everywhere in the hymns we find horses and cattle prayed for, as the
chief wealth, while sheep are not once mentioned, except in the designation
of Indra as a ram; milk was one of the chief articles of food, and every-
where the herdsman's life seems to have been by far more common than the
husbandman's. The sacrifices consisted, for the most part, of clarified (or
melted) butter and of the juice of the Soma plant: and the tiller of the
ground was probably the inferior of the mounted herdsman of the steppes,
careering over those wide plains, ready for any adventure.
There are no pictures of domestic life in the Veda; though the language
shows, by its words which still retain the same meanings in our modern
languages, that all the domestic relations existed, as they do at the present
day.
That their faith and worship were very ancient, when the hymns were
written, will be more evident, I think, if my conclusions or conjectures as
to the nature of the Deities of the Veda are correct. It is enough for me to
say here, that I think the conclusion justifiable, that the earliest Aryans
had no other Deities than the sun, moon and other celestial luminaries, and
that, after that they had advanced beyond this, to the worship of universals
or principles (as fire and light, for example), though they continued to adore
the luminaries, they saw in them the limited manifestations, in place and
form, of the universals, and worshipped them both as such and as luminous
and independent bodies and orbs. For, while these orbs are much more
rarely invoked than the Fire Spirit and the Light Spirit, and Sfirya, the Sun,
is comparatively unnoticed, there are several Deities of which we have little
more than the names, so that it is exceedingly uncertain what they were;
and even their names disappear in the later mythologies; and of some that
are preserved, their very identity is mistaken.
The Hindus, it may at once be said, were almost totally ignorant as to the
signification of the Vedic Gods; and what they really were must be deter-
mined from the Veda itself. Indeed, it seems probable that when the latest
hymns were composed, the specific individualities of many of the Deities at
first worshipped had become obscured, by larger place filled by others, and
by misunderstanding of the epithets applied and attributes ascribed to those
more ancient Gods. It is at least certain that as to some, the attributes
ascribed at different periods are inconsistent with each in some respects.
LANGUAGE AND TRANSLATION 19
Long after the swarms from the original hive had flowed into northern
Europe, and those that succeeded them into Greece and Italy and Bactria,
we find the ancestors of the Hindus, a fair-skinned race, living and warring
in the Punjab.
This (a Persian word, meaning "Five-Water'*) is a plain divided into
five doabs, by the rivers which intersect it, and extending from the Suleiman
Mountains, or Himalayas, on the northeast, and the Hindu Kush Range, on
the northwest, to the rivers Sutiej and Punjab, forming a delta, its extreme
length and breadth being, from north to south, four hundred, and from
east to west, three hundred and fifty miles. It lies between the same
parallels of latitude as the state of Mississippi, 30 and 35. The soil is
generally sandy, but grain and fruits of all kinds are cultivated; indigo,
sugar and tobacco are largely produced; and the date, orange, fig, grape,
apple, mulberry, banana and mango are among the fruits. Large trees are
scarce, extensive tracts having on them only mimosas, acacias and smaller
shrubs. In summer, the climate is hot and dry; but in winter, cold and
often frosty. The large alluvial plains are fertile, and are alluded to in the
hymns to the River Goddess Sarasvati; and the extensive pasture-grounds
still support great herds of buffaloes (which are named in some of the
hymns), horses and camels.
In the northeastern part is the Valley of Cashmere, surrounded on all
sides by mountains, and noted for its fertility and beauty. Here are
produced fruits and flowers, especially roses unrivalled, of both tropical
and temperate climates. Rice, tobacco and cotton grow luxuriantly, and
vegetables are cultivated in gardens floating on the surface of lakes. This
valley, lying within 33 15' and 34 30', north latitude, may be compared
with the northern portions of Mississippi and Alabama. In it are three
lakes; and the Sutiej, the Hesudrus of antiquity, issues from a lake.
The upper plain of the Punjab is extremely fertile, and cultivated to the
base of theGangabari or Salt Range of Mountains, which rise 2,000 feet
above the plain. The lower plain, also, where irrigation is possible, is abun-
dantly fertile.
Owing to the cold, frosty climate of the winter, the people of the Punjab
are vigorous and athletic. Below it is Scinde, and to the northwest, across
the Hindu Kush, Turkestan, the ancient Sogdiana, now Bokhara, a country
of wide steppes or plains, the fit home of a nomadic race, whose wealth
consisted in horses and cattle.
Sogdiana, to the north of Bactria, was bounded by the Oxus on the south
and west, the Jaxartes on the north, and the Amedarum Montes on the
east. It corresponds with part of independent Tartary and Bokhara. It
consists of extensive steppes in the west, rising gradually towards the high
20 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
mountain-chains of Central Asia. Samarcand lay in the fertile valley of
the Sogd or Kohik, and north of it stretched for a long distance east and
west, a high mountain range, which in the eastern part was a mass of
mountains, part of the Indian Caucasus. South of it, between it and the
Paropamisus and Indian Caucasus lay Bactria. In the east and south of
Bokhara, the mountain valleys are narrow and precipitous; below them a
great plain extends, having an elevation of 2,000 feet, and sloping gradually
north to the Lake Aral and the Caspian, until it reaches the sea level. The
fertile parts of the country are famous for rice, grain and especially fruits;
horses and cattle abound, but timber is very scarce. Samarcand is in
Latitude 39 32' N. and Constantinople in 41 S. The banks of the rivers
are extremely fertile. The Indian Caucasus rises to the height of 20,000 feet.
This is a temperate climate, and we find in the hymns nothing to
indicate that the country in which their authors lived was a tropical one.
There is no reference to the tropical fruits that now grow in the Punjab;
and I doubt whether any except the later hymns were composed there.
Even the references to the sea are inconsistent with the supposition that the
hymns containing them originated in the Punjab, for it was long after that
commenced, that the stream of Aryan emigration, crossing the Sutlej,
flowed down into Hindustan, and reached the ocean. May it not be that
the sea spoken of was the Caspian? The area of water in the Caspian is
180,000 square miles, and it is of very considerable depth. The Oxus now
flows into the Sea or Lake Aral, but it anciently flowed into the Caspian.
Nearly 1,200,000 square miles of country are drained by six river systems,
three of which run into the Caspian, and two into the Sea of Aral. The
Jaxartes, of greater importance than the Danube, flows into the Sea of Aral,
its development being not less than 1,200 miles, and the Oxus drains 200,000
square miles of territory, having an extent of development of 1,400 miles.
The Jaxartes is now called the Syr, and the Oxus, the Gihon. In the time
of Peter the Great, gold was reported to have been found about the Oxus,
in large quantities. The Sea of Aral is about 370 miles in length, and 124 in
breadth. Its area is about 20,000 square miles, and its depth not very
great. The Caspian is 700 miles in extreme length, and 420 in breadth,
about the same size as the Black Sea. It is about 200 miles from the Sea
of Aral. In places, no bottom has been found with 480 fathoms of line.
The waters of both these lakes are diminishing, and are probably 300 feet
shallower than they were in the early periods of history. Seals, sturgeon
and salmon abound in the Caspian, and sturgeon in the Sea of Aral.
In the Khanate of Khiva, which extends west from the Oxus to the
Caspian, is a fertile oasis of alluvial land, containing about 20,000 square
miles.
LANGUAGE AND TRANSLATION 21
In the Khanate of Khokand, on the northeast of Bokhara, which flattens
down from the mountainous country in the east and north, towards the
west, are extensive tracts of fertile soil, chiefly along the Syr or Gihon, the
ancient Jaxartes.
Bokhara lies between 36 and 41 N., and the climate is both pleasant
and salubrious. The tree which most abounds is the poplar, which is used
for house-building; and rice, wheat, barley, maize and sesamum are the
principal grain 'crops. The cotton plant and hemp are cultivated, and
fruit trees are abundant.
North of Bokhara is the great Kirghiz Steppe, and south of it is Afghani-
stan, a rich mineral country, abounding in gold, silver, copper and iron.
The summers of Bokhara are excessively hot and dry, and the winters
very cold, snow falling day and night, making considerable arches over the
houses, and remaining on the roofs nearly three months.
Baron Bunsen (Egypt's Place in Universal History, iii. 456 et seq.),
adopts Dr. Haug's conclusion, that the first Fargard of the Vendidad con-
tains the nucleus of a record that dates from the most ancient times,
and that its contents are nothing less than the reminiscences of the passage of the
old Aryans to India in other words, the succession of the foundation of fourteen
kingdoms, the last and most southern of which -was the land of the Five Rivers,
the Punjab.
Miiller considers it to be merely a geographical description of different
countries.
Bunsen declares that, according to the Vendidad, the Aryans
originally inhabited Iran proper, Airyana Va&jd, the land of pleasantness, and they
only left it in consequence of a convulsion of Nature, by which a great alteration in
the climate was effected.
This he concludes from the text of the opening of the "record," which is,
in the translation of Bleeck, from the German one of Spiegel:
Fargard i.
1. Ahura Mazda spake to the holy Zarathustra.
2. I created, O holy Zarathustra, a place, a creation of delight (but) nowhere
was created a possibility (of approach).
3. For had I not, O holy Zarathustra, created a place, a creation of delight,
where nowhere was created a possibility,
4. The whole corporeal world have gone after Alryana VaSja\
5. The first and best of regions and places have I created, I who am Ahura
Mazda.
6. The Airyana Vaj of the good creation.
22 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
7. Then Anra Mainyus, who is full of death, created an opposition to the same:
8. A great serpent and winter, which the Daevas have created.
9. Ten winter-months are there, two summer-months.
10. And these are cold as to the water, cold as to the earth, cold as to the trees.
11. After this to the middle of the earth, then to the heart of the earth,
12. Comes the winter; then comes the most evil.
13. The second and best of regions and places have I created, I who am Ahura
Mazda.
14. Gafi, the dwelling-place of Sughda.
It is, it seems to me, a very strained construction of the, seventh, eighth
and ninth verses, to make them mean a convulsion of Nature.
Bunsen says,
The country of the sources of the Oxus and Jaxartes, therefore, is the most eastern
and most northern point, from which we have to start .... wherever the Indians
may have fixed the dwelling-places of their northern ancestors, the Uttara-Kuru,
we cannot venture to place the primeval seats of Aryans anywhere but on the
slopes of the Bolor Tagh, in the Highland of Pawer, between the 40th and 37th
degrees of N. Latitude, and 86th and 90th degrees of Longitude .... As regards
its present climate, it is precisely what our record describes it as having been when
the change produced by the above commotion took place. It has only two months
of warm weather.
But this is entirely incorrect, and gives a very false idea of the country.
The cities of Bokhara and Samarkand are in the same latitude with the
northern portion of it, and there the climate is pleasant and salubrious. Of
course, it being higher and mountainous, it is colder there than in the
vicinity of those cities; but Khokand lies north and west of it, north of 40,
and there the heat is excessive in summer, although it is mountainous and
though the winters are cold. Snow falls by the beginning of November,
and disappears by March; and cotton is raised and the silk-worm reared
there; and fruit is abundant. I think that there is no foundation for the
"convulsion" theory.
Lassen remarks that at the present day the old indigenous inhabitants
of this region on the slopes of the Bolor Tagh, are Tadshiks who speak
Persian, and are all agriculturists. And the Turcomans, Bunsen says, either
came after them, or else they are aborigines, whom the Aryans found there.
He says,
When the climate was altered by some vast disturbance of Nature [how did they
live through the "convulsion"?], the Aryans emigrated; they did not, however,
follow the course of the Oxus, or they would have come in the first instance to
Bactria, and not to Sogd. Their course, therefore, was more northerly.
If they emigrated because of the greatly increased cold, would they have
gone further north? Did they go north into Khokand, across the Jaxartes,
LANGUAGE AND TRANSLATION 23
or northwesterly, down the Jaxartes and between it and the Oxus, towards
the Sea of Aral?
We see, indeed [he says on the next page], evidence of the main direction taken
by these travellers having been southerly.
Sughda [he says], was pre-eminently 'the country,
7
as being the home of the
fire-woorshippers. The name was afterwards spelled Sugdia, and commo'nly Sog-
diana. It is in the 38th degree of Latitude, where Maracanda (Samarkand), is
situated; a paradisiacal land, fertilized by the river Sogd; so that Sogd and
Paradise are used synonymously by later writers.
The subsequent and successive settlements, he thinks, were, Margiana,
a fruitful province of Khorassan; Bactria, Northern Parthia; Herat; Sejes-
tan; Cabul; Candahar; Arachosia; Hilmend; Northern Media; Khorassan;
Ghilan; and Hapta Hindu, or the country between the Indus and Sutlej,
into which they entered from Afghanistan.
Bunsen concludes that Zarathustra lived in Bactria, about 6,350 years
before Christ. He
opposed the faith in the Gods of Nature, as the highest beings. He found in exis-
tence the faith in good spirits, Ahums, *the Living,' who are also called 'the Dis-
pensers of Wisdom* (Mazdas). At their head he placed the one Holy God, Ahura
Mazda (Ormuzd), 'the Highest Spirit.' He is the Lord of all the Powers of Nature,
Creator and Sustainer of all Existence. He rules over the earthly and spiritual
life, by which latter Zarathustra understands a better state on this earth. His
great axiom, so full of intelligence, was that, 'the Highest Trinity (drigu), is
Thought, Word, Deed.' These three he considers to be 'pure in the pure, evil in
the evil: from the thought emanates the word, from the two together, the deed.'
The "Holy Acts" of the Veda supplied him with this idea. They are the
out-shining of the light, in form and limitation, which is an emanation from
the fire. Fire is our thought; light, the word ; and its emission or manifesta-
tion by the orbs, is the act or deed.
The seven rivers of the Indus country are, the Sindhu (Indus) ,
its eastern
confluents, Vitast& (Hydaspes), Asikni (Akesines), Purushni (Hydraortes),
Vip^s (Hyphasis) Satadru (Hesudrus); and the western, Kubh (Kophen),
which comes from Kabul.
Sughdha, according to Bunsen, is from the root Suk, to "burn," whence
Sukhra, "burning red," as applied to fire, and dha, a "where," a "place
where something is." Consequently Sughdha was the place or land of fire.
Bunsen thinks that the oldest Vedas "are the Monuments of Aryan life
in the country of the Five Rivers." I think they are monuments of an
older life, on the steppes.
He thinks that the Aryans immigrated into the Indus country about
4,000 years before Christ, then having the old Bactrian living language, in
24 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
which the old Zend books were written ; and that in that country the Sanskrit
grew up. The Agni, or fire-worship, he considers a remnant of the original
pre-Zarathustrian doctrine. The emigration from Sogd into Bactria, he
places about 5000 B.C. He concludes that the original emigration from
the northeast of the primitive land took place from 10000 to 8000 B.C.;
that the separation of the Germans, Sclaves and Pelasgiansoccurred, succes-
sively, from 8000 to 5000 B.C.; Zarathustra's reform, about 3500, and the
crossing of the Sutlej into the country beyond, where Brahmanism was
established, about 3,000 years before Christ. The most modern hymns
were composed in the land of the Sarasvati, beyond the Sutlej.
The rainy season commences in the Punjab towards the end of June; but
the rivers begin to swell with the first heats of spring and summer, by the
melting of the snow on the mountains contiguous to their sources. Itappears
that Alexander the Great crossed the Indus, and invaded the Punjab, some-
time in the beginning of May, and found the rivers swollen and constantly
rising. Tamerlane passed the Indus in A.D. 1398, in October, nearly at the
same spot where Alexander had crossed it 1,725 years before. Alexander
procured on the Hydaspes a fleet of 2,000 vessels, and upon it carried his
army down the Indus to the Sea.
Mr. Laing (Heimskringla Hi. 365) says:
The most learned Scandinavian antiquaries of our times have ascertained to their
own satisfaction, that three distinct populations have inhabited the North; a
Mongolian race, of which the
7
type is to be found in the Laplander, the Samoyed,
the Esquimaux; a Celtic race; and a Caucasian race, which, almost within the
limits of northern history, came from Asia, drove out or extirpated the Celtic and
'Laplandic races, and are the present inhabitants. (See, further, as to this, page
27 post.)
THE VEDAS AND THEIR AGE.
The Vedas are the oldest of all the Indian books. They are, therefore,
not only the most authentic source of information in regard to the earliest
language of the Indians, but they preserve much more distinct and exact
traces of their primeval history than are to be found in later books, composed
when the most genuine traditions of the origin of the race had been obscured
and corrupted.
Of that which is the most important and interesting portion of the
history of every race and nation, the history of the progress of its intellect
and of its religious and philosophical ideas, the Vedas contain the only
authentic record. And of this they contain, as I think, and as I hope to be
able to show, very much more than any of the commentators have dis-
covered, though, in one direction they have imagined their ideas to have
extended beyond their real intellectual horizon.
I do not speak of the Hindu commentators. Making the Vedas the
sacred books of their own faith, they utterly denaturalized them, and
systematically misunderstood and misinterpreted them. I speak of Profes-
sor Wilson, Muir, Roth, Benfey, Miiller and others, to whose intelligent
labours the student of the Vedas is so infinitely indebted. Mr. Cox, in
regard to the meaning of the Vedas, is merely a borrower from the others,
and where he ventures to speculate for himself is invariably and persistently
wrong.
Dr. Muir says (Original Sanskrit Texts, ii. 288),
From the Vedic hymns, accordingly, it does, in fact, appear, more distinctly than
from any other of the Indian writings, that the progenitors of the Hindus were
originally called Aryas.
That is true: but the Vedas should not be called Indian writings, for the
hymns, or at least the older ones, were the composition of those who were the
ancestors of the Hindus or Indians, of the Persians, and of the Greeks and
Latins. This is absolutely certain, because we unmistakably find in them
the Origines of the Deities of all these branches of the one race, and of their
principal religious and philosophical ideas; as we hope very clearly to prove.
Probably none of the hymns can be imputed to a date so early as that
of the separation of either the Sdavic, German or Keltic branch, from the
great Aryan stock, though the Vedas contain a great number of the roots
from which the words in most common use in the languages of those branches
were derived or developed.
26 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
There is evidence, I think, in the Vedas, that the principal Deities namec1
in them were worshipped, if the oldest of the hymns were not composed,
some time before. By means of the precession of the Equinoxes, about
2 455 years before our era, the sun began to enter the Zodiacal sign Taurus
at the Vernal Equinox. Three hundred years before our era, he commenced
to enter Aries; and at the same rate of precession, he entered Gemini 4,300
years before Christ. Perhaps 2,000, perhaps 3,000 years, or even 4,000,
after they were written, and at least I,ooo or 2,000 years after they were
compiled, and more than that after the language in which they were written
had become a dead language, they were commented on by men whose
religious and philosophic ideas were thoroughly contrary to those contained,
and in fact concealed, in the hymns themselves.
Dr. Muir continues to say,
We find this name [Aryas] applied to the forefathers of the higher classes among
the Indians, in contradistinction to the Dasyus, who appear to have been a people
of a different race, and to have been settled in India before the Aryas [and who
were also of dark complexions, and barbarians or savages].
By means of this word Arya, we are able to connect the early Hindus with the
early Persians. For, first, it appears that in ancient times the Medes also, who
were eventually included in one empire with the Persians [the ancestors of Kuros
or Cyrus being Medes], bore the name of Arians. This is clear from the following
passage of Herodotus, in Book vn. t Sec. 2 of his History: 'They [the Medes] were
formerly called "Aptot by all. But when the Colchian Medea arrived among these
Arioi, from Athens, they also changed their name. The Medians say these things
of themselves.' In Section 66 of the same book, he mentions a nation or tribe
bearing the same name: 'The Arioi were armed with Median bows, but in other
respects like the Bactrians. Sisamnes commanded the Arioi.
1
Elsewhere he
mentions the Ar&ioi, with the Chorasmians and Sogdians, as paying 300 talents
tribute. Arrian mentions the same people (Hi. 8. 4), as forming part of the army
of Dareios.
Dr. Muir further shows that in many ancient authors, proper names are
found, compounded with the word Arios, e. g. ./4ra>mardos, the Kaspian
Commander, and the Persian names -4nabignes, -4rawamnes, Ariaces,
Ariaius, -4nmazes and -4mrathes (Aryaratha): and ^Eschylus uses the
word Arim as the synonym of Persian, as applied to a dirge. And he adds:
It is not only in the Greek authors, that we find the name of Arians applied
to the Medes or Persians, In the most ancient books of the Zarathustrian religion,
also, which are composed in the Zend language, the same word, as a designation
of the early Persians, is of frequent occurrence.
And he thus quotes from Professor Spiegel's Introduction to his transla-
tion of the Zend-Avesta:
THE VEDAS AND THEIR AGE 27
It is of special importance that they [the Indians and Persians], call themselves
by the same name. Arya, signifying honourable in ordinary speech, and derived
from Arya, which means Lord in the Vedas, is the most usual and the most ancient
name of the Indian people .... According to the Persian laws of euphony,
arya had to be changed to airya, a name which the Persians long applied to them-
selves, and out of which the more modem Iran has arisen.
Eichhoff (ParaJMe des langues de I'Europe et de I'lnde, 132) gives from
the foot AR or AR, to "go, attain, reach, overtake ;" Aris, "warrior ;" Aryas,
"excellent;" Aras, "iron;" Arus, "a wound;" and also gives "valiant" as a
meaning of Aryas. In that sense, the name is eminently appropriate to the
race. From the same word come the Greek "apr/s, "apetos, the first meaning,
"war, battle, wound, iron or weapon," and the second, "martial, warlike,
bellicose;" "Ao^s also being Mars, the God of War.
The primitive language of this people, was, in the words of Pictet (Ori-
gines Indo-Europ&ennes, pp. I. 2) :
Admirable by its richness, its force, its harmony, the perfection of its forms; in
which were spontaneously reflected all the impressions of the race; not merely its
mild affections and its simple admirations, but also its nascent aspirations toward
a higher world; a language abounding in images and intuitive ideas; bearing within
it, in germ, all the future affluence, both of the most sublime poetry and of the most
profound reflection. At first one and homogeneous, that language, already per-
fected to a very high degree, served as a common instrument of expression to this
primitive people, as long as it continued within the limits of its native country
.... The radical affinity of all the Arian languages [Hindu, Persian, Greek,
Latin, Sclavonic, Gothic, German and Keltic], necessarily leads us to regard them
as having sprung from one single primitive language .... And as a language
presupposes always a people to speak it, it further follows that all the Aryan nations
have issued from one single source, though they may occasionally have become
blended at a later period, with someforeign elements. Hence we may with certainty
infer the existence, at a pre-historic period, of an Aryan people, free, originally,
from all foreign intermixture, sufficiently numerous to have supplied these swarms
of men which issued from its bosom, and sufficiently endowed by Nature to have
created for itself the most beautiful, perhaps, of all languages [and sufficiently
acute of intellect, and thoughtful, to have conceived the profoundest philosophical
ideas, and to have furnished the germs of all the profoundest theological truths].
This people, though unknown to tradition, is in a certain degree revealed to us
by philological science. [And it is also revealed to us by its thoughts and ideas,
its Deities and its notions concerning them, its customs and its manners, and the
accounts of its struggles for supremacy, contained and depicted in the pages of
the Vedas.]
Each stream of emigration encountered the opposition of an aboriginal
race, in every country into which it flowed, and everywhere they were
conquerors, or the original language would have died out for each. Each
intermingled with one or more aboriginal races, one in greater, another in
28 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
less proportion ; and the language of each mingled with that of the conquered
people. Hence the vast differences and also the striking identities between
the Welsh tongue and the Sanskrit, the Sclavonic and Persian, the German
and the Latin and Greek: and hence also the great differences of physical
and intellectual characteristics, and the peculiar and apparently permanent
types of the Irish, Grecian, Roman and Hindu face. In fact, the language
and the type and cast of features, and the intellectual character of some of
the races come chiefly from the conquered aborigines, while others have
preserved infinitely more of the Aryan type, probably because the conquerors
were, relatively to the conquered, more numerous: and these physical and
intellectual differences are also, no doubt, greatly owing to immense original
differences of face, form and intellect, among the aboriginal races of Asia
and Europe, that the Aryans overcame and mingled with.
The Hindu notions of the dignity and sanctity of the Vedas are curious,
but otherwise of no value. When we read the Brahmanic books, as when
we read the Kabbalistic books, we are amazed at the vagaries, not of the
fancy or of the imagination, but of lunacy and idiotic babble, in which the
human mind can indulge.
Manu styles the Veda,
the Eternal Eye of the Patriarchs, of Gods and of men: beyond human power and
comprehension [and it certainly was and is beyond the power of Brahmanic com-
prehension, saturated, as the Brahmanic mind and intellect were and are, with
both the metaphysical subtleties, and the unintelligible nonsense, of its own creed].
The Eternal Veda [Manu says], supports all beings, and is the principal instru-
ment of well-being to man. He who comprehends the essential meaning of the
Veda, is prepared for absorption into Brahma, even while abiding in this lower
world.
Dr. Muir says of the Vedas (Orig. Sans. Texts, in. 114),
We find in them ideas, a language, a spirit and a colouring, totally different from
those which characterize the religious writings of the Hindus of a later era. They
frequently discover to us the simple germs from which mythological legends current
in subsequent ages were derived, germs which in many cases were developed in
so fanciful and extravagant a manner as to prove that the correct tradition had
long before disappeared, and that the lost details have been replaced by pure
fictions of the imagination. They afford us very distinct indications of the locality
in which they were composed [some of them, especially, speaking of the wide alluvial
bottom lands of five bold-running rivers subject to overflow]; they show us the
Aryan tribes living in a state of warfare with surrounding enemies, many of them,
no doubt, alien in race and language; and gradually, as we may infer, forcing their
way onward to the east and south. [They picture themselves to us as a people of
herdsmen, much more than of husbandmen, with herds of horses and cattle, but
no sheep, having villages, perhaps, but no cities the cities spoken of being all of
the Dasyus their enemies, the dark-skinned natives of the land.] They supply us
THE VEDAS AND THEIR AGE 29
with numerous specimens of the particular sort of prayers, viz. : for protection and
victory [and for food, and wealth and increase of horses and cattle], which men so
circumstanced would naturally address to the Gods whom they worshipped; as
well as of those more common supplications which men in general offer up for the
various blessings which constitute the sum of human welfare; and they bring before
us, as the objects of existing veneration, a class of Deities, principally, if not exclu-
sively, personifications of the elements, and of the powers either of Nature or of
reason [of the sun, the planets and stars, and even of the rivers], who gradually
lost their importance in the estimation of the later Indians, and made way for
Gods of a different description, invested with new attributes, and in many cases
bearing new appellations.
For it was a natural advance of the intellect, to reach beyond the personi-
fications of fire and light, flame and heat and other powers, principles and
phenomena of Nature, and the planetary and stellar powers, and the God-
desses of the river, and to seek and reach a cause of all, beyond or above them
all; especially when the Deities already adored were invested with most of
the attributes that must belong to a creator and preserver of the world, a
cause of all, Himself uncaused: when it was only necessary to invent a
hypothesis or imagine a being, and compose him of those attributes.
But when the idea of that cause was reached, then the Brahmanic intel-
lect tortured itself with a thousand questions in. regard to the creation, and
at last invented a whole pantheon of Gods, and the most grotesque and
absurd theories as to the origination or generation of tilings; until a hideous
idolatry was the consequence.
We can also [Mr. Muir says], discover from the Vedic hymns that some of them
were newer and others older, that they were the works of many successive genera-
tions of Poets, and their composition probably extended over several centuries;
and that in some places their authors represent them as .being the productions of
their own minds, while in other passages they appear to ascribe to their own words
a certain divine character, or attribute their composition to some supernatural
assistance.
Professor Wilson says (Rig-V. L Introd. xviii.):
To me, the verses of the Veda, except in their rhythm, and in a few rare passages,
appear singularly prosaic for so early an era as that of their probable composition;
and at any rate, their chief value lies, not in their fancy, but in their facts, social
and religious.
Mr. Whitney (Journ. Am. Or. Soc., Hi. 295) says:
The Vedas contain the songs in which the first ancestors of the Hindu people, at
the very dawn of their existence as a separate nation, while they were still only on
the threshold of the great country which they were afterwards to fill with their
civilization, praised the Gods, extolled heroic deeds, and sang of other matters
30 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
which kindled their poetic fervour .... The mass, as it lies before us, is almost
exclusively of a religious character; this may have had its ground partly in the
end for which the collections were afterwards made, but it is probably in a far higher
degree due to the character of the people itself, which thus shows itself to have
been at the beginning what it continued to be throughout its whole history, an
essentially religious one .... Hymns of a very different character are not entirely
wanting, and this might be taken as an indication that, had they been more
numerous, more would have been preserved to us.
Dr. Muir says (Orig. Sansk. Texts, ii. 206) :
These hymns are said, by later Indian writers, to have been seen by the ancient
^ishis or bards. The Niruktasays (ii. 11) 'a Rishi is so called, from seeing. He saw
the hymns! This is Anpa Manyava's explanation. They became IJishis, because
Brahma, the self-existent, approached them when they were sunk in devotion.
From this, as is generally understood, they acquired their character as IJishis.'
There is, however, no doubt [says Dr. Muir], that the Rishis were themselves
the proper authors of these ancient songs, which they addressed to the Gods, when
they were solicitous to obtain any blessing, or composed on other occasions ....
For many years, the successive generations of these ancient IJishis continued to
make new contributions to the stock of hymns, while they carefully preserved
those handed down to them by their forefathers. The fact of the successive com-
positions of the hymns is evident from the ancient Index of the Rig-Veda [anukra-
manj\, as continually quoted in the Commentary of Sayana, which shows that
these compositions are ascribed to different generations of the same families, as their
seers .... We have [in the case of certain hymns of the third Mandala], the
seers of hymns extending over five generations or more. The same fact, that a
long interval elapsed between the composition of the different hymns, is manifest
from various passages in these compositions themselves .... And in the Rig-
Veda, we find references made in numerous hymns, to earlier IJishis (who them-
selves are yet declared by later writers to have been authors of hymns included in
the same Veda), having been delivered by the Gods in ancient times.
In many cases, also, the later composition of a hymn appears by the
Brahmanic conceits embodied in it, and its departure from the singular
simplicity of the ancient hymns. The same Deities appear in the later
hymns, but with the addition of epithets and an accretion of attributes,
which, if all were of one age, would greatly embarrass one in the endeavour
to determine what the Deity in question really was or represented.
Langlois (Trans, of Rig-Veda i^ Pref. x. xi.) says:
The Indian Aryas were disposed to piety both by their natural character and by
the institutions of Manu. They were sustained in these sentiments by the chiefs
of certain families, in which their religious traditions had been more especially
preserved. In those primitive ages, the political system was precisely the same as
that which Homer depicts; Kings, the veritable shepherds of their peopleCulti-
vators or herdsmen united around their chiefs, and prepared whenever necessity
arose, to transform themselves into warriors; numerous flocks [herds], and a pro-
THE VEDAS AND THEIR AGE 31
fusion of rural wealth; towns which were only large villages. Of these villages,
some served as retreats to renowned sages, who, while their dependents were tend-
ing their fields and herds, were themselves engaged ia the cultivation of sacred
science, in the company of their sons or their pupils, and fulfilled the functions of
a Calchas or a Tiresias, to some Aryan Agamemnon or CEdipus in their neighbour-
hood. Invited by the chiefs to perform sacrifice, they arrived with then- sacred
retinue; they ascended the mountain, to where an enclosure of lattice-work had
been constructed, for Temples were then unknown. There, beneath the vault of
Heaven, they recited their hereditary songs, or a newly-composed hymn; they
invoked the grand agents in Nature to grant success to the labours of the field,
increase to the flocks, and a succession of brave and virtuous descendants. They
implored, they threatened their Gods; and when the sacred rites had been scrupu-
lously performed, they retired loaded -with gifts, carrying away cows, horses, and
cars filled with provisions, gold and precious stuffs. We see thus by what fortune
these hymns have been preserved, forming, as they did, a patrimony to certain
families, a species of productive capital, which it was their interest to turn to the
very best account. Composed on certain recognized and venerable themes, and
sometimes retouched and renovated by the imagination of a new bard, they grew
old, as they were transmitted from age to age, bearing on them, sometimes, the
date of their composition, which was indicated by the name of the inspired author,
or of some generous prince.
Dr, Muir says (Orig. Sansk. Texts, Hi. 171):
In India, the indistinct and perhaps hesitating belief which some of the ancient
IJishis seem entertained in their own inspiration, was not suffered to die out in
the minds of later generations. On the contrary, this belief grew up by degrees
into a fixed persuasion that all the literary productions of those early sages had
not only resulted from a supernal impulse, but were infallible, divine, and even
eternal. These works have become the Sacred Scriptures of India. And in the
popular opinion, if not in the estimation of the learned, most Indian works of any
importance, of a religious, scientific or philosophical kind, which were produced at
a later period, have come to be regarded as inspired, as soon as the lapse of ages
had removed the writers beyond familiar or traditional knowledge, and invested
their names with a halo of reverence.
The reader of the Veda will often find power to strengthen the Gods
ascribed to prayers and praises and to the Sacrifice, and even peculiar powers
ascribed to the metres. And he will even find prayer, silent or uttered,
exalted into a Deity, one of the forms of Agni.
As to the value of Hindu interpretation of the Veda, some idea may be
formed from this which Miiller says in regard to Brahinanas, the oldest
of the Hindu books. He says (Anc. Sansk. Lit. 432. 434) :
There is throughout the Brahmanas such a complete misunderstanding of the
original intention of the Vedic hymns, that we can hardly understand how such
an estrangement could have taken place, unless there had been, at some time or
other, a sudden and violent break in the chain of tradition .... Every page of
32 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
the Brahmanas contains the clearest proof that the spirit of the ancient Vedic
poetry, and the purport of the original Vedic sacrifices, were both beyond the
comprehension of the authors of the Brahmanas.
Professor Roth says (Introd. to Nirukta in.) that in Greece,
with the exception of Hesiod, who never rose to the same degree of consideration,
Homer was the only source of the highest knowledge, and pre-eminently the book of
the schools the book which gave the first occasion to grammatical and almost
every other sort of science to develop itself. In India, the Veda occupies the place
of Homer. It was to the Veda that the Brahmanical people looked as the sole
repository of intellectual culture. As a sacred book, it was the more naturally a
subject of research to the learned man, as he was at the same time a priest, and it
became the first problem to be solved by grammar .... At the same time, the
Veda, both as regards its language and its subject matter, stood further removed
from the Indian of the two centuries immediately preceding Buddha (700 and
600 B.C.) in which the sacerdotal system reached its climax than Homer did
from the Greek of the Periclean Era, .... Indian scholarship lay under an inca-
pacity of unfettered movement. It was necessary for orthodoxy to deny the facts
of history, and to discover only the circumstances of the present in the monuments
of antiquity; for the present was both unable and unwilling to rest on any other
foundation than the traditions of an earlier age, surrounded as these were with a
halo of glory, and only half understood.
And the Brahmanic notions in regard to the Deities, their origins and
their functions, were so totally different from those of the Poets of the Vedas
as to render them utterly incapable of understanding the old texts in any
other sense than the false ones, which suited their own mythology and meta-
physics.
Professor Wilson (Rig-Veda ii. Introd. xix. xx. xxi.) has stated the diffi-
culties met with in translating the Veda. They are very great so great
that it will never be possible to translate the whole correctly. All grammar
is disregarded in the original, one case or number of a noun substituted for
another, one person and tense of a verb for another. Many unusual words
are employed in the Veda, the meaning of which, he thinks, can only be
arrived at by means of the Hindu interpretations. But these are almost
always so utterly unfounded, so evidently the results of preconceived
notions, and so continually mere guesses, that I am quite sure they much
more tend to obscure the meaning than to elucidate it.
Another great difficulty is that for many words we have no equivalents
in our own language, and that the words which are available do not convey
the same ideas. Kavi, Vipra, vidvat, medhdvin, Chikitwah, and many others,
mean, it is true, "wise, intelligent, knowing;" but they do not have that
meaning, as and where they are employed, and so to translate them is to
mistranslate. These and other adiectives are often used without substan*
THE VEDAS AND THEIR AGE 33
tives; and there are great numbers of other omissions of words, to be sup-
plied by conjecture, and which the Hindu scholiasts and commentators,
having an eye all the time to the later fables as to the Gods, and their
changed characters, generally fill erroneously. Often it does not appear
what Deity is invoked, or to which one an epithet is applied. Sometimes
whole sentences are to be supplied by conjecture: and it is mere guessing
when even single words are omitted; as in
The grandson of the waters has ascended above the crooked .
The broad and golden spread around.
Thou removest all of men.
Thou cuttest to pieces.
Often the verb is omitted. So, frequently, are the names of the Deities
invoked; and it is often evident that the name supplied is wrong. And the
same phrase is often explained in two utterly different meanings by different
commentators; while they continually disagree with each other, and each
often with himself, in regard to what is meant by a particular Deity.
Bunsen says (Egypt's Place in Universal History Hi. 512) :
In my opinion, none of these Sanskrit sources of information have any historical
value, except in so far as they relate to matters within a certain range of sharply
distinguished epochs.
And I think that none of our Sanskrit "sources of information" are of the
least value, as aids in solving the enigmas which the Vedic pantheon presents
to us. As he says on the same page,
The Vedic Gods, in the Sanskrit period, are completely thrown into the background
by others of whom the Vedas either knew nothing at all, Siva, for instance, or else
use their names in a totally different sense, as is the case with Brahma and Vishnu.
For these reasons, therefore, the history of the early times may be regarded as
systematically adulterated or adjusted by the Brahmans themselves, in those epic
poems, and in the notices annexed to the ancient hymns. A large portion is
borrowed from historic sources, and dressed up in an ideal shape.
And so the Vedic Gods are transformed and denaturalized, by explanations
which are, in Bunsen's phrase applied to their history "Comparatively
modern nonsense."
He truly says,
where detached ballads and the pedigrees of princely families are the only sources
of information, genealogical forgery and myth will not be wanting; and where a
new Priesthood, founded upon a strict system of caste and a new mythology,
holds the literature of a country in its hands, everything of more ancient date will
be systematically falsified.
34 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
And, we may add with equal truth, the old Gods will either be discrowned
or degraded, or they will be invested with new characters and attributes,
each becoming something more or less different from what it was in the
beginning.
HINDU IDEA OF THE ORIGIN OF THE VEDAS.
Of the elemental origin of the Vedas, according to the Brahmanas, the
Upanishads, and the Institutes of Manu, it would be profitless to speak at
any length, because the accounts which they give are neither historical nor
traditionary, but merely fanciful and fantastical. They will be found col-
lected by Dr. Muir in Volume ii. of his Original Sanskrit Texts. One ac-
count (in the S&tapatha Brahmana), is that Prajapati was formerly the All.
He created and brooded over three worlds, till from them three lights were
produced, Fire, Air, and the Sun. He brooded over these three Lights; and
from them were produced the three Vedas the Rig-Veda from the Fire, the
Yajur-Veda from the Air, and the Sama-Veda from the Sun. He brooded
over these three Vedas, and from them were produced the three seeds or
essences bhdr, from the Rig-Veda; bhtivah, from the Yajur-Veda, and svar
from the Sama-Veda: and the function of the Brahman arose through the
essence of the threefold knowledge, i. e., the three Vedas combined.
Manu condenses the account given in the chhdndogya Upanishad, into
this sentence:
From Fire, Air and the Sun, he milked for the accomplishment of Sacrifice, the
eternal triple Veda, distinguished as Rik, Yajush and Sdman.
BRANCHES OF ARYAN LANGUAGE.
It may not be out of place to speak briefly of relationship of the Sanskrit,
Zend, Greek, Latin, Gothic, Sclavonic, German and Keltic languages, and
those, including our own, formed by the intermixture of some of these; for
it is by means of the words common to all or to part of these, that the original
identity of all the races that speak these languages, is established.
Recent discoveries have proven beyond dispute the existence all over
Europe, long before any emigration of the Aryans, of successive races of men,
the most ancient of whom were savages, like the North American Indians,
using only implements and weapons of stone. Such of these as remained
when the Aryan herdsmen swept over Europe, were subjugated, and amalga-
mated with the conquerors; and the languages of the victors and the
vanquished were intermingled, like themselves. But everywhere, in greater
or less degree, the language of the victors was itself victor, and its most
important words were everywhere retained.
The case was the same in Asia. The Aryans found an aboriginal people
everywhere, different races speaking many different tongues, none of them
in the least connected with or resembling their own language: and from these
aboriginal inhabitants of Asia and Europe came the differences in type of the
existing Aryan races, and in a great measure the differences in language.
How else are we to account for the difference in features between the
Irishman and the Hindu, and for the fact that some of these races have not
and cannot pronounce particular letters?
That all the languages which we have mentioned are, to tibe extent stated,
outflowings from one original tongue, and that, indeed, much of the differ-
ence between them has not been owing to the intermixture of the foreign
elements, but to natural changes, modifications and decay, has been too
conclusively proven, for doubt to be possible. We need only refer the
student to Bopp
7
s Comparative Grammar, to Eichhoff's ParalUle des Langues,
and to Miiller's Lectures on Language and Chips from a German Workshop,
for ample proof of this.
We find the names for "Father," "Mother," "Brother," "Sister" and
"Daughter" and other grades of relationship, radically the same in most of
the Aryan languages, as well as a vast number of other words, indispensable
for general use; and by means of these, language has been made to tell much
of the history of those ancient times, and of the manners and habits of these
men, of whom, not long since, nothing whatever was known. We are thus
carried back to the time when the race was not yet broken up into different
36 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
nationalities, and obtain a character of historical reality for a period, the
very existence of which had been doubted. No study is more intensely
interesting; and nothing is more curious than many of Miiller's demonstra-
tions of historic facts by words.
The names that express the family relations, coming from one source,
prove that, at that early day, those relations existed. "Father," too, is
derived from a root, pa, which means, not to "beget," but to "protect,
support, nourish;" and "Mother" is from a root ma, meaning to "fashion,"
whence, among the earliest Aryans, Mdtar had the meaning of "maker."
As "begetter," the father was called, in Sanskrit, Ganitdr, as "protector"
and "supporter" of his offspring, Pitdr. Hence in the Veda, the two names
are used together, in order to express the full idea of Father. Thus (i. 164.
33):
Dyads me pita
1
ganitd'
which in Latin and Greek became
Jovis mei Pater genitor
Irish
and the family names in different languages are
Sanskrit Zend Greek Latin Sclavonic
Trarfjp pater athair
mater mati (gen. matere) mathair
frater brat brathair
soror svislarr
sestra siur
dauhtar dear
dukte (Lithuanic)
From one of these names we learn something of the habits of this ancient
people. Duhitar, Sanskrit for daughter, is derived from duh, a root which in
Sanskrit means to "milk" : and the name of milk-maid, given to the daughter
of the house, discloses to us how poetical and pastoral the life of the early
Aryans was. It shows a kind of delicacy and humour, if we imagine a
father calling his daughter his little milk-maid, rather tjian sutd, his "be-
gotten," or fOia, the "suckling." This meaning had been forgotten long
before the Aryans separated; and duhitar had ceased to be a nickname, and
had become the proper name of daughter. Any one will recall to himself
many words now in common use the original meanings of which have long
been wholly lost.
Many Aryan words were formed in the same spirit, and were applicable
only during a nomadic mode of life, when our forefathers tended their herds
BRANCHES OF ARYAN LANGUAGE 37
on the wide steppes of Toorkistan, with the heavenly luminaries for their
guides and to enable them to count the passing of the hours.
"Ox" and "cow" were, in Sanskrit, go; and g&vas in the plural. The Old
High German chuo, chuowi were the same words. Go-pa meant originally a
"herder or keeper of cows/' and at last came to mean a "king:" and goshu-
yddh, "fighting among or for the cows," is used in the Veda for the name of a
warrior in general; while one of the most frequent words for "battle" is
g&v-ishti, literally "striving for cows;" whence, in the later Sanskrit, g&ve-
sha^a means simple "research, inquiry," i. e., a striving to attain the truth,
physical or philosophical. All these words compounded with go, "cattle,"
prove that the people who formed them led a half nomadic and pastoral life;
and they also indicate to us, in the change of the meaning of words that
originally referred only to physical things or phenomena, the cause of the
false interpretations given by Wilson to the Veda. He gives to certain
important words, not the original Aryan meaning, which is the true one, but
the meaning which they had, ages afterwards, in the Sanskrit and to the
compilers of the Vedas. The result is, the imputation to the old cattle-
herders and horse-tamers of the steppes and of the plains of the Five Rivers,
of ideas and notions that were not entertained until a much later day.
The name for a wife left husbandless in the later languages comes from
the same common spurce. In the Sanskrit, dhava is a "husband" or "man,"
and this, with the addition of the preposition vi, meaning "without," makes
vi-dhava, "without a husband, a widow." This compound has been preserved
in languages that have lost the simple word dhava, and we have the Keltic
feadvh, the Gothic viduvo, the Sclavonic vdova, Old Prussian widdewd, and
Latin vidua, as well as an English widow.
Miiller traces the descent of many other words, and says,
The evidence which we have gone through, must be sufficient to show that the
race of men which could coin these words, words that have been carried down the
stream of time, and washed upon the shores of so many nations, could not have
been a race of savages, of mere nomads and hunters*
They had homes, and family relations, and names for relatives by marriage,
which are yet preserved in our European languages. The Sanskrit doma, a
"house" or "home," is the Greek Wjuos, the Latin domus, the Sclavonic
domu and the Keltic daimh; as it is the Gothic timrjan, to "build," from
which the English word timber; and the word "door," in ancient times at
least, the most essential part of the house, is preserved in Sanskrit dvar,
dvdras, Gothic daur, Lithuanian durys, Keltic dor, Greek 6vpa, and Latin
fores. The "builder" or "architect" has the same name in Sanskrit and
Greek, takshan being the Greek ri/cr^. In the Greek "aorv, "house," we
38 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
find the Sanskrit vdstri, "house;" in the Sanskrit puri, "town," the Greek
irflus; and that roads were not unknown, appears from the Sanskrit
path, pathi, panthan and pdthas, all names for roads, the Greek ?rdros, the
Gothic fad.
Most of the names connected with the chase and war differ in the different
Aryan dialects, while those connected with more peaceful occupations are
generally common to all. This shows that the Aryans had led a long life of
peace before they separated, and that it was the new generations which
formed new terms connected with the warlike and adventurous life of their
onward migrations. Hence it is that not only the Greek and Latin, but all
Aryan languages have their peaceful words in common, and that they all
differ so strangely in their warlike expressions. Thus, too, the domestic ani-
mals are generally known by the same names in England and in India, while
the wild beasts have different names even in Greek and Latin. Thus the
words for "cattle," "ox," "steer," "heifer," "horse," "fowl," "dog," "sheep,"
"calf," "she-goat," "sow," "hog," "mouse," "fly" and "goose." "Steer,"
for example, is, in- Sanskrit, stMra; Zend, staora; Greek, raDpos; Latin,
taurus; Spanish, toro; Teutonic, stiur; Lithuanian, taura-s; Sclavonic, tour;
and Irish, tor.
So the names of some wild animals, common to Asia and Europe, as the
bear and wolf; and also the serpent, in Sanskrit sarpa.
The oldest term for ploughing is ar, which we find in the Latin arare;
Greek 'apoco, "to ear"; Old Sclavonic orati; Gothic arjan; Lithuanian arti,
and Gothic ar. Hence the common name of the "plough" "aporpov, aratrum;
Old Saxon erida; Old Norse ardhr; Old Sclavonic aralo and oradlo; Lithuanian
arkla-s; Welsh aradyr and arad; Cornish aradar.
So in the Sanskrit, pada and agra each was a "field;" Greek 7re5<w;
Umbrian, perum; Latin, pedum in oppidum; Polish, pole; Saxon, folda; Old
High German, feld; English, field; and aypos, ager, and Gothic akr-s.
In Sanskrit, sveta means "white," and corresponds to Gothic hveit, Old
High German huiz, and wiz; the Anglo-Saxon hvit and our wheat; Gothic
hvaitei, and Lithuanian kwety-s. "Corn," meant originally what is crushed
or ground, Sanskrit kdrna, Russian zerno; Gothic kaurn; Lithuanian girna,
a millstone, and the plural girnos a handmill. The Russian word for mill-
stone is zernov; and the Gothic name for mill, gvairnus, the later guirn.
The name for "clothes" is the same among all the Aryan nations, being
vastra in Sanskrit, vasti in Gothic, vestis in Latin, MH)s in Greek, fassradh
in Irish, gwisk in Welsh. To "weave" is ve in Sanskrit, and in a causative
form, vap. With ve coincide the Latin vieo, and the Greek radical of ifyrpw,
with vap, the Old High German wab, the English "weave" and "web,"the Greek
To "sew" is in Sanskrit, siv, whence sdfra, a "thread." The same
BRANCHES OF ARYAN LANGUAGE 39
root is preserved in the Latin suo, in Gothic siuja, in the Old High German
siwu, English "sew," Lithuanian siuv-u, Greek Kacrcrba for Karao-voi. Another
Sanskrit root, with a similar meaning, is nah, which must have existed also
as nabh and nadh. From nah we have the Latin neo and necto, Greek via,
Germ&nndhan and ndvan, to "sew"; from nadh, the Greek ^00) ; from nabh,
the Sanskrit nabhi and nabha or urnanabha, the spider, literally, "the wool-
spinner." Rak, in Sanskrit, meant to "make," corresponding with the
Greek P&TTW, to "stitch together or weave," whence, perhaps
aranea, the "spider," and the classical name of woven wool, Xc&x
and the Latin lana.
The value and usefulness of some of the metals were known before the
separation of the Aryan race, as is proven by a few words; but the names of
most of the metals differ in different countries. Iron was known, and its
value appreciated; and we find traces of the old names for silver and gold.
It is clear, therefore, that ages before even the composition of the Vedic
hymns in the Punjab, the arts of sewing and spinning and weaving were
known to our ancestors, and of extracting from the ores and working some
of the metals.
But during this early period, they knew nothing about the sea. The
names for that are of later growth. They are identical in Greek and Latin,
but not in the northern and southern branches of the great family. The
words sara in Sanskrit, c&Xs in Greek and sal in Latin, prove that salt was
known; but these words were not applied to the sea until later times. The
words "oar" and "rudder" can be traced back to Sanskrit; and the name of
"ship," Sanskrit naus, ndvas; Latin navis; Greek vavs; Old High German
nacho; Anglo-Saxon naca, is identically the same in all these tongues.
Remember that all these are proofs of what language was spoken ages
before one stream, of the great Aryan emigrations took its course towards
India, to halt on its way in the land of the Five Rivers: before even the
earliest wave of emigration flowed forth, which was to reach Germany and
Gaul and the British Isles and Spain, the great Keltic emigration.
At this remote period, the Aryans had a decimal system of numeration,
in itself one of the most marvellous achievements of the human mind, based
on an abstract conception of quantity, regulated by a spirit of philosophical
classification, and yet conserved, matured and finished before the foot of
Greek, Roman, Kelt, Sdave or Teuton was set on the soil of Europe.
Such a system could only have been formed by a very small community ;
and more than any part of language it seems to necessitate the admission
of what might almost be called a conventional agreement among those who
first framed and adopted the Aryan names for the numbers from one to one
hundred.
40 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
To form and fix a series of words expressing one, two, three, four, etc., it
was necessary that the ancestors of the Aryan race should have come to
some kind of unconscious agreement to use but one term for each number,
and to attach but one meaning to each term. If different names were used
for the same numeral, the very object of the names would be defeated, and
if one word could be used to mean five as well as ten, all commerce between
individuals using the same word in different senses, would have been im-
possible. Words expressing material objects could, on the contrary, and
did, have more than one meaning and more than one word could be used
to mean the same object, because things have many qualities, and receive
their names from them.
The subjoined table will show the coincidences of the Aryan numerals.
1.
ii.
iii.
iv.
v.
Sanskrit
ekas
dvau
trayas
katoaros
panka
Greek
5*o
rpeis
rkrrapes
(Molic,
Eichhoff says (ParalKle, 480) :
Everywhere, during the course of this work, we have found, in the principal languages
distributed among the peoples of Europe, the traces of their Indian origin, traces
certain and ineffaceable, although modified by times and places. The Celts, the
first colonists that came from Central Asia, and were forced by successive emigra-
tions to the very ends of the Occident, have preserved of their ancient idiom, then
doubtless only in outline [ebauchZ, in outline, rough-hewn, or in the rough], avague
and indecisive remembrance, almost confined to the elementary sounds. Among
the Germans, the roots are complete, their connexion logical, their forms fixed,
but still impressed with a certain rudeness, that attests the infancy of the language.
Among the Slaves, the forms are harmonized, their separation from the mother-
country having been later. They are developed and enriched among the Latins,
BRANCHES OF ARYAN LANGUAGE 41
and gain in elevation and nobleness, until the genius of Greece, issuing last from
ancient Asia to illuminate a new continent, charms us by the graces of a language
carried to its highest perfection. Thus the Indian tongue becomes a comparative
scale, that determines the places of the different peoples in the great migrations
of the human race. It fills the gaps of history, by marking the progress of each
epoch, less by its literary traditions in which the imagination riots clad in a thou-
sand colours, than by the aggregate of its vocabulary, the faithfulinterpreter of our
European languages. In our days, too, every nation sharesin this asintimately as
in the Greek and Latin, and when agraveand solemn thought needs to be worthily
expressed^* the Muse of the Ganges may, without the least effort, unite with that of
the Tiber to proclaim, in the same words, in words everywhere intelligible, a prayer
which, dear to French hearts, will find an echo throughout all Europe.
He adds, in a note:
The words contained in the following text, transcribed in accordance with the
rules of Indian euphony, are found sufficiently explained, whether in the chapter
on composite nouns, or in the examples of declensions, or in the list of verbal roots,
etc., etc.
As the text (an invocation of good fortune for Louis Philippe and his Queen),
strikingly shows that the Sanskrit and Latin had a common origin, we re-
produce it here:
42 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
TEXTB INDIEN.
dWdl
TBAT9SCBJBTION ^T TEADTJCTIQN
TALA.gvAT>? HAJNIM:
KEOEM ^aXUEPTTM 'REGIirAM
TDVA-BAJAM BBRATJlN STAS
JXTVKNEM REGIDM FRATWES SOHOHES QXJE
TAYATAM OMAHA.-DAIVAS
TURATXIR MAGNtTS BEUS.
DEITIES OF THE VEDAS.
The far larger number of the hymns in the Rig-Veda are addressed to
Agni and Indra.
Thus, of one hundred and twenty-one hymns in Ashtaka i. thirty-seven
are addressed to Agni alone, or associated with others, and forty-five to
Indra. Twelve are addressed to the Maruts, and eleven to the A^wins.
In Ashfaka ii., there are thirty hymns to Agni, thirty-nine to Indra, and
five to Mitra and Varuna.
In Ashtaka Hi., of one hundred and twenty-one Stiktas, forty-four are
addressed to Agni, and forty-eight to Indra.
And in Ashtaka iv., of one hundred and forty, thirty-six are addressed to
Agni, forty-six to Indra, and eleven to Mitra and Varuna.
The Divinities worshipped in the Rig-Veda are not unknown to later
systems, but they there perform very subordinate parts, with one or two
exceptions; while those Deities that are the Great Gods, Dii Majores, of the
later period, are either not named at all in the Veda, or are noticed in an
inferior and different capacity.
There is no hint in the Veda of the Linga or Phallus, the form in which
Siva has been worshipped for thirty centuries, nor any epithet applicable
to that Deity; nor is there any hint of the Trimurti, of Brahma, Vishnu and
Siva, as typified by the Mystic Syllable; nor any mention of Brahm-Maya,
the One, Sole, Absolute, First, Self-divided into male and female.
Come, Nasatyas, with the thrice eleven Divinities!
it is said in Sdkta iv., of Adhydya Hi., of Askfaka iv.
And these thirty-three Divinities, it is said (Vishvu-Purdyia, p. 123,
and note), are eight Vasus, eleven Rudras, twelve Adityas, Prajdpati and
Vashafkdm.
The chief Deities, as we have said, of the Veda are Agni and Indra.
We give, hereunder, what Wilson says in regard to the principal Deities,
without comment here, preferring to consider how far he is correct at the
conclusion of these extracts.
Agni is Fire:
1. As existing on earth ; as domestic and culinary, and as religious or sacrificial;
and also as the heat of digestion and life, and the vivifying principle of vegetation.
2. As existing in the atmosphere or mid-heaven, as lightning.
44 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
3. In the Heavens, as light, the sun, the dawn, and the planetary bodies.
And Agni is identified with Yama, Varuna, Mitra, with the Sun, and the
Eternal Vedhas.
He is personified as a Divinity, is young, immortal, endowed with infinite pow-
er and splendour, giver of victory, wealth, cattle, food, health and life. He travels
in a car drawn by red horses. He is the source and diffuser of light, destroyer and
reviver of all things.
The Sun is hymned as a Divinity, the soul of all movable and immovable
beings; and his manifestations are known as Adityas, including Vishnu, Mitra,
Varuna, Aryarnan, Pfishan, Bhaga and Twashtri, who are the sun diversified, as
presiding over each month of the solar year.
*
Indra is the personification of the phaenomena of the firmament, particularly
in sending down rain.
The clouds are the Demons that he encounters. They will not part with their
watery stores, until he cleaves them with his thunderbolt. Vritra, the Demon,
becomes a real personage, who wages war against this King of the Gods.
Indra is especially the God of battles, giving victory, destroying the enemies of
religious rites, possessor and bestower of riches, granter of temporal blessings,
when propitiated by the Soma juice.
Mitra is never addressed alone. He appears among the Viswadevas or Gods
collectively, or associated with Varwya and Aryaman.
He presides over the day, averts evil and protects cattle, and in conjunction
with Varuna, is the dispenser of water.
Varuya is the Divinity who presides over night. The constellations are his
holy acts. The moon moves by his command. He is called King or Monarch,
Rdjd or Samrdl: Is Lord of Light, as Mitra is, and supports the light on high;
he makes wide the path of the sun. He grants riches, averts evil and protects
cattle.
Aryaman is never named alone, but most usually with Mitra and Varuna. A
text identifies him with the sun, and the scholiast says he presides over the twi-
light.
Stirya, or Savityi is the Sun. In the First Book, three Stiktas only are addressed
to him. He also is the giver of temporal blessings. He is the source of light,
moving swiftly between the heaven and the earth, in a chariot drawn by white-
footed horses, or by the Seven. He is golden-handed and golden-eyed.
The Adityas, or lesser Suns, are especially the sons of Aditi, who has generally
the character of mother of the Gods, identified in the first part of the Veda with
the earth, or even with the universe.
There is no separate hymn to Vishnu in the First Book, but he is mentioned
as Trivikrama, or he who took the three steps, the rising, culmination, and setting,
of the sun.
Ushas is the dawn.
The two A$wins are connected, in various places, with the radiance of the sun,
and are said to be precursors of the dawn. They are the two sons of the sun,
begotten during his metamorphosis as a horse.
Pdshan is said to be the Deity or Aditya, or Sun, presiding over the earth.
All the Deities, in the First Ash^aka, are resolvable into three: Agni, or
Fire; Indra,
or the Firmament; and the Sun\ or, as the Sun is but a mani-
festation of Fire, we might resolve all the forms into two, Agni and Indra.
DEITIES OF THE VEDA 45
The Y^ska says that there are in the Veda three Gods, Agni on the
earth; Vayu or Indra, in the sky; and Sdrya, in heaven, of each of whom
there are many appellations, expressive of his greatness, and of the variety
of his functions.
We very much doubt the correctness of these conjectures, as to any of
these Divinities, except Agni, Stirya, Ushas and the Maruts. How far they
are correct can be ascertained only by carefully grouping and comparing the
attributes of each and the epithets applied to each.
Agni is undoubtedly fire, and the spirit or genius of fire.
Ushas is certainly the dawn, or the light of the dawn. Probably it was
deemed that this splendidly coloured light was not the light of the sun, which
is not yet visible during the glancings of the dawn, and when it rises, puts to
flight its beautiful flocks of colours.
Sfirya undoubtedly was the sun; and the Maruts were the winds,
It is also said
Mitra is the Lord of Day: Maitram vd ahar, the day is dependent on
Mitra.
Aryaman is the sun : Asau vd dditya aryama, He, the Sun, is Aryaman.
Vdruyi r&trt, the night is dependent on Varuna.
The Awins are heaven and earth ; or day and night ; o?, the sun and moon. .
Aditi literally means, "the independent," "the indivisible."
And, in Ashtaka i> 9 Adhydya vi., Anuvdka xiv., Sfikta v.
10. Aditi is heaven: Aditi is the firmament: Aditi is mother, father and son :
Aditi is all the Gods: Aditi is the five classes of beings: Aditi is generation and\
birth.
Bunsen (Egypt's Place in Universal History, Hi. 587) says of the hymns
addressed to Agni,
Here we find glimpses of those elements which were developed in later times: by
the side of the Agni of the earth, the Agni of heaven (Mitra, sun), and the Agni
of the clouds (lightning) or water .... Concurrent with this was the worship of
the vault of heaven as a special Deity, Varuna (Ouranos). In the most ancient
times, human sacrifices were offered to him, subsequently no especial sacrifice.
Varuna, at a later date, was viewed rather in a moral sense. He is the eternal
government of the world, physical, as well as moral. He tries the heart, and judges
man. It may, however, be a question, whether we have here two consecutive
epochs, or merely two concurring elements.
It will be seen hereafter that, in my opinion, nearly all of these notions
find no support at all in the Veda.
46 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Of "the adoration of cether, as Indra" (Zeus), he says,
There is no doubt that this belongs to a later time. [But on the contrary, it is
not possible to show from the Veda that the adoration of Indra did not commence
at the same time with that of Agni. Neither is there any warrant for saying that
Indra is the ether, nor that he was the same as, or the prototype of, Zeus.] It also
has its own peculiar sacred symbol, the sacrifice of Soma, an intoxicating potion,
consisting of fermented juice of plants, mixed with milk. [But, although Indra
is more frequently spoken of as exhilarated with and strengthened by the Soma
juice, than any other of the Deities, yet it was not in any sense his own peculiar
sacred symbol. It was not the symbol of any Deity; nor at all peculiar to Indra.
As a minor error, it may be noted that the juice of the Soma plant was not fer-
mented, but was pressed out with stones at the very time of the sacrifice.] In
this form, however, it reminds us of the Turanian Shamanism, the product of
ecstatic excitement.
A .'. U .'. M /.
Agni Varuna Mitra
Aryaman Ushas Maruts
Aditi VayurVasu Maghavan
Ayu Vishnu: Vibhwan Mantras
Angiras Vedhas
Awins Vashtoshpati
Adityas Vanaspati
Aditi is the mother of the Gods.
The Adityas are her sons, twelve in number.
Vishyu is the pervader, or pervading Deity.
Vayu is the God of the wind, identified by the scholiasts with Indra.
These are the conjectures of Wilson.
There are frequent allusions in the Veda, to the birth or production of
Agni, by attrition, by the means known to all savages, by rubbing together
two pieces of wood.
Fire is manifested in flame, and its effects are light and heat. These
give life and productiveness to everything, and flame is the most fearfully
destructive of all agents, in city or in forest.
Also, there is a celestial fire, the lightning, which rends and destroys.
And the moon, planets and stars gave, to the primitive men, light unac-
companied by heat or flame. Even the sun, probably, did not give them
the idea of fire or flame, but only those of light and heat.
DEITIES OF THE VEDA 47
Besides these sources of light, the Aryans north of the Himalayas saw
the Northern Auroras in the winter, the flashing meteors, and the strange
light of the glow-worm and fire-fly.
At times, also, the clouds were gorgeously radiant with many-coloured
light, which must have seemed to the ancients rather to belong to them,
than to be the same white light that flowed from the sun.
Those ancients knew nothing about the atmosphere. The winds were
as great a wonder to them as light. They did not conceive of wind as a
mass of matter in motion; but as a force, the nature of which was as much
unknown to them as the nature of heat.
It is reasonable to suppose that all these potencies were deified the
fire, flame, light, heat, lightning, dawn, the winds and the clouds.
Of the firmament they conceived as a smooth and solid concavity, as it
seems to children. The sun, moon and other luminous bodies seemed to
them to move along its face, at no great distance from the earth. Of the
magnitude of these orbs they had no idea, and did not conceive of them as
large bodies at all. To them they must have been no larger than they
appear. Of the planets, Jupiter and Venus must, morning and evening*
have attracted their attention, and the seven stars of the Great Bear, as well
as the three of the Belt of Orion. Other and single stars must have attracted
their attention, such as Aldebar&n, Arcturas, Regulus, Leo and Sirius, and
the Pole-Star.
VEDIC WORSHIP AND INTERPRETATION.
"The Vedic worship is that of fire and the elements: it is patriarchal and domes-
tic, but is celebrated through the agency of a rather imposing body of priests
(Brahmans) although it consists of little more than the presentation, through fire,
of clarified butter [the flesh of animals sacrificed] and the juice of the Soma plant
to the Gods, who are invoked to be present, whose power and benevolence are
glorified, whose protection against enemies and misfortunes is implored, whose
displeasure and anger are deprecated, and who are solicited to bestow food, cattle,
riches and posterity upon the individuals who conduct the worship, or on whose
behalf it is performed. Occasional intimations of the hope of happiness hereafter
occur, but they are not frequent nor urgent, and the main objects of every prayer
and hymn are the good things of this present life." (Professor Wilson: Rig-V. ii
Intro, vi.)
1 very much doubt whether there is in the Rig-Veda Sanhita any intima-
tion at all of a belief in another life after the present, or of a hope of happiness
after this life. The words "immortal" and "immortality" occur in the
.translation ; but they mean only long life, or long-continued existence. The
"immortality" of the Veda is to be attained by food.
The Atharva-Veda (viii. 48. 3) thus exults:
We have drunk the Soma, we have become immortal, we have entered into light,
we have known the Gods: what can an enemy now do to us? What can the malice
of any mortal effect, O immortal God!
The ceremony takes place in the dwelling of the worshipper, in a chamber
appropriated to the purpose, and probably to the maintenance of a perpetual fire,
although the frequent allusions to the occasional kindling of the sacred flame are
rather at variance with this practice. There is no mention of any temple, or any
reference to a public place of worship, and it is clear that the worship was entirely
domestic. (Wilson: Rig-V. i. Introd. 3
I think there are several grave errors in this paragraph. In general, at
least, as I think clearly appears throughout the Veda, the acts of worship
and sacrifice were performed in the open air, the fire being kindled on the
grass, and where the flame could ascend toward the stars, to many of which
as Deities, hymns were addressed. Wood was gathered there for fuel to
feed the fire, and that in considerable quantity, and even of logs, and for
some purpose or other posts were set up in rows
like white swans that had alighted on the ground.
I do not find any allusion to a perpetual fire, or one kept continually burning.
On the contrary, it seems to have been deemed proper, if not indispensable,
VEDIC WORSHIP AND INTERPRETATION 49
to obtain the fire for the sacrifice by attrition of two pieces of dry wood.
The fire so obtained was evidently regarded as having peculiar sanctity and
is often spoken of.
The sacrifices were often, if not generally, performed early in the morning
at sunrise, at or even before the first glancings of the dawn; and at fixed and
particular times, when certain constellations were in the East shortly before
day, and the Morning Star shone brilliantly.
It is true that no mention is made of temples. In this respect, and in
having no idols or images, the ancient Persians, Medes, or Bactrian Zara-
thustrians simply continued to be Aryans. But the worship was not
entirely domestic. If it had been, there would have been no
goodly array of officiating priests, in some instances seven, in some sixteen,
to recite the Mantras, or prayers or hymns.
We need not quote here Professor Wilson's summary of the characteris-
tics of the hymns; because that will amply appear from the extracts that we
shall make in subsequent pages. He says,
There is little demand for moral benefactions, although in some few instances
hatred of untruth and abhorrence of sin are expressed, a hope is uttered that the
latter may be repented of or expiated, and the Gods are, in one hymn [in the First
Ashtaka] solicited to extricate the worshipper from sin of every kind.
It is quite true that these things appear in the translation, and that the
words "Truth" and "Sin" are often used in it. But the reader will readily
discover that these words do not reproduce the meaning of the original
words. The former, in general, at least, means actuality or reality, and that
actuality and reality of things, which is produced by making them visible,
It is in that sense that light (Indra) is truth; and that the celestial luminaries
are "Lords of Truth." And the latter, often, if not generally, merely means
losing one's way in the dark, upon the plains or in the woods.
It is constantly the case, it seems to me, that Vedic words which in the
lapse of ages had come to have in common acceptation meanings quite other
than their original ones, are rendered in the translation into English by
words that are the equivalents of the Vedic ones, not in their original mean-
ings, but in those which they had taken upon themselves centuries after-
wards.
To understand this, we need only glance at many of our common English
words. Regard originally meant the act of looking at; respect, the act of
looking back; respectable, one to be looked back at; umbrage, a shadow;
extenuate, to thin out; refrain, to rein in; precocious, cooked too soon; prema-
ture, ripe too soon; candour, shining whiteness; nervous, sinewy; obsequious
50 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
(a holy and obsequious tear), connected with obsequies, following one to the
tomb; libel, a little book; affront ("may here affront Ophelia")* meet face
to face; nuisance (from nuire), that which harms; knave, an innocent boy or
youth, afterwards a servant ("Paul, a knave of Jesus Christ/' Duke of
Lauderdale's Translation of the Bible) ; vulgar, of the common people; idiot,
unlearned; right, what is ordered; just, what is commanded; animosity,
courage, high spirit; usury, interest; traduce, to promulgate; minion, a
favourite; sophist, a lover of wisdom; dogmatic, doctrinal; wits, senses ("thy
five wittes") ; pragmatical, businesslike; speculation ("no speculation in those
eyes' '), contemplation; officious, dutiful, attentive (as Dr. Johnson wrote of
Levett, "officious, innocent, sincere")'* resentment, feeling over again;
animadvert, turn the mind to; crafty, skilful in any art; cunning, kenning,
knowing; sense, feeling; crude, uncooked; saucy, salsus, salted; moral,
customary; and hundreds of others. If, now, there were an old book in our
language, written centuries ago, using these words in their original meaning
and one now translating it into French were to take them in their present
meanings, and translate accordingly, what would the "translation" deserve
to be called? Especially if, by taking the words in their modern sense,
ideas were imputed to our ancestors which they never had? It is very
evident that many words are thus habitually abused and misused in the
translation of the Vedas.
Even the Fourth Veda (the Atharva-Veda) is of comparatively recent
date. The three others were collected together about 1,400 years before
our era; but there evidently existed smaller collections before this, especially
of the Rig-Veda. When the complete collection was made,
the compilers had completely lost sight of the original meaning of the old hymns.
They treat them as made for the purposes of public worship, whereas it is clear
that many of them, and in fact the very ancient ones, were not liturgies at all, but
the out-pourings of the free natural inspiration flowing out of the whole material
life, and the great events, of the Poet's own time, and the experience of the tribe
and of the people.
That is to say, I suppose, translating it into simpler language, they are
mere poems, which were composed, not for sacrificial purposes, but as the
Welsh and Irish bards composed those which they recited in their ramblings.
Whatever it means, it is entirely incorrect. It is perfectly evident that
almost all the hymns were composed to be chaunted at the sacrifices. The
words of praise and adoration were supposed to mingle with the flame of the
sacrifice, and to ascend with them to the Gods and become themselves
divine. They are strictly religious. If they speak of wars and battles,
of enemies slain and hostile cities demolished, it is in praise of the Deity
VEDIC WORSHIP AND INTERPRETATION 51
whom they invoke and to whom they ascribe these victories. Poems con-
taining
the out-pourings of the free natural aspiration flowing out of the whole material
life,
would deal with the ordinary and home life, and the affections of the heart
and the charms and beauties of Nature. There is not a word about love or
woman or in praise of beauty in the whole Veda: there are no martial
strains nor songs of the chase, nothing that tells of home and household, no
allusions even to the fruits and flowers and trees, of which every poetic soul
loves to sing. It would be better to write accurately and soberly, than to
seek to write finely, upon these subjects.
But this is truly said:
Not only is the scene of these songs, the Indus country, unknown to the compilers,
but likewise the religion. Brahma and Brahmanism had dispelled the old religious
ideas. The highest Vedic Gods, Agni, Varuna, Indra, had degenerated into Gods
of the second order, into mere guardians of the world. [The character of Vishnu
had entirely changed, and his original individuality had disappeared.] The form of
the language, lastly, is not only different, and far more ancient, but the language of
the Vedas is a living language: that of the compilers is more modern, but one already
become petrified and obsolete, among the people a learned language. In the
time of Buddha, Sanskrit, in its turn, had become a dead language. He lived in
the Sanskrit country; but he preached in Pali. When the Aryans crossed the
Sutlej, they took with them the language of the country of the Five Rivers. Then
the Brahmanical system sprung up, the old language gradually died away; and the
Sanskrit, 'the perfect language/ took the place of 'The language of the seers.'
We find our ancestors [it is said], in this land of the Five Rivers, in possession
of all that Nature can bestow. The earth produces for them in profusion its choicest
gifts [which are never alluded to in the Veda], the climate is conducive to comfort
and to bodily vigour [which is never mentioned], the sky is glowing and transparent;
they are surrounded by all the grandeur, and by all the wealth of Nature. And
they have a language capable of giving soul to the objects of sense, and body to
the abstractions of metaphysics.
And yet, to all this "grandeur and wealth of Nature" there is little or no
allusion, except so far as light, the winds and the storms are concerned.
Not even the mountains, always in light, with their snow-dad summits are
mentioned.
Miiller remarks (Chips i. 113), that, in the special case of the sacred lit-
erature of the Brahmans, we must be guided by their own tradition, which
invariably places the poetical hymns of the Rig-Veda before the ceremonial
hymns and formulas of the Yajur-Veda and S&ma-Veda. He says,
The strongest argument that has as yet been brought forward against this view is,
that the formulas of the Yajur-Veda and the sacrificial texts of the Stma-Veda
52 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
contain occasionally more archaic forms of language, than the hymns of the Rig-
Veda. It was supposed, therefore, that although the hymns of the Rig-Veda
might have been composed at an earlier time, the sacrificial hymns and formulas
were the first to be collected and to be preserved in the schools, by means of a strict
mnemonic discipline. The hymns of the Rig-Veda, some of which have no refer-
ence whatever to the Vedic ceremonial, being collected at a later time, might have
been stripped, while being handed down by oral tradition, of those grammatical
forms, which in the course of time had become obsolete; but which, if once recog-
nized and sanctioned in theological seminaries, would have been preserved there
with the most religious care.
METHOD OF INQUIRY.
I propose, now, to copy all those passages of the Veda (principally as
translated by Professor Wilson), in which the principal Deities are in-
voked or named, which will afford us any aid is ascertaining what each
Deity was. Many passages, are, of course, for that purpose wholly value-
less.
I shall seldom comment upon them, while quoting them; but shall after-
wards sum up the information, they give us, and see whether they sustain
the common interpretations, and whether they enable us, with any degree
of certainty, to comprehend the thought of the ancient Aryan Poets.
Commencing with no theory or preconceived notions whatever, except
so far as I had unquestioningly accepted as true the dicta of Miiller, Bunsen,
Wilson and Muir, I hope that I have attained to some comprehension of the
meaning of these old hymns, or at least that my suggestions mayindicate to
others the path on which they may advance towards certainty.
For, so far, in the works of all the scholars, we have but vague guesses
at the meaning of most of the Aryan Deities, and the mythology of the Vedas
is not only confused and contradictory, but so vague in its outlines as to be
absolutely worthless as to lead only to error. It may be truly said that we
have no idea what it all means, or whether the Vedic Deities were definite
conceptions, or mere shifting and phantasmagorical shadows words and
names, and not realities.
AGNL
TEXTS RELATING TO
ishtakai. Mandate i.
dhydya L Anuvdka i.
Sdktai. Vargai.
1. I glorify Agni, the High Priest of the Sacrifice, Deva,* the ministrant, who
presents the oblation and is the possessor of great wealth.
8. The Radiant, the protector of sacrifices, the constant illuminator of truth,
increasing thine own dwelling: \Swe do/me, su& domo, the chamber in which fire-
worship is performed. Wilson.]
Antwdka, iv. Sdkta i.
Agni, the messenger of the Gods, their invoker, the possessor of all wealth ....
Agni, Agni, the lord of men, the bearer of offerings, the beloved of many ....
Generated by attrition, resplendent, ever young and wise, radiant, remover
of disease, the bright resplendent Agni, the purifier, shining with pure radiance,
charged with all the invocations of the Gods.
Sfikta tii.
Let the wise invoker bring hither from the shining of the sun all the Divinities
awaking with the dawn. With all the Gods, with Indra, V&yu, and the glories of
Mitra, drink, Agni, the sweet Soma juice.
Sdkta, iv.
4. Agni, bring the Gods hither! Arrange them in three places, decorate them.
12. Giver of rewards! Being identified with the household fire.
Aniw. v. Sukta ii.
Come, Agni, with the Maruts, who are Divinities abiding in the radiant heaven
above the sun; who scatter the clouds and agitate the sea.
Stikta w*
Agni, the benefactor of the universe. Agni, abiding in the waters. Agni, confer
upon me vigour, progeny and life.
Asty. i. Adhy. iL Anuv. vi. Sfikta, i.
Of whom, or of which Divinity of the immortals shall we invoke the auspicious
name? Who will give us to the great Aditi, that I may again behold my father and
my mother?
2. Let us invoke the auspicious name of Agni, the first Divinity of the im-
mortals, that he may give us to the great Aditi, and that I may behold again my
father and my mother.
*Deva: bright, shining, radiant; from dim, to "shine." Also explained, one
who dwells in the sky.
54 INDO-ARYAIST DEITIES AND WORSHIP
3. Ever-protecting Savitri, we solicit our portion of thee, who art the lord of
affluence.
5. Weare assiduous in attaining the summit of affluence, through the protection
of thee, who art the possessor of wealth.
6. These birds that are flying, have not obtained, Varufia, thy bodily
strength or thy prowess.
Sdkta Hi (xxw).
I. Lord of sustenance, assume thy vestments, and offer this our sacrifice.
3 . Thou, Agni, art verily as a living father to a son, as a kinsman to a kinsman,
as a friend to a friend.
7. May the lord of men, the sacrificing priest, the gracious, the chosen, be kind
to us! May we, possessed of holy fires, be loved by theel
9, 10. ImmortalAgni .... Son of strength!
SAkta iv (xxvii).
6. Thou of variant splendour [CMtrabhdnu], art the distributor of riches, as
the waves of a river are parted by interjacent isles.
II. The vast, illimitable, smoke-bannered, resplendent Agni.
12. May Agni, the lord of men, the invoker and messenger of the Gods, the
brilliant-rayed, hear us with our hymns, as a prince.
13. Veneration to the great Gods! Veneration to the lesser! Veneration to
the young! Veneration to the old! We worship all the Gods as right-wisely as we
are able. May I not omit the praise of the elder Divinities!
Anuv. vii. Sdkta i.
1, 2, 3. Agni, thou wast the first Angiras Rishi, a Divinity, thou wasttheauspi-
cious friend of the Deities :
sapient, manifold, for the benefit of all the world, intelli-
gent, the offspring of two mothers, and reposing in various ways for the use of man.
Agni, pre-eminent over the world, become manifest to the worshipper. Heaven
and earth tremble. Thou hast borne the burthen in the ceremonial. Thou, Vasu,
hast worshipped the Venerable Gods.
4. Thou, Agni, hast announced Heaven to Manu, . . . When thou art set
free by the attrition of thy parents, they bear thee, first to the East, then to the
West. ['Announced heaven to man* is no more a translation, i. e. , a transfer into the
English language, of the weaning of the original, than the metaphysical ideas of
Kant, or the phrases of alchemy would be. The hymn is addressing itself to the
actual fire, that of the domestic hearth and the altar. It is manifold, the hymn
says, i. e., assumes various shapes, can be partitioned, so that all can have the
benefit of it. Producing Light, it is the means by which the sky is discerned. That
is the 'heaven' which it 'announces*.]
5. Thou, the provider of sustenance, first bestowest light, and then upon all
men.
6. Agni, excellently wise, thou directest the man who follows improper paths,
to acts fitted to reclaim him. [Which is another attempt to elevate the tone of the
Veda, by giving its ideas a modern drapery. For the verse simply means that fire
giving a light, enables one who loses his way by taking the wrong path (in the woods
or elsewhere), to find the right way again.]
7. Thou sustainest the mortal in the best immortality, by daily food. [Which
is simply nonsense, because food, which fire supplies by cooking it, does not confer
immortality, but sustains life, when, without food, man would perish,]
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 55
9. Irreproachable Agni, a vigilant God, in the proximity of thy parents.
13. Thou, four-eyed Agni, blazest as the protection of the worshipper.
14. Thou, who art all-wise, instructest the disciple, and definest the limits
of the horizon.
Anwv* viii,
I, 2, 3. The mighty Agni .... the augmenter of vigour .... who art
endowed with all knowledge. The flames of thee, who art mighty and eternal,
spread around thy rays, and reach to the Heavens.
4. The Deities Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman kindled thee, their messenger
from of oldt
5. The giver of delight, the invoker and messenger of the Gods, the domestic
guardian of mankind; the good and durable actions which the Gods perform, are
all aggregated in thee.
7. The Devout adore thee, who art such, bright with thy own radiance.
9. Sit, Agni, on the sacred grass, for thou art mighty. Shine forth, for thou
art devoted to the Gods. Adorable and excellent Agni, emit the curling and grace-
ful smoke.
II. The rays of that Agni whom Kanwa made more brilliant than the sun,
pre-eminently shine.
16. Agni, with the burning rays.
19. Manu detained thee, Agni, Light to the various races of mankind. Born
for the sake of sacrifice, and satiated with oblations, thou, whom men reverence,
hast blazed for Khaftwa.
20. The flames of Agni are luminous, potent, fear-inspiring, and not to be
trusted.
Anuv. ice. Stikta i (xliv).
1. Agni, immortal, and cognizant of all begotten things. Bring from the dawn
to the giver, wealth .... Bring hither to-day the Gods that awake with the
morning.
2. Agni, associated with Ushas and the Aswins.
5. Immortal sustainer of the universe .... exempt from death, Preserver,
Sacrificer.
6. Whose flames give delight; who art universally invoked.
7. All people kindle thee, Agni, the sacrificer, the all-knowing.
10. Resplendent Agni, visible to all, thou hast blazed after many preceding
dawns; thou art the protector in villages; thou art the associate of man, placed in
the East.
Sfikfaii (xlv).
4. Agni, shining amid the solemnities, with pure resplendence. 6. Radiant*
haired.
7. Invoker, ministrant priest, giver of much wealth, quick-hearing, widely-
renowned.
9. Strength-generated, giver of rewards, provider of dwellings.
Anw. xi. Stikta i (foii).
1. The strength-generated, immortal Agni .... by suitable paths he has
made the firmament.
2. Undecaying Agni, combining his aliment and swiftly devouring it, climbs
56 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
the dry wood : the blaze of the consuming flies like a race-horse, and roars like a
roaring high up in the air.
5. Agni, armed with the flame, and vivified by the wind, with all his might,
in a volume of fire, rushed triumphant in the forest.
6. Agni, who sacrificest for men, who art the invoker, the guest at sacrifices,
to be valued as an affectionate friend.
8. Son of power, propitiously shining.
9. Variously-shining Agni, be a shelter to him who praises thee. Be pros-
perity. Protect, Agni, thy worshipper from sin. May Agni, who is rich with
right-wise acts, come quickly in the morning.
Sdkta U (ttx).
1. Whatever other fires there may be, they are but branchings, Agni, of thee;
but they all rejoice, being immortal, in thee. Thou, Vafewanara, art the navel of
men, and supportest them like a column deeply-planted.
2. Agni, the head of heaven, the navel of earth, become ruler over both earth
and heaven. All the Gods engendered thee, VaiSwanara, in the form of night,
for the venerable sage.
3. 6, 7. Treasures were deposited in the Agni, Vaiiw&nara .... The Agni,
Vaiswanara slew the stealer of the waters, and sent them down on the earth ....
Vaiswanara by his greatness is all men, and is to be worshipped as the diffuser of
manifold light.
Adh. iv. Anuv. xii. Sdkta i (locvi).
4. He (Agni) is the kind kinsman of the waters, like a brother to his sisters.
He consumes the forest, as a Raja destroys his enemies. When excited by the wind,
he traverses the woods, and shears the hairs of the earth.
5. He breathes amidst the waters like a sitting swan. Awakened at the dawn,
he restores consciousness to men by his influences. He is a creator, like Soma.
Born from the waters, like an animal with coiled-up limbs, he became enlarged and
his light flowed afar.
Stiktaii (Ism).
4. Agni, as Yama, is all that is born; as Yama, all that will be born.
5. He has tossed about his flames, like running streams of water: the rays
commingle, visible in the sky.
Sfikta, Hi.
Born in the woods, the friend of man holding in his hand all wealth, and
hiding in the hollows, he filled the Gods with alarm .... Like the unborn, he
upholds the earth and the firmament, and props up the heaven with true prayers.
Sfikto, iv.
The conveyer (Agni), mingling them, ascends to the heavens, and invests all
things, movable and stationary, and the nights themselves (with light). Radiant
among the Gods, and in his single self comprehending the potencies of all of them
Born living, from the dry wood .... He who delights in the sacrificial
chamber, has studded the sky with constellations.
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 57
Stiktav (locix).
White-shining Agni, the extinguisher of the dawn, is the illuminator, and fills
the united like the lustre of the radiant .... Whatever beings I may, along
with other men, invoke,, thou, Agni, assumest all celestial natures .... Agni,
who is possessed of manifold light; the giver of habitations and of cognizable forms.
Sdktawi (locx).
Agni, who is to be approached by meditation [whose essence is cognizable by the
intellect only, the invisible spirit of the fire, not perceptible by the senses], and
shines with pure light [is manifested to the sense of Light as simple light] ....
Agni, who is within the waters, within woods, and within all things, mobile and
stationary, immortal, and performing pious acts .... The Lord of night, all-
knowing who knowest the origin of Gods and men ... * whom many variously
tinted (flushings of the morning) and nights increase; whom, invested with truth,
all things mobile and stationary augment. [Performing pious acts: Sacrificing, or
rendering beneficent services. Invested with truth: invested with actuality, mani-
fested and made cognizable by the senses.]
4. When the diffusive vital air excites Agni, he becomes bright and manifest
in every mansion.
5. The God bestows light on his daughter (the dawn, Ushas).
9. The sun, who traverses alone the path-way of heaven, with the speed of
thought, is at once lord of all treasures. The two kings, Mitra and Varuna, with
bounteous hands, are the g'u<ardians of the precious ambrosia of our cattle.
Sdktaviii (IxxH).
1. Agni, holding in his hands many good things for men, appropriates the
prayers addressed to the eternal creator.
Sfikta ix (Ixxiii).
Agni .... is like the divine sun, who knows the true; preserves by his influ-
ences in all encounters; like Nature, he is unchangeable, and like soul, is the source
of happiness.
Men keep thee constantly kindled in their dwellings .... Thou, in whom is
all existence.
An-uv. xiii. Sfikta i (Ixxiv).
Let us repeat a prayer to Agni, who hears us from afar.
S&kta ii.
Most wise Agni, chief of theAngirasas . . . .
-Worship for us, Mitra and Varuna.
S&kta, iii*
What approximation of the mind, Agni, to thee, can be accomplished for our
good? [How can our intellect attain any real cognition of thee?]
58 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Sfikta, iv.
What may we offer to Agni? What worship is addressed to the luminous, that
is agreeable to the Gods? That Agni who is immortal, and observant of truth, the
performer of sacrifices .... Agni, when he approaches the Gods in behalf of man,
knows those, and reverentially worships them.
Sdktavi (Ixxix).
1. The golden-haired Agni is the agitator of the clouds, when the rain is poured
forth; and, moving with the swiftness of the wind, shines with a brilliant radiance.
2. Thy falling (rays or shafts), accompanied by the moving (winds), strike
against (the clouds). The black shedder of rain has roared ; the rain descends, the
clouds thunder.
When this (Agni, the lightning) nourishes the world with the milk of the
rain .... then Mitra, Aryaman, Varuna, and the encompassers (Maruts), pierce
through the envelope into the womb of the cloud.
Ash}, ii. Adhy. ii. Anuv. xxi. Sfikta ii (exit).
That visible radiance of the divine Agni ....
First he reposes as the digestive, the embodied, the acceptor of food, the eternal
[i. e. first he is localized and acts, as the digestive heat, within the body, upon the
food, and thus perpetuating itself and sustaining life] :
Secondly, among the seven
auspicious mothers [probably the seven stars of Ursa Major]: Thirdly, the
associated generate him, delighting in the ten quarters of space, for the sake of
milking this showerer [The 'associated,
1
rejoicing in the ten regions of the sky, are
probably the clusters of stars or constellations, that generate light, in order to send
its rays downward to the earth].
By thee, Agni, Mitra, Varuna and Aryaman are animated, so that thou hast
been born, comprehending them all universally, in all their functions, and encom-
passing them as the felly does the spokes.
Sdkta iv (cxHit) .
His radiance is undecaying. The rays of him who is of pleasant aspect, are every-
where visible and bright; the intensely-shining, all-pervading, unceasing, unde-
caying (rays) of Agni, never cease to be.
Sfiktavii (cxlvf).
The three-headed, seven-rayed Agni.
He who is, as it were, the generator of men, as well as of heaven and earth, of
whom creation has imbibed life, abides with his glories. He it is, who, entering into
thy womb, procreates.
Adhy. n<i* Anuv. xxii. Sdkto mii (clxiv).
They have styled him (the sun), Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Agni. Agni is all the
Divinities (Agni $arv$ devatdk)*
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 59
Adhy. v. Anuv* i. Sdkta, i.
3. Thou, Agni, art Indra the adorable Vishnu. Thou, Brahmajjaspati, art
Brahma.
4. Thou, Agni, art the royal Varuna; thou art the adorable Mitra; thou art
Aryaman.
6. Thou, Agni, art Rudra.
7. Thou, Agni, art the divine Savitri.
11* Thou, divine Agni, art Aditi, to the offerer of the oblation.
Stikta x.
The adorable Agni, the first of the Gods, and their nourisher, when kindled by
man upon the altar: He who is clothed in radiance, is immortal, discriminating,
food-bestowing, powerful.
2. Immortal, of manifold wisdom, and wondrous splendour.
Ash$. Hi. Adhy. i. Anuv. i. Sdkto x.
5. Offer to the ministering Agni, as if to the creator, the great praise, re-
cited of old.
Sdkta y+
4. The Gods have made Agni, who is the son of strength.
Arnw. H. Sdkto i (xiv) .
The most wise, the creator, is present at our sacred rites. Agni, the son of
force, whose chariot is the lightning, whose hair is flame, manifests his glory on the
earth.
Sdkta, x.
1. Adorable Agni, thy radiance that is in the heaven, on the earth, in the
plants, in the waters; and with which thou overspreadest the firmament; shining
and resplendent, beholder of men, great like the ocean.
3. Thou movest, Agni, to the vapour in the heavens; thou congregatest the
Divinities who are the vital airs; thou animatest the waters in the bright region
above the sun, as well as those that are in the firmament beneath.
Stikta xiv.
7. I, Agni, am by birth endowed with knowledge of all that exists. I am the
living breath of three-fold Nature, the measure of the firmament, perennial heat;
I am also the oblation.
8. Thoroughly comprehending the light that is to be understood by the heart,
has purified himself, purifying. [It is impossible that any such nonsense was
ever put into words by the writer of this hymn, as these words are in English. It
seems, sometimes, as if Professor Wilson looked only to find equivalent words, in
English for the Vaidic words, without reading them when he had put them together,
to see if they made any sense* He certainly did that here. Yet the translation
shows what the meaning is; i. e., Agni, wholly containing in himself the light that
is cognizable, while in him, by the intellect only, has sent it forth from himself,
60 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
by emanation.] He has made himself most excellent treasure by self-manifesta-
tions [he has become of inestimable value and usefulness, by the outward manifes-
tations of his essence (as Agni, Vayu and Aditya), which is not in the text, and is
but a guess, his manifestations being simply light and heat of the various kinds
that men utterly ignorant of physics see in Nature]; and thence has contemplated
heaven and earth [which is more nonsense, the evident meaning being, and has
thereby been enabled to discern, no longer wrapped in darkness, the heavens
and the earth].
Sdkfa xvii.
5. Produce by attrition the far-seeing, single-minded, intelligent, immortal,
radiant-limbed Agni.
11. When in the word as an embryo, Agni is called Tantinap^t ;
when generated,
theAsura-destroying Narasansa; when he has manifested himself in the material
firmament, Mitariswan; and the creation of the wind is in his rapid motion.
Ashj. Hi. Adhy. v. Anuv. i. Sfikta ix.
May that Agni, immortal, pre-eminent among men the descendants of Manu,
become the messenger of all the Gods.
Sfikta, x.
Agni, who art like a horse, with our wishes, conveying, and like a benefactor,
propitious, affectionate, be the conveyer of our sacrifice.
Agni, who like the sun art light, come with all thy hosts to where we are pres-
ent.
Ashf. v. Adhy. v. Anuv. iv. Sdkta xU.
Kindled by us, Agni blazes, the limits of the darkness are visible nigh at hand;
the banner (of the sun) is perceived rising in the East with the glory of the Dawn,
daughter of Heaven.
Ashf. v. Adhy. i. Hand, vi. Anuv. w. Sdkta xi.
Agni, present in the two sticks, manifested by attrition; Agni, when visible,
honoured in every house, well-kindled, youthful, vigourous, pure, eminent, irradiator,
purifier.
Ash$. Adhy. ii. Mand. mi. Anuv. i. Sukta ii.
I. Be gratified, Agni, by the sacred fire kindled by us to-day, emitting abundant
smoke of adoration. Reach with thy scorching flames the celestial summit. Com-
bine with the rays of the sun.
II. Agni, kindled, come to where we are, in the same chariot with Indra.
Sukta Hi.
1. The most adorable divine Agni; permanently present among men, the
observer of truth, crowned with flame.
Sukfa iv.
1. The bright and radiant Agni, who passes with wisdom between all divine
and human beings*
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 61
2. The sagacious Agni .... who, bright-torched, attacks the forest, and
quickly devours his abundant food.
3. Whom men have cognizance of as white, in the chief place of manifestation
of that Divinity.
Stikta v.
1. The strong Agni, traversing without hindrance the heavens and the earth.
2. Leader of rivers, showerer of waters, the radiant, abiding in the heavens
and on earth.
4. Vaiwnara Agni, the firmament, the earth, the heavens, combine in thy
worship. Shining with undiminished splendour, thou overspreadest heaven and
earth with light.
SAkta viii.
4. This Agni is largely celebrated by the institutors of the rite, when he shines
resplendent, as the sun.
Sdkta, ix.
2. The wondrously radiant, he shines before the dawns; the embryo of the
waters, he has entered into the nascent plants.
S&kta x.
1. Agni, like [as, or, in the likeness of] the lover of the dawn, radiant, bright,
resplendent .... he shines with splendour.
2. Agni, preceding the dawn, is radiant by day, as the sun.
Stikta, xii.
1. The youngest of the Gods, who shines, when kindled, is his own abode
[when visible, in the place of his manifestation]; who is blazing wonderfully [thus
manifested], between the sky and th*e earth.
3. Thou art Varuna, thou art Mitra, Agni.
Sdkfo xv.
4. Agni, to whom as to a swift hawk in the sky, I address this new hymn.
[It is curious that the hawk should have been the Bird of the Sun in Egypt, also.]
8. Blaze, Agni, night and day, that by thee we may have the sacrificial fires,
13. Preserve us, Agni, fromsin. Divine, who art exempt from decay, consume
our enemies with the hottest flames.
Ashf* Hi. Adhy. v. Anwv. i. Sdkta viii.
He (Agni), knows the ascents of heaven. May he bring the Gods hither. He
knows how the Gods are to be worshipped. Knowing the ascent of the sky, he
travels between earth and heaven.
A$h$. v. Adhy. iv* . * . . Sfikta iv.
Agni, Varuna, Mitra, Maruts! Grant happiness, Gods, to him whom you pre-
serve from this; whom you guide here.
62 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The following epithets are, in various places, applied to Agni:
Omniscient and discriminator, intelligent, bestowing faculties, radiant;
associated with strength and food, illumines the divine immortal parents
of all things heaven and earth; eternal, ancient, irrepressible, powerful,
adorable, divine, guide of devout men, observer of truth, liberal giver,
brilliant, beautiful, opulent, auspicious, righteous, destroyer, endowed
with intelligence, showerer of benefits, the enduring maker, beholder of men,
granter of habitations, mighty, vigourous, true, wise, creator ; director of
sacrifices, of purifying radiance, contributor of food; known of all that is
born, eternally renowned; messenger of the Gods, invoker of the Gods,
minister of the Gods, ancient banner of sacrifice, purifier, king of men,
chief sacrificer,
"Bestower of faculties," L e., communicating to the orbs of heaven
potencies and powers, "Observer of truth," i. e., by his own light beholder
of all the reality of things, all that has a real existence. "Guide of devout
men," i. e., making visible the paths and ways, and enabling them to find
the places of sacrifice. "Righteous," i. e., not deceiving, misleading or en-
snaring men, and impartial.
"Truth," Home Tooke says, "is that which a man troweth; and the mean-
ing which it has in the Veda, if it is desired that it should transfer into the
translation the sense of the original, is equally as primitive. The Vaidic
"truth" is the actuality or reality of visible Nature. And fire and the light
are "righteous," because they make visible to men this reality, and are the
"observers" of the truth, as a luminary is said to "observe," and "contem-
plate" that which is made visible by its light.
Messenger, invoker and minister of the Devas (the celestial luminaries),
to whom the flame of the fire, ascending, conveys the essence of the meat
and Soma juice, consumed by it, and becoming thus a part of itself.
Agni is addressed by various epithets, or under different names. The
epithets are, essentially, only adjectives, though used, probably, as proper
names and nouns, like many epithets of the Greek Deities. But there are
other words, considered by the commentators to be epithets or else syno-
nyms, expressive of particular attributes, by which Deities really different
are, I am sure, intended. Vaiw&nara is the most common of his names ;
as
"the Creator," is an epithet of true Deity in a special and particular mode
or function: and "the Almighty," expressive of the attribute of infinite power.
Asty* i. Adhy. i. Anuv. iv. S&kfa U.
1, Agni, who art Susamiddha ....
2, Wise, ^ho art TantinapHt.
3, I invoke the beloved Nariausas, the sweet-tongued, the offerer of obla-
tions . . * .
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 63
4. Agni, who art IJita, bring hither the Gods in an easy-moving chariot; for
thou art the invoker instituted by men.
Susamiddha means The thoroughly kindled,' i. e., the 'blazing
1
and 'flaming:'
Su, 'well? $am, 'completely:
1
iddha, 'kindled.'
Tandnap&t, 'the devourer of clarified butter' (tanHnapa); or, according to
another etymology, 'the devourer of its own substance
7
(tanu) or fuel.
Nard$ansa, 'him whom men [narfi] praise' (sansanti)*
tyita, the 'worshipped;' from #a, to 'adore or praise.'
S&kta iv (xv).
7 Praise the divine Dravinodas, both in the primary and subsidiary
sacrifices.
8. May Dravinodas give us riches ....
9. Dravinodas desires to drink with the Ritus, from the cup of Neshtri
10. Since, Dravinodas, we adore thee, for the fourth time, along with the
Ritus ....
12. Santya, being identified with the household fire, and partaker with Ritu
of tiie sacrifice, worship the Gods on behalf of their adorer.
Dravinodas, is either an epithet or an appellative of Agni, as the donor (das) of wealth
or of strength (dra-wwa). Wilson.
Neshfri, one of the sixteen officiating priests,
Sayfya is explained by the scholiast to mean "Giver of rewards," from
shan, to "give."
The scholiast understands the "Ritus" to be the Deities presiding over
the months, Dravinodas seems to be Agni as the sacrificial fire.
Asty. M* Adhy. via. Anuv. vo. Sdkta o.
1. Be gratified, Dravinodas, by the sacrificial food presented as the offering
of the Hotri .... Drink, Dravinodas, along with the Ritus ....
2..... He is renowned as a benefactor..... Drink, Dravinodas, along
with the Ritus ....
3. May these thy bearers, by whom thou art borne along, be satisfied; Lord
of the Forest, be firm, doing no injury, steadfast of resolve. Drink, Dravinodas,
along with the Ritus.....
The sixth verse is addressed to Agni: but it does not certainly identify
Dravinodas with him. The word Ritus, it is said, literally means seasons;
and Dravinodas would seem to be some personification of light, connected
with them or with the months. We find no express evidence of his identity
with Agni.
, ii. Adhy. iL Anuiv. xxi. Sfikta iii.
1. Agni, who art Samiddha, bring the Gods, today ....
2. Tanunapat, be present at this well-flavoured and butter-fed sacrifice
64 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
4. Agni, who art IJita, bring hither Indra, the wonderful, the beloved ....
Adhy. vUi. Anuv. i. Sukta iv.
2. Tantinapt, whom the Deities, Mitra, Varuna and AgnJ wot*ship daily,
thrice a day.....
It would seem, from this, that Tanfinapit is not identical with Agni.
Perhaps Agni here is an error and the name in the original was Aryaman.
For we find,
A$h$. iti. Adhy. i. Anuv. n. Sukta xvn.
11. When as an embryo [unmanifested in the dry wood], Agni is called
Tantinapat; when he is generated, the Asura-destroying Nar&sansa: when he has
displayed [manifested himself] in the material firmament, Mtariswan; and the
creation of the wind is in his rapid motion.
Ash$. ii. Adhy. v. Anuv. i. Sukta Hi.
2. May the bright Nar&sansa, illuming the receptacles, making manifest by
his greatness the three radiant, and diffusing the oblation, at the season of sacri-
fice . . satisfy the Gods.
3. Agni, who art the venerable IJita, do thou, with mind favourably disposed
towards us, offer today sacrifice to the Gods.
10. May Agni, who is Vanspati, approving, approach.....
1. Agni, the well-kindled, placed upon the earth, stands in the presence of all
beings .... let the venerable Agni minister to the Gods.
As verse six reads,
Day and Night, perpetually reverenced, are interweaving in concert the extended
thread, the web of the sacrifice,
I infer that this hymn, was composed to be sung at a sacrifice, just at day-
break; and as the fire was burning on the earth, in the presence of all the
host of stars [beings, existences, visible manifestations], the sacrifice was
in the open air. The "three radiant," though the scholiast reads "regions"
to complete the sense, are, I think, three stars, which at a certain season
precede the dawn.
. i. Adhy. vti. Anuv. xv. Sukta vi.
1. We offer oblations of Soma to J^tavedas .... May he transport us over
all difficulties. May Agni convey us, as in a boat over a river, across all wicked-
ness [malice or injuries of enemies].
Ashp. ii. Adhy. i. Anuv. xix. Sukto i.
1. I venerate Agni, the invoker, the munificent, the giver of dwellings, the
son of strength; sunum sahaso, J&tcaedasam, vipram na jdtovedasam [translated by
Wilson, 'He who knows all'].
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 65
Asty. iL Adhy. viii. Antw. i. Sfikta i.
21. The undecaying J^ltavedas, who in every birth is established, is kindled
by the Viswamitras ....
Sfikta *&
8. Theleaders praise with prostration, for increase, the mighty Lord of people,
the guest, the regulator eternally of acts, the desired of the priests, the exposition
of sacrifices, JUtavedas, endowed with energies.
Sfikta v.
1. The sagacious Agni, cognizant of the dawn, is awakened to the paths of
the sages: the luminous VaJwi, kindled by the devout, has thrown open the gates
of darkness.
4. Agni, when kindled, is Mitra . . . Varuna is Jitavedas .... Damunas
isVayu ....
SAkta vi.
6. Harness with traces to thy car thy long-maned, ruddy horses. Bring
hither, divine J^tavedas, all the Gods . . . .
Ash^iii. Adhy.i. Anuv.i. Stiktav.
2. As thou didst offer the burnt-offering, Agni, of earth; as thou, Jatavedas,
didst offer sacrifice, of heaven ....
3. Three are thy existences, Jtavedas; three, Agni, the dawns, thy sisters
[Tisra djdnirushasah].
Ajani may mean "sisters" or "mothers." "Three are thy existences,"
probably means, there are three luminaries or phenomena, that are mani-
festations of thee: and djdnimshasah will have some meaning, if taken to
mean, not "three are thy parent dawns," as Wilson renders it, but "thy
three luminaries, sisters of the dawn," or, "thy three luminaries, sisters, of
the Dawn." Uskas is the Dawn, and is one. Three dawns, existing
together and at once, could never have been conceived of. Three stars,
that were sisters of each other, or of the dawn, could be. Ushasas, the
plural, is found in the Rig-V. (i. viii. xvi. viii.) termed brilliant, in a hymn
to Ushas: What these three "stars of the morning" are, we shall consider
hereafter.
4. Jatavedas, we venerate thee, glorifying the brilliant, beautiful, adorable
Agni. The Gods have made thee their messenger, the disinterested bearer of
oblations.
Anuv. U. Sdkta xvi.
4. Wise, Jatavedas, accept the cakes and butter ....
6. Agni, who art Jatavedas, and art thriving upon oblations ...
66 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
SAkta xvii.
2. Jatavedas has been deposited in the two sticks, as the embryo is deposited
in pregnant women.
3 . Let the intelligent priest place the lower of the sticks with the face upwards,
the upper downwards, so that, quickly impregnated it may generate the showerer
Agni: then the bright blazing son of IJa, whose light dissipates the darkness, is
born of the wood of attrition.
4. Agni, who art Jatavedas, we place thee upon the earth in the centre, in the
place of IJa, for the purpose of receiving the oblation.
"Son of lid," is simply "son of adoration," i. e., that by which adoration
and praise are expressed; expression, utterance of adoration. And the
place of IJd is the place of the sacrifice, offering or adoration.
Ashj. iv. Adhy. v. Anuv. i. Sdkta x.
1. Place before you, at the progressive, uninterrupted sacrifice, the divine,
adorable, perfect Agni, with prayers; for he, the resplendent Jatavedas, makes us
prosperous in sacred rites.
Anuv. ii. Sdkto i.
29. Jatavedas, all-beholder, bring us wealth, with good posterity. Doer of
good deeds, destroy the Rakshasas.
30. Preserve us, Jatavedas, from sin; Brahmanaskave, protect us from the
malevolent.
35. Radiant in the embryo of the maternal; in the imperishable; the cherisher
of the paternal; sitting in the seat of sacrifice.
36. Bring to us, Jatavedas, all-beholder, food, with progeny ; such as is brilliant
in the expanse.
Ashf. v. Adhy. ii. Anwu. i. SAkta v.
8. Send to us, Agni Vaiswanara Jatavedas, that brilliant sustenance whereby
thou conferrest wealth ....
SAkta ix.
4. Thou, Agni, art to be glorified in the ages of men: Thou, Jatavedas, who art
illustrious, when engaged in battle ....
*
Sdkta xii.
2. May that Agni, who by his greatness is the overcomer of all mischiefs,
who is praised as Jatavedas in the chamber, protect us, glorifying him ....
Stikta, xvii.
3. Agni Jatavedas, repair to the Gods, worship them with the oblation . . ,
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 67
Asty. v. Adhy. viiL Anuv. ii. SAkta vi.
3. Do thou, Jatavedas, drive away from us those who hate us; Agni, the impious
hostile hosts.
4. Thou desirest not, Jatavedas, the sacrifice of the man who is our adversary,
although placed before thee.
Tandn&pat, we may conclude, is the latent fire in the dry wood: and
Nardsansa, the same kindled and burning. Jdtavedas is unmistakably the
fire ready for the sacrifices: and Say,tya is the household fire.
68 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
INDRA.
Adky.i. Anuv.ii. Sukta i.
4. The wise and uninjured Indra, who bestows what is best on thy friends.
10. Sing to that Indra, who is the protector of wealth, the mighty, the accom-
plisher of good deeds, the friend of the offerer of the libation.
Sukta ii.
Indra, performer of good works, object of praises, unobstructed. Protector,
thou art mighty. Avert violence. [For unobstructed, read rather, 'resistless'.]
Sukta Hi.
Those who stand around, associated with Indra, the mighty, the indestructible,
the moving, and the lights that shine in the sky.
2. They harness to his car his two desirable coursers, harnessed side by side,
bay-coloured, high-spirited, men-bearing.
3 . Mortals, you owe your daily birth to Indra, who with the rays of the morn-
ing gives sense to the senseless, and to the formless, form.
Sukta w.
2. Indra, the blender of all things, the richly decorated, the wielder of the
thunderbolt.
3. Indra, to render all things visible, elevated the sun in the sky, and filled
the cloud with waters.
6. Shedder of rain, mighty Lord, always compliant, who alone rules over men,
over riches, and over the five classes of dwellers on the earth. Lord of wealth,
showerer of blessings, dweller in an eternal mansion.
Adhy. ti. Anwo. U. Sukta vi (xxix).
1 to 7. [Each ends], Indra of boundless wealth, enrich us with thousands of
excellent cows and horses.
Sukta vi.
Handsome and mighty lord of food.
Sukta vti.
Indra, mighty, and of a thousand sacrifices; recipient of a hundred pure and a
thousand distilled libations; all contained in his belly, as water in the ocean.
9. The man (Indra) who visits many worshippers from his ancient dwelling-
place.
11. Drinker of the Soma juice, wielder of the thunderbolt, friend.
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 69
Anna, -oil. Sfikta ii.
15. Thou, Indra, the wielder of the thunderbolt, became the sovereign of all
that is, mobile or stationary. [After destroying Vritra or Ahi, the accumulation
of vapour shut up in or obstructed by, a cloud], of hornless and horned cattle: and
as he abides the monarch of men, he comprehended all things, as the felly encloses
the spokes of a wheel.
Adhy. H-i. Anuv. mi. Sdkta Hi.
9. Indra, thou enjoyest both heaven and earth, investing the universe with
thy greatness.
Adhy. iv. Anuv. ix. S&kta, ii (tii).
The Ram who makes heaven known. When Indra had slain the stream-
obstructing Vritra, and was pouring down the waters, he stood firm amid the
torrents, like a mountain.
He who is victorious over his enemies; who is extended throughout the region
of dew.
Indra, whom in heaven the libations sprinkled on the sacred grass replenish,
as the kindred rivers hastening to it fill the ocean.
Indra, abiding in thy might beyond the limit of the wide-spread firmament,
thou hast framed the earth for our preservation. Thou hast been the type of
vigour, thou hast encompassed the firmament and the sky, as far as to the heavens.
13. Thou art the counter-measure of the extended earth [i. e., of Kke magni-
tude, co-extensive]: Thou art the lord of the vast God-frequented. Verily, with
thy bulk thou fillest all the firmament. Of a truth, there is none other such as
thou.
Adhy. iv. Anuv. x. S&kta ii (In).
Thou, Indra, of whom heaven and earth have not attained the amplitude, of
whom the waters of heaven have not reached the limit ; of whom, when warring with
excited animation against the withholder of the rains .... Thou alone hast made
every other thing dependent on thee.
S&kta Hi.
Wise and resplendent Indra .... Thou goest from battle to battle ....
with thy foe-prostrating associate, with thy brightly gleaming spear.
Sfikta iv.
Indra, who purifies both heaven and earth with his irresistible might; who is
the sender of showers, and by his bounty gratifies our desires.
Thou hast hurled the sharp and bright-rayed thunderbolt against the assembled
Asuras.
Thou hast poured rain on the brow of the breathing (wind), and of the ripening
and absorbing (sun).
70 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
SAkta v (to).
The amplitude of Indra was vaster than the heaven .... Earth was not
comparable to him in bulk.
2, 3. The firmament-inhabiting Indra .... The haughty one takes prece-
dence of all Gods, on account of his exploits.
SAkta n.
He is quick in action, and mighty. His faultless and destructive prowess shines
in manly conflict, like the peak of a mountain .... Suppresser of the malignant
.... 4. Who with resolute vigour resists the gloom.
Sfikfa mi (foil).
The fatal golden thunderbolt of Indra .... Thou, Thunderer, hast shattered
with thy bolt the broad and massive cloud into fragments, and has sent down the
waters that were confined in it, to flow at will. Thou alone possessest all power.
Amco. xi. Sfiktoiv (Ixi).
1, 7. Powerful, rapid, mighty, worship-deserving and resistless Indra ....
Pervader of the universe. Hurler of the thunderbolt.
8. He encompasses the widely extended heaven and the earth. They two do
not surpass thy vastness.
9. His magnitude verily exceeds that of the heaven, earth and sky. Indra,
self-irradiating in his dwelling.
12. The quick-moving and strength-endowed Lord.
Adhy. v. Anuv. xi. Sdkfa v (fan).
1, 2. Powerful and praise-deserving Indra .... Vast and most powerful
Indra.
5. Thou hast scattered the darkness with the dawn, and with the rays of the
sun. Thou hast made straight the elevations of the earth : Thou hast strengthened
the foundations of the ethereal regions.
7, He parted in two the eternal and united: The graceful Indra cherished the
heaven and earth, like the sun in the august and most excellent sky.
Sfikta -oi (Ixiifi.
1. Indra, thou art the Mighty One, who, becoming manifest in alarm, didst
by thine energies sustain heaven and earth : then, through fear of thee, all creatures,
and the mountains, and all other vast and solid things trembled, like the rays of
the sun.
Adhy. m. Antw. xiti. Silkfa mii (Ixxxt).
He (Indra) has filled the space of earth and the firmament. He has fixed the
constellations in the sky. No one has ever been born, or will be born, Indra, like
to thee. Thou hast sustained the universe.
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 71
i. Adhy. ii. Anuv. Hi. Sdkfa.
8. Indra, who hast upheld earth and heaven and the firmament, and, per-
former of great deeds, has engendered the sun and the dawn.
10. Born in the highest heaven, thou pervadest the heaven and the earth,
and becamest the primary artificer.
Sdktav.
Indra has overspread the day with his radiance; generating the day; illumining
for man the banner of the days (Surya or the sun), he obtained light for the great
conflict. He animated these dawns and heightened their bright radiance. He
gave the sun; bestowed plants and days; gave trees and the firmament, divided the
cloud.
Ash}. Hi. Adhy. iii. Anuv. iv. S&kta vi.
3. Indra has upheld the yellow-rayed heaven, the green-coloured earth. There
is abundant pasture (for his horses) in the two azure spheres of heaven and earth,
between which Hari journeys.
4. The azure-coloured showerer illumines as soon as born, the whole luminous
region. The Lord of the tawny steeds holds in his hands the yellow weapon, the
destroying thunderbolt.
Asht. i. Adhy. i. Amw. i. Sdkta iii.
Indra, of wonderful splendour. Fleet Indra, apprehended by the understand-
ing and appreciated by the wise. Indra with the tawny coursers. Indra's coursers
harnessed in his car.
Asht. v. Adhy. i. Hand. vi. Anuu. vi. SUkta mi.
In ten stanzas of this Sfikta, Indra and Varuna are addressed together.
In Sdkta viii., Indra and Vishnu:
And in Sdkta xi. t Indra and Soma.
Asty. vi. Adhy. ii. Anuv. ii. Mand. vii. Sdkta i.
24. The seven worlds praise Sudas, as if he were Indra.
The following epithets are applied to Indra: Warrior, lord of wealth,
fierce, undecaying, mighty, renowned, resplendent, every way unlimited,
wielder of the thunderbolt, adorable, powerful, great, magnificent, lord
of all the world, more vast than heaven and earth or the wide-spread firma-
ment; vast and profound, all-pervading, opulent, hero, sage, noble, divine,
far-seeing, fracturer of the cloud, sender of waters, demolisher of cities,
food-bestowing, lover of horses, lover of the virtuous, lord of men, chief
of the Maruts, divine regulator, bestower of strength, vigourous, rushing
through things like a war-horse, he has pervaded heaven and earth, sending
72 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
down rain, upholder of heaven and the firmament, clothed at night [i. e.,
enveloped, covered, hidden], parent of the sun.
The exuberance of the Aryan imagination in nothing appears more
strikingly than in the long list of the' Asuras slain by Indra. In one hymn,
besides Vrftra and Ahi, we have Drfbhika, Bala, Urana with ninety-nine
arms, Arbuda, Swana, theinabsorbableSushna,Pipu, Namuchi,RudhikrL,
and the hundred thousand of Varchin; in others, Vlswarupa, son of
Twashtri; the sleeping son of Danu (Sambara), Ranhina, scaling heaven;
Sahavasu, son of Nrimara; Chumuri and Dhuni, the Dasyus, Krivi, Dasa,
Asusha, Kuyava, the Godless Piyu, the Danava and Mriga.
Ashf* $ Adhy. mi. Anuv. xv. Sfikta, viii.
3. . . * . Indra .... 'whose great power (pervades) heaven and earth; in
whose service Varuna and Surya are steadfast [shining permanently by him and his
potency, as his manifestations], and whose command the rivers obey [for the rains
which he sends down feed and cause to rise and swell and flow, the rivers].
Asty. iv. Adhy. i. Anuv. iL Sfikta xv.
8. When thou hadst eaten the flesh of the three hundred buffaloes, when
thou, who art Maghavan, hadst drunk the three vessels of Soma, that he should
kill Ahi, then all the Gods summoned Indra, full of food, as if he had been a servant,
to the battle.
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 73
INDRA AND AGNL
i. Adhy.iL Anuv. S&ktaiv.
I invoke hither Indra and Agni, to whom we desire to present our praises.
Praise Indra and Agni, ye men, in sacrifices, decorate them, and sing hymns
to them , . . . those two, Indra and Agni, who are mighty.
Adhy. vii. Anuv. xui. Sukta Hi.
I. Indra and Agni, sitting together in your car, that wonderful car which
illuminates all beings, approach, and drink of the effused Soma juice.
3. You have made your associated names renowned, since, slayers of Vfitra,
you have been allied: the showerers of benefits, Indra and Agni, are the two, seated
together.
9. Whether, Indra and Agni, you are in the lower, the middle, or the upper
region of the world.
II. Whether, Indra and Agni, you are in heaven or on earth, In the mountains,
in the herbs, or in the waters.
12. Although, Indra and Agni, in the midst of the sky, on the rising of the
sun, you may be exhilarated by your own splendour.....
Sukta iv.
1. Indra and Agni .... I consider you in my mind [my intellect conceives
of you] as kinsmen and relations .... Wielders of the thunderbolts, overturaers
of cities.
6..... You are vaster than the earth, than the sky, than the rivers, than
the mountains: you exceed all other existent things ....
Ash}. Hi. Adhy. i. Anuv. i. Sukta xii.
4. I invoke Indra and Agni, the discomnters of foes, the destroyers of Vjitra.
7. Indra and Agni, the pious ministers, are present at our holy rite.
9. Indra and Agni, illuminators of heaven, be ever graced in battle, for such
thy prowess proclaims.
INDRA AND SOMA.
Ashf. iii. Adhy. vi. Anuv. Hi. Sukta viL
1. Through that friendship, Soma, which has united thee with thy Indra,
he has made the waters flow for man. , . . .
2. With thee, Soma, for his ally, Indra has quickly taken off by force the wheel
of the chariot of the sun, abiding above with the vast and stationary [manifested
74 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
and resident in place, by the great orbs of heaven]; the everywhere going wheel
of the great oppressor has been taken away.
5. Possessors of wealth, destroyers of enemies, Indra and Soma, you have
distributed great numbers of horses
Ash$. v. Adhy. vii. Anuv. vi. Sdkta acu.
1. Indra and Soma, afflict, destroy the Rakshasas. Showerers, cast down
those who delight in darkness.
4. Indra and Soma, display from heaven your fatal .... put forth from the
clouds the consuming, with which you slay ....
6. Indra and Soma, who are mighty .... do you, like two kings, accept
my homage.
7. Come with rapid steeds ....
MITRA.
Asty. L Adhy. Hi. Anuv. viti. Sfikfa Hi.
13. Praise Brahmanaspati, Agni, and the beautiful Mitra.
Asht.iii. Adhy.iv. Anuv.v. Stfkfavi.
Mitra looks on man with unclosing eyes.
Mitra, adorable, and to be served. Sovereign. Endowed with vigour, creator,
divine, renowned, victorious; who, among Gods and men, bestows food, as the
reward of pious acts.
VARUNA.
Ashf.i. Adhy.ii. Anuv.vi* Sfikfai.
7. The regal [Raja, radiant or regal] Varuna, of pure vigour, in the baseless
[firmament] sustains on high a mass of light, the rays whereof are pointed
downward, while their base is above. May they become concentrated in us, as
the sources of existence.
8. The Raj& Varuna verily made broad the path of the sun, to travel on his
daily course, a path to travel on the pathless. May he be the repeller of every
affliction of the heart.
10. The constellations set on high, which are visible by night, and go else-
where by day, are the undisturbed holy acts of Varuna; and by his command the
moon moves resplendent at night.
The constellations (Rikshh) may be either, it is said, the seven Rishis,
Ursa Major, or the constellations generally. They and the moon are said
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 75
to be the "pious acts" of Varufta (Varu^aya vidtani), because they shine
by his command. What the meaning of the phrase "pious acts" is, we are
not told. It is hardly to be supposed that it means acts of worship and de-
votion. "Beneficent manifestations" probably expresses the real meaning.
They are Varuna made cognizable by our senses.
13, 14. Varuna, wise and irresistible .... Averter of misfortunes, wise and
prosperous.
Sfikta ii (xxv).
Divine Varuna .... Varuna, eminent in strength, the guide of many.
7. He who knows the path of the birds flying through the air, he, abiding in
the ocean, knows also the course of ships.
8. He, who, accepting the rites, knows the twelve months, and their produc-
tions, and that which is supplementary engendered [i. e., the intercalary month
of the luni-solar year].
10. He, Varuna, the accepter of holy rites, the doer of good deeds, has seated
himself among the progeny, to exercise supreme dominion.
11. Through him, the sage beholds all the marvels that have been or will be
wrought.
12. May that very wise son of Aditi keep us all our days in the right path,
and prolong our lives.
13. Varuna clothes his well-nourished (person), wearing golden armour,
whence the rays are spread around.
19. Hear, Varuna, this my invocation! Make us happy to-day! I have
appealed to thee, hoping for protection.
Aslit. ii. AdJiy. i. Amw. yiii. Sdkta iii.
Ushas, sister of Varuna.
The same to-day, the same to-morrow, the irreproachable precede the distant
course of Varuna.
Adhy. vii. Anuv. iii. Sfikfo m.
To Varuna alone: the sage, the self-radiant Varuna; chief guide, the upholder;
supreme monarch, endowed with truth.
20. Thou who art possessed of wisdom, shinest over heaven and earth, and all
the world. Hear, and reply with prosperity!
Ash}, iii. Adhy. iv. Anuv. i. Sdkta i.
2. Bring to the presence of the worshippers, Agni, thy brother Varuna, the
ruler of the water, the Aditya, the sustainer of men, the sovereign venerated of
mankind.
4. Mayest thou, Agni, who art wise, avert from us the wrath of the divine
Varuna.
76 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
'
Asty. iv. Adhy. iv. Anuv. vi, SAkto xiii.
Imperial and renowned Varuna, who has spread the firmament as a bed for the
sun; extended the firmament over the tops of the trees, given strength to horses,
milk to cows, determination to the heart. He has placed fire in the waters, the
sun in the heaven.
3. Monarch of all the world, watering the soil. 4. Varuna waters earth,
mid-air and heaven.
5. Renowned Varirna, the destroyer of the Asuras, who, abiding in the mid-
heaven, has meted the firmament by the sun, as if by a measure.
Mitra, in its ordinary sense, Wilson says, is a name of the sun; Varuna,
of the regent of the waters. They cause rain, by producing evaporation.
But it is doubtful if these ancients knew that the clouds were formed
by evaporation, which is, for the most part, invisible. And we will inquire
hereafter, how it is that Deities of fire and light are said to be in the waters,
which quench fire.
In Suktas v. and vi.,of Anuv. Hi. Adhy. vii. of Ashp. ii., Varuna is implored
to ward off poverty and to give wealth. Sukta vi. is addressed to Varuna
alone. He is styled "The Sage, the self-radiant Aditya, the sovereign
Varuna, a Deity propitious to his adorer." It is said,
May we, Varuna, deeply meditating on thee, earnestly praising thee, and in thy
worship, be prosperous; glorifying thee daily, as the fires at the coming of the
luminous dawns.
He is styled "Chief guide of men, endowed with great prowess; the upholder,
by whose power the rivers flow/' He is implored to keep off all danger, to
cast off sin from the worshipper; and it is said,
No one rules for the twinkling of an eye, apart from thee. He is everywhere
present; and in him, who is difficult of attainment, as in a mountain, all holy acts
are gathered, not to be dissevered.
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 77
INDRA AND VARUNA.
Ash}, i. Adhy. i. Anuv. iv. Sdkta vi.
I seek the protection of the sovereign rulers, Indra and Varuna. May they
both favour us accordingly.
For you are ever ready, guardians of mankind, to grant protection.
Satisfy us with wealth, Indra and Varuna, according to our desires.
I invoke you both, for manifold opulence. Make us victorious.
Indra and Varuna, bestow happiness speedily upon us. May the earnest
praise that I offer to Indra and Varuna, reach you both.
Asht. Hi. Adhy. ii. Aniw. Hi. Sdkfa ix.
Sovereign Indra and Varuna, guardians of heaven. Royal Indra and Varuna,
guardians of heaven.
Asty. B- Adhy. vi. Aniw. v. Sdkta xii.
1. Indra and Varuna .... 2. One of you is styled Supreme Monarch,
so is the other: you are called Samraj and Swaraj, Indra and Varuna: all the Gods
in the highest heaven, showerers, have combined your united strength, united
vigour.
Sayana ascribes the epithet Samraj to Varuna, and Swaraj to Indra, and
gives the meaning of the former, royally splendent, and the latter self-
splendent; which is appropriate in each case, if Indra is Universal Light, and
Varuna the regal Morning Star. The "Gods in the highest Heaven," are
the stars, each of which is imagined to shine with the light of Indra and
Varuna, which is one, Varuna being a manifestation of Indra.
3. Indra and Varuna, you have forced open by your strength the barriers of
the waters: you have established Surya as the Lord, in heaven ....
4. The bearers invoke you, Indra and Varuna, in wars, in battles; on bended
knees, for the begetting of posterity .... Lords of both celestial and terrestrial
treasures [of the light in the sky and on the earth].
5. Indra and Varuna, inasmuch as you have created by your might all these
beings of the world [supplied light and being to all the stars], therefore Mitra
returns praise to Varuna for prosperity, whilst the other, the fierce Indra, associated
with the Maruts, acquires glory*
SAkta xiii.
4. Indra and Varuna, you protected Sudas, overwhelming the yet Bheda with
your fatal weapons: hear the prayers of these Tritsus in time of battle, so that
my ministration may have borne them fruit.
78 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
5. Indra and Varuna, the murderous of my enemy distress me, foes amongst
the malignant: you two are sovereigns over both wealths. Protect us, therefore,
on the day of battle.
Sdkta xiv.
1. Royal Indra and Varuna ....
2. Your vast kingdom of heaven gratifies . . . .
S&kta xv.
1 Indra and Varuna, of which the members are radiant as the celestial
Dawn.
MITRA, VARUNA AND ARYAMAN.
Ashf. i. Adhy. i. Anuv. vo. SiZkta iv.
6. Mitra and Varuna, propitious to pious acts, be present with Ritu at our
sacrifice. [Elsewhere styled, lords of the twilight, Divinities abiding in heaven.]
Ashf. i. Adhy. ii. Anuv. wii.
4. The Deities Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman kindle thee, their messenger
from of old [Agni].
Adhy. ii. Sukta vi.
We invoke Mitra and Varuna, becoming present at the sacrifice ... * I
invoke Mitra and Varuna, who, with true speech, are the encouragers of pious acts,
and are lords of true light.
May Varuna be our special protector! May Mitra defend us with all defences!
May they make us most opulent!
Ashf.i. Adhy. i. Amtv.i. Sdktaii.
7. Mitra, of pure vigour, and Varuna, devourer of foes, joint accomplishes
of the act of bestowing water.
8. Mitra and Varuna, augmenters of water, dispensers of water.
9. Sapient Mitra and Varuna, prosper our sacrifice.
Adhy. ii. Anuv. m. Sdkfo iii (xym).
4. Let Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman sit down upon the sacred grass, as they
did at the sacrifice of Manu.
Adhy. iii. Anwt. mi. SAkta v (ocxxv).
1. I invoke Agni first, for protection. I invoke for protection Mitra and
Varuna. I invoke Night who brings rest to the world. I invoke the divine Savitri
for my preservation.
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 79
2. Revolving through the darkened firmament, arousing mortal and immortal,
the divine Savitri travels, in his golden chariot, beholding the worlds.
3. The divine Savitri travels by an upward and by a downward path [rises,
ascends, descends and sets?]. Deserving adoration, he journeys with two white
horses.
4. The many-rayed, adorable Savitri, having power to disperse darkness from
the world.
5. His white-footed coursers, harnessed to his car with a golden yoke, have
manifested light to mankind. Men and all the regions are ever in the presence of
the divine Savitri.
6. The spheres are three; two are in the proximity of Savitri, one leads men
to the dwelling of Yama. The immortals depend upon Savitri, as a car upon the
pin of the axle.
7 Where now is Sftrya? Who knows to what sphere his rays have
extended?
8. He has lighted up the eight points of the horizon, the three regions of living
beings, the seven rivers. May the golden-eyed Savitri come hither!
10. The golden-handed, life-bestowing, well-guiding, exhilarating and affluent
Savitri.
11. Thy paths, Savitri, are prepared of old, are free from dust, are well placed
in the firmament. By those paths, easy to be traversed, preserve us to-day.
Anwv. vtii. S&kfa v (xv).
5. Brahmanaspati proclaims the sacred prayer, in which the Divinities, Indra,
Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman, have made their abode.
Sdkta vi (xli).
1. The man whom the wise Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman protect, quickly
subdues.
7. How shall we recite praise of the great glory of Mitra, Varuna and Aryaman.
Sdkta viii (xliii).
3. By which, Mitra and Varuna and Rudra, and all the Gods, being gratified,
may show us favour.
Adhy. vi. Anuv* xiv. Stikta, vi (xc>.
May Varuna and the wise Mitra lead us by straight paths; and Aryaman,
rejoicing with the Gods,
May Mitra be propitious to us! May Varuna, may Aryaman, be propitious.
Sdkta vii.
Thy acts are of the royal Varuna: thy glory, Soma, is great and profound.
Thou art the puri&er, like the beloved Mitra: thou art the augmenter of all, like
80 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Aryarnan. [Soma is a plant (Asclepias) whose juice was used in sacrifices. Also,
it is said, the moon.]
Anuv. xv. Sukto i (xcw).
May this one (O Agni), enjoy the support of Mitra and of Varuna.
Do thou, divine Agni, who knowest what is good fortune, on this occasion
prolong our existence; and may Mitra, Varuna, Aditi (ocean, earth and heaven),
preserve it to us.
Adhy. xti. Anuv. xvi. Sdkta i.
We invoke for our preservation, Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Agni, the might of the
Maruts, and Aditi.
Sukta ii.
May Indra, may Varuna, may Agni, may Aryaman, may Savitri bestow upon
us that food!
Adhy. viii. Anuv. xtrii. Sukta x (cxv).
1. The wonderful host of rays has risen, the eye of Mitra, Varuna and Agni;
the sun, the soul of all that moves or is stationary, has filled the heaven, the earth
and the firmament.
2. The Sun follows the divine and brilliant Ushas.
5: The Sun, in the sight of Mitra and Varuna, displays his form in the middle
of the Heavens, and his rays (or horses), extend, on one hand his infinite and
brilliant power, or on the other bring on the blackness of night.
Asty. ii. Adhy. i. Anuv. xviii. Sukta ii (cxxii).
6, 7. Mitra and Varuna, hear these my invocations! .... I praise you,
Mitra and Varuna, for your gifts of numerous cattle.
9, 1. Mitra and Varuna .... Royal bestowers of delight .... You who
traverse the sky.
15. Let your spacious and bright-rayed chariot, Mitra and Varuna, blaze
like the sun.
Anuv. xx. Sukta Hi (cxxxvi).
1. Those two Deities who have existed from of old.
2. The most excellent dawn has been seen .... the path of the revolving
sun has been lighted up by rays .... the brilliant mansion of Mitra, of Aryaman,
of Varuna.
3. Sons of Aditi, lords of munificence. Of those two, Mitra is the animator
of mankind, and so is Varuna. Aryaman is the animator of mankind.
5, 6. Adoration to Mitra and Varuna .... worship addressed to both
, . . . Veneration to the mighty sun, to heaven and earth, to Mitra, to the benevo-
lent Varuna.
7. May we enjoy the felicity which Agni, Mitra and Varuna are bestowing.
Sukta, iv (cxxscvify
To Mitra and Varuna jointly.
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 81
Sfikfa vi.
2. Mitra and Varuna, bestow abundantly that unenduring water which you
obtain from the sun, through your own energy, through the energy of the vigourous.
Anuv* xxi. Sdkta xii.
The tresses of Agni minister, Mitra and Varuna, to your sacrifice.
Stikta xiii.
1. Robust Mitra and Varuna, you wear vestments (of light).
3. Mitra and Varuna, it is your doing that the footless Dawn is the precursor
of footed beings, and that your progeny (the sun), sustains the burthen of the
world, diffuses truth and disperses falsehood.
Inseparable and diffusive radiance, the abode of Mitra and Varuna . . . ,
the radiance in Mitra and Varuna.
Asht. ii. Adhy. mii. Anuv. i. Sdkta v.
4. Agni, when kindled, is Mitra, and as Mitra is the invoker. Varuna is
Jitavedas: Mitra is the ministering priest. Damunas is the agitator (Vayu):
Mitra, associate of rivers and mountains.
Ashf. Hi. Adhy. Hi. Anuv. v. Sdkta ii.
1. When the preceding dawns appear, the great imperishable (light) is engen-
dered in the sphere of the waters.
4. The universal sovereign (Agni) is conveyed to many directions. He sleeps
in the places of repose; he is connected with the forests: one mother (heaven)
nourishes the child; another (earth) gives him a dwelling.
5. Existing in ancient plants, abiding afterwards in new, he enters into the
young, as soon as they are produced; impregnated, they become pregnant and bear
fruit.
6. The child of two mothers sleeps in the West; but the single infant proceeds
(in the morning through the sky). These are functions of Mitra and Varuna.
7. The child of two mothers, the invoker of the Gods at sacrifices, the univer-
sal sovereign, proceeds thenceforward: the root of all, he abides.
10. Pervading and protecting all, possessing grateful and immortal radiance,
he preserves the supreme path; for Agni knows all these worlds.
Sdkta vii.
The mighty Ushas, the golden light, as it were, of Mitra and Varuna.
Adhy. v. Amtv. ii. Sdkfa Hi.
The divine Savitri diffuses his light on high, dispersing the dew. Then Varuna
and Mitra and others hasten to their offices, where they elevate the sun in the sky.
82 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Adhy. viii. Anuv. i. Sukta Hi.
Thou, Agni, art bora Varuna, thou becomest Mitra when kindled: In thee,
Son of Strength, are all the Gods. Thou art Indra, Son of Strength, to the mortal
who presents oblations. Thou art Aryaman, in relation to maidens.
Ash$. iv. Adhy. ii. Anuv. Hi. Sukta viii.
Surya speaks, to Indra. Thou art Mitra, whose wealth is truth. Do thou
and the royal Varuna both protect me.
Asht. iv. Adhy. Hi. Anuv. i. Sukta m (Iscii).
I have beheld the permanent orb of the sun, your dwelling, where a thousand
rays abide together; the one most excellent of the forms of the Gods.
Exceeding is your greatness, Mitra and Varuna, whereby the ever-moving sun
has, through days, milked forth the stationary waters. You augment all the rays
of the self-revolving (sun).
8. At the break of dawn, at the rising of the sun, ascend, Mitra and Varuna,
your golden-bodied, iron-pillared car, and thence behold the earth and its inhabi-
tants.
9. Munificent Mitra and Varuna, protectors of the universe.
Adhy. iv. Anuv. v. Sukta vii.
Imperial rulers of this world, you shine, Mitra and Varuna, at this sacrifice,
the beholders of heaven. Your forms traverse earth and heaven.
Imperial and mighty showerers, lords of heaven and earth, beholders of the
universe, you approach, Mitra and Varuna, with variegated clouds.
Your device is manifested in heaven, when the light that is the sun, your wonder-
ful weapon, moves. Him you invest in the sky, with cloud, with rain.
You illumine the whole world with water, you sustain the sun, the adorable
chariot in the sky.
Sukta xL
Divine sons of Aditi, Mitra, Varuna, Aryaman, possessors of omniscience, all
associated at our rites. 4. Observers of truth, distributors of water. Protectors
of the holy rites among men. Guides in the right way, liberal givers, benefactors.
Sukta xii.
Mitra and Varuna, sovereign rulers, originators of the rain, eminent Deities
among the Gods.
Sukta xiii.
Mitra and Varuna, you uphold the three realms of light, the three heavens,
the three regions of earth. The immortal Gods impair not your eternal works.
You two divine Adityas, upholders of celestial and terrestrial worlds.
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 83
Ash$. iv. Adhy. v. Anuv. i. Sukta Hi.
Agni, sympathizing in satisfaction with Mitra and Varuna.
Anuv. H. Sukta i.
Giver of dwellings (Agni), worship the two regal Divinities, Mitra and Varuna.
Adhy. viii. Anuv. v. Sukta i.
^
Invoke with adorations, for the sake of felicity, the divine Aditi, and Varuna,
Mitra and Agni, Aryaman, Savitri, and Bhaga, and all protecting Divinities.
Sukta ii.
The radiance of the sun, grateful to Mitra and Varuna, having risen, shines.
Praise the protectors of the solemn sacrifice, the well-born Aditi, Mitra and
Varuna, and Aryaman and Bhaga.
The very potent Varuna, Mitra, Agni, practisers of truth.
Adhy. vii. Anuv. iii+ Sukta v (xxvit).
1. To the royal Adityas! May Mitra, Aryaman, Bhaga, the multi-present
Varuna, the Power Ansa, hear us.
2. May those of equal exploits, Mitra, Aryaman, Varuna, be pleased to-day,
by this my praise; they who are Adityas, luminous, purified by showers.
5. Aryaman, Mitra and Varuna, may I, through your guidanceescape thesins
that axe like pitfalls.
6. Aryaman, Mitra and Varuna, easy is the path and free from thorns, and
pleasant. Therefore, Adityas, lead us by it.
7. May we, blessed with many descendants, and safe from harm, attain the
great happiness of Mitra and Varuna.
8. They uphold the three worlds, the three heavens.
Sftrya, divine eye of Mitra and Varuna.
We worship you, Mitra and Varuna, when the sun has risen.
Ash$. v. Adhy. i. Mand. vi. Anuv. vi. Sukta i.
1. I praise the two leaders of heaven, the presiders over this world. I invoke
the Aswins .... who at dawn scatter the investing glooms to the ends of the
earth.
2. Coming to the sacrifice with their bright splendour, they light up the lustre
of their car, emitting vast and infinite radiance. They drive their horses over
deserts, with water.
9. Mitra and Varuna recognize him, who of all the world worships the royal
(Agwins) in one season.
10. Come with your shining and well-guided chariot.
84 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Sfikta, vi (Ixvii).
I. By my praises to exalt you, Mitra and Varuna, the eldest of all existing
things; you, two, though not the same.
3. Come, Mitra and Varuna, beloved of all.
4. Observers of truth, whom Aditi conceived.
6. You manifest vigour daily; you strengthen the summit of the sky, as if
with a pillar; the solid form, and the universal Deity (the sun) replenish earth and
heaven with the nourishment of man.
Sdktomi.
3. Praise Mitra and Varuna renowned for all glorious energies and enjoyments.
Ash$. v. Adhy. Hi. Ama. ii. Sdkta scoi.
10. When Mitra and Varuna beheld thee, Vasish^ha, quitting the lustre of
the lightning.
II. Verily, thou art the son of Mitra and Varuna, born, Brahman, of the will
of Urvasi, after the seminal effusion.
13. Consecrated for the sacrifice, propitiated by praises, they, Mitra and
Varuna, poured a common effusion into the water-jar, from the midst of which
Mana arose, and from which also Vasish^ha was born.
Adhy. viii.
The three wheels of the Aswins, which were invisible, have become manifest.
Do you two, who are cognizant of the past, come by the paths of truth, to the
presence of living beings.
Ash$. i. Adhy. iii. Anuv. ix. Sfikta i.
1. Agni with sharp ears, hear me; let Mitra and Aryaman, and (other) early-
stirring Deities, with all the accompanying oblation-bearing Gods, sit down at the
sacrifice, upon the sacred grass.
14 Let the rite-fulfilling Varuna, with the Aswins and with Ushas,
drink the Soma juice.
Asty. ii. Adhy. iv. Anuv. scxiii. SAkta Hi.
8. Mitra and Varuna and Aryaman, defend the sacrifice from the reprehensible,
and destroy unworthy [i. e., let there be nothing in this sacrifice that shall be censur-
able, and free it of all unworthiness]. They cause the unfallen and showering to
descend . . ". .
Asty. ii. Adhy. vii. Anuv. Hi. Sdkfa v.
2. May those of equal exploits, Mitra, Aryaman, Varuna, be pleased to-day,
by this my praise; they who are Adityas, luminous, purified by showers, who aban-
don none, who are irreproachable, unassailable.
JLKXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 85
3. Those Adityas, mighty, profound, unsubdued, subduing, having many eyes,
behold the innermost, whether wicked or virtuous, whether far from or nigh to
those royal (ones)*
4. The divine Adityas are the upholders of (things) moveable or stationary,
the protectors of the universe, the provident in acts, the collectors of water [or, of
the vital powers] ...
8. They uphold the three worlds, the three heavens; and in their sacrifices
three ceremonies ....
9. The Adityas, decorated with golden ornaments, purified by showers, who
never slumber, nor close their eyelids, who are unassailable, and praised by many,
uphold the three bright heavenly regions ...
10. Varuna, destroyer of foes, thou art the sovereign over all, whether they
be Gods or mortals.
Asty* iti. Adhy. Hi. Anuv. v. S&kta i.
10 The soft-bellied, fire-tongued Mitra, royal Varuna, the youthful
Adityas all cognizant of the past, and proclaiming, hear it.
Ashf. iv. Adby. iv. Anuv. v. Stikta wii-
7. Deities who are to be worshipped at the sacrifice to the Gods, at the shining
ray, at dawn, . . . hasten with rapid steeds, leaders ....
Stiktas ix, x.
. * . The graceful Varuna or Mitra . . , . they two, excelling in radiance,
royal, who hear from the greatest distance, lords of the virtuous .... Mitra
grants even to the sinful the repairing to his spacious dwelling: the favour of Mitra,
the destroyer of foes. .... You come, Mitra and Varuna, to this man and guide
him .... Varuna, whose form is water .... You two, possessed of irresistible
and Asura-destroying strength .... we glorify you both, that your chariots may
precede ours .... Adorable and wonderful Deities .... of pure vigour ....
Mitra and Varuna, who are far-seeing, may we proceed to your spacious and much
frequented kingdom.
AsJt$.v* Adky.v. Amur, fa, Sdktav*
1. Surya, when rising to-day, declare the truth to Mitra and Varuna, that
we are void of sin. May we, Aditi, be among the Gods: praising thee, Aryaman,
may we be dear to thee.
2. Thus Sfirya, the beholder of man, rises, Mitra and Varuna, upon both,
moving ....
3. He has harnessed his seven bay steeds, Mitra and Varuija, from your
common dwelling place ....
4. The sun has ascended the shining firmament, for whom the Adityas, and the
consentient Mitra, Varuna and Aryaman make ready the paths.
5. 6- Mitra, Aryaman, Varuna, .... unconquered sons of Aditi .... the
unsubdued Mitra, Varuna and Arya.man animate with energies the unconscious.
86 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
7. With unclosing eyes, and cognizant of heaven and earth, they conduct the
ignorant man ....
10. The association of these is of mysterious lustre: by their secret strength they
overcome . . . , Have mercy upon us in the mightiness of your strength.
Sfikta, vi.
1. Spreading around the beautiful light, Mitra and Varuna, of you two Divini-
ties, Sfirya rises: he who beholds all existing things apprehends the acts of mortals.
3. You are vaster, Mitra and Varuna, than the ample earth, vaster, bounteous
donors, than the glorious and expansive heaven: you maintain beauty in plants and
in people ....
4. Praise the splendour of Mitra and Varuna, whose strength, by its mighti-
ness, keeps heaven and earth asunder.
Sdkfas viii. ix. x. xi*
Surya, the eye of all, the divine eye of Mitra and of Varuna . * * . we worship
you, Mitra and Varuna, when the sun has risen .... May Mitra, Varuna,
Aryaman, grant affluence to us .... Ruling over the waters that are in heaven
and earth .... may the auspiciously manifested Mitra, the royal Aryaman, the
powerful Varuna accept our oblation . . * .
Sovereigns, mighty preservers of waters,
powerful lords of rivers, come to our presence: send down to us, munificent Mitra
and Varuna, from the firmament, sustenance and rain .... May Mitra, Varuna,
the divine Aryaman conduct us by the most practicable paths .... Mitra and
Varuna, bedew with water him who fabricates your chariot in his mind ....
Mitra and Varuna .... whose imperishable and superior might is triumphant in
the crowded conflict, over all enemies .... They verily are mighty among the
Gods; they are rulers .... Mitra and Vanma, of reiterated manifestations ....
You whom the Gods uphold for their invigoration, both mighty, masters of strength,
and of diffusive radiance .... I glorify you, Mitra and Varuna, and Aryaman,
the consumer of enemies when the sun has risen .... Manifold, radiant as the
sun, Agni-tongued augmenters of sacrifice, you who have limited the three
universal sacrifices, with comprehensive rites. [Agni-tongued augmenters of
sacrifice i. e., you who emit light and so augment the sacrifice; imagined,
perhaps, as thus themselves sacrificing in heaven, each with a limited manifesta-
tion of the universal sacrifice of light.]
11. Who have established the year, and then the month and the day [by their
risings at certain times indicating the returns of festivals], the sacrifice, the night,
and the holy text, they, the royal Deities, Varuna, Mitra, Aryaman, enjoy unrivalled
might.
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 87
ASWINS.
Asty. i, Adhy. Hi. Anuv. mi. Sdkto iv.
1. Wise Awins, be present with us thrice, to-day . . . . Your union is like
that of the shining and the dewy.
2. Three are the solid wheels of your abundant-bearing chariot, .... three
are the columns placed above it for support, and in it you journey three times by
night and three times by day.
8. Come, Aswins, thrice, with the seven mother-streams. The three rivers are
ready; the triple oblation is prepared. Rising above the three worlds, you defend
the sun in the sky, who is established for both night and day.
9. Where, Nasatyas, are the three wheels of your triangular car? Where the
three fastenings and props? When will be the harnessing of the powerful ass?
Ash$. L Anuv. ix. Sfikta Hi (ochn).
1. The beloved Ushas, until now unseen, scatters darkness from the sky.
Aswins, I profoundly venerate you.
2. Who are divine, whose appearing causes rejoicing, children of the sea.
The scholiast says that the Aswins are said to be born of the sea; and
in the opinion of some, are the sun and moon. The Veda gives no counte-
nance to that notion, for they precede the dawn, and ride together in one car.
Ashj. i. Adhy. in. Awuv. iv. Sfikta iv.
10. Come, Nasatyas, to the sacrifice .... Before the dawn, even, Savitri
sends (to bring you) to the rite, your wonderful car shining with clarified butter.
"Implying," Professor Wilson says, "that the Aswins are to be wor-
shipped with this hymn at the dawn." No doubt: but does it not also imply
that they are luminaries of the dawn?
Asty. i. Adhy.i. Anw.i. Stikfaiii.
3. Awins, destroyers of foes (or diseases) [dasrd], exempt from untruth p. e.,
real and actual beings or bodies], rudra vaittani, cometo the mixed libations sprinkled
on the cropped sacred grass,
Rudra:vaittani is translated, "leaders in the van of heroes/' Vaittani
means a '"'road" or "way" : rudra, it is said, from the root rudt to "weep" or
"lament," means those who cause to weep, and hence, "heroes," who make
88 IttDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
their enemies weep: and vaittani means the "front" of the way, the van.
It is quite evident that this is only conjecture. The Deity Rudra cherishes
the Maruts, and is bountiful and mighty. The scholiast says that the
word means, "he who makes to weep;*' but Professor Wilson finds nothing
in the hymns to sustain that interpretation. The root rudh meant, to
"care for, defend," and the name may have come from that; or, if it came
from rud, to "weep," it may have alluded to rains or dews. Also, ruh meant
"rise up, increase, grow," and thence rudhis, "growth, vigour."
Ashf. i. Adky. ii. Anwj. m. Sfikfa vii.
17. Awns, come hither, with hands borne on many steeds. Dasras, be filled
with cattle and with gold.
18. Dasras, your chariot, harnessed for both alike, is imperishable. It travels*
Aswins, through the air.
19. You have one wheel on the top of the solid, while the other revolves in
the sky.
Adky. in. Anwv.ix. Stikta,iii(cont.).
car.
7. Come as a ship, to bear us over an ocean of praises: harness, Aswins, your
8. Your vessel, vaster than the sky, stops on the shore of the sea :
your chariot:
the drops are expressed for your worship.
9. Kanwas, do the rays from the sky? Does the dawn in the region of the
waters? Where do you desire to manifest your own persons?
14. May Ushas follow the lustre of your approach, circumambient A?wins,
and may you be pleased with the oblations offered by night.
15. Aswins, may you both drink, and bestow upon us happiness, through your
irreproachable protection.
Adhy. iv. Anuv. ix. SAkfa iv.
2. Come, Awins, with your three-columned triangular car.
6. Good-looking Awins .... bring to uis the riches that many covet, whether
from the expanse or the sky beyond.
7.
^
Nasatyas, whether you abide far-off or close at hand [whether near the
earth in the east or west, or higher in the sky?], come to us in your well-constructed
car, with the rays of the sun.
9. Come, Nasatyas, with your sun-clad chariot ....
Adhy. m. Anw>. xiv. Stikto viii.
17. Awins, who have sent adorable light from the sky to man ....
18. May the steeds awakened at dawn bring hither .... the divine Aswins,
who are the givers of happiness, the destroyers of foes, seated in a golden chariot.
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 89
H. Adhy. ii. Anuv. xxii. Sdkta i.
1. Agni is awakened upon earth : the sun rises : the spreading dawn, exhilarating
by her radiance, has dispersed (the glooms) : Harness, Aswins, your chariot, to
come, that the divine Savitri may animate all beings ....
3 the three-wheeled car of the Aswins, drawn by swift horses, laden
with honey, three-canopied, filled with treasure ....
5. You Aswins, sustain the germ in all moving creatures, you are in the
interior of all beings .... Supply fire and water and the trees of the forest.
6. You two are physicians, wrth medicaments ....
[So we read elsewhere]: Dasras, you would repair to heaven: your charioteers
harness for your heavenward journey, the horses that injure not on your journey
to heaven: we have placed you, Dasras, in your golden, three-shafted chariot,
going by an easy road to heaven .... Dasras, showerers, granters of dwellings,
Rudras, cognizant of many, increasing .... Aswins, Creators, the perpetual
threefold hymn addressed to you, has been uttered .... whether moving or
resting, hear his invocation .... May the praise of your resplendent forms in
the hall of sacrifice, bring prosperity .... Dasras, in truth Indratam [superla-
tively Indra], adorable, swifter than the winds, .... bring hither your car ....
and with it come, A?wins
Asty. ii- Adhy. w. Anuv. xxiv. Sdkta iv.
1. Showerer of benefits, harness the car which has three benches, three wheels,
and is as quick as thought: with which, embellished with three metals, you
come ....
2 May this hymn .... be associated with your forms, and do you
unite with the Dawn, the daughter of Heaven.
Adhy. v. Anuv. xxtv. S4kfa v.
1. We invoke you two, to-day, the same two on any other day: when the
morning dawns. Nasatyas, grandsons of Heaven, wherever you may be ...
3. Divine Aswins, in whom is no untruth, like arrows to acquire glory, and
to carry off Stirya ....
6. Awins, we cross over the limit of darkness: to you this has been addressed:
come hither by the path traversed by the Gods.
Adhy. viL Anuv. Hi. S&kta ix.
4. ... May Ila, the resplendent Bhaga, heaven and earth, the sagacious
Pushan, and the Aswins, the two husbands, urge on the chariot.
Ash$. H. Adhy. viii. Anuv. vo. Sfikta vii.
1. Descend, Aswins, like falling stones .... like two Brahmans repeating
hymns .... and come like messengers in the land.
2. Moving at dawn like two heroes in a car ; like a pair of goats; like two women
lovely in form; or like husband and wife ....
90 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
3. Come to us, the first, like a pair of horns or like two hoofs, .... like a
pair of Chakravakas, awaiting day ....
4. Bear us across like two vessels, or like the poles of a car, the axles, the spokes,
the fellies: Be like two dogs, warding off injury to our persons, and, like two coats
of mail, defend us from decay.
Ashj. Hi. AdJiy. ii. Anuv. iv. Sukta i.
3. The parent of twins has brought forth the twins on this occasion, ....
they two, the dispersers of darkness, combine, assuming bodies as a pair, at the
origin of the day.
AdHy. iv. Anuv. v* Sdkta v.
1 The praiser awakes the Awins preceding the dawn.
Adhy. vii. Anuv. iv. Sukta xii.
1. We invoke, Aswins, to-day, your rapid car, the associator of the Solar ray;
the banked car which bears Stirya [the daughter of the Sun] ....
2. A?wins, grandsons of Heaven, Divinities .... powerful horses draw you
in your chariot.
Sukta xiii.
2. Your food-bearing, Soma-laden, well-horsed chariots appear at the opening
of the dawn, scattering the surrounding darkness like the sun, and spreading bright
radiance over the firmament.
4 Swift of speed, gentle, unrefractory, golden-winged, bearers, wakers
at dawn ....
5 Praise the associated Aswins at the break of day . . . .
Adhy. mil. Anuv. v. Sukta mi.
2, 3 the radiant mother of the rays of light [Ushas, the Dawn], is the
friend of the Aswins: thou art the friend of the Awins ....
Asty. v. Adhy. v. Anuv. iv. Sukta, xii.
2. Kindled by us, Agni blazes, the extremities of the darkness are seen nigh
at hand, the banner is perceived, rising with the glory in the east, of the Dawn,
the daughter of Heaven:
3. Verily, Aswins, the pious priest repeating glorifies you, Nasatyas, with
hymns: Come therefore by formerly trodden paths to our presence.
4, 5, 7. Relying on you, Aswins, as protectors, .... Midhwis, I invoke
you .... Protect us, Awinsl .... this treasure given by us has been placed,
Midhwis, before you .... Nourisher of all, the chariot of you two, who are
associated in a common purpose, traverses the seven flowing ... * [Qu. The
weeping ones, Rudras, the Seven Pleiades?]
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 91
S&kta xiii.
9. Thus your devoted worshipper, waking before the dawn, praises you with
hymns ....
Sfikta xiv.
1, 2, 3, 5 Your golden chariot, drawn by your vigourous horses,
. . . . radiant with wheels .... renowned among the five orders of beings [Qu.
The stars of five different magnitudes?] furnished with three benches, .... well
horsed and celebrated, come, Aswins .... drink, Dasras, the sweet pledge: your
chariot, conveying you with your spouse, furrows with its two wheels the extremities
of the sky .... the daughter of Sftrya made choice of your chariot at the approach
of night .... Riders in the chariot, Awins, come .... to this our sacrifice,
at the dawn of day.
Asty. v. Adhy. v. Anwo. v* Stikta i.
1, 2, 3, 4, Night retires before the dawn, .... the dark night leaves the
path clear for the radiant .... Come, .... bringing desired wealth in your
chariot .... day and night, Madhwis, protect us .... May your docile and
vigourous horses bring hither your chariot at the approaching dawn ... * that
chariot which has three benches .... and is the precurser of the day, come,
Nasatyas to us; with that chariot which traverses, as your all-pervading form.
S&kta ii.
3. Praises waken up the Awins (kindled adorations), and the celestial dawns.
4. When the dawns arise, your worshippers, Aswins, proffer you praises: the
divine Savitji casts his splendours on high.
5. Come, Nasatyas, from the west, from the east; Aswins, from the south,
from the north; from every quarter ....
Asht. v. Adhy. viii. Anu0. i. S&kta v.
1. When the shining dawn, advancing hither from afar, whitens pUuminates]t
she spreads the light on all sides.
*2. And you, Aswins, of goodly aspect, accompany the dawn like leaders; with
your mighty chariot harnessed at a thought.
7. Come, Awins, to our adoration, hastening quickly, with your rapid, falcon-
like horses.
8. With which in three days and three nights you traverse from afar all the
brilliant ....
9. Bringers of the day (bestow) upon us food ....
Antw. ii* S&kta iii+
23. The three wheels of the Aswins which were Invisible, have become manifest.
92 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Stiktato.
12. Although, Awins, you should be riding in the same chariot with Indra,
although you should be domiciled with Vayu, although you should be enjoying
gratification along with the Adityas and Ribhus, although you be proceeding in
the tracks of Vishnu ....
16, 17, 18. I awake with the pious praise of the Awins .... Ushas, truth-
speaking, mighty Goddess, awake the A?wins .... When, Ushas, thou movest
with thy radiance, thou shinest equally with the sun, and this chariot of the Aswins
proceeds to the hall of sacrifice . , . .
Sfikta v.
Whether, Aswins, you now are where the spacious halls of sacrifice are; whether
you are in yonder bright sphere of heaven, or whether you are in a dwelling con-
structed above the firmament .... In the west, in the east .... I invoke you:
whether you traverse the firmament, or pass along earth and heaven.
Ash}. Hi. Adhy. iv. AKIUV. v. Sfikta v.
The Aswins, preceding the dawn .... Endowed with power, ever young,
in whom is no untruth, unwearied, munificent.
Adhy. vii. Anuv. iv. Sfikta ocii.
We invoke, Aswins, your rapid car, the associator of the Solar ray, the banked
car which bears Sftrya".
S&kia, xi.
6. That quick-moving chariot whereby you become the lords of Stirya".
Sdkta, xii.
2. Guardians of heaven .... Divinities.
Sdkfo xiii.
The sun rises: Your chariot, Awins, traversing, is associated with the divine
(orb) on the summit.
Asht. iv. Adhy. iv. AnuiD. vi. Sdkta i.
When Stiry has ascended your ever easy-moving car, then bright-waving
resplendent rays encompass you, Aswins.
Lords of water: Invincible: Showerers of wealth: Lords of the chariot. The
two who come first at dawn. The A?wins claim the morning sacrifice. The ancient
sages praised them at dawn. Worship the Aswins at early dawn.
Car plated with gold, honey-tinted, water-shedding, laden with ambrosia, quick
as thought, rapid as the wind.
TEXTS RELATING TO DEITIES 93
Sdkta vi.
Aswins, come hither! Alight like two swans, like two deer, like two wild cattle
in pasture; like two swans alight on the libation.
Asht. v. Adhy. i. Anw. vi. Sfikta i.
The two leaders of heaven, the presiders over this world, the Aswins who at.
dawn scatter the investing glooms to the ends of the earth.
Coming to the sacrifice with their bright splendours; emitting vast and infinite
radiance.
Two swift-moving, good-looking, ancient Aswins: Riders on car: showerers;
bountiful givers.
Ashp. v. Adhy. v. Anuv. iv. Sfikta xii.
Lords of men. Adorable Deities.
Sdkta xiii.
Your chariot, Aswins, in which you ride with Stiry [the daughter of the Sun].
Sdkfo xiv.
The daughter of Siky3. made choice of your chariot at the approach of night*
Anuv. v. Sdkta *.
Night retires before the dawn, the sister (of the Aswins). The dark night
leaves the path clear for the radiant sun.
Adhy. viii. Anuv. i. Sdkta v.
You, Aswins, accompany the dawn like leaders, with your mighty chariot,
Bringers of the day: Magnificent lords of good fortune.
DEITIES OFFERED BY NATURE TO THE ARYANS.
But for the immense antiquity which it would compel us to ascribe to
them, one reading the simpler and probably older hymns of the Rig-Veda,
would as unhesitatingly impute them to the bards of a people who led a
nomadic and pastoral life on the steppes of Bokhara, as he would impute
the poetry of the Bedouins to a people leading a like life in the Arabian
deserts.
They smell of the free air of the plains. They tell us of a simple people,
whose wealth consisted chiefly in their flocks and herds, and to whom
horses and mares were of especial value. The juice of the Soma plant,
producing exhilaration and perhaps intoxication, was their sacred beverage,
and milk their ordinary and favourite one, while to the Deities they offered
oblations of butter, burned in the open air.
Undoubtedly, at any rate, they had in the Punjab the old original wor-
ship, more spiritualized than at first, which they had long before when
wandering on the steppes and tending their herds. Probably the older
hymns were composed and sung there.
To understand these hymns, it is necessary to inquire with what special
objects for adoration Nature in those latitudes surrounded a primitive and
simple people, who bequeathed fire-worship to their remote descendants,
and knew no Gods superior to the Fire and Light.
The word Deva, the general name for the Gods in the Veda, means in
Sanskrit, "bright;" and it is the Latin Divus and Deus.
Narrien {Historical Account of the Origin and Progress of Astronomy) says
that it seems difficult to imagine that the first men could avoid recognizing
the fact tliat the earth is isolated in space, seeing that the celestial bodies
must perform part of their revolutions below the earth, in order to enable
them to reappear in the East, after having set in the West:
But it is quite certain that they had no such idea. So far from con-
sidering it as suspended in air, aether or space, they believed it to be firmly
and stably set on solid foundations. It is true that the accounts collected
from the most ancient authors of Greece and Rome coincide nearly with
each other in representing the earth as a plane figure, bounded on its whole
circumference by an ocean of vast extent. Herodotus so describes it, and
says that geographers so represented it in his time. Diodorus Siculus says
that the Chaldeans considered the earth to rest on the waters like a boat;
and Plutarch ascribes a like opinion to Heraclitus.
DEITIES OFFERED BY NATURE 95
But these were the notions of a comparatively late day. Everyone is
familiar with the Hindu idea that the earth rested upon the back of an
immense elephant, standing upon a more vast tortoise: and their ancestors,
the Aryans, on the steppes or in the Punjab, knew nothing about the ocean,
more than the American Indians do, who inhabit the central plains and the
Rocky Mountains. They probably did not attempt to explain to themselves
how the sun returned to the East during the night, any more than the
children do. Everything in the heavens was wonderful to them, since they
understood neither the nature of the luminaries, nor the causes of their
motions; and they attempted to explain nothing. Nor had they any idea
of the extent of the earth. It was there, and they were on it, and they
knew little more.
It was evidently the opinion, Narrien says, of the Eastern sages, in very
ancient times, that the surface of the earth was nearly a plane, and that in
its central part, which was conceived to be situated northward of the regions
then occupied by men (that is, beyond the frontiers of India, Persia and
Greece), was a very high mountain, intercepting the view of the sun during
part of his daily revolution, and thus producing the darkness of night; this
mountain was believed to be of a conical form; and it was supposed that,
according as the sun was more or less elevated above the earth (for it appears
that he was supposed to describe about the mountain a spiral curve, alter-
nately ascending and descending), he remained concealed during a less or
greater portion of time, respectively; and that thus the days and nights
were rendered of variable length. This idea bears the marks of an origin
that may be dated from a time preceding that of the formation of die
opinion that the celestial bodies, in their daily revolutions, pass under the
visible surface of the earth; and it seems to be a part of the ancient hypothe-
sis, that the earth constitutes the general basis of the universe.
The mountain is the Alborj of the Bundehesh, up which the sun ascended
during 180 days, and then descended during as many; which surrounded the
earth, and reached the heavens; and the Meru of the Brahmanicalfables, with
its three peaks or summits and its seven steps or terraces, encompassing the
whole earth, and on which the Gods are seated.
The Poets of the Veda certainly believed the earth to be stable and fixed;
for they so speak of it, and as sustained and upheld by pillars. To consider
it so, without doubt or question ; to accept it as it appears to the senses,
without speculation as to what or how great it really is; and to yield belief,
slowly and reluctantly, to the different idea demonstrated by science and
denied by the senses all this was not only natural for them, but after it
was forgotten that they had ever lived, a wise student of Nature was im-
prisoned by a church, in the name and by the authority of God, for teaching
96 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
that the earth was not a stable and stationary mass round which the heavenly
luminaries revolved, to serve it; but itself a mere obedient subordinate
revolving round the sun. So the old Semitic ancestors of another race
might have done; for the doctrine of Galileo was a heresy for the Catholic
Church and the Inquisition, because it was contrary to what was said in the
old Semitic books, of that hated, detested, despised people, then accursed of
all Christendom, whose sacred books Christendom had adopted, and ac-
cepted the descendant of a Hebrew and a woman of Moab as its God and
Saviour, acknowledging, at the same time, the whole human race to be the
fruit of the incestuous connection of brothers and sisters, and a large part
of it of that of a father and his daughters.
The modern faith need not smile contemptuously at the ideas of these
ancients, in regard either to Nature or the Deity. We know more than they
did about the extent, arrangement and movements of the universe; the
qualities and attributes of matter; the formulas of the mathematical,
chemical and physical laws that apply to matter and regulate movement,
and the action and effect of the forces of Nature: we have larger and higher
ideas of the attributes that we impute to the Source, Author or Crea-
tor, the Ruler and Sustainer of the universe: but we are as ignorant as they
were, of what matter really is, and what the forces of Nature really are.
Of light, heat and electricity in their essence, we know nothing at all; and,
after all, in God we only worship either an infinite man, or a force of a Nature
utterly unknown to us, to which we ascribe two human attributes or
faculties, will and intelligence, and by compounding all His attributes with
infinity, make him, to our limited comprehension incomprehensible, an
impossible congeries of infinite contradictions and incongruities.
A force of Nature is but a name to us. What attraction, magnetic, of
cohesion, of gravitation, or any other is, we have no idea. We have the
sciences of optics and acoustics, but we no more know how we see and hear,
than they did. The veil that Isis, the Great Nature, wears, is as thick and
impervious for us as it was for them. We investigate the phenomena of
Nature, but we know no more about final causes than they did. We are
satisfied that the body is not our very self, and believe that we are immortal;
but what the soul is, and how it acts upon and governs or is governed by the
body, we are as profoundly ignorant as they were ; nor can we, any more than
they could, obtain any distinct consciousness of ourselves, any self-cognition,
to the exclusion of, or isolated from, the body. Of what life is, we know as
little: nor do we even understand how we feel pain, by means of any action
upon the nerves of the body, nor how matter can, by means of vitality, be
gifted with the capacity of feeling pain. Generation is as wonderful a
mystery to us, as it was to them, and the formation and production of every
egg of a bird is a miracle to us.
DEITIES OFFERED BY NATURE 97
Those ancient men were alone in the world, with Nature and its mani-
festations of force, power and life. Stability, permanency and life were the
three great facts, patent and palpable to them, about which they could not
doubt, and as to the causes whereof it did not occur to them to inquire.
Whatever was apparent to their senses, visible or audible, was real, and
nothing else was so. The conception of invisible powers and forces was of
later growth. In everything that was real, they saw life, and knew no
difference between their own life, and that of all Nature around them. The
first men that lived quickly saw that some of the animals thought and
reasoned, as they themselves did, could come to understand the meaning of
certain often repeated words, could remember and dream, were capable of
love, attachment and gratitude, and that propagation was effected by them
in the same manner as by themselves.
The old Aryan herdsman or priest had no conception of his self as a soul
or spirit, distinct from his body, dwelling in it or clothed by it as by a
garment, or using it as an instrument. He no more imagined that of him-
self than he did of his horse. Nor did he conceive of any God whatever, as
a spirit in our sense of the word, i. e., a somewhat that is ^a-thing, not matter,
and wholly separate from all that is appreciable by the senses.
There was in them, as there is in our American Indians, a curious mixture
of acuteness and shrewdness, wisdom, prudence, energy, resoluteness,
reason and good sense, with childishness of intellect in some respects,
credulity and simplicity. The Comanche cannot calculate mentally how
much is due to three men, for a horse hired by each, at two dollars per day,
for six days. They have to find out whether 36 dollars is the correct amount,
by means of a number of spears of grass, divided and subdivided, occupying
several minutes in the calculation. They will not burn the bones of the
bison, with the dry ordure of that animal, which is their only fuel, lest they
should anger the animals, and cause them to leave the hunting grounds or
to decline to permit themselves to be killed; and when they have slain one,
they address to him an oration, apologizing for killing him and assuring him
that they have only done so out of necessity, that they and their children
may not want for food. One band which I met had with them a ram, with
an immense fleece, which was medicine, i. e., sacred. Yet, in all ordinary
matters, they are shrewd, sensible, practical men.
Upon the steppes, and on the plains of the Punjab, the sky would seem
to our ancestors a solid hemispherical vault, resting all around them on the
horizon, of a circumference vastly wider than at any one point it seemed
to be. This they would very soon have discovered, each for himself, by
98 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
finding that, drive their herds as far as they might, towards the sunrise or
the sunset, northward or southward, they could come no nearer to the
horizon; and no traveller could tell of any one who had ever reached it.
The sun, moon and other luminaries would appear to them to be bodies
moving between the earth and the solid sky. And of those luminaries they
would have very much such ideas as are embodied in the Semitic Cosmo-
logical legends with which the Hebrew book Barasitk commences. Accord-
ing to the first of these, the luminaries in the expanse of heaven were made
to divide the day from the night, to be for signs and seasons, days and years,
and also to give light upon the earth. Alohayim made one great luminary
to rule by day, and the smaller to rule by night, and the stars (Kocabim) :
and he placed them in the expanse of heaven (rakaya h' samayim), to give
light upon the earth, to rule by day and by night, and to divide the light
from the darkness. The luminaries were the host (tsaba), the armies
of heaven.
For all these purposes, they were the servants and attendants of the
earth, bodies emitting light, and the largest of them heat, for the sole
benefit of the earth and men. Other purposes than this, they were not
imagined to be created to subserve.
Of the real nature of these bodies, they of course knew nothing, nor of
their distance from the earth, or their size. No doubt they supposed their
relative sizes to be as they appeared to be, and the distance of all from the
earth nearly or quite the same. Plutarch says that there were men. who
supposed the stars to be extinguished when they ceased to be seen, and to be
relighted again when they appeared: and the Iberians pretended that they
could hear, when the sun descended into the ocean, a hissing sound, like
that of heated iron when plunged into water. ?
The natives of the Society Islands imagined that the sea which sur-
rounded them was a level plain, joined at the horizon by the sky, which
enclosed the islands like a vault. Some of them considered the sun as
an animated being; and others, that it resembled fire. They imagined
that it sunk into the sea every evening, and passed, during the night, by a
submarine passage from the West to the East, where it again rose from
the sea in the morning.
These ancients never imagined that the stars were placed in empty
space. They supposed them set and fixed in a vault, of durable and firm
structure. Hence the word firmament (from firmamentum, that which
"strengthens, stays, supports, props up," itself from firmo, "fortify,
strengthen, support, make durable, permanent, lasting
1
'), by which our
version renders the word J?^
1
! rakaya, in the book Barasifh, which
De Sola, Lindelthal and Raphall render "expanse."
DEITIES OFFERED BY NATURE 99
The word "expanse" is a mistranslation; for
J>p*>
means to "beat"
or "beat out," to "flatten" or "expand by beating," to "stretch out,"
as Jehovah is said to have stretched or spread out the earth (Ps.
136: 6; Isa. 42: 5; 44: 24) and the heavens (Ps. 37: 18). In Syriac,
propped up, planted, firmly, etc. The Semitic idea never was that the sky
was a void expanse. The Greek word, <rrepc^a, used in the Septuagint,
from orepeds, "firm, solid, stable," as ordw and <rra>, and the Latin sto, means
"stand, be upright, stay, remain."
The opinions of the ancient philosophers as to the stars may be far from
representing those of the more ancient Aryans. Many supposed them to
be only bright ornaments, or, as it were, nails, fixed in the crystalline
sphere, or firmament. Anaxagoras said that they were stones flung up
from the earth, and kindled by the whirling motion of the aether. Hera-
elides and the Pythagoreans taught that each was a world like the earth.
What the Poets of the Veda thought, we shall learn from their hymns.
One of the Vedas, according to the translation of Mr. Colebrooke, says,
Who knows exactly, and who shall in the world declare whence and why this creation
took place? The Gods are subsequent to the production of this world; then who can
know from whence it proceeded? Or whence this varied world arose? Or whether
it upheld itself or not? He who in the Highest Heaven is the Ruler of the Uni-
verse indeed does know; but not another can possess that knowledge. (Asiatic
Researches, viii. Sec. .)
Even among the comparatively modern philosophers, it was a general
opinion that the earth was the most important body in the universe, and
even the source of the principle of existence in all the others. The air was
supposed to be nourished by the humid vapours exhaled from its surface,
the ether by the air, and the stars by the ether. Cleanthes, according to
Cicero, maintained that the stars are proved to be constituted of fire by the
evidence of two senses, the touch and the light; and that consequently they
are fed by the vapours of the ocean. It is of the sun, however, that Cicero
speaks:
Nam solis candu Ulustrius est, guam ullius ignis, guippe gui immenso mundo lam
longe, lategue collocat; et is ejus tactris est non ut tepefaciat solum, sed etiam sape
ambruat: quorum neutrum faceret, nisi esset igneus. Ergo, inguit, cum Sol igneus
sit, oceanigue alatur humoribus (guia nuUus ignis sine pastu aliquo possii permanere),
necesse est, antei simtiis sit igni, guem adhibemus ad asum atgue ad victum, aut ei gui
corporibus animantium continetw.
100 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
And so we find in the Veda, that Agni (Ignis) is both the domestic fire,
which men apply ad usum et victum, and that vital heat which continetur
animantium corporibits.
A general and circular movement of the bodies in the firmament must
have been the first phenomenon recognized by the men of our race. The
herdsman on the steppes, where the horizon was the only boundary of the
plain, would soon perceive that the sun and many stars, and part of the time
the moon, rose out of the plain, to the eastward, and each, after describing a
curve in the heavens, sunk into the plain to the westward. He would see
that in the north were some which performed their revolution without
descending so low in any part as to reach the horizon; and finally, that one
star seemed to be stationary in the heavens, during all the time that the
absence of the sun permitted it to be visible. These phenomena could not
fail to suggest the idea of the revolution of some geometrical figure, a cone,
a cylinder, or a sphere, about a certain line passing through the eye of the
observer, and situated obliquely to the plane of the terrestrial horizon.
Probably they soon concluded that the heavens were spherical in form.
The argument of Proclus contains what would probably suggest itself to
them; that the stars which rise and set evidently describe complete circles
daily in the heavens, about one fixed point; that the inequality in the length
of the days and nights in different seasons, and the changes gradually made
during the day in the position of any shadow cast by an object, prove the
circular movement of the sun; and that the sun is, at all seasons, on the
surface of one sphere, because his apparent magnitude is invariable, which
would not be the case if, from midwinter to midsummer he had moved
northward on the surface of a cylinder or cone, since, in one situation, he
would then, evidently, have been nearer to the spectator than in the other,
and would consequently have appeared greater.
It appears to have been, from the first, generally understood,, that the
celestial bodies were attached to the concave surface of a spherical shell,
which revolved in a certain time round the earth, which was situated in or
near the centre of the concavity. Hence the most ancient symbol of the
universe that we know, was an egg. It was compared to the yolk, the
white and the shell. Beyond it, Aristotle said, nothing can exist.
The sun was that object which, of all in the universe, would first attract
the attention of the first men that lived, would more and more engross it,
and become infinitely the most important to him. His welfare, comfort,
subsistence and very life, would quickly be found to depend upon the great
orb of day. As the great radiator of light and only source of heat among the
celestial bodies, the cause of all production, melter of the snow and ice that
DEITIES OFFERED BY NATURE 101
in the springtime freed the chilled earth of her winter covering and set free
the streams from their icy bonds, cause of all production, creator of green-
ness and of flowers and fruits, and ripener of the harvests, regulator of the
seasons, and lord of the days and nights, investor of the clouds and sky with
the many-coloured glories of the morning and the evening, he must soon have
seemed to them the true sovereign and ruler of ithe universe. His risings
and settings, and his stately and regular march in the great semicircle would
enable them to measure intervals of time for regulating the ordinary occupa-
tions of life; and his movements northward and southward would soon
enable them approximately to measure the years.
There was no bound or limit to the images suggested by the sun in his ever-
varying aspects. For every one of these aspects those early men would have a
fitting expression, nor could human memory retain the exact meaning of all these
phrases, when the men who used them had been scattered from their original homes.
Their words would truthfully express the impressions which the phenomena left
on their senses, and their truthfulness would impart to their language an undying
beauty. Of whatever object or phenomenon they spoke, this would be the case;
but the most fruitful source of mythical phrases, of epithets afterwards to become
the names of new beings and give birth to legends, would be found in the daily
and yearly course of the sun. In the thought of those early ages, he was the child
of night or darkness; the dawn came before he was born, and died as he sprang
up out of the plain. He strangled the serpents of the night; he went forth like a
bridegroom out of his chamber, like a giant to run his course. He had to do battle
with clouds and storms: Sometimes he disappeared behind their gloomy veil, and
the children of men shuddered at the anger of the hidden Sun. Sometimes he
looked benignly on the face of his bride who came to greet him at his journey's
end. His light and heat might give life or destroy it. His chariot, driven swiftly
onward, drawn by his red steeds, might scorch with drouth the regions over which
it passed, and prepare the forests to be devoured by the terrestrial AgnL
But the images that owed their birth to his brightness, his power, his magnif-
icence, his bounty and beneficence, would far outnumber all the rest.
A new life flashed up every morning before the eyes of those primitive men, and
the fresh breezes of the dawn came to them like greetings wafted across the golden
threshold of the sky, from distant realms beyond the clouds, beyond the dawn,
which seemed to them to open golden gates, for the sun to pass through.
Next to the orb of day, the queen of night, the moon, would attract
attention, and suggest a thousand images. Rising at different hours,
102 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
hanging as a thin crescent in the west at regular intervals, and growing by
degrees to the perfectness of her full-orbed beauty, her variations of form
and differences of time of rising would soon enable the first men to measure
weeks and months. The new moon would soon come to mark the times of
festivals and solemnities, and the full moon to be available for like purposes.
She also would be deemed the enemy of darkness, and hated by the clouds
and storms. It was long, no doubt, before it was supposed that her light
was but the reflected light of the sun, but she would be deemed an indepen-
dent luminary, source of light, but not of heat. Originally the female sex
was not assigned to her, but she, like the sun was characterized as male.
Supposing the moon to shine, like the sun, with her own light, they
must have been entirely unable to account for her eclipses, or for the changes
which she continually underwent in shape and size. Her soft, mild light
must have given them an idea that she was a gentle and beneficent luminary,
friend of man in the hours that would without her have been dark. At the
full, nothing in Nature is more magnificently beautiful than the moon, and
she has therefore, in all ages, received the homage of the Poets.
Those who have slept, as I have, month after month, in year after year,
in the open air, in the forests and on the great Western plains, in the Rocky
Mountains and the Mexican Valleys, who have risen habitually before day,
and measured the hours of guard-duty by the westward marches of Jupiter
or the three Kings of Orion, can in some faint degree appreciate the sensations
inspired in the minds of the old Aryan herdsmen, leading the same life in
nearly the same latitudes, by the bright armies of the skies. No one who
has led that life, and become familiar with the principal planets and con-
stellations and single stars, will wonder that they were almost from at first,
regarded as protectors, consolers and guides of men; gracious, beneficent
and bestowers of benefits.
Among these apparently lesser luminaries, two, apparently the largest,
and distinguishable from the rest by their steady radiance, and also by their
difference of movement in the heavens, must at once have attracted attention
and been deemed of superior importance. These were the stars of the morn-
DEITIES OFFERED BY NATURE 103
ing and evening, Jupiter and Venus. There is no reason to suppose that in
those early days a difference of sex was imputed to them. Chiefly by the
steady and regular movement of Jupiter, I counted the weary hours of my
watches on the plains. Sometimes, as the Morning Star, he was the welcome
herald of the approaching daylight; while Venus sometimes shone, as she
arose in the East before the dawn, with a strange and amazing brilliance, like
a large, irregularly-shaped mass, rather than like a star a phenomenon
owing probably to some peculiar condition of the atmosphere, and which
caused it to be, for several mornings, mistaken for a comet.
The first men could have known nothing of the real nature or movements
of these planets. Of course they knew nothing of their revolving in orbits
round the sun, nor that they were bodies of vast magnitude, and resembling
the earth, shining only by a reflected light. It is not probable that they
formed any hypotheses concerning them. They were, to them, like the
sun and moon, satellites of, or lamps ministering to the earth.
They may even have regarded Venus as the morning and as the evening
star, as two different luminaries; but they could not long have remained
ignorant of the identity of Jupiter, wherever and whenever he appeared
in the heavens: though Pliny says that Pythagoras, learning the fact in
Egypt, was the first who made known to the Greeks the identity of each
as the Morning and as the Evening Star.
Mercury and Saturn were probably for a long time not distinguished
from the mass of the stars; but the red Mars must soon have attracted
attention, and have been sometimes noticed flaming in the West in the early
night, with Jupiter and Venus.
They could have had no proof of the different distances of the planets
from the earth, except such as might be furnished by the difference in degree
of their brightness, or of their apparent velocities around the earth. It is
not likely that either of these suggested a difference in their distances from
the earth. The distance of all appears, to the naked eye, to be the same.
Ages afterwards, differences of opinion existed as to their relative distances;
some of the ancients supposing that the sun and moon revolved with the
other planets round the earth, in orbits within that of Mars, and that the
moon's orbit was nearest to the earth; while some placed the sun between
the spheres of Venus and Mercury; the Egyptians, Achilles Tatius says,
placing Mercury between the spheres of Mars and the sun, probably because
Venus and Mercury were never seen to pass over the sun's disc; and they
supposed Venus to be nearer the earth than Mercury, because it was larger
and brighter. In the system of the later Greeks, and, as Alpetragius states,
in those of the Babylonians and Hindus, the orbits of Venus and Mercury
are placed between those of the sun and moon, that of Mercury being
104 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
nearest to the moon or earth, because his conjunctions with the sun occur
more frequently than those of Venus.
These discrepancies of opinion among the learned, when astronomy had
been studied for ages, teach us how little must even have been guessed,
before it became a science: and the statement that the disciples of Epicurus
asserted that the sun, moon and stars were no larger than they appeared to
be, shows what the opinion of the unlearned was, even in those later days.
Of the fixed stars, those* would become most noticeable which were
largest and brightest, and thence, or from their groupings, of unmistakable
identity, or at least not with difficulty recognized.
In the Odyssey, Ulysses, in his bark, on leaving Calypso, is represented as
observing
the Pleiades and Bootes, the Hyades and the bold Orion, the Bear, which is called
the wagon, and the unwearied sun and full moon, and all the stars by which, like
a crown, the heavens are surrounded.
Perhaps the most constantly watched of all were the seven stars now
known as Ursa Major, which, in the North, travelling in a perpetual circle,
never set. It would soon be noticed that this and other groups of stars
retained always the same shape, the stars of which they were composed
never changing their relative positions in the group; and to the herdsman,
wandering or lost on the plains, no group would be so sure a guide as these
that were always in sight, and that enabled him to go with certainty in any
desired direction.
Mr. Cox says (Myfhol. L 47), that these derived their name from a root
that meant to "shine;" but that, in India, afterwards, the meaning of riksha
was forgotten; and though, possibly or probably,
to the same roots belongs the name of the Golden Bear (apKros and Ursa), and the
epithet had, by some tribes, been confined to the Bear, and the Seven Shiners were
transformed first into Seven Bears, then into one with Arktouros (Arcturus) for
their bear-ward [the Indians], instead of referring the word to bears, confounded
it with risM, and the seven stars became the abode of the seven Poets or Sages,
who enter the ark with Menu (Minos), and reappear as the Seven Wise Men of
Hellas, and the Seven Champions of Christendom.
Mr. Cox says,
The same lot, it would seem, befell another name for this constellation. They
who spoke of the Seven Triones had long forgotten that their fathers spoke of the
stars as taras (staras), or strewers of light, and converted the bear-ward into Bo6tes
the Ploughman; while .the Teutonic nations, unconscious that they had retained the
old root in their word stern or 'star/ likewise embodied a false etymology, in
'wagons' or wains.
DEITIES OFFERED BY NATURE 105
Elsewhere (i. 413), he says that
the seven Rishis are the media or instruments through which the divine Veda was
imparted to mankind; and that their names are variously given, Manu with Bhrigu,
Angiras and others, being sometimes reckoned among them; but of the whole
number, seven attained a pre-eminent dignity.
And, referring to the mistake by which riksha was changed into rishis,he says,
The notion of making bright conveyed also the idea of gladdening and cheering,
and hence arkshah became a name, not only for the sun, but for a hymn or song
of praise, and the makers or singers of these hymns were naturally termed Rishis,
or gladdeners. It was not less natural that, as the Rishis or sages took a stronger
hold on the imagination of the people, the seven Arkshas or stars should be converted
into IJishis, and that the IJishis should be said to have their abode in them.
And, he thinks, with Miiller, arktos became a name for the bear, among the
Western Aryans,
and stood to the Sanskrit riksha in the relation of the Greek T&TW, or 'carpenter/
to takshan, and the Latin pectus, 'a breast,' to vakshas; and then the seven stars
were necessarily converted into Seven Bears, while the sages whom the Hindu
placed in those shining orbs survived as the Seven Wise Men of Hellas, to reappear
under different forms, as we have already seen elsewhere.
I confess to having little faith in these etymological conclusions. It is
quite certain that the earliest names, everywhere, by which particular
groups of stars were designated, were those of animals and other visible
objects, fanciful resemblances to which the savage, like the child, readily
sees and traces. Nor is one name alone given to each group; but the same
group may have been, as in some cases the same group now is, known by
more than one name. The Great Bear is now known, also, as Charles's Wain,
the Dipper and the Pointers.
The roots ri$ and rig ^ and *
mean to "cut," or "cut off"
(couper, trancher), and from the former comes ri$fa$, '"cut off," ristis>
"measurement." Hence, perhaps, rishi, as one who composed measured
lines, i. e., "a poet." ARKS or raks means to "crush, wound, break, etc.,"
whence rak$has (ARksas) a "bear," and in Greek apao-o-co, ap/eos; and Latin
ur$usy "a bear." I do not find in Eichhoff the root meaning to "shine."
Raj is the only one, with that meaning, commencing with r, whence raj,
rajas, rajni, etc.
The student of the Veda will find that many of the ancient chieftains
and Rishis were reported to have been transferred to the skies; and all of
them, I am satisfied, were deemed to have become stars. Among them were
the seven sons of the Rishi Angiras, known as the Angirasas, and they, I am
106 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
sure, were regarded as being the seven stars of Ursa Major, long before the
Vedic hymns were composed. It is most probable that its name of Bear
was older still.
Four thousand years ago, the space now distinguished by the constella-
tion Draco was immediately in the vicinity of the northern extremity of the
axis about which the celestial sphere seemed to revolve; and one of the
stars, now designated as a in that constellation, was then so near the pole,
that it must have appeared stationary during the whole revolution, though
now it has, by means of that slow movement to which all the stars appear
subject, deviated from the pole as much as about 25 degrees.
The polar star of the Phoenicians was the brilliant one of the first magni-
tude, of the Little Bear ; whereas, in Homer's time, the Greeks made use of
a star in the Great Bear,
from its never being dipped in the floods of ocean,
as their guide in navigation. For 3,000 years before our era in the Little
Bear was nearer the pole than any other large star. It was the largest, in
the square of that constellation, and the Greeks called it Phoinike or he
Phoinike; but it was not near enough to the pole to serve as a guide to
navigators, before the middle of the third millennium before Christ (about
2500 B.C.) ; and from the olden times, long before Homer, the brightest star
in the constellation of the Great Bear was the pole-star of the Phoenicians.
(Bunsen: Egypt, iv. 349.)
The various groups of stars that we see in the heavens have always
exhibited the same appearances and configurations, and the stars in each
group, as well as the different groups, occupy the same relative positions
now that they did in the most ancient times. No changes have taken place
in the general arrangement; at least, none but minute changes, which are
not sensible to the eye, unaided by instruments.
These "radiant rulers, bringing winter and summer to mortals," were,
if not the very first, at least among the earliest objects of human worship.
They were the "heavenly host" of the Hebrews, "the Sons of God, who sang
the Jubilee of Creation." Cannes, Oe or Aquarius rose from the Red Sea to
impart science to the Babylonians; and the Bright Bull legislated for India
and Crete; while the Persians invoked the stars Tistrya and Vanant; and
everywhere in the East the stars were imagined to be animated intelligences,
presiding over human weal and woe; the potentates and "Holy Ones" of
heaven.
Among the array of sparkling points which to the first men the superin-
cumbent vault revealed, occupying the night with their unspeakable beauty,
most of them apart and alone, but many grouped into graceful clusters, none
DEITIES OFFERED BY NATURE 107
presented an appearance so strikingly beautiful and splendid as the stars of
Orion and Taurus, recognizable at once by their great brilliance and the
peculiarity of their arrangement.
Before calendars were known, the rising and setting of the constellations
were the chief guides of the herdsmen and shepherds, and the tiller of the
ground, in determining the progress of the seasons; and this made men in
general much more familiar with the appearances of the stars than they are
now. I found that the Comanches knew and had a name for the Great Bear.
Hesiod says:
But when Orion and Sirius have come into the middle of the heavens, and the rosy-
fingered Aurora has beheld Arcturus, then, O Perses, gather all the grapes home.
But when, at length, the Pleiades and the Hyades, and the Mighty Orion have
set, then be mindful of ploughing in time.
But if the desire of dangerous navigation has possessed you, when the Pleiades,
flying the fierce strength of Orion, have at length set in the dark sea, then surely
storms of wind will blow on every side.
At the rising of the Pleiades, the daughters of Atlas, begin to reap; but when
they set, to plough. These stars become invisible for forty days and nights; but
they appear again, as the year rolls round, when first the scythe is sharpened.
Orion [*Qpluv] with its great stars Betelguese, Bellatrix, Rigel and the
three Kings in his girdle, and Aldebaran, Sirius, Procyon, Castor and Pollux,
occupy the same quarter of the heavens, and excel in splendour every other
assemblage of stars, while above the Pleiades are, forming a triangle, the
great stars Algol, Algenib and Almaack in Perseus and Andromeda. And it
is reasonable to suppose that to these stars and to Arcturus, Regulus,
Antares, Vega and Spica, the souls of the ancient Rishis had been transferred,
when they exchanged earth for the skies.
The great stars also differ in colour, and the difference is perceptible to the
eye. Sirius, Vega, Altair and Spica are white: Aldebaran, Arcturus and
Betelguese are red: Capella and Procyon are yellow. And these differ-
ences are far more striking, in countries where the atmosphere is clear and
dry, not humid and hazy. In Syria, for instance, one star shines like an
emerald, another like a ruby; and the whole heavens sparkle as with various
gems.
The systematic arrangement of the stars in constellations, is of course
comparatively modern ; and more or less stars may, in later days, have been
assigned to particular groups. But some must always have been the same
the Pleiades, the Hyades, Castor and Pollux, Capella and her Kids; the
Three Kings of Ori5n, and the Great Bear; and to each of these groups, the
idea of unity must have been attached.
108 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Comets were no doubt considered to be flaming bodies, different in that
respect from the stars and planets, which, without flame, emitted only light,
visiting the heavens at intervals. There is, I think, no allusion to them
in the Vedas. Seneca says that neither Eudoxus nor Conon, both of whom
had diligently studied the astronomy of the Egyptians and collected such
accounts of eclipses as had been preserved by that people, makes any mention
of comets; but that Epigenes and Apollonius of Myndus, who had studied
among the Chaldseans, did speak of those bodies; one of them saying that
they were considered as bodies kindled in the air, and the other, that they
were of the number of planets, or wandering stars. There is not a word in
Ptolemy regarding comets. The Pythagoreans held them to be nothing
more than planets, reappearing after long intervals, and approaching the
sun as near as the planet Mercury does. A thousand years after the time
of Pythagoras, Olympiodorus considered a comet to be a sublunary body,
consisting of dry vapours set on fire by the sun. In the Vedic age, it is not
likely that any speculation as to their nature was indulged in.
In the writings of the ancients, we find no hint that comets then inspired
any of the terror with which they were afterwards viewed.
Meteors, shooting with a brilliant light athwart the sky, were, like the
lightning, to the Vedic people, a manifestation of the celestial fire. The
Aurora, with its brilliant and many-coloured streamers and banners of light
unrolled over the Northern sky, was another of these manifestations, of the
cause whereof, if they ever thought of causes, they were profoundly ignorant.
They had no means of ascertaining the causes of anything, and undoubt-
edly accepted each phenomenon as a sufficient cause of itself. They were
all manifestations of Agni, like the parti-coloured, brilliant flames of the
domestic and sacrificial fire.
The rainbow with its seven colours, with vast and beautiful arch spanning
the sky, was a phenomenon for which they could account as little as the
Hebrews, whose books taught that it was set in the heavens as the token of
a covenant made with men, that He would not again destroy the earth by
a flood.
It is asserted in the ancient poems entitled the Chaldaean Oracles, that
the universe was divided into seven distinct spaces or worlds. The Father,
it is said in the Poem on the Heavens,
DEITIES OFFERED BY NATURE 109
made seven worlds, including them under a globular form: he made the great host
of inerratic stars: he also placed the earth in the centre, the waters within its bosom,
and the air above it.
Psellus, the commentator, considered these worlds as concentric spheres,
which he defines, the first, or the exterior of the universe, being the pure
empyreal fire, the next three ethereal, and the last three the spheres of the
fixed stars, the seven planetary spheres, and the sublunary region.
THE VEDIC GODS.
The Vedic Gods resolve themselves into a mere collection of terms, all
denoting at first different aspects of the same idea. (Cox, ii. no.)
The consciousness that all the Deities are but different names of one
and the same Godhead breaks forth, indeed, here and there in the Veda;
but it is far from being general. One Poet, for instance, says (Rig-V. i. 164.
46),
They call him Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Agni; then he is the beautiful-winged
heavenly Garutmat; that which is one, the wise call it in different manners; they
call it Agni, Yama, JM^tariswain.
And again (Rig-V. x. 114. 5):
Wise Poets make the beautiful-winged, though he is one, manifold by names.
(Mutter: Chips: i. 29.)
AGNI.
That One, of which Miiller and the hymns that he quotes, speak, is not
God or the Godhead, in any sense that we now attach to either word. There
is no trace in the Veda of any conception of a God, existing by himself before
the universe became, and of that universe the generator, maker or creator.
The Vedic Poets never rose to the idea of such a God, or of a being like the
Zarathustrian Ahura Mazda. Their intellectual vision never reached
beyond the universe, or sought a First Cause for it, independent of it.
Agni wasfire, the actual fire, produced by attrition, of which flame, light
and heat were manifestations; the animal heat that was vitality; the celestial
fire, manifested in the lightning, the Aurora, the rainbow, the comets, the
light and heat emitted from the sun, and the light alone from the luminaries
of the night; and all these luminaries were but embodied forms of Agni.
But also Agni is the invisible Spirit of Fire, and as sudi invested with
personality and intelligence, with power, wisdom and beneficence. In a
single hymn ( U. 6) , he is besought to accept a log as an offering. He is the
youngest of the Gods, as the earthly fire. He is the messenger of the Gods
(bringing down the celestial fire, and mediator, because by him sacrifice is
effected). He is also son of strength, conqueror of horses, high-born,
loving songs, delighting in riches, lord and giver of wealth, wise and powerful,
giving rain, invincible strength, and food ; the sage, who goes wisely between
heaven and earth, like a friendly messenger between two hamlets. He is
intelligent, and is asked to perform the sacrifice, and sit down on the con-
secrated grass. Such is Miiller's translation (Chips i. 34) .
But only a paraphrase or commentary can express the real meaning of
the text, and be indeed a translation. The phrase "high-born" evidently
means, originating above the earth, and passing to and fro between the earth
and sky. I doubt whether the words "wise" and "intelligent'* correctly
reproduce the original. "Son of strength" may mean that the strength of
the hands produces it by attrition of two pieces of wood, of which the Veda
often speaks. He grants riches, because his light and heat, flowing from the
sun, cause the earth to produce food for men and animals. He delights in
riches, because he delights to cause the earth to produce riches, and, by thus
furnishing food, the cattle and horses that were then the chief wealth.
Manifested as lightning, he shatters the clouds and produces rain. His
warmth, and the food whose production he causes, and which he cooks,
give strength; and as the material fire he performs the sacrifice and becomes
manifest and visible on the grass. How he is conqueror of horses, is more
112 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
difficult to say. Probably the phrase should be subduer or driver of the
horses of the chariots of the luminaries.
The sun, in the Veda, is frequently called the "racer," the "runner," or
simply the "horse," and is often represented as standing on his car, drawn
by two, seven or ten horses. These are called Haritas, and are always
feminine. Various epithets are applied to them, as, joyful, many-coloured,
bathed in dew, beautifully-stepping, with lovely backs, etc.
In the Ninth Ashtaka we read,
The sun has yoked the ten Harits for his journey:
in the First,
the seven Harits bring thee, O bright sun, on thy cart;
and in the Fourth,
The seven Harits bring him, the sun, the spy of the world.
These Harits also are sometimes called the seven sisters (vii. 66. 15), and in
one passage they appear (ix. 86. 37) as
the Harits with beautiful wings.
In fact, Arvat, meaning, "quick, running, vehement," is often applied
to the sun, in the Veda, so that sometimes it stands as the name of the sun,
and sometimes, as a noun means a horse or his rider. It originally means
the swift sun, but it set other ideas vibrating, which gradually caused the
sun to be called a horse or horseman. One of the Poets (i. 163. 2) praises
the bright Vasus, because
out of the sun they have wrought a horse.
In i. 163. 3, the Poet tells the sun,
Thou, O Arvat (horse) art Aditya (the sun) ;
and in vi. 12. 6, Agni is invoked by the same name:
Thou, O Arvat, keep us from evil report! O Agni, lighted with all the fires! Thou
givest treasures.
Sometimes the horses (Miiller thinks, the rays of the sun) are called
not only haritas, but roMtas or rdhitds, and drushfc or arushds.
Yoke the Arushis to thy cart, bright Agni! The Harits, the Rohlts. With
them, bring the Gods to us.
AGNI 113
These may originally have been mere adjectives, meaning "white," "bright"
and "brown," but they soon grew to be the names of certain animals,
belonging to certain Gods. Thus we read (ii. 10. 2),
Hear thou, the brilliant Agni! My prayer; whether the two bkck horses bring
thy cart, or the two brown (rdhitd), or the two white horses (arushd) ; [and, viiA2. 2] :
Yoke the Harits and the Rohltas or the Arush^s which are in thy stable.
ArusM, by itself, means "cow," and the Arushis or bright cows belong more
particularly to the dawn. Instead of saying "The day dawns," the old
Poets of the Veda frequently say, "The bright cows return." The Arushis,
like the Harits, were sometimes termed the Seven Sisters (x. 5. 5),
He brought the Seven Sisters, the Arushis.
Arushd, a masculine, is, in the Veda, one of the most frequent epithets or
names of the sun. It is used in the sense of bright (vii. 75. 6) :
The red bright horses are seen, bringing to us the brilliant dawn.
ArusM is always the young sun, in the Veda, who drives away the dark
night (vii. 71. i):
Night goes away from her sister, the Dawn, the dark one opens the path for Arusha*.
Once he is called the bright Sun with beautiful wings.
iv. 15. 6. Him, the God Agni, they adorn and purify every day like a horse
that has run his race; like Arush, the bright Sun, the young child of Dyaus.
vi. 49. 2. Let us worship Agni, the child of heaven, the son of strength, Arusha",
the bright light of the sacrifice.
ii. 38. 6. Before the night has half finished her weaving, the sun rises again.
Then Agni goes to all men and all houses; his light is powerful, and his mother,
the Dawn, gives him the best share, the first worship among men.
Mr. Cox says (i. Mythol. 48) :
The root vdh, to "convey
1 *
(the Latin veho), gave a name to the horse, to the flame
of fire, and to the rays of the sun. Metaphor, without which there can be no
growth or expansion of language, soon changed the rays of the sun into horses.
But these horses, Vahni, had yet another epithet, Harit, which signified at first
the brilliance produced by fat and ointment. "Glittering with fat" became a
title for the horses, or flames, of Agni. By a like process of metaphor, the rays
of the sun were changed into golden hair, spears and lances, and rays of light.
But if it is the rays of the sun, that are the Harits, his horses, why are
they of a definite number, seven or ten?
114 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The writers of Aitareya-brahmana could still say,
Agni, is all the Deities, Vishnu is all the Deities.
Light and heat manifest themselves in all.
We are all familiar with the philosophical doctrine that God is all his
manifestations, the whole Deity manifesting itself limitedly and in one
particular phase: but no manifestation is all of Deity, nor gives any cogni-
zance of the Very Deity. It is the whole soul of a man that thinks a thought ;
but no one thought nor any number of thoughts are the whole soul.
The root of this doctrine is in the old Aryan fire-worship. All light and
heat and all luminaries and meteors and luminous appearances, the light-
ning, the Zodiacal light and the Aurora, the Galaxy, the dawn, are manifes-
tations of Agni, the fire, the essential, unmanifested principle, which
manifests itself in flame, light and heat, including the vital warmth, which
to them was life itself. Fire was not, to the Aryans, the symbol of the First
Cause. To say that, as Narrien does, is to impute to those simple herds-
men the idea of a much later age.
Rig-V. ii. 1. 3. Thou, Agni, art Indra, bountiful to the excellent: Thou art
Vishnu, the wide-stepping, the adorable.
vii. 20. 2. All divine power, like that of the sky, was completely communicated
to thee, Indra, by the Gods, when thou, O impetuous Deity, associated with Vishnu,
didst slay Vjitra Ahi, who shut up the waters.
The "divine power, like that of the sky," here spoken of, is plainly the
energy of the celestial fire, as it manifests and displays itself in action, as
the lightning. Its effects must often have been seen, upon trees and other
objects struck by it; and it was supposed, by shattering the dark clouds, to
set loose the imprisoned rain.
v. 3. 1. Thou, Agni, art Varuna, when thou art born p.-e., manifested out-
wardly, thou art Varuna]; thou art Mitra, when thou art kindled [i. e., Mitra is
fire burning, blazing, flaming]; son of strength, in thee reside all the Gods [i. e.,
thou art the essence and principle of all of them, and they are all manifestations
of thee] : Thou art Indra, to the man who sacrifices [i. e., Indra, when manifested
as the sacrificial fire],
Thou art Aryaman, when thou, self-controlled, possessest the secret name of
the maidens. [When self-limited and so by limitation manifested, thou art called
by the mystic name of the maidens. These, whatever luminaries they are, are in
some way connected with the luminary called Aryaman.]
Satapatha Brahmana xi. i. 6.
The man who became PrajfLpati is the same as this Agni who is kindled on the altar.
[What man became Prajapati? There is no deification of men in the Veda. The
AGNI 115
meaning must be that it is the same Agni that bums on theraltar, which exercises
specific functions and is invested with individuality and a person, as PrajipatL]
Prajapati is Daksha. He is also, Mr. Cox says, time and death.
The Gods were afraid of this ender, Death, the year which is Prajipati, lest
he should by days and nights bring on the end of our life.
It is tight that in one sense constitutes time; for without light there would
be no measurement of time, no days and years. Prajtpati was, probably,
this measure of time, light, fulfilling this office. Time is indeed the ender.
The returning days at last bring with them death; and thus light, making
the days, becomes, as it were, the author of death.
He is Rudra, he is Siva, lie is Agni, he is Saivi, the all-conquering; he is Indra,
he is Vayu, he is the Awins, he is the lightning, he is the moon, he is Iswara, he
is Stirya, he is Varuna, he is death the ender, he is time; he is darkness and night
and the days; he is the months and the half-months of the seasons, the morning
and evening twilight, and the year.
If we collect from the Veda, and group together under different heads,
what the hymns contain in respect to the characteristics of Agni and his
relations to the sacrifices, to men, and to the other Deities, we may learn
what it was, that, as him, they worshipped, and be prepared to make, more
intelligently, the same inquiry as to the other Gods.
As simply fire, he is termed the radiant,
the constant illuminator of truth, increasing thine own dwelling.
This, Wilson thinks, is the chamber in which fire-worship is performed. The
phrase "illuminator of truth" he does not endeavour to explain. As an
English phrase, it has simply no meaning. May not the phrase rendered
by it, have meant, whose light makes visible the reality of things, the
material objects, by which men are surrounded, and which, but for the light
which reveals them, would have for them, as it were, no real existence? I
think that the word "truth" should be "the real" or "the actual," L e.,
"material nature."
The phrase "increasing thine own dwelling," is easily explained by
comparison with other passages, where the habitation of Agni is spoken of.
Agni is all fire, wherever manifested. When kindled, by attrition or other-
wise, he localizes himself, and dwells where he burns, as he does in a
star or dawn; and spreading and extending, he increases continually the
116 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
size of the place or space in which he manifests himself and dwells. I see
no reference to the "fire-chamber." The sacrifice was generally in the
open air; and a chamber would not be increased in size by the fire kindled
inil,
Agni is generated by attrition, resplendent, ever young (for he never
changes nor grows feeble, nor decays) , and wise, radiant, remover of disease,
bright, the purifier, shining with pure radiance. (Whether the word "wise"
is a correct interpretation, I doubt. Knowledge of the actualities of the
world, comes by means of the light which makes them visible to us; and it
was a natural idea that the fire knew and saw all things which the light made
visible. It searches and penetrates into the most secret corners and intricate
ways, and may be said to know all things.)
He abides in the waters, for he illuminates them also, so that the eye
can look into the depths of the streams and lakes; and in them the stars
seem to dwell at night, and the sun by day.
Lord of Sustenance [the Poet says], assume thy vestments, and offer this our
sacrifice.
His vestments are the visible shape which he assumes, of flame, to manifest
himself withal: and he is Lord of Sustenance, because his light and heat
cause the earth to produce, and by his heat, what is produced is cooked for
the support of life. Moreover, his heat is the vital force, the life and sus-
tainer of life of all living beings.
He is vast, illimitable, smoke-bannered, of variant splendour, brilliant-
rayed, distributer of riches as the waves of a river are parted by interjacent
isles; the word rendered "riches" probably meaning his wealth of light,
divided into different portions and manifestations, and among the various
luminaries.
He is manifold, for the benefit of all the world, intelligent, the offspring
of two mothers, and reposing in various ways for the use of man ; pre-eminent
over the world, become manifest to the worshipper. He is sapient and
intelligent, because he explores everywhere, and sees all that is and all that
is done. For the benefit of the world, he is manifested in many ways and
by many orbs, as flame, light and heat, and the vital force* He is the off-
spring of the heavens and the earth, and becomes fixed and stationary in
various ways for the use of man. From above the world, from the skies,
he is asked to come down, and become manifest in flame to the sacrifice.
"It announced Heaven to man;" i, e., it enabled him to discern the sky.
It enables the herdsman who has followed the wrong path, to retrace his
steps, and find the true way. It sustains life, by furnishing food, and by
cooking many things otherwise unfit to be eaten.
AGNI 117
Irreproachable, a vigilant God, in the proximity of thy parents. For
nothing is so pure, so free from the grossness of matter, so immaculate,
stainless, taintless, of such tenuity and subtility, as fire and flame. It is
watchful, vigilant to gain an advantage, to evade men's watchfulness, and
extend and encroach, is open-eyed and wary. "In the proximity of thy
parents/' must mean, in intimate connection with, latent and inherent in,
the heavens or sky, and the earth.
He is styled "four-eyed"Agni, blazing as the protection of the worshipper :
and the meaning of the expression "four-eyed," must allude to something
that belongs to the ordinary fire of the sacrifice; perhaps to the different
colours of the flame; or perhaps four fires were lighted, at the cardinal points.
All-wise [i. e., all-beholding and knowing], he instructs the disciple, and defines
the limits of the horizon.
"Instructing the disciple," probably meant showing the way over the plains
or through the forests, to one who had not yet learned the features of 'the
country, or to the young herdsman.
The flames of thee, who art mighty and eternal, spread around thy rays, and
reach to the heavens.
Nothing is more irresistible than fire, and not being subject to decay, there
are no limits to its existence. When it consumes the forests, it seems to
flame upward to the sky.
The good and durable actions which the Gods perform, are all aggregated in
thee [i. e., are manifestations of thyself].
From Agni emanate, through the luminaries of the sky, 'all the beneficent
influences of light and heat, by which those luminaries act upon the earth
and living beings.
Bright with thine own radiance p. e., thy brightness being thine own manifes-
tation]; sit on the sacred grass: shine forth: emit the curling and graceful smoke.
Agni, with the burning rays; whose rays pre-eminently shine [i. e., shine far above
us, in the sky].
Manu detained thee, Agni, light to the various races of mankind.
Denizen of the sky, he was domiciled on earth by Manu, as Prometheus gave
men the fire from heaven. His flames are luminous, potent, fear-inspiring,
and not to be trusted.
He is "the immortal 'sustainer of the universe;" for the fire, light and
heat are the very life of Nature. He is associated with Ushas and the Aswins ;
for it is his light that they manifest.
118 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
He is "the radiant-haired, whose flames give delight;" "strength-
generated," "son of strength," because produced by attrition: "quick-
hearing, widely-renowned;" quick, perhaps, to hear the coming wind; and
"widely-renowned," probably, meant celebrated and adored everywhere.
"By suitable paths he has made the firmament:" an expression which,
taken literally, has little or no meaning. How could it be imagined that
fire had made the firmament? The meaning must have been that, mani-
festing himself in light, at such points, in such directions, and by such
movements as pleased him, he made the array of luminaries in the sky,
without which there would be no visible sky, but only intense impenetrable
darkness.
"Armed with th6 flame, and vivified by the wind,with all his might,in a volume
of fire, he rushes triumphant through the forest: swiftly devouring it, he climbs
the dry wood: his blaze, consuming, runs like a race-horse, and his roaring sounds
as if high in the air.
He is asked to be "a shelter to those who praise him;" to "protect his
worshipper from sin;" by which word, rendered sin, was probably meant
being lost in the plain or forest.
He is "rich with righteous acts," and is therefore asked to come early
in the morning. The phrase, "righteous acts" applied to fire or light, is
simple nonsense: but with light and heat, Agni abounds with effects that
are good and excellent and beneficial to men.
All other fires are branchings of Agni. In him, being immortal, they rejoice.
He is manifested as Vaisw&nara, the navel of men, supporting them like a column
deeply planted. Treasures [i. e., potencies, powers, the manifestations of Agni],
were deposited in him. He slew the stealer of the waters, and sent these down
on the earth. All the Gods engendered him, in the form of night, for the venerable
sage: and, as him, Agni, the head of heaven and navel of the earth, became ruler
over both earth and heaven. VaiSwanara by his greatness is all men, and is to be
worshipped as the diffuser of manifold light.
What was intended by the Agni Vaiw&nara, can only be conjectured.
He is "engendered by all the nocturnal luminaries, for the venerable sage,"
a meaningless phrase. He is "the navel of men,
19
which is nonsense, "sup-
porting them like a column." The word rendered "men" we have noticed
elsewhere, means simply individuals, and in that sense is applied to lumi-
naries. The navel of these luminaries was probably that through which they
were imagined to receive their sustenance of light. Agni is styled the head of
the heavens, perhaps because the luminaries of heaven are its eyes, and the
navel of the earth, because fire and light are its life.
AGNI 119
Vaiwinara was supposed to have some direct agency in causing rains.
He lighted both earth and heaven, by his magnitude equalled all the lumi-
naries together, and diffused manifold light. By him must have been
intended, either the lightning, or the Aurora, or else Agni in his character
and office of manifester of light in the darkness; i. e., Agni as light alone.
Agni is
the kind kinsman of the waters .... he breathes amid the waters like a sitting
swan .... Awakened at the dawn [it is said in this connexion], he restores
consciousness to men. Born from the waters, like an animal with coiled-up limbs,
he became enlarged, and his light flowed afar.
This is evidently a description of day coming from the ocean. Neither fire,
light nor heat can be said to come from the water or be in it, or be kinsman
of it, except in the sense that day and the sun rise out of it.
He tosses about his rays, like streams of water. The rays commingle, visible
in the sky. He is born in the woods, and hides in the hollows. He upholds the
earth and sky, and props up heaven with true prayers.
It is not likely that this phraseology in the least degree reproduces the real
meaning of the original. How fire props up the sky with prayers, the most
vivid imagination would find it difficult to conceive. The fire, which seemed
inherent like a soul, in all Nature, was regarded as its principle and source
of life, activity and movement. The spheres were fed by it, and from them
the earth received nourishment and sustenance. B.ut it would be hard to
find any meaning in the phrase, "Like the unborn, he props up the heaven
with true prayers'
1
"Like the unborn" probably means (or at least the
words thus rendered mean), that Agni, not being anything produced by the
earth or sky, but existing before them, or independent of them, gives them
life and sustenance, by sending up to them the smoke and flame of the
sacrifices.
Radiant among the Gods, and in his single self comprehending the potencies of
all of them. Born living in the dry wood, he who delights in the sacrificial chamber,
has studded the sky with constellations. He assumes all celestial natures; is white-
shining, extinguisher of the dawn, illuminator, is possessed of manifold light, and
while filling the all with radiance, gives homes to men, and enables them to descry
the forms of the objects that surround them.
In his essence, he is not perceptible by the senses, but is cognizable by
the intellect alone. He is manifested as light. He is in everything, and
everywhere, exercising beneficent influences; he rules the night, and is all-
knowing, knowing the origin of Gods and men ; for he is the source and origin
120 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
of all the Gods, and all men owe to him their vitality. He was before any
of these were, and therefore could be said to know their origin.
Invested with actuality, as a visible fire, everything augments him.
The air makes him bright, and to shine in every mansion. He bestows
light on his daughter, Ushas, the dawn.
It is the golden-haired Agni who shakes the clouds, when the rain is
poured down. As the lightning, he nourishes the world with the milk of the
rain.
He is localized as the digestive agent in the human body, as the vital
principle: then among the seven conspicuous mothers; and, thirdly, the
associated generate him, delighting in the ten quarters of space, to produce
rain, or to send down light upon the earth.
His radiance is undecaying, his rays are everywhere visible and bright,
penetrating and pervading everywhere. He is three-headed and seven-rayed.
For he is flame, light and heat. These are his manifestations or heads; and
passing through a prism, his light is of seven colours. He is
the living breath of three-fold Nature, co-extensive with the sky, perennial heat.
When Professor Wilson speaks of "producing by attrition the far-seeing,
single-minded, intelligent, immortal, radiant-limbed Agni," we plainly
enough see that these English epithets are ludicrously inapplicable to a fire
kindled in the woods by rubbing two sticks together. We suspect at once
that "far-seeing" should be "shining to a distance," that "single-minded"
should be "acting for, or applied to, a single purpose;" and that the words
"intelligent" and "immortal" probably express ideas to us, which nothing
suggested to the makers of these hymns. Nothing shows that they had any
idea of endless existence: and I do not believe that they meant to ascribe
the human intelligence to Agni, or wisdom or truth, in the meaning that
these words have to us.
Latent in the dry wood, produced by attrition from it, and manifested
in the sky, distinct names were given to Agni.
Strong-toothed, he attacks and devours the forest; unimpeded, he
traverses the sky and earth. He causes the rivers to flow, by producing
rains. Men have cognizance of him as white, in the chief place of his mani-
festation. That is, he is manifested as light, and not as flame, in the firma-
ment. As such, he is Vaiw&nara Agni, in worshipping whom, air, earth
and sky unite. Shining as such with never diminishing splendour, he pours
light over both the heavens and the earth. It is he also, who shines resplen-
dent as the sun. He shines before the dawn comes ; he is latent in the waters,
and enters into the nascent plants.
AGNI 121
As possessed of various faculties, and performing many functions, Agni
is, further, the high priest of the sacrifice, because it is the fire that consumes
the offering.
*
He is the ministrant, who presents the oblation ; the invoker
of the Gods. He is the messenger of the Gods, because his light and heat
come from them to the earth, and he conveys to them the smoke and smell
of the sacrifice. He is the bearer of offerings, beloved by many. He is the
possessor of wealth, because he is the bestower of it. He removes disease
by drying up and dispersing its causes. He is the giver of rewards, i. e.,
of benefits and the returns of labour ; the benefactor of the universe ; the giver
of strength, children and long life. He is like a loving father to a son, a
kinsman to a kinsman, a friend to a friend. He is the lord of men, the
gracious, the chosen, the first of the immortals, the friend of the Deities;
the giver of delight, the domestic guardian of mankind. He is the perma-
nent sustainer of the universe, exempt from death, preserver.
He is the protector in villages, the associate of man, placed in the East;
the provider of dwellings, i. e., who supplies the wants of the household.
He is the guest at sacrifices, to be valued as an affectionate friend. He is the
friend of man, holding in his hand all wealth. He appropriates the prayers
addressed to the eternal creator: i. e., he may be appropriately addressed as
the eternal author of all life, since there is no other creator than he.
He has a visible existence as (is like, Wilson) the divine sun, who discerns
all the material world (all that is true). He preserves by his influences in
all encounters (or emergencies); manifested in Nature he is unchangeable;
and in his essence, is the source of all comfort and enjoyment. In him is
all existence.
He is, as it were, the generator of men, as well as of heaven and earth. From
him, creation has drunken in life; and yet he becomes manifested, in place and by
limitation, where his glories are. It is he who, entering into the womb, procreates.
In this expression we catch the first glimpse of that which led to the
Phallic worship. The instrument by which Agni, the vital principle, was
conveyed into the womb, naturally enough became the symbol of that
principle.
He is the first of the Gods, and their nourisher, also, when he is kindled by man
upon the altar.
He is the most wise, the creator, the son of strength, whose chariot is the
lightning, his hair, flame, and his glory manifested on the earth. He is like a
great ocean, everywhere. He goes to the vapours in the heavens; congre-
gates the Divinities that are the vital airs; animates the waters, in the bright
region above the sun, and in the atmosphere below. Like a horse, he
122 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
conveys men's supplications to the Gods, and like a benefactor is affectionate
and propitious, ministering at the sacrifices. He is the mediator between
men and the Deities, the earth and the heavens. As the sun, he is the lover
of the dawn. Enabling men to find their way, he preserves them from
error and wandering astray, i. e., from sin. He consumes the foes of his
worshippers, by which may perhaps be meant cold and storm.
He bestows faculties; because in perpetual darkness, men would have
none, or the use of none. He is the guide of those who conciliate him by
devotion. He is brilliant, beautiful, auspicious,- righteous, and also de-
stroyer: the enduring maker, the beholder of men; the purifier, and the king
of men. Knowing the ascents of the sky, he travels between earth and
heaven.
As connected with or related to particular Divinities, he is Deva (bright,
shining, radiant). He is invoked to bring with him to the sacrifice, all the
Divinities that awake with the dawn Indra, Vayu, and the glories of
Mitra, with them to drink the Soma, to arrange them and decorate them.
He is invoked to come with the Maruts (the winds), Divinities abiding
in the radiant heaven above the sun.
He is invoked,
that he may give us to the great Aditi, and that I may behold again my father
and my mother.
X
The meaning of this we can only conjecture. The great Aditi may have
been the great Nature Goddess, like the Egyptian Isis; and the whole may
have been the expression of or longing to know to what powers, of generation
and production, the universe owed its existence. For surely those old Poets
must sometimes have thought that the material world must have had a
beginning, and if a beginning, a cause or causes.
Agni was the first Angiras, Rishi, or Divinity. Thou, Vasu, it is said
to him, hast worshipped the venerable Gods.
The Deities Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman kindle thee, their messenger from of
old.
Meaning, probably that the luminaries Varufta, Mitra and Aryaman light
up in themselves, or blaze and shine with the light of Agni, which they have
always sent down to the earth.
That Agni, whose rays Kanwa made more brilliant than the sun, is the
blazing sacrificial fire. This the context shows.
AGNI 123
Agni is "associated with Ushas and the Awins." He is Vaiwnara
the lightning. As Yama, he is all that is and that will be born. Ushas,
the dawn, is his daughter. He is chief of the Angirasas, and with him,
Mitra and Varuna, the two kings, are invoked, to worship for the sacrificer.
When Agni refreshes the world with rain, then Mitra, Aryaman, Varuna and
the Encompassers, pierce through the envelope into the womb of the cloud. He
abides with the seven conspicuous mothers; and the associated generate him, revel-
ling in the ten quarters of space.
By him, Mitra, Varuna and Aryaman are animated, for at his origin, they were
all comprehended in him [in their wholeness, in all their functions]: he encompassing
them as the felly of a wheel does the spokes.
They have styled the sun, Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Agni. Agni is all the Divini-
ties.
He is Indra, the adorable Vishnu. Thou Brahmapaspati art Brahma
1
. He is
the royal Varuna, the adorable Mitra, Aryaman. He is Rudra, the divine Savitri;
and, to the offerer of the oblation, Aditi.
Agni, Varuna, Mitra, Matuts, grant happiness, Gods!
It is impossible to doubt what Agni was, to the Aryan Poets. He was
the Universal Fire, and as such the vital principle of the universe. And it
is equally impossible to doubt that all the other Deities were but manifesta-
tions of him, phenomena or orbs of light.
Neither heaven nor earth could measure his greatness. He was all the
fire, all the flame, all the light, and all the heat, in the earth and upon it,
in the expanse, in its luminaries, and in the sky; and beyond them all in
every direction.
And this all was regarded as One, as a unit, of which all portions were
the outflowings or emanations, and the orbs were manifestations, each of
them Agni himself, manifested and limited, in place and form.
From these ideas of self-limitation, of manifestation in place and form,
by the luminaries, and of the invisible fire-essence or universal, the fire-
spirit, becoming visible by manifestation, giving and preserving life, and
blessing men with benefits, creating, preserving, and also consuming and
destroying, came not only the idea of the Hindu Triad, and the emanation
doctrines of the Kabbalah and the Gnostics, but all the great philosophical
and religious doctrines of the later days, and of this day of ours.
It Tyas the old Aryan thought that spoke, by the mouth of one of another
race, in the sentences which became the creed of Christendom: *Ev abrq
&yn fy, K<xi % f6)17 fy TO <o3s T&V ca>6p&7rtov; Kal TO $&$ & TTJ cntoria. <p&Lvet.t teal
odrb oft Kazkcifiev . . . Tip TO <f>&s TO &\rj&wov, o
124 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
In him life was, and the life was the light of men; and the light shines in the
darkness; and the darkness does not limit [or contain] it It was the true
light, which illuminates every man who comes into the world.
Plato, of that Greek race which seems to have been more purely Aryan
than any other branch of the great family, or else to have intermixed with
aboriginal races more nearly equal to itself, than the others did, says,
The primary God must be free from works, and a king; but the Demiourgos must
exercise government, going through the heavens. Through him comes this our
condition; through him reason being sent down in efflux, holds communion with
all who are prepared for it; God then looking down, and turning himself to each
of us, it comes to pass, that our bodies live and are nourished, receiving strength
from the outer rays which come from him.
And Philo, the Alexandrian Jew, born before, and living after, Christ,
after recounting the four chief potencies of God, says:
So that the Word is, as it were, the charioteer of the potencies, and he who utters
it is the rider, who directs the charioteer how to proceed with a view to the proper
guidance of the universe.
And, borrowing his ideas from the Greeks, he takes us at once back to
the early Vedic thought. He says :
And the invisible divine Reason, perceptible only by intellect, he calls the image
of God. And the image of this image, is that light, perceptible only by the intellect,
which is the image of the divine Reason, which had explained its generation
If any one were to call it universal light, he would not be very wrong; since it is
from it that the sun and the moon, and all the other planets and fixed stars derive
their due light, in proportion as each has power given to it; that immingled and
pure light being obscured when it begins to change, according to the change from
that which is perceptible by the intellect only, to that which is perceptible by the
external senses.
Even before the creation, God saw [Philo says], using himself as light . . ,
When the beams of the light-giving God, immingled as they are, and entirely pure,
and visible at the greatest distance, shone upon the eye of the soul, being compre-
hensible only by the intellect, then the eye of the soul could see nothing else,
Agni is wise; and Philo says,
It is owing to wisdom that what is wise is contemplated; but not only is wisdom
like light, the instrument of seeing; but it also beholds itself. Thus, in God, is the
archetypal model of the sun, and the sun itself is only its image and copy; and he
who shews all things, is the only all-knowing being.
He to whom aU things are known, who illuminates the universe by the most
brilliant of all lights, Himself.
We must understand that the expression, Yehuah was seen by Abraham, has
not the meaning that the Cause of all things shone forth and became visible; but
that some one of the potencies that are of him, viz., the regal potency [Malakoth],
became visible to the light.
AGNI 125
It will be easy for any one familiar with the ancient philosophies to
find passages in abundance, in which the ideas of the Aryan hymns are
developed into doctrines, and became articles of faith or tenets of philosophy.
We need not cite them here.
As the Zend-Avesta contains the development of an advance in the
Aryan religion, earlier than the Veda, and retained the adoration of fire and
light, with that of the creator, Ahura Mazda, we may naturally expect to
find in it ideas corresponding with those of the Veda. In Fargard omii.
we find:
43. For the first third of the night, the fire of Ahura Mazda asks the master
of the house for protection: 'Stand up, O master of the house!
1
44. 'Put on thy clothes, wash thy hands, seek fire-wood and bring it hither
to me, make me shining with the pure fire-wood, with washed hands.*
45. 'To me might the Azis, created by the Davas come, who appears, to snatch
me from the world.'
46. For the second third of the night, the fire of Ahura Mazda asks the husband-
man for protection : 'O active husbandman, lift thyself up !'
47. 'Put on thy clothes, wash thine hands, seek fire-wood, bring it hither to
me, make me shining with the pure fire-wood, with washed hands, else the Azis
created by the Daevas might come, who appears to snatch me from the world/
48. For the third third of the night, the fire asks the holy raosha for protec-
tion: *O holy Qraosha, beautiful!'
49. 'Then he brings me to the fire-wood of the corporeal world, to the purified
with washed hands.'
50. 'Else might Azis created by the Dsevas come hither, who appears to snatch
me from the world.'
56. 'Whoso .brings pure fire-wood to the fire of Ahura Mazda, with washed
hands,'
57. 'Him will the fire bless, contented without hate and satisfied.'
And, Vispered viii.:
21. Thee, the Fire, the son of Ahura Mazda, the pure, lord of purity, we
praise.
Ya$na loci, is an invocation to Fire, vowing to it offering and praise, as
son of Ahura Mazda.
Give me, O Fire, son of Ahura Mazda [it cries], swift brightness, swift nourish-
ment, swift blessings of life, greatness in holiness, fluency for the tongue, but for
thesoul, sense and understanding .... then manly courage .... well nourished,
heavenly posterity, .... which grows up, is enduring, pure from crime and
manly .... May I attain good reward, good renown, good sanctification for
the soul .... We praise the holy fire, the strong, the warrior.
PHILOSOPHICAL DEFINITIONS.
I have spoken of Agni as being, according to the Aryan idea, a "univer-
sal,*
5
and of his "hypostases" or "persons;" of "emanations" and "manifesta-
tions," It may not be amiss, for general readers, to mark more definitely the
meanings, in philosophy, of these and some other terms; since I may thus
enable them to gain a clearer conception of my understanding of the Vedic
ideas.
I understand them to have conceived of Agni as a substance, in the
philosophical meaning of that term, and as a Universal substance, every-
where diffused and existing, and nowhere manifested except partially.
Spinoza says,
I understand by substance, that which is in itself and is conceived of by itself;
that is to say, that the conception whereof can be formed, without there being
need of the conception of another thing.
Substance is defined to be, "that which is and abides." It may be
derived from subsistens (ens per se subsistens), that which subsists of or by
itself; or from substans (id quod sub-stat), that which lies under qualities.
But in Greek, "substance" is denoted by ofoia, being: so that that which
truly is, or "essence," seems to be the proper meaning of substance.
Locke says,
The idea, then, we have, to which we give the name of 'substance/ being nothing
but the supposed but unknown support of these qualities we find existing, which
we imagine cannot subsist, sine re substante, without something to support them,
we call that support, substantra, which, according to the true import of the word is,
in plain English, standing under or upholding.
Dr. Hampden has said,
Substance, in its logical and metaphysical sense, is that nature of a thing which
may be conceived to remain, when every other nature is removed or abstracted
from it the ultimate point in analyzing the complex idea of any object
,1 do not propose to enter into the subtleties of metaphysics, in regard
to substance, considered by itself, with all its accidents, attributes and
qualities abstracted or eliminated. I wish only to find a word, by which
I may express the Aryan idea.
Conceive of a soul or spirit, not resident in a body, but indefinitely
extended, a veritable, intelligent, but immaterial, being, of which, in itself,
we can have no cognition. Conceive it thinking, and that the utterances
of its thoughts are not sounds or words, but fire, flame, light and heat,
PHILOSOPHICAL DEFINITIONS 127
and that are all manifestations and visible revealings of its Self. It, the
substance that is behind them, is each and all of them. Before manifesta-
tion they have no separate existence, but only exist as indivisible parts of
its Self. They are, in metaphysical language, "subsistences;" subsistentia
being "a substantial mode, added to a singular nature, and constituting a
suppositum along with it. It means (i.) the thing itself, the supposition;
hence we call the three Persons of the Trinity three hypostases or subsis-
tences; (ii.} the mode, added to the singular nature, to complete its existence;
this is the metaphysical sense." Fire, as perceptible by the senses, flame,
light and heat, are subsistences or hypostases of the invisible Substance or
Soul, and, before manifested, are in and parts of its unity.
This is identically the idea of Philo and the Gnostics, according to which,
the Supreme Being is the Primitive Light, or Archetype of Light, source
from which the rays emanate, which illuminate souls. The Logos or Word,
is his image, a form more brilliant than fire, which is not pure light. This
Word abides in God, and is the vehicle by which God acts in the universe.
The potencies of God were the ideas of Plato hypostasized; and so the
visible manifestations of Agni were his potencies constituted into Persons
or Deities.
According to the Zend-Avesta, the Supreme Being was so enveloped
in his own glory, and his nature and attributes were so inaccessible to human
intelligence, that he was, for it, only the object of a silent veneration. The
first emanation from the eternal was the primitive light. From the Persian
ideas those of the Kabbalah were borrowed ; and its Ancient of Days or King
of the Light, was the Archetype of Light of Persians, and the Brahm of the
Hindus, unapproachable by the intellect. In the Kabbalah, the universe is
his revelation, and his holy splendour ; and the Sephiroth or Ten Emanations,
were his out-shinings, the first including all the others, and being all the
others, and Ain-Soph, of whose Very Self no cognizance can be had, mani-
festing himself by each of them.
The holy and blessed Being is the space in which the universe is contained,
and not the universe the space in which he is contained for God is not compre-
hended in anything; but he comprehendeth all things. Philo Jud&us.
The Gnostics adopted most of the doctrines of Philo, and especially
these:
that the Supreme Being is a Source of Lights, whose rays or emanations permeate
the universe; that the lights and shadows, in all time hostile principles, dispute
with each other the empire of the world; that the world has been created, not by
the Supreme Being, but by a secondary agent, who is but his Word, and according
to types that are but his Ideas, assisted by an Intelligence, a Sophia [wisdom],
128 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
which is but one of his Attributes; that the visible world is the image of the invisible
world ; that the essence of the human soul is the image of God, and it existed before
the body, etc. (Matter: Histoire du Gnosticisme, i. 75.)
All these ideas are to be found, in substance, in the Veda or the Zend-
Avesta.
So, in the later Egyptian religion, the same Aryan ideas were incorpo-
rated. Amon was the Pleroma, comprehending all things in himself, and
the Light, for he was the God-Sun. He created nothing, for all things
emanated from him. His image was necessarily the representation of the
principal attributes of the Divinity, attributes which the other Gods pos-
sessed only in part, being themselves only so many manifestations of the
Supreme Being. (Matter: Hist, du Gnost* i. 84.)
Saint Ignatius said, in his Epistle to the Magnesians,
There is one single God, who has manifested himself by his Son, which is the eternal
Word, which has not issued forth from silence; and which has fully satisfied him
who sent him.
In all the Gnostic systems, the Eternal Nameless Deity at first kept
contained and concealed in himself the plenitude of his perfections, and
when he displayed and manifested them, there resulted therefrom as many
particular existences, all analogous to himself, and all himself still: and
these developments did not change his manner of being. He remained
unchangeable at their head. These ideas, conceptions, manifestations of
the Divinity were so many creations, so many beings, who were all God,
who were nothing without him, but were far more than what we call ideas.
They emanated from and re-entered into God. (Matter: Hist, du Gnost.
i. 409.)
So the Christian Tertullian held, that God was concealed and inacces-
sible, and did not reveal Himself to man in the plenitude of his Divinity,
but according to the strength of the human intelligence, being revealed by
his Son; as we cannot see the sun in its proper substance but only in its
rays:
vt invisfbftem patrem intelligamus pro plenitudine majestatis, visib&em vero f&ium
agnoscamus pro modulo derivationis; sicvt nee solem nobis contemplari licet, gwntittm
ad ipsam svbstantiam swntnam gu& est in c&lis, radium ejus toleramus ocuUs pro
is, qua in terram unde porrigtiur* (Adv. Marc. U. 27.)
The Word of God he considered as a result, an ulterior consequence of
the divine Reason (gma non> sermonalis a principis, sed rationalis Deus).
But both were in the beginning with God, the Word being included in the
PHILOSOPHICAL DEFINITIONS 129
Reason, and this soon to be spoken by the Word (qua per sermonem moxerat
dicturus). (Adv. Prax. 7.)
And Origen, though he calls the Word a creature of God, yet describes
the production of it as a natural outflowing from God: and if we admit an
eternal manifestation of God in his revelation, as Origen held, it follows that
the Force emanated from him must be considered as an eternal essence,
different from God, the Father of this Force: for the Wisdom of God, which
regulates all creation, does not consist in pure representations; it establishes
a true Being, an essential Substance; it is a Creative Power, the Word-
Creator, or the Son of God. (Ritter: Hist, de la PhUosophie Chretienne,
translated by Trullard, i. 443.)
Sabellius endeavoured to reconcile the doctrine of the Trinity with the
Unity of God, by considering the differences of the Father, Son and Holy
Spirit as differences of manifestation, and not of individual substance.
(Id. n. 12.)
The word "God," Leibnitz says, means sometimes the divine substance,
sometimes a Person of the Divinity. (Disc, de la Conformity de lafoi. 22.)
The Emperor Julian, in his Discourse on the Sun-King, says that the
material world has existed always, and will always exist,
under the direction and immediate conservation of the fifth body, or solar principle,
whence it emanates as a ray; then, ascending a degree, tinder the mediate influence
of the intellectual world [the universe existing in idea, in the divine mind, and not
yet revealed in actuality of existence]; and, finally, under that of a third cause,
more ancient or more remote, which is the King of all beings, around which the
vast whole adheres. This ulterior Cause, or Principle, which may be called the
Being above our intelligence, or, if you please, the Prototype of all that is, or, still
better, the Single Being, or the One (for this One must precede all the others, as
being the Most Ancient); or, in fine, what Plato was accustomed to style 'The
Being Supremely Good/ or The Supreme Good' this Cause, I say, being the
simple and unique model of what all beings can contain, of beauty, perfection,
harmony and power, produced from itself, by its permanent and primordial energy,
the Being like in everything unto Itself, the God-Sun, midway between the intel-
lectual causes and the active intermediary principles.
This, he says, is Plato's Intelligent Reason, produced from the Supreme
Good, engendered supremely good, and like unto this principle, because
proceeding immediately from it. This Intelligent Reason, Plato says
(Republic, Book 0i.)sets the sun in place to preside over the visible world, as
it, itself, presides in the intellectual space, over all that is of the domain of
the spirit and thought.
This first Universal Product [Julian continues], which I say emanated from the
form of the primary and sovereign Good, because it was, from all eternity, in the
proper substance of thelatter, has received from it domination over all theintelligent
130 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Gods .... This second and Great Sun communicates and distributes to the
immaterial or intelligent beings, the same benefits which it has received from the
first, the Supreme Good, by which it has been set over them to rule them, though
they have been produced like itself, and simultaneously with itself .... And a
third sun is visible, that luminous disk which is, for all things, the Principle of
Health or Conservation, and which communicates to visible beings all that we have
said the Great Sun distributed to the intelligent and immaterial Gods .... Is
not the light of our sun the incorporeal and divine form of that which is actively
transparent? For that which is diaphanous or transparent, though having in
itself all the elements, whereof it is the immediate form, is nevertheless neither
corporeal nor mixed, and has none of the properties of bodies ....
Proclus says:
The Gods themselves are beyond all beings, and are the measures of existence,
because every being is contained in them, precisely as number is in monads. But
beings proceed from them, some indeed [at the same time that they proceed from]
abiding in them; but others, through their manifold nature, falling off from the
unity of the Gods, in consequence of a diminution of essence.
Plotinus says,
Fire emits heat; snow, cold, fragrant bodies, odours; and every organic thing, so
far as it is perfect, begets something like itself. In the same way, the All-Perfect
and Eternal, in the overflowing of his perfection, sends out from himself that which
is also eternal, and, after him, the best, viz., the Reason or World-Intelligence,
which is the immediate reflection and image of the Primal One .... This
Reason contains in itself the whole ideal world, and the whole of true and change-
less being .... As Reason flows from the Primal One, so theWorld-Souleternally
emanates from Reason, though the latter incurs no change thereby. The World-
Soul, is the copy of Reason, permeated by it, and actualizing it in an outer world.
It is impossible not to see that the source and origin of all these philo-
sophic ideas are in the Veda; and that they are essentially the same as those
of the Aryan Poets in regard to Agni, his attributes, subsistences and mani-
festations. And, however unreal and merely nominal this invisible Fire-
Power and Spirit may seem to be, like matter or substance conceived of as
deprived of all its qualities, yet it was indeed the Deity, imperfectly con-
ceived of, and not yet removed beyond the reach of all cognition of the
intellect. It was God, wise, intelligent, powerful, beneficent, rewarder of
the good and punisher of the evil, but not yet conceived of as First Cause,
as creator, generator or producer of Nature and the universe. Eliminate
from substance or matter all its qualities, and you have only what is called
an intelligible, a somewhat not cognizable otherwise than by the intellect,
and which has to our conception none of the reality of being, and is, in fact,
but a hypothesis. God, considered as beyond the reach of all cognition,
PHILOSOPHICAL DEFINITIONS 131
seems indeed to be but little more; and is, in essence, precisely what Agni
was to our Aryan ancestors.
We do not find in the Veda any trace of the Zarathustrian doctrine of the
twin principles of Good and Evil, Light and Darkness. The only powers
of evil are those that hold back the rains, and against whom Indra contends.
There is no trace of any worship of the Devil ; nor does it seern that the Poets
were in the least troubled by the great enigma of the existence of evil, under
the dominion of a beneficent and omnipotent Deity. All the Deities of the
Veda are beneficent ones; and the hymns breathe a singularly profound
trust and confidence in their beneficent good will.
VEDIC THEOSOPHY.
All the expressions In the Veda, we see, I think, that have been supposed
to indicate a conception in the minds of the Poets, of a single Supreme God,
refer only to the One Universal, Fire. To this one principle or being, they
certainly ascribe, not only energies and potencies, but also intelligence and
benevolence. Otherwise, they could not have addressed prayers to him
and invoked his aid and favour. They do not assign to him any form: and
of what he was, they had, no doubt, as vague an idea as we have of what
God or our soul, or even electricity, light or heat is. They knew him by
his powers and effects; and in his essence he was to them what spirit is to
us a somewhat, this is not matter.
We still persist in ascribing sex to the Deity; and although philosophy
tells us, and religion admits, that we can have no conception at all of the
Deity itself, and cannot rightfully ascribe to it any of our own moral or
intellectual qualities or powers, any more than we can our physical ones,
we do ascribe them to him, and only admit that we can have no conception
of his mode of being, and his nature as a spirit. We do unconsciously invest
him with a human personality, in our own minds, with vague notions of
shape and form, clinging there in spite of ourselves, connected with him,
and morally and intellectually we make of him, and he is for us, only a being
possessed of human faculties, infinite and perfect.
The Aryans so conceived of fire. It had for them the attributes of
human personality and human energies and powers, affections, temper, and
qualities.
They ascribed what we consider divine attributes, qualities and faculties,
to this One Universal. Therefore it was veritably a God for them. It was
immaterial and formless, it was omnipresent, not in our sense of infinite
extension and presence everywhere in infinitive space, but as pervading
the world and even extending beyond it. When their descendants in India,
as Zarathustra had done in Bactria, conceived of a Deity superior to the
fire and its manifestations, they only transferred to this ideal Being, of
which they had no conception, the attributes of Aryan Agni.
Is it certain that their ideas of Agni as Deity were not nearer a belief
in the true God, than the ideas of the Hebrews who worshipped Yehuah, as
we find their anthropomorphic conceptions of him in their old books? Their
real idea of God was expressed in the statement that he made man after
his own image: and his characteristics in the Psalms and Prophets are those
of Indra wielding the thunderbolt and punishing rebellious or Godless
nations*
VEDIC THEOSOPHY 133
Miiller protests against the imputation of polytheism, in the ordinary
sense of the word, to our Aryan ancestors. And, as to their principal
Deities, all Fire-Gods and Light-Gods, their faith was no more polytheism,
than the emanation doctrines of the Gnostic or Kabbalah; or than the
doctrine of the Logos and the Holy Spirit, as Persons, distinct from God
the Father, and yet one with him.
The Aryan Poets had not attained to the conception of an anthropomor-
phic God; but they had invested Agni with the character of personality, and
with the attributes of mind and spirit. They did not view him as creator
and generator of the material universe, or as supreme mind entirely distinct
from materiality. When the human mind had attained to that conception,
it soon became discontented with the investiture of God with the attributes
of humanity, and, removing him to an inconceivable distance, as in himself
wholly beyond the reach of human cognition, they interposed between him
and the universe, and even between him and the work of creation or genera-
tion, his emanations or manifestations, the Elohim or Demiourgos, the
Only-Begotten or the creative Logos. He, thus, became but a name, and
the potencies of himself that were in reality deified, were not more divine
than the Vedic Gods were.
The name by which the Deity is called, is of no importance. Whether
we worship the True Deity or a false and unreal one, depends altogether
upon what we conceive it to be, and what attributes we ascribe to it. Among
the ancients a different name made a different God, though the attributes
and characteristics of the two might be identical. Names of Deity may
sometimes have been merely arbitrary combinations of letters, without
particular meaning, as the name "God" is, to us, but generally they
have been either the signs or actual expressions and designations of certain
qualities, faculties or powers. Mackay (Progress of the Intellect, i. 109)
very truly says,
We speak of things, but we know only impressions. Our knowledge of existence
is purely hypothetical; and when we speak of matter, of electricity, or of mind, we
only give a name to the unknown cause of a particular class of phenomena. The
circle of ourreal knowledgeis confined to phenomenal succession, and its laws ....
If we know nothing of the essence of matter, still less are we able to penetrate the
constitution of mind. Why, then, attempt to confine the idea of the Supreme Mind
within an arbitrary barrier, or exclude from the limits of veracity any conception
of the Deity, which, if imperfect and inadequate, may only be a little more so than
our own?
The negative notion of God (we quote, condensing, from the same author) ,
consists in the abstraction of the inferior and finite; and is the only way in
which, according to Philo, it is possible for man to apprehend worthily the
nature of God.
134 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
When we attempt to investigate the essence of the Absolute Being, we fall into an
abyss of perplexity, and the only benefit to be derived from such researches is the
conviction of their absurdity. This negative view contrasts the divine greatness
with human littleness, and often employs expressions apparently affirmative, such
as Almighty, All-Wise, Omnipresent, Eternal, etc., but which, in reality, amount
only to the negation in regard to God, of those limits which confine the faculties
of man. We arrive at this negative and cautious mode of expression only when,
having exhausted the varieties of symbolism, we remain content with a Name,
which is a mere conventional sign or confession of our ignorance . * . . In the
immaturity of the intellect, names and signs are undistinguished from things, and
mislead the inquirer by inducing him to confound a negative cypher with a positive
idea. Hence arises the positive or sensuous mode of representation, which, com-
paring the Deity with something either within or without, confounds the sign
with the thing signified, and blends them in some idolatrous form. The character
of the worship varies with the elevation or triviality of the comparison. God was
first recognized in the heavenly bodies, and in the elements; each and all of which
were worshipped in their turn .... The religious sentiment, originally derived
from the contemplation of Nature, was, under peculiar local circumstances, directed
exclusively, or nearly so, to certain selected natural agencies. When man attains
a consciousness of the dignity of his own being, and reflects upon himself, his idea
of Deity becomes proportionably modified. The fire or water assumes the human
form, and becomes Osiris or Vishnu, Ormuzd or Apollo.
But there was with the Aryan race an intermediate stage, during which
the Vedic hymns were composed, when the heavenly bodies and elements
were no longer worshipped, but the ideal Beings and Existences, of which
Fire, Flame, Light and Heat, and the Luminaries of Heaven, the Dawn and
the Winds were the manifestations : and it was but a step easily taken, from
this to
the last stage of religious development [which] is the matured consciousness of
intellectuality, when, convinced that the internal faculty of thought must be
something more subtle than even the most subtle elements, he transfers his new
conceptions to the object of his worship, and deifies a mental principle, instead of
a physical one.
He is, however, unable to remain long in the regions of abstraction, and being
experimentally acquainted with no spiritual existences distinct fromhisfellow men,
his imagination cannot picture anything more exalted than a being similar to him-
self, though more perfect .... Do what we will, the highest efforts of human
thought can conceive nothing higher than the supremacy of intellect; and this,
subjected to the realizing and plastic power of the imagination, forever brings us
back to somefamiliar type of exalted humanity .... Man at first deifies Nature,
afterwards, himself. (Progress of the Intellect, i. 111. 112. 113.)
Unquestionably, the Aryans had advanced so far as to deify intelligence
and a mental principle in their Gods, since they ascribed to them intelligence
and beneficence, and the moral sense which tells us that virtuous acts
VEDIC THEOSOPHY 135
deserve reward. Nor did they ascribe to them any of the repulsive and
odious features of human nature. They tempt no one to sin, they harden
no heart, and punish because of the hardening. They read men no lessons of
cruelty or rapacity. They subdue and slay the Dasyus, but it is on ac-
count of their good will to the Aryans, and of the merits and deserts of these
their favourites. They are just and wise and intelligent, bestowers of
good, the benefactors of man.
It is true, they are not the creators of the visible universe, nor did they
exist before it. Neither, in the Hebrew book Genesis, is Elohim represented
as creating matter, but only as brooding on its chaotic mass, to beget the
universe.
One of the earliest and noblest forms under which the religious sentiment
found a distinct expression, was the worship of the heavenly bodies, or of the
elements; and if the changes of the seasons and aspect of the sky form a prominent
topic of modern conversation, the same phenomena exercised a yet stronger influ-
ence over the uncultivated minds to which they were objects of superstitious fear,
as well as of curious speculation. The beam of the celestial luminaries might be
justly said to have penetrated the intellect, as having first awakened the idea of a
Supreme Being; and it was long before the primitive veneration in which they were
held, was superseded by a colder and less poetical philosophy.
"The glorious images of Divinity" which formed the Hosts of Heaven,
and from the early worship of which by their ancestors, the Hebrews called
their God, Yehuah-Tsabaofh, God of the- Heavenly Armies, or, truly and
correctly rendering it, 'The Life and Being of the Hosts of Heaven,"
were the divine dynasty, or real theocracy which governed the early world; and the
men of the Golden Age, whose looks held commerce with the skies, and who watched
the radiant rulers bringing winter and summer to mortals, might be said, with
poetic truth, to live in immediate communication with heaven, and like the Hebrew
patriarchs, to see God face to face. (Prog, of the Intellect, i. 116. 117.)
Advanced beyond that, and worshipping, not the luminaries themselves,
but that of which they were but the organs or manifestations, the religion
of the Aryans was neither idolatrous nor degrading. The advance which
Brahmanism made, the first step whereof was to recognize an intelligent and
creative power, beyond or above the universe, ended by plunging into the
most monstrous idolatry, into the very lunacy of incredible beliefs, defiled
by the most detestable obscenities.
As the language of philosophy itself is only a more refined symbolism, so the
most abstract expression for Deity, which language could supply, was only a sign
for an object unknown, one which could be called more truthful and adequate than
the terms 'Osiris' or 'Vishnu/ only as being less sensuous and explicit. Those
136 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
symbols of Deity are the most appropriate and durable, which, vague meta-
physically, have a positive significance, only in a moral or relative sense. (Id. 135.)
We often hear complacent self-congratulations on the recognition of a personal
God, as being the conception most suited to human sympathies, and exempt from
the mystifications of Pantheism. But the Divinity remains still a mystery, not-
withstanding all the devices which symbolism, either from the organic or inorganic
creation, can supply; and personification is a symbol liable to misapprehension as
much, if not more so, than any other, since it is apt to degenerate into a mere
reflection of our own infirmities, and to suggest to our minds in regard to the Deity,
the same unreasonable expectations which cause such frequent disappointment in
regard to our own familiar acquaintance and kindred. (Id. 150.)
As Dr. Mansel admits (Limits of Religious Thought Examined, 106),
which it is our duty to think of God as personal, and to believe that he is
infinite,
we cannot reconcile these two representations with each other; as our conception of
personality involves attributes apparently contradictory to the notion of infinity.
.... To speak of an absolute and infinite Person [he says (103)] is simply to use
language to which, however true it may be in a superhuman sense, no mode of
human thought can possibly attach itself. [It is true that] it does not follow that
this contradiction exists anywhere, but in our own minds; it does not follow that it
implies any impossibility in the absolute nature of God .... It proves that there
are limits to man's power of thought, and it proves no more.
But one of two consequences of this always has followed, and always
.will follow. Either, as is the case now, God will be to us a person neither
infinite or absolute, as we habitually think of him, how-much-soever we may
theoretically profess to consider him both, and men will take refuge from
distressing doubts and contradictions in the nebulous haziness of a sleepy
vagueness of notion about God's nature, which is not either conviction or
belief; or else, as was the case in India, the questions how, after an eternity
of inactive and solitary existence, he proceeded to create, or to generate
and produce the universe; and the immense variety of his seemingly con-
flicting attributes, made utterly contradictory and irreconcilable by consider-
ing each as infinite, will lead to the creation in the mind of intermediate and
subordinate Deities, at first his various emanations, personifications, and
potencies in action; and to endeavour to express the union of his many
attributes by symbols that at last become idols; until the whole Hindu or
Egyptian pantheon exists, and the most degrading superstitions brutalize
the people. The Amesha-Qpentas of the Persians, and the Archangelic
Hierarchy of the Hebrews, become mediators between man and God: the
existence of evil, under the rule of a God infinitely good, wise and just, is
explained. by a twin God, Anra Mainyus or Shaitan; Tuphon and Indra,
VEDIC THEOSOPHY 137
originally Light-Gods, become demons, and the Dsevas evil spirits; as the
angels rebel and become devils.
From all this, at least, the Aryan faith was free; and it contains only
the germs of the true, and not of the false, in the later religions. It did not
endeavour to go beyond the limits set to human thought; nor, in the words
of Dr. Mansel, "babble about nothing, under the name of the Infinite/
"
INDRA.
Indra is "apprehended by the understanding, and appreciated by the wise;
99
L e., in his essence and very self, he is not cognizable by the senses, but is
perceptible by the intellect only. He is therefore neither the firmament,
nor an orb or luminary, nor any phenomenon of visible appearance; and
must of necessity be something that is existent in the Universal Fire, emanat-
ing from it, and then by itself acting outwardly and visibly.
The commentators speak of Dyaus as a Vedic Deity, and as it became
the Zeus of the Greeks, and AZos, and the Deus of the Latins, they ascribe
to it the character and attribute of the Supreme Deity. Dyaus or Dyu
was, to the Vedic Poets, the sky, and Prithivi, the expanse or space between
the sky and earth. Both were personified, but neither is invoked as a
God. Powers only, potencies, universals possessed of active energies, or
their manifestations exercising those energies, are the Deities of the Vedas,
or at least the principal ones; and not the earth or firmament or sky, or
anything else that is motionless and inactive.
Agni is, or includes as a component part of his essence, Indra. They
are "associated" together. They ride in the same car. Sometimes one of
them, sometimes the other, and sometimes both jointly slay Vritra and Ahi,
rend the imprisoning clouds and set free the fertilizing and refreshing rains.
Agni does in the Veda all that Indra does; as all that the Logos, the Son or
the Demiourgos does, is done by the Father; but Indra does not do all tfyat
Agni is adored for. Nothing is ascribed to him, I think, which belongs or
which the imagination can ascribe to fire, but which cannot be imputed to
light.
The word "associated," I am convinced, does not adequately express
the meaning that belonged, when the hymns were composed, to the original
Aryan word which is represented by it. If it does not mean "identical
with/' it expresses a much more intimate connection than the word
"associated" expresses. It means, as I think the passages show, where it
occurs, "united," "acting with one action to produce one effect;" precisely
that which was meant by the phrase, "and the Word was with God (irpbs TOP
Beov), and God was the Word."
Indra and Agni, together, are pious ministers, present at the Holy Rite.
For Indra, the light, is in and of the fire, and emanates from it; but Indra
alone is never the minister, the messenger or the invoker of the Gods. He
and Agni are "kinsmen" and "relations," conceived of as such by the
intellect. Wnat can that mean, except that they are generated in the same
INDRA 139
womb (of the dry wood or elsewhere) together, and are of one essence, as
human kinsmen are of one blood? Really, unless it was supposed that the
Poets had no coherent ideas, I do not see how it was ever imagined that Indra
was the firmament.
Those stationed around [i. e., the various orbs, in their places], associated with
Indra, the mighty, the indestructible the moving [wX&vrjrai, the wanderers, the
planets], and the lights (fixed stars) that shine in the sky*
These harness to his car, side by side, his two bay (or red) horses. To him
mortals owe their daily birth from sleep,
for he, with the radiance of the morning, gives them the use of their senses
and by making things visible invests them with forms.
He is the wielder of the thunderbolt, and his most noted function is, by
shattering the clouds, to free from its bonds the rain, and send it upon the
earth. Thus destroying Vritra or Ahi, he is invested with the characteris-
tics of a great warrior, victorious over all foes.
He is "the blender of all things," i. e., he mingles and blends with all
things in Nature; and is richly decorated, i. e., splendidly coloured. He,
to make things visible, set the sun in the sky, and filled the cloud with waters.
He dwells in an eternal mansion, being always a denizen of the sky or
heavens.
"From his ancient abode, he visits many worshippers;" and is therefore
not the firmament, as has been absurdly supposed; 1st, because the firma-
ment is his habitat, and 2nd, because he passes from it to the earth and men.
He is called "The Man/' who visits them; i. e., the individuality, the being.
He is sovereign of all that is, mobile or stationary (perhaps the planets,
including the sun and moon, and the stars; but more probably, earth and
heaven, and all that moves on or in either) . He abides the Monarch of men,
i. e., becoming localized by form, limitation and place, he is the essence of
all light-beings or orbs, and includes in himself all these individual manifes-
tations, as the felly of a wheel does the spokes: as Jehovah does the Elohim;
and as the Very Deity, Ain-Soph, does the ten Sephiroth or emanations, of
the Hebrew Kabbalah.
"Thou enjoyest both heaven and earth, investing the universe with thy
greatness :" i. e., thou possessest thyself of both sky and earth, thy amplitude
clothing both with light. "The ram who makes heaven known:" since
without light it would never be visible to mortals or its existence known to
them. "Extended throughout the region of dew:" spreading and flowing
through and filling the air. "Replenished in the sky by the libations
sprinkled on the sacred grass, as its kindred rivers hastening to it fill the
ocean." For the vapour exhaling from the Soma juice sprinkled on the
140 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
grass, like that from the dew, rises, invisible, and as part of the flame and
light of the fire, towards the sky.
"He abides in his might/' i. e., potentially or in his essence and energy
unmanifested, "beyond the limits of the sky or atmosphere." "Thou hast
framed the earth for our preservation:" i. e., probably, has communicated
to the earth the capability of producing food. "Thou hast been the type
of vigour:" i. e., to thee Is owing the virile energy, or power of generation:
"Thou hast encompassed (pervaded and enwrapped), the air and sky, to
the very utmost heavens."
He is "the counter-measure of the wide-extended earth:" i. e., he is
co-extensive with it: "Thou art the Lord of the vast God-frequented:"
holding and possessing the great vast of the air and sky, peopled with the
celestial luminaries. "Thy bulk fills the firmament: and no other being,"
no luminary, "is equal unto thee."
The heavens and earth, and the waters of the heavens are less in extension than
Indra .... Thou, alone, hast made every other thing dependent on thee.
Alone, that is, by thyself, of thine own virtue and essence, independently
of other existences or powers; and by "every other thing" was probably
meant every other being of light, all being mere organs or instruments of
Indra, through which his light emanates: or it may mean that, for us,
everything in the universe depends for its actuality to us as an object of our
senses on Indra.
His "foe-prostrating associate" "and brightly-gleaming spear," is the
lightning: the word "associate" meaning that which, being a manifestation
of himself, is used by him as an instrument, organ or weapon. He
purifies the heavens and earth with his irresistible might, sends showers, and by his
bounty gratifies our desires.
"Purifies" may mean to make clearly visible, or to purge of clouds and mist.
"He is the firmament-inhabiting, the Haughty One, taking precedence of
all Gods," i. e., of all luminaries, on account of his exploits, i. e.t his powers
and influences, and the great results of which he is the cause.
He is quick in action and puissant. His perfect and unfailing power to destroy
shines in the conflict of the elements, as a mountain peak, snow-covered, glitters in
the sunlight. He subjugates the malignant clouds, and with resolute vigour opposes
the encroachments of night and darkness. In his essence, and as his own, is all
potency. He pervades the universe, is potent, rapid, mighty and resistless, and
hurls the thunderbolt. He is self-irradiating in his dwelling;
INDRA 141
i. e., wherever manifested in place, by whatever orb or phenomenon, it
is his own radiance that shines forth. "It is he that with the dawn and the
rays of the sun scatters the darkness. He makes straight" (or smooth)
by lightening them and driving from them the darkness, "the elevations
of the earth." "Hestrengthens the foundations of the ethereal regions :"i. e.,
he gifted them with potency and energy, by manifesting himself therein as
the luminaries of heaven, to which all life and production are owing. "He
divided in twain the eternal and united," the unity of darkness that would
otherwise have been perpetual, making day and night: and "he cherished
[fed with energy and vigour and life] the heavens and the earth, like [as,
manifested as] the sun in the brilliant and beautiful sky."
Indra, the Mighty One [the potency and energy], becoming manifest in alarm,
did, by his energy exerted and in action, sustain heaven and earth. Then, through
fear of thee, all creatures, and the mountains, and all other vast and solid things
trembled, like the rays of the sun.
Becoming "manifest in alarm," evidently means appearing as a terror, to
Vr^tra, or the Cloud-God, in the forked lightning, and with the hoarse
reverberations of the thunder causing even the solid mountains to tremble.
He has "fixed the constellations:" by permanently manifesting himself
as the bright points which compose them. "No one has ever been born, or
ever will be born, Indra, like unto thee." For the human mind cannot
conceive that anything will ever exist, comparable to the light. It is
promised in a much later religion that there shall be light there, direct from
the Deity, without sun, moon or stars to give it: and that is the Essential
Light, conceived of by these old Poets.
Often we hear them say that he sustains and upholds earth and heaven
and the firmament. The Aryan ideas are probably badly expressed by the
words "heaven" and "firmament." Indeed, unless each means the sky,
they have little or no meaning to us. We do not now suppose that above
the sky is the locality or heaven, to which souls are to ascend after death, or
that there is any firmament, in the old sense of the word, i. e., of a solid sky.
It seems that the Aryans thought that the celestial luminaries were in the
open space below the sky; and it is not made at all probable, by anything
in the Veda, that they conceived of anything above the sky.
As to the sustaining or upholding power of Indra, they probably
regarded heat as a mere effect of light, or at least considered theminseparable ;
and undoubtedly they ascribed to the lightning the power to burn and
consume. They knew that heat caused expansion and ascension, and might
naturally think, knowing no other forces of Nature, that the force which
produced the bubble was competent to raise and to sustain the hemispherical
142 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
vault of the sky. Nor do we know why it might not, since that would be
no more an extraordinary effect, than those produced by other equally
immaterial and imponderable forces, such as attraction and magnetism.
"He has begotten the sun and the dawn": For they are but manifesta-
tions of the Light. "Born in the highest heaven, he pervades heaven and
earth, and became the first Artificer/' What this means, can only be con-
jectured. Probably, that light, manifesting itself, was the origin of the
heavenly bodies. It is not in the least likely that the word "artificer"
expresses their real idea.
He overspreads the day with his radiance. He generates the day: he illumines
for man the banner of the days: he obtained light for the great conflict. He ani-
mates the dawnsand makes great their radiance. He gave the sun, bestowed plants
and days, gave trees and the firmament, and shattered the cloud. His horses
pasture in the two azure spheres of heaven and earth:
He is the azure-coloured showerer, who as soon as he is manifested, the whole
luminous region [i. e., as the lightning, he illumines the whole sky and air],
He is the master of the tawny steeds, that are harnessed to his car. He holds
the yellow thunderbolt. He is fleet and of wonderful splendour. [And he is]
apprehended by the understanding, and appreciated by the wise*
These words seem to have been selected for their peculiar unfitness to express
the evident meaning. That meaning is, that Indra, as a being, is cognizable
by the intellect only, becoming visible only by his manifestations. Such is,
according to our ideas, the soul of man, as unreal to our conceptions, as the
invisible Indra. Such also, after all, is the philosophical idea of God. For
what is he, to us, but That Unknown, invisible, appreciable by the intellect
only, of which the manifestations only are known?
"Indra is the parent of the Sun." He is "clothed at night" ["with
gloom," the commentator adds]. But this addition does not at all express
the meaning, which is, clothed with form, i. e., manifested within definite
dimensions, as the celestial luminaries. In the Kabbalah, the limits of the
manifested are termed envelopes and garments, and were imagined to be
like the shell that contains the egg. Such is the meaning of the word
"clothed," here.
Indra and Agni sit together in their wonderful car, which illuminates all beings.
This car was undoubtedly the sun, which sterns a great globe of fire and
flame, pouring upon sky and earth both heat and light.
Their names are "associated," and they are "allied" as slayers of V^itou
The word "associated" as appears by its use elsewhere, very faintly ex-
presses the meaning of the original. Agni was the fire, and Indra the light,
INDRA 143
one of the manifestations of fire. Agni is Indra: for fire is light, heat and
flame. This is the association of their names, i. e., of their personalities.
The lightning appears to be a flame, as well as a diffuser of light, and in it
Agni and Indra were united, to slay V^itra* They are "the two seated
together:" i. e*, flame and light limited by form, manifested and in place, as
the lightning. "I consider you in my mind as kinsmen and relations":
i. e., the intellect conceives of you as one the progeny of the other, as parent
and child: precisely as God and the Logos were conceived of long afterwards
by the Greeks, inheritors of the Aryan intellect: The word was in the
beginning near unto God, and the Word was God.
They are the discomfiters of foes, the destroyers of Vfitra; the pious ministers
present at sacrifices; and the illuminators of heaven.
The moral and intellectual attributes ascribed to Indra are like those
of Agni.
He is wise, whom nothing can harm, bestower of good gifts, protector
of wealth, mighty, accomplisher of good deeds, friend of the sacrifice. He is
mighty, the averter of violence, always gracious, of boundless wealth,
showerer of blessings, handsome, victorious, vast and most powerful, praise-
deserving, graceful, performer of great deeds, fleet, magnificent, etc., etc.
In one Sfikta he is addressed jointly with Varuna: in one with Vishnu;
and in one with Soma. And in one place it is said, 'The seven worlds praise
Sudds as if he were Indra/' What the translator supposed the idea of the
Poet to be, we have no means of knowing. What were the seven worlds, that
praised Sudds? The Aryans knew nothing about any other "worlds" than
this which they inhabited. They knew nothing about the seven planets or
wanderers.
The Pleiades and Ursa Major were the only two groups, of seven stars
each, that were anciently regarded with reverence and watched with interest.
The Pleiades, led by Aldebardn, opened the spring at the Vernal Equinox,
three thousand years before Christ, rising a little before the sun; and the
great Arctic constellation never set, but always kept its unvarying circuit
around the Pole-Star. As to praising:
The morning stars sung together with joy.
The notions of Mr. Cox, in regard to Agni, are for the most part correct,
except his general and most important conclusion (U. 354), that to the
Aryan Poets,
144 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Indra, Dyu, Agni, Vishnu, Varuna were but names for one and the same divine
Being, who alone was to them the maker and preserver of all things.
That is precisely the same as if one were to say that the Father, the Son or
Word, and the Holy Spirit, of the Trinitarian Christians, are but names for
one and the same divine Being, to them the maker and preserver of all
things. Indra, Mitra, Varuna and Aryaman were as really distinct from
Agni, to the Aryan mind, as the Logos was, to Plato and Philo, from God
the Father: and to them as much entities, as the Sephiroth were to the
Kabbalists, or the Demiourgos and Sophia Achamoth to the Gnostics.
By this brief sentence, Mr. Cox substitutes another religion for that of
the Aryan Poets. It is no doubt true that the attributes imputed to Agni,
his Oneness, the cognition of him by the intellect only, his identity in all
his manifestations, his sustaining and upholding the universe, led Zarathus-
tra to the higher conception of an intellectual God, superior to fire and light,
older than the earth and heavens; and the maker and preserver of them, a
moral being, author of the law of morals and righteousness for all mankind.
But that conception first appeared in the Zarathustrian teachings, and is
not even remotely hinted at in the Veda.
It is true, as Mr. Cox says, that the enemies of mankind were manifestly
physical ; and that nothing in their hymns leads us to the notion of any evil
power or principle having an existence independent of the Great Cause of
all things. For the only adversaries mentioned in the Vedas, are the Asuras,
the dark clouds that imprisoned the beneficent rains, and Vritra or Ahi, the
spirit or being of which these clouds were the manifestations.
When the old Vedic faith, Mr. Cox says (ti. 190), had been long
overlaid by an elaborate sacerdotal ceremonialism, Agni still remained, as
it had been from the first, a name for light or heat, as pervading all things,
or as concentrated in the flame of fire. (But there was in the old Vedic
hymns nothing of the uncertainty and indefiniteness which this sentence
imputes to them. Agni was the Fire, the fire essence or principle, of which
Light and Heat were but manifestations or emanations. In the Hebrew
Kabbalah, all the emanations or Sephiroth are contained in and. produced
from, and depend from the Very Deity, Ain-Soph; and the nine emanations
that succeed the first, Kether, are all contained in it; in each the Deity is,
but neither one of them is, nor all of them are, the Deity. The Aryan idea
was not equally as profound, but it was the same: and in the Kabbalah, too,
the Very Deity, before creation, was universally diffused Light.)
In the Satapatha BrShmana, Mr. Cox continues, Svetaketu tells King
Janaka that he sacrifices to two Heats in one another, which are ever shining,
and filling the world with their splendour. When the King asks how this
may be, the answer is,
INDRA 145
Aditya (the sun) is heat; to him I sacrifice in the evening in the fire (Agni). Agni
is heat; to him I sacrifice in the morning, in the sun (Aditya).
When to Somasushma, who says that he sacrifices to Light in light,
the king puts the same question, the Brahman replies,
Aditya is light: to him I sacrifice in the evening, in Agni. Agni is light; to him I
sacrifice in the morning, in Aditya.
Thus Agni, like Indra, is sometimes addressed as the one great God who makes
all things, sometimes as the light which fills the heavens, sometimes as the blazing
lightning [Agni Vaiw&nara] or as the clear flame of earthly fire. The Poets pass
from one application of the word to another, with perfect ease, as conscious that in
each case they are using a mere name, which may denote similar qualities in many
objects.
But though this sounds well, and is pronounced with confidence, it is
not in the least true. The Aryan sages and thinkers had intellects as acute
as the later philosophers of India and Greece. They had perfectly definite
ideas in regard to their Deifications, and, correctly understood, they never
confounded one Deity with the other. Agni is all of them. They all
emanate from him and are his manifestations; but no one of them is the
whole Agni. He is the farthest possible from being a mere name, that may
denote similar qualities in many objects.
There is, Mr. Cox truly says,
no rivalry or antagonism between these Deities. Agni is greatest, Varuna is
greatest, and Indra is greatest: but when the one is so described, the others are for
the time unnoticed, or else are placed in a subordinate position. Thus Agni is said
to comprehend all other Gods within himself, as the circumference of a wheel em-
braces its spokes; and not unfrequently Indra is said to be Agni, and Agni is said
to be Indra; while both alike are Skambha, the supporter of the universe.
But Agni is never placed in a subordinate position. No other God is ever
said to comprehend him, or to be greater than him. It is true, the sacrificial
and domestic fire is Agni. So is the lightning, and so is the spark of the
glow-worm. But each is Agni limited, self-manifested in form: and if in
each the God, the whole God, acts in partial self-manifestation, do we not
now so conceive of the manifestations of the Deity? The creative Logos is
not the Very Deity. We imagine God as acting directly in Nature. Is the
whole Deity manifested in every minor act? Is the whole omnipotence of
God exerted to hold up the falling sparrow? If light were, as all the ancients
imagined it to be, an Emanation from the Deity, himself the light-principle,
God would be present in the least ray and in the faintest earthly spark, as
completely as in the ocean of it that flows over earth and sky with the rising
of the sun.
146 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Hence, Mr. Cox says,
the character of Agni, as we might expect, is almost wholly physical. The blessings
which his worshippers pray for, are commonly temporal, and very rarely is he
asked, like Varuija, to forgive sin.
We do not believe that that prayer is addressed to any God, in the Vedic
hymns. They prayed to the Fire- and Light-Gods to enable them by their
light to find the true way again, when lost and wandering in the woods and
forest; and they did ascribe to Agni the power and will to do that. It was
natural they should appeal more directly to the special luminary whose
light they wished for, than to the universal Fire shining by it. So the
Catholic appeals more earnestly to the Saints and the Virgin, and the
Protestant to Christ, than either does to God, the All-Father.
In the following sentences, Mr. Cox speaks both truly and eloquently:
In the earlier hymns, he is generally addressed as the fire, which to mortal men
is an indispensable boon: in the more developed ceremonialism of later times, he
is chiefly concerned with the ordering of the sacrifice. As bearing up the offerings
on the flames which mount to the sky, he stands in the place of Hermes, as the
messenger between Gods and men. Like Phoibos and Indra, he is full of a secret
wisdom. He is the tongue (of fire), through which Gods and men receive each
their share of the victims offered on the altar. Nay, so clearly is his mythical
character still understood, that although he is sometimes the originator of all things,
at others he is said to have been kindled by Manu (man) ; and the expression at
once carries us to the legends of Prometheus, Hermes and Phor6neus, who is
himself the Vedic God Bhuranyu. The very sticks which Manu rubbed together,
are called the parents of Agni, who is said to have destroyed them, as Oidipous, and
Perseus, Kuros and Romulus are said to have destroyed their fathers. The hymns
describe simply the phenomena of fire.
As the special guardian and regulator of sacrifices, Agni assumes the character
of the Hellenic Hestia, and almost attains the majesty of the Roman Vesta. He is
the lord and protector of every house, and the father, mother, brother, and son of
every one of the worshippers. He is the keeper of hidden treasures, and all blessings
proceed from him as the giver. He is Vasu, the Lord of Light. During life he shields
men from harm. But in every phase of his character, the appellative force of his
name remains discernible.
But, we cannot agree with Mr. Cox, that
at death he becomes the Psuchopompos, as conveying the unborn part of the dead
to the unseen world.
We find nothing of that in the Veda. Nor do we find any "plain assertions
that Agni is but one of many titles for the one Great Cause of all things."
Mr. Cox also says,
INDRA 147
Like Ushas and Eos, Agni never grows old. He is emphatically the youngest of
all the Gods, not as being the latest born, but as never losing his strength and might:
and in this name Yavishtha, which is never given to any other Vedic God, we may
recognize the Hellenic Hephaistos.
Agni is distinctly called "first Divinity of the immortals;" "the first
Angiras;" all other fires are but branchings of him; and he comprehends in
himself the potencies of all the Gods: he assumes all celestial natures. He
was originated, comprehending in himself Mitra, Varuna and Aryaman,
and he animates them all. He is all the Divinities : he is the first of the Gods :
He is called, also, it is true, the youngest of the Gods, who shines when kindled in
his own abode: for he is then the latest manifestation of himself. As the domestic
and sacrificial fire, he is continually called young: for each new fire is a new mani-
festation or birth; and thus he is ever-young, ever renewing his youth.
Indra, we are told by Mr. Cox (i. 388) was the son of Dyiu
Dyaus [he says], the glistening ether, became to the Hindu, as Zeus was to
the Greek, the name for the Supreme God: but although some mythical feature
entered gradually into the conception of this Deity, the name retained its original
significance too clearly, to hold its ground in Hindu theology.
The root dyu, he says, means to shine: and
Dyu, in the land of the Five Streams, was at once a name for the sky, and a name
for God; Dyaus Pitdr, Dyaus the Father, answering to the Zeus Pater of the Greeks,
and the Jupiter and Janus Pater of the Latins. As such, he was Visvakarwan,
the great architect of the universe, who knows .all spheres and worlds, janita
(y&Tfip) 9 the parent of all things; PritKrvT or the broad earth, being the mother
of his children. The Maruts, or storms, go about in Dyu, the sky, while their
worshippers on earth invoke the mercy of Dyaus, Prithivi and Agni.
'
But the
Indian land, under its scorching sun, depends wholly on the bounty of the benig-
nant rain-God; and hence Indra, who is the child of Dyu, and from Dyu receives
his might, becomes more immediately the fertilizer of the earth, and is regarded as
more powerful than his father. But Dyu, although his greatness is obscured by
that of his son, still wields the thunderbolt; and the original meaning of the name
appears in the myth which represents him as the father of the dawn, who is invin-
. cible by all but Indra.
Thus [he continues], Dyaus is to Prithivi, what Ouranos is to Gaia in the Hesiodic
theogony; the Greek myth differing from the former, only in deciding that Gaia
herself produced Ouranos, to be co-extensive with herself. The Hindu had not
so far solved the difficulty, and the doubt expressed on this subject shows the
peculiar attitude of the Indian mind to the problems of the sensible universe. Heaven
and earth, it would seem, are in the earliest hymns alike self-existent; but Dr, Muir
remarks that we are not told which of the two is the older. On the contrary, he
148 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
says, one of the ancient Poets seems to have been perplexed by the difficulty of this
question, as at the beginning of one of the hymns (i. 185) he exclaims, 'which of
you twain was the first, and which the last? How were they produced? Sages,
who knows?' And of Indra it is said, Thy father was the parent of a most heroic
son: the maker of Indra, who produced the celestial and invincible thunderer, was
a most skilful workman. (Rig- V. w. 17 .
4.) But it was obvious that the abstract
conception of Dyu as the father of Indra could not stand against the overwhelming
weight of the myths which were continually springing up from phrases not originally
antagonistic with the monotheistic belief or conviction.*
"Was obvious!" To whom? When Tecumseh, the Shawano Indian,
said to the American commander,
The Sun is my father, and the Earth is my mother, I will sit on her bosom,
did he express an "abstract conception" of his parentage? Where are the
Vedic texts that express a monotheistic belief or conviction? We shall
never know what the original Aryan belief was, if such are to be the only
commentaries upon them.
Mr. Cox continues:
The HindQ, ever dwelling on the thought of an unseen world, strove to gain some
insight into the nature of things, and to unlock secrets for which the material
world could never furnish a key. While [he says], the Greek was at once contented
with answers suggested by the old mythical phrases, or by the phenomena which
he might be describing.
The Hindu mind, after Brahmanism arose, dwelt on the thought of an
unseen world; but the Vedic mind never did. But Mr. Cox sadly mixes up
the later Hindu faith and the old Vedic notions. For he continues to say:
Hence Dyu was for him sometimes the Supreme God, sometimes the heaven
which with the earth had been fashioned by the Gods, and strengthened with
undecaying supports, and which trembled and bowed down in the presence of the
Deities. Sometimes he was the all-pervading spirit, sometimes a material and
tangible firmament; and thus again the question of matter.
It would be impossible to crowd more errors into the same number of
words, if this is at all meant to apply to the Poets of the Vedas. It imputes
to them conceptions that they never entertained. They never thought
of Dyu as a Supreme God, or that earth and heaven had been fashioned
by the Gods; and the only trembling and bowing down of which they
spoke was produced by the thunder. They never thought of Dyu as
the all-pervading spirit: and though it can hardly be supposed that they did
not sometimes wonder how the heaven and earth came to be where they were,
INDRA 149
we find no speculation upon the subject; at most, only a brief reference to it.
What Mr. Cox immediately adds, is much more consistent with the facts.
Of his own ignorance, the Hindu was perfectly conscious, and he had already
begun to think that this ignorance extended even to the Gods themselves. Who
can tell whence this creation arose? The Gods are subsequent to its production.
Who then knows whence it sprung.
It is quite unnecessary to say that the words "creation" and "production,"
their accepted and narrow meanings being such as they are among us, were
not in the least fit to be used in translating the Vedic words. For the
Vedic Poets had no idea of any creator of the earth and sky, or of any
producer of them; and without a creator there can be no creation, and with-
out a producer no production.
He who in the highest heaven is its ruler, he knows, or perhaps not even he, [This
ruler was Stirya, the sun, or Indra, the light.]
So far [Mr. Cox continues] as this question was answered at all, it was answered,
as Dr. Muir has well remarked, by Greek and Hindu in the same way. In the
Hesiodic theogony, Chaos, Gaia and Tartaros are beings apparently self-existent;
or, at the least, the scheme begins with Chaos, and no parents are assigned to Gaia
and Tartaros. The Hellenic Poet had brought with him from his primeval home
the tradition which he shared with the Hindu; but having given utterance to it,
he bestowed no further thought upon it.
The truth is that it never was anything more than a poetic idea of the
days when Zeus was worshipped, that Chaos had, ages before, been a God.
It was never really conceived of as such. And Ouranos, Gala and Tartaros
were but names for sky, earth and hell; and no people ever worshipped
heaven, earth and hell as Gods, or any Gods by those names. They were
merely imagined poetically as having been Deities in the earlier ages.
There were no traditions to that effect.
We have copied all the extracts from the Vedas cited by Mr. Cox in
support of these notions. It would have been much more satisfactory if
he had given us the texts of the Veda, that sustain his conclusions. The
last sentences which we have cited, state the simple truth. The Veda
deemed that the sky and earth, Dyu and Prithivi, existed before any of
the Gods. The visible and material universe was to them apparently
self-existent. It was a long while before the human mind entertained the
idea that this universe was created, or had a beginning or a maker. Do
we inquire, satisfied as we are that there is a God, who made him, or when
he began to exist? Is his existence without beginning any more easily
conceived of, than that of the material sky and earth? Fire and light were
deemed to have their origin in the sky, not to be begotten or created by the
150 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
sky. Hence the sky was poetically termed their father. Venus was said to be
born of the waves, because she emerged from them. If the sea was there-
fore called her mother, the idea was not conveyed that she was really pro-
duced by it. The earth nourishes the fire, furnishes it with food to consume,
and the flame, so fed, rises towards the sky. Naturally, therefore, it was
poetically called the mother of fire and the light. It is quite certain that
the Vedic hymns never address heaven (the sky) and the earth as Gods, or
impute to them creative powers.
After quoting passages of the Vedas addressed to Varuna, Mr. Cox says,
These simple utterances of the Vedic Poets show that the genuine belief in one
Almighty Being, who is at once our Father, our Teacher and our Judge, had its
home first in the Ancient Aryan land.
Deferring reply to this until we inquire what was meant by Varuna, we
continue to quote:
It was a conviction to which they were guided by all that they saw or could appre-
hend of outward phenomena, as well as by the irrepressible yearnings which stirred
their hearts. For such yearnings and such a consciousness in the Hebrew tribes,
we look in vain, before the Babylonish captivity.
How then were the Aryans guided to this conviction? The Hebrews saw
the same phenomena as they. Why should they not have had the same
yearnings? They did conceive of the world as generated, created or made,
out of chaos, by the Alohim or Yehovah-Alohim: while the Aryans never
inquired whether it had a beginning or a creator at all.
Mr. Cox then says of another name found in the Veda:
The process which converted the physical Varuna into a spiritual God, is carried
to its extreme results, in the conception of Aditi, the unbound, the unbounded, or
even, as being expressed by the negation of Diti, a bond, the Absolute. This
indefinite term was naturally used to denote the Source from which all life, even
the life of the Gods, springs; and thus Aditi, the Infinite, become the mother of all
the Gods. The fact is startling; but in Professor Mtiller's words, the thoughts of
primitive humanity were not only different from our thoughts, but different also
from what we think their thoughts ought to have been. The Poets of the Veda
indulged freely in theogonic speculations, without being frightened by any contra-
dictions. They knew of Indra as the greatest of Gods, they knew of Agni as the
God of Gods, they knew of Varuna as the ruler of all, but they were by no means
startled at the idea that their Indra had a mother, or that their Agni was born
like a babe from the friction of two fire-sticks, or that Varuna and his brother Mitra
were nursed in the lap of AditL Hence 'Aditi* was contrasted with 'Diti/ the
unbounded with the definite, while it became more and more a namefor the distant
East from which all the bright Gods seem to come, and for the boundless space
beyond the East, drawing a sharp distinction between 'what is yonder and what
is here/ The Gods had been called Ddksha^pitar, he saysafterwards, the fathers of
INDRA 151
strength, the mighty; and the epithet Ddksha was converted into the father of the
Gods. It followed that Aditi was sprung from D^ksha, or D&ksha from Aditi,
who also owed his existence to Bhu, being; and the conclusion was reached that
not being and being are in the highest heaven, in the birthplace of Ddksha, in the
lap of Aditi. But more especially, Aditi became the mother of the bright Gods,
of Varuna, Mitra, Aryaman, and in fact of the seven Adityas, although their names
are not definitely given in the Rig-Veda.
What is said above in regard to D&ksha and Bhu, belongs to a much
later period than that of the Veda. As to the rest, we remark:
That the words "infinite," "unbounded," have a different meaning to us,
from that which these old Poets attached to the words rendered by them.
Their infinite was merely the indefinite; their unbounded, that space whose
bounds were beyond measurement; their limitless, Aditi, not that which had
no limits, but that which was so vast that its limits were beyond their reach.
The mistranslation is the same as is effected in the vulgar translation of
the Hebrew books, by the use of the word eternal. As to the idea that
Aditi, to the Aryans, meant what Sir William Hamilton meant by the
Absolute, it is simple nonsense.
Mr. Cox needs often enough to be reminded of that which he quotes
from Miiller, that the thoughts of these ancients were not what we think
they should have thought. The Vedic Poets were not frightened by any
contradictions, because they did not involve themselves in any. We
firmly believe that they only seem to do so, because they have been mis-
understood; and because, while continually telling us of the childishness of
their thoughts, the new commentators will insist on imputing to them the
notion of one incomprehensible First Cause, author and creator of the
material universe, a notion or idea to which they never attained, even more
absurdly making them to have regarded Varuna as that immaterial and
undefined First Cause and creator; which at the same time ignoring their
evident possession of other ideas, too philosophical not to prove that we
derive our philosophical and metaphysical intellect legitimately from them;
and that, in that respect, they were the farthest possible from being children
in mind or intellect.
$WS '"fitf Aur Pasut, say the "Kabbalistic Commonplaces," Lux
Simplicissima, is called &p& ]*$ Ain-Soph, or the Infinite before any
emanation: for then there was no space or vacant place; but the All was
(omnia eranf) infinite light. All things (the All) says the Introductio in
Librum Sohar, "were then full of the Light of His Substance." Ain-Soph is
called light, because there is no other name that can be given it. Of this
infinite light, the light of the substance, the unmanifested, the manifested
light of the universe, the Aur Peni-El (light of the countenance of God), the
Tehiru (splendour), was but a point.
152 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The "Porto C&lorum" of Rabbi Abraham Cohen Irira says,
God produced (put forth outwardly) all things, by his intellect and will and of his
free determination; and although he could have produced all things immediately,
he preferred to produce them mediately, through his Sephiroth and persons, which,
although principiated are yet not his creatures, but his rays, whereby he
can as perfectly as possible be manifested.
The Supreme Light of all lights, the most exalted and limitless (says
Tractatus i. Libri Druschim, of Rabbi Jitzchak Lorjensis) , and which is called
the Infinite, can be attained unto by no cogitation or speculation, and its
substance (fundamentum) is entirely abstracted and remote from all intellec-
tion. From this Infinite afterward descended the existence of that great
light, produced by emanation, which is called Adam Kadmon, and in like
manner from him descend the lights down-hanging (dependentra) from him,
which are many, and go forth from him, and emit the rays of his splendour
out from him.
This idea, of the invisible light manifesting itself by emanation or out-
flow, not by creation by the mediation of Sephiroth or persons, that are
not creatures of it, but rays, was wholly borrowed by the Kabbalists from the
Persians, and had its root in the old Aryan faith. From the same source
came the idea of the self-limitation and manifestation of God, the infinite, as
the Word, the Monogenes, the Logos Demiurgos, of Plato, Philo and
Saint John or the unknown author of the book that bears his name.
The Aryan Poets were not startled at the idea that Indra had a mother:
any more than it would have startled them to hear it said that the dew was
born of the air, or that vapour was born of the water and had the sun for
father. We personify the objects of Nature every moment in our daily
and common speech, and are not startled at it. We make the old and new
year, the days, the nights, joy and sorrow, hope and faith, poverty and
power, to be things and persons whenever we speak of them. The sky
smiles for us; the sea is cruel, treacherous, sleeps in the calm, and wakes when
stirred by the winds. The stars watch over us; spring comes to us with her
delicate fingers full of flowers, and time and death have all the attributes of
personality. The "Hail, heaven-born light," of Milton, precisely expresses
the Aryan idea of the birth of Indra. It is the local manifestation of the
all-pervading Agni, that is born by attrition; and Varuna and Mitra were
nursed in the lap of Aditi, mother of the Adityas; because she is the vast
open space between earth and sky, in which the celestial luminaries dwell
and move, and wherein they had their origin. Aditi was not an indefinite
term, nor did it denote the source from which all life, even the life of the Gods,
springs; but only the space in which the luminaries existed, moved and origi-
INDRA 153
nated. Agni was the universal fire, of which Indra was the light. Both
were manifested in all the luminaries and in the lightning; and yet Agni,
manifested and limited as the sacrificial fire was the messenger and invoker
of these Gods that were but his other manifestations. There is no contra-
diction in this, but it is profoundly philosophical; and from it have flowed
all the speculations of Plato, of Philo and of the Kabbalah and the Gnostics.
Of Indra, specially, Mr. Cox says (i. 336) :
The picture which the oldest Vedic hymns present to us, of this God, has a
special value, as enabling us to determine the measure in which religion and mythol-
ogy affected each other. That a moral or spiritual element may be discerned
in some of the characteristics of this Deity, is beyond question .... Dyaus
and Indra, Varuna and Agni, are each in his turn spoken of as knowing no superior,
and the objects of their chief care are not the children of men, but the winds, the
storms, the clouds and the thunder, which are constantly rising in rebellion against
them.
The looseness of Mr. Cox's writing, and his frequent disregard of accuracy,
as if that were a consideration inferior to the construction of sounding
sentences, is curiously apparent here. The lightning is always a manifesta-
tion of Indra, his weapon or lance, and never rises in rebellion against him;
nor, we think, are the Maruts (winds) ever represented as doing so.
No sooner is one conflict ended than another is begun, or rather the same conflict
is repeated as the days and seasons come round. Whenever the rain is shut up
in the clouds, the dark power is in revolt against Dyaus and Indra. In the rumblings
of the thunder, while the drought still sucks out the life of the earth, are heard the
mutterings of their hateful enemy. In the lightning flashes which precede the
outburst of the pent-up waters, are seen the irresistible spears of the God, who
is attacking the throttling serpent in his den, and in the serene heaven which shone
out when the deluging clouds had passed away, men beheld the face of the
mighty Deity.
This is "fine writing," but it does not reproduce the Vedic hymns to
Indra. The dark power is not spoken of as in revolt against Dyaus and
Indra, whenever the rain is shut up in the clouds. The hymns are addressed
to Indra alone, as wielder of the thunderbolt, and slayer of Vifitra. And the
blue sky, which men saw when the storm passed away, was not, to the
Vedic Poets, the face of a mighty Deity.
In the Vedic Indra [Mr. Cox continues], there is this further peculiarity, that
although his name ceased, like that of Dyaus, to be chiefly a name for the sky [it
could not cease to be that which it never was], and although the struggle in which
he is constantly [at intervals] engaged, has indefinitely affected the faith of Christen-
dom, yet the Deity himself has but little of a purely moral or spiritual element in
his character. [He has nothing at all of a spiritual element, in our sense of the word
154 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP .
spiritual, and nothing moral, except figuratively.] It is true that he is sometimes
invoked as witnessing all the deeds of men, and thus taking cognizance of their
sins [of their wanderings, when lost, on the plains or in the forests]; but the warfare
which he has to wage is purely a physical conflict, and it is chiefly in the phrases
by which his adversary is described, that we find the germs of the dualistic creed
which bears the name of Zoroaster. Nowhere, then, in the oldest monuments of
Hindu thought, is the real character of Indra lost sight of. His home is in the
bright heaven [his origin is there; his home both in heaven and on the earth: he
fills both and out-measures both] ; but as his name denotes, he is specially the bringer
of the most precious of all boons to a thirsty and gaping land. He is the giver of
the rain which falls on the earth, when the tyranny of the scorching wind is overpast.
Vyansa, exulting and striking hard blows, smote thee, Maghavan, upon the
jaw; whereupon, being so smitten, thou provedst the stronger, and didst crush the
head of the slave with the thunderbolt.
Like Herakles and Phoibos, again, he has to go in search of lost or stolen cattle.
With the conveying Maruts, *the traversers of places difficult of access/ he discovers
the cows hidden in their caves.
We need not repeat the quotations from the Veda that follow. In one,
Indra, manifested as the wielder of the lightning, is designated by the
epithet Maghavan; and in another, as the "rain-bringer," by that of
Parjanya.
Nor need we follow much further the lucubrations of Mr. Cox as to
Indra. They may be summed up thus :
He is called wanderer at times, and is therefore the solar God [he is wanderer,
as every celestial luminary by which he manifests himself]: He is the Lord of
Heaven, omnipotent and all-seeing: he is younger than the sky; but however sharply
his personality may be defined, the meaning of the name is never forgotten. The
clouds sometimes move in Indra, the sky, as the Maruts or winds are said some-
times to course through Dyaus, the heaven.
What was the heaven, but the sky, to the Vedic Poets? If Indra was Lord
of Heaven, how was he the sky? If Dyaus, his father, was also Lord of
Heaven, how was he heaven itself, or Lord of the Sky, if it and the heaven
were not one and the same? Commentaries like this plunge the Vedas
into a maze of confusion, and represent the Poets or worshippers as having
no definite ideas as what their Gods were. There is in reality no such con-
fusion and uncertainty. The winds move through the air or open space
between the sky and earth; the clouds swim in the light and are tinged and
coloured by it. When the words heaven, sky and firmament are used in a
translation, in what senses we are not informed, confusion is the necessary
result.
In all the phrases which describe this God, the local colouring arising from the
climate of northern India may be plainly discerned [Mr. Cox informs us] . * . .
He has golden locks, and a quiver of arrows: he holds a golden whip: his arrows
INDRA 155
have a hundred points and are winged with a thousand feathers [for they are the
rays of the Light]: he rides in a flaming chariot, drawn by the tawny or glistening
steeds called the Hants: his beard flashes like lightning, as he rides. He is possessed
of an inscrutable wisdom. He chases the dawn, of whom he is sometimes said
to be the father, sometimes the son, and sometimes the husband. [If Mr. Cox
had but opened his eyes wide enough to see that the name Indra is applied equally
to the universal light as a whole, and to itself as manifested in the luminaries and
otherwise, he would have wandered about less helplessly in his disquisitions. But
he gets glimpses of some of the truth.] The prayers addressed to this God [he says],
show that the chief idea associated with him was that of an irresistible material
power. The prayer of the heart is addressed to Varuna. The cry for mercy from
those who have sinned is never sent up to Indra [Mr. Cox says, from those who
have broken the law of God, no such law is spoken of in the Vedas]; though he
engages in many conflicts for the good of men, with overwhelming power. The
great work for which he may be said to exist was to battle for life or death with
the hateful monster who imprisons the rain-clouds in his dungeons.
It will be easy for the reader to satisfy himself, by looking back to what we
have quoted from the Veda in regard to Indra, that "the great work for
which he might be said to exist, was to fight the clouds and produce rain/'
is simply ludicrous. That is but one of his many beneficent functions.
Nor does he fight against a monster who imprisons the rain-clouds in
dungeons. He fights against the clouds, the Asuras. They are not im-
prisoned; they imprison the rain. He does liberate them from their
dungeons: he shatters and rends them, and sets free the imprisoned waters,
in rains. Nor is it a battle for life or death. It is never represented as
doubtful.
This battle [Mr. Cox says], is presented under a thousand forms. His great
enemy, Vritra, the hiding thief, is also Ahi, the strangling snake, or Pani the
marauder. He appears again as Atri: he is Namuka and Sambara, both of whom
he slays with his bolt. He grinds the head of the deceiver Namuki, like [in the
shape of, or as], a sounding and rotting cloud. In the same way he slays Bala,
Chumuri, Dhuni, Pipou, Sushna, and many others; and against him the strength
of the Rakshasas is concentrated in vain. The religious instinct found little scope
in the phrases which described the offices of Indra, and most assuredly had nothing
to do with suggesting them.
The clouds of the thunderstorm assume a thousand shapes, monstrous,
portentous and gloomy. Nothing in Nature is more terrible than this
coming of a mighty storm, typhoon or tornado. The fearful masses change
at every instant; and these changing phases suggested to the imaginative
Aryan mind as many descriptive epithets, which became names of the mon-
sters whose shapes the clouds seemed to assume. As the lightning darted
in its zigzag or serpentine course, it seemed to follow up and disclose the
track of a huge serpent.
156 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
How nearly Mr. Cox is right in saying that the Vedic hymns never send
up a cry for mercy from those who have sinned, to Indra, may be seen by
the following extracts:
O God (Indra) have mercy! Give me my daily bread! Sharpen my mind,
like the edge of iron. Whatever I now may utter, longing for thee, do thou accept
it; make me possessed of thee. (Rig-V. m. 47. 10.)
Let us meditate on the adorable light of the divine Maker: may he rouse our
minds.
Destroy not our future offspring, O Indra; for we have believed in thy great
power.
It is true that such invocations to Indra are not common. They are
chiefly addressed to Varuna, one of his manifestations.
Wise Poets [it is said (Rig-V. x. 114. 5)], make the beautiful-winged, though
he is one, manifold by words, i. e., by names.
The epithet "beautiful-winged" applied to one made manifold by names or
words, is most fit to be used to characterize the many-coloured light. And
it is Indra, the light, that is thus made manifold.
The following hymn (Rig-V. x. 121) obviously is addressed to the light:
1. In the beginning there arose the golden child. He was born the one Lord
of all that is. He stablished the earth and this sky who is the God to whom
we shall offer our sacrifice?
2. He who gives life; he who gives strength; whose command all the bright
Gods [the sun, moon, stars and planets] revere; whose shadow is immortality [i. e.,
whose disappearance from the universe would make unending darkness], whose
shadow is death who is the God to whom we shall offer our sacrifice?
3. He who, through his power, is the one King of the breathing and awakening
world he who governs all, man and beast who is the God to whom we shall
offer our sacrifice?
4. He whose greatness the snowy mountains, whose greatness the sea pro*
claims, with the distant river; he, whosethese regions are, as it were his two arms
who is the God to whom we shall offer our sacrifice?
5. He, through whom the sky is bright and the earth firm he through whom
the heaven was stablished nay, the highest heaven he who measured out
[manifested by limitations, within limits] the light in the air who is the God to
whom we shall offer our sacrifice?
6. He to whom heaven and earth, standing firm by his will, look up, trembling
inwardly he, over whom the rising sun shines forth who is the God to whom
we shall offer our sacrifice?
7. Wherever the mighty water-clouds went, where they placed the seed and
lit the fire, thence he arose, who is the Sole Life of the bright Gods who is the
God to whom we shall offer our sacrifice?
INDRA 157
8. He who by his might looked even over the water-clouds [i. e., who, mani-
fested and potently acting, displaying and exerting his force and influences, is
visible above the clouds], the clouds which gave strength, and lit the sacrifice;
he who alone is God above all Gods [is that of which the celestial luminaries are
the partial manifestations] who is the God to whom we shall offer our sacrifice?
9. May he not destroy us he, the Creator of the Earth; or he, the righteous,
who created the heaven; he 'also created the bright and mighty waters who is
the God to whom we shall offer our sacrifice?
The mention of the sea in this hymn, is sufficient proof that it was com-
posed after the Aryans had passed from the land of the Five Rivers, into
India, and reached the sea-coast.
What but the flame or light arises when it is lighted? And what else
than light is the life of the bright luminaries of the sky? All the bright
Gods revere his command, i. e., all these luminaries are his dependents,
receiving their light from the Universal Light. "Arose the golden child,"
i. e., the golden light, beginning to exist, soared upward, and became the
life and strength of all that is. His opposite, the shadow or darkness, is
death, and tibe annihilation of all measured time. By its influence and
power, the light has dominion over all that breathes, i. e., lives, in the world,
when awaking in the morning. The snowy mountains, flooded with light,
the sea and rivers that reflect the light, disclose its magnitude. By it the
sky is bright, and the earth firm, and the heaven established, to its utmost
height : for without light, what would the earth be of real and actual to man?
And it is by the light that the expanse between earth and sky, even unto the
sky, the utmost limit of the expanse, is made known.
Heaven and eartibi stand firm by his will ; because if light were annihilated
both would disappear for us, and be as though they were not. Wherefore
they do honour to the light, trembling for fear lest it should cease to be.
Light is life; it is with the clouds, with the planted seed, with the flame of
the fire. What the clouds are "which gave strength and lit the sacrifice,"
it would be hard to say. Corruption of the original text or mis-translation,
is evident; for everywhere it is Agni who lights the sacrifice. The clouds
do not do it, nor do they give strength.
Light or the fire, Indra or Agni, is the life of the heavens, earth and
waters. It is vitality, and therefore these are said to owe to it their being,
and it to be their creator. For darkness, utter and entire, was deemed to
be non-existence: and there was no contradiction between this idea and the
distinct assertion elsewhere, that before any of the Gods, the sky and the
earth were. The account of the Cosmogony in the Hebrew book Barasith,
represents chaos, enveloped in utter darkness, as existing before the
"beginning." Then the breath of Elohim moved or brooded, on the surface
of this oceanic chaos, and the generation of things commenced. So, when
158 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Elohim had formed man of the dust of the earth, it breathed into him the
breath of life, and man became a living being. Heaven and earth were,
but had no real existence for any save themselves, until light flashed forth
and filled the great expanse.
In the hymn, Rig-V. i. 53, as translated by Muller (I Chips. 31),
Indra is the giver of horses, cows and corn; having the disposal of wealth, the old
guide of man, disappointing no desires [i. e., probably, enabling him with certainty
to find his way], a friend to friends, achiever of many works [i. e., the cause and
producer of a multitude of effects]; gracious by day, and at night keeping the enemy
from the cows and horses. With his help they 'tear the fiend* night after night.
Wilson renders it, "subduing our adversary;" and we imagine it
would have been difficult to express to the Aryans, by any number
of words of their language, that which the word "fiend" expresses
to us. To use such words is not to translate. With just as much
propriety might the Devil, Satan, or the fallen Angel, have been used. The
word electric might just as well be used to render a term applied to Indra,
as the word righteous, and Purgatory as Heaven as different from the sky.
It is a wonder the phrase saving grace has not found its way into the trans-
lation, or Plato's ideas been represented as familiar to the old herdsmen-
poets of Bokhara or the Punjab. Under cover of darkness, thieves or
predatory bands could approach, unseen, the herds, and drive them away;
but if the night were lighted by moon or stars, their approach could be
descried. Hence Indra keeps off the hated ones, and with his help they
are defeated and foiled, night after night: and the Poet could well say,
Let us rejoice that we have preserved our food, and have received no injury from
those who hate us.
Indra is besought to rejoice his invoker, with treasure and food, with
"wealth of manifold delight and splendour ;"a phrase which, as the"wealth"
and "treasure" desired consisted of cattle and horses, probably does not
very accurately reproduce the sense of the original. He is asked for "the
blessing of the Gods, which gives us the strength of offspring," i. e., for the
virile energy which gives many children; and by which energy also, cows
and horses are given.
He is represented as irresistibly striking down ten thousands of enemies,
as advancing bravely from battle to battle, destroying from town to town;
and with Naml as friend, striking down from afar the deceiver Namuki: as
slaying Karanga and Parnaya, with the brightest spear of Atithigva; as
demolishing without a helper the hundred cities of Vangrida, which were
INDRA 159
besieged by Rigisvan; as felling down with the chariot-wheel the twenty
kings of men who had attacked the friendless Susravas, and glorious by the
sixty thousand and ninety-nine forts; as thus succouring Susravas and
Tflrvay^na, and making Kutsa, Atithigva and Ayu subject [i. e., giving
their services to] this mighty, youthful king.
The sun and moon go on in regular succession, that we may see, Indra, and be-
lieve. (Rig-V. i. 102. 2.)
Believe what? Is not the meaning, to enable us to see, and act confidently
and without uncertainty and doubt?
When Indra hurls again and again his thunderbolt, then they believe in the
brilliant God. (Rig-V. *. 55. 5.)
The cloud-monsters, perhaps, learn his presence by the lightning. Muller
thinks that men are meant, and says,
a similar sentiment, namely that men only believe in the Gods when they see their
signs and wonders in the sky, is expressed by another Poet. (Rig-V. mil. 21. 14):
Thou, Indra, never findest a rich man to be thy friend; wine-swillers despise
thee. But when thou thunderest, when thou gatherest, then thou art called, like
a father.
Max Mtiller is a great authority, and one should distrust an opinion
contrary to his. But I can not think that this expresses any "belief in God.*'
It seems to me that the meaning is, that rich men in their houses care nothing
for the light, as manifested by the brilliant luminaries of the night, care not
to view the splendid beauties of the heavens, or even to look casually at the
stars, much less to sleep under them, as the herdsmen do : and the swillers of
wine, passing nights and days in revelry, despise alike the daylight and the
starry splendours. But when the pealing thunder-voice of Indra rouses
them, when he gathers and concentrates his energies, then they cry to
him, as scared children do to an angry father.
With this belief in God [Professor Muller thinks], is coupled that doubt, that
true scepticism, if we may so call it, which is meant to give to faith its real strength.
[In proof of this, he cites Rig-V. mii. 89. 3]: "If you wish for strength, offer to
Indra a hymn of praise, a true hymn, if Indra truly exists, for some one says, Indra
does not exist; who has seen him? Whom shall we praise?"
And Indra answers, through the Poet: "Here I am, O worshipper! Behold
me here, in might I surpass all things.'
1
It seems to me that Professor Muller sees here what is not to be seen.
I think the hymn shows the very reverse of doubt or scepticism, on the part
160 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
of the Poet. It is some one else who expresses a doubt whether Indra
exists, whether there is a God, the Light-Principle of whom the visible light
is the manifestation, a real intelligence, possessing power, and replying by
protection and benefits to the invocations of the worshipper.
I ndra is certainly not an orb or luminary. He is as evidently a pervading
principle, not only co-extensive with the world, but extending beyond it and
not limited by it. He is not flame; because he fills the whole expanse, and
is manifested by all the luminaries; and in none of these except the sun, is
there any appearance of flame. The moon and planets and stars do not
seem to blaze, but only to shine.
Indra, then, is Light, or the Light-God.
Professor Wilson thinks that in Asht. i. Anuv. xi. Sdkta ii., Vaiw&nara
is identified with Indra. He is so identified, precisely as Agni is, of whom
Vaiw&nara is merely a name.
I cannot see any colour for the remark of Professor Wilson, that the
Vaidic theogony resolves all the Divinities into three, Fire, Air, and the Sun;
and these three again into the Sun. Many of the Deities are manifestations
of Agni; but others are not; and the sun is but a creature or organ of Agni
and Indra.
The scholiast says that Vaisw&nara, in v. 6, of the Sukta above referred
to, is the Agni of the firmament, the Vaioyuta, lightning, or electric force.
But it is not the force it exerts the force, being the fire, of which the light-
ning is one manifestation.
In Stikta, i. Anuu. ii. Adhy. i. of Asht. i. 9 we find, addressed to Indra, this
phrase,
We recognize thee in the midst of the right-minded, who are nearest to thee.
Undoubtedly the original had some meaning. I am quite sure that the
composers of the hymns always knew what they wished to say, and how
to say it, and that they had no confusion of ideas about their Gods, and
never merely babbled and jabbered, in words that were entirely barren of
ideas.
There is certainly no sense in the translation of the phrase; and I venture
to submit this, as its real meaning:
We recognize thee, Indra [the Universal Light], in the light-giving orbs that are
thy immediate manifestations. Come to us, and do not pass by us, unseen, invisible,
INDRA 161
unmanifested, to manifest thyself elsewhere. )The last clause is rendered by
Professor Wilson, 'Come to us, pass us not by to reveal/]
Indra is termed "the pervader." That epithet could not have been ap-
propriately applied either to the firmament, or to any luminous body or orb.
It is as inconsistent with the idea of shape and form, as the words "mind,"
"soul," or "spirit" are.
Elsewhere he is styled, "expanded like the ocean." This is equally in-
consistent with the idea that he is the sun or any other orb. He is repre-
sented as having "engendered" the sun, the dawn and the firmament. It is
not at all likely that in the word translated engendered there was any
sexual meaning. But the Logos, also, is styled "the only begotten"
Son of God. Evidently the meaning is that he manifests himself as the
sun and dawn, and makes visible the firmament, which, but for light, would
certainly be as though it did not exist for men.
He irradiates the firmament: he is the pervader of the universe, the All-
Pervading, in whom "the Gods have concentrated riches and worship and
power, manifesting his own sovereignty." "His own sovereignty'
'
is man-
ifested by "the Gods": the sovereignty which is his, peculiar to him; as
Paul, writing to the Christians at Rome, said,
"For since the making of the world, the invisible nature of God is clearly
seen, being cognizable in that which has been created; even his Eternal Potency
and Divine Sovereignty [Godhead].
As he is said in the Kabbalah to manifest himself by each of the Seph-
iroth, the tenth being his sovereignty [Malakoth], although no Sephirah
or emanation is the Very God, because emanation or manifestation is the
limitation of the infinite, and therefore not the unlimited infinite, so the
sovereignty of Indra is manifested in and as every one of the luminaries of
the sky. It is he that shines as each of them; and in him are concen-
trated all the potencies of all of them: they have their control of wealth,
and power of bestowing it, their worshipfulness, or all those faculties and
attributes whereby they deserve adoration, and their puissant influences
concentrated in him. He is the source and origin of all.
If, Indra [it is said in Mandda, viii.], a hundred skies and a hundred earths
were thine, a thousand suns could not equal thee, Thunderer, nor could the two
worlds attain to thee, when thou hadst been born. [Muir: Orig. Sansk. Texts.
w. 91.]
When thou, O unrivalled Maghavan, wast born for the destruction of Vritra,
then thou didst spread out the earth, and then thou didst establish the sky. Then
was thy sacrifice produced, then thy hymn and thy song of praise. Then thou
didst transcend all things that have been born and shall be born.
Thou, Indra, art the most powerful: thou hast kindled the sun; thou art great,
the architect of all things, and the lord of all.
162 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
x. 134. 1. When thou, Indra, like the dawn [as the dawn, or wearing the form
of the dawn, i. e., manifested as the dawn], didst fill both the worlds [the sky and
earth, with light], a divine mother bore thee, the Mighty Monarch of mighty
creatures [sovereign and light principle of the luminaries]; a gracious mother borei
thee.
In Stikta, x. Anuv. scv. Adhy. mi. ofAsht. i., we find,
1. The sages have formerly been possessed of this thy supreme power, Indra, as
if it were present with them [parachais, which as equivocal. It means, literally,
inverse, averted]; one light of whom shines upon the earth, the other in heaven,
and both are in combination with each other, as banner in battle [i. e., I think,
the light of the fire on earth and that which fills the expanse, unite to form one
body of light, a single battle-flag, as it were, for the Warrior-God, Indra].
Indra is said, in Sukta i. Anuv. ii. Adhy. vi. of Ash}, ii., to have fixed firm
the moving earth, to have tranquilized the incensed mountains, spread the
spacious expanse and consolidated the sky. He generated fire in the clouds,
and made all the perishable. He gave birth to the sun and the dawn; he
rendered earth visible to heaven, and generated the various luminaries of
heaven, and being of vast bulk comprehends in himself the Vast. He fixed
the heaven in the unsupported, and filled the spacious firmament, and heaven
and earth. He has upheld the earth and made it renowned; and has done
all this in the exhilaration of the Soma. Without him, all this were nothing :
all powers whatever are aggregated in him. Sustaining heaven and earth,
he overspread them with effulgence, and scattering the malignant glooms,
ensouled the all. It is he who gives birth to the light of the morning.
"Make the universe truth/' it is said to him; "be concentred in thee."
The scholiast reads, "the abode of truth;" and "let such power be con-
centred." But, "make the universe truth
1 '
means, "make all things real,
by making them visible;" and the other phrase contains nothing to indicate
that the addition to it is correct. The whole more probably means, "make
the universe, revealed and visible, be enwrapped, encompassed, enveloped,
by thee."
The victorious associated perceived a great light issuing from the darkness.
The dawns recognizing him, arose, and Indra was the sole sovereign of the rays
.... The radiant Indra, with the leaders, generated the sun, the dawn, the
earth and fire [i. e., the light of the luminaries of the dawn was all his, manifested
by them; he supplied light to the sun and dawn, and thus created them; and by
him the earth and fire itself became visible]. Born in the highest heaven, he
pervaded heaven and earth, and became the primary artificer. From him many
[luminaries] are born,, and heaven contains him not.
Copiously drinking the libation (the Soma), he exults, and this generates
the efficient seven, from heaven, which, being glorified, have made the
objects of perception by day. When the vast luminous heaven, manifested
by the rays, is displayed, then are the Deities resplendent, according to abode
INDRA 163
(i. e., each in his place) ; the Chief of Leaders in his approach has scattered
the thick glooms so that men may see, and filled both heaven and earth by
his magnitude. The phrase rendered by the scholiast,
"
which being
glorified, have made (manifest) the objects of (human) perception by day,"
isobscure. But the general meaning is clear enough. "Theseven efficient"
are the rays of the sun or of light, and these are "glorified" when their glory
is displayed: and these, thus glorified, make the daylight, and re-create, as
it were, the objects of perception.
Another expression in regard to Indra is,
Having person in the proximity of the sun, thy form becomes redolent of ambrosia;
.... and thou art like the cervine elephant, consuming the strength, and art
like a terrible lion, when wielding thy weapons.
Indra and Agni go together in one chariot, to recover the cows and
destroy Vritra. Indra made the indistinct, wide-spreading darkness
distinct*, with the sun. By his magnitude, that of heaven and earth are
exceeded, as the axle by the wheels. No limit has been set to his strength :
heaven and earth are intimidated by its greatness: he surpasses heaven
and earth : a mere portion of him is equal to both earth and heaven. By
him the sun was made daily visible, and he spread out the spacious regions.
By him the worlds have been rendered stationary. (It is strange that it
should ever have been imagined that Indra was the firmament.)
This Soma, Indra, has lighted up the unlustrous nights, and days and nights,
and years: those of old established it as the ensign of days, and it has made the
dawns generated in light. This radiant one (Indra) has illumed the non-radiant,
and pervaded many dawns with true lustre.
Indra, the prototype, has assumed various forms [i. e., has manifested him-
self by various limitations, by bodies having form and limited dimensions], and
such is his form as that which for his manifestation, Indra, multiform by his illusions
proceeds; for the horses yoked to his car are a thousand.
Professor Wilson's note to this is, that Indra presents himself as Agni,
Vishnu or Rudra, or any other Deity who is the actual object of worship,
and is really the Deity to be adored, being identifiable with each. His
chariots and horses are multiplied according to the forms in which he mani-
fests himself, and he is here identified with Parameswara, the Supreme
First Cause, identical with creation.
All that is, it seems to me, mere Hindu speculation. I read the passage
thus: Indra, the universal principle or essence of light, the very light,
invisible until manifested, has limited and manifested himself by means of,
or as, various luminaries the form or body of each of which is his manifesta-
tion; each is he, manifested in that form of each. He is thus multiform,
by his out-shining, and thus emanates or flows forth, the horses yoked to
his car (the stars), being a thousand.
164 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Your greatness, Indra and Agni [it is said in S&kto x. Anuv. v. Adhy. viii.,of
A$h$. iv.]9 is after this fashion, and is most deserving of praise: your progenitor
is one and the same: you are twin brothers, whose mother is here and there.
By Indra [Sukto ii. Anuv. Hi. Adhy. i. Asht. v.] 9 the constellations were
made stable and firm and stationary, so that they could not be moved by any ....
The vast strength of whom, powerful in both, has sustained the heaven and earth,
and by its vigour the swift clouds and flowing waters .... The rays of the
ever-recurring mornings, favoured, Indra, by thy vigour, confer consciousness as
they shine. ['Favoured by thy vigour,' i. e., owing their light to thee] ....
Indra with his greatness rules over the leaders: as the atmosphere encompasses the
earth, so he encompasses, and being the master of the rain, he upholds the sky as
well as the earth and the firmament .... Defend (Indra) like a lion, the un-
tamed, quick-moving Agni, that he may abide in his dwelling, fulfilling his functions
.... Sage Indra, who art the Lord, thou hast carried off by thy strength one
wheel of the sun.
So, SUkta xv. Anuvf ii. Adhy. i. of Asht. iv.:
Thou hast formerly detached one wheel of Sftrya: another thou hast given to
Kutsa, wherewith to acquire wealth.
And, Sdkta xvii. of same,
He, Indra, has formerly arrested in battle the rapid chariot of the sun: Etasa has
borne away the wheel, and demolishes.
The meaning of the original is uncertain. Professor Wilson says,
Bharach chakram Eta$ah: according to the comment, Eta$ah is put for Efa$aya, he,
Indra, has taken the wheel for Etasa.
In Sdkta i. Anuv. ocviii. Adhy. viii. Asht i., we find (13)
Stop, Sura, your yellow horses, for this Etasa, Indra, drags the wheel.
Elsewhere we read,
He has hurled the wheel of the sun, and has stopped Etasa going forth to (battle)
.... In which (conflicts), for the sake of Kutsa and his allies, thou hast stolen,
Indra, the sun. In which thou hast, for the sake of a mortal, discomfited the sun,
and hast protected Etasa by exploits. [Elsewhere it is Agni who 'blazed forth in
the contest, in defense of Etasa:* and, finally (Sukta i. Anuv. i. Adhy. mi.
Asht. p.)] When Silrya harassed Etasa, Satakratu conveyed Kutsa, the son of
Arjuni, with his two prancing horses (swift) as the wind, and stealthily approached
the irresistible Gandharva. [In Sukta iv. Anuv. xi. Adhy. iv. Asfy. i., we find],
Indra has defended the pious Sacrificer Etasa, when contending with Stirya, the
son of Swawa.
INDRA 165
The real meaning of all this, it is probably impossible to discover: but
the coincidence is curious, between Indra detaching a wheel of the chariot
of the sun to assist Etasa, a Rishi, and Joshua stopping the course of the
sun to enable the Beni-Isral to win a battle. So, Exod. xiv. 25, Yahuah
took off the chariot wheels of the Egyptians, that they drove them heavily.
Perhaps all these allusions are to some partial or total eclipse of the sun, by
calculating and predicting which, Etasa" triumphed over and became the
superior of another Rishi.
A frequent name of Indra is Maghavan, especially applied to him as
warring against Vtftra and the Asuras. It is perhaps from the same root
as Mahatvan,
'
'grandeur, power;" Greek, ntydos; Latin, Majestas; Gothic,
Mahts; German, Machts; English, Might, Mighty; Lithuanian, Macis;
Russian, Mocz; Gaelic, Mead; Keltic, Maint. Or it may be from Magh, to
"move, agitate, etc."
He is also called Sakra, "a common synonym of Indra, but which is
used as an epithet, implying the powerful, from sak, to be able." Wilson.
Elsewhere he says, "Indra, as Sakra, is one of the twelve Adityas." But
this is not found in the Veda. Wherever the name Sakra occurs in the
hymns, it is as a synonym of Indra, as the slayer of Vritra, dispenser of
benefits, etc.
Satakratu, as we have already said, is also a name of Indra. It means,
it is said, "he to whom many rites are addressed, or by whom many acts
are performed." Neither it nor Sakra designates Indra in any special
character or manifestation.
Parjanya is said to be Indra, in his character of the sender of rain. This
name first occurs in the fourth Ashtaka, Adhy. iv. Anuv. vi. Sfikta xi., which,
in ten stanzas, is wholly addressed to him. The derivations of the name,
cited by S&yana from Yaska, Nirukta 10. 10. are merely fanciful. Heis,
in this hymn, the mighty Parjanya, the thunderer, the showerer, the bounti-
ful, who impregnates the vegetable creation with rain. He strikes down
the trees; he destroys the Rikshasas, he terrifies the whole world by his
mighty weapon; even the innocent man flies from the sender of rain, when
Parjanya, thundering, slays the wicked. Driving the clouds before him,
he makes manifest the messengers of the rain; the roaring of the lion pro-
claims from afar that Parjanya overspreads the sky with rainy clouds. He
fertilizes the ground with showers: through his function the earth is bowed
down {submits to be impregnated), through it hoofed cattle increase;
and plants assume all kinds of forms (i. e., the vegetable world develops
itself in every species and variety of growth). Through him the rivers flow
166 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
unimpeded and sky and earth are saturated with water. He rains, he pours
down water. He makes the deserts passable, he is the author of comforts
for men, and he checks the rain in season. Elsewhere, Parjanya and Vata
are showerers of rain, sending water from the firmament. They are
granters of food, and Parjanya, through the vegetable world, a giver
of happiness.
In the fifth Ashfaka, the large celestial arrow is called the growth of
Parjanya. Its point is anointed with venom, its blade is iron.
Sdktas xii. and xiii. Anuv. vi. Adhy. mi. Asht. v., are addressed to
Parjanya. He is, there, the augmenter of plants, the increaser of the
waters, the showerer, who loudly roars, engendering the infant, the embryo
of the plants. He grants the desired light at the three seasons. One form
of him is like a barren cow, he takes whichever form he pleases : the mother
receives the milk from the father, thence the father, thence the son is
nourished. In him all beings exist, the three worlds abide in him. From
him the waters flow in three directions; the three water-shedding masses
of clouds pour the waters round the Mighty One. He is self-irradiating.
He, the bull, is the impregnator of the ever-renewed vegetable world. In
him is the vitality of both stationary and moveable things. He is the cause
of the impregnation of plants, of cows, of mares, and of women. The frogs
utter praises that are agreeable to him, when he sends down the rain upon
them,
Sfikta i. Anuv. ii. Adhy. viii. of Asht. u., says:
Indra, who is great in might, like Parjanya the distributor of rain.
I am quite sure that here, as in many other passages, "like" should be
"as" or "in his character of."
Parjanya is, unquestionably, Indra, as the supplier of rain to the earth,
and thence as its impregnator, the generator, procreator, vivifier, to whom
all pregnancy and parturience, of vegetation and the animals and women,
is owing. He is the prototype of Priapus; and in these characteristics we
have the germ of the worship of the Phallus and the Lingam. Jan means,
to "bring forth," to "produce," and Jani is a "female." Janas is a "man,"
a "begetter." The allusion to the bull, also, is not without interest, since
that animal subsequently became the symbol of the generative divine power.
Rijishin is once used as a name of epithet of Indra. Its meaning is
uncertain. It probably means "partaker of the oblation," or "receiver of
the juice" of the Soma plant, which he is invited to come and drink.
INDRA 167
"Usanas the Son of Kavi," is said, Sdkta i. Anw. xviii. Adhy. viii.
Ashf. i., to have given Indra the thunderbolt, with which to destroy Vritra.
And, Sfikta i. Anuv. oc. Adhy. iv. Asht. $., it is said to Indra,
If Ufanas should sharpen thy vigour by his own, then would thy might terrify by
its intensity both heaven and earth.
In Sdkta v. Anuv. Hi. Adhy. vi. Asht. Hi., Indra says,
I have been Manu and Sfirya: I am the wise IJishi, Kakshivat: I have befriended
Kutsa, the son of Arjuni; I am the far-seeing Usanas, So behold me.
Indra and Usanas went, with vigourous and rapid coursers, to the dwell-
ing of Kutsa, and destroyed his foes: and then, in one chariot with Kutsa
and the Gods, he slew Sushna
Thou, Indra [it is said elsewhere], hast been an ancient benefactor of Usanas the
son of Kavi: having slain Navavastwa, thou hast given back to his own grandson,
who was to be restored to the grandfather.
These passages, and many others like them, referring to wars among
men, between the Aryas and Dasyus, the fair-skinned and warlike race,
and the dark barbarians, and to rivalries and strifes between princes and
rivals, in which Indra fought on the side of his worshippers may be alto-
gether mythical, or may have related to real occurrences, far even then in
the past: and remind us of the Olympian Gods of the Iliad, not only aiding
their favourites on either side, but themselves engaging in actual battle, as
the stars in their courses fought against Sisera.
Sdkta, i. Anuv. ocv. Adhy. m. Asht. i., is a hymn by the Rishi Kutsa,
son of Angiras. Elsewhere, Indra is represented as having espoused his
quarrel and fought for him when he slew Sushna. He is called the son of
Arjuna, and was protected by the Aswins. Indra bears him in his chariot,
to the ceremony. To him, his charioteer, Indra subjected Sushna, Asusha
and Kuyava. Kutsa, the son of Rum, was eager for Indra's friendship.
The two alighted in his habitation, and being entirely similar in form, the
truthful woman was perplexed (Indra's wife, Sachi, the Hindus say).
Indra and Kutsa rode in the same chariot, and Indra defended him, and
enabled him to win through his trouble, slaying Sushna, Kuyava and the
Dasyus for him.
Marutwat is another name applied to Indra. It means, "attended by
the winds."
We find "Indra and Parvata" named together, in a few places, and Pro-
fessor Wilson says that the latter is "another name of Indra, as regulating
168 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
the Parvas, the joints or periods of the day or year/* In Sdkta ii. Anuv.
xviii. Adhy. i. Asht. ii., we read, after an invocation to morning and
night, to the dawn, to the circumambient Divinity who invests himself with
many forms, and to the wind,
Do you, Indra and Paryata, sharpen our (intellects), and may all the Gods show us
favour. Whenever I, the son of Usij, worship with my offerings those two, who
eat and drink at (the season) of the world-whitening (dawn).
And in SUkta vi. Anuv. xix. of the same
Indra and Parvata, who are foremost in battles, sky every one who is arrayed
against us ....
And here Professor Wilson says,
Parvata is said to mean a cloud, or the Deity presiding over clouds, another form
of Indra.
In Stikta, i. Anuv. Hi. Adhy. mi. of Asht. ii.,
When Brihaspati .... for thy glory, Parvata, had concealed the herd of kine,
thou didst set them free, and with thine associate Indra, didst send down the
ocean of water ....
In Sdkta, ocv. Anuv. iv. Adhy. Hi. Asht. Hi., Indra and Parvata are in-
voked, as distinct Deities, to come together in a spacious car; and in Sfikta
vi. Anuv. iv. Adhy. viii. Asht. iv., Parvata and Savityi are jointly in-
voked to give food and water. With them, Ahirludhnya is invoked.
Elsewhere, Parvata is invoked in the same stanza with Savitri, as a bestower
of riches.
-
The passages in which this name occurs do not contain anything that
can enable us to determine what was intended by this Deity.
In SUktas ocx. and xxi. Anuv. Hi. Adhy. iv. Asht. v., Vdshtospati is
addressed. Vdstu is the foundation of a house, and is said to be put for
the house itself, and came to mean "protector of the dwelling." An excel-
lent, comfortable, opulent, delightful abode is prayed for, blessings, pro-
tection of property, bestowal of wealth. The Deity invoked is styled,
"remover of disease, assuming all forms;" and the second stanza of Sdkta,
xx. reads,
Protector of the dwelling, be our preserver and the augmenter of our wealth; pos-
sessed of cattle and horses, Indra, may we, through thy friendship, be exempt
from decay.
The name Vdshtospati is evidently only an epithet of Indra. It occurs
nowhere else.
VAYtL
Agni is the Universal Fire, and all its manifestations:
Indra is the Universal Light, and all its manifestations and emanations:
Parjanya is the fructifying or generative Potency of Light; light as
generator, prototype of Priapus.
Flame and Heat, it is natural to suppose, were not overlooked, when
Light, an emanation from Agni, was deified.
In seeking to ascertain, not from the commentaries or later Brahmanic
books, what was represented in the Veda by Vayu, and what by Arusht and
the Arushis, I found but few passages that could serve to resolve my doubts,
in regard to the former,
Mr. Cox says,
The God of the bright heaven, who is known as Dyu, Indra and Agni, is also called
Vayu, a name denoting, it would seem, the gentler movements of the air, which
are expressed by the pipings of the Greek Pan, and the soft breathings of the Latin
Favonius.
I am at a loss to know whether by "the God of the bright heaven/'
he means the firmament itself, or the sky, or some ideal Deity who
presided over and had in charge the firmament or sky; or whether he
'means the heaven when illuminated with light, as contradistinguished
from the darkened sky: and what he adds, makes the uncertainty more
distressing.
As such [he says], he comes early in the morning [who or what comes? the
God, or the bright heaven?], to chase away the demons; and the dawns weave for
him golden raiment. He is drawn by the nights and has Indra for his charioteer.
There are only three Deities, according to the etymologists, Agni, whose place is
on earth, Vayu or Indra, whose pkce is in the atmosphere; and Stirya, whose
place is in the sky.
In Sdtapatha Brdhmana, xi. 2. 3. I (p. 838), Brahma (in the neuter),
is introduced as being the original Source of all things:
In the beginning, Brahma was all this: He created the Gods. Having created
the Gods, he placed them in these worlds; in this world, Agni; Vayu in the atmos-
phere, and Stirya in the sky. (Muir: Orig. Sansk. Texts, 25.)
In the Nirukta, vii. 5, it is said,
There are only three Deities, according to the Nairuktas (etymologists), Agni,
whose place is on earth, Vayu or Indra, whose place is in the atmosphere, and
170 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Stirya, whose place is in the sky. And Sakapftni thinks that these are the triple
manifestations [the three steps], of Vishnu, in the form of fire on earth, of light-
ning in the atmosphere, and of the solar light in the sky. (Muir: iv. 56. 57.)
We attach no Importance to these Brahmanic notions. According to
them, every Vedic God is at different times everything, and at no time any-
thing in particular. All knowledge of what Vayu, Vishnu and other Gods
originally were, had been lost for at least a score of centuries.
Vayu, in the Veda, yokes two red or purple horses to his car. He is
invoked to cause "intelligent beings" to arise, as a lover arouses her whom
he loves, from her sleep ; to summon sky and earth, and to light up the dawn.
For thee [it is said], by means of thee, the brilliant Dawns, from afar, display
their welcome garmenting, in variegated and splendid radiance.
And Vayu and Indra are conveyed together, in a chariot drawn by the
Niyuts.
His horses are strong-limbed, youthful and full of vigour. They bear
him through the space between heaven and earth, growing in bulk, and strong
as oxen. They are not lost in the expanse, but continue on unretarded,
with undiminished speed, difficult to be arrested, as the beams of the sun.
In Sukta iL Anuv. L Adhy. L Asht. i., we find,
Vayu, pleasant to behold, approach .... Indra and Vayu, abiding in the
sacrificial fire.
The same attributes, powers and faculties are so continually ascribed
in the Vedas to different Gods, as to have sadly perplexed all the modern
commentators, and in resorting to the Hindu interpreters of the Vedas,
they have found only confusion worse confounded. But I am very strongly
inclined to believe that in the Vedas themselves, at least in the older hymns
of the Rig-Veda, the confusion is only apparent, and entirely owing to our
uncertainty as to the personalities of their Gods. Many of the phrases
used in invoking Agni and Indra, seem as exaggerated, strained and far-
fetched, as any that are used in speaking of other Deities; but when we
succeed in identifying ourselves, to some extent, for the time, with these
Poets, and become familiar with their processes of thought, we find the
phrases to be deductions as to the effects and action of fire and light, that
are singularly ingenious, and evincive of acute and profound thought. And
we also find that plain and direct expressions as to the nature or office or
relations of a particular God, are never loosely made, but always mean
exactly what the words import.
And when it is said that Indra and Vayu "abide in the fire of the sacri-
fice/' this is not a mere meaningless expression, nor is it anywhere contra-
VAYU 171
dieted by any other expression inconsistent with it. To "abide" in the
fire, is to be in it and of it, as a component part of it. Light is so, and ema-
nates from it. So are and so do, flame and heat. But heat has no colours,
and drives no red or purple horses, as the flame of the fire, the flashings of
the Auroras, and the blazing orb of the sun may be said to do.
In Sdkta vi. Anuv. v., of the same, we read:
We invoke both, the Divinities abiding in heaven, Indra and Vayu, to drink of this
Soma juice: the wise invoke for their preservation Indra and Vayu, who are swift
as thought, have a thousand eyes, and are protectors of pious acts [acts of worship].
As component parts of the fire, they are ministers of sacrifices, and so
are protectors of acts of worship. This function hardly seems to belong
to "the gentler movements of the air, expressed by the pipings of Pan."
Professor Wilson says that Vayu is invoked in a visible form, as the Deity
presiding over the wind. He doubts whether Vedic expressions intimating
personality, are to be understood as indicating actual figures or idols, and
thinks that the personification is probably only poetical.
Certainly a visible form,or rather a visible appearance, is assigned to Vayu.
He is not represented as limited, as the luminaries are, in place or by definite
shape and outlines. He is visible as flame is visible, and rides in the same
car with Indra, the light, and his horses are of the principal colours of flames,
red and purple. He is not represented as presiding over the winds, but as
the producer of them. Professor Wilson is unquestionably right in thinking
the Poets of the Veda did not include figure or form or limitation, in the idea
of personality. But their personifications are as real as our personifications
of the soul and of Deity are, which also include no idea of form or figure.
For thee lit is said], the cow that yields ambrosia, milks all kinds of treasure.
The original word, rendered "ambrosia" (which is a word without definite
meaning), is Sarardughd, explained by the scholiast, by Amrita, a supposed
drink of the Brahmanic Gods. What Sarardughd was, we are not told.
It was some liquid, we imagine, that was poured upon the flames of the
sacrifice, perhaps mead, the beverage of the Norse Gods: for honey is
mentioned in the Veda. 'Treasure" or "wealth," to the Gods, was what
was sacrificed to them. The "cow" is, of course, merely figurative, what-
ever the beverage was. The hymn continues:
Thou begettest the Maruts [whose father Rudra is often said to be] of the Expanse
[their mother, Prini?], for showering rain, the rivers .... Thou defendest
from all beings: thou protecfest us from the fear of evil spirits .... Thou, Vayu,
who art preceded by none [because an emanation from Agni, and being to him
172 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
as the Logos to the Father, or Agni manifested]: .... Vayu with thousand steeds
.... the Gods hold back for thee, as the Deity first to drink [because the beverage
of the sacrifice must be poured upon and become part of the flame, before it can
reach and be imbibed by the other Deities].
As Proclus says,
Fire dissolves the elements of that which it burns, and transmutes them into itself.
The horses of Vayu, which bear him through the space between earth
and the sky, "grow in bulk" because it is of the nature of flame to spread
and expand. Every one who has seen great fires in the open air has noted how
rapidly the flames flash from place to place, and seem, as it were, to revel
in a delirious ecstacy. The steadiest flame, of even the household fire, is
restless and unquiet; and to one who has seen herds of wild horses on the
American plains, as the Aryans saw them on their native steppes, free as
the wind, full of life and action, with luxuriant manes and tails floating in
the morning breeze as they careered swiftly, and "terrible as an army with
banners'* over the grassy ridges that stretched between the delighted
observer and the glowing sunrise to one who has seen the wild horse in his
pride, it seems natural that to them, thus seen, the streaming glories of
the rising sun and of tita Northern Aurora should have been likened.
The horses of Vayu are young and vigourous, and strong as oxen:
They are not lost in the expanse, but hold on their speed, having no dwelling by
speech [no fixed place by expression in form]. They are difficult to be arrested as
the beams of the sun: they are difficult to be arrested by force.
In Stikta ix. Anuv. m Adhy. viii. Asht. ii.:
Vayu, whose are a thousand chariots, and the Niyut steeds .... Leaders India
and Vayu, Lords of the Niyut steeds ....
In Sdkto L Anuv. v. Adhy. vii. of Ashf. iii.:
Vayu, who art drawn by the Niyuts, and hast Indra for charioteer .... [and
in the other five verses, Indra and Vayu are invoked together]: so also they are in
the next Stikta; as 'Lords of Strength, vigourous, and drawn by the Niyut steeds,
in the same car: and in the third we read, *Vayu, the terrifier of foes, come with
thy brilliant car .... Vayu, who art the nirywvdno aastih [which Professor Wil-
son cannot translate], who art drawn by the Niyuts, and hast Indra for thy charioteer
.... The dark nurses of wealth [Qu. the Maruts?], the universal forms attend
upon thee .... May the ninety-nine steeds harnessed together, that are as
swift as thought, convey thee .... three-fold Vayu, and Agni, concurring in
satisfaction with heaven.
Vayu, the divine, the fulfiller of desires, the adorable . . . the two Lords
of People, Vayu with the Niyut steeds, and Pushan ....
VAYU 173
Ashj. v. Adhy. vi. Anuv. m. Sdkta i. The Hero Vayu: .... harness thy
Niyut steeds .... the white-complexioned dispenser of wealth, Vayu whom
heaven and earth bore for the sake of riches, whom the divine language of praise
sustains as a De^ty, for the sake of riches .... Those munificent princes who
confer on us prosperity, by gifts of cattle, horses, treasure, gold, Indra and Vayu,
overcome ....
Sdkto ii. Preservers of mankind, Indra and Vayu .... the white-com-
plexioned Vayu, intelligent, glorious with the Niyut steeds .... Harnessing the
Niyuts, come, Indra and Vayu, hither .... [Twice more, in the same hymn,
they are addressed jointly.]
Sfikfa Hi. [Addressed to Vayu, and to Indra and Vayu. The latter is prayed
to bestow riches and male progeny, and to come with hundreds and thousands of
Niyut steeds.]
Such are the data for deciding as to Vayu.
It is true that Eichhoff gives us the root err to
*
'move" or "breathe," or
"blow;" whence the Greek dw, ddo>, o&o and foyjui, "breathe, blow,"
whence hypa, flatus, spiritus; Gothic, waja; German, wehe; Lithuanian,
weju; Russian, wieiu; from which root is vdyus, "air;" Greek, d^p; Latin,
aer; and vtitas, vdtis, "wind." The root %& also means, to "move," and
so does the root TO . The original meaning of the root, we may conclude,
was to "move, fluctuate, waver, etc.," and that to "blow," as the wind
does, was a secondary or derivative meaning : and that vayus meant the "air,"
as "moving, inconstant, wavering," and the like, all which peculiarly
apply to flame, easily conceived of as air made visible by the heat. It is
quite certain that the epithets applied and the attributes ascribed, to Vayu,
are not fitting or appropriate, when applied to the invisible colourless air.
The air might be termed the mother of the Maruts, but could not be
aid to "beget" them. How could the air be said to arouse men in the
morning? It is the daylight that does that, and the light is emitted by
flame. How does the air "summon sky and earth, and light up the dawn" ?
How could it, with red and purple steeds, be said to ride in the same car
with Indra; and to cause the brilliant dawns to display their garmenting
"in variegated and splendid radiance"? How is the air "pleasant to
behold"? And how does it "abide in the sacrificial fire"? How could
the invisible air be properly styled "white-complexioned"?
Vayu is styled "intelligent and glorious," and the word translated
"glorious" seems always to have reference to radiance and brilliance, and
could not be properly applied to the air.
The appellation Niyut is several times applied to the horses of Vayu.
The only root to which I can refer it is Ni or Nay, meaning to "move,
direct, govern or control;" whence Nayas, "tendency," and Nayanan,
"intelligence."
174 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
It would be very presumptuous in me to even endeavour to conjecture
the meaning of many of the expressions used in the Veda. Professor
Wilson often declines to attempt it, and gives merely what he considers
the equivalent words, whether the sentence, thus formed, makes any sense
or not. Mr. Bleeck feared that parts of his translation from the German
of Spiegel, of the G^this and Yashts would, to English readers, "be almost
as unintelligible in their present form, as in the Zend itself;" and much of
every translation of the Veda is so.
Thus, it is said to Vayu,
The dark nurses of wealth, the Universal Forms, attend upon thee.
I have no doubt that the "Universal Forms" are the celestial luminaries;
the universal or essence, Agni or Indra, or Agni containing Indra and Vayu,
limited and manifested in place, by form, and thus dependent upon and
subordinates of Vayu as part of Agni. But I can not conjecture what is
meant, if the translation is correct, by the "dark nurses of wealth." The
word rendered "dark" may mean the night, and if so, the phrase is intel-
ligible, for it would mean "the night's nurses," i. e., the luminaries of the
night, or which shine in the darkness, and in which is stored up, as milk
is in the bosom of the nursing mother, the wealth of light, or the light
which is the cause and source of the wealth of the herdsman and husband-
man.
The"ninety-nine steeds harnessed together,that are as swift as thought,"
which convey Vayu, are beyond the reach of conjecture: and the addition
of the phrase, "three-fold Vayu, and Agni, concurring in satisfaction with
heaven," throws no light upon it. The word "three-fold" indicates that
"ninety-nine" is used as being thrice thirty-three, a number that is men-
tioned elsewhere, and so explained by the commentators as to be utterly
incomprehensible.
The air could not, in any sense, be said to be "three-fold." As applied
to Vayu, its meaning can only be conjectured. It may be supposed to
mean the flame of the ordinary fire, on earth; the flame of the sun, and
that of the Aurora or lightning, at night: or the three colours of flame; or,
as I am inclined to think from the peculiar idea entertained of fire in the
hymns, the flame itself, and the light and heat contained in it as an integral
part of it. These and Agni, which contains them and manifests them all,
"Concur in satisfaction with heaven," i. e., they rejoice and are glad as
the heavens and their Gods are, with the ascending sacrifice. This, at
least, is not nonsense.
Vayu and Pushan are "the two Lords of People," i. e., men are depen-
dent upon them, for their welfare and comfort, perhaps.
VAYU 175
Heaven and earth bore Vayu, "for the sake of riches/' and he is the
"dispenser of wealth, whom the divine language [utterance or expression] of
praise sustains as a Deity, for the sake of prayer." The praise or adoration
uttered or expressed by means of the fire of sacrifice, sends upward toward
the sky the flame manifested separately, and thus a distinct Deity. It is
itself the utterance of praise: and it is so for the sake of the riches prayed
for; for the sake of which, also, it is generated, produced or manifested in
heaven and earth, in each of which it blesses men. "The divine language
of praise" is the adoration by sacrifice; for it is Agni, a Deity and Divine,
who is the invoker of the celestial Gods.
Indra and Vayu are the preservers of mankind, since without flame
and light men could not exist: and they are the munificent princes [superior
to their manifestations, the luminaries], "who confer on men prosperity, by
gifts," of various kinds. Once, Vayu is invoked to come with hundreds
and thousands of Niyut steeds: for the Sun's rays of flame, flashing forth,
are innumerable.
I conclude that Vayu is unquestionably the flame, or Agni manifested,
as an emanation.
The Aryan emigrants carried with them everywhere, this worship of
fire, flame and light. ^Eschylus, in Agamemnon, says,
And the altars of all our city-guarding Gods, of those above, and those below,
Gods of heaven and Gods of the Forum, are blazing with offerings; and in different
directions, different flames are streaming upward, high as heaven, drugged with
the mild unadulterated cordials of pure unguent, with the royal cake brought
from the inmost cells.
We hear in this passage the Vedic Poet exclaiming,
Agni, thine offering, and thy glory, and thy flames beam high.
Euripides, in Antigone (1010) says,
I essayed straightway the divination by fire, on the sacred altars; [and (1020)],
And the Gods no longer accept from us the sacrificial prayer, nor the flame of
the thighs.
Sophocles says, in (Edipus Tyrannus,
O give, our sire, blast by thy thunderbolt. Thine invincible arrows also, O Lord
of Light, from the golden-twisted horns of thy bow.
176 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The Emperor Julian said,
He uttered out from Himself the sun, the Greatest God, in all things like Himself.
Zeus [it is said in the Orphic Fragments], is the rushing of indefatigable re
.... He is the sun and moon .... his eyes the sun and the opposing moon;
his unfallacious mind the royal and incorruptible JEiher. [And Orphic Hymn .],
O thou that hast the might on high always untired, of Zeus, a portion of the stars
and sun and moon, all-subduer, fire-breathing, that kindles all that live: ^Ether,
that givest light from on high, best rudiment of the world: O shining growth,
light-bringing, star-radiant, calling on I beseech thee, tempered, to be serene.
In Nonnus (Dionus. xl. 378) we read,
When dewy Selene milks the resisting fire of thy parturient beam, drawing together
her bent-forward cow-horn.
Orpheus is represented as saying:
Light broke through the ^Ether. The light was the Demiurgos, a being Supreme
above all others, and its name is Metis, Phanes, Erikapseus. These three powers
are the three names of the One Power and Strength of the Only God, whom no
one ever beheld. By this power, all things were produced, both the incorporeal
beginnings (archai), and the sun and moon and their influences.
The Hindus applied the Vedic idea of manifestation to Brahma.
Brahma, through whom all things are illumined, who with his light lets the sun
and the stars shine, but who is not revealed by their light. (Sankhara, Atonu-
Bodha. 61.)
And so the Persian or Zend Scripture says,
when I made the wide-ruling Mithra, I created him just like myself in the divine
nature and dignity, I who am Ahura Mazda. Go up, shining sun, with thy swift
horses, rise above Mount Berezaiti, and shine to the creatures on the way which
Ahura Mazda has made in the air, which the Gods have created. Praise to the
sun, who drives on with four horses, and works purity.
We cite these passages, not to show what the later ideas were, but as
explanatory of the meanings of the Veda. It was only necessary to attain
to the conception of a supreme creative mind, and the Veda furnished the
rest. From it came all the doctrine of emanation and manifestation,
which, applied to Brahma, Ahura Mazda and Zeus, made the three Great
Religions: from it the idea of the divine Triads, of three divine Hypostases
or persons in the Divine Unity; and Athene issuing, completely armed,
from the brain of Zeus was but the symbolic expression of tie idea of the
emanation of the divine creative wisdom or intelligence.
VAYU 177
The Poet Shelley says,
Men scarcely know how beautiful fire is;
and surely nothing is so beautiful as flame. It seems composed of all gems,
of every hue and colour, rarefied into most beautiful and brilliant vapour;
and as it leaps and frolics, as if in exuberance of delight, one easily invests
it with the characteristics of a living creature. Beautiful exceedingly on
the earth, it is even more beautiful in the heavens; and as the diffuser of
grateful warmth, the best friend of man during the harsh winter's cold.
It gives him the warmth of the sun ; it is the destroyer of the forests, thepuri-
fier, free of all the grossness of matter ; and it would have been very strange
if the Aryan Poets had not deified, or at least personified, it.
As manifested by the flashing, coruscating glories of the Aurora, it
could well be said that the Seven Sisters (the stars of Ursa Major), nursed
ArusM, the flaming radiance of the sky. As coming with the dawn, mani-
fested by the glowing flames that herald the rising of the sun, and seem to
blaze among the clouds, he might be associated with the Pleiades.
This brings us to consider what ArushS, was: for Vayu was unquestion-
ably flame, as a hypostasis of Agni.
ARUSHA.
We have quoted, on a preceding page, what Miiller says, etymologically
and otherwise of ArusM, Arushd and the ArusUs.
The horses of Indra, of Agni, of Brihaspati, as quick as the wind and as
bright as Suns, who lick the udder of the dark cow, the night, are called
Amshd; the smoke which rises from the burning sun at day-break, the
limbs of the sun, with which he climbs the sky, the thunderbolt which Indra
throws, the fire which is seen by day and by night, all are called Arushd.
He who fills heaven and earth with light, who runs across the darkness along the
sky, who is seen among the black cows of the night, is called ArushQ Vtfshd, arushti,
or the bright bull. (Mutter: Chips. ii, 135.)
ArushS, here, is evidently not a name, but an adjective.
But this very Arusht is, in the Veda, as in Greek Mythology, represented
as a child, as a Solar Agni:
Rig-V. Hi. 1. 4. The Seven Sisters have nursed him, the joyful, the white
one, as he was born, the ArushU, with great might; as horses go to the foal that is
born, so did the Gods bring up the sun, when he was born. (Id. 135. 6.)
The reader will remember that Arushd, masculine, and ArusM, feminine,
are from the participial form Arvas, nominative, Arvdn; and that Arushd
is used in the sense of "bright," as (Rig-V. mi. 75. 6),
The red, bright horses are seen, bringing to us the brilliant dawn,
Mr. Cox says Arvdn is a horse. It may be: I find in Eichhoff that
Agvanis:
ArusM is always the young Sun, in the Veda; the Sun who drives away the
dark night, and sends his first ray to awaken the world. (Rig-V. mi. 11. 1.)
Night goes away from her sister, the Dawn; the Dark One opens the path for
Arusha. (Id. 136.)
Though in some of his names there is an unintentional allusion to his animal
character, he soon takes a purely human form. He is called Nrifcakshds (iii. 15.
3), having the eyes of a man; and even his wings have commenced to grow in the
Veda, where, once at least, he is called Arttshdh Suparnas, 'the bright Sun with
beautiful wings.* As Eros is the child of Zeus, Arushi is called the child of Dyaus
(DMh steus).
Rig-V. iv. 15. 6. Him, the God Agni, they adorn and purify every day, like a
horse that has run his race, like Arushi, the bright Sun, the young child of Dyaus
(heaven).
ARUSHA 179
Rig-V. vi. 49. 2. Let us worship Agni, the child of heaven, the son of strength,
Arusha, the bright light of the sacrifice. (Mutter: Chips, ii. 136.) ,
In the phrase "the bright sun," the word "sun" is supposed to be
understood in the original, the only word for the phrase being Arushd. I
suspect that the word "light" also, in the phrase "the bright light," is
understood.
This child is the first of the Gods, for he comes (v. 1. 5), agre ahn&m, 'at the
point of the days/ ushasdm agre, 'at the beginning of the dawns' ; but in one passage
two daughters are ascribed to him, different in appearance the one decked with
the stars, the other brilliant by the light of the sun Day and Night, who are else-
where called the daughters of the Sun. As the God of Love, in the Greek sense
of the word (Eros), Arush does not occur in the Veda. (Id. 136. 137.)
'ArushjL born at the beginning of all the days;' Arusha, the child, the son of
Dyaus; he yokes the Hants, and is, if not the son, at least the beloved, of the Dawn.
(Id. 138.)
Professor Curtius, quoted by Miiller in a note (ii. 138. 9), says
that the root ar means 'going, running, striving;' that in Sanskrit, the meaning of
'horse' or 'solar horse' was assigned to Arvcti;
and that, in India, arvat, "running," and harit, "bright," had each assumed
a secondary or idiomatic meaning, becoming recognized names for horse,
is said by Professor Miiller, in the same note, who adds that,
as ararf was also applied to the sun, the heavenly runner, the conception of the
sun as a horse became almost inevitable, and required no poetic effort on the part
of people speaking Sanskrit.
In his notes on the Rig-Veda Sanhita (Vol. I. p. n), Miiller, noting the
objections made to some of his interpretations of passages in which the
word Arushd occurs, on the ground that in them the word is an epithet of
Agni, or Sfirya remarks,
that this objection would apply to many other names, originally intended for these
conceptions, but which, nevertheless, in the course of time, become independent
names of independent Deities.
These are his views in full as to Arusht, and they leave us entirely in
doubt as to the real character of that Deity; or whether the word was the
name of a Deity at all. Let us sum up what he says :
Arusha brings us as near to the Greek Eros (Love), as we can expect. It is
used in the sense of bright, and applied to the horses of Indra,Agni and Biihaspati;
to the smoke rising from the morning sun; to the sun's limbs; to the thunderbolt,
180 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
and to fire. All these are called Arushd. He who fills heaven and earth with
light, runs across the darkness of the sky, is seen among the black cows of the night,
is called the bright (Arushd) bull.
He is a joyful and white one, and he is nursed, when born, by the Seven
Sisters. He is of great might. Is he a luminary that "fills the heaven
with light?" Is it in the day or night, that he "runs across the darkness
of the sky?" Surely it is in the night that he is "seen among the dark cows
of the night." He is at once the young sun, a luminary of the night, or the
lightning; the "Dark One opens a path for him." He has the eyes of a
man, and wings. He is the child of Dyaus: he is the bright sun, and the
Bright Light of the Sacrifice: he comes at the early dawns, the beginnings
of the days; and he has two daughters, one decked with stars, and the other
brilliant by the light of the sun; and these children are Day and Night.
From all this, can any one say what ArushS. is? Is the young Sun the
father of Day and Night? Does he have the eyes of a man, and wings?
Above all, is he visible among the dark clouds of the night; and does he
traverse the sky through the darkness? And yet, if the translation is
correct, he is both the bright sun, and the bright, i. e., the shining light, or
flame, of the sacrifice; and he was nursed, when first manifested, by the
Seven Sisters.
He is also "The child of the expanse, or heaven," "The Son of Strength,"
an epithet applied to Agni, because he is produced by attrition, by means
of muscular strength. He is called the Sun, and he is also called Agni. He
yokes the Hants. And we read, also, that "when the sun flew up, the
Arushis refreshed their bodies in water." Who are these? Mr. Cox says,
the horses of the sun. Do they refresh their bodies in water, when the sun
has risen? Also, he says, they are said to mean "the bright cows."
I do not clearly comprehend how Anas or ArushSL obtains the significa-
tion of "bright." The root AR, it is said, means to "go," to "run," whence,
ahorse, and, as the sun runs, the sun. Thence, as the sun is bright (Arushd) ,
Arushd means "bright." Without much knowledge, or indeed any, of
Sanskrit, one may doubt the soundness of this derivation, when the data
are thus all placed before him.
What are we to conclude, from the fact that Arushd is an adjective,
applied to horses, and also to the sun; that it also is a noun, the name of a
Deity who is the Son of Strength; that he is identical with Agni, as the
bright light of the sacrifice; and that traversing the sky at night, he is the
father of two daughters, one decked with the stars, the other brilliant by
the sun?
But I do not think he is called "the Son of Strength." I think that
this phrase is applied to Agni, and not to ArushS; that Arushd is Agni, as
ARUSHA isi
he is, and as Vayu is that is, that he is a person or hypostasis of Agni,
the fire. I think that the verse addresses Agni as child of heaven and Son of
Strength, and, as Arushi, only as the brilliant Light, that is, the radiant,
coruscating splendour of the Flame of the sacrificial fire; and here, I think,
we have a clue to the individuality of this subordinate Deity.
Again, the phrase, "he runs across" the darkness of the sky, may not
mean that he traverses it, as the luminaries are said to do. It rather
indicates that he leaps or flashes across it; and its "darkness" may mean,
not night, but that caused by storm. As the gleaming, blinding radiance
of the electric flame, he may be
seen among the dark cows [clouds] of the night, or that make day to be like night.
As the radiant splendour of the flames of the sun, he is seen at the beginnings of the
days.
There may be light, and is light, without appearance of flame and without
heat. The light of the moon has no appearance of fire or flame. The
glow-worm gives light: and light begins to come in the morning, and con-
tinues in the evening, when all appearance of flame or radiant splendour
has disappeared.
The same imagination that could conceive of light as latent and invisible
in the latent fire, and manifested outwardly by the fire when kindled, could
conceive of the flame and blaze as also existing when unmanifested, having
in itself the splendour and radiance and coruscation also unmanifested; so
that these are a manifestation of the flame or blaze. They may be seen
flashing forth from the flame, glittering, darting, flickering, quick-moving,
flashing from the sun as his rays; coruscating from the lightning, and
magnificently displayed by the Aurora.
I think that Vayu is flame, and ArushS. the coruscating radiance, efful-
gence and learns of the flame, which send their light far forth beyond them-
selves, and with it fill heaven and earth.
We are so familiar with the phenomena of fire as to see nothing marvel-
lous in them. For us, the universe has no surprises. The performances
of Deity in the physical world (I speak in no lack of reverence of Him, but
little reverencing an age that itself reverences nothing, except money and
rank and success) have lost the charm and gloss of novelty, the perpetual
miracles of the natural world are like a play of which audiences are weary,
and which no longer, draws; and we, miserable atoms of intelligence that
we are, having invented names that have no sort of meaning to us, for the
unknown powers and inexplicable phenomena, fancy that we know what
they are, and what the natural causes that produce effects; and having
substituted words and names for things, and made the universe still more
182 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
incomprehensible, look smirkingly around upon its thousand marvels,
imagine in our self-conceit that we know its processes, and can afford to
dispense with God, whom we have also made a mere name, as a Cause,
altogether; and no more really reverence Him than we do an ingenious
mechanic who has succeeded in obtaining a patent for some new labour-
saving invention.
If one could imagine himself in utter darkness, not an infant, but a man,
and that, after so remaining for a time he sees the light of dawn faint in the
eastern sky, growing and extending, until it makes all the material world
visible; that he sees the glories flashing many-coloured upward, that herald
the rising of the sun, sees his brilliant orb on which the eye cannot look, rise
above the hills or the horizon of the plain and begin his majestic march, and
feels the warmth of his beams in which his chilled frame and all Nature
rejoices, he would be able to comprehend the Aryan ideas of the light and
heat and splendour of the Sun.
If, chilled with cold that continues to increase in intensity and threatens
certain death, he could for the first time see fire, and feel and know its effects ;
if he could see attrition of the dry wood produce, first heat and smoke, and
at length flame, and that flame evolving heat, feeding upon the wood of
which it was born, and at last leaping, flashing, exulting in its terrible and
destructive energy and might, he would know how the most ancient men
came to worship Fire as a God.
And we can easily understand how light and heat, and flame and the
radiant splendour darting and flashing from the flame, would seem to him
to be different things, yet all included in the unity of fire; and each would,
by degrees, become to him a Deity.
What are light and heat to us? It was enough for the old Aryans to
know that they were: what they were, they do not enquire. Do we, any
more than they did, know what they are? They were actual, visible exist-
ences, to them, more real, because visible, than soul, spirit and God are to
us. Other beings and things than matter were real, to them. So electricity
and magnetism are real and actual entities to us, invested by our imagination
with the characteristics of substantial things ; and yet we no more know what
either is, in its Very Self, than these ancients knew what fire and light and
heat were. We know each only by its manifestations, its display of its
powers, by its effects.
There have been two theories as to the physical nature of light. That
of Descartes was, that it consists of small particles of matter, which he
compared to balls, emitted by the luminous body. His theory was exten-
sively accepted, and it became the generally received opinion that these
inconceivably minute particles, light-dust, as it were, projected by some
ARUSHA iss
inconceivable force, with almost inconceivable velocity, from the heavenly
bodies, never diverted in their course from a straight line, traversed the vast
distances of space, to reach this earth in a few mojnents, an hour, a day, a
year, or centuries, according to the distance of the orb from which they were
shot forth to reach this earth, or lose their light and become dark atoms
in the void, as they soon became after reaching the earth. How they retained
their heat in the journey, it was not attempted to explain. The light, it is
evident, was not these particles, but only a quality or attribute of them,
which they could part with, and it then ceased to exist: so that what light
was, remained as completely unknown as ever.
In 1664 Hooke propounded the rival theory of undulations, which
Huyghens developed in 1690. He asserted light to consist in a "quick, short,
vibrating motion," and that it is propagated in a homogeneous medium,
in such a way, that
every pulse or vibration of the luminous body will generate a sphere, which will
continually increase and grow bigger, just after the same manner (though indefi-
nitely swifter), as the waves or rings on the surface of water do swell into bigger
and bigger circles, about a point in it.
But this theory obtained little credit. Newton adopted the theory of
emission, and gave it a currency among his followers, which kept down the
undulation theory for above a century.
Euler embraced the undulation theory, urging various objections against
the other, among them, that the passage of particles through transparent
substances was inconceivable. These were answered by urging the exceed-
ing minuteness and velocity of the matter of light. How the force of
particles could be increased in proportion to their velocity, was not ex-
plained.
Revived by Young, at the close of the eighteenth century, and taken up
by Fresnel, the undulation theory is now generally accepted. It is now
generally agreed that light "consists in the vibrations of a peculiar fluid;"
in undulations or waves. There is believed to be a transverse vibration, the
motion of the particles being oblique to the direction of the ray.
If light be thus produced by the undulations of aether, and if this gether
is only luminous when undulating, we are as far as ever from knowing what
light is. The sether itself is not light, but matter, and not even luminous
matter, unless we go back to the Aryan idea, and hold that light is in the
aether, and of it, unmanifested, until it is revealed and flashed forth from
it by its undulations. But how conceive of light not luminous? Or of rays,
refracted and reflected, of an effect of undulation, that is but an effect or
phenomenon, and not matter*
184 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Upon this theory, light is either a manifestation of the invisible aether,
or a product from it; or the undulations are the light. The waves of the
aether are simply the aether assuming particular forms, and in motion. To
say that this motion is light, is as absurd as the discussion by Proclus and
Plato of the dissolution into triangles of bodies burned, and of triangles
being dissolved by fire; and as the notion of Proclus, that place
is the most pure and genuine light which is in bodies.
If light is the product of the aether, generated by undulation, then it is a
thing or a somewhat, no more the aether itself, than sound is the undulations
of the atmosphere, or the atmosphere itself. And if light is the manifesta-
tion outwardly of that which, in and of the aether, is invisible, what is this
but the old Aryan idea?
In either case, how will the theory explain the light evidently resident
in the glow-worm or fire-fly, and in the phosphorus contained in a bottle,
and which is perfectly visible, how near soever the object is placed to the
eye. And how explain the continued progress of the light, after the aether
ends, and the atmosphere, and even the water begins, so that there is light
for the fishes, in the depths of the sea?
Who knows that throughout space there exists an aether, composed of
inconceivably minute particles of somewhat, "with finite intervals between
them"? And how, upon this theory, is the sun the source of light, and how
is light a consequence or effect or product of fire?
And what, again, is heat? How does it expand substances, increase
the intervals between particles or atoms, and rarefy the air and transmute
water into invisible vapour? What is it, that does all this? Until recently
it was held to be material, and propagated by emission. Latent in bodies,
and thus not heat, but the heat-principle, becoming heat by manifestation,
it was to us what it was to the old Aryan philosophers (for such the Poets
were). The most eminent modern French mathematicians have extended
and asserted the hypothesis of a material caloric: but now that theory is
ruined, and heat is held to "consist in transverse vibrations." Now,
bodies are imagined to "consist of solid molecules or atoms, arranged at
intervals in a very rare aether; and that the vibrations of the molecules,
causing vibrations of the aether, and caused by them, constitute heat."
Another theory is, that "heat itself is motion," and that "motion may be
converted into heat, and heat into motion."
So that, after all, we know as little about light and heat, as the old
Aryans did; and the jargon of science in regard to them is as unintelligible
to us, as the jargon of alchemy or the Kabbalah. Our ancestors said,
Agni, the Fire, is the universal, the all-pervader: He contains and is, Indra the
Light, Vayu the Flame, Vishnu the Heat, Arusha" the radiating splendour of the
ARUSHA iss
Sun and Fire, the Aurora and the Lightning; and they, outflowing, are the mani-
festations of Himself. [And their immediate descendants said], There is a Supreme
Mind above all these, the Light-Principle, and light is the Deity manifested.
Is it so certain as we think, that we are wiser than they? What theory
explains the chemical action of light, its absorption, its connection with
heat, and with the colours of bodies, and the many-coloured composition
of its rays; whose seven colours, three primary and four secondary, are
perhaps the Seven Sisters that nursed the young ArusM, immediately
upon his manifestation by the sun or fire.
I pass to other Aryan ideas, which, if I am not mistaken, will sustain
my conclusions.
VISHNU.
What Vishnu became in the Hindu mythology is known to all. There,
he was one of the twelve Adityas, and became the preserver, in the Great
Triad, Trimurti or Trinity, of Brahma, Vishnu and Siva. In the Veda,
he is not named as one of the Adityas.
I take the following passages of the Veda, in regard to Vishnu, from the
Original Sanskrit Texts of Dr. Muir (io. 54 et se%.) :
Rig-V> i. 22. May the Gods preserve us from the place from which Vishnu
strode through the seven regions of the earth. Vishnu strode over this; in three
places he planted his step: enveloped in his dust. [The World, or his step, was
1
is here supplied, before the word 'enveloped.
1
Benfey thinks that the meaning of
the expression is, that the World is subjected to him. In his Orient and Occident,
he explains it thus, 'He is so mighty that the dust which his tread raises, fills the
whole earth.
1
And Dr. Muir asks, 'Can this dust be understood of the dazzling
brightness of the sun's rays, surrounding his progress, and obscuring his disk from
the view of the observer?'] Vishnu, the unconquerable preserver, strode three
steps, bearing from thence fixed observances. Behold the acts of Vishnu, through
which this fitting (or intimate) friend of Indra perceived religious ceremonies.
Sages constantly behold that highest position of Vishnu, like an eye fixed in the
sky. Wise men, singing praises, and ever wakeful, light up that which is the high-
est station of Vishnu.
Rig-V. i. 85. 7. They (the Maruts) strong in themselves, increased in great-
ness; they ascended to heaven, and have made a spacious abode. When Vishnu
assisted the hero, who humbles pride, they sat down like birds on the sacrificial
grass which they love.
Rig-V. i. 90. 5. 9. Pushan, Vishnu, swift-goer, make our prayers to bring us
cattle as their principal fruit. Make us prosperous .... 9. May Mitra,
may Varuna, may Aryaman, may Indra, may Bjihaspati, may the wide-striding
Vishnu, all grant us prosperity.
Rig-V. i. 154. 1. I declare the valourous deeds of Vishnu, who measured the
mundane regions, who established the upper world, striding thrice, the wide-
, stepping. 2. Therefore is Vishnu celebrated for his prowess, terrible like a wild
beast, destructive, abiding in the mountains; he within whose three vast paces all
the worlds abide. 3. Let the hymn proceed, strength to Vishnu,, the dweller
in the aerial mountains, the wide-stepping, the vigourous, who alone measured
with three steps this wide, stable firmament. 4. Whose three stations, replen-
ished with honey, imperishable, gladden us spontaneously; who alone sustained
the triple universe, the earth and the sky, all the worlds. 5. May I attain to
that beloved heaven of his, where men devoted to the Gods rejoice; for there is a
spring of honey in the highest abode of the wide-stepping Vishnu. 6. We desire
to attain to those abodes of you two, where the many-horned and swiftly-moving
cows abide. Here that supreme abode of the wide-stepping vigourous, shines
intensely forth.
VISHIJU 187
Theoriginal phrase, in Verse i. , rendered
'
'measured the mundane regions,"
is p&rihiv&ni vimame rajamsi. Pdrthivdni, rendered ''mundane/' means
"connected with Prithivi." Whether it is correctly rendered, depends on
what P?ithivi was; and I do not believe she was the earth; but, on the
contrary, the expanse, between earth and sky. Rig-V. i. 108. 9, says,
whether, Indra and Agni, ye are in the lowest Prithivi, in the middle, or in the
highest;
and there is not the least ground to believe that the old Poets imagined
there were three earths.
Yaska says,"Worlds are called rajdinsi:" and theNirukta says thatrajas
is derived from the root raj; and that water is called rajas, and the worlds
rajamsi; and it quotes Rig-V. v. 63. 5, "Brilliant and resounding (the
Maruts) sweep over the worlds (rajamsi)." In Rig-V. i. 164. 6, it is said,
"who established these six rajamsi." In Rig-V. Hi. 26. 7, Agni says of him-
self that he is arkas tridhdtd rajaso vimdnah, "the three-fold light, the
measure of rajas," rendered "the World"
Dr. Muir thinks that the verb vimame cannot have the meaning of
"constructing." It not only occurs in Verse i., but in Verse Hi., of the above
hymn, and in the latter, must have the sense of "measuring".or "travers-
ing." The phrase rdjaso vimdnah, rendered "measure of the world," occurs
in the hymn (Rig-V. x. 121. 5) to Hiranyagarbhah; and Rig-V. x. 139. 5.
Also it seems that the participle mimdnah has the same sense, as, in Rig-V.
i- 50. 7, m dydm eshi rdjas, pfithvaha mimdnd aktubhih, rendered "Sun, thou
traversest the sky, measuring the broad space [rajas]": and this clearly
shows what is meant by "measuring," and that rajas does not mean the
world; unless there were no fixed or definite meanings to the words used
by the Poets of the Veda.
Eichhoff gives the root raj, as meaning to "animate,"or "colour :" Greek,
pofyor, Latin, rabro, rubeo; French rage, rengis; German rase, rothe: and
from it, rajas, "passion;" raktas, "coloured;" and rajat, rajatan, "silver."
From r&j, to "excel, shine," come r&j, "king," rdjas, rdjan, ''sovereign."
We find the phrase yah pdrthivdni vimame sa etaso rajamsi, in Rig-V.
v. 81. 3, where the function of measuring P|ithivi is ascribed to Savit^i*
Roth renders Verse vi., of the above hymn:
May we amve [Mitra and Varu^a],at your abodes, where the many-horned, moving
cattle are; for thence shines brilliantly down the highest place of the far-striding
showerer.
How can a place, in our sense of the word, shine down? It Is quite evident
that the "showerer" is here represented as manifested and limited, in place;
188 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
and the word rendered "place" means the luminary, having form and shape
in place, by which he is there manifested,
Rig-V. i. 155. 1. Sing praises to the great Hero who desires the draught of
your Soma, and to Vishnu, who both stood, great and invincible, on the summit
of the mountains, as if on an excellent steed. 2. Indra and Vishnu, the drinker
of the libation escapes the assault, so fierce, of you two who are energetic ....
3. These (libations) augment his virility; he conducts the parents to receive the
fertilizing seed; the son has the inferior name, the superior belongs to the father,
the third is above the light of heaven. 4. We celebrate this virility of him, the
strong, the deliverer, the uninjuring, the fecundator, who with three steps traversed
far and wide the mundane regions (parihivanfy, for the sake of a wide-stepping
existence. 5. A mortal, contemplating, can approach two of the steps of this
heavenly; but no one dare attempt his third step, not even the soaring, winged
birds. 6. He has set in motion, like a rolling wheel, the revolutions of time (?">
with their four times (?) ninety names. Conceived by those who adore him to
be vast in body, the youthful, full-grown, advances to the combat.
"Conceived by his adorers to be vast in body :" i. e., conceived of by the
intellect of the worshippers, as indefinitely extended, and not as a mere
luminary, of limited dimensions; "the youthful, full-grown," he, recently
manifested, yet of full stature, "advances to the combat/*
He and Indra stand together, great and invincible; together they attack,
and together avert from man the bolt of the Archer Kr.is.nu, aimed at him.
There is, therefore, similitude and analogy between them; and one is not a
Principle or Universal, and the other a luminary or manifestation.
No explanation is attempted of the assignment of the "inferior name"
to the sun, and of the superior to the father; while the third is above the
light of heaven (adki rochane divafy). Virility, the generative and fertilizing
power, is ascribed to Vishnu. "He conducts the parents to receive the
fertilizing seed," cannot mean that he "conducts" the father and mother;
for he is himself the generator and father. The word "parents" must
mean the mothers, those that receive his seed, are impregnated and produce.
The son, the product, is on the earth ; Vishnu, as generator, is in the expanse.
In another and higher character, he is above the region in which the birds
fly, above, perhaps, the celestial luminaries.
Rig-V. i. 156. Be to us beneficent, like a friend (or like Mitra), worshipped
with butter, greatly-renowned, swiftly-moving, broadly-diffused. Truly, Vishnu,
thy praise is to be celebrated by the sage, and sacrifice is to be performed to thee
by the worshipper. He who worships Vishnu, the ancient, the disposer, the recent,
the with-the-noble-spouse, he who extols the birth of this mighty being, shall excel
his rival in (renown). [But there is no certainty that the translation here is correct.
Sumaj-janaye, which is rendered 'the with-the-noble-spouse,' may mean that, Sayana
says, or 'born by his own power/ which would be to say that he was self-mani-
fested, and not a luminary, which is the manifestation of that self as a distinct
VISHNU 189
and inferior personality. After the word 'birth' we find, 'or, offspring:
1
and 'excel
his rival in renown* is but a guess at the meaning.] Adorers, strive to the utmost
of your skill to please him who, by his nature [i. e., in his essence], is the primeval
Source of sacred rites [i. e., is Agni, or included in Agni, as a part is in the whole].
Knowing his name [i. e., the name given him as an emanation, as manifested, as
'born' of Agni], declare, 'Vishnu, we seek the good will of thee, the Mighty One.'
['Mighty One/ is the principle that communicates its energy and potency to other
Deities, and manifests itself through them.] 4. King Varuna and the Aswins
wait on the decree of this Ruler, attended by the Maruts. [Varuna and the Aswins
are luminaries, as I shall endeavour to show; and as they 'wait on the decree/ are
obsequious to the will, of Vishnu, and display such potencies only as he is pleased
to assign to them, he must be, like Agni, an essential principle, universal like Agni
and Indra]: Vishnu possesses excellent wisdom [as Agni is constantly said to do],
which knows the proper day, and with his friend [Indra] opens up the cloud.
5. The divine Vishnu, who has chosen companionship with the beneficent Indra
(himself) more beneficent: [what could be imagined to be more beneficent than
light, except warmth and heat?]; this wise God, occupying three stations, has grati-
fied the Aryya, and renders the worshipper a share in the sacred ceremony. [This
he could only do as included in Agni, the messenger and mediator between the
adorers and the Gods.]
Rig-V. 164. 36. Seven half children (?), the prolific sources of the world,
abide by the command of Vishnu in the function of supporting. They by thought
and by mind, they intelligent, circling, revolve in every direction.
Dr. Muir says that he attempts no explanation "of this obscure and
mystical utterance;" and his note of interrogation after "half-children"
shows that he doubts whether the original means that. If it does, the idea
intended to be expressed must have been that the Seven were manifestations
of Vishnu and of some other principle or father, jointly. The seven rays
of the sun are manifestations of both Light and Heat, of Indra and Vishnu :
but the residue of the description will not permit its application to them.
They "abide, by the command of Vishnu;" i. e., they are in place, limited
and defined, and having a permanent home in the heavens; and they so
abide as manifestations of Vishnu. They are the prolific sources of
something which, by conjecture, is rendered "world:" and they are invested
by Vishnu with the function of "supporting," if the original means that.
They circle, and revolve in every direction. No stars do so, but those of
the constellation Ursa Major. No doubt, if we certainly knew what was
intended to be designated by the "Seven," the epithets, and the functions
ascribed to them would cease to be obscure. Unfortunately, instead of
being able so to explain the phrases of Veda, we have, by means of the
phrases, obscure and very often apparently unmeaning and inapplicable,
to ascertain the character and individuality of the Deity in regard to whom
they are used; and this when, by themselves, there is no certainty as to
their interpretation.
190 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
U. 1. 3. Thou Agni, art Indra .... thou art Vishnu, the wide-stepping, the
adorable: thou Brahmaijaspati, art a priest .... thou, sustainer, art associated
with devotion. [Indra, as we have shown, and Brahmanaspati, as we shall show,
are hypostases of Agni, or components of him and emanations from him. Vishnu,
named between them, and thus 'associated with devotion,' the sacrifice, must
also be in Agni, and emanate from him.]
Hi. 6. 4. The Great, firm, seated in his abode, aspires to between the mighty
sky and earth, the two cows [producers], joint-wives [both fertilized and made
prolific] of the wide-stepping; aggressive [or, according to Roth, united], undecay-
ing, inviolable, dispensers of waters [the expanse, from the clouds, the earth, by
its springs and rivers].
*M. 54. 14..... Vishnu, the worker of many wonders, .... the wide-
stepping, the exalted, whose primeval created wives are indefatigable.
Hi. 55. 10. Vishnu, a protector, preserves the highest heaven [the lofty arch
of the sky], sustaining the vast, undecaying regions. Agni knows all these worlds
l :
great and incomparable is the divine nature of the Gods.
Bhuvanani is from bhu, to "be born," to "exist:" whence bMs,
"creation;" bMs, bhavat, "being;" bhvtas, foetus; bhavitar, "hereafter to be
born;" bhutan, "creature;" &Ms, bMmis, "ground;" bhuman, bhaumas,
"productive, of the earth." As no derivative of this root could mean "the
world," except because it means something born or produced, or existing,
it is very evident that bhuvanani, with the Poets of the Veda, may as
probably have meant the stars or existences, as worlds; of which, in our
sense of the word they knew nothing. For them, there was but one world.
Meanwhile, this verse treats Agni and Vishnu as identical, or at least as
of like nature: and it is certain that no luminary is ever spoken of in the
Veda as preserving, sustaining or upholding the sky. That function is
ascribed only to Agni and his hypostases.
iv. 2. 4. [Indra and Vishnu are associated; as they habitually are.]
w. 18. 11. And his mother asked the Mighty, 'My son, do those Gods forsake
thee?
J
Then Indra, being about to sky Vjitra, said 'Friend Vishnu, do thou
stride vastly.'
mii. 89. 12. 'Friend Vishnu, stride vastly; sky, give room for the thunderbolt
to strike: let us slay Vjitra and let loose the waters; let them when released flow
in the path, Indra.' /
w. 55. 4..... Indra and Vishnu, when they are praised, according to human
ability, bestow on us prosperity and strong protection.
v. 3. 3..... Agni .... through that which has been fixed as the highest
abode of Vishnu, thou possessest the mysterious name of the cows.
v. 51. 9..... Associated with Soma and Vishnu, come Agni, and rejoice in
our libation ....
v. 87. 4. 8..... The wide-striding strode forth, from the great common
abode [from Agni, the universal, in and of whom he was, and abode in him, as the
Logos in the Father], .... when by himself [manifested outwardly and separately,
VISHNU 191
as Heat, Vishnu], he has yoked his emulous and vigourous (ones), he issues from his
own [he emanates from Agni, who is Vishnu also, his Self, his Source], with his swift
heroes, augmenting our felicity .... Maruts, .... of the same mind with
the great Vishnu ....
vi. 17. 11. For thee, Indra, .... Pushan and Vishnu cooked a hundred
buffaloes [we shall, hereafter, see how fitly Pushan is associated with Vishnu, in
cooking].
vi. 48. 14 Conferring extended enjoyment, like Vishnu ....
vi. 49. 13. May we, ourselves and our offspring, be gladdened by wealth, in
the home given by thee, that Vishnu who thrice measured the mundane regions
for Manu, when he was oppressed : [ Yo rajamsi wmame parMvanitris chid Vishyu.]
vi. 50. 12. [Vishnu and Vayu are invoked together.]
Hymn Ixix. of Mandala vi., is addressed to "Indra-Vishnu," repeated
in seven verses, and in the eighth, Indrascha-Vishno.
v. 1. Indra-Vishnu are stimulated with the rite and oblation, and besought
to 'accept our sacrifice, and grant us wealth, conducting us to our goal by secure
2. Indra and Vishnu, ye who are the generators of all prayers, and the bowls
which hold the Soma-juice.
3. Indra-Vishnu, ye two lords of exhilarating draughts, come to the Soma-
juice, bringing with you wealth ....
4. Indra-Vishnu, may your steeds, vanquishing foes, and sharing in your
triumph, bear you hither ....
5. Indra-Vishnu, this deed of you twain is worthy of celebration, that, in the
exhilaration of the Soma-juice, you took vast strides; you made the atmosphere
wide, and stretched out the worlds [rajamsil, for our existence.
6. Indra-Vishnu, growing by our oblation [increasing and enlarging by the
additional energy given to the fire, by the offerings, of butter, and other things,
thrown into it] . Swallowers of the essence of the Soma, ye who are worshipped with
reverence .... bring us wealth, for ye are the receptacle, the bowl, in which
the Soma is held.
7. Indra and Vishnu, workers of wonders.
8. Ye two have both conquered, and are not vanquished. Neither of these
two has been overcome. Vishnu, when thou and Indra fought, ye scattered thrice
a thousand.
mi. 36. 9 Vishnu, the preserver of embryos.
vii. 40. 5. Branches of this bountiful and rapid (?) Deity Vishnu, with obla-
tions in the sacrifice.
viL 99. 1. Thou who, with thy body, growest beyond our measure, do not
attain to thy greatness [do not become excessive]: we know both thy two regions
of the earth [rajast ptvthivy&h]; thou, divine Vishnu, knowest the remotest.
2. No one, O divine Vishnu, who is being born, or who has been born, knows
the furthest limit of thy greatness: [I think that this does not mean human beings,
but celestial orbs, rising or risen. Vishnu, a universal, extends beyond the ken
192 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
of all the stars]: thou didst prop up the lofty and vast sky; thou didst uphold the
Eastern pinnacle of the earth.
3 Vishnu, thou didst prop asunder these two worlds; thou didst
envelop the earth \pr.ithivim] on every side with light.
4. Ye (Indra and Vishnu), have provided ample room for the sacrifice, pro-
ducing the sun, the dawn, and fire: [of what could that be said, but of Agni, or his
hypostases, light and heat?]: Ye, O heroes, destroyed in the battles ....
5. Indra-Vishnu, ye smote the ninety-nine strong cities of Sambara: together
ye slew, unopposed, a thousand and a hundred heroes of the Asura-Varchin.
6. This great hymn magnifies you two, the great, the wide-striding, the power-
ful: Vishnu and Indra, I present to you two a hymn .... 7. Vishnu, I utter
to thee this invocation .... ipivishta, receive this my oblation ....
vii. 100. 1. That man never repents, who, seeking, brings offerings to Vishnu,
the wide-stepping, who worships him with his whole heart, and propitiates one so
powerful.
2 . Vouchsafe to us, swiftly-moving Vishnu, thy benevolence, which embraces all
mankind, thy unpreoccupied regard: that thou mayest grant us abundant good,
and brilliant wealth, with horses.
3. Thrice this God, by his greatness, has traversed this earth \pr.ithivim] with
its hundred lights. [Which fitly applies to the expanse, with its stars; but not at
all to the earth.] May Vishnu be the strongest of the strong; for awful is the name
of that Immovable.
4. This Vishnu traversed the earth \p%ithivim], to bestow for a habitation on
Manu. The men who praise him are secure: of exalted birth has given them an
ample abode.
5. I, a Master (Aryah), who know the sacred rites, to-day celebrate this thy
name, ipivishta. I, who am weak, laud thee who art strong, and, afar off, reignest
over this lower world.
6. What, Vishnu, hadst thou to conceal, that thou declared, *I am $ipivishta'?
Do not conceal from us this form, since thou didst assume another shape in the
battle.
viii. 9. 12. When, Aswins, ye ride in the same car with Indra .... or when
ye abide in the strides of Vishnu.
viii. 12. 27. When (Indra) by thy force Vishnu strode three steps, then thy
viii. 15. 9 Vishnu, the high ruler ....
viii. 25. 12. 14 the innocuous and beautiful Vishnu .... Vishnu, the
beneficent ....
viii. 29. 7. Another, wide-stepping, strode three, where the Gods rejoice [the
luminaries].
viii. 31. 10 the mountains, the rivers, and Vishnu, who is associated
with them.
viii. 66. 10. The wide-striding Vishnu, urged by thee, O Indra, carried off all,
a hundred buffaloes, broth cooked with milk, and a fierce hog.
x. 1. 3. Vishnu, the great Being, knowing thus his (Agni's) highest, protects his
third. Men unanimously worship him here, when they offer him their libation,
face to face.
VISHNU 193
x. 184. Let Vishnu form the womb \yonim]\ let Tvashtri mould the forms; let
Prajapati infuse; let Dhatri form the embryo.
Dr. Muir, after quoting these and other passages (which, containing
merely mention of the name of Vishnu, or, at least, of no importance,
I omit), remarks, that
the attributes ascribed to Vishnu in some of these passages are such, that, if these
hymns stood alone in the Rig-Veda, they might lead us to suppose that this
Deity was regarded by the Vedic Rishis as the Chief of all the Gods. [And still,
he says] Indra is associated with Vishnu even in some of those texts in which the
latter is most highly magnified; in one place the power by which Vishnu takes his
three strides, is described as being derived from Indra; in two other texts, Vishnu
is represented as celebrating Indra's praises; while in one, Vishnu is said to have
been generated by Soma.
He also remarks that the hymns addressed to him are comparatively few,
and that he is often mentioned among a great crowd of other Divinities,
from whom he is there in no way distinguished as being in any respect
superior. Hence he concludes that Vishnu was on a footing of equality
with the others.
But Dr. Muir errs. Agni and Indra are often named among a great
number of other Divinities, with nothing to distinguish them as superior:
and in most instances where Vishnu is so mentioned, he is distinguished
from the rest, by being named with Indra.
Further Dr. Muir says,
the Rig-Veda contains numerous texts in which the Rishis ascribe to Indra,Varuna,
and other Gods, the same high and awful attributes and functions, which are spoken
of in the hymns before cited, as belonging to Vishnu. [And he concludes that
he] occupied a somewhat subordinate place in the estimation and affections of the
ancient IJishis.
Certainly, so far as the Vedic Deities have heretofore been defined, by
the Hindu or English commentators, all is lamentable confusion and un-
certainty. Agni is agreed to be Fire, the Maruts, Winds, and Stirya the
Sun; and as to all the rest, everything is chaos. Why the same powers and
functions are ascribed to different Deities, and what seem to be contra-
dictory functions sometimes to the same Deity, no one endeavours to
explain; but all the modern commentators stare helplessly at the muddle
which the Hindu blind guides have made of the whole matter.
Certainly such is not the character of the Veda; and the notions of the
Rishis as to their Deities could not have been thus confused, misty and
194 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
unintelligible. There must be some key by which the meaning can be
laid open. It seems to me that I have, at least in part, that key; and that
it is this: Agni is Fire, as a Universal Substance, invisible, extending
everywhere, and including in and of his unity, the fire, flame, light and heat,
in no wise distinct or separate from himself or each other, until manifested
by emanation from him. Then they become subsistences, persons or
hypostases of the Universal Substance, and each, as well as the substance
itself, is deified. Each being Agni, though manifested but partially
and limitedly as the particular hypostasis, the functions of Agni, so far as
they are not inconsistent with the nature of the particular subsistence, are
sometimes assigned to it; and they are represented as equals, associated and
sometimes acting together, and exercising their powers jointly.
And, if we add that this substance, Agni, and its subsistences, Indra,
Vishnu and Vayu, are also conceived of and represented as by self-limitation
manifesting themselves in form and place, as the celestial luminaries, and
out-shining by them, we shall find, I think, no other unintelligibility or
confusion in the Veda, than so much as arises from ignorance of the true
meaning of words and phrases, in a great measure caused by Hindu
interpretations.
Vishnu is particularly designated as the generator, to whom production
and fruitfulness are owing; and hence as the preserver, or perpetuator. The
sages continually contemplate his supreme station, as the eye ranges over
the sky the highest or greatest orb, whereby he fixes himself in place and
by the outflowing heat manifests himself most potently the Sun. Pro-
fessor Wilson's translation is, in many places, different from that of Dr.
Muir. Here, for example, the latter translates,
Sages constantly behold that highest position of Vishnu, like an eye fixed in the
sky;
which even more clearly shows the meaning to be as I have supposed it,
above. And again, in Dr. Muir's translation we find the same idea, in the
phrase,
Here that supreme abode of the wide-stepping vigourous shines intensely forth;
the word "vigourous" meaning that he is the source of the energy, the heat,
which he manifests by the sun.
For Vishnu is elsewhere described as not only "swiftly-moving," but as
"broadly diffused" an epithet that could not be applied to any luminary,
but only to a substance.
Where Dr. Muir reads "the disposer" Wilson translates by "the
creator;" and sumaj-janaye, "the self-born," which Dr. Muir translates,
VISHNU 195
"He with the noble spouse." S&yana says it may mean "born by his own
power;" and in this sense, or that of "self-born," it is fitly applied to a
substance, of which the luminaries are the hypostases. He is
'
'the primeval
source of sacred rites," which could not be said of a luminary; but fitly of
Agni or any one of his first manifestations, Flame, Light or Heat. He is
even more beneficent than Indra, the Light; for he is the generator. All
production is due to warmth or heat, all that grows upon and from the
earth, the bird from the egg, and the child from the womb.
Agni is declared to be Indra and Vishnu; and Vishnu to be "associated"
with the sacrifice, i. e., to bear a part in it, to aid in offering it. "The great,
firm, seated in his abode," i. e., the heat of the fire, kindled upon the earth,
"aspires to between the sky and earth," i. e., rises and ascends into the
expanse. He is "the worker of many wonders," i. e., he is manifested and
thereby produces great and astonishing effects. Indra and Vishnu, when
adored by the worshipper according to his means, bestow prosperity and
give protection.
Indra and Vishnu are the generators of prayers. This has a definite
meaning, and can have no other. It can apply to and mean, only that by
means of which the adoration of the worshippers is enabled to reach the
Gods, i. e., to the sacrificial fire or that which ascends from [it]. The flames
of it are prayers, are adoration; and they are generated by the heat, which
causes them to ascend. The light and the heat, Indra and Vishnu, ascend
together. And they "grow by the oblations," and "swallow the essence
of the Soma," which the fire consumes. They are the receptacle of the Soma,
for changed into vapour by the heat, it is by them taken and conveyed up-
ward toward the stars.
Vishnu is the preserver of embryos; because it is warmth only that
enables them to retain vitality, and attain perfection. With his body, he
grows beyond men's measure: i. e., when developed substantively as actual
heat, he becomes too intense, in the hot days of summer in that latitude,
for men to endure.
Nothing created, limited and in form and place, knows how far heat
extends. And Indra and Vishnu, Light and Heat, have produced the sun,
the dawn and the flame of fire. Together they rend the clouds and send
down rain; and together they shatter cities. Both are great, wide-striding
and powerful. The benevolence of swiftly-moving Vishnu embraces all man-
kind. He is the strongest of the strong. "Awful is the name of that
Immovable" a phrase that must be badly translated; for Vishnu, swiftly-
moving, cannot be immovable. This word probably means the vast fixed
source of all manifested heat, of whose intensity they judged from that
poured forth by the sun, an orb of apparently so moderate a size.
196 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Afar off, Vishnu, called Sipivishta, reigns over the earth, by his manifesta-
tion in the sun. Knowing his highest, i. e., present in the heights of the
sky, he protects his third, the earth; and men offer him their libations face
to face, when he is in and of the sacrificial fire.
Thus clearly a subsistence of Agni, Vishnu is never characterized as
radiant or bright, shining or lighting up the sky. What else, then, can he
be, but heat, which, as it expands all things, and causes smoke and vapour
to ascend, could easily be imagined to have raised up the sky like a bubble,
and to hold and support it there above the earth.
Mr. Cox says, that in strictness of speech, the Vedic Vishnu is nothing
but a name. The writers of the Aitaeya-Br&hmana could still say,
Agni is all the Deities, Vishnu is all the Deities.
It must at once be admitted that he is not a luminary, a body. He is
Agni, as Indra, the Light is, i. e., he is a manifestation of Agni. He and Indra
are united, in shattering the clouds with the lightning. He is the worthy
friend (the equal, in dignity and rank) of Indra. Wherever the eye ranges
over the sky, it sees the dwelling-place of Vishnu. He is not confined to
one spot, or gathered into one orb or body. He and Indra are the two
invincible Deities, and they ride together above the clouds.
Sometimes, Mr. Cox says, Vishnu rises to a dignity greater even than
that of Dyaus and Indra, while at others he is spoken of as subordinate
to them (we do not find that), or is regarded as simply another form of the
three Deities Agni, Vayu and Sflrya. Nothing could be more wide of the
truth. He is not "another form" of either, nor is Sfirya the same as Agni
or as Vayu. They are manifested by him, as God by the Logos, as the
soul is by thought.
Then Mr. Cox, to get as far as possible from the truth and utterly
incapacitate himself to understand the Veda, hazards this sonorous propo-
sition:
In truth, it may almost without exaggeration be said, that the whole Vedic theology
may be resolved into a series of equations, the result being one quite consistent
with a real monotheism. Thus Vishnu is himself Agni and Indra.
It would be just as sensible to say that the Hindu Trinity was an "equation"
or that the Christian Trinity is one.
But Mr. Cox imagines that the whole is clear to him. He says,
It is scarcely necessary, then, to say, that in all the phrases which describe the
attributes of Vishnu, the origin of each conception is plainly discernible. He is
especially the God who traverses the heaven in three strides, these strides being
taken by some commentators to denote his manifestations as fire on the earth, as
VISHNU 197
lightning in the atmosphere, and as the sun in the heaven; or, in other words, his
identity with Agni, Vayu and Surya. By others they are regarded as setting forth
the rising culmination and setting of the sun; and there can le little douU that the
latter idea was at the first most closely associated with the thought of Vishnu.
There is no doubt that
"
the latter idea'
'
never was associated with him, at all.
In the Ramayana, a work of a later age, we get a glimpse of the real
meaning of Vishnu and his strides. It is, no doubt, the old myth, with
additions. Vishnu, manifesting himself as a dwarf, obtains from the Asuras
a gift of as much space as he can lie upon, or as much as he can cover in three
strides. Thus Bali, the great enemy of the Gods, is overcome. Having
conquered the three worlds (earth, expanse and sky), he terrifies Indra,
who, with the other Deities beseeches Vishnu to take the shape of a dwarf
and deceive their conqueror. In that shape he approaches the son of Viro-
chana, and obtains the boon of the three paces; and then, "the thrice-
stepping" Vishnu assumed a miraculous form, and with three paces took
possession of the worlds. For, with one step he occupied the whole earth,
with a second the eternal atmosphere, and with -a third the sky. Then he
gave the empire of the three worlds to Indra.
Mr. Cox thus concludes:
The personality of the mythical Vishnu is, in short, as transparent as that of Helios
or S&ene. He dwells in the aerial mountains, in a gleaming palace, where the
many-horned and swiftly-moving cows abide. Here that Supreme Abode of the
wide-stepping vigourous God shines intensely forth. These cows are in some places
the clouds, in others, the rays that stream from the body of the sun. But on the
whole it must be admitted that the place of Vishnu in the Rig-Veda, as compared
with the other great Deities, is in the background; and the institutional legends of
later Brahmanic literature, throw but little light on the mythical idea of this Deity,
and perhaps none on the mythology of any other people.
How far, in all this, Mr. Cox is right and how far in error, the reader
must determine. It is clear that he is entirely at a loss to determine what
Vishnu really was, among the Vedic Gods, although he speaks with so
apparent a confidence.
The three steps or strides of Vishnu remain an inscrutable enigma; and
whatever he is concluded to have been, the enigma remains the same.
I group together here all the passages that relate to them:
Vishnu strode through the seven regions of the earth [Vishfiur vichakrame
sapta dhdmabhifr].
198 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Kram, a verbal root, means to "go," to "move." Dr. Muir renders
kramaydch, in the Mahabharata Santi-Parva, "striding." Dhaman is a
"mass" or "body." Pfithivi is rendered "earth," by Bopp, and Muir and
Miiller: and we find dydvd-prithivt, in which the Vedic dual termination is
added to dydu, rendered, "heaven and earth;" and dydvd-prithM-bhydm,
"to the heaven and to the earth,"by Bopp. The derivation of pfithivt is clear.
It is the same as parthv^ from parth to "spread out, display," meaning
something extended, spread out; and parihus means "vast," from the same.
Vishnu strode [vichakrame] over this: in three places he planted his step [tredha
nidadhe padam]: enveloped in his dust .... Vishnu strode three steps [trtni
padd vichakrame Vishnur], bearing from thence fixed observations.
Vishnu strides over this [tad mkramate Vishnuh] whatever exists: he plants his
step in a three-fold manner [tredha nidhatte padain]: for a three-fold existence
[tredhd-bhavayd], on earth, in the atmosphere, and in the sky [it is said in the Nirukta,
where the last-cited verse is quoted; and that explanation is ascribed to S^kaptini,
while Aurnavibha says it means] on the hill where he rises, on the meridian and
on the hill where he sets. [See Muir, Orig. Sansk. Texts, iv. 55. 56. 57. for all the
conflicting Hindu opinions as to these steps.]
Vishnu is several times called wide-striding [urukramah, urugayah},
without other words.
Vishnu, who measured the mundane regions [pdrthivdni vimame rajaihsi[.
Here the word p&rihiv&ni, rendered "mundane," is clearly from the root
parth, repondre, deployer (Eichhoff), and, according to its derivation means
"extended, spread out, expanded." If the earth is called prithivi, which
we see is from the same root, it is because it is spread out and extended: and
I believe that in the Vedic times, whatever it may have come to mean
afterwards, prithivi meant the expanse between the earth and the sky
Striding thrice, the wide-stepping [vichakramdnas tredha urugayah] .... He
within whose three vast paces [trishu wkramaneshu], all the worlds [bhuvanani]
abide. [Bhu, 'to be born, to exist: Wius, bhdtis, creation, that which exists]: ....
Vishnu, the wide-stepping [urugayaya], who alone measured with three steps this
wide stable firmament .... Whose three stations [trt paddni], gladden us ....
who alone sustained the triple Universe, the earth and the sky [tridhdtu ptithiifim
uta dyam], all the worlds [bhuvandnfl.
His three "stations" are "replenished with honey," and "there is a
spring of honey in the highest abode of the wide-stepping {urukramasra]
Vishnu." Fade parame, highest step or abode; for his steps are elsewhere
padam. The words rendered "honey" are madhuna and madhva.
Pad, padas, is "foot," from pad, to "go," to "march" [Eichhof].
VISHNU 199
Siyana, in a single passage, renders rajamsi, "regions/* and then says,
the term rajas denotes a world, since Yaska says, worlds are called rajamsi.
Prithivi, he says is the earth, and yet all the three worlds are intended to be
designated by it. The Nirukta says,
Light is called rajas; day and night are called rajasi:
and Eichhoff defines the root raj, animer, "colourer." In Rig-V. i. 50. 7;
we have
Sun, thou traversest the sky, measuring the broad space [vi dyam eshi rajas prjflw
rajas being rendered 'space,' and pzithv, 'broad
7
].
Is not this rajas prithv, broad or expanded space or region, Pfithiw? When
words had more nearly the original meanings of their roots, prithivi meant,
no doubt, "space or expanse," the spacious or extended, merely: and the
derivatives of raj must have had meanings more closely connected with that
of the root, to animate, or colour.
The "abode" of Indra and Vishnu is where the many-horned (bhtiri-
tfingd) and swiftly-moving "cows" abide. The word rendered "cows" is
gdvo. Gaus is a "cow," from ga, to "create, produce:" and sarnis, sarngan,
or famis QARNGAN, is a "point," "sharp-pointed" thing, or "horn," from
sar or $ar, to "pierce," to "penetrate." All rays, the Nirukta says, are
called gavah. I can not see why gdvo should be rendered "cows" here, or
(bhuri-sritygdfy), "many-horned," especially when the gdvo are "swiftly-
moving" (ayasah), from ay, to "go, pass." The rendering, "where the
many-pointed, flashing or darting rays are," seems to me far more likely
to be correct.
The sun has the inferior [lower] name: the higher belongs to the father: the
third is above the light of heaven [dadh&ti putro avaram param pitur nama tyitiyam
adhi rochane divai].
Who with three steps traversed far and wide the mundane regions {parflwvani[
.... A mortal, contemplating, can approach two of his steps; but no one dare
attempt his third' step, not even the birds who fly highest.
Does this mean that the height and distance are too great for them to soar to?
What, then, is meant by the phrase that mortals contemplating, can reach
two of the steps? The thought or intellect could reach the third. Or does
it mean that the eye cannot attain it, because the third station or step is in
the sun, which no mortal eye can see, on account of its brilliance, nor even
the birds can gaze at it?
200 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
(The world or his step or something else), enveloped in his dust [samulham
asya pdmsure; which, the Nirukta says, may mean, 'his place is not seen in the
atmosphere/ or 'enveloped in the dust, as it were, his place is not seen'].
Vishnu, stride vastly [vitaram vikramasva which may quite as well mean 'extend
or expand thyself indefinitely*].
Vishnu who thrice measured rajdmsi pdrthwdni for Manu.
Indra and Vishnu are both addressed as urukrama; and it is said to them,
Ye took vast strides [afyinutam], you made the atmosphere (?) wide, and stretched
out rajdmsi (translated 'the worlds').
We know thy two regions (rajast) of earth (ptitkivydh). He 'props asunder
rodasi,' rendered 'the two worlds, and envelop the earth (ptithivim), on every side
with light/ 'Thrice this God has traversed this earth ]pr.ithivim] with its hundred
lights, by his greatness [mahitva, from mah, to grow, to increase, to overcome. Why
not, 'by expanding?'].
When, Awins, you abide in the strides [vikramaneshu] of Vishnu .... When
Vishnu strode three steps [trini pada vichakrame].
In viii., 15. 8, where Indra and Vishnu are named alternately, we find
Indra, the sky dyaus increases thy virility [pawhsyam], and ptithivi increases thy
renown;
Vishnu is called brihan xayo, "lofty ruler or king;" and the generative
power is ascribed to Indra.
Another, wide-stepping [urugayo], strode three [trini vi chakrame], where the
Gods {devaso} rejoice. [The devaso are simply, 'those in the sky.']
Vishnu, the great Being [itthdparamam] knowing thus his highest [fyihanu],
protects his third [trittyam].
Extension, to extend and spread itself, is a peculiar and striking faculty
of heat. It penetrates every thing. From the small fire, kindled in a
room, it extends into and warms the remote corners of the apartment.
When the summer sun rises in the morning, the heat seems at once to diffuse
itself through the whole expanse. It is omnipresent; It is in the thermal
springs, and in the earth below the mud volcanoes of the Caspian. It is in
the bodies and blood of all living creatures, as the vital heat. It may be
produced by friction, and is manifested before the flame, when fire is
obtained by attrition. The herdsman, driving his wooden axled cart, had
often seen the axles heated, and at last taking fire, as he journeyed. Vol-
canoes long since extinct, informed the Aryans that it was in the bosom of
the earth, and it filled the expanse, and came from the sun in his station.
VISHIJU 201
It came to men in the enervating winds of the summer, and in the spring it
melted the snows and ice, and put an end to the rule of frost.
When it was supposed to have been first manifested, it stepped, as it
were, upon the earth, and took possession of its entirety. Where it came,
the earth dried up, and clouds of dust arose on the desert steppes. It
stepped, extended or expanded, into the space between earth and sky, and
filled it. It stepped upon or extended to the sun, and he became the great
Source of heat and cause of generation. Each of the three was but his
single foot-step, or halting-place.
It went where light did not. It is not inseparable from it. There is
light without heat, and abundant heat, everywhere, without light: but they
reside together in the sun, as they do in the fire, and flow from him together
in inexhaustible profusion. Thus they are often associated. The lightning
had often been seen to set fire to what it shattered, and therefore Vishnu
was associated with Indra as wielder of the thunderbolt and slayer of Vrftra.
In the dark, yet heated metal, in the human body, in the summer air at
night, heat exists without light, and in the moon and planets and stars it
is not the associate of Indra. And, according to the later myth, when Bali
had conquered the light, the soul of the universe, Indra called upon the
Heat, its Potency and Vigour, to reconquer for him the three realms.
As generator, Vishnu was the preserver and perpetuator; and as the
vigour and potency of the universe, also, he sustained, supported and
preserved it. And thus, singularly enough, when the Hindu descendants
of the Aryans had forgotten what Vishnu originally was, they knew him
as the Preserver: and when the Brahmanic reformer conceived of Brahma
as the creative power of the universe, and invented Siva as the destructive
power, he retained Vishnu as the preserving power, because he had from
of old been called the preserver.
Mand. i. 194. 6, which I have given above, as translated by Dr. Muir, is
thus translated by Professor Wilson:
He causes, by his gyrations, ninety-four periodical revolutions, like a circular wheel,
vast of body, and evolving in many forms, through the praises: ever young, though
not infantine, he comes at our invocations.
Professor Wilson says,
Vishnu is here identified -with time, comprising ninety-four periods the year,
two solstices, five seasons, twelve months, twenty-four half-months, thirty days,
eight watches and twelve zodiacal signs.
202 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Why not the two equinoxes, also? I think the Vedic Poets knew very little
about all that. Are these "like a circular wheel, vast of body, and evolving
in many forms," or are these "forms"? A word that invariably means
bodies, having form and limited dimensions. Whatis meant by the number
ninety-four, I cannot even conjecture, unless it is used to express a merely
indefinite number. The rest seems to have this meaning that Vishnu, by
his gyrations, causes periodical revolutions, i. e., revolves, as a vast spherical
mass, from which portions are detached, and from it many luminaries are
evolved. One is reminded of the theory of some modern astronomers, of a
mass of nebulous matter, throwing off portions, which by degrees become
spherical, and are condensed into planets.
Dr. Muir attempts no explanation of this passage. That of Professor
Wilson is a Hindu interpretation, simply arbitrary, and not even rising
to the dignity of a conjecture. Which interpretation is the more correct,
I am not competent to decide.
Another passage is thus translated by Professor Wilson:
That Ancient Vishnu .... You know him as born as one with sacrifice;
by which is clearly meant that his primal existence is as an unmanifested
subsistence or hypostasis of Agni ; that he and Agni are one, as the Logos
and Father are said to be.
Mand. i. 156. 5, given above, as translated by Dr. Muir, is thus trans-
lated by Professor Wilson:
The divine Vishnu, the best of the doers of good deeds, Sachathdya Indrdya [trans-
lated, 'who came to the pious institutor of the rite/ a Brahmanic interpretation
Sachathaya being explained 'for giving assistance at the ceremony/ and Indrdya
to apply to the Yajamana, a sacrificer; on the strength of one of Yaska's many
etymologies of Indra. But the phrase evidently connects Vishnu with Indra, as
his intimate associate, Heat with the Light of the Fire; sac meaning to 'join/ to
'adhere;' whence sakha, sakhyas, 'a friend']; to assist, knowing, and present at the
three connected periods, shows favour to the Arya ....
Another text is translated by Professor Wilson, as follows:
The Seven, the embryo for half a year, abide by appointment in the various
functions of Vishnu [i. e., he has delegated to them his functions, and they exercise
them, being manifested in place. During half the year they are embryotic; i. e.,
as we know by the same expression applied to Agni, they are not seen at night,
during half of the year: and during the other half they make the world fruitful],
the fecundating of the world [or, it may mean that during half the year they do
not exercise their generative and fecundating influence]. By intelligence they
pervade in thought all around, for they are intelligent and diffusive [i. e., radiant,
light-giving, and 'intelligent* as Agni is often said to be].
VISHNU. 203
Mand. viii. 100. 6, given above as translated by Dr. Muir, is thus trans-
lated by Professor Wilson:
What is to be proclaimed, Vishnu, of thee, when thou sayest, I am
Conceal not from us thy real form, although thou hast engaged under a different
form in battle, [And, Stanza 7] Be pleased, ipivishta, with my offering.
This name is explained, "penetrated," or "clothed," "with rays of light,"
but in common use it means a man naturally without prepuce. It is used
once elsewhere, as an appellation of Vishnu. Professor Wilson thinks it is
to be understood here in that sense. The expression, he says, is curious.
It is curious that in the Kabbalah the retraction of the prepuce is spoken of
in describing the Sephirothic generation* No doubt It is used here to show
the exceeding great virile power of Vishnu and his readiness at all times to
cause production. And it is certainly very curious, if the Aryan linga and
phallus worship in India and Greece grew out of the ascription in the Veda,
of the generative function and virile energy to Vishnu, and the employment
of an epithet expressive of it by a symbol, that generative power being the
energy of warmth and heat, in producing gestation and production.
The reader thus has all that the Veda contains in regard to Vishnu.
These quotations from the translation of Professor Wilson, compared with
those of the same passages by Dr. Muir, will show how very uncertain it is
whether difficult and obscure passages, and many that are not so, are
correctly translated. I doubt whether there is really any confused thought
or inconsistency in the original ; but I do not believe that any literal rendering
of the Veda will ever make it intelligible for modern readers. Certainly no
translation that renders each word by what is supposed to be an equivalent
English word, will reproduce its meaning. No very ancient language can
be so translated.
Nor is there any doubt that to the correct understanding of very many
texts, a true and correct idea of what was meant by the Deity addressed or
spoken of, is absolutely essential. For, if there be a wrong idea of the Deity
in the given case, and the text be doubtful and will admit of more than one
rendering, that will naturally be preferred that best suits the preconceived
theory: and it may, indeed, be often impossible to ascertain the true and
exact meaning of a passage, unless it is known what the Deity was, to whom
or of whom it speaks.
And when it is once certain that the theosophic ideas of the Rishis were
eminently philosophical, a much more philosophical meaning will at once
appear in a multitude of texts, which must be rendered in philosophical
language, or the true meaning will escape in the process of translation.
BRAHMANASPATI.
BRIHASPATI.
These are supposed by the commentators to be mere names or synonyms
of Agni. I think that it can be plainly shown that they are Deities, and
that the inquiry in regard to them will in a singular and striking manner
confirm my conjectures in regard to the other Deities already spoken of.
Ashf. i. Adhy. i. Antfu. v. Sdkta i.
1. Brahmasaspati, make the offerer of the libation illustrious among the
Gods
3. Protect us, Brahma^aspati ....
4. The liberal man, whom Indra, Brahma^aspati and Soma protect
Adhy. Hi. Antw. viii. Sdkto Hi.
13. Praise Brahmanaspati, Agni, and the beautiful Mitra.
SAkta v.
1. Rise up, Brahmasaspati, devoted to the Gods [Meaning, rather, as
we shall see, 'ascend, adorer of the Deities'].
3. May Brahmanaspati approach us ....
5. Brahmaaaspati proclaims the sacred prayer, in which the Divinities Indra,
Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman have made their abode.
It seems absurd to say that Deities "have made their abode" in prayer.
But I think we may comprehend the Aryan idea. Indra is Light; Varuna,
Mitra and Aryaman, as well as Indra, "abide
1 '
in Agni, he being the substance,
of which Indra is a subsistence or hypostasis, and they are emanations or
manifestations in later language, the archangelic images of the Deity, and
in the Kabbalistic idea, apertures, windows or eyes, through which a ray of
the Primal Light flows forth, as a rivulet from the ocean. Then, if the Aryan
conceived of prayer, at the sacrifice, coalescing and becoming one with the
flame, becoming Agni, and ascending to the skies, wemay understand how
they could say that Indra, and the Deities named had been included in
prayer; but I am inclined to think that "in" should be "by" or "with,"
meaning that they are prayer, as they are Agni, manifested and fixed in
place*
8. Let Brahmaijaspati concentrate his strength. Associated with the Regal
[IndraJ, he slays: in the time of danger he maintains his station, armed with the
BRAHMA1JASPATI 205
thunderbolt, there is no encourager or discourager of him in the battle, great or
small.
Ash$. ii. Adhy* vi* Anwo. Hi* S&kto i.
[In this hymn, he is invoked as 'Chief Leader of the Hosts/ a Sage of Sages,
abounding beyond measure in nourishment, best Lord of Prayer; as a protector, and
invoked to 'sit down in the Chamber of Sacrifices. A kind Protector, he defends
men.']
11. Thou, Brahmanaspati, who hast no requiter [men cannot sacrifice to
Prayer itself]: Showerer, repairer to combat, the Consumer of foes, the Victor in
battles.
19. Brahmanaspati, who art the regulator of this [sacrifice]; understander of
hymn, and grant us posterity; for all is prosperous that the Gods protect.
Adhy. viL AIMS- HL S&kta iL
2. That Brahmanaspati, who by his might has humbled those who deserved
humiliation; who in his wrath rent asunder the clouds, who sent down the undescend-
ing, and made way into the mountain opulent.
3 who set the cows at liberty: who by the sacred prayer destroyed Bala:
who dispersed the darkness and displayed the light.
4. That stone-like, solid, down-hanging, water-laden (cloud), which Brahman-
aspati has with his strength divided, the universal solar rays have drunk up.
5. For you, the Constant and Manifold through months and through years,
set open the gates of the future rains ....
8. Whatever Brahmanaspati aims at, with the truth-strung, quick-darting
bow, that he surely hits: holy are its arrows with which he shoots, for the eyes of
men, and having their abode in the ear. [The bow is the mouth or tongue. Words,
the arrows.]
9. He, Brahmaijaspati is the aggregator and subjugator, the family priest, and
the renowned in battle: the beholder, who bestows food and coveted treasures,
whence the radiant sun shines without exertion.
11. He who is all-pervading and delighting .... greatly is that Brahmanaspati
renowned among the Gods, and therefore is he verily Supreme above all.
14. The purpose of Brahmaijaspati, engaging in a great work, has been success-
ful .... for it was he who recovered cattle for heaven, and distributed them; so
that of their own power they took different directions, like a mighty river.
12. All truth, Lords of Wealth (Indra and Brahmanaspati), is in you both
.... Come to our presence, our oblations, like a pair of steeds to their provender.
Sfiktavo.
4. Brahmanaspati leads by a straight path the worshipper .... he guards
frjm against sin, he protects him from foes and from distress ....
3. He who with a believing mind worships Brahmaijaspati, the father of the
Gods [Devdndm ptiaram], with oblations, he verily receives food.
206 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Professor Wilson says, of Brahmanaspati, that the scholiast furnishes us
with no account of the station of functions of this Divinity.
The etymology will justify Dr. Roth's definition of him, as the Deity of sacred prayer,
or rather, perhaps, of the text of the Veda; but whether he is to be considered as a
distinct personification, or as a modified form o*f one of those already recognized,
and especially of Agni, is doubtful His being associated with Indra and Soma,
whilst it makes him distinct from them, leaves him Agni as his prototype.
He is a protector, a dispenser of wealth ;
devoted to the Gods, the father
of the luminaries [devdndm pitoram]. He "proclaims the sacred prayer,"
in which Indra, Mitra, Varuna and Aryaman "have made their abode,"
which, to mean any thing, must mean that he is the visible flowing forth or
utterance of the fire of sacrifice, in which as a Universal, those Divinities are
contained. He is strong, and, like Indra, with whom he is associated in
more than one hymn, is- armed with the thunderbolt. He is the leader of
the starry hosts, sage of sages, beyond measure abounding in nourishment
[light?], and best lord of prayer [essential, therefore, as flame is, to the
sacrifice]. Come, it is said, "with thy protectors" [i. e., with thy sub-
ordinates, who are protectors]. He protects and defends, combats, con-
sumes foes, is victor in battles; he rends the clouds, and sends down the rain,
follows the bright clouds of the morning and releases them from their im-
prisonment; in all which and in slaying Bala, he seems identical with Indra.
He is the constant and manifold, through months and years; i. e., being one
and unchanging, like fire or light, he is variously manifested by the celestial
bodies that mark the recurrence of the months and years. He shoots
arrows from the bow, arrows "holy for the eyes of men, and which have
their abode in the ear;" which would seem to indicate that he is praise or
adoration by uttered words, which are imagined to mingle with and become
a part of, and be invested with the powers and energies of, the sacrificial
flame. This is to impute to prayer an immense power; but such power will
be found expressly imputed to it in some of the hymns. And if the Poets
deemed, as they certainly did, prayer to be a force, it was natural to impute
to it the virtues and energies of Agni, in producing rain and otherwise, and
so to represent it as a comppnent part of Agni, and the associate of, and
co-actor with, Indra.
He is "the aggregator and subjugator," a phrase, the meaning of which
can only be conjectured. What does he aggregate, collect together or
condense? Perhaps the vapours into rain. He subjugates Bala. He is
the family priest, the family prayer, perhaps, offered up, not by a priest,
but by the father of the family, in the privacy of home. He is "renowned
in battle," as Indra is; is the beholder [who looks, through the stars, that
are his eyes, upon the earth]. He bestows food and wealth, as Agni and
BRAHMAtfASPATI 207
Indra do; for these primitive men believed in the actual efficacy of prayer:
and hence the sun shines with radiance, without exertion, i. e., lavishly and
freely, it being of his nature to do so, and the light being manifested by him,
without action of his own. He pervades and delights all. Prayer reaches
everywhere: and is renowned among the Gods, i. e., the celestial luminaries,
and may therefore be said to be supreme over all, because all concede what
is asked by prayer. Dawn comes, and the bright cows are released,
return to the east, and thence roam at will, when the return of day is prayed
for. In him is all visible reality, for but for prayer, the light would not
displace the darkness, and return to make visible the objects of Nature. He
leads the worshipper by a straight path, guards him against error, protects
him from enemies and distress.
. Adhy.v. Anuv.xi. Stiktav.
3. When the search was set on foot by Indra and the Angirasas SaramU secured
food for her young; then BjihaspatS slew the devourer and rescued the kine, and
the Gods, with the cattle, proclaimed their joy aloud.
Angiras is, in Hymn i. of the Veda, a name applied to Agni. In Manu
and all the Pur&nas it is the name of a Rishi, and is used, Professor Wilson
says, in that sense, frequently, in the text of the Veda, as the designation of
the founder of a family or sdiool. Angara is a live coal; and the Aitareya
Brtthmana says, "the coals became the Angirasas." In Sfikta i. Anuv. x.
Adhy. iv. ofAsty. ., Indra is said to have opened the doud for theAngirasas
(the descendants of Angiras). In Sfikta v. Anuv. xi. Adhy. v. of Asht. i.,
"We meditate, like Angiras, an acceptable address to that powerful and
praise-deserving Indra." In Sfikta vii. Anw. xti. of the same, we find,
our forefathers, the Angirasas, by their praises terrified the strong and daring
devourer; they made for us a path to the vast Heaven, and obtained accessible
day, Aryah, and the cows. They secured him, they made his worship the source
of wealth, whence opulent votaries preserve his fires and practice his rites.
"Accessible day," thus means fire or light, of which men could have posses-
sion. Aryah is explained dhanasya swfaninah, the "ensign of day." Of
course this is a mere guess. But it is clear that the Angirasas are men, dei-
fied ; and that to them was ascribed the origin of worship by fire.
Accordingly, in Sfikta x. Anuv. xiii. Adhy.vi.of Asht. i., it is said, 'The
Angirasas first prepared the sacrificial food, and then with kindled fire, with
a most holy rite." And they are called 'The institutors." In Sdkta i.
v. xviii. Adhy. mii. ofAshf. i., Indra is invoked to listen to thepraisesof
208 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
the Angirasas, devoted to the Gods. Elsewhere, Agni is called "The eldest
of the Angirasas." The Chief of the Angirasas discovered the hiding place
of the cows. Indra opened the cloud for the Angirasas, restoring them their
cows.
Indra is propitiated by the hymns of the Angirasas, and permits them to
recover their cattle. In Sfikta ii. Anuv. Hi. Adhy. i. Ashf. Hi., they are
called the "Seven intelligent Sages," who ascertained that the bright cows
of the dawn were hid in the cavern, and by sacrifice persuaded Indra to
recover them. Then Angiras became his worshipper; and the Angirasas,
with hymns, "followed the road to immortality."
We shall recur again to the Angirasas.
The Asuras, named Panis, stole in the night the cows of the Gods, or of
the Angirasas, i. e.,
the clouds that glow with the golden and purple colourings of the Dawn and Evening,
and which, unseen, until then, often appear just at the Dawn, in the East;
and hid them in a cave, where the bitch SaramS. sent in search of them,
discovered them. Who or what was meant by SaramS, we will inquire
hereafter. We return to Brihaspati.
Sfikta, vi. Anuv. xiv. Adhy. vi. Asty. i* May Indra and Brihaspati be propitious
to us.
Sfikta, xti. (17). Antw. xv. Adhy. vii. Asty. i. Brihaspati, who liberates many from
sin, heard.
Ash}, ii. Adhy. v. AIMS. xxiv. Sdkta xi.
1. Augment by your hymns Brihaspati, who deserts not, the showerer, the
pleasant-tongued, the adorable; of whom, resplendent, Gods and men, of the insti-
tutor of the sacrifice, emulous in sacred songs proclaim.
2. The hymns of the (rainy) season [Ritwiyd] are addressed to him, who is
verily the creator (of rain), and has granted it (to the prayers of) the devout; for
that Brihaspati is the manifester, the expansive wind'fair] that (dispensing) blessings
has been produced for the diffusion of water.
The additions in parentheses are but guesses, of those whose precon-
ceived notions completely incapacitated them to understand the Vedas.
Here, the phrase "the expansive wind11
makes it probable that the
guesses approximate to the truth; but it is uncertain.
Brihaspati bestows wealth, and his glory spreads through heaven and
earth like the sun. He receives worship and gives intelligence. His
weapons fall daily on the workers of guile. He is wise, and "greedy/' and
stationary in the midst, contemplates both. The explanation is, that he
BRAHMMsfASPATI 209
is greedy of rain, and contemplates the ferry and the water. But these
are forced and fanciful, the fruits of preconceived notions of this Divinity,
all knowledge of whose original character had been lost. "Both," it is
much more likely, mean the sky and the earth; and "greedy," that he
forces or finds his way everywhere, through the smallest crevices.
He is mighty, beneficent, powerful, the showerer, the divine, in whose
gift are progeny and cattle.
Asht. ii. Adhy. w. Anwo. Hi* Sdkta L
2. Brihaspati, destroyer of the Asuras, through thee the intelligent Gods have
obtained the sacrificial portion. In like manner as the adorable sun generates the
rays by his radiance, so art thou the generator of all prayers.
3. Having repelled revilers and darkness, thou standest, Brihaspati, on the
radiant chariot of Sacrifice, formidable, the humiliator of enemies, the destroyer of
evil spirits, the cleaver of the clouds, the attainer of heaven.
4. Thou leadest men, Brihaspati, by virtuous instructions [correct indications]:
thou preservest them. Sin will never overtake him who presents to thee: thou
art the afflictor of him who hates prayers: thou art the punisher of anger: such is
thy great mightiness.
6. Thou, Brihaspati, art our protector, and the guide of our path, the discerner.
7. Turn aside from the path, Brihaspati, the arrogant and savage man who
advances to injure us .... and keep us in the right way
8. Brihaspati, defender, we invoke thee, the protector of our persons, the
speaker of- encouraging words, and well disposed towards us. Destroy the revilers
of the Gods: let not the malevolent attain supreme felicity.
10. .... Fulfiller of our desires, pure and associated.
13. Brihaspati is to be invoked in battles: he is to be approached with reverence:
he who moves amidst combats, the distributor of repeated wealth: the Lord
Brihaspati has verily overthrown all the assailing malignants, like chariots.
14. Consume with thy brightest the Rakshasas, who have held thy witnessed
prowess in disdain: manifest, Brihaspati, thy glorified, such as it was, and destroy
those who speak against thee. [*Thy glorified': thyself manifested in fire and light].
15. Brihaspati, born of truth, grant us that wonderful treasure, wherewith the
pious man may worship exceedingly ; that which shines among men ; which is endowed
with lustre, the means of rites, and invigorates with strength: [the art of song].
18. When Brihaspati, descendant of Angiras, for thy glory Parvata had con-
cealed the herd of kine, thou didst set them free, and with thine associate Indra
didst send down the Ocean of water, which had been enveloped by darkness.
Of this Sfikta, verses I, 5, 9, II, 17 and 19 are addressed to Brahmana-
spati; and Professor Wilson says that there is no marked distinction
between tihe two Deities in any of the stanzas.
210 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The former is, perhaps, something of a more martia* character, and his protection
is sought for against enemies in a more especial manner, but there is nothing very
precise in the passages addressed to him, to assign to him any particular office or
character.
The etymological explanations of these names, by Sya$a and MahJdhara
are of no value. Brahmanaspati is explained by S^yana to mean "pro-
tector or cherisher of food, or of any great or solemn acts of devotion" : and
Mahidhara explains Brihaspati as meaning "cherisher or protector of the
Vedas" : but in the next Sflkta, S&yarjta interprets fyihat by mantra, a
"hymn," or "formula of devotion."
Adhy. vii. Anuv, in. Stikfa ii.
1. Inasmuch, Brihaspati, as thou rulest
10. Expansive, vast and excellent riches are the attainable of Brihaspati, the
sender of the rain; these are the gifts of the adorable giver of food ....
[Of the sixteen stanzas of this Sukta, all the others are addressed to Brahman-
aspati.]
Sdkta viii.
9. Pierce him, Brihaspati, with thy sharp (thunderbolt) [for which we see no
warrant], and overthrow our enemies with thy weapons. Hurl, Monarch, thy
destroying (shaft), against the oppressor.
Ashj. in. Adhy. iv. Aniw. t. Stikta ix.
4. Brihaspati, friend of all the Gods, accept our oblations: grant precious
treasures to the offerer.
"Friend of the Gods," i. e., of the luminaries, means that they owe to
him somewhat which they manifest, or something of their energy and
power. This is evident from other passages.
5. Adore the pure Brihaspati at sacrifices, with hymns. I solicit of him unsur-
passable strength.
6. The Showerer on men, the omniform, the irreproachable, the excellent
Brihaspati.
"Omniform" means that his manifestations as, by or through luminous
bodies having form, are very many. "Pure" means such purity as that of
fire and light. "Irreproachable" means spotless, unalloyed, unmixed with
grosser matter: and "excellent" does not relate to moral excellence, but the
sense would be better expressed by "excelling."
Sdkta iv. Anuv. v. Adhy. vii.Asht. iii. is addressed to Indra and B^ihas-
pati, as SUkta i. and #., of the same are to Indra and Vayu, jointly. In each
BRAHMANASPATI 211
of the six stanzas they are jointly invoked. They are entreated to come
and drink Soma, and be exhilarated; and to grant horses and cattle.
Ash}, Hi. Adhy. vii. Anuv. v. Sdkfa v.
[In nine of the eleven stanzas, Brihaspati is invoked alone; in the tenth and
eleventh, with Indra.]
1 the pkasing-tongued Brihaspati, who propped up by strength the ends
of the earth, and who abides with noise in the three regions.
2. Brihaspati, protect the fruit-yielding, progressive, uninjured, ample sacrifice
of this they who are the Terrifiers, the Delighters of thee, who art possessed of
great wisdom, glorify in our behalf.
3. Those, Brihaspati which had come from that distant, the Best, have sat
down in connection with the ceremony, and to thee the Soma juices, expressed by
the stones flow copiously, by the sounds of praise, like deep wells that supply water.
4. Brihaspati, when first being born in the highest heaven of Supreme Light,
seven-mouthed, multiform, with sound, and seven-rayed, has subdued the dark-
ness.
[The seven metres or measures, in which the Vedas were composed, are said to
be his mouths. Wilson.}
Of the phrase "seven-rayed," Professor Wilson does not attempt an ex-
planation. Brihaspati is prayer or praise or adoration, hymned in words,
in poetry, and perhaps sung or chaunted. This, like the prayer expressed by
sacrifice and the ascending flame, is imagined to unite and coalesce and
become one with, the flame and fire, and so to be invested with the attributes
of AgnL This is shown by the epithet, "pleasing-tongued," applied to
Brihaspati, and by the phrases, "who abides with [not 'noise'], sound,
resonance," on earth, in the air and in the sky, "the three regions;" "the
sounds of praise," "multiform with sound."
Thus identified with Agni and Indra, with fire, flame and light, he is
represented as "seven-rayed," as the light of the sun is, and it may be that
the expression "seven-mouthed" refers to the seven notes of the musical
octave, or scale. If it does not, and that scale was unknown, the coincidence
is at least a singular and interesting one.
5. By ike praised and brilliant troop he destroyed with sound the mischievous
Bala: Brihaspati shouting aloud, set free the boon-bestowing, oblation-supplying
kine.
6. The paternal universal Deity [Viswadevdya] . . . .
Brihaspati.
7. 8, 9. [These represent as surely prosperous, the prince who liberally cherishes,
glorifies and honours Brihaspati, and who extends hospitality to the Brahman, and
bestows gifts upon him.]
212 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
It is useless to consult the Sanskrit books for the original meaning of the
word "Brahman." Brahm and Brahma, as names of Deity, were clearly
derived from this word, but the Sanskrit books represent it as derived from
them, making the Brahmans sons of Brahma, and giving various fanciful
accounts of their creation. The jatimait says,
In the first creation by Brahm^, Brahmanas proceeded, with the Veda, from the
mouth of Brahmt. The Purusha Stikta, the oldest account (Rig-V. x. 90), repre-
sents the Brahman as the mouth of the victim Purusha, when he was cut into
pieces; Indra and Agni also as coming from his mouth, and Vayu from his breath.
All the accounts may be found in Muir's Original Sanskrit Texts, Part i.
The Vedic or Vaidic hymns were called Mantras. The Brahmanas (so
called by the Hindus) are the liturgical institutes in which the ceremonial
application of these hymns is prescribed, and the Aranyakas and Upanishads,
or theological treatises, in which the spiritual aspirations are preserved,
that were gradually developed in the minds of the more devout of the
Indian Sages. (Muir: Part Hi. i.)
The hymns, prayers or praises uttered by the Rishis, are called by a
great variety of names, among which is brahman. (Muir: Part iii. 121.)
And in Rig-V. iii. 29. 15, we find brahmanoand brahma meaning "prayer,"
(dyumnad-ad brahma Kwikdsa, the Kusikas have uttered a prayer).
The names we are considering are both compounds of patis, a "chief,
husband, master, etc.," which we find in Divaspatis, "Chief or God of heaven
or the sky," whence At* Trcmjp Zeus ircm/p, and the Latin Diespiter; and also
in Dyupatis, which means the same, from Div, "sky," and Patis, "master."
These names are Brahmanas-pati, and Brihas-pati. Brahma and Brah-
man are probably from barh, to "resound or echo," or from the root of
bhraje, "I burn or shine." From the former are the Greek flpa,x<*> PPVX&-
And Brihas is frqm bru, "resound, enunciate, speak;" whence also
ftww, and in French, bruit, "noise, sound." As srinu is a contracted
form of $runu, and from $ru, an irregular root, comes sriydmi, so Brihas is
from bru.
The termination as does not indicate the plural. Chdfyhas means "the
seeing;" tapas, "the burning;" tavas, "the growing," from the root tu; and
mahas (greatness), "the growing," from mah, to "grow."
Brahmanas means, therefore, "the praying" (ones), thdse who offer up
prayer or praise, the adorers, perhaps by means of the sacrificial flame; i. e. f
the priests or sacrifices; and Brihas, those who audibly praise the Gods, the
praisers by the voice, the Poets.
In S&kta Hi., Anuv. iii. Adhy. i. ofAshf. i., we find,
BRAHMAtfASPATI 213
The chaunters hymn thee, gafokratu; the reciters of the Richas praise thee, who art
worthy of praise; the Brlhmanas raise thee on high.
In SAkta iv. of Anuv. iv. t of the same,
Drink the Soma juice, Indra, from the precious vase of the Brihmana [Brdhmandd-
radhasah].
In Sdkta viii, Adhy. Hi. Anuv. xxii. Ashf* H't
This altar is the uttermost end of the earth; this sacrifice is the navel of the world;
this Soma juice is the fecundating power of the rain-shedding steed; this Brahm
is the highest heaven of speech . , . . Four are the definite grades of speech:
these Brahmans who are wise know them [Br&hmaya ye manfohiydk]: Three,
deposited in secret, indicate no meaning: men speak the fourth grade of speech.
Styana says that "the speech which is in Heaven, with Aditya, is
Bfihati, or the thunder." This confirms the derivation of Bfihasfrombru.
In SAkta ii. Anuv. iv. Adhy. vii*, ofAsht. iv.,
I invoke with hymns Indra, our friend, who is Brahma, who is attracted by prayer
and entitled to adoration.
In Sdkta ix. Anwo. i. Adhy. v. Asht. Hi.,
Agni may be the officiating priest, or the master of the house in the sacrificial
chamber, or he sits down as the Brahman.
In the Fifth and Sixth Ashtakas are these passages:
May the Brahmans, the progenitors, presenters of the Soma, the observers of
truth, protect us .... May the Brthmanas, the Angirasas, be everywhere
present .... Like Brahmans at the Soma libation, at the AtirHtra sacrifice
.... They utter a loud cry like Brahmans when bearing the Soma libation, and
reciting the year-long prayer .... You (Aswins) who always carefully protect
Brahm (the great praise) among men .... Indra is Brahma, Indra is the
IJishi [i. e., he is the hymn and its author, the Poet].
Bopp (Comparative Grammar, iii. 1335) is of opinion that Brihaspati
means Lord of Greatness. It is true that bhar or bri means to "bear,
support or nourish," and thence, to "make great." But I think that the
Veda itself shows the real derivation to be from Bru: and that the literal
meaning of Brahmanaspati is "Lord or chief, of prayer, praise or adora-
tion ;" and of Bphas-pati, "Lord or chief of speech or sound." The former
is prayer, praise or adoration, as a universal, as that of which each individual
214 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
or particular prayer or act of praise or adoration, is an emanation or mani-
festation, like a ray from the splendour of the sun, a beam of the universal
light; and the latter is praise, prayer and adoration uttered and spoken
aloud, universal speech of praise, devotional poetry, of which each hymn is
an emanation, like a rivulet that flows out of an ocean, or the manifestation
of Agni by a spark or a star. Perhaps the former meant that of which acts
of adoration, whether by sacrificial or liturgical ceremonial, were the mani-
festations, through the Brahmans, who were priests; and the latter the
hymns chaunted aloud by the Poets, who were the prototypes of the Keltic
and Gaelic Bards.
Asty. iv. Adhy. ii. Anuv. Hi. Sdkta x.
7. Glorify the first donor of precious treasures, Bjihaspati, the distributor of
riches, the bestower of great happiness on him who recites or chaunts; who comes
laden with ample wealth for his invoker.
Sflktoxi. 12. Place the mighty Brihaspati, whose back is dark blue, in the
chamber. Let us worship him who is seated in the interior of the mansion, every-
where shining, golden-hued, resplendent.
Here the sacrificial hymn assumes the characteristics of the sacrificial
flame, issuing out of the dark blue smoke, resplendent and of the hue of
gold. The sacrifice itself, and the ascending flame of the sacrifice are re-
garded as the praise and adoration of the worshipper, expressed in them as
if they were his utterances; and the words that he chaunted were regarded
as an integral part of that praise and adoration.
Ashf. v. Adhy. i. Anuv. m. Sfikta xii.
1. Brihaspati, who is the render of the mountain, the first-born, the observer
of truth, the descendant of Angiras, the partaker of the oblation, the traverser of
two worlds, abiding in the region of light, is to us as a father: he, the showerer,
thunders loud in heaven and earth.
2. Brihaspati, who has appointed a region for the man who attends diligently
at divine worship, destroying impediments, conquering foes, overcoming enemies,
demolishing various cities.
3. This divine Brihaspati has conquered the treasures, and the spacious pastures
with the cattle; purposing to appropriate the waters, he destroys with sacred prayers
the adversary of heaven.
Ash{. v. Adky. vi. Anuv. vi. Sukta viii.
2 Brihaspati .... that showerer, who is our benefactor from afar,
as a father.
4. May that best beloved Brihaspati, who is the desired of all, sit down in our
hall of sacrifice. May he gratify our desire of riches, and of male posterity ....
BRAHMANASPATI 215
5. The unresisted Brihaspati, to whom pure praises are addressed, the adorable
of houses.
['Pure' praises are praises by fire. Pd> to 'purify/ is the verbal parent of both
wind and fire, which are always characterized as 'pure/ Pavana is wind, and pavaka,
fire.]
6. May his powerful, brilliant horses, wearing a lustrous form like the sun,
acting together, bring that Bjihaspati, to whom strength belongs, and whose friend-
ship bestows a dwelling.
7. He verily is pure, borne by numerous conveyances, he is the purifier, he whose
speech is benevolent, the object of desire, the enjoyer of heaven: he, Brihaspati, is
well domiciled, of goodly aspect, a most bountiful giver of ample food to his friends.
8. The divine heaven and earth, the generatrices of the Deity, have, by their
might, given growth to Brihaspati ....
9 and 10. [Brahmanaspati and Indra, and Brihaspati and Indra, are invoked.
The two latter are addressed as Lords of both celestial and terrestrial treasure,
and riches and blessings are asked of them.]
No one who reads the hymns that ascribe the powers and faculties of
Agni, Indra and all the Gods, to that power of intoxicating and exhilarating
contained or rather manifested in the juice of the Soma plant, will wonder
at the efficacy, powers and faculties ascribed to prayer and to praise and
adoration, in worship and poetry. In Sfikta xi. Anuv. i. Adhy. vi. ofAsht. ii.,
Indra is told that his brilliant strength is invigorated by the praises of tibe
worshipper, and the thunderbolt placed in his hands by them. Professor
Wilson says (Introduction to Vol. i. p.
The main objects of the prayers are benefits of a mere worldly and physical character.
The tone in which these are requested indicates a quiet confidence in their being
granted, as a return for the benefits which the Gods are supposed to derive from
the offerings made to them, in gratifying their bodily wants, and from the praises
which impart to them enhanced energy and augmented power.
Twice, at least, wehave found Btfhaspati called"Descendant of Angiras."
The Angirasas themselves, were like their ancestor Angiras, ancient Rishis,
represented as having been translated to the skies, for their great devotion
to the Gods; and there are, I think, sufficient evidences in the Veda, that
they were supposed to have become stars. In later ages, the stars of the
Great Bear were called "The Seven Rishis or Sages." A name of this kind,
for such a constellation, known to all the people, and in common use, would
outlive traditions and remain in use for ages. The Angirasas were, it is
certainly probable, these seven stars*
216 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Bjihaspati was called the descendant or progeny of Angiras, that which
was born of him or produced by him, or which issued from him, because
Angiras was a most ancient Rishi, perhaps, traditionally, the earliest Poet.
We shall find the great deeds of Indra ascribed to the Soma juice used
at the sacrifices; and it is generally supposed that this is because of its
intoxicating and exhilarating effects. Undoubtedly, in part, but the ideas
of the Rishis in regard to it are very inadequately conceived, if we suppose
that to have been the whole reason. We shall find even the fuel fliat feeds
the fire to be a Deity, as entering into the fire and becoming of its essence.
And the great reason for ascribing to Soma its potencies was, that being
poured upon the fire, it became incorporated in Agni, an indivisible part of
the unity of the fire, adding to it exhilarating effects. Silent praise,
expressed by the sacrifice, and perhaps the mere liturgical worship, if there
was any, was not Brahmanaspati's Self, for he was the Whole, the Universal
of adoration, conceived of as a unit and a being; and every act of adoration
and praise, whether uttered in words, or expressed by the fire and ascending
essence and savour of the butter and the Soma, or whether merely silent in
the thankful and grateful heart, was an emanation from Brahmanaspati;
word, as it were, of his thought. He was not the aggregate of all prayers
and adoration, but that of which they were the outflowing, a unity, a being,
the spirit of prayer and adoration; Principium unfa fit manifestatio; and,
as is said in the Commentary on the Sephra de Zeniutha, Est Principium
istius guod manifestatur vel tune guando manifestatur; et non dicitur,
Principium guod manifestatur: He is the Principle of that which is mani-
fested, or then when it is manifested; and not the Principle which is
manifested.
And B^ihaspati is the Principle, of which all hymns of adoration are
emanations The Spirit of the Poetry ofAdoration, sung or spoken aloud.
And each is considered an indivisible part of the divine unity of Agni,
because the prayer, uttered or silent, and tbe words of the hymn ofadoration,
sung or spoken, unite and coalesce with the sacrificial fire, and all forms
one act of adoration, which ascends to the skies.
VANASPATL
Vanaspati, supposed, so far as I find any opinion expressed, to mean
"Forest-Lord/* and thus a tree, or a post, is also invoked as a Deity.
Pati, like Pitar (Father), is from the root pa, to "nourish" or "sustain"
or "support," and became the name of the begetter of children, designating
his relationship to them, not because he begat them, but because, after they
were born, he cared for, protected and fed them. Here, as in Brahmafias-
pati and B$ihas-pati, pati means the principle from which the Vanas, what-
ever that means, proceeds or proceed.
The texts of the Veda, in which Vanaspati is named, are subjoined, and
will enable us to determine what was worshipped under that name.
Ash}, i. Adhy. i. Anuv. iv, Sukta ii.
11. Present, divine Vanaspati, our oblation to the Gods, and may true knowl-
edge be of the giver.
Adhy. vi. Anuv. xiv. Sukta m.
8. May Vanaspati be possessed of sweetness towards us ....
Asty. ii. Adhy. ii. Anuv. xxi. Sukta Hi.
11. Vanaspati, here present of your own accord, convey our offerings to the
Gods: the divine and intelligent Agni accepts for the Deities.
Adhy. v. Anuv, xxiv. Sukta ix.
10. Vanaspati, deliver of thyself the victim to the Gods, so that Agni may
taste the oblation ....
Ashf. ii. Adhy. v. Anuv. i. Sukta Hi.
10. May Agni, who is Vanaspati, approach, and by his especial acts well cook
the victim ....
Adhy. viii. Anuv. i. Sukta iv.
10. Vanaspati, bring the Gods nigh: May Agni the Immolator prepare the
victim.
Ash}. Hi. Adhy. i. Anuu. i. Sukta viii.
1. Vanaspati, the devout anoint thee with sacred butter at the sacrifice, and
whether thou standest erect, or thine abode be on the lap of this thy mother, grant
us riches.
2. Standing on the east of the kindled, dispensing food, of undecaying, and
excellent progeny, keeping off our enemy at a distance, stand up for great auspicious-
218 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
3. Be exalted, Vanaspati, upon this sacred spot of earth, being measured with
careful measurement, and bestow food upon the offerer of the sacrifice-
4. Well clad and hung with wreaths comes the youthful: it is most excellent
as soon as generated : steadfast and wise venerators of the Gods, raise it up.
5. Born, and beautified in the sacrifice celebrated by men, it is engendered for
the sanctification of the day
6. May those which devout men have cut down, or which, Vanaspati, the axe
has trimmed, may they, standing resplendent with all their parts, bestow upon us
wealth with progeny.
7. May those posts which have been cut down, upon the earth, and which
have been fabricated by the priests, those which are the accomplishers of the
sacrifice, convey our acceptable (offering) to the Gods.
9. Arrayed in bright, entire, these pillars ranging in rows like swans, have come
to us, erected by pious sages on the east; they proceed resplendent on the path of
the Gods.
10. Entire in all parts, and girded with rings, they appear upon the earth like
the horns of horned cattle; hearing by the priests; may they protect us in battles.
11. Vanaspati, mount up with a hundred branches, that we may mount with
a thousand, thou whom the sharpened hatchet has brought for great auspiciousness.
In a note to this hymn, Professor Wilson says:
Vanaspati, literally, Forest-Lord, is here said to mean the post of wood to which
the victim is tied.
If that were all for which it served, it would be difficult to see how any
human creature, not a born idiot, could pray to it, the post, to bestow
wealth and progeny, to protect the worshipper in battles, and convey his
offering to the Gods.
In his note to the first hymn .from which we have quoted a verse to
Vanaspati, Professor Wilson says,
Vanaspati, Lord of the Woods; usually, a large tree, hare said to be an Agni, as if
the fuel and the burning of it were identified.
Asty* Hi. Adhy. mii. Awwo. i. Sdkta v.
10. Wherever thou knowest, Vanaspati, the secret forms of the Gods to be,
thither convey the oblations.
Asfy. iv. Adhy. iv. Anuv. m. Sfikta vi.
5. Open, Vanaspati, like the womb of a parturient female.
Here, S&yana says, according to the ancient chroniclers, Vanaspati was a
large basket, in which the Rishi was shut up. He first addresses the basket,
VANASPATI 219
and then invokes the Awins to set him free, begging them, in the next
stanza also, to sunder by their devices the wicker-work, and set him free.
In Stanzas 8 and 9, the birth of "the boy who has reposed for ten months
in the bosom of his mother," is prayed for, that he may come forth alive,
unharmed, living, from a living (parent). In Stanza 7, we have, "As the
wind ruffles the lake on every side, so may thy womb be stimulated, and the
conception of the months come forth/*
The legend repeated by Siyana, is one of the many tales invented when
the Veda had become to the Brahmans, for the most part, a confused mass
of enigmas, to explain expressions no longer understood, as the Greek Poets
invented their myths.
I find in Eichhoff the verbal root van, with the meaning of
"serve" or "cherish." He derives from it the Greek 6vew, owjjut, "assist, bene-
fit, be useful to;" the Latin aewmj; and the Gothic #?ma. Fcwasmaybe an
adjective, meaning "nourishing, feeding, sustaining;" or a noun, meaning
"that which nourishes, cherishes or sustains, food, fuel/' And I do not see
how it could have come to mean tree or forest, except because wood feeds and
keeps up the fire.
The fire of the sacrifice seems habitually to have been obtained by
attrition of two pieces of dry wood, the primitive method used still among
savage tribes. Of course it could no longer have been necessary, but it was
no doubt preserved as the ancient mode of procuring fire, used by the
ancestors of the Aryans, and because, so obtained, it was deemed more
pure and holy.
The mode of procuring it was, to lay a flat piece of dry wood upon the
ground, and to twirl rapidly, with -the hands or a cord, a stick held upright,
with its pointed end upon the piece below* Naturally, this pointed stick
was imagined to generate, and the flat piece to produce, the heat first, and
finally the fire and flame; and these, until produced, were deemed to be
"in embryo," latent, in the wood.
Agni and all his subsistences, in him, were thus deemed to be, and con-
ceived of as, in the wood or tree ; and this conception was of the same nature
as ours, that the invisible soul is within the body, and acts upon it; and as
to us the soul is the Very Self of the man, so, it seems, Agni, in the wood or
tree, was its soul and self, its life, and it could fitly be said, "Thou, Agni, are
Vanaspati."
And as the fire, latent in the wood, issued from it, and is produced by it,
generated by the strength that causes the stick to revolve, so, also, the
wood consumed by the fire, and disappearing, was deemed to be changed
into and become the light, heat and flame, manifestations of Agni. As the
glowing coals, the wood emitted all these, and was therefore invested with
220 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
the characteristics and powers of Agni, and came at last to be considered as
merely one of his names or an epithet.
Vanaspati was, therefore, unmistakably the principle of the food of the
fire, its feeder with aliment, its nourisher and sustainer. He is the tree
with the hundred branches, the trimmed trunk, prostrate on the ground,
the posts of the sacrifice, and the fuel prepared for feeding the fire.
Thus he presents the oblation to the Gods, for he becomes the flame,
light and heat that bears it upward, the divine and intelligent Agni accepting
for the celestial Deities. He delivers the victim to the Gods, by becoming
the fire that consumes it. "By his especial acts/' that is, by exercising that
particular function, "Agni who is," i.e., Agni as, "Vanaspati," "well cooks
the victim." He is invoked to grant riches, whether he "stands erect,"as
tree or post, or "his abode is on the lap of this thy mother," i. e., whether,
felled, he lies recumbent upon the ground. He is of "undecaying and
excellent progeny," flame, light and heat, often termed "undecaying" being
produced from him as he burns. He dispenses the food, cooked by him ; and
by the light that he produces "keeps off the enemy at a distance," the wild
animal or the stealthy and cunning aboriginal savage. He is "exalted,"
set upright, "on this sacred spot of earth." "Well clad and hung with
wreaths comes the youthful" tree or sapling. It is "most excellent as soon
as generated: born, and beautified in the sacrifice celebrated by men, it is
engendered for the sanctification of the days." Does this allude to some
particular tree, of rapid growth (as the fig and banana are, in the warm
climate of the Punjab), specially devoted to the sacrifices, "engendered for
the sanctification of the days," i. e., of the fixed sacrificial days of particular
seasons of the year; beautified by being trimmed, or decorated? or is "the.
youthful, well clad and hung with wreaths," a young branch thus ornament-
ed? or is it possible that we have here the origin of the Druidic veneration
of the mistletoe?
The posts, cut down, and trimmed ajnd shaped ("fabricated") by the
priests, are "the accomplishers of the sacrifice;" and must therefore finally
have been placed with pomp and ceremony upon the fire, to feed it. Until
then, they were "arrayed in bright, entire, and stpod in rows like swans."
Not cut or split up into pieces, like the ordinary fuel, they were hung,
perhaps, with wreaths of gay colours ; but were finally used to convey to the
Gods the acceptable offering. Then they "proceed resplendent on the path
of the Gods," i. e., the flame which they become ascends towards the
celestial luminaries, the Devaso, or denizens of the sky. They were numer-
ous; for, "girded with rings" they seemed like the horns of a herd of cattle;
and were supposed to hear the invocations of the priests.
VANASPATI 221
He,
*
Vhom the sharpened hatchet has brought for great auspiciousness,"
to obtain great favours from the Devaso by feeding the fire of sacrifice, is
invoked to "mount up with a thousand branches/' to ascend skyward with a
thousand tongues of flame, "that we may mount with a thousand,*' i. e.,
that our prayers may ascend with the flames produced by all the fuel. He is
invoked to convey the oblations wherever he knows "the secret forms of
the Gods to be." The forms of the Gods, are their visible orbs ; and he is asked
to convey the oblations to such of them as have not risen or as have set, and
are no longer in the sky.
Finally, Vanaspati, who produces the food of the fire, is invoked to
"open like the womb of a parturient female;" the Awins are invoked to
sunder the "wicker-work;" and it is prayed that the child "who has reposed
for ten months in the bosom of his mother, may come forth alive, unharmed,
living, from a living." It is prayed that the womb of Vanaspati may be
stimulated, and the conception of the months come forth.
I dismiss as absurd the idea that Vanaspati was a basket in which a
Rishi was confined. The issue to come from Vanaspati, to permit which
to be born he is invoked to open like a womb, one would at once say was the
fire, latent in the wood, and with difficulty and labour caused to issue from
it, were it not that it is a child that has reposed ten months in the bosom of
his mother, and the conception of the months.
That it is a prayer for the safe delivery of the wife of the Rishi or Prince,
is inconsistent with the express invocation to Vanaspati himself to open.
It may be that the same piece of wood was used for producing the fire for
the sacrifice, at successive festivals, and religiously preserved in the interim;
for any thing considered sacred would become more so, the longer it was
kept, and would hardly be flung away as worthless (though it might be
burned), after it had been used. To keep it from year to year may have
seemed equivalent to keeping unextinguished the fire itself.
I shall hereafter inquire whether there is not evidence that the festivals
and ceremonies of sacrifice were held annually, at a particular season of the
year. For the present I will only say that I think they were; and if they
were continued, as they may have been, during two months, while the same
stars rose at the dawn, with the Morning Star, and ten months elapsed
from their dose to the beginning of the next annual sacrifices, the fire then
lighted anew would have reposed in the bosom of its mother during ten
months, and would have been the conception of the months.
This is but a conjecture; but it is not improbable nor unreasonable; and,
unfortunately, there are absolutely no means of attaining certainty as to
the meaning of these obscure passages of the Veda. Neither can we be
222 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
certain that the sense of the original is reproduced in the translation. What
is certain, is, that Vanaspati is the principle of nourishment of the fire,
indispensable to its existence and continuance. Produced from the wood,
the fire is fed by it, and it becomes, by the energy developed by itself, that
which consumes itself.
VAISWANARA.
The name Vaiwdnara occurs frequently, applied to Agni, the two names
often forming, as it were, one.
Asht. i. AdUy. iv. Anuv. xi. Sukta U.
1. Whatever other fires there may be, they are but ramifications, Agni, of
thee: but they all rejoice, being immortal, in thee. Thou, VaiwHnara, art the navel
of men, and supportest them like a deep-planted column.
2. Agni, the head of heaven .... became the ruler over both earth and
heaven: all the Gods engendered thee, Vaiwnara, in the form of light.
Professor Wilson says, in notes on these stanzas, that this "is a very
unusual appellative of Agni, and is a common synonym of Indra, although,
in its proper sense of a possessor of riches, it may be applied to either.""
But then he gives this derivation of it: Vaiswdnara, from viswa, "all," and
nara, a "man;" a fire common to all mankind; or, as here indicated, the fire
or natural heat of the stomach, which is a principal element of digestion.
3. Treasures were deposited in thee, Agni, Vaiswinara, like the permanent
rays in the sun; thou art the sovereign of all the treasures that exist in the mountains,
in the herbs, in the waters, or amongst men.
4. Heaven and earth expanded, as it were for their son .... praises addressed
to the graceful-moving, truly-vigourous, and all-guiding Vaiswinara.
5. Vaiswnara, who knowest all that are born, thy magnitude has exceeded
that of the spacious heaven; thou art the Monarch of Manu-descendedmen; thou
hast regained for the Gods in the battle, the wealth.
6 The Agni, Vaiswnara, slew the stealer (of the waters), and sent
them down, and clove the cloud.
7. Vaiwinara by his magnitude is all men, and is to be worshipped as the
diffuser of manifold light.
Asht. i. Adhy. mi. Anuo. xv. Sukta r.
1 Vaiswnara .... the august sovereign of all beings: as soon as
generated from this, he surveys the universe: he accompanies the rising sun.
2. Agni, who is present in the sky, and present on earth, and who, present,
has pervaded all vegetation: may the Agni Vaiswinara, who is present in vigour
[as the vital force or energy], guard us night and day against our enemies.
Asty. $L Adhy. vtii. Anuv. i. Sukta ii.
1 Agni, who is VaiwHnara, the augmenter of water ....
224 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
11 Vaiswanara, the resplendent, the immortal, giving precious treasures
to the donor ....
12 Vaiswanara of old ascended to the sky that is above the expanse,
bestowing upon his worshipper wealth, as he did in former times; he travels, ever
vigilant, the common path.
1. Intelligent, offer to the powerful Vaiswtnara precious things at holy rites,
that they may go; for the immortal Agni worships the Gods; therefore let no one
violate eternal duties.
5. The Gods have placed in this world the delightful Agni in a delightful
chariot, the tawny-hued Vaiswnara, the sitter in the waters, the all-knowing, the
all-pervading, the endowed with energies, the cherisher, the illustrious.
10. Vaiswanara, I celebrate thy energies, whereby, O Sage, thou hast become
all-knowing; as soon as born, Agni, thou hast occupied the realms and heaven and
earth, and hast comprehended all these with thyself.
Vaiswinara is styled "divine, observer of truth, cognizant of heaven,
bountiful, charioteer, the radiant Agni, Vaisw&nara, the illuminator of the
firmament, the adorable lord of sacred rites, the-wise, the hearer, the guest,
the quick-moving, kindled in every age by the Kusikas; who, bright with
great lustre, sustains the heavens with his entire vast and insupportable, as
a pillar." "Agni, who is wise, immortal, discriminating, Vaiswinara, chief
conductor, the mighty:" "Agni, who art the protector of the good, most
wise, powerful and opulent; Vaisw&nara:" "Drink, Vaiswanara, who art
identified with the ancient emblem" [flame].
In Sdkta vii. Anuv. i. Adhy. v. of Ashf. iv., we read,
The priests [or Gods, Devd] have generated Vaiswanara, Agni, as the brow of heaven,
the unceasing pervader of earth, born for sacrifice, wise, imperial, the guest of men,
in whose mouth is the vessel [that conveys the oblation]. Immortal Agni, when
born like an infant; when thou shinest, Vaiswanara, between the parental (heaven
and earth). Agni Vaiswinara, these thy mighty deeds no one can resist: whenborn
on the lap of thy parents, thou hast stationed the banner of the days on the paths
of the firmament. The summits of the firmament are measured by the light of
Vaiswinara, the manifester of ambrosial; all the regions are overspread on his
brow, and the seven gliding spring from thence like branches.
"Ambrosial," in the translation, is followed by "rain," and "overspread,"
by "vapour," while the seven gliding are made to be "rivers." I see no
reason for this, and think the allusion is to light, and the Seven Luminaries.
The next stanza is, Vaisw&nara, the performer of sacred acts, is he who made
the regions, foreseeing, the luminaries of the sky, and has spread throughout
all worlds, the irresistible guardian, the protector of ambrosial.
In the next Sfikta (mi.) we read : :
VAIWANARA 225
New, pure and graceful praise issues to Agni Vai?w&nara: Agni has made the mani-
fold firmament; Vaiswinara, the performer of good deeds has attained heaven by
his greatness . . . . Vaiswinara comprehends all creative energy; land in this and
the next Stikta 'Agni Vaiswa^aara
1
is addressed]. Manifested like a prince, he dis-
pels darkness by his lustre.' [Then], This Vaisw^nara is the first offererof burnt-
offerings: behold him! this is the light immortal among mortals: he has been born
in a bodily shape, immovable, all-pervading, immortal, ever-increasing: a steady-
light, swifter than thought, stationed among moving beings [the revolving Hosts
of Heaven], to show the way to happiness. All the Gods, being of one mind, and
of like wisdom, proceed respectfully to the presence of the one agent.
Sdkta ix. Anuv. i. Adhy. v. Ash}, iv. (6) Mine ears are turned, mine eyes;
this light that is placed in the heart; my mind, the receptacle of distant, hastens.
What shall I declare? How shall I comprehend him? (7) All the Gods, alarmed,
venerate thee, Agni, abiding in darkness. May Vaiswinara preserve us with his
protection! May the immortal Agni preserve us with his protection.
This must mean that Vaiswflnara is not the visible fire that the eye can
see, and whose roaring the ear can hear; but that the intellect endeavours
to obtain perception of him, and cannot succeed in doing so, or at least
cannot succeed in expressing its conception. So we in vain endeavour to
conceive of Spirit, and to express, affirmatively our imperfect and inadequate
conceptions of it. The Gods, which, while enveloped in darkness, are
alarmed, and worship Agni, are the heavenly bodies, which shine only when
he manifests himself in them. The ancient Aryans had no idea of any
other "Gods.**
Sdkta v. Anuv. i. Adhy. ii. Asty. v. is addressed to Agni as Vaiwinara.
We read in it:
1. Offer praise to the strong Agni, traversing without hindrance heaven and
earth; he, who, Vaisw&iara, prospers at the sacrifices of all the immortals, being
associated with the awaking Deities [manifested by the Luminaries of the Morning].
2 Vaiswclnara shines upon human beings.
4. Vaisw&iara Agiu, the firmament, the earth, the heaven, combine in thy
worship :
shining with undecaying splendour, thou overspreadest heaven and earth
with light.
5. The lord of men, the conveyer of riches, the Vaiwinara of dawns, the mani-
fester of days*
9. Grant us, Agni Vaiwnara, infinite happiness.
Sfikte w.
6. , Agni Yai$winara has come to the excellent station between heaven and
earth.
7. The divine Agni Vaisw&nara has removed from the firmament the investing:
glooms, at the rising of the sun.
226 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
And in a subsequent S6kta, Agni Vaisw&nara is said to enter into the
sacrificial food.
What is ascribed as peculiar, to Agni Vaiswinara, or to VaiwLnara
alone, may be summed up thus:
He is the "navel" of men, supporting them as firmly as a column; all the
Gods engendered him in the form of light.
'
Treasures'
'
were deposited in
him, like the permanent rays in the sun; and he is sovereign of all the
"treasures" that exist in the mountains, in the vegetable creation, in the
waters, and among men. He is graceful-moving, truly vigourous and all-
guiding. He knows all that are born, and is greater than the expanse of
space. He regained the "wealth" for the Gods, in the battle, slew the
stealer, rent the clouds and sent down the rain. By his magnitude he is all
men, and is to be worshipped as the diffusion of manifold light. He has
pervaded all vegetation. He is present in the sky, and present on earth, and
he is present in vigour.
Here we catch a gleam of light to guide us, and the idea is at once sug-
gested that Agni, as Vaisw^nara, is the vital heat, force, or vitality, life or
the cause of being and existing, not only for living creatures and all that the
earth produces, but for the celestial orbs, and all that exists in the wide
universe. We look back to see if any phrase or expression conflicts with
this, and we find none. Does anything confirm it? As vitality, he is the
"navel" of men; for the child in the womb is supposed to receive the
nourishment by which it grows, by the navel; and he sustains men, main-
taining their existence, as firmly and steadfastly as a column upholds a
roof. The Gods engendered him in the form of light, for light is the life of
the celestial orbs.
What are the "treasures" that are "deposited" in him, as the unmani-
fested rays are in the sun? the "treasures" of which he is the sovereign?
They are not cattle and horses nor gold; for they exist in the vegetable
creation and even among men. They are "deposited" in him, but "exist"
in these. What does this mean but that he is the principle of these
"treasures," which are revealed in actual being, in men and animals, the
vegetation, the waters and the mountains. They are life, health, strength,
all that vitality gives, of enjoyment and of energy. He is all-guiding, for
vitality upholds and sustains all, and is movement, action, energy.
He "knows" all that are born; he is with and in all; he is omnipresent,
and the monarch of men. Warring for the Gods (the luminaries) he
regained wealth for them, i. e., renewed their life and vigour, When they had
been eclipsed or obscured. By his magnitude he is all men, i. e., he extends
VAI\VANARA 227
to and is present with all men. As vitality and vigour, he slew Vtitra.
He is to be adored as the diffuser of manifold light. [Compare, "In him was
life, and the life was the light of men/'] He is the august sovereign of all
beings: for he is the life of all: and as soon as generated from the wood, he
"surveys," pervades and becomes present in, the whole universe. He
accompanies the rising sun; and by his light gives life and fertilizes the
earth.
Thus it is that he is present "in vigour," i. e., in action and energy,
everywhere, and pervades all vegetation. He is the all-knowing, all-
pervading, the cherisher, the illustrious. "Vaiswdnara, comprehends all
creative energy.
1 '
He is the light immortal among mortals; has been born
in a bodily shape, immovable, all-pervading, and immortal, and ever
increasing. All the Gods proceed respectfully to the presence of the one
agent.
We find him also invested with the characteristics of the light-principle,
or Indra, which is simply the identification of light and vitality; which
once conceived, the poetic imagination soon enlarged and developed, and
ascribed to vitality all the functions of light. Light was, indeed, to them,
the life of the sun, stars and planets; for they knew its nature no more than
they knew that of vitality; and ascribed all its energies to it as the Cause of
Life. It is the same to us ; and what else it is, in its real nature, we know as
little as they did.
Vaiw&nara is Agni in his special capacity, character and function as
vitality or the vital principle, the life-principle of all being; and he is not
anywhere regarded as a distinct individuality or as a subsistence of Agni.
He is light, also, and Indra, as such, and might, therefore, from detached
passages be regarded as the same.
VAHNI.
A$Jtt.ti. Adhy.viii. Anwj.i. SAktav.
1. The sagacious Agni, cognizant of the dawn, is awakened to the paths of the
sages; the luminous Vahni, kindled by the devout, has thrown open the gates of
darkness.
Agni, here, the sacrificial fire, kindled, and beginning to blaze, at the
first glancings of the dawn, which he represented as descrying in the east.
He is awakened, he shines, on the paths by which the priests come to the
sacrifice. Kindled by them, be penetrates into the body of the darkness,
as one enters a city, forcing open its gates.
Vahni is but an epithet, probably from the root vah, to "move, bring,"
whence vdhas, "wagon," vahanan, "vehicle;" Latin, veho, "carry, convey;"
vahis, "far;" vahas, "road, route;" vddhas, "transported;" vahitran, "trans-
portation;" vandhar, "conductor." :
Bopp says that Vahni, sometimes, in
the Vedas, is horse, from bearing, drawing; which is to derive it from the
same root. I take it, as an epithet applied to Agni, to mean conveyor or
carrier, i. e., of the oblation, to the Deities.
StRYA.
The Sun is adored in the Veda, under the name of Sfirya, from the roots
Sur, to "dart, shine," whence SAris, Sdryas, "Sun;" Greek, <mp, <riptos;
Latin, Sinus; Gothic, Sauil; Lithuanian, Saute; and su or s&, to "dart forth,
produce;" whence savas, "birth," sutis, "emission," Sunus, "Sun."
Astyi. Adhy.ii. Anvo.ix. SAktaviJ. (L.)
1. The divine, all-knowing sun, the all-illuminating sun ....
4. Thou, Surya, out-strippest all in speed. Thou art visible to all. Thou art
the source of light. Thou shinest throughout the entire expanse.
8. Divine and light-diffusing Stirya, thy seven coursers bear thee, bright-
haired, in thy car.
9. The sun has yoked the seven mares that draw his chariot 'safely.
10. We approach the divine sun among the Gods [the luminaries of heaven],
the excellent light.
Bopp (Comparative Grammar, Hi. 1279, note) discusses the derivation of
Sflrya. He says that the Indian grammarians assume a root sur, to "shine,"
which he regards as a contraction of svar, contained entire in the radical
word svar, "Heaven" (as "shining"), on which is based the Zend hvare,
"the Sun;" according to which, in Sdrya, the syllable va or its lengthened
form vA would be contracted to #. The name, it seems, should be pro-
nounced "SAr-ya." Svar means to "shine." He does not think it is from
the root su, to "produce."
We take the following texts from Muir (Sansk. Texts, iv. 96, the refer-
ences are to the Mandalas):
Rig-V. i. 50, 7. Thou traversest the sky, the broad expanse [VidyamesM rajas
pritho], measuring the days with thy rays, beholding created things, Sflrya. [And
here- we see that pritko does not mean the earth; nor rajas prithv, the mundane
regions.]
*. 160. 4. He, the most active of the active Gods [devanam apasam], who pro-
duced the heaven and earth [rodasi] which are beneficent to all; who, from a desire
to benefit, measured the worlds [mame rajasQ . . * . [The 'active Gods* are the
revolving or swiftly moving luminaries.]
ML 90. 11, 12. Verily, Sfirya, thou art great: verily, Aditya, thou art great.
The majesty of thee who art great is celebrated: certainly, God [Dew], thou art
great. Verily, Stirya, thou art great in renown: OGod [Deva], thou art very great:
230 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
through thy greatness thou art the divine leader of the Gods [devanam asuryob],
the pervading, irresistible luminary.
It is unnecessary to multiply quotations in regard to Sfirya, about
whose character and individuality there is no manner of doubt. And I
only note here, that he is an Aditya, and chief or leader of the devanam, a
word applied exclusively to the celestial luminaries, in the Veda.
SAVITRL
Adhy.ii* Anuv.v. SAkfav.
5. I invoke Savitri, the golden-handed, to protect me. ....
6. Glorify Savitri, son of the waters [apamnapat], for our protection
7. 8. We invoke Savitri, the enlightener of men p. e., who gives light to men],
the dispenser of various home-insuring wealth .... the giver of riches ....
Aniw. vi. Sfikfa i.
3. Ever-protecting Savitri .... who art the lord of opulence ....
Adhy. in. Anuv. mi. Sdkta v.
2. Revolving through the darkened expanse, arousing mortal and immortal,
the divine Savitri travels in his golden chariot, beholding the worlds [shining upon
them],
3. The divine Savitri travels by an upward and by a downward path; deserv-
ing adoration, he journeys with two white horses: he comes hither from a distance,
removing all sins.
4. The many-rayed, adorable Savitri, having power (to drive) darkness from
the world, has ascended his high-standing chariot, decorated with many kinds of
golden ornaments, and furnished with golden yokes.
5. His white-footed coursers [but the word rendered 'white-footed/ is syava,
*brown'], harnessed to his car with a golden yoke, have manifested light to mankind.
Men and all the regions are ever in the presence of the divine Savitri.
6. The spheres are three; two are in the proximity of Savitri, one leads men to
the dwelling of Yama. The immortals depend upon Savitri as a car upon the pin
of the axle; let him who knows declare it.
7. The well-winged, deep-quivering, life-bestowing, well-directed, has illumi-
nated the three regions. Where is Stirya now? Who knows to what sphere his
rays have extended [gone]?
8. He has lighted up the eight points of the horizon, the three regions of living
beings, the seven rivers: may the golden-eyed Savitri come hither, bestowing upon
the offerer of the oblation desirable riches.
9. The gold-handed, all beholding Savitri travels between the two regions of
heaven and earth, dispels diseases, approaches the sun, and overspreads the sky
with gloom, alternating radiance.
This must mean that the luminary Savitri leaves the sky, by alternation,
covered with darkness, it not shining, and thein again appears and gives
light. The scholiast endeavours to explain the expression that he "ap-
proaches the sun," by saying that although Savitrj and Stirya are the same
as regards their divinity (each being the sun), yet they are two different
232 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
forms, and therefore one may go to the other. The explanation is not
philosophical. Of the question "where is Sflrya now/* it explains, that it
is said of the sun before dawn, while he is absent. But it seems rather to
be said of him after he has set.
10. May the golden-handed, life-bestowing, well-guiding, exhilarating and
affluent Savitri be present: for the Deity, if worshipped in the evening, is at hand,
driving away Rkshasas and Yttudh&nas.
11. Thy paths, Savitri, are prepared of old, are free from dust, and well-placed
in the firmament.....
. ii. Adhy. viii. Anuo. w. Stikta, vi.
1. In truth, the divine Savitri, the bearer, has perpetually been present for
the generation; for such is his office: verily he grants wealth to the pious ....
2. The divine, vast-handed, having risen, stretches forth his arms for the delight
of all; the purifying waters for his rites, and this circumambient air sports ....
3. The moving is liberated by his rapid rays: verily he has stopped the goer
from going; he restrains the desires of warriors for combat, for night follows the func-
tion of Savitri.
4. She enwraps the extended, like weaving: the prudent man lays aside the
work he is able, in the midst; but all spring up when the divine unwearied sun, who
has divided the seasons, again appears.
I leave out the interpolations of the scholiast. One of them is, in
Stanza 3, "the cessation of," which was deemed necessary to sustain the
theory that Savitri was the sun.
5. The engendered domestic radiance of Agni spreads through various dwell-
ings, and presides over all food: the mother has assigned to her son the best portion,
which is the manifestation of him, imparted by Savitri.
No explanation is attempted of this stanza, except that the Agnihotra
rite was to be performed at dawn, and therefore might be considered as
enjoined or instigated by the rising sun. But "the manifestation of him
imparted by Savitri" is the light of Agni that is manifested by and shines
from that luminary. 'The engendered domestic radiance of Agni" may
mean the lights lighted in the houses, or fires built in them : and this radiance,
presiding over all food, may mean that by the lights so burning, the inmates
eat; or that by the fires so kindled, they cook. The meaning of the mother
giving the son the best portion, may mean that, to insure her child good
fortune or health, the mother placed it in the moonlight, if Savitri is the
moon.
6. The warrior, eager for victory, who has gone forth, turns back: home is
the desire of all moving beings [i. e., all who are abroad seek their homes]: abandon-
SAVITRI 233
ing his half-wrought toil [half-finished work], the labourer returns, when the func-
tion of the divine Savitri. [The scholiast adds 'is suspended.
1
It is strange that
if this belorgs there, it, as well as 'cessation of should be omitted in the original.
I should incline to read the phrase, when the office of Savitri begins.]
7. The animals search in dry places for the watery element which has been
collected in the expanse by thee; the woods are assigned to the birds. [I think
that the meaning is that the animals seek dry places for their beds, and the birds
repair to their places of rest in the woods.] No one obstructs these functions of the
divine Savitri.
8. The ever-going Varuna (the Evening Star) grants a cool, accessible and
agreeable place to all moving, on the closing of the eyes; and every bird and every
beast repairs to its lair, when Savitri has dispersed beings in various directions.
9 that divine Savitri, whose functions neither Indra nor Varuna, nor
Mitra, nor Aryaman nor Rudra, nor the enemies, impede.
Asht. Hi. Adhy. fa. Amw. v. Sdkta Hi.
6. Savitri, descended from heaven, bestow upon us blessings thrice every day.
Asht. iii. Adhy. viii. Anwo. v. Stikta viii.
1 The divine, powerful and intelligent Savitri ....
2. The supporter of heaven, the protector of the world, the wise, puts on his
golden armour; discriminator, filling, Savitri has engendered great and laudable
felicity.
3. The divine fills the celestial and terrestrial regions, and boasts of his own
functions; Savitri puts forth his rays for production, regulating the world, and
animating it with light.
4. The divine Savitri, unrestrained, illuminating the regions, protects the
righteous acts; he extends his arms for the people of the earth; observant of obliga-
tions, he rules over the whole earth.
5. Savitri, encompassing them by his magnitude, pervades the three (fold)
firmament, the three worlds, the three brilliant spheres, the three heavens, the three-
fold earth; may he by his three functions, of his own (pleasure) protect us.
The interpretations of this stanza by the scholiast are not worth
repeating. It is at least a curious coincidence that among the Greek and
Latin Aryans, the Moon, SeX^, Luna, or Diana, and 'E/ccmj, was
triformis, and some of her statues represented her with three heads, those
of a horse, dog and boar. Diana was armed with a bow and quiver, and
drawn by two white stags. The following verse expressed her three-fold
powers and functions:
Tenet, lustrat, agit, Proserpina, Luna, Diana,
Sura, Suprema,feras9 sceptro, fvlgure, sagittd.
Hecat6 was called "Dioa triformis, tergemina, triceps." Nations and
kings supposed themselves indebted to her for their prosperity.
234 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
If Savitri was the moon, we should find here, in the Veda, the origin of
all the Greek and Latin notions in regard to the triple character and
functions of Diana, Proserpina and Hecatfe.
And, for the origin of the Vedic idea of the triple form and functions of
the moon, we should be wise to look to those changes and phenomena,
which would be apparent to and noticeable by the simplest herdsmen, and
not to the conceits and vagaries of the Brahmans. At the season of the
new moon, when she had not been seen at all for two or three days, she
would appear as a thin crescent low in the western sky, at the evening
twilight. At the full, she would appear, a huge red orb "in golden armour,"
upon the eastern horizon, among other stars than before, rising majestically
to shine during the whole night; and before disappearing from the heavens
during both day and night, she would be seen rising at or a little before
dawn, among still another train of stars. These would be three divisions
or portions of the firmament and heavens, and the three worlds, and the
three forms of the moon would naturally be represented as three different
luminaries or spheres, and Savitri, as each, would exercise different functions.
'The three-fold earth," even the Brahmanic ingenuity has not endeavoured
to explain: but as the moon, at new and full, and at the end of her last
quarter would view the earth in a different aspect, the term three-fold,
applied to the earth, would be no more inappropriate, to say the least, than
many others used in the Veda. I have no idea that "earth" is correct.
6. May that divine Savitri, who is the source of great happiness, the engenderer,
the comprehender, the regulator of both the movable and the stationary [the
planets and fixed stars, perhaps], grant us happiness in the three worlds, and be to
us for the destruction of sin. [The original of 'the three worlds' evidently did not
mean worlds in the Brahmanic sense or in our sense of that word. The old Poets
prayed for happiness in this life and world, not in other worlds. The real meaning
probably was, 'during those three seasons
1
.]
7. May the divine Savitri, approach along with the ?itus [titu means 'season'],
prosper our dwelling, and bestow upon us good progeny and food; may he be
favourable to us by night and by day ....
Sdkta ix.
1. The divine Savitri has been manifested.
2. First thou bringest forth for the adorable Gods, the best portion, immor-
tality: then, Savitri, thou spreadest abroad thy rays, and excitest among men the
consequent offices of vitality.
There is no certainty that this .interpretation is correct. It is that of
Mahidhara. Wilson follows the scholiast, which is, "then settest open
(the day) to the donor (of the oblation), and grantest successive existences
to men.
"
The "adorable Gods" are the planets and great stars. For them
SAVITRI 235
Savitri produces lengthened existence, by the emanation through them
of his light. Then he displays all things to the worshipper, and renews or
continues his existences by making the world visible to him.
4 The divine Savitri, he upholds the whole world, whereby his gracious
hand spreads fertility over the whole earth, and the magnitude of the heaven: such
is but true.
5. Thou elevatest those of whom Indra is chief, above the vast clouds: for
these thou providest dwelling filled with habitations: as when advancing they
detained thee, so in like manner at thy command they stayed [became fixed in
their places].
In Sfikta v. Anuv. iv. Adhy. Hi. ofAsht. iv., Savitri and Bhaga are invoked
together, as distributors of wealth among men. "Worship/* it is said, "the
divine Savitrji with holy hymns. May the irreproachable Savitrf give us
that desirable" ....
Asht. iv. Adhy. iv. Arnco. vi. Sfikta ix.
1 the intelligent, great, adorable Savitri .... great is the praise of
the divine Savitri.
2. The wise Savitri comprehends all forms, he has brought forth what is good
for biped and quadruped: the adorable Savitri has illumed the heaven, and shines
in sequence to the passage of the dawn [where the word rendered *dawn/ it is quite
likely, as will be seen, means the evening twilight],
3. After the passage of which divine, the other Deities proceed to majesty with
power. [These must be the planets and stars, because by day one luminary only
shines the sun] : he who by his greatness has measured out the terrestrial regions,
the divine Savitri, resplendent.
4. Either thou traversest, Savitri, the three regions, or combmest with the rays
of Stirya [according to S^yana, Savitri is especially the sun before rising; Sftrya is
the sun in general. It is strange, then, that we have, so far, found Savitri mentioned
once only in connection with the Sun (I do not know what the original word there
is) and then as approaching him; and once with Stirya, and then as combining
with his rays, which could very appropriately be said of the moon] ; or thou passest
between the night on either hand [and certainly the sun does not go through a lane
cut, as it were, in the darkness that forms on either side of it]: or thou, divine
Savitri art Mitra [takest the place of the Evening Star] through thy functions
[appearing in the west where Venus does, and performing her offices].
5. Thou alone rulest over living beings: thou art Pushan, divine, by thy move-
ments; thou art sovereign over the whole world.
Stikta x.
We solicit of the divine Savitri the enjoyable; may we receive from Bhaga that
which is excellent .... Nothing impairs the sovereignty of this Savitri, which
is most especially renowned and beloved .... That Savitri, who is Bhaga,
bestows precious treasure on the donor of the offering .... Grant us today,
236 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
divine Savitri, affluence with progeny, and drive away evil dreams .... Remove
from us, divine Savitri, all misfortunes: .... Savitri, the protector of the good, the
observer of truth .... The divine object of meditation, Savitri, who ever vigilant,
precedes both night and day [for in the short winter days, the moon rises before
sunrise, and is in the west in the evening, as the new moon] .... Savitrif who
proclaims his glory to all these living beings [the stars], and gives them life.
Ash$. v. Adhy. i. Anuv. vi. Sukta x.
1. The divine and benevolent Savitri puts forth his golden arms [Qu. the horns
of the crescent?], for donations: the adorable, youthful, sagacious, stretches out his
hands, filled with water, in the various service of the world. [The Indians judge
whether the moon is to be a rainy or a dry one, by the manner in which the new moon
lies.]
2 Thou art he who art in the procreation and perpetuation of many,
bipeds and quadrupeds.
3, 4 Thou who art golden-tongued May the divine, munifi-
cent, golden-handed, golden-jawed, adorable, sweet-spoken Savitri, rise regularly
Jin due time], at the close of night, when he bestows abundant and desirable upon
the donor of the oblation.
5. May Savitri put forth like an orator his golden well-formed arms: from the
ends of the earth he ascends to the summit of the sky, and moving along, delights
everything that is.
Asty. v. Adhy. iv. Anuv. Hi. Sukta v.
1. The divine Savitri has diffused the golden radiance on high, of which he is
the asylum; verily Bhaga is to be adored ....
2. Rise up, Savitri: hear, upon the celebration of this ceremony, diffusing light
over the spacious earth, and bestowing human enjoyments upon men.
3. Glorified be the divine Savitri, whom all the Gods praise ....
4. Whom the divine Aditi, delighting at the birth of the divine Savitri, glorifies;
whom the supreme sovereigns, Varuna, Mitra, Aryaman, consentaneously adore.
Sukta xii.
1. Borne by his steeds, may the divine Savitri, who is possessed of precious
treasure, and filling the firmament, come hither, holding in his hands many things
good for man, and tranquillizing and animating human beings.
2, 3, 4. May the outspread, vast and golden arms of Savitri extend to the ends
of the sky .... May the sun impart energy unto him: [Suraschid asmd anuddd
apasyam: which is explained, Suryo asmin Savitye Karmechchdm anudaddtu$ May
Stirya subsequently give to that Savitri the desire for acts. Wilson, note].
Here, for the third time only, Savitri and Sfirya, the sun, are mentioned
together. The passage clearly shows that the two were not the same.
Whether the Rishi knew that the moon shone only by the reflected light
of the sun, is very doubtful; but it is equally clear that he thought that
she received her energy from him.
SAVITRI 237
3 the divine Savitri, who is endowed with energy, the lord of treasures
4. . . . . the eloquent-tongued, dextrous-handed, whose hands are full ....
Elsewhere it is said, "when the dawns arise, the divine Savitri casts his
splendours on high." But this does not necessarily show him to be the sun,
because the moon, rising at or near midnight, would be high in heaven at
"the rising of the dawn/' and the sun's rays would not then be cast on
high .... The eye of the Gods (of the stars and planets) has been
manifested for religious rites: the clause immediately preceding reads,
"The divine Savitri, the leader of all, sends upwards the immortal, all
benefiting light:" then "the eye of the Gods has been manifested for
religious rites: the dawn has made all creatures visible."
2. The paths that lead to the Gods are beheld by me, innocuous and glorious
with light: the banner of Ushas is displayed in the east, she comes to the west, rising
above high places.
3. Many are the days that have dawned before the rising of the sun, in which
thou, Ushas, hast been beheld, like a wife repairing to an inconstant husband, and
not like one deserting him.
In Sfikta fa. it is said,
Thy rays, Ushas, annihilate the darkness; they diffuse light, as Savitri his arms.
And, in Sfikta vi. Anuv. Hi. Adhy. i. of Ashfaka vi., Savitri, Bhaga,
Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman are addressed as the Adityas: which the sun
certainly is not classed among.
If Savitri was, in these ancient days, what it became among the
Brahmans, ages afterward, a name of the sun, it is extraordinary that it is
not once used as a synonym for Sfirya.
Sfirya's chariot is drawn by seven mares, called in one hymn "seven bay
steeds," and once his glorious white horses are spoken of. Savitri has but
two. There are three hymns of Stirya, in one of which several of his names
are mentioned; but Savitri is not among them. It is not possible to doubt
that Sflrya is the sun. That is explicitly said, again and again, and is made
plainer still, by the epithets and descriptive phrases applied to him, and
used in addressing him, in the hymns. If Savitfi also is the sun, it is strange
that.the two names are never used together, and that they appear to be as
distinct from each other as Agni and Indra.
Mr. Cox gives the following quotations, with others, from the Veda:
Shining forth, he rises from the lap of the dawn, praised by singers: he, my God
Savitar, stepped forth, who never misses the same place.
238 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
He steps forth, the splendour of the sky, the wide seeing, the far shining, the
shining wanderer: surely, enlivened by the sun, do men go to their tasks and do their
work.
May the golden-handed, life-bestowing, well-guarding, exhilarating, and affluent
Savitri be present at the sacrifice.
Mr. Cox says that Stirya or Savitri occupies the place in the Veda,
which is filled by Helios in the Greek mythology, as the dweller in the
globe of the sun, or by Nereus as the actual inhabitant of the sea. Of
Savitri he says:
Savitar, the inspirer, from the root s#, to 'drive* or 'stimulate/ is especially the
glistening or golden God. He is golden-eyed, golden-tongued, and golden-handed.
The story went that once, when Savitar cut off his hand at a sacrifice, the priests
gave him, instead, a hand of gold.
This is ages later than the Veda, and in the same spirit the commentators
interpreted the epithet as denoting, not the splendour of the sun, but the
gold which he carried in his hand to lavish on his worshippers.
The full moon, rising in the east, very well deserves to be designated as
golden. The far-stronger reason for identifying Savitar or Savitri with
the sun, is, that he is said to rise from the lap of the dawn: but the festival
may have been held a few days before the new moon, when the Queen of
Night rose just before the dawn; but it is added, immediately afterward,
that, enlivened by the sun, men go to their work. And if there were
expressions equally clear; forbidding the identification of the two, there
would be no reason to doubt their identity.
Mr. Cox continues:
The power and strength of Savitri are naturally represented as irresistible. Not
even Indra or Varuna, or any other being, can resist his will; and the verse which is
regarded as the holiest in the Veda, is addressed to Savitar. He is a Tith5nus who
waxes not old.
But we find this, also, in the Veda, and it "gives us pause":
Either thou traversest, Savitri, the three regions, or combinest with the rays of
Siirya, or performance of the functions of Mitra.
How could this be said -of Sfirya himself? It could well be asked where the
moon was, when she had disappeared from the sky, and it could well be
imagined that her light was merged in that of the sun; but it could not be
said that perhaps Savitri, the sun, was combining with the rays of Siirya,
the sun. If this was said at sunset, when the moon, just changed, had not
SAVITRI 239
yet shown her crescent in the west, and if she had not set, was invisible in
the glowing radiance of the sunset; and if the Evening Star then shone out,
it might well be asked if this was really the moon, performing the functions
of that planet. When and how does the sun play the part of Mitra; what-
ever Mitra may be?
Again, the sun always "traverses the three regions;*' for every day he
goes from the east, by tie mid-station of the south, to the west, in the sight
of men. The moon does so, during part of the nights only; but from new
to full she is not seen to travel the whole journey: and at the new moon,
her rays do combine with those of the sun.
Savitrj had established pfithivi by supports: and fixed the sky in un-
supported space; has milked the atmosphere, restless as a horse. He is
called the son of the waters, and is said to know the place where the ocean,
supported, issued forth. All this, applied to the sun, is as hard to be under-
stood, as it is if applied to the moon.
The wise Savitri "comprehends all forms." The sun does not assume
different forms, nor manifest himself under the forms of other luminaries.
The moon is continually changing her form, and of course comprehends in
herself all the forms she assumes.
The adorable Savitri, it is said, "has illuminated the heavens, and shines
in sequence to the passage of the dawn." She does that, when in inid-
heaven at the break of day, and, having illuminated the expanse before
daylight, she continues to shine for a time, as the dawn is passing away,
and until the rising of the sun.
I invoke night pt is said] who brings rest to the world. I invoke the divine
Savitri, for my preservation. Revolving through the darkened, firmament, arousing
mortal and immortal, the divine Savitri travels in his golden chariot, beholding
the worlds.
He is golden-haired, but he ascends and descends with two white horses. He is
many-rayed, with power to disperse darkness. [It is Ushas who disperses it for
the sun, who therefore never comes into the darkened expanse, or disperses the
darkness.]
His white-footed coursers are harnessed to his car with a golden yoke. They
manifest light to mankind. Men and all the regions are ever in his presence.
The spheres are three. Two are in the proximity of Savitri. One
leads men to the dwelling of Yama. As I do not know the meaning of the
word translated "spheres," I can only conjecture the meaning of this
passage. A "sphere" that leads anywhere, must be a luminary, an orb:
and therefore the three spheres may be the three planets, Jupiter, Venus
and Mars. Two of these are the Morning and Evening Stars, and there-
240 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
fore often in the neighbourhood of the new moon. I do not know what is
meant by the dwelling of Yama. But, if the three spheres mean the three
planets, they are much more naturally associated with the moon than with
the sun.
Stirya, it is said, has lighted up the eight points of the horizon, the three
regions of living beings, the seven rivers. "Where is he now?" it had just
been asked: "who knows to what sphere his rays have extended?" And
then the golden-eyed Savitri is invoked to come hither. This seems to be
an invocation to the full moon to rise, after the sun had set.
The paths of Savitri are prepared from of old, are free from dust, are well placed
in the expanse. They are easy to be traversed.
The divine Savitri diffuses his light on high, dispersing the dew. Then Varuna
and Mitra and others hasten to their offices, to lead up the sun in the sky.
If Savitri is the sun, it is not easy to comprehend how, when he is shining on
high, the Morning Star should hasten to fulfill his office, by leading the sun
up into the sky. If Savitri is the moon, the sense is clear.
The chariot of Sflrya, the sun, is drawn by seven mares. That of
Savitri, as we have seen, by two white horses. What could be more appro-
priate to the moon, golden at first, when rising at the full, and when swim-
ming higher in the heavens, seeming like an orb of liquid silver?
I cannot but believe that Savitri was the moon. If one or two verses,
as translated, seems to be inconsistent with this hypothesis, there are much
greater difficulties to be encountered in interpreting it to mean the sun: and
it was certainly one or the other of these luminaries.
At that day all the luminaries seem to have been regarded as of one sex;
and it is no objection to my views that Venus and the moon afterwards
became feminine.
In one passage of Hie Fifth Ashtaka, it clearly appears, I think, that
Savitri is not the sun, and is the moon. We have on a previous page, under
the head of Ushas, quoted the entire passage.
The divine Savitri, the leader of all [L e,, of all the luminaries of the night],
sends upward her light. The eye of the Gods p. e., of the luminaries] has been mani-
fested, for religious rites. The dawn has made all creatures visible. The ways to
the stars are seen, glorious with light. The Banner of Ushas is displayed in the
east. She extends to the west, spreading over the sky.
SAVITR! 241
Of course the sun had not risen; for his rising is the death of the dawn,
according to the Veda. The hymn fixes the time of the sacrifice at day-
light, before sunrise, when the moon was high in heaven, and the dawn,
Ushas, was in her full glory.
I do not believe that there were either confusion or contradictions in
the ideas of the Vedic Poets, in regard to their Deities. Wherever contra-
dictions or confused notions appear, I believe them to be only apparent,
and owing to the difficulty of now ascertaining the real meaning of their
language. They were not the inventors of their mythology. It had come
to them from their remote ancestors, and in shapes perfectly definite and
distinct. What they meant by Agni and Indra, Savitri and Sflrya, they
perfectly well understood; and if the two last had both been names of the
sun, they would somewhere have been used together as such.
They called Savitri, ruler by himself, or of himself, over living creatures:
sovereign over the whole world, divine saviour, protector of the good;
observer of truth; and all the Devas. He is the enlightener of man and
the giver of riches. He is unfriendly to waters. "Youthful Agni/' it is
said, "bring hither for our protection the wives of the Devas." Is this an
invocation to the new-born crescent moon, young manifestation of Agni,
to cause the stars and planets to shine out?
I know that all the commentators, ancient and modern, take Savitri to
be the sun. I feel the great weight of their authority. Dr. Muir takes
him to be so, in quoting Rig-V. v. 81. 3, where it is said that Devah Savita
Mahitvana measured out the regions of the expanse by his power, pdrthivdni
vimame so, etasd rajamsi; and that the other luminaries (deua) have followed
his course and might with vigour. There Savitri, 'or Savitar, is called a
steed.
In Rig-V. ii. 38. 9, it is said that neither Indra, Varuna, Mitra, Aryaman
nor Rudra can resist the purpose of Deva Savitar. This could as properly
be said of one orb as of another. The moon "measures," i. e., traverses,
the expanse, as well as the sun, is apparently of the size of the sun, and at
the same distance from us; and the planets could be more appropriately
said to follow her course, than that of the sun.
With many of the ancient nations, the moon was at first designated as
male. Everywhere, and among every other people, she was worshipped. It
is not to be believed that those who adored the sun and planets did not also
adore the empress of the night, who above all other of the heavenly bodies,
measured for them by her regular changes, the weeks and months; and if
not so brilliant as the sun, her changes of shape made her more a subject
of admiration and wonder, and her soft and beautiful light could not but
give an idea of beneficence and kind protection.
242 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
On all these grounds, I conclude that Savitri, Savita, or Savitar, was the
moon.
The common Sanskrit name of the moon is mds, from md, to "measure,"
whence masas, "month," and manan, to "measure, divide out/' She was
therefore, really, The Measurer.
Bopp says (Comparative Grammar, iti. 1280, Germ. Ed. 1319, note) :
The opinion that Sdra-$, 'sun/ springs from sti or $u, to 'bear/ to 'produce/ finds
confirmation in the fact, that another appellation of the sun, viz.: Sav-i-tdr (-tr
t i) t
has decidedly arisen from the root su or sfi. This word occurs frequently in the
Vedic hymns: I would not, however, from the circumstance that the Vedic Poets
delight in extolling the Sun-God as producer (of the produce of the fields), as also
as supporter (Pfyhan), deduce the inference that the proper designation of the sun,
which existed so early as the time of the unity of the languages, must have pointed
towards this image; for it certainly approximates more to the primary view of people,
to designate the sun as lighting, or shining, than as producing or nourishing.....
Might we assume, together with svar, sur, to 'shine/ a root su, of the same meaning,
I should derive from it the appellation of ye moon, tio, sti-md^s, . . . . while another
Soma (the Soma-plant) belongs to a different root su, which signifies to 'express/
In Rig-V. x. [Hand.] 149. 1, the hymns of which are chiefly of later date,
we find :
has established prifliivim [trans, 'the earth
7
] by supports: Savitt. has fixed
dyam [trans, 'the sky'] in unsupported space: Savitt has milked the atmosphere,
restless as a horse [asvam], or, Savita" has extracted from the atmosphere the ocean,
etc., restless as a horse the ocean fastened in the impassable expanse. Savita,
the son of the waters, knows where the ocean, supported, issued forth. From him
the earth, from him the atmosphere arose: from him the heaven and earth [dydvdr
pritlriiv$[ extended.
'
Yaska says that the Savitri here mentioned is the "intermediate" one
(i. e., the Deity residing in the atmosphere) and-adds, "The sun also whose
place is in the sky" [Adityo], is called Savitr.i.
Professor Roth translates this verse thus:
Savitri has fixed the earth with supports; he has fastened the heaven in unsupported
space; he has milked the atmosphere, shaking itself like a horse; the stream that is
confined within limits which cannot be overpassed. (Muir, Orig. Sansk. Texts,
iv. 98.)
All this is quite inconsistent with the character of Savitri, and as much
so with that of Sfirya, in the earlier hymns. No luminary could be said to
have established the earth with supports, or fixed the heaven in space; and
it is only of interest as showing that long before the era of the Brahmanas,
Savitri was misunderstood. At last the name became but a synonym of
Stirya.
'
YAMA.
Yama is not often named in the Rig-Veda. In one passage, three paths
are spoken of, one of which leads "to the dwelling of Yama." And I find
also the following passages:
Asht. i. Adhy. v. Anm. xii. Sdkta ii.
4. Agni, as Yama, is all that is born; as Yama, all that will be born.
Asht. U. Adhy. iiL Anw:* xxii. Sukta vii.
2. Trita harnessed the horse that was given by Yama. Indra first mounted
him, and Gandharba seized the reins. Vasus, you fabricated the horse for the sun.
3. Thou, horse, art Yama: Thou art Trita, by a mysterious act.
Ash}, v. Adhy. Hi. Anuv. iL Sukta xvi.
9 The Apsarasas sit down, wearing the vesture spread out by Yama.
The Sama-Veda says,
Garuda, the Messenger of Varuna, bird that producest in the womb of Yama, the
all-controlling [and], Those who from their hearts desire union with the Divine Being,
in the Heavens, in the bosom of Yama, look with steady vision to thee.
Wuttke gives this quotation, "Yama, of Sun-like glory."
In the Atharva-Veda, m. 93. I, it is said, "May Yama, death, who brings
dire destruction, may the tawny hell, etc."
Mr. Cox thinks Yama to be the sun after he has set. He says, after
defining Yama as meaning "twin,"
In this Yama we have probably the Hindu God of the Dead, whose two dogs, with
four eyes and wide nostrils go about among men as his messengers The
twin who represented the evening, would naturally become the lord or judge or
guide of the departed. As from the east came all life, so in the west lay the land
of the dead, the Elysian fields, the regions of Sutala; and thither the sun hastens,
as he sinks down from heaven. [Thus], Yama is said to have crossed the rapid
waters, to have shown the way to many, to have first known the path on which our
fathers crossed over. * ... But although a darker side is not wanting to his
character, Yama remains in the Veda chiefly the God of the blessed, in the paradise
where he dwells with Varuna. (MylM. i. 392,)
244 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
He does not remain that in the Rig-Veda. These are notions of a much
later growth, founded on two or three ambiguous and obscure phrases in
the ancient hymns.
Dunlap says (Spirit History of Man) , referring to Weber (Indian Studies) ,
Yama is the sun, the source of the souls, and of all life; later, he becomes, like Osiris,
King of the Dead. The Earth-Goddess, Niniti, is his wife.
In India, in the later times, Vivaswat was one of the forms of the sun,
and the father of Yama. In Ancient Persia (Burnouf thinks) these names
became Vivangkvat and Yima.
I think it is quite clear that he was not the sun, in the Rig-Veda. He was
Agni, in some special character or function, and as such, was all that are and
that will be born. This could be said only of a principle, and not of a
luminary. It is doubtful whether it will ever be possible to learn what is
meant by the horse given by Yama, which Trfta harnessed; the horse
"fabricated by the Vasus for the sun." "Thou horse/' it is said, "art
Yama." And "by a mysterious act," he was also the horse of Ttfta. These,
and the "dwelling of Yama" will probably always remain enigmas, as will
Yama himself, as a Vedic Deity. The Sama-Veda is modern; and what
it says of Yama is of no value. He is neither King of the Dead, nor Lord
of the Blessed, in the Rig-Veda.
Equally enigmatical is "the vesture spread out by Yama," which the
Apsarasas wear.
Eichhoff gives us the root, yam, to "hold, enclose, clasp, contain, lock up,
etc." [tenir, sener]; whence yaman, a "couple;" yamas, ydmanas, a "twin;"
Latin, geminus; ydmis, "daughter-in-law;" Greek, ^a^eris^ydmdtri, "son-in-
law;" Greek, 7ajupos.
Only one solution of this enigma occurs to me as possible; and that I
offer to the reader as a mere conjecture, for his consideration.
It is that Yama is the God of bodies formed of flesh, and of the earth;
the God of bodily forms. As such, he is also flesh and the earth. He gave
men the horse, and the horse so given is flesh, furnished with the bodily
organs and senses, and as flesh and body, is Yama. It is a "mysterious act"
that gives to a body composed of matter, the faculty of sensation and the
powers and senses that are the consequence of organization. The Vasus
(ov<na, "existence, vitality") fabricated the horse for the sun.
Flesh, or meat, offered in sacrifice, becomes an integral part of the flame
and thus it is Agni, as all other fuel is; and Agni, as flesh, is all mankind. The
body, which when buried combines with the earth, has always been said
to be formed of the earth ; and thus the earth is the dwelling of Yama. The
YAMA 245
bosom of the earth is the womb of Yama, "the all-controlling," to which all
bodies return. Flesh is the vesture spread out by Yama, with which the
Apsarasas are clothed. Union with the Divine is effected when the breath
of life ascends to the sky, and the body goes into the bosom of Yama. And
Yama, the grave, is fitly coupled with death and the tawny hell. The body
encloses the soul; and is the twin of the soul, the mind or the intellect.
The reader must decide.
SOMA.
It would be profitless to quote all the passages in which Soma is named.
There is no room for doubt as to the meaning of this Deity.
Askt. i. Adky. w* Anuv. xiv. Sfikta ml.
1. Thou, Soma, art thoroughly appreciated by our intellect. Thou leadest us
along a straight path. [It is the principle of intoxication or exhilaration, manifested
in the Soma juice, that is adored.]
2. Thou, Soma, art the doer of good by holy acts; thou art powerful by thine
energies, and knowest all things: thou art the showerer by thy bounties, and by thy
greatness: thou, the guide of men, hast been well nourished by sacrificial offerings.
3. Thy acts are of the royal Varuna: thy glory, Soma, is great and profound;
thou art the purifier, like the beloved Mitra: thou art the augmenter of all, like
Aryaman.
4. Endowed with all the glories by thee in heaven, on earth, in the mountains,
in the plants, in the waters.
5. 6, 7. Thou, Soma, art the protector, the sovereign of the pious, .... thou
art holy sacrifice .... Thou, Soma, fond of praise, the lord of plants, art life to
us: if thou wilt, we shall not die. Thou bestowest wealth ....
8, 9. Defend us, royal Soma, from every one seeking to harm us Soma,
be our protector
12 Soma, the bestower of riches, the remover of disease, the cognizant
of riches, the augmenter of nutriment, an excellent friend.
13, IS, 18. Soma, dwell happy in our hearts, .... Protect us, Soma, from
calumny, preserve us from sin .... be our friend .... Being fully nourished,
do thou provide, Soma, excellent viands in heaven for our immortality.
21. Soma .... invincible in battle, triumphant among hosts, the granter of
heaven, the giver of rain, the preserver of strength, born amidst sacrifices, occupy-
ing a brilliant dwelling, renowned and victorious.
22. Thou, Soma, hast generated all these herbs, the water and the kine; thou
hast spread out the spacious firmament; thou hast scattered darkness with light.
23. Divine and potent Soma, bestow upon us, with thy brilliant mind, a portion
of wealth.
Professor Wilson thinks
there is evidently great confusion in this hymn, between Soma the moon, and Soma
the acid Asclepias;
though few passages indicate the former distinctly, except perhaps the
twenty-second stanza, which alludes to the function of scattering darkness
SOMA 247
by light. Does the moon "spread out the spacious firmament"? I see no
allusion to the moon. The exhilarating principle of the Soma is invested
with the characteristics of all the Deities, unto whom, imbibed, it enters.
It becomes a part of them; and it is they, and they are it that is all.
But the attributes ascribed to this principle, as a Deity, enable us to
understand better the force of the same expressions, when applied to other
Deities.
Dr. Windischmann, "on the Soma-Worship of the Aryans/' as quoted
in Dr. Muir's ''Sanskrit Texts" 469, etc., says that the Soma of the Veda
and the Ha6ma of the Zend-Avesta are named etymologically identical.
Both come from the root su, in Zend hu, signifying to "beget," but also,
especially in the Vedic dialect, to "drop" or to "press out" juice. It is only
in later Indian mythology, that it means the moon. It is the Asdepias
acida or sarcostema wminalis, the expressed juice of which produces a
peculiarly astringent, narcotic and intoxicating effect. It was unquestion-
ably the greatest and holiest offering of the ancient Indian worship. The
Gods drink it, they long for it, they are nourished by it, and thrown into a
joyous intoxication. Indra performs his great deeds under its influence. It is
divine, it purifies, it is a water of life, protects and nourishes, gives health
and long life, prepares the way to heaven, destroys enemies, etc.
As Soma is a God in the Veda, so is Ha6ma, the juice of (it seems) the
same plant, in the Bactrian Gathas and the Yagnas.
The hymns of the ninth book of the Rig-Veda, one hundred and fourteen
in number, are all addressed to Soma. Soma and Rudra are also invoked
together, to cure diseases; and there are indications that the juice of the
plant was supposed to increase virility.
The ambrosial Soma [it is said], destined for Indra, flowed forth, and thou, Indra,
didst manifest thy virility.
The Ha6ma grew on the mountains, and was supposed to possess a
healing virtue. In Yagna x. of the Zend-Avesta, the invoker says:
I praise the lofty mountains, where thou, O Haoma growest. ... * I praise the
tracts where thou growest, sweet-smelling over the wide field. As a good growth
of Mazda growest thou upon the mountains* .... -Wherever one brings in, wher-
ever one praises the healing Hadma To his body Haoma devotes himself
for healing. O Haoma, give me of thy remedies .... There growest thou upon
these mountains, of many kinds, O Hatfma, sweet and golden. To thee flow the
healing powers, through the wisdom of Vohu-Man6 Praise be to the Ha6maf
for he makes the soul of the poor in greatness like that of the richest. Praise be to
the Hadma, who makes the mind of the poor so large in greatness, that it soars on
high with wisdom. Many men makest thou very holy, and clothed with much
wisdom.
248 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The hymns to Soma are perhaps the most singular of all. The ninth
book of the Rig-Veda is composed wholly of these hymns. They praise him
as the source of life and vigour, of mental power and bodily strength, both
to Gods and men, as the generator of the principal Gods; and yet it is
perfectly evident, all the time, that nothing more is meant than the intoxicat-
ing quality of the Soma juice, the power inherent in it to exhilarate and to
give energy, activity and strength. This power is generalized, and supposed
to exist everywhere, acting on Gods as well as men, and thus it became
itself divine, a life-giving and strength-giving force. Soma gives Indra the
power that enables him to conquer Vrftra, and like Indra he conquers
demons and cities. He rules over Gods and men, and upholds heaven and
earth, and his powers exceed, if that is possible, those attributed to Varuna,
Indra and Vishnu. He is Indu, the sap that flows for Indra, the stream
which is purity itself, and the cleanser of all defilement: for Indu Uke Indra,
is from the root Idh or Indh, to "shine, blaze or burn."
Thus we read in the hymns:
Soma purifies; the generator of hymns, the generator of the sky, the generator
of the earth, the generator of Agni, lie generator of Sfirya, the generator of Indra,
and the generator of Vishnu.
He is the beatific vision which men walking on the earth desire to have.
He can transport men to the world where there is always light, where the
sun is, the world that does not perish: where there is happiness and delight
and joy and pleasure : and there he can give long life, or, as Professor Wilson
translates, make men immortal. (Rig-V. ix. 113. 7, M&ller, Chips, i. 47.)
Miiller thinks that this and other hymns express a real belief in immortality.
So does Professor Roth, whom he quotes.
In the Veda Miiller says,
passages occur, where immortality of the soul, personal immortality, and personal
responsibility after death, are clearly proclaimed. Thus we read: *He who gives
alms goes to the highest place in heaven: he goes to the Gods.
7
(Rig-V. i 125. 56.)
Another Poet, after rebuking those who are rich and do not communicate,
says:
The kind mortal is greater than the great in heaven.
One Poet prays that he may see again his father and mother after death
(Rig-V. i. 24. i.}\ and the fathers (pit?i$) are invoked almost like Gods;
oblations are offered to them, and they are believed to enjoy, in company
with the Gods, alife of never-ending felicity.
SOMA 249
Then he gives the hymn to Soma, already cited, wherein four verses end
with the phrase, "there make me immortal," He thinks also that there are
allusions to punishment after death. Professor Roth says,
after quoting several passages from the Veda, in which a belief in immortality is
expressed .... we here find, not without astonishment, beautiful conceptions on
immortality expressed in unadorned language, with child-like conviction. If it
were necessary, we might here find the most powerful weapons against the view
which has lately been revived, and proclaimed as new, that Persia was the only
birth-place of the idea of immortality, and that even the nations of Europe had
derived it from that quarter. As if the religious spirit of every gifted race was not
able to arrive at it by its own strength.
Nevertheless, it seems singular that an intoxicating Equor, or that
potency which produces intoxication, should beinvoked to give a real immor-
tality. The hymn to Soma rather resembles the rhapsodies of an opium-
eater or of one in the habit of using hashish, than a devout prayer for
immortality after death. "The great in heaven" more probably mean the
celestial luminaries: but still it is probable that these Poets had a vague
idea of a life after this life, to be passed among the stars.
In some hymns of the Veda, all creatures are said to spring from the
divine seed of Soma: and as he is styled the generator, it is probable that
the juice of the Soma was an aphrodisiac, and supposed to contain a genera-
tive potency, a portion of a universal generative power, supposed to pervade
the universe, and to have caused tie existence of Gods and men.
This divine Soma, with Indra for his ally, crushed, as soon as generated, Pani
by force/ He baffled' the devices and weapons of that hider of stolen cattle. He is
purified for the Gods, in the filter which is the support of the world. - The Usijas
first gathered him. In him all -worlds are contained. (Rig-V* fa. 86.)
The Soma flowed into the vessel, for Indra, for Vishnu. May it be honied for
Vayu! (Rig-V. ix. 63.3.) It hastens to them, to Varuna and the Maruts,
(Rig-V.ix. 65.20.)
'Indu, do thou flow sweet to Indra, to Vishnu. Preserve from sia the men who
praise thee.* (Rig-V. ix. 56. 4.)
'Soma, Indu, purified, thou exhilaratest Varuna. So heexhilarates Mitra, Indra,
Vishnu, lie Maruts, the Gods and the great Indra, that they may be merry.'
How free a rein these old Poets gave to their imaginations, may also be
seen in these verses, addressed to the winds:
250 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
'Lances gleam, Maruts, upon your shoulders, anklets on your feet, golden cuirasses
on your breasts, and pure (waters shine) on your chariots; lightnings blazing with
fire glow in your hands, and golden tiaras are towering on your heads.
'Adorned with armlets, the Maruts have shone like the skies with their stars;
they have glittered like showers from the clouds, at the time when the prolific Rudra
generated you, Maruts, with jewels on your breasts, from the shining udder of
At a later day, the Aryan mind took another step forward, and conceived
of a life-principle, cause of the origin of all that is. This was almost attained
by their vague ideas as to the life-giving potency of Soma. It clearly
appears in the celebrated hymn known as the Ptirtisha Stikta, found in the
Rig-V. oc.
90, and in two other later Vedic Sanhitas.
The hymn is addressed to Ptiriisha. Mhldh&ra the commentator says
that Ptirtisha is the source of the universe, the supreme spirit. Wuttke
considers him as Brahma. In another hymn, in a later work, the Bh&gv&ta
Purina, it is said that at the end of many thousand years, the living soul
(jtoa), which resides in time, action and natural quality, gave life to the
lifeless egg sleeping on the water; and Pttrtisha, having divided the egg,
issued from it. The Brahman was his mouth, and the worlds were fashioned
from him.
These later vagaries of Hindu thought are as nonsensical as the Kabbalah.
The old hymn is still much later than those of the Punjab, but the true
original meaning of Pttrftsha can be descried in it.
He has a thousand heads, eyes and feet. Everywhere he pervades the
earth. He alone is the whole, that has been and is to be. He is the lord of
immortality, that which expands by nutriment: (i. e., to whom is owing
length of life, obtained by means of abundant food). All creatures make a
fourth of him ; three-fourths of him are immortality in the sky. With these
three parts he ascended. A fourth of him was again produced here. Then
he diffused himself everywhere, among things animate and inanimate (i. e.,
living creatures and the vegetable and mineral creation. The life-principle
or spirit is all the vitality and life that there is on earth; but this is no more
than a fourth of the whole. With three times as much it animates and
ensouls the celestial luminaries).
From him sprung Viraj. Over Viraj was Ptirflsha. Being originated,
he extended himself, and produced the earth and corporeal forms.
The Gods offered up Ptirtisha as a sacrifice. Spring was the clarified
butter of the sacrifice, summer the wood, and autumn the oblation. This
victim, Ptirttsha, primevaily born, they immolated on the sacrificial grass.
SOMA 251
With him as their oblation, the Gods, Sadhyas and Rishis sacrificed. From
that universal oblation were produced curds and clarified butter. He
produced the animals, wild and tame, of which Vayu is the Deity. From
that universal sacrifice were produced certain hymns and metres, horses and
other ruminants, cows, goats and sheep. From his various parts came the
four races or castes of Hindus: the moon from his mind, the sun from his eye,
Indra and Agni from his mouth, and Vayu from his breath : the atmosphere
from his navel, the sky from his head, the earth from his feet, the four
quarters from his ear. So they formed the worlds. When they bound him
as victim, there were seven trenches, and seven times three pieces of fuel.
With sacrifice the Gods worshipped the sacrifice. These were the first
rites. These great beings attained to the heaven where the Gods, the ancient
Sadhyas reside.
Manu says that when Brahina had divided his own being into two parts,
male and female, he created (begot) Viraj in the female, and Viraj created
Manu, and he the All. The Viraj was a species of Vedic metre, known to
the Brahman Vasishtha, son of Mitra and Varuna. (Muir: Sansk. Texts,
Part L 78.)
It is perfectly useless to undertake to interpret any of the Brahmanic
myths in regard to the creation of things or men; as much so as it would be
to endeavour to make comprehensible the astounding vagaries and confused
babblings of the Kabbalah and the Kabbalistic commentators in respect
to the combinations of letters, the manipulations of the divine light and its
vestiges, and the features and members of Macroprosopos and Microp-
rosopos.
If Piirtisha was the life-principle, by the sacrifice of it is probably meant
that it originally belonged to the Gods alone, nothing else as yet existing,
and that they gave up, sacrificed, a portion of it, in order that, by means
of the portion so surrendered, creation of men and things might be effected.
The details of the creation are merely fanciful and arbitrary*
VARUljIA. MITRA, ARYAMAN.
Varuna is in many hymns of the Veda, as has been seen, invoked alone:
Mitra is so invoked in a few: Aiyaman in none. But the three are very
often invoked together; and they evidently constituted a Triad. None of
the commentators give us any definite and certain information as to what
they really were; nor, in fact, has any attempt been made to ascertain that,
by a comparison of the texts of the Veda in which they are mentioned, so
far as I have the means of knowing.
It may at once be said, with eixtire confidence, that neither of them is
ever addressed as a principle or substance, having subsistences, hypostases
or manifestations. They are themselves not hypostases of Agni or Indra,
but bodies, having form, and limited dimensions, and being in place; by
which Agni manifests himself and Indra lights the world.
It needs no argument to prove that the adoration of substances and
principles, of the personal spirits, intelligent and beneficent, of fire and
light, could not have been the first phase of religious adoration, of any
people: for, at the beginning, no people, however highly gifted by Nature,
can philosophize.
And the fact that the worship of the sun and moon still lingered among
the Aryans, ages after they had left the steppes of Turkistan, the country
bordering on the immense sea that covered what are now the Caspian and
Black Seas and perhaps the Sea of Aral, and certainly a vast extent of what
are now low, flat lands, on all sides of the two great inland seas the fact
that, in the valleys of Cashmere and on the plains of the Punjab, they still,
though rarely addressed their hymns to Sflrya and Savitti as Gods, prove
that these and other luminaries had been adored by their ancestors, and had
by degrees become subordinate to Agni and Indra.
How can we doubt, then, that, originally, the planets also, and the
principal stars and most brilliant and noteworthy constellations were also
adored? They were, in fact, still called Devas, in the Punjab; and that word
simply means those of the sky or heavens. From the root div, to "shine"
or "emit radiance," came the Greek 5ts, Zeus, and eus, each meaning "Deity;"
and the Sanskrit words, div, dyaw, the "sky;" divas, "day" or "daylight;"
and the Latin dies and Gothic dags and English day, as well as the Latin
Deus, and French Dieu. From it also came, in the Sanskrit, divyas, "of
the sky," or "heavenly;" divatanas, "daily;" Daivas, "Deity;" Lithuanian,
diewas; Daivi, "Goddess;" Ddivas, "divine;" daivikas, "divine -/'Lithuanian,
diewiszkas; Daivatd, "divinity;" and the Latin Divus, an appellation of the
Roman emperors; as well as our own words Deity and divine.
VARU1JA MITRA ARYAMAN 253
Without any previous theory or notion to that effect, I have become
satisfied, from studying the hymns, that they were sung and the sacrifices
held, at particular times and seasons; not only at the early dawn, but when
certain planets occupied particular places, and when particular stars rose
in the east before the dawn and led the way for the sun to ascend into the
heavens. And it was not until after I had become convinced of that, that
I read the following passage in the Chips from a German Workshop of Max
Miiller, i. 115. He quotes as follows, from Dr. Haug:
The proper time of commencing and ending their sacrifices, principally the
so-called Sattras or sacrificial sessions, could not be known without an accurate
knowledge of the time of the sun's northern and southern progress. The knowledge
of the calendar forms such an essential part of the ritual, that many important
conditions of the latter cannot be carried out without the former. The sacrifices
are allowed to commence only at certain lucky constellations, and in certain months.
So, for instance, as a rule, no great sacrifice can commence during the sun's southern
progress; for this is regarded up to the present day, as an unlucky period, by the
Brahmans, in which even to die is believed to be a misfortune* The great sacrifices
generally take place in spring, in the months of Kjaitra and Vaisakha (April and
May),'
And Miiller says,
This argument of Dr. Haug's seems correct, as far as the date of the establishment
of the ceremonial is concerned [i. e., of Brahmanas, which Dr. Haug places at between
1400 and 1200 before Christ]; and it is curious that several scholars, who have
lately written on the origin of the Vedic Calendar, and the possibility of its foreign
origin, should not have perceived the intimate relation between that calendar,
and the whole ceremonial system of the Brahmans.
Since the perceptible influences of the two great luminaries fa the heavens,
seemed to depend, in a great measure, upon their situations, which were distin-
guished by the neighbourhood of particular clusters of stars, it was a natural sup-
position that these influences, as well as those of the planets, should be produced by
the action of the heavens themselves; that is, probably, by the energies of the Deities
imagined to bethere residing. In fact, we find that certain divisions of the heavens
lying near the apparent paths of the sun, moon and planets, were supposed to be the
causes of heat or cold, dryness or moisture, on the earth; and that the conjunctions
of planets in those divisions were conceived to be indications of the physical effects
to be produced by such powers in the heavens. The Chaldseans, we learn from
Diodorus Siculus, ascribed the greatest efficacy to the five planets, or as they called
them, interpreters, which, by their risings, settings and conjunctions announce to
men the will of the Gods. (Narrien, Asfron. 4.)
Bailey computed that, in the latitude of the place where Job (Ayub) is
supposed to have lived, the rising of the Pleiades with the sun coincided
with the arrival of the sun at the vernal equinox, about the year 3900 B.C.;
254 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
and that is the approximate date assigned by Bunsen to the settlement of
the Aryans in the Punjab.
In the time of Hesiod, corn was reaped at the heliacal rising of the
Pleiades, and the ground was ploughed at their heliacal setting. This was
about 900 years before Christ. The heliacal rising of the Pleiades must then
have taken place about forty-three days after the vernal equinox. The
season of the vintage was when Orion and Sirius were in the mid-heaven,
at sunrise, and Arcturus rose with the sun, i. e., about eighteen days before
the autumnal equinox. When the Pleiades rose as the sun set, i. e., acrony-
cally, sailing was dangerous, on account of violent winds and rain. This
was, in Hesiod's time, about fourteen days after the autumnal equinox.
Virgil directs that the soil should be prepared for corn, when the Pleiades
set in the morning, and the bright star in the Northern Crown rose with
the sun. Tares and pulse were sown when Sirius and when Arcturus set
with the sun. Then the heliacal risings of Orion and the Pleiades indicated
approaching tempests and rains. Some of these indications, as well as
those mentioned by Columella, belong to an earlier age, and had ceased
to correspond with the actual state of the heavens, in consequence of the
changes produced in the times of their occurrence by the slow displacement
of the equinoctial points.
In the earlier Aryan ages, few circumstances required a knowledge of
the celestial phenomena, and the observations were such as one not an
astronomer could make. We may safely conclude that they consisted in
noticing, at night and morning, the risings and settings of such stars as I
have mentioned, and a few others.
The vernal equinox was naturally, to all the ancients, as it is to us, the
most interesting and important epoch of the year. For then the winter
closed, and the spring commenced; the sun began again to be sovereign,
and to exert his power of generation. Nature then awoke from her lethargy,
and prepared to clothe herself in living green. Animals perpetuated their
kind, the life of the world seemed renewed. Accordingly, the great festivals
of the ancient nations; and because the sun entered the sign of the Bull at
this period, 2,500 years before our era, that animal became thesymbolof the
generative potency of Nature, of the sun and of the Deity, worshipped as
Apis in Egypt, upholding the brazen laver in the temple builded by Solomon,
and standing, winged and human-headed, as sentinels at the broad entrances
to the temples of the Assyrians. So, more than two thousand years after-
wards, when, by the precession of the equinoxes, the sun had come to enter
Aries at that season, the Ram or Lamb, which had for some centuries
rivalled the Bull, as the symbol of the divine power, succeeded to his
honours*. Two thousand years or more before the sun entered the sign of
VARUIJA MITRA ARYAMAN 255
Taurus, at the vernal equinox, he entered that of the Twins, and the two
stars of that constellation, the Horsemen, were deified.
But besides the stars, there were other celestial bodies, of greater magni-
tude, and which by their movements as well as by their appearance, were
soon and easily distinguished from them. Three of the planets, the ancient
herdsmen must soon have noticed. Two, especially, would soon become as
noticeable as the moon the great planets, Jupiter and Venus.
I think it will appear that invocations were addressed to these, only when
one or the other of diem was the Morning Star; and hence the hymns might
seem to be addressed to some luminary that at all seasons of the year was in
the same place at the same hour.
It can hardly be believed that these brilliant stars were not adored as
Gods in the infancy of the Aryan race, even if they had ceased to be so,
before the immigration of the Indian Aryans into the Punjab. For they
were deified by all the ancient nations; and while among the Greeks and
Romans, the sun was only Apollo, son of Zeus or Jove, the largest of the
planets was named for the Father of the Gods himself. Even among the
later Hindus he bore the name of Brihaspati.
Mitra and Varuna are invoked to be present with Ritu, at the sacrifice.
They are Lords of the Twilight, Divinities abiding (bodies having a
local habitation and a name, in the sky) in heaven.
They and Aryaman kindle Agni: i. e., they are his manifestations,
burning with a flame, or pouring forth light.
Mitra and Varuna, with true speech, are the encouragers of pious acts,
and are Lords of True Light. "True speech" is meaningless. Truth is,
Horne Tooke says, that which one troweth. It is that which is steady, sure,
real, fixed, and may be relied on. Speech, applied to a luminary, or to any
phenomenon of light, fire, flame or heat, must mean, not Words, but the
utterance of Something, as Logos and the Word do. It is out-flowing,
emanation, expression. Mitra and Varuna, shining with steady light, ever
returning to shine in due season, and never deceiving or deluding their
expectant worshippers, encourage acts of adoration of themselves, warrant-
ing them and being entitled to them; and are possessed of and do control a
light that belongs to themselves, and is true and real, and not reflected.
They are not like the images of the stars in the water.
At the sacrifice of Manu, they sat down together on the sacred grass.
Mitra of pure vigour, and Varuna, devourer of foes, arejoint accomplishers
of the act of bestowing water. Can they, then, be either the sun and moon,
or day and night, or the sky or firmament in any aspect?
256 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Today at sunrise we solicit you with hymns, for (wealth) which, Varuna,
Mitra, Aryaman, bearers of water, you convey Unconquerable, resplendent
Mitra and Varuna, .... gentle Mitra and Varuna, destroyers of foes, come from
heaven with your glories .... Come, Mitra and Varuna, leaders of rites ....
augmenters of the sacred rite .... Accepters of rites, generated for rites, augmen-
ters of rites, fierce enemies of the neglecter of rites
In Asht. vi. Adhy. i. Anuv. Hi. Sdkta vii. 9
we find,
Agni .... we adore that of thine, by which Varuna, Mitra, Aryaman, the
NcLsatyas and Bhaga shine.
In Asht. v. Adhy. vi. Anuv. v. Sukta xvii.:
1. Varuna prepared a path for the sun: he set free the waters of the rivers
generated in the expanse: hastening, as a horse let loose rushes to mares, he di-
vided the great nights from the days.
Professor Wilson says, "Varuna is here said to imply the setting sun, by
whose departure day ends and night begins." Thus it is that the Hindu
commentators make the Aryan Deities to be sometimes one thing and
sometimes another, and make a confused and senseless medley of the whole.
2. The wind is thy breath [atmdhteudtah]: he sends abroad the waters; he, the
cherisher of the world, is the feeder on food, like an animal upon fodder. All thy
glories, Varuna, manifested between the vast and spacious sky and earth, give de-
light.
3. The thronging rays [$pa$dh madistyfth] of Varuna behold the beautiful sky
and earth, as well as those who, celebrators of rites, constant in sacrifice, wise and
intelligent, address praise.
5. In him are deposited the three heavens; the three earths, with their six
seasons, are sown in him: the most adorable royal Varuna has made this golden
sun undulating in the sky, he has made it to diffuse light.
The original of the last phrase is Subhe Kam, diptyartham. Professor
Wilson refers, in the note giving this, and telling us how the scholiast
explains Kam, to Sdkta xiii. St. 2. Anuv. vi. Adhy. iv. ofAshf. iv., which is,
He (Varuna) has extended the firmament over the tops of the trees, * ... he
has placed fire in the waters, the sun in heaven. [St. i. had said] The imperial
and renowned Varuna has spread the firmament as a bed for the sun, as the immola-
tor the skin of the victim. [And here he refers to Sdkto i. Anuv. vi. Adhy. ii. Asht.
*.], The regal Varuna verily made wide the path of the sun; [and, in the stanza
preceding], The regal Varuna, of pure vigour, in the baseless, sustains on high a
mass of light, the rays (whereof) are pointed downwards, while their base is above;
[of which he says], The attributes here assigned to Varuna, his abiding in the
VARU1JA MITRA ARYAMAN 257
Antaiiksha, and his holding a bundle of rays, would rather identify him with the
sun, or, at least, refer to him in his character of an Aditya.
6. As the sun, Varuna placed the ocean, white as a drop, vigourous as an ante-
lope, object of profound praise, distributor of water, the powerful transporter
beyond sin, the ruler of this existing.
In these two stanzas, as translated, we have merely the conjectures of
the Hindu interpreters. By them, it seems from the fourth stanza, "the
wise and intelligent Varuna," giving instruction to his worthy disciple, has
declared the mysteries of the place (of Brahma, the scholiast adds, which
is but an adaptation of the text, by the Brahmans, to their own later creed).
Stikta v. Anuv. Hi. Adhy. wi. Ashf. U. had said, of Mitra and Varuna
(and perhaps of Aryaman), "They uphold three worlds" (or spheres),
[tisrobhtimir dharayan], of which Professor Wilson says,
bhumi is here said to mean, loka, **world" or "sphere, earth, firmament, and heaven,"
which the Adityas support, by supplying them with rain. That is, the Hindu
commentators substitute loka for bhdmi, to make the phrase square with their
notions about a number of worlds.
I do not believe, nor find any evidence, that the Aryans had any idea
of three worlds, or of any other world than the visible one, which they saw
by means of the light. The whole sentence is, as translated:
They uphold the three worlds, the three heavens, and in their sacrifices (are) three
ceremonies: by truth, Adityas, has your great might (been produced), such as is
most excellent; Aryaman, Mitra and Varuna. [I believe that it means]: They
maintain on high the three orbs (their own, the three celestial bodies, and though
their essence and principle is one, and they only different manifestations of it, they
are addressed and sacrificed to by three separate ceremonies, as being three separate
orbs and Deities). Your brilliant outshining and potent influences are the emana-
tions of the one great universal light, which is truth, because it makes things real and
true, realities and not illusions, by making them visible to men.
The rootWmmeans to "be born/*to "exist," whence bhits, "being, existence;"
bhufos, "foetus;" bhutan, "creature;" bhutis, "creation;" Thus, Ihumis, the
"sun," bJidman, bhdumas, "productive, terrestrial." Bhfimi means the
"world," only because the world is that which was created. It means a
being, an existence, an entity, a body that exists, has form and is in place.
So, in the principal texts, "the mysteries of the place" mean the mysteries
of the manifestation, as bodies in space, in place, having form and locality,
of that universal principle of which they are the emanations. Varuna is
spoken of as that of which he is the manifestation limited and in form. He
is Agni and Indra, as the Monogenes, the Demiurgos, the Logos, the Word,
258 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
the Son, is called God, and invested with the characteristics of the Very God,
and spoken of as possessing the plenitude of his powers. He contains in
himself, as such, the three orbs, they are "deposited*
'
in him ; the three bodies,
with their six seasons (each being alternately the stars of morning and of
evening) : he has made the sun and enabled it to diffuse light, for the Morning
Star precedes it, and so could be imagined to cause it to rise: and, manifested
as the sun, he placed the ocean in its bed (if the original is rightly translated,
which Professor Wilson shows to be wholly uncertain).
By thee, Agni [it is said in Sukta ii. Anuv. xxi. Adhy. ii. Asht. vi.], Varuna,
observant of his duties, and Mitra and Aryaman, bountiful Divinities, are animated,
so that thou didst begin to exist, comprehending them all in thyself, in all their
functions, and encompassing them all, as the felly encompasses the spokes ....
He who is one with light, Agni.
And in Sdkta xnL of the same,
we behold the lover of the maidens, ever in movement, never resting for an instant,
wearing inseparable and diffusive (radiance), the beloved abode of Mitra and
Varuna.
The scholiast or Professor Wilson deems this the sun: but the restlessness
and fluctuation described, never resting for an instant, better suits flame.
The inseparable and diffusive, means that which coheres together and
remains one, while diffused and spreading. Nor is the sun the abode of
Mitra and Varuna; but the flashing, flaming glories of morning and evening,
the lambent, fluctuating, restless splendours, like flame, of the sky and
clouds, before sunrise and after sunset, are the abode of Jupiter and Venus,
as the Morning and Evening Stars.
Without steeds, without stay, borne swift-moving and loud-sounding,
the next stanza says; and this describes the formless, bodiless flame, swiftly
flashing and spreading, scorning all bounds and limits, and never stationary,
and loudly roaring as it moves.
It travels, ascending higher and higher, connecting the unconceivable mystery [a
mere guess at the meaning of achittam brahma yiwdnah, which is, Wilson says,
obscure. Ywan is "young," and yuva, yauvanan, "youth," from yut to "join,
increase." Brahma is "praise, adoration;" and achittam is explained to be not an
object of the mind or thought, the meaning of the phrase probably being the mani-
fested or visible praise or adoration (manifested by the sacrificial flame, which utters
what is in the heart), young, new or fresh], 'with the radiance in Mitra and Varuna,
eulogising glorify.* The sacrificial flame ascends, as praise, glorifying Mitra and
Varuna, and becomes a part of their own radiance. For the offering, the flame
VARUNA MITRA ARYAMAN 259
fed by it and formed of it, and the praise and adoration expressed by it, were deemed
to feed the luminary adored, and to supply him with new light, energy and power.]
Sympathizing in satisfaction with Vanina, drink, Indra, the Soma juice [it is
said in Sdkta ii- Anuv* iv. Adhy. vii* of Aski. Hi.: and in Sdkfa ix. Anw. in. Adhy.
ii. ofA$h$. iv.] t who, Mitra and Vanina, desiring to sacrifice to you (is able to do so)?
Do you, whether in the region of heaven, or of the vast earth, or of the firmament,
protect us, .... [As the light of the Morning Star is Indra manifested, Varuna,
it is supposed, will share the pleasure which the Soma gives to Indra, and so shine
with a more vivid light; as the eye shines when the Soul is glad.]
In "the sacred prayer," the Divinities Indra, Varuna, Mitra and
Aryaman have made their abode. "The sacred prayer" must mean the
fire of the sacrifice, ascending heavenward.
Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman protect men, and enable them to subdue
their enemies. Great is their glory. Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman lead
them by straight paths. Aryaman, doing so, rejoices with the others.
The acts of Soma are those of the royal Varuna. He is the purifier, like
the beloved Mitra; the augmenter of all, like Aryaman.
A very significant passage is the following:
The wonderful host of rays has risen; the Eye of Mitra, Varuya and Agni; the
Sun, the Soul (Life) of all that moves or is stationary hasfitted the sky, the earth and the
expanse between.
This idea, that the Sun is the Soul or Life, of the planets and fixed stars,
i. e., that they receive from him the light by which they shine, may explain,
if Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman were planets, the meaning of the expression
that he is their eye. If they were Venus, Jupiter and Mars, they always
disappeared when the day had fairly come, and as they could not be supposed
not still to shine, it was a natural idea that their light mingled with the
light of the sun, it being really his own light distributed to him, so that
during the day, he was the eye through which they looked upon the earth.
So we find it said that the sun, in the sight of Mitra and Varuna, displays
his form midway the universe.
Mitra and Varuna are addressed ^s, *V>u who traverse the sky," an
expression applicable only to moving bodies. **Let your spacious and
bright-rayed chariot/' it is said, "Mitra and Varuna, blaze like the sun."
"Those two Deities,*' it is said, "have existed from of old/* The sky is the
brilliant mansion of Mitra, Aryaman and Varuna.
They are sons of Aditi (the expanse). They are Lords of Munificence.
They are all the animators of mankind, i. e., they supply light which is the
life of men.
2<50 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Mitra and Varu$a, it is said, bestow abundantly that unenduring water
which you obtain from the sun: through your own energy, through the
energy of the vigourous. What is meant by the "unenduring water," it is
difficult to say. If it is vapour or rain, how do they obtain it from the
sun? It is plainly enough indicated that their energy and that of the sun
are one and the same. Is it meant that they, by means of the sun, or of his
energy acting through them and exerted by them, draw upward the water
which disappears from the earth in the shape of vapour?
Mitra and Varuna wear vestments of light. Therefore, it would seem,
they are bodies, invested or clothed with light*
Mitra and Varuna, it is your doing that the footless dawn (having no form or
shape or limits) is the precursor of footed beings (of luminaries having form), and
that your progeny (the sun) sustains the burthen of the world* diffuses truth and
disperses falsehood.
Light is truth, or the reality, and darkness is falsehood, or the unreal, because
without light all things would be as if they were not. And if Mitra and
Varuna are the Morning Star (sometimes Venus and sometimes Jupiter),
we can understand how they cause the dawn to precede the coming of the
sun; for even philosophers hold that we have no other idea of cause and
effect than that one always precedes the other. What always precedes, is
readily imagined to cause. And the word progeny is probably a mistransla-
tion, though it may be literal, the meaning being that the Morning Star
leads up the sun: or that the sun succeeds the Morning Star, and shines in
part with his brightness.
The inseparable and diffusive radiance is the abode of Mitra and Varuna
the radiance that is in them. This is only consistent with the idea that
they are bodies. I think the meaning to be that they have a place or places
in the expanse, an abode; and in that have a radiance inseparable from each,
belonging to each, and which is each, and which it diffuses abroad.
Agni, flaming, is Mitra, and as Mitra, is the invoker. Varuna is
Jttavedas. Mitra is the ministering priest; Mitra, associate of rivers and
mountains, i. e., perhaps, reflected in the rivers, and sometimes resting on the
crests of the mountains, like a fire burning there. Mitra and Varuna may
have been associated with sacrifices at night or earliest dawn; for the light
of either may sometimes be seen in a long line of silver, on still water, on
the grass, and on the ways through the woods.
The child of two mothers (the sun) sleeps in the west; but the single
infant (one of two) goes on: these are the functions of Mitra and Varuna.
An infant sun must needs be a heavenly body; and I think it is impossible
to doubt that the meaning here is, that when the sun sinks to sleep in the
VARUJsTA MITRA ARYAMAN 261
west, the Evening Star, whether Venus or Jupiter, which has kept him
company during the day, keeps on his way. The sun, it is said, proceeds
thenceforward: he abides. Literally taken this is contradictory and
nonsense. But if it means that, being the "Soul" of Mitra or Varuna, and
his light shining through and by them, het by the Evening Star proceeds
onward, or by both, while himself sleeping stationary, then the sense is clear.
Ushas, the dawn, is "the golden light, as it were, of Mitra and Varuna:"
for when either Venus or Jupiter is the Morning Star, the light-bearer, it
continues to shine in the sea of the dawn which flushes and glows over the
sky.
The divine Savitrf diffuses his light on high ; i. e., the moon, far up in the
sky, pours forth light from herself; "dispersing the dew. Then Varuna
and Mitra and others [the other planets and stars] hasten to their offices"
[to perform the duties and service which they owe], where they elevate the
sun in the sky [where they go in advance of him and lead him up].
It is not meant that both do it together; but that one or the other does
it, and sometimes both. Each takes the office alternately, being alternately
the Morning and the Evening Star, Lucifer and Hesperus or Vesper.
Thou, Agol, art born Varuna [hast existence as, art, Varuna, as a body formed
by self-limitation, a manifestation or revealing of himself in form, as a planet].
Thou becomest Mitra, when kindled [manifested in flame and light shining].
Thou art Aryaman, in relation to maidens. [What this means, I cannot pretend
erven to conjecture. If the translation is correct, it must have reference to the
energy of generation.]
Indra is said to be Mitra and the royal Varuna. For, if they are planets,
each is the out-shining of a part of the universal light.
By the greatness of Mitra and Varuna, the sun constrains the rain to
fall. They augment all his rays. At the break of dawn, at sunrise, they
ascend their golden-bodied, iron-pillared car, and thence behold the earth
and its inhabitants. The meaning is the same as that of the expression
that the sun is their eye.
They are the protectors of the universe, imperial rulers of the world.
They shine at sacrifices, the beholders of heaven. Their forms traverse
earth and heaven. They are therefore bodies, having forms; orbs, lumi-
naries, revolving between earth and sky, and looking down on the earth
like eyes, from on high. They approach with variegated clouds, i. e.,
when dawn fills the douds with many colours.
Your dence is manifest in heaven, when the light that is the sun, your wonderful
weapon, moves. You invest him in the sky with cloud and rain. You illumine
262 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
the whole world with water, you sustain the sun, the adorable chariot, in the sky:
[by contributing their light to him. What the dence is intended to mean, I do not
know, unless it be their action, as givers of light, which they do through the sun,
when he begins and advances on his daily march. The light is their weapon, i. e.,
their energy, that by which they produce effects and achieve results, their instru-
ment. And, at times, they invest him with cloud and rain, when, after he has risen,
the clouds shut down in the east, and a day of rain follows],
Mitra, Varuna and Aryaman are divine sons of Aditi (the expanse),
omniscient, all associated at the sacrifice, i. e., all shining at once upon the
earth. They are observers of truth, i. e., viewers of material things, reali-
ties; distributors of water, protectors of the holy rites among men, guides
in the right way, i. e., preventing men from becoming lost, liberal givers
and benefactors.
Mitra and Varuna are eminent Deities among the Gods, i. e., large and
distinguishable luminaries. They are upholders of heaven and earth. The
immortal Gods do not impair their eternal works. That is, they are per-
manent ; and Agni and Indra do not withdraw their light from them. They
are two divine Adityas. Agni "sympathizes in satisfaction'
9
with them;
which means, I suppose, either that with and by them he receives grati-
fication from the sacrifice; or that he acts with them in conferring benefits.
The two royal Divinities, Mitra and Varuna. /The radiance of the sun
is grateful to them [for they were supposed to shine by it]. Varuna is called
the multi-present, meaning, perhaps that he is continually changing his
place, rising every night at a different hour. Mitra, Aryaman, Varuna are
of equal exploits, i. e., are bodies of like nature and action. They are
Adityas, luminous, purified by showers. Their guidance is invoked to
enable the worshipper to escape the sins that are like pitfalls; or, accidents
in the shape of pitfalls. They are asked to lead him by the path that is
easy, free from thorns and pleasant.
Sfirya, again, is the divine eye of Mitra and Varuna; and they are
worshipped when the sun has risen. They are the two leaders of the sky,
presiders over the world. At dawn, they scatter the glooms. They come
to the sacrifice with their bright splendour, and light up the lustre of their
car, emitting vast and infinite radiance. They drive their horses over
deserts, with water.
They are called the eldest of existing things, perhaps because they are
the largest of the stars. They are two, though not the same, i. e., twins,
as it were, but not united and moving together; they manifest vigour daily,
for daily they shine: they support the arch of the sky, as with a pillar.
Together they emitted the semen, of which Vasish^ha the Brahman was
born, and Mana arose.
VARUNA MITRA ARYAMAN 263
The three wheels of the Aswins, which were invisible, have become
manifest. [This would seem to indicate that the reference was to three
distinct celestial orbs.] Do you two, who are cognizant of the past, come
by the paths of truth, to the presence of living beings [rising after the others]?
Mitra is said to look on men with unclosing eyes. He and Varuna are
"cognizant of the past/' because they have from the beginning looked
calmly upon the earth. To come "by the paths of truth" is to become
manifest and visible, and thus actually to exist for men. The "paths" or
"ways of truth" mean actuality or reality. To the Aryans, the visible was
the only real. Is anything else real to us? What would an unmanifested
God be to men?
Mitra is styled adorable, entitled to worship, sovereign, endowed with
vigour, creator, divine, renowned, victorious, and bestower of food as the
reward of sacrifice*
Varuna, of pure vigour, i. e., whose energy and force are his own and not
borrowed, the radiant or regal, keeps fixed on high, in the baseless, i. e., in
the open immaterial expanse between earth and sky, a mass of light, which
sends downwards its rays, while their base is above. Certainly this is the
description of a celestial body, and not of a phenomenon or principle. The
word rendered by "mass" evidently meant a body, with shape and form,
the base or source of the rays that flowed from it. These rays, concen-
trated in men, are the sources of existence, i. e., supply the vital energy
and force.
Varuna, the radiantorioyal, makesbroadthepath of thesun, to travel in his
daily course, a path to travel in the pathless. (As the pioneer or settler
cuts a way through the woods, or as men, traveling it in advance of others
make plain and broad a road over the plain, so Jupiter or Venus, when the
Morning Star, going westward, though unseen during the day, in advance
of the sun, "makes broad" his path.)
Varuna prevents misfortune that produces sorrow; iswise andirresistible,
the doer of good deeds, prolongs life, and is the protector of men.
The constellations that are set on high, visible by night and going else-
where by day, are the "undisturbed holy acts," i. e., the permanent light*
manifestations of Varuna; and it is he that causes the moon to move resplen-
dent by night. Varuna, therefore, is not the moon, and the idea that he
and Mitra are the old moon in the lap of the new, or the new and full moon,
must be abandoned*
And it is, we confess, difficult to comprehend how the planet Jupiter
could be imagined to be the source of light to the constellations, and regent
of the moon. "By his command" may mean "following his guidance,"
and the phrase "undisturbed holy acts" may only mean that he is the chief
264 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
and leader of the stars, of which he is by far the largest and brightest; so
that, they obeying him, their acts or influences are his.
If Rikshdh, translated "constellations" designates the Seven Rishis, and
these are Ursa Major, it is hard to see what connection there is or could
be imagined to be, between them and the planet Jupiter, or any other orb,
or anything else except fire and light. A connection would more readily
be imagined to exist between the Pleiades and Jupiter, the Morning Star,
since they are often together.
Probably the true explanation is, that Varuna being the chief and prince
of the stars, and regarded as Agni and Indra manifested as such chief and
prince, their characteristics and powers were ascribed to that planet, and he
was, in a measure regarded as Agni himself, in the full exercise of his univer-
sal powers. At all events, if we suppose Varuna to be the Morning Star,
the difficulties are no greater than if we suppose him to be some other orb,
phenomenon or principle; and if he was not the Morning Star, we cannot
even conjecture what he really was.
He knows the path of the birds flying through the air; and, abidingin the
ocean, he knows the course of the ships. This, therefore, is a later hymn;
for in the Punjab, nothing could have been known of the ocean or of vessels
navigating it. Jupiter abides in the ocean, because he rises from it and is
reflected in it. The hymn can hardly date from the residence near the
Caspian.
He knows the twelve months, and their productions, and the intercalary
month. And this again proves the modern origin of this hymn, and ac-
counts for the enlarged ideas which it contains in regard to Varuna. When
it was composed, the original character and significance of this Deity had
probably been forgotten.
He has seated himself among his progeny, to exercise supreme dominion.
The prince or chief was in those days peculiarly thefather of his people. In
the Semitic tongues, the same word meant father, chief, master, leader.
And the stars, led and ruled by Jupiter, and under his "supreme dominion,"
were appropriately styled his "progeny."
Through him the sage beholds all the marvels that have been or will be
wrought. For under his leadership the starry hosts make visible the
wondrous beauty of the heavens. The idea of leadership, chieftainship,
royalty, soon caused the ascription to Varuna, the planet Jupiter, of all the
attributes and characteristics that are imagined to belong to royalty. To
the Greeks, he became Zeus, the King of the Gods; to the Romans, Jupiter
and Jovis, Head and Sovereign of the Hierarchy of Olympus. Melchizedek
(MaLaki-Isadoc) was King and Priest of Isadoc or Sydyk, the same planet;
as Astarte or Ashtarat, the Queen of Heaven, was Venus, the EveningStar.
VARUiSTA MITRA ARYAMAN 265
The person of Varuna is clothed: he wears golden armour, and from U
the rays of light flash around. This clearly shows that he is a body, with
form and shape, and an orb from around which the rays of his light flash
forth. Ushas, the dawn, is his sister. Very appropriately she is called
the sister of the Morning Star. The irreproachable precede his course.
This was probably said at a season when a particular constellation, rising
earlier than Jupiter, preceded him in the heavens in the early morning.
The epithet "irreproachable" does not enable us to identify the constella-
tion; but the Three Kings in the belt of Orion were more likely to attract
attention in connection with the Morning Star, than any other group of
stars, as being more noticeable, and often preceding him.
Varuna is the sage, the self-radiant; the chief guide, the upholder; the
supreme monarch, endowed with truth. He is called the brother of Agni,
the ruler of the water, the Aditya, the sustainer of men, the sovereign
venerated by mankind. Agni is prayed to avert from the worshipper his
anger. He spread the expanse as a bed for the sun, extending it over the
tops of the trees (for if there were no light in the heavens, the darkness
would rest upon the tree-tops) : he gives strength to horses and milk to cows,
and determination to the heart. And, finally, he has placed fire in the
waters (perhaps when reflected there), and the sun in the sky (perhaps
when he leads the sun upward into the sky in the morning). That Jupiter
was much less in size than the sun, was probably no reason why the Poet,
knowing the superiority of intellect over mere strength, and the influence
of the wise counsellor over the strong ruler, should not have fancied the
Morning Star, chief and general, director and controller of the hosts of
heaven, to be the guide and advisor, and thus the controller and leader, of
the sun, investing more and more with the characteristics of Agni, and
imputing to him the exercise of the powers of Agni, as the exercise of the
plenitude of the powers of God was by other minds imputed to the Logos
or Word.
He is monarch of all the world, and waters earth, the expanse, and the
sky. He is the destroyer of the Asuras, and, stationed in the expanse,
measures the sky by the sun, as by a measure.
We cannot find that Mitra is, in its ordinary sense, a name of the sun:
and when Professor Wilson tells us that Varuna is a name of the regent
of the waters, we are none the wiser for the information.
Indra and Varuna are the sovereign rulers, the guardians of mankind,
the givers of riches and victory, and happiness. They are royal and sover-
eign, and the guardians of heaven. Here, probably, Indra, the Light, is
spoken of as the sun, which is his principal manifestation, not his instru-
ment or organ, but himself manifested and in action.
266 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
It would require much that was seemingly inconsistent with the identi-
fication of Varuna and Mitra as the Morning and Evening Stars, to outweigh
the expressions, "lords of the twilight, Divinities abiding in heaven,
11
for
it connects them with the morning and evening twilight, and as having
local habitations: and the word "Divinities'* has a meaning to us, which
the word rendered by it could not have had to the Aryans. By the word
rendered by it was probably meant divine beings or orbs, i. e., luminaries,
so that it also identified Mitra and Varuna as planets.
The Deities, Mitra, Varuna and Aryaman kindle Agni, their messenger
from of old. They manifest the Fire (Agni), in the light with which they
shine: and he is their messenger, because, as Light, he comes from them to
the earth, and returns to them in the flame of the sacrifice.
The sun displays his form in the expanse, in sight of Mitra and Varuna.
On one hand (when he rises, and the Morning Star, Varuna, preceding him
still shines, and shining sees him), his rays extend afar his infinite and
brilliant energy: and on the other (when he sets, and the Evening Star,
Mitra, following him shines, and shining sees him), he brings on (i. e., is,
is followed by) the darkness of night.
They are the loyal bestowers of delight, and they traverse sky, and are
therefore luminaries.
It is, I think, quite probable, that Varuna was originally the Morning
Star, whether Jupiter or Venus; and that Mitra was originally the Evening
Star. At first, probably, they supposed the Morning Star to be always the
same star. -
Afterwards, they must by observation, have learned otherwise,
and the name Varuna then became the designation of Jupiter, but of
Jupiter as the Morning Star; and Mitra of Venus, as the Evening Star.
This will explain why Varuna was more often invoked than Mitra, and more
associated with the dawn and the rising sun : while Mars, having no peculiar
office to fulfil, and being merely their companion, as the only other known
planet, was, as Aryaman, never invoked alone. In the Greek name of Mars,
"Apijs, Ares, we perhaps have Aryaman reproduced.
Mr. Cox thinks Varuna was "the veiling heaven," and Mitra, "the light-
illumined sky." If the veiling heaven and light-illumined sky traverse the
heavens in the car, riding side by side, and have their mansion in the heavens
or expanse, and are lords of the twilight, and if the veiling heaven is a body
of light, pouring downward its rays, which have their base on high, then
this may be so : and if it be so, then the Veda is such a mass of contradictory
nonsense as not to be worth studying, and the Vedic Gods had no fixed
individuality or identity; but each was every thing at once, and nothing
certain.
VARUJNTA MITRA ARYAMAN 267
Varuna, Mr. Cox says,
as the solid heaven, which is spread over the earth [how could the solid heaven
be invoked to come down with Mitra and Aryaman, and sit on the grass at the
sacrifice?] is strictly a creation of mythical speech, and is embodied in a visible
form. He sits on his throne, clothed with golden armour [he strengthens the summit
of the sky, as with a pillar], and along with Mitra dwells in a palace which, like that
of Helios is supported by a thousand columns, while his messengers stand around
[him] to do his bidding. [When Savitri diffuses his light on high, this veiled heaven
and Mitra run to perform their service, while they lead up the sun into the sky.l
But his mythical characteristics are, in the Rig-Veda, perpetually suggesting the
idea of an unseen and almighty being, who has made all things, and upholds them
by his will. [We find no passage where the characteristics of Varuna suggest an
unseen being. He is continually addressed as visible and radiant. He is a body,
an orb, that in a chariot traverses the sky.J
In many of the Vedic hymns, Mr. Cox continues,
we are carried altogether out of the region of mythology, and we see only the man corn*
muning directly with his Maker*
The authority of Mr. Cox for this, is the following passage from Dr. Muir's
"Principal Deities of the Veda" and the quotations from the Vedas, which
he copies from Miiller.
Dr. Muir says, Varuna, in the hymns, dwells in all the worlds as sovereign:
indeed, the three worlds are embraced within him. [The passage referred to, we
suppose, is this, as given by Prof. Wilson (Asty. in. Adky. w. Anuv. v. Sfikta xiii.):
'Mitra and Varuna, you uphold the three realms of light, the three heavens, the
three regions of earth. The immortal Gods impair not your eternal works. You
two divine Adityas, upholders of celestial and terrestrial worlds.' What is meant
by the three heavens and three regions of earth, we do not know; but we are certain
that it is not 'the veiling heaven* which upholds them.] The wind which resounds
through the firmament, is his breath. He has placed the sun in the heaven, and
opened up for it a boundless path to traverse. He has hollowed out the channels of
the rivers. [Wedo not find this, nor that the wind is his breath.] It is by his wise
contrivance, that, though all the rivers pour out their waters into the sea, the sea
is never filled. [If this were in the Veda, it would be an evident interpolation, of a
date long subsequent to the exodus from the land of the Five Rivers.] By his
ordinance the moon shines in the sky, and the stars which are visible by night,
disappear on the approach of daylight. Neither the birds flying in the air, nor
the rivers in their sleepless flow, can attain a knowledge of his power or his wrath.
His spies (or angels) behold both worlds. He himself has a thousand eyes. He
knows the flight of birds in the sky, the path of ships on the sea, the course of
the farsweeping wind, and perceives all the hidden things that have been or shall
be done.
I have already given my understanding of the passages here referred to,
so far as I have found them in the Veda. Even as they literally read, Dr.
268 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Muir strains, exaggerates and paints them. I think he is mistaken as to
their meaning, and that none of them in the least convey the idea of a God,
in our sense of the word.
I do not doubt that, by means of such phrases, Varuna came by degrees
to be regarded as a moral and intellectual being. So did Agni and Indra.
An orb or luminary would more readily become that, than fire* flame or
light, which had no bodily shape, form or limits. The ancient men more
readily ascribed individuality to beings that they saw, and whose influences
and effect upon themselves were immediate. Nobody wonders that the sun,
moon and planets became Gods everywhere. Kronos, Ouranos and Gaia
never were real Deities, but only poetic ones. Agni never became really a
God, and his name soon disappeared; and that of Indra was preserved, only
because he became something other than the light.
We find the idea of the sovereignty and power of Varuna more enlarged
and developed in the later hymns. Once addressed as leader, ruler and
king of the starry hosts, all the attributes of power and sovereignty were
soon assigned to him. Thus, Rig-V. mi. 86. I, we read (Mutter', Chips, i.
38):
Varuna stemmed asunder the wide firmaments; he lifted on high the bright and
glorious heaven; he stretched out apart the starry sky and the earth.
That the explanation I have attempted to give to the passages that
seem to ascribe these powers to Varuna, is probably correct, and that they
do not mean what literally, in English, they seem to mean, seems to me
manifest from two other passages, quoted by Mtiller, which are these:
'Who has seen the first-born [that which was the origin or beginning]? Where
was the life, the blood, the soul of the world [i. e., whence, from what, did these
come]? Who went to ask this from any that knew it?' Rig-V. i. 164. 4.
'What was the forest, what was the tree [i. e., the material], out of which they
shaped the heaven and earth? Sages, ask this indeed in your mind, on what he
stood, when he held the worlds/
The Deities of the Veda are all of subsequent origin to the sky and earth.
Not one of them is conceived of as existing before the world.
But Varuna soon came to be regarded as really a God, a being, moral and
intellectual. Originally he was not so, and the language that ascribed to
him moral and intellectual powers, was merely figurative and fanciful.
Afterwards it became, as it had already in a measure become in the Punjab,
to be regarded as truly descriptive of his nature. And it is undoubtedly
true, that such has been the process of formation and development of all
mythology, everywhere.
VARUNA MITRA ARYAMAN 269
For, if Varuna was the Morning Star, and originally worshipped by the
Aryans, as, being such, he must have been, a thousand years had elapsed,
if not more, from the time when he was adored on the steppes, to the time
when the Poets composed hymns to him in the Punjab, and it would not
have been at all surprising if, in that long succession of centuries, the
knowledge of what he originally was and meant had been entirely lost. It
would have been extraordinary if his personal attributes had not been con-
tinually added to, and magnified, until it had become almost impossible to
discover in the God Varuna, the ancient Planet-God, the God of the Morning
Star of the herdsmen of Sogdiana. Thus Apollo almost ceased to be himself
the sun, and the Huntress Diana was but vaguely conceived of as the moon.
So in Phoenicia the moon became the Goddess Astarat, and in Egypt
Osiris almost lost his identity with the sun, as Mithras did in ancient
Persia.
The very antiquity, therefore, of the worship of the planets and stars,
would cause the Deities which at first they were, to become more and more
unlike themselves, and the attributes and functions ascribed to them, to
become more and more difficult to reconcile with their original characters.
Thus we find powers and functions ascribed to Osiris and Apollo, which
seem to have no connection with their original character of Sun-Gods. Old
epithets and phrases, misunderstood, became the parents of new and contra-
dictory ones; until we have Dionusos-Bakchos, of forgotten origin.
The following hymn (Rig-V. vii. 89), copied from Miiller (Chips, i. 39)
shows to what stature Varuna had grown:
1. Let me not yet, O Varuna, enter into the house of day: have mercy, Almighty,
have mercyI
2. If I go along trembling, like a cloud driven by the wind: have mercy,
Almighty, have mercy1
3. Through want of strength, thou strong and bright God, I have gone wrong:
have mercy, Almighty, 'have mercy!
4. Thirst came upon the worshipper, though he stood in the midst of the
waters: have mercy, Almighty, have mercy!
5. Whenever we men, O Varuna, commit an offence before the Heavenly Host,
whenever we break the law through thoughtlessness: have mercy, Almighty, have
mercy!
The following hymn (Rig-V. vii. 86) is also translated by Professor
Miiller, in the same volume, at page 40:
270 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
1. Wise and mighty are the works of him who stemmed asunder the wide
firmaments (heaven and earth). He lifted on high the bright and glorious heaven:
he stretched out apart the starry sky and the earth.
2. Do I say this to my own self? How can I get unto Varuna? Will he
accept my offering without displeasure? When shall I, quieted in mind, see him
propitiated?
3. I ask, O Varuna, wishing to know this my sin.' I go to ask the sages. The
sages all tell me the same; it is Varuna who is angry with thee.
4. Was it an old sin, O Varuna, that thou wishest to destroy thy friend, who
always praises thee? Tell me, thou unconquerable lord, and I will quickly turn to
thee with praise, freed from sin.
5. Absolve us from the sins of our fathers, and from those which we com-
mitted with our own bodies. Release Vasishtha, O king, like a thief who has feasted
on stolen oxen; release him like a calf from the rope.
6. It was not our own doing, O Varuna; it was necessity (or temptation), an
intoxicating draught, passion, dice, thoughtlessness. The old is there to mislead
the young. Even sleep brings unrighteousness.
7. Let me without sin give satisfaction to the angry God, like a slave to the
bounteous lord. The Lord-God enlightened the foolish; he, the wisest, leads his
worshipper to wealth.
8. O Lord Varuna, may this song go well to thy heart! May we prosper in
keeping and acquiring I Protect us, O Gods, always, with your blessings 1
The following is from the Aiharoa-Veda (iv. 16):
1. The great Lord of these worlds sees as if he were near. If a man thinks he
is walking by stealth, the Gods know it all.
2. If a man stands or walks or hides, if he goes to lie down or to get up, what
two people sitting together whisper, K!ing Varuna knows it, he is there as the third.
3. This earth, too, belongs to Varuna, the king, and this wide sky with its ends
far apart. The two seas (the sky and the ocean) are Varuna's loins; he is also
contained in this small drop of water.
4. He who should flee far beyond the sky, even he would not be rid of Varuna,
the king. His spies proceed from heaven towards this world: with thousand eyes
they overlook this earth.
5. King Varuna sees all this, what it is between heaven and earth, and what is
beyond. He has counted the twinklings of the eyes of men. As a player throws
the dice, he settles all things.
6. May all thy fatal nooses, which stand spread out, seven by seven and three-
fold, catch the man who tells a lie, may they pass by him who tells the truth.
The following is Rig-V. I. 25:
1. However we break thy laws from day to day, men as we are, O God Varuna.
VARUIsIA MITRA ARYAMAN 271
2. Do not deliver us unto death, nor to the blow of the furious; nor to the wrath
of the spiteful.
3. To propitiate thee, O Varuna, we unbend thy mind with songs, as the
charioteer a weary horse.
4. Away from me they flee, dispirited, intent only on gaining wealth; as birds
to their nests,
5. When shall we bring hither the man, who is victory to the warriors? When
shall we bring Varuna, the wide-seeing, to be propitiated?
6. [This they (Mitra and Varuna) take in common; gracious, they never fail
the faithful giver.]
7. He who knows the place of the birds that fly through the sky, who on the
waters knows the ships;
8. He, the upholder of order, who knows the twelve months, with the offspring
of each, and knows the month that is engendered afterwards;
9. He who knows the track of the wind, of the wide, the bright, the mighty;
and knows those who reside on high ;
10. He, the upholder of order, Varuna, sits down among his people; he, the
wise, sits there to govern. [His 'people* are his subject stars, surrounded by whom
the Morning Star governs all.]
11. From thence perceiving all wondrous things, he sees what has been and
what will be done.
12. May he, the wise Aditya, make our paths straight all our days! May he
prolong our lives!
13. Varuna, wearing golden mail, has put on his shining cloak; the spies [out-
lookers, stars] sat down around him,
14. The God whom the scoffers do not provoke, nor the tormentors of men,
nor the plotters of mischief;
15. He who gives to men glory, and not half-glory; who gives it even to our
own selves;
16. Yearning for him, the far-seeing, my thoughts move onwards, as kine move
to their pastures.
17. Let us speak together again, because my honey has been brought: that
thou mayst eat what thou likest, like a friend.
18. Did I see the God, who may be seen by all? Did I see the chariot above
the earth? He must have accepted my prayers.
19. O hear this my calling, Varuna! Be gracious now! Longing for help, I
have called upon thee.
20. Thou, O wise God, art lord of all, of heaven and earth. Listen on thy way!
21. That I may live, take from me the upper rope, loose the middle, and remove
the lowest.
272 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
How unmistakably the eighteenth verse sets before us the ancient
worshipper, before day, his fire lighted and his offering ready, in the open
air, repeating his invocation, and waiting for the rising of the Morning Star,
to whom his hyperbolical language is addressed! If he imagined Jupiter
to be a God, and invested him with truly divine attributes, was it the planet
that he worshipped? or was it not rather those attributes and the ideal
personality to which he imagined them to belong? Did he not then worship
God, the Very Deity? For what can man know of the Deity, except his
attributes? We know only the attributes of matter itself; and what we
love and admire in another man is not his soul itself, but only its attributes,
which we say, are part of its nature. To separate those attributes of Varuna
from the planet, those of Agni from the fire, and those of Indra from the
light, and imagine an unknown being possessing them, and call him Ahura
Mazda, was but what some one else would soon have done, if Zarathustra
had not done it, for it was but the natural progress of the intellect.
A very cursory glance at the ideas and phrases common, and familiar
to the Aryan mind at a later day, will help us to understand how the attri-
butes of power and intelligence could, without any sense of incongruity,
be ascribed to the King of the Planets.
He is said to see all that passes on the earth; and in Homer (Iliad iii.)
we read,
Thou, O Sun, who beholdest aU things.
And, Oduss. xix. 275,
For Zeus and the Sun were angry with him.
In uEschylus (Choephora, 990),
The Father, he that beholdeth these things, the Sun.
Julian says,
The Sun, the Greatest God, he has caused to appear out of himself, in aU things like
himself.
And the Orphic hymn to the sun, xi. Ed. Hermann, reads as follows:
sTA- MITRA ARYAMAN 273
Titan of golden lustre, moving above, Heavenly Light, self-produced
fiery, food-bringing, fruitful Paian: glowing, pure, Father of Time, immortal Zeus,
serene, visible to all, the circumambient eye of the world, eye of righteousness, Light of
Life.
Macrobius says,
Physicians have called Bakchos the mind of Zeus, because they said the sun was
the mind of the world.
Sophocles, in Antigone, 1149, says,
O Leader of the Choir of Flame-breathing Stars, director of the voices that sound
by night, youthful God! son of Jove!
The creative power [Philo said], is God; for it is by this that he made and
arranged the universe.
The soul of the world, in the person of the sun [says the Sama-Veda], enlightens
the heaven and the earth.
What was afterwards said of Brahma, expressed the Vedic idea of the
manifestations of Agni.
Brahma, through whom all things are illumined, who with his light kts the sun and
the stars shine, but who is not revealed by their light' (Sankhan, Atma-Bodha. 61).
Landseer, in his "Sab&an Researches,
91
says:
The sun was, in the primitive superstition, King, Lord or Ruler of the diurnal
heavens. In some countries, the planet Jupiter gradually became so, of the noc-
turnal heavens, being 'the most refulgent of its stars; and at a later period was
venerated as Jove the Thunderer, the Supreme Deity of the symbolical ages, the
poetical and popular ruler of the upper regions of the air,'
He inquires whether the Grecian Zeus
was not generated between the supposed astral effluence of the planet Jupiter, and
the attributes of the vernal sun.
Macrobius speaks of certain symbols held by a statue at Baal-bee, "denot-
ing the consociate powers of Jupiter and the sun,;" and there is no doubt
that much of that which, in the Grecian mythology, is represented as
belonging to the sun, really related to the planet Jupiter, the king of the
starry armies of heaven. Sagittarius has always been the proper domicil
or station of power, of that planet; and Landseer finds, on a Babylonian
274 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
cylinder, Jupiter brandishing his arrows or the thunder, in his peculiar
mansion of might and dignity.
Ptolemy and Manilius term Jupiter and Venus, "the two Benevolent
Fortunes;" and each of them, Jupiter rising in the east as the Morning Star,
and Venus smiling in the west as Hesperus, seems to look encouragingly and
beneficently upon man.
On the title page of the "Sabsean Researches'* is an engraving of a Baby-
lonian cylinder, on which is a female figure having on her breast five globes,
one, three times as large as the others, in the centre, one above it, and three
in a line below, one of these held in each hand, and the one between them
being the smallest of all. These in the hands are equal in size to each
other. These no doubt represented the sun in the centre, the moon above
him, and the three known planets, Jupiter, Venus and Mars, below.
The very fact that the planet Jupiter bore among the Romans the name
of the King of the Gods, while among them and the Greeks, Apollo and
Bakchos or Dionusos were the sun, shows what ideas of power and suprem-
acy attached originally to the most brilliant of all the starry Host of Heaven.
If the ancient Aryans worshipped the celestial luminaries at all, it is not
credible that they did not adore and invoke the Morning and Evening Stars.
And this is especially incredible, when we know that they regarded all the
luminaries as manifestations localized and limited, of Agni and Indra.
And, if they adored Jupiter, Venus and Mars at all, they adored them
under the names of Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman. If not so worshipped,
they are neither noticed nor even named at all.
"We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take
heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day
star arise in your hearts."
Nothing could more forcibly show, than this verse does, the veneration
which the ancient nations had for the Morning Star, "Lucifer, son of the
Morning" or Dawn Hesperos, the most beautiful star of the heavens,
who appears as the herald of Eos in the morning, and is again seen by her
side in the evening. The Hellenic Heosphoros, the Latin Lucifer, the Light-
bringer,
who is Phosphoros, son of Astraios and Eos, the starlit skies of dawn.
If I am wholly in error in thinking that Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman
were Jupiter, Venus and. Mars, it is impossible to conceive what triad of
similar beings it was that the Poets addressed under those names. In
naming them, sometimes one and sometimes another of them is named,
first, second or last; as if the worshipper carefully avoided even the appear-
ance of ascribing superior dignity to either. And I cannot but believe that
VARU1JA MITRA ARYAMAN 275
if the original Sanskrit texts that speak to or of these Deities are carefully
analyzed, and the ancient meaning of the words diligently sought for, with a
willingness, if not a desire to see disappear whatever seems in the translations
to be inconsistent with the theory that these three planets were intended,
my views would be confirmed. I regret that I am utterly incompetent to
do it, and hope that what I have so imperfectly said may seem reasonable
enough to some intelligent and thorough Sanskrit scholar, to induce him to
undertake the task.
"King Varuna" or "Royal Varuna," is in the original, "Raja Varuvas"
"Thou, divine Varuna, art King," is "Tvam wsvesMm Varuv&si raja."
It is dyava-prithivi, that are "held asunder by the support" of Varuna.
Dr. Muir, Orig. Sansk. Texts, w. 95, translates thus:
J&g-V. vii. 86. 1. Wise are his creations who by his power propped asunder
the two vast worlds [rodasil. He raised up the high and wide firmament, and
spread out apart the stars and the earth.
vii. 87. 1. Varuna has opened out paths for the sun [radat patho Varttpak
Sdrydya]. Like a troop of horses let loose, following the mares, he has made great
channels for the days. The wind [dtmd] which has agitated the atmosphere, like
an impetuous beast grazing in a pasture. Within are these two great and vast
worlds [anfar mafit btihaft rodasime]: oil thy realms, O Varuna, are beloved (or, un-
limited).
viii. 42. 1. The omniscient [visvaveda, all-seeing] Asura has propped upthe sky
[dyam]: he has measured [amimtta] the expanse [varimdnam] of the earth \pttiliwydW,
he has pervaded all the worlds [bkuoan&nil, the monarch; all these are the achieve-
ments of Varuna. Reverence, then, the mighty Varuna [Varu&aih brfhantam]: bow
down before the wise guardian of immortality [amritasya]. May he impart to us
triple prosperity.
It is evident that much yet remains to be done, before any certainty of
correctness can be attained in translating the Veda. Upon the hypothesis
that Varuna was a planet, many of the words used in regard to him and his
functions would take upon themselves meanings very different from that
which they appear to have when they are to be so understood as to cor-
respond with a different hypothesis. The great difficulty undoubtedly is,
from the modern meanings of the Sanskrit words, to get back to those more
ancient than them by at least two thousand years: and this, for the most
part, without a guide. Miiller says (Chips, i. 76),
The Bxthmanas, though nearest in time to the hymns of the Rig-Veda, indulge
in the most frivolous and ill-judged interpretations. When the ancient IJishi
exclaims, with a troubled heart, 'who is the greatest of the Gods? who shall first be
praised by our songs?' the author of the Brahmana sees in the interrogative pronoun
276 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
'who,
1
some diviae name, a place is allotted in the sacrificial invocations to a God
*who,' and hymns addressed to him are called Vhoish' hymns.
He remarks that, "to know what a passage cannot mean, is frequently
the key to its real meaning:" and we may of course always be sure that when
the translation makes nonsense, it is because the original is not understood.
That Mitra and Varuna are Adityas is proof that they are luminaries.
That Varuna is styled "Raja" proves the same. They never slumber nor
close their eyelids: they are decorated with golden ornaments: they are to
be worshipped at the dawning of the day: they excel in radiance: Varuna,
whoseform is water, shows, whatever the word rendered**ze>ater really means,
that Varuna is an orb, having definite form. The "spacious and much
frequented kingdom" of Mitra and Varuna, is the starry firmament, in
which they rule. Sfirya, Mitra and Varuna have one common dwelling-
place, and are therefore all orbs alike. Mitra, Varuna and Aryaman are
the unconquered sons of Aditi. They animate with energies the unconscious
[arousing them before the dawn, from sleep, "the twin-sister of death," and
restoring to them their energies ; or, by their influences arousing them ;
as the
Morning Star, shining upon the eyes of the herdsman sleeping in the open
air, would naturally do].
The eyes of the three are "unclosing;" and they "conduct the ignorant
man." They do not wink or twinkle like the fixed stars, but shine always
open-eyed and steadily; and by them a wayfarer in an unknown region may
know the direction in which to go.
"The association of these is of mysterious lustre:" "by their secret
strength they overcome:" which probably means, that each of them being
a manifestation of Indra, ensouled with light, as it were, by him, they are
cognates, as it were, of one blood, three persons of one substance, perhaps;
at all events, three out-flowings of the same light from one source, itself
hidden and mysterious; and by that unseen essence they have their power
over the elements and the fortunes of men.
Spreading around the beautiful light, Mitra and Varuna, of you two Divinities,
Sfirya rises.
The phrase "spreading around,
1 *
is dearly not a correct translation, if
Mitra and Varuna are planets. If they were principles, or substances, by
whose light Sflrya shone, such as Agni and Indra, then he could be said to
"spread around" the Eght so received: but certainly he spreads around no
other light than his own.
It must always be uncertain, not only what the ancient meanings of
many Sanskrit words were; but also what the original roots and their
MITRA ARYAMAN 277
primitive meanings were. We find, for example, rodasi, bhvvana and jagata,
are all rendered "worlds," and we have, resident in Parjanya, "vi$vani
bhuvdnani" "all the worlds;" and "tisro dyavas" "the three heavens;'* as
the same "vi$va bhuvdnani" are "contained" in Soma. It is probably
impossible to ascertain the exact meaning of any of the apparent synonyms.
Time wears away the shades of difference between words, whether of
kindred original meaning, or whether of original meanings very different,
but applied to the same object, and as appellatives, coming by degrees to
mean the same thing: while, again, a single word in time assumes many
meanings, some of them the exact opposites of each other a striking
instance of which is, in the Hebrew, that Kadosh or Kodesh, means both
"holy, holiness," and a female "prostitute;" and proves that at some time
it was a religious duty, among the Hebrews or their ancestors, for women to
prostitute themselves.
And as to the blendings of the shades of difference of words, until the
pure distinctions between them are lost, by being disregarded in speech and
by inaccurate writers, it is enough to look into any book of synonyms. In
our language we have many real synonyms, because it is a composite one;
butit is hardly to be believed that in any original language there were many
pairs of triads of words having precisely the same meaning.
When what may be called the boundaries between the meanings of
words are effaced, one word will be used in different senses by different
persons, until its exact meaning becomes uncertain; and from this cause
more than one religious schism has grown up, and been the prolific source
of persecutions and bloody wars.
But I think that languages have in their infancy and youth, at least this
advantage, which by and by they lose, as ours has, that they have no words
which mean nothing at all. Such a word is "worlds," in the translation
of the Veda, and such are "heaven" and "firmament" in the same.
The roots of Sanskrit words are, necessarily, to a great extent conjectural,
both as to the letters that composed them, and as to their original meanings.
Disused for a score of centuries, it must be impossible to determine with
certainty exactly what either they or their meanings were, in very many
cases. Originating long before the earliest Aryan emigration, they are
undoubtedly softened down in the Hindu reproduction of them, and were
originally more nasal or gutteral, as, to be the parents of Keltic, Sclavonic
and Gothic or Germanic words, they must have been.
If, "what a phrase cannot mean, is often the key to its true meaning,"
we ought to be able to find the meaning of the phrase, "spreading around the
beautiful light of your two Divinities:" and we might, if we had the root of
the word rendered "spreading around," find it meaning to envelop or wrap
278 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
up, and thence to cover, obscure or hide; and the meaning of the expres-
sion may be that the sun, when he rises, overwhelms and surrounds, envel-
ops and merges in itself the lesser splendour of the Morning Star.
Mitra and Varuna are said to be "vaster" than earth or heaven; to
maintain beauty in plants and people, and to keep heaven and earth asunder.
This their "strength by its mightiness effects," and for it their "splendour"
is praised. Their light, diffused everywhere, may here be taken for them-
selves; and it keeps earth and sky asunder, because, in profound darkness,
they would seem to be one.
They rule the waters, are preservers of waters, and powerful lords of
rivers; and we need not be surprised at these epithets when we remember
that the Greeks fancied that the Hyades caused the spring rains, and named
them accordingly. They, Mitra and Varuna, are asked to bedew with
water "him who fabricated your chariot in his mind." This English
phrase is mere nonsense. The original, undoubtedly, once had a meaning.
What is meant by their "chariot" cognizable by the intellect, I do not
pretend to understand.
Varuria, Mitra, Aryaman and others are designated as Adityas, or sons of
Aditi; as the Morning Star was, by those of a different race, styled "Lucifer,
son of the Morning."
In Rig-V. ix. [Hand.] 72. 8. 9, we find the number of the Adityas stated
at seven:
The seven points of the compass, with their respective suns [ndn&-sdrydh]9 the seven
Hotri priests [hotdra ritoijafyj and the seven Gods, the Adityas [Devd Adityd ye
Sapta].
In Rig-V. x. 72. 8. 9, it is said that eight sons were born from the body
of Aditi; with seven she approached the Gods, but cast away Marttanda.
With seven Aditer approached the former age.
The hymn, evidently modern, celebrates the birth of the Gods [devanam].
Brahmanaspati blew them forth. Bhti was born from Uttanapad, and the
regions sprang from Bhti, the Earth: or, as Roth translates it,
Bhft (the world) was born, and from her opened womb (Uttanapad), spring the
spaces.
VARU1SIA MITRA ARYAMAN 279
Daxa sprang from Aditi, and Aditi forth from Daxa. So Aditi was pro-
duced, daughter of Daxa, and then the Gods [Deva].
Six Adityas only are named in the Veda, of whom Vishnu is not one.
Afterwards, the number was increased to twelve; all of which, the Satapatha
BrUhmana says, were placed in the sky. In Rig-V. ii. 27. I, six Adityas,
who have been Rajas always, are named, Mitra, Aryaman, Bhaga, the
Mighty Varuna, Daxa and Ansa.
Eichhoff derives Aryas,vtith the meaning of "valiant," from the root AR,
and gives it also the meaning of "excellent" a remote and later meaning,
referable to the time when the institution of castes was established.
Man is a Sanskrit suffix, I learn from Bopp (Comp. Grammar, iii. 1073),
the original form of which appears to be m&n, which has remained in the
strong cases. The words formed with it have, like the kindred parti-
ciples, either an active or a passive signification. Some are abstract sub-
stantives. But few masculines in man remain tq us in Sanskrit, and these,
too, are, for the most part, but rarely used. The following are examples:
sdshman, "fire," as that which dries; Ashman, the hot time of the year, as
"the burning;" pdpman, "sin," as that which is sinned; and others given by
Bopp (1074). The masculine bases in man all have the accent on the last
syllable, and express partly a passive, partly an active relation, or are
abstracts; as dhdman, a "house," as that which is made or built, from dha,
to "place" (vi-dha, to "make"); vdrtman, "way," as that which is gone
upon, from vart, vrit, to "go;" jdnman, "birth," fromjan, to "bear;" pr&man,
from prt, to "love, etc." (1075); aJman, "spirit," from ahya, "I think," is
another (1079).
Also, the suiEx man also forms abstract substantive or adjective bases ;
as prath-4-mdn, "breadth," from priflvA, "broad," kriskn-i-mdn, "blackness,"
from krishnd, "black" (1080).
Arya-man, accordingly, is "valour, bravery, daring, audacity, prowess,"
from arya, "valiant, brave, etc." It has, therefore, precisely the same
meaning as "Api?*, Mars, the God of War and Battle of the Greeks.
I find in Eichhoff, mitras, "amicable," from maitk, to "unite;" whence
also mithas, "aggregate, union;" and Latin mitis and mutuus.
Varyas, also, means "excellent," from var, to "love, prefer;" whence,
Latin, verus, "true;" French, vrai, "true;" English, very and verily; Lithu-
anian, wiernas; Russian, wiernyi; Gaelic, feavy; Keltic, gwir; German, werth;
English, worth; Lithuanian, wertas.
DakshaoT Daxa is from daks, to "attain," to "succeed;" whence dak$as,
daksinas, "skilful, straight, right;" Greek, &*; Latin, dexter, "right,
the right hand."
Ansa is from an$, to "traverse, penetrate;" whence anoas, "friction;"
"ray."
PHRASES APPLIED TO USHAS, ETC.
Sfirya is unquestionably the sun; and Ushas as unquestionably the
dawn. The Maruts are the winds. Soma is the intoxicating and exhila-
rating, strength- and courage-giving power and principle that manifests
itself in the juice of the plant called by that name. A reference to the
hymns to these Divinities may serve to shed some light on the apparent
contradictions of those to Varuna, Mitra, Aryaman, Arusha, Savitri, Vayu
and Vishnu.
Rig-V. i. 39 (as translated by Miiller, i. Chips, 34) is addressed to the
Maruts and Rudras. They from afar cast forward their measure like a
blast of fire. [The meaning must be that they hurl onward their whole vast
bulk and mass, as a body of flame hurls itself forward in the forests.] They
have no real foe, in heaven or earth; i. e., there is nothing in the expanse or
on the earth that can withstand them. They make the rocks tremble, and
rend the kings of the forest. They are Gods, who have harnessed the
spotted deer to their chariots, a red deer drawing as leader. The earth
listens to hear their coming. Their help is invoked, for the human race,
to free them from every adversary. They are worshipful and wise, boun-
teous givers, possessing all strength, all power.
Ushas [in Rig-V. mi. 77. Mutter, i. Chips, 36], shines on men like a young wife,
rousing them to go to their work. She makes the light, by striking down darkness.
She rises up, spreading far and wide, moving everywhere. She wears her brilliant
garment. She is the mother of the cows, the leader of the days, gold coloured,
lovely to behold. She, fortunate, brings the eye of the Gods, who leads the white
and lively horse; the dawn was seen, revealed by her rays, with brilliant treasures,
following every one. She is a blessing, when near; she drives away the unfriendly,
makes the pasture wide, gives men safety. She disperses the enemies and brings
riches, and raises up wealth to the worshipper. She lengthens life, gives food,
gives wealth of cows, horses and chariots. She is the daughter of the sky, and
high-born: i. e., she becomes visible and so has her origin, above the earth and in
the sky.
To the Poets of all countries and ages, the phenomena of morning and evening
have been fruitful sources of imagery, as of old they were of myths born of the
figurative language of the Poets. To the Vedic Poets, the sun was the lover of
the dawn, but his glance was fatal to her. She faded and died in the greater glories
of his risen light. He looks upon the tender dew, and under his fervent gaze the
trembling, sparkling drops vanish away. The evening turns to look longingly
after the sinking sun, and as her life commences, his is seen to end. They can remain
PHRASES APPLIED TO USHAS, ETC. 281
together only on the condition that one shall not see the face or form of the other.
From the fading away of the violet hues of the morning, upon the rising of the sun,
came the phrases, growing afterwards into myths, that Indra or Phoibos or Orpheus
had fixed their eyes on Dahana or Daphne or Euridike, and that their loved one had
passed away from them like the fleeting colours of a dream.
Ushas is the image of undying youth, for day after day she appears, in unfading
beauty, although they who daily look upon her, do daily grow older, and at last die.
Therefore she is said to conduct all transient creatures to decay. She is
divine and ancient, born again and again, with unchanging hues, and she
wastes away the life of a mortal, like the wife of a hunter, cutting up the
birds.
Wesee in this how, with these Poets, sequences became causes and eflects.
As the dawns come and go, and the days pass, our life is taken, piece by
piece, as it were, away; and the dawn is conceived of as causing these daily
losses for which there is no reparation. Precisely thus the light creates
what it enables us to see and know, and upholds the sky which in the darkness
would, as it were, be close above us.
She is "endowed with truth," also, like Agni and Indra. She is visible
and real to men, not an invisible principle, but an actual phenomenon, her
return certain and unfailing. The word truth is but a false translation.
She is the sister of Bhava and of Varuna, and hymned first of the Gods: i. e.,
first invoked in the morning.
Unimpeding divine rites, though wearing away the ages of mankind,
she shines, the likeness of the mornings that have passed, etc. Night, her
sister prepares a birth-place for her elder sister, and having made it known to
her, departs. Of all the sisters that have gone before, a successor daily
follows the one that has preceded.
She reveals mysteries, and opens the ends of heaven, where the Panis had
hidden away the cows (the bright clouds), of which she is the mother. She
tells the Angiras where they are to be found, and as she lightens the sky,
she is said to drive her own herds to their pastures.
The Sanskrit budh (Mr. Cox says) means both to "make" and to
"know," and vayund has the double meaning of light and knowledge, just as
the notions of knowledge and creative power are both expressed by the root
jan, and the English can and ken. Hence Ushas is said to enable men to
cross the frontier of darkness, and, as the seer, to give light far and wide.
Thus, as the day, she is the mother of the divine night, who reveals all her
splendour after she has driven away her sister, the twilight.
Once the word AhanA occurs in the Veda:
Ahand comes near to every house, she who makes every day to be known.
282 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Theflexibility of the old mythology, Mr. Cox thinks, justifies us in attribut-
ing to AhanS. all that is told us of Ushas and Saramft. So he applies to
Ahani certain phrases used in regard to Ushas, as pursued by the sun, who
slays, though he loves her, or as dying in his arms, and gets the origin of the
myths of Daphne and Prokris. We do not see why it was necessary to
make Ushas and Ahani identical, to get that "offshoot from the parent
stem :" and we do not see how the double meanings of budh, vayun&,jan and
can or ken show that
in Ushas we have the germ of the idea that found its most graceful expression in the
Hellenic Athene, and its most majestic development in the Latin Minerva.
All the Vedic Gods are said to see and know and are revealers of truth: and
the Veda does not represent Ushas "as sprung from the forehead of Dyaus
the Sky," but only as originating in the expanse.
In the same hymn which mentions Ahand (the burning light), Rig-V. i.
123. 4, it is said that Dyotana (the dawn), the active maiden, comes back
continually; she enjoys always the first of all goods. Dyotana is probably
an epithet only, applied to Ushas.
It is a quaint idea that Indra did a strong and manly deed in striking
the daughter of the sky (Dyaus), a woman difficult to overcome; which is
said in Rig-V. iv. 30.
He, a great hero, grinds to pieces the daughter of the sky (Dyaus), the magnified,
the dawn.
She rushes off from her crushed car, fearing that Indra, the Bull, might
strike her. The car lay there, wholly ground to pieces, and she went far
away.
This is somewhat injurious to the pretty fancies that the sun is the
lover of the dawn; for it is Indra, the light, manifested through the sun,
that puts an end to the brilliant and gorgeous colours of gold and purple
and the half-light of the dawn. But it required some stretch of imagination
to conceive of light, as a bull, crushing with horn and hoof the car of Ushas,
and heroically compelling her to flee far away, lest she too should be ground
to powder, like the crushed car. And yet, as the broad daylight blazing
from the sun does end the dawn, the idea of its conquering her was not
unnatural. And that he did so as a bull, proves that when this hymn was
composed, the sun was in Taurus at the vernal equinox, and the Stars of the
Celestial Bull rose heliacally.
THE ASWINS.
The Aswins or Asvins have vastly perplexed the commentators. Mr.
Cox says (i. 390) :
These A?vins have been made the subject of a lengthened controversy. Their
features are not very definite, but in the oldest hymns they are worshipped with a
peculiar reverence, as able not merely to heal sicknesses, but to restore the aged to
youth. [This feat the Poets of the Veda never imagined possible.] Speaking of
them, the commentator Yaska says, that their sphere is the heaven, and remarks,
that some regard them as heaven and earth, as day and night, or as sun and moon:
while they who anticipated the method of Euemeros affirmed that they were two
deified kings. But when he adds that their time is after midnight, whilst the break
of day is yet delayed, all room for doubt seems taken away. [Strange, then, that
there should have been so lengthened a controversy; for the Veda tells us that,
plainly enough, and again and again.] The two Ahans, or Dawns, Day and Night,
are born, it is said, when the Asvins yoke their horses to their car. The twins are
born, when the Night leaves her sister, the Dawn, when the dark one gives way
to the bright. After them comes Ushas, the Greek Ews, who is followed first by
Sftrya", a feminine, a sister of Sfirya, the Sun, then by Vrishakapayi, then by Saranyu,
and lastly by Savitar. They are ihehajate, born here and there, either as appearing
in the east or west, or as springing up on the earth and in the air; and this epithet
may explain the alternate manifestations of the Dioskouroi, who stand to Helen
in the same relation which the Asvins bear to Sarami or Ushas.
The Asvins are thus the conquerors of darkness [thus! how?], the Lords of Light;
ever youthful, swift as thought, and possessed, like Indra, Agni and Phoibos, of a
profound wisdom .... They are adored at morning and evening tide as Rudran,
the terrible lords of wealth .... The twin pair adopt various forms. One of
them shines brightly, the other is black; twin sisters are they, the one black, the
other white.
We omit what "this brings before us," as we do the information as to
whom the Poet must give them for father and mother; and we wonder what
Mr. Cox supposes the Asvins were. For his "whirl of words" is very far
from removing doubt, and rather makes confusion worse confounded-
At page 426, he makes another effort:
So too, the morning and the evening, the gloaming and the dawn, became, as we
have seen, twin steeds the Avins joined together in a mysterious bond which
made it impossible to draw a line between the approach of the one and the vanish-
ing of the other.
Really, one wearies of this bald, loose, disjointed chatter.
By referring to the citations which I have in previous pages made from
the Veda as to the Aswins, we shall find as follows:
284 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
They are the two leaders of the sky, the presiders over this world.
This is language only applicable to luminaries, of some Importance, and not
to morning and evening, or day and night, or heaven and earth. At the
dawn, they scatter the investing glooms to the ends of the earth. For that
office, again, they must be luminaries.
They are but two, having only the joint name of A$win$, A$vins, or, as
Eichhoff prints it, Agvins. They are also addressed by the appellatives,
Na.satyas and Dasms.
The word Asmn is from the root as, to "traverse" or "penetrate;**
whence A$vas, a "horse," and A$vin, a "horseman," and AQvtyas, "eques-
trian." Eichhoff. They are evidently inseparable and indissolubly united.
One of them is not, in any particular, distinguished from the other; and, in
fact a single Asvin is nowhere mentioned. Their union is like that of the shin-
ing and the dewy [of sky and air, or light and air]. They come to the sacri-
fice together, lighting up the lustre of their car, emitting vast and limitless
radiance. Over the deserts, with water, they drive their horses. When
the beloved Ushas, "until now unseen," scatters the darkness from the sky,
the worshipper with profound veneration invoked the Aswins, called them
divine [children of the sky], children of the sea, whose appearing causes re-
joicing. Even before the dawn, Savitri sends their car to the sacrifice. Their
chariot, harnessed for both alike is imperishable, and travels through the air.
It is said to them,
may Ushas follow the lustre of your approach, circumambient Aswins: may you
both drink, and bestow upon us happiness.
They are "good-looking," and from the expanse or the sky beyond it, they
bring riches. "Come to us in your well-constructed car, with the rays of
the sun, with your sun-clad chariot;" but "the steeds awakened at dawn"
bring them. They cannot, at that hour, be sun-clad, or come with the rays
of the sun. In the Ramayana I find,
That region, though sunless [vis&ryyo] .... is recognizable by a sun-like splendour,
as if the sun were shining.
So that "sun-dad," and "rays of the sun" may refer only to the nature and
splendour of the light of the Aswins, and may not mean that they actually
shine by the light of the sun. They "send adorable light from the sky to
men;" and they are invoked to harness their chariot, and come, that Savitri
may animate all beings, when Agni is awakened on earth, when the sun is
about to rise, and the dawn has dispersed the darkness.
THE ASWINS 285
Their car is laden with honey, and filled with treasure. They sustain
the germ in all moving creatures, are in the interior of all beings, and supply
fire, water, and the trees of the forest. They are physicians, with medica-
ments [compare "with healing in his wings"].
They are showerers of blessings. They are creators, and are invoked
to hear the hymn, whether they are moving or resting. Their resplendent
forms, in the halls of sacrifice, bring prosperity. If they are also called
Dasras, they are called Rudras, too; and are said to repair to heaven, their
horses conveying them on their heavenward journey, in a golden, three-
shafted chariot, going by an easy road.
May this hymn [it Is said] be associated with your forms, and do you unite with
the dawn [shine together with it, with mingling light].
That they have "forms/* unmistakably indicates that they are luminaries;
and they were, it is equally evident, worshipped when they had risen in the
east, and ascended some distance into the sky.
We invoke you two today [it is said]; the same on any other day, when the morn-
ing dawns.
The morning dawns every day; and probably the meaning is that they are
invoked on those days when they have risen at the beginning of the dawn.
At any rate, it is at the dawn, that they are invoked. They are Nasatyas,
and grandsons of heaven. There is no untruth in them. "Like arrows to
acquire glory, and to carry off Stirya" is unmeaning to us.
Aswins [it is said], we cross over the limit of darkness; which must mean that it is
just as the dawn commences, that they are invoked to come, by the path traversed
by the Devas.
They are styled "The two husbands:" they are invoked to descend like
the falling stars, like the Brahmans repeating hymns, and to come like
messengers in the land. They move at dawn, like two heroes in a car, like
a pair of goats, like two women lovely in form, or, like husband and wife;
and are invoked to come like a pair of horns, or of hoofs, like a pair of
chakrav4kas, awaiting day; to bear the worshipper across, like two vessels,
like two poles of a car; to be like two dogs, averting harm, and like two
coats of mail.
To what stars can these expressions apply? To what constellation more
fitly than Gemini, the Twins? The parent of the Twins (the very meaning
of Gemini), brings forth the Twins: they two, dispersers of darkness, combine
286 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
(i. e., shine side by side), assuming bodies as a pair (light manifesting itself
by the two stars), at the origin of day. The praiser awakes the Awins,
preceding [preceders of] the dawn.
Their car is the "Assotiator" of the solar rays; and bears the daughter
of the sun (Stiryi: but may not this word simply mean sunlike, i. e.,
splendour?). They are grandsons of heaven, again; not Devas, i.e., planets,
but stars, yet they are Divinities.
The following texts clearly and fully explain some on which I have
already commented :
Your chariots appear at the opening of the dawn, scattering the surrounding dark-
ness like the sun, spreading bright radiance over the firmament . . . . Wakers at
dawn. Praise the united Aswins at the Jbreak of day.
Ushas is "the friend" of the Aswins. They are swift of speed, gentle,
unrefraetory (having no irregular movements), golden-winged, "bearers.".
It is when "the extremities of darkness are seen nigh at hand,*' and the
beginnings of the daylight are perceptible in the east, that the priest
chaunts hymns to the Aswins, the Nasatyas. They are called Mddhwk, and
invoked as protectors. (Mad, to "intoxicate:" madhu, madhus, "honey,
nectar." And mad is to "conciliate, adapt," whence madhyas, "central;
Latin, medius; madhyai, "in the middle;" madhyan, "middle." Also, maid
or maidh, is to "observe, conceive;" whence, Latin, meditor; maidhas,
"sentiment.")
Their devoted worshipper, waking before the dawn, praises them with
hymns. The daughter of Sflrya is their spouse, and rides with them in their
chariot, selected by her at the approach of night. Its two wheels form the
extremities of the sky; and they come to the sacrifice at the dawn of day.
Their chariot comes at the approach of dawn. It is the precursor of the
day. Praises waken them and the celestial dawns, and they are praised
when the dawns arise.
The Nasatyas are invoked to come from the west and east; the Aswins
from the south and north, from every quarter (which must have been
before they had risen, and it was not known in what quarter of the heaven
they might be). Of goodly aspect, the Aswins accompany the dawn, like
leaders, with their mighty chariot, when, advancing from afar, she brightens
the sky, and spreads light on all sides. They are "Bringers of the Day;"
and are said in three days and three nights to traverse from afar all the
brilliant. (We can imagine nothing, luminary or phenomenon, substance
or subsistence, of which that could literally be said.) Ushas is invoked to
wake them ; and when she shines, they go to the hall of sacrifice. Wherever
THE ASWINS 287
they may be, they are invoked whether in the sacrificial hall, in the
expanse or above it, in the west or the east ; whether traversing the expanse,
or passing along Dyava-prithivi, heaven and earth (?) .
"The Awins preceding the dawn," are endowed with power, and ever
young, unwearied, munificent, and free of untruth. By their chariot they
become Lords of StiryS, who is borne on it. She is said to be the daughter
of the sun; and I can understand this in no other way than as showing that
the Poets had an idea that it was the splendour of Stiry^, the sun, after he
had disappeared, that during the night shone from the stars; and that by
Stiryi, his daughter, they meant that splendour furnished by him to them.
Thus it is said that the sun rises, and the chariot of the Awins, travers-
ing, is associated with the Divine, on the summit (i. e., being in mid-heaven,
when the sun rises) : and also, that when Sfirya ascends the chariot, bright-
waving, resplendent rays encompass the Aswins.
They are guardians of heaven, and lords of water; invincible, and
showerers of wealth. They are the two who come first at dawn (at the
particular season of the festival, probably the vernal equinox). They claim
the morning sacrifice;
the ancient sages praised them at dawn: worship the Aswins at early dawn.
They are invoked to alight like two swans, like two deer, like two wild
cattle in a pasture. They are "the two leaders of heaven/' presiders over
the world, who at dawn dispel the darkness. And they are the magnificent
lords of good fortune, showerers of wealth, swift-moving and good-looking*
Lords of men, and adorable Deities.
There is one peculiarity of the Awins, which seems hopelessly enigmati-
cal: and yet it is so frequently and distinctly repeated as to convince us
that it had allusion to some notable peculiarity of the Awins, whatever
they were, by which they were distinguished.
Though they were but too, the wheels of their chariot are three in number:
the columns placed upon it for support, are three; and in it the Awins
journey "three times by night, and three times by day." They are invoked
to come three times, with the seven mother-streams. They are told that
the three rivers are ready (the three vessels of Soma juice), and the triple
oblation prepared. The car is triangular, and has three fastenings and
props; and when it is asked where all these are, it is also asked, "when will
be the harnessing of the powerful ass?" They have one wheel, it is else-
288 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
where said, "on the top of the solid, while the other revolves in the sky."
This "three-columned, triangular, three-wheeled car, three canopied," is
drawn by swift horses. It is golden, and three-shafted.
A "three-fold hymn" is addressed to the Awins. The car has three
"benches" and three wheels, and is quick as thought; and it is embellished
with three metals. It traverses "The Seven Flowing." It is renowned
among the "five orders of beings;" it furrows with two wheels the extremi-
ties of the sky.
The three wheels of the Aswins, which were invisible, have become manifest
and consequently, this triad must be of stars, which become visible when
they rise, or when, night coming, they appear. Once the chariot is said to
"traverse as their all-pervading form: but &form, in the Vedic sense, is a
body, a limited manifestation. It journeys and traverses; but it does not
pervade. The chariot is harnessed "at a thought;" the horses are rapid
and like falcons, and with it, in three days and three nights, they traverse
from afar all the brilliant. It is plated with gold, honey-tinted, water-
shedding, laden with ambrosia, quick as thought, rapid as the wind.
Finally, the translation makes the Awins rise "above the three worlds."
But this has no connection with or reference to the three wheels.
There is a meaning to all this, if it could but be found out. So far, no
one has attempted a rational explanation. We do not even know what
exact idea was attached by the Poets, to the chariots of Agni, Indra, Sflrya
and the other Gods, with their horses of different colours and sometimes of
particular number. Did they mean by the chariot of the sun or of Agni,
the sun himself or the fire itself, or the splendour surrounding them, in
which they might be fancied to ride, the rays being the horses? At the
beginning, to speak of the chariot of the sun, must have conveyed some
distinct idea, not unnatural nor absurd, but which would strike those who
heard it as natural and sensible. If there had not been an obvious fitness
in the figure, it would not have been so universally accepted as appropriate,
graphic, and not expressing a supposed resemblance that was wholly unreal.
If the clouds were corhpared to and termed "cows," it was not because they
looked like cows, or herded together like them, or moved like them; but
because they yielded rain, as cows do milk. The body of the sun is envel-
oped by a splendour, which could well be conceived of as a vehicle, convey-
ing him; and the rays, shooting from this splendour, and which we can even
see in fine lines of light dose to us in the air, seemed drawing him onward;
and by the horses of the sun, these, no doubt, were meant. We know that
this figurative language commended itself very generally to the ancient
imagination ; for we find the idea in many mythologies ; and every school-boy
THE A$WINS 289
knows the legend of Phaethon, son of Phoebus, who undertook to drive the
chariot and horses of his father, the Sun.
The chariot of the Awins is laden with "treasure;" because the light
is the most precious of all human possessions: but it is also laden with honey,
which is more difficult to understand, although we learn from the Vedas
that the Soma juice, offered at the sacrifice, was made sweet with much
honey, madhumattamali. It must have been imagined that the honey so
offered, entered into flame, and with the Soma juice fed the Deities, and
became a part of their light and splendour.
But why the chariot is represented as three-wheeled, three-columned, etc.,
is a greater enigma; and it is, made more difficult by the fact that, though
the Aswins were but two, the effusions of Soma juice to them were three,
and the oblation triple; as if they were three devas.
I can conceive of but one explanation; and if the arrow I shoot goes wide
of the truth, it may possibly still serve to point out to some one far more
competent than I am, the way that will lead to the true interpretation.
I believe that the Awins were two great and noticeable stars, closely
united to each other in the popular mind, and, at that remote day, having a
peculiar significance, as fulfilling peculiar functions or marking the recur-
rence of a particular season; and that, in the same constellation with them,
near them in the heavens, was a third star, never associated with them in
the popular mind as in dose and intimate union; but still noticeable with
them, and always accompanying 'them.
All the texts that seem inconsistent with this conjecture may need only
to be more perfectly understood, to make them consistent with it. In
Professor Wilson's translation, the Awins rise or ascend "above the three
worlds." The Vedic Poets knew nothing about what we call "worlds,"
meaning thereby heaven, earth and hell, or three realms or states of being.
I imagine it would be difficult for even Professor Wilson, if living, to tell us
what he understood by the phrase, when he used it. If he understood by it,
the earth, the expanse or firmament, and the sky, it should have occurred
to him that whatever the A?wins were, they could not have been conceived
of as ascending above and getting outside of the sky, in their chariot.
BMvana, everywhere translated "worlds" does not mean that, in our sense
of the word; and I am satisfied that the Aryans had no word that can be
honestly rendered "world," other than those that meant this earth of ours,
or the visible universe. Jagat, from ga, to "create, produce;" Janata, from
jan, to "give birth to, produce;" and IMs, IMtis, from JM, to "be bora,
exist," are all translated, "world," or, in French, monde, gdus, "earth," is
from gd, to "create, produce;" ird, "earth," is from fr, to "produce, push
forth;" dharar, "earth," is from dhar, to "fix, hold;" talan, "soil, founda-
290 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
tion," is from tal, to ''found, hold;" and ditis, "earth or Goddess of the
earth," is from dai, to "give sustenance to, nourish." I do not know what
word is rendered worlds, in the passage on which I am commenting, but
it is more likely to mean regions than worlds ;
and it may mean three regions
of the earth, perhaps the mountains, the plains, and the forests or the sea.
Professor Miiller frankly says that he does not understand many of the
hymns, and cannot translate them at all. Professor Wilson conscientiously
and creditably did all that was in his power, and where he could not under-
stand, he reproduced the literal later meanings of the words, as nearly as
he could, and left it for future students to discover the meaning. Already,
Miiller and Muir and Roth know much mor of the real meaning of the
Veda, than the Hindu commentators; but much is still left to conjecture,
even in regard to the meanings of words whose modern sense is well known.
The Aswins are said "to defend the sun in the sky;" for they act as a
vanguard for him, rising in advance of his rising, to clear the way for him,
as it were, that he may ascend into the sky.
The car of the Aswins is the associate of that which bears the sun ;
for
if the Aswins were what I have supposed, the festivals were held at a later
time when they rose before dawn. The times of their rising, long observed,
marked times and seasons, and especially the return of spring, and its
great festivals; and when they rose in the morning, they were naturally
regarded as attendants upon, and outriders, as it were, of the sun.
By their quick-moving chariot they become the lords of Sflrya not his
superiors and rulers, but his princes, nobles or courtiers.
The sun rises, their chariot, moving westward, is associated with him,
on the summit, that is, high in the sky, while he is as yet close to the horizon.
When his daughter (Sdry&, his splendour) has ascended their car (has
overtaken them, and mingles with their light), his rays encompass them
(i. e., they are enveloped and hidden, by his superior brilliancy).
Mandala x. of the Rig-Veda contains hymns that are manifestly much
more modern than those of the other Mandalas. But all are not so.
In 61. 4, of that Mandala, is this:
When the night stands among the tawny cows [goshu oruyiiskA, rays of the dawn,
Dr. Muir says], I invoke you two, Aswins, sons of the sky.
And this agrees with what is elsewhere said, that when the three wheels
of the Awins, which were invisible, have become manifest, then Mitra
and Varuna are invoked to rise, and to come, "by the paths of truth," to
the presence of living beings*
THE ASWINS 291
It is to me a very persuasive fact, that, unless the Aswins were stars,
none of these bodies were regarded as Deities by the Aryans. I find it
difficult to believe this possible, when every imaginable hypostasis of Agni
was worshipped, and when he and Indra were manifested by all the stars;
and all of them were the Great Universal Principle, in action, limited in
form and place. Worshipping Agni and Indra, they must have revered
the stars.
It is scarcely an admissible hypothesis, that this race of men alone, in
its youth, attached no ideas of potency and influence to particular luminaries
and groups, that were then worshipped by all other races, and were after-
wards the origin or source of much of the mythology of their own decend-
ants. The evidences that the planets and stars were adored by the early
Greeks and Latins, Goths, Sclaves, Kelts and Germans, are ample. And
the sacred Zend books not only show that this was the worship of the
ancient Persians, but, in doing so prove that the ancestors of both the
Bactrian Zends and of the Aryans of the Punjab worshipped the stars,
They are still invoked in all the books Tistrya, with beautiful eyes, the
stars pertaining to Tistra, the Star Vanant nil the "Lights without a
beginning."
Mr. Prescott (Mexico, i. 121) says,
As the eye of the simple child of Nature watches through the long nights the stately
march of the heavenly bodies, and sees the bright host coming up, one after another,
and changing with the changing seasons of the year, he naturally associates them
with those seasons as the periods over which they hold a mysterious influence.
^Eschylus says (Prometheus Bound, 454. 7),
And they had no sure sign, either of winter, or of flowery spring; or of fruitful
summer, but they used to do everything without judgment, until I showed to them
the risings of the stars, and their settings, hard to be discerned.
So, in the opening of his Agamemnon:
I have beheld the gathering of the nightly stars, both those that bring winter
and summer to mortals, brilliant lords, stars conspicuous in the aether.
Spring was the season for rejoicing; and Plutarch tells us that the
common time for the solemnization of the sacred rites (among the Greek
descendants of the Aryans) was within that month in which the Pleiades
appear. These were long esteemed the leading stars of the Sabsean year,
long after the colure of the vernal equinox had quitted Aldebardn and the
Hyades.
292 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The periodical ascension and departure of certain groups of stars, could
not but have been found (long before the immigration into the Land of the
Five Rivers, thousands, perhaps, of years before that, and long before the
first wave of Aryan emigration flowed out to the west and northwest, to
become the northern races of Europe) to be the invariable forerunners,
and those of other groups the never-failing concomitants, of the changes
of the seasons; and adoration of the stars, brilliant in their appearance, at
an immense distance, infinite in number, and constant and unerring in
their courses, appears to have been the earliest religious movement of the
human mind. The stars became celestial, oracles, announcing the approach
of those changes, on which the prosperity of men, if not their existence,
depended.
By the precession of the equinoxes, the equinoctial point is continually,
but very slowly, moving along the ecliptic, in a direction contrary to that
of the sun's proper motion. This regression of the equinoctial points on
the plane of the ecliptic, a constant shifting of the intersection of the
ecliptic and equator, causes the annual arrival of the sun in either of the
equinoxes to be a little earlier than it would otherwise be. The amount of
the precession is a little over 50 seconds of longitude annually, or, exactly,
50". I.
The equinoctial colure now passes through the constellation Pisces:
390 years before Christ, it passed through the principal star (7) in the
constellation Aries; about 2,500 years before Christ, it passed through
the Hyades, in Taurus. Sirius then rose heliacally (with the sun, at the
summer solstice) ; and the Hyades rose with the sun at the vernal equinox.
As the Bull then opened the spring, the sun being then in Taurus at that
equinox, the Bull became to the ancient nations the symbol of the genera-
tive power, being supplanted by Aries about 390 years before Christ.
About 4,500 years before Christ, the sun was in Gemini or the Twins, at
the vernal equinox, and the two great stars of that constellation then led
the heavenly host, preceded by the constellations Taurus and Orion.
The constellation Aries is followed, in the east by Taurus, the most
westerly group of stars in which is the Pleiades, in the shoulder. South-
east of these, in the forehead, are the Hyades, and east of these is a star
at the extremity of each horn. East of Taurus, opposite the horns, is
Gemini, the Twins, in the northeastern part of which, not far apart, are
the bright stars a and P, Castor and Pollux.
Between Taurus and Gemini, but to the south of both, is Orion, the most
splendid constellation in the heavens1
, with a bright star in each shoulder
and each leg, and three in a line on the belt. Below Orion, to the southeast
is Sirius, the most brilliant star in the heavens. The bright star Aldebar^n
THE AWINS 293
is one of the Hyades, and when he rose with the sun at the vernal equinox,
he was called the Leader of the Celestial Hosts; and his name, which is
Arabic, means "The Leader." When the Pleiades rose just before the sun,
the ancients knew that the spring season had returned, and therefore their
heliacal rising was hailed by the orientals, with grateful and glad acknowl-
edgment of their sweet influences, and their promises of genial abundance.
They were emphatically "The Seven," and were, I think, the "Seven
Mother-Streams ;" for their heliacal rising announced the coming of the rains
of the vernal equinox.
In the Hindu astronomical work, Sfirya-SiddhSnta (translation of Rev. E.
Burgess, 183), the stars Castor and Pollux are called Punarvasu, from
punar, "again," and vasu, "good, brilliant." In all the more ancient lists,
the name appears as a dual, punarvasti Burgess. (But vasu is "being,
existence," ov<ria.)
The Greek legend as to these stars, and as to the Demigods that became
the constellation Gemini, may, if we examine it, be found to have grown
or been fashioned out of the old and much simpler Vedic notions in regard
to these stars.
Castor and Pollux were called by the Greeks the Dioscuri [AwxrxovpoJ,
children of Dios or Zeus. They were the children of Leda, to seduce whom
Jupiter became a swan. Pausanias mentions the great regard paid to
them, particularly by the people of the Island of Cephalonia, who "styled
them by way of eminence, the Great Gods." There are altars extant,
which are inscribed Castori et Polluci Diis Magnis; and in Griiter is a Greek
inscription, which designates them, in the genitive, as'Gew? Me7a\o>v
Axrxopa>p KajSctpcop, "the Great Gods," Dioscuri Kabeiri. Their Greek
names were Kaorwp and HoXuSefoajs, KastSr and Poludeukes. Castor, in
another account, was reputed, though born of the same mother, and at
the same time, with, Pollux, to be the son of Tyndarus, Leda's husband,
and mortal, while Pollux was immortal. They went with Jason in quest
of the fleece of gold, and Castor was distinguished in the management of
horses, while Pollux was the God and patron of boxing and wrestling.
Afterwards, they deared the Hellespont and the neighbouring seasof pirates.
Castor being killed, Pollux entreated Jupiter to restore him to life, or relieve
himself of his immortality, which Jupiter permitted Castor to share; and
consequently, as long as one was upon earth, the other was detained in the
infernal regions; and each alternately lived and died every day, or, accord-
ing to others, very six months. Jupiter rewarded them for their fraternal
affection, by transferring them to the heavens, as the two great stars of the
constellation Gemini. They are said to have been initiated into the sacred
mysteries of the Kabiri, and are also called by that name. They had many
294 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
surnames, indeed, and were generally represented mounted on white horses,
armed with spears, and riding side by side, their heads covered with bonnets,
with a star glistening on the top of each*
They were styled the health-giving Divinities, or Divine Saviours, and
especially protected sailors against shipwreck.
There are very striking resemblances between these stars, as mytho-
logically represented, and the Aswins. The close and intimate union
between the two Aswins, so distinctly and emphatically stated and reiterated
in the Veda, indicates much more than mere proximity; and the Aryan
expressions of it were but developed in the Greek myth.
Another point of resemblance is even more suggestive. In the Sans-
krit, Asvan, or Agvan is a "horse," and Asvin or Agvin a
*
'horseman, rider*
'
or
"cavalier." The Aswins or A$vins, then, are the Horsemen, as the Greek
Dioskouroi were the Kabeiroi, riding their white horses, side by side.
The stars of the constellation Gemini opened the vernal year 4,500 years
before Christ. The Dioscuri were then the most noticeable of all the stars,
for their rising marked the recurrence of the vernal equinox. When, 2,000
or more years later, they were supplanted by the Hyades, Aldebarin be-
came the Leader, in their stead, and continued so, long after the Hyades had
ceased to be the heralds of the spring, and the Pleiades had taken their
places.
Now, we find, in the same astronomical work, the Sfirya-Siddhglnta,
which is among the earliest textbooks of the Indian science, that about
the year 570 after Christ, or somewhat earlier, the star of the constellation
Pisces coincided in position with the vernal equinox, that star being the
principal one of the asterism Revati, which ends where the asterism Asvini
or Agvini begins. The latter is composed of either two stars ( and 7)
in Aries, or of three, or Arietis being included with them. The beginning
of Asvini became the initial point of the fixed Hindu sphere, from which
longitudes are reckoned, about the year 570 AJ>., in consequence of its
coincidence, then, with the vernal equinox.
In the older lists, as also often elsewhere, we find, instead of Agvini, the
dual a&rindu, a$vayajdu, the "two horsemen," or "A$vins." Mr. Burgess
says,
The Agvins are personages in the ancient Hindu mythology, somewhat nearly
corresponding to the Castor and Pollux of the Greeks. They are the Divinities of
the asterism which is named from them. The group is figured as a horse's head,
doubtless in allusion to its presiding Deities, and not from any imagined resemblance.
The dual name leads us to expect to find it composed of two stars; and that is the
number allotted to the asterism by the Qakalya and KhancJa-Kataka.
THE ASWINS 295
The later authorities state the number of the stars in the asterism at three.
Now, the two largest stars in Aries are only of the third magnitude, and
the third is still smaller. The two are in no way noticeable, simply as
stars, though easily enough recognized; and they never could have been
of any importance, or have attracted particular attention, until after
Aries had come, about 350 or 390 years B.C., to be the sign into which the
sun entered at the vernal equinox, when, insignificant as they were, they
became the Leaders, in the place of Aldebar&n, who had, more than two
thousand years before (about 2455 B.C.) supplanted Castor and Pollux.
And Mr. Burgess says,
In the most ancient recorded lists of the Hindu asterisms (in the texts of the Black
Yajur-Veda and of the Atharva-Veda), Krttika, now the third, appears as the first.
The time when the beginning of that asterism coincided with the vernal equinox,
would be nearly two thousand years earlier than that given above, for the coin-
cidence with it of the first point of Agvini.
My conclusions are, that when the sun was in Gemini, at the vernal
equinox (from 5500 B.C. to 2000 B.C.), the two stars, Castor and Pollux,
leading upward the heavenly hosts, were the celestial riders, or horsemen
and leaders, the Agvins, and were called A^vim. Kfttika is the Pleiades.
After the sun had reached that asterism at the vernal equinox, about 2000
B.C., Aldebar&i had not lost his place as leader, and the Agvini may have
continued to be Castor and Pollux, or the name have been transferred to
the two stars of the horns of Taurus, or to Betelgeux and Bellatrix in Orion.
If either, probably the former pair received the name, since, being on the
same meridian, they rise and set together, while the others are on an east
and west line. However, as to this we have no further information than
that the Pleiades were, some two thousand years before the stars of Aries
became so, the first asterism and initial point of the Indian sphere, Alcyone
being the junction star.
The two small stars in Aries could not have been called the Awins, in
the Punjab. For then, being west of Taurus, they were high in heaven,
and insignificant, when the Twins opened the year, and Castor and Pollux
were invested with the characteristics and attributes that were afterwards
developed into the Grecian myths. They must have been called by the
Aryans, "The Horsemen" and "The Twins," or, if not called by the latter
name, have been described as intimately united, as they are in the Veda,
before that stream of emigration flowed off, which made Greece an Aryan
colony.
And when we see that in Greece these stars became emphatically the
Great Gods, the Kabeiroi, protectors of sailors, Gods of health and salvation,
296 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
we shall not wonder at the terms in which the Aswins are spoken of in the
Veda.
These are the relative positions of the principal stars of the constellation
Gemini:
and south of them is their "triangular, three-wheeled, three-benched,
three-columned" car. For the Agvini in Aries, that car could only be
themselves and the small third star, by later astronomers included in the
asterism.
If the two stars at the extremities of the horns of Taurus ever were the
Awins, the triangular car may have been themselves and Aldebar&i,
which form a triangle, thus:
'
s
and if Betelgeux and Bellatrix ever became the Awins, the car was formed
by themselves and 0, of the horns of Taurus, thus:
but the language of the Vedas applies to none of these asterisms so well,
THE ASWINS 297
as to that of Gemini; and it can confidently be said, that either the name
Agvini was not applied to any asterism, until the equinoctial colure passed
between Pisces and Aries, about the year 570 of our era, or that it was
before then applied to a different asterism, further to the east. In the
Vedic times, and afterwards while Aldebaran was the leader, there was
nothing to cause the application of the name to the small stars of Aries.
I conclude, therefore, that the Aswins of the Vedic Poets were the two
stars, Castor and Pollux.
It has always seemed strange to me that the Pleiades should have
received the name of "The Seven," when to the naked eye they are but
six in number. I never believed that originally there were seven, and that
one had disappeared; and I did believe that the legend of the lost Pleiad
was a mere invention, for what purpose conceived of, I had no idea. If
"The Seven" were originally another group of stars, whose place the
Pleiades took, when Taurus succeeded Gemini as opener of the spring, this,
otherwise inexplicable, becomes clear; and there are seven bright stars,
besides Castor and Pollux, and below them, in the constellation Gemini.
These were perhaps the original seven "shedders," or "mothers of water."
It is noteworthy, in this connection, that all the Divinities to whom the
regency of the Hindu asterisms is assigned, are from the Vedic pantheon.
The popular Divinities of later times are not to be found among them, and,
on the other hand, more than one whose consequence is lost, and whose
names almost are forgotten, even in the epic period of Hindu history,
appears in the list. Prajapati, "the lord of created beings," is regent of
the Hyades, and Yama, Indr-Agni, Mitra, Soma, Rudra, Brihaspati, Bhaga,
Aryaman, Savitar, Tvashtar, Indra, Vishnu, Pushan, the Vasus and Varuna,
are regents of other constellations. The name Asvini is as old as they, and
in the Vedic period designated some two stars: and these could not have
been the same that now bear the name. They must have been those that
4,500 years ago marked by their heliacal rising, as the stars of Aries did
1,200 years ago, the advent of the vernal equinox. And, though it is,
perhaps, only a slight coincidence, the Aswins are invited to alight like two
swans; and, in the Greek myth, Castor and Pollux, begotten by Jupiter
in the shape of a swan, were born from an egg.
Mr, Cox (Mythol. ti* 67) says,
The presence of the Dioskouroi, the bright Avins or Horsemen, complicates the
story, of Theseus.
Of the Kabeiroi, he says (ii, 314) that
they have a protecting and soothing power, and hence are nourishers of the earth
and its fruits, and the givers of wine to the Argonautai.
298 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Again, speaking of Herakles, he says,
Kastor, who shows him how to fight in heavy armour, Is the twin brother of Poly-
deukes, these Twins answering to the Vedic Asvins or horsemen.
Here, Mr. Cox had a glimpse of the truth; but looking back, I find him
saying (L 426),
so, too, the Morning and the Evening, the Gloaming and the Dawn, became, as we
have seen, twin steeds, the Aswins, joined together in a mysterious bond which made
it impossible to draw a line between the approach of the one and the vanishing of
the other;
and I close the book in despair. The Vedic Gods are only vague, shifting
shadows, to Mr. Cox.
The subjoined sketch or diagram of the stars and constellations of which
we have spoken, will assist the reader, perhaps, in judging of the value of
my suggestions. He must remember that the upper side of the page is north ;
but that the left hand and not the right, is east. If he will turn over the
leaf, keeping the upper side to the north, and holding it above his head, look
up at it he will see the stars in their true positions, and will understand that
Gemini rises after Orion, and Orion after Taurus after Aries; so that when
The Twins rose at dawn at the vernal equinox, the present Aswins had
ascended far into the sky, and Orion, the Hyades and Pleiades were
far below the horizon; and that when all had risen, seven great brilliant
stars could be seen at once in the eastern and southeastern sky, Castor,
Procyon, Sirius, Rigel, Betelgeux, Capella and Aldebar&n.
LYNX
\
OTHER DEITIES OF THE VEDA.
The Deities of the Veda are very numerous, and of many of them it will
always be impossible to know more than the names, inasmuch as either
their names are merely mentioned once, twice or a few times, without more;
or, in what is said of them or addressed to them, there is nothing to identify
them with any visible or intellectual object of worship.
In one hymn (ii. of Anuv. Hi. Adhy. Hi. of Asht. v.), the following are
named: Indra, Agni, Varuna, Somas, Pushan, Bhaga, Sansas, Purandhi,
Aryaman, Mitra, the Aswins, the Vasus, Rudra, the Rudras, Twashtri,
Aditi, the Maruts, Vishnu, Vayu, Savitri, Parjanya, Sambhu, Saraswatf,
the Ribhus, Aja-ekapad, Ahirbudhnya, Prisni, and the Adityas.
And, in other hymns, besides these, Vjihaspati, Btihaspati, Brahmanas-
pati, Ritu, Neshtri, Daksha or Daxa, Ansa, Asridh, Tarkshya, Trita, Yama,
Ribukshin, Stirya, Swar, Vibhwan, Atri, Vaja, Vidhttri, and Vata and yet
others, are named.
In addition to these are the Goddesses, Ila, Stirya, Indrani, Agniyi,
the Awini, Rodasi, Varun^ni, Riki, Sinlvali, Gangu, Mahi, IJita, Gna,
P^ithivi, Dhishana, Varutri, Bharati, Hotra, Urvasi, Nivyiti, Suna, Sua
and Sita.
I shall not particularly inquire as to any other of all these, in addition
to those already considered, than Pushan, Bhaga, Twsjishtri, Rudra,
Saraswati, Saram&, Pitu an4 Vasu. Of the others, only a few words can
be or need be said.
Many of the names are perhaps merely epithetical, appellatives of Agni,
Indra and other Gods; and some are certainly the names of deified men,
supposed to have been anciently translated to the stars.
Gandharva or Gandharba is named two or three times, and said, in
Professor Wilson's note to one passage where it occurs, to be a name of the
sun. In another note, it is said to be a synonym of one or the other of two
other Divinities.
In Hand. x. 139. 5, is this passage:
The divine Gandharva [Divyo Gandharvo], measurer of space [rajaso vimdnab]. [Dr.
Muir translates rajaso, "the world.
11
}
In the Udyoga-parva, a mountain Gandhamadana is mentioned. In
the Brahmanic books, a people named Gandhtrvas are mentioned, of whom
OTHER DEITIES OF THE VEDA 301
Nagnajit was king, and whom Krishna destroyed. The appellation Divyo
shows that some luminary, probably a star, bore this name.
Trita,
*
'the son of the waters,
' '
is several times mentioned. He harnessed
the horse given by Yama; slew the mutilated Vptfa: he is named with Vayu
and Agni; and is supposed in one note to be a name of Indra, in another, of
Yama, and in other places is evidently a Rishi.
In Mand. viii. 12. 16, we find,
whether, Indra, thou enjoyest Soma, along with Vishnu, or with Trita Aptya, or
with the Maruts
Dadhikra ordinarily means a horse. In one hymn of Asht. Hi., it occurs
as the name of a Divinity. In two others, as a horse, he is extravagantly
lauded, and said to be as brilliant as Agni, to be Hansas, dwelling in light,
Vasu, dwelling in the firmament, and Agni on the altar and elsewhere, even
in the rays of light and the sky.
At first blush, all this seems to be simply nonsensical ; but it is not. The
hymn is the composition of a time when, probably on the steppes, horses
were sacrificed to the Gods. The flesh, burned in the sacrificial fire, fed it,
became part of it, was transmuted into the flame, and so becoming of the
very substance of Agni manifested, ascended to the skies, and> as light,
became Hansas and Vasu, as, at and on the altar, it became Agni.
Ansa is named as one of the Adityas, with Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman*
In the Linga-Purana, Vishnu is represented as calling himself Hansa, the
swan. I think Ansa was a name of the moon.
Tishya, the commentators say, is the eighth lunar mansion. That is no
Vedic idea. Siyana calls him an Aditya. He was probably some star.
What he became in later ages, it is of no interest to know. The Gandhirvas,
after the Vedic period, became evil spirits of some sort; as the Devas became
the evil Daevas of the Persians, and gave to the devil of the Christian
religion his name.
Ribukshin is two or three times said in the notes of Professor Wilson, to
be an ordinary name of Indra; but unfortunately, in a hymn of Asht. iv. it
occurs in the same stanza with Indra Ribukshin, Vaja and Purandhi
forming a triad.
In Mand. i. 186. 10, we have, by Dr. Muir's translation,
Vishnu is free from malice, and so is Vata, and Ribhuxan [Vishqu, Vdtafc,
Dr. Muir parenthesizes "Vayu," after Vata.
302 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
And in Mand. ii. I. 3, it is said, to Agni, "Thou, sustainer, art associated
with Purandhi," which Dr. Muir parenthesizes as "devotion;" and in the
preceding clause, Agni had been addressed as Brahmanaspati. In a note
on p. 14 (prig. Sansk. Texts, iv.) Dr. Muir quotes from Mand. x. 168. 4,
Soul of the Gods [atmd devdndm], and Source of the World [bhuvansya], this Deity
[deva] marches at his will. His sounds are heard, but not his form: to this Vata
[Vdtdya] let us offer our oblations: [and Dr. Muir renders Vata by 'wind'].
Vibhwan was the artificer of Varuna, as Vaja was of all the Gods, and
Ribukshin of Indra. (Sdkta i. Anuv. iv. Adhy. mi. Asht. Hi.) One note of
Professor Wilson says that he was the second of the Ribhus, a skilful artist.
Ribhu, Vibhwa and Vaja are, in Asht. ii., said to be sons of Sudhanwan.
They were the Ribhus; and were men deified. I do not doubt that by them
some group of three stars was indicated. For "the Seven Rishis" were the
constellation Ursa Major; and it is a reasonable presumption that other
brilliant and notable stars were assigned to other Rishis as their domicils.
Apamvatsa is the Hindu name of Spi.ca Virginis, and it means "child of the
waters." That is what Trita is called. Tishya was probably Sinus.
Aja-Ekapad occurs three times, as the name of a Divinity, and Ahirbud-
hnya six times. The texts give no clue to the character of either. The
latter is said to mean "a Deity presiding over the firmament." I cannot
find such meanings for its parts.
"The adorable Umas, who come when they are invoked," are mentioned
once. The Veda gives no clue to the meaning of the name. In the Hindu
books, Umd or Umd Haimavati, was the wife of Siva knowledge [Vidya],
in the form of Um, very resplendent, the daughter of Himavat; and it is
said, "Uma is divine knowledge." No doubt the Umas were a group of
stars.
The brilliant Rdkd is mentioned once. There is nothing to show what
he was.
Sindhu is once or twice named as a Divinity, and several times as a
river. It is the true name of the Indus.
Ilita is said to be an appellation of Agni, meaning "adored," "wor-
shipped."
Agni is once invoked to bring with him the divine Gna; and this name is
said to be a synonym of Stri, a "woman," a "wife."
Gangu is invoked, "who is Sitiivali, who is Rdkd, who is Saraswati"
Gangu is said to be a synonym of Kuhu, the day of conjunction, when the
moon rises invisible. How that day is Siftivali, Rlldl and Saraswati, the
OTHER DEITIES OF THE VEDA 303
River Goddess, we do not learn. In the Ramayana, Ganga is the Ganges.
She was the sister of UmS, daughter of Himavat, king of the mountains.
Hotra is called the wife of Agni; and Bhirati of Bharata, who is said to
be an Aditya.
DUshaM is said to be the Goddess of Speech. Its root is probably
dhai, to "observe, meditate;" whence dhis, "thought, reflection."
Indmni, Varundni and Agnayt are named two or three times, and are
wives of Indra, Varuna and Agni: what they were, or with what identified,
it is not possible to know. If we could know, an entirely new angle of
Vedic ideas might be open to us. Neither of these Deities is represented
as having progeny; and, unless these feminine words were mere names and
no more, without any real idea of personality connected with them, they
may be evidence of the existence of an idea largely developed afterwards,
to-wit, that each of these Deities was of a double nature, masculine and
feminine; and that so, for example, Agni was both the generator and pro-
ducer of fire. In that idea we should have the germ of the Hindu myth,
of the self-division of Brahm, by the sexual impulse, and the production
of the universe by Maya, his feminine self.
Rodasi is said to be the wife of Rudra. Once she is bride of the Maruts.
Varutri is named but once. It is doubtful whether the word is the name
of a Goddess, or an epithet of one having another name.
Ila, "the mother of the herd," is said to be the earth. In one place,
she is styled the instructress of Manu (father of the race of Aryans); and
to her is ascribed the first institution of sacrifices. She is said to have been
the daughter of Manu. "For him we worship Ila," it is said in AshL i.; "on
the most sacred spot of earth, upon the foot-mark of Ila," in Asht. ii. The
scholiast says she made that foot-mark, when in the shape of a cow. She
is said by Sayana to be the Goddess presiding over the earth, Bhdrati over
the heaven, and Saraswati over the firmament; but all are special manifes-
tations of the majesty of the sun. There is nothing in the Veda to warrant
this. Saraswati has nothing to do with the firmament; for she is a river
and a river Goddess. What is the meaning of the phrase "special manifes-
tations of the majesty of the sun?" Does it mean that these Goddesses are
the light, the heat, the fertilizing energy, his melting, drying or tanning
power, or other potencies or energies, manifested on earth, in the expanse
and in the sky? I do not find any reason to believe that either of these
Deities was any such manifestation. Nor do I suppose that Styana meant
that either of them was any thing specifically. The phrase is one of those
that reither expresses nor conveys any idea.
In the Third Ashtaka, this Goddess is "Ila, daughter of Daksha," and is
said to be earth, or the altar. "Offerer of the oblation," it is said in
304 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Ashf. m, "sit down on the foot-mark of Ila." The texts do not enable us to
even conjecture what Ila was . Certainly no manifestation or subsistence
of Agni, because it is impossible to imagine any one of these making a foot-
mark, in which a Deity could be supposed to sit down. When named with
Saraswati and Mahi or Bh&rati, we have nothing more than the names.
The root II meant to "move, hasten;" whence the Greek 4Xao>,"agitate,"
and iaXXoj, "send, emit, utter;" and Sanskrit /to, "mobile." But this gives
us no assistance in determining what Ila was.
That Bhdrati is one of the above-mentioned triad, is all that we learn in
regard to her. The Bhdratas were a race or family among the Aryans, the
descendants of Bhdrata, who was the son (according to tradition) of Sakun-
ta&, the daughter of the celebrated mythical sage. Vaishtha was their
family priest.
Urvasi is named twice. In Ash}, iv., with Ila, as
Urvasi with the rivers, the bright-shining Urvasi, investing the worshipper with
light.
In the Fifth Ashtaka it is said that Vaishtha is the son of Mitra and
Varuna, born of the will of Urvasi, after the seminal effusion. Who or what
she was, does not appear. The root ur means to "move, extend;" whence,
Greek, 6po>, to "excite, arouse," and, passive, to "be aroused," to "arise;"
Latin, orior, to "rise;" and Sanskrit, urus, "vast;" uras, urvi, "body, exten-
sion."
As Saraswati is certainly a river and a river Goddess, and Ila, Mahi and
Bhdrati are associated with her, I believe that all, as well as Urvasi were
water Goddesses. Saraswati was a particular river, as Sindhu was the
Indus and Gangu the Ganges or some river in the Punjab, after which the
Ganga was subsequently named.' Ila, I think, was a Goddess of springs or
fountains, of water springing up, agitated and bubbling, from the earth,
near the places of sacrifice and elsewhere; and "mothers of the herds"
because of them the horses and cattle drank. Urvasi, I believe, was the
Goddess of the dear, smooth, bright lakes, from which the rivers ran.
There were several such in the higher country of the Punjab.
Suna, Stira and Sita are invoked but once in SAkta xii. Anuv. v. Adhy.
viii. ofAsht.iii*,a.hymn relating to field-work, and evidently intended to be
sung in the spring, at the ploughing time. The imbecility of Hindu inter-
pretation is peculiarly manifest in relation to these Goddesses. Suna and
Stira are asked to sprinkle the earth with the water they have created in
heaven; which of course is rain; and Sita is prayed to be present, to be pro-
pitious, that she may yield the worshipper abundant fruit. Indra is
OTHER DEITIES OF THE VEDA 305
invoked to "take hold" of Sita, Pushan to guide; and the Poet adds, "may
she, well stored with water, yield it as milk, year after year.'*
Suna and Sira are, in the original, Sund-sirau, in the dual. One
authority makes Suna the Deity of the sky, that is, Indra; and, according
to Siyana, Stra is then Vayu. Another authority considers Suna to be
Vayu, and Slra, Aditya. In ordinary acceptance, Professor Wilson says,
Sflna-Sira is a name of Indra.
Sitd, it is said, is usually &furrow, and as such occurs as a personification
of "the Deity" in the Yajush. Siyana explains it, "the wood supporting
the furrow," which Indra is to "take hold of;" and, says Professor Wilson,
"Slta may mean the sky." In the Hindu hooks she is daughter of Janaka
and wife of Rama an incarnation of Vishnu. Accused by her husband
of unchastity, she threw herself into the fire.
Sira, from si, to "tie or bind together, join, unite," is, in Sanskrit, a
"nerve." From su or sfl, to "dart, hurl, fling, throw, cast, produce, emit,
etc.," come sfitas, "emitted," sdtis, "emission," s&nas, sdnus, a "son:" and
the root sur is to "dart, hurl or shine." Sura also was wine, an intoxicating
liquor.
Mahij with Ila and Saraswati forms a triad. The word is said to be a
synonym of Bhdrati. The scholiast says that the three are personifications
of Agni. Mahi is not named alone, nor is there a word in the Veda by
which to identify her, nor any clue to aid us, except that she is named and
connected with Saraswati.
Nwfiti (calamity) is named two or three times as an evil Goddess,
against whom protection is invoked. She is styled "powerful and inde-
structible." Once, she seems to be the Deity of poverty and misfortune.
In another hymn she is divine, and acknowledges Indra as ruler; and there
the note thinks she is the earth : and once she is invoked to sustain the body
with food, and preserve it from decay.
P?i$ni is the mother of the Maruts, who are styled, in one hymn, Pfi$ni-
matdrah (who have Pdni for mother). Siyana says that Ptini is the
many-coloured earth. How it is the mother of the storm-winds, he does
not explain. In the Nighantu, the word is a synonym of sky or heaven in
general, we are told; and Rosen shows, Professor Wilson says, that in some
texts it occurs as a name of the sun. Truly an admirably defined Deity
at once earth, sky, heaven and sun, and mother of the storm-winds also,
whose father is Rudra! In another place, where the Maruts are called
Pfisnir-matdrah, the scholiast explains pfi$ni by dhenii, a "milch-cow."
The phrase, "sons of Ptf ni," without more, occurs three times in Ash}.
i. Prini is named as mother of the Maruts, the phrase, the second time,
being, "golden-breasted Maruts, the vigourous begot you of the pure
306 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
womb of P$ini." In Asht. v., Prisni is distinctly said to have received
the germ of the Maruts from Rudra, and to give milk from her bright udder.
The Gods (Deua, the luminaries) are her guardians, and she grants happiness.
'The vast Prisni'
7
bore the Maruts at her udder (udho babhana). Udhas,
it is said, may mean the firmament or womb. In AshL iv., the Maruts are
styled "offspring of the maternal cow." In Asht. iv., it is said, that the
Maruts "have declared Prjsni mother; the mighty ones have declared the
food-bestowing Rudra, father;" and three times more in that Ashtaka, they
are declared to be the sons of Prisni, Dr. Muir translates Mand. ii. 34. 2,
at the time when the prophet Rudra generated you, O Maruts, with jewels on your
breasts, from the shining udder of Prisni.
And Mand. v. 52. 16,
These wise and powerful Maruts, who, when I was seeking with my friends, declared
to me that the earth, Prini, was their mother, and that the rapid Rudra was their
father. I do not find any word meaning 'earth,' in 'vochanta Sdrayab pr^s^im
vochanta mdtaram.'
I think that Prisni is the atmosphere. We know that the winds are
the air in motion;, but this the Aryans did not know. They could have
conceived of the wind only as an immense power or force, vast, irresistible,
mysterious, generated by some potent agency in the expanse, and sweeping,
mighty though invisible, over the face of the earth. They could not have
conceived of it as the same in substance as the soft breathings of the summer
air; or if they did, the force and power, manifested by the winds, and not
the masses of air themselves, were the Maruts whom they adored; and this
force and power had, according to their ideas, to be generated by something,
and produced from something. Therefore the Maruts were born from
"the prolific womb of Prisni;" certainly either the expanse or open space,
or the air that covered the earth.
Pfithivi is said everywhere to be the earth. It is so rendered wherever
it occurs. To many of these passages I have already referred, and need
only say here that the word simply means "extended" or "expanded," and
that, in my opinion its oldest or older meaning in the Veda, was that imme-
diately derived from the root, "the extended," "the expanse." Its con-
finement to the earth, as spread out or extended, was a later appropriation.
There is one hymn of three stanzas as addressed to her (Sdkta xii.
Anuv. m. Adhy. iv. Asht. w.), in which, by Professor Wilson's translation,
she is said to "sustain the fracture of the mountains," and, "mighty and
most excellent, to delight the earth with her greatness." I do not see how
she can be the earth, which she delights. She is termed "wanderer in
OTHER DEITIES OF THE VEDA 307
various ways;" which the earth certainly was not, to the Aryans, who
thought it solidly .fixed.
Bright-hued,* she tosses the swollen, like a neighing horse With solid earth,
she sustains by her strength the forest lords, when the showers of ner cloud fall
from the shining sky.
She cannot be the earth, when she unites with the earth, to nourish with the
rain from her clouds the lords of the forest. So Siyana, always equal to
the emergency, says that here Prithivi has a two-fold meaning, and applies
also to the firmament. That is, being one thing, the earth, it is two, the
earth and the expanse. Dyava-P?ithivi often occurs, the conjunction
"and" being omitted; and it is always rendered "heaven and earth." I
think it is, "sky and expanse." In Siikta iiL Anuv. ccxii. Ad/iy. Hi. of
Asht. ii., which is addressed to Dyava-Prithivi, they are called
the benevolent father, and the mother, who with kindness have secured by their
excellent protections, the vast and manifold immortality of their progeny: [the
luminaries, I think, of heaven].
They are styled "Dyau voh Pitd, Prithivi mdtd" But Yaska explains mata,
to denote the antarikslia, "the firmament." Of the children, "the progeny,
whether stationary or moving" (fixed stars or planets), Stanza 4 says,
Those provident and intelligent sisters, conceived of the same womb, united, and
dwelling in the same abode, mete out [times and seasons?]: knowing and bright-
shining, they spread in ever new [i. e., diffuse ever fresh and undiminished radiance],
throughout the radiant expanse.
Was the earth conceived of as mother of the stars?
Ayu is several times named as an Aryan prince, aided in war by Indra;
once it is said that Indra made the planets manifest to Ayu and Manu; and
twice Ayu is named as a Deity once with Mitra, Varuna, Aryaman and
Indra, where, the commentators S^yana and Mahidhara say, the name is
synonymous with Vayu; and again, with the same, in a hymn In which
Vayu also is named twice. Nothing is said by which it can be known what
Ayu was.
Wide-hipped SintMt, protectress of mankind, who has beautiful arms, beautiful
fingers, and is the parent of many children,
is said by the Hindu commentators to be the new moon, on the first day
of its appearance. The next stanza says:
308 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
I invoke her who is Gangu, who is Sinivall, who is Rlk&, who is Saraswati, Indranl
for protection, Varunani for welfare.
She is named nowhere else. i
The two great rivers of India, the Indus and the Ganges, have their
principal sources in valleys parallel to the line of greatest elevation of the
Himalayas, and are found in the closest connection, and interlacing, as it
were, with each other, between the Meridians of 77 and 82 east longitude.
In longitude 81 30' is Lake Tso Mapham or Manasarowar, the confluence
of the highest sources of the Jumna, the principal branch and real main
river of the Ganges. So-the sources of the Indus and its own tributary, the
Sutlej overlap each other, having their rise in close proximity to those of the
Ganges and Jumna. Lake Manasarowar is about 15,200 feet above the
sea level, and the scenery upon it is magnificent. It is of circular shape,
with rocky coasts, and about fifteen miles in diameter. The elevation of
the sources of the streams that fall into it is not less than 16,000 feet. North
of it is a mountain 22,000 feet above the sea; west of it, one of the height of
20,000, and immediately south of it, one of the height of 25,200. From
this lake a stream flows into a neighbouring lake, Tso Lanak, or Rakas Tal,
about five miles distant. This lake is of more irregular form, with several
islands in its southern extremity, where it spreads considerably to the
east and west. Its length is about twenty miles, and its greatest breadth
at the south fifteen. From it flows the main stream of the Sutlej, which,
like the Indus, runs to the westward, and then, through a pass or gap in
the mountains, to the south, running a long distance through an immense
ravine, and falling 7,000 feet in two hundred miles.
Yaska calls the Sutlej the Sutudri, and speaks of its junction with the
,
Vipas. It was the river next in importance to the Indus, to the men of the
Punjab; and the name of the Indus at that day we know to have been
Sindhu. The Saraswati was honored above all other rivers by the Vedic
Poets; and therefore I thought it was the Sutlej. The name Rdkd still
survives, in Rdkds Tal, that of the lake out of which the Sutlej flows;
Sinto&U is Gangu, Rdkd and Saraswati, and may have been the Lake
Manasarowar, a stream from which runs into Lake Rakas Tal, while from
itself go out the head waters of the Jumna. She is "wide-hipped," and
Lake Manasarowar Is circular. She has many children, and these and her
beautiful arms and fingers may mean the streams that run from the lake,
and the mountain brooks and rivulets and larger streams that run into it.
Vasu, addressed as a God, is said to be a synonym of Indra in the
character of original donor or cause of habitations, from the root vas, to
"dwell." The name occurs once in Ashfaka i., and once in Ashtakaiii., where
the phrase is, "Vasu, dwelling in the expanse:" there the scholiast inter-
OTHER DEITIES OF THE VEDA 309
polates "wind:" and it occurs once in Ashtaka vi., as a synonym or name of
Agni.
In later ages, Vasu-deva (Vasu the divine) was a name of Krishna.
In the Sabh&-parva, it is said,
He is to be known as Vasudeva, from his dwelling [vasandt] in all beings, from his
issuing as a Vasu from a divine womb. [There, he] possesses the nature of all
principles:
he is not generated by a father, is unborn, and is absolute existence. He
is the source and destruction of all things, the existent as well as the non-
existent. In the Anujasana-parva, he is the Supreme Spirit, omniscient
and omnipresent, source of all things; the four-armed son of Sura, one
with Brahma.
From was, to "be, exist," comes. Vasu, "being, substance;'* Greek
oucria; Gothic, wisan; German, wesen; Russian, weszcz.
Agni, we know, was as well the vital warmth of the body and of Nature,
as he was the household fire. One or two of the Poets, it seems, had con-
ceived of him as abstract being or existence, the principle or substance of
which each individual existence is a ray or spark. It was the first germ
of a vast religious development. It was precisely the idea that was
embodied in the Hebrew name of Deity, nin*'; the vague undeveloped
idea of absolute, abstract existence, of course eternal, without being or end,
because its nature is to be, and it cannot not be. It was but a little step
from it to the conception of it as the source of all existences, the creative
God, which it afterwards became, as Vasudeva. But in the Veda, the
second step had not been taken. Agni was Vasu the Fire-Principle was
the cause of existence, was that in which existence consisted.
In Mandala x. we find dhatur dyutanat, the shining dhdfyi, named, with
Savitri and Vishnu, three times in three stanzas of one hymn; and in
another we find,
Let Vishnu form the womb; let Tvashtri mould the forms; let Prajapati infuse;
let Dhitri form the embryo. [In the original, Dkdtd.]
S^yana makes Dhitn (Dhdtd) an Aditya. From dha, to "put down,
found, effectuate," aredMte, "base" or "foundation;" dhdtar, "founder;"
dhaman, "structure;" Greek, So^a, "house." Dhdtri seems to have been
the Deity of conception; and was clearly a luminary, probably one of the
planets. The hymns are late ones, like many others of this Mandala, and
new Gods are named in them.
310 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
In Mandala #. 92. n, "the four-limbed Narasansa" is named, with
Yama, Aditi and others.
In Mandala v. 46. 3, Saihsa is named with Brahmanaspati, Bhaga and
Savitri. Manu says that the waters are called Ndrd, because they are
the offspring of Ndrd. In the Mahabharata, Niri and N^riyana are
called venerable Rishis: and in another passage of the same, they are
Krishna and Arjuna. Narasansa is, in the original, Narasamsas.
Skambha, in Mandala x. 7 and 8, is "he on whom Prajapati has sup-
ported and established all the worlds." He established earth and sky, the
atmosphere, the six wide regions, and pervaded the universe. He is "all
this which has Soul, which breathes, which winks:
7 '
and the name is said to
mean "supporter" or "propper." The hymns are evidently, from other
names contained in them, of a date much later than the Vedic times; and
this new God is but the personification of the function of propping up the
sky, ascribed in the Veda to Indra and the other principal Deities. It is
one example, of many, of the manufacture of new Gods, out of misunder-
stood expressions of the Veda.
Saru is once named (Sarave brihatyai, the great Saru), in Mandala iv.
Dr. Muir thinks that the name is a synonym of Nivriti. That is entirely
uncertain. Agni is asked why he should declare the worshipper's sin to
Pushan, Vishnu, Rudra or Saru. Nivriti, calamity, would hardly be
associated with them. The root sar means to "go, move."
In Rig-V* vi. 50. 12, we find Vaja and Vata named.
May Ribhuxan, Vaja, the divine disposer, Parjanya and Vata increase our energy!
[Ribhuxdfy Vajo, daivyo vidhdtd Parjanyavata pipyatdm isham nafy.]
Vidhiti may also be a name, though rendered "disposer/* Vata is also
named with Ribhuxan, Mandala i. 186. io:and with Vishnu, as free from
malice; and in Mandala x. 168, where it is rendered "wind*" These are
probably names of stars, as they are all Devas.
I have mentioned these, not to explain them, but because they unmis-
takably show that the Aryans worshipped as Deities many of the stars,
and the Gods of the streams and lakes, as well as the better-known Vedic
Deities; and that many of these were afterwards invested with higher
attributes, their original characters being forgotten, in the Hindu pantheon.
And we see that the Greeks and Latins also legitimately inherited their
adoration of deified men, of the Deities of the stars, and of the Gods of the
rivers; while the Vedic ideas were at a still later day developed into the
highest truths and most profound ideas of philosophy and religion.
OTHER DEITIES OF THE VEDA 311
There are also, in the Veda, classes and families of Deities.
The Vi$wadevas were all the Deities, of all classes. The word first
occurs in Sdkta Hi. of Mandala i., and is translated by Wilson "universal
Gods." Literally it means "all the Deities/' Visva or Viswa meaning "all."
The principal classes and families are the Adityas, Vasus, Ribhus,
Rudras, Nasatyas; and the Umas, and Ribukshins or Ribuxhans are also
mentioned.
The Adityas are the children of Aditi. I have already spoken of them.
It is said that Sfirya is not named as one of them in the Veda; but that is an
error. For in Mandala viii. 90. II, we find
Verily, Sftrya, thou art great: verily, Aditya, thou art great;
and Aditya is never an individual name. And in Mandala x. 88. 1 1, Sflrya is
called Aditeya. The Adityas, Mitra, Aryaman, Bhaga, Varuna, Daxa,
Ansas, it is said, "have been rajas always." In Mandala ix* 114. 3, the
Adityas are said to be seven. The number corresponds with the seven orbs
anciently considered planets, the Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars,
Jupiter and Saturn. I shall cite hereafter the texts in which Bhaga is
mentioned. Daxa or Daksha is probably Mercury. From daks, to "attain,
succeed," we have daksas, dakshinas, "skilful, adroit;" the Greek d&vs, the
Latin dexter, and the English dextrous; as well as the Gothic taiJtswa, and
the Lithuanian deszinis. Mercury, as we know, was the most cunning,
dextrous and adroit of the Gods, and as such became the patron of thieves.
He was emphatically the rogue-God. The Hindu names for this planet
are jna and budoha, "wise, knowing." For Venus, one Hindu name, is
bhrgu, and another is bhargava. I think the Adityas were these seven
planets; Ansa (swan) being a name of the moon.
The Vasus "fabricated the horse from the sun." They may be, Pro-
fessor Wilson says, "the particular Gods before specified" (in the text) "or
Demigods so named, the personified solar rays." In one hymn, they are
praised with the Rudras and Adityas, In another, Agni is honoured by
the Rudras and Vasus. They are several times addressed and spoken of,
in Ashtakas Hi. and iv. 9
and styled "divine" and "adorable." Once we find
"celestial Adityas, terrestrial Vasus" in the translation; but in the original
the words "Vasus" and "Adityas" are not found, only the epithets divyah
and parthivdsah being used, and meaning, "of the sky," and "of the expanse."
They "have concentrated vigour" in Agni, i. e., it is he who is their potency
and light, which are manifested by them : and Agni is associated with them
and the Rudras. They are named with Indra, and dwell among the devas.
In one Stikta, the name seems to be a synonym of Maruts. They know the
312 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
hearts of men, and are invoked to convey the worshippers, in their vessel,
beyond the reach of calamities.
In Mandala x. 66. 4, we find,
we invoke Aditi, dydvd-ptithivt, the great rite [%itam mahad], Indra and Vishnu, the
Maruts, the great sky [svarfyihad], the divine Adityas [devan Adityan] to our succour.
Another God, Sarasvat, is also named. And in Mandala x. 141. 3, the
Adityas are invoked, with Soma, Vishnu, Sflrya and Btfhaspati, and also with
Saravati. At a much later day, Aditya became the name of an individual
Deity.
The Ribuochans [Ribuxhaiwb] are named in Mandala #. 92. n; devas
Tvashfa, Draviyoda, RibuxanaJ^, pra rodasi, Mar^ Vishyur.
The Nasatyas are the two Avins.
The Rudras 1 will speak of with Rudra; and the Ribhus, hereafter*
A striking confirmation of the truth of what I had concluded as to Vasu,
was not seen by me until after I had written what I had to say upon that
subject; and I prefer to cite it here, as evidence of what I am sure is true,
that a competent Sanskrit scholar may find in the original, by careful study
and comparison, many words and phrases that will throw great light upon
these questions; and that the Veda will never be correctly translated, until
it is ascertained what was meant and represented by each of the principal
Gods.
I have concluded that Vasu was abstract existence not individual
life, but that Universal, from which all life proceeds. And in Mandala v.
51. 13, I find,
Mayall the Gods, may Agni, the Vasu common to all men [Vaiftayaro vasur Agnih]
.... preserve us for our welfare,
pirn
Sukta viii. Any, xxw. Adhy. v. Asht. ii. is addressed to Pitu. We
condense as follows:
Pitu, the great, the upholder, the strong, by whose invigorating power Trita
slew the mutilated Vjitra. Savoury Pitu ! Sweet Pitu ! We worship thee; become
our Protector ! Come to us, Pitu , auspicious, with auspicious aids ; not unpalatable;
a friend well respected. Thy flavours, Pitu! are diffused thro' the regions, as the
winds are spread through the sky.
'The thoughts of the Mighty Gods are fixed, Pitu, on thee: by thy kind and
intelligent assistance, India slew AhL Weextractfrom thee, Pitu, whoart exhilarat-
ing to the Gods.'
It is perfectly evident that Pitu is food, or meat, and especially the
meat burned in the fire as a sacrifice, and, thus transmuted into fire and
flame, ascending to the Gods. There being no doubt whatever as to this,
these expressions become peculiarly valuable, as keys to the meaning of
others, similar or dissimilar, employed in speaking of other Deities, and as
specimens of mistranslation, by which (expede Herculem) we may judge
of the whole.
Carried to the Deities, as part of the invisible effluence of the sacrificial
fire, the food so consumed is imagined to feed and strengthen the Gods, as
the Soma juice exhilarates them. Pitu is therefore the sustainer or nourisher
(upholder). It is food that supports the life of the worshipper, also, and
therefore Pitu is the preserver or maintainer of life (protector); and is
invoked, as a benefactor (auspicious) to come with gainful nutriment or
succour (auspicious aids). He is "a friend well-respected," i. e., a helper,
affording sustenance inestimable; and the winds carry to different quarters
the saviour of the sacrifice. The Deities desire this invigoration. By the
strength which it communicated, Indra was enabled to slay Ahi; but how
this assistance was not only kind, but "intelligent," is not easily understood ;
and this word is, of course, no representation of the original. So the con-
cluding phrase, being nonsense, cannot be a correct translation; and the
meaning probably is,
we extract from the food sacrificed, the essence of it, which gives confidence and
strength to the Gods.
PUSHAN.
Asht. i- Adhy. ii. Anno. v. Sukta m.
8. Divine Maruts, of whom Indra is the chief, and Pushan the benefactor
[Pdshardfayah, of whom Pushan is donor or benefactor],
Adhy. Hi. Anuv. viii. Sdkta vii.
This hymn is addressed to Pushan. It invokes the protection on the
road, against enemies, robbers and evil men, thieves and deceivers; asks
for riches and food, and a pleasant journey. He is styled "son of the cloud,
Deity/' sagacious and handsome, possessed of all prosperity and well
equipped with golden weapons, and good-looking.
Adhy. vi. Anuv. xiv. Sukta vi.
Pushan is named with Indra: 'we invoke that lord of living beings
Indra .... as Pushan has always been our defender, for the increase of our
riches, so may he be the unmolested guardian of our welfare!
Elsewhere he is glorified as "the bountiful Pushan," with the Aswins.
Asht. ii. Adhy. ii. Anuv. xx. Sukta v.
[Addressed to Pushan only.]
1. The greatness of the strength of the many-worshipped Pushan is univer-
sally praised I adore him whose protection is ever nigh, who is the source
of felicity; who, when devoutly worshipped, blends with the thoughts of all; who,
a Deity, is united with the sacrifice.
The interpretation of this by the scholiast is mere nonsense. "United
with the sacrifice" it is probable, merely means that Pushan, a Deva, when
worshipped, receives and unites with himself the sacrifice carried up to him
by the fire.
2 Divine bestower of happiness . . , . render our invocations pro-
ductive: render them productive in battles [i. e., let them avail us, gaining your aid].
3 ?
4 as consequent upon thy recent favour, we solicit infinite riches.
Free from anger, and entitled to ample praise, be our leader in every encounter
Free from anger, and liberal of gifts, be nigh to us, Ajaswa .... be nigh to those,
Ajaswa, who solicit food .... Pushan, accepter of offerings.
Asht. H- Adhy. Hi. Anuv. xxii. Sukta vi.
2, 3 the parti-coloured goat .... becomes an acceptable offering
to Indra and Pushan. This goat, the portion of Pushan.
Adhy. viii. Anuv. iv. Sukta viii.
PUSHAN 315
1. Soma and Pushan, you two are the generators of riches, the generators of
heaven, the generators of earth: as soon as born, you are the guardians of the whole
world: the Gods have made you the source of immortality [Ak^inavan Am%itasya
ndbkim, the cause or source of not dying, i. e., the means of sustaining life].
2. These two Divinities .... drive away the disagreeable glooms: with
these two, Soma and Pushan, Indra generates the mature in the immature heifers.
[This cannot mean to make them pregnant, but to cause them to grow to maturity.]
3. Soma and Pushan, showerers, direct towards us the seven-wheeled car,
the measure [traverser] of the spheres, indistinguishable from the Universe, every-
where existing, by five reins, and to be harnessed by the mind.
S&yana thinks that this refers to the year, consisting of seven seasons,
reckoning the intercalary month as an additional ritu or season. The
scholiast thinks that the five reins mean the solar year, reduced by amalga-
mation of the cold and dewy seasons, into five. If we can ascertain what
Pushan was, it may be possible to determine what the car and reins were.
4. One of them has made his dwelling above, in the heaven; the other, upon
earth and in the expanse.
5. One of you has generated all beings: the other proceeds, looking upon the
Universe: Soma and Pushan, protect my rite
6. May Pushan, who is the benefactor of all, be propitious . * . . May
Soma, the lord of wealth, grant us affluence.
Elsewhere we read,
Ribhus, associated with Pushan, make us joyful . . . , Divine, resplendent
Pushan .... that Pushan who looks upon all the worlds, who thoroughly con-
templates them .... Thou, divine Savitri, art Mitra, through thy functions
.... Thou art Pushan, divine one, by thy movements. For thee, Indra, for
thee may Pushan and Sudra dress an hundred buffaloes .... Hasten, Pushan,
to me: (repel) bright Deity, deadly assailing foes .... Uproot not, PusKan, the
Forest Lord, with its progeny of crows: utterly destroy those who are my revilers
.... Thou art supreme above mortals :thou art equal in glory to the Gods: there-
fore, Pushan, regard us in battles .... Pushan the rewarder.
Asty, iv. Adhy. viii. Anus. v. Sdkta iv.
1. Pushan, Lord of Paths [Pathas-pati. In another hymn he Is called Pathos
pctfhahparipatim, 'Protector of all paths
1
], we attach thee to us like a chariot for
bringing food.
According to the tenor of this and another hymn already quoted, Pushan
is the Deity presiding especially over roads or journeyings. The scholiast
describes him as presiding Deity of the earth, also as cherisher of the world,
from pOsh, to "nourish." And in this hymn he is further invoked to guide
316 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
the traveller to a hospitable host, to soften the hearts of the avaricious, insti-
gate the niggard to liberality, solicit good roads and drive enemies from
them, etc. And he bears the goad and drives the cattle.
The next Sfikta, also, is addressed to Pushan. He is invoked to give
guides who know the roads, and can direct the traveller aright; to protect
the horses of the worshippers, and their cattle; to give riches and avert
poverty, and bring back cattle that have strayed.
Sdktas m. mi. and ix. are addressed to Pushan, and viii. to Indra and
Pushan. In these, Pushan is the chief of charioteers, the wearer of a
"braid" (of hair), the lord of infinite wealth. He is a torrent of riches.
For steed, he has a goat, and is the rider of a goat, the giver of food, him
who is called the gallant of his sister, the husband of his mother, the brother
of Indra. With him as ally, Indra destroys his foes.
He, the impeller, the chief of charioteers, ever urges on that golden wheel, the
shining one who revolves [so rendered, in note, by Professor Wilson; or, perhaps,
who revolves periodically or regularly]. Of Indra and Pushan, one drinks the Soma,
the other desires the buttered meal. Goats are the bearers of one ; two horses, of the
other. When Indra sends down the waters, Pushan is along with him.
He is also called, as we have seen, "son of the cloud."
ix. 1 . One of thy forms is luminous, one is venerable, so that the day is variously
complexioned; for thou art like the sun.
2. The rider of the goat, the protector of animals .... who has been placed
over the whole, the divine Pushan, brandishing his loosened goad, proceeds, con-
templating all beings.
3. With these thy golden vessels, which navigate within the ocean-firmament,
thou dischargest the office of messenger of the sun.
4. Pushan is the kind kinsman of heaven and earth, the lord of food ....
of goodly form; whom the Gods gave to Stirya, vigourous, well-moving.
In Sdkta vi. Anuv. Hi. Adhy. iv. of Ash}. #., it is said,
Pushan, invoked before the dawn, upon the close of night, appear now in the
firmament, for the welfare of mankind.
Invoked before the dawn, appearing in the firmament at the close of
night, given by the Devas to Stirya (the sun), vigourous and well-moving
[i. e., regularly revolving?], of goodly form, navigating the sea of the expanse
with golden vessels, performing the functions of messenger of the sun;
PUSHAN 317
kind kinsman of heaven and earth; one of his forms luminous, and one
venerable, so that the day is variously complexioned, for he is like the sun ;
the impeller, chief of charioteers, urging on his golden wheel, that, shining,
revolves; guiding travellers aright; looking upon and contemplating the
world; whom Savitri is, by his movements; supreme above mortals, and
equal in glory to the Devas; divine (i. e., habitant of the sky), resplendent;
all these expressions seem applicable only to some one of the celestial
luminaries.
But, on the other hand, Pushan is benefactor of the Maruts, as Indra
is the chief of them ; he is the
*
'son of the cloud/* When devoutly worshipped,
he blends with the thoughts of all, and, a Deity, is united with the sacrifice.
He is particularly addressed jointly with Indra and with Soma; and he and
Soma are styled generators of riches, of heaven and of earth; and, as soon
as born, guardians of the whole world. The Devas have made both the
means of sustaining life. Both drive away "disagreeable glooms," and with
them Indra generates the mature in the immature heifers. They are
showerers, and they direct (or drive) the seven-wheeled car, the measure of
the spheres, indistinguishable from the universe, everywhere existing, by
five reins, and to be harnessed by the mind. One of them has made his
dwelling above, in the sky; the other, on earth and in the expanse. One has
generated all beings; the other journeys looking upon the universe.
Is there anything in these expressions, absolutely inconsistent with the
hypothesis that Pushan is a luminary? The last two sentences are quoted
with the others, because they exclude the conclusion that might otherwise
seem necessary to be drawn from the coupling together Soma and Pushan.
For we conclude that it is Pushan, who has his dwelling above in the sky
(which is appropriately said of the heavenly bodies), and Soma, who has his
as*a plant on the earth, and, mingled with the fire, in the air. And it is Soma,
we think, who is considered as the generator of beings, and Pushan who
revolves in the sky.
It is difficult to understand how a star or a planet could be called bene-
factor of the Maruts, or "son of the cloud ;*' how it could blend with the
thoughts of all, or be generator of heaven and earth; or, as soon as born,
guardian of the whole world, with Soma. How is a star or planet the means,
like Soma, of sustaining life? How does it drive away disagreeable glooms,
as Soma does, if these are anxieties and cares? How does it, with Indra
a'nd Soma, or how does Indra, with it and Soma, generate the mature in the
immature heifers? What, indeed, does that expression mean? Is it that,
by means of these, as nourishment, Indra causes the growth to maturity
of cattle?
318 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Principles or substances, and luminaries, alike, have chariots, in the
Vedas. What the seven-wheeled chariot of Soma and Pushan can be, is
hard to say* It is "the measure of the spheres;" but the Vedic Poets knew
nothing about the "spheres." It traverses the whole semicircle of the arch of
the sky : and this would indicate a celestial body. How is it "indistinguishable
from the universe, everywhere existing;" and what does this phrase mean?
What are the five reins, and how is the car to be "harnessed by the mind?"
And still, that he protects and guides travellers, against enemies and
robbers, and those who would lead them astray, seems to define him as
some luminary by which men can direct their course. If he is "son of the
cloud," he is also a Deva, a denizen of the sky, is sagacious and handsome,
well-equipped with golden weapons (rays), and good-looking (i. e., shining
brilliantly). That, as a Deity, he is "united with the sacrifice," does not
mean that he is a part of it, as a subsistence of Agni,or anything that becomes
part of the flame, because he is also called "the accepter of offerings." The
parti-coloured goat is offered to him and Indra. The goat is "the portion"
of Pushan, and he rides upon a goat. The golden wheel that revolves
regularly must, it seems, be his orb, traversing the sky. That Soma acts
by, with, and through him, is not significant. The Soma spirit of exhilara-
tion is credited with the deeds and potencies of more than one God; and
could well be said to travel in the same chariot with any of them. That
Pushan looks upon and contemplates all visible things, indicates that he
is an orb, one of the eyes of Agni and Indra.
How is Savit^i (whether sun or moon), Pushan by his movements?
How is it that Pushan dresses buffaloes for Indra? What is he, that he is
asked not to uproot the forest lord, with its progeny of crows?
He is equal in glory to the Gods, and supreme above mortals. Is he,
then, not himself a God, or Deva? If a subsistence of Agni, how is he the
lover of his sister, husband of his mother, and brother of Indra; and, yet,
if he be a luminary, how can he be brother of Indra, and his ally in battle
against his foes?
He not only rides a goat and is lord of paths, and protects horses and
cattle, but he carries the goad, and driving the cattle proceeds, contem-
plating (looking down upon) all beings.
What are his two forms, one luminous, and the other venerable, making
the day variously complexioned? and how is that so because he is like
the sun? What are those golden vessels, sailing in the ocean of air, with
which he fulfils the office of messenger of the sun? How did the Gods give
him to Sfirya; and how is he>the beneficent kinsman of heaven and earth?
of goodly form, vigourous and well-moving, I havefancied that thisindicated
that he was Mercury, who is never seen far above the earth, and is always a
PUSHAN 319
close attendant on the sun. The Mercury or Hermes of the Greeks and
Romans was the messenger of the Gods, and the patron of travellers and
shepherds; and in the wars of the giants against the Gods, he showed himself
spirited, brave and active. Always within the sun's rays, he could well be
said to associate with Indra, and with Soma, the associate of Indra. But
his orb is no guide for travellers, and it is not possible to see how he was
rider of a goat, or had a seven-wheeled chariot and five reins, or two forms,
one luminous and the other venerable; though he could be said to have been
given by the Gods to Sfirya, and to be kinsman of heaven and earth.
On the other hand, how could a God not a luminary be invoked, before
the dawn, upon the close of night, to appear in the firmament, for the
welfare of mankind? But what luminary could be lover of his sister, and
husband of his mother? Nothing but the new moon, with the old moon in
its lap, one of the forms luminous and the other venerable, would suit this
description; but many things said of Pushan could not be said of the rnoon.
She is divine and resplendent, and can be said to guide and protect travellers;
but she is not invoked before the dawn, nor is associated with goats, and
what can be her seven-wheeled car and five reins? How, too, can she,
brandishing a goad, be the driver of cattle?
This suggested to me Bootes, the herdsman, and the great star Arcturus,
with the seven stars of Ursa Major as his seven-wheeled chariot, and the
four stars of Ursa Major that form a square, with the bright star between
them and Ursa Major, for the reins.
The goat suggested to me Capella (the she-goat), the bright star in
Auriga, the charioteer; but I do not find there the car and the reins.
If Pushan were the constellation Taurus, Aldebardn would have his
seven-wheeled car, the Pleiades, and the Hyades as the five reins, or from
which the five reins are imagined ("harnessed by the mind") to extend
to the Pleiades. This constellation, rising at the dawn, announced the
vernal equinox, was deemed to possess, as the bull was the symbol of the
generative power. We would have here the golden vessels navigating the
ocean of air, and the guide for travellers; and Aldebardn, rousing the herds-
man at dawn, might be said to drive the cattle.
If Pushan is not a star or planet, what is it possible to imagine him to be?
There are expressions that seem to show that he is of the same nature as
Soma, i. e., a nourishing and generative potency. But the constellation
Taurus, opening the spring, was appropriately called the generator, of
heaven and of earth, or, rather, the fructifier. It could be called the
showerer, also, as the vernal equinox brought rains, the change of the
monsoons occurring at the equinoxes. As showerer, this constellation was
fitly associated with Indra, in warring against V^itra; and it could be called
320 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
the benefactor or aider or encourager and inciter of the storm-winds, the
Maruts. So, at that stormy season, the Pleiades and Hyades could well be
styled "son of the cloud;" and Aldebar&n could be imagined as a herdsman,
brandishing his goad, and driving the stars before him like cattle. What
is meant by his wearing a braid (of hair) I do not know. But, rising before
the sun, he could well be called the messenger of the sun, and the stars led
by him, his golden vessels.
The expression, "devoutly worshipped, he blends with the thoughts of
all," must mean, I think, that, gratified by such worship, he sympathizes
with, and shares the feelings and wishes of the worshipper. By its supposed
influences, this constellation was made by the Devas the means of sustaining
life, by making the earth to produce, impregnating and fructifying it with
rains and the sweet influences of spring. And it not only drove away the
glooms of the night, but those of winter, whose close it announces. Over-
looking, looking down upon, contemplating the world, these stars could
fitly be said to be the guardians of it; and the young cows then beginning
to give milk, they could be said to make mature the immature heifers.
That their car is "indistinguishable from the universe everywhere
existing," and is "harnessed by the mind," may mean that the stars com-
posing the constellation are not larger or brighter, or particularly dis-
tinguishable in any way, from the others in every part of the heavens; and
that it is only by means of the imagination that they are conceived of as
forming a unit, a single constellation that it is the intellect only, which
conceives of them as connected together and forming one.
But what is meant by the parti-coloured goat being offered to him;
by his riding the goat, being drawn by goats, the goat being his portion?
Pushya is still the name of one of the twenty asterisms or groups of
stars, established and designated by the Hindu astronomy, about 560 A.D.,
at which time the observations were made that undertook to fix the latitude
and longitude of the junction star of each group. These asterisms are
called Makshatras. Though there are twenty-eight of these, the ecliptite
is divided into only twenty-seven lunar mansions, or asterisms, each occupy-
ing 13 20' or 800' of the extent of the ecliptic, Abhijit, one of the asterisms,
being omitted. And the twenty-eight are very unequally distributed
along the ediptic, and at greatly varying distances from it. To divide the
ecliptic into twenty-eight parts, and assign these to the twenty-eight
asterisms, would cause sixteen asterisms to fall within the limits of portions
bearing different names, four portions (of the ediptic) would have no aster-
isms at all, and four others would contain two each.
Therefore, the system of asterisms was not founded, originally, on the
division of the ecliptic into twenty-seven equal parts, and the selection of a
PUSHAN 321
star or constellation to mark each portion, and be, as it were, its ruler; but
the series of twenty-eight asterisms is of greater antiquity than any division
of the ecliptic into equal arcs, and one system was only artificially brought
into connection with the other, complete harmony between them being
altogether impossible.
The Parsis, Arabs and Chinese have a similar system of division of the
heavens into twenty-eight portions, marked or separated by as many single
stars or constellations. The Arabs call their divisions Man&zil-alkamar,
lunar mansions, or stations of the rnoon. And this division into twenty-
eight parts everywhere had a special connection with the moon's revolution.
The native tradition of Indra has, for centuries past, been of no decisive
authority as regards the position and composition of the groups of stars
constituting the asterisms. These, Mr. Burgess says, must be determined
upon the evidence of the more ancient data handed down in the astronomical
treatises.
The primitive identity of the Chinese and Hindu asterisms has been
demonstrated by Biot. And the Chinese system does not commence, as
the Hindu system has commenced since 560 A.D., with the stars of Aries,
but with the Pleiades, as the Hindu system anciently did Burgess, viii. 9.
It will at once occur to any one that all these asterisms were probably,
at the beginning, such stars or groups of stars as were notable and remark-
able for their magnitude, brilliancy, position or relations. The most
notable of all the stars, in all ages, have been the Great Bear, and whatever
stars or constellation at the time marked the recurrence of the vernal
equinox. And it will at once occur to the student, that it is 'singular there
should be, among the Hindu asterisms, any that are entirely unimportant
and unnoteworthy.
The first Hindu asterism, since A.D. 560, at least, has been Agvini, two
stars in Aries: only notable because, at that time, the sun was in that
constellation at the vernal equinox. The second is Bharan^i or Bharanyas,
three little stars (3rd or 4th magnitude) in Aries. The third is K^ttiki, the
Pleiades, called also, in the plural KrttikHs. The appellative meaning of
this word is doubtful. Mr. Burgess thinks it may be from the verbal root
kart, to "cut," because one may fancy he sees in the asterism a knife with its
handle. It is more probably from kar, to "do, make, act," whence the
Greek *pe&>, "create" and x tP> "hand," and the Sanskrit, karas, "doing;"
karas, "hand;" kriya, "affair;" kart, "effectuating;" kartis, "action;" etc.
The fourth asterism is Rohini, "ruddy," the Hyades, in the face of
Taurus, the junction star of it being Aldebardn. The Arabs call it Al-
dabardn, the "follower" (of the Pleiades), which shows that the Arab
322 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
system also commenced originally with the Pleiades, and that the Hyades
were the second of the system.
Mr. Burgess remarks that
it is contrary to all the analogies of the system, that a faint star should have been
selected, to form by itself an asterism.
He says this with reference to Ardr& ("moist")* of which I will speak
shortly. Regulus in Leo is the junction star of the tenth asterism; Spica,
in Virgo, is by itself the fourteenth; Qitra, "brilliant;" Arcturus, in Bootes,
is by itself the fifteenth; Antares, in Scorpio, is by the junction star of the
eighteenth; Vega, in Lyra, is the junction star of the twenty-second; the
four large stars in Pegasus and Andromeda form the twenty-sixth and
twenty-seventh. The great stars Canopus, in the ship, Sinus and p Tauri,
are not in any of the asterisms. Of the asterisms containing more than
one star, there are but two whose junction stars are selected as the most
brilliant; and several of the asterisms, besides those already mentioned,
are composed of very insignificant stars.
Mr. Burgess remarks,
Perhaps we have here only the scattered and disconnected fragments of a more
complete and shapely system of stellar astronomy, which flourished in India before
the scientific reconstruction of the Hindu astronomy transferred the field of labour
of the astronomer from the skies to his text-books and his tables of calculation.
There are many discrepancies between the actual positions of stars of the
asterisms, and their positions, by latitude and longitude, as given by the
astronomers: and it is unquestionably true that some, perhaps many, of
the asterisms are not now, in place or composition, what they anciently
were. Insignificant stars and groups have taken the places of more brilliant
and noteworthy ones, in consequence of the changes of characteristics and
of relation to the seasons, produced by the precession of the equinoxes.
It is plain that Castor and Pollux were the Awins, when Gemini opened
the year. There is great uncertainty as to the identity of the stars desig-
nated as Bh&drapadris, and composing the twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh
asterisms, supposed to be the four that compose "the Square of Pegasus/'
The latitudes and longitudes given do not suit the junction stars. It is
impossible to tell what thirty-two stars compose Aevati, the twenty-eighth.
There is great confusion in regard to Ardrt, the sixth, which is a single star,
and the Hindus cannot explain it. Tauri 135 is the only star that answers
at all nearly to the definition of its position; and it is a faint star of the
sixth magnitude. The great bright star, a, Orionis, it cannot possibly be
PUSHAN 323
doubted, Mr. Burgess says, was ArdrS, ; but the longitude does not correspond,
by more than seven degrees, nor the latitude, by nearly three.
Castor and Pollux are now the seventh asterism, Punarvasu (again
good or brilliant), the reason of which designation is not apparent; and
Pushya is the eighth, composed of three little stars in Cancer. Aglesh&,
the ninth (entwiner, embracer), of five stars, is of necessity deemed to be
in the head of Hydra, but the longitude does not suit by nearly five degrees.
Without remarking upon the uncertainty as to others, let us see what
has become of Orion, one of the most magnificent of the constellations,
and one of those that has longest attracted the admiration of mankind, in
which are seventy stars plainly visible to the naked eye, two of them being
of the first magnitude, four of the second, and three of the third. Betel-
geux and Rigel are of the first; Bellatrix and the three stars of the Belt,
of the second, and three below the girdle, in a line inclined to it, and at
greater distances from each other, are of the third. Orion lies below, south,
of the horns of Taurus, north of which is Capella. Aldebarin, the belt of
Orion, and Sirius are nearly in the same straight line. Capella, the Hyades
and Orion all come to the meridian together.
The Pleiades rose heliacally (with the sun or a little before sunrise) as
early as 3,900 years B.C. Ulysses, in his bark, on leaving Calypso, is made
by Homer, in the fifth book of the Odyssey, to observe, "the Pleiades and
Bootes, the Hyades and bold Orion, and the Bear which is called the Wain."
Virgil calls Orion Aquosus, because his rising, about the ninth of March,
was accompanied with storms and rain.
When figured in human form, Orion has on each shoulder a star, on his
belt three, and on each knee one, all of nearly the same magnitude (ist and
2nd), composing the mystic number 3, 5, and 7, and forming a figure which
could easily be fancied to resemble a wain or car.
Now, although this is the most splendid group of stars in the heavens,
and, rising nearly at the same time with Capella, AldebarSn and the Pleiades,
must always have been imagined to exercise the same influences as they on
the seasons; and though, at any season, they would serve as guides to the
herdsman or traveller on the plains, and could never have been unnoticed
by any manner of men, we find that none of its great stars are included in
any asterism of the Hindus.
For the fifth, Mrigagirsha or Mrigagiras, whose divinity is Soma, contains
only the faint cluster of three little stars (4th magnitude) in the head of
Orion; and the Arab Marizil Al-Tiaftah is composed of the same stars; and
the third Chinese Sieu, named Tse is the Hindu junction star, X, Orionis.
324 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
And though Mr. Burgess says that a, Orionis (Betelgeux), miist be
Ardr&, the sixth asterism, the position of Ardr& does not at all correspond
with that star, but only with 135 Tauri, a little star of the sixth magnitude.
And the Chinese have, for the fourth Sieu, Tsan, the upper star, , in
the Belt of Orion, while the Arabs have their sixth station, in the feet of
Pollux. And Pushya, as we have seen, has become two little stars in
Cancer. It is also called Tishya, "conspicuous," and Sidhya, "prosperous."
MrigatfrsJia means "the antelope's head," and the figure assigned to
that asterism corresponds with the name, but, Mr. Burgess says, "the
reason for the designation we have not been able to discover." An antelope
is but a species of goat; and it may be that the origin of this figure is to be
found in the Vedic expressions which connect the goat and Pushan together:
and Pushan brandishing his goad and driving the cattle, the protector and
guide of travellers, and the showerer, messenger or avant-courier of the sun
at the vernal equinox, 4000 B.C., may have been Orion, who with the
Greeks became the Great Huntsman the seven great stars of his
shoulders, belt and knees being his seven-wheeled car.
With us, as with the herdsmen of the Asiatic steppes, Orion was so low
in the heavens as to be in a measure obscured by the mists of the horizon,
and might therefore be termed "son of the cloud ;" and the expression, that he
has two forms, one luminous and the other "venerable," so that the day is
variously complexion^d, he being like the sun, may have meant, simply,
that sometimes, when he rose before the sun, at or before the dawn, he
shone clearly and brightly, and sometimes was obscured and dimmed by
the gray haze and vapourous mist, and that the day which followed was in
like manner either clear or bright, or cloudy, the sun shining brightly
or being obscured, according as his avant-courier was one or the other.
It was natural that the constellation which to the Greeks became a
giant and a huntsman, brandishing a club studded with stars, should
have been, to a race of herdsmen on the Scythic plains, a herdsman like
themselves, brandishing his goad. And as, when Auriga, the charioteer,
composed of Capella and the Hsedi, the she-goat and the kids, rises heliacally,
the sun enters Taurus: and, as the Greeks made Seirios the hound of Orion,
the Indian Aryans may have fancied the stars of Auriga to be his goats,
driven by five invisible reins. And, if Orion was Pushan, it was natural they
should say to him, when he rose, announcing the coming of the sun, at the
time of the vernal equinox,
Pushan, invoked before the dawn, upon the close of night, appear now in the firma-
ment for the welfare of mankind.
PUSHAN 325
I have only to add, that as we know how completely the Greeks and
Latins had forgotten the original significations of the Aryan Gods, and how
they imputed to them, calling them by other names or those radically the
same, entirely different and contradictory characteristics, it is natural to
believe that this was also to some extent the case with the Indian Aryans
of the Punjab; and that it would be strange if we did not find expressions
in regard to them, hard to reconcile, and even utterly irreconcilable with,
their original characters and personalities. It is, indeed, to be wondered
at, and is most fortunate, that in the free compositions, rich in figurative
phrases and expressions, of a long succession of Poets, we should be able to
trace with so much certainty the original outlines of most of the Deities,
and gain so much and clear insight into the workings of that Aryan intellect,
which shines, dear as a star, through all the haze and splendid colourings
of the poetic imagination and phraseology.
And with this, and all our doubts and conjectures, we submit it to the
reader to decide what Pushan truly and originally was.
BHAGA.
Ushas is called the sister of Bhaga and Varuna: and Bhaga is often
mentioned in connection with Mitra, Varuna and Aryaman. In Stikta Hi.
Anuv. xx. Adhy. i. Asht. ii., it is said,
2. The most excellent dawn has been seen proceeding to the comprehensive,
the path of the revolving has been lighted up by rays: the eyes of men, by the rays
of Bhaga: the brilliant mansion of Mitra, of Aryaman, of Varuna
Elsewhere it is said,
Thou, Agni, art Dravinodas .... thou art the divine Savitri .... Protector
of men, thou art Bhaga, and rulest over wealth .... May Mitra, Aryaman,
Bhaga, the multi-present Varuna, the powerful Ansa, hear us. Bhaga, Saviour,
grant us thrice a day riches of three elements [here he is named after Savitri] ....
How can we offer praise to the mighty posterity of Rudra, or to the all-knowing
Bhaga? .... May our .... praise .... attain Varuna, Mitra, Bhaga and
Aditi .... I approach today the divine Savitri and Bhaga, the distributors of
precious among men .... Pushan, Bhaga, Aditi, bestow excellent viands ....
we solicit of the divine Savitri .... may we receive from Bhaga that which is
excellent. May the divine Savitri and Bhaga, and the grandson of the waters, ....
preserve us .... I praise you, protectors of the solemn sacrifice, the well-born
Aditi, Mitra and Varuna and Aryaman and Bhaga .... May the divine Savitri,
Bhaga and Diti give us wealth. [Elsewhere he is named with Sansa and Purandhi;
with Pushan and Vaja] .... Verily Bhaga is to be adored by men, who, abound-
ing in wealth, distribute treasures .... The ardent repeatedly invokes Bhaga
for protection; the less ardent solicits Bhaga for wealth .... The swift Bhaga,
the Nasatyas and Purandhi .... Riches that Vayu and Bhaga may always
preserve in our keeping.
In Sukta viii. Anuv. Hi. Adhy. iv. Asht. v.:
3. Bhaga, chief leader of rites, Bhaga, faithful promiser of wealth, Bhaga,
granting, make fruitful this ceremony ....
4. May we now have Bhaga, whether in the forenoon or at midday or at
sunrise ....
6 as rapid steeds convey a chariot, so may the dawns bring to us
Bhaga, down-descending.
Elsewhere, we find named together,
Agni, Bhaga, Indra, Vishnu, Pushan, Brahmanaspati .... Mitra, Aryaman,
Savitri, Bhaga, bestow today at sunrise .... May Savitri, Bhaga, Varuna,
BHAGA 327
Mitra and Aryaman bestow upon us .... these sons of Aditi know how to drive
away enemies.
And, finally,
Protected by Indra, well knowing the path that through thy power (Agni) we should
follow, we adore that of thine, by which Varuna, Mitra, Aryaman, the Nasatyas
and Bhaga shine.
The Nasatyas are the A?wins (I think, Castor and Pollux) ; and Bhaga
is certainly a luminary
7
, either planet or star possibly the planet Mercury
or Saturn. The data are not sufficient to enable us to decide.
TWASHTRI.
*. . iv. iL
10. I invoke the chief and multiform Twashtri: may he be solely ours ....
i. a* v. in.
6. The Ribhus have divided into four, the new ladle, the work of the divine
Twashtri.
v.
9. Agni, bring hither the loving wives of the Gods, and Twashtri, to drink the
Soma juice.
Twashtri sharpened the far-whirling thunderbolt of Indra. So he augmented
Indra's vigour .... They found, on this occasion, the light of Twashtri verily
concealed in the mansion of the moving moon .... The skillful Twashtri formed
the thunderbolt for Indra. He is implored to send down water [and is said (note)
to be the electric fire]. When Twashtri observed the one ladle become four, gndsu
antar nydnaje [he became invisible among the females]. WhenTwashtri said, Let us
slay those who have profaned the ladle .... Twashtri, who is the master (of) the
forms, has made all animals distinct .... Thou Agni, art Twashtri, of great
wealth to worshipper .... May Twashtri prolong for us a continuous line of
progeny. . . . Twashtri engendered thee (Brihas-pati), amongst all beings: thou
art the reciter of many a holy hymn. May the divine Twashtri, the defender of
the world, together with the wives, well pleased, urge on the chariot .... Divine
Twashtri- - give issue to our procreative vigour .... The divine Twashtri,
the able artificer, the dextrous-handed, the possessor of wealth, the observer of
truth Twashtri, the lord of foundations, .... Indra, the prototype, has assumed
many forms, .... Indra, multiform by his illusions, proceeds; .... yoking his
horses to his car, Twashtri shines in many places here in the three worlds
Twashtri, the first divider (of forms), the renowned, the giver of food, the well-
handed [skillful], the vast, the adored of men living in houses, the readily invoked
.... Mitra, with Twashtri and Aryaman, accept our praise .... Divine
Twashtri .... give issue to our procreative vigour .... When the wives
come before us, may the dextrous Twashtri grant us male progeny .... May
Twashtri be propitiated by this our praise; may he who is of comprehensive
understanding, be inclined to give us wealth. May the generous Twashtri be
our sure refuge: may he give us riches . * . . May Twashtri, with the wives of
the Gods, be for our happiness, and hear us.
Only by means of the heat of fire, could the metals, and especially iron,
be wrought into shape and form, into weapons of war and the chase, imple-
ments of husbandry, and tools for the artificer, and implements for house-
hold use. The iron must glow and blaze with splendour, at a white heat,
before it can be hammered into shape, and especially before it can be welded.
TWASHTRI 329
It feeds the fire, also, being consumed by it, by degrees. It glitters and
scintillates, and by applying it to dry materials, new birth may be given to
Agni, by the constant creation of blazing flame.
Twashtri is the original of Mulciber or Vulcan. He is the artificer of
the Gods, the creator of forms. Without the heat of the fire, the silver and
copper could not be extracted from the ore, nor the materials of bronze be
made to combine, nor the gold or silver be worked into ornaments, nor the
bronze or lead be melted and moulded into forms. As producer of these
effects, Agni is Twashtri. Naturally, to these were conjoined the effects of
Agni, as the warmth of the sun, and the vital and animal heat, by which the
varied forms of vegetation are produced, and the germ in the seed develops
and grows into the herb, the grain, the shrub, the trees, the leaf and flower
and fruit, and the formless seed in the womb into the animal or child, born
with form and features and life. As producing these effects, also, Agni is
Twashtri, who gives issue to men's procreative vigour, and who also forges
or sharpens the glittering, keen-edged, solid thunderbolt of Indra.
Twashtri comes with the wives of the Gods: and perhaps we have here
the germ which afterwards developed into the idea of the Sole Deity, Brahm,
dividing himself into male and female, and of that worship of the generative
energy which degenerated into that of the lingam and priapos.
RUDRA.
These passages relating to Rudra, are found in the Veda:
The brilliant and vigourous Maruts, who are of (or belonging to) Rudra ....
The wise, the most bountiful and mighty Rudra, who is in our hearts. By which
(hymn) Aditi may grant the gifts of Rudra [Rudriya] to our cattle, our people, our
cows and our progeny. By which Mitra and Varuna and Rudra and all the Gods,
being gratified, may show us (favour) .... Rudra, the encourager of hymns,
the protector of sacrifices, possessed of medicaments that confer happiness.
The Maruts are gliders, the sons of Rudra .... the sons of Prisni.
L viii. xui. ix.
1. We offer these praises to the mighty Rudra, with the braided hair [kapardine],
the father of imperial heroes.
3. Rudra, showerer .... come to our posterity, with purpose to promote
their happiness ....
4. The illustrious Rudra, the accomplisher of sacrifices, he who goes crookedly,
the wise ....
5. We invoke from heaven, with reverence, him who has excellent food, who
is radiant, and has braided hair, who is brilliant, and is to be ascertained ....
6. This praise .... is addressed to Rudra, the father of the Maruts, immortal
Rudra ....
10. Of whom the imperial heroes are the sons, .... brilliant hero ....
thou who art mighty over the two ....
11 May Rudra, with the Maruts, hear our invocation ... *
Elsewhere we find:
The reward showering Rudra .... who, with his heroic, as from a quiver, expelled
from heaven .... the Maruts between heaven and earth .... the self-
glorifying Rudra .... Thou Agni, art Rudra, the expeller from the expanse of
heaven; thou art the strength of the Maruts .... Father of the Maruts, thou art
the chiefest of beings in glory; thou, wielder of the thunderbolt, art the mightiest
of the mighty .... Invigorate our sons by thy medical plants, for I hear that
thou art a chief physician among physicians .... Rudra, who is soft-bellied, of
a tawny hue, and handsome chin .... May the showerer of benefits, the lord
of the Maruts, gratify me, his suppliant, with invigorating food: .... Where,
Rudra, is thy joy-dispensing hand, which is the healer and delighter? .... who
art the dispeller of the sins of the Gods .... The showerer, the cherisher, the
white-complexioned, the consumer: we glorify the illustrious name of Rudra ....
With strong limbs, assuming many forms, fierce, and tawny-coloured, he shines
with brilliant golden ornaments: vigour is inseparable from Rudra, the supreme
RUDRA 331
ruler and lord of this world .... Thou bearest arrows and a bow .... thou
wearest an adorable and uniform necklace [nishka, so interpreted (hard] by the
scholiast]. The renowned Rudra, riding in his car, ever youthful, destructive,
fierce, like a formidable wild beast * ... Giver of much, protector of the virtuous,
bestow healing herbs upon me .... May the javelin of Rudra avoid us: may the
great displeasure of the radiant Deity pass away: .... Cherisher of the world,
omniscient and divine, .... Golden-breasted Maruts, the vigourous one begot
you of the pure womb of Pjisni .... The man-destroying Rudra .... the
object of worship, the giver of the oblation.
Praise him who has the sure arrow, the strong bow, who presides over all sani-
tary drugs; worship Rudra, for a comprehensive and sound understanding.
Exalt Rudra with these hymns, by day, the parent of the world: .... animated
by the far-seeing, we invoke him, mighty, of pleasing aspect, undecaying, endowed
with felicity, prosperity.
May Rudra and Saraswad, alike well-pleased, and Vishnu and Yayu make us
happy, sending rain ....
Ash$. v. Adhy. i. Anm. vi. Sfikta xiiL
1. Soma and Rudra .... possessors of the seven precious things [Qu. rays?].
4. Sharp-weaponed, sharp-arrowed, profoundly honoured Soma and Rudra,
grant us happiness in this world.
Elsewhere, again,
Agni, associated with the Rudras, with the Vasus ....
Adhy. iv. Amw. Hi. Stikta xiii.
1. Offer these praises to the divine Rudra, armed with the strong bow and fast-
flying arrows, the bestower of food, the invincible, the conqueror, the creator, the
wielder of sharp weapons ....
2. He is known by his rule over those of terrestrial birth, by his sovereignty
over those of celestial .... Come to our dwellings, and be to them a guardian
against disease.
3. May thy blazing, which, discharged from heaven, traverses the earth, miss
us: thine, appeaser of the wind, are a thousand medicaments ....
Elsewhere,
these resplendent chiefs, the dwellers in one abode, the sons of Rudra .... those
white-complexioned beings, whom the vast Pri?ni bore at her udder.
Dr. Muir (Orig. Sansk. Texts, 252 et seq.) gives the originals and transla-
tions of all the Sanskrit texts of .the Rig-Veda, in which Rudra is addressed
or spoken of. I quote such passages, phrases and expressions as, by different
332 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
interpretation or otherwise, may afford additional data for determining
what Rudra was. The references are always to Mandate, Hymn and Verse.
i. 27. 10. Agni is termed Rudrdya: and in x. 70. 2, 3 and mii. 26. 5, the same
epithet is applied to Mitra and Varuna and to the Asvins, respectively.
The root rud means to "resound," to "groan;" and riidh, to "care for,
defend." Ruh is to "grow, increase;" whence rudhis, "growth." From
one or the other of these, probably, Rudra is derived. In the place first
cited, it is rendered "terrible."
i. 43. What can we utter to Rudra, the intelligent, the most bountiful, the
strong, which shall be most pleasant to his heart? That so Aditi may bring Rudra's
healing to our cattle and men and kine and children? .... We seek from Rudra,
the lord of songs, the lord of sacrifices, who possesses healing remedies, his auspicious
favour. Who is brilliant as the sun, who shines like gold, who is the best and the
brightest of the Gods. He grants prosperity and welfare to our horses, rams, ewes,
men, women, and cows.
In i. 64. 2, the Maruts are styled Rudrasya, the sons and offspring of
Rudra, produced from the sky (diva) : and, i. 85. I, we find, "The Maruts"
(Marutas), energetic sons of Rudra (Rudrdya).
i. 114. In this hymn, Rudra (Rvdrdya) is the strong, with braided hair
(karparddin) , ruling over heroes. He is invoked to the end that there may
be prosperity for man and beast in the village, and that everything in it may
be well-fed, and free from disease. He is invoked to be gracious and cause
happiness. He is ruler over heroes, and beneficent. He is impetuous, the
fulfiller of sacrifice, the crooked-goer, the wise. "The dark-hued celestial
boar (cloud?) with braided hair, a brilliant form" (divo varaham, antsham
kaparddinam tvesham rupavi), is invoked with obeisance. He is besought
to be gracious, and not to slay the worshipper or those near to him, nor to
injure them or theirs.
Like a keeper of cattle, I have prepared for thee hymns [it is said]: Far from us
be thy cow-slaying and man-slaying [weapon]: Be gracious to us, deva, and inter-
cede for us, and bestow on us prosperity, lord of both worlds \yachha dvi-barhdfr].
i. 122. L The bountiful Rudra: . . . . The praise of the divine Marut [divo
Maruto} is celebrated in heaven and earth [rodasayah rodasi being taken always
to mean both].
i. 129. 3. Indra, I have uttered this at length to thee, and to the sky, and to
Rudra sva-yasase [who derives his renown from himself], and to Mitra and to
Varuna.
ii. 1. 6. Thou, Agni, art Rudra, the Deity of the great sky [Rudro asuro maho
divas]. Thou art the host of the Maruts .... Thou, Pushan, by thyself pro-
tectest those who worship thee.
RUDRA 333
ti* 33. In this hymn the worshipper asks Rudra for kindness and
increase of offspring, and for long life (a hundred winters) through the
remedies conferred by him. He is invoked to drive away enmities, sins
and disea'ses. He ife styled vigourous, and the greatest physician of physi-
cians, and is asked to cure the sick. He is mild, easily invoked, tawny,
with a beautiful chin, fair-complexioned, fiery, of glorious name; firm of
limbs, multiform, fierce, tawny, invested with bright golden ornaments.
He gladdens the suppliant with invigorating nourishment. His hand is
healing and restorative, and removes the evil that comes from the Gods.
Divine power is ever inseparable from Rudra, the lord of this vast world.
Governing, he holds arrows and a bow, and a glorious bracelet of every
form. Nothing is more powerful than he. He is renowned and youthful,
mounted on his chariot like a terrible wild beast, destructive and fierce: and
yet he can be gracious, and is the giver of much, and lord of the excellent.
The worshipper prays for the pure, auspicious, beneficent remedies of the
Maruts, and for the blessing and favour of Rudra.
May the bolt of Rudra [it is said], avoid us! May the great malevolence of the
fiery depart far from us. Unbend thy strong bows .... Dispenser of good, be
gracious to our children and descendants. Tawny and vigourous, intelligent God,
Rudra.
I do not doubt that if we can but ascertain exactly what was personified
as Rudra, all these enigmatical phrases and contradictory attributes will
become clear, consistent and harmonious. It is positively certain, since
Agni is declared to be Rudra, that the latter is some manifestation of the
former, certain potencies of Agni in action, Agni performing or possessing
certain functions, and producing certain effects. He is a subsistence of the
substance which is Agni. He can be wild, fierce, destructive. He wields
the thunderbolt, bends the bow, and hurls the arrows; andyet he is gracious,
easily propitiated, dispenses benefits, heals the sick and gives long life. He
is the most eminent of beings, vigourous, energetic, source of his own renown;
he slays, and he lengthens life. He has divine power, and is lord of the
universe, governs, and possesses all the vast. Nothing is more powerful
than he: he is renowned and youthful. Physically, he is tawny, and yet
white-coniplexioned, fiery, strong-limbed, many-formed, with a beautiful
chin, with braided hair; and he wears bright golden ornaments and a golden
bracelet.
Pushan and the Tritsus are also spoken of, elsewhere \pi. 55. 2 : ix. 67. 1 1 :
mi. 83. 8], as wearing or adorned with braided hair (kaparddin). And the
Maruts, also, are adorned with armlets, and wear jewels on their breasts:
and yet they are invisible. And Rudra is said to be a brilliant form,
334 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
brilliant as the sun, shining like gold, the best and brightest of the 'Gods.
He is impetuous, wise, dark-hued, celestial, a crooked goer, and fulfiller of
sacrifice: i. e., he performs the last and final office of the sacrificial fire, in
conveying the oblation to the Gods.
When we find what there is among the phenomena of fire, that in appear-
ance, action and effect fulfills all these conditions, we shall have found out
what Rudra was. It is clear that he was not a luminary, and he was not
light; nor does flame fulfill all these conditions. These conditions, I say
but there is one other that this subsistence or hypostasis of Agni must be
that which could naturally appear to the Poets to be the cause of great
movements of the air, and thus to be the generator of the winds.
In Mand. Hi. 2. 5, the sacrificial fire, burning upon the grass, Agni the
brilliant, acceptable to all the Gods (visva-devyam),is termed rudra, which
is translated "terrible." Certainly that epithet is not applicable to Agni as
the fire of the sacrifice. I think that rudra is from the root ruh, meaning
to "rise, ascend, swell up, grow, expand, increase."
In Mand. iv. 3. I. 6. 7, we have Agne-Rudrdya, and Agnim Rudmm
(translated Agni the terrible) ; and Rudra is styled "the man-slaying," "the
adored, the giver of oblations."
In Mand. v. 42. n,[the worshippers are urged to adore with prostrations
Rudra, "the spiritual Deity" (devam asuram. "Spiritual" is a sublimated
rendering of Asura').
In Mand. p. 52. 16, he is called the rapid Rudra; and in v. 60. 5, "young
and energetic."
In Mand. m. 49. 10, he is called Bhuvanasya pitarant, "father of the exist
ing," or the "world," the mighty, the exalted, the undecaying, the blessed.
In Mand. vi. 74, Soma and Rudra are invoked, bearing with them seven
jewels, to favour man and beast and drive away disease, by their remedies;
and their weapons are said to be sharp and their bolts piercing.
In vii. 46, he is called "Rudra with the strong bow and swift arrows,
the self-dependent, unassailable, the assailant, the disposer, armed with
sharp weapons." Deoaya svadhavne is the original here, of "self-dependent."
Professor Roth considers svadhdvat to mean "independent," "whose glory
is inherent;" and elsewhere gives to svadhd the sense of "according to one's
own determination," "according to pleasure." I think the meaning here,
clearly is, that the potencies and energies of Rudra are inherent in him as a
subsistence of Agni, as distinguished from those which the luminaries
receive from Agni, of whom they are not subsistences or hypostases, but
only instruments and organs. In the same Mandala and Hymn, it is said,
"By his potency he perceives the terrestrial race, and by his universal
dominion that of the sky (divyasya, which Dr. Muir translates "divine").
RUDRA 335
In Hand. mii. 20. 17, Is the phrase, "Rudra, the Deity of the sky." In
viii. 22. 14, the Aswins are called rudrau, lords of wealth; and in uni. 61. 3,
we have the same adjective, in each place rendered "terrible." And, x. 64.
8, we have Rudram Rudesku mdriyam, "Rudra, terrible among the Rudras."
In x. 66. 3, Rudro Rudrebhir devo, "divine Rudra with the Rudras."
In Mand. x. 92. 5,
The waters flow, by the moving Rudra .... with them the circumambient, roaring
God, who moves round the wide expanse, fertilizes all contained in its womb ....
the mighty Rudra, the ruler of heroes, .... those rapid and ardent Deities, with
whom the gracious and opulent, who derives his renown from himself, comes down
from the sky.
Professor Wilson remarks that the name Rudra is unequivocally applied
to Agni; and that although the scholiast renders it "terrible," there is no
warrant for this in the text; and he says,
we may be content, therefore, with the latter, to regard Rudra as aform or denomina-
tion of fire.
In the later ages of the Hindu mythology, Rudra became identified
with Mahadeva or Siva and elevated to the highest rank in the Indian
pantheon. Dr. Muir giVes the texts of several of the Hindu books, and
traces "the successive mutations which the conception of this Deity under-
goes, in the later, as compared with the earlier passages." Writing for
the Hindus themselves, he sought to show them the real source of all their
mythological nonsense; and has admirably executed his work. All the later
myths, legends and fables about Rudra are the fruits of passages, phrases
and words of the Veda, in regard to him, misunderstood. So it is that
the figures and hyperboles of the Poet, the word-paintings of the poetic
imagination, literally understood in after ages, became the germs of mon-
strous fables and a grotesque idolatry, until we have the linga infinite in
its dimensions, as God the creator, and all the abominations of the phallic
and priapian worship. The symbols of the sages and the figures of the
Poets always become the idols of the vulgar*
Professor Weber remarks that
the epithet kaparddin seems to have some relation to a characteristic attribute of
Siva, the wearing of his hair in a peculiar manner; but, he says, the term has probably
in the Veda a very different signification one now forgotten although it may have
suggested in aftertime the appearance of Siva in such a head-dress, as identified
with Agni. [It may have meant, he says, that Rudra*s head was surrounded with
a radiating flame.]
336 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Professor Wilson, quoted by Dr. Muir (Orig. Sansk. Texts, iv. 334),
thinks that Rudra originally signified, generally, the "howler," "and can
consequently stand as well for an epithet of the crackling fire as of the
raging storm." In the earliest period, he thinks, the word had been used
to denote the latter signification. The unbridled fury of the storms, their
roaring and fearful effects must, he says, have produced a strong and over-
powering effect on the Aryan Indians, in the high mountain valleys in which
they then lived.
But I find little in what is said of Rudra in the Veda, to give countenance
to the idea that his name had the signification of "roaring." In fact, he is
but once spoken of as "roaring" or as making a noise of any kind. Rfidhis
means growth and vigour; and I doubt whether nidra even means "terrible."
It is true that rud is to "resound," to "groan;" and raudat, ruditan, a "cry"
or "murmur;" but if the name were derived from that root, one would
expect to find in the epithets applied to Rudra, and the phrases used in
speaking of him and to him, some allusion to that meaning of his name.
Professor Weber remarks that it was natural that the Aryans should
connect everything terrible and horrible with the idea of the God of storms,
and regard him as the lord and the cause of every evil.
But Rudra is not so regarded in the Veda. It is true, Professor Weber
says,
that Rudra is also appealed to as wise and bountiful, author of fertility and giver of
happiness; but it is only indirectly that he is so addressed, and merely because he
departs, and directs his destroying arrows towards some other quarter, against the
enemies of the suppliant, and leaves the latter himself in peace.
The worshipper, he thinks, is merely cajoling the God, with insincere
words. True, he heals diseases, but he is only beneficent so far as he chases
away clouds and vapours and purifies the atmosphere; and he carries
diseases and contagions as arrows in his quiver, and with them slays men
and cattle. Dr. Muir thinks these "ingenious and interesting speculations."
They utterly misrepresent the Veda. Professor Wilson much more truly
says, of the Vedic Rudra,
He is termed the slayer of heroes, but so is Indra: the effects of his anger upon men
and animals are deprecated; but .... his peculiar characteristics are evidently
his presiding over medicinal plants and removal of disease, attributes of a beneficent,
not of a malignant and irascible Deity.
In truth, he is essentially and in the highest degree a beneficent, bountiful
dispenser of good, gracious, easily propitiated, kind and mild in his benevo-
RUDRA 337
lence. As the storms are rare and occasional, so is his anger and fierceness.
He is the father of the winds, and they furnish his attributes. He is the
"healing Rudra," and "men making obeisance in their own place of sacrifice,
seek by worship his friendship, and life/' Lauded by men, he has distrib-
uted food amongst them. This reverence is most dear to Rudra: and
hymn 169. v. I, of the Tenth Mandala expresses the Aryan appreciation of
him and of the wind:
may the wind, causing prosperity, blow upon the cows. Let them consume invig-
orating herbage; let them drink, being fat and life-sustaining: Rudra, be gracious
to our moving sources of food.
After summing up what is said of Rudra in the Veda, Dr. Muir says that
in most places Rudra has no clearly defined function [such, for instance, as is ascribed
. to Indra and Agni, or even to Vishnu] as an agent in producing the great phenomena
of the physical world. [He thinks that] it would be difficult to make out, from the
larger portion of the texts cited, to what region of the universe his activity should
be referred.
As father of the Maruts, he thinks, it might be expected
that he would be described as, even more eminently than they, the generator of
tempest and chaser of clouds;
but that except in a small number of texts, there are few distinct traces of
any such agency being ascribed to him. The numerous vague epithets
applied to him, Dr. Muir thinks, would not suffice to fix the particular
sphere of his operation, or even to define his personality, as most of them are
equally applied to other Deities. But Dr. Muir regards him as principally
a malevolent Deity, who heals when he ceases to destroy, only, and whom
the worshipper flatters and cajoles, fearing to excite his jealousy by calling
in any other Deity, to provide a remedy. I do not read the Veda in that
sense, at all. If we can. conceive of God as the author of both good and
evil, I do not see why our remote ancestor could not conceive of a Deity
generally beneficent, and occasionally fierce and destructive. That is the
nature of the winds: and one can surely conceive of the possibility of what
he actually sees and feels.
In the lower country of the Punjab, intersected by rivers, and alluvial,
and covered with a rank vegetation in which the fruits of the tropics
grew and the summer heat was oppressive, the same diseases must have been
common, as prevail in the southern part of the United States, bilious and
typhoid fevers, and chills. When the south winds ceased to blow, and the
338 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
cool northern breezes came down from the summits of the mountains, they
came with healing in their wings to the sick, even when they were preceded
by elemental commotions and thunderstorms. Even the monsoons purified
the air, and healthful winds, the beneficent Maruts, succeeded them. And
I wonder it did not occur to Dr. Muir and Professor Weber, that the Maruts,
the direct authors of the storms, are continually represented and invoked as
most beneficent Deities.
Two effects of fire, no one could fail at once to notice. It expands
water into vapour, and causes the vapour and its smoke to ascend. A
little, observation would show that it caused an ascending movement of
the air, because the observer would see small things of little weight, leaves
and chaff, carried upward by the current so created. Above the flame he
would see a visible rippling of a thin transparent substance; and this he
could discern even in the warm sunshine. In the case of a great conflagra-
tion of the grassy plains or of the woods, he would find the fire, if long
continued, causing wind and rain.
He would see the smoke and rarefied vapours eddy and whirl in the air,
and whatever they took up with them carried in spiral circles higher and
higher up, until they disappeared. He would soon attribute to a like
agency the little whirls of wind that dance, of a summer day, across the
plains and along the roads. And he would not long delay, after personifying
the light, the heat and the flame, and deifying the softening and melting
potency of the fire and heat, to consider the power of expanding, of causing
upward currents of air, and whirls, and even winds and rain, as a distinct
function of Agni, if not as a subsistence of his substance, an hypostasis, and
so to deify it, as he deified TvashtrjL He could call the personification
white-complexioned, because the rippling in the air caused by the heat is
colourless and diaphanous, as one may imagine that silver, vapourized,
would be. And, when the smoke ascended with it, he could call it dark-
hued and tawny. The spiral curls of vapour would suggest an epithet that
would compare them to ringlets, and which might by and by be taken to
mean that the God who in action and manifested was this potency and
energy, wore braided hair.
Once the conception of this immeasurable potency and force was at-
tained, and Rudra became father of the winds, generated by him in the
expanse, the imagination and fancy of the Poet would have a vast field in
which to display their powers. As the heat from the sun fills the whole
expanse, so would Rudra be deemed to exercise his powers everywhere;
and as there would be no known limits to the powers, so there would none
imaginable to their effects. The mode of action of the powers being un-
known, the Poets' conceptions of Rudra would be vague and indefinite.
RUDRA 339
Father of the storm-winds as well as of the zephyrs of spring and the
mountain breezes of the summer, and carrying the clouds hither and thither,
the lightnings would be deemed his arrows, and the rains his gift. Issuing
from the flame, he would still wear its colours as his golden ornaments, and
be justly styled beautiful and brilliant. The Sanskrit terms that designate
the features of the face and parts of the body are from roots that have
general meanings; as, for example, pad, padas, foot, "that which goes or
steps," from pad, to"go"or"march;"7ww, nd$df nose, "thatwhich projects/'
from nas, to "jut out, spring, leap forth.*' The epithets that in later ages
had come to mean "soft-bellied," and "with a beautiful chin," had, it is
very probable, in the Vedic age a meaning much nearer to those of the
original roots, and less ridiculous as applied to a Deity. The Maruts are
called "bright as suns," "brightly arrayed like women," "adorned with
jewels;" and therefore Rudra, a fire-spirit, could well be styled "best and
brightest of the Gods." He would naturally and aptly be called mobile,
rapid, circumambient, the crooked-goer. He is xayad-viraya, which is
translated "ruler over heroes." Var means to "cover, shield, defend,
prevent;" whence varas, viras, a "male, husband;" varas, "obstacle,
effort;" vamhas, a "wild boar;" as well as viras and vairin, a "warrior,
combatant." Xayad or ksayad, from ksi, to "break, destroy," may mean
"ruler," but it may also have meant "breaker, subduer, overcomer:" and
the compound word may as well have meant "overcomer of obstacles," as
"ruler of heroes." He is called divo vardham arusham, which Dr. Muir trans-
lates, "the dark-hued celestial boar," with a query whether varaham may
not mean "cloud." Varahas came to mean a "wild boar," but its root
meant to "cover, defend."
I do not find that the quiver of Rudra is represented as filled with
contagion and disease, for arrows. He is represented as slaying men and
cows, and his "cow-slaying weapon" is spoken of. It was not uncommon,
I imagine, for men and cows to be killed by lightning. Hfe could well be
called "lord of songs," "lord of sacrifices," "lord of the sacrificial food,"
and the "fulfiller of the objects of sacrifices and rites," Agne-R^draya, king
of the sacrifice, for it is he that bears the oblation upward to the Gods.
What else can Rudra be, than I have said?
USHA3.
Asfc . Adhy. i. Anuo. vi. Stikta mi. Cm;.)-
20. Ushas who art pleased by praise, what mortal enjoyeth thee, immortal?
21. Diffusive, many-tinted, brilliant. Daughter of heaven.
Adhy. iv. Anw. ix. Sfikfa v.
1. Ushas, daughter of heaven, dawn upon us with riches! .... Diffuser of
light . . . . Bountiful Goddess.
4. Ushas, at thy comings wise men turn their minds to benefactions.
5. Ushas, nourishing all, comes daily like a matron*
6. She animates the diligent, and sends clients .... Shedder of dews, knows
not delay. Bestower of food,
8. Bringer of good, she lights up the world. Affluent daughter of heaven.
13. Ushas, whose bright auspicious rays are visible all around.
14. Adorable Ushas, radiant with pure light.
15. Ushas, thou hast today set open the two gates of heaven with light.
SAkta vi.
4. Thou, Ushas, dispersing the darkness, illuminest the shining universe with
thy rays.
Adhy. vi. Amw. sew. Sfikta viii. (occii.).
The Divinities of the morning [Ushasah, in the plural] have diffused light; they
make manifest the light in the eastern portion of the firmament, brightening all
things the radiant and progressing mothers.
The Deities of the dawn, bright-rayed, have attended on the glorious sun. The
female leaders illuminate with their inherent radiance the remotest parts.
Ushas cuts off the accumulated (glooms): she bares her bosom as a cow yields
her udder: and as cattle hasten to their pastures, she speeds to the east, and shedding
light upon all the world, dissipates the darkness. Bright-shining she smiles, lovely
in all her radiance.
The divine and ancient Ushas, born again and again, andbrightwith unchanging
hues .... wearing away the ages of the human race, she shines with light like the
bride of the sun.
Adhy. viii. Anuv. xvi. Sdkta viii.
Mother of the Gods, rival of Aditi, illuminator of the sacrifice, mighty Ushas,
shine forth.
Asty. ii. Adhy. i. Anwo* xviii. S&kta iii.
The self-illumined dawn, is born, white-shining, out of the gloom.
USHAS 341
Sfikta i-o.
She, the daughter of heaven, is beheld in the east, gracious, and arrayed in
lights .... Born in the eastern quarter of the spacious firmament, she displays
a banner of rays of light.
8. Ushas, dispersing the darkness with the rays of the sun, illumines the world,
like congregated lightnings.
11. This youthful (Ushas) approaches from the east. She harnesses her team
of purple oxen.
Ash$. Hi. Adky. Hi. Anwv. v. Sdkto viii.
Affluent, giver of sustenance, possessed of intelligence .... divine, ancient,
yet young. Divine, immortal. Ensign of the immortal (sun), opulent: bride of
the far-darting sun. Auspicious, promoting sacred acts. Possessor of truth.
7. Mighty Ushas, the golden light, as it were, of Mitra and Varuna, diffuses
her lustre in different directions.
Ash$. v. Adhy. v. Anns, v. S&kta v.
The dawn, the daughter of heaven, has risen ; she comes, manifesting her magnifi-
cence in light: she scatters our foes, as well as the odious darkness, and relumes the
paths that are to be trodden .... The bride of Surya .... The light and
wondrous steeds, conveying the resplendent Ushas, are visible. She advances,
radiant in her every-way-moving chariot.
Stiktavi.
The divine Savitji, the leader of all, sends upward the immortal, all-benefitting
light: the eye of the Gods has been manifested, for religious rites: the dawn has
made all creatures visible. The paths that lead to the Gods are beheld by me,
innocuous, and glorious with light; the banner of Ushas is displayed in the east;
she conies to the west, rising above high places.
Those ancient sages, our ancestors, observant of truth, rejoicing together with
the Gods, discovered the hidden light, and, reciters of sincere prayers, they generated
the dawn.
Stikta vii*
Ushas shines radiant, in the proximity of the sun. Agni is to be kindled for the
good of men. The dawn has risen : clothed in pure and brilliant vesture, she expands.
Of golden colour and of lovely radiance, she shines, the parent of sounds, the leader
of days.
Theauspicious Ushas, bearing the eye of the Gods, leading her white and beautiful
courser, is beheld, manifested by her rays.
SARASWATI.
The passages in which Saraswati is mentioned are the following:
Asht. L Adhy. i. Anwu. i. Sfikta Hi.
10. May Saraswati, the purifier, the bestower of food, the recompenser of wor-
ship with wealth, be attracted by our offered viands to our rite.
11. Saraswati, the inspirer of those who delight in truth, the instructress of the
right-minded, has accepted our sacrifice.
12. Saraswati makes manifest by her acts a mighty river, and enlightens all
understandings.
Anuv. iv. Sfikto iL
May the three undecaying Goddesses [rivers, that never run dry], givers of
delight, Il, Saraswati, and Mahi, sit down upon the sacred grass.
Adhy. w. Anw). xiv. Sdkfa v.
3. We invoke them with an ancient text, Bhaga, Mitra, Aditi, Daksha, Asridh,
Aryaman, Varuna, Soma, the Awins; and may the gracious Saraswati grant us
happiness.
-
Adhy. Hi. Anuv. xxii. Sfikta viii.
49. Saraswati, that retiring breast, which is the source of delight, with which
thou bestowest all gootf things, which is the container of wealth, the distributor of
riches, the giver of good; that do thou lay open at this season, for our nourishment.
Adhy. mi. Anuv. iii. Sfikta viii.
8. Saraswatf, do thou protect us! Associated with the Maruts, and firm,
overcome our foes, whilst Indra slays the chief of the Sapdikas, defying him and
confiding in his strength.
Adhy. viii. Anuv. iv. S&kta fa.
16. Saraswati, best of mothers, best of rivers, best of Goddesses, . . , .
grant
us distinction.
17. In thee, Saraswati, who art divine, all existences are collected; rejoice,
Goddess, among the Sunahotras; grant us, Goddess, progeny.
18. Saraswati, abounding in food, abounding in water, be propitiated ....
Anuv. i. Sukta iv.
8. May Bhgrat!, associated with the Bharatis; I&, with the Gods and men;
and Agni; and Saraswati with the Sarawatas: may the three Goddesses sit down
upon the sacred grass before them.
. ii* Adky. v. Anm. i. S&kfa iii.
SARASWATl 343
8. May the three Goddesses, Saraswati, perfecting our understanding, the divine
Ili, and all-impressive Bhrati, having come to our dwelling, protect this faultless
rite.
In SAkta i. of the same,
Thou, divine Agni .... thou lord of wealth, art Aditi .... thou art Hotra and
Bhirati .... thou art Hi, of a hundred winters, to him who makes thee gifts;
thou art the destroying Vritra, Saraswati.
Thus Agni is either represented as bounteous as these rivers; or as being
each, because he sends down the rains that feed them, melts the snows, and
thaws the winter ice, in the spring.
Ash$. Hi, Adhy. *. Anuv. ii. Sdkta xi.
4..... Do thou, Agni, shine on the frequented (banks) of the Drishadvatt,
ApayS. and Saraswati, rivers.
Elsewhere, Saraswati and R&ka are called "illustrious grantors of
desires:" and in Sdkta xi. Anuv. Hi. Adhy. ii. of Ashf. iv. y
May the radiant Saraswati come to the sacrifice from the heavens or the spacious
firmament: may the Goddess, the showerer of water .... hear.
Rudra and Saraswati, with Vishnu and Vayu, are invoked to send rain.
Elsewhere she is called "Saraswati, dwelling with rivers."
Ash}, iv. Adhy. viii. Anuv. v. Stikta xii., is addressed to Saraswati.
1. She gave the donor of the oblations .... a son, endowed with speed, ....
she who destroyed the churlish niggard .... such are thy great bounties, Saraswati.
2. With impetuous and mighty waves she breaks down the precipices of the
mountains, like a digger for the lotus fibres. We adore for our protection, with
praises and with sacred rites, Saraswati, the underminer of both her banks.
3. Destroy, Saraswati, the revilers of the Gods, .... giver of sustenance,
thou hast acquired for men the lands, and hast showered water upon them.
She is called in this hymn, the divine Saraswati, the protectress of her
worshippers ; the fierce Saraswati, riding in a golden chariot, the destructress
of enemies; she whose might, infinite, undeviating, splendid, progressive,
water-shedding, proceeds loud-sounding; dearest among those dear to us;
filling the vast expanse of earth and heaven; abiding in the three worlds,
comprising seven elements, cherishing the five races, ever to be invoked in
battle. She is distinguished among them, as eminent in greatness and in
344 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
her glories. She is the most impetuous of all streams: she has been created
vast in capacity as a chariot.
And she is invoked to sustain the worshipper with viands, to protect
him engaged in conflict for the sake of wealth; to
overcome all our adversaries, and bring to us her other water-laden sisters, as the
ever-rolling sun, the days,
She has seven sisters, and is ever adorable: and she is invoked not to over-
whelm with water.
In Stikta Hi. Anuv. Hi. Adhy. iv. Asht. iv. we read:
6. May the seventh, Saraswati, the mother of the Sindhu, and those rivers that
flow copious and fertilizing, bestowing abundance of food, and nourishing, by
their waters, come at once together.
SAkta vi. Anuv. vi. Adhy. vi. Ashf. v. is addressed to Saraswati. We
condense it as follows:
This Saraswati, firm as a city made of iron, flows rapidly with sustaining water,
sweeping away in its might all other waters, as a charioteer. Saraswati, chief and
purest of rivers, flowing from the mountains to the ocean, understood the request
of Nirusha, and distributing riches among the many existing beings, milked for him
butter and water. [The third stanza is addressed to the Showerer Saraswat, friend
of man, who, even while a child, increases among his adorable wives; and bestows
upon the affluent a vigourous son; and purifies their person, for the reception.]
The auspicious and gracious Saraswati .... Whiteicomplexioned, be .magni-
fied: bestow food on him who glorifies thee, and ever cherish us with blessings.
Sdkta vii. is also to Saraswati:
Saraswati, who is both in heaven and earth [because the rains that are the river
come from the expanse, and the springs rise out of the earth]. Beautiful Saraswati,
inasmuch as by this might men obtain both kinds of food .... friend of the
Maruts, bestow riches .... the auspicious Saraswati, .... the faultless-
moving, food-conferring .... [In the three kst stanzas, Saraswat is invoked,
the fifth and sixth being]: with these thy waves, Saraswat, which are sweet-tasted,
the distributors of water, be our protector. May we recline upon the protuberant
breast of Saraswat, which is visible to all, that we may possess progeny and food.
Twice, IIS, Saraswati and Mahl are invoked, as Goddesses, together, in
the whole Veda.
It is quite evident that Saraswati is more than the river of that name.
She is also the river Goddess, the prototype of the Goddesses of the Grecian
mythology. Saraswat must have been the male Deity of the same river,
SARASWATl 345
the water God. These were probably later conceptions of the Aryan
mind ; and yet the conception of Saraswati may have been a very early one;
and it is akin to the idea formed of Agni and his manifestations. This
plainly appears, in the first text that we have quoted from the First
Ashtaka. In that, Saraswati is first addressed as a Deity, propitiated by
worship, and rewarding it, inspirer of those who delight in truth, and
instructress of the right-minded; if these phrases at all reproduce the real
sense of the original. And immediately afterwards, she is said to "make
manifest by her acts a mighty river," by which I understand that she, the
invisible spirit or substance, manifests herself in act, outwardly and visibly,
as an actual river, as, in more modern idea, the Deity manifests Himself,
by utterance, in the visible and material universe. But how, by thus
becoming embodied, and invested with actuality as a river, she "enlightens
all understandings," I must leave to others to explain; certain, only, that
this phrase, which is mere nonsense, does not reproduce the sense of the
original.
Her "retiring breast" that is the source of delight, is probably the
river's hidden source in the high mountains in which it rises. The "exist-
ences," all of which are "collected" in her, are, probably, all streams,
characterized as actualities, and which are included in her, as, in later
philosophies the universe exists in idea in the Deity, before it is uttered
outwardly, and becomes, as the manifold of existence. Her seven sisters
may be the seven rivers of the Punjab, or the Pleiades, as shedders of rain.
She is said to fill the vast expanse of earth and heaven, and abide in the
three worlds, comprising seven elements, and cherishing the five races: and,
in the same breath, she is declared to be the most impetuous of all the
streams. That these enigmatical phrases are applied to her, of whose
personality there is no doubt, and that they seem utterly inappropriate,
proves that they are not correct renderings of the originals, and also
contents us with like phrases that seem equally inconsistent with the
character and personality that we have ascribed to other Deities, where
there was no such certainty. No doubt, if we knew their real meaning, the
apparent inappropriateness and incongruity would disappear.
The seven "elements" "comprised" by her, may mean the seven parts
or branches, that unite to form the one river; and this would indicate that
Saraswati was the Indus. What the five races were, it is impossible to tell.
Probably, five different tribes or peoples, through whose countries the
river or rivers ran. The three regions in which she abides may be earth,
expanse and sky, in which she was supposed to be present as the spirit or
invisible substance or essential principle of water; or they may be the
mountains, the forests and the alluvial plains.
346 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
She fills the great expanse, as the vapour that forms the clouds and
falls in rain.
In the Fifth Ashtaka, as we have seen, she is expressly called the
seventh, the mother of the Sindhu, and is invoked to come to the sacrifice.
As a river, therefore, she is the Sindhu or Indus. She may at first have
been the Oxus; and long afterwards the Jumna or Yamuna. But it is clear
that to the Rishis of the Country of the Seven Rivers, she was, as a river,
the Indus, flowing from the mountains, impetuous, regardless of obstacles,
and tearing huge masses from its banks, when, overflowing it devastated
by inundation the alluvial lands.
In the Hindu mythology, she became the wife of Brahma, Goddess of
harmony, arrangement, and the creative acts; of learning, music and
poetry. And she also became a sacred and mythical river, which, rising
in the mountains, flowed underground, to fall into the Ganges at Allahabad,
where the Yamuna united with it. This meeting of the three sacred
rivers is called Triveni, or "the three-plaited locks." Moor, Oriental
Fragm. 251. Allahabad is the modern Mohammedan name of the city.
The Hindus call it Prayaga, "the Union," and Devi-Prayaga, "the Union
of the Goddesses."
This seems to indicate that after the Indian Aryans crossed the Ganges,
Saraswatf was the Yamuna, and afterwards assumed a mythical character,
because there was no stream, except that, to which the language of the Veda
in regard to Saraswati could apply.
Whether the Aryans of the Punjab, before crossing the Sutlej, knew
anything about the ocean into which the Indus falls, and meant that by the
sea to which Saraswati runs from the mountains; or whether it indicates
that she was originally the Oxus, receiving seven streams from the moun-
tains in Bactria, and pouring the aggregated waters into the great Caspian
Sea, no one can decide.
THE RIBHUS.
The Ribhus, it is said (protecting and fostering) ,
hastened to the presence
of Indra, and by them, encouraging words were uttered. Professor Wilson
remarks that here they are the Maruts. Elsewhere he says that a text of
the Veda identifies them with the solar rays; and they are indeed said to
be the rays of the sun. In Sukta v. Anuv. xvi. Adhy. vii. Ash}, i. they are
said to have been among the ancestors of the worshipper, and that they were
the sons of Sudhanwan (who was a descendant of the Angiras). Savitri
bestowed on them immortality. Brilliant as the sun, they became associated
with the ceremony. Associated with Indra, they also builded a car for the
Aswins, and framed the vigourous horses for Indra. In the Third Ashtaka,
also, they are called grandsons of a man, sons of Sudhanwan;
swift as the wind, the doers of good works, they were borne quickly across the
expanse by rapid steeds. When, reposing for twelve days, they remained in the
hospitality of the unconcealable, they rendered the fields fertile, they led forth the
rivers, plants sprung upon the waste, and waters covered the low places. They
were the artificers of the Gods, and formed the all-impelling, multiform milch-
cow. They made the ladle four-fold. They soar aloft in the sky like falcons.
Vi*ja, Ribhu and Vibhwan are named among them: and they are called Vajins and
Ribhukshans, and Vijas. They are sons of strength, possessors of wealth, and
givers of precious things; and Indra and the Ribhus overcame all foes.
. It is not easy to see how some of these expressions apply to either the
winds or the rays of the sun. If the Ribhus were the winds, it would not
be said of them that "swift as the wind" they were borne anywhere. How
could the winds be said to build chariots and form horses, for the Aswins
and Indra? If they are the rays of the sun, would it be said that they are
"brilliant as the sun"? How could either the wind or the rays of the sun
be associated with the ceremony? What meaning is there in the phrase
"reposing for twelve days, they remained in the hospitality of the uncon-
cealable," as applied either to the winds, or the rays of the sun? What are
the meanings of their being artificers of the Gods, forming the all-impell-
ing, many-formed milch-cow, and making the ladle four-fold?
They are men, Rishis, sons of Sudhanwan, descendants of the Angiras,
on whom Savitri bestowed immortality, by transferring them to the skies,
.wherein they soar aloft like falcons. Three of them are named Vija,
Ribhu and Vibhwan. That they hastened to the presence of Indra and
uttered encouraging words, means that they were ministers of the sacrifices
to Indra, and offered up prayer and adoration to him.
348 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The Seven Rishis, translated in like manner to heaven, became the
Seven Stars of Ursa Major, and that constellation received the name of
"The Seven Rishis;" and these stars were, in all likelihood, originally the
Amsha-Cpntas of the Gths of Zarathustra. The probability is that
all Rishis thus reputed to have been invested with immortality, and trans-
lated to heaven, became stars and stars forming a particular group or
constellation were, I believe, the Ribhus. They were therefore said to be
brilliant as the sun, and associated with the ceremony (the sacrifice), and
with Indra (the light). Traversing the sky, they are swift as the winds,
and borne quickly across it by rapid steeds. That they are "doers of good
works," means that they exert beneficial influences; and what these are,
we learn elsewhere: they, at a particular season [during the twelve days],
fertilize the land, lead forth the waters, cause vegetation to spriiig up, and
the water to cover the cow grounds. Thus they possess wealth and bestow
benefits. They are sons of strength because of these potencies.
The formation of the all-impelling, multiform milch-cow unquestionably
has some meaning. If we refer to the G&tMs, we shall find the primeval
bull invoked, the ideal progenitor of all cattle; and it is evident, I think,
that the "all-impelling" cow is the universal, containing in its unity, and
being, all the manifold of cattle, as the ideal unit, humanity contains and is,
all the individuals of the human race. "All-impelling" is, I think, all-
producing: for to ''produce" is but to "put forth, push out, emit."
And this induces me to conclude that they were a group of stars which,
4,000 years before Christ, rose with the sun at the vernal equinox, or did
so at some period not later than 2,500 years before our era. During the
latter portion of these two periods, the sun was in the constellation Taurus
at that period; and the celestial bull then opened the year, and caused
fertility and productiveness, vegetable and animal. The twelve days
during which they reposed, remaining in the hospitality of the unconceal-
able, were perhaps the days during which they continued to rise not long
before the sun, in the glow and glory of tbe dawn; and as they caused the
rains to fall and the rivers to rise and overflow, I think they were the Hyades.
The appellation, "artificers of the Devas" is immediately followed, and is
explained, by the phrase "and formed, etc., the cow": and thus the word
"artificers" appears to mean creators or generators, among the Devas; as in
the Hebrew, the word bara means to "form, fashion, beget, produce, create."
They invest with forms and the actuality of existence the individuals that
exist in idea in the universal.
I do not think that it is possible to know what is meant by their making
the ladle fourfold; but whatever the Ribhus are supposed to be, that enigma
will remain the same.
THE RIBHUS 349
Nor, perhaps, will it ever be possible to ascertain what is meant by their
building the car for the Awins, and framing the horses for Indra; but this
enigma, also, will remain the same, whatever they may be supposed to be.
SARAMA.
Allusion is frequently made, Professor Wilson remarks,
to a legend of the Asuras named Panis having stolen the cows of the Gods, or, accord-
ing to some versions, of the Angirasas, and hidden them in a cave, where they were
discovered by Indra, with the help of the bitch Sarama.
What we find in the Veda about her, is as follows :
When the search (for the cattle stolen from the Angirasas, 'our forefathers'),
was made, and they, 'knowing the foot-marks/ recovered them, it 'was set on foot
by Indra, and the Angirasas* and 'Sarama secured food for her young; then Brihas-
pati slew the devourer, and rescued the kine/
For thee (Agni), Saram& discovered the abundant milk of the kine, with which
man, the progeny of Manu, still is nourished.
The seven intelligent Sages [(the Angirasas) :
Qu. the seven stars of Ursa Major?],
having ascertained that the cows were concealed in the strong, propitiated by mental
devotion. They recovered them all by the path of sacrifice; for Indra, knowing,
and yielding to their wishes, entered.
When SaramS, discovered the cleft of the mountain, then Indra made great and
ample for her young, as previously: then the sure-footed, first recognizing their low-
ing, proceeded, and came to the presence of the imperishable kine.
Indra, aided by the Maruts, recovered the kine from the cave, and
Angiras became his worshipper: and the Angirasas,
contemplating their own giving milk to their former progeny, were delighted; their
shouts spread through heaven and earth: they replaced the recovered kine in their
places, and stationed guards over the cows.
Invoked of many (Indra), when thou hadst divided the cloud for the waters,
Sarama appeared before thee,
Sarama, going to the ceremony, discovered the cattle, and Angiras rendered all
the rites effective. [The Poet or Priest has invited those with him, to 'celebrate
that solemn rite* which was effectual in setting open the stalls of the cattle; at this
sacrifice, it is said, the stone, by the hands, makes a noise, whereby the nine-month
ministrants celebrated the ten months' worship; when Sarama, etc.]
When all the Angirasas, on the opening of this adorable dawn, came in
contact with the cattle, then milk and the rest were offered in the august
assembly; for Saram& had found the cows by the path of truth (by
following the track by which they had been taken, and which the light
enabled her to see).
SARAMA 351
Sfikta xxii. Anuv. Hi. Adhy. iv. AshL v. is an enigma. The First Stanza
invokes the protector of the dwelling and remover of disease, assuming all
forms, to be a friend and grantor of happiness. The next three stanzas
chide the white offspring of Saramt (Sarameya), with tawny limbs, for
barking and showing his teeth at the worshippers of Indra, to intimidate
them, instead of attacking the thief or robber; and order him to go to sleep.
"Do thou rend the hog;" stanza four says:
Let the hog rend thee! Why dost thou assail the worshippers of Indra? Why dost
thou intimidate us? Go quietly to sleep*
Then follows this:
Let the mother sleep, let the father sleep, let the dog sleep, let the son-in-law sleep,
let all the kindred sleep, let the people around sleep. The man who sits, or he who
walks, or he who sees us, of these we shut up the eyes, so that they may be as uncon-
scious as the house. We put men to sleep through the irresistible might of the bull
with a thousand horns, who rises out of the ocean: [explained as the sun with a
thousand rays; but how does the sun put men to sleep at night?}.
I do not find these cows connected in the Veda, with Ushas, or the dawn,
except by the interpolations of the commentators, and nothing to warrant
the identification of them with the bright clouds of dawn, brought back
from captivity in some cave or cleft of a mountain, by the aid of Sarami, the
messenger of Ushas.
The language is figurative, but the legend seems to me a very simple one.
The sons of Angiras, forefathers of the Rishis for whom the Poet speaks,
lost their cattle, "lifted" by some predatory band, whose name, Panis, has
been preserved. Taken in the night, they were driven to a distance, and
hidden in a valley of the mountains, from whose fastnesses these Highland
Caterans of the Caucasus had descended. The plundered owners cried aloud
in prayer, to Indra, for light, that they might see to follow the robbers; and
Brihaspati, the spirit of prayer, prevailed with Indra. Daylight came, and
they found and followed the trail. Saram&, going to the ceremony, dis-
covered the cattle, she discovered the cleft of the mountain, and the Seven
Sages (the Angirasas), having ascertained that the cows were concealed in
the fastness, prayed mentally to Indra, and the sure-footed (sure followers
of the trail?) aware of the proximity of the cattle by their lowing*, effected an
entrance, and came to where the kine, destined not to be then slaughtered,
were confined. It was owing to their sacrifice to Indra that they recovered
them, for he, informed of their wishes, and complying with them, entered
352 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
with them into the fastness. In this he was aided by the Maruts. It was
Angiras, the father, who officiated at the sacrifice, which proved effectual
to open the stronghold in which the cattle were confined.
When the cattle were recovered, Angiras worshipped Indra, and the
Angirasas, seeing their cattle giving suck to their calves, were delighted,
and their joyful exclamations resounded far abroad and high towards
heaven. And they restored the cattle to their wonted folds, and after that
had them guarded at night.
SaramS. discovered for Agni the abundant milk of the kine, with which
Man, the progeny of Manu, still is nourished. This may mean that she
first taught men to milk their cows, and so caused the sacrifices to be fed
with butter: or, more probably, that, by enabling the Angirasas to recover
the kine, which she found for them, she enabled them to supply themselves
with milk and butter, for the fire of the sacrifice.
When th,e robbers' stronghold was carried by assault, SaramS. found food
there for her young. Indra, by whose light the cattle were tracked and
followed, furnished this food, great and ample, for her young, as he had
done before; and it was prayer, Bphaspati, to whom it was owing that the
robbers who would have slain and eaten the cattle, were killed, and the
kine recovered.
As the kine were recovered "by the path of sacrifice," so SaramS. found
them "by the path of truth," by means of the daylight. She appeared
before Indra, when he had divided the cloud, to cause rain: going to the
ceremony, she discovered the cattle. What the significance of her appearing
before Indra is, we do not discover. After the return of the cattle to their
homes, the Angirasas, at the opening of the dawn, offered milk and other
things as a sacrifice, in an assembly of all their people, returning thanks
because Sarami had found the cattle, by pursuing them in the true
direction.
It seems that some particular day of the year was celebrated as the
anniversary of this recovery, at "which the Soma juice was expressed, and
"the nine-month mlnistrants celebrated the ten months' worship," an
obscure phrase which it is useless to endeavour to explain.
Sarami is not invoked or sacrificed to as a Deity. Her white offspring,
with tawny limbs, Sarameya is plainly a watch-dog, without sufficient
discretion not to know the worshippers of Indra from robbers, and therefore
chidden for barking at them.
Mr. Cox says (Mythol i. 417}, that Ushas
reveals mysteries, and opens the ends of Heaven, where the Pa^iishad hidden away
the cows of which she is the mother. She tells the Angiras where they are to be
SARAMA 353
found, and as she lightens the sky, she is said to drive her own herds to the pastures.
[But we do not find her playing that part in the Veda.J
Again Mr. Cox says,
It is to the phrases which speak of the dawn under the name of Sarami, that we must
look for the germ of the great epics of the Western Aryans .... Whatever may
be the precise meaning of the name, whether Sarami or Saranya is taken to denote
the storm cloud or the morning, there is no doubt that the root of the word is sar,
to "creep," or "go," which we find in serpent, as well as in the Greek Erinys and
Sarpd6n.
Sarama" is certainly not a name for the dawn. On the contrary, she is, in the
legend, a bitch that has young, for whom she secures food. Sarpas or sarpin, in
Sanskrit, is a "reptile," from seer, to "go" or "creep:" and ahis, agas, is a "serpent,"
from ag, to "approach," to "infold;" but how this tends to prove that Sarama is
Ushas, the dawn, we utterly fail to see. If Sarama" is from the root s&r, its meaning
much more probably was a messenger, a goer of errands; and, perhaps, from the
other meaning of the root (to creep), a stealthy messenger. Eichhoff gives, as the
root of sarpas, sarp, to "go, creep, crawl;" and the meaning of the root sar to "be,"
to "go," to "move;" and of "gar," to "pierce, penetrate." From sar we have sarast
"fluid, milk."
Mr. Cox continues,
In the Rig-Veda, Sarami is especially the guardian of the cows of Indra, and as his
messenger she goes to the Panis, who have stolen them away. [We do not find
her to be such guardian, or to go as his messenger.] She, too, like Ushas, is said to
be the first to spy out the cleft in the rock, where the Panis, like Cacus, had hid the
plundered cattle, and like Herakles, she is the first to hear their lowings. [It is not
said that she heard them at all; but that the Angirasas did.] Like Ushas, also, she
walks in a straight path [which she does not do like Ushas, but as a dog following a
trail]: but when she comes to the stronghold of the Panis, a conference follows, in
which we see unmistakably the dawn peering about through the sky in search of
the bright clouds, and restoring them in all their brilliance and beauty to the broad
pastures of the Heaven.
Mr. Cox then quotes as follows:
The Panis said, 'with what intention did Sarama" reach this place? for the way is
far, and leads tortuously away. What was your wish with us? How was the night?
How did you cross the waters of the Risa?'
The Pay/is 'What kind of man is Indra, O Sarama*, what is his look, he as whose
messenger thou comest from, afar? Let him come hither, and we will make friends
with him, and then he may be the cow-herd of our cows.'
Sarama *I do not know that he is to be subdued, for it is hehimself that subdues,
he as whose messenger I came hither from afar. Deep streams do not overwhelm
him; you, Panis, will he prostrate, killed by Indra.'
354 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The Payis Those cows, Sarama, which thou desirest, fly about the ends of
the sky, O darling. Who would give them up to thee without fighting? for our
weapons too are sharp.'
Saramd Though your words, O Panis, are unconquerable, though your wretched
bodies be arrow-proof, though the way to you be hard to go, Brihaspati will not bless
you for either.'
The Panis 'That store, O Sarama, is fastened to the rock, furnished with cows,
horses and treasures. Panis watch it who are good watchers; thou art come in
vain to this bright place.
7
Saramd 'Let the Rishis come here fired with Soma, Ahasya (Indra), and the
ninefold Angiras: they will divide the stable of cows; then the Panis will vomit out
this speech.'
The Panis 'Even thus, O Sarama, thou art come hither, driven by the violence
of the Gods; let us make thee our sister: do not go away again: we will give thee
part of the cows, O darling.'
Saramd 'I know nothing of brotherhood or sisterhood: Indra knows it, and the
awful Angiras. They seemed to me anxious for their cows when I came: there-
fore get away from here, Panis, far away.'
'Go far away, Panis, far away; let the cows come out straight; the cows which
Brihaspati, Soma, the Stones and the wise IjLishis found, hidden away.'
And on this, Mr. Cox says:
This hymn, seemingly so transparent in its meaning, becomes unintelligible if inter-
preted of any other being than the dawn, in her struggle with the powers of darkness;
and hence it seems a superfluous task to show that all the essential features of Ushas
reappear in Sarama: that like Ushas, Saram& is followed by Indra, and that walking
first she reveals the treasures which had been hidden away; that both alike go to the
uttermost ends of heaven; that both break the stronghold of the Panis; both are the
mothers and deliverers of the cows; 'both drive forth their cattle to the pastures;
both walk in the right path, and bestow wealth and blessings upon men.' [Saramt
is not mother of the cows. She does not deliver them or break the stronghold. She
guides the Angirasas to it, and they break it. She does not drive forth the cattle
to the pasture. The Angirasas drive them home. She does not bestow wealth or
blessings on men, and is not invoked at all.]
Every phrase [he continues] tells us of some change in the heaven, from the time
when the sun sinks to sleep in the west, to the moment when his face is first seen
again in the east. As the light of evening dies away, the power of the darkness is
restored, and the Panis extinguish the bright-coloured clouds which have looked
down on the death of the sun, or in other words, they steal the cows of Indra. [All
of this that is to be found in the Veda is, that the cows, not of Indra, but of the seven
sons of Angiras, are stolen and driven off by the Panis, and that it must have been
in the night, as they were recovered at dawn.]
During the weary hours of night, they are shut up in the demon's prison-house;
but at length the messenger of the clay comes to reclaim her children. [The dog
Saramll leads the Angirasas to the place where the cows are concealed and confined.]
SARAMA 355
With a faint flush she starts slowly from the doors of the east. Her light, creeping
along the dark face of the sky, seems to ebb and flow like the sea-tide; and so might
SaramU be said to hold parley -with the Panis who refuse to yield up their plunder.
But the dawn is only the messenger of one far mightier than herself, and if they will
not yield to her, they shall feel the force of the arm of Indra; and the conference
with the Panis, which answers to the spreading of the dawn, ends in their over-
throw, as soon as Indra appears in his chariot in other words, when the sun is
risen. [And then, the Angirasas forcing the stronghold, Saram obtains plenty of
meat, with which to feed her young.]
If the stolen cows were the bright clouds, how were they found by
Brfhaspati (the spirit of prayer), Soma, the stones that crushed and ground
the Soma, and the wise Rishis? What had prayer to do with the return
of the clouds? The sons of Angiras, finding their cows gone, sacrificed
and prayed to Indra, and their prayer and sacrifice, and the light granted
them by Indra, enabled them, finding their footprints and led by SaramcL,
to discover the hiding-place. And they said, "Indra found the kine, and
Bphaspati killed the robbers;" because they enabled the Angirasas to do
both.
Indra is not the sun; nor were the cattle released by him, or when he
rose. They were released at the opening of the dawn.
In the very hymn which Mr. Cox quotes, Saram& tells the Panis that
when the Rishis come, exhilarated or strengthened by Soma, with Ahasya
and the nine-fold Angiras, they will force open the place of confinement of
the cows; and then the Panis will eat their words.
The road by which Sarami reached the stronghold ran tortuously
away, a crooked road or path in the rugged mountains. She came there in
the night, too; and crossed the waters of the Risa. If there are rocks and
mountains in the sky or heavens, in which the bright clouds are shut up at
night, is there a river also, which those going after the cattle have to cross?
Do the bright clouds leave "foot-marks," by which they can be followed?
Did the Angirasas recover the bright clouds, "concealed in the stronghold,'*
by "the path of sacrifice"? Did they recognize them by their lowing?
Did they "contemplate their own bright clouds, giving milk to their former
progeny"? Did they "replace the recovered bright clouds in their stalls,
and station guards over them"? To what ceremony was Ushas going,
when she discovered the cattle?
What is meant by Indra feeding the cows, is made plain by the sayirfg,
that Brihaspati, Soma, the stones and the Rishis found them. To the
stones used to crush the Soma, as well as to the Soma itself, the success of
the Rishis was owing. It was the Angirasas who "seemed anxious for
their cows." And the place in. which the robbers kept them, was not only
"fastened to the rock," but it contained horses, cows and treasure.
356 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
One expression, only, gives any colour of plausibility to the notion that
the stolen cattle were the bright clouds. The Panis are made by the
translation to say to Saram^, that the cows which she desires "fly about the
ends of the sky." This cannot mean that the Panis pretended not to have
the cattle, and that they were wandering somewhere afar off; for they
immediately say that their weapons are sharp, and they will not give them
up without fighting; and in the next breath they expressly say that they
have them shut up, and that they are in force sufficient to hold them. The
phrase may have meant that the cows were high up in the mountains,
towards where the sky and the mountain ridges seemed to meet. I am
slow to believe, indeed, that the Vedic Poets ever used a phrase of which
"the cows that fly about the ends of the sky
1 '
is a correct translation.
The Panis are made to say to Sarami, that she comes, "driven by the
violence of the Gods." They would hardly be represented as telling her
that, when she came as their messenger; and the phrase probably means,
merely, "obedient to the will of the Aryan Deities."
Now, the hymn first cited, is an invitation by the Poet, to his companions,
to celebrate with him that solemn rite (that fixed and appointed ceremony
of sacrifice), that had anciently proved effectual to procure the release and
return of the stolen cattle of the Angirasas. The hymns are laudatory of
Indra and Brihaspati, in proof of whose power and beneficence the old
legend is recited, how by prayer and sacrifice their favour was secured and
the cattle recovered.
Of the verses in which Sarameya, the watch-dog is chided, Mr. Cox
remarks, that "it makes but little difference" whether Sarameya is "defi-
nitely the son of Saram&, or whether the word remained a mere epithet for
any one of the Gods who might denote the morning." I see nothing in
the poem which indicates that by the barking watch-dog, the morning
was meant. Professor Miiller says that Vashtoshpati is here called Sara-
meya; and adds, that this Deity would thus denote "the peep of day con-
ceived as a person, watching unseen at the doors of Heaven, during the
night, and giving his first bark in the morning."
But I cannot find any such overstrained allegories as that, in the Veda:
and I think that the song is but a simple and primitive ballad, with no
allegorical or figurative meaning at all; and certainly in no sense religious.
The fanciful interpretation of Professor Miiller is as strained and groundless,
I think, as the exploded misinterpretations of the amatory "Song of
Solomon." No imagination could have been so diseased and feverish, as
to conceive of morning as a white dog with tawny limbs, showing his teeth
and barking at the worshippers of Indra, as if they were thieves or robbers.
SARAMA 357
Could the worshippers of Indra have been conceived of as saying, to the
morning,
Do thou rend the hog [the wild-boar]: let [or, may] the hog rend thee! Why dost
thou scare us? Go quietly to sleep!
And, if this dog was the morning giving "his first bark" to awaken the in-
mates of the house, how could the worshippers of Indra have been anxious
that all in the house should sleep "as unconscious as the house?"
Dr. Mommsen (History of Rome, i. 18) says:
The divine grey-hound, Sarama, who guards for the lord of heaven the golden herd
of stars and sunbeams, and for him collects the nourishing rain-clouds of heaven for
the milking, and who moreover faithfully conducts the pious dead unto the world
of the blessed, becomes in the hands of the Greeks, the son of Sarama, Sarameyas
or Hermeias.
Why not Seirios, the dog-star, the barking dog or Caleb Anubis of the
Egyptians? Dr. Kuhn finds in Saram. a name identical with the Teutonic
storm, and the Greek Horme (impetus, appetite of the mind). And Professor
Miiller says that Saramd and the Greek Helene are "phonetically identical,
not only in every consonant and vowel, but even in their accent."
And Mr. Cox concludes that SaramS, as going before Indra, like Ushas,
is the dawn, and Sarameya or Hermeias is the dawn-child. He says that
we find no divine grey-hound SaramS in the Veda. ButSarami is assuredly
a bitch, in the Veda, if not a grey-hound, though not divine, and one that
has progeny, and feeds them on the food taken from the Panis, who were,
beyond doubt, some predatory band who lived in the hills and did not
worship Indra, nor know who he was. Mr. Cox thinks that Professor Miiller
himself supplies the due that may lead us through the labyrinth in regard
to the Greek Hermes, and SaramA, and their identity when he tells us,
that Hermes is born in the morning,
as Sarameya would be the son of the twilight, or, it may be, the first breeze of the
dawn.
The idea which lies at the root [Mr. Cox says (iL 231)] of the Vedic Sarama and
Sarameya, is that of brightness; which idea, he thinks, is involved in the root sar,
that means only motion.
No one can more highly appreciate the labours and acuteness of Profes-
sor Miiller, than I do, or be more grateful to him for the light which his
writings have shed upon ancient Aryan history, than I am. But I can find
no warrant for these fancies in the Veda, and I think them calculated
358 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
utterly to lead us astray, arid to create notions radically incorrect in regard
to the philosophical ideas and very mode of thought of the Vedic Poets.
They seem to me to be as illusory and far-fetched as the etymological feats
of Godfrey Higgins, and as baseless as many of the chronological con-
clusions of Baron Bunsen.
I find no evidence in the Veda that Saramt was the dawn, or Sarameya
the first whispering breeze of the dawn; nor asny that the Aryan Saram
became the Greek Herme;s or Hermeias, or was regarded as a Deity at all.
No doubt the legend of the robbery of the cattle c\f the sons of Angiras,
and of their being found by the aid of the bitch Saramt, was old enough to
be known to the Greek Aryans, and to become the stock from which many
of their myths branched. I cannot find any evidence in the Veda that the
cows were Indra's, or that they were the bright clouds.
The Seven Angirasas, translated to heaven, became the seven stars of
the Great Bear, the seven Rishis or Sages, and the originals, probably, of the
Zarathustrian Amsha-Gpntas (Amshaspands), but I cannot find that
SaramS. became a star, or any other than the mother of dogs. She may,
at a later day, have become the Dog-Star, Seirios, or the Planet Mercury or
Hermes: but the name is not found in the Hindu astronomy.
NUMBERS.
I have said that I believe that certain numbers, in the Veda, always
refer to stars or constellations.
Come, A?wins, thrice [it is said in the First Ashtaka], with the seven mother-
streams .... The three rivers are ready [three vessels of Soma juice]: the triple
oblation is prepared. Rising above the three worlds, you defend the sun in the sky.
In the Second Ashtaka,
I have beheld the lord of men, with seven sons; of which delightful and benevolent,
who is the object of our invocations, there is an all-pervading middle brother, and a
third brother, well fed with ghee.
They yoke the Seven to the owg-wheeled car: one horse, named seven,
bears it along; the three-axled wheel is undecaying, never loosened, and in
it all these regions of the universe abide.
The Seven who preside over this seven-wheeled chariot are the seven
horses who draw it: seven sisters ride in it together, and in it are deposited
the seven forms of utterance.
This Sfikta, viii. Anuv. xxii. Adhy. iii. of Asht. ii. containing fifty-two
stanzas, is of late composition, all its stanzas being found in the Atharva
Veda, with the general style of which it best agrees. The hymn itself deals
largely in numbers, applying to the year and its divisions. There is a
twelve-spoked, and also a six-spoked and five-spoked wheel; a five-footed
and twelve-formed parent, seven hundred and twenty children in pairs,
abiding in the twelve-spoked wheel. There are six. that are twins, and
movable, and born of the Gods, and a seventh, single-born. A cow, holding
her calf underneath with her forefeet, and then above with her hindfeet,
which rises up, and then is gone, turning back halfway, has greatly puzzled
the commentators. Two birds, associated together, take refuge in the same
tree. One eats the sweet fig, the other merely looks on.
All this is very alien to the simplicity of the old hymns, and does not
help us to understand them. These phrases may be descriptive of various
groups of stars.
In Adhy. viii. of Ashtaka ii. we find Soma and Pushan invoked to bring
the seven-wheeled car, the measure of the spheres, indistinguishable from
the universe, everywhere existing, by five reins, and to be harnessed by the
mind.
360 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
In the First Ash^aka, the five shedders, who abide in the centre of the
expanded heavens, are invoked to convey the worshipper's prayers to the
Gods, and return. No doubt these are the Hyades, the shedders of rain.
And in Mandate viii. 41. 2 (3 Muir, 126) we find,
He (Varuna), who dwells at the birth-place of the streams, the lord of the Seven
Sisters, abides n the Centre.
As the Soma juice in the pitchers is called "streams" and "rivers," it is
nothing strange if the Pleiades are called so, which brings the season of
rains; and it was perhaps from the term sisters thus applied to them, that
the Greek mythology made them sisters, Atlantidae, daughters of Atlas.
THE MARUTS.
It will assist the student, perhaps, in judging of the correctness of the
conclusions to which his attention is hereinafter invited to have grouped
together some of the epithets applied in the hymns to the Maruts, which
were beyond any dispute merely the winds, or, generally, the storm winds.
To these, invisible as they are, the following epithets are, among many
others, applied:
Ever youthful: wise: adorable: valiant: powerful: benevolent: riding in a
chariot devoid of wickedness: resplendent: brilliant: white-complexioned:
richly decorated with ornaments: invested with beauty: with unrelenting
minds: self-irradiators of their persons: pure: purifying: of pure worth: with
bright ornaments on their shoulders: with shining pendants on their breasts:
wide radiating: shining with brilliant weapons and persons: irreproachable:
glorified: high-spirited: protectors of the pious man: opulent: at whose
violence the heaven seeks to rise higher, abandoning the firmament: well-
born: whose is the glory over armies: curers of sickness: restorers of the
enfeebled.
The monsoons extend into the Punjab, producing violent storms and
accompanied with terrific lightning and thunder. In mountainous regions,
electrical disturbances are more violent than elsewhere, and vehement
winds and sudden changes of temperature are common. Storms are grander
there than elsewhere, and all the powers of Nature seem to assume larger
proportions. Probably they did not conceive of the storm winds as mere
movements of masses of air; and it is quite sure that they had no knowledge
of the means by which a body of air could be invested with powers so
tremendous as are exhibited in the tornado and the whirlwind. No doubt
the winds were a wonder and a marvel to them, and their imagination
invested them with a thousand fanciful attributes.
ZARATHUSTRA.
I propose to look a little way into the Zend-Avesta, to see whether it
contains anything to confirm or conflict with the suggestions that I have
made in regard to the nature and character of the Vedic Deities.
It is the sacred record and Holy Scriptures of the ancient Persians and
of the Zarathustrian faith and creed.
Of Zarathustra (ordinarily called Zoroaster) Baron Bunsen speaks as
follows [Egypt's Place in Universal History, Hi. 472] :
The old songs of the Zend-Avesta described him as follows: 'He it is who offers
words in songs, who promotes purity by his praise: he, upon whom Ahura Mazda
conferred the good gift of eloquence he was the first in the world who made the
tongue subservient to the understanding: he is the only one who understood the
doctrines of the Supreme God, and was in a condition to transmit them.' The
king, Kava Vistaspa, patronized him. He was a Priest of the Fire-worshippers,
and found the doctrine of a duality of good and evil already in vogue. Neverthe-
less, the name of Ahriman [Anra-Mainyus] does not occur as yet in the oldest records.
What is understood by evil, is evil thought (akd mano) or falsehood; and this is
contrasted with good thought, which is identical with the Good Principle. An
absolute personification of the Good Principle is hardly to be found in the songs of
Zarathustra. Zoroaster opposed the faith in the Gods of Nature, as the highest
beings. He found in existence the faith in good spirits, Ahuras, the living, who are
also called 'the dispensers of wisdom
'
(Mazdas). At their head he placed the One
Holy God, 'Ahura Mazda,' Ormuzd, The Highest Spirit/ He is the lord of all the
Powers of Nature, creator and sustainer of all existence. He rules over earthly and
spiritual life, by which latter Zoroaster understands a better state on this earth.
His great axiom, so full of intelligence, was, that 'The Highest Trinity (drigu) is
thought, word, deed.' These three he considers to be pure in the Pure, evil in the
Evil: from the thought emanates the word; from the two together, the deed.
I doubt if Baron Bunsen penetrated into the inmost meaning of Zara-
thustra; and the whole paragraph is singularly unsatisfactory.
It was long ago supposed that Vlst&spa, who is mentioned in the books
of the Zend-Avesta, as the royal patron of Zarathustra, was the father of
King Darius Hystaspes. But philological and historical criticism, Baron
Bunsen declares, has long ago set this unfortunate theory at rest.
The name of Zoroaster is known to us as that of the Median conqueror
of Babylon, who vanquished the realm and city of the Chaldseans, and
founded the Second Babylonian Dynasty, in the year 2234 B.C. This is
known from the Armenian edition of Eusebius, in the Chaldsean lists of
Berosus.
364 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
This king, Bunsen says,
can only have received this title from being a follower of Zarathustra, and pro-
fessing the religion of the Prophet .... But he was preceded by a series of
eighty-four Median kings: and Media was not the historical birth-place of the religion
and language of the Zend books; but Bactria, the seat of a primeval kingdom.
Considering the First Fargard of the Vendidad as a record of the wan-
derings and dispersion of the Aryan race,
as a reminiscence of the early conquest of Asia, as far as the land of the Indus a
record which has been preserved for us by the followers of the founders of the religion
of the Aryan East;
Baron Bunsen, considering Sogdiana as the original home of the race, finds
the next settlement in Margiana, a fruitful province of Khorassan, to the
southwest of, and across the Oxus, from the original home; and the next
to that, in Bactria, to the east of Margiana. The fourteenth settlement
was in Hapta Hindu, the Punjab. The eleventh settlement was in north-
eastern Media. What we call the Zend language, was the Bactrian: and
says Baron Bunsen,
there cannot be a more unfortunate theory than that which makes Persia the original
seat of Zoroaster and his disciples.
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, Bunsen thinks, the
date of Zoroaster, as fixed by Aristotle, cannot be said to be so very
irrational. He and Eudoxus, according to Pliny, place him 6,000 years
before the death of Plato ; and Hermippus, who had translated his writings,
placed him 5,000 years before the Trojan War.
We may consider the latter date as derived from the same source as that of Aristotle
and Eudoxus, who were men of the greatest learning and the keenest investigators
of any age.
The two dates essentially agree, for 6,000 years before the death of Plato (Olymp.
108. 1: B.C. 348) brings us to about 6,350; and the date of Hermippus is about 6,300,
according to the common Alexandrian Chronology of the Trojan War, 407 or 408 be-
fore Olymp. 1 =1184 B.C.
Avesta, Bunsen says, means "direct higher knowledge, divine revelation:"
Zend means the explanation of this; and Pazend the supplements to the
Zend, a further explanation of the Zend doctrine. The Avesta is the
original groundwork of the code, which, although of very ancient date, is
still almost all of it post-Zarathustrian. The Zend was compiled long
ZARATHUSTRA 365
afterward, and the Pazend long after that. All these three steps exist in
the present Zend-Avesta, or, more properly, Avesta-Zend.
The Avesta, translated by Professor Spiegel into German, and by Mr.
Bleeck into English, consists of (i) The Vendidad, containing 22 Fargards;
(2) of the Vispered and Yagna; and (3) of the Khordah-Avesta. The
Vispered and Yagna constitute what may be called the Mazdayagnian
Liturgy. The former, which is short, consists merely of liturgical additions
to the Yagna, and can never be recited alone. It appears to mean invoca-
tions to all the lords.
Yagna signifies "offering with prayers." It is divided into two parts,
the latter of which, written in a different dialect, contains the G&thds or
Gdhs, ancient religious hymns, somewhat resembling those of the Vedas.
The Vendidad consists of supposed replies made by Ahura Mazda to
Zarathustra, and supposed communications from him not in answer to
questions. Of these there are but a few, the First Fargard being one of
them, and commencing
Ahura Mazda spake to the holy Zarathustra.
This Fargard, Bunsen thinks, was borrowed from some old work of the
Avesta period, perhaps an early Iranian history (as also was the second
chapter), and incorporated into the general text by either the author of the
Zend or of the Pazend. The original text, he holds, has been added to,
but it is itself
unquestionably of great antiquity, and one of the oldest compositions of which the
present Vendidad consists. But in its present shape, even after eliminating the later
additions, it is decidedly after the time of Zarathustra, and posterior to the so-called
Gdthds or Songs, in which the greater part of the genuine maxims and doctrines of
Zarathustra have been transmitted.
The reasons for this conclusion are given by Baron Bunsen in the work
above cited, Hi. 476. He thinks, however, that the First Fargard is very
old, certainly older than the foundation of the Median Empire by Deioces
(708 B.C.), and when the Aryans had probably only begun to spread through
Media, and when Bactria was the centre of an empire.
It is, at all events, rendered quite certain by the Zend-Avesta, that the
separation of the two great branches of the Aryan family, the Zend or
Persian and the Indian, had taken place ages before either the Vedas or
Githas were composed. The two languages in which they are written
are so much one, radically, as almost to deserve to be called dialects of the
original older language. In each, the people among whom the songs were
366 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
composed, are called "Arya," but the names of the Deities and stars are
totally different, and the multitude of these names (the objects of which
are now, for the most part, undiscoverable), is, in the Zend-Avesta, very
great. These differences of names, almost without exception, could only
have become so after an immense lapse of time.
That the stars, Tistrya and others, still continued to be adored by the
Persians, is sufficient to prove, what I have already said, that this worship
was more ancient among the Aryans, than the Vedas themselves, and had,
when they were composed, in a great measure died out.
FIRE IN THE ZEND-AVESTA.
In Fargard xii, of the Vendidad, Ahura Mazda informs Zarathustra how
dwellings are to be purified after death therein of particular inmates. In
each case, the clothes and body are to be washed, and the Githts recited.
And then,
Let them praise the fire, let them bind the Baregma, let them bring Zaothra to the
good water.
The Zadthra was the concentrated water; and the Bare^ma a bundle of
sacred twigs, both of which the priest had to hold in his hand during the
offering.
In Yagna ii. these are invoked to be present at the sacrifice, with praise.
Then Ahura Mazda and the Amsha-Gpntas are invoked to be present;
then Hivani, Cavanhi and Vigya, the pure, lords of purity; then Mithra,
Rama-q&tra, Rapithwina, Frtdat-fshu and Zantuma; and then (v. 18),
Here, with ZaSthra and Baregma, I wish hither with praise: Asha-Vahista, the fire,
the son of Ahura Mazda. [Then are invoked to be present, Uzay&rina, Fr&dat-vira
and Dagyuma; then] the great lords, possessing women, shining, the navel of the
waters, possessing swift horses. [Invocations follow to the water created by Mazda,
to Aiwicruthrema Aibigaya, the Fr^dat-vigpanm hujyaiti and the Zarathustr6tema],
the good, strong Fravashis of the pure; .... the women who have an assembly
of men, .... the yearly good dwelling, the powers, the well-formed, beautiful,
the Verethraghna, created by Ahura, the Vanainti which descends from on high,
Ushahina, Berejya, Nmnya, the holy Qraosha, Rashnu the most just, Arstat who
advances and creates the world, the monthly feasts and new moons, the full moon,
Vishaptatha, and Maidhyd-Zaremaya, Maidhyfishema, Paitishahya, Ayathre'ma,
the advancer, who distributes strength, Maidhyairya, Hamacpathmagdaya, the pure
years; and all the lords of purity, which are the lords of purity, the three and thirty
nearest, which are round about Havani, which belong to the best purity, which
Ahura Mazda has taught, Zarathustra announced; the stars, the moon, the sun,
trees, etc. ; and 'thee, the fire, the son of Ahura Mazda, the pure, lord of purity,
together with all fires/
The Fire is also addressed and praised in Vispered mii.:
We praise the shining heaven, the first brought forth, first-created earthly, of the
earthly creation. Thee, the fire, the son of Ahura Mazda, the pure, lord of purity,
we praise. [So], YOQ. i. I invite and announce to thee, the fire, son of Ahura Mazda,
together with all fires. Yag. Hi. The wood wish I hither with praise, together with
fragrance, for thy satisfaction, fire, the son of Ahura Mazda, the pure, possessing
a renowned name, worthy of honour. Yog. xxii. For the satisfaction of Ahura
368 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Mazda and the AmSsha-Cpentas, and the holy Cra6sha, the fire, the son of Ahura
Mazda, the great lord of purity. Khordah-Avesta xi. Satisfaction for Ahura
Mazda. Praise be to thee, fire (son) of Ahura Mazda, to the fire, son of Ahura
Mazda [the phrase, 'fire, son of Ahura Mazda' being several times repeated].
One would almost believe that the Fourth Stanza was taken from the
Veda:
Offering and praise, good nourishment, fortunate nourishment, helpful nourish-
ment, vow I to thee, O fire, son of Ahura Mazda! To thee it is to be offered, thou
art to be praised, mayest thou ever be provided with offering and praise, in the dwell-
ings of mankind. Prosperity be to the man who continually offers to thee, holding
firewood in the hand, holding Barejma in the hand, holding flesh in the hand, holding
the mortar in the hand. Mayest thou ever obtain right firewood, right perfume,
right nourishment, right augmentation .... Mayest thou bum in this dwelling,
mayest thou continually burn in this dwelling, mayest thou be in brightness in this
dwelling, mayest thou be in increase in this dwelling, throughout the long time
until the complete resurrection, the perfect good resurrection included. Give to
me, O fire, son of Ahura Mazda, swift brightness, swift nourishment, much bright-
ness, much nourishment, many blessings of life, greatness in holiness, fluency for
the tongues, but for the soul, sense and understanding, which afterwards increases
itself, and does not diminish, then manly courage, activity, wakefulness the third
part of the night, easy going, increase, well-nourished, heavenly offspring, which
forms a circle, gathers itself together, increases, enduring, free from debt, and manly,
which can advance for me the house, the clan, the confederacy, the region, the district.
Give to me, O fire, son of Ahura Mazda, that which teaches me now and for all
times, concerning the best place of the pure, the shining, very brilliant. May I
attain good reward, good fame, good holiness for the soul. With all speaks the
fire of Ahura Mazda, for whom throughout the night it gives light and cooks food:
from all, it desires good nourishment, wholesome nourishment, helpful nourishment.
To all who come, the fire looks at their hands (saying), 'What does the friend bring
to the friend, the Entering in to the Sitting alone?
1
We praise the holy fire, the strong, the warrior. If one brings for the same,
wood brought in purity, Barecma bound together in holiness, or the tree hadhd-
na&pata, then blesses the fire, of Ahura Mazda, contented, without hatred, satisfied:
.... May there rise round about thee herds of cattle, fullness of men; may it
happen according to the wish of thy mind, according to the wish of thy soul. Be
cheerful; live thy life the whole time which thou wilt live This is the
blessing of the fire, for him who brings it dry wood, sought for burning, purified
with the wish for purity.
Satisfaction to Ahura Mazda. Praise to thee, fire, son of Ahura Mazda, giver
of good, greatest Yazata. Ashem Vohd.
Kk.-Av. xii. Praise to thee, O fire, son of Ahura Mazda, giver of good, greatest
Yazata, Ashem Vohft. I confess myself, etc. To the fire, the son of Ahura Mazda;
to thee, fire, son of Ahura Mazda.
Ashem VokA Thee, the fire, lay I hold on with the offering of good thought.
Thee, the fire, lay I hold on with the offering of good words. Thee, the fire, lay I
FIRE IN THE ZEND-AVESTA 369
hold on, with the offering of good works, for the enlightenment of thoughts, words
and works.
Praise to thee, Ahura Mazda .... For thy fire, the offerings of a good mind,
as far as I can and think .... To him belongs brightness, etc.
xscxvi. We approach ourselves first to thee, Mazda Ahura, through the
service of the fire.
To thee, holiest spirit, who requitest the torment upon him who decrees it.
Happy is the man to whom thou comest mightily, fire, son of Ahura Mazda.
More friendly than the most friendly, more worthy of adoration than the most
worthy of honour.
Mayest thou come helpfully to us, at the greatest business.
Fire, thou art acquainted with Ahura Mazda, acquainted with the heavenly.
Thou art the holiest of the same (fire), that bears the name Vizista.
O fire, son of Ahura Mazda, we draw near to thee, with good mind, good purity,
with deeds and words of good wisdom, draw we near to thee . . . .
This thy body, the fairest of all bodies, we invite, Mazda Ahura, the greatest
among the great lights, that which they call the sun.
The hymn that is quoted before this last, also forms Ya$na Ixi.
Ya$na hii. In prayer we rejoice, Ahura Mazda, in prayer we desire .... As
you created us, O AmSsha Cpenta, so support us .... All the creatures of the
creator would we, together with the created lights of Ahura Mazda, keep. Praise
to thee, fire, of Ahura Mazda; mayest thou come hither to the greatest of affairs
.... with the highest prayer inform we thy body, the fairest among bodies, Mazda
Ahura, among these lights the highest of the uplifted, that which is called the sun.
YOQWI sdv. Whom has Mazda appointed as protector for myfellows, if the wicked
chooses me for vengeance? What other than thee, the fire pjid the spirit, through
both of whose deeds purity is increased.
The domestic and sacrificial fire, we see, was the son (i. e., the mani-
festation of or emanation from Ahura Mazda, in whose name we find the
same mystic letters, A /. U ." . M." . which are the initials of the names of so
many of the Vedic Gods). And the sun was his body, i. e., he is the soul
of the sun, the radiance being his manifestation.
Ahura Mazda, therefore, is but the Vedic fire-substance, or principle,
invested with higher and creative attributes: and we find the same Aryan
worship of Agni under another name, among these Bactrian Aryans. The
sacrifices to the fire God were of the same kind. The juice expressed from
the Hafima (the Bactrian name for the Soma) was used, as we shall more
fully see hereafter; flesK was burned, and the Manthras (the Vedic "Man-
tras") were sung, and invested with the same mystic powers as in the Veda.
370 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Indra had become an evil Deity. In Fargard x. of the Vendidad, we
find Ahura Mazda dictating to the worshipper these words :
I combat Indra, I combat Gauru, I combat the Daeva Nionhaiti, away from the
dwelling, the clan, the tribe, the region .... I combat the Daeva Aeshma, the
very evil; I combat the Daeva Akatasha, etc.
AHURA MAZDA.
Ahura Mazda is "the heavenly, the holy, creator of the corporeal
world, the pure." Yima, the fair, the beautiful, son of VivanhSo, was the
first of all mankind with whom be conversed. The creator, Ahura Mazda,
twin brother of Anra-Mainyus, produced a congregation, the heavenly
Yazatas (commonly known heretofore, to us, as Izeds) ,
the renowned in Airyana-VaejH, the good creation. There Yima produced a con-
gregation of the best men, renowned; and Ahura Mazda came there to him with
the Yazatas.
Aiira-Mainyus, the evil one, created the Daevas; but Ahura Mazda, is
the creator of all corporeal things,
of the pure creation, of the wind, of the earth, the water, and the trees. He created
VSrSthraghna, the carrier of light, the air, and this abode, the beautiful, brilliant,
admirable.
In the Yagnas we read,
The creator Ahura Mazda, the brilliant, majestic, greatest, best, most beautiful,
the strongest, most intellectual, of the best body, the highest through holiness; who
is very wise, who rejoices afar; who created us, who formed us, who keeps us, the
holiest among the heavenly.
He created the Kingly Majesty; and, in YoQno, xxxi., we find,
when thou, Mazda Ahura, the heavenly, createdst ways for her, .... when thou,
Mazda, first created the world for us, and the laws, and the understanding, through
thy spirit, when^thou clothedst the vital powers with bodies, and createdst deeds
and teaching, to satisfy the wish for the world to come.
But it is not my purpose now to examine all the texts that would enable
us to ascertain what was the Zarathustrian idea in regard to Ahura Mazda*
It would be an interesting inquiry. The Deities of the Zend-Avesta might
perhaps be found to be as little understood as those of the Veda.
For we find in the Vendidad" (Farg. xixj,
Let Vohu-Mand invoke the lofty created lights, that the stars created by the Baghas
may shine on it; [and, in the same Fargard], I praise the lights without a beginning,
the self-created .... I praise the mid-world, the self-created. [And in Farg.ti.]:
372 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Then answered Ahura Mazda; self-created lights, and created in rows. Of a single
kind and course are seen the Stars, the Moon and the Sun. [In Farg. xi.]: purethe
stars, pure the moon, pure the sun, pure the lights without beginning, pure all the good
things which were created by Ahura Mazda, and have a pure origin. [This is
repeated, in substance, four times in this Fargard. In Farg. xix.], Praise thou, O
Zarathustra, the self-created firmament, the infinite time, the air, which winks on
high. Praise thou, O Zarathustra, the swift wind, created by Ahura Mazda; CpSnta
Armaiti, the fair daughter of Ahura Mazda .... I praise the heaven, the self-
created, the never-ending time, the air which winks above.
In Yagna i. the stars are termed "the creatures of QpSnta-Mainyus;"
and p6nta-Mainyus (in parenthesis, Ahura Mazda, is elsewhere termed
"creator of creatures").
Ahura Mazda is "the shining, the majestic" : Ahuraand Mithra ( Yagna i.}
are both great, imperishable and pure^ and the shining sun with the swift
horses is the eye of Ahura Mazda and Mithra. In Yagna Hi. Ahura Mazda
is the shining, the brilliant. In Yagna iv., "the creator, the brilliant,
majestic, the heavenly spirit." Mithra and Ahura are praised together,
as "both great, imperishable, pure." In a note to Yagna i. where they are
thus coupled together, it is said,
Ahura here signifies the planet Jupiter, which was called by the Armenians, Ahura
Mazda. Mithra is probably the Sun.
Anra-Mainyus (Ahriman) is also a creator, but not of corporeal things
as QpSnta-Mainyus creates
the dog with the prickly back and woolly muzzle, VanMpara, upon whom evil-
speaking men impose the name Dujaka; which every morning at tie rising of the
sun comes forth, as a thousand slayer of Anra-Mainyus; [so Anra-Mainyus creates]
the Daeva Zairimyanura, upon whom evil-speaking men impose the name Zairimya\ka,
which every morning at the rising of the sun comes forth, as a thousand slayer of
And, in Yagna xocx., Ahura Mazda and Anra-Mainyus are styled
These heavenly beings, the twins. [Ttey] gave first of themselves to understand
both, the good and the evil, in thoughts, words and works: rightly do the wise dis-
tinguish between them, not so the imprudent. [And it is said], when both these
heavenly beings come together, in order to create at first life and perishability, and
as the world should be at last .... [And in Note 2, it is said], In naming Ahura
Mazda and A6ra-Mainyus 'Twins/ this description agrees with that contained in
the Armenian writers, Esnik, for example, where they are both considered as 'the
sons of time/
In Yagna xxxi., it is said,
AHURA MAZDA 373
To Mazda belongs the kingdom, so far as it prospers to him through Vohu-Mand.
He came as the first fashioner (when) brightness mingled itself with the lights; he
(fashioned) the pure creation, he upholds the best soul with his understanding; thou
causest both to increase in heavenly way, O Mazda Ahura, thou who art also now
the lord. Thee have I thought, O Mazda, as the first to praise with the soul, as
the father of Vohu-Mand, since I saw thee with eyes, the active creator of purity,
the lord of the world in deeds.
Ahura Mazda was originally one of the Arngsha-QpSntas. In Visp.
., we read,
Holy! (gpentem), we praise Ahura Mazda. Holy! we praise the
Holyl we praise the pure man .... Holy! we praise the good Cpenta-Armaiti.
The creatures created by the holy one, the pure, we praise. The first after the under-
standing among the pure creatures, we praise. The omniscient understanding praise
we, Ahura Mazda. The sun, the highest among those on high, praise we. The
sun's light praise we. Together with the sun, we praise the AmSsha-Cpe'ntas.
Yagna i. after an invocation to "the creator Ahura Mazda, the brilliant,
majestic, greatest, best, most beautiful, etc.," invokes the Amsha-pntas.
As these are praised together with the sun, the highest among those on high
(i. e., the celestial luminaries), it seems that the Amsha-Cpntas were
originally seven of the heavenly bodies.
They are, I. Vohu-Mand (incorrectly called, long afterwards, Bahmari) ,
the protector of all living creatures; whose especial adversary is Ak6-Man6.
Though he is the highest of the creatures of Ahura Mazda, it is nowhere
said that he himself has the power of creating.
2. Asha-Vahista (Ardibehesf), the genSus of fire, whose opponent is
Andar.
3. Khshathra-Vairya (Shahr&var) is the lord and protector of metals.
His opponent is )aurva.
4. Qp&nta-Armaiti (Sapandomaf) is a female genius, the Goddess of
the earth. In the older writings, she is expressly the Goddess of wisdom.
Her opponent is Nonhaithi.
5. Haurvat, lord of the waters, whose opponent is Taric: (formerly
Khordad).
6. Ameretdf is the lord of trees. His opponent is Zaric: (formerly
Amerdad).
7. Ahura Mazda was originally counted as one of the AmSsha-CpSntas ;
but in the later mythology he'is n
N
o longer reckoned so, and Qra^sha is the
Seventh. His especial duty was to watch over the world, and above all,
to protect it in the night-time, during which he was to traverse the whole
374 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
world three times, and combat the Daeva ASshma seven times* Morning
and evening prayers were addressed to him, and the cock was sacred to him.
As Ahura Mazda was originally an Amsha-Cpnta, he was one of the
seven celestial bodies, known at that time. The sun was not one of them,
and therefore they were not the seven planets, as afterwards known. What
they were, it may be very difficult to ascertain.
The note to Yagna ice. v. L says,
with regard to the personality of Haoma, it must be particularly borne in mind,
that in this, as well as in many other cases in the Avesta, the same word is at once
a genius, and the thing which is under the special protection of the genius. Thus
Vohu-Mand may stand for either an Amesha-pnta, or the living creation; while
Khshthra-Vairya is either a genius or metal in general. In like manner, Ha6ma is
sometimes a Yazata, and sometimes the juice of a plant.
And so, in the Veda, Agni is both a Deity, the genius or invisible sub-
stance, of fire, and the domestic or sacrificial fire itself; as Soma is both a
Deity, the principle of intoxication and exhilaration, and the Soma plant
and juice.
In Ya$na iv. we find :
We make them known: to the Amesha-Qpentas, possessed of good lordship, wise,
ever-living, ever-profitable, which live together with Vohu-Man6 .... to -the
creator Ahura Mazda, the brilliant, majestic, the heavenly spirit, to the Amesha-
for praise, for adoration, satisfaction and laud.
The Yasht (invocation) of the seven Amshaspands (Khordah-Avesta
xviii.) begins thus :
To Ahura Mazda, the shining, majestic, to the Amesha-Cp&itas, to Vohu-Mand,
to the peace which smites victoriously, which is placed over other creatures,
to the heavenly understanding heard with the ears, created by Mazda.
Asha-Vahista is styled the fairest, and Khshthra-Vairya, the metal. All
are called "the good wise kings."
The Zamyad Ya$ht: Kh.-Av. xxxv.:
The strong kingly majesty, etc. [often said to have been created by Ahura Mazda],
which belongs to the Ame*sha-pentas, the shining, having efficacious eyes, great,
helpful, strong, Ahurian who are imperishable and pure, which are all seven of
like mind, like speech, all doing alike, like is their mind, like their word, like is their
action, like their father and ruler, namely the creator Ahura Mazda.
Of whom one sees the soul of the other, how it thinks on good thoughts, how it
thinks on good words, how it thinks on good deeds, thinking on Garo-NemaMia.
AHURA MAZDA 375
Their ways are shining, when they come hither to the offering gifts [i. e., to the sacri-
fice]. Which are there the creators and the destroyers of the creatures of Ahura
Mazda, their creators and overseers, their protectors and rulers. They it is who
further the world at will, so that it does not grow old and die .... Ever-living,
ever-profiting, a kingdom as one wishes it, that the dead may arise, and immor-
tality for the living may come.
The GdthA Qp^nta MainyA, and the GdthA Vohu KhsUhra are written
in the oldest dialect of the Avesta, as all the GithSs (composing thesecond
part of the Yagna), are. They may be even older than the Veda, which
they resemble. I quote these verses:
So will I praise you with laud, Mazda Ahura,
Together with Asha and Vohu-Man6,
And Khshathra, that he may stand on the way of the desiring ....
With these Yacnas I offer you praise;
Mazda, Asha, with the deeds of Vohu-Man6 ....
I do that which others have done before,
What appears worthy in the eyes, through Vohu-Man6,
By the Light, by the Sun, the day of the Morning ....
To your praise, Asha, Mazda Ahura!
Thy praise will I proclaim, O Mazda, with the mouth,
So long as I, O Asha, can and am able;
Let the Creator of the world bestow through Vohu-Mand,
What is best for the wish of those working openly.
We see, in these ideas in regard to Ahura Mazda and the AmSsha-
Cp&itas, a striking resemblance to those of the Kabbalah in regard to the
Sephiroth, emanations from Ainsoph, and by each of which theVery Deity,
the most hidden of the hidden, manifested himself in action. May not the
Alohim or creative powers have been considered as similar emanations.
Quite certainly, the Amsha-Cpntas were the prototypes of the seven
archangels of the later Hebrews, presiding over the seven planets.
And in Agni and his various manifestations, we find the origin of all
these philosophic ideas.
The Yasht Ardibihest (Kh.-Av. xix.) is a hymn of adoration to Asha-
Vahista, the genius of fire and most powerful of the Amgsha-Cp&itas.
We quote the second verse:
Then spake Zarathustra: Speak the words, the true words, O Ahura Mazda,
how are the succours of Asha-Vahista become as singer, Zadta, praiser, reader,
offerer, lauder, celebrator of good, effecting that the good lights may shine to the
praise and adoration of you, Amesha-Cpatas?
376 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
We find here the Vedic ideas, of Agni as the messenger and invoker of
the Gods, conveying to them the praises and prayers of the worshippers;
and manifesting himself by the bright luminaries of the sky.
We find 'also in the Zend-Avesta a Deity answering to Brahmanaspati
and Bphaspati of the Veda, in Manthra-Qp&ita, the holiness of hymn,
prayer or praise. Thus, Yagna xxv.:
The most righteous wisdom, created by Mazda, pure, praise we, the good Mazdaya-
cnian law praise we. The Manthra-Cpenta, the very brilliant, .... the spread-
ing abroad of the Manthra-Cp&ita .... the knowledge of the Manthra-Qp&ita
.... the heavenly wisdom created by Mazda .... the wisdom heard with
the ears, created by Mazda, praise we.
Prayer, and the recitation of the sacred writings are considered in the
Avesta to have the same efficacy as in the Veda. The recitation of the
Yagna-haptanhaiti, is
great, strong, victorious, without adversary, before all victorious prayers. Visp,
xviii.
In Yagna xix., a certain portion of the Ahuna-Vairya (one of the three
principal prayers), is said by Ahura Mazda to Zarathustra, to have been
spoken,
before the creation of this heaven, before the water, before the earth, before the
trees, before the creation of the four-footed bull, before the birth of the pure man,
the two-legged, before the body of this sun was created according to the wish of
the Amesha-CpSntas. I have spoken it out of heavenly holiness, .... as an
example of the works in the world of Mazda .... All the words which are uttered,
every word springs from Ahura Mazda. The best Ahura Mazda has spoken the
Ahuna-Vairya, the best has made it perfect .... This speech which Ahura
Mazda has spoken contains three heads .... which are the heads? To think*
speak and do good.
In Fargard orix.,
Him answered Anra-Mainyus, who has created the evil creatures, 'by whose word
wilt thou smite, by whose word wilt thou annihilate .... my creatures?' Him
answered the holy Zarathustra: .... *the words which Ahura Mazda has spoken
.... which QpSnta-Mainyus (i. e., Ahura Mazda) created; he created in the
Infinite Time (Zrvdna-akarana); which the Amesha-Cpentas created, the good
rulers, the wise. Zarathustra pronounced the Ahuna-Vairya; Yatha Ahu Vairyo.'
In the Gatha Ahunavaiti (Yagna xxviii.} we find,
AHURA MAZDA 377
Teach them me, Mazda Ahura, from out thyself, from heaven through thy mouth,
whereby the world first arose.
And here we find the origin of the Platonic, Alexandrian and Christian
idea of creation by the Word or Logos.
In Fargard xxi. we find the phrase, "The way which Ahura Mazda has
created, the air which the Baghas (BaghS) have created: then, before that
Manthra Cp&ita." It is said in the note to this, that Bagho means "God,"
seldom used in the Avesta, though frequent in the Cuneiform inscriptions.
But the baghas are the divisions of each of the principal prayers (see notes I
and 4 to Yagna xix.), and why should it mean "God" elsewhere? The
meaning clearly is that Ahura Mazda exercised his creative power by means
of these sacred formulas of words, Yathd-Ahu Vairyo; Ashem vdh& vahistem
etc.
"The holy G&Ms [songs], the rulers of the times, the pure," were
also adored the GitM Ahunavaiti, the G&tht Qptnta Mainyu, etc., all
of which are hymns of the Yagnas. The different prayers and Ya^nas are
styled, "the pure lords of purity," and the G^th^s, "the pure mistresses of
purity." Cpnta-Armaiti *s styled "the Manthra of the profiting, through
whose deeds the worlds of the pure increase." In the note it is said that
Qpgnta-Armaiti is perfect wisdom, as well as the genius of the earth.
In the Ormazd Yasht, Ahura Mazda says:
Here is Vohu-Man6, my creature, O Zarathustra; Asha-Vahista, my creature, O
Zarathustra; Khshathra-Vairya, my creature, O Zarathustra; Cpenta-Armaiti, my
creature, O Zarathustra; here are Haurvat and AmSre'tat [Khordad and Amerdad],
my creatures, O Zarathustra, which are a reward for the pure who attain to incor-
poreality .... Through my wisdom, through which was the beginning of the
world, so also its end shall be .... Then spake Zarathustra: *I come to you,
the eyes of Qpenta-Armaiti, who annihilate what is desert in the earth, to hunt the
wicked.'
In Fargard xxii. of the Vendidad, Ahura Mazda applies to "Manthra-
Cp&ita, the Very Brilliant," to heal his creatures, whom Anra-Mainyus
had afflicted with much sickness. Then, it seems, he addresses him by
the name of "Qsaoka, the good, created by Ahura Mazda, pure," which is
often repeated. Manthra-Qp&ita replies, and Nairyo-ganha "the As-
sembler," is sent to the dwelling of Airyama, to ask him in the name of
Ahura Mazda, to heal his sick. He styles him, "tibe desirable Airyama,"
"the lusty Airyama;" who hastened forth to the mountain on which the
holy questions take place, carrying with him horses, cattle, camels, and
willows; and drew nine circles. Here the Vendidad abruptly ends. The
378 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
annotator thinks that Airyama is unquestionably identical with Aryaman.
It is exceedingly to be doubted whether he is a Deity at all.
Qratisha is "the victorious/' He is "bound with the fulness of purity/'
He is, in the Sirozah of the Khordah-Avesta, "the holy, strong, who has
the Mantfira as a body, the Ahurian, with strong weapons."
The &ro$h-Yas'ht-Hadd'kht, of the Khordah-Avesta [xxvii.], is in praise of
the holy Craflsha, the firm, whose body is the Manthra, whose weapons are terrible,
the holy, beautiful, victorious, promoting the world, pure, lord of purity, he who
most nourishes the poor, who most slays the Drujas. [He smites wicked men and
wicked women. It is he], who watches over the treaties of peace and the compacts
of the Druja, and is the holiest in regard to the Amesha-Cp&itas over the earth
consisting of seven Kareshvares; who is the lawgiver for the law. To him has
Ahura Mazda the pure, taught the law.
He is the strong, the protector, who possesses strength in the arms, the warrior
who smites the heart of the Daevas, gives victorious strokes, grants victorious
strokes to the pure .... All dwellings protected by Craosha we praise, where
Cracteha, beloved as a friend, receives, where the pure man especially thinks purity,
especially speaks purity, especially does purity.
So, in the QrosH-YasU [Yagna Ivi.], one of the ancient CtthSs, he is "the
holy, strong, whose body is the Manthra, whose weapon is uplifted, the
Ahurian;" as, in Yagna iv. he is "the holy, strong, whose body is the Man-
thra, who has a strong weapon, who originates from Ahura, as Khshnadthra,
for praise, for adoration, satisfaction and laud." Fire also is "the son of
Ahura Mazda, as Khshnadthra." This is the technical expression for a
particular kind of prayer.
Qratfsha, his body being the Manthra, seems to be the spirit of prayer,
or prayer as a universal, as humanity is the universal of all individual men.
First among the creatures of Ahura Mazda, he bound together the Baregma
(the holy sacrificial twigs of a particular wood, date, pomegranate or tama-
risk), and offered sacrifice to Ahura Mazda and the Amsha-Cp&itas, and
to the Yazatas. He bound together three, five, seven or nine twigs. He
first sang the five Gith&s of Zarathustra. Sleepless, he protects and pre-
serves with watchfulness the creatures of Ahura Mazda, with upraised
weapon the whole corporeal world, after the rising of the sun; and no longer
softly sleeps, since the two heavenly beings, Qpfinta-Mainyus and Anra-
Mainyus have created the world. He is a firm, well-chambered dwelling
for the poor men and women, after the rising of the sun. He smites down
Aeshma, who despises his strength. He is strong, swift, mighty, terrible,
heroic, very deadly, and victorious in all combats, holy, beautiful, and
furtherer of the world. The man in whose dwelling he receives nourishment,
AHURA MAZDA 379
is pure, and thinks, speaks and does much good. He smites the Daevas,
warring with them night and day, and they bow affrighted before him, and
hasten to darkness. He is praised by Ha6ma, is the healer, fair, kingly,
having golden eyes. He, on the highest summit of the high mountain,
speaks well, speaks protecting words, at the right time. He possesses
greatness of all kinds, and perfect wisdom. His victorious dwelling is
formed with a thousand pillars, on the highest summit of the great mountain,
and shines inwardly with its own light, and outwardly like a star. Through
his strength and victory, his wisdom and knowledge, the Amgsha-Cp&itas
are over the earth. He is the lawgiver for the laws, and as unbounded
ruler steps along over the corporeal world. Through this law, Ahura
Mazda, Vohu-Man6 and the other Amsha-pntas are gracious to him,
the Ahurian Question, the Ahurian Custom, in both worlds, the corporeal
and spiritual.
Four horses carry him, spotless, bright-shining, beautiful, holy, wise,
swift, obeying heavenly commands, their hoofs of lead, with gold wrought
therein. They are swifter than horses, wind, storm, the clouds, the birds,
the arrow. Great, high-girt, he abides among the creatures of Mazda.
Thrice each day and each night, he descends on the Kareshvare Qaniratha,
holding the axe of a wood-cutter, to smite Anra-Mainyus, Agshma, and the
Mazanian Daevas.
All these are functions of Indra, in the Veda. Originally, it seems,
Ahura Mazda was the first of the Amgsha-Gp&itas, the QpSnta-Mainyus,
the fountain from which they flowed, in which they were all contained, as
in the first Sephirah of the Kabbalah, the other nine Sephiroth were con-
tained. Cratfsha seems then to have been the visible light; but when
higher conceptions of Ahura Mazda came to be entertained, and he came
to be regarded as above and not one of the Amsha-Gpntas, Qraftsha also
came to be what the Vedic Indra was, the light-spirit, i. e., the invisible of
which light is the visible manifestation. Then he became, in the stead of
Ahura, the first of the Arngsha-QpSntas, or, at any rate, the equivalent in
the Bactrian faith, of Indra, the light-god, of the Veda.
That the soul of man survives the body is taught in many places in the
Avesta. In Fargard xix. Ahura Mazda informs Zarathustra, where the
soul, after death, accompanied by a dog (his children, labour and good
actions in that shape), at the end of the third night, comes to the bridge
Chinvat, where the consciousness and the soul are interrogated as to the
man's conduct in the corporeal world. The souls of the pure are then led
away over the Haraberezaiti (Alborj):
over the bridge Chinvat it brings the host of the heavenly Yazatas. Vohu-
Mand rises from his golden throne. Vohu-Mand speaks: how hast thou, O pure,
380 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
come hither? From the perishable world to the imperishable world? The pure
souls go contented to the golden thrones of Ahura Mazda, of the AmSsha-CpSntas,
to Garo-Nemana, the dwelling of Ahura Mazda, the dwelling of the AmSsha-CpSntas,
the dwelling of the other pure.
We shall better understand the Zarathustrian ideas of the soul, when
we refer to the passages in regard to the Fravashis.
In Yagna xsari., which is a hymn to all the Fravashis, the "earlier"
Fravashis are first invoked atfd praised thoseof AhuraMazda,thegreatest,
best, fairest, the strongest, most intelligent, best-formed, the highest on
account of his purity; and of the AmSsha-CpSntas, the kings, the eyes or
fountains (emanations), the great, mighty, strong, proceeding (going or
flowing forth) from Ahura, who are imperishable, the pure of the first faith,
the first disciples (like Hakemah and Bainah, wisdom and understanding,
the second and third Sephiroth, the first spiritual forms, as it were, or
bodies, ensouled or filled with the Divine wisdom).
THE YAZATAS.
According to the Second Fargard of the Vendidad, after Yima, the first
of mankind with whom Ahura Mazda conversed, had three times enlarged
the earth, that there might be room for the men and animals crowded upon
it to move forward (a figurative description of the increase and multiplica-
tion of the Aryan race in its original home, and of three great waves of emi-
gration from it), it is said that
The creator, Ahura Mazda, produced a congregation, the heavenly Yasatas, the
renowned in Airyana-Vae*ja, of the good creation .... Yima, the shining, the
possessor of a good flock, produced a congregation of the best men, the renowned
in Airyana-VaSj, of the good creation. To this congregation came the creator,
Ahura Mazda, with the heavenly Yazatas;
and Yima came with his congregation of the best men, the renowned ones.
Then Ahura Mazda informed him that winter would come upon the earth,
frost and snow, and clouds over all the inhabited regions, and advised him
to make a new abode, "in the everlasting golden-hued, whose food never
fails," and there to make an enclosure, walled around, and with a window
to give light within, and therein to place the seeds of men and women, of
cattle, beasts of burden, dogs, birds and the red-burning fires, and trees and
everything that grows for food, all in pairs and inexhaustible; where there
should be no strife or vexation, aversion or enmity, poverty or deceit, beg-
gary or sickness, nor any other tokens of Anra-Mainyus. In this enclosure
are self-created lights, the stars, moon and sun* There men lead a delight-
ful life: the bird Karshipta there promulgated to Mazdayagnian law, and
Urvatat>Nar6 and Zarathustra are master and overseen
Yazata, in Sanskrit, Yajata, "worthy of honour," is the modern Persian
Ized, pi. yezdam.
The legend, Bunsen thinks, has a historical background: that originally
Airyana-Vaj&, the primitive Iranian land and cradle of the Aryans, enjoyed
a mild and delightful climate, and was a Paradise of fruitfulness; but that
by some convulsion of Nature or dimatic change, it became a land of ten
monthsof winter and twoof summer; fromwhich afavouredfew, underYima,
the Yemshed of the later Persian legends, emigrated southward to lands in a
more temperate latitude. The "enclosure" may have meant the mountains
that walled in the fertile valleys, perhaps of Cashmere, where the Aryans
had their fabled golden age. The mythical character of the legend most
strikingly appears from the creation of the heavenly Yazatas being sub-
382 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
sequent to the creation of men and animals, and during the lifetime of Yima,
the son of VivanhHo, who refused to be the recorder and bearer of the law,
but consented to enlarge the world and make it fruitful, and to obey Ahura
Mazda as protector, nourisher and overseer of the world.
It is said the Yima is identical with the Yama of the Veda, but the two
have nothing in common except similarity of name, like Airyama and Arya-
man. It is a merely idle notion.
But we are only concerned to inquire what the Yazatas were.
In Yagnas Hi. and iv. we find
all good created Yazatas [invoked], the heavenly and the earthly, who are worthy
of praise and worthy of adoration, on account of the best purity [and]: all-wise
Yazatas, the heavenly and earthly, to whom is to be offered, who are to be praised
on account of the best purity.
In the AsU-Yasht [Kh.-Av.
xxxm] a hymn to Ashis-Vanuhi, the daughter
of Ahura Mazda and sister of the Amsha-Qp6ntas, it is said to her:
Thy father is Ahura Mazda, the greatest of the Yazatas, the best of the Yazatas.
Thy mother is CpSnta-Armaiti. Thy brother, the good Craosha, the holy, and
Rashnus the high, strong, and Mithra who possesses wide pastures, who watches
with ten thousand eyes, and has a thousand ears.
Visp. ix. .... Ahura Mazda, the pure, together with the good Yazatas, the
Amesha-Cpentas, who have a good empire, good wisdom. #.: for the strong
Yazatas xix.: the descendants of the fire, the Yazatas we praise, the
descendants of the fire, those sojourning in the (dwelling) of Rashnu, we praise.
Yagna xxui.: 23. 24: All pure heavenly Yazatas praise we. All pure earthly
Yazatas praise we.
Kh.-Av. ix. 6.: Yazatas, endowed with much brightness, Yazatas, very health-
bringing! May greatness be manifest from you, manifest from you the profit which
follows the invocation. Great I be ye manifest, in reference to splendour for the officers.
Qarshet Yaskt [Kh.-Av. xxii.]: .... When the sun shines in brightness, when
the sunshine beams, then stand the heavenly Yazatas, hundreds, thousands.
They bring brightness together, they spread abroad brightness, they portion out
brightness on the earth created by Ahura, and advance the world of the pure, and
advance the body of the pure, and advance the sun, the immortal, shining, having
swift horses .... For if the sun does not rise, then the Daevas slay all which
live in the seven Kareshvars. Not a heavenly Yazata in the corporeal world would
find our defence nor withstanding . . . . The sun .... gives satisfaction to all
heavenly and earthly Yazatas.
MITHRA AND THE SUN.
Both the sun and Mithra are adored in the Zend-Avesta. It is uni-
versally supposed that they were the same. That the sun was adored,
simply as a luminary, is certain.
In Visp. xxii., v. 6, we read,
The omniscient understanding praise we, Ahura Mazda. The sun's light praise we.
The sun, the highest among those on high, praise we. Together with the sun, we
praise the Amesha-Qpentas.
Yag. i. I invite and announce to: Ahura and Mithra, both great, imperishable,
pure; and to the stars, the creatures of QpSnta-Mainyus. And the star Tistrya,
shining, brilliant, and the moon, which contains the seed of earth, and the shining
sun with the swift horses, the eye of Ahura Mazda and Mithra, the lord of the
region.
YOQ. Hi. And for the sun, the shining, possessing swift horses, the eye of Ahura
Mazda, the lord of the regions: I wish hither with praise: for Ahura Mazda, the
shining, brilliant.
Yag. xxii. For the satisfaction of Ahura Mazda, the brilliant, majestic of the
Amsha-Cpntas, of Mithra, possessing many pastures, and of Rtma-Qictra, of
the sun, the immortal, brilliant, with swift horses.
Ya$. XXD. Ahura Mazda, the brilliant, majestic, praise we. TheAmesha-Cpentas,
the good rulers, the wise, praise we. Mithra, who has a wide territory, praise we:
Rima-Q&ctra praise we. The sun, the immortal, shining with swift horses, praise
we.
Yog. Ixvii. Praise to Mithra, who possesses many pastures. Praise to the sun,
who is endowed with swift horses. Praise to the two eyes of Ahura Mazda.
Quarset Nyayis [Kh.-Av. vii.] Praise to thee, Ahura Mazda, three-fold before
other creatures. Praise to you, Amesha-Cpentas, who have all like wills with the
sun.
Praise be to Ahura Mazda. Praise to the Amesha-Cpe'ntas, praise to Mithra
who possesses wide pastures, praise to the sun with swift steeds, praise to the eyes
of Ahura Mazda, praise to the bull.
The immortal sun, shining, with swift steeds, we praise. Mithra, possessing
wide pastures, we honour the truth-speaking gatherer, the thousand-eared, well-
shaped, with ten thousand eyes, great, endowed with far-watching, the strong, not
sleeping, wakeful. Mithra, the lord of all regions, we praise, whom Ahura Mazda
has created as the most brilliant of the heavenly Yazatas. Therefore come to our
assistance, Mithra and Ahura the great. The immortal brilliant sun, with swift
steeds, we praise .... All pure heavenly Yazatas we praise, all earthly Yazatas
we praise . . . . The immortal brilliant sun, with strong steeds, we praise [this
five times repeated]: Offering, praise, might, strength, implore I for the sun,
immortal, brilliant, with swift horses. The Ahurian pastures of Ahura praise I.
384 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
I think we may pause here, and, finding the sun and Mithra invoked
and praised, again and again separately in the same passages, the sun
always spoken of as having swift horses, and Mithra possessing wide
pastures, as if specially and pointedly to designate each as distinct from
the other, may with some confidence conclude that Mithra was not the sun.
And, further, that as Ahura was the planet Jupiter, and Mithra was the
most brilliant of the heavenly Yazatas, that these were the planets and
stars, and Mithra the Morning Star, as he was with the Vedic Poets. There-
fore it is that "Mithra and Ahura, the Great," are invoked to come to-
gether.
In the next Yasht, Mihr-Nydyis, Mithra is several times praised as
possessing wide pastures; and the same phrase is often repeated elsewhere.
It must therefore have had some peculiar significance, as applied to him.
It may be possible to discover its meaning, by the aid of other expressions.
In this Yasht, he is
the truth-speaking, gathering, thousand-eared, well-formed, provided with ten
thousand eyes, great, possessing a wide watch, strong, not sleeping, vigilant.
He is set over the "regions," is within them, with them, below them, before
and behind them, lord of all regions. "Mithra and Ahura, both great,
immortal, pure, praise we. The stars, the moon and sun praise we." He
is praised for his brightness and majesty, He comes to the worshipper for
protection, joy, profit, benevolence, healing, victory, purifying and sanctifi-
cation. He is strong and mighty, deserving of offerings, praiseworthy, not
to be lied to in the whole corporeal world, mighty, worthy of honour, most
profitable Mithra of created beings, and he has "a named name, a well-
known name."
Here, again, we find Mithra and Ahura named together, and distin-
guished from the sun. If Mithra was Venus, the revolutions of that planet
and its being sometimes the Morning, and sometimes the Evening Star,
may explain its different positions in regard to the "regions." As chief of
the stars, they may be its ten thousand eyes; and its thousand ears to hear
the adoration of its worshippers.
It is "well-formed," which indicates that it is not a principle or sub-
stance, without form or limit, but a body, an orb or luminary. To be in
different places, with personality in each, it must be a body. That it has a
named or well-known name, indicates the same thing. It possesses a wide
watch, since its light flows over the whole earth, and over all the plains
wherein the cattle are pastured. It is vigilant and sleepless, shining with a
MITHRA AND THE SUN 385
broad, steady, abundant light, and may well be characterized as brilliant
and majestic. What is meant by its being the gatherer, we do not yet see.
In the Ormazd-Yasht, Ahura Mazda calls himself "The Gatherer;"
which is, says a note, because he created mankind and animals and plants,
and gathered them together upon the face of the earth. Did Mithra also
do this?
The Mihr-Yasht (Kh.-Av. xxvi.) is in praise of Mithra. The phrases
already quoted are continually repeated Jn it. Here, as elsewhere also, he
is coupled in praise with R^ma-Qagtra. He is "the Yazata with named
name." "When I created Mithra," Ahura Mazda says to Zarathustra,
"I created him as worthy of honour, as worthy of praise, as I myself." He
bestows swift horses, if one does not tie to him. He is the great, with wide
watch-towers, the strong, sleepless, increasing. The lords of the regions
praise him at early dawn, the warriors on horseback, praying for his aid.
He
as the first heavenly Yazata, rises over Kara before the sun, the immortal, with
swift steeds, who first, with golden form, seizes the fair summits, then surrounds
the whole Aryan-place, the most profitable.
In the note to this, it is said,
From this passage it appears that Mithra was typified as the first sunbeams which
illumine the mountain-tops, and that he then became separated from the sun, and
hastened in front of him, like the Indian Agvins.
But how, then, is he the sun? It seems to me that it far more appears that
Mithras was the Morning Star, rising over the Eastern Himalayas before
the sun, before the dawn, and worshipped by the princes and warriors before
or at, the early dawn.
Over this ancient land, lying under the mountains, with broad rivers,
canals for irrigation, and great herds of cattle, from which the rivers flow
north and south into all the Kareshvares or quarters of it, Mithra the
health-bringing goes round, marches into all "as a heavenly Yazata bestow-
ing brightness" and rule, increasing the victory of those who sacrifice to
him piously, knowingly and in purity. How could it be more plainly said
that he is one of the luminaries of the sky?
If lied to, he is wrathful and offended, and destroys those who so offend.
Not lied to, he gives strength and victory. He is the bestower of profit, the
gatherer. His body is the Manthra. He upholds the dwellings of men,
but where he is angered, he destroys them. And yet it is immediately said.
386 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Thou art alike to the bad and the best, O Mithra; to the regions thou art alike, to
the bad and the best; to men, thou, Mithra, art lord over peace and discord, for
the regions.
He is the debt-paying, host desiring, gifted with a thousand strengths,
ruling, mighty, all-wise. His dwelling, as broad as the earth, is fast-set
in the corporeal world, large, unlimitedly high, broad, affording wide space.
His eight friends sit spying for him on all heights, on all watch-towers,
spying out those who lie to him. His famous golden horses, with broad
hoofs, carry him to the hostile hosts.
Ahura Mazda has made him a dwelling on Harabrzaiti, the far-reach-
ing and lofty, where there is neither night nor darkness, cold wind nor hot,
nor sickness, nor dust, nor mist.
Then, as if to make the enigma inexplicable, we find Mithra, with uplifted
hands, weeping to Ahura Mazda, complaining that though he is the pro-
tector of all creatures, the skilful, the ruler of all, men do not sacrifice to
him by name, as they do to the other Yazatas. It is a demandfor the restora-
tion of the old worship.
Then again, his fame, body and praise are good, and he guards the work-
ing peasant against oppressors, and is the upright-standing, watchful
watcher, the mighty gatherer, who advances the water, listens to the call,
makes the water to run, the trees to grow, etc.
He rides in a chariot made in heavenly way, with high wheels, and with
the majesty and victory created by Ahura. (These remind us of the
Sephiroth of the Kabbalah, Magnificence, Victory, Glory and Dominion.)
Ashis-Vanuhi guides his chariot; the Mazdayagnian law accompanies it,
horses draw him with heavenly will, light, shining, fair, holy, wise. Before
him goes V&rSthraghna in the shape of a boar.
Again he complains to Ahura Mazda, saying that if men would offer
to him as they do to the other Yazatas, he would come to the pure men
at the set time and times, at the set time of his own shining, heavenly life.
He
advances at sunrise, broad as the earth, and sweeps both ends of it, surrounding
all that is between heaven and earth.
Through all this accumulated nonsense of the later "Minnesingers/*
to whom phrases were of more value than ideas, a keen eye can pierce to the
old original Aryan idea of Mitra, the Morning Star, lord of light and truth,
rising before the dawn over the snowy summits of the Bolor Tagh or Asiatic
Caucasus, restoring life to the darkened world, and rousing the herdsmen
and the peasants, from the unconsciousness of death's sister, sleep, and
MITHRA AND THE SUN 387
urging the one to prepare to drive his herds afield, and the other to prepare
to till his ground, the good housewife to kindle the domestic fire, and the
Priest and Bard to prepare for the morning sacrifice. Kingly, majestic,
brilliant, he drove before him like a routed host, the gloomy and reluctant
shadows, in which the men of humanity's childhood saw, gloomy and menac-
ing, the spirits of mischief ^nd malice. With him came the cool, healthy,
invigorating mountain-breezes, the peculiar freshness and sweetness of the
early morning, the exhilarating and inspiring influences of the return of
day; and, "healthful and fair, ruling with golden eyes," in a sky from which
a thousand twinkling eyes looked- down upon the earth, "on the highest
summit of the high mountain which bears the name Hukairya," he took
possession with his light of the wide Aryan pastures, and by that light the
herdsmen on the steppes gathered together their scattered herds.
So we see, through the cumbrous drapery of the later notions, the
original idea of Ahura, the Varuna of the Veda, the kingly planet Jupiter;
and the Amsha-Gpntas, the same as the Seven Rishis, the stars which
revolving round the North Star never set the Amsha-pntas,
\
whose bodies are beautiful, to whom the sun with swift steeds announces praise
from afar.
To Mithra,
Ahura Mazda, the well-working, brings rule over the worlds which behold him as
Lord and Master among the creatures of the world, as the best purifier among these
creatures [i. e., translated from this foreign tongue into intelligible English], Ahura
Mazda, the author of benefits, has given him potency and influence [to benefit and
bless] all of the material world that by his light sees him as the chief among the stars
and planets, in brightness and the light diffused by him, excelling them alL
So it is that, when sunrise is at hand, he rises and pours his light over
all the earth, flooding with it both the horizons, and filling with it the whole
space between sky and earth.
And, remembering that in the Greek mythology, it was not Zeus or
Diespiter, the Jupiter and Jove of the Roman Aryans, who was the divinity
of the sun, but Apollo; and that the planet Jupiter bore the name of the
sovereign of Olympus, we shall not wonder that in these two branches of the
Aryan faith, nearer the cradle of the race, Varuna, Ahura and Mitra, the
planets are oftener and more earnestly invoked than the sun, and that
Ahura became the God-Creator of the Zarathustrian protest against
Nature-worship. For it is certain that Ahura was originally a Yazata, as
the fire and all the stars were; and that when the songs of the Avesta were
388 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
composed, the old worship of the lights of the sky had not died out, though
new and more abstract and spiritual ideas had grown up, and the luminaries
were both orbs and veritable Gods.
Thus Mithra, the mightiest, strongest, most famous, swiftest and most
victorious of the Yazatas, "stands with wide pastures, on this earth," when,
pausing on the mountain-summit, he flashes his light in one great flood,
over all the sleeping plains. Thus he "marches forward/' possessing
himself of the wide pastures, "to the very end of the broad, circular, far-to-
traverse earth;" ra6sha, the good and holy, marching on his right hand,
and Rashnus the great and powerful, on his left.
Imagining him a warrior, routing the serried phalanxes of the embattled
glooms, the poetic imagination pictured him "with shining steeds, sharp
lance, long hilt, arrows flashing to their mark," himself "the far-seeing
bold warrior."
And, when in the still night moving in serene majesty upon his path
high in the heavens, it was easy for the imagination to say of him,
whom Ahura Mazda created as ruler and overseer of all living Nature, who, sleep-
less, watchfully protects the creatures of Ahura Mazda. [High in the heavens and
filling the whole expanse with light, it could be said of him], whose long arms grasp
forward here with Mithra-strength; that which is in Eastern India he seizes, and that
which is in the western he smites, and what is on the steppes of Ranha [the Jaxartes],
and what is at the ends of this earth [the shores of the Indian Ocean].
No man, with a hundred-fold strength, thinks, speaks or does so much
evil, as Mithra with heavenly strength, thinks, speaks and does good.
Mightily Mithra goes forward, powerful in rule marches onward, and shining
in the distance gives to the eyes power to see far and wide .... Manifest are
the ways of Mithra, when he comes to the region where, well-honoured, he makes
the deep plains into pastures .... With uplifted arms, Mithra, with wide
pastures, marches to immortality; from Garo-Nemana, the shining, he rides on a
beautiful chariot, one alike strong, of all shapes, golden. To this chariot are yoked
four white horses of like colour, who eat heavenly food, and are immortal. Their
fore-hoofs are shod with gold, their hind-hoofs with silver. Then they are all
harnessed to the same pole, which is curved above, bound with split, firm, inlaid
clasps of metal.
On Jiis right rides Rashnu, the tightest wisdom, white robed; on his
left, near by, a boar; and
outside of this files along the fire which has kindled the strong kingly brightness
.... Mithra, who, as the first announcer promotes strength among the creatures
of CpSata-Mainyus, he, the well-created, greatest Yazata, when he illumines the
body, as the self-illumining moon, shines.
MITHRA AND THE SUN 389
Originally the Morning Star itself, Mithra had become, before these
Yashts were composed, the ideal and spiritual being, the invisible archangel,
the soul, of that planet, which had become to him as a body. And the
meaning of this verse seems plainly enough to be, that he, the greatest of
the stars and planets, when he rose before the dawn, announcing the ap-
proaching day and arousing and invigorating awakened men, manifested
himself in shape and form as the visible luminary, shining as the moon was
deemed to do, by his own and no borrowed light.
And in the next verse (i43), we find that his
countenance shines like that of the Star Tistrya [Sirius], whose chariot, the undeceiv-
ing seizes, first, O Holy, namely, among the fairest of creatures, created with sun-
shine for the shining Yazatas, the star-shining created by Ahura Mazda. {That
is, I think], whose orb is radiant like that of Sirius, whose car he who never misleads
or deceives men, takes possession of he, namely, O Mithras, Holy one, who is
chief among the most beautiful of created things, of those created with light like
the light of the sun, to be radiantly visible as the stars that shine he shines as a
star, created by Ahura Mazda, to traverse the sky.
The last verse (i4s) is,
Mithra and Ahura, both great, imperishable, pure, we praise. The stars, the moon
the sun, in the Barec.ma-bearing trees, Mithra, the sovereign of all regions, we praise
A single passage is enough to show that Mithra was not the Sun: in
Fargard xix. of the Vendidad, v. 91, 2 and 3:
In the third night, at the coming and lighting of the dawn, and when the victorious
Mithra places himself on the mountains with pure splendour, and the brilliant sun
arises.
And that the Yazatas are luminaries is apparent from v. 6 of the Mdh
Nydyis (Kh.-Av. #.):
Yazatas, endowed with much brightness, Yazatas, very health-bringing! May
greatness be manifest from you, manifest from you the profit which follows the
invocation. Great! be ye manifest in reference to splendour, for the offerers.
Fire, also, because the luminaries are its manifestations, is also styled a
Yazata, in the Khordah-Avesta:
Holy Fire, warrior, Yazata with much majesty, Yazata with many healing remedies!
.... Praise to thee, fire, son of Ahura Mazda, giver of good, greatest Yazata!
390 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
This is the visible fire. It is Asha or Asha-Vahista, the spirit of the fire,
the second AmSsha-Gp&ita, that is the Agni of the Veda, and to whom,
with Ahura Mazda and Vohu-Man6, the first AmSsha-QpSnta, the first
Githi (Ahunavaiti, Yog. xxviii.) is addressed. To these three, almost
entirely, the GSlMs are addressed, the other AmSsha-CpSntas being only
occasionally invoked, ra6sha at more length than any of these; and Mithra
is very briefly spoken of, only five times in all. I infer that these hymns
contain the true Zarathustrian teachings and ideas, the creed taught in
opposition to the original Nature-worship; and that those who composed
the later invocation returned, in a measure, to the adoration of fire and the
heavenly orbs, its manifestations; although, as a natural consequence of the
struggle between the new creed and the old, the beneficent Devas of the
Veda, the divine, had become the evil Daevas,, creatures of Afira-Mainyus,
or his manifestations, hypostases or subsistences, and Indra, the great Deity
of light, had become their coadjutor and the enemy of Ahura Mazda or
CpSnta-Mainyus.
THE STARS.
Unquestionably, the stars continued to be adored, as the following
passages will show:
Vend. Farg. xix. I praise the shining heaven: I praise the lights without a
beginning, the self-created: I praise Verethraghna created by Ahura Mazda, the
carrier of light, created by Ahura Mazda. I praise the good C&oka, who possesses
many eyes. I praise the Star Tistar, the shining, brilliant, who has the body of a
bull, and golden hoofs. I praise Haetumat, the beaming, shining.
Tistar-Yasht, Kh.-Av. xoriv.I confess, etc., for the Star Tistrya, the brilliant,
majestic; for gatavaeca, the distributor of water, the strong, created by Mazda;
for the stars which contain the seed of the water, contain the seed of the earth, con-
tain the seed of the trees, created by Mazda; for Vanant, the star created by Mazda;
for the stars which are the Haptd-Iringa, the brilliant, healthful Khshnaothra, etc.
Yatha Ahu Viryo.
In order to protect sovereignty, the supreme rule, the moon, the dwelling, we
will praise the Myazda, that my stars, the brilliant, may unite themselves and give
light to the moon. Praise thou the distributor of the field, the Star Tistrya, with
offering.
The whole hymn purports to be spoken by Ahura Mazda to Zarathustra,
and commands praise and adoration to be offered to the Star Tistrya, the
shining, majestic, great, going round about from afar with shining beams,
the name of the bull created by Mazda. The stars mentioned in the first
verse, it is said in the note, are the watchers in the four quarters of the
heavens Tistrya in the east, QatavaSga in the west, Vanant in the south,
and Hapt6-Irifiga in the north. And elsewhere, Tistrya is said to be
Sirius. I condense from the Yasht the following phrases:
The Star Tistrya, which contains the seed of the water, working on high, renowned
from this height, shining from the navel of the waters .... The Star Tistrya,
who glides so softly to the Sea V6uru Kasha, like an arrow, who comes from the damp
mountain to the shining mountain .... who torments the Pairikas, seeks to over-
throw the Pairikas, which fly about like fish-stars between heaven and earth ....
The atavaca causes the water to go down .... The Star Tistrya spake to
Ahura Mazda, saying, when men will offer to me with offerings by name, as they
offer to the other Yazatas with offerings by name, then will I shine to the pure man
at the appointed time .... I praise the Stars Haptd-Iringa for resisting the
sorcerers and Pairikas. [The Haptd-Iringa, therefore, is a constellation of seven
stars, i. e., Ursa Major] .... Tistrya, who has healthful eyes .... The first
ten nights, Tistrya unites himself with a body, going forth in the bright space,
with the body of a youth of fifteen years, a shining one, with bright eyes, large,
arrived at his strength, powerful, nimble: the second ten nights, with the body of a
392 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
bull, with golden hoofs: the third ten nights, with the body of a horse, a shining,
beautiful one, with yellow ears, with a golden housing: coming out against him
runs out the Daeva Apaosha, in the form of a horse, a black one, and they fight.
Tistrya fights against all the evil ones, created by Anra-Mainyus, as opponents of
all constellations that contain the seed of the waters. He overcomes them, and the
clouds gather, and rains refresh the land, and all lakes, running waters and springs
praise Tistrya, 'whom Ahura Mazda has created as Lord and Overseer over all
constellations' .... And Ahura Mazda says, 'I have created, O Holy Zarathustra,
this Star Tistrya, as worthy of praise, as worthy of adoration, as worthy to be
satisfied [sacrificed to], as rightly created, as I myself, Ahura Mazda. Offering shall
the Aryan regions offer him, Baresma shall the Aryan regions strew for him, cattle
shall the Aryan regions cook for him, and the Ha6ma, of whatever colour.'
Drvdgpa is a female Deity, praised in the Gosh-Yasht, Kh.-Av. ocxv. She
is the strong, created by Mazda, who gives health to the cattle andbeasts of
burden, the friends and minors, and "keeps much watch, stepping from
afar, the shining, long-friendly." In the Parsee prayer (modern) which
precedes the Yasht, she is called Geus-Urva DrvSgpa, Geus-Urva meaning
the soul ofthe butt, the especial protector of cattle. The appellation Drvdgpa,
it is said in the note, signifies, "possessing sound horses." She
has harnessed horses, armed chariots, sparkling wheels, is fat, pure, the strong,
beautiful, profitable of herself, the firm-standing, strongly-armed for protection to
the pure men.
Zarathustra is said to have sacrificed to her in Airyana-Vagja, and others
to have sacrificed to her thousand upon thousands of cattle, and horses by
hundreds. She has brightness and majesty, and is strong and pure, and
enables her worshippers to conquer the snake Dahka and the Drukhs and
their Turanian enemies.
In the Rashnu-Yasht, the Ized or Yazata Rashnu is praised and
invoked
Rashnu the most first, wfth Arstt who furthers the world. [He is] the truly-created
of the Manthra-Cpentas, the surpassing, distinguishing, healing, shining, powerful,
placed higher than other creatures ; the Manthra, the very majestic, the truly created
Manthra-Cpenta, the eminent. Invoked at the third part of the night, toward
the east, he will come to help the worshipper, he, the great, mighty, pure, most
just, holy and wise, most chosen, most far-seeing, helping to victory, whether he is
in any quarter of the land, at the waters or steppes of Ranha, at the ends of the earth,
or at the Star Tistrya or Vanant, or the Stars Hapt6-Iringa, or at other stars,
at the moon of sun; at all of which he seems to be deemed to be at the same time.
The Farvarditi-Yasht, Kh.-Av. xxix., is addressed tc* the Fravashis (Fro-
hars* in Parsee). These are the Genii or Spirits, of men and Gods. For
THE STARS 393
Ahura Mazda himself has his Fravashi. They are of the dead, and of
those yet unborn; of dwellings, clans, confederacies, regions and priests;
and in Ya$na xocvi., these are praised, with "all the earlier Fravashis/' the
Fravashi of Ahura Mazda, those of the pure, of the Am&sha-CpSntas, of
"the pure men and women here," of "the well-created cow, who was the
protectress of Purity," and those of Zarathustra, of Kavi-Vict^pa, of
Igat-Vagtra, of the NabSzdistas, of the deceased pure, the living pure, the
yet unborn; the last verse being, "the Souls of the deceased praise we, which
are the Fravashis of the pure."
Fravashi [it is said in the note], which is usually applied to the power which
holds body and soul together, seems here to be equivalent to the conscience.
Professor Guigniant, in his edition of Creuzer, Religions de V Antiguiti,
ii. 326, says of the Fervers (Fravashis), that they are
the ideas, the prototypes, the models, of all beings, formed of the essence of Ormuzd,
and the most pure emanations of that essence. They exist by the living Word of
the Creator, wherefore they are immortal, and by them everything lives in Nature,
They are placed in heaven as regular sentinels against Ahriman, and bear to Ormuzd
the prayers of pious men whom they protect, and purify from all evil. Upon the
earth, united to bodies, they incessantly combat with evil spirits. They are as
numerous, and as diversified in their kinds, as the beings themselves. Even Ormuzd
has his Ferver, because the Eternal contemplates himself in the omnipotent word,
and this image of the Ineffable Being is the Ferver of Ormuzd. The Law (the Word)
has its Ferver, which is the spirit and life of the Law, the Living Word, such asGod
conceived it. The Ferver of 2erdusht (Zoroaster) is one of the finest, becausethis
prophet published the law. Thus the Fervers constitute the ideal world ; all the rest
is the real or created world . . .
Every Parsee has his ideal prototype, his pure
model, which he must endeavour to express and realize, who inspires and directs
him in all his actions, and serves as his guide in the pilgrimage of Hfe,
The Farvardin-Yasht, Kh.-Av. xxix., recites at great length the infinitely
diversified potencies of the Fravashis. It is through their brightness and
majesty that Ahura Mazda upholds the heavens and supplies water to the
world. Every possible potency is ascribed to the Fravashis of the pure.
The sun, moon and stars journey through their brightness and majesty.
They give victory, and, wearing their armour, they fight in battle;
For they are the most active of the creatures of both the heavenlies, the good,
strong, holy, Fravashis of the pure, who at that time stood on high, when the two
heavenly ones created the creatures the holy spirit and the eviL
The Amsha-Cpntas have their Fravashis;,.and so has the shining
heaven.
394 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The Bahram-Yasht, Kh~Av. xxx., contains invocation of and praise to
Vrthraghna, the best armed of the heavenly Yazatas. He is the strongest,
most victorious, most majestic, the most beneficent and liberal, and the
most healing, praised for his brightness and majesty. He comes as a bull,
a horse, a camel, a boar, a youth of fifteen, a bird, a ram, a goat and a man.
He decks the world with majesty through his arms. He is a warrior, the
comrade of Mithra and Rashnu. He is sacrificed to, with flesh and the
Ha6ma.
The Ashi-Yaskt, Kh.-Av. ocxxiti., is in praise of Ashis-Vanuhi,
the shining, great, beautiful, very worthy of honour, with her shining wheel, strong,
bestower of profitable gifts, the healing. She is the daughter of Ahura Mazda,
and the sister of the AmSsha-Cpentas; is fair and beaming, giving much brightness
to the men whom she follows. She comes to men's dwellings, attaching herself to
the inmates. Her mother is CpSnta-Armaiti (the earth). QrzSsha., Rashnus and
Mithra are her brothers, and the Mazdayagnian law, her sister. Zarathustra and
Yima made offerings to her, the high, and she ran round and came up. Others
sacrificed to her; and she aided them to smite the Daevas and Turanians. [And
the last verse (62) is]: Offering, praise, strength, might, I vow to Ashis-Vanuhi,
to the good wisdom, the good justice, the good equity, the brightness, the profit,
created by Mazda. Ashem-Vohu*.
Ahura Mazda tells her not to ascend to heaven, nor to creep on the earth,
but to go to the dwelling of a fair king; and in the next Yasht (Astdd), she
goes to the abode, into the midst of the dwelling of the handsome, who has
collected himself a kingdom.
In the Rdm-Yasht, Kh.-Av. xxxi. f the waters and the air are invoked.
In the Din-Yasht xxxii., the lightest wisdom, created by Mazda, the good
Mazdayanian law. In the Astdd-Yasht and Zamydd-Yasht xxxiv. and
xxocv., the majesty of the Aryans, created by Mazda, the various mountains,
and the strong kingly majesty, created by Mazda, that belongs to Ahura
Mazda, to the AmSsha-QpSntas and'the heavenly and earthly Yazatas, and
united itself with Yima and other great and valiant men, as manly courage,
and attached itself to Zarathustra, for thinking, speaking and fulfilling the
law; and attached itself to the victorious Cadshyang that he might make
the worlds progressive and immortal, that the dead might rise, and immor-
tality come for the living. It is at last to be possessed by Atvat-rto, or
messenger of Ahura Mazda, son of Vigpa-taurvi, who purifies the victorious
wisdom, who is to make the whole corporeal world immortal, who is to smite
the wicked Drukhs, and
Vohu-Man6 will smite Ak6-Man6, the truth smites the lie, Haurvatit and Amfir&at
subdue hunger and thirst, and the evil-doer Anra-Mainyu bows himself, robbed of
rule.
THE STARS 395
The Star Vanafit is praised in the Vanaqt-Yasht, of only three verses;
the prayer Ashem-Vohd, in a fragment; and in the Afrigdn-Rapithwin,
the Lord Rapithwina, Frddaffshu and Zatituma, lords of purity. These
three are also praised in the Gdh Rapiian (Kh.-Av. xvi.), where, in note, it
is said,
The protectors of the time Rapithwina are Asha-Vahista, the fire, Fradatfshu, the
increaser of cattle, and Zantuma, the protector of confederacies: and in the text,
That assembly and meeting of the Amesha-Cpentas we praise, which is prepared
in the height of heaven, for the praise and adoration of Zantuma the lord.' Rapith-
wina is said to be from mid-day until the commencement of twilight.
The Abdn-Yasht (xxi.), 132 verses, is devoted to the praise of Ardvi-gura
the strong, brilliant, great, beautiful, whose flowing waters come hither by day as by
night, namely, all the waters which flow along on the earth, which hasten away
mightily.
She drives her chariot, drawn by four white draught-cattle, gives women
good child-birth and brings them fitting and proper milk. Chiefs and leaders
are represented as invoking her effectual assistance against the Daevas, the
snake DaMka, sorcerers, Pairikas, and other enemies, and obtaining it;
and these foes as praying first and being refused. Men pray to her for
horses and the majesty that comes from above, and maidens for good hus-
bands, and women in child-bed, for fortunate delivery. And she flows down
from the lofty Hukairya, and supplies all the Aryan world with water. She
has a thousand basins and a thousand channels, and
in greatness of majesty is as mighty as all the waters thai flow on the earth. Ahura
Mazda created for her the wind, the clouds, the rain and the hail, and all these she
pours down.
And she is described as a woman, a fair maiden, beautiful, with brilliant
face, holding the Baregma, wearing ear-rings, and a golden necklace, with
full bosom, a diadem on her head, set with a hundred stars, wearing garments
of beaver-skin.
The Yaskt Nydyis Ardvtgur (#.) is also addressed to her; and, in part,
the Farvardin-Yasht (xxix.), where she is said to purify the seed of men,
and the bodies of all women for a good delivery, to bestow good delivery,
and give fit and suitable milk to all women; and her waters to flow from
Hukairya the high to the Sea V6uru-Kasha, and thence by a thousand
canals and channels, into the Seven Kareshvares of the Aryan land.
396 IXDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The description of this Goddess of the waters is strikingly like that of
Ardhanari, the Hindu Goddess of water, whobecame at last a hermaphrodite,
conceiving to be in face and figure a female, but representing Siva-Mahadeva
and Parvati-Bhavani, seated in a full-blown lotus, above a tiger and ox,
between whom the Ganges flowed forth. The origin of both was perhaps
the Vedic Saraswati.
The Prayer Usahin (Kh.-Av. xvi. 5), is addressed to Qradsha, Rashnu
and others, and to Ushahina, the dawn, the Ushas of the Veda.
Ushahina, the pure, lord of purity, we praise. The fair morning-dawn we praise.
The dawn we praise, the brilliant, with brilliant horses, which thinks of men, which
thinks of heroes, which is provided with brightness, with dwellings. The dawn we
praise, the rejoicing, provided with swift steeds, which floats over the earth, con-
sisting of Seven Kareshvares.
The Haoma, the Soma of the Vedas, was used in the sacrifice, its juice
being expressed in a consecrated mortar. In YOQUO, ix., Hatfma comes at
dawn, as a man, to Zarathustra, appearing to him "as the most beautiful
in the whole corporeal world," endued with his own life, majestic and im-
mortal. He is the pure, the far from death, and demanded to be praised by
Zarathustra, as others had praised him. Yima first prepared him, and to
him owed all his glory. Next, Athwya prepared him, the father of Thrae-
taon6, and then Thrita, and then the father of Zarathustra. Zarathustra
then praises him, for wisdom, power, healthfulness, and asks of him health,
long life, power to conquer Drujas, Daevas, etc. He gives horses, might
and strength, brilliant children to women, holiness and greatness to men,
and husbands to maidens. Growing on the mountains, sweet and golden,
the healing powers flow to him, through the wisdom of Vohu-Man&. He
makes the soul of the poor in greatness like that of the richest, the mind of
the poor so large in greatness that it soars on high with wisdom, and makes
many men very holy and clothed with much wisdom. He is poured from
the silver cup into the golden, nothing of him being spilled on the earth,
since he has so high a value; and all the songs and hymns of praise are his.
Ahura Mazda, says the Mihr-Yasht, first by means of a mortar uplifted it,
by means of one adorned with stars, made in a heavenly way, on the high
mountain. He is
the promoter, the health-giver, fair, kingly, with golden eyes, who offered to Ashis-
Vanuhi, on the highest height of the high mountain.
We find the bull adored also. Thus, in the Gtthts:
THE STARS 397
Praise to the two eyes of Ahura Mazda. Praise to the Fravashi of the bull, of Gay6
(Marathan), of the holy Zarathustra .... Namely, the creatures of Ahura
Mazda, of Vohu-Man6, of Asha-Vahista, of Khshathra-Vairya, of Cp&ita-Armaiti,
of Haurvat and Ameretat> which appertain to the body of the bull, to the soul of
the bull, to the fire of Ahura Mazda.
So, in the YasU, Mdh Nydyis:
Praise to Ahura Mazda, praise to the Amesha-Cpentas, praise to the moon, which
contains the seed of the bull, to the only-born bull, to the bull of many kinds, the
only-begotten bull, the bull of many kinds.
The same phrases are again and again repeated in the Mah-Yasht(Kh.-Av.
xxiii.*), which is addressed to the moon, mistress of purity, the bestower,
shining, majestic, provided with water, with warmth, the beaming, sup-
porting, peace-bringing, which brings greenness, which brings forth good
things, the health-bringing Genie.
We have found the mystic numbers, three, five, seven and nine: and in
Yagna i. we find invited and announced to,
all the lords who are lords of purity, the thirty-three nearest, who are round about
Havani, of the best pure, whom Ahura Mazda has taught, Zarathustra announced.
[In the prayer numbered iii. t it is said], may the three and thirty Amshaspands and
Ormazd be victorious and pure.
The first of the Great Parsee prayers is called Ashem Vohu: the second,
Yathd AMI Vairy6, but generally Ahuna-Vairya. The third prayer is the
Y$nh&-hdtatim, meaning, "to whom, to. the Existing." Ahura Mazda is
declared in Yagnas xix.aad xx.to have spoken the Ahuna-Vairya andAshem-
Vohu. The former commences thus, Yathd AM, Vairyo athd ratus; and the
latter, Ashem vdhfi vahistem a^ti: the third, Y&nh& hdtanm dat yfynB paiti.
Vohu-Vahistem is, the text says, "the best good.*'
ZARATHUSTRIAN FAITH: THE GATHAS.
It has been said that the pure faith taught by Zarathustra seems to have
had engrafted on it, at a later day, the worship of fire, of the sun, the stars
and the planets. That is true, but this was a return to the old Aryan faith
older than the time of Zarathustra, and which he sought to suppress and
extinguish. Undoubtedly it always continued dear to the popular heart,
and was never wholly yielded up.
There are forty-two of the Gathas, of which the first thirty-two,
with the exception of one and a portion of another, are unquestionably very
ancient. The dialect in which they are written shows that, and their spirit
and tenour show it still more clearly. We find in them no adoration of the
heavenly bodies, nor the confused assemblage of the later Deities. They
purport to be the direct utterances of Zarathustra, and evidently contain
the teachings, by which he founded a new religion in Bactria.
They almost exclusively invoke Ahura Mazda, the holy spirit, and after
him Vohu-Man6 and Asha-Vahista, the first and chiefest of the Amesha-
GpSntas. The other four are seldom named: and in the first (Gdthd Ahund-
Vaiti) Ahura is addressed as "You," in the plural, because in him are
contained, and from him emanate the Amsha-Cpe*ntas, which are his
potencies in exercise, and with him they are seven. That he is the substance,
of which they are the subsistences or hypostases, is evident from the name
Cpnta-Mainyus, often applied to him.
I praise ye, first, O Asha and Vohu-Man6, and Ahura Mazda, to whom belongs an
imperishable kingdom,
is, as it were, the text which the Gathas develop, the key-note by which
they are chaunted. They are eminently free of sensual ideas, pure and
spiritual.
Whom thou knowest, O Asha, as the creatures of Vohu-Man6 (i. e., the children
of good), the truthful, Mazda Ahura, to them fulfil completely their wishes . . . /
I keep forever purity and goodmindedness. Teach thou me, Mazda Ahura, from
out thyself, from heaven, through thy mouth, whereby the world arose [i. e., com-
municate to me, inspire me with, the wisdom emanating from thyself, by thy word
and utterance which did create the world. We have here both the Wisdom of the
Kabbalah, and the WORD of Plato, Philo and St. John; and at the same time the
intelligent self-manifestation of the wise Agni of the Veda] .... Mazda remembers
best the wordsthat he has made of old, before Daevas or men were, and which he will
make again. When Ahura is asked who can announce his holy doctrine to mortals,
he says, 'This one is known to me here, who alone heard our precepts, Zarathustra,
the holy.' He asks from us, Mazda and Asha [the Vedic Fire-Spirit, Agni], assis-
ZARATHUSTRIAN FAITH: THE GATHAS 399
tance in proclaiming it. I will make him skilful of speech. But the bull, created for
the industrious and active of mankind, said, *I am not content with this man not
invested with power, with the words to be spoken by one not clothed with the prerog-
ative of action and accomplishing. I wish an absolute Ruler*; and he asked Ahura
to give to Zarathustra, to assist him, Asha and Khshathra, with Vohu-Man6, that
he might create good dwellings and comfort. And thus Zarathustra had the holy
empire, as priest and king; the temporal as well as the spiritual power. The founda-
tion of his divine right, the patent of his title is here, one that marks with singular
distinctness the simplicity of manners and life of the primitive race of husbandmen
and herdsmen whom he taught and ruled, as Samuel the prophet taught and ruled
the Beni-Isral and Mahmoud the children of Islam.
He sang the praises of Ahura.
May we belong to thee [he cried], we who seek to improve this world. Whoso is
obedient here, he will there unite himself with wisdom. [The words he speaks are
'the best for those who give their heart to Mazda.'] If the good man holds fast
without doubt, to that which cannot be perceived with the eyes, then comes he to
you all, since he desires Ahura Mazda .... Thee have I thought [he says], O
Mazda, as the first to praise with the soul, as the father of Vohu-Man6, since I
saw thee with my eyes, the active creator of purity, the lord of the world in deeds
[i. e., manifested in act]. When thou, Mazda, first createdst the world for us, and the
laws, and the understanding, through thy spirit; when thou didst clothe the vital
powers with bodies, and didst create action and instruction to satisfy the wishes
of the world that was to become.
All his prayer to Ahura Mazda is summed up in this:
All the enjoyments of life, which were and still are, and which will be, these dis-
tribute according to thy will .... Hear me and pardon me all, whatever it may
be; purify me, O Lord, through Armaiti [Wisdom], give me strength. Holiest,
heavenly Mazda, in thy goodness, give me at my supplication strong power through
Asha, fullness of good through Vohu-Man6.
*If you really exist, Mazda/ cries the worshipper, 'together with Asha and Vohu-
Man6, then give me this token .... that, offering, I may join myself to you in
friendship, may, praising you, draw nigh to you. Where are thy worshippers,
Mazda, who are known to Vohu-Man6? The intelligent carries out the excellent
precepts, in joy and sorrow. O Asha, I know no other than you: do thou therefore
Even in the G^this, Zarathustra inculcates purity, obedience, goodness.
'As is right,* he says, 'so he does, who created the first place [the home of the Aryans],
the master; the most righteous dispensations for the evil as for the good. We
approach ourselves, first, to thee, Mazda Ahura, through the service of the fire.
O fire, son of Ahura Mazda, we draw near to thee with good mind, with good purity,
with deeds and words of good wisdom. We praise thee, we acknowledge ourselves
400 IXDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
thy debtors, Mazda Ahura. With all good thoughts, with all good words, with all
good works, we draw nigh to thee/
And yet how natural for those only lately converted from the worship
of the fire as a supreme God, to cry, as we have seen the worshipper do,
dost thou really exist, Ahura Mazda, and thou, Vohu-Man6? I have seen thee,
only, Asha, the fire: do thou, therefore, be our saviour. How very like to the plain-
tive cry, 'Lord, I believe: help thou my unbelief!' [And what a sublime confidence
and trust in the words], Him will we serve with praiseworthy prayers, for now it is
evident to the eyes that he who in works and words of the Good Spirit knows purity,
he knows Ahura Mazda .... Him will we content with goodmindedness.
And what has in any age been said, more noble and more simply sublime
than this:
Through the Holiest Spirit, and through the bestmindedness, which springs from
purity with words and works, Mazda Ahura has given to us fulness and immor-
tality, good things and understanding. Of this Holiest Spirit he does the best,
the best through the loud prayers, by the mouth of Vohu-Man6; with the hands
of Armaiti he does pure deeds; through his own wisdom, Mazda is the father of
Purity?
Ahura and Asha are "the wise Thinkers;" and through Vohu-Man6
Ahura Mazda dispenses his favours and blessings to mankind. "He who
resembles thee, Mazda/' it is said in the GdtM p&nta-Mainyfi,
through the understanding of Vohu-Man6, whoso remakes the mind better and
performs good works, he according to the law with word and deed, wealth unites
itself with him, according to his desire and will, according to thy mind every one is
at last.
Hear, finally, this prayer:
May that man obtain the best, who teaches us to know the right path to profit,
for this world, the bodily as well as for the spiritual. May there now come to this
dwelling contentment, blessing, guilelessness, and wisdom of the pure. May there
appear for this clan, purity, dominion, profit, majesty and brightness, long dominion
of the Ahurian and Zarathustrian law.
The Bactrian Aryans had the same ideas in regard to Prayer and the
Genius of Prayer as the Indian Aryans. They praised the Ahuna-vairya
on earth and in heaven, and the Yenhe hdtanm, as potent to drive away
Anra-Mainyus, and Drukhs, all evil ones, all wizards and magicians. Ahura
Mazda created the GathSs, the praiseworthy prayers, holy, the lords over
ZARATHUSTRIAN FAITH: THE GATHAS 401
the times, the pure, "which GitMs" it is said, "are ruling and protecting
for us, heavenly food; which are for our souls both food and raiment/
1
The body of the holy ra6sha (obedience) is the Manthra.
He rejoices the MaAthra, who utters it for knowledge. To you come listening they
who rule through your deeds, Ahura and Asha, with the prayers of Vohu-Mand,
which thou, Mazda, has first taught.
"The victorious Qa&shya&g" is mentioned barely twice, in one
Rashnu, the most righteous, once; and the Yazatas only twice, and in the
same hymn. The stars, Tistrya, Vanant, etc., are not mentioned at all,
nor is the sun or the moon adored, and Mithra is barely mentioned, two or
three times, and in later G&tMs. There is a hymn to the fire, and there
are three to the waters, all, probably, of a later period.
There is ample evidence in these hymns or prayers, of their great anti-
quity. Nothing in them alludes to cities, towns or even villages. Only
the dwellings, the clan, the confederacy and the region are spoken of.
Nothing is said of gold and silver as riches, nor of other riches than cattle.
Not the wealthy or powerful speak in them, but the husbandman; and it is
positively certain that when they were composed, the Bactrians, brave
and warlike, and leading simple lives, had no other wealth than horses
and cattle.
The first G^tM (Ahunavaiti), Ya$na xocviii., begins with these words:
I desire, by my prayer with uplifted hands, this joy; first, the entirely pure works
of the holy spirit, Mazda, then the understanding of Vohu-Man6, and that which
rejoices the soul of the bull.
In Yagna xxix., the soul of the bull complains to the Amsha-Cp&itas,
For whom have ye created me, who has created me? Aeshma, Haza, Remd, Dere
and Tavi defile me; I have not fodder save from you, teach me then the good
things which know herbage. Then asked the fashioner of the cow (Ahura
Mazda) of Asha; where hast thou a lord for the cow? That he may make mighty,
provide with fodder those who apply themselves to breeding cattle . . . . Asha
answered him, There is not a lord for the cow, who could be free from being tor-
mented [by the plagues of Anra-Mainyus] .... Now call I with uplifted hands,
zealously, to Ahura Mazda: for my soul, and that of the three-year-old bull.
Ahura Mazda then said to the bull,
A lord cannot be found, nor a master who proceeds from purity. I, the creator,
have created thee for the Industrious and for the active..... This Manthra of
402 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
increase Ahura Mazda created, In agreement with Asha, for the cow, and milk for
those enjoying according to holy commands.
We have already cited the remonstrance of the bull, in regard to Zarathustra,
as teacher merely, and his desire for a ruler.
Ya$. xxxix. Here praise we now the soul and body of the bull, then our souls,
and the souls of the cattle, which desire to maintain us in life.
xxxi.To thee [Ahura] belonged Armaiti, with thee was the understanding
which fashioned the cow, when thou, Mazda Ahura, the heavenly, createdst ways
for her.
xxxii. To these has Mazda announced evil, to them who sky the soul of the
cow with friendly speech.
If he brings that which was spoken for slaying the cow, as protection to him
who is far from death. (This, the note says, is unintelligible.) In the
former verse, Mazda is represented as denouncing evil to those who, being
fonder of meat than of purity (or honesty), kill the cattle of others, while
professing friendship; and to those who by wrong and violence seek to rise
to power. Then those are denounced as of the obedience of Anra-Mainyus,
who by revolt and insurrection seek to rend asunder kingdoms as publip
enemies; and everyone who, while Mazda grieves at it, labours to make
wickedness so general, that the messengers of the Manthras of Mazda shall
not be able to see purity anywhere. He, it is then said, is guilty of gross
misconduct, and no longer governed by reason, who deceives the labouring
men, and, induced by him, they accept the protection of the wicked, and
If he uses the same language of friendship, which was resorted to for the
purpose of gaining an opportunity to slay the cattle, to assure him of
protection, who, being in no danger, does not need it.
The reader must judge whether this is too audacious an interpretation
of the original translation; and especially of the phrase last cited above, and
of these which precede it:
Whoso wishes the rending of the kingdom, he belongs to the abode of the most
wicked spirit, as the destroyer of this world; and he who wishes, O Mazda weeping,
he who wishes to keep the messengers of thy Manthras far from beholding purity.
He makes himself guilty of great dismemberment, he gives his understanding to
the Kavayas, he who deceives the Active, if tfyey accept the wicked for protection.
They slay "the soul of the cow," because, though there are Fravashis of
the living and the unborn cattle, the souls of animals perish with them, and
are not, like the human soul, immortal.
YOQ. xxxiiL Whoso is the best for the pure, be it through relationship or deeds,
or through obedience, O Ahura, caring for the cattle with activity, he finds himself
ZARATHUSTRIAN FAITH: THE GATHAS 403
in the service of Asha and Vohu-Man6. [That is, as I understand it: 'He who best
serves the righteous man (the upright worshipper of Ahura Mazda), whether by
the kindly offices and sympathies of relationship, or by acts that he does to benefit
him, or even as a hired labourer, a herdsman industriously caring for his cattle, he
is in the service of Asha and Vohu-Man6.' It is the same doctrine that is embodied
in the sentences, 'He best serves God, who serves his neighbour best*; 'Forasmuch
as ye have done it unto one of these, ye have done it unto me/ and 'He prayest best
who loveth best, all things both great and small.
7
Even the poor hired herdsman,
in this simple and beautiful creed, could worthily serve the Deity, by faithfully
and loyally doing his duty, in his humble place and sphere.
Throughout the G&tMs there breathes the spirit and are uttered the words,
of a sincere sympathy for the labouring man. Thus, in the next Yagna,
the worshipper, telling Ahura Mazda, what it is that he wishes and prays
for, to be granted "to the soul endowed with body," asks first of all for the
"works," the beneficial effects, of Vohu-Man6, not for kings or chiefs, or
the priests or the rich, but "for thos$ who labour with the walking cow,"
i. e., the husbandmen.
In the Yagna Haptanhaiti (xxxv.) the worshipper asks that, by means
of his prayers and good deeds, pleasantness and fodder may be distributed
to the cattle, as well to those of the wise as to those of the unlearned, as
well to those of the powerful as to those of the weak.
And, in the same:
we meditate your praise, Ahura Mazda, and his [Asha-Vahista's], and the best
fodder for the cattle.
Yag. xxxix. Here we now praise the soul and body of the bull, then our souls,
and the souls of the cattle, which desire to maintain us in life.
xliii. For whom hast thou [Ahura] made the going cow, as a gracious gift?
.... Who has created the desired wisdom, together with the rule? Who, through
his purity created the love of father to son. [The importance of the gift of cattle,
to the people among whom these hymns were sung, may be judged of by the other
gifts that are named in connection with it.]
And, in the same,
who will war against these, through whom the Karapas and Ugikhschas give the
cow to ASshma, the Kavas so greatly increased themselves. [ASshma is an evil
spirit, one of the creatures of Anra-Mainyus. To give him cattle, and so enable
the Kavas to grow rich, is deemed a great wrong; and the punishment denounced
for it in the next line is, 'Fodder is not to be given to them through Asha, as a
reward'.]
It is for their cattle and men, alone, that in Yagna xliv., increase is
prayed, "through the purity of Vohu-Man6, unto the good birth." Evi-
dently the wealth of the people consisted almost wholly in cattle: and hence
404 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
the praises of Goshurim, the primitive ideal bull; and the title of Ahura,
"maker of the cow/'
Ffl. xlv. I desire thy instruction, O Ahura. The wicked man hinders those
who act uprightly, prevents their cattle from going onward through the districts
and regions he, the tyrants, who by his deeds deserves death, whoso, resisting
him, shall end his rule or his life, will obtain for the cattle the granaries of wisdom.
[Evidently some predatory- chief is meant, whose power prevented the herdsmen from
driving their cattle from one region to another, for change of pastures, and to crush
or slay whom would enable the cattle to go where there was abundant forage.]
In the Gdthd Gptntd-Mainyti, it is said to Ahura Mazda:
Thou who art also the holy in heaven, thou who hast created the cow as a helpful
gift, thou who givest her fodder and delight, according to thy wisdom.
And here we find the meaning, in the former passage, of the "granaries of
wisdom." They were the food of the cattle, supplied by the wisdom or
creative word, of Ahura Mazda.
In Yagna xlvii., it is said:
Whoso makes the mind better, and does good works, he, according to the law with
word and deed, wealth unites itself with him, according to desire and will [i. e., I
think, wealth comes to him of Us own accord, the desire and will being its, and not
his; as the souls of the cattle are said to desire to serve men for food]; according to
thy mind is at last every one [i. e., his fortunes such as Ahura Mazda thinks he
deserves] .... Purity is to man the best thing after birth [next to life? or, from
the time of his birth, during all his life?]: for the cattle is it laboured, the diligent us
this for food. [Translated, *(let) thediligent (bestow) us this for food'.] ThisfVefers
to the cattle', note] 'has to us brightness' this *has to us strength, might, given,
according to the desire (by the good will] of Vohu-Man6. So too has it made trees
grow with purity for Mazda, at the birth of the first world'.
I do not see how "this" refers to the cattle. If, as food, they have bright-
ness and strength, for men, they do not make the trees grow. The passage"
speaks of the priceless value of purity, i. e. of honesty and uprightness.
The practice of it gives men cattle, and honest diligence secures food. It
is this purity that gives reputation and influence and power; and these
are legitimately gained by it, with the approval of the Divine wisdom.
However that may be, what we particularly seek to direct attention to,
is that cattle and food are the only wealth spoken of; and that these are
deemed to be worse than worthless, unless obtained by honest labour.
So, in the same Yagna;
when will Mazda, Asha, together with Annaiti, come; Khshathra, the good dwell-'
ing with fodder?
ZARATHUSTRIAN FAITH: THE GATHAS 405
Ya$. xUx. How and whose protection shall my soul desire, who is for the cattle,
what man is acknowledged for my protector, besides Asha and thee, Mazda Ahura,
the desired, the invoked, by the best spirit? [In the Yagna immediately preceding,
Zarathustra had asked for a particular ruler, one enjoying the friendship of Asha,
and had prayed to be freed of wicked rulers, evil-doing and evil-speaking. The
same subject is continued here, and it is very noticeable that the ruler is styled 'the
protector'.] How shall he, Mazda, desire the helpful cow, who wishes her active
for this world to live well during many years?'
I do not pretend to clearly understand this; but I think that "how shall he
desire" means "in what manner shall he effectually pray for?" or, "how
shall he have fruition of his desire?"
But it is again noticeable that cattle are regarded again, as the most
valuable gifts to man from Ahura Mazda.
Gdthd Vohu-Khshathra (Yag. /.). Do thou, holiest, heavenly Mazda, who hast
created the cow and the water and the trees, give me immortality and plenitude,
power and strength, instruction through the best spirit .... Grant thou also the
cow fullness, through thy deeds and precepts.
Yag. h>ii. O father over the cattle, and over those who belong to the Holy
One: the pure, and those wishing purity in the world .... Thoughts, words and
works, cattle and men, we commit to pnta-Mainyft. All cattle, the healthful
goods, the healthful cattle, the healthful men, all healthful, pure.
Yag. lix. May there appear for this clan, purity, dominion, profit, majesty and
brightness, long dominion of the Ahurian, Zarathustrian law; quickly may cattle
arise out of this clan, quickly purity, quickly the strength of the pure men, quickly
Ahurian custom.
Ixi. Then the fire of Ahura Mazda, content, without hate, satisfied, blesses
[him who brings wood to it]. 'May there arise around thee herds of cattle, abund-
ance of men. May it go according to the desire of thy spirit, according to the desire
of thy soul. Be glad, live thy life, the whole time that thou wilt live*. This is the
blessing of the fire.
Fargard xxi. of the Vendidad commences with an invocation to the
holy bull and the cow, in these words:
Jfaaise be to thee, O holy bull, praise to thee, well-created cow, praise to thee, thou
who multipliest, praise to thee, thou who makest to increase, praise to thee, gift of
the creator, for the best pure, for the pure yet unborn .... [And the Manthra-
Cpenta says, in the same], I will purify thy body and thy strength ; I will make thee
rich in children and rich in milk; in activity, milk, fatness, bounds, and prosperity.
For thy sake I will purify here a thousand-fold; riches in cattle, which runs about,
and is nourishment for children '. . . . Go up, O moon, thou who containest the
seed of the cattle, over Harab&rSzaiti, and illumine the creatures.
In Fargard xxn., Ahura Mazda, suffering from the venom of the
serpent Anra-Mainyus, promises as a recompense for healing him, first
to Maiithra-Gpnta and then to Airyama, not gold or gems, but horses,
camels, horned cattle and small cattle.
ANCIENT BACTRIAN ARYANS.
There is a singular charm in these ancient utterances of the Aryan heart
and intellect, that have caused me to linger among them longer than I
intended. I must close the book for the present. It is eminently worthy
of an extended and exhaustive commentary. For they strikingly prove
the truth of this saying of Emerson:
The religions we call false, were once true. They also were affirmations of the
conscience, correcting the e\il customs of the times.
They tell us of a pure, simple, honest, upright, industrious people, kind and
affectionate, and not yet corrupted by prosperity or what we call civiliza-
tion. We find in them no unchristian sentiments, except in regard to their
enemies, as to whom they inculcate no pity or mercy, and use no words of
charity. But this was a consequence of their belief in two principles or
powers, each of whom was a creator, for they were twins. Anra-Mainyus
was the enemy, the serpent; and not only were his Daevas hated as evil
spirits, malicious and of malignant natures; but the Turanians, and all who
would not adore Orrnuzd (as Ahura Mazda) has long been called, were the
offspring of Anra-Mainyus, whom it was a merit to annihilate. It was the
same error that pervaded all the ancient religions, and was devised by them
to Mohammedanism, and Christianity. Nor is it as yet by any means
dead; but it is strongly rooted in the human heart, and every day bears
fruit.
Some conclusions may, I think, be with very great confidence deduced
from the Vendidad and
1. It is absolutely certain that these were composed by the bards and
prophets of a people of herdsmen and husbandmen, who journeyed from
place to place, over wide regions of country, with their herds, seeking
pastures a simple, honest, frank and manly people, of free and independent
spirit, brooking no tyranny, obeying their rulers from choice and not
through fear, and having no other wealth than their herds; for not even
sheep are spoken of in the oldest compositions.
2. It is plain that there were no large cities or even considerable towns,
and no powerful monarchs or great nobles. They had simply chiefs, like
the ancient Germans, their brethren, and like the American Indians, who
in some way or other select those who govern them, and depose them when
they prove unfit, or abuse their power. The aboriginal or indigenous
ANCIENT BACTRIAN ARYANS 407
people of the country, the Turanians, still opposed the progress of the su-
perior race, and predatory raids were of frequent occurrence, while revolts
sometimes disturbed the land, led by disaffected chieftains.
3. They lived in a country, partially wooded, at least, well watered by
rivers, that flowed into a great sea, having their sources in lofty chains of
mountains, with many high. summits, which overlooked the land they
occupied.
4. Zarathustra was their ruler, as well as spiritual and moral teacher.
Claiming to converse with Ahura Mazda the creator, to repeat his very
words, and to communicate his commands, he succeeded in converting
this people of industrious and honest herdsmen and husbandmen, to his
singularly spiritual doctrine. He was evidently far in advance of his
people, a profound thinker, a wise, pure, just, earnest and sincere man; and
one is at first inclined to wonder how it was possible for him to persuade so
primitive a people, until his time adorers of the fire and light, the luminaries
of the sky, the winds, the dawn and the powers of Nature, to believe in a
spiritual, invisible Deity, a Creator and Protector, and in the Spirits or
Powers that were not only the Ministers of His will, but Himself manifested
and in action in various modes.
If the Bactrian Aryans had been an idolatrous people, or had worshipped
the sun, moon and stars, as themselves Gods, it might have been impossible
for them to comprehend or have a genuine and real belief in the spirit,
Ahura Mazda, or in the real existence of his personified potencies, or in the
immortality of their own souls, their Very Selves, invested and supplied
with temporary bodies, but themselves immortal, creatures of Ahura
Mazda, having had pre-existence, and destined to continue to exist, when
severed once more from their bodies.
> But they had long before become familiar with the same spirituality
and intelligence, in the Aryan conceptions of Agni and Indra, the Fire-
Principle and Light-Principle, Deities of a nature wholly spiritual, of whom
the visible fire and light were the manifestations. Zoroa'ster transferred
to Ahura Mazda the more spiritual attributes of Agni, and Fire became
the Son of Ahura Mazda, one of his AmSsha-CpSntas, manifestations and
emanations; the same Fire Essence and Principle, that he was before.
5. I conclude, also, that some even of the Priests and Bards were
doubters, and distressed with uncertainty as to the reality of existence of
these spiritual Deities. And I conclude that the concessions which
Zarathustra had to make, in favour of the old popular worship of the powers
of Nature and the luminaries, kept alive the old faith, and predisposed the
people to return to it, as giving them something more real and tangible to
worship, than the spiritual God of the prophet, to whom they were required
408 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
to ascribe the potencies which they saw and felt to belong to the heavenly
orbs and to Nature herself. There are no such denunciations of the ancient
worship, as are found in the Hebraic writings. There is no hint of any
persecution of heresy, and faith is everywhere subordinated to works. The
Bactrian worship seems to have been very simple. Nothing is said about
temples, and there seems to have been no sacredotal pomp. Nothing is
said of costly presents made by Princes to the Priests or even to the Bards.
In fact, as an efficacy sufficient to propitiate the potencies of Ahura, and
secure their favour, and thus to obtain all that the worshipper desired, was
ascribed to three or four simple prayers, dictated by Ahura at the creation,
and afterwards communicated by him to Zarathustra, and which do not
seem to have had any additional virtue when pronounced by a Priest,
there could have been but little need of the exercise of intercessory and
mediatorial functions.
A divine efficacy was ascribed to the Manthras, the individuals of the
ideal universal, "Prayer," which was termed Manthra-Qpnta, and
addressed as a Deity, as the Vedic Brahmanaspati and Brihaspati were.
The word Qplnta seems to have the same meaning as Pati, i. e., the ideal
unit containing in itself in the creative mind all the manifold that are to
become: as "humanity" existent in intellects, Dei, in the Divine Mind,
before any individual man existed, is, in very truth, all that are afterwards
to become and exist. But it does not appear that any peculiar or special
class or family of men had particular and exclusive commission to repeat
these prayers or sing the sacred hymns. The pure man, which every
Zarathustrian and adorer of Ahura was, could with confidence and hope
address himself directly to the creator or to his ministering potencies, the
Am&ha-CpSntas.
6. It is quite evident that as time passed, the old faith gained strength,
and the old Gods asserted their right to worship and sacrifice. We find
them complaining that they are not sacrificed unto, and offering to bestow
great benefits on those who shall offer to them. By this time, it is evident,
their ancient names had been forgotten, for the most part, and new ones
were invented, or the indigenous ones adopted. Indra has been intention-
ally changed to an evil Deity, as Tuphon was In Egypt, as the easiest and
most effectual mode of obliterating the memory of his worship. The name
of Mitra had survived in Mithra; but his identity with the Morning Star
seems to have been unknown, or only vaguely alluded to in a few passages.
Ushas, as Ushahina, the dawn, still survives and is briefly praised, her
original greatness long ago forgotten, as the very names of Varuna, Stlrya,
Rudra, Vishnu, Savitri and the Agvins are, and that of Aryaman, to
identify whom with Airyama is a mere fancy from similarity of sound and
letters, than which nothing is moredeceptive.
ANCIENT BACTRIAN ARYANS 409
The immense space of time that elapsed from the settlement in Bactria
to the immigration of the Indian Aryans into the Indus country will hardly
of itself account, either for the vast differences between the Zend and San-
skrit languages, or for the almost total dissimilarity of names of their Deities.
We find each branch of the race, indeed, calling its Gods by names unknown
to every other branch. There are none in the Sanskrit at all resembling
those of the Keltic, Gothic or Sclavonic Gods, and the Greek and Roman
names are almost as entirely different.
But each emigrating multitude found in the land In which it settled
down, a much more numerous indigenous people, with which by degrees it
intermingled, as the languages did. We can trace the Aryan type of face
in families and individuals of every one of the existing races, even where
the national type is widely dissimilar; the indigenous type prevailing more
widely among some, the Irish and Russians, for example, and the Hindus,
than among others; and so we find the debris of the old Aryan language in
every one of their tongues; but the great mass, the warp and woof of every
one of their languages is from the indigenous sources. The Aryan emigrants
must everywhere have adopted the indigenous names of the luminaries and
the Gods.
7. It is certain that the people whom Zarathustra taught and ruled
were acquainted with the steppes of the River Ranha (supposed to be the
Jaxartes) ; and therefore they must have resided at no great distance from
them. These steppes are on the north side of the Oxus, which forms the
boundary of Bactria on the north, and the Jaxartes. Bactria is bounded
on the south by the immense chains of the Paropamisus and the Asiatic
Caucasus, and from these a great number of rivers run northward across
Bactria, and fall into the Oxus, which carried their accumulated waters
into the Caspian, though now it falls into the Sea of Aral. At what time
this change took place, is not known; but it is certain that long after the
time of Zarathustra the surface-level of the Caspian was at least three
hundred feet higher than it is now, and that its waters then extended far
to the eastward of their present limits, and the Sea of Aral formed a part
of it.
The streams that flow northward across Bactria from the Caucasus and
Paropamisus Mountains, may well have been the rivers
that flow from Hukairya the lofty, by a thousand canals and channels, each forty
days' journey long for a mounted man, watering all the seven Kareshvares, and
falling into the boundary-sea Vouru-Kasha.
410 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
I am inclined to think that "the Sea Vouru-Kasha" was the river Oxus,
and not the Caspian Sea. For the Fifty-fourth Yagna says that the streams
from the mountains
all flow into the boundary-sea Vouru-Kasha, from whence Ardvi-fira the pure has
made them flow out, has poured them out.
In the Aban-Yasht, the same waters are spoken of,
which flow mightily from Hukairya the lofty, away to the Sea Vouru-Kasha. They
purify themselves all in the great Sea Vouru-Kasha, all the middle ones purify
themselves; for she makes them flow out, she pours out ... * The outflow of this
my water alone comes down to all Kareshvares, the Seven,
The extreme southern point of Bactria is (about) Latitude 34 North,
and the extreme northern point, about 39. But nearly the whole of it
lies between 35 and 37; and it is divided into seven parts, by six rivers
that flow into the Oxus. Neither in the countries that lie between Bactria
and Media, nor in Media itself, do we find rivers answering the description
of them in these hymns: and Media lying south and west of the Caspian, the
steppes of Ranha were not north of it; but they were north of Bactria.
On the west of Bactria is the desert of Margiana, a vast sandy waste,
interspersed with oases. Bactria is, on the whole, a mountainous country,
but contains some very fertile steppes and valleys, the former of which
anciently afforded pasture for a fine breed of horses, while the latter
produced grain of all sorts and rice. It is now known as Balkh and Koon-
dooz.
The GSth&s and Vendidad display to us a more simple and primitive
people than those among whom the Vedas were composed. It is not
possible to doubt that their habits and manners of life were the same as
those of the people of Turkestan are now; and they probably drove their
herds, sometimes, across the Oxus, to pasture. They were at least familiar
with the steppes.
Rawlinson thinks that Zarathustra was a Scythian, and that Magism
was a Scythic faith. The Scythians, of whom the Tatars and Turks are
descendants (I do not include the Mongols among the Tatars), unquestion-
ably have what are called the Caucasian features; and the Aryans may
originally have been but a Ttar tribe. Their origin is hidden in a darkness
impenetrable to us. We know that when the Bactrian Aryans occupied
Media, they to a great extent blended with Scyths whom they found there,
admitting whole tribes of them into their nation. It is no doubt true, that
ANCIENT BACTRIAN ARYANS 411
before the great immigration of the Aryan races from the east, Scythic or Tatar
tribes occupied the countries seized by them [and that] this population was, for the
most part, absorbed in the conquering element; but in places maintained itself in
some distinctness, and retained a quasi nationality.
It is probably true, as Rawlinson says, that the Aryans who overran Asia,
from the Hindu-Kush to the shores of the Persian Gulf, were everywhere
but a small element in the population of the countries subdued by them.
As the Aryans unquestionably had their origin in a country populated
by Scythic tribes, by which they were surrounded, it is not easy to suppose
that they were not themselves Scythic, i. e., T&taric or Turkic. It was in
the very country between the Oxus and Jaxartes, that the Mongolian
Dynasty long afterwards maintained itself; and thence it was that Baber,
a descendant of Timur, conquered India, and founded there a Mongolian
dynasty, that survived up to our own times, as the Great Moguls of Delhi.
We need not wonder that the Aryan race, if it was originally Scythic, became
what it did, when we remember the history and great deeds of the Osman
Turks : and as to the perfection of the Sanskrit language, an eminent Orient-
alist has remarked that "we might imagine Turkish to be the result of the
deliberations of some eminent society of learned men." The different
Turanian languages have little in common with each other, and cannot be
traced or referred to a common origin. As to the characteristics of the races,
while most of the tribes in the Caucasus are Scythic, there is among them
an Aryan race, calling themselves "Os," and "Iran." And they are in no
respect superior to the other tribes.
The Finns are Scythic, and their literature and above all, their popular
poetry bears witness to a high intellectual development in times which we
may call mythical. Their songs still live among the poorest, recorded by
oral tradition alone, and preserving all the features of a perfect metre and
of a more ancient language. The Kalewala possesses merits not dissimilar
from the Iliad, and is entitled to be considered the fifth national epic of the
world, side by side with the Ionian hymns, the Mahabharata, the Shah-
nameh and the Nibelunge. While the language, as Professor Miiller further
remarks, might almost seem to have left the agglutinative stage, and
entered into the current of inflection, with Greek or Sanskrit.
The Bulgarians are Finnic, the Finns having conquered Bulgaria in the
Seventh Century ; and the Hungarians are of the same race. The Georgians
and the Basques are also of T&tar or Scythic descent.
Originating in Turkistan, and having all the habits of the T^tar race,
what could the Aryans have been but Scyths, Turks or TUtars? In this
sense, Zarathustra was Scythic, and the worship of the Powers of Nature
was a Scythic faith. Evidently a more intellectual race than those that
412 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND \VORSHIP
surrounded them, and claiming that superiority by their name Arya, these
Aryan, noble or warlike, Scyths advanced beyond the worship of the visible
luminaries and material forces of Nature, to more spiritual conceptions and
philosophical ideas, making it easy for Zarathustra to conceive of a Creative
Deity, cognizable only by the intellect, and of the immortality and pre-
existence of the human soul.
Thus the world owes to them all its profound religious and philosophical
ideas, and Plato and Philo did but develop the great thoughts of the Vedic
Poets and of Zarathustra.
Every one who has read the current works upon the ancient religions is
familiar with the word Honover, by which Ormuzd created the universe.
One does not at first recognize it in the prayer "Ahuna-Vairya," spoken by
Ahura Mazda, before heaven, earth, the fire or the Daevas were. In
Fargard xi. it is called the Prayer of Purification, and portions of it are
given there. Its potencies are set forth in Yagna xix., and it is declared
to have been spoken, "for every being, to learn and to meditate, on account
of the best purity,"
This Prayer, which is not said to be the Creative Word, is found at the
commencement (Number ii.) of the Khordah-Avesta. The translation
is as follows:
As is the will of the Lord, so is he the Ruler out of purity.
From Vofau-Man6 gifts, for the works in the world for Mazda*
And the Kingdom to Ahura, when we afford succour to the poor.
Neither do we find any creative word Horn. But it is curious that the
three letters of the Hindu Ineffable Word, the initials of Agni, Varuna and
Mitra, and so many other of the Vedic Deities, are also in the first syllable
of the word Hatfma, in the name Ahu-Man6, and the nameAhura Mazda.
It is very likely that mystical meanings were attached to the words with
which the two great prayers commenced Ashem Vohii and Yatkd ahd
Vairyd: but if so, there is no possibility of ascertaining what they were.
I dedicate what I have here written to that learned Scholar whose
works have opened to me a new and wide field of thought, Professor Max
Miiller, in the hope that if these pages should be so fortunate as to be read
by him, he may at least find in them some suggestions that may induce
him to treat exhaustively the whole subject, and create between ourselves
and our ancient Aryan ancestors a more intimate communion and conversa-
tion.
APOLOGETIC.
Since writing the pages to which these are supplemental, I have procured
Volume V of Dr. Muir's Sanskrit Texts, the first volume of Professor
Miiller's Translation of the Rig-Veda, and Samuel Johnson's Oriental
Religions. The following pages contain all that I have found in these works
bearing upon the questions that I had discussed in the preceding volumes
of this exerdtation.
The new material thus supplied to me has not caused me to change my
opinions in regard to the nature and character of the Vedic Deities; but has
confirmed them, and enabled me to discover 'who and what Yama and
Pushan were.
The translations of both Dr. Muir and Professor Miiller are, of course,
more correct representations of the original texts than those of Professor
Wilson. But I have not found the difference, in the case of any text, be-
tween the translations, at all material, in their bearing upon any of my
views; and, as even the later translations cannot be regarded as final, and
are obviously often incorrect, because adapted to peculiar theories and obe-
dient to certain preconceptions, I have concluded to retain those of Professor
Wilson to the extent to which I had used them.
If I had had the egregious vanity to propose to place myself as a com-
mentator by the side of these accomplished scholars, I should be very
greatly discontented with what I have done, for it is very imperfect.
But I have no sort of pretension to that. At the beginning, I only
proposed to myself, taking the texts in regard to Indra as I found them
translated by Professor Wilson, to endeavour, by grouping them together
and comparing them, to discover, if I could, what that Deity was. In doing
that, I had to collect the texts in regard to Agni also, to understand the
intimate connection and relations between the two Gods. This led to a like
inquiry as to Mitra and Varuna, and from that the work has grown to its
present proportions, and persuaded me also to engage upon and complete
another, in regard to the next stage of intellectual development, as contained
in the Zend-Avesta, of our Aryan race.
Of course I believe the views that are expressed in this inquiry to be in
the main true. If I did not, I should incontinently burn the sheets, to
propitiate and appease the insulted Aryan Gods. But so believing, I leave
to others, more competent than I am, the task of proving them correct, and
the book I surrender, with all its imperfections on its head, to the indulgent
consideration of the craft of scholars, among whom I am but an apprentice.
Quod modd proposui, non est sententia; ventm
Credits me vobis folium recitare Sibylla.
THE VEDIC LANGUAGE.
Professor Miiller, in Volume I of his Translation of the Rig-Veda, 121,
has this passage:
In Vtiskan we have one of those words which it is almost impossible to trans-
late accurately. It occurs over and over again in the Vedic hymns; and if we once
know the various ideas which it either expresses or implies, we have little difficulty
in understanding its import in a vague and general way, though we look in vain for
corresponding terms in any modern language. In the Veda, and in ancient languages
generally, one and the same word is frequently made to do service for many. Words
retain their general meaning, though at the same time they are evidently used with
a definite purpose. This is not only a peculiar phase of language, but a peculiar
phase of thought; and as to us this phase has become strange and unreal, it is very
difficult to transport ourselves back into it, still more to translate the pregnant
terms of the Vedic Poets into the definite languages which we have to use. Let us
imagine a state of thought and speech in which mrtus still meant manliness, though
it might also be applied to the virtue of a woman; or let us try to think and speak a
language which expressed the bright and the divine, the brilliant and the beautiful,
the straight and the right, the bjill
and the hero, the shepherd and the king by the
same terms, and we shall see how difficult it would be to translate such terms with-
out losing either the key-note that was still sounding, or the harmonics which wjere
set vibrating by it in the minds of the Poets and their listeners.
Now, we speak precisely such a language, every hour of our lives ; and we
need not go beyond the "key-note sounding" and "the harmonics vibrating"
in our minds, for proof of it. "Virility" has just the same original and
derivative meanings, in English, as vfishan had in the Veda. The root vfish
meant emission. Hence vrishan meant "virility" and "the virile energy";
and from that, of course, came many other meanings, suggested by
concatenation of ideas. The word "emasculate" is another example of the
same process of thought by which various meanings came to be attached to
words. It is neither a peculiar phase of language nor a peculiar phase of
thought, that words retain their general meaning and yet are evidently uspd
for a definite purpose. Witness the phrase "circumcision of the heart."
Nor has this "phase" become strange and unreal to us. It is the commonest
of all the phases of language and thought. And what is it that Professor
Miiller means by the "definiteness" of the language that we use? No
language has or ever had less right to claim to be "definite," than ours,
except the German. All our writers are labouring, in prose and poetry, to
make it daily less definite; for we and the Germans have the Aryan imagina-
tion, diseased.
It is not difficult to imagine a state of thought and speech, in which a word
meaning "manliness" might also mean a virtue peculiar to a woman. Do
THE VEDIC LANGUAGE 415
we not use the expressions "the virtue of courage," and "manly virtue" yet?
It is we ourselves who have applied to women the word virtue. And as to
general and special meanings of the same word, our English tongue can defy
competition. Take, for one example, the word "box." Hew many
meanings has the word "fire"? We have "fires" of all sorts, of ambition,
of love, and the popular heart is often enough "fired" by speakers who
know how to use the huge quantity of words in our language that mean
simply nothing at all. Let the reader look in any dictionary at the meanings
of the words "reach," "draft or draught," "draw," "dream," "c6nduct" and
"conduct," and others to be seen on every page, and he will wonder at the
idea or notion of Professor Miiller that we have a "definite" language. Our
uses of the words "pregnant," "seed," "green," "raw," and thousands of
others are perfect parallels of those of the word vrishan by our ancestors:
and if, five thousand years from now, the writings in English of this age then
surviving shall be no more in quantity than the Vedas, it will puzzle the
scholar to ascertain the exact meaning of our words, infinitely more than it
puzzles us to discover the exact meaning of the words of the Rich-Veda.
The difficulty in this is, not that the words had, when used, so many various
meanings, but that they had not many which they came to have afterwards,
between which and those which they then had it is difficult and often
impossible to distinguish: and that they then had meanings which after-
wards became obsolete and were lost, being replaced by others. The same
process is gone through with by every language. For example, in ours, the
word "indorsed" no longer has the meaning which it had when Milton used
it in the line,
An elephant indorsed with towers;
and while the French still speak of the "dispositions" of a statute, we talk
about the good "disposition" of a man or woman.
Moreover, there was no system of grammar in the Vedic age, when the
language was an unwritten one; and a peculiarly complicated and artificial
one grew up ages afterwards. It was inevitable that when the old poems
were reduced to writing there should be many errors committed, especially
as to terminations, and the sounds of vowels determining cases, numbers
and persons. It was also impossible that when poems had been retained
in a multitude of memories, there should not be various readings and great
uncertainty as to the true ones. During the long period of the retention
of these poems in the memory, it was not in the Aryan nature to permit
them to go unaltered and un-"improved." Every one is familiar with the
incorrect quotations from accessible authors, that are constantly in use.
Not one man in twenty who has used and written it, has repeated correctly
the words of Juvenal :
416 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Hoc volo, sic jubeo, sit pro ratione voluntas;
and the tomes written upon the meaning of words and phrases and the
various readings in Shakespeare, are enough to prove to us that it is utterly
impossible to know that the present reading of any line of the Rich-Veda
is the original and perfectly correct one.
If we add to this the uncertainty as to the meaning of the particles,
whether by themselves or in compounds, of course affecting, even when
separate, the meaning of the nouns and verbs with which they are used,
and the labourious industry and careful painstaking of the Brahmans to
pervert the meaning of the Vedas and change the meanings of words, we
shall not wonder at the discrepancies in the various translations.
It should be always remembered that the Vedic Poets lived ages before
Hesiod and Homer, and that their poems expressed the faith, whatever it
was, of the people at large, in whose hearing they were recited. And if
then the translator will be deaf to Brahmanic babbling, and listen to the
Vedic Poets as to men who repeated their songs to the contemporaries of the
remote ancestors of the Greeks and Latins who worshipped the Olympian
Deities, a race of herdsmen and husbandmen, knowing only so much of the
universe as their naked eyes beheld, ignorant of all that we now call
"knowledge," but thoughtful, reflective and of vigourous intellect and in-
clined to speculation upon the nature and causes of what they saw, he will not
be likely to fall into the fatal error of ascribing to them ideas and notions that
grew up ages afterwards, in regard to that region of the unknown that lies
beyond the reach of human vision or to invisible existences wholly dis-
connected from everything cognizable by the senses: and he will then not
find it so difficult to select the right meaning among the many of the same
word; for he will find the simplest and most material meaning to be always
the true one.
The writers of the Kabbalah did not know what they meant, for they,
for the most part, meant nothing. The composers of the Veda always
meant something, and knew what they meant. Their compositions are by
far more purely poetic than devotional; and their poetry is not the poetry
of sentiment or passion or description or of merely beauty and novelty of
phrase, but of personification; and when we once understand them, they
are as natural outflowings of the imagination and sequences of thought, as
free from exaggeration and hyperbolism, as little strained and incoherent,
as those of our own modern poets.
They knew nothing of a heaven beyond the sky, and had not conceived
of a creative Deity outside of whom the universe made by him existed.
THE VEDIC LANGUAGE *17
But they saw and felt that the fire which they saw generated and produced
from the wood by friction, and then devouring that of which he was born,
contained in itself light and heat; and they conceived that fire was one, and
that light was one, variously manifested everywhere. I believe I understand
as little as they did, how fire can extend itself and grow in spite of the most
intense cold. I am sure that light is as profound a mystery to me as it was
to them; and the brilliant and beautiful flame, joyous and mobile as if alive,
is as great a wonder to me as it was to my Aryan ancestor. I know as little
as they did how the heat and light from the sun comes to the earth, and how
it is maintained there in the sky. And it was because it needed no teaching
of science to enable them to speculate upon the nature and manifestations
of fire and light, that they are the real authors of all religious philosophy,
which has but conceived of a Supreme Creative Unity, and assigned to him
the attributes and the mode of manifestation which they ascribed to the
light and the substance from which it emanated.
Two things are very wisely said by Professor Mfiller, to appreciate which
fully and bear them continually in mind are indispensable to him who
cares to read understandingly the poems of the Veda and the even more
ancient G&tMs of Zarathustra.
1. Speaking, in Chips ii. 247, of the West Highland story of a frog that
wished to marry the daughter of a queen, he remarks,
We may ascribe to our ancestors any amount of childlike simplicity, but we must
take care not to degrade them to the rant of mere idiots. There must have been
something rational in the early stories and myths; and until we find a reason for
each, we must just leave them alone, as we leave a curious petrifaction, which has
not yet been traced back to any living type.
2. Speaking (id. 246) of different derivative languages, he says:
No comparison should be made, before each word is traced back to its most primi-
tive form and meaning. Wecannot compare English and Hindustani, but we can
trace an English word back to Anglo-Saxon and Gothic, and a Hindustani word
back to Hindi and Sanskrit; and then from Gothic and Sanskrit we can measure
and discover the central point from which the original Aryan word proceeded.
We thus discover not only its original form, but at the same time its etymological
meaning.
And thus it is only by assuming as certain, that in these ancient com-
positions of the two branches of the race whose separation by emigration
was the latest of all, everything that is said had a natural, simple and
intelligible meaning: arid by giving to words their earliest meanings, that
418 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
we can hope to attain unto any real knowledge of the thought and faith of
these old singers of devotional and patriotic songs.
But etymology is only one of the handmaidens of investigation in this
case. If we can once ascertain even the general nature of the ontological
notions of the Indo- and Irano-Aryans, we shall then have to interpret their
language by these known notions, and not impute to it meanings inconsistent
with their ideas, and expressing only those of a later age.
ORIGIN OF THE VEDIC DEITIES.
Dr. Muir says, in Volume V of his Sanskrit Texts:
The Rig-Veda consists of more than a thousand hymns, composed by successive
generations of Poets, during a period of many centuries. In these songs, the
authors gave expression, not only to the notions of the supernatural world which
they had inherited from their ancestors, but also to their own new conceptions.
In that early age, the imaginations of men were peculiarly open to impressions from
without; and in a country like India, where the phenomena of Nature are often of
the most striking description, such spectators could not fail to be overpowered by
their influence. The creative faculties of the Poets were thus stimulated to the
highest pitch. In the starry sky, in the dawn, in the morning scaling the heavens,
in the bright clouds floating across the air, and assuming all manner of magnificent
or fantastic shapes, in the waters, in the rain, in the storm, in the thunder and light-
ning, they beheld the presence and agency of different divine powers; propitious or
angry, whose characters corresponded with those of the physical operations or appear-
ances in which they were manifested. In the hymns composed under the influence
of any great phenomena, the authors would naturally ascribe a peculiar or exclusive
importance to the Deities by whose action these appeared to have been produced,
and would celebrate their greatness with proportionate fervour. Other Poets might
attribute the same natural appearances to the agency of other Deities, whose great-
ness they would in like manner extol; while others again would devote themselves
in preference to the service of some other God, whose working they seemed to witness
in some other department of creation. In this way, while the same traditional
divinities were acknowledged by all, the power, dignity and functions of each par-
ticular God might be differently estimated by different Poets, or perhaps by the
same Poet, according to the external influences by which he was awed or inspired
on each occasion. And it might even happen that some Deity who had formerly
remained obscure, would, by the genius of a new Poet devoted to his worship, be
brought out into greater prominence. In such circumstances it need not sur-
prise us if we find one particular power or Deity in one place put above, and in
another place subordinated to, some other God; sometimes regarded as the creator,
and sometimes as the created. This is very prominently illustrated in the case of
the Vedic divinities, Dyaus and Prithivi, heaven and earth, and by other instances.
One cannot but place the very highest estimate upon the volumes of
Dr. Muir, and should dissent from his conclusions with great caution. He
unites to thorough and profound scholarship and an intimate acquaintance
with the Vedic and Brahmanic literature, a perfect candour and fairness, a
striking freedom from the itch for controversy and the desire to manifest
his own learning in contrast "with that of another. There are in his writings
the seriousness, simplicity and gravity of a well-warranted confidence in his
own acquirements and qualifications, a total absence of pretentiousness and
freedom from the vice of an ambitious and gaudy style, inconsistent with
that careful accuracy, always wanting in Dr. Cox and often in Miiller, in
their representations of the meaning of the Veda.
420 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
But I venture to suggest that Dr. Muir, in the passage quoted above,
ascribes much too great a share in the production of the consequences of
which he speaks, to the fancies of the Poets, and also that the inconsistencies
of which he speaks are not so real as he supposes. Like apparent inconsist-
encies exist, in the writings of Christian Poets and divines, when they speak
of the powers, operations and attributes of the Father and the Son. For
when these are regarded as one, or even when the idea is always present
that the Son is the Divine Logos of Philo and Saint John, the Very Deity
manifested, and yet not the Deity's very hidden Self, it cannot but be that
the Son will sometimes be spoken of as God, and sometimes as executing the
will of God ; and that His attributes will seem greater or less in the writings
of different men, and even, at different times, in those of the same man.
So, if Indra, Vishnu, Pushan and Vayu are, as light, heat, flame, etc., all
included in Agni, the fire, the powers that they exercise belong to Agni, he
acts by them, and their powers and influences are his. So if the light of
Varuna and Mitra, the planets Jupiter and Venus, or the Morning- and
Evening-Stars, is the manifestation of Agni, and if the heat. of Sftrya, the
sun, and his light, are Agni's also, his powers will be ascribed to each, as
if they were the powers of each.
For it is always, in the Aryan idea, even more fully developed in the
Zend-Avesta, the Divine Unity that acts; and in the exercise of its own
peculiar potency by one hypostasis, the concurrent or conjoint action of
another often cannot be excluded* In other words, the wisdom of God
does not act alone, but also His power intervenes and acts conjointly with
it, concurring in producing the effect.
In the Zend-Avesta, the immanent Divine Intellect, QDSnta-Malnyu; the
same Divine Intellect manifested and acting externally, Vohu-Man6; the
Divine Strength or Power, the Divine Sovereignty, and even the Divine
Productiveness (because the productions of the soil, and the cattle due to
it feed the armies in the field), are by turns represented as winning victories
for the Aryans*
Worship or Devotion is a warrior in the Zend-Avesta, because victory
is owing to it also. Prayer and the Soma and even the fuel, and food, are
Deities in the Veda, because they become of the fire, when consumed by it,
and have the potencies of worship and sacrifice. The light of Ushas, the
Dawn, is the light of Agni; and all the principal Deities are his subsistences.
It seems to me, therefore, that the varying representations of the powers,
dignity and functions of the Vedic Deities, of which Dr. Muir speaks, are by
far more philosophic than fanciful: and the legitimate fruits of the idea of
substance and subsistences; of the Very Self and its hypostases.
THE VEDIC GODS.
THEIR NUMBER AND NATURE.
Yaska, as quoted by Dr. Muir, says,
There are three Deities (Devatdfr), according to the expounders of the Veda, viz.:
Agni, whose place is on the earth (ptithivt-sthdno); Vayu, or Indra, whose place is
in the air (antariksha-stkdnaft); and Sdrya, whose place is in the sky (dyu-sthdnab).
And Rig-Veda x. 158. I, says,
SAryo no divas patu Vato antartksh&t Agnir nab parthivebTiyafc May the sun pre-
serve us from the sky, Vayu from the air, and Agni from things on earth.
This notion has not only nothing in the ancient hymns to warrant it;
but could not have suggested itself to any one, until the real meaning of
those old hymns had been forgotten.
I take the following from Dr. Muir (Volume 9) :
The Gods are spoken of in various texts of the Rig-Veda as being thirty-
three in number. Thus it is said in Rig-Veda i. 34. II :
Come hither, Nlsatyas, Acvins, together with the thrice eleven Gods (dcvebhtr), to
drink our nectar.
Again, in i. 45. 2:
Agni, the wise Gods (deva%) lend an ear .... bring hither those three and thirty.
*. 139. 11. Ye Gods who are eleven in tfce sky (ye devdso dwi ekadaga}, who are
eleven on earth (pr.itkwydm), and who in your glory are eleven dwellers in the waters
(apsukshtio). [Ap is 'water': but sukh means 'to make happy, comfort, delight.']
iii. 6. 9. Agni, bring hither, according to thy wont, and gladden the three and
thirty Gods with their wives (triwqatam tr$m$ cha devdn anushvadham).
viii. 28. 1. May the three over thirty Gods (devdso) who have visited our
sacrificial grass, recogni^ us and give us double.
vt& 30. 2. Ye who are the three and thirty Gods (deva worshipped by Mana
(or man), when thus praised, may ye become the destroyers of our foes.
viii. 35. 3. Acvins, associated with the thrice eleven gods (deuais), with the
waters, the Mamts, the Bhrigus, etc.
e. 92. 4. O pure Soma, all these Gods, thrice eleven in number, are in thy
secret, etc. (Vi&e devds trayabekddaga.}
It is only in the later writings that these thirty-three Devas are pretended
to be identified or classified, and Dyaus and Prfrhivi, and Indra and Praji-
pati included among them.
422 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
But in Rig-Veda Hi. 9. 9, the Devas are spoken of as being much more
numerous:
Three hundred, three thousand thirty and nine Gods (devdfr) have worshipped Agni.
In Rig-Veda i. 27. 13, the "deoab" are spoken of as divided into great
and small, young and old. They are, in many passages, spoken of as
immortal; and yet there are many passages in which they are described as
being the offspring of Dyaus and Prithivi. They are not, Dr. Muir says,
regarded in general as unbeginning or self-existent beings. He says as
follows:
The two (Heaven and Earth) [Dyaus and PtftJiivil, together are styled 'parents/
pitard, or matard, or janitrt (dydvd-ptithivt-jamtrt, Rig-Veda x. 110. 9). In other
passages, the Heaven is separately styled 'father/ and the Earth 'mother.' In the
Atharva-Veda xii. 1. 12, the Poet says: 'The Earth is my mother, and I am the
son of the Earth' (Mdtd bhdmify putro aham ptfthivydb): Parjanya is 'the father/
And in &. 42 of the same hymn, 'Reverence be paid to the Earth, the wife of Parjanya,
to her who draws her richness from showers' :
bhumyai Parjanya patnyai.
Heaven and Earth are regarded as the parents not only of men, but of the Gods
also, as appears from the various texts where they are designated by the epithet
devapuire, 'having Gods for their children.
1
In like manner it is said, in mi. 97. 8,
that the divine worlds (i. e., Heaven and Earth) the parents of the God (d&fi devadya
rodasi janitrfy have augmented Brihaspati by their power: and in oc. 2. 7, they are
described as having, in conjunction with the waters and with Tvashfri, begotten
Agni.
I have omitted most of the references given by Dr. Muir. Two of
them are, Rig-Veda x. 35. 3, mdtard yahvt fitosya, "the great parents of
sacrifice"; and rf. 51. 5, Dyausk pitafy PrifbM Mdtar, etc.,
Father Heaven, unharming Mother Earth, Brother Agni, Vasus, be gracious to us.
On the other hand, Heaven and Earth are spoken of in other places as created.
Thus it is said (i. 160. 4, m 56. 3), that he who produced Heaven and Earth (dydvd-
pzithiiti jajana}, etc. Again, Indra is described as their Creator (janitd divo janitd
prfthwydb}; as having beautifully fashioned them by his power and skill, etc., [citing
many passages, in regard to various Deities creating, or sustaining and upholding
Heaven and Earth (Pi&IMh].
In other passages we encounter various speculations about their origin. In
L 185. 1, the perplexed Poet enquires, 'which of these two was the first, and which
the last? How have they been produced? Sages, who knows?' In mi. 34. 2, the
'waters are said to know the birthplace of Heaven and Earth (viduft prjtJiwy&b divo
jantiraflfi. In x. 31. 7, the gLishi asks, 'what was the forest, what was the tree,
from which they fashioned the Heaven and the Earth* (dydDd-pztihiity; and in the
same hymn, verses 2 and 3, the all-seeing Visvakarman is said to have produced
the earth (bhdmijn), and spread out the sky (dyam); .... producing the heaven
and earth (dydvd-bkdmijanayani).
THE VEDIC GODS 423
There are, it will have been seen, two words that are supposed to mean
"the earth/
7
bhumi and prithivi. Bhtimi, from bhu, "to become, to spring
up, to be, to serve to, to cause/' means, as bhdman also does, "the earth,
land, estate, domain, place": and it is this which is fertilized by showers,
and is the wife of Parjanya, and the great mother. BJmti is "production,
birth," as bhavyd means "fruit and existence": and I imagine that the earth
was called bhiimi, as the productive, the producer.
I have expressed the opinion that Pfithivi, did not originally and in the
old hymns, mean the earth, but the expanse between earth and sky. Dr.
Muir says (0.33),
The word Pi&hivt, on the other hand, which in most parts of the Rig-Veda is used
for earth, has no connection with any Greek word of the same meaning [as Dyaus,
'sky,
1
has with Zeus and Diespiter and Oeos]. It seems, however, originally to have
been merely an epithet, meaning 'broad,' and may have supplanted the older word
Gau, etc.
In Rig-Veda ii. 15. 2, we read, sa dhdrayat prithivtm paprathatcha; "He
upheld the earth and spread it out" : and the earth is imagined to have been
called pfithiiti from its being extended, apraihata.
Benfey says:
PtftMvt, i. e., pr.tiTwt, fern, of fcrjtihu; the earth personified; earth as an element.
Frith or prath means "to throw, cast, extend, to be extended, to spread, to
be unfolded." Prithu, i. e., prathu, means "large, great." And he also,
incorrectly, says that the word parjanya (probably sphurg, for old spharg,
whence Latin, spargere), means a rain-threatening cloud; and Parjanya
was the Deity of rain. Spurj meant "thunder," and "the roar of the wind."
The Poet says, in the Atharva-Veda, as is above quoted, mdtd bhumib,
"the earth is mother": putro aham prithiuyab; "but I am the son of Prjthivi;
Parjanya is father: may he nourish us." Here the two words, bMmi and
pfithivi may have been used as synonymous; or the Poet may have meant
to say, "although the earth is mother, I was born of the expanse."
It is evident enough that the Vedic Poets had no settled belief in regard
to the origin of things, or settled idea that things had an origin. As their
principal Gods were powers and potencies of Nature, of the existence whereof
apart from the material world they could not conceive, they as little could
conceive of their creating or causing the material world, of which they were
phenomena, for that involves pre-existence. It is expressly said, therefore,
that the material world existed before Agni and the other Gods.
In Rig-Veda i. 113. 19, Ushas is characterized as the mother of the Gods
(Devdndm mdtd) ; in ii. 26. 3, Brahmanaspati (Prayer) is called their father
424 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
(deudndm pitaram); in ix. 87. 2, Soma is said to be the father and skilful
generator of the Gods (pitd devdndm janitd Indaksha). In ix. 96. 5, Soma
is described as the generator of heaven, earth, Agni, Stirya, Indra and Vishnu
(janitd divo,janitdt pritkivydb janitd Agner janitd Suryasya janitd Indrasya
janitotah Vishiiofy. In x. 72. 5, the Gods are declared to have been born after
Aditi; in x. 97. i, certain plants appear to be described as produced three ages
(yugas) before the Gods (devebhyas) ; while in x. 129. 6, the Gods are said to
have been born subsequently to the creation of the universe, so that in
consequence no one can declare its origin. Varuna and other Gods are sons
of Aditi, and the birth of Indra is mentioned in several texts, and his father
and mother alluded to. In x. 101. 12, we find him called the son of
Nishtigri (Nishtigrydfy putram Indram). In vi. 59. I, it is said,
Your fathers, who had the Gods for foes, have been slain, O Indra and Agni; but
you survive: Hat&so vdm pitaro deva$atravab Indr&gni tfoatho yuv&m.
In the next verse, both Gods are said to have had one generator, and to be
twin brothers. The Atharva-Veda speaks of some of the Gods (devdh) as
being fathers, and some sons.
In iv. 54. 2, Savitri is said to bestow immortality (amritatvam) on the
Gods (devebhyd) : and vi. 7. 4, Agni is said by his power or skill, to confer
immortality on the Gods (devah) who worship him when he is born like an
infant, and shines forth from out of his parents (the sticks, by friction
whereof, as it were by generation, the sacrificial fire was procured).
Dr. Muir says,
Two of the passages above quoted imply that the existing Gods were succes-
sors of others who had previously existed ....
In mi* 21.7, mention is made of earlier Gods:
Even the former Gods (devah) admitted their powers to be inferior to thy divine
prowess [or sovereignty Kshattr&ya].
Earlier Gods are also mentioned in x. 109. 4, though in conjunction with,
unless we are to understand them as identified with, the Seven Rishis:
In regard to her the former Gods said, the Seven IJishis who sat down to practise
austerity: (devdfr etyasdm avadanta pdrre saptar
f ishayas tapaseye msfoduft).
An earlier age of the Gods is mentioned in x. 72. 2f:
In the former age of the Gods (devdndm p&roye yiige), the existent sprang from the
non-existent. In the first age of the Gods (detdndm yuge prathoma) the existent
sprang from the non-existent (asatab sad ajdyata).
THE VEDIC GODS 425
And in Rig-Veda i. 164. 50, we have the following verse, which is repeated
.
90. 16:
with sacrifice the Gods worshipped the sacrifice (yajnena yajnam ayajanta deras)i
these were the earliest rites. These great powers sought after the sky, where are
the early Sidhyas, Gods (yatra p&rue sddhydfy
The Devas are, in their origin, simply the stars and other celestial lumi-
naries. When the word is used collectively, it generally means, I think, the
stars alone. The ancient Vedic belief was that the most eminent Rishis
were transferred, at their deaths, to the sky, as stars. Mahidhara, quoted
by Dr. Muir (18) had a vague traditional recollection of this, when he said
that
there are two kinds of Gods, karmadevdb, work-Gods, and djdnadevdfr, Gods by birth;
the first being those who had attained to the condition of Deities by their eminent
works, and the second those who were produced at the beginning of the creation.
The second class [he says] is superior to the first.
The Seven Rishis (saptarishayas) were the stars of Ursa Major.
Of the thirty-three Devas, Dr. Muir says,
It is also dear that the number of thirty-three Gods could not have embraced the
whole of the Vedic Deities, as in some of the preceding texts Agni, the Agvins and
the Maruts are separately specified, as if distinct from the thirty-three.
And as the stars were the Devas, we can understand why they are said to
be 3,339 in number.
The number, 33, like this number, seems to have been specified on
account of some mysterious significance ascribed to the number 3 and its
combinations; and I do not at all doubt that by the 33 Devas, 33 particular
stars were meant, that were in some manner related to each other or that
together announced the advent of some season, or were especially noticeable,
and found in one particular quarter of the heavens, or iri groups of eleven.
C. O. Miiller, in an article on Orion, from the Rheinisches Museum fur
Philologie, zweiter jahrgang, Bonn, 1634, to be found, translated, in the
appendix to his Introduction to a Scientific System of Mythology, translated
by John Leitch, says:
Almost all the constellations which have furnished materials of any amount to the
mythic poetry of Greece, are to be found in that division of the heavens, which
lies to the south of the sun's path; not in the much larger space extending from the
Ecliptic to the Pole. There Sirius, Orion, the Hyades and the Pleiades have their
position nearly in a line. Of these, the Pleiades only are a few degrees distant from
the Ecliptic to the north .... The circumstance that the constellations of most
mythological importance lie south of the Ecliptic, is perhaps sufficiently explained
426 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
by this, that they are not seen in the sky throughout the whole year, but are at
times invisible, whereby their appearance became doubly remarkable, and gave
occasion, to all manner of combinations . . . . But the more northern constel-
lations, which are every night for a longer or shorter time, or even constantly, to
be seen in the sky, like everything which we see daily, appear less striking, and
could not be so easily placed in relation to natural events, and thereby set in
motion and brought into action.
He then remarks upon the very remarkable figure of Orion, with three
stars of the second magnitude side by side in the belt, and six other bright
stars, chiefly serving to mark the direction of the arms and legs, uniting
with the others to complete the form of a man of gigantic size, with which
the imagination also sought to connect Sirius, which is not far distant, and
outshines all the other suns in the firmament of night; and when we consider
all this, we must not wonder that such a constellation should, above all
others, have given rise to legends and popular stories*
As the mighty constellation, Orion, proceeds along the sky,
in the same path the two clusters of stars, the Hyades and Pleiades, move along in
advance of Orion. The Pleiades or Seven Stars, a closely crowded group of small
stars, are stationed over the right shoulder of Orion, a few degrees northward
from the Ecliptic. In later times they were assigned to the neck of the Bull, as the
Hyades represented the head of that Zodiacal animal. Homeric antiquity knew
nothing of this distribution. The Hyades, somewhat south of the Ecliptic, are still
nearer Orion. Aldebaran, the most brilliant star of the triangle which they form,
stands on a line drawn from Bellatrix, the star in the shoulder of Orion, towards the
Pleiades, and nearly at an equal distance from them.
No stars in the sky could so much and so constantly have attracted the
attention of the Aryan herdsmen, as the stars thus spoken of. Those of the
Great Bear, always pointing out the pole-star to the wayfarer, would of
course be noticeable, and among the first of the constellations to be adored.
It sanctified the number seven, as compounded of 3 and 4; and it was called
in the Vedic age, by the Indo-Aryans, "the Seven Rishis," Saptafishayah;
and by the Irano-Aryans Hapto-iringa.
I have slept in the open air a thousand nights, in Arkansas and the
Indian country between the Arkansas and Red River, in about the latitude
of the Punjab, and I never failed to greet with pleasure the appearance
of the Three Kings of Orion. The stars of Ursa Major I seldom noticed
never, indeed, unless I desired to know where the North Star was. When
I waked in the night, if the stars shone, I looked for the stars of Orion and
for Jupiter, to tell me how the hours were passing.
,
;
There is no doubt, moreover, that at a very remote period, these stars,
with the Pleiades and Hyades, became especially noticeable on account of
their connection with the advent of spring and rainy weather. In the
THE VEDIC GODS 427
Zend-Avesta, Tistrya and Catava<?a bring rains; and there is no doubt
that they are the Hyades and Pleiades.
We have seen that Rig-Veda i. 139. II says to the thirty-three Devas,
as Dr. Muir translates it,
who in your glory are eleven dwellers in the waters (apsukshito mahind ekdda$a
stha).
Ap is "water," Kshi means "dwelling," but also the same verb, or another
identical in letters, means "to possess," and "to rule." Kshit, as the latter
part of a compound, means "ruling." Sti is a Vedic adverb, meaning
"very, much, easily, exceedingly," etc. It would hardly be said that stars
"dwelt" or "abode" greatly or exceedingly, anywhere; but these adverbs
could very well be added to "possessing," or "ruling."
The original meaning of mah (magti) was "to be great, powerful." Maka
means "great," in the Rig-Veda; and mahas, "light, lustre," which is a
meaning of maha also, in the later books. Mahal,
l
'great, large, pre-eminent,
excellent"; mahi, "great." The termination na forms possessive adjectives,
and mahina means "gifted with, endowed with, or possessing, greatness,
supremacy, excellence." So that I think thei meaning of the words quoted
above to be,
Eleven of whom, pre-eminent, are the chief (or great) controllers (or possessors
and disposers) of rain.
If this is so, we at once know that these eleven stars are the Pleiades and
Hyades. The former constellation consists of only six noticeable stars,
and never could have been deemed to consist of seven, until sayings that
really referred to the Great Bear were supposed to relate to the Pleiades.
Proclus states the number of stars of the latter to be six. O'Brien (Mathem.
Geography, 37) says:
The Pleiades are very small and close together; but they glisten with a remarkable
degree of brightness. Only six of them can be seen by most persons, but a good eye
detects a seventh; and sometimes one or two more; and hence the story of the
Lost Pleiad.
And in Cicero's translation of Aratus, we find it said of the "VergiKa" as
these were called by the Romans:
H(BC septem vtdgo perhibentur more vefasto,
Stella cernuntur vero sex undique parva.
In the time of Hesiod (800 B.C.), these were seen rising near the sun in
June, and indicated the season to begin harvesting. That Poet calls them
"the Seven Stars." But in the very ancient times, size and brightness
428 IXDO-ARYAN DEITIES AXD WORSHIP
alone made stars noticeable; and then the six Pleiades and five Hyades were
rulers of the rain.
The six great stars in Orion, with others near them, probably made
another division of eleven; and the seven of the Great Bear and four others
near them, the third division.
At all events, the Devas of the Veda were stars. The Daevas of the
Zend-Avesta were not the same, but personifications of vices, wrongs and
evils, the name being derived from, it is probable, a wholly different root*
EARTH, SKY AND HEAVEN.
Rig-Veda i. 6, 9 and 10 are as follows:
Atdfy pari-jman d gahi divafy vd rochandt adhi sam asmin rjinjate girafc [which
Professor Miiller translates] From yonder, O traveller (Indra) come hither, or down
from the light of heaven; the singers all yearn for it.
Itab vd satim tmahe divafr vd pdrthivdt adhi, Indram mahafr I'd rajasafr: or we ask
.
Indra for help from here, or from heaven, above the earth, or from the great sky.
I take the following texts and remarks from his note on these verses
(Rig-Veda i. 34 et seq.*): in v. 9, dival} vd rokandt (rochanaf) is translated
"the light of heaven." Va means "or." Professor Miiller says:
Although the names for earth, sky and heaven vary in different parts of the
Veda, yet the expression divafc rochanam occurs so frequently that we can hardly
take it in this place in a sense different from its ordinary meaning. Professor Benfey
thinks that rochana may here mean *ether/ and he translates, 'come from heaven
above the ether
1
; and in the next verse, "come from heaven above the earth.'
At first, every reader would feel inclined to take the two phrases, divafa vd rokandt
adhi, and divafr vd parthivdt adhi, as parallel: yet I believe they are not quite so.
It is a very intractable fact that the expression is divafa or rochandt; when
propriety requires it to be of-divafy rocliandt. To show what it should be,
several passages are quoted where it is so.
viii. 98. 3. Agachchah rochanam divafc Thou didst go to the light of heaven.
*. 155. 3. Adhi rochane divafa: in the light of heaven.
Hi. 6. 8. Urau vd ye aniarikshe .... divafr vd ye rochane: in the wide sky, or
in the light of heaven.
viii. 82. 4. Upame rochane divafc in the highest light of heaven. [And in]
viii. 1. 18. [is the phrase] diva^ brjhatafr rokandt adhi: from the light of tie great
heaven.
The word also occurs in the plural j as i. 146- 1, vi$ud divab rochand; where
Miiller translates it by "bright regions." It is joined with Sdrya and naka,
in Sdryasya rochanat, "the light of the sun," or "the bright realm of the sun" ;
and ndkasya rochane divi, "the light of the firmament, in heaven"; where,
Miiller says, divi, "in heaven," seems to be the same as "the light of the
firmament."
Rochana occurs also by itself, and then means 'Tieaven." Three
rochanas also are spoken of.
The cosmography of the Veda [Miiller says] is somewhat vague and varying.
There is, of course, the natural division of the world into heaven and earth (Dyu
430 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
and BMm"), and the three-fold division into earth, sky and heaven, where 'sky'
is meant for the region intermediate between heaven and earth. (Ptifhivt, Antariksha,
dyu) t to which the sea and rivers are added.
But very soon these three or more regions are each spoken of as three-fold;
thus, tisrah bhtimib, trini rocliand; 'the three earths, the three skies/ in *. 102. 8,
trt rochand divyd dhdrayanta; 'support the three heavenly skies'; ii. 27. 9, tri rochand
Varwja irin utady&n trini Mitra dhdrayathafr rajdmsi; 'Mitra and Varuna, you sup-
port the three lights and the three heavens and the three skies' (rajdmst).
Here, Miiller thinks, there seems some confusion; and asks what rochana
can mean, as distinct from dyu and rajas? Benfey says that the original
meaning of rajas was probably
l
'dimness/' and gives it the meaning of
"sky." It is, he says, ranj+as. And ranj means "to dye, colour, glow*';
part, rakta,
1
'coloured, red, reddened"; rakta, noun, "red, blood, vermilion";
caus. rayjaya, "to colour, to illuminate."
But there is a still more complicated division alluded to, in iv. 53. 5>
trill, antariksham, tri rajdmsi, tnni rochand, tisrafy divafr ptitliivfy tisrafr.
On the whole, he thinks that divali vd rochandt adhi must be read, "light
of heaven"; and dival} v& pathiva adhi, "heaven or earth."
The verb ruck means "to shine, to please"; and, noun, "light, splendour,
beauty, lightning, desire" ; ruchi, "light, a ray of light" ; rukma, i. e., ruch+ma,
"clear, bright," and (Vedic) "gold." Rochana, i. e,, ruch+ana, adj. "irradi-
ating, splendid"; noun (Rig-Veda) "the aether"; rochis, "light, flame."
I do not see why rochana should not sometimes be an adjective, "radiant,"
and sometimes a noun singular or plural, "radiance" or "splendours."
"The heavenly splendours" an>d "the splendours of the sky" are common
phrases now. Dyu is simply the sky; the blue and seemingly solid sky, in
which the stars seem and were supposed to be. I do not believe that there is
the least real evidence in the Veda of any conception of a "heaven" beyond
the "sky." It seems to me absurd to represent the Vedic Poets as babbling
about the visible radiance and splendours of a space unknown and invisible,
beyond the blue sky.
Rajas evidently meant the ruddy and golden glories of the sky. The
three skies may mean the sky of morning, that of noon, and that of evening,
each with its different and peculiar radiance and glowing splendours: and
the three earths must mean the earth, wearing its three different aspects at
early morning, noon and evening-tide. Or, perhaps, the sky of the three
seasons, the spring-season of greenness, the autumn of foliage brilliant with
the painting of the frost, and the winter white with snow; and the earth at
these three seasons, are meant. It is impossible that, not even knowing
what the eartfi was, or that it had either shape or limits, the Vedic Poets
should have talked about two other earths and two other skies.
EARTH, SKY AND HEAVEN 431
In regard to Pfithivi, which presents the only real difficulty, Muller says:
Parthiva'ni also occurs by itself, when it means the earth, as opposed to the sky
and heaven.
Thus, x. 32. 2, Indra is said to go between the divydni rochand and the pdrthi-
vdni rajasd, the resplendent radiance of the sky, and the crimson glowings
of what? Surely not the earth. The most brilliant of these flush the
clouds with their magnificent and gorgeous glories, and these are between the
earth and sky, in the wide expanse.
So, in viii. 94. 9, it is said that the Maruts spread out or expanded vigvd
pdrthivdna rochand divaJi; "all the splendours of the expanse and sky."
In vi. 61. II, Sarasvati filled pdrthivdni urn rajah antariksham; "the earthly
places, the wide welkin, the sky." So Muller translates it, but says it is a
doubtful passage.
Antariksha,i. e., antar+iksh+a. Antarisan adverb, "within"; a prep,
"within"; and a part of compounds, where it means "interior, internal, what
is between" ; whence antara,& noun, "interior, internal, a hole, distance, etc."
From it are the Latin inter, "between, among," and antrum, Greek, avrpov,
"a cave." Iksh means "look, perceive, behold." As I have already said,
it is that wherein birds fly, i. e., either the expanse or the air. \Ve use the
word "air" when we mean the space which it fills; and it is quite likely that
while Prifhiw meant the whole expanse, antariksha meant that part of it
immediately above the place or the earth, the cloud-region.
Lastly [Muller says], Pdrtkivdni, by itself seems to signify earth, sky and heaven,
if these are the three regions which Vishnu measured with his three steps; or East,
the Zenith and West, if these were intended as the three steps of that Deity.
For it is said in i. 155. 4, that he strode across pdrthivdni, which Muller
translates "regions of the earth."
In note at p. 42, Muller says,
The sky or welkin (rajas), is the proper abode of the Maruts
The passage referred to, i. 19. 3, is
Ye Mahab rajasafy viduh visve-devasafy adruhak, marutbMb agne a gahi [and he trans-
lates it], They who know of the great sky, the Vigve devas without guile; with those
Maruts come hither, Agni.
In the next verse he renders the latter phrase, "with the Maruts. I do not
see why it should be "those" in the former. The Vigve devas are not the
Maruts, but the whole host of the stars. Adruhafy is "uninjuring." The
original meaning of vid was to "see," as the Latin video proves. To "know"
432 IXDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
is a derivative meaning. The verse seems to me to mean that the Maruts
(winds) see the great splendour and the whole host of the uninjuring stars.
Benfey so connects vigoe devdsafy with the words preceding.
Professor Miiller continues,
The Vedic Poets distinguish commonly between the three worlds, the earth,
(fern.) or pdrthiva (neut.); the sky, rajas; and the heaven, dyu.
In another note (p. 43) he says that
ndka must be translated by 'firmament,' as there is no other word in English besides
heaven, and this is wanted to render dyv. Like the Jewish firmament, the Indian
ndka, too, is adorned with stars; i. 68. 10, pipega ndkam stribhifr. Dyu, heaven, is
supposed to be above the rajas, sky or welkin.
The verse commented on is,
Ye ndkasya adhi rocJiane divi devdsah dsate. [Wilson translates it] Who are Divini-
ties abiding in the radiant heaven above the sun; [and Langlois] Under the resplen-
dent celestial vault, these Gods rise and go to seat themselves. [As means 'to sit,
abide, and stay.']
To naka, Benfey gives but the single meaning "heaven." Nakasya is the
genitive singular. Rochane and divi are in the locative singular. Adhi is
"on high, above." Miiller translates the verse,
They who in heaven are enthroned as Gods, in the light of the firmament.
May it not be, "Who, Deities of the sky (devasah nakasya) sit above, in the
splendour of the firmament"; naka and dyu being synonyms?
In conclusion, I venture to suggest a doubt whether the Greek Zeus is
really identical with the Sanskrit div, dyu or dyo* And as the reader
must be at a loss to understand the formal changes of these wor^s, I subjoin
their declension:
I. Div or Dyu (fern.), "sky/*
Singular Dual Plural
Nom. dyatify N. A. V. dtiau N.
Abl. dfaam I. D. Ab. dydbhydm A.
Instr. divd G. L. Mvofy I. dydbhify
Dat. divf D. Ab. dyribhyafy
Ab. G. diudfy G. divdm
Loc. divi L. dytishu
Voc. dyaufy
EARTH, SKY AND HEAVEN 433
Dyo (fern.), "heaven."
Singular Dual Plural
N. dyatify N. dydvau dydvab
A. dyam dydvau dydfy
I. dyam dydbhify
D. dyave
Ab. dydfy dydbhydm dyobhyaJi
G. dydfy dydvoli dydvdm
L. dydvi dyoshu
V. dyaub
Forms of dyu which occur In the Rig-Veda: Sing. Nom. dyatis;
Ace. divam, dyam; Instr. divd; Dat. dive; Gen. divdh, dyofy; Loc. divi, dydvi;
Voc. dyaus; PL Nom. dydvafy; Ace. #y$w; Instr. dydbhik; Dual. Nom. dydvd.
Zeus, in the Greek, has for its Genitive, Di8s; Dative, Dii;Acc. Dia; Voc.
ZeU. There is no doubt that Dios, and the other cases beginning with d,
as well as dios, "divine," are identical with Dyu and Dyaus.
But I find no proof that Zeus is. I believe, on the contrary, it is from
Zoo>, fi/cro/tot, "I live"; or from Zeco, "I burn." For in the Doric, ftp, for
av, contracted, for faai>, is the present infinitive of fcwo; and ZIJP, Zyvos
are forms of the name Zeus, as also Zap and Zavos are.
The Hymns 159, 160 and 185 of Mandala i. are addressed to Dyau and
Pfithivi, these names being, of course, rendered in the translations "heaven
and earth." I extract the following passages, from Professor Wilson's
Translation, omitting the Brahmanic conjectural additions in parentheses,
as bearing on the question whether PfitMvi originally meant the earth or
the expanse.
159. 1. I glorify with sacred rites the mighty Dyau and Pnthivi, the augmen-
ters of sacrifice, who with devotion at holy ceremonies; those two who, having the
Devas for children are reverenced by the Devas, and therefore with favour bestow
desirable blessings.
2. Verily I propitiate, by my invocations the mind of the benevolent Father,
and the great and spontaneous, and the mother. The parents, with kindness, have
secured, by their excellent protections, the vast and manifold immortality of their
progeny, the luminaries.
3. These, your children, the performers of good works [beneficent, working
good] and of goodly appearance [shining brilliantlyl, recognize you as their great
parents, through experience of former. Preserve uninterrupted stability in the
functions of your progeny, whether fixed or moving [stars or planets], that have
no other parents.
4. Those inspecting and intelligent sisters [stars and planets], conceived of the
same womb, united, and dwelling in the same abode, measure it [i. e., move across
434 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
it regularly]; knowing and brilliantly radiant, they move without intermission,
through the radiant expanse.
5 Benignant Dyau and Prithivi, bestow upon us riches ....
160. i. Those two, the divine Dyau and Pnthivi, are the diffusers of happiness
on all, encouragers of the truth [making things visible and real by their light], able
to hold up the water [in the douds that float there], auspicious of production [causers
or favourers of it], and energetic [having direct influence on production, by their
energy or inherent force]; in the interval between whom the pure and divine sun
revolves for duties.
2. Wide-spreading, vast, unconnected [probably 'unlimited'], the generator and
producer, they two preserve the worlds. Resolute as if of embodied, are Dyau and
Prithivi, and the Father [Dyau] has invested everything with forms.
Dr. Muir has "unwearied" for "unconnected"; and "creatures" for
"worlds/* The original of the former is asagchatd. Qas or sas is "to sleep."
AsaQdiata is "sleepless." The original of the latter is bhuvandni, of which
"worlds" is no translation. It means "the creatures," i. e., those created
or produced, i. e., the children of Dyau-Prithivi the stars and planets.
The residue of the verse, Dr. Muir does not give; and I do not know the
original of "resolute." In verse 3, Wilson applies it to the son of these
parents. At all events, the "embodied," invested with "forms," are the
luminaries, which are limited and defined portions of light.
3. The pure and resolute son of the parents, the Bearer, sanctifies the worlds
by his intelligence [in the original we have sa Vahni putrah pifroh].
I think that phrase means "the sacrificial fire, one son of these parents."
How the fire of the sacrifice "sanctifies" the stars and planets, by its
"intelligence," I do not know. It strengthens and exhilarates them, by
what it conveys to them. It is the "bearer," because it conveys the offering
to the sky. It will be seen, by the next verse, that this "pure and resolute"
son gave birth to his parents; and the words rendered by "pure" and
"resolute" no doubt had some meaning in the original, as applied to Agni;
as well as the milch-cow and the vigourous bull. Wilson makes these be
earth and heaven,
and daily milks the pellucid milk [of the sky, according to Wilson; who thinks that
this son is the Sun and Vahni an epithet].
4. He was the greatest worker of the working Devas, who produced the two
all-originating regions [rodasi\9 wiio desiring to create an excellent work, stretched
out these regions and upheld them by undecaying supports.
185, 1. Which of these two was prior, which posterior? How were they pro-
duced? Sages, who knows this? Verily, you uphold the universe of itself [the self-
existent luminaries?], and the circling succession of days.
2. Stable and immovable, they sustain numerous moving and unstable bodies,
even as a son is in the lap of his parents ....
EARTH, SKY AND HEAVEN 435
4. May we always be to that heaven and Prithivi, who are not subject to
annoyance, who satisfy with food, who have the Devas for sons, and who are both
endowed with the double of the divine days ....
5. Co-extensive, coeval and to end together, sisters, and kindred, and con-
taining within them the source, generator-producer, of creatures ....
6. I invoke to the sacrifice, for the preservation of the Devas, the two vast,
all-supporting and mighty parents [which, more probably, should read, 'to the
sacrifice, for our preservation, the two vast, etc., parents of the Devas.' Wilson,
following Sayana, inserts after 'parents,
1
'of the rain and corn,
1
because Prithivi
was supposed to be the earth, and the ground is not parent of the stars] : who [the
Devas], beautiful in form sustain ambrosial (showers).
What "ambrosial showers" are, I do not pretend to guess. In the
remaining verses are the expressions:
I repeat to Dyu and Prithivi this initial praise, to be heard around. May paternal
and maternal preserve us .... May this, O heaven and Prithivi [sky and
expanse], be successful which, O father and mother, I do, on this occasion, repeat
to both of you.
In v. 84, P^ithivi is so plainly not the earth that even Sayana had to
admit that it might have a two-jold meaning, and apply to antariksha, or the
firmament. It should perhaps read as follows:
1. Verily, Prithivi, thou dost replenish the exhausted mountains: Mighty and
Most Excellent, thou art she who blessest the earth with abundant largess [mahna
jinoshi bhumim: and as Wiwni is, beyond possibility of question, the earth, it is
equally sure that Prithivi that blesses it with gifts or abundance, is not itself].
2. Wanderer in various ways, thy worshippers hymn thee [Sic, Wilson; but
Prithivi is 'footless/ and does not 'wander,' whether she is earth or expanse. It is
most probable that we should read], Thy worshippers, journeying various ways,
praise thee with songs; thee who bright-hued, tossest the swollen (cloud) like a
neighing horse.
3. Thou who by thy sustenance maintainest the monarchs of the forest on the
solid earth, when the showers of thy clouds fall from the shining sky.
In vi. 70, we find the following:
1. Radiant Dyau-Prithivi, the abiding-place [home], of the celestial bodies,
you are spacious, manifold, water-giving, lovely, ....
2. Uncollapsing, many-showering, water-retaining, yielding moisture, beneficent
.... rulers over created beings ....
3. Firmly-established Dyau and Prithivi, the mortal who has offered for your
straight-forward course [has by offerings besought the continuance of your regular
functions], accomplishes, and prospers with progeny; and invigorated by your action
[by your impregnating influence, many beings, of various forms but similar functions
are engendered].
436 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
4. You, Dyaus and Prithivi have water everywhere; you are the home of water;
are imbued with water, are the augmenters of water ....
5. May Dyau-Prithivi, the outpourers of water, milkers of water, dischargers
of the functions of water, divinities, promoters of sacrifice, bestowers of wealth, of
renown, food, male children, combine together.
6. May Father Dyaus, may Mother Prithivi, who are all-knowing and benef-
icent, grant us sustenance. May Dyau-Prithivi, mutually co-operating and pro-
moting the happiness of all, bestow upon us posterity, food and riches.
It surely needs no more to prove that Prithivi was not the earth, but the
expanse, the JPpn
of the Book Barasith, which was
in the midst of the waters, to divide waters from waters, the waters under the
expanse from the waters above it.
and which Alohim called D'Btr, Shamayim, the heavens. In the
Septuagint it is called crepccojua, and in our common translation," firmament,"
meaning as the Greek word does, "a solid prop, stay" or "support." The
Hebrew word does not mean that, but "expanse," from J?pn,
"to
beat out, expand," whence D*j?p-i, "plates," as "beaten out."
Antariksha seems to have been the lower region of this expanse, occupied
by the atmosphere.
Connected with this, also, are "the three steps" of Vishnu, of which I
shall say a word further on a subsequent page.
AGNI.
A few of the texts in regard to Agni, cited by Dr. Muir in Section xiii.,
and which were not at first within my reach, and some of those that were,
but the originals of which I could not examine, may be referred to with
profit.
That accomplished commentator says that Agni is the God of fire, the
Ignis of the Latins, the Ogni of the Sclavonians. But, he says
Agni is not, like the Greek Hephaistos (Tvashfri) or the Latin Vulcan the artificer
of the Gods, .... but derives his principal importance from his connection with
the ceremonial of sacrifice.
It is quite true that he is very often spoken of in connection with that,
and as the sacrificial fire : but this is a special character, each one lighted being
called Agni, as if each was all of that which bears the name. But, as I have
already suggested, Agni is One, the Universal Fire, and each particular fire
is that One, manifested and revealed, with a special individuality. In this,
he is the Sage, a most eminent Rishi, the accomplisher of the sacrifice, the
wise director, who worships the Devas, because by him men do sacrifice; a
swift messenger, moving between sky and earth, commissioned both by the
Devas and men to maintain their mutual communications, to announce the
hymns to the Devas and convey to them the Soma and other oblations*
He is the herald of men to summon the Devas to descend to the sacrifice, and
comes with them, seated on the same car. He is the mouth and tongues
through which the Devas and men participate in the sacrifice, and is himself
asked to eat the offerings and drink the Soma juice.
In#. 51, there is a dialogue between Agni and the Devas, in which they
desire him to come forth from his dark place of concealment in the waters
and the plants, and endeavour to persuade him to appear and convey to
them the customary oblations. In verse 6, he expresses his reluctance to do
so, and gives the reason:
Agni's former brothers have sought this goal [have endeavoured to reach this place?],
as a charioteer passes along a road. But fearing this journey, O Varuna, I went to
a distant place and trembled, etc.
Of course an absurd legend was invented, ages afterwards, to "explain'* this
passage.
The sacrificial fire is here intended by Agni; and he is finally induced, by
the promise of long life and a share in the sacrifice, to accede to the request;
and the particular fire is kindled. The Agnelt p&rve bhrdtcro are, clearly
438 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
enough, or were, former fires, that had been kindled there, and been short-
lived.
So also each domestic fire is Agni, the lord of the house, grihapati, dwell-
ing in every abode, a brilliant guest in every house, dwelling in every wood
like a bird, and living in the midst of every family. He is father, mother,
brother, son, kinsman and friend, and destroys the RSkshases.
He is said to have been brought from the sky or from afar, by Mtitarigvan,
who is, Bohtlingk and Roth say, a divine being who, as the messenger of
Vivasvat, brings down from heaven to the Bhrigus, Agni, who had been
before concealed; and also a secret name of Agni. And it is remarked that
the word cannot be certainly shown by any text to be in the Vedic hymns a
synonym of Yayu. Roth thinks that Mdtari$van was not a man, but a
demigod, half-divine.
Benfey has MAiarigean, i. e., matri+i+gvan, (vb. gui}, "air, wind." And
this is what Roth controverts. It is the explanation given by Yaska. Also
Benfey has, t&ara, i. e., fy+van+a (with r for n masc., fern., ft), "ruler,
owner, lord, husband, king." Ig means "to possess, to be master, to be
able" ; and van, "to serve, to honour." Vaigv&nara, also, is a name or epithet
of Agni. Mdta, matri, is "mother"; and va is "like, as." Qm is "to swell,
increase"; &as, "to breathe," gvasna, gvasa, "air, wind, breath." In i. 164.
96, Mdtarigsan is said to be a name of Agni; as it is also said to be in i. 96. 3
and 4; Hi. 29. II ; and x. 114. I. I cannot find in the etymology of the name
anything to support Roth's speculations. We neither know what the name
means, nor who he was that is called by it; but as he brought the fire from
the sky or from afar, and it is also called by his name, we are warranted in
supposing that he was some legendary person, the original perhaps of the
Greek Prometheus, after whom the fire is called because he once kindled it
or is reported to have sacrificed by it; as Agni is called Badhryasva and
Daivoddsa, after a priest or sacrificer and a king.
Agni is said to have been generated by Indra between two clouds,
because there is a new birth of fire whenever the lightning flashes. So he is
the son of Dyaus and Pjithivi, and generated by the dawns, and by Indra
and Vishnu. It is unnecessary to discuss the multitude of texts which speak
of the ordinary fire, of the sacrifice, of the hearth, or wherever the particular
one is individualized. These are but the individualized manifestations of
the one Universal, yet each considered as the whole partially seen.
This Universal is the source of all the Devas, lihuw devdndm pitd portrab
san (i. 69. i). In viU. 19. 33, what Dr. Muir calls the Fire-God, i. e., Fire's
Very Self, is declared to be the tree of which all individual fires are the
branches.
Fire is the radiant sovereign (samr&jo asurasya), as powerful as Indra is.
He stretched out the heaven and the earth or expanse: he formed the mun-
AGNI 439
dane regions and the luminaries of the sky, begat Mitra, and caused the sun,
the imperishable orb, to ascend the sky. He made all that flies, walks,
stands or moves, and adorned the sky with stars. His extension is greater
than that of the sky and all the worlds.
It is through him that Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman triumph. He
knows and sees all creatures, is present in all recesses of the sky, knows all
the secrets of men and all the laws that govern the movements of the
luminaries (daivydni uratd) .
The name or epithet Vaigvdnara is often applied in the Veda, to Agni,
when he is the All of Fire: and this word, without the aid of any other
explains and makes entirely clear the Vedic idea.
For Vaigvd+nara is the same as Vigva-nard (as Vaigvd-devas is the same
as Vigua-devas), the former part of the compound meaning "all, the whole,
the wholeness, the universality." Benfey gives as the meaning of the com-
pound "relating to, fit for, etc., all men." This is simply an unlucky
guess. Nara means simply an individual, a person, and Yaigua-nam means
the totality, the whole or the oneness composed of the individuals.
Of all individual and particular fires, and also of all the luminaries of the
sky; for these all shine by means of, and do manifest and reveal a portion
of the great and eternal unity of fire. Wherefore it is said in i. 164. 46:
They call him Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Agni; then there is that celestial well-winged
bird. Sages name variously that which is but one; they call it Agni, Yama,
Mttarigvan.
"Him" and "it" are supplied in the translation. Perhaps Indram, Mitram,
Vamyam, Agnim ahu might be read, "They call Agni, Indra, Mitra,
Varuna." The remainder of the verse is of uncertain signification. I do
not know what is meant by divyafy suparno garutmdn, "that celestial well-
winged bird"; nor whether it is it, that is called Agni, Yama, MStarigvan:
but ekam sad viprdfy bahudha vadanti, "the Poets address manifoldly what is
only one," is plain enough. In v. 3. I, it is said that all the Devas are
comprehended in Agni; and in v. 13. 6, that he surrounds them as the cir-
cumference of a wheel does the spokes. The former of these sentences is toe
vigve sahasas putm devdfy; putra meaning "son"; and I take the meaning to
be that they are contained in Agni and emanate from him.
In the Atharva-Veda it is said,
Agni becomes Varuna (the Evening Star) in the evening; rising in the morning he
is Mitra (the Morning Star) ; becoming Savitri (the moon), he moves through the
air; becoming Indra, he glows in the middle of the sky.
And Agni and Indra are, as we have seen, constantly associated together,
said to be twin brothers, and each exercising the functions of the other.
440 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
It Is Indra [Dr. Muir says], who is most frequently represented in the hymns as the
patron and helper of the sacred race and the destroyer of their enemies;
for Indra is the Demiourgos, the manifestation as light of Agni, and the
immediate agent by whom he acts. And in viii. 38. I, where the two are
called Yajnasya ritvijd, two sacrificing priests, Indra shares in the character
peculiar to Agni. There is no doubt as to the character of either; and
nothing could be more expressly contradicted, than the idea that Indra was
the firmament is by the Vedic texts,
Upon reperusal of the translation of Professor Wilson, I find some texts
which are of more significance than they at first seemed, and some which
I better understand. To these I will now briefly refer.
i. 27, 6. Thou, Chitra-bhdnu, art the distributor of riches, as the waves of a
river are parted by interjacent (islets) ; thou ever pourest (rewards) upon the giver
(of oblations).
Professor Wilson says, of Chitrabh&nu,
A common denominative of Agni, he who has wonderful or various lustre [Benfey
has as its meaning, 'resplendent.' Bhdnu means 'a ray of light, light, the sun, a
sovereign*]; the following simile is very elliptically and obscurely expressed^ but
such seems to be its purport, according to the explanation of the Scholiast.
The simile certainly seems not a very apt one.
Chitra means, among other things,
"
various" and "variegated"; and I
think that cMtrabh&nu, here, means "variously manifested" ; and that the
whole verse means that Agni separates himself into various hypostases or
persons, light, heat, etc., still remaining one, and these continuing to be of
himself, as a river is divided by islands into various streams, all which are
yet the one river. And the phrase "Thou ever pourest upon the giver"
means, I think, that in these hypostases, beneficently manifested, Agni
continually flows forth, or pours into them his own substance.
In another form of expression this contains the same idea as is expressed
in i. 68. I,
radiant among the Devas, and in himself alone comprehending the virtues of all
these. [So in . 69. 1], Thou, as soon as manifested, hast pervaded all the world
with devout acts, being the father and son [source of light and heat to them and
shining forth from them. In v. 3], Thou, Agni, assumest all celestial natures (tad
devatarupo bhamti), tHou becomest the state, figure, condition, form or appearance
of the Devas [i. e. f manifested as them, and they being his revealings, in form and
vigour].
[In *. 96. 7, Agni] now is and heretofore has been, the abode of riches, the recep-
tacle of all that has been, and all that will be born ; and the preserver of all that exists,
AGNI 441
and that are coming into existence. [In i. 127. 8, it is said], We invoke thee, who art
the guest of men, to whom all these immortals apply for sustenance, as to a father;
thee, to whom the priests offer oblations among the Devas.
For, as the luminaries are Agni manifested, the sacrificial flame, ascending
towards the sky and becoming invisible, was deemed to feed them with that
which was their life or spirit. It was the same fire that shone there. He is,
as is said in i. 149. 3, "identical, with many forms, and, as the sun,
radiant"; i. e., always one and the same, he has many manifestations by
limited forms, and, in the form of the sun, is resplendent. So in Verse 2 of
the same, "being, as it were, the generator of men, as well as of the sky and
expanse/* because if darkness were perpetual, nothing could be said to exist.
He abides with his glories, i, e., he is himself wheresoever his emanations
are and shine.
The connection of Agni with the waters is difficult to understand, and
the commentators hardly attempt to explain it. In i. 149. 4, he Is said to
be present at the place where the waters are gathered together (apam
sadasthe). In i. 151. I, it is said that the pious worshippers have generated
him by their acts, amidst the waters, at the sacrifice.
In ii. 35, apam napat, "the grandson of the waters" is invoked; and the
last verse shows that the name is an epithet of Agni. Some waters, it is
said in Verse 3, collect together; others unite with them, as rivers they flow
together, to propitiate (according to Wilson) the ocean fire; the pure waters
are gathered round the pure and brilliant grandsons of the waters. The
young and modest wait upon the youth, assiduous in bathing him, and he,
though unfed with fuel, yet cleansed with clarified butter, shines with bright
rays amidst the waters, that abundance may be to the worshipper. Three
divine females present food to him; as if formed in the waters they spread
abroad, and he drinks the ambrosia of the first-created. He, the grandson
of the waters, who abides in his own dwelling, he, gathering strength in the
midst of the waters, shines for the sake of conferring wealth upon his wor-
shipper. And those who give no offerings do not attain to this inconceivable
Deity, whether abiding in the immature or the perfect waters.
The three maidens are no doubt three rivers. The Scholiast says, lid,
Sarasvati and Bhdratt, personifications of sacred prayer or praise. They
were unquestionably rivers. "They flow together to propitiate the ocean-
fire" pretends to be a translation of Hrvam nadyah priyanti, and Sayana gives
tirva "its usual acceptation" of "submarine fire." "Shines with bright rays
amidst the waters" alludes, according to Professor Wilson, either to the
submarine fire, or to the lightning amidst the rain-clouds.
The only meaning of drva given by Benfey is,
the name of a saint from whose thighs (Aru), the submarine fire proceeded.
442 IXDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The same hymn continues, as translated by Professor Wilson, as
follows:
8. All other beings are, as it were, branches of him, who, truthful, eternal and
vast, shines amidst the waters with pure and divine; and the shrubs, with their
products are born.
9. The grandson of the waters has ascended the firmament above, of the
tortuously-moving, arrayed in lightning: the broad and golden coloured spread
around, bearing his exceeding glory.
Professor Wilson, in note to ii. 35. I, says that apdm nap&t means "the
son of the trees or fuel, which are the progeny of the rains/
'
But in note to i.
22. 6, where he makes the text say, "Glorify Savitri, who is no friend to
water" (a clear mistranslation, since Savitri is eminently the mother of
waters), he says that napdt is here taken in its literal import, "who does not
cherish,
1 '
na-pdlayati, but dries them up by his heat, santdpena goshakah.
But Savitri was not the sun, but the moon. And the derivation is merely
fanciful, and unsound. Benfey has na-pd+t, naptyi, i. e., na-pd+tri, "a
grandson," with no other meaning; but I do not see how, if compounded as
he thinks, it has that meaning. Pd means "to drink" and "to protect." Nor
generally expresses negation; but in the Veda, he says, "like, as."
As to the propitiation of the ocean-fire, I do not find that priipdnti means
"they flow together." Benfey gives three verbs pri, neither of which has
any such meaning. One means "to bring over, protect, fill"; one, "to be
busy or active" ; and one, "to be pleased with." The phrase is Grva nadyah
pfiqanti. Nadydfy is, according to Miiller (Grammar, 104), the nominative or
vocative plural of nodi or nady, of which nadydh is ablative and genitive
singular. Nada, fern. nad$, means "a river." I think that the phrase
means, simply, "the rivers fill the lake."
10. The grandson of the waters is of golden form, of golden aspect, of golden
hue, and seated on a throne of gold: the givers of gold present to him food.
Gold was not offered, given or presented at the sacrifices, nor is it any-
where included among the presents received by the priests or bards: and the
food presented to Agni was whatsoever was burned in the fire, and supposed
so to become part of the fire and light. "The broad and golden coloured," in
Verse 9 are, no doubt, the great clouds, flushed with light, and the allusions
in Verse 10 are also to the clouds.
11. Beautiful is his form, is the name of the grandson of the waters; flourish
though hidden; the youthful waters collectively kindle the golden-coloured divinity
in the firmament, for water is his food.
AGNI 443
13. Vigour-oils, he has generated himself as an embryo in those; he is their
infant; he sucks them; they bedew him; the grandson of the waters of untarnished
splendour has descended to this, in the form of a different.
14. The abundant waters, bearing sustenance to their grandson, flow round
him with spontaneous movements; when abiding in his supreme sphere, and shining
daily with imperishable.
And then the worshipper declares that this is a hymn to AgnL
Compelled to accept the interpretations of Sayana, Yaska and others,
Dr. Wilson has had to make the Vedic Poets utter a great deal of that sort
of utter nonsense which is never found in the very early Poets of any people ;
the Veda thus interpreted bearing much the relation to the original that the
Kabbalah bears to the ancient Hebrew writings.
But also one would think, in reading this translation, and seeing how
inappropriately words are conjoined, and what strange relations are
established between adjectives and substantives always before entire
strangers to each other, that the scanty resources of the English language
did not afford equivalents for very many Sanskrit adjectives.
In iti. I. 3, we have,
The Devas discovered the graceful Agni amidst the waters of the flowing, for the
purpose of acts.
What possible meaning does the last phrase convey? And it continually
happens that the interpretation itself needs an interpreter.
In subsequent verses we read that the seven great rivers augmented Agni
in might, as soon as he was born; tie Devas cherished the body at his birth.
Then he sanctified the rite, and spread through the firmament with intel-
ligent and purifying. He everywhere repairs to the undevouring,undevoured,
the vast of the firmament, not clothed, yet not naked, seven eternal ever
youthful rivers, sprung from the same source, received Agni as their common
embryo. These seven rivers, Professor Wilson supposes, are the seven
great rivers of India.
Aggregated in the womb of the waters, spread abroad; and, omniform, are here
effective for the diffusion of the sweet, like milch-kine full-uddered; the Mighty
are the fitting parents of the graceful Agni .... When the vigourous Agni is
greatened by praise, then the showers of sweet rain descend. At his birth, he knew
the udder of his parent, and let forth its torrents and its speech; there was no one to
detect him, lying hidden in the deep, with his auspicious associates, and the many
of the firmament.
He cherishes the embryo of the parent, and of the generator; he alone consumes
many flourishing; the associated brides, who are kind to man, are both of kin to
that pure showerer; do thou, Agni, ever preserve them!
The great Agni increases on the broad unbounded, for the waters supply abun-
dant nutriment; and placid he sleeps in the birth-place of the waters, for the service
444 IXDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
of the sister streams. He, the generator, the embryo of the waters, has begotten
the waters for the offerer of the libation. The auspicious wood has generated the
graceful and multiform embryo of the waters and plants; the Devas approached
him with reverence .... Mighty suns, like brilliant lightnings, associate with
the self-shining Agni, great in his own abode, as if in a cavern, as they milk forth
ambrosia into the boundless and vast ocean.
In Hi. 3. 5, it is said,
The Devas have placed in this world the delightful Agni in a delightful chariot,
the tawny-hued Vaic.vanara, the sitter in the waters, the omniscient, the all-pervad-
ing, the endowed with energies, the cherisher, the illustrious.
In Hi. 5. 3. 5. 6. 7. 8, we find:
Agni the embryo of the waters, has taken his station on high (sayvasthdf) . He
protects the seven-headed in the center; he protects the exhilarating of the Gods.
He made the commendable and beautiful water, the glossy skin, the station of the
diffused slumbering, and, ever vigilant, preserves it. Radiant, pure, vast and
purifying, he repeatedly renovates his parents. As soon as generated, he is borne
aloft by the plants, which grow flourishing by moisture, as the beautifying waters
descend. May he in the bosom of his parents protect us.
Stationed on the navel of the expanse, in the form of the firmament, he shines:
he respires in mid-heaven (m&tariQi>an).
It is the Scholiast that makes this word mean "he respires in mid-heaven,"
or "acts in the form of the sun": or, Yaska says, it may mean, "he who
abides in the forest," The more usual sense of it, Wilson says, is "the
wind," as in the next stanza, where it kindles the fire of the sacrifice. In
this next verse (10), \ve find what Is meant by the continually recurring
phrase "sustains, supports, upholds the sky, the heavens, etc." For here
we readr
The mighty Agni, best of the luminaries of the sky, sustained the sky with radiance
when the wind kindled the bearer of oblations [the fire of the sacrifice].
In Hi. 27. 12, Agni is the grandson of food (Hrjjo napaf), which, in a note,
Professor Wilson renders "son of the oblation" shining above in the firma-
ment.
No poetic fancy could have conceived of Agni, the fire, as born of the
streams of water, or as latent in their depths: and accordingly we find, by
comparison of the texts, that the place of his imagined birth is among the
rain-clouds, in which concealed, he is suddenly manifested as lightning,
making visible with a sudden glare the whole expanse. And when he was
thus conceived of as the child of the waters, a wide field was opened for
fanciful conceits. Among the enigmatic passages relating to Agni, are the
following:
AGNI 445
m. 2. 9. The Immortals, desirous, sanctified the three radiances (tisrah
samidhah) of the great circumambient Agni: one of them they have placed in the
world of mortals as the nourisher; the other two have gone to the neighbouring
sphere.
These other two, Professor Wilson thinks, are that of the firmament, or
the lightning, and that of the sky, the sun. To get at this he has to hold
that samidhah, which means "fuel, wood, and grass," here intends the three
forms or conditions of fire. Samidh is sam+indh; and indh means "to
kindle" and "to shine."
Hi. 17. 3. Three are thy existences, Jatavedas; three, Agni, are thy parent-
dawns (tisra djdnirushasah).
The three existences (trivydy&nshi) are said by Professor Wilson to be
three lives, as supported by butter, by fuel, and by the Soma plant.
Ajdni, he says, may mean "sisters" or "mothers." Why there should be
three dawns personified as Agni's parents or sisters, he does not clearly see,
unless the three diurnal fires are alluded to.
I cannot find for ydydnshi the meaning of "lives," nor for djdni, that of
"mothers or sisters." The former it seems to me, from yd, "to go," means
"issue, outflowing, emanations, subsistences": and djdni means, I think,
"children, products." Both are, I think, the flame, light and heat, of the
fire.
In Hi. 20. 2, it is said to Agni,
born of sacrifice thy viands are three, three thine abiding-places, three the
tongues satisfying; three verily are thy forms, .... [In iii. 26. 7], I, Agni, am
the living breath of three-fold nature, the measure of the firmament, eternal warmth,
I am also the oblation.
In Hi. 6. 2, it is said to Agni,
may thy seven-tongued fires be glorified,
which hardly permits us to doubt that the seven colours of the ray of light
were well known. In i. 141. 2, Agni dwells among the seven auspicious
mothers (saptasivdshu mdfrishu). If in $apta-$iva, siva is from siv, the
compound words mean the seven united ones, and they are either seven
stars that form a constellation, or the seven colours. Mafri is "mother,"
both words being here in the locative plural.
446 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The essence of the Indo-Aryan faith is expressed in viii. 19. 16 :
Protected by Indra, well knowing the path that through thy power, Agni, we should
follow, we adore of thyself that by which Varuna, Mitra, the Nasatyas and Bhaga shine.
INDRA.
In Section v. of Volume F., Dr. Muir has furnished a complete collection
of the texts of the Veda and other works in reference to Indra. A careful
examination of them confirms my conclusion, arrived at upon consideration
chiefly of the translation by Dr. Wilson, that Indra was the Universal, or
Substance of, Light.
In Hi. 48. 2, it is said that on the day when Indra was born, he drank,
through fondness for it, the juice of the Soma plant; that of old, the mother
who bore him satiated him with it, in tie house of his mighty father; that
approaching his mother, he desired sustenance, and saw the Soma on her
breast.
w. 17. 4, as Miiller translates it, makes Dyu to be the father of Indra;
but Dr. Muir does not so translate it. The first verse is,
Suviras te janitd manyafa Dyaur Indrasya kartta svapasfamo 'bhdt, yak tm jajdna
svaryam suvajramt anapachyuta'ffi sadaso na bh&ma.
Muir reads it,
Thy father was, as the sky thought, a most stalwart being; the maker of Indra, he
who produced the celestial thunderer, immovable as the earth, he was a most
skilful workman. [Muller]: Dyu, thy parent, was reputed strong; the maker of
Indra was mighty in his works; he (who) begat the heavenly Indra, armed with
the thunderbolt, who is immovable as the earth, from his seat.
He was full of vigour, when born, and his mother concealed him. But
he uplifted himself, clothed with a robe, and filled both worlds as soon as he
was born. She bore him in order that he might range abroad, and desiring
full scope for himself. He was born fierce to exercise impetuous strength ;
exulting, fiery, full of confidence; and the Maruts augmented him, when his
mother brought him forth. He filled the two worlds like the dawn.
For the light is continually reborn, and when it appears, it floods all the
sky, fills the expanse, and makes visible all the earth, as it were in an instant.
And as Agni and Indra have one generator, and are twin brethren, Indra is
born again whenever a fire is kindled. Agni is said to confer immortality
on the Devas, who worship when he is born like an infant, and shines forth
from out his parents. For every sacrificial fire, kindled by its parents, the
two pieces of wood, is a manifestation of Agni, the Universal; and each of
these and the fire of the domestic hearth is Agni, and the light of each, Indra.
Every exertion of strength, too, even the slightest, is an?exertion of the
universal strength, of the one power, called Daksha, and this strength is the
father of both Agni and Indra, Strength, or the virile erotic vigour.
448 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
It is the same mighty Divine Power, in our conception also, which wafts
a feather and crushes a world. And Agni and Indra give the luminaries of
the sky immortality, because they continue to manifest themselves in
radiance by them. The Devas drink Soma to obtain this immortality,
because the Soma juice, feeding the fire, becomes of the fire, a component
portion of it.
In or. 167. I, it is said of Indra, tvam tapafy paritdpya ajayafy svafy; which
Dr. Muir reads, "conquered heaven by austere fervour": but the primitive
meaning of tapas is "fire," from tap, "to warm, heat, shine"; and pdrfoapa
means "heat, warmth" : and the meaning clearly is that emanating from fire
and heat he attains, i. e., extends to, the sky. So in x. 159. 4, Indra is said
to have become resplendent and supreme, by means of the offering of an
oblation. Dr. Muir renders dyurnnt uttamafy, "glorious and exalted": but
the primitive meaning of the former, is "illuminating"; and the latter is a
superlative. The oblation feeds the fire, and thereby increases the light.
Every particular light, as well as all light, is Indra,
The Devas that are said in Atharva-Veda xi. 5. 19, to have overcome
death by brahma-charya (studentship, religious study, pious austerity,
chastity) , and tapas (fire, pe'nance, mortification, religious austerity,
devotion), are the pious men, saints, Rishis, who, departing from this earth
were transferred to the skies and became stars. And we see that here, in
this much later hymn, tapas has the derivative meaning, while in the older
ones, and applied to Indra, it had the original and primitive one. Tap meant
"to warm, heat, be warm, shine, illuminate, burn up, consume"; and thence,
"to give pain, to suffer pain, to mortify one's flesh." Tapta, part, of perf.
pass, meant "hot" and "molten"; and tapa, "illuminating, heat, and
tormenting."
Indra is spoken of as undecaying; and it is said that neither autumns,
months or days cause him to grow old, or make him feeble (literally, "thin,
emaciated").
Ushdfy iva, is rendered "like the dawn," making in x. 134. i, Indra fill
the two worlds (rodasi), like the dawn. Iva means "like"; but Benfey
gives, as other meanings, "in some way, almost, scarcely." Miiller, in his
Grammar renders it by "as," and I have before said, of this or a like expres-
sion, that I believed the meaning to be as the dawn, the dawn being a
hypostasis of himself, filled the worlds; i. e., the dawn filled them with light.
[Benfey]: Rodas, i. e., rud+as (the seat of the roaring storm), n. Heaven,
dual $2, and as former part of a compound, Heaven and Earth.
To rud he ascribes the meanings of "to weep, cry, bewail" ; and to rudra,
"one who roars." It does not seem probable that from a verb meaning
"to weep" only, would come a derivative meaning "roaring" or "roarer."
INDRA 449
It is natural enough to speak of the clouds, the upper air, the heavens, as
"weeping" rain; for the raindrops are the tears of the clouds. And I
cannot but believe that rodas meant that upper region, sky, or heaven, as
'
that which weeps, or rains. In that case, rodasi could not mean heaven
and earth; nor could it in any case, for the earth neither weeps, cries nor
roars. I think, therefore, that rodasi does not mean the "two worlds/' but
the two regions, the air or cloud-region, and that above the clouds. It often
happens, daily, almost, that we see bodies of cloud far above a lower stratum
of cloud; and the two of these may have been rodast. At any rate, even the
savage sees that the clouds are far below the sun and moon, below each
other, too, and move different ways.
Indra is once addressed as an Aditya, along with Varuna; is identified
with Sfirya, and receives once the epithet of SavitrL There must be some
sensible reason for this. There was no confusion or muddle of ideas, with
the composers of the Veda; and there is but the one single sensible reason
possible to be imagined, that Indra was light, and manifested himself by
and through every luminary7
, and therefore 'was every one. So "the Word1 '
was not only, in the beginning with God; but it was God; as Yehuah was
the Elohim, and the messengers who talked and ate with Abraham and Lot.
In viii. 58. 4, Indra is called s&num satyasya, "Son of Truth." Satya
means truth; but it is the same as sant present participle of as, "to be.
1 '
In Hi. 49. I, he is said to have been produced by the Devas (janayanta
dev&b} as a destroyer of enemies (vritrditdm), which may mean "enemies" or
"shadows," or "clouds." And that he was produced by the Devas means
merely that he manifested himself through them, was emitted from them.
We must always bear it in mind that Agni is sometimes fire, in that sense
which includes all particular fires that ever have been or will be kindled;
and sometimes a particular fire, sacrificial or domestic, kindled on a particular
occasion, and that the kindling of each such particular fire is the birth of
Agni: and that, whenever Agni is born, Indra is born also, being, included
in Agni, as thought is in the mind.
In vi. 59. 2, Agni and Indra are said to be twin brothers, having the same
father, and whose mothers are, one here, the other tliere. It is strange that,
in view of even one text like this, Indra should ever have been supposed to
be the firmament. Dr. Muir remarks that the sense of this verse is not very
evident, unless it simply means that the mothers are different. I think it
means more than that. These adverbs of locality are never mere expletives
in the Zend-Avesta; and I think they are never so in the Veda. Here the
locus in guo is probably considered as the mother; and that of Agni is
imagined to be the earth, and that of Indra, the sky.
In vi. 55, 5, Pushan also is called bhr&td Indrasya, the brother of Indra.
450 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
In i. 82. 5, 6, the wife (jdya, "the bringer forth or producer," and patni,
"the one subject to or governed by") of Indra, is spoken of: in Hi. 53. 4, et
seq., the wife (jdya) and pleasant home of Indra are spoken of; and this wife
is probably the Goddess Indr&ni, several times mentioned elsewhere.
In x. 112. 3, Dr. Muir reads,
He assumes the most beautiful forms, and is invested with the ruddy lustre of the
sun.
Spar$ayasva ("is invested") is the [Illegible W] ofsparg, "to take, embrace."
And the meaning is, that Indra is embodied in, makes himself visible as,
the crimson radiance of the sun. So, in the Zend-Avesta, the sun is said to
be the body of Ahura Mazda.
One of the epithets most frequently applied to Indra is sugipra or
qiprin. Sayana doubts whether this means "with handsome cheeks," or
"with handsome nose." I do not find either of these words in Benfey.
In vi. 46. 3, he is styled Sahasra-muskha. Sayana interprets this,
"having a thousand genital organs": but where it occurs in viii. 19. 32, he
explains it as meaning, "having great brilliancy." Dr. Muir does not offer
any explanation of his own, of either this or the former phrase. Benfey
gives, as meanings of mushka, "a thief, a testicle, the scrotum, a heap, a
multitude, the name of a plant"; and of mushkara, "a man with large
testicles." I find no root from which to derive the word, in either sense.
No doubt it means "having a thousand testicles," thus figuratively express-
ing the power of generation of light.
He is called hari-sipra ("ruddy-jawed," Muir); hari-kega "ruddy- or
golden-haired," hari-$rna$dru, "the ruddy- or golden-bearded or mous-
tached," and his whole appearance is ruddy or golden, hari-varpas. So he is
golden, hira^tyaya, and golden-armed, hiravya-bdhu, carries a golden whip,
and rides in a shining golden car, drawn by two ruddy or golden (hart)
steeds, with flowing golden manes, with hair like peacocks' feathers and
peacocks' tails.
Harit and Jiari mean "green, tawny, yellow"; but also "a ray of light,
a fire." The colour expressed by it is, no doubt, that of fire.
The origin of the idea of Indra rending the clouds with his thunderbolts,
slaying Vrjttra and other enemies, and causing the rain to pour down, was
not that his beneficence caused him to do so, in order to give the earth rain;
but that thereby, as is said in i. 32. 4, and i. 51. 4,
the gloom which had overspread the sky is dispersed, and the sun is restored, thereby,
to his place in the sky. The heavy tain-clouds hide the sun, and enshroud the earth
with a heavy gloom, which when a great storm is at hand alarms the animals and
oppresses men with a sense of danger. The darkness is then at war with light
which can prevail against it, and reoccupy its sovereignty, when the clouds shall
INDRA 451
have poured out their waters upon earth. To effect this, and not for the benef-
icent purpose of refreshing and fertilizing the earth and filling the rivers, Indra
launches his thunderbolts against the storm-clouds. The Maruts aid him, striving
to drive the clouds before them and unveil the sun; and Vishnu, the heat, because
the lightning is one species of fire and includes both light and heat. The enemies
who confront Indra and Vishnu are the seven Danus or Dnavas, issue of Dnu, the
mother of Vrittra also. They are named Namuchi, Kuyava, C^shna, Qambara,
Varchin, Ahi, Pipru, Urana, Ranhina, Arbuda, etc., if the Dinus are more than
seven in number, and if some of these were not chiefs of the native tribes, against
whom Indra was imagined to assist the Indo-Aryans in battle.
Dr. Muir thinks that all of these represent the malignant influences at
work in the atmosphere, to prevent the fall of showers, of which the parched
fields were often so much in need. He thinks that all the imagery in
regard to Indra and these combats grew up from the need of rain, and the
supposed beneficent influence of Indra in producing it; and as the rains did
bless the thirsty earth after long droughts, and make it fruitful, there is no
doubt that this came to be imagined to be the sole purpose of Indra's
combats.
But Parjanya and not Indra was the Rain-God. Indra is compared to,
and therefore distinguished from him, in viii. 6. I. In viii. 82. i, 4, he is
identified with Sfirya, the sun, because he is the light of the sun. In i. 32. 4
and ii. 19. 3, he is said to have generated the sun: for the sun, as a body of
pure light, proceeds from the otherwise unseen Universal Light. So the
Logos, manifesting the Father, is said to be Protogenes and Monogenes, the
first-begotten and only-begotten Son, of God. In x. 89. 2, Dr. Muir says,
Indra seems to be identified with the sun (so- S&ryah), and to have destroyed the
black darkness by his light (k^ish^d tom&m si tvishy&jaghdna) . Kzishnfi. is, literally,
'black* or 'dark blue'; tamas, 'darkness, gloom*; tvish, 'light, splendour/ from tvish,
'to shine' ; and hant 'to kill, destroy, remove, etc.*
If I am right, the names of the enemies of Indra ought to have meanings
significant, not of demons of the drought, but of antagonism to the light,
of gloom and darkness.
Vfitra means among other things, "darkness," and "a cloud." Vri
means, "to cover, conceal, surround, envelop." Namuchi is, Benfey says,
na+much+i. Much (among other things), "to shed, effuse, pour out."
Na is the particle of negation; and Namuchi^ therefore, means "not pouring
out," or "the not-pourer-out," the refuser to shed rain. Qushna, is from
Qush, "to dry up, wither," and means "the sun and fire," and, as drying up,
"drought." One meaning ascribed to gambara is "water." Varch, "to
shine"; varchas, "lustre." Uraya is probably from Hryu, "to cover": ranhiya,
is probably the same as rohiita; and that means "redness," and rohiyt,
"lightning."
452 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Some of these abstract conceptions, therefore, represent antagonisms of
light, and others, preventers of production. But there is no doubt as to the
original notion, i. e., that Indra, the light, when darkness caused by storm-
clouds encroached upon his sovereignty and domain, rent the clouds with
the lightnings, that, losing their burden of rain, they might disappear, or
become so thin and fleecy as to cause no gloom in the atmosphere.
vi. 30. 5. Indra is said to have become the king of things moving, and of men,
generating at once the sun, the heaven, the dawn. The original here of 'generating/
isjanayan, from Jaw, 'to bring forth, produce'; caus. janaya, 'to beget, bring forth,
produce, cause.
1
"Things moving" or "moveable" is a very indefinite phrase; and the
original, jagataQ, is not much more definite. Jagat, an old participle of the
present of the verb gam, as an adjective means "moveable," as a noun,
"race of men, the world"; dualJagati, "heaven and earth" ; fern, jagati, "the
earth, the world." Tri-jagat, "the three worlds," means heaven, earth and
the lower regions. So much we are told by Benfey. Gam meant, originally,
"to go, to move"; and gama "going, moving, moving in the sky, like
a bird." Charslianinam, rendered "of men," is from char, "to move,
go, graze, behave, live, act, make, perform, spy"; whence charishnu,
"moveable, belonging to the animal world"; charshani, "men," which may
have meant, originally, "wanderers, graziers, spies, travelers." These
"things moveable" are evidently living creatures. The meaning of "earth"
or "world," derivatively attached tojagat, after the Sanskrit had become a
dead language, must have been owing to its including all living creatures,
and was not warranted. The Poets of the Vedas never thought of the earth
itself as moveable, any more than the children do. And the tri-jagat were
probably the air, earth and water, inhabited, one by the birds and other
winged creatures, one by animals, reptiles and men, and one by the fishes.
And the dual jagati no doubt meant the earth and air; i. e., the creatures
inhabiting each.
And of what but the light could it be said that it produced the sun, sky
and dawn? The three words personified the light of these three.
In viii. 12. 30, it is said that Indra placed the sun a brilliant light
(gukram jyotir), in the sky, and then all the worlds (vi$ud bhuvandni) sub-
mitted to him. Bhuvana, i. e., bhu+ana. BhA is "to become, to spring up,
to be, to live, to exist." Therefore the primary meaning of bhuvana is, as
it is given by Benfey, "a being, a creature." These are the Vedic meanings.
In the later books it means "the world, heaven and water/' as well as "man,
mankind." And when first used to mean "the world," it must have
signified the world of living creatures. Afterwards the phrase, "the three
INDRA 453
worlds," was used; and meant, no doubt, "air or space, the earth and the
waters."
viii. 14. 9. The lights of the sky (rochand divo) have been fixed and established
[i. e., the light selected the places where it would shine as heavenly bodies; and,
'those once established, he has never removed'].
viii. 85. 9. The Asuras are without weapons, and are no Gods: anayudhdso
asurafa adevdg.
As yudh means "to fight," and, noun,
'
'war, battle, or warrior" ; and yuddha
"the use of arms, war, battle," I should render ayudh&so "unwarlike,"
or "unused to," or "unskilled in arms." Therefore Indra is asked to sweep
them away with his wheel: chakrena tarn apa vapa rifishin. Vapa, "cause
to go." Chakra, "a potter's wheel, a discus, or sharp circular weapon,
(a missile) especially of Vishnu." It seems more likely that this was
intended here, than that the word means a wheel. That Indra should be
armed with a weapon of circular shape, was natural, since the sun, the great
antagonist of darkness, is of that shape. The discus was a quoit, and was
used in the gymnastic games of Greece; and we perpetuate the remembrance
of the discus of Indra, when we speak of the disk of the sun.
x. 54. 3. Thou didst produce at once the father and the mother, from thine
own body (ton-ofy svdydfr).
But sva means "one's own self" ; and not "body." Whatever the father and
mother were, they flowed out or were produced from the Very Self or being,
of the light. Very probably the sun and moon are meant.
p. 6. He placed light in light (jyotishi jyotir), and imparted to sweet things
their sweetness (madhund sam madhtini).
'
The meaning is that he supplied light to the luminaries, and gave its sweet-
ness to the honey. The bees work only by day and love the light.
In i. 174. I and viii. 79. 6, Indra is designated as
"
Asura" \ while we
have seen him in another passage driving away the Asuras. Asura came to
mean a demon, at last, we know, Benfey gives it that meaning, and also
that of "eternal," from as, "to be." I think it is from as, "to burn" or
"shine" (ash, usK), and that Asura is "shining one," that is, "luminary."
But the Asuras whom Indra routed were not luminaries. They were
without light. Sur means "to shine," whence sura, "the sun"; and sura~
dvish meant "an Asura or demon"; "light-hater."
Originally, we are warranted in supposing that one of the two words,
which meant, "the shining ones," followed the old form of its proper root,
and was Ashura or Ushura. When this was changed to as-ura, it was still
not the same as a-sura, "lightless." The-4-swroswere the shades or dusky
454 IXDO-ARYAX DEITIES AND WORSHIP
glooms of night, which Indra drove, routed, from the sky. The As-uras,
"the shiners/' were the Devas or "denizens of the sky," generally the stars
only; but the other luminaries being sometimes called by each name.
Dr. Muir says, of these passages, that the attributes which they ascribe
to Indra
are chiefly those of physical superiority, and of dominion over the external world.
In fact, he is not generally represented as possessing the spiritual elevation and moral
grandeur with which Varuna is so often invested.
For a much higher degree of definite and pronounced personality could
be ascribed to a planet, visible nightly, than to a Universal without form or
limits, and, moreover, Varuna was one of the manifestations by limitation
of Indra, and through him exercising his potencies. Precisely in the same
way, we ascribe to Christ, as the revealed and manifested Word in human
form, a much more definite personality than we can possibly ascribe to the
God of whom we can have no conception, and who has been truly said to
have no name and no sex.
Dr. Muir quotes texts, in which faith in Indra "is confessed or enjoined.'
1
They amount to this: that men have "faith" ($rad) in him, when he hurls
his lightnings. Is this a religious faith? In i. 102. 2, it is said that the sun
and moon move alternately, that we may behold and have faith ($raddhe).
In i. 103. 5, it is said,
Behold this his great abundance, and have faith in the prowess of Indra: $rad
Indrasya dhattana virydya. [The last word means 'virility' as well as Tieroism.'
In i. 104. 6] We have put faith in thy great power: nah graddhitafb te mahate indriyaya
.... faith has been reposed in thee: $rad te asmai adhdyi.
It is but a belief in his power, a confidence in the regular return of day, after
night. This is the satya graddha spoken of in i. 108. 6, a real belief and
confidence. In ii. 12. 5, the hearers are advised to put faith in Indra:
$rad asmai dhatta. In vi. 1 8. 4, in answer to a question, assurance is given
that Indra's strength is really existing: and in viii. 89. 3, he is himself
represented as asseverating that he is here, can be seen, and surpasses all
creatures in greatness.
Dr. Muir has collected a multitude of texts in which the powers, benefi-
cence and liberalities of Indra are enlarged upon. He gives wealth, cattle,
protection and content, and takes the field with the Aryans against the
Dasyus, striding forward, wielding the thunderbolt, and shattering their
cities.
Chastising the lawless (abratan), he subjected the dark skin to Manu, or the Aryan
people.
INDRA 455
Vrata means "rule, action, work, devout act." Avratan probably meant
"impious."
He is not alone, as protector and friend of the Aryans. It is said to the
Agvins, in i. 117. 21,
sweeping away the Dasyu with the thunderbolt, ye have created a great light (uru
jyotir) for the Arya (drydya).
In vi. 21. II, it is said of all the fire-tongued and frequenting-religious-rites
Devas (agnijihvdfy fitasSLpatf) that they have made the race of Jvlanu superior
to the Dasa.
ii. 11. 18. Thou, Indra, hast revealed the light to the Aryans. The Dasyus
are gone, defeated, backward: ni savyatab sddi Dasyur Indra.
Dr. Muir translates this "the Dasyu was placed on the left side." Sad means
"to sink down, to sit down (Vedic), to become helpless, be in distress, be
dejected, to perish, decay"; and in the passive, "to be diminished, gone,
lost, oppressed, spoiled," etc. Sadita, "exterminated, exhausted, decayed,
broken, distressed." Savya means "left, left hand"; but also "southern,
south," and "backward, reverse, contrary-" "Placed on the left side" has
no definite meaning, while that the Dasyus were forced back, by the aid of
Indra, perhaps to the southward, seems a far more natural interpretation.
In Hi. 34. 9, it is said here, that Indra, "destroying the Dasyus, has pro-
tected the Aryan colour." Varita, "colour," from which the denomina-
tive vary, "to colour," came at last to mean "caste, class, tribe," etc.; but
it originally meant the colour of the skin.
vi. 18. 3. Then thou didst subdue the Dasyus, and didst give the people
) to the Aryans.
The verb krish means "to draw, bear, plough." Krishta, "ploughed";
phala-krishfa, "tilled ground, produced by cultivation"; k[iski, "ploughing,
agriculture." As jyotir means "brightness," why may not the meaning
here be, that Indra gave to the Aryans the cultivation of the land won from
the Dasyus?
In vi. 25. 3, it is said that Indra had subjected all the Dasyan tribes to
the Aryans; and in viii. 24. 27, that in the land of the Seven Rivers (Sapta
Sindhushii), he turned away from the Aryans the weapon of the Dasyu.
In viii. 87. 6, Indra is the destroyer of many cities and the slayer of the
Dasyus, the prosperer of the race of Manu, and Lord of the sky (patir divafy .
In x. 49. 2, he says that he has stayed the weapon of Qiishna (drought), and
does not abandon the Aryan race to the Dasyus.
456 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
In vi. 60, we find that there were hostile Aryans also; for Indra and
Agni are besought to slay all enemies, Aryas and Dasyus; and in x. 38, 3,
he is asked for help to enable the worshippers to slay all ungodly men
(adevah purushtuto} ,
whether Dasas or Aryas, who fight with them; and
in several other passages there is like prayer as to both.
The Reverend William Arthur, in his Mission to the Mysore, is greatly
disgusted with the bacchanalian character and absurdities of the Sama-Veda,
which he considers a heap of hymns without coherency or sense, and woefully
devoid of pure theology or morals. He had not read the Rig-Veda; but
would, no doubt, have had the same opinion of that. A Brahman would
express very much such an opinion in regard to much of the contents of the
Hebrew books. Dr. Muir endeavours, not very satisfactorily, to explain
the sensual character, generally attributed to Indra, and which
appears In opposition to the moral perfection which is elsewhere described as an
essential feature of his nature.
He thinks that the Poets regarded him
as anthropopathically partaking, in a higher degree, of the elements, sensuous,
as well as intellectual and moral, which, on the evidence of their own consciousness,
they knew to be equally constituent parts of their own nature. [And, then] these
ancient authors did not connect the same low associations as we now connect with
the sensuous, or even sensual, principle in the character of the God, which is exem-
plified in his love for the exhilarating draughts of his favourite beverage.
They certainly had no idea that Indra actually drank, as a man drinks,
the juice of the Soma. It is, I think, very doubtful whether it had any
intoxicating quality at all. All the ancient peoples had their sacred plants
and herbs, for the sanctity attributed to which no satisfactory reason can
be given. Instances of this are the verbence or sacred branches of the myrtle,
olive and laurel, of the Latins; the bareQtna or bundle of twigs of date and
pomegranate, of the Irano-Aryans; and the misseltoe, the pren awyr or tree
of the air of the ancient Britons. Also the briw or vervain, which, Pliny
tells us, the Druids used in casting lots and foretelling events; and the selago
a hedge hyssop, in modern Welsh, grds dnn>, or the Grace of God, which, we
learn from Pliny, the Druids gathered with great care and superstition,
permitting nothing of iron to touch or cut it, nor the bare hand to touch it;
and which could only be gathered by some sacred person privately, with
the left hand, and that enveloped in a peculiar vesture, he being clothed
with white, his feet naked, and washed with pure water, and after the
offering by him of a sacrifice of bread and wine.
If the intoxicating qualities of the Soma plant had been the reason of
the sanctity and potency attributed to it, this quality of the Hatftna would
INDRA 457
equally have been celebrated in the Zend-Avesta. Among the extraordinary
virtues imputed to the misseltoe, was that of promoting the increase of the
species, or preventing sterility; and there are expressions in the Veda which
indicate that the Soma plant was supposed to possess aphrodisiac virtues.
Its sacred character came, most probably, from this.
We find the fuel which fed the fire of the sacrifice, invested with the
divinity of Agni, because it was, when consumed, transformed into the fire.
So the Soma juice fed the fire, and became a part of it, and it was, of course,
regarded as feeding and increasing the light that flowed from the fire. It
was in this sense that Indra drank the Soma and was enlarged and exhila-
rated. All the rest was the mere wantonness and license of the Aryan
imagination.
Professor Roth thinks that Varuna belongs to an older dynasty of Gods
than Indra, and that during the Vedic age, the high consideration originally
attaching to the former was in course of being transferred to the latter.
I have no doubt that the visible luminaries were first worshipped, long before
the conception of fire and light as universals was formed in the Aryan
intellect: of the latter part of Roth's proposition I find no convincing proof.
Mitra was certainly an ancient Deity, because both the branches of the race,
the Indians and the Iranians revered him. I doubt if Varuna was known
at the time of the separation of these races. If he had been, the Irano-Aryans
would have continued to revere him jointly with Mitra. Professor Roth
says:
The course of the movement was therefore this, that an old God, common to the
Aryans (i. e., the Persians and Indians), and perhaps also to the entire Indo-
Germanic race, Varuna-Ormuzd-Uranos is thrown back into the darkness, and in
his room Indra, a peculiarly Indian, and a national God, is intruded. With Varuna
disappears at the same time the ancient character of the people, while with Indra
there was introduced in the same degree a new character, foreign to the primitive
Indo-Germanic nature.
The first remark that suggests itself, in reading this passage, is that
Ormuzd is most unfitly coupled in it with Varuna and Ouranos. One of
these was the planet Jupiter, and the other the sky; while Ahura Mazda was,
in every lineament of the Zarathustrian conception of him, the same
Essential Light and Supreme Intelligence, single and infinite which the
intellect of the present day reveres as God.
The Aryan conception of Varuna did not change during the Vedic period,
nor did that of Indra enlarge. Indra was, from the beginning to the close
of that period, light, and Varuna, the same Light, limitedly manifested, as
the planet Jupiter. He thinks,
458 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Viewed in its internal aspect, this modification of the religious conceptions of the
Aryas consists in an ever-increasing tendency to attenuate the supersensuous,
mysterious side of the creed, until the Gods who were originally the highest and
most spiritual, have become unmeaning representatives of Nature, Varuna being
nothing more than the ruler of the sea, and the Adityas merely regents of the sun's
course.
The highest Deity of the Vedic period was Agni, the fire. Conceived
of as a Universal, having personality and unity, it was inevitable that the
imagination should invest him with the attribute of intelligence, and ascribe
to him feelings and sympathies. After a time, this led to the conception,
among the Irano-Aryans, of a being superior to and source of the fire, to
whom these attributes were transferred, and by degrees ceased to be
considered to belong at all to the fire. So, among the Indo-Aryans, Brahm
was conceived of, as the Infinite and Absolute Source, and, as emanating
from him and being the hypostases of his substance, Brahma the creator,
Vishnu the preserver, and Qiva the destroyer. Indra continued to be
adored as a subordinate Deity; but that he was light was forgotten. Mitra,
Varuna and Aryaman, only recognized as luminaries, were naturally
repudiated by the new spiritual faith, and disappeared, as Indra would have
done, if he had not originally been the light, of which Brahm never ceased
to be regarded as the Essence and Very Substance. I do not see, in either
the Indian or Iranian branch of the Aryans, "the ever-increasing tendency
to attenuate the supersensuous"; but precisely the reverse, a continual
struggle towards the idea of an intellect, supreme, infinite, absolute source
and origin of all things, beings and intellectual powers.
Professor Benfey and Mr. Br6al are quoted by Dr. Muir as expressing
the opinion that Indra was the successor of Dyaus, the sky. The radiance
of the sky, Benfey says, appeared to the Ayra, before they left the common
country, as, in consequence of the climate there prevailing, the holiest
thing; and that to those who settled in India, where the glow of heaven is
destructive, and its rain alone acts beneficently,
this aspect of the celestial Deity must have appeared the most adorable, so that the
epithet Pltnoins in a certain measure absorbed all the other characteristics of Dyaus
Pitar. [This found its expression, he thinks, in the name Indra], in which we
unhesitatingly recognize a word (which arose in some local dialect, and was then
diffused with the spread of the worship), standing for sind-\-ra, which again was
derived from syand, 'to drop.
1
The conceptions that had been attached to Dyaus were then, he thinks,
transferred to Indra. Professor Muller assigns the same sense to Indra.
It is, he says, "a name peculiar to India, and admits of but one etymology" ;
i. e., it must be derived from the same root, whatever that may be, which
INDRA 459
in Sanskrit yielded indu, "drop, sap." It meant originally the "giver of
rain," the Jupiter Pluvius, a Deity in India more often present to the mind
of the worshipper than any other.
Roth thinks that Indra is from the root in or inv, with the suffix r,
preceded by d, and means "the overcomer, the powerful." Mr. Br6al says
that Indra is an exclusively Indian God, created after the ancestors of the
European races had emigrated from Asia; and that he occupies the place
of some more ancient divinity. He says,
The name of this God, which we may give with perfect certainty, is Dyaus, or
Dyauspitar, the heaven, father of beings.
Of course, if Indra was rain, or the sky as raining, he was not light, and
most of the passages in which he is spoken of become nonsense. No one has
more emphatically warned us of the danger of etymological speculations,
based on similarity of words, than Professor Miiller. I have not found a
Sanskrit word indu, meaning "drop" or "sap." Indu, in the Ramayana, is
"the moon." Syand does mean "to drop, to flow," and Benfey thinks that
Sindhu, "a river" (the Zend hendu), "the Indus," comes from it. If so, the
fact that Sindhu retains the s, proves that Indra is not from the same root.
But for the preconceptions in respect of the character of Indra, there
would never have been a doubt as to the root of the word. It is the verb
indh, "to kindle, to shine." "Power" is a derivative meaning of indriya,
as "virility" is; both owing to the attribution of generative potency to light.
Indu was a name of the moon, as "shining," from the same root; and Indh-ra
or Aindh-ra literally signifies "that which is kindled or shines, radiance,
splendour, light."
Dr. Muir says (v. 121):
Beyond the fact noticed by Roth, that Varuna is much less frequently mentioned
in the last, than in the earlier books of the Rig-Veda, I have not observed in the
hymns themselves anything that can be construed as a decisive proof that the
worship of Indra was superseding that of Varuna during the period of their com-
position. It is true that even in the earlier parts of the Veda, the number of hymns
addressed to the former God is much greater than that in which the latter is cele-
brated. But I have not discovered any expressions which would distinctly indicate
that the popularity of the one was waning, and that of the other increasing.
There are, he says (referring to them), several hymns, however, in which
Indra is associated with Varuna as an object of celebration, and where the
two are described as acting in concert; he says,
and this association of the two might have arisen from the worshippers of Indra
desiring to enhance the dignity of that God, by attaching him to the older and more
venerable Deity.
460 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
There seems to be no reason for making that admission. There is no
proof of any struggle for precedence between the worships of Indra and
Varuna. The worship of the latter was the worship of Indra and Agni, who
were manifested by him, whom he was, as the Word was God. That known,
it is easily understood why Agni and Indra, Indra and Vayu (fire and its
flame), Indra and Pushan (the planet and its light), Indra and Soma (the
light of the fire, and that which increases it), and Indra and Vishnu (light
and heat) were adored together. Therefore Vishnu is called yujyah sakhd,
"the intimate friend/' of Indra; and Varuna, Indra-sakhci, "the associated
or coherent with" Indra. They are samrdjd, "the two kings," and together
launch the thunderbolts.
In TO. 82. 5, it is said that they together, by their power, produced or
made all the creatures of the sky or heavens; and that Mitra contentedly
honours Varuna, while Indra shines accompanying the Maruts.
Jdtdni bhuvanasya I take to mean the luminaries of heaven. It is to
be remembered that to these Poets the lights of heaven were not imagined
to be bodies like the earth, but orbs of light ; and therefore Indra had produced
them all. And, as to the other phrase, Venus could properly be said to
honour or wait upon Jupiter, when they appeared together in the same
quarter of the sky, he being the more regal.
Indra and Varuna are called dharttdrd charshanindm, which Dr. Muir
reads "supporters of all creatures" ; and the same epithet is applied to Mitra
and Varuna. So Varuna is called charshayi-dhrit, which Dr. Muir reads
"supporter of creatures." Benfey gives us charshayi, meaning "men,"
from the verb char, which means "to move, go, live, act, spy," etc.; whence
chara, "moveable, moving, a spy"; and as ku-chara means "a fixed star,"
charshani may mean the planets, called by the Greeks, 3-Aa^roi,
"wanderers."
In viii. 83. 9, it is said that Varuna always maintains (keeps or observes)
his ordinances. In i. 25. I, the laws (vratam) of Varuna are spoken of, which
the worshipper admits breaking daily. The laws of Indra (Indrasya vratdni)
are said not to be broken by any of the Devas, in m. 32. 8 ; the three-fold
law (tri-dh&tu vratam} of Agni, in wt. 5. 4; and in ii. 28. 8, it is said that
in Varuna all laws (vratdni) are grounded, immovable as a rock.
Indra and Varuna are said to have dug the channels of the rivers (the
water, raised by the rains which they cause, washing them out) ; and to have
caused the sun to journey in the sky; because when Jupiter is the Morning
Star, he and the light precede the sun in the eastern sky, and seem to lead
hini up.
In M. 82. 2, all the Devas in the highest sky (vyoman, from vye, "to
cover") are said to have given or added vigour and power to Indra and
Varuna*
INDRA 461
x. 48. n, as translated by Dr. Muir, represents Indra as saying,
I, a Deva, do not assail the rank (or glory) [it might also be rendered 'do not dimm-
ish the dignity, light or splendour*] of the Devas the Adityas, the Vasus or the
Rudriyas, who have fashioned (tatakshur) me for glorious power, and made me
unconquerable, irreversible and unassailable.
"Irreversible" must be a misprint. It represents astritam from stri (with
negation), which means "to hurt, kill." But if Indra is the Universal
Light, how can it be said that he has been "fashioned" by the Adityas, Yasus
and Sons of Rudra?
Taksh originally meant "to hew," and derivatively "to prepare, to
fashion, to give form to." Tatakshur is the third person singular of the
reduplicated perfect : and the meaning must of necessity be that these Deities
gave limitation by form to Indra; i. e., that they were manifestations of the
light, in form and limitation, each a limited revealing, in permanent form,
of the immeasurable Universal Light.
In viii. 51. 7, it is said:
All the Gods yield to thee, Indra, in vigour and strength.
In iv. 30. i et seq., he is described as having no superior or equal, and as
having alone conquered (surpassed?) all the Devas in battle. In mi. 21. 7,
it is said that the ancient (or many) Devas subordinated their powers to his
splendour and royalty.
In other passages it is said that all the Devas are not able to frustrate the
mighty deeds and counsels of Indra; that Varuna and Sfirya are subject to
his law; and in x. 89. 8, 9, he is besought to destroy the enemies of Mitra,
Varuna and Aryaman.
All these texts, however, which are so laudatory of Indra, may be paralleled in
the Rig-Veda, not only by similar ones [Dr. Muir remarks, referring to Mitra and
Varuna], but also by a farther set of texts, in which other Gods are magnified in
the same style of panegyric. This is in accordance with the practice of the Indian
Poets to exaggerate (in a manner which renders them often mutually inconsistent),
the attributes of the particular Deity who happens at the moment to be the object
of celebration. Thus it is [he says] that in ii* 38. 9, it is said that neither Indra,
Varuna, Mitra, Aryaman nor Rudra can resist the ordinance of Savitri, vratam na
minanti. Aft, whence minant, partic. pres., means 'to hurt
1
; and vrata, means not
only 'a law or ordinance,' but also a 'voluntary act, rule, work.*
It cannot mean that the law or rule of Savitri is for the government of Indra
and Varuna; but that the law of his own being and movement cannot be
abrogated or changed by them. So in uii. 38. 4, it is said that the Devi Aditi
and the Kings Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman unite to magnify the moon
462
'
INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
(Savitri). For, when the full moon shines in the sky, these planets grow
pale and seem to be her attendants.
In i. 156. 4, it is said that King Varuna and the Agvins submit to the
power of Vishnu, For they receive their light from Agni, of whom Vishnu
is a hypostasis, or a part included in the whole, Agni manifested as heat.
In i. 141. 9, Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman are said, for the same reason,
to triumph through Agni, when he blazes forth.
Dr. Muir concludes by saying, that
if we were to infer from some of the passages, that the worship of Indra was begin-
ning to gain ground on that of Varuna, we should have, in like manner, to conclude
from others, that the worship of Savitri, Vishnu or Agni was beginning to supersede
that of all the other Deities who are there subordinated to them, not excepting
Indra himself.
I have thus referred to all the materials additional to those within my
reach before, to enable me to decide what Indra was, which are furnished by
Dr. Muir: and I am more than ever satisfied with the conclusion that he was
the Universal Light. There is no text really inconsistent with this, and
very many that directly sustain it, and that have, on any other hypothesis,
no sensible meaning. Indeed, it seems to me that not even the lingering
shadow of a doubt remains. I can anticipate, nevertheless, that it will be
thought that the conceptions which I ascribe to the Aryan Poets are entirely
too modern, too metaphysical, too much in advance of their age.
It might be enough to reply, that it is too plain to be denied, that such
conceptions and ideas were entertained by them, unless the Veda is nonsense,
pure and simple; or to answer that these ideas and conceptions are found to
have been possessed by the Brahmans, the Bactrians, the authors of the
Hebrew Kabbalah, and the oldest among the Grecian philosophers; and
that they arc the fruits, not of learning but of reflection, needing for their
birth in the human mind only eyes with which to see the worldt and
intellect and imagination to speculate upon what the eyes saw.
The relation between Indra and the luminaries, as conceived of by these
old Poets, is simple enough. If there were beyond the sky a limitless ocean
of light, and each luminary were an aperture through which there flowed
portions of this light, each would be the light, although it might be individ-
ualized and called a ray; for when the light expanding fills the space
between earth and sky, the Light, the Universal, is itself there, so far as that
which is of limitless or even very great extent, can be in one limited space.
The moment anything is conceived of as a unit, the whole of it is conceived
of as being where any part of it is. It is the sea, that chafes against a
particular shore, or lifts the pebbles gently on the shore of a particular bay.
INDRA 463
It is the air, that breathes upon us, in at our window. And so every ray of
the light is the whole light, except in quantity.
Now, if the light of the sun is conceived of as not generated in the sun,
by any power inherent in the sun, but as being itself the sun, the Very Light,
revealed and manifested within a limited space or investing a body of
limited form, then all the energies and potencies of this body, being those
of the light so manifested, and the existence there of any thing except this
light not being apparent, and probably not thought or conceived of, light
would be considered by the mind as its being, and it would be to the intellect
the Very Light itself, limitedly revealed. And in attributing to this limited
portion of the light the attributes, energies and potencies of the whole, we
should do only that which every man does, who speaks of "the sea
71
as
breaking over a particular rock, or in its wrath dashing against the rocks of a
particular shore a single vessel.
The idea of emanation is equally as simple. Flame, light and heat are all
conceived of, naturally, even by the child, as separate and distinct things.
Yet they are all included in the fire, and are of it, and flow forth from it.
It is the fire, we say, that burns us. It is the fire that blazes ; it is the fire that
shines. The flame, the light and the heat are distinct revealings of the fire,
yet each the fire itself, in that particular mode and aspect; and when we,
in our ordinary language, ascribe to the fire the burning of our flesh that is
the effect of the heat, we do precisely what the Aryan Poets did, in ascribing
the same potencies to Agni and Vishnu alike. And the inconsistency which
commentators find in the Veda is precisely the same as that found in our
expressions of thought, when we speak at one time of fire and at another
time of heat, as producing a particular effect.
In Rig-Veda Hi. 50. 4, Indra is called
kskapdm vastdjanitd sdryasya, the lighter up of nights, the parent of the Sun.
One such passage seems to me sufficient to prove that he is light. And I am
firmly convinced that whatever expressions seem to be inconsistent with
this, are mistranslations, owing to misconceptions of his nature, when they
cannot be shown to be in harmony attributes ascribed to him as personified
wisdom, power, bravery, etc. What particular meaning of a word is the
right one, when it is used with reference to a particular Deity, will necessarily
depend on the real character of that Deity.
Take, for example,
Hi. 32. 8: Indrasya karma sit-krtid pur&$i waidm devdb na minanievi$ue: the deeds
of India are well done and many: all the Devas do not break his laws [or, do not
injure his ordinances: as Professor Muller translates it].
464 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Karma certainly means "deeds" and "actions," being from the verb kfi,
"to make, do, perform, utter," etc. The deeds of Vohu-Mand are very often
spoken of in the Zend-Avesta, and are the Manthras and prayers that are his
utterances, the expressions of the Divine Intellect. Indrasya karma means
the manifestations of the light, and its effects all that the light does, in the
performance of its varied functions. But what are Indra's laws or
ordinances?
Professor Mtiller has, in Volume I of his Translation of the Rig-Veda, an
interesting discussion as to the meaning of the word vrata, which is, he says,
one of those words, which, though we may perceive their one central idea, and their
original purport, we have to translate by various terms, in order to make them intelli-
gible in every passage where they occur.
Originally, he thinks, vrata meant "what is enclosed, protected, set apart":
secondly, "what is fenced off, determined, settled," and hence, like dharman,
"law, ordinance."
Any regular action gives us the idea of a law that causes and regulates it.
We do not mean by the phrases "the laws of Nature," "the laws of
growth," etc., laws imposed on Nature, growth, etc., by the supreme outside
Power; but merely the regularity of the mode of action. Electricity and
magnetism have their laws, i. e., their regular modes and processes of action.
I think that a great truth was expressed by the philosopher who said,
The laws of Nature are the varied action of God.
And, accordingly, vrata is found to mean "voluntary act, action self-
willed, rule, action, doing, work," and even "eating," i. e., whatever is
regularly done. Mi, whence minanti, miy&te, etc., has but the single meaning
"to hurt," given to it by Benfey, but it no doubt meant "to" break, to
violate," also. Yasya vratam na miydte may mean, as Miiller renders it,
whose law is not broken [or, it may as legitimately mean], whose regular action is
not [cannot be] interfered with, prevented, affected.
In ii. 24. 12, it is said,
m&am satyam magkavdnd yuvoh it Apafr chana pra minanti vratam vam: all that is
yours, O potent Ones, is real: even the waters do not break your law.
What "law" do the heavenly bodies enact for the waters? But if we reflect a
moment, we may discover the meaning. The water does not obstruct or
hinder the light of the sun, moon or other luminaries, on the contrary it
illuminates and fills the water, making objects visible on the bottom of lakes
and streams; and, to one who knows nothing of the cause of the visible
INDRA 465
image of a luminary in the water, of the laws of reflection, the orbed lights
of the sky seem to have their doubles or second selves radiant in the bosom
of the still waters, as real, apparently, as brilliant certainly, as the orb
itself in the sky. The water does not prevent or hinder the action of the
light or of a luminary, in that sense.
But, it is plain how the Devas, the stars, planets, sun and moon, do not
break the laws of Indra, in that sense, there are laws of Aditi for men to
perform, and laws of Varuna which men break: and Professor Muller
renders 4
aminatt daivyani vratdni, not injuring the divine ordinances.
There is a three-fold law (tridhdtu mata) of Agni Vaicranra, which Dyu and
Prithivi follow: but this is his three-fold action, as fire, light and heat.
I do not believe that it was ever imagined by the Vedic Poets that Varuna
had enacted any moral laws for the government of their conduct. If it had
been, some of those laws would have been specifically stated and the duty
of obeying them inculcated; but not even one is particularized.
Now, the Deities are represented in the Veda and Zend-Avesta as pleased
with sacrifice and offering, as enjoying the Soma juice, as expecting, desiring
and demanding to be sacrificed to. One of the two original meanings of vri
was "to choose." And as the sacrifice was desired by the Devas, the sac-
rifice was called vrata. And the phrases vratam chakrima, vratam minimasi*
etc., do not, I think, mean overstepping and breaking laws, but neglecting
the duty of sacrifice, as disappointing the desires and disregarding the wishes
of the Deva mentioned. I should read,
kat asya ati vratam chakrima, which of his desires have we disregarded? [and] yat
chit hi te vigafr yathd pra deva Varuna vratam minimasi dyavi-dyavi, whatever desire
of thine we disappoint, Varuna, day by day, men as we are.
Yehuah, the Deity of the Hebrews, their Alohai, chief or substance of the
Alohayim, was the God of Hosts, or of the celestial armies of the stars. And
so in the Veda we have (vii. 44. 5),
grinotu nab daivyam gardhab Agnfy stfnvantu vigve mahishdfr am&rab: may the army
of the sky, may Agni hear us! May all the potent wise ones!
So Agni is invited to bring the Devas to the sacrifice, that the $ardhab
divyam may be sacrificed unto.
466 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
There is no doubt that intellectual and moral characteristics and qualities
were ascribed to Indra. The rudest savage Kamschatkan ascribes these
to his ugliest idol. The Poet ascribes them to everything that he personifies,
and his fancies become mythology. And even the philosophers have
deemed that the stars were wise and rational beings, with power over men's
fates and fortunes,
It seems that even the early Vedic Poets had the notion of the identity
of light and intellect: and what is the source or essence of intellectual light,
if not God? In iv. 26. I and 2, Indra says:
I was Manu, and I was the Sun. I am the wise
IJishiJECakshivat
.... I am the
Sage Uganas. Behold meI I gave the earth to the Arya, and rain to the sacri-
ficer .... The Devas have followed my will: Aham ManurabhavaM Sdrya$ cha,
aham KaksMvdn rjshir asmi viprafr, etc.
It was but a little way from this to Zarathustra's conception of Vobu-Mand,
the Manifested Wisdom or Intellect of the Primal and Eternal Light; Ahura
Mazda, becoming, in every true Aryan believer, the human intellect, and
every prayer, and every hymn its utterance.
So, in i. 4. 3, it is said to Indra,
we recognize thee in the midst of the right-minded, who are nearest to thee. Come
to us! Pass not by us, to reveal. [And, in v, 4] Go, worshipper, to the wise and
uninjured Indra, who bestows the best on thy friends, and ask him of the learned,
That he is the light is clearly shown by i. 6. i r in which it is said that
with him "associate*
'
those that stand around (the sentinels of the sky, the
unimpassioned, those that revolve, the lights or brilliant ones that shine
in the sky)- The same phrase, "associate with" is used in the same sense
in the Zend-Avesta, meaning that they shine by his light. The word in the
text here is yunjanti, from yuj, "to join, to unite with, to become one with."
In i. 9. 3, Indra is said to be vigva-charshane, Sayana of course perverts
this into "worshipped by all institutors of sacrifices/
1
after explaining it as
"who art joined to all men." Charsha%i is said by Benfey to mean "men,"
from char, "to move, go, graze, live, act, perform, spy." So "spy" is one of
the meanings of chara, "moveable." I think that charshaye here means the
celestial bodies, often styled "moveable" and "spies." Indra is not all men,
but he is all the luminaries,
I do not believe that the epithet su-sipra, applied to Indra, means either
"handsome-nosed," "handsome-jawed" or "handsome-chinned." Beufey
has sipra with the meanings, "perspiration" and "the moon," but not with
that of "nose,"*"jaw" or "chin." As s?ibh and sibh are the same, and
sfimbh and simbh, and as sfipra also means "the moon," I take it and sipra
INDRA 467
to be the same word, from srip, "to creep, go, glide, move*'; and that su-sipra
means "well-going" or "swiftly moving one."
His "good deeds," it is said in i. 51. I,
spread abroad for the benefit of mankind, as rays of light.
His good deeds are not things that he does, but, as in the Zend-Avesta, his
utterances or revealings. The good deeds of Vohu-Man6 are the Manthras
and prayers which he inspires. Here the good deeds or utterances of Indra
are diffused or flow abroad, as rays of light, emanating from him.
In the same verse he is called Meslia, which is supposed to mean "a ram."
I hardly think that he was called that animal. Mesha, it is said, meaning
"a ram," is- from mih, "to sprinkle, effuse, give." The last is a Vedic
meaning; and I think that MesJia originally meant "giver," or "source of
emanation." In i. 52. I, he is again called "that Meslia who makes the sky
known," i. e., by whom it becomes visible.
Not only do the libations sprinkled on the sacred grass replenish him
(by being consumed in the fire and becoming a part of it and of its light),
"as the kindred rivers hastening to it fill the ocean," as is said in z. 52. 4; but
also the hymns that glorify him attain unto him, as rivulets a lake. The
thoughts, as well as the light, become part of himself.
In i. 102. 2, it is said,
The seven rivers display his glory; heaven, earth and sky display his visible form;
the sun and moon, Indra, perform their revolutions, that we may see, and have faith
in what we see.
Here the distinction is plainly expressed between the Very Self of Indra, and
his revealings and manifestations, in visible form, and through the sun and
moon, compelling us to believe in the invisible, which we can know only by
its revealings or manifestations to our senses.
The seven rivers that display the glory of Indra, are, no doubt, the seven
actual streams of the Indus country, owing to him the increased volume of
their waters. So there were seven Kareshvares (districts or divisions), of
the Irano-Aryan land, formed by different streams flowing to the Oxus. We
find mention made of "the seven rays," also, as in i. 105. 9,
Those which are the seven rays, in them is my Source (n&bhi, 'navel') expanded.
Trita Aptya knows that, and praises them for his extrication.
Rosen renders this,
Those which are the seven rays of the sun, among them is my domicil placed.
463 INDO-ARYAX DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The Scholiast identifies the solar rays with the seven vital airs abiding in
the ruling spirit. In the Zend-Avesta there are seven AmSsha-QpSntas, or
emanations from the supreme Deity, Ahura Mazda; and to these answer
seven of the ten Sephiroth of the Hebrew Kabbalah. It is hardly to be
believed that the Indo-Aryans of the Vedic period had learned that the .
white light of the sun was. compounded of seven distinct rays, three primary
and four secondary, curiously corresponding with the scale of musical notes
and with the seven stars (3+4) of Ursa Major.
In the fifth verse of this hymn, the Devas are invoked,
who are present in three regions, who abide in the light of the sun [and in the tenth,
it is said], May the fire shedders [effusers or pourers-out], who abide in the center
of the expanded heavens, having together conveyed my prayers quickly to the
Devas, return.
These are the Hyades; and the seven "rays" mentioned in Verse 9, may be
the stars of the Great Bear. The "navel" is perhaps the pole-star.
It is doubtful whether we shall ever understand some of the expressions
used in connection with Indra; as, for example, in i. 121. 2,
The mighty Indra manifests himself after his own daughter: he made the female
of the horse unnaturally the mother of the cow. [So the expression in i. 130. 9],
Endowed with augmented vigour, he hurled the wheel of the sun (Sdraschakram,
Prairikid); and, ruddy of hue, deprived them (the black enemies of the Arya) of
existence; he, the sovereign lord, deprived them of existence (vacham mushayati,
literally, 'steals, or takes away speech*).
"Hurling the wheel of the chariot of the sun" at the Dasyus, and taking
away their speech, whether that means killing them, or silencing their
clamour, or suppressing his own exclamations (which are the guesses of the
evidently puzzled Scholiast), was, no doubt, something that Indra was
imagined to have done; but what, one may well despair of understanding.
Vfik, according to Benfey, means "to raise"; and pravfih would mean
"to raise up," or "lift on high." Chakra is the disk or orb, of the sun.
Musk means "to steal, rob, plunder, take away, deprive of." The Dasyus,
like the American Indians, probably made their attacks, and certainly their
forays, under cover of the darkness, and with hideous yells; and Indra,
instead of hurling the orb of the sun at them, probably caused it to rise, and
silenced their clamour.
In i. 133. 6, it is said,
most powerful with mighty energies, thou assailest, Indra, with terrible blows; and
doing no injury to man [to the Arya], invincible, hero, by enemies; attended, hero,
by three or seven followers (trisaptath, $drasatwabMh).
INDRA 469
In a note, Professor Wilson seems to consider that trisaptaih means "thrice-
seven." Who then are the three, seven or twenty-one "followers
1 *
of Indra?
He says that the Maruts are forty-nine in number, and that satwobhih must
mean something else, perhaps the seven platters offered to the Maruts,
repeated at the three daily rites; or, attended by the beings, i. e., the Maruts,
to whom the thrice-seven offerings are presented.
Satwan means, according to Benfey, "a warrior/' $rasafatabhih means,
I think, "by heroic warriors"; and these were probably twenty-one stars,
in groups of seven each, that appeared with the dawn, and were deemed to
assist Indra.
i. 139. 9. The ancient Dadhyanch, Angiras, Priyamedha, Kanva, Atri, Manu,
have known my birth: they who were of old and Manu have known. For long
life among the Devas is theirs, and in them our origins are (asmdkam teshu ndbhayah,
'in them are our navels').
The phrase, "navel of the waters" often occurring in the Zend-Avesta, means
there "the source or place of origin of the streams or rains." Ndbhi is not
only "the navel,
11
but also "the nave" of a wheel, "the center."
In ii. 12. 3, 7 and 12, it is said of Indra,
He who, having destroyed Ahi, set free the seven rivers .... he who gave birth
to the sun and to the dawn, and who is the bringer-forth of the waters He,
the seven-rayed, the showerer, the powerful, who set free the seven rivers to flow.
And, in H. 13. 7 and 10,
Thou who hast generated the various luminaries of the sky, and who, of vast bulk,
comprehendest the vast ones .... thou art he who has regulated the six expansive,
and art the protector of the five that look up to thee.
Wilson adds "races" after "five." Shad vishtirah is the original of "the six
expansive," said to be heaven, earth, day, night, water and plants. Vish
means "to pervade, to embrace" ; and vishti, "working, a workman, occupa-
tion, act, action, sending, dispatching." "The six workers" are, probably,
the six Pleiades, whose rising at the Vernal Equinox announced the arrival
of the season of labour for the husbandman; and "the five" were, undoubt-
edly, the Hyades.
I think I have left nothing unnoticed, that is worthy of note, in the Veda,
in regard to Indra; and nothing, it seems to me, can be clearer than that he
is the Universal Light.
VISHNU.
The name Vishnu is from visit, also i'/, "to pervade, to embrace.
1 '
Nothing could more aptly be styled "Pervader," than Heat.
Upon considering and reconsidering the passages of the Veda, in regard
to the "three steps" of Vishnu, a possibly correct explanation has suggested
itself to me.
The Hymn /. 22 first invokes the Agvins to come to the sacrifice at dawn
of day, and drink the Soma juice; then Savitri, "the golden-handed"
(suvarya-Jiasta), child of the waters, enlightener of men; then Agni, to bring
the wives of the Gods, and Tvashtri, and the Goddesses themselves to come.
Then the sky and expanse are invoked to blend the sacrifice, i. e., to unite
it with the general light that pervades them. Then, in v. 14, it is said that
the Sages, by means of pious acts, i. e., of sacrificial acts of devotion, taste
the ghee-resembling waters of these two in the permanent region of the
Gandharbas.
*
The ghee-resembling waters'
'
is very probably a mistransla-
tion. The meaning of the verse certainly is that the Sages who have become
stars, taste, either by means of the present sacrifice, or in consequence of
their own piety as sacrificers, while on earth, the melted butter and Soma
juice intermingled, of the sacrifice, which ascends into the expanse, trans-
muted by the fire into light.
Verse 15 is translated by Wilson,
Earth, be thou wide-spreading, free from thorns and our abiding-place. Give us
great happiness.
It was hardly necessary to request it to be "wide-spreading," as it could not
well become any more so, to gratify Priest or Poet. Besides it is not the
earth that is addressed, but the expanse. The worshipper did not need to
beg the earth to be his abiding-place, as he had, just then, no other. Besides,
Wilson says, syona, "has sometimes the sense of expanded, sometimes of
pleasant, agreeable." Benfey is not of that opinion. He gives us syona,
"handsome, pleasing, a ray of light, the sun, a sack, happiness' '; zndsyuna,
"a ray of light, the sun, a sack." I do not know what the original word is,
that is rendered "thorns." But I have no doubt that the verse should be
read,
O Expanse, beautiful (or brilliant), be thou .... and our final abode.
Then follows Verse 16:
May the Devas preserve us from that of the earth whence Vishnu by the seven
metres stepped; [or, according to Dr. Muir] May the Gods preserve us from that
VISHXU 471
whence Vishnu strode across the seven regions of the earth fprittziydft sapia d/idwa-
bhify). [And, 17], Vishnu traversed this: three times he planted his foot, and the
whole was collected in the dust of his. [Or, according to Dr. Mair], Vishnu trav-
ersed this: in three places he planted his foot, and was enveloped in his dust.
The original of the two verses is:
Ato devdfr avanfu no yato Vfshnur vtcfiakrame prilJircyafi sapta dhdmabliiJj,. Idani
Vishnur vichakrame tredhd nidadke padam samiiUiam asya panisurc: May the Devas
receive pleasure from this [sacrifice!, whence Vishnu strode across the seven regions
of Prithivi.
Vikrama means "step, proceeding, overpowering, strength, heroism."
Krama, "a step, a foot, a bound, regular order, course, method, way, etc."
Krameya, ''by degrees"; from kram, "to step, walk, etc." Vi-kram% "to walk
along, enter, proceed." Dhdman, "an abode, state, host, dignity, light,
splendour." Also, dhmd, part, dliama, "to blow (as breath, wind), to melt,
to throw." DM has many meanings among them, "to geneiate, earn7
,
bear, nourish, preserve, get, show, put, grant." Unless the meaning of the
phrase, prithivydJi sapta dhdmabhify may be, "with (i. e., accompanying) the
seven splendours of the expanse," alluding to the seven rays of Indra, it is an
enigma to me.
This (i. e., the expanse) Vishnu traversed (vicliakrame, in Verse 16
rendered "strode across"): then follows, in Verse 17, tredhd mdadhe padam.
Tredhd, \. e., tri+ dM, "three-fold, in three places, in three parts." Pada
means "a step, a footstep, trace, mark, sign, place, a foot." The latter part
of the verse is rendered by Muir,
and [the world] was enveloped in his dust; [and by Wilson] and the whole (world)
was collected in the dust of his (footstep).
There are in the original only the three words, samiilham asya pamsure.
There is no meaning whatever, in either translation, and of course each is
worse than no translation.
Uh is the same as vah, but used only after prepositions. Yak is
"
to draw,
carry, bear, have, bring, etc." SamAh, i. e., sam+dh or sam+vah is "to
bring near, to bring together." Samulfyam may mean "was collected, was
gathered together, cohered." Pam$u or pdmsu is "dust, a particle of dust."
Here, I think, it means "particles," of the vapour rising from the fire; and
the phrase means that Vishnu was conjoined with or cohered with these
particles as they ascended.
In Verse 18, we have trtyi padd mcfiakrame Vishnur, "three steps
stepped Vishnu"; the epithets gopdk, "cowherd, protector, warder, con-
cealer," and addbhyah, "not to be checked or impeded/' being applied to him.
And then follows ato dharmditi dharayan; which Wilson renders by "up-
472 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
holding thereby righteous acts
1
*; and Dr. Muir, "upholding thereby^
fixed
ordinances." DJiarma means "virtue, merit, right, law, duty, justice, a
sacrifice"; and dJiri, "to bear, carry, maintain, support, retain, keep." I
think the phrase means "carrying hence the sacrifice," or "giving effect to
the acts of worship."
p. 19. Muir: Behold the deeds of Vishnu, through which this intimate friend
of India has perceived the established laws.
Wilson: Behold the deeds of Vishnu, through which (the worshipper) has
accomplished (pious) vows: he is the worthy friend of Indra.
I think it should be read,
Vishttofr karmdtti pacyata, know the operations (the efficient action) of Vishnu;
yato vratdni pa^pase, whereby he has given effect to, has accomplished, has been a
party to, acts of worship.
And Vishnu is here styled Indrasya yujyafy sakhd, "the intimately united
with, or the closely united twin-brother, of Indra," on account of the
intimate union between light and heat.
The twentieth and twenty-first verses speak of the parama pada of
Vishnu, which both Wilson and Muir render by "supreme station."
If pada meant "foot" or "footstep" before, it means the same here. It is
the third and highest stage, step, degree or term, of that action or operation,
whatever it was, of Vishnu, by which the sacrifice was made effectual, i. e.,
was made to reach the stars.
This "supreme station," Wilson has it,
the wise ever contemplate, sadd pa$yanti sdrayafr, as the eye ranges over the sky.
Dr. Muir's reading of the first clause is the same. Sfirayafy is "the Sages,"
from Suri, S&rya, the sun the root being svar, "thesun, splendour, heaven."
And these Sages are SArayafy, because they are stars that shine in the sky.
And they do not contemplate, but know and have perception or intuition
of this last stage or step in the process by which Vishnu makes the sacrifice
and worship effectual.
They do or have this, Dr. Wilson says, "as the eye ranges over the sky."
It is, Dr. Muir says (this "station"), "placed like an eye in the sky." The
original is, diviva, chakskur dtatam. Miiller does not give divtva as a form
of <div, dyu or dyo> "sky." Chakshas is "an eye," and chaksh means "to see" :
but also chak and chakas mean "to shine," and dtatam means "effused"; so
that I read this clause, "effused as radiance in the sky."
Finally, in Verse 21,
The wise, ever vigilant and offering praise (or diligent in praise), kindle that, or
amply glorify that, which is the supreme station of Vishnu.
VISHNU 473
So Professor Wilson and Dr. Muir read it. I do not think that the original
means that the station was kindled. The expression is nonsense. Indh
means "to shine," and "to kindle" ; and samindk, Benfey says,
' '
to kindle,"
But, undoubtedly, when the priests (vipraso) kindled the sacrificial fire, they
kindled that which was to cause the last stage, step or term in the action or
operation of Vishnu.
For I believe the three steps of Vishnu to have been, the change of the
Soma juice, cast into the fire, into vapour, the change of the vapour into
invisible spirit or air, and its reappearance as light, on reaching the stars;
during all which steps of the process the heat was deemed to cohere with or
be conjoined with its particles. Or, the three steps may have been the
change of the Soma juice into flame, the ascent of the flame, invisible, and
its reappearance as light, uniting with that of the stars.
In i. 154 and 155, the exploits of Vishnu are glorified, "who made the
three worlds," according to Professor Wilson parthwani vimame rajdnsi,
literally, he says, "he made the earthy regions." It is Sayana who says
that pfithivi is used here in the sense of the three worlds. Mahidhara
suggests that pdrthivdnt rajdnsi may mean "atoms of earth." I take the
phrase to mean,
who poured out the colours of the expanse. [Also, he] sustained the lofty aggregate
site, thrice-traversing, and is praised by the exalted; uttaram sadhastham askab-
hdyat, vichakramdnas tredhd.
Professor Wilson makes it "the lofty aggregate site of the spheres."
Sadhastha, i. e., sadha+stha means "permanent place of abode": and
skambh, "to make firm, create, support." That Vishnu supported the
loftiest or upper abiding-place, stepping three times, means that he
supplied it with light. And it may mean that this highest region is one
of his own abiding places, since heat comes to us from the sun, or that it
is the future (which uttara means, as well as "higher") abiding place of
pious men.
The "exalted" who praise him, are the Sages who have become stars.
In subsequent verses of this hymn, Vishnu is called giri-sfhah and giri-
kshit, which, Professor Wilson says, may mean either "dwelling on high," or
"abiding in prayer or speech." And it is said of him:
in his three paces all the worlds abide; who alone made, by three steps, this spacious
and durable aggregate; whose three imperishable paces, filled with ambrosia, delight
with sacred food; who verily alone upholds the three elements (tridhatu) and the
expanse and sky; in whose favourite path Deva-seeking men delight; that wide-
stepping Vishnu,
in whose exalted station there is a flow of felicity. [And in Verse 6],
We pray that you may both go to those regions where the many-pointed and wide-
spreading rays are; for here the highest station of the many-hymned, the showerer,
shines, great.
474 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Dr. Muir, for the "exalted station" and "flow of felicity/' has "a spring of
honey in the highest sphere of Vishnu"; and, instead of "path" he has
"abode," as the meaning of pdtho. The original of the whole verse is,
Tad asya priyam abhi pdtho a$ydift naro yatra devayavo madanti urukramasya sa hi
landhur itthd Vishnofa pade parame madhvab utsak:
and Dr. Muir reads it,
May I attain to that his beloved abode where men devoted to the Gods rejoice;
for that is the bond of the wide-striding God, a spring of honey in the highest sphere
of Vishnu.
There is no particular reason for holding that the spring up there in the
star-country is one from which honey flows. Madhu is anything sweet,
liquorice, honey, the nectar of flowers, sugar, spirituous liquor, milk and
water. And also it means the season of spring. And it is much more
probable that this upper region, the chief home of the genial heat that causes
production was called by the Poets the fountain of spring and its sweets,
than that it was styled the flow of felicity or spring of honey.
Then, how is the abode of Vishnu his bond? It is true that bandha
means "binding" and "laying snares," but also it means "the body, building,
forming, agreement, union"; and heat may be considered, perhaps, as the
soul of this upper region, and it as the body or home of the generative
potency of heat.
There is, however, another possible explanation. Nara means "a man,"
but also simply an individual, applied to the Deities; and the naro devayavo
mentioned in the first clause of the verse are the stars that once were Sages.
They "rejoice" (madanti) in that abode of Vishnu, but mad means also
"to get drunk"; and madanti may here mean "become intoxicated, or,
exhilarated, with the light derived from the sacrifice"; and this may be
the madhva, whereof that region is a fountain.
That the "three steps" of Vishnu are upward from the earth is evident.
And in Hi. 55. 10, we find,
Vish&ur gop&b paramam pdti pdthah priyd dhdmdni amr.itti dadhdnah; Vishnu, the
preserver, guards the highest abode, occupying the delightful imperishable regions.
The "ambrosia," in v. 4, according to Wilson, is the sacrifice, transmuted
by the fire, and ascending to the sky, to invigorate the Devas. Tridhdtu,
i. e., tri+dhdtu, in the same verse rendered "the three elements", which
Vishnu is represented as "upholding," does not mean earth, water and light.
Dhdtu means, it is true, "a primary or elementary substance"; but also any
constituent part of the body; and tridh&tu, Benfey says, means "three-fold."
Here it means the one expanse, composed of three parts.
VISHNU 475
In i. 155, Indra and Vishnu are "the two invincible Deities who ride upon
the radiant summits of the clouds." And in verses 3, 4 and 5, we find it
said that Indra' s mighty virility makes parents capable of generation and
enjoyment,
whereby, in the upper region of the sky, the sun has an inferior and superior appella-
tion, and a third of father.
The original of this last clause (which Professor Wilson says is very obscure) is,
Dadhatt putro avaram param pitur ndma trittyam.
DM means, among other things, "to bear, carry, get" ; and the phrase seems
to me, literally, to mean,
the son bears (or, receives) a lower and higher name, and the father a third one
(i. e., one higher than the higher of the others).
Probably the words "in the upper region of the sky" should follow the rest
of the sentence. There is no difficulty as to the literal meaning of the words
or of the phrase. The only difficulty is to ascertain what the son and father
are. Indra and Vishnu are addressed together in the second verse, and in
this, the third. The name of Indra is in parentheses, his virility being
supposed to be spoken of. But in the next verse the virility of Vishnu is
distinctly mentioned, and it would therefore seem clear that it is Vishnu
who is spoken of in the third; and whatever may be meant by this last
clause, the effects spoken of seem to be ascribed to that virility. Perhaps
the lower name may be "rain or water," the next above, "vapour or cloud,"
and the highest that which produces or causes the vapour, i. e., "heat."
In Verse 4, the virility of that Lord, the preserver, the innocuous and
vigourous, is praised, and he is said to have traversed the three regions with
three wide steps, in different directions, for the. many-praised existence.
And in Verse 5, we have,
man, glorifying, tracks two steps of that sky-beholding [that which reaches the sky];
but he apprehends not the third; nor can the soaring-winged birds.
The worshipper sees the flame and the vapour ascending, the clouds, and
the light of the fire in the air; but the vapour, still ascending, becomes
invisible, and the flame and light also disappear, or are lost in the light that
shines from the sky. The three steps are, clearly, the transformations, in
ascending, of either the flame or the vapour of the sacrifice, or of both.
In i. 156. 3, Vishnu is said to be known by the singers of hymns, "as the
germ of sacrifice" (fitasya garbham), meaning, Wilson says, "born as one
476 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
with sacrifice." Garbha means "foetus, embryo or sprout." Rita is "true,
truth/' Benfey does not give to rita the meaning of "sacrifice." If it
meant that, the heat could well be said to be in embryo in the sacrificial fire.
In v. 3. 3, we have, in Wilson's translation,
For thy glory the Maruts sweep, when thy birth, Rudra, is beautiful and wonder-
ful: the middle step of Vishnu has been placed, so thou cherishest the mysterious
name of the waters (pa$i guhyam ndma gondm).
Pag means "to bind," and go, "cattle, rays, waters," etc. It is impossible
to say what the phrase really means.
It is quite likely that after it had been forgotten that Vishnu was heat, and
when it was no longer known what was meant by his three steps, the texts
In relation to them and to his "stations" were corrupted by emendations
made for the purpose of suiting them to the supposed various meanings.
The only real ground for wonder is, not that the texts are so obscure, but
that they retain enough of the originals to enable us to say with certainty that
Vishnu was heat.
In i. 127. i, it is said that Agni desires for the Devas the blaze of the
clarified butter which is offered in oblation with his flames. And in i.
135,
Vayu, the flame, is invited to come and partake of the food, and the Devas
are said to hold back for him, as the one first entitled to drink: the sweet
effused juices, it is said, are ready for his exhilaration, and for their function,
the Somais offered as his portion among men and Devas. In i. 134. 5, the
Soma juices, for him, are said to be eager for the oblation, eager for the
cloud (showering waters).
As the flame of the sacrificial fire conveyed both the butter and the Soma
juice to the stars, it is most probable that the three steps of Vishnu were the
transformations of these into flame by the heat, and then into somewhat
invisible, that continued to ascend, and to which the heat was supposed
still to cohere.
PARJANYA,
Dr. Biihler, quoted by Dr. Muir (. 142), holds Parjanya to have been
decidedly distinct from Indra. He says,
Taking a review of the whole, we find that Parjanya is a God who presides over the
lightning, the thunder, the rain, and the procreation of plants and living creatures.
But it is by no means clear whether he is originally a God of the rain, or a God of
the thunder.
He inclines, however, to think, that from the etymology of his name, and the
analogy between him and Perkunas, the Lithuanian God of thunder, he was
originally the thunder-God. In another essay, his conclusion is, that he was
the God of thunder-storms and rains, the generator and nourisher of plants and
living creatures.
That is to tell us, not what he is, but what effects he produces.
In vii. 102. 1, Parjanya is called "the son of the sky," divas putrdya. In
w*. 52. 16, he is conjoined with Agni (Agniparjanyau), and in several places
with Vata, the wind (Parjanya-v&td, Vdtd-parjanyti).
Benfey has
Parjanya (and incorrectly paryanya) probably $phurj, for old sparj +ana+ya, a
rain-threatening cloud, rain, the Deity of rain.
But sphurj means "to thunder.
1 *
Spliur, from which it comes, is "to
tremble, palpitate, struggle, break forth, flash, shine, sparkle," and (Vedic)
"destroy/
1
Benfey derives from it the Anglo-Saxon spurnan, and the
Greek c-pupup, the Latin sperno, which have no relation to rain or thunder,
and OTciptt, "sow/
1
<nrp/ia, "seed," and er7ropa<r, "scattered, dispersed."
And he thinks that the Latin spargo is from the old form sparj. As spargo
means "sprinkle, scatter/' sphurj and sparj must have meant "to rain," to
be identical with it.
On the whole, etymology proves of little use here. The texts may serve
us more profitably.
In v. 83. i to 10, Parjanya is addressed and lauded as follows:
Laud Parjanya; the procreative and stimulating fructiier, resounding, sheds his
seed and impregnates the plants. He split? the trees, he destroys the Rakshas; the
whole creation (ngoam bhuvanam) is afraid of the mighty stroke; even the innocent
man flees before the vigourous God (vr.ishwyfaato: wish, 'to rain, shed, moisten,'
perhaps
;
to engender'; vrishti, 'rain'; vtishan, 'raining, a bull, a horse';
478 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
'passionate, angry'; yava, Velocity/ from j&, 'to push on, impel/ If the word
means *vigourous,' it is the vigour of virility. It seems more probable that it means
'rain-impelling
1
), when Parjanya, thundering, smites the evil-doers (ditshkzitab).
Like a charioteer urging forward his horses with a whip, the God brings into view
his showery scouts. ['God* has no equivalent in the original] .... Parjanya
charges the clouds with rain. The winds-.blow; the lightnings fall; the plants shoot
up; the sky makes fruitful; food is provided for all creatures, when .Parjanya,
thundering, replenishes the earth with moisture; Parjanya, before whose agency
the earth bows down (yasya mate Prithivi namnamfoi, 'before whose law Prithivi
submits') ; by whose action plants are, of every form, grant us thy powerful pro-
tection (mahi QO,rma,j great blessing). Grant to us, Maruts, the rain of the sky.
.... Come hither with this thy thunder, our divine father (asurak pitti), shedding
waters. Resound, thunder, impregnate, rush hither and thither with thy watery
chariot. Draw on forward with thee thy opened and inverted water-skin; let the
hills and dales be levelled. Raise aloft thy great water-vessel, and pour down
showers: let the discharged rivulets roll on forward: moisten the sky and expanse
(dy&vd-pzithiw) with fatness; let there be well-filled drinking-places for the cattle.
When thou, Parjanya, resounding and thundering, dost slay the evil-doers, every-
thing here rejoices, and whatever lives in the expanse. Thou hast shed down rain:
now desist: thou hast made the waterless deserts fit to be traversed; thou hast
generated (produced) plants for food, and thou hast fulfilled the desires of living
creatures.
In vii. 101, Parjanya Is represented as the ruler or proprietor of all
living creatures (Yo vigvasya jagato devafy $ge. It represents all creatures,
and the three spheres as abiding in him, tasthus tisro dy&vafy ;
that in him
is the life of all things, moveable and stationary; and he is called, in ix. 82.
3, the father of the great leafy plant, Soma.
What Parjanya does, is plain enough. He causes thunder and rain.
But what he is, is another thing altogether. He is a Deva, an Asurah, and
the son of Dyaus. Mtiller agrees with Biihler, that Parjanya is cloud. I do
not believe that the names Asura and Deva were ever applied to clouds.
I return again to etymology, and find that Benfey, who has given
several Greek and Latin words as cognates of sparj, which clearly are not so,
has furnished one that is identical with it, STTCUPO?, "palpitate, vibrate,
tremble"; and under sphur we find spharaya, "to cause to flash";
visphurita, "tremulous, shaken"; visphur,"to tremble, to glitter," and for
the root itself, "to flash, shine, sparkle"; and partic. sphurita, "trembling,
glittering, shining, quivering, throbbing."
One would hardly, at first sight, identify the Latin fulgeo, fulgur, as
identical with sparj, sphurj in Sanskrit. The latter form, with u, is prob-
ably the older, as it is found also in the Latin, which greatly affects the u.
Thus the Greek words a^eX^co and apices become mulgeo and ursus: and
the Sanskrit a changes in Latin into u and sometimes o in a multitude of
words ; e. g,, makshika, musca; nabhas, nubes; vanas, venus; marmara, murmur;
manda, miwdus; nava, novus; agnata, ignotus; anj, ungo; vam, vomo;vach,
PARJANYA 479
voco; akshi, oculus. The change of the Sanskrit r into I in Latin is not
common; but it sometimes occurs, as in prich, parch, plecto; prikta, plexus;
ruch, luceo, lux. The Sanskrit p rarely changes into / in Latin; but it
does so in fiuo, from plu; and in the root under consideration p and ph
(=/) are both found in Sanskrit.
Moreover, Benfey has sphal and spul, as originally=sphur, and as mean-
ing "to tremble, throb,
"
from which sphalaya means "to strike, crush."
Fulgeo, Latin, means "to flash, lighten, glitter, gleam, glare, glisten,
shine"; and fulgor, fulgur, "flashing, lightning/
7
or, rather, "vibrating,
zigzagging lightning."
I think it very clear, therefore, that Parjanya is Indra, the light,
manifested and personified as the lightning.
ADITI, DITI, DAKSHA.
Aditi is an object of frequent celebration in the Veda, and yet the,
commentators utterly disagree as to what she was or represented.
She is supplicated for blessings on children and cattle; for protection
and forgiveness.
In Rig-Veda *. 113. 19, Ushas is styled "the mother of the Devas, and
the manifestation of Aditi" (mdtd devdndm Aditer anikam): Miiller
translates Aditer anikam by "the face of Aditi." In numerous texts, she is
styled "devi": in ii. 40. 6, the irresistible devi (devi, Aditir anarvd); the
luminous, the supporter of creatures, the celestial" (jyotishmatin Aditim
dhdrayat-kshitim svarvatim) ; the widely-expanded; the friend of all men.
In v. 69. 3, the Rishi says :
In the morning I continually invoke the Deva Aditi (denim AditM), at midday, at
the setting of the sun.
Her gifts, pure, unassailable, celestial, imperishable and inspiring veneration,
are supplicated; and the large blessings conferred by the Maruts are
compared to the beneficent deeds of Aditi. In w. 55. 3, she is styled Pastya,
which Roth understands to mean a household Goddess. I cannot find that
meaning for it, nor any root from which to derive it, except $pa$, "to
embrace."
She is invoked as the great mother of the devout, the mistress of the
ceremonial, the strong in might, the undecaying, the widely-extended, the
protecting, the skilfully-guiding Aditi.
Bohtlingk and Roth take the word Aditi to mean, among other things,
infinity, especially the boundlessness of heaven [the sky], in opposition to the
fmiteriess of the earth, and its spaces.
This signification they consider to be personified in the Goddess Aditi. In
his illustrations of the Nirukta, Professor Roth had understood the word to
mean "inviolability," "imperishableness" ; and whenpersonified as a Goddess,
to denote eternity, her sons the Adityas being the sons of eternity, and the
solar and luminous Gods, Varuna, Mitra, Aryaman, Bhaga, etc., being
pre-eminently the eternal Deities; as light was regarded as the immaterial
and eternal principle.
In his essay on the Highest Gods of the Aryan Nations, he says:
Aditi, eternity, or the eternal, is the element which sustains and is sustained by the
Adityas. This conception, owing to the character of what it embraces, had not in
ADITI, DITI, DAKSHA 481
the Vedas been carried out into a definite personification, though the beginnings
of such are not wanting .... This eternal and inviolable principle, in which the
Adityas live, and which constitutes their essence, is the celestial light.
And Professor Miiller says (Trans, of Rig- Veda i. 230):
Aditi, an ancient God or Goddess, is in reality the earliest name invented to express
the infinite; not the infinite as the result of a long process of abstract reasoning,
but the visible infinite, visible by the naked eye, the endless expanse, beyond the
earth, beyond the clouds, beyond the sky.
I do not understand how the endless expanse, beyond the sky, can be
visible to the naked eye. We must remember that to the Vedic Poets, the
sky was what it is to children, a solid vault, overarching the earth. If they
conceived of anything beyond it, they could only have conceived of it as
empty space, certainly not of it as having any potencies or influences to
affect themselves, not as a being, a thing or a power, or as an actuality.
Neither do I believe that the Vedic Poets adored a deified infinity or
eternity, or the infinite or the eternal, any more than they did the fixed and
firm, fixedness and stability (by words equivalent whereunto they designated
the earth), or largeness or extension, because they designated the expanse
between sky and earth (or the earth) by the epithet Prithivi; To adore was
to ascribe powers and influences unto that which was supposed to possess
them.
inii. 25. 3. Td Mdtd m$vavedasd asurydya pramahasd mah$ jajdna Aditir
titdvarf [which Dr. Muir translates]: The Mother, the great, the holy Aditi,
brought forth these twain (Mitra and Varuna), the mighty lords of all wealth,
that they might exercise divine power.
I do not think that rtoar? means "holy." Its ordinary interpretation is
"true/' or "possessing truth"; but it means "real," "actual," "possessing
reality." Nor do I think there is anything about "exercising divine power"
in the text. The "vigvadevas" are all the heavenly bodies together. Asura
is said to mean "eternal" in the Veda; but it meant "burning" or "shining,"
or merely "existing," according to the root from which it came. Pramahasa
is "very resplendent."
vwi. 47. 9. May Aditi defend us, may Aditi grant us protection, she who is
the mother (mdtd), of the opulent Mitra, of Aryaman, and of the sinless Varuna
(mdtd Mitrasya revato Aryamiio Varuvasya cha anehasafr).
Anehas, according to Benfey, means "without a rival." I can find no
derivation for the word that will make it mean "sinless." Benfey gives,
-
also recant, i. e., rayivant, "wealthy." Rayi is "wealth"; and raya, "swift,
impetuous."
482 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Jajana, rendered "brought forth," in the former passage, is the redupli-
cated perfect of the rootjan, from which "Genesis, generation, gigno, genus,
7i7j>oAicu," etc., come, and means "to produce," as well as "to give
birth to." Mata, "mother," is that which "produces," as well as "that
which gives birth to"; and also means that in which anything begins to
exist one of its meanings being "space or aether.'
'
In H. 27. 7, Aditi is styled rdja-putrd, "the mother of kings" ; in Hi. 4. 1 I ,
su-putrd, "the mother of excellent sons"; in viii. 56. II, uqra-putrd, "the
mother of powerful sons"; in ii. 27. i. the epithet rdjabhyab, "kings," is
applied to all the six Adityas there named.
The original meaning of the verb raj is "to shine." In the Rig-Veda
it is used in the sense of "to govern." Indra and the moon were called rdja,
which means "a king, master, one of the Kshatriya caste." Rajd-pntrd, in
the oldest sense, meant "shining issue, children, or sons." Su is "good,
beautiful"; ugra, "very strong."
All these epithets, Dr. Muir says, obviously have reference to Varuna and
the other Adityas as her offspring.
In via. 90. 15, Aditi appears to be described as the daughter of the Vasus
(duhitd vasfindm) the sister of the Adityas (svasd aditydndm), and mother
of Rudras (mdtd rudrdndm) .
x. 63. 2. All your names, ye Gods (devafy), are to be revered, adored and wor-
shipped; ye who were born from Aditi (ye sthajdtdfr Aditer), from the waters, ye who
are born from the earth (ptithivyds).
x. 63, 3. Those Adityas .... to whom their mother the sky, Aditi (or, the
infinite sky), towering to the empyrean, supplies, etc.
The original of "the sky, Aditi," or "the infinite sky," is, here, dyaur aditir.
The words Dyaus and Aditi are similarly united in v. 59. 8: mimdtu dyaur
aditify, etc. Dr. Muir says,
Professor Muller takes aditi in x. 63. 3, as well as in v. 59, 8, for an adjective, meaning
'unbounded* : but we should have thus to tak&Adtoi in different senses in two adjoin-
ing verses. In Verse 2 of this hymn, Prof. Muller himself takes Aditi as signify-
ing the Goddess.
In x. 49. 2, we have devatdb divas cha, gmas cha, apdm cha, "the Devas,
offspring, jantavah, of the sky, of the earth, and of the waters." And in
vii. 35. n, the Devas are classed as divya, pdrthiva and apya: in Verse
14 of the same hymn, as divya, pdrthiva and gojdta; and in vi. 50. 11, as
divya, pdrthiva, gojdta and apya. In x. 65. 9, Parjanya, Vata, vigourous,
shedders of rain, Indra, Vayu, Varuna, Mitra and Aryaman are all styled
devdn Aditydn, and said to be, ye pdrthivdso divydso, apsu ye, "terrestrial (?),
ADITI, DITI, DAKSHA 483
celestial, from the waters." Dr. Muir renders devdn Adity-dn, "the divine
Adityas." Originally its meaning certainly was "celestial Adityas," or
"Adityas of the sky."
Dr. Muir is puzzled by these classifications of the Devas. He tells us
that Sayana explains gojdta as Pfi$nerjdtdh, "born of Prigni," and that Roth
explains it as meaning the Gods of the starry heavens. But go means the
earth, and then how is it that there are a class pdrthiva and a class gojdta
together, if pfithiv'i also means the earth?
Even if we suppose [Dr. Muir says], that in the preceding passages it is intended
to identify Aditi with the sky, this identification is very far from being consistently
maintained in the hymns. And it is equally difficult to take the word as a con-
stant synonym of the earth.
In Hi. 54. 19, Aditi is invoked, with pfithivi dyaiir, the water (utapalf)
and the sun with the stars (Sdryo nakshattmir) and the wide atmosphere
(antariksham) : in v. 46. 3, Indrdgnt Mitrdvaruiw Aditim svafy prithivim dydm
Marutafy are invoked: in vi. 51. 5, father-sky (dyaush pitafy), mother Prithivi
beneficent, brother Agni, the Vasus, with all the Adityas and Aditi : in ix. 97.
58, Mitra, Varuna, Aditi, Ocean, Prithivi and sky: in x. 36. 2, sky and
Pfithivi, and Aditi, mother of Mitra and Varuna (Aditifc mdtd Mitrasya
Vamnasya) : in x. 63. 10, Pnthivim Dydm, and the sheltering and guiding
Aditi.
In v. 62. 8, Mitra and Varuna are invited to ascend their car, of golden
form at the break of dawn, with iron supports at the setting of the sun,
and thence ye behold Aditi and Diti (atas chakshdthe Aditim Ditifh cha).
Roth translates these two words by "the eternal" and "the perishable."
But in his Lexicon, he describes Diti as
a Goddess associated with Aditi, without any distinct conception, and merely, as
it appears, as a contrast to her.
Dr. Muir says, that Aditi may here represent the sky and Diti the earth;
or, if we are right in understanding the verse before us to describe two dis-
tinct appearances of Mitra and Varuna, one at the rising and the other at the
setting of the sun, Aditi might possibly stand for the whole of nature as seen by day,
and Diti for the creation as seen by night. At all events, the two together appear
to be put by the Poet for the entire aggregate of visible nature.
Diti is also mentioned alone, in vii. 15. 12, as conferring what is desirable:
and in w. 2. n, Aditi and Diti occur together, and Roth renders them by
"wealth" and "penury." Elsewhere he considers Diti to be a personification
of liberality or opulence; i. e., he derives the word from the verb dd, "to give."
484 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
But I think it indisputable that Diti and Aditi are opposites, the a
prefixed in the latter name meaning negation or privation, like our prefix un.
And I think it equally clear that Diti is from another verb dd, meaning
"to cut/' whence dita, fern, diti, "cut-off," and that Diti means, literally,
"the limited," and Aditi, "the unlimited or unbounded." The latter, I
think, is the concave which bounds and limits the earth; and the former,
the earth so limited.
As to what is said about Mitra and Varuna, connected with sunrise and
sunset, it is easily explained by the fact that one of these was the Morning
Star, and the other the Evening Star.
Dr. Muir says:
Perhaps Aditi may best be regarded as a personification of universal, all-embracing
Nature, or being, with which she is in fact identified in the following remarkable
verse. She is the source and substance of all things, celestial and intermediate,
divine and human, present and future. [What then is Diti? Nothing?] Aditi
is the sky (dyaur); Aditi is the air (or intermediate firmament antariksham);
Aditi is the mother and father and son (Aditir mdtd sa pitd so, putralf); Aditi is
all the Gods and the five tribes (ui$ve devdfy Aditik panchaj mdb) ; Aditi is what-
ever has been born; Aditi is whatever shall be born (Aditir jdtam Aditir janitvam).
In vi. 51. n, Aditi is .invoked, along with Indra, the earth, the ground
(kshama), Pushan, Bhaga and the five tribes (panchajanAft) to bestow
blessings. So in x. 53. 4, 5, "ye five tribes, welcome my offering" ; in x. 55. 3,
pancha deval?,, the five Devas, are mentioned; and in x. 60. 4, "the five
tribes in the sky" (divfoa pancha krishfayafy} . Some of the old commentators
understand by the five tribes the Gandharvas, Pitris, Devas, Asuras, and
Rlkshasas. Manu thinks the phrase means the whole pantheon, or a
particular portion of it.
Jana, originally "creature," i. e., what is born or produced, means "man
collectively, men, crowd, man individually, class, set," etc. But of what
the five classes are, there is nothing that can inform us. The commentators
know nothing about it.
Benfey gives antariksha, i. e., antar+ iksh+ a, "the sky"; but antarik-
shaga, moving in the air, "a bird." Antar means "within"; antara, "the
interior, interval." Antariksha, therefore, is not the air or atmosphere,
but the space in which it is.
Benfey says that the conception of Aditi "is still dark." Regnier that
she is "a personification of the all, the mother of the Gods."
[In i. 24. 1], who shall give us back to the great Aditi, that I may behold my
father and my mother? .... the divine Agni, the first of the immortals, he shall
give us back to the great Aditi, that I may behold my father and my mother.
ADITI, DITI, DAKSHA 485
'That I may behold" (drigeyam). D?iQ means "to see, behold, declare,
acknowledge, know." "That I may behold my father and my mother" is,
pitaram cha d?i$eyam mdtaram cha. I do not see that the word "my" is
necessarily in the translation. "That I may see the father and mother," or,
"that which both generates and produces." Dr. Muir suggests that these
are heaven and earth. Why may they not be applicable to- Aditi? She
is elsewhere said to be father, mother and son.
Agni is invoked, that he may "give back" the worshipper to Aditi
(ko no mahyai Aditaye punar daf). D& means "to give, grant, bestow,
return," etc. Agni is fire, and the light included in the fire. I think the
meaning is,
who will, by removing the darkness, enable us to see the sky, the generator and
producer?
Benfey thinks that Aditi here is a proper name, and explains it as denoting
"sinlessness." It would not be more absurd to undertake to spiritualize
Ushas into an abstraction. One wonders, indeed, that no one has thought
to do that.
Undoubtedly, Dr. Muir says,
Aditi is in many other texts connected with the idea of deliverance from sin.
He instances the following:
i. 162. 22. May Aditi make us sinless (anagastoafh no Aditi^ krinotu). [Agas
means 'crime, fault, sin.
1
The an prefixed means 'without.']
i. 24. 15. Varuna, loose from us the uppermost, the middle and the lowest
bond. Then may we, Aditya, by thy ordination, be without fault (an&gasafa
against Aditi.
Other passages cited by Dr. Muir ask to be made free of sin, and
pardoned for sins or faults, against Aditi, by Agni, by the help of Savitri;
that Aditi, Mitra and Varuna will be gracious, if any sin has been committed
against them ; that, through the ordinances (vratdni) of Aditi, the worshipper
may be without sin towards Varuna; that Aryaman and Agni will sever
from him any sin he has committed; and that Mitra, Aditi and Savitri will
declare him sinless (andgdn) towards Varuna. Similar petitions are else-
where addressed to the sun, dawn, heaven and earth, and to Agni.
It is difficult to conceive of any other possible fault against most of
these, than that of omitting to sacrifice to them.
In other parts of the Veda, Aditi is represented as playing a subordinate
part.
486 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
In vii. 38. 4, she is mentioned as celebrating the praises of Savitri, along
with her sons, Mitra, Varuna and Aryaman, and welcoming his aid; and
in viii. 12. 14, she is declared to have produced a hymn to Indra.
I have before referred to Rig-Veda x. 72, a hymn of comparatively late
date, in which Daksha is said to have sprung from Aditi, and Aditi from
Daksha, produced by him, and being his daughter.
Of the eight sons of Aditi [it is said here], who were born from her body, she
approached the Devas with seven, and cast out M&rtt&ijda, the eighth. With
seven sons Aditi approached (upa prait, upa pro, ait} the former generation (p^rvywfft
yugam). She again produced Mtotiijda, for birth as well as for death.
It is uncertain what was meant by M&rtt&nda. Benfey gives Martanda,
i. e., Mritanda+a, "the sun," "a hog"; and Mritaiida, "the father of the
sun." Mri means "to die" ; mrita, "dead, death" ; mritaka, "a dead body" ;
mriti, "death." On the other hand, from mfid, "earth," we have m?ida
and mrittika, "earth." Professor Miiller explains Mdrttdnda, briefly, as
"addled egg"; and the Hindu commentators say that it means
one in consequence of whose birth the egg had become dead ; [one called so] because
born when the egg was dead; [one] undeveloped into any distinctions of shape.
Dr. Muir quotes these, but offers no suggestion of his own.
All this leaves us wholly uninformed as to what was really meant by this
eighth son of Aditi. Miiller says that it cannot be supposed that the seven
planets were known to the Vedic Poets, even 1,000 years before Christ. I
do not think that Mercury and Saturn were known as planets to the most
ancient Poets; but I think they were known to those who composed the
hymns of the eighth, ninth and tenth Mandalas.
Whatever Aditi was, the Adityas were luminaries; and they were finally
considered to be seven in number. In Rig-Veda ii. 27. i, we have a list of
six names only: Mitra, Aryaman, Bhaga, Varuna, Daksha and Amsab.
In vi. 50. i, we have Aditi, Varuna, Mitra, Agni, Aryaman, Savitar, and
Bhaga: but Aditi could not have been one of the Adityas, supposed to be
her own progeny.
May not Mfirttfiiida have been the earth, which, having no limits to the
ancients, could not have had a definite shape; and which may have been
called dead, as not shining or emitting light and radiance?
In x. 5. 7, is an interesting text, which, if it could be properly understood,
might help to possess us of the Vedic idea embodied in the names Aditi and
Daksha. It is, as translated by Dr. Muir:
(a principle) not existing (actually), but existing (potentially) (asach cha sack cha)
in the highest heaven, in the creative potency of Daksha, and in the womb of Aditi
ADITI, DITI, DAKSHA 4S7
-Agni (became) in a former age the first-born of our ritual, and is both a vigourous
bull and a cow.
Professor Miiller's translation of the first of these verses is:
Not-Being and Being are in the highest heaven, in the birthplace of Daksha, in
the lap of Aditi.
Janman is translated by Muir, "creative potency''; by Miiller, "birth-
place"; upasthe, "womb" by Muir, and "lap" by Miiller. The former
means, according to Benfey, "birth, production, sowing, planting, father, a
creature." The words that in other languages come from jcm, show that its
primitive meaning was "to beget." The latter word, according to Benfey,
means "lap," and "the male and female organs of generation."
I think that the former word means here "the generative potency," and
the latter, "the productive capacity." So, in the Hebrew writings,
unbegotten descendants are in "the loins" of their ancestors. The reference
here seems to be wholly to Agni. Achach cha sack cha, "existing and not-
existing," i. e., latent and not manifested, as when he is in the wood from
which he is to be generated by friction, he is in the loins of Daksha and in
the conceptive organ of Aditi, to be begotten by one and produced by
the other. In a former age or period (dyuni), he was the first-born
(prathamajdft) of "our ritual" (ritasya). So Dr. Muir renders the last
word; but I hardly think it means that. Ritu means "order, right time,
a season of the year, the season approved for sexual intercourse." The
primary meaning of prathama is "first, primal, primary." Is not the
meaning here, that Agni was born at the beginning of things, the first-
born, at the beginning of generation and production?
Agni is, it is said in this hymn, vrishabhas cha dhenufy. Vfish means "to
rain, shed, moisten, to engender and to have power." Vrisha is "a bull"
(as a type of the generative energy, originally); and vrishan is "a bull or
horse." Vrishaya means "the testicles"; and vrishabha is "a bull," and
as the latter part of compound words, "pre-eminent, excellent." Dhenu,
i. e. ? dke+nu, is "a milch-cow," and "the earth," from dhe, "to suck, to
drink, to suck in, to absorb." The true original meaning of the two words
is, that Agni both emits and absorbs the seed of generation; but this
grosser meaning had changed into that of generator and producer, or,
simply, male and female.
There may have been a reference, in this, to that generation and pro-
duction, as it was regarded, with two pieces of wood, by means of which the
sacred fire manifested itself; but the principal meaning, couched in the
figurative language, no doubt was, that Agni produced from himself,
generating within himself, and producing outwardly, his hypostases or
488 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
subsistences, his issue and progeny, Indra, Vishnu, Vayu, Ushas, and the
rest light, heat, flame and the golden glories of the dawn.
We find here identically the idea, which, developed, became that of
Brahm, separating himself into Brahm and Maya, and begetting and
producing his progeny, the three persons of the Trimurti: and in the male-
female nature of Agni, the Hu-Hi, He-She of the Hebrews. And here, also,
in this figurative and symbolic expression, "the bull and the cow," is the
origin of the sanctity and creative potencies, in the Brahmanic and later age
ascribed to the bull, as well as that of the Grecian fables in which the bull
bears a part.
In x. 72. 2, we have, according to Professor Miiller:
In a former age of the Gods (devdndm pdruye yuge) Being was born from Not-Being
(asatak sat ajayata); [according to Dr. Muir:] In the earliest ages of the Gods, the
existent sprang from the non-existent.
In Verse 3, the same is repeated, changing purvye to prathame.
Sat, sant is the present participle of as, "to exist, to be." Sat means
"being, existing/' and, as a noun, "entity." Asat is "non-entity."
In the same hymn, Verse 5, it is said that after Aditi was born from
Daksha, the propitious (or excellent) Devas were born, who possess
immortality.
x. 64. 5. Thou, Aditi, dost tend the two kings, Mitra and Varuna (rdjdnd
Mitra- Varuya), after the production and by the will (janmani vrate) of Daksha.
vi. 50. 2 the resplendent Devas, the sons of Daksha (Daksha-pitr.tn)
[or, possessors of powers], who have two births (dvijanmdno), are holy, true, celestial,
adorable, and have Agni in their tongues (Agni-jihvdfr, organs of his utterances).
These Sflrya is asked to visit in sinlessness (andgastve). As neither sin
nor sinlessness can be imputed to Sflrya, the sun, the use of the word
andgastve here satisfies me that I guessed rightly, in the work to which this
is a supplement, that the word or words in the Veda, rendered by "sin"
originally meant "losing one's way." And it seems plain that here the
invocation to the sun is, that without wandering from his path he will
punctually return to the sky, and visit the stars there, the sons or progeny
of Daksha.
vii. 66. 2. Which two wise Devas (i. e., Mitra and Varuna), the mighty sons
of Daksha (Daksha-pitord), the Deities (asuryaya), have established to exercise
divine rule.
In these texts the general opinion seems to be that Daksha is not the
name of a Deity. Roth assigns to dakshapitarafy the sense of "preserving,
possessing, bestowing powers." Dr. Kuhn approves this. Miiller trans-
ADITI, DITI, DAKSHA 489
lates the word by "fathers of strength." And Dr. Muir reads in the alter-
native, "possessors of strength/'
In Rig-Veda ii. 27. i, Daksha is named with Mitra, Varuna, Aryaman,
Bhaga and Amsa, as an Adityah.
Professor Miiller (Rig-Veda i. 230), after saying that Aditi meant the
visible infinite, adds:
That was called A-diti, the un-bound, the un-bounded; one might almost say, but
for fear of misunderstandings, the Absolute, for it is derived from diti, 'bond/ and
the negative particle, and meant therefore originally what is free from bonds of
any kind, whether of space or time, free from physical weakness, free from moral
guilt. Such a conception became of necessity a Being, a Person, a God. To us
such a name and such a conception seem decidedly modern, and to find in the Veda,
Aditi, the infinite, as the mother of the principal Gods, is certainly at first sight,
startling. But the fact is that the thoughts of primitive humanity were not only
different from our thoughts, but different also from what we think their thoughts
ought to have been.
"Unbound" and "unbounded" have nothing of meaning in common
with each other. If diti, in Aditi, means "bound," it did not originally
mean bound by bonds of any kind, of space, time, weakness or guilt. The
ideas which such words originally express, are always simple ones. The
more complex ideas are annexed to them long after they begin to be in use.
After a time, they obtain figurative meanings, very different from the simple,
actual fact which they at first announced. When the word that means
"circumcision" was first used, and. for a long time afterwards, nobody
thought of the "circumcision of the heart." It was a long time after any
people had the word that meant "blind," before they used the phrase
"blindness of heart." These meanings are the creations of the imagination;
and diti originally meant, simply, "tied" by a rope, cord, etc.
Neither do I see how the word "untied" (for that is the synonym of
"unbound") could ever come to mean "infinite." One verb dd undoubtedly
means "to bind, to tie"; and, with the preposition sam, its participle of the
perfect passive is samdita, "tied." But another verb dd and do, means
"to cut"; and its participle of the perfect passive is also dita, "cut off."
A part is limited and bounded by separating it, cutting it off, from the
whole; and aditi, derived from that verb, really means "unbounded,
unlimited, limitless, boundless." A "section" of country is so much cut off,
from secare, "to cut."
The original conception of Aditi was, therefore, I think, not at all that
of the Absolute, or of any freedom from bonds, but only of bounds. The
"infinity" -expressed by it was infinity of extent. Nor, indeed, was it infinity,
but only indefiniteness, the Indefinite. If Aditi meant the visible Infinite,
i. e., the Infinite that one sees, it was no infinity at all. No one can see the
490 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Infinite. He may see the Indefinite. But if infinity was meant, it could
have been no other Infinite than that of space; and it is not in the least
"startling" to find it said in the Veda that this infinite or indefinite space
was the mother of the stars, for it simply means that their being commenced
in it, as we say that events are in the womb of time, which is only the repro-
duction in a different form of the saying in the Zend-Avesta that certain
things were born or produced in the Infinite Time.
The thoughts of the Vedic Poets were not as different from ours as we
think. It is only that we do not understand theirs nor analyze our own.
They were not "startled" at the idea that Indra had a mother, because
they did not mean that he was born as a human child is born, any more
than we, when we say that a nation is born, and that thoughts are born in the
mind, and that the Word was the only begotten Son of God, mean that one is
born or the other generated, as a babe is.
The mode, fashion and processes of imaginative thought, of these old
Poets, both of the Veda and Zend-Avesta, were simple enough, and only seem
to us to be different from our own. If we call a spring or fountain an
'
'eye,"
and then invest it with all the attributes of our own eye, we shall do precisely
what the Vedic Poets did. Indra was the light. They represented this
light as a warrior, armed with the flashing thunderbolt, the lightning, and
then invested him with the weapons and armour, and all the characteristics
of a warrior. When they compared a lake or a river to a maiden, they
described the person and the dress of a beautiful girl, bearing the name of
the lake or river. In short, when they personified anything, they let their
fancy run without rein, in investing the person so imagined with all the
attributes and characteristics it could have had, if really such person. It
was doing in words what the Greeks did in marble, when they represented
the Divine Wisdom by the statue of Minerva, and Love by that of Venus;
as we put wings of feathers on our angels. Spenser has so personified in
the true old Aryan spirit, all the human passions.
Proclus argued that place was a body: and Simplicius, discussing this,
and saying that Plato, in his Commonwealth, said that light was place, adds,
For this is the light which is above the empyrean world, and is a monad prior to the
triad of the empyrean, ethereal and material worlds. This light, too, is the first
recipient of the eternal allotment of the Gods, and unfolds self-visible spectacles
in itself to those that are worthy to behold them. For in this light, according to
the Chaldaean Oracle, things without figure become figured. And perhaps it is on
this account called place, rovros as being a certain type, TWOS of the whole mundane
body, and as making this which are without interval to possess interval.
The Vedic Poets had no such notions as these. They had vivid and
fertile imaginations, and with them philosophic ideas; but they clothed
these ideas in the language of the imagination. They said that Agni was
ADITI, DITI, DAKSHA 491
born of the friction of two sticks, and compared this to the act of generation.
Philosophic language would express the phenomenon differently; but the
meaning would be no more plain. Their idea was that the fire existed in
the wood, and was not created by the friction but broughtforth and manifested
by it. Manifestation was birth to them, the production outwardly of the
thing or being; and to a birth, a father and mother are necessary. When we
say that miasma generates fever, and that evils are born of war, we merely
mean that one is caused by the other : but when we say that Time gives
birth to great events, that islands were born of the ocean, or the world born
of chaos, we do not express causation. And if we said that the ocean was
mother of islands, we should express precisely the same simple and natural
idea that the Vedic Poets did,- when they said that Aditi, the sky, was
mother of the stars.
Nor was it unnatural, that when Indra, light, was born, i. e., was mani-
fested and revealed, the sky should pay it homage, "and Aditi produce a
hymn for Indra the king." Varuna and Mitra were "nursed in the lap of
Aditi," and this idea did not "startle" the Vedic Poet, any more than it
startles us to hear said,
La nuitj mere des songes
A la naissance de I'aurore.
II repose dans le sein du sommeil.
Dans le sein de la mort.
Rocked- on the bosom of the deep,
Or
Le vent, r,e fougueux enfant du Nord.
"The children of the desert," and the
r
'sea-born Venus
11
are expressions that
have never startled anybody.
The truth is that all the eloquent pictures in words of th
f
e sensations
produced in the men of the early ages by the marvels of the heavens and of
the phenomena of Nature, are merely fanciful. They were no more
impressed by the wonders of the sky than we are, unless they were of a
nature to alarm them. I never knew an American Indian exhibit any
curiosity in regard to the real nature of the sun, moon and stars. To the
child, they are no more wondrous than the household lamps are; and to the
grown man noticeable only by their real or supposed connection with the
material interests of his daily life. The dawn and sunrise no more impressed
the ancient Aryan than they do us; and "that silent aspect" did not
"awaken in the human mind the conception of the Infinite, the Immortal,
the Divine." These conceptions were the fruits of calm and thoughtful
speculation.
492 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
I am sure that "Aditi" was not originally conceived of as the Infinite, the
visible Infinite, or Infinitude. It must originally have been a mere adjective,
applied indifferently to anything the bounds of which were not visible, or,
as our words "infinite" and "boundless" were, to anything very large; as
amrita, which is rendered by "immortality," meant "long life."
^
After a
time Aditi became an epithet peculiarly applied to space, and then its name,
when it was personified. The figurative language in which the sky and its
stars were spoken of, gave rise to new ideas and notions concerning it and
them, until the one became a potent Goddess, and the mother of the others,
and these others, Gods; and she, with the Adityas, the planets, heard the
invocations of the worshippers, and gave them aid and relief. But the
original character of the Devas and Adityas was never forgotten in the
Vedic times. In iv. 25. 3, we read ^
'
who now chooses the protection of the Devas? Who ask the Adityas, Aditi, for
their light (jyoti)?
Jyut=dyut means "to shine"; causal, jyotaya, "to illuminate"; jyutimant,
"shining."
Professor Miiller says:
We are not justified in saying that there ever was a period in the history of the
religious thought of India, a period preceding the worship of the Adityas, when
Aditi, the Infinite, was worshipped; though to the Sage who first coined this name,
it expressed, no doubt, for a time, the principal, if not the only object of his faith
and worship.
If not in degree, this is at least in kind, a perversion of the meaning of the
Veda like those of the Brahmans. For no Sage coined the name "Aditi."
Whether it meant "untied" or "unlimited," it was originally a word of the
common people, no more coined by a Sage than the words that meant
"black," "white," "long" and "short." And there is no reason whatever
to believe that when the space was first called Aditi, the word meant what
we mean by "Infinite" ; or that at that time space was the object of worship,
or that the infinite was, at any time.
Of the name or word Daksha, Professor Miiller says:
Daksha, in the sense of 'power' or 'potentm,' may have been a metaphysical concep-
tion.
But it may also have been suggested by a mere accident of language, a
never-failing source of ancient thoughts. The name Daksha-pitarafa, an
epithet of the Gods, has generally been translated by "those who have
Daksha for their father." But it may have been used originally in a very
different sense. Roth proves, he thinks, that it originally had the simpler
ADITI, DITI, DAKSHA 493
meaning of "fathers of strength," or, as he translates it, "preserving,
possessing, granting faculties."
In Hi. 27. 9, Agni is called Dakshasya pitaram, the father of strength.
In vi. 50. 2, the shining Devas (su-jyotishafy devdri) are called Daksha-
pitfin. In mi. 66. 2, we read,
Mitra and Varuna, who are of good strength (su-dakshdt exceeding powerful),
daksha-pitara.
And in viii. 63. 10, the suppliants call themselves daksha-pitarafa unless the
accent is wrong, in which case the word applies to the D'eities invoked.
In these passages, Miiller prefers the original and simple meaning of
Daksha; but says,
the fact remains, that in certain hymns of the Rig-Veda (viii. 25. 5), Daksha, like
Aditi, has become a divine person, and has retained his place as one of the Adityas,
to the very latest time of Puranic tradition.
He thinks that if Aditi is looked upon as the Infinite personified,
most passages, even those where she is presented as a subordinate Deity, will become
intelligible.
And he says:
Aditi, in her cosmic character, is the Beyond, the unbounded realm beyond earth,
sky and heaven, and originally she was distinct from the sky, the earth and the
ocean. Aditi is mentioned by the side of heaven and earth, which shows that,
though in more general language she may be identified with heaven and earth in
their unlimited character, her original conception was different. This we see in
passages where different Deities or powers are invoked together, particularly if they
are invoked together in the same verse, and where Aditi holds a separate place by
the side of heaven and earth.
And he quotes the following:
*. 94. 16. May Mitra and Varuna grant us this, may Aditi, Sindhu, Prithivi
and the sky (dyaufy.
i. 191. 6. The sky (dyaufy) is your father, Prithivi your mother, Soma your
brother, Aditi your sister.
vi. 51. 5. In this verse, Aditi and the Adityas are invoked, with sky,
the father (dyaub pitar) ,
Prithivi mother, Agni brother; all invoked together,
with all the shining ones (vigve sagoshdfy), unless sagosh&b is connected with
dditydfy.
In x. 63. 10, the well^protecting Pr.ithivi, the unrivalled sky, and the
well-shielding Aditi, the good guide, are invoked: in #. 66. 4, Aditify dydvd-
pfithivi, Aditi, sky and Prithivi.
494 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
In x. 36. i, we have, in one and the same verse, dydvd kshdmd, and
dydvdprithivt. Kshdmd means ''enduring, durable, the earth" (of course,
as "stable, fixed, permanent"). In Verse 3 of the same, Aditi is called
the mother of Mitra and Varuna.
Of Aditi as mother, Professor Miiller says:
In this character of a Deity of the Far East, of an Orient in the true sense of the
word, Aditi was naturally thought of as the mother of certain Gods, particularly
of those that were connected with the daily rising and setting of the sun. If it was
asked, whence comes the dawn, or the sun, or whence come day and night, or Mitra
and Varuna, or any of the bright, solar, eastern Deities, the natural answer was
that they came from the Orient, that they are the sons of Aditi.
Where the passage was effected from "the visible Infinite, the Unbounded,"
'
'to the Orient," as the meaning of Aditi, I have not discovered. Certainly,
one of these things is very different from the other. I do not find that Aditi
is mentioned before, as a Deity of the Far East. How is the Infinite a
Deity of the Far East, in particular, or any more than of the Far West, or
Far North, or Far South?
And it is quite evident that this question of source, origin or starting
place could only be asked of something that the questioner saw. The
"Gods," and Mitra and Varuna, and the bright, solar, eastern Deities, must
therefore have been simply heavenly bodies.
we. 74. 3. Wide is the space for him who goes on the right path of Aditi: urvt
gdi'titify aditeh %itam ydte.
It is uncertain, I think, whether the translation is right urvi, fem. of uru,
means "large," and gav&ti, "a pasture-ground": and also unA means "the
earth." Rita is "true, truth, just"; and yd, "to go." What is "the right
path of Aditi"? Who is it goes on it, and how? And what is the meaning
of a wide space or pasture-ground being for him?
'
We have already seen that in i. 89. 10 (final) , Aditi is Dyau and antariksha,
generator, producer and progeny or issue; all the Devas are Aditi, the five
families, the produced and the to-be produced. Miiller thinks that no
passage occurs in the Rig-Veda, where the special meaning of heaven or
earth is expressed by Aditi. He thinks it does not mean sky, in x. 63. 3,
but is either a masculine, meaning Aditya, or an epithet, "unbounded" or
"immortal." And in i. 72. 9, we should read, he thinks,
the wide Aditi, the mother with her sons.
And in the passage, i. 24. i, where he reads,
who will give us back (kah puna]} ddt) to the great Aditi, that I may see father and
mother?
ADITI, DITI, DAKSHA 495
He says it is more difficult to determine whether Aditi is not used in the
sense of life after life, or as the name of the place whither people went after
death, or of the Deity presiding over that place. And he thinks that
we may choose between the two meanings, of "earth" or "liberty," and
translate, either,
Who will give us back to the great earth? [or], Who will restore us to the great Aditi,
the Goddess of freedom?
If Aditi had really, at first, only the meaning of "sky," it probably
came afterwards to mean the whole space not occupied by the earth. Even
when it meant only the former, it must have been regarded as the place of
production of the Devas, and, it would seem from this verse, if correctly
translated, of men, or of the intellectual portion of man, also. But punar,
an adverb, not only means "back," but also "again, in an opposite way,
but, on the contrary, nevertheless." And Muller says (Rig-Veda i. 251) :
Nothing is more difficult in the interpretation of the Veda, than to gain an accurate
knowledge of the power of particles and conjunctions. The particle chana, we are
told, is used both affirmatively and negatively, a statement which shows better
than anything else the uncertainty to which every translation is as yet exposed.
Punafyt in the text may not mean, and probably does not mean, "back" or
"again," in the sense that the worshipper had been once before at the place ;
but back to the beginning of things.
However that is, and accepting punafy as meaning "back," may not the
meaning of the sentence be this?
Who will return us to, take us back, to the great Aditi, the source of production of
all things where I may see the generation and production of things?
That is, is it not saying, in the form of an interrogation, that it is not possible
for one to penetrate into the. great womb and source where all things are
generated and produced, and to see the process of the generation and pro-
duction, that is, the origination, of things?
Of "the very prominent moral character of Aditi," Professor Muller says
that we can understand how she came to be considered as delivering from sin,
if we watch the transition which led from a purely cosmical conception to a moral
one, of Aditi.
And that transition, he thinks, was, that sin is conceived of in the Veda as a
bond, rope or chain confining the sinner; and this naturally suggested the
idea that A-diti, the un-bound or un-bounded, was one of those Deities who
496 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
could best remove the bonds of sin or misery. If we once realize this con-
catenation of thought and language, he thinks, many passages of the Veda
that seemed obscure will become intelligible.
And, reading anagali-tve aditi-tve, in M. 51. I, "guiltlessness and Aditi-
hood," translating these words literally, in order to make their meaning
quite clear, he says that dgas has the same meaning as the Greek "tryos,
"guilt, abomination" ; an-dgdstva, therefore, as applied to a sacrifice or to
the man who makes it, means "guiltlessness, purity." Aditi-tva, Aditi-hood,
has a similar meaning, it means freedom from bonds, from anything that
hinders the proper performance of a religious act. It may come to mean
"perfection" or "holiness."
There is hardly any limit to the transmutations of meaning of words.
When sin was once called a bond (and "the bonds of iniquity" is an expres-
sion familiar to our ears), one free of bonds was free of guilt, crime and
wrong, if the expression was meant in that sense, and as the condition of
being unbound is that of freedom, it might mean holiness or perfection,
since these are freedom from sin.
But how could all this be derived from the idea of unlimited extension,
of the Infinite in extent? The Untied is not the Infinite. There is no
connection of sense between the two phrases ;
nor is there between the words
"unbound" and "unbounded."
The idea of power in Aditi to assist in trouble, to give wealth, to forgive
errors, could not have come from the idea that it was free from guilt and sin,
because unbound. The atmosphere and sky and wind are free of sin and
guilt, also; but the idea of their potencies did not come from that mere
negation.
The Greek word
tf
a/yo$ is from the verb "afco, "afojuat; and it means "ven-
eration, propitiation, etc."; and this word (in English letters "hagos"
is also said in the dictionaries to mean crime. The Greek word given by
Miiller, as meaning "guilt, abomination," is not hagos, but "ayos, agos,
which is from (ryco, "lead, rule, etc." and means "leader."
The whole sentence is thus translated by Professor Miiller:
May the quick Maruts listen and place this sacrifice in guiltlessness and Aditi-hood.
What this means is not clear to me. The original, with the corresponding
English words, as given by Miiller, are,
ADITI, DITI, DAKSHA 497
Agas, in Benfey, is "crime, fault, sin." Its derivation is not given, and
he does not refer to any passage in the Veda, wherein it occurs. Agatva, i, e. ,
d+ga+tva (verb gam), "concern," i.e., "concern with, having something
to do with"; dgati,i.e., d+gam+ti, "arrival, concern"; agama, "arrival,
occurrence, stream, knowledge, sacred science, a precept, etc." Gam means
"to go, to move, to turn to, to pass." Also the verb gd means "to go ," and
"to come," "to undergo." With d prefixed, it means "to approach," and
"to befall."
Agas, no doubt, originally meant "to go astray, to lose one's way," i. e.,
"not to go to the place intended."
The suffix tva forms abstracts from adjectives and substantives; such as
am?itatva, "immortality"; nagnatva, "nakedness"; bahutva, "multitude."
Bopp, Section 834.
Turdsdh (in Benfey), i. e., turd+ sdh, a name of Indra and of Vishnu.
Turaga, turamga and turamgama, each mean "a horse." Tur means "to
hasten"; and, as an adjective, "hastening," and "a warrior"; tur, "to go
quick, to hurt," and "swiftness." Is it not possible that turdsafy meant
"riders, as swift ones, horsemen"; and that this was the origin of the name
of the Turanians, in the Zend-Avesta?
Dadhatu is from dhd, "to put, grant, confer, generate, undertake, carry,
bear, nourish, preserve, get, undergo, and show."
I venture to suggest this reading of the sentence: the worshipper, in the
first part of the verse, had asked the favour and protection of the Adityas;
and now adds:
May the swift ones (the horsemen, or the Acvins?) hear, and maintain this sacrifice
in orderliness and completeness:
i. e., that it be duly ordered and regularly performed, without deviation
(going astray from the regular formulas of procedure) ,
and not diminished
or cut short.
In i. 24. 5, the prayer is,
O Aditya, let us be in thy service (vrM, work, devout act), an&gasafa Aditoye: [and
in v. 82. 6] May we, andgasab Aditaye devasya Savitufy save, obtain all good things.
Miiller renders andgasafy Aditaye, "free of guilt, guiltless, before AditL"
Roth translates Aditaye, in the latter verse, by "freedom" or "security."
Devaya Savitub save, "in the keeping of the God Savitar." Mutter. I think
that save means "a sacrifice," or "sacrificial ceremony"; and that the
prayer is not that the worshipper may be free of guilt or guiltless, but may
without irregularity or omission perform all the ceremonies of sacrifice.
So, in i. 162. 22,
498 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
May Aditi give us sinlessness, andgdfr tvam nah Aditifc krinotu, the last word mean-
ing 'do, make, perform/ etc.
I think the real meaning of an&gdfy is "regularity or order/' perhaps in the
course of Nature. So the sin (agafe), committed through thoughtlessness
(forgetfulness) against Agni, in iv. 12. 4, I believe to be omissions of duty
in the details of the sacrifice to him.
Aditi, like all the other Vedic Deities, was the giver of wealth and health,
and was implored for these and for protection. She was asked to protect
the cattle, to give happiness, to drive away enemies. She is asked to bring
Rudra's favour, and is called the milch cow that gives food to the true man,
who offers to the Gods. She is invoked to grant light, and is called
"luminous or shining" (jyotishmati) ,
and svarvati, "resplendent.
"
She is
said to support the earth and is styled "all production."
In two passages we find the words dyaufy aditib together. Here Miiller
thinks it an adjective meaning "unbounded." In iv. I. 20, it is said of Agni,
vigueshdm aditilji yajniydndm, which Mtiller renders "the freest among all
the Gods."
The original meaning of ddksha, from a Vedic verb daksh, meaning,
according to Benfey, "to act in a satisfying manner," "to be strong/'
"to act quickly," "to go or move," was either "strength" or "motion/*
The adjective daksha has not the meaning of "strength," according to
Benfey, but those of "clever, able"; and ddkshya is said by him to mean
"ability, skill."
The fire for the sacrifice, when the Vedic sacred songs were composed,
was procured by means of friction produced by motion, the motion produced
by strength. A flat piece of wood was laid upon the ground, and a sharp
pointed stick, set upright upon that, was made by the hands of the priest to
revolve rapidly, until heat enough was generated to set on fire the piece of
wood underneath. To the imagination of the Aryan Poets, this operation
was a veritable generation and production, resembling the animal act, the
upright stick representing the male organ, and the flat piece of wood the
female one.
Thence Agni was said to be the son of Daksha, of motion, produced by
strength. And when the active and acute Aryan intellect began to
speculate in regard to the origin of the material world, and of the lights of
the sky, the idea of Being, produced by motion, strength or energy, was
transferred to that field of thought, and Daksha was said to have produced
in space the heavenly bodies, through which Agni manifested himself as
Indra, the light. And this was the first real idea of a Veritable God, i. e., of
a Creative Energy; which they did not attempt to define. Nor, indeed were
their ideas certain and definite as to this: for Aditi was said to have sprung
from Daksha, and Daksha from Aditi. They were not certain whether
ADITI, DITI, DAKSHA 499
energy or motion was the First Cause, or itself caused by a First Cause.
But it is at least certain that the general idea was, that Aditi was the mother ;
not the mother of Daksha, but of the Adityas, the sun, moon and three
known planets.
There is great uncertainty and dubitation, it will have been seen, as to
the real personality of Aditi. Its etymological lineage is doubtful, and
whatever meaning is given it that ascribes to it locality, some other and
well-known word contests its claim. There are other names for the sky
or heavens and the expanse or firmament.
The chief attribute of Aditi seems to be production. It is the great
Mother, and it continually reminds us of our own quasi-Deity, "Mother-
Nature," the Isis of the Egyptians. It will be seen hereafter, that in
Book x, of the Rig-Veda, where the beginning of things is described, a vast
mass without form and in darkness is imagined, upon which, at length, the
creative energy brooded, and from this commerce the first germ of thought
and of being began.
We cannot wink so hard as not to see that the ancient thought, always
and everywhere, explained the origin of things by generation. We have
already seen the creative potency of Daksha spoken of, his generative
energy; and the productive capacity of Aditi, janman and upadihe, the
originals of the lingo, and yoni of the Brahmanic age.
Benfey gives, as a meaning of daksha, in the Parasmaipada, "to act in a
satisfying manner"; and in the Atmanepada, "to be strong." These are
Vedic meanings. Other certain meanings are, "to act quickly, to go or
move." Ddkshya is "ability, strength." Daksha is "clever, able, suitable."
The derivative meanings, as found in words formed from daksh, lead us to
suspect that it had other meanings that became obsolete. Dakshiya means
"clever, right (side or hand), south, southern, upright, honest." Dakshind
is "a good milch cow," That the right hand was called dakshiya is
explainable by the fact that it is the stronger and more the instrument of
skill, than the left. But how it came to mean "southern" and "south" is
not so easily understood. Was it once an epithet of the sun; and if so, of
him as generator? I think so; and that daksha originally meant the genera-
tive energy, as well as other strength. Aditi was either space, imagined to
be the womb wherein daksha causes impregation and the birth of things, or
the uncreated, which the ancients with like indefiniteness, called "Nature."
I think that Aditi was, as an abstract, that capacity to produce; and that
it came to mean, specially the womb of Nature, space, in which an unknown
masculine energy generates all things. As the unbounded, it specially meant
the space below the sky, and as that, was the mother of the planets.
Sometimes it was conceived of as containing in itself both the generative
and conceptive and productive potencies.
500 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
If one were to ask us what we mean when we speak of "Nature" or
"Mother-Nature," "Nature, the Great Mother," "the forces of Nature,"
we should find it as difficult to reply, as we do to explain what our ancestors
meant by Aditi. The definition of one of the words will define the other.
Dili is undoubtedly from da; and the meanings of other roots nearly
identical may serve to indicate its original meaning. Dhd means "to
generate, to carry, bear and nourish." Dhita and hita are participial forms
of this verb. D2 means "to shine" ; whence didhita, "light, splendour," and
dtdht, Vedic, "to shine"; dtp, "to blaze, shine"; dtpti, "splendour' '; and dah,
originally dagh, "to consume by fire."
But fire, light and heat are not the original creative or generative power.
Agni himself is born, generated in the great bosom of Nature: and of this
original generation, that of the sacrificial fire by friction was always a
symbol, and the virile member and female womb symbolized the great
potencies by which that original generation was effected.
Mitra, Varuna, Aryaman and the other Devas are called sons of Daksha.
So the Hindu commentators explain Daksha-pitard, and in this they are
clearly right. For we find that Mitra and Varuna are not only called the
"strong sons of Daksha" ($&n& Dakshasya sukratu), but also the "grandsons
of mighty strength" (napdtd $avaso mahafy). Qavas (Vedic) means "power,
strength"; and here, I think, Daksha is clearly the generative energy, father
of Agni whose sons the planets are.
Various epithets are applied to the Adityas, by which name Mitra,
Varuna and Aryaman only are in general intended. They are Quchayah,
"shining, resplendent, white" ; hiranyaydfa "golden" ; dhdrapfitdb, "observing
purity, pure or causing purification, or absolving"; avrijindb, "without
wickedness" (from vrij, "to bend," whence vrijana "crooked" ; and probably
the real meaning of the epithet being "unswerving"); anavadydb, "blame-
less"; rittodnab, "possessing truth" (but probably the original meaning of
Tita is better preserved in the Latin ratus, "fixed, firm, stable, sure, certain,
unalterable"); kshattriydfy, "rulers"; arishfdb, "unharmed, victorious";
uravab, "great, or protectors" ; gdbhirdb, "dwelling in the depth" ; asvapnajafr,
"sleepless"; animishdb, "unwinking" (which plainly indicates that they are
planets, as not twinkling like the fixed stars, by which peculiarity they were,
no doubt, first distinguished from them); bh&ryakshdb, "many-eyed";
dfrghadhiyab, "far-knowing"; dfyitavratdb, "steadily working," or "with
uniform motion."
They support or maintain and preserve things, both moving and
stationary. They see the good and evil in men's hearts, and know the
sincere from the deceitful; for that they are worshipped implies that they
ADITI, DITI, DAKSHA 501
know when they are sincerely worshipped. They are true and worshipful,
and hate falsehood, and punish nonobservance of ceremonial rites; and
they give protection, length of life, offspring, guidance and light.
For it is Agni that is adored in adoring them. Their light is the
manifestation and outshining of himself and Indra; and light is the very life
and being of ajl things: it gives health, makes things real by making them
visible, enables men to find their way and not wander and stray from the
right paths, and enables them to labour and earn wealth : and light is the
good of the universe, as darkness is its evil.
The Morning Star, large and brilliant in the clear, pure atmosphere,
announced to the worshippers that this darkness was about to flee routed
away, and casting long lines of light upon the tremulous waters and the
grass sparkling with dew, seemed to their imagination to come down and be
present, by that light, at the sacrifice that awaited the first blushes of the
golden dawn : and from the still bosom of the lake or the deep waters of the
stream, the orb itself smiled upon those who seemed to be its favourites.
The Evening Star remained after the sun had set, to delay the coming of
the darkness, and seemed to promise the worshipper protection. Unfailingly
returning at the appointed time to him who watched and waited for them
to appear, they seemed incapable of deceiving, and human truth was but
the likeness of their faithfulness. Their calm, grave stateliness, and the
ever-benignant regard with which they looked on men and their affairs, gave
the idea of power, of self-reliance, of judicial impartiality, of kindliness and
of protection, and for the unfortunate, of grave sympathy and compassion.
And we, their descendants, still love these beautiful wayfarers of the
unfathomable depths of heaven, and look anxiously for and welcome their
coming. To him who, waking before the dawn, waits upon the great plains
for its coming, or qn the ocean, marks the hours that pass wearily, by the
slow progress of the three glittering Kings of Orion, nothing gives such
comfort and content as the rising of the Morning Star above the far horizon
of land or water with promise of the glorious coming of the dawn and of the
renewed life of the world. For, darkness is death, and silence and oblivion,
and "Light is the life of men," in the most literal and sober sense of the
words; and it is still to us, as it was to Plato and Philo and to St. John and
Paul, the Very Effluence of the God.
MITRA AND VARUlsfA.
One is grateful to Dr. Muir for quoting what is said by Sayana and other
Hindu commentators, in regard to the specific personality of Mitra and
Varuna, since nothing more is needed to disillusionize one who imagines
that these perveiteis of the meaning of the Veda can be of the slightest aid
towards its true interpretation. They make Mitra to be the God over the
day, the sun, theproducer of the days, the ruler of the terrestrial world; and
Varuna the representative of the night, the ruler over it, one who envelopes
like darkness, 1Jhe producer of the night, the setting sun, who by his
departure creates the nights.
All this is mere nonsense. The setting sun was not conceived of as a
distinct individuality, that could be the object of adoration. To say that
Mitra was the God that presided over the day, leaves the question wholly
unsettled, which God or what orb he was. What is that Varuna that
envelopes like darkness? What was Varuna, who produced the night; that
by his departure creates the nights?
The explanation of the whole blunder is very simple. Mitra was the
Morning Star, a.nd Varuna, the Evening Star. Read the commentaries
with that key.
The Mithra of the Zend-Avesta also was the Morning Star; and therefore
it was that Mitra was said to have been a Persian female Deity; for the
Morning Star was Venus, and Varuna was the royal star of the evening,
Jupiter.
I cite the following passages, from those collected by Dr. Muir:
Rig-V. * 25. iS. I beheld him who is visible to all; I beheld his chariot (ratkam)
upon the ground (kshamfi.
Ratha is (in Benfey) "a car, a war-chariot, any vehicle, a foot, and the
body." JRathd is "the itame of a river"; patra-ratha ("witog or feather
chariot") is "a bird." The word is derived from fi, "to go, to go to, to
undergo, to rise, move, raise, open." Dr. Muir precedes this citation with
the remark that
Varuna is, sometimes at least, visible to the mental eye of his worshippers.
The word rendered 'T beheld," is dargam, as that rendered "visible" is
dargatam, both from the verb d?i& which means "to see, behold, look at,
inspect, look upoa, search, discover, learn and know," and means actual
seeing with the eyes. The noun kshami means the actual solid earth or
ground. And the "chariot" of Varuna is the long trail of the light of the
MITRA AND VARUNA 503
Morning Star, lying upon the ground. It is perfectly clear that the Poet
speaks of an actually visible luminary, and of some particular one.
Originally the Evening Star, when his individuality was not known, Varuna
had become, long before the Vedic times, the planet Jupiter. We find that
in Greece also, the Morning Star was at first supposed to be all the time the
same star, Venus.
mi. 88. 2. When I have obtained a vision of Varuna, I have regarded his lustre
as resembling that of Agni (Agner antkaffi).
Here also actual sight is spoken of; and the worshipper regards the radiance
of the planet as being the very presence and manifestation (anika, face) of
Agni. fkh means "to go/' as fj does also, and Ay, I and /. Ikh has the
same meaning: and an means "to breathe, to blow, to live." Does not
a?rHamean, then, the breathing forth or flowing forth; i. e., the effluence
or emanation from Agni?
He is arrayed in golden mail, surrounded by his spies (or outlookers, the
stars), and, potent and punctual, sits in his station, exercising sovereignty.
Dr. Muir translates dhrita-vrato, "fixed of purpose." Vrato means "a
voluntary act, rule, action and work'*: and I think the allusion is to his
undeviating and punctual regularity. The house with a thousand doors, the
palace which he and Mitra occupy, with a thousand columns, is the sky.
Dvdra means "a door, gate* entrance, pass," i. e., the aperture, opening, or
way of either; and the allusion is to the stars as openings through which the
light issues. The columns are supplied by the Poet's imagination; and
Ovid says, "Regia Solis erat subUmibus alia columnis"
Mitra and Varuna are styled "kings," and monarchs of all things.
They, and especially Varuna are often termed Asuras, which Dr. Muir
renders by "divine" ; but which means either "being" or "shining" ;
I think,
the latter. They are designated as rudra, which Dr. Muir renders by
"terrible." The meaning of rudra given by Benfey is "one who roars."
The grandest cosmical functions are, as Dr. Muir says, assigned *to
Varuna. He measures and upholds heaven and Pr.ithivi, and embraces all
the three worlds, for the light that flows from him is the manifestation of
Indra, and it pervades and envelopes everything. He is said to cause the
sun to shine, because when he is the Morning Star he precedes him, and
sunrise follows his rising, as the effect follows the cause. The wind is his
breath, because his potency is that of Agni manifested. He opens boundless
paths for the sun, because he goes before him, on the way that he is to travel.
He sees, beholds and knows various things, because he shines on everything,
and to shine is to see, as we say that the sun and moon look down upon the
earth; and that the stars are the eyes of the sky*
504 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
In short, the expressions which seem to attribute to him divine potencies
and moral qualities, and which came to be so understood, if traced back to
their original and material meaning, and if we can catch and follow the
thread of the poetic Aryan thought, will be found to have had, at the
beginning, a sensible and natural application to him as a planet. The
potencies ascribed to the Soma plant and its expressed juice are equally as
great, and, to our way of thinking, much more extraordinary; and even
these are all capable of explanation, and are perfectly simple developments
of a luxuriant imagination, fettered by no rules and by no consideration of
well-ordered thought, or fear of exaggeration.
In Rig-Veda TO. 86. 3, where the worshipper "seeks to perceive," i. e., is
anxious to know, what "sin" he has committed, and the Sages can only tell
him that Varuna is angry with him, he asks Varuna himself to inform him,
and promises that, freed from sin, he will come to him with adoration. He
prays to be released from the sins (drugdhani, "wrongs, injuries, hurts") of
his ancestors, and from his own; and protests that it was not his will, but
some seduction that led him astray; wine, anger, dice or thoughtlessness, or
even sleep. Evidently it is a wrong done to Varuna himself the omission
of due attention to his worship, neglect or dilatoriness, and even, as it seems,
some error or omission of ceremonial, of which the offender was not
conscious.
In Hi. 59. 1 to 8, the character of Mitra is plainly enough defined. Calling
to men, he causes them to come forth to their labours. He holds (dadhdra)
the earth and sky (prithMm uta dydm), i. e., he fills the sky and expanse
with his light. With unwinking eye he looks upon all creatures. He is son
of Aditi, the great Aditya, who rouses men to their labours, confers benefits
on his worshipper, and is to be approached with reverence. By (or with)
his radiance (mahina, from mahas, "light, lustre"), he transcends the sky:
with his glory (sravobhity the earth (prithivi). rava$ is "renown" from
gru, "to hear"; but there is another verb QTU or sru, which means "to flow,
to let flow, to shed" ; and $r<was, from this, would mean "outflow, effluence,"
and when used in speaking of a planet, "radiance or splendour." As to
pfithivi, I am quite as certain as ever that it originally meant the expanse,
and not the earth.
However it may seem to others, I, looking for the explanations of the
texts of the Veda that are most consistent with Aryan nai'vet6 of thought,
and the simplicity and material character of the primitive meanings of words,
find in this hymn conclusive evidence that Mitra was the Morning Star.
And undoubtedly the reason for the close connection between Mitra and
Varuna, the former being mentioned alone in only one hymn, was that when
one was the Star of the Morning, the other was the Star of the Evening, and
that each was alternately one and the other.
MITRA AND VARUNA 505
Professor Roth says that this dual invocation is preserved in the
Zend-Avesta, in regard to Ahura and Mithra, but that, I think, is a mistake.
He says also that the essential character of the two Gods, Mitra and Varuna,
as distinguished from one another, is nowhere distinctly expressed in the
hymns, and was in fact originally one which could not be defined with
intellectual precision. That too, I think is all an error. But in the fol-
lowing remarks he is near putting his hand upon the very truth ; and that
he did not, is because he looks over the truth, with a preconceived opinion
that it lies beyond. He says :
The stage of religious culture which lies before us in the Rig-Veda, enables us
to distinguish this difference as one already existing, viz.: that Mitra is the celestial
light in its manifestation by day, while Varuna, though the Lord of Light and of
all time, yet rules especially over the nightly heaven. A hymn of Vasishtha (mi.
36. 2) says: 'One of you (Varuna) is the lord and unassailable guide, and he who
is called Mitra (i. e., the friend) calls men to activity.' Here so much at least is
declared (and the same thing is expressed in nearly the same words in other places),
that the light of day, which awakens life, and brings joy and activity into the world,
is the narrower sphere of MitraJ
s power; though, however, Varuna is not thereby
relegated to the night alone, for he continues to be the Lord and the First.
And this curiously hazy and indistinct view of Varuna is then presented:
If Varuna is, as his name shows, that one among the lucid Adityas [What is a 'lucid'
.
Aditya, if not a luminary visible to the eye?], whose seat and sphere of authority
is the bright heaven, in whose bosom is embraced all that lives, and therefore also
the remotest boundary, beyond which human thought seeks nothing further, then
is he also one who can scarcely be attained either by the eye or by the imagination.
By day the power of vision cannot discover this remotest limit, the bright heaven
presents to it no resting place. But at night this veil of the world, in which Varuna
is enthroned, appears to approach nearer and become perceptible, for the eye finds
a limit. Varuna is closer to men. Besides, the other divine forms which, in the
clouds, the atmosphere, the rays of light, filled the space between the earth and
yonder immeasurable outermost sphere have disappeared [Where are the stars?]:
and no other God now stands between Varuna and the mortal who gazes at him.
Dr. Muir thinks that these are "ingenious and interesting observations."
Perhaps they are. If so, the ingenuity is displayed in carefully putting
words together so that they shall sound well and mean nothing. Let the
reader read it once more, and then answer, if he can, the question,
'
'What, in
Professor Roth's opinion, was this God Vanina?" One might as well say
that he was the Gyascutas. What was that "lucid" Aditya, whose seat and
sphere of authority was the bright heaven; whose bosom either was or
embraced the remotest boundary; who could scarcely be attained by the
eye or the imagination; who was enthroned in the veil of the world (dark-
ness?); who comes closer when this veil becomes, more perceptible, and
506 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
every other divine form and ray of light has disappeared; and on whom, so
shrouded in the perceptible and palpable darkness, the mortal eye gazes?
The Vedic Poets had no such vague and hazy imaginings of airy
nothings, less real than impossible monsters seem in feverish dreams. They
well enough knew what their Deities were and what they meant; for they
were neither silly nor insane.
Dr. Muir also has the truth in his hand, and does not know it, but lets it
escape from him, where he considers the identity of the Vedic Mitra and the
Mithra of the Zend-Avesta. There is no doubt, he says, from the correspond-
ence of the two names, that they were originally the same Deity. Dr.
Windischmann, he says, regards it as established, that this God was known,
and common, to the old Aryan race, before the separation of its Iranian
from its Indian branch, though the conception of his character was subse-
quently modified by Zarathustrian ideas. Herodotus speaks of Mitra,
not as a God, but as a Goddess. His words are (*. 131)*
Ourane thuein, para te Assurion mathdntes kai Arabian: Kaleousi de Assurioi ten
Aphrtiditen Mulitta, ArMti de Alitta, Persai de Mitran.
He says that she was identical with Urania.
Max Miiller says, in the Preface (xii.) to his Translation of the Rig-Veda,
Volume I :
I feel convinced that on many points my translation is liable to correction, and will
sooner or later be replaced by a more satisfactory one. It is difficult to explain to
those who have not themselves worked at the Veda, how it is that, though we may
understand almost every word, yet we find it so difficult to lay hold of a whole
chain of connected thought, and to discover expressions that will not throw a wrong
shade on the original features of the ancient words of the Veda. We have, on the
one hand, to avoid giving to our translations too modern a character, or paraphras-
ing instead of translating; while, on the other, we cannot retain expressions which,
if literally rendered in English or any modern tongue, would have an air of quaint-
ness or absurdity totally foreign to the intention of the ancient Poets. There
are, as all Vedic scholars know, whole verses which, as yet, yield no sense whatever.
There are words, the meaning of which we can only guess. Here, no doubt, a
continued study will remove some of our difficulties, and many a passage that is
now dark, will receive light hereafter, from a happy combination.
Undoubtedly it is true that one chief cause of the uncertainty as to the
meaning of words and phrases in the Veda, is, that the meanings which a
multitude of words had, when the hymns were composed, had been lost
When they were reduced to writing and compiled, no one knows how long
afterwards.
If we add to this the resolute persistency of most translators in making
the old Poets talk as men now do, and accept the translator's language as
MITRA AND VARUIJA 507
their own; and the constant use of English words, that, in their present
acceptation misrepresent the Sanskrit words that are rendered by them, and
even have no equivalents at all in Sanskrit, because they express ideas
that then had no existence, or imply knowledge which the old Poets did not
possess, we shall find ample explanation for a large part of the uncertainty
as to the meaning of a great number of Sanskrit texts.
What is most wanted is a Vedic dictionary, the ripe fruits of the long
labours of years and of the most careful study and investigation by an acute
intellect, that shall give the Vedic meanings of all the words, as far as it is
possible to ascertain what they were the later meanings being separately
subjoined.
There is no doubt that very many words have had ascribed to them
meanings entirely wrong, by the mistaking one root for another. The roots
of many words are only recoverable by conjecture, but the Zend, Greek and
Latin derivatives will enable a profound scholar to recover many lost roots,
and correct many established errors in regard to the meanings of words.
Take as an example the word and name Mitra. Benfey gives, as meanings
of the word, "Mittra, commonly written, Mitra, i. e., Mid+tra," i. a Vedic
Deity, referring to the Rig-Veda; 2. the sun (the Panchatantra)-, 3. a friend
(the Rdmdyand) ; 4. an ally. Then he gives us mith, midk, mid and med, as
meaning, I. to understand; 2. to hurt; 3. (Vedic) to rival; and mid, to be
unctuous; to liquify and to love, for which two meanings he admits there
is no authoritive reference; and to rejoice (Vedic).
Then we find Mithas, "mutually, reciprocally, with each other, from
each other, privately"; mithuna, "a couple, copulation, union, the sign of the
Zodiac, Gemini." And Mithyd means "falsely, untruly, feigned, wrong,
what does not concern one." Mittratd is friendship; mittra-yu, "acquir-
ing friends"; mittravant, "one who has friends." So Maitra and Maittra
is "a friend," and also the name of a particular kind of alliance, proceed-
ing from friendship.
In the Vendidad and elsewhere, in the Zend-Avesta, Mithra means
"a promise, contract, an engagement."
There is also a verb md, whose participle of the perf.
pass, is mita, and
which means "to measure," whence miti, "measuring, determining,
knowledge."
It is evident that there is a confusion of roots here, and that it is uncertain
to what roots some of the derivatives are to be assigned. No one root could
have meant, originally, "to hurt, to understand, and to rival." We find no
root from which to obtain the adverbial meanings, "mutually, reciprocally,"
etc.; and yet the meanings "friend" and "ally" must go back to the same
root as the adverbs; and Mithra, a promise or contract must have come
from the same.
508 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The Latin equivalents will often shed light upon the developments of
meaning of Sanskrit and Zend words. I am satisfied that the meanings of
words originally common to both languages, or rather, belonging to the one
language from which both descended, found in the GcltMs or hymns com-
posed by Zarathustra, are older than the Sanskrit meanings; and here I think
that the oldest meaning of Mitra is cognate with that of "promise" or "con-
tract/
1
Now promissio, "promise," in Latin, is from pro+mitto, "send
forward, send forth, send in advance, foretell, etc., cause to expect, give
hope or promise of
1
; and contractus, "a contract," from con+traho, "to
draw or bring together." One contracts by a promise; and from the
meaning "promiser" would naturally come those of "ally," "friend," etc.,
meanings of Mitra in Sanskrit.
I think, therefore, that Mitra is from a root that meant "to promise," and
that the name meant "promiser" because the Morning Star, rising, gives
assurance of, foretokens, heralds a,nd promises the speedy rising of the sun ;
whose friend and ally, also, he was no doubt considered.
i. e., vfi+una, Benfey says; and vara, i. e., v?i+a, "better,
excellent, precious, beautiful, eldest, a blessing, a husband." He thinks
that the Greek 'apauv, "aptoros, came from this. Also, vira, i. e., vri+at
(probably for original vdra, "heroic, strong, powerful, eminent, a hero,
heroism, fire"). As Jupiter is the largest star in the sky, the name
Varuna probably meant "pre-eminent," and caused his common title of
"King Varuna." That this planet bore the nameof the Kingof the Olympian
Gods, also, shows the estimation in which it was held by the Aryan race.
As to the powers ascribed to Varuna, they are the powers of Agni.
In Rig-Veda i. 164. 46, it is said,
They call him Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Agni (or, they call Agni, Indra, Mitra, Varuna) ,
.... Sages name variously that which is but one. They call it Agni, Yama,
Mataricvan (or, they call Agni, Yama, Matericvan).
For the first phrase is, Indram Mitram Varu^am Agnim dhur: and the
second, Agnim Yaman M&tarigv&nam dhufy. The readings in parentheses
agree better with the known character and meaning of Agni, and with
other passages. All Devas are declared to be contained in Agni, as the
spokes of a wheel are in its circumference or circularity.
And this, and what Varuna and Mitra are, are very clearly expressed in
the Atharva-Veda, xiii. 3. 13:
Agni becomes Varuna in the evening; rising in the morning he is Mitra; becoming
Savitri he moves through the air; becoming Indra he glows in the middle of the sky.
MITRA AND VARUlsTA 509
It seems clear, also, that the planet Varuna was regarded as having
control over the rain, and therefore as protector of the rivers which the
rains made to swell and flow. In vii. 49. 2, it is said,
May the waters of the sky, and those that flow (rain and the rivulets), those for
which channels are dug (for irrigation), and those which are self-produced (the
springs), those which are proceeding to the ocean (samudrdithdb; for which I do not
find that meaning), and are bright and purifying, preserve me. May those in the
midst of which Raja Varuna goes, beholding the truth and falsehood of men, etc.
.... May those waters in which Varuna, Soma and all the Devas (mqve devafr)
are exhilarated by food, into which Agni Vaicvinara has entered, etc.
So, in vii. 64. 2, Mitra and Varuna are called Sindhupati, which Dr. Muir
renders "Lords of the sea" (or, "of rivers"). But there is no doubt that
sindhu meant originally "river," and nothing else: and Varuna and Mitra
are masters or lords of the rivers, because they are supposed to control the
rains.
p. 24. 4, 5. Varuyo 'pdm adhipatib, 'Varuna, Lord of the waters': Mitrdvarunau
vrishtyak adhipati, 'Mitra and Varuna, Lords of rain/
The idea of Professor Roth, that
when, on the one hand, the conception of Varuna as the all-embracing heaven had
been established, and, on the other hand, the observation of the rivers flowing
towards the ends of the earth, had led to the conjecture that there existed an ocean
enclosing the earth in its bosom, then the way was thoroughly prepared for con-
necting Varuna with the ocean,
this notion, for it is no more, is hardly plausible as a conjecture. While the
Indo-Aryans remained in the Punjab, where most of the hymns of the six
or seven first Mandalas were composed, they knew nothing about any
ocean, to which the rivers there ran. Sindhu meant a river, and gave name
to the Indus. Samudra, which in later days came to mean the "sea or
ocean," is given by Benfey as sam+ und+ ra. Sam means "with, together,
much, wholly, beautifully." Und is "to wet or moisten"; and udan, i. e.,
und+an is "water." Unless the Indo-Aryans knew something of the
Caspian and Sea of Aral, or unless their ancestors had known them, and
applied the word to these bodies of water, the people of the Punjab could
have had no noun that meant "sea."
But the Indus ran along the western boundary of their country, and all
their rivers fell into it; and the Evening Star set behind and beyond it.
Reflected in the water, it seemed to dwell there; and there is no doubt that
he was supposed to control the rains. Why, it is not easy to say with
certainty. Perhaps because he and Mitra shone by Indra, and he was
510 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
manifested in their light, and he was the great causer of rains. Whatever
its origin, it is certain that the planet Jupiter was supposed to have power
over the rain, and this notion long survived in the name Jupiter Pluvius of
the Latins. Appian (de Mundd) says,
Juppiter didtur etiam Imbricitor (is called shower-sender), et item serenator.
And Tibullus says (Eleg. i. 7. 26),
Arida nee pluvio supplicat herba Jovi.
There are abundant illustrations of Vedic thought in the Latin writers, two
of which I may pause to notice: the chariots, with their wheels, and the
swift horses, of the sun and other Aryan Deities, figure in Tibullus, who says
(Eleg.i. 9. 61.2):
Illam scepeferunt convivia ducere Baccho,
dum rota Luciferi provocet orta diem;
and (Eleg. i. 3. 93. 4) :
hunc ilium nobis Aurora nitentem
Luciferum roseis Candida portet equis.
Professor Westergaard says of Varuna, that
he has, in the later Indian mythology, become God of the Sea, whilst in the Vedas
he appears first as the Mystic Lord of the Evening and the Night.
But the identity which he imagines to exist between Varuqa and the Zend
word, Varena, a name of a country, is merely imaginary.
Professor Mfiller, and indeed all the commentators, identify Varuna
with the Greek Oupaws, used in Hesiod as a name of the sky, "a firm place
for the blessed Gods." Ouranos is said by Hesiod to cover everything, and
to be stretched out everywhere, embracing the earth. And Mailer says
(Chips, ii. 65),
This sounds almost as if the Greek myths had still preserved a recollection of the
etymological power of Ouranos. For Ouranos is, in the Sanskrit, Varuna, and is
derived from a root vor, 'to cover'; Varuna being in the Veda also a name of the
firmament, but especially connected with the night, and opposed to Mitra, the day.
But, as Dr. Muir remarks, the parallel between Ouranos and Varuna
does not hold in all points. There is no relation of husband and wife between
Varuna and the earth, as there is between Ouranos and Gaia; nor is
Varuna represented as the progenitor of Dyaus, as Ouranos is of Zeus.
MITRA AND VARUNA 511
Moreover, Varuna is neither the expanse, sky, firmament or heaven (what-
ever the two latter words may mean, if anything); and Dyaus is the sky,
and husband of Pr.ithivi, if she is the earth.
Certainly Varuna was nothing more than the Evening Star, or Jupiter,
when the Greek Exodus took place, whatever he may have become ages
afterward: and as Ouranos was certainly the sky, one cannot help suspecting
that similarity here is not id'entity ; especially as the Doric form of Oupapds is
'ftpapos. It is true that one of the meanings of vri and var is "to cover";
but some other root is wanted for vara, vtra, virya, and others, in all of which
the original idea of "strong" is included. The Zen,d vairya is from the" same
root, vaira, in Sanskrit, i. e., ifira+a, meaning "heroism," arid vairaya, "to
fight."
ftrvu means "to cover," uru, "large," and uras, "the breast." The Greek
Ouranos may be cognate with these, but I doubt its connection, with Varuipa-
It is noticeable that Varuna means belonging to Varuna; and Vdruyt,
fern., "the West, the region of Varuna." The attribution to Varuna of the
function of producing rain may have been the consequence of the supposed
derivation of the name from vdr, vdri, "water," whence vdrida, "a cloud,"
and vdruyi, "spirituous liquor."
Dr. Muir says (v. 77) :
According to the Greek geographer, Strabo, the Indians, as known to him by the
report of other writers, worshipped Jupiter Pluvius, the River Ganges, and the
Gods of the country. This Jupiter Pluvius was no doubt Indra.
May it not, more probably, have been Varuna?
Varuria seems to have been considered peculiarly the planet of rain.
Thus, in ii. 28, we find,
4 The rivers flow by the power of Varuna: they never weary, they
never stop
5. Cast off from me sin [harm, misfortune, ill-luck], Varuna, as if it were a
rope: let us obtain from thee a channel with water. Cut not the thread of me
weaving pious works r
i. e., thwart not my undertakings in husbandry]; blight not
the elements of holy rites [the productions that are to be offerings], before the
In i. 139. 2, we have,
Mitra and Varuna, bestow abundantly that unenduring water, which you obtain
from the sun, through your own energy; through the inherent energy of the vig-
In v. 68, we have:
2. The Mitra and Varuna who both are sovereign rulers, originators of the rain r
eminent Devas among the Devas.
512 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
3. They two are able, of great terrestrial and celestial riches: great is your
might among the Devas.
4. Rewarding with rain the holy rite, they favour the zealous worshipper.
5. Senders of rain from the sky, granters of desires, Lords of Sustenance. . . .
And, in v. 69. 2:
Mitra and Varuna, the cows are full of milk through you, and the rivers yield
sweet water through you; through you, the three radiant receptacles and showerers
of rain stand severally in their three spheres.
This function, of benefactor of the earth by means of rain, was un-
doubtedly attributed to Varuna and Mitra, on account of their association
with the stars whose appearance before the dawn announced the coming of
the Vernal Equinox. It is somewhat to be wondered at that their planetary
character should ever have been doubted. A single verse completely iden-
tifies them, m. 55. 6:
The child of two mothers [night and day] sleeps in the West: the other infant jour-
neys unobstructed : these are the functions of Mitra and Varuna.
The reference to the Evening and Morning Stars is unmistakable: as it is in
Hi. 61. 7, in the words,
The mighty Ushas, the golden light, as it were, of Mitra and Varuna, diffuses her
radiance in different directions.
SCRYA AND SAVITRI.
Dr. Muir considers Sflrya and Savitri as exact personifications of the sun,
and says,
It is under these two different appellations that the Sun is chiefly celebrated in the
Rig-Veda; and although it may be difficult to perceive why the one word should
be used in any particular case, rather than the other, the application of the names
may perhaps depend upon some difference in the aspect under which the Sun is
conceived, or on some diversity in the functions which he is regarded as fulfilling.
Different sets of hymns are, at all events, devoted to his worship under each of these
names, and the epithets which are applied to him in each of these characters are for
the most part separate. In some few places, both these two names, and occa-
sionally some others, appear to be applied to the Solar Deity indiscriminately; but
in most cases the distinction between them is, nominally at least, preserved.
As we know that Sftrya was the sun, we have by that knowledge a sure
key of interpretation of many expressions which are used in regard to him
and other Deities alike.
He is the vitality (atmcL, rendered "soul" by Muir) , of all those that move
and that are stationary; and their preserver (gopafy, "cowherd, guide?") .
He is the arouser (pravasM, "vivifier," Muir) of men, impartial, or the same
("common," Muir) to all. Sddhdrana, "belonging to many, common, equal,
like, similar"; Prasd, "a mother, a mare"; prasfiti, "offspring, bringing
forth, birth:" prasava, i. e., prasd+a, "bringing forth, being in labour,
offspring, blossom, fruit;" prasavitfi, "father, forefather;" prasavittf,
"a mother."
Sd and su mean "to beget, bear, bring forth"; another verb su, "to
possess power or supremacy"; and another, "to go"; but for these two
there are no authoritative references. There is also another verb s#, "to
cast, send, incite, impel."
Where Dr. Muir translates prasavitd jajdndm, "vivifier of men," I think
it means "arouser, awakener" of them, at rising in the morning. And in vii.
63. 4, instead of "enlivened," I read
awakened by him men pursue their purposes and do their work.
The path of Stirya is prepared, i. e., he is preceded by the Adityas Mitra,
Varuna and Aryaman. His chariot is drawn by sometimes two and some-
times several or seven horses. For his rays are of one colour, white, and yet
when they form the rainbow, they are of seven, no doubt the origin of the
veneration paid to that number.
He sees and beholds, is far-seeing and all-beholding, seeing all creatures
and the good and evil deeds of mortals. He is the eye of Mitra and Varuna,
514 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
and sometimes that of Agni (chakshur Mitrasya Varuyasya AgneV). For
Agni is manifested in his light; and when he rises, the planets that preceded
him shed no light distinguishable from his, and see the world by his light.
Like most other expressions of the Vedas, this of the sun's "seeing"
survives today. The Aryan intellect, thought, imagination and speculation
were the same then that they are now. The race is unchanged, in all its
essential characteristics. We say, as the Greek and Latin Poets did, that
the sun, stars and moon look down upon the earth. Ushas is said to precede
the brilliant eye of the Devas and lead upward the white horse with beautiful
eyes.
In x. 85. I, it is said that the earth is upheld by "truth" (Muir) i. e.,
actuality, reality, existence, being, is self-existent; the sky is upheld by the
sun. He is the radiant chief of the luminaries (devdndm asuryab purohitalf) ,
by his magnitude, or the largest of all. He is identified with Indra, for it is
Indra who is manifested by him: and each of them is Vigvakarman (who acts
in all) and Viguadeva, who is all the luminaries: and in vii. 60. 1, and mi. 62. 2,
Sftrya is prayed at his rising to declare men sinless to Mitra, Varuna, etc.,
i. e., not in fault for adoring him and not them, after they have disappeared
or faded.
"In many passages, however," Dr. Muir says, "the dependent position
of Sflrya is asserted." Plainly because he is sometimes regarded as Indra
manifesting himself, and sometimes as merely the sun, caused and produced
by Indra. Thus he is said to have been produced or caused to shine, or 'to
have his path prepared, by Indra, and by Indra and Soma. But when
similar expressions are used in regard to Sflrya and Ushas, Dhatri, Varuna,
Mitra, and others, the meaning simply is that they precede him, and there-
fore are imagined to cause him to rise. It is even said that the Angirasas,
by their rites or sacrifices cause him to ascend. It is but a figure of speech.
"In passages of this description," Dr. Muir says, "the divine personality
of the sun is thrown into the background; the grand luminary becomes
little more than a part of Nature, created and controlled by those spiritual
powers which exist above and beyond all material phenomena."
The Poets of the Veda had no idea or conception of any
'
'divine person-
ality," in our sense of that phrase. The highest idea that they had in
regard to the sun, was that he was a shining-forth of Indra, the universal
light. If they attributed to Indra and Agni, either as universals, or as
manifested by the sun, moon and planets, potencies and faculties that we
now call "divine," intellect, benignity and others, they attributed these to
the fire and the light, and not to any divine being above them, their creator
or cause, or to a spiritual being, but to fire and light as fire and light, as
these were visible to them and known by them. They knew of no spiritual
powers, existing above and beyond all material phenomena. They
SftRYA AND SAVITRI 515
attributed to Indra and Agni powers purely human, and a purely human
intellect and temper.
I know it may be said that I might show that the original meaning of all
our Theosophic language was material, "celestial" meaning "skyey," and
"spirit, breath," etc., and that as this would by no means prove that
such words have not now entirely other meanings, so the material meanings
of the Vedic words do not prove that they had not higher meanings, as the
words have into which we translate them. And if I were reading the
Bhagavadgtti or Hitopadega, I should give them those meanings, because
that they had them when used there is manifest. But in the Vedic hymns it is
equally manifest that they were not so used; and that the ideas that they
now convey were then unknown. One cannot mistake Agni for God or a
Spirit; nor Ahura Mazda, in the Githis for anything else than God, in our
meaning of that name.
The celestial splendour of Mitra and Varuna is unreal (L e., invisible),
in the sky, when Sfirya moves there, radiant, and a brilliant opponent;
whom nevertheless they by and by hide by clouds and rain. Dr. Muir
translates Mdyd vdm Mitrdvarund divi $rita, "The divine power of Mitra and
Varuna is shown in the sky;" but grita means "fortune, bliss, light, splen-
dour," and Mitra and Varuna do not shine when the sun is high in heaven.
And mdyd means "illusion, unreality."
"Sfirya is declared to be god-born:" but the word rendered by "god-
born" is devajataya, which, like dus-jdta, "miserable" and yathd-jdta,
"foolish, a fool," means merely a Deva, i. e., literally, "born a Deva." Also
he is called divas putrdya, "son or child of the sky;" and is said to have been
drawn by the Devas from the ocean where he was hidden; i. e., induced by
them to rise out of the sea; to have been placed by the Devas in the sky, i. e.,
to have been induced by them to rise into and have place in the sky, and to
have sprung from the eye of Purusha. Puras means "first, before," and
also "the east," or "eastward." Chakshas means "the eye;" and here, I
think, "the opening or window," of the east.
And he is said to have been overcome and despoiled by Indra; who, in
some verses in Mand. i. 4. 5, is alluded to as having carried off one of the
wheels of his chariot; by which was no doubt meant an eclipse, annular,
perhaps, or total, in which Indra withheld his light, and ceased for the time
to manifest himself. One such phenomenon was a demonstration of the
truth of the doctrine that the luminaries are dark bodies, when Indra ceases
to reveal himself through them. Even large spots on the sun might cause
the use of like expressions.
In i. 50, the avant couriers of Sfirya precede him in the sky, seeing all
things and to be seen of all men. Before his rays, the stars steal away like
516 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
thieves; before him, the all-beholding luminary. His rays, that are his
revealing, are seen by all mankind, flaming like fire.
With that glance of thine, wherewith, O Illuminator, O Varuna, thou surveyest the
busy race of men, thou, Sftrya, penetratest the sky, the broad firmament, measur-
ing out the days with thy rays, spying out all creatures.
The words rendered here by "With that glance of thine, wherewith,
O Illuminator," are yena pavaka chakshasd anu. Pavaka, i. e., pd+aka, is
rendered by Benfey "fire." Pti, means "to purify." Chakshasd is the in-
strumental of chakshas, "eye." I do not see why pacyasi should mean
"surveyest/
1
and pacyan, "spying out." Eshi, rendered by "penetratest,"
means "goest, strivest to attain, searchest." And mimdno, in the phrase
ahd mimdno aktubhik, "measuring out the days with thy rays," means
determining their length, in the sense of causation. I do not see how it
could ever have been said that Sflrya searches the sky with that glance of
Varuna's, with which he, Varuna, surveys men.
Pdvaka came to mean, according to Benfey, "belonging to Agni." The
meaning of the verse must originally have been that by that light of Agni
whereby Varuna as its eye viewed living creatures, Sflrya also searches the
sky, measures the days and views all living beings.
Seven mares, of the colour of gold, bear onward in his chariot the much-
seeing Stirya with flaming hair. He has yoked the seven brilliant mares,
the daughters of the car: ayukta sapta gundhyuvafy Suro rathasya naptyafy.
Ayukta, "yoked." Yuj means "to join, connect, put to." gundhyu,
"brilliant," is from $undh, gudh, "to purify;" and Benfey gives gundhyu as
meaning
*
'purifying.
"
What is noticeable here is, that these mares or rays are said to be "grand-
daughters of the chariot ;" and in the next verse svayuktibhih, which Dr. Muir
renders "self-yoked;" it meaning that in their very self they are one, united
by their inherent essence, meaning perhaps that, united, they constitute a
single white light; or else that they are but effluences frdm one and the
same substance of light.
Finally, Sftryais styled in this hymn deva-devatrd a God among the Gods.
Trd is an adverbial suffix, and Bopp (Sec. 991) thinks that it is the origin of
the comparative suffix tara. Perhaps it is the oldest form of that. And I
think that here it means superiority; and as in Hebrew the Kadosh Kadoshim
"Holy of Holies," means "the holiest," so here, I think, the meaning is
"the superior among the Devas;" i. e., the largest of the heavenly bodies.
The root su or s&9 from which the word Savitri is derived, has, it is said
by Dr. Muir, three principal significations: I. to generate or bring forth;
2. to pour out a libation; 3. to send or impel. To the third, add "to
SflRYA AND SAVITRI 517
incite." We have seen what is meant by pra+su; and that pra+savitfi
means "father/' and pra -\-savitri, "mother;" i. e., "begetter" and "bringer-
forth." Dr. Muiradds;
The word prasamtr^ as well as various other derivatives of the root su are intro-
duced in numerous passages of the Rig-Veda, relating to the God Savifyi, with
evident reference to the derivation of that name from the same root, and with a
constant play upon the words, such as is unexampled in the case of any other Deity.
i. 124, 1. The Deva Savitri has incited (prdsdvfd) both men and animals to
pursue their several ends.
i. 157, 1. The Devah Savitri has aroused (prds&M] every moving thing.
In 0. 81. 2, Savitri the Wise (Kavi) is said to put on (or manifest) all
forms. He sends (pr&sMd) good fortune (or happiness) to men and animals.
He illuminates the sky, and shines after the going of the dawn. He alone is
the lord of generative power (prasavasya), and by his movements becomes
Pushan. It would seem from this that Savitri, shining after the going, or
after the path, of the dawn, must be the sun: but anu means "along/*
"like," "according to," as well as "after."
tii. 33, 6. The God (Deva} Savitri has led us (the waters). By his incitation
(praswe), we flow on broadly.
it. 38, 1. The God Savitri has risen to incite us; he who continually so works,
the supporter.
In Hi. 56. 6,,
it is said that three times a day, Savitri sends desirable
things from the sky, and that so also do Mitra and Varuna.
He stretches out his arms in his vivifying energy, establishing and
animating all moving things by his rays. He stretches out his golden arms
to vivify, or impart energy (savanaya) .
He is pre-eminently the golden Deity, being Hran-y&ksha, golden-eyed ;
hiranya-pdni, hira^ya-hasta, golden-handed. Hasta is "hand;" pdni,
Benfey says, is "hand," perhaps akin to par^a, "wing." He is hirayya-
jihva and sujihva and mandra-jihva, golden-, sweet- and pleasant-tongued.
He invests himself with golden mail, or brown or ruddy armour; assumes
all forms, and is yellow-haired or has hair of rays. Luminous of aspect,
he ascends a chariot with radiant, brown, white-footed horses, and behold-
ing all creatures, pursues an ascending and descending way.
Surrounded by a golden lustre, he illuminates the atmosphere, and all
the regions of the expanse. His robust and golden arms, which he stretches
out to bless and to infuse energy into all creatures, reach to the utmost
ends of the sky. Indra, also, is called "golden-armed." Agni is said to
raise aloft his arms, like (or, as) Savitri : The dawns are said to send forth
light as Savitri stretches out his arms: and Mitra and Varuna are suppli-
cated to stretch out their arms.
518 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
He impels the car of the A^vins, before the dawn; is called vigoe-deva, and
bestows immortality on the Devas, as he did on the Ribhus, who by the
greatness of their merits attained to his abode. Of course he dispenses
benefits and blessings, sends food, removes sickness and forgives sins.
It is nowhere expressly said that he is the sun. That can, at the utmost,
only be implied from a very small number of expressions, none of them by
any means conclusive. One is v. Si. 2,
he shines after the path of the dawn (anu praydyam UsHaso).
Praydna, in Benfey, is "going forth, march, going :" and the full moon may
be distinctly seen after the day has dawned, and after sunrise. And he
impels (or directs) the car of the A^vins before dawn; which the sun cannot
be said to do; but the moon, rising before day, and following the twin
horsemen up the sky could naturally be deemed to do.
It more sustains the theory that he is the sun, that he is said to arouse
men and animals, to follow their pursuits as Ushas is said to do. But when
the summer days are excessively hot, and the moon shines clear at night,
men travel by her light, to avoid the heat. The American Indians make
their night-attacks when the moon rises: and I have often, on the plains
and in Mexico, journeyed and marched troops by night.
The sun does not assume many different forms. The moon continually
changes form. The crescent moon may well be said to have golden arms.
The horses of Savittf are white-footed, which those of Stirya are not.
In#. 139. I, we have,
Sdryaragmir harikegak purastdt Savitdjyotir ud ay&n ajasram.
Ra$mi means "a ray of light." So that Savitrf is here said to be "Sfirya-
rayed," i. e,, shining by the light with which the sun, Sflrya, invests him,
and with radiant hair; and thus continually to uplift his splendour in the
east.
In i. 35. 9, he is said to approach or bring Sflrya (veti S&ryam): in'i.
123. 3, to declare men without fault before Sfirya; and in v. 81. 4, to
combine (or be conjoined with) the rays of Sflrya (vita Sfiryasya ra$mibhib
samuchyasL In vii. 66, 4, he is prayed to arouse the worshipper after the
rising of the sun (Sura), along with Mitra, Aryaman and Bhaga, all of which
are planets. This is Dr. Muir's translation. The original is,
Yad adhya Sdre udite andgdfr Mitro Aryamd suvdti Savitd Bhagafy.
Adya, in Benfey, is not "after/
1
but "now, today/' And I venture to think
that the proper rendering is,
StTRYA AND SAVITRI 519
that Mitra, Aryaman, Savitri and Bhaga may now arouse (or awaken) the inno-
cent man, at the rising of the sun.
In vii. 35. 8 and 10, Savitri the Deva and the large-eyed Sfirya are
separately mentioned; as both are mentioned in juxtaposition with Dh^tri
and Vishnu, in x. 181. 3.
In i. 157. I, we read,
Agni has awoke from the earth: Stirya rises: the great and bright Ushas has dawned
with her radiance: the Agvins have put the steeds to their car, to retire; and the
Deva Savitri has aroused all moving creatures.
The texts in iv. 14. 2, and x. 158. I, cited by Dr. Muir, as employing the
two names indiscriminately, to denote the sun, are not by any means
conclusive. And that in i. 124. i, and vii. 63. I to 4, where the functions
generally assigned to Savitri, are ascribed to Sflrya, is of no weight, as the
functions of both are those of Agni and Indra acting through them. In v. 81.
4 and 5, Savitri is represented as fulfilling the proper functions of Mitra and
Pushan; and in v. 82. i and 3 and vii. 38. I and 6, seems to be identified with
Bhaga.
I have not found anything in the additional texts furnished by Dr. Muir,
to unsettle my opinion that Savitri was originally the moon. Savana is the
moon: Sava is the sun, and also the moon; and Savitri means "mother."
The root of all is stL or su. That Savitri came to be understood to be the
sun, perhaps soon after the Vedic period, perhaps long afterwards, is certain
enough: and it was inevitable that the text should be changed, to be in
some degree accommodated to that hypothesis. The single fact that if
Savitri was not the moon, that great and adorable luminary was not wor-
shipped at all, and is hardly mentioned, goes a great way to prove that she
was Savitri, which, also, was then probably Savitri (feminine) meaning
"mother."
PUSHAN.
This Deity, the nourisher, cherisher, augmenter (from push and p&sh,
"to nourish, cherish and augment"), has hitherto proven an enigma to me.
As the reader will have seen, I was not able to come to any definite
conclusion, when the chapters were' written to which this is a Supplement, as
to what Pushan was to the Vedic Poets. And Dr. Muir, after comparing
all the texts, confesses a like inability. He says:
It will appear that the character of this God is not very distinctly defined, and that
it is difficult to declare positively what province of Nature or of physical action he is
designed to represent.
It will assist us in the inquiry, first to determine, if it is possible to do so,
what he cannot be.
The God who conducts men over roads, and protects men while journey-
ing, driving away the wolf, the waylayer, the thief and robber; who makes
paths easy to traverse, and leads people over them to a country of rich
pastures; who carries a spear of gold and a goad with leather-thongs, for
driving cattle; who follows the kine and protects horses, and compels
hospitality to the wayfarer; who brings the cattle home safe, and drives
them back to the owner when they are lost; who has braided hair and is
drawn by goats; who is a skilful charioteer, and drives the golden wheel of
the sun through the clouds, who moves onward, beholding all creatures, and
with his golden ships that sail across the ocean of the air acts as the messenger
of the sun, desiring food and subdued by love; and whom, vigourous and
rapid, the Devas gave to Sfirya; who andSoma hide the hated darkness, and
impel the chariot with seven wheels, that is not all-pervading, that revolves
in all directions, is yoked by the intellect, and shines with seven rays; who
abides in the sky and moves onward beholding the universe; this being is not
"a province of Nature or of physical action."
He is either a potency or particular energy of Indra, or he is a luminary.
He is a radiant Deity. Indra and he are invoked together ; Indra drinks the
Soma, and Pushan desires meal and butter. Indra seeks to slay his enemies
in company with him, his friend. When Indra brought great rains, Pushan
was with him : and they together bring prosperity.
It might seem from this association that Pushan, like Indra, was a
subsistence of Agni, some quality or potency of fire, personified. But no
potency or energy so personified, moves onward, i. e., revolves, looking
down upon the earth and its creatures, or is a messenger of the sun, or lord of
roads, guide and protector of travelers, and restorer of strayed cattle.
PUSHAN 521
That he is the fulfiller of prayers, and the inciter of Sages, promoter of
sacrifices, impeller of chariot-horses, a Rishi friendly to men, and a protect-
ing friend of the wise man, the unshaken friend, born of old, of every suppli-
ant, may consist with either character.
I think that he must be a luminary. He is called the lover of his sister,
and the Poet addresses the husband of his mother; and he is the brother of
Indra. Whether these relationships can be explained is very doubtful.
The functions ascribed to Pushan at once remind us of the Deity whom
the Greeks called Hermes and the Latins Mercurius. Cicero says that
there were five of this name, the first of whom was the son of C<zlus and Lux,
of the sky and the light. The planet Mercury is so close an attendant upon
the sun as to be almost always within the sphere of his radiance, and there-
fore seldom visible. The Mercury of the Poets was the son of Zeus or
Jupiter, by Maia, one and the most luminous of the Pleiades, daughter of
Atlas and Pleione, one of the Oceanides, who had twelve children, which
became the Pleiades and Hyades. Atlas, one of the Titans, was said to
have been King of Mauritania, master of a thousand herds, and to have been
changed into a mountain, running east and west across the deserts of Africa,
and so high that the heavens were said to rest on its summit. According to
Appolodorus, his mother's name was Asia. Others say that Hesperis was
the wife of Adas and mother of the Atlantides.
Mercury was the messenger of the Gods, and especially of Jupiter, as
Pushan was of the sun. He was the patron of travelers, as Pushan was, and
of shepherds. He conducted the souls of the dead, another function ascribed
to Pushan. He was the patron of orators and merchants, and also the
protector of thieves, pickpockets and other dishonest persons, and when just
born, stole and drove away the oxen of Admetus, which Apollo tended : and
was made not only the messenger, but the interpreter and cup-bearer of
Zeus, who presented him with a winged cap called petasus, and wings for the
feet, called talaria. He bore also a short sword called herpe. He invented
the lyre with seven strings, and gave it to Apollo, receiving in exchange the
celebrated caduceus, with which' the latter had driven the herds of Admetus.
He was called Cyllenius, Trikephalos, Agoneus, and by other names. In
Boeotia he was worshipped under the name of Kriophoros, and is represented
carrying a ram on his shoulders. Offerings of milk and honey were made to
him, because he was the God of eloquence.
The caduceus, originally something by which cattle were driven, became
at last a rod, entwined at one end by two serpents, in the form of two equal
semicircles. It is said to have been originally a herald's staff, an olive
stick, with garlands upon it, which were changed into serpents.
Hermes was supposed to effect the universal fecundation, in the spring,
when the celestial ram opened the year, by communicating the solar influ-
522 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
ences to the moon, which, vivifying the germs deposited in her bosom,
produced all living creatures.
By Penelope he was the father of Pan; and this paternity sufficiently
designates him as the God of flocks and herds and pasture-grounds, whence
he received the characteristic epithet of Nomios, pasturer, feeder, distributor,
administrator. At Tanagra, in Boeotia he had two temples, one dedicated
to him as Kriophdros, ram-bearer (from Kpibs, "a ram;" as "horned," from
/c4pas, "a horn") ; the other as, Promachos, defender, champion. It is said
that to win Penelope, he assumed the form of a goat (Lucian, Dial. Deorum).
So his son, Pan, is said to have seduced the moon, taking the shape of a
white ram.
From the caduceus, a rod of gold (rabdos) he was called chrusorrapis
(xpu<r6j5powris) "having the rod of gold;" rdbdos meaning a stick, twig, rod,
staff, etc. This epithet is found in the Homeric hymn to Vesta and Hermes,
in lines 8 and 13. Lines 7, 8 and 9 are:
Kal ffi) pot, *Apyetp6j>Ta, Atos Kal MatdSos vit,
"A77eXe r&v /-caKapcov, Xpu<r6pj&cwrx, Scorop
NaUrc Sck/iara KaXd, <pt,\a
Which Chapman translates
And them that of the adorned-with-all-delights
Art the most useful Angel, born a God
Of Jove and Maia, of Heaven's golden rod
The sole Sustainer, and hast power to bless
With all good all men, great Argicides,
Inhabit all good houses, seeing no wants
Of mutual minds' love in the inhabitants.
So in Rig-Veda vi. 58. i, Pushan is implored that his gifts may be benefi-
cent, as Mercury in Homer is dotor eaon, giver of good things. He is borne
by goats, guardian of cattle, lord of a house overflowing with plenty, and
messenger of the sun: he follows the kine and protects the horses. He
compels hospitality to the wayfarer, piercing the hearts of niggards, pene-
trating them with the prayer-stimulating goad.
In the Hymn to Hermes, Apollo says to Mercury:
I'll make thee
Amongst the Gods of glorious degree,
Guide of men's ways and theirs;
and when Hermes had given Apollo the lyre, he placed in the hand of Hermes
to be his own, a shining goad, and put the oxen in his charge;
PUSHAN 523
And gave again a goad, whose bright head cast
Beams like the light forth;
the rod, which became the caduceus not being given until afterwards.
Not it, but the mastix ph&inos, the shining goad, is the goad of Pushan.
He is also nuktos opopetera, the watchman of the night, and puledoktin,
the guardian of doors. He assists at the birth of all beings, even of the Gods,
and is entrusted with the conduct of souls to the infernal regions. He is the
bringer of dreams, also (i^rojp bvtlpuv). He presides over the principal
relations of men with one another, in matters of commerce and business;
and he shows the road to travelers, and guides and escorts them.
Before the invention of the telescope, Mercury was visible only when
near the sun, and for a short time after his setting or before his rising. But
Mercury was very early discovered by the observers of the ancient nations,
to be a planet; and to them perhaps the most striking phenomena of the
planetary motions were the limited deviations of this planet and Venus
from the sun. There is no doubt that the movements of all the planets, as
soon as they were discovered, were attentively observed and studied. The
Morning Star first attracted attention, and it was adored, by the name of
Mitra or Mithra, before the separation of the Irano-Aryan and Indo-Aryan
branches of the race. And there was no reason why Mercury should not
have been discovered by the Aryan observers, as he was discovered by the
Chaldseans ; for the atmosphere is peculiarly clear at Bokhara and Samarcand
and few vapours dim the sky near the horizon, the consequence being that
even small stars can be seen when only two or three degrees above it.
Mercury is alternately visible and invisible. After being invisible for
several days, he will be seen to emerge from the light about the setting sun,
and will then daily recede from it, toward the southeastern side of the horizon
till the deviation is equal to that which has been observed on the eastern
side of the horizon. Then it returns to the West, is again concealed for
some days in the solar light, then re-appears before sunrise in the east, and
the phenomena are repeated in the same order as before. Venus follows
the same law, except that her deviations are twice as great as those of
Mercury. Macrobius seems to say that the ancient Egyptians supposed
that Mercury and Venus moved round the sun (in Sorun. Scip. Lib. i. Cap.
xioc.). He gives their reasoning thus:
Circulus, perquem Sol discuroit a Mercuric circulo ut inferior ambitur, ilium quoque
Superior Cuculus Veneris indudit: atgue ita fit ut h& du& Stella cum per superiores
circulorum Vertices curuunt, intelUgantur supra solem locates: cum verb per inferiora
commeant circulorum; sol eis superior astimetur, etc.
And Copernicus said that Martianus Capella and some others of the
Latins, existimant enim quod Venus et Mercurius circumervant Solem in medio
524 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
existentem; and gave the reason assigned by them why these planets could
not go to a greater distance from the sun.
Cicero calls Mercury and Venus comites Solis, because they never go
beyond a given distance from him.
Mercury never appears at a greater distance from the sun than
28 48', and seldom so far: and where the twilight is long, he can rarely be
seen with the naked eye. Copernicus is said to have lamented, on his
deathbed, that he had never seen it; and Delambre, a great French
astronomer, saw it but twice.
I think there can be no doubt of the identity of Pushan and Mercury;
and if there is none, the interesting consequence follows, that the planet
Mercury had been observed and known to be a planet in close and intimate
connection with the sun, before the emigration from the cradle of the Aryan
race, of the Grecian branch of it, and of course long before the separation
of the Indo- and Irano-Aryan branches.
How his peculiar functions, of guarding houses, enforcing hospitality,
caring for cattle, and guiding and protecting travelers came to be ascribed
to him, will probably never be discovered. It may be that the cause was
his association with particular stars, when visible in the morning or evening.
Nor can we account for his connection, or that of Hermes, with goats or a
ram.
.
His close association with Indra is explained by his being most of the
time within the bright radiance of the sun. So, rising at times a little
before the sun, he was called his skilful charioteer.
In vi. 58. I, which Dr. Muir reads,
one of thine (appearances) is bright, the other is venerable; thy two periods are
diverse: thou art like the sky,
alludes, I have no doubt, to this planet being alternately visible and con-
cealed. The original is,
Qukrafa te anyad yajatatfi te anyad visMrdpe ahant dyaur ivdsi.
If this has any meaning at all, the translation cannot be correct. Dhyam
jinvo, in the next line, is rendered by Dr, Muir, "inspirer of the soul/'
Dhyai means "to contemplate, think of, meditate on ;" andjwwjis "to further,
to help." Bhuvane vigve arpitafy he translates "abiding within the whole
creation." I do not find arpitafy in Benfey. Rap means "to speak" and
"to praise" (Vedic). Is not arpitafy the past participle passive of it, and the
meaning "praised in or throughout all the creation"? And does not dhyam
jinvo mean "furthering contemplation, or meditation"?
PUSHAN 525
The Greek Hermes was the God of persuasion by eloquence, and the
suggester of shrewd devices and cunning plans.
Moreover, he was considered
as the institutor of divine worship, and the first sacrificer.
Pushan is the nourisher and dispenser of food, blessings, prosperity; and
one of the epithets of Hermes (Iliad, #x 34. 72) is eptou^s, eptoiwos,
"beneficent, greatly useful or profitable." So he is called (Iliad, xvi. 185:
Oduss. xxiv. 10), 'axaxrjra, "doer of no harm;" and elsewhere, *:epa>os,
"astute," and <rxos, "preserver, averter of danger, benefactor, protector,
prosperer, giver of health;" Tro^tXo^r^s, "of varied counsels;" cro^os, "wise;"
and he was the minister, the messenger, and the herald of the Gods.
Pushan is said to have grasped ashtr&m githirdm, which Dr. Muir trans-
lates "his relaxed goad." I do not see how a goad could be "relaxed;" nor
do I find githira in Benfey. fithila is "loose, flaccid, feeble, languid,
ineffective, relaxed," etc. o and gi mean "to sharpen." May not githera
be an adjective, formed from Qi with the suffix ira and the mute th interposed ?
Pushan is a protector or multiplier of cattle; and Hermes took charge of
those of Admetus : each carries the ox-goad ; each is a solar Deity, and accom-
panying the sun, aids in the revolutions of day and night. Pushan is called
kapardin, kaparda being supposed to mean "braided hair." If that is its
meaning, it is simply absurd. The derivation of kapardin is unknown.
Kaparda means a small shell, a cowrie. Kapata is the half of a folding-door.
Kaparda was probably the name of a cap or bonnet, as the petasus worn by
Mercury was a closely fitting cap, with a broad flap, and so called from ^reraco,
"expand, spread out," which may have been the meaning of the root from
which kapata and kaparda came.
As Mercury was called "wise," so Pushan is called purandhi, "wise," and
mantumat, "wise in counsel," and vigvavedas, "knowing all things."
In x. 17. 5 and 6, it is said:
Pushan knows all these regions: may he conduct us in perfect security; blessing,
glowing, all-heroic, may he go before us, watchful and understanding. Pushan
was born to move on distant paths, on the far road of the sky and the far road of
the expanse. He goes to and returns from both the beloved abodes.
In Rig-Veda i. 23. 13 and 14,
the glowing Pushan is prayed to bring hither, like a lost beast, the supporter of the
sky, who is surrounded by brilliant grass; and said to have found the king so desig-
nated, who had been concealed.
"Surrounded by brilliant grass" represents chitrabarhisham of the original
text. Chitra means "visible, clear, shining, variegated, various, fluctuating,
wonderful." Barha and varha is "a peacock's tail;" and the compound
chitra-barha, Benfey says, means "having a variegated peacock's tail." It is a
526 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
prayer to Mercury to rise, and bring with him Indra, the light, glowing and
radiant with all the colours of the rainbow. Roth understands chitra-barhis
to mean "having glittering straw," or, "having around him straw in the form
of jewels;" and Benfey, Dr. Muir says, thinks that Soma is intended, and
renders the word by "reposing on a rich covering." Dr. Muir thinks that
the reference is obscure. If Benfey is right, in his Dictionary, the word
means "radiant with many colours, like a peacock's tail/'
In i. 23. 8, the other Devas are styled Pdshardti, which Dr. Muir trans-
lates into "bestowers of Pushan's gifts" or "having Pushan as their chief
giver.
"
Rdti is "gift, present," but I do not see how either of those
meanings could belong to the compound. It is more probable that the
latter part of it should be rati, without the accent, and that the whole means
"fond of Pushan."
The origin of the Greek legend, that Hermes on the very day of his birth
stole the oxen that Apollo tended, is to be found in his habitancy among the
rays of the sun, and in the fact that one and the same word in Sanskrit means
"cattle" and "rays of light." One is at a loss to understand how rays of
light could have been compared to a herd of bulls, and the same word go
have meant both; and I do not believe that this double meaning of the
plural of go came from any supposed resemblance between them. The bull
was the symbol of virile potency or the generative power; and of the words
that mean the semen virile, Qukra meant light, also; and hira^a and hiranya,
gold, the synonym of light: and in the Kabbala the light that flows from the
Deity is the life-producing seed. It is probable that the rays of the sun
were called go, as being the impregnating effluences of the sun.
That Apollo became reconciled to Hermes, and consented that he should
remain in charge of the cattle, and transferred to him his golden and shining
goad, meant that he permitted him to remain amid his rays. And from
this legend of his theft of the cattle came, no doubt, the idea that he was the
patron and protector of thieves; while in the Veda he protects the traveler
against the waylayer, the thief, the robber and the wolf, whom the light
scares away from the roads.
Thewisdom and beneficenceascribed to Pushan naturally seemed to belong
to one who dwelt almost continually in the very bosom of that light which
was the effluence of the highest Deity conceived of by the Aryans. And thus
it naturally came that the Greek Hermes was regarded as the Divine Word,
in which resided the creative potency of the Deity, and the Divine Intellect.
We are not left in doubt of the ascription of functions, energies and
potencies to the Greek Hermes and Latin Mercurius, of the same kind and
degree as those ascribed to Pushan ; and Caesar tells us that similar potencies
were imputed to Mercury by the Gauls. The name Mercury was given to
.PUSHAN, 527
the metal quicksilver, 'living silver/' because it represented the divine
spirit in men.
We know the fact, and we know that there were sufficient reasons for
ascribing these energies to that planet, although these reasons may not now
be discoverable. The Vedic Poets were as rational and sharp-witted as we
are, thought as coherently, and their imagination, though vivid, quick, and
somewhat extravagant, was not the imagination of delirium. There were
fitness,- consistency, appositeness and logical appositeness in their ideas;
which will continually become more manifest to us, in proportion as we
succeed in identifying ourselves with them, and in thinking as they thought,
divesting ourselves for the time of all ideas which they had not, and, as
it were, of all knowledge which they did not possess. To understand them,
we must look at so much of the universe only as we can see, look at it
with their eyes, think it to be what they thought it, know only what they
knew of it, and conceive of no other Divinity than that of light and fire.
Considering this planet as nearest of all to the source of light, and as the
agent, herald and messenger of the sun, with whose rays his mingled and
united; and light being the very life of men, the cause of all production, the
cause of all reality, that whereby men are enabled to travel and to labour,
to avoid dangers and find their cattle that have strayed, there is nothing
in the hymns to Pushan which it was not natural for a Poet to say.
A very modern writer thus personifies Spring:
Spring, with dainty foot and ankle, steps lightly over the golden line that parts
the seasons. She shivers a little, glancing backward at the snow and ice and the
big black tains, then smiles ahead at the soft air full of a filtered gold, the singing
of birds, the fragrance of flowers, and the aroma of the new-mown hay.
If we found this in Sanskrit, in the Veda, it would be thought that the
ancient Aryans worshipped Spring as a Goddess; and nothing in the descrip-
tions of Indra as a warrior or Sarasvati as a girl would be considered more
fancifully extravagant. And in the same spirit and no other, many of the
Vedic hymns were composed. Neither were they all hymns of worship and
adoration, but many of them simply imaginative poems, in which only the
Poet's thick-coming fancies were expressed, without any intermingling of
devotion. I doubt if these Poets really worshipped the winds and rivers,
any more than the Poet Wordsworth did. Yet the line between the mere
poem 'and the devotional hymn may often be difficult and often impossible,
to trace. The following hymn (i. 42. I.) is in form the expression of adora-
tion and prayer, but certainly for the most part merely a poem:
Conduct us, Pushan, over the road ! remove trouble, offspring of the emanci-
pator! Beneficent Deva, lead us on! Smite away from our path the destructive
and injurious wolf, which lies in wait for us. Drive away from our path the way-
528 INDO-ARYAN EJEITIES AND WORSHIP
layer, the thief, the robber. Tread with thy foot upon the burning weapon of that
treacherous wretch, whoever he may be. wonder-working and wise Pushan, we
desire that thy assistance, wherewith thou didst favour our fathers. Bringer of all
blessings, distinguished by thy golden spear, make wealth easy of acquisition by
us. Lead us past our antagonists; make our roads easy to travel on; acquire
strength for us here. Lead us over a country of rich pastures; let there be no new
hindrance in our way. Bestow, satisfy, grant, fill our stomach. We do not wrong
Pushan. We praise him with hymns; we ask the helper for wealth.
In i. 23, there are several verses, in two of which Pushan is named, which
seem to me to have been totally misunderstood :
13. Resplendent and moving Pushan, bring from heaven the (Soma) juice, in
combination with the variegated sacred grass, as an animal that was lost.
So Professor Wilson reads it. Dr. Muir says that in it
the glowing Pushan is prayed to bring hither, like a lost beast, the supporter of the
sky, who is surrounded by brilliant grass.
The original of the verse is:
& Pushan chitrabarhisham dgfyine dharuyam divah dja nash^ant yathd pagum.
I return to this text, to consider it with those that follow it. Dr. Muir
translates dharunam divah by "supporter of the sky;" Professor Wilson by
"from heaven the (Soma) juice." I do not see whence the meaning of
"juice" is obtained for it. Benfey has not dharuya; but dharaiia, i. e.,
dhri+ana, "preserving, supporting, support;" dhri, "to bear, carry, main-
tain, support, retain, have and keep."
Verse 14 is,
Pushd rdjdnam dghfiyir apagdlham guhd Utam avindach chitrabarhisham.
This Wilson translates into
The resplendent Pushan has found the royal (Soma juice), although concealed,
hidden in a secret place, strewed amongst the sacred grass.
The meaning ascribed to it by Dr. Muir is that Pushan had "found the King
so designated, who had been concealed."
The former of these verses seems to me to invoke the radiant Pushan to
bring up the maintainer of the sky, many-coloured as a peacock's tail, who
has strayed away and is lost, like an animal. And in the latter, Pushan
is said to have found this King (either Indra or the sun), the many-coloured,
hidden away and shut up in a secret place, the "royal juice" and the "varie-
PUSHAN 529
gated sacred grass,
"
amongst which the juice was found "strewed," are fair
specimens of Brahmanic nonsense.
15. Verily he has brought to me successively the six, connected with the drops,
as repeatedly ploughs for barley.
16. Mothers (ambayah), to us, who are desirous of sacrificing, the kindred
flow by the paths, qualifying the milk with sweetness.
17. May those waters which are contiguous to the sun, and those with which
the sun is associated, be propitious to our rite.
18. I invoke the divine waters [waters from the sky], in which our cattle drink:
offer oblations to the streams.
And the remaining verses praise the waters as medicinal and purifying.
I have no doubt that the meaning of Verse 15 is, that Pushan brings in
due succession, at the same time annually, the six Pleiades, to whom the
spring-rains are owing, or whom these accompany, at the season of ploughing
for the sowing of grain. In 1 6, ambayah may mean, Wilson says, either
"mothers," or "waters." Amba means "a mother," and ambu, "water."
Ambara means "sky," ambudhi, "ocean." Ambu is, Benfey says, akin to
ambhas, which means "water." I incline to believe that the Pleiades were
not called "mothers," and that the word means "waters." If so, the verse
should be read,
For us who desire to sacrifice, the kindred waters flow by the paths [along the routes
on which we drive our cattle, pasturing them], making rich and sweet their milk;
and the waters contiguous to the sun, and with which he is associated, are the rains.
THE ACVINAU.
Dr. Muir (V. Sec. jw.) says that the Agvins seem to have been a puzzle
even to the oldest Indian commentators. But so were nearly all the Vedic
Deities. He quotes as follows, from Yaska in the Nirukta:
Next in order are the Deities whose sphere is the sky: of these the Agvinau are
the first to arrive. They are called A$vinau because they pervade (vyagnuvdte)
everything, the one with moisture, the other with light. Aurnabh&va says they are
called A$vinau from the horses (agvaiV), on which they ride. Who, then, are these
Afftrinau? Heaven and Earth, some say; Day and Night, others say; and others
the Sun and Moon. The legendary writers say, two Kings, performers of holy
acts. Their time is subsequent to midnight, whilst the manifestation of light is
delayed, and ends with the rising of the sun. The dark portion denotes the inter-
mediate (God), the light portion, Aditya (the sun).
Professor Goldstlicker reads the latter portion of this differently, and
does not think, with Roth, that Yaska identifies the Agvins with Indra and
the sun. This is his version:
Their time is after the (latter) half of the night, when the (space's) becoming light
is resisted (by darkness) ; for the middlemost Agvin (between darkness and light)
shares in darkness, whilst (the other) who is of a solar nature (Aditya) shares in
light.
And he quotes Durga, the commentator on Yaska, who so interprets the
passage.
On which one cannot help remarking that if scholars so disagree as to the
reading of a simple passage in Sanskrit, found in an author comparatively
modern, there cannot be any great certainty as to the interpretation of very
much of the Veda.
Professor Roth, also, as quoted by Dr. Muir, says:
The two Agvins, though, like the ancient interpreters of the Veda, we are by no
means agreed as to the conception of their character, hold, nevertheless, a perfectly
distinct position in the entire body of the Vedic Deities of light. They are the
earliest bringers of light in the morning-sky, who in their chariot hasten onward
before the dawn, and prepare the way for her.
Rig-Veda i. 181. 4, is,
Born here and there, these two have striven forward with spotless bodies, according
to their respective characters. One of you, a conqueror and a sage [is the son] of
the strong one; and the other is borne onward, the son of the sky.
THE AgVINAU 531
The Agvins are in several places called divo nqpdtd, "sons of the sky;"
and in i. 46. 2, Sindhum&t&ra, "whose mother is the river, or sea/' Their
sister is mentioned, also, by whom the commentator understands Ush-
as: and they are in many parts of the Rig-Veda connected with Sflryt, the
youthful daughter of the sun, called also, in one place, Urjdni, as Sayana
understands it, Sdryasya duhita, who is represented as having, for the sake of
acquiring friends, chosen them for her two husbands.
What this wife of the Agvins was or represented, or what the wives of
Indra, Agni, Varuna and other of the Deities were or represented, no one
even endeavours to guess.
Ini. 116. 17, it is said,
The daughter of the Sun (Duhitd Sdryasya) stood upon your chariot, attaining
first the goal as if with a race-horse. All the Devas regarded this with approba-
tion in their hearts (saying), Ye Nasatyas, are in alliance with good fortune.
But in x. 85. 9, it is said,
Soma was the wooer, the Agvins were the two friends of the bridegroom, when Savitri
gave to her husband Stiryi ( fern.) , consenting in her mind. When ye came, Ac.vins,
to the marriage procession of Sfirya', to make inquiries, all the Devas approved,
and Pushan, as a son, chose you for his parents.
In w. 58. 4, the Gods are said to have given Pushan to Stiry&.
It may be that these spouses of the various Deities were stars that
occupied particular positions, at particular times, probably about sunrise,
with reference to the sun and planets, so as to seem to be in conjunction
with one or the other. I do not believe that they were merely imaginary
beings ; and I have a very strong impression that Sflryi was Sirius. Hevelius
states that on the morning of the 2nd of October, 1661, he saw Sirius with
the naked eye, when the sun had already ascended above the horizon. The
meridian of Sirius passes through the middle degrees of Gemini, and there-
fore, when the equinoctial colure intersected the sign of the Two Horsemen,
and the year opened at their heliacal rising, Sirius rose with them, and was
the daughter of the sun. This is the explanation of that star, then deemed a
female, having selected the Two Horsemen for her husbands; and in the
later passage, of their being the friends of Pushan (Mercury), the bridegroom,
when the moon gave the star S6ry& to. her husband Stlry&, the sun, to rise
with him and Mercury at the Vernal Equinox.
The Agvins are described as coming from afar, from the sky or lower
part of the expanse, as being in or arriving from, different unknown quarters,
above or below, far or near, and among different races of men, because
during part of the year they are not seen. Therefore the worshipper some-
times inquires as to their locality, and in one place they are said to have three
532 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
stations. They are said to yoke their horses to their car at early dawn, and
descend to the earth, because the ceremonies were held at the Vernal Equinox,
when their rising announced the coming of the dawn, twenty-five hundred
years before the stars of the Celestial Bull opened the year.
Thus, in mi. 67. 2, it is said,
Agni [the sacrificial firel being kindled has shone upon us; even the furthest ends of
the darkness have been seen; the light that precedes Ushas, the daughter of the sky,
has been perceived, springing up for illuminating. Now, Agvins, the Poet invokes
you with his hymns.
In viii. 5. I :
When the rosy-hued dawn, though far away, gleams as if she were near at hand,
she spreads the light in all directions. Ye, wonder-working Acvins, like men, follow
after Ushas in your car, which is yoked by your will, and shines afar.
x. 39, 12. Come, Agvins, with that car swifter than thought, which the IJibhus
fashioned for you, at the yoking of which the daughter of the sky is born, and day
and night become propitious to the worshipper.
x. 61, 4. When the dark stands among the dark-red rays, I invoke you, Acvins,
sons of the sky (divo napdtdv Agvind).
In i. 34. 10, Savitri is said to set their shining car in motion before the
dawn.
Dr. Muir accounts for the enthusiastic worship of which these Deities
were the object, by saying that "the reason may have been that they were
hailed as the precursors of returning day, after the darkness and dangers of
the night.
"
The truer reason was that, when their worship commenced,
their rising with the sun announced the coming of spring; to which coinci-
dence twenty-five centuries afterwards the worship of the Bull was owing,
and still twenty-five centuries after the heliacal rising of the Bull at the
Vernal Equinox, the Ram or Lamb took the place of the Bull, about the be-
ginning of our era.
Among the many epithets applied to the Agvins are, "honey-hued," "of
a golden brilliance," "fleet as thought," "swift as young falcons/' "many-
formed," "mighty," "of wondrous powers," "profound in wisdom," etc.
Their car is in all its parts golden, is three-wheeled, and triple in other
respects, of which I have spoken before. It is drawn by birds, or by horses
like birds, swift-winged, golden-winged, falcon-like, swan-like,
Their close connection is shown by their being compared to many twin
objects, among which are two eyes, two hands, two feet, two ears, two lips,
breasts, nostrils, and two wings of the same bird. Why they are asked to
move three times by night and three times by day, to bestow nourishment
thrice, at evening and at dawn, to bestow riches thrice, and the devotions
THE ACVINAU 533
of the worshippers thrice, etc., is not so easy to explain. All this is connected,
no doubt, with the three wheels, fellies, supports, eta, of their chariot.
They place the productive germs in all creatures, and generate fire,
water and trees; because they announced the opening of spring; and for the
same reason they were connected with marriage, procreation and love.
They are said to have restored the Sage Chyanana to youth, and to have
renewed the youth of Kali. They brought to the youthful Vimada (a Rishi)
a bride named Kamadyfl; restored Vishnipfi, like a lost animal, to the sight
of Vigvaka, son of Krishna, their worshipper; and intervened in favour of
Bhujyu, son of Tugra, as is described enigmatically in i. 116. 117 and 182.
Abandoned by his father in the water-cloud, in the sea, and clinging to a log
amid the waves, Bhujyu invoked the Agvins, and they rescued him, convey-
ing him to a place of safety in animated water-tight ships, that traversed
the air, three days and three nights in three flying cars, with a hundred feet
and six horses, on a ship propelled by a hundred oars, with their headlong
flying horses, with their well-yoked chariot, swift as thought; in an animated,
winged boat, in four ships, when he was sunk in bottomless darkness.
When Vigpata's leg had been cut off in battle, the Agvins supplied her
with an iron one. They restored sight to Rijrigva, who had been blinded
by his father, for slaughtering one hundred and one sheep, and giving them
to a she-wolf to eat, she having supplicated them in behalf of her blind bene-
factor. They restored to sight and the power of walking Par&vrij, who was
blind and lame; drew up the Rishi Rebha out of the waters, delivered
Vandana from some calamity, and restored him to the light of the sun,
bestowed wisdom on their worshipper Kakshivat, and caused a hundred jars
of wine and honied liquor to flow forth from the hoof of their horse, as from
a sieve. They assisted the Sage Atri Saptavadhri, when plunged into a
gloomy and burning abyss; which act of beneficence is, in x. 80. 3, attributed
to Agni. They gave the wise Vadhrimati a son called Hiranyahasta (hand
of gold) ; Vadhrimati meaning "modest-spoken." They gave a husband to
Ghoshs when she was growing old in her father's house; caused Sayu's cow,
that had ceased bearing, to give milk; gave Pedu a horse animated by Indra,
which conquered all his enemies; and rescued from the jaws of a wolf a quail
by which they were invoked.
Benfey, Dr. Kuhn and Muller think that these deliverances refer to
certain physical phenomena with which the Agvins were connected. They
sound very much more like tales composed for children : and Dr. Muir thinks
this allegorical method of interpretation unlikely to be correct, and that the
Rishis merely referred to certain legends then popularly current. Most
of these legends are in i. 112 to 119; and in these are recitals of succours
rendered to numerous other persons.
534 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
As to the names, rebha is from rebh, "to sound, to praise," whence
rebhana, "the lowing of kine;" vandana, "praise, prayer, worship ;" paravrij
"humbled, miserable, an outcast;" several are names of Rishis; and the rest
have no meanings that help to explain the legends.
The Agvins are connected with Indra, in x. 73- 4> and in one place are
said to ride in his car. At other times they accompany Vayu, the Adityas or
the Ribhus, or participate in the strides of Vishnu. They accompany
Vayu and Vishnu, because they are manifestations of Indra and Agni.
They accompany the Adityas, because these are the planets, which are often
near the Twins. The Ribhus are Sages transferred to the sky, and become
stars, the three, probably in the belt of Orion.
In L 181. 2, the Agvins are styled Indratamd and Maruttamd. Dr. Muir
gives to tamd the sense of "possessing strongly the qualities of." In x. 131.
4 and 5, they assist Indra in his conflict with the Asura Namuchi, and are
styled vritrahantamd, in viii. 8. 22, "vigourous, slayers of Vritra or of
enemies," Dr. Muir here giving tamd the sense of "vigourous."
They are worshipped with uplifted hands, and supplicated for a variety
of blessings, for long life, deliverance from calamities, offspring, wealth,
victory* destruction of enemies, preservation of the worshippers, their houses
and cattle; and are exhorted to overwhelm and destroy the niggard who
offers no oblations, and to create light (bring on the daylight) for the
priest or Poet who chants their praises.
Professor Goldstiicker, in a note with which he favoured Dr. Muir, says:
It would appear, then, that these Agvins, like the ELibhus, were originally renowned
mortals, who, in the course of time, were translated into the companionship of the
Gods; and it may be a matter of importance to investigate whether, besides this
d priori view, there are further grounds of a linguistic or grammatical character
for assuming that the hymns containing the legends relating to these human Acvins
are posterior or otherwise to those descriptive of the cosmical Gods of the same name.
The luminous character of the latter can scarcely be matter of doubt .... Their
very name, it would seem, settles this point, since a$va, the horse, literally 'the per-
vader,
1
is always the symbol of the luminous Deities. The difficulty, however, is
to determine their position amongst these Deities, and to harmonize with it the
other myths connected with them.
Always the same vague babble!
Yaska's opinion, he says, is that the Agvins represent "the transition
from darkness to light, which the intermingling of both produces that
inseparable duality expressed by the twin nature of those Deities." And this
interpretation, he thinks, is the best that can be given of the character of the
cosmical Agvins. Vivasvat, he thinks, "implies the firmament expanding
to the sight through the approaching light;" and Saranyu "the moving air,
or the dark and cool air, heated, and therefore set in motion, by the approach
THE ACVINAU 535
of the rising sun." Sflryi, he thinks, is "the representative of the weakest
manifestation of the sun;" and the sister of the Agvins, Ushas, the dawn.
And he concludes by saying that
the mysterious phenomena of the intermingling of darkness, which is no longer
complete night, and of light which is not yet dawn, seems to agree with all these
conceptions.
It certainly does not agree with the texts, at least a score of which are
utterly inconsistent with this thin and unsubstantial notion that the two
horsemen of the sky represent the "transition" from darkness to light.
Professor Miiller, commenting on the passage in the Tenth Book of the
Rig-Veda, in which the Agvins are said to be children (twins) of Vivasvat
and Saranyu, says:
The idea of twin powers is one of the most fertile ideas in ancient mythology. Many
of the most striking phenomena of Nature were comprehended by the ancients
under that form, and were spoken of in their mystic phraseology as brother and sister,
husband and wife, father and mother. The Vedic pantheon particularly is full of
Deities which are always introduced in the dual, and they all find their explanation
in the palpable dualism of Nature, day and night, dawn and gloaming, morning and
evening, summer and winter, sun and moon, light and darkness, heaven and earth.
All these are dualistic or correlative conceptions. The two are conceived as one,
or belonging to each other; nay, they sometimes share the same name.
Life and death, good and evil, health and sickness, motion and fixedness,
and any other two opposites, would be "correlative conceptions": but it
could hardly be said that they are "conceived of as one, as belonging to
each other." We find, Professor Miiller says, Ushdsdnaktd, dawn and
night; naktoshdsd, night and dawn, and also Ushdsau, the two dawns, i. e.,
dawn and night. He instances also Dydvdpfithivi, heaven and earth (sky
and expanse) ; Pfithividydvd, earth and heaven, and also Dydvd, etc. ; and
says that Dyu and Pfithivt are spoken of, in i. 159. 4, as sisters, as twins, as
living in the same house, etc.
The Agvins, he says, are always spoken of in the dual. A sufficient
reason for that is, that they were but two in number.
The same conception [he thinks], underlies their name, and the names of the sun
and dawn, when addressed as horses. The sun was looked upon as a racer, so was
the dawn, though in a less degree; and so were, again, the two powers which seemed
incorporated in the coming and going of each day and each night, and which were
represented as the chief actors in all the events of the diurnal play.
He admits that this character of the two Agvins is "somewhat vague," but
for this very reason, all the more correct. And yet, only two or three pages
before, he had asked whether it was possible to form a clear conception of
Saranyfi,' "of such a being," as described by Roth and Kuhn.
536 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The Agvins are called ihehaj&tau, "born here and there,"!, e., as Professor
Miiller thinks, "on opposite sides,
"
or "in the air and in the sky." One is
jishnu,
"
victorious," he who bides in the air; the other is subhaga, "happy,"
"the son of Dyu or the sky, and here identified with Aditya or the Sun."
Jishnu means "overpowering, excelling, victorious," and subhaga, "splendid,
beautiful, or happy." Jatau in the compound, does not necessarily mean
"born." It may mean merely "being." And the explanation of the whole
of this, and of one of the Agvins being in the sky and one in the air, is, that
when Castor rises, Pollux, being due east of it, remains for some time below
the horizon, so that one is "here," in the visible world, and one "there," i. e.,
somewhere else. Castor is the more exalted or higher, and Pollux, beautiful,
though not yet seen. When they approach the meridian, one is due south
of the other, Castor being above.
Professor Miiller quotes,
Wake the two who harness their car in the morning. Acvins, come hither!
and
Sacrifice early, hail the Acvins; not in the dreary evening is the sacrifice of the
Gods;
and yet says that Yaska rightly placed the activity of one of the Agvins at
the very beginning of day, and hence that of the other at the very beginning
of night. If we remove the mask, he says, we find behind it
Nature in her two-fold aspect of daily change morning and evening, light and
darkness aspects which may expand into those of spring and winter, life and
death, nay, even of good and evil.
Indra and Agni are addressed together in the dual, Indrdgni, but likewise
as Indrd, the two Indras, and Agni, the two Agnis. Of this, Miiller says,
Indra is the God of the bright sky, Agni the God of fire, and they have each their
own distinct personality; but when invoked together, they become correlative
powers, and are conceived as one joint Deity.
In one passage they are actually called Agvind, and share several other
attributes in common with the Agvins. They are called brothers and twins,
and, when invoked together ihehamdtard, "they whose mothers are here and
there." But still it must not be supposed, he says,
that Indra and Agni together are a mere repetition of the Acvins. There are cer-
tain epithets constantly applied to each of them that are not applied to the other,
and certain legends told of the Acvins, that are not transferred to Indra and Agni.
But Indra coincides in some of his exploits with one of the Acvins or Nasatyas, as
is shown by the compound Indra-Nasatyau.
THE ACVINAU 537
It seems strange that Professor Mxiller could have come so near the
truth, without opening his eyes to see it. But nothing blinds a man like a
theory. Just so he persists in considering Mitra and Varuna to be day and
night. It is even more singular that he should have so utterly mistaken
the character of the Acvins, when he quotes a hymn in which he says that
the dual character of "these Indian Dioscuroi" clearly appears. It is a
wonder that he never asked himself if the Dioscuroi (Castor and Pollux)
and the Acvins were not the same. Nor is this so singular as his adherence
to his theory that one was morning or dawn, and the other evening or the
gloaming, while reciting the words of Hymn U. 39. For by it the Acvins
are declared to be like the two stones used for the single purpose of grinding
the Soma; like two hawks rushing towards the same nest; like two priests
reciting one prayer together; like twin goats, like husband and wife; two
heroes on their chariots, two horns on one head, two hoofs, two birds, two
ships, yokes, naves of one wheel, spokes, felloes; like two eyes, hands and
feet, hips, breasts, nostrils and ears, of one body.
S'ayana explains the name or epithet dasra, often applied to them or to
one of them, as signifying "destroyers of enemies,
"
or "of diseases,
"
or
"beautiful." Roth understands it to mean "wonder-workers/* In one
place, Indrd-Vishyu are called dasrd. N&satydj another epithet commonly
applied to the Acvins, is regarded by Sayana as equivalent to satya,
"truthful." It is only in the later literature that these are regarded as the
separate names of these Deities. One of the Vedic Poets uses the compound
Indra-Ndsatyau, which, Miiller says,
on account of the dual that follows, cannot be explained as Indra and the two Ac.vins,
but simply as Indra and Nasatya;
which is to say that it is the name of one of them. But I imagine that its
meaning is, Indra as, or manifested as and by, the two Agvins.
Nothing, it seems, is really known as to the meaning of dasra. Benfey
gives as its meaning, "helping?" but without even a conjecture as to its
derivation. Das means "to become exhausted;" dasyu, "a ruffian;" ddg,
"to worship, make oblations, bestow;" and dd, "to give." In Greek $&$
means "a torch or light," from Satco, "burn;" and an old root dame or dams
in Sanskrit meant "to "speak or shine." The Latin verb do "give," had an
old infinitive, dasi.
Benfey gives us ndsatya, i. e., na+a+satya, without meaning, merely as a
name. Ndga is "disappearance," from naQ, "to disappear, be lost, go away,
perish." And I think there is good reason for believing that, as Castor
rises before Pollux, and when rising not long before the sunrise, must have
been visible when Pollux did not rise soon enough to be seen at all, and at
least was often visible before Pollux had risen; and as, on the other hand,
538 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
at certain seasons and for some days in succession, Castor was visible after
Pollux had set, or when the latter had not been seen at all, dasra meant
"the one that is seen or shines," and ndsatya, "the one that has disappeared,
or perished." Hence the Greek legend of their alternation of life and death.
Ndsatya, it may be added is from the verb as, with the a of negation and
privation prefixed; but this verb was, probably, not as, "to be," but as=ash
and ush, "to burn, to shine."
The two names will thus mean "shining" and "not shining," or "visible"
and "invisible."
I cannot see any reason to doubt the identity of the Agvins and the
Grecian Dioscouroi, theOeol Swipes, or "mighty helpers of men," the "Ava/ces
or 'Ava Kol, kings, the *Iinro5atJLoi, "tamers or controllers, of horses." Yaska
says that the legendary writers called them "The two kings, performers of
holy rites."
A few passages in regard to the Agvins, in addition to those already
noticed, deserve a moment's consideration, as some do that have already
been quoted, for various reasons.
Verses I, 2 and 3, of i. 3, deserve notice, if only for their ingenious
perversions of meaning in the translation. In that of Professor Wilson, they
read as follows :
1. Agvins, cherishers of pious acts, long-armed (purubhujd) , accept with out-
stretched hands the sacrificial viands.
"Pious acts" are not acts of piety as part of individual conduct and
conversation; but acts, ceremonial performance, of worship or devotion.
These the Agvins encourage, by appearing in the east, at the time of the
sacrifice, i. e., at daybreak. Purubhujd may also be rendered, Professor
Wilson says, "great eaters."
Puru means "much, many, exceeding, very exceedingly." Bhujd means
"the arm, hand;" Ihuj, "to bend, to make crooked," and "to eat and drink,
enjoy, endure, govern, possess;" bhuji, "fire." Evidently it is very doubtful
whether purubhujd means "long-armed;" and yet, if these stars were to
receive the sacrificial food with outstretched hands, they may have been
imagined to have long arms.
2. Avins, abounding in mighty acts, guides, endowed with fortitude, listen
with unaverted minds to our praises.
Many great deeds are elsewhere ascribed to the Agvins; they were
guides, perhaps, because they rose in advance of the dawn ; and as they were
horsemen and warriors, it was natural to ascribe to them courage.
THE ACVINAU 539
3. Agvins, destroyers of foes (dasra), exempt from untruth
I have already inquired as to the meaning of dasra. "Exempt from
untruth" means that they never fail to appear, and thus, as it were, break
their promise and prove false and faithless.
In i. 34 is a succession of enigmas. It rings, to use Professor Wilson's
expression, a variety of changes on the number 3. Some of these changes
are:
Agvins, be present with us thrice today. Three are the solid wheels of your abun-
dance-bearing chariot, three are the columns set for support, and in it you journey
thrice by night and thrice by day. Thrice in one day you repair the faults; thrice
today sprinkle the oblation; and thrice, evening and morning, grant us food.
They are asked to visit the worshippers, grant favours, give food, and
riches, come to the rite, preserve intellects, etc., thrice. They are to be
thrice worshipped, day by day, and are asked to repose on the triple of
sacred grass, to repair from afar to the three-fold, to come thrice with the
seven mother-streams, for the three rivers, the triple oblation prepared.
The key to the enigma is the reference to the three daily sacrifices, at
morning, noon and evening, to each of which ye Agvins are invited to
come, and each time to grant favours and dispense blessings. Here the
Deities seem, like the Grecian Twins, to assume human attributes and to
become deified men, capable of leaving the stars, and of journeying where
and when these do not. But I am not satisfied about the trivrito rathasya,
the three-wheeled carriage with its three supports. As to the powerful ass,
rdsabha, although it no doubt means an ass, I do not believe it originally
meant that, as used in connection with the Agvins. Bha means "a star,
a lunar asterism, a planet/' and is a modern name of the planet Venus. Bhd
is "light, splendour" and "the sun"; and, as a verb, "to shine, to appear."
Rasa means "to roar, sing," and probably "to bray"; but also a verb of the
same letters means "to taste, to love," being probably a denominative from
rasa, "taste, pleasure, charm, love, affection, passion, juice, essence, the
essential juice of the body, the semen virile."
So in the Greek, Uke meant "light," and Mkos, "a wolf and the sun,"
and one of the names of Apollo was Hkeios.
The hymns to the Agvins were certainly recited or chanted, before
daybreak, and at a time of the year when their rising a little way preceded
the dawn. It is probable that there was a regular festival, each year, at
that time, and that new hymns were produced at each, while the old ones
were occasionally repeated. Those to Pushan were no doubt composed
on the various occasions when Mercury was visible before sunrise at the
same time. And it seems also that with the exception of the Great Bear,
the stars adored as Devas were those of Taurus, Gemini, Orion and others
540 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
in their vicinity; for which only one reason can be rationally imagined that
they all rose towards morning, at the Vernal Equinox.
In i. 46. 14, it is said to the Agvins,
May Ushas follow the radiance of your approach, revolving Agvins. [And, in
i. 47, 7 and 9]: N&satyas, whether you are abiding far off or near at hand, come to
us, in your well-constructed car, with the rays of the sun .... Come N&satyas,
in your sun-clad chariot.
From which it is evident that the hymn was composed when the stars of
Gemini rose heliacally, i. e., when the sun was in that Sign at the Vernal
Equinox.
In i. 119. 2, Urj&ni is said to have ascended the car of the Agvins. ffrj
means "strength, food"; drja, "strength"; and the verb urj, "to nourish,
strengthen." In the preceding verse, the worshipper, desiring food, to
support life, invokes the wonderful car of the Agvins, swift as thought,
drawn by fleet horses, many-bannered, and bringing rain. Upon its moving,
the voices of the worshippers are raised in praise; their hymns ascend, and
the sacrifice begins. Evidently this was early in the morning at the time
of the rising of the twins, at the season when rains were expected, and when
they would fertilize the ground and cause production. That is what we
learn from the ascent of ffrjdni, that power of Nature, which feeds, nourishes,
strengthens and sustains life, production or growth, the Parendi of the Zend-
Avesta, into the car of the Agvins, in which, generally Sury&, daughter of
the sun, splendour or radiance, rides, whose two husbands the Agvins are
styled, in ii. 31. 4.
THE AQVINAU 541
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION:
Washington: August 25, 1873.
Times of rising of certain stars, reckoned in apparent solar time, at the epoch
of the Vernal Equinoxes of the years B.C. 2500 and B.C. 5000.
The Sun was within the limits of the constellation Gemini, at the Vernal Equinox,
from the year B.C. 6800, till the year B.C. 4700.
(Prepared by Professor William Harkness, at the request of the Smithsonian
Institution, for Albert Pike.)
TVASHJRI.
The original meaning of Tvashfri, as that potency of fire which softens
and melts metals, was of a character to be speedily lost sight of; and this
potency being personified at the very beginning as a worker in metals (the
prototype of Hephaistos or Vulcan), whatever befitted the character of a
most skilful smith and artificer was ascribed to him. This is especially the
case in the later hymns. In x. 53. 9, he sharpens the axe of iron of Brah-
ma$aspati (prayer) ; and in the earliest hymns forges the thunderbolts of
Indra. We need not be surprised at this particular quality or potency of
fire becoming anything or doing anything, when prayer, because believed
to be the efficient instrument that won victories for the Aryans, and there-
fore poetically represented as a warrior, got itself at last armed with a
battle-axe. Even in the earlier poems, the original character and meaning
of Tvashtri were much lost sight of; but enough remains whereby to detect
them and be sure of them.
He is styled, in Mandalas i. and Hi., supdtyi, sugabhasti (the bountiful- or
skilful-handed; gabhasti meaning "an arm, a ray of light"); svapas, sukrit,
"the skilful worker"; viguarupa, "omniform, taking all forms," also an
epithet of Vishnu (Heat); and Savitri, the generator; and he imparts
generative power and bestows offspring; either because he is confounded
with the heat that melts and softens, and thence with the vital heat, or
because he gives form to that which is generated and conceived. I think
it is the latter, because in i. 188. 9, he develops the seminal germ in the
womb, and is the shaper of all forms, human and animal, in that and other
passages.
This was the earlier idea. At first fabricator, as worker in metals, he
became the maker of all forms, the fashioner, and thence the generator.
In Hi. 55. 19, iv. 42. 3, and x. no. 9, he is said to have produced and
nourished a great variety of creatures, that all beings are his, and known to
him, and that he has given their forms to the sky and expanse and all things
else. In ii. 23. ty, he is said to be skilled in all Sama-texts, and to have made
Brahmanaspati above all creatures. In x. 2. 7, and x. 46. 9, he is said, along
with heaven and Prithivi, the waters and the Bhrigus, to have generated the
fire. He is master of creation (bhuvanasya, sakshatyi), in if. 31. 4; and in ix-
5. 9, a first-born protector and leader. He knows, i. e., frequents, the region
of the Devas, is a companion of the Angirasas (as the heat which effects the
sacrifice), and is supplicated to nourish the worshipper and protect his
sacrifice. He is dravitiodos, "giver of wealth or strength," and suratna,
"having abundant wealth."
He is thus the heat, of which he was originally but a single one of the
potencies, and all these expressions, attributing to him the same powers and
qualities as are ascribed to Vishnu, are but the figurative representations
of the powers and benefits and effects of heat.
In several passages he is connected with the Ribhus, who also are
represented as skilful workmen, that fashioned Indra's chariot and horses,
and made their own parents young.
I find still no explanation of the making by the Ribhus of a single new
sacrificial cup that Tvashtri had fabricated : nor do I find with any certainty
what the Ribhus were, or what their name means. It is said that this
exhibition of skill by the Ribhus was performed by the command of the
Devas, and in consequence of a promise that they should be transferred to
the sky; and Tvashtri is represented as having hidden himself among the
Goddesses, ashamed, when he saw the work of the Ribhus, and as having
sought to slay them. But in another place he is said to have praised
them and admired their work. In x. 66. 10, the Ribhus are called the happy
supporters of the sky.
That Tvashtri was originally a potency of Agni appears from the identifi-
cation of Agni with him, in U. I. 5. And in L 95. 5, Agni appears to be
designated by the word Tvashtri-
'
As to the name itself it is from tvaksh,
"to produce, to work." This is Benfey's derivation of the name. Also,
tvish and toesh meant "to shine, light, and splendour.
1 '
In x. 17 we have an account of the giving in marriage by Tvashtp of his
daughter Saranyfi to Vivasvat (the Vivanhao of the Zend-Avesta, first
teacher of the Ahurian faith, and father of Yima). According to Dr. Muir,
this is the legend :
Tvashtri makes a wedding for his daughter. (Hearing) this, the whole world
(vi$i)am bhuvanam) assembles. The mother of Yama, the wedded (paryuhyamdnd)
wife of the great Vivasvat, disappeared. They concealed the immortal from mortals.
Making one of like form, they gave her to Vivasvat. Saranyft bore the two Acvini,
and when she had done so, she deserted the two twins.
Upon the face of these verses, it is uncertain whether Saranyft was the
first or second wife; whether she was the daughter of Tvashtri or the mother
of Yama, or the one who disappeared. It is profitless to repeat the legends
of the Nirukta and Brihaddevatt, invented ages afterwards, to explain this
legend, by those totally ignorant of its real meaning.
Benfey gives us sarayu (from vb. sri, "to flow, blow") as meaning "air,
wind"; and saranyu (vb. sri+ana+ya+u) as "air, wind, water, a cloud."
Heat produces wind, which may be said to be its daughter; but how did
wind or air produce the Agvini, and desert them?
544 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Vivasvat, i. e., vi+vas-vant, is given by Benfey as meaning "the sun."
Vi means "a bird, the eye, heaven, the sky, the region of the
wind."^
Vas
means "to dwell, live, shine, wear/' Yama means "a twin/' and in the
dual, "twins." It also means "restraining, taming," etc., and is the name
of a Deity, and of the planet Saturn. Yam means "to tame, restrain,
govern" (horses), etc. But the original here is Yamasya Mdtd, "Mother of
Yama," Yamasya being the genitive singular.
I cannot make "wedded" out of paryuhyamdnd. Benfey gives paryuk-
shaya, "sprinkling"; paryupdsaka, "one who honours"; paryupdsana,
"honouring somebody," and paryupdsitri, "one who honours"; and makes
the former part of each compound to be pari, "round, about, against, to,
over, from, out, except, after, full, quite, excessively." Yamdnd I do not
find. Yamdnd is Yama, and "restraining, binding, cessation." Why
Benfey so often picks out two or three compounds, gives them a place, and
omits others quite as much entitled to respect one fails to see, and is the
more provoked at it as capricious.
It is to be said, also, and apropos of paryuhyamdnd, that one is continually
compelled to wonder how the compound obtains from its components the
sense imputed to it, and need only read a few of Sayana's preposterous
interpretations of single words, to be convinced that there must be a vast deal
of guessing in all the translations. As to the particles, they are generally
ignored.
It is reasonably clear, I think, from the text itself that Saranyfl was the
daughter of Tvashtri; and that it was she who disappeared, and who bore
the Agvini and deserted them. Yama means "a pair" as well as "a twin,"
and it and yamdnd in paryuhyamdnd may refer to the Agvini.
At all events, we may be able to discover the original idea out of which
the legend grew. A people living in a land overlooked by immense moun-
tains, could not but know that the clouds were composed of the same kind
of vapour as that which rose from boiling water; for when they ascended
the mountains they would often pass through the clouds. Tvashtri, the
heat, producing the steam by boiling, was the father of Saranyfi, the cloud.
Married to the sun, imbued with his light, and glowing as with the ardour of
passion, under the influence of his rays, the soft clouds of the morning sky
melt away and disappear as he rises ;
and this hymn may have been composed
when the twin horsemen of the constellation Gemini, rising before the sun,
seemed to be born of the soft cloud through whose rifts they shone, when
these glowed with the light of the yet unrisen sun.
In wii. 26. 21 and 22, Vayu, the flame, is said to be the son-in-law of
Tvashtri. The flame of the sun upon the cloud may be meant by Vayu, or
the flame of the sacrificial fire, causing the steam from the Soma juice thrown
into the fire, to become invisible.
TVASHTRI 545
Tvashtri is represented as having for his most frequent attendants the
wives of the Devas, which, according to Professor Roth results from the
fact that his creative energy is chiefly manifested in the wombs of females.
In x. 49. 10, Indra is said to place in the rivers a lucid element, which
Tvashtri, though a Deva, could not do: for heat, without light, cannot
illuminate; in in. 48. 4, it is said, Indra overcame Tvashtri, carried off his
Soma juice, which he drank from the cups; and in iv. 18. 3, that Indra
drank off the Soma in the house of Tvashtri. The fire is the house or abode
of the heat, and when the Soma juice is poured upon the fire, it does not
remain there to be consumed, but rises in clouds of vapour, which, seized
on by the flames becomes invisible and seems to be consumed by the light.
This Trita Aptya, being skilled in the use of the weapons of his father, incited by
Indra, fought against the three-headed and seven-rayed (tri$irshcwawi saptaragmim) ,
and, slaying him, carried off the cows even of the multiform son of Tvashtri. Indra,
the lord of the good, pierced this arrogant being, who boasted of his strength ; seizing
the cows, he struck off the three heads even of the omniform son of Tvashtri (x. 8. 8) .
(See also ii. n. 19.) And in x. 99. 6, a loud-shouting monster with three
heads and six eyes is mentioned as overcome by Trita.
Trita is not explained by Benfey, but merely given as a name. Evidently
it means a triad, perhaps fire, flame and light, as one. Aptya is not in
Benfey. The only word resembling it is dpti, "acquisition.
"
Ap means
"to attain, incur, obtain;" whence dpta, "fit, trusted, near, a friend, large";
vytipta, "that which has inherent properties/' The gerund of dp would be
dptya. This word, also, may perhaps be ap+tya, ap meaning "water," and
tya being the base, "he, this or that." Apatya means "offspring, child."
In the verses quoted above, Trita first, and then Indra, slays Vi$varupa,
or the omniform. They must therefore either be the same, or Indra must be
one of the Triad. Fire, light and flame are three in one, and as Indra is light,
Trita must be this triad. I do not see how he could be called "son of the
waters." The son of Tvashtri or heat is something produced by heat, with-
out flame or light. What can this be but smoke, which ascending in
volumes from a fire of wood just kindled, assumes a thousand shapes as it
eddies upward, and is blown to and fro by the wind? The struggle of the
incipient blaze, fanned by the wind, with the heavy masses of smoke from
the green wood would naturally suggest the idea of a contest for the mastery ;
and the final overcoming by the clear flame and brilliant light, leaping up
and causing the smoke to cease and disappear, hailed with joy by the
worshipper or wet and chilled traveler, would be considered a victory of
Indra and the slaying of an enemy of most unwelcome presence, from whom
no one, on any side of a fire in the open air can escape. The three heads,
six eyes and seven rays were the additions of a later age.
SARAIJIY0
In the legend of Saranyd we find, probably, the origin of that of Ixion,
who became enamoured of Juno, and instead of her, met a cloud formed by
Jupiter in the shape of Juno, and embracing it begat the Centaurs, part
man and part horse.
Professor Miiller says (Science oj Language, 2nd Series) ,
that where 5ara#-
y is used as a masculine, its meaning is by no means clear. He says,
In the sixty-first hymn of the tenth book, it is almost impossible to find a continuous
thread of thought. The verse in which Saranyfl occurs is addressed to the Kings
Mitra and Varuna, and it is said there that Saranyft went to them in search of the
cows.
If SaranyG was the vapour that, rising as a cloud becomes invisible, the
meaning here may be that this vapour ascends towards Mitra and Varunay
to unite itself with the clouds in the sky. In the next verse, Mtiller says,
Saranyfl is called a horse, just as Saranyft (fern.) is spoken of as a mare;
but he is called the son of him, i. e., according to Sayana, of Varuna, In Hi.
32. 5, Indra is said to cause the waters to come forth, together with the
Saranyus (mists or fogs?), who are here mentioned, Miiller says, very much
like the Angiras in other places, as helpers of Indra in the great battle
against Vritra or Vala. In i 62. 4, the common epithets of the Angiras
(navagva and da$agva) are applied to the Saranyus; and there, too, Indra is
said to have torn Vala asunder with theSaranyus. I believe, therefore, we
must distinguish between the Saranyus in the plural, a name of like import
as that of the Angiras, possibly as that of the Mawts, and SaranyA, in the
singular, a name of the son of Varuna or of Yama.
The Angiras were a family of Rishis, whose ancestor or ancestors had
been translated, as some expressions indicate, to the sky as stars. It does
not seem to me that the word SaranyA is of like import. It means a some-
what that goes or moves, as Vala, whom Indra shatters, is a whirlwind or
cyclone, a somewhat that whirls.
The "explanations'
1
of Yaska and Qaunaka, quoted by Professor Mailer,
I pass by. He says that it is difficult to say how much of the legends that
they repeat is old and genuine, and how much was invented afterwards, to
explain certain mythological phrases occurring in the Rig-Veda. I think
they are wholly of the latter class, so far as they are additions to what is
found in the Rig-Veda. And even what is found in the Tenth Book, is not
to be depended upon as of like antiquity with the contents of the books that
precede it.
SARAtfYtt 547
Professor Miiller remarks that Professor Kuhn has identified Saranyfi,
with the Greek Erinys; in which identification he agrees, but only as to the
name, adhering to his own view as to Saranyd, entertained from the first.
Professor Kuhn, he says, adopting in the main the views of Roth, explains
the myth as follows:
Tvashtar, the Creator, prepares the wedding for his daughter Sara nyft, i. e., the
fleet, impetuous, dark storm-cloud, which in the beginning of all things soared in
space. He gives to her as husband Vivasvat, the brilliant, the light of the celestial
heights, according to later views, which, for the sake of other analogies, I cannot
share, the Sun-God himself. Light and cloudy darkness beget two couples of
twins: first, Yama, i. e., the twin, and Yamf, the twin sister (a word which suggests
itself); secondly, the two Agvins, the horsemen. But after this the mother dis-
appears, i. e., the chaotic, storm-shaken dimness; the Gods hide her, and she leaves
behind two couples. To Vivasvat there remains, as his wife, but one like her, an
anonymous woman, not further to be defined.
Upon which Muller says :
Was this the original conception of the myth? Was SaranyH the storm-cloud
which in the beginning of all things was soaring in infinite space? Is it possible to
form a clear conception of such a being, as described by Professor Roth and Pro-
fessor Kuhn? And if not, how is the original idea of Saranyti to be discovered?
If no interpretation of the character and meaning of a Vedic Deity is to be
accepted, that does not give us a clear conception of him or her, so far as the
guesses of commentators go, the number of those Deities of whom we are
entitled to say that we know anything, becomes very small.
Professor Muller thinks that there is but one way for discovering the
original meaning of SaranyQ; namely,
to find out whether the attributes and acts peculiar to Saranyft are ever ascribed to
other Deities whose nature is less obscure.
But, unfortunately, this community of attributes and functions, between
two or half a score of Deities, is an impediment, too often, to the discovery
of the peculiar and especial functions of each. Tvashtri has many, common
to himself and other Deities, but none of these assist us to ascertain that in
the latter part of the Vedic period, he had usurped upon Vishnu, and become
heat, of which at first he was but one function, that of changing the forms
of things, by the power of melting, softening and sublimating to vapour.
But wherever a Deity is spoken of in many texts, some epithet will be found
applied to him, some action or mode of action imputed to him, which suits
his peculiar and especial character alone: and thus Tvashtri was not
originally called "the begetter,
"
or invested with any of the functions or
attributes of light; but he was the artificer, the forger of the thunderbolt,
548 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
and vigvartipa, "the omnifont! or maker of all forms." And if he was ever
called, in the earlier Vedic period, Savitd, as he is in x. 10. 5, that epithet
meant "maker and artificer," and not "begetter or creator."
Ushas also, Professor Miiller says, is said in Hi. 39. 3, to have borne
twins, who assume form, the conquerors of darkness, who have come at the
foot of the sun. When the two stars Castor and Pollux rose at the opening
of the dawn, they were naturally said to be born of that flushed and glowing
eastern sky, in which they appeared.
So he says that Ushas, the dawn, is also spoken of as a horse, and as a
mare and the friend of the Agvins ;
and
here then [he says], we have a couple, the sun and the dawn, that might well be
represented in legendary language as having assumed the form of a horse and a mare.
But, in the first place nearly every Vedic Deity has horses; and to speak
of one as a horse was as warrantable in the case of many others as in that
of the sun or of the dawn: and, in the second place Saranyfl is not called a
mare in the Veda, but only in the commentaries or embodied nonsense of a
later age.
The conclusion of Professor Miiller is, that Saranyfi, "the running light,"
was a name of the dawn; and her twin children, Yamau, "the twins," were
day and night, in giving whom birth the dawn dies. And he tells us that
his own researches lead him again and again to the dawn and the sun as the
chief burden of the myths of the Aryan race. He says,
The whole theogony and philosophy of the ancient world centered in the dawn, the
mother of the bright Gods, of the sun in his various aspects, of the morn, the day,
the spring; herself the brilliant image and visage of immortality.
Again he says:
I look upon the sunrise and sunset, on the daily return of day and night, on the
battle between light and darkness, on the whole solar drama in all its details, that
is acted every day, every month, every year, in heaven and in earth, as the prin-
cipal subject of early mythology. I consider that the very idea of divine powers
sprang from the wonderment with which the forefathers of the Aryan family stared
at the bright (Deva) powers that came and went, no one knew whence or whither,
that never failed, never faded, never died, and were called immortal, i. e., unfading,
as compared with the feeble and decaying race of man. I consider the regular
recurrence of phenomena an almost indispensable condition of their being raised
through the charms of mythological phraseology, to the rank of immortals, and I
give a proportionately small space to meteorological phenomena, such as clouds,
thunder and lightning, which, although creating for a time a violent commotion in
Nature, and in the heart of man, would not be ranked together with the immortal
bright beings, but would rather be classed either as their subjects or their enemies.
It is the sky that gathers the clouds, it is the sky that thunders, it is the sky that
SARANYtf 549
rains; and the battle that takes place between the dark clouds and the bright sun,
which for a time is covered by them, is but an irregular repetition of that more
momentous struggle which takes place every day between the darkness of the
night and the refreshing light of the morning.
Professor Kuhn and other eminent men in Germany maintain the
opposite theory, holding that clouds, storms, rains, lightning and thunder
were the spectacles that above all others impressed the imaginations of the
early Aryans; that they viewed the coming and going of the celestial lumi-
naries without wonder or emotion; but could not so view the meteoric
changes, so lawless and mysterious, so exceptional and apparently out of the
regular course of things, that wrought such immediate and palpable
effects, for good or ill, on the lives and fortunes of the beholder. And
Professor Schwartz thinks that
originally, the sun was conceived of implicitly as a mere accident in the heavenly
scenery, and assumed importance only in a more advanced state in the contempla-
tion of Nature and the formation of myths.
And Professor Kuhn, taking Saranyfl as the storm-cloud, and Vivasvat
as one of the many names of the sun, considers Yama to be their first-born
son, and to mean Agni, the fire, or rather the lightning, followed by his twin-
sister, the thunder: and the second couple, the Agvins, he considers to be
Agni and Indra, the God of the fire and the God of the bright sky; and
solves the myth thus:
After the storm is over, and the darkness which hid the single cloud has vanished,
Savitar (the sun) embraces once more the Goddess, the cloud, who had assumed
the shape of a horse running away. He shines, still hidden, fiery and with golden
arm, and thus begets Agni, fire; he lastly tears the wedding-veil, and Indra, the blue
sky, is born.
Professor Miiller, though placing himself in their point of view, cannot
grasp any clear or connected train of thoughts in the mythological process
which they describe, nor conceive of men standing on a level with English
shepherds, talking in that fashion.
However [with great modesty he adds], it is not for me to pronounce an opinion,
and I must leave it to others, less wedded to particular theories, to find out which
interpretation is more natural, more in accordance with the scattered indications
of the ancient hymns of the Veda, and more consonant with what we know of the
spirit of the most primitive ages of man.
It is clearly impossible to defend the theory of Professor Kuhn. Agni
and Indra were never imagined to be the Agvins, or children of Saranyfi,
whatever she was. The most superficial reading of the Veda proves that.
550 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The latter part of the text in question (*. 17- 2) seems to me to repeat
the former part, and Yama, the twin, mentioned in the former, to be one
of the Agvins or the pair of Agvins mentioned in the latter.
But it seems also to nie that Professor Miiller makes the dawn and the
alternations of day and night play by far too great a part, in the Vedic
mythology. It is always to be remembered that very much of what we
consider mythological and religious in these Vedic writings or compositions,
was simply poetry, in which the composer laboured to invent and express
poetical fancies and imaginings in appropriate language. Personification
was, of course, his chief resource. There is little of the poetry of mere
description in the early compositions of any people. No poetry could be
composed about light and fire, metaphysically expressing the philosophical
ideas in regard to them. The field of the Poet was among visible objects.
The sun and other luminaries of the sky, the dawn, the Morning Star
heralding it, the winds, offered the most inviting, the most available and
natural subjects of song. He could personify Indra, the light, as a warrior
hurling the thunderbolt into the bosoms of the clouds, in order to restore
the reign of light, and praise the Soma and prayer: but the phenomena of
Nature would most commonly occupy his thoughts. But none of the
theogony or philosophy of the Vedic world centered in the dawn, the sun or
the seasons.
I do not think that the sky has ever been accepted by any people as a
Deity. It and the earth, alike, I think, have been personified by the
Poets alone. I do not believe that Ouranos and Gaia ever were Gods to the
Greeks, or Coelum and Terra to the Latins. The sky was as fixed, solid and
immovable, to them, and as little of a sentient being, as the ground under
their feet was.
As to the "wonderment" with which they regarded the phenomena of
dawn, and the battle, daily, between darkness and light, I am quite sure
that the latter idea never presented itself to them. Nothing is less like a
battle or an angry struggle, than the peaceful, gentle, soft and silent coming
of a lovely dawn, after a spring or summer or autumn night.
And as to the former, I imagine that they no more wondered at the sky
and its phenomena, than ordinary children do. All that is regular in Nature
excites no wonder. The unlettered herdsmen and even the Bards and
Priests of those days, looked upon everything within the range of their
vision as a red Indian does. The rising of the sun gladdened them, of
course, for all men love the day ar^d its light; but it never excited even
curiosity. I have been much among both civilized and wild tribes of
Indians, and learned from the Comanches their names for the Great Bear
and some other constellations; and I never yet heard a single expression of
curiosity in regard to the regular phenomena of Nature.
SARArjTYC 551
Every ancient people, and every uncivilized race of men have adored the
sun. That, I believe, had been the earliest worship everywhere: and the
Peruvians and Natchis are, in that respect, but the types of every people
in its infancy. In the Vedic period, our forefathers had advanced beyond
that, and though the sun and other luminaries were still adored, they were
revered as manifestations of the light and fire, of Indra and Agni. The
Poets sang of many beings that never were worshipped : and their laboured
conceits and personifications became at a later day mythology.
And even these, I think, were by no means as vague and misty and
incoherent as they are represented to be by the commentators. Delirium
alone could account for some of their verses as the translations represent
them to us. But, as I have said before, I believe that their conceptions
and ideas were always clear, distinct and coherent; and that if they seem
to us not to be so, it is only because we do not understand them.
Saranyfl, I think, was certainly not the storm-cloud, but the soft, fleecy
vapour often seen in the eastern sky at sunrise, or on the summits of the
hills, and which, ever-shifting, and flushed with the changing hues, roseate,
crimson and purple, which the sun's light creates, constitute the peculiar
and magnificent splendour and glory of the morning; for the storm-clouds
do not disappear from the sky, but retire angry and sullen, lingering long
upon the horizon: and when they rise in the east in the morning, or settle
down upon that horizon after sunrise, remain there, ordinarily, the sure
beginnings of storm and tempest.
I only add that I do not find any sufficient evidence of the identity of
Saranyfl and the Greek Erinnus. The most that can be said is that one
name possibly became the other. There is no reason, that I can see, for
believing it, nor do I believe it.
When the Soma juice was thrown into a blazing fire, it made, of course, a
cloud of steam, which rising a little way and then disappearing, seemed to
appear again in the soft white clouds of the morning sky. The vapour and
the cloud were Saranyfi. It was the child of heat, because it equally rose
from water boiled in a vessel, and not touched by the flame. And long
after the older Vedic hymns had been composed, some new Poet, diligently
and laboriously seeking for new conceits, hit upon that expressed in the
passage on which we are commenting.
USHAS.
As Ushas is, beyond any question, the dawn, i. e., the light and glow
that in the east precede the sunrise, the hymns addressed to her and the texts
in which she is mentioned are chiefly valuable by the aid they afford towards
understanding what is said of other Deities and avoiding misconceptions.
She is duhitd divafa the daughter of the sky: she brings horses and cattle,
and is all-bestowing; for the light that enables men to see what, if darkness
were perpetual, would be as if it were not, to them, may easily be conceived
of as bringing and giving that which it enables men to have and use. Like
an active woman, she advances, giving strength, and arousing men and
animals. She has yoked, i. e,, she brings, her rays, from the remote rising-
place of the sun, and advances with a hundred chariots. Everything that
moves bows down before her glance (every luminary that traverses the sky
fades before it). The beautiful female creates radiance. The potent
daughter of the sky appearing drives away the haters of the worshippers.
She brings abundant prosperity.
In thee [says the hymn], when thou dawnest, Beautiful, is the life and the breath
of all creatures
(because they wake when her light falls upon their eyes). She is asked to
hear the invocation, and to come to the Soma-offerer's house, and to protect
the prosperous man with her chariot. She moves in a chariot drawn by
bright and ruddy steeds; and is asked to bring all the Devas to drink the
Soma.
I regard this as simply a poem; and do not believe that it was one whit
more devotional than Coleridge's "Hymn to Mont Blanc/' The dawn
never could have been seriously conceived of as a being having knowledge,
power and sympathies; and that alone which was venerated in her was the
light, in which the dawn consists.
The hymn i. 92. I, is even more poetical; and as one of the most interest-
ing of the Veda, I borrow here the translation of it by Dr. Muir:
These dawns (Ushasafr) have become conspicuous: they display their lustre in
the eastern hemisphere. Like bold warriors drawing forth their weapons, the ruddy
mother-cows (gdvo anishtr mdtaray) advance. The rosy beams have flashed up
spontaneously; they have yoked the self-yoked ruddy cows (svdyujo arusMr gdfy
ayukshata). The dawns, as heretofore, have brought us consciousness; the red
cows (arushir) have assumed a brilliant lustre. Like women active in their occu-
pations, they shine from afar along a common track, bringing sustenance to the
pious and liberal worshipper, and all things to the man who offers libations of Soma.
Ushas, like a dancer, puts on her gay attire; she displays her bosom as a cow her
udder: creating light for all the world, she has dissipated the darkness .... ['.
USHAS 553
123. 10. Like a maiden glorying in her form, thou, Deva, advances! to meet the
Deva who seeks after thee. Smiling, youthful and resplendent, thou unveilest thy
bosom in front. Like a fair girl adorned by her mother, thou displayest thy body
to the beholder, i. 124. 4. She has been beheld like the bosom of a bright maiden.
Like Nodhas, she has revealed things that we love. Awaking the sleepers like an
inmate of the house, she has come, the most constant of all the females who have
returned. 7. As a woman who has no brother, appears in presence of a man, as a
man mounted on a chariot goes forth in pursuit of wealth, as a loving wife shows
herself to her husband, so does Ushas, as it were, smiling, reveal her form. v. 80.
5. She displays her person like a fair woman, like one rising out of the water in
which she has been bathing, m. 64. 2. Thou, full of brightness, displayest thy
bosom, Deva, shining in thy glory.] i. 92. 5. Her bright ray has been perceived;
it extends and pierces the black abyss, [in. 51. 9. The bright lucid dawns con-
cealing the black abyss with their radiant bodies.] The daughter of the sky has
assumed a brilliant glow, like the decorations of the sacrificial post on festivals.
We have crossed over this darkness [i. e., have passed through the darkness of the
night]; Ushas, dawning, restores consciousness; radiant, she smiles like a flatterer
seeking his own advantage: fair in her aspect, she has awakened all creatures to
cheerfulness. The shining daughter of the skies, bringer of excellent songs, has
been praised by the Gotamas. Ushas, thou distributest resources in offspring,
men, horses and kine. Blessed Ushas, thou who, animated by strength, shinest
forth with wonderful riches, may I obtain that renowned and solid wealth, which
consists in stout sons, numerous slaves, and horses. Directing her eyes towards
all creatures, the Deva shines before them far and wide. Rousing to activity every
living thing, she notices the voice of every adorer. Born again and again, though
ancient [i. 123. 2. The youthful, born anew has shone forth on high. Hi. 61. 1.
Thou, Devi, old, young, wise, movest at thy will], shining with an 'ever-uniform
hue, wasting away the life of mortals, carrying it away as a clever gambler the
stakes. She is perceived revealing the ends of the sky; she chases far away her
sister (night). Wearing out the lives of men, the lady shines with the light of her
lover [i. 115. 2. The sun follows the shining Devi Ushas, as a man, following,
overtakes a woman, vii. 75. 4. Daughter of the sky, mistress of the world
(bhuvanasya patni}, food-providing wife of the sun], i. 92. 12. The bright and
blessed one has widely diffused her rays, as if she were driving forth cattle in various
directions, or as a river rolling down its floods; maintaining the ordinances of the
Devas (daivydni vratdni) she is perceived, made visible by the rays of the sun.
Ushas, provider of food, bring us that brilliant fortune whereby we may possess
offspring. Ushas, resplendent, awaking excellent songs, dawn richly upon us today
bringing cows and horses. Yoke today, Ushas, thy ruddy steeds, and then bring
us all blessings.
In i. 113, the sun is her child, and the night her younger sister: and
inasmuch as she has been produced for the production of Savitri, it is said,
the night has made way for Ushas. She disobeys not the settled ordinance,
but comes daily to the appointed place. She yearns longingly after the
former dawns, and gladly goes on shining with the others. And she is
called "Mother of the Devas (M&td Devdnam'), manifestation (anikam,
face) of Aditi, and forerunner of the sacrifice."
554 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
In other hymns she is called the sister of Bhaga and kinswoman of
Varuna. She brings the eye of the Devas (the sun) and leads up the beauti-
ful white horse. She is called the wife of the sun; and the dawns are even
said to generate the sun, sacrifice and Agni, because they precede them.
So Agni is called her lover, and is said to appear with or before the dawn;
for it is his light which is revealed by her. In one place he is represented as
going to meet her as she comes, and to beg for riches; which simply means
that the sacrificial fire will be kindled at the early dawn, and is to be well
fed with offerings of the best.
In vii. 6. 5, Agni is said to have made the dawns the wives of the heroic
shining one. Ushas is also often connected with the A^vini, the twin
horsemen, the time of whose manifestation Yaska regards as being between
midnight and sunrise; and which rose with the dawn, 5,000 years B.C. at the
Vernal Equinox. They are said to "associate" with her; and she is said to
be their friend (divo duhitrd Ushasd sachethe) ;
sack meaning "to follow, obey,
favour, honour"; according to Benfey ;
but also "to associate with, minister
to, give counsel to, advise." Sachi means "friendship," and sachiva,
"friend, companion, minister, counsellor;" and sakhd bhdd Agvinor Ushdfy,
and Uta sakhd si Agvinofy sakhd meaning "friend, associate, companion."
In mii. 9. 17, Ushas is called upon to awaken the Agvini; and in Hi. 58. I,
her hymn is said to have awakened them. But also, in x. 39. 12, we are told
that when the car of the Agvini is yoked, the daughter of the sky is born.
That Ushas is the daughter of the sky, and born daily, explains how Aditi is
Mother of the Adityas, and how Agni is born whenever a fire is kindled.
In so. 85. 19, the moon is said to be born again and again, ever new, and to
go before Ushas as the herald of the day.
Indra is said, in several places, to have created or lighted up Ushas.
But in H. 15. 6, he is said to have crushed her chariot with his thunderbolt.
And in iv. 30 he is commended for a deed of might and manliness, in smiting
Ushas, the daughter of the sky, a woman who was bent on evil, who was
exalting herself. He crushed her, and she fled away in terror, from her
shattered car, when he had crushed it, and it lay broken and dissolved.
In x. 138. 5, it is said that the bright Ushas was afraid of the destructive
thunderbolt of Indra, and departed, and abandoned her chariot. And in x.
73. 6, it is said that Indra destroyed certain foes, like the chariot of Ushas.
All of which must mean that when the sun had risen, and before his
more brilliant light the rosy colours of the dawn disappear, which are the
chariot of Ushas, she flees away; and this was imagined by the Poets to be an
act of hostility on the part of Indra, by which, if she had not fled, she would
have been annihilated.
So much we can understand : but if the radiant colours of the dawn are
her chariot, how could Indra crush it with his thunderbolt? The lightning
USHAS 555
does not flash in a clear sky. How could it be said of Ushas that she was
dushaydyuvam, united with evil or wickedness? That she was exalting
herself might mean that, becoming more and more bright, she endeavoured
to become the rival of the sunlight, and so provoked Indra to crush her
chariot: but the same question presents itself, how this could be done by the
thunderbolt; and how she, afraid of his destructive thunderbolt, departed
and left her chariot, and he destroyed it as he destroys his foes?
In all this there seems to be what some writers would style a "startling"
inconsistency, certainly an incoherency and incongruity and contradiction
calculated to make one doubt the sanity of the poetic imagination of the
Vedic Bards.
But I believe, as I have said, that when this is the case, the fault is in our
interpretation, in our failing to follow faithfully the train of thought of the
Poet and to comprehend his conception. Miiller has a very beautiful
passage, in which he describes the dawn as a beautiful maiden consumed
in the too ardent embrace of her lover, his love proving more fatal to her
than hate. But this is not the Vedic idea. It represents Indra as hostile
to her, as launching the thunderbolt against her, because she had united
herself with evil; and Dr. Muir says that the Poet,
with the want of gallantry which was so characteristic of the ancients, does not
hesitate to admire the manliness and heroism of Indra in overcoming a female.
I think there is no want of gallantry shown, either in the Veda or the Zend-
Avesta.
If we suppose that at the first faint glancings of the dawn in summer,
a heavy thundercloud rises, and by degrees thrusts up its black masses
into the sky; thus forbidding the sun to pour his light upon the earth, when
he shall have risen; that in this war of darkness against light, Ushas unites
herself with the clouds, as the stars fade out of the sky, and flushing all their
summits with her golden glories makes these glories of the clouds
her chariot, we can understand how the Poet could imagine her uniting
herself with the evil, the dark clouds, the enemies of Indra; and how he
could be said to crush her chariot with the thunderbolt and compel her to
flee in terror.
In i. 113. 4 and 5, it is said,
Ushas enables those who were almost sightless to see distinctly,
and that she gives back all the regions. Illuminating the world she makes
our property manifest (i. e., enables us to see it). Therefore in v. 7, she is
called "the mistress of all earthly treasure/' For what we cannot see, of
material things, is to us as if it were not. The dawn restores them to us;
and to be able to do that, must have them in her gift, and be mistress of
them, "possessor of affluence," "source of wealth."
VAYU AND VATA.
Dr. Muir, like the other commentators, considers Vayu to be the wind,
and Vata as only another name of the God of the wind.
It is said in i. 135, that it belongs of right to Indra and Vayu to take the
first draught of the Soma; for when the liquid is poured upon or into the
sacrificial fire, it is first received by the flame and the light. He is said to
have sprung from the breath of purusha (man), because by the breath, the
coals are blown into flame. He is said to be the son-in-law of Tvashtri,
who is said to have had a daughter Saranyfi (air, wind) ;
and the air or wind
causes the flame of a fire to increase and become more light, and emit a
more brilliant light, and this in larger quantity.
Vayu is called dargata, 'Visible," supsara stama, ''most beautiful";
krandad-ishti, "rushing on with a roar/
7
He is spoken of together with
Indra, as touching the sky, swift as thought, priest or sacrificer, thousand-
eyed, etc. He goes in a shining car, drawn by a pair of red or purple horses,
or by many, ninety-nine, a hundred, a thousand horses. He and Indra
often occupy the same chariot, i. e., there is close and intimate union between
the light and the flame of fire. Their chariot has a frame-work of gold,
that touches the sky, and it is drawn by a thousand horses.
It is singular, Dr. Muir says, that he is rarely connected with the Maruts
or Deities of the storm. But it is not singular, if he is the flame, of the
sacrificial or domestic or other fire. If he were the wind, he would be con-
stantly spoken of in connection with the Maruts, and could not be dis-
severed from them or from the storms. But, Dr. Muir says,
in one place [i. 134. 4] he is said to have begotten them from the rivers of heaven
(ajanayo Maruto vakshaydbhyo dvoah, d vakshaydbhyafy ;
and in another place [i. 142.
12], to be attended by Pushan, the Maruts and the Vigve Devas (Pdshayvdte Marut-
vdte Vigvadevdya Vdyave).
I do not appreciate the phrase, "the rivers of heaven." Benfey has vaksh
(Vedic) "to grow, to become tall,'* and vakshas, "the breast, the bosom/'
And what these "rivers of heaven'
'
are, if the translation is correct, from which
the winds are begotten, any one, I think, would be puzzled to say. Vakshav-
dbhyo seems to be an epithet of the Maruts. That flame produces movement
of the air is a physical fact which no one can help knowing.
In x. 1 68. i, the glory of Vata's chariot is celebrated; and its noise is
said to come, rending and resounding. Touching the sky he moves onward,
making all things ruddy, and he comes, sweeping the dust from the expanse.
The gusts of the air rush after him, and congregate in him, as women in an
assembly. Sitting along with them, on the same car, the Deva who is
VAYU AND VATA 557
ruler of all the world (Indra) is borne along. Hasting forward, by paths
in the atmosphere, he never rests on any day. Friend of the waters, first-
born, true, in what place was he born? Whence has he sprung? Life of
the Devas (dtmd devdndni), source of production (garbho, "womb") of
created beings (bhuvanasya) , this Devab moves as he pleases. His sounds
have been heard, but his form is not (seen) : this Vata let us worship with an
oblation.
x. 186. 1. May Vata waft to us healing (medicine), salutary and giving satis-
faction to the heart. May he prolong our lives. And, Vata, thou art our father,
our brother and our friend: cause us to live. From the abundance of undyingness
which is deposited yonder in thy house, O Vata, give us to live.
I do not see how it could be said that the wind or air was the life or
vitality of the Devas, when their vitality is light; nor how, if Vata is the air,
the gusts of air rush after him. How does the air make all the heavens red?
And how is the air the source of bhuvana, whether that word means "the
world,
"
"heaven/* or the aggregate of living creatures?
The same Deity, Vayu, is found in the Zend-Avesta. There also he is
called by the translator "the air that moves on high/' and yet is evidently
flame. It is impossible to doubt that he is the same in the Veda. Indra
and Vayu are offered unto together, in i. 2. 4. 5 and 6; are said there to abide
in the sacrificial rite, for they are hypostases of the fire, in it and of it.
In v. i, Vayu is "pleasant to behold." That was never said of the air.
In i. 23. 3, Indra and Vayu are said to have a thousand eyes, i. e., reveal
and manifest themselves and are visible by, a thousand luminaries.
In i. 134. i, Vayu is invoked to come to the sacrifice with his swift
coursers, with niyutwatd rathena, which Wilson translates "steed-yoked
car/' saying that the horses of Vayu are called Niyuts. It is incomprehen-
sible that the air should have been said to yoke to his car red and purple
horses; to arouse men from sleep, and summon heaven and earth, to light
up the dawn, to beget the Maruts, to protect from the fear of evil spirits.
In i. 134. 4, 5, it is said, as Wilson translates, "for thee," etc. I think
the "for" manifestly wrong, and I read,
by thee [i. e., by means of thee], the brilliant dawns, from afar, spread abroad their
auspicious raiment (bhadrd Vastra) in inviting rays (dansu ragmishu), in variegated
and glorious rays: by thee the cow that yields ambrosia (savardugha) milks all kinds
of treasure: .... for thee the bright, pure, quick-flowing, potent for exhilaration,
are eager for the oblation.
And, if this were not enough, we find, in i. 135. 4, and elsewhere, the
expressions Vdyavdgatam; Indrascha-dgatam> the name in the nominative
singular being in conjunction with the verb in the dual, and, so implying
558 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
that to name one is to name both, or that Vayu and Indra are inseparably
united.
In iv. 46 and 47, Indra and Vayu, with a thousand steeds, ride in the
same chariot, and Indra is the charioteer: and in iv. 48, it is repeated, that
Vayu is drawn by the Niyuts and has Indra for his charioteer. He is called
(as Wilson translates it)
the represser of calumnies (niryur vdno asastih); and the dark nurses of wealth
(kriskne vasttdhitt), the universal forms (heaven and earth), attend upon him.
"Represser of calumnies" is, Professor Wilson acknowledges, only a
substitute for a blank. And "the dark nurses of wealth/* and the "universal
forms" are very mysterious personages.
Indra and Vayu are so commonly addressed together as to show that
there is an intimate connection between them. In vi. 49. 4, Vayu is praised
alone, as possessor of vast riches, most adorable, filler of his chariot, riding
in a radiant car, and driving the Niyuts. And in verse 6 of the same hymn,
Parjanya and Vata are addressed together, as showerers of rain, and asked
to send from the firmament waters to be of benefit. In vi. 50. 12, Vishnu and
Vayu are asked to make the invoker happy, sending rain ; and Ribhukshin
and Vaja; and Parjanya and Vata are prayed unto for abundant food.
In mi. 5. 7, it is said to Agni:
Born in the highest sky, thou like (as) Vayu, ever drinkest the beverage; generating
the waters, thou thunderest.
By which I understand that the fire is addressed in its manifestation as
flame.
In vii. 90. 3 and 5, Vayu is styled
the white-complexioned dispenser of wealth, whom heaven and earth bore for the
sake of riches:
and Indra and Vayu are styled "two sovereigns," to whom a hero-bearing
chariot is presented: and in this hymn and 91, Indra and Vayu are several
times invoked together, and said to have a common chariot; and the latter
is "the white-complexioned Vayu, intelligent glorious with the Niyut steeds,"
In 92, he is mentioned alone and with Indra; and in viii. 9. 12, the Agvins
ride in the same chariot with Indra, and are domiciled with Vayu.
Indra and Vayu are thus shown to be of one nature, as Agni and Indra
are; and there cannot be the least doubt that Vayu is Flame.
VfttA is the perfect participle of vd, which in Benfey means "to blow/'
as the wind does, "to become dry, to dry.
"
The meaning of Vdta is given as
"blown": and also vdta, as a noun, "air, wind, breeze, rheumatism, gout."
Vdti is "air, wind, the sun, the moon." Vdtika is "fever, inflammation."
VAYU AND VATA 559
I think that the original meaning of vd was "to dry," and that Vata was
fire or heat, as producing dryness. And as the wind dries the wet ground,
I think Vata came to mean "wind," as that which "dries up;" and vd, "to
blow," because the wind that blows does dry up moisture. In vii. 40. 6,
"the circumambient Vata" is invoked to send rain. There it must be the
air or wind.
In mi. 36. 8, Vaja is invoked as "the sustainer of old, the liberal of
gifts," with Pushan and Bhaga: and Ribhu, Vibhva and Vaja are named as
the Ribhus, in i. 161.- 6; while in vii. 48, addressed to the Ribhus, we have
Ribukshdno Vajah addressed, without Vibhu or Vibhva, in the first verse;
and in the second, the Ribhus and Vibhus; and Vaja is invoked to defend
in battle: while in verse 3, the invocation is to Vibhvan, Ribukshin and Vaja;
the Ribhus thus being three in number, named respectively Ribhu, Vibhu
or Vibhva and Vaja; and the three being called Ribhus, Vibhus and Vajas,
indifferently. I shall speak of the Ribhus hereafter.
YAMA.
The passages in regard to Yama and the Fathers, quoted by Dr. Muir
(V. Sec. xviii.) from the ninth and tenth books of the Rig-Veda (unknown
to me until recently) , prove to be of the greatest interest and value, connect-
ing as they do with the historical account in the Zend-Avesta, of settlement
and colonization by Yima, son of Vivanhao, identical with Yama, son of
Vivasvat.
When I considered the texts until lately within my reach, in regard to
Yama, I was at a loss to determine what was intended and understood by
him, and I offered to the reader the only conjecture that seemed to me even
plausible. I leave it to stand, as an example of the difficulties of interpre-
tation.
Dr. Muir first discusses, in the section devoted to Yama, "the references
to immortality in the earlier %ooks of the Rig-Veda." One cannot but feel
greatly interested in an inquiry as to the real notions of the most ancient
of the Aryan Sages, Priests and Poets, in regard to the condition of man
after death, and whether they possessed clear and settled ideas of the survival
of existence of the intellect, soul or spirit, and of an inherent immortality of
the soul.
Dr. Muir says:
It is in the ninth and tenth books of the Rig-Veda, that we find the most distinct
and prominent references to a future life. It is true that the ibhus, on account
of their artistic skill, are said, in some texts in the earlier books, to have been
promised, and to have attained, immortality and divine honours.
For this he refers to i. 161. 2, where it is said that they shall be made worship-
ful as Devas; and in iv. 35. 8,
Ye who on account of your skill have become Devas, and sit like falcons in the sky:
do ye, children of strength, give us riches: ye, sons of Sandhanvan (or Sudhanvari)
have become deathless (abbavata amr.MsaV). [And, v. 3 of same], Then, skilful
Vijas, Ribhus (Vdjdfr Ribhavab), ye went, on the path of deathlessness (amritasya
panthdm) to the multitude (or troop) of the stars (gayarh devdndm).
Sandhanvan, I think, means "the twilight," as Samdhiya and Sdmdha do,
Ribhu, i. e., rabh+u and vdjd are epithets that do not give us any clue by
which to identify the Ribhus with any particular stars.
This, however [Dr. Muir continues], is a special case of deification, and would
not prove that ordinary mortals were considered to survive after the termination
of their earthly existence.
YAMA 561
I think that it, and the case of the Seven Rishis or Sages, who became the
stars of Ursa Major, distinctly prove the reverse. It is very evident that
these and other favoured individuals were supposed to have become stars;
and the same notion obtained among the Greeks.
There are, however [Dr. Muir continues], a few passages which must be under-
stood as intimating a belief in a future state of happiness. Thus Agni is said, in
i. 31. 7, to exalt a mortal to immortality (tvam tarn Agne amritatve uttame martam
dadJidsi), and to be the guardian of immortality (adabdho gopdfy amr.itasya rakshitd).
But it is not at all certain or even likely that the Vedic Poets had any
conception of existence absolutely without end. Maria, from mri, "to die,"
means "a man, a mortar* : but amrita, i. e., a+mrita, did not mean "immor-
tality.
"
We know what its ante-Vedic signification was, from the meaning
of the Zend words amere and am&r&at, in the older portions of the Zend-
Avesta. AmMtat was merely "life" as the opposite or negation of "death,"
i. e., lengthened or protracted life. This length of days, Agni and the
other Gods were implored and believed to give; and in the Githis of Zara-
thustra, it is often spoken of as one of the results of victory, peace and
security.
The same power of lengthening life, by giving good health and averting
danger, was ascribed to the Soma, because it was a part of the sacrifices and
when thrown into the fire became an undistinguishable portion of Agni.
Ini. 191. i, it is said,
By thy guidance, Soma, our wise ancestors obtained riches among the Devas.
Ratna, which Dr. Muir renders by "riches," is said by Benfey to be ram+tna,
and to mean "a gem, jewel, treasure, anything the best of its kind." But
ram means "to rest, to like to stay, to be delighted, to rejoice, to sport, etc." ;
so that ratna may have meant originally "pleasure, rest, felicity." So, in
verse 18 of the same,
apydyamdno amtftdya Soma: becoming abundant for long life, grant the most excel-
lent wealth in the sky.
So in i. 125. 5 and 6, the liberal man is said to go to the Devas, and to
remain permanently in the high place of the sky. This brilliancy is the
portion of those who bestow largesses, they are honoured as suns in the sky;
they attain amrita, they prolong their lives. Here amrita means good
health. In i. 154. 5, the worshipper prays that he may attain to the
dwelling of Vishnu, where men devoted to the Devas rejoice. In i. 179. 6, a
Rishi is said to have attained the object of his aspirations, among the Devas.
In v. 4. 10, the worshipper prays to Agni, that he may attain amrita ("long
562 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
life")- Mitra is prayed for rain, wealth and amrita. In x. 107. 2, the
givers of largesses have abiding-places on high, in the sky; the givers of
horses live with the sun ; the givers of gold enjoy amrita, the givers of raiment
prolong their lives. In mi. 57,
6. Daddia no amtftasya, prajdyai, Add us to the men of long life [i. e., make us such].
In i. 159. 2, the sky and expanse are said to bestow on their offspring long
life; uru prajdydfy amritam. Prajdyfify means "offspring, progeny, subjects,
people."
In vii. 86. 4, it is said,
Te id devanam sadhamddafr dsaun ritdvdnafr kavyafr pdrvydsafr: They were dwellers
with the Devas, those ancient righteous Sages, [viii. 58. 7], When we two, Indra
and I, go to the region of the sun, to our home, may we, drinking nectar, seek thrice
seven in the realm of our friend. [In viii. 48. 3], We have drunk the Soma: we are
become long-lived; we have entered into light; we have known the Devas.
In x. 1 86, Vata is declared to have a store of long life, or health, in his house.
And in x. 95. 18, the Devas promise Purfiravas, the son of lift, that though
he is a mortal, yet when his offspring shall worship them, with oblations,
he shall enjoy happiness in Svarga; said to mean Paradise. It is from svar,
1
'the sun, splendour, the sky.
' '
Svaru is
'
'sunshine.
f '
I have already given the enigmatical myth of the marriage of the daughter
of Tvashtri, at which all the world assembled (as Dr. Muir translates
vi&am bhuvanam, bhuvana meaning "being, creature/' and if "world" .also,
the aggregate of living beings) ; when the mother of Yama, becoming wedded,
the wife of the great Vivasvat, disappeared, immortal and concealed from
mortals, and another of like form was given to Vivasvat, who bore the
Agvins Saranyfl, who abandoned the twins.
Professor Mtiller proposes the inquiry whether Yama, meaning originally
"twin," could ever be used by itself as the name of a Deity. We can speak,
he says, of two twins, but could a single Deity or month be properly called
"a twin." In the passage above quoted, the wife of Vivasvat is said to have
been Yamasya mdtd, Yamasya being the genitive singular: but Benfey gives,
as one meaning of Yama, "a pair."
The word Yama occurs in Rig-Veda i. 66. 4, which Professor Miiller thus
translates literally it is addressed to Agni:
Yama is born, Yama will be born, the lover of the girls, the husband of the wives.
YAMA 563
But, remembering the twinship of Agni and Indra, as representatives of
day and night, he translates:
One twin is born, another twin will be born [i. e., Agni, to whom the hymn is
addressed, is born, the morning has appeared; his twin, or, if you like, his other self,
the evening, will be born].
Rosen translates this:
SociatcB utique Agni sunt omnes res nat<z, sociata illi sunt nascitura; all things
born are associated with Agni; all that are to be born, are associated with him.
Langlois: Jumeaii du passe, jumeau de Vavenir twin of the past; twin of the
future.
Wilson: Agni, as Yama, is all that is born; as Yama, all that will be born.
Kuhn: The twin (Agni) is he who is born; the twin is what is to be born.
And Benfey: A born Lord, he rules over births.
The verse first says of Agni, that like an army let loose, he wields his
force, like the flame-pointed arrow of the archer. The residue of the verse
follows:
I think that this was said at the Vernal Equinox, when the stars of Gemini rose
heliacally, and their rising was waited for by the sacrificer, as announcing the
coming of dawn and the opening of spring; and that when Castor rose he said, 'a
twin, or, one of the twins, is born, i. e., has risen; a twin, or, the other twin, will be
born, i. e., will shortly rise.'
The words "the lover of the girls, the husband of the wives," contain,
Miiller thinks, a mere repetition of the first hemistich. The light of the
morning, or the rising sun, he thinks, is called "the lover of the girls/
1
these
"girls" being the dawns, from among whom he rises.
Thus, he says, in i. 152. 4, it is said,
we see him coming forth, the lover of the girls (kanindm), the unconquerable.
SHyana explains kanindm by ushasam, dawns. Kanyd means "a girl,
a virgin, a daughter." Kaniyams means "very small" ; kanishfha, "smallest";
kaniyasa, "smaller"; and there must have been an adjective kani, "small."
Kan meant "to love, to be satisfied," and perhaps, "to shine." In Zend,
kainin is "girl," and khanha, "sister."
In i. 163. 8,
after thee the cows, after thee the host of the girls;
which are, he thinks, merely two representations of the same thing, the
bright days, the smiling dawns. So in ii. 15. 7, "the hiding-place of the
564 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
girls" is spoken of, and is, he thinks, the hiding-place of the cows, the east,
the home of the ever-youthful dawns. Jdrah, "lover," is applied to the sun,
in mi. 9. I, and i. 92. n;
The lover woke from the lap of the dawn.
The wife, dawn, shines with the light of the lover.
"The husband of the wives/' he thinks, meant the evening sun, as
surrounded by the splendours of the gloaming, as it were by a more serene
repetition of the dawn. The dawn is likewise called "the wife"; but in ix.
86. 32, it is said of the sun,
The husband of the wives approaches the end.
And so he makes "the lover of the girls" to be the young sun, and the
husband of the wives the old sun, the girls and wives being the dawns and
gloamings.
The original of i. 66. 4, in part, i. e., of so much as speaks of Agni as
Yama, is Yamo ha jclto yarno janitvawt. The phrase ought to have some
connection with what precedes or what follows it, in the same verse.
Now, the whole verse, as Wilson renders it, is:
He (Agni) terrifies like an army sent, or like the bright-pointed shaft of an archer.
Agni, as Yama, is all that is born; as Yama, all that will be born. He is the lover
of maidens, the husband of wives.
As Agni is the vital heat and generative power and so causes and is concupis-
cence, I suppose the meaning of the last clause to be that it is he that causes
love for virgins and coition with wives. And the second clause may allude
to his same potency as generator of twins. At all events, it seems clear
enough that yamo here is not a proper name.
In i. 152. 3 and 4 are, in Wilson,
who knows, Mitra and Varuna, that it is your doing that the footless (apad) dawn
is the precursor of footed beings, and that your infant sustains the burthen of this?
He diffuses truth and disperses the falsehood. We behold the lover of the maidens,
ever in movement, never resting for an instant, wearing inseparable and diffusive,
the beloved abode of Mitra and Varuna.
Here Wilson has "the maiden (dawns)." In i. 163. 8, it is said,
The car follows thee, Horse: men attend thee, cattle follow thee; the loveliness
of maidens upon thee; troops of demigods following thee have sought thy friendship ;
the Devas themselves have been admirers of thy vigour.
The "horse" is the sun, it is said. That seems doubtful. The whole hymn
YAMA 565
needs an interpreter, for notwithstanding all attempts at explanation it
still remains an enigma. It is as follows, as translated by Wilson:
1. Thy great birth, Horse, is to be glorified [in 162, 1, the horse sacrificed is
called 'the swift horse sprung from the Devas,' devajatasya, whether first springing
from the firmament or from the water (samudrdd-uta va purfchdt), as to the meaning
whereof I will inquire hereafter] inasmuch as thou hast neighed, for thou hast the
wings of the falcon and the limbs of the deer.
2. Trita harnessed the horse which was given by Yama. Indra first mounted
him and Gandharba seized his reins. Vasus, you fabricated the horse from the sun.
It follows that the horse was not the sun.
3. Thou, Horse, art Yama; thou art Aditya; thou art Trita by a mysterious
act; thou art associated with Soma. The Sages have said there are three bindings
of thee in the sky. [The original of 'three bindings' is bandhandm trtni.}
4. They have said that three are thy bindings in the sky, three in the waters
(triyyapsu), and three in the firmament. Thou declarest to me, Horse, who art
Varuna, that which they have called thy most excellent birth.
5. I have beheld, Horse, these thy purifying; these impressions of the feet of
thee who sharest in the sacrifice; and here thy auspicious reins, which are the pro-
tectors of the rite., that preserve it.
6. I recognize in my mind thy form afar off, going from below, by way of the
sky, to the sun. I behold thy head soaring aloft, and mounting swiftly by unob-
structed paths, unsullied by dust.
7. I behold thy most excellent form coming eagerly to thy food in thy place
of earth; when thy attendant brings thee nigh to the enjoyment, therefore, greedy,
thou devourest the fodder.
8. The car follows thee [etc., as above].
9. His name is of gold; his feet are of iron; and fleet as thought. Indra is his
inferior. The Devas have come to partake of his oblation. The first who mounted
the horse was Indra.
11. Thy body, Horse, is made for motion: thy mind is rapid as the wind: the
hairs are tossed in manifold directions; and spread beautiful in the forests. [Here,
Wilson says, 'the horse is identified with Agni, whose flames consume the forests'].
12. The swift horse approaches the place of immolation, meditating with mind
intent upon the Devas: the goat bound to him is led before him; after him follow
the Priests and the Singers.
13 . The horse proceeds to that assembly which is most excellent ; to the presence
of his father and his mother. Go, today, rejoicing to the Devas, and may they
grant blessings to the offerer.
Of this hymn, Professor Wilson says that, although more mystical than
162, especially in regard to the intimations of the identity of the horse with
the sun, there is nothing in it incompatible with the more explicit description
in the former of the actual sacrifice of a horse. And certainly the last two
verses announce the coming of an actual horse to the place of sacrifice, there
to be immolated, and in the flames to ascend to the stars in the sky.,
566 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The preceding hymn describes the sacrifice of the horse
'
'sprung from
the Devas," preceded by a goat offered to Indra and Pushan. The
slaughtering, cutting up and roasting of the animal are described in detail.
The flesh is in part given in alms to be eaten. But v. 19 is,
There is one immolator of the radiant horse, which is time (r
f itub, properly 'season*;
by metonomy, 'time'] :
.there are two that hold him fast. Such of thy limbs as I
cut up, I offer them, made into balls, upon the fire.
Ritu means "order, right time, season of the year, menstrual discharge,
the season approved for sexual intercourse/' But probably Ritufy in the
text was the title of the priest who slew the horse, aided by two others
holding the animal fast to receive the blow.
Then it is said to the horse;
Verily at this moment thou dost not die, nor art thou harmed, for thou goest by
auspicious paths to the Devas.
The horses of Indra, the steeds of the Maruts and a courser with the ass of
the A^vins are to bear him to the sky. And, finally, among the gifts which
it is hoped that the oblation will bring them, the last named is "bodily
vigour/'
In iv. 38, 39 and 40, the war-horse Dadhikrd is extolled, and language
of adoration used, as to a Deity. Until we reach verse 5, of 40, he is simply
and plainly the war-horse, giver or winner of victories; but that verse is:
He is Hansa, dwelling in light; Vasu, dwelling in the firmament; the invoker of the
Gods, dwelling on the altar; the guest, dwelling in the house; the dweller amongst
men [as consciousness, Wilson adds]; the dweller in the most excellent; the dweller
in truth (reality); the dweller in the sky; born in the waters, in the rays of light,
in the verity, in the mountain, The (Very) Truth.
The commentators all agree that this verse- (known as the Hansavati
Rich} means the identification of Aditya, or the sun in the type Dadhikrd,
with Parabrahma or the Universal Deity, and consequently his identity
with all the other types of the Supreme Being.
The "explanations" of the terms or types, as given by the commentators,
are worthless. They are, in the original and as rendered by Wilson, as
follows:
1. Hansa, said to be from han, 'to go.' That verb means 'to strike, wound*
hurt, injure, kill, destroy, blot out, remove, impede'; and, without authoritative
reference, *to go/ All its derivatives have meanings that flow from its first and
primary meanings, as e. g., hana, 'killer'; hanfyi, 'murderer'; hanana, 'striking,
wounding, killing.
1
But hajftsa means 'a goose, gander, swan, a sort of horse, the
sun/ and other later meanings.
YAMA 567
2. Vasu, from vas, 'to shine/ and meaning 'a ray of light, the sun/ and, later,
or from vas, 'to wear, put on,' etc. 'Wealth, gold,
1
etc.
3. Hold, 'a worshipper or sacrificer/
4. Atithi, 'a guest,
1
from at, 'to go, move continually/ and thus meaning orig-
inally 'a traveler receiving hospitality.'
Both of the words are often applied to Agni, one to designate the
sacrificial fire, "invoker of the Devas," and the other, "the domestic fire."
5. Ntfshad, i. e. (according to Benfey, ntf-sad), 'understanding.' Nr,i is 'man'.
Sad, as the latter part of compound words, 'sitting, dwelling.' Ntishad, therefore,
is something inherent in man, variously supposed by the commentators to be 'con-
sciousness, vitality, eye-sight.'
6. Varasad, 'dweller in the most excellent/ i. e., according to the commenta-
tors 'the solar orb.
J
Vara, i. e., vr.i+a, and the same as vira, gives virya, 'virility' ;
vir, *a hero/ etc., and means among other things, 'best, excellent'; and also 'one
who solicits a girl for his wife, a bridegroom, a son-in-law, a husband, a catamite,
a sparrow/ as salacious.
7. Ritasad; %ita, meaning 'truth.'
8. Vyomasad; vyoman, 'the sky.'
9. Abjah, 'born in the water'; ap, 'water/
10. Gojah, 'born among the rays/ or *ox-born.'
11. Ritajah, 'born of truth' or 'of the sacrifice.'
12. Adrijah, 'born of AAri,
1
'a stone, mountain or cloud.'
Finally, he is said to be Ritam, "truth or reality/*
In mi. 44, Dadhikrt is invoked first, then the Agvins, the dawn, Agni,
Bhaga, and others. Dadhikr& is aroused and animated, and Dadhikrivan
propitiated, and termed the swift steed, the first, knowing, in the front of
the chariots, consentient with Ushas, Sfirya, the Adityas, Vasus and
Angirasas: and Dadhikri is invoked to sprinkle the worshipper's path, that
he may follow the road of sacrifices. Here some constellation would seem
to be meant, then known as the Horse, perhaps Pegasus, in which is Markab,
a star of the first magnitude. As we have seen, the horse, about to be
sacrificed, was assured that he would not die, but would be translated to the
sky.
It is quite likely that in these hymns, composed by different persons, at
different periods, the horse had more than one symbolic meaning. We are
now concerned with that which he has in i. 163. There he is fleeter than
thought, and was first mounted by Indra, when Tnta had harnessed him,
and Gandharba held the reins. The Vasus fabricated him from the sun.
He is Yama, Aditya, Trfta by a mysterious act, and associated 'with Soma.
The mysterious act is "explained" by the commentators, as being
"a secret of the nature of a cloudy day, or an act of a universally penetrating
character." These explanations, Professor Wilson thinksj "are not very
obvious.'
1
568 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Trita is evidently from tfi, "three/* and like ftitaya must mean "a triad."
With this, here, it agrees that there are three "bindings
"
of the horse, in the
sky, three in the waters and three in the expanse. The commentators make
trinyapsu mean "three upon earth/' food, site and seed, or tillage, rain
and seed; in the firmament, cloud, lightning, thunder.
Bandh means "to bind, fasten, gain, get, bear (as fruit)/' whence bandha,
"binding, holding in fetters, the body, building, forming, agreement, union";
and bandhana, "binding, fastening, confining, a rope or chain." Bandhu is
"a kinsman, friend." The "three bindings," bandhandni trini, are three
somewhats connected and united, forming, as it were, a trinity. But what
of this kind can be imagined, that has anything to do with a horse? And
did the horse spring from samudra, "the sea/
7
or purfchd, whatever the
latter may be?
The horse, bull and goat are all symbols of virility. The idea of genera-
tion after the human manner, i.e., by connection of male and female, union
of the male and female organs, and impregnation by semenation, itself a
profound mystery, and in itself no more indecent than sexual reproduction
in the vegetable world, suggested itself to the Aryan imagination as naturally
as it did to the Semitic, as the mode of emanation of the universe from the
womb of the Infinite. That creation was a genesis and a birth, though not
prominent in the Veda, is to be found in it: and as the continuation of men
and things is due to generation or impregnation and production, it was
natural that these should be personified. Light was the great impregnator,
and heat was vitality and also a potency of generation : but the sexual desire,
which afterwards, in Brahm, was said to have caused self-separation into
male and female, connection between the two, Brahm and Maya, and thence
the universe sexual desire, called Kama, "Love," had, naturally, entered
the circle of potencies that the imagination personified; for it is a force, and
the cause of the perpetuation of all the animal creation. It is especially
potent in the stallion, and he became the symbol of it, as the bull and goat
did, for the same reason. It seems to have its seat in the genital organs,
and to its existence and activity there, hope, cheerfulness, courage are in a
great measure due. Those organs therefore, and especially those of the
male, became symbols of it; and in the Kabbalah, borrowed by the Hebrews
from the Zend-Avesta, the Sephirah Yesod, Fundamentum, is the membrum
virile, and the Sephiroth Hod and Netsach, Glory and Victory, are the
testiculi; Light the Divine Seed; and the process of divine generation is
described again and again, in the plainest language possible.
Moreover, this symbol was triune, three uniting in a single act, to
produce a single result and effect. And, of the Sanskrit words that mean
the semen virile, gukra also means "light"; hirayya and hirana, "gold";
YAMA 569
indriya, "power"; Vija, "divine Truth," as cause of being; and retas is a
name of Agni; while ruck, "light and splendour" also means "desire."
The conviction has been forced upon me that the horse, in i. 162, is at
once the actual animal, sacrificed, and sexual desire symbolized by the horse.
If this is so, perhaps the expression in v. 19, that there is one immolator of
the radiant horse, time, means that age extinguishes this desire. In i 162,
this symbolization becomes more distinct. The horse is here to be glorified,
whether springing from samudra or purhhd. Samudra, i. e., sam+und+ra
means "the sea, ocean" :
sa-mudm, "sealed." Samud, L e., sam+ud, whence
samuddya, "rising, a day, effort"; samutsedha, "height, elevation"; samut-
thdna, "rising, getting up, increase," etc., is compounded of sam, "with,
together, much, very,"etc., and when followed by a prefix, as in sam-vd-kship,
generally without a special signification; and ud, "up." Ud-ayudha, "with
raised weapon." And sam-ud-ra would mean "elevation, erection."
Purtsha, in Benfey, is "faeces, excrement, remains of food." It is, he says,
akin to pri. Of course this meaning does not belong to the word in the text
under consideration. Pura (probably pri+a) means, among other things,
"the body," and "skin"; and puri and purt the same. Pri and ptir mean
"to fill" and "satisfy," "cover."
Trita harnessed the horse. Is this the triad or trinity, wherein the
desire resides? Indra first mounted him, for it is light that impregnates
and fructifies. The Vasus or rays, fabricated the horse from the sun: for
their heat is the vital principle and generative potency. The horse is Trita
by a mysterious act (operation), in allusion to the triune symbol and its
effect. He is Aditya, a potency of Nature. He is associated with Soma,
because the Soma juice was believed to possess aphrodisiac virtue. The
banhandni trini refer to the same symbol, and to the trinity of generator,
producer and issue, on the earth, in the waters and in the air.
Also the horse is Yama, and Yama gave him to Indra. What is Yama
here? He is, we have seen, "all that has been and all that will be," or,
"all that is born, all that will be born," being Agni, Agni as Yama; and he
is the lover of maidens and husband of wives. He is simply, then, the
generative potency of heat, Agni manifested and acting as that animal heat
which causes desire, and generation and production.
Gandharba or Gandharva, it is said, held the reins. The meaning of the
name is unknown. Gandha means "smell, odour and perfume." When
Somagi, in i. 126. 7, solicits the approach of her husband, she says,
deem me not immature. I am covered with down like a ewe of the Gandhdrius;
and Professor Wilson says,
another meaning is also assigned to Gandhdri.
570 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
How the meaning "twin" is obtained for Yama, does not appear. Yam
means "to tame, restrain, govern, give"; and the meanings of all the other
derivatives come from these. No doubt there was some connection between
Yama as the generative potency of Agni, Yama, twin, and Yama, son of
Vivasvat. It may have been the duality between Hud and Netsach in the
Kabbalah.
In the Grecian legend, Castor and Pollux, or, more correctly, Poludeukes,
becoming enamoured of Phoebe and Talaria, resolved to carry them away,
from the feast in celebration of their marriage to Lynceus and Idas ; and to
marry them; in consequence of which a conflict ensued, in which Castor
killed Lynceus and was killed by Idas, whom afterwards Poludeukes killed.
Castor was afterwards restored to life, and one of them had a son by
Phoebe, and the other by Talaria.
Referring to the passages in Mandala #., in which Yama is spoken of,
Professor Muller inquires whether it is possible to discover, in Yama, the
God of the Departed, who is there spoken of, one of the twins?
I confess [he says] it seems a most forced and artificial designation; and I should
much prefer to derive this Yama from Yam, 'to control.' Yet his father is Vivasvat,
and the father of the twins was likewise Vivasvat. Shall we ascribe to Vivasvat
three sons, two called the Twins, Yaman, and another called Yama, the Ruler?
It is possible, yet it is hardly credible; and I believe it is better to learn to walk in
the strange footsteps of ancient speech, however awkward they may seem at first.
Let us imagine, then, as well as we can, that Yama, Twin, was used as the namejjof
the evening, or the setting sun; and we shall be able, perhaps, to understand how,
in the end, Yama came to be the King of the Departed, and the God of Death.
In viii. 67. 20, "the shaft of Vivasvat, the poisoned arrow, "is spoken of.
Muller thinks that Vivasvat, like Yama, was sometimes considered as
sending death. The shaft or arrow was, I believe, sun-stroke, a frequent
cause of death in that latitude.
Yama, I am quite sure, never was the name of the setting sun or of the
evening. He did not, from that, become King of the Dead or God of Death.
He is spoken of in only three or four passages of the first Mandala, in one of
the second and in two of the sixth, and the passages in relation to him in the
subsequent books are of much later date, and were composed when a long
time had elapsed after he led to the southward a body of emigrants, to the
southward and towards the setting sun.
In vi. 33. 9, it is said,
The Apsarasas sit down, wearing the vesture spread out by Yama: [and in v. 12 it
is said], He, the Sage, cognizant of both worlds, was the donor of thousands: he was
verily donation: wearing the vesture spread by Yama, Vasishtha was born of the
YAMA 571
As Mitra and Varuna are said, in verse n, jointly to have begotten
Vasishtha, it must be they who are styled Apsaras. In verse 9, the original
is, Yamena tatam paridhim vayanto apsarasa upusedui Vasishfhdh, and Wilson
says it is somewhat dark. He says:
The garb paridhim, vastrant, spread, tatam, by him, is the revolution of life and
death.
The residue of the explanations that he quotes may be omitted without
serious loss.
Paridhi, in Benfey, "that by which something is bordered, a halo, the
horizon, a circumference." Pari is an adverb and a preposition, meaning
"round, all round, about," etc., dhd means "to put," passive, "to be
contained." Paridhi, therefore, means an "envelope, that which invests,
encloses, enwraps, environs," etc., and "the body, as containing within it
the vital Soul and intellectual Spirit." Vastra is, "that which invests
19
(Latin vestis), and hence, derivatively, "garments, clothes," from va$, "to
wear, put on."
In verse 10 of the same hymn, it is said,
when Mitra and Varuna beheld thee, Vasishtha, quitting the lustre of the lightning:,
then was one of thy births.
They begat him, it is said, by pouring a common effusion into a sacrificial
water-jar, whence Mina arose and Vasishtha. The body which then
enveloped each, and those that enveloped the Apsarasas, children of
Vasishtha, and which each dwelt in, came from Yama, Generation. In it,
coming from the sky, where they are stars, they sit near.
In i. 35. 6, it is said:
Three are the spheres [heavens: Muller]: two are in the proximity of Savitri, one
leads men to the dwelling of Yama.
Muller has it,
two are said to belong to Savitri, one to Yama.
The word rendered "spheres" or "heavens," is lokas: and these, the com-
mentators say, are heaven, earth and Antariksha, "the firmament" It is
very doubtful what is meant here by loka. It is, Benfey says, foc&-or
ruch+a, with l.forr. Ruch means "to shine, light, splendour," and ntchi
is
'
light, splendour, a ray of light." Loka means, according to him, "seeing,
sight, the world, the universe, a world, man, mankind." Loch is "to see,
behold, perceive, regard, consider." The "three regions" are said in verse 7,
572 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
to be illuminated by supar^a (radiance). Sflrya is said in verse 8 to have
lighted up the three regions of living beings. In verse 9 Savitri is said to
travel between the two regions of heaven and earth. And here, I imagine,
it is the earth that is the sphere or region of Yama, the generative potency
of material Nature.
If Yama, in the hymn x. 17 means "Twins," they and the Agvins, sons
of Vivasvat, are the same, the great stars of the constellation Gemini. And
in the much later hymn, *. 10. I, where these have become male and female,
and Yami, the sister, solicits Yama to have intercourse with her, I think
that the same two stars are referred to. But it is difficult to determine
what the real meaning of the hymn was. She wishes the sage, after
traversing a vast ocean, to beget a son, and look far forward over the earth.
The undying ones, she insists, desire this of him, a descendant left behind
by the one sole mortal. The Devas Tvashtri, she insists made them
husband and wife, in the womb. Though she should wait upon him (submit
her body to his embraces?), by night and day, still the eye of the sun would
open again. Such, with repeated solicitations, is her part of the poem.
He refuses, declaring it would be unrighteous. The heroes (z>r$&),Sons of
Splendour, he says, look far and wide around. Their parents he says, were
Gandharva apsu and his water-wife (apya yosha). Of course, no one
endeavours to explain why Saranyfi is styled the "watery'* wife of Gand-
harva. Explanation of it is simply impossible, on any of the theories that
we have quoted. But if Saranyfl is vapour and the vapourous clouds,
then the epithet at once appears to be perfectly appropriate and proves the
conjecture correct. As Gandha-vaha meant
'
'that which conveys fragrance,
' '
and therefore "the wind," Gandharva may have meant the air of spring,
agitating the clouds.
Yama asks her, who knows that first day, when they were in the womb
together, who has seen it, and who can declare it. Vast, he says, is the
realm of Mitra and Varuna. (For that realm, of the Morning and Evening
Stars, is the whole sky and expanse, everywhere in which have always been
the clouds.) And when she proposes to bare her body to him, he answers,
that these spies of the Gods (devdntim spa$ah, outlookers of the Devas),
who here revolve, neither stand still nor wink. Both in the sky and expanse,
she tells him, twins are closely united; but he declares it to be sinful, and
commends her to some other male.
Notwithstanding the grossness of expression here, apparently only fit
and appropriate in a conversation between material creatures capable of
copulation, I think it quite clear that the whole is merely figurative, and
merely a poetic expression of the fact that, although always moving together,
the two stars Castor and Pollux never are in conjunction, but always at the
same distance from each other. At the same time there is no doubt that
YAMA 573
at this comparatively modern period, these stars were beginning to be,
or had become, to the mind of the Poets and still more to the people, actual
persons and beings like the Grecian Dioscuri.
I come now to that which is of much more living interest to us, to a
great fact in the history of our race.
In Fargard ii. of the Vendidad we have a historical recital of the emigra-
tion of Yima, son of Vivanhao, from the original mountain-home of the
Aryans, to the southward, to a more genial climate, in consequence of the
severity of the winters, by which the pasturage was destroyed and the cattle
starved. With a large body of followers, driving with them their herds of
horses and cattle, and accompanied by their wives and children, they went
from the high valleys of the western slope of the Bolor Tagh or Comedarum
Montes, in which the Oxus and Jaxartes (Sihoun or Sirr and Jihoon) have
the sources of their many heads, and either crossing part of these, and
descending into the open country to the southwest of the sources of the
Jaxartes, or crossing those of the Oxus, and finding their way into Bactria,
they settled, and built a walled city, and established a great system of
irrigation, in some alluvial plain through which a large, swift, clear river ran.
This region, thus settled by Yima and his colonists, was the Airyana Vaeja
of the First Fargard of the Vendidad.
And it was either that fertile valley in which the city of Samarcand
now stands, where three rivers from the mountains come together, and the
Sogd, Zohik, Sirafshan or Poiymetus flows to the west, then bends to the
northwest, and then to the southward, towards the Oxus; or it was the
equally fertile and level plain around the present city of Bokhara, on the
same river, far below Samarcand ; or it was the great plain of the city of
Balkh or Bactria, on the south side of the Oxus.
The Zohik now falls into Lake Denghis, near the Oxus, a body of salt
water, of great depth, and about twenty-five miles in length. Parallel to it
runs the river, Kurshee, which now sinks in the sand : and both, there is no
doubt, at one time fell into the Oxus, which itself, there is little doubt, then
flowed into the Caspian. On each side of each of these streams, formerly
much larger, it is evident, than they are now, stretched a zone of most
fertile land, but cultivable only by irrigation. Running out of and parallel
to the Zohik were many long deep channels, which were extended by art, or
new ones made, by which the whole valley was abundantly irrigated, and
with these the whole country on the rivers, from Samarcand to Bokhara,
and all the country around Balkh, and in the valley or alluvial bottom of the
great river Oxus, on both sides, are intersected still.
One of the principal sources of the Oxus is in Lake Siricol, at an elevation
of 15,600 feet above the sea, in Latitude 37 27' North. Samarcand is in
39 32'; Bokhara in 39 25' and Balkh in 36 35'. To know that Madrid
574 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
is in 40 30', Genoa in 44 22', Rome in 41 S^', Seville in 37 10', and
Constantinople in 41 05', will give one a better idea of the climate and
temperature of these early homes of the Aryan race. In all the valley of the
Zohik are grown rice, tobacco, cotton, oranges, pears, apricots, grapes in
great variety, figs and peaches, the best of these being raised at Samarcand,
and the apricots as large as apples.
Excepting the valleys of the rivers, the country is a desert, for the most
part of sand of no great depth, and in which water can everywhere be had
by digging a few feet.
How long before the time of Zarathustra, this emigration of Yima took
place, we have no certain means of determining. Twice before his death
he was deprived of the royal power, for infidelity to the Ahurian religion,
and twice restored to it. How many kings succeeded him, before Zarathus-
tra, we do not know. It is said more than once in the Zend-Avesta, that
Zarathustra sacrificed to Ahura in Airyana Vaeja; and unless this name
was merely descriptive and laudatory (it meaning "the good creation") ,
and given to Bactria as it had been given to Sogdiana, he must have lived
at first, in the valley of Samarcand. If so, he must have emigrated to
Bactria, or else all tradition on the subject is unreliable: and moreover, the
descriptions of the country in which he fought against and conquered the
Tatars or Toorkhs and native tribes, Turanians, Gaimirians g^ others, and
where he reigned as a king, too evidently agree with Bactria to permit of any
doubt.
Zarathustra, it is to be added, in the Gthds or patriotic exhortations
addressed to his people and their chiefs, urging them to rise against and
expel the infidels who had invaded and held a large part of the country and
marauded upon the rest, does not claim to have been the author of what we
call the "Zoroastrian" religion: and it is elsewhere stated that it was first
preached by Vivanhao, the father of Yima, a priest. Yima was not a
teacher, but a soldier and a king.
Now, there is no doubt, at
v
all in regard to the meaning of that part of the
Zend-Avesta in which these historical facts are stated. And there is no
doubt that Yima emigrated from^the high valleys in the mountains. As
he settled Airyana Vaeja, which the First Fargard designates as the first
of the countries created by Ahura, it would seem that the country on the
Zohik at Samarcand could not have been settled when he emigrated. Yet
that is possible, and that he passed by it, leading his mountaineers, and
settled in the plain of Bokhara, 'or even crossed the Oxus and established
himself in the plain of Balkh. And as the bands which he led and which
afterwards followed him became the Irano-Aryan, and the Medo and
Perso-Aryan branch
1
of the race, and the old original tongue became with
them by slow degrees and after a long period, the Zend, while those who
YAMA 575
became the Indo-Aryan branch remained behind, and at a later day,
perhaps when pressed upon by the Tatar and Toorkhish hordes, crossed
the Oxus into Eastern Bactria, and thence through the passes of the
Hindu Kush or Paropamisus into Kabul, ultimately occupying the country
of the Seven Rivers, on the upper waters of the Indus, by which time the
old language had with them become the Vedic Sanskrit, I think that Yima
emigrated long after Samarcand and Bokhara had been settled, and into
Bactria, settling in the plain of Balkh. Whether the Samarcand country
was settled before the Greek, Latin, German or Gothic, Sclavonic and
Keltic emigrations, or before even the latest of these, we shall never know.
I may here add, that, in my opinion, the Zend is nearer the original
language that the Sanskrit, having the oldest forms; and that the Latin is
nearer to it than the Greek.
We are on firm ground in regard to the emigration of Yima; and he
never became a Deity to the Irano-Aryans; but continued a historical per-
sonage.
And we are on equally firm ground in asserting the perfect identity of
names and persons,, between Yima the son of Vivarihao and Yama the son of
Vivasvat. The change of a into i in Yima is paralleled by that in, many words
where a changes into ai, as in pari, pairi; madhya, maidhya; prati,
paiti; while, on the other hand, $iras, "head
1 '
becomes $ara; hiravya, zaranya;
pitar, patar; while jani becomes jdni, and in Greek gune; the Sanskrit
panchan becomes in Latin quinque; and the Sanskrit a always changed into e
in Zend, before a final m. As to Vivasvat, the change of s into yh in Zend
is common. Manas becomes mananh; amhas, a&anh; ojas, aonjanh, etc.
I do not enlarge on this, since the identity of Yama and Yima and that of
Vivasvat and Vivanhao are admitted by every commentator.
I return now to the Veda. Rig-Veda x. 14. i ,
of which Dr. Muir (v. 291)
gives the original and a translation, is also to be found, with slight variations,
in Atharva-Veda xviii. i. 49- It is as follows:
1. Worship with an oblation Yama the King (or Chief), son of Vivasvat, the
assembler of men, who departed to the mighty streams, and explored the road for
many*
The words rendered "to the mighty streams" are pravato maUr anu.
This rendering is adopted by Roth. He had before translated the words,
"from the deep to the heights," and Dr. Haug had rendered them "from the
depths to the heights/' But, says Dr. Muir, in the AtharvarVeda, xviU. 4. 7,
where the same words occur, in the sentence,
they cross by fords the great rivers, which the virtuous offerers of sacrifice pass,
they seem more likely to mean "the mighty streams." But Roth thinks
576 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
they are mighty celestial waters. One fails to see why they should. So in
Atharva-Veda vi. 28.3, Yama is said to have first reached the river (pravatarn)
looking out a road or route for many. Pravata is not in Benfey. It is
added in the hymn last cited, that Yama is master of the two-footed and
four-footed creatures.
We shall never have any wholly true interpretation of the Veda, until
translators permit the Vedic bards to speak for themselves, without putting
words in their mouths to make the expression of their thoughts correspond
with a preconceived theory. It is evil enough that it is so often unavoidable
that the first meanings which words had when they were uttered must be
replaced by the meanings that they had come to have two thousand years
afterwards, or be guessed at by the aid of these. It is worse when words
are added because a given theory requires it. Taking the words of the first
verse of this hymn in their natural import and meaning, it records this
historical fact, agreeing with the other ancient record of the Vendidad; that
Yama, an Aryan chieftain, organizer of a body of emigrants, went from the
home of his people to the great rivers, opening a way which many after him
were to follow. The Atharva-Veda adds to this, by interpolation, that
he was the first of men that died, which is mere nonsense.
2. Yama was the first who found for us the route. This home is not to be
taken from us. Those who are now born (go) by their own routes to the place
whereunto our ancient fathers emigrated.
The country which Yama discovered and occupied has become per-
manently a home of the Aryans, now too powerful to be in danger of expulsion
from it: and the men of the present day can go, by routes selected by them-
selves (not following that taken by Yama), to the country whither our
ancestors emigrated.
The next verse names, as I understand it, some of these earliest emigrants :
Matdlt magnified (vavridhdnah, "invested with power' ') by the Kavyas,
Yama by the Angirasas, and Bphaspati by the Rikvans, both those whom
the Devas magnified (or exalted), and those who (magnified) the Devas
(but as each word is devdb, and the latter may as well be taken to be in the
nominative as in the accusative, I think we should read, "both those whom
the Devas invested with authority, or, made great, and those who are
Devas, i. e., who have become so by translation to the sky) of these some are
gladdened (gratified) by Svdha (expressions of veneration at the sacrifice),
and others by Suadhd (the food sacrificed) .
4. Place thyself, Yama, on this sacrificial seat, in company with the Angirasas
and the fathers. Let the texts recited by the Sages persuade thee hither. Be
gratified, King, with this oblation.
YAMA 577
5. Come with the worshipful Angirasas: be satisfied here, with the children of
VirQpa. Seated on the grass at this sacrifice, I invoke Vivasvat, who is thy father.
6. May we enjoy the good will and gracious benevolence of those worshipful
beings, the Angirasas our fathers, the Navagvas, the Atharvans, the Bhrigus,
offerers of Soma.
7. Depart thou, depart, by the ancient paths, whither our early fathers depart-
ed. Thou shalt see the two Kings, Yama and the Deva Varuna, exhilarated by
the oblation.
8. Meet with the Fathers, meet with Yama, meet in the height of the sky
with the sacrifices thou hast offered. Throwing off all imperfections, return to thy
home. Become united to a body, and clothed in a shining form. Go ye, depart
ye, hasten ye from hence.
These verses are now addressed at funerals, to the souls of the departed,
while their bodies are being consumed in the funeral pile. It would seem
from the text itself that they are addressed, and were addressed when first
composed and whenever repeated, to a deceased person, whose body was
present, and upon a funeral occasion. That is the traditional and accepted
interpretation, and of course every translation conforms to it.
If this is what the passage is, the "hymn" is not a hymn, but a collection
of incoherent fragments that got together by accident. The occasion of the
first six verses was a sacrifice to Yama, supposed to have been translated
to the sky, at which he was earnestly invited to be present, with the fathers
and Angirasas, persuaded by the texts to be recited by the ministering
Priests ; and to accept with graciousness and satisfaction the oblation, the
sacrifice of food, about to be burned in the fire, kindled in the open air.
His father also is invoked to be present. Seated on the grass, and inviting
them also to be seated there, the worshippers pray for the good will and
gracious favour of the various deified men whom they invoke, and then,
suddenly, some dead man is exhorted to depart and go to the sky, to meet
the fathers, Yama and Varuna, and the sacrifices he has offered; to go,
depart, hasten. The fathers, it is said then,
have majle for Mm this place.
For whom, and what place? Yama gives him an abode. He is exhorted
to hasten past two dogs, and dwell in festivity with Yama, entrusted by
him to the same dogs. And then it is said that these two brown messengers
of Yama wander about among men ; and they, the brown, insatiable, broad-
nosed dogs are invited to give the worshippers again today the auspicious
breath of life (as if they were dead), that they may behold the sun. And
then again, with verse 13 comes the direction to pour out the Soma and
sacrifice the butter to Yama; with prayer to him for long life among the
Devas, and salutation to the ancient Rishis.
578 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
It is evident that this was a sacrifice, not to Yama alone, but to him
and many other deified persons, made at early dawn, and while the stars
still shone. I do not believe that any corpse was present at such a sacrifice,
and certainly it was no funeral. The oblation is just about to be made, the
svadhd, when this apostrophe (the svdhd, I take it to be) is pronounced.
Taking Dr. Muir's translation to be correct, and without comparing it with
the original, I found it impossible to understand the meaning of a part of
what is supposed to be an address to the soul of the deceased. Finally I
came to believe that it was misunderstood, even when it was incorporated
in the Atharva-Veda. And I am now convinced that it was addressed to the
oblation or sacrificial food, and Soma juice, about to be cast into the fire,
there to become of the fire, as an undivided portion of a unit, and to ascend
in flame and vapour to the sky and Devas.
I undertake, with very great diffidence, to give my own reading of these
verses, for my knowledge of Sanskrit is very limited, and but for a tolerable
acquaintance with several of the languages derived from it, I should hardly
endeavour to read the simplest sentences.
7a. Prehi prehi pathibhib pdrvyebhir yatra nab pdrve pitarah pareyufc Depart
thou, depart, by the ancient paths (to the place) whither our early fathers have
departed.
So Dr. Muir reads it. Prehi and pareyufy are from pra-ya, which means
according to Benfey, and by the natural signification of the prefix pra, the
Latin pro, "to go forth, proceed, proceed to, rise to." And yatra means,
according to him, "where, in what place," and not "whither." I think it
nearer the original to read, "go forth," or, "ascend, ascend, by the ancient
ways whereby our remote ancestors ascended."
7b. Ubhd rdjdnd svadhayd madantd Yamam pagydsi Varuriajb cha Devam:
(There) shalt thou see the two Kings, Yama and the God Varuna, exhilarated by
the oblation (or, exulting in independent power).
Svadhd means "spontaneity, self-will, strength," according to Benfey,
as well as the food offered to deceased ancestors. But as it has been twice
used, before, in this hymn, in the sense of "oblation" (of food), I think it is
hardly used in another sense here. Pagyasi, future of dvi$, means "wilt see,
discover, search, learn, know." So I read the line:
Thou wilt see (or, know) both the Kings exhilarated (or, intoxicated) by the obla-
tion (or, oblation-intoxicated), Yama and the Deva Varuna.
For the oblation, becoming fire and light, ascends to the sky, to feed
with light the stars that once were holy men or leaders, and thus know, i. e.,
unite with, Yama and Varuna.
YAMA 579
8a. Sangachhasva piftibhifr satfi Yamena ishfip&rttena, parame vyoman: Meet
with the fathers, meet with Yama, meet with the [recompense of] the sacrifices thou
hast offered in the highest heaven.
Sangachhasva, rendered "meet with*' in this line, is in the next rendered
"become united to," because there a wrong theory required it. It is the
imperative of sangam, which means "to meet with, unite with, connect
with." Dr. Haug explains isfydpArta thus : ishta means "what is sacrificed,"
and dpdrtta, "filled up to."
For all sacrifices go-up to heaven and are stored up there, to be taken possession of
by the sacrificer on his arrival in heaven.
The texts quoted to sustain this, do not sustain it. They only express the
worshippers' desire that they may follow their sacrifice, i. e., go, by and by,
where it has gone. The sacrifices were not supposed to be stored up for the
sacrificer, but to be consumed by and exhilarate the Devas.
Ishti,=*yajti, means "sacrifice"; and pfir, pfi, "to fill, collect, satisfy,"
whence ptirtta, "completed." And I think that the line should be read:
Unite with the fathers, with this Yama, with this completed sacrifice [i. e., with the
whole, of which the particular oblation addressed was a part, when the residue
should reach the sky, to unite with the light whereby Yama and the fathers shine],
in the heights of the sky.
8b. Hiteaya avadyam punar astam ehi. Sangachhasva tauva suvarchdfc.
Throwing off all imperfection, again go to thy home. Become united to a body
and clothed in a shining form.
Tauvd means "body," but also "one's self, person." Suvarchafy is, it
seems to me, an adjective, meaning "shining brilliantly." Perhaps the
line means,
Freed of all impediment, return to thy home, and, shining brilliantly, unite with
that which is thy self [i. e., from which thou didst emanate or flow forth].
9. Go ye, depart ye, hasten ye from hence. The fathers have made for him
(asmai) this place. Yama gives him (asmai) an abode, distinguished by days and
waters and lights [aktubhir: aktu, 'night,
1
Benfey].
10. By an auspicious [good or proper] path, do thou hasten [run] past the two
four-eyed brindled dogs, the offspring of Sarama*. Then approach the benevolent
fathers who dwell rejoicing with Yama.
11. Intrust him, O Yama, to thy two four-eyed protecting, road-guarding,
man-watching dogs; and bestow on him (asmat) prosperity and wealth. [A strange
prayer in behalf of a soul ascending to heaven.]
12. The two brown messengers of Yama, broad of nostril and insatiable, wander
about among men (janan, 'creatures, beings/ probably the stars). May they
give us again today the.auspicious breath of life, that we may behold the sun.
13. Pour out the Soma to Yama: offer Yama an oblation. To Yama the
sacrifice proceeds, when heralded by Agni and prepared. 14. Offer to Yama an
580 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
oblation with butter, and be active. May he grant to us to live a long life among
the Devas. 15. Offer a most honeyed oblation to King Yama. This salutation
to the earliest-born the ancient Rishis, who made for us a way.
It is probable that this hymn underwent modifications after its original
composition, when part of it came to be supposed an address to the soul of a
person deceased. But the changes could not have been very great, for they
did not obscure its original meaning. I think it cannot be doubted that
whatever it became afterwards, the apostrophe was the svdhd addressed to
the oblation, when about to place it in the fire. The exhortation to run
or hasten by the dogs of Yama was naturally regarded as proving that it was
a soul of a man that was addressed. But these dogs were no doubt stars,
Sirius and Procyon, probably, or Canes Venatici, in the North; and Yama
either Arcturus in Bootes, or a star in Orion. Four minor stars near each
dog, it is probable, caused them to be styled "four-eyed."
It is said that the fathers made for "him" "this place"; and that Yama
gave "him" an abode. Yama is asked to place "him" under the protection
of his dogs; and these dogs are then asked to give the worshippers the
breath of life (i. e., to bring on the daylight). The word rendered "him,"
in each case, is asmai, dative of the base idam and nominative ayam, meaning
"this" (indefinitely). So etasmai is the masc. and neuter dative of the base
etad, "this" (very near). Now, the base of the first person, "I" is asmad,
and we have in the declension of aham,"I"; ace. asman, "us";instr. asmabhih,
"by us"; dt. asmabhyam, "to us"; abl. asmat, "from us", etc.; while tasmai
is dat. masc. of the base tad, "he" ; and tyasmai is dat. masc. of the base tyad.
Asmi, "I am," is the first person sing. pres. indie, of asf "to be"; and in the
Vedas we find asme for vayam, "we." In asm, the simple vowel a is the
characteristic element of the first person, for the rest of the word (smai) is
found also in the second person, yushmt, "you." And so in aham, "I," am
is but termination.
Bopp thinks there was originally a pronominal base, I, expressing the
idea "he," and in Sanskrit and Zend meaning "this," which has left in those
languages no proper declension, but only adverbs, as i-tas, "from here,"
"from there," etc. Of this base he gives i$hmdi as the dative.
As the a of aham, "I," is found in asmdi, huic, asmdt, hoc and asmin,
in hoc, while the Latin isti and isto, "to him" and "by him," are represented
by tasm&i and tasm&t, I believe that asmai was used to designate sometimes
the party speaking, sometimes the party spoken of; and that originally,
perhaps, it may have belonged especially to the first person altogether.
For a party to designate himself as "this one" was as natural as it is now
to say "this deponent further sayeth not." And I think that asmai, in the
text, meant the Poet himself, who, in speaking of or for himself, spoke of all
YAMA 581
who worshipped with him, abundant examples of which may be seen in the
Zend-Avesta, the number of the pronoun and verb changing in the same verse
from singular to plural and from plural to singular again.
When the address to the oblation and the prayers for protection, wealth
and prosperity are ended, the direction is given to pour out the Soma and
offer the oblation. The sacrifice to Yama proceeds, it is said:
offer the oblation and be active.
Long life is prayed for. Then a honeyed oblation is offered: and it is
declared that the hymn is chanted to Yama who opened the way for
emigrants.
I have only to add that the translation of Dr. Muir makes the dogs
"wander about among men." But Charato, from char, means "move, go,
and spy" ; andjanan, meaning "creatures or beings," also properly designates
luminaries. The dogs revolve, along with the stars and planets.
I think it conduces to show that the address in question was to the
oblation, that in i. 163. 13, the horse that had been immolated is said to
have gone to the highest abode, to the Devas.
iii. 55, 2. May the Devas not harm us here, nor our ancient fathers who know
the realms (padajnafy.
But the original of the latter clause is, md pfirve Ague
and Agne is omitted in the translation. Pada means "step, footstep, trace,
mark, sign, place, abode," and also "a ray of light." Jnd means "to know,
to consider, perceive, think of." I think the meaning is that they shine as
stars, by the rays received from Agni.
In viii. 48. 13, Soma, in concert with the fathers, is said to have extended
the sky and expanse. In ix. 82. 3, they are called beholders of men: and
in x. 68. n, the fathers are said to have adorned the sky with stars. In x.
88. 15,
I have heard of two paths for mortals, that of the fathers and that of the Devas:
[and in x. 107. 1], the great light [daybreak] given by the fathers, has arrived.
In x. 15. i, the lower, upper and middle fathers are invoked to rise.
May these fathers [it is said], who have attained to higher life (asu) protect us in
the invocations.
But asu, here, is not from as, "to be," I think, but from as, "to shine."
2. Let this reverence be today paid to the fathers who went forth first, and who
last, who are sitting in the expanse, or among the chiefs of splendour in the sky.
.... May Yama feast as amply as he desires, on the oblations, eager, and
582 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
sharing his gratification with the eager Vasishthas, our ancient ancestors, who,
officiating at sacrifices, offered the Soma. 16. Come, Agni, with a thousand of
those exalted [translated to the sky] ancient fathers [who were], adorers of the
Gods and sitters of the fire [of sacrifice], who are real, who are eaters and drinkers
of oblations, and are received into the same chariot with Indra and the Devas.
.... 13. Thou knowest, O Jatavedas (probably shortened form of jdtai-
vedasya, 'Son of wisdom1
) how many those fathers are who are here and who are' not
here, those whom we know and whom we know not. Accept the sacrifice duly
offered with the oblation. Do thou, self-resplendent (svardf) Deva, along with
those who, whether they have undergone cremation or not, are gladdened by our
oblation, grant us this (higher) vitality (asuntti), and a body according to our
desire.
Sm undoubtedly meant "self," and that which Spinoza called "sub-
stance." Fire, as Unity, was the sva, self, of every particular fire; as the
Divine Wisdom, of Zarathustra was the Wholeness in Unity, the Self, of all
individual intellects; each of which was Itself, in limited quantity of extent.
Svar was "the sun," and also splendour or radiance. Sura, also, from a
supposed verb sur, was "the sun," and there was probably a verb svar, mean-
ing "to shine," of which svardf, for svarant, was the present participle,
meaning "splendent, resplendent, radiant, shining." So in Zend Tivd is
"self," and hvare, "the sun." The epithet svardf is here applied to Agni,
source of all light, and perhaps involves more than the mere idea contained
in the word "resplendent, radiant or shining," which could be applied to a
star or lamp. It probably meant "emitting all splendour," i. e., from whom
all light, splendour and radiance flow.
AsunUi occurs again in verse 2 of the next hymn. In x. 59. 5 and 6, it
seems to be employed as the personification of a God or Goddess : but Miiller
considers that there is nothing to show that Asuntei is a female Deity. He
renders it "guide of life." Roth thinks it a name for Yama. In the
Atharva-Veda it is joined with svardt. Asut from as, "to be," is "life,
vitality"; and also, I think, "light, splendour, radiance," from as = ash,
ush, "to burn." Asunfoi means "life-giver" or "light-giver," or causer or
producer of life or light.
If Jdtavedas means "born of wisdom," which it seems it must, jdfo being
the past partic. pass, ofjan, then, as it is an appellation of Agni, we have in it
the very first hint that I have found, in the Veda, of an Entity superior to
and the origin of Fire and Light; a divine creative or productive Wisdom,
the Gp&nta-Mainyu of the doctrine of Zarathustra, of the Holy Spirit, which
became the Holy Ghost, the Pneuma Hagion of the later Christianity.
In x. 1 6, Agni is prayed to, not to burn up or consume a party, not to
dissolve his skin or his body; but when he has matured him to send him to
the Fathers, to consign him to them (pra hinutat and pari,dattdt pitribhyafy,
"deliver to and leave with, the Fathers"). That is, Agni is besought not to
YAMA 583
annihilate the body of the deceased, not even his skin or body, but trans-
muting all and absorbing it into himself, and making it part of himself, to
convey it to the Fathers, in the sky.
When he shall reach that state of vitality, he shall then fulfil the pleasure of the
Gods.
So Dr. Muir translates the latter part of verse 2. I think he utterly mis-
understands it. The original is
yadd gachhdti asunfoim etam atha devanam vagantr bhavati.
I do not believe that asuniti means "state of vitality"; but I think it
means "source of splendour" or "resplendent place." Benfey gives to
va$i-bhdta the meaning of "subject to the will"; but a literal rendering of
the phrase here does not express the real meaning, which is, that the burned
body converted into fire and manifested as flame and light, ascends to
where the light's Self abides, unites with it, and afterwards assists in
enabling the celestial bodies to shine.
Let his eyes [it is then said], go as light to the sun, and his breath to the wind. Go
[it is said], to the sky, to the expanse, to the rains, as Nature directs, and let the limbs,
changed into light and heat, nourish the plants.
This is, of itself a magnificent idea, and explains the preference of the
Indo-Aryans for the custom of burning the dead. It is the body's destiny
to be reconverted into fire, flame, light and heat, and ascending as a sacrifice,
to gratify the Devas. To bury it in the earth is to deny it this destiny
and leave it to rot in foul corruption; when, if burned, it would become
immortal, as light, and bless the earth with warmth and nourishment.
What higher destiny could the body have? The chemist has long since
taught us that when a body is burned, svery particle of it mingles again
with.the elements. I do not know that we are any the better or the wiser
for knowing it.
4. As for his uncreated part, do thou, Jltavedas, refine it with thy heat, and
let thy flame and splendour illuminate it; in those forms of thine that are auspicious
carry it to the place of the pious. Restore to the Fathers, Agni, him who comes
offered to thee with oblations, etc.
So far as the Rig-Veda goes, I do not find in it the least real ground for
the representation that the deceased goes in person to meet his forefathers,
and enters upon a more perfect life in a more delectable abode; where a
life crowned with the fulfilment of all desires is passed in the presence of
the Gods, and employed in the fulfilment of their pleasure.
584 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The men of thought of this day have found out that what the
Brahmans thought or wrote, in the post-Vedic age, is of little or no interest
or value. Is it indispensable that in the later ages of every religion, its
ancient books shall be misunderstood and perverted? It was so in India,
at least. In that nightmare age of the intellect and imagination, when
everything grotesque and hideous, repulsive and disgusting, beastly and
monstrous, that the imagination could conceive in its long period of delirium
was embodied and personified as divine (the growth, chiefly, of misunder-
stood expressions of the Vedas), everything in the Rig-Veda was distorted,
perverted and misinterpreted ; and so it continues to be in India to this day.
Now, what we want to have put before us in English is the Veda of the
Vedic age, and not the Brahmanic Veda. The notions of the Brahmins
are now well enough known, and are found not worth the knowing. Neither
is the Veda worth knowing, as it has been to this time translated, nor the
Zend-Avesta as the Parsees misread it. I may be widely, immensely,
utterly mistaken, in my understanding of the two works: but, at all events,
as I understand them, the Rig-Veda and the five G&th&s of Zarathustra
are by far the oldest books in the world, and from them all our religious and
philosophical opinions, doctrines and notions have flowed.
I believe that the Veda and Zend-Avesta are very different books from
what they are currently supposed to be, and of infinitely more value : and
some day a scholar will appear who, first comparing all the derivative
languages and ascertaining the ancient roots and the first meanings of the
Vedic words, will then, setting out with a sound knowledge of the notions,
conceptions and Deities of the Veda, give us the thoughts of its authors, as
they were understood by themselves and by those who first heard them
repeated; as genuine poems, the creatures of an opulent fancy and vivid
imagination, but without incoherency or inconsequentiality, and with no
notions vague, absurd, inconsistent or contradictory as to the personality
and attributes of their real Deities, or of those potencies of God and Nature
which their poetic fancy invested with a personal being and moral and
intellectual attributes, as well as material forms and physical powers.
In Rig-Veda ix. 113. 7, et seg., the enjoyments "of the future state/'
Dr. Muir says, are to be conferred by the God Soma, and are described as
follows:
7. Place me, Purified One (pavamdna) ,
in that imperishable and unchang-
ing place, where perpetual light and glory are found (Indrayendo parisrana).
Dr. Muir omits the first half of the verse: and does not translate the last
two words literally. Pavamdna, Benfey says, is the present participle
dtmanepada (intransitive) of p&, "to purify/' and means "wind, and Agni."
When applied to Agni, it of course has the transitive meaning, "purifying,
YAMA 585
purifier/' Applied to Soma, it may mean "purified" ; but I doubt it. Verbs
often have a transitive meaning when in the form dtmanepada; and the
distinctions are difficult to make, and not to be accounted for.
8. Where King Vaivasvata is, and the solid obstacle of the sky, where the
great waters flow, there make me undying.
9. Where actions are unrestrained (Yatrdnukdmajfr chara#aM), in the third
heaven, third sky (trindke tridive divaft), where the places are luminous, there make
me undying.
Yatra is
'
'where." Anukama means, as ordinarily translated, "according
to will, or, desire." Charana is a noun, from char, "to move, go, act," and
is said by Benfey to mean "fixed observances." It means simply the move-
ments or revolutions of the stars: and anukama, literally, "according to will,
or, pleasure," means, no doubt, "regulated by a sovereign will," or "in
accordance with fixed laws."
The phrase trindke tridive divaji, literally, it is supposed, "third heaven,
third sky, of the sky," needs much more consideration than it has ever
received. Whenever the old Poets can be rescued of the imputation of
writing nonsense, something is done towards understanding them.
Nakta is "night." Compare Latin nox, noctu; Gothic, nahts; Anglo-
Saxon, naht, niht; English, night; Greek wf. Naktamdiva is "day and
night" ;
and div means "day," and diva, "by day." Compare Latin diu and
diuturna, and dies.
^The ancient Aryans knew no other "heaven" than
the sky; and if naka means anything more than "night," it is the night-sky.
But how could the expression possibly have been used, "three nake and three
dive,
11
or "third naka and third div, of the sky," if naka meant "heaven" and
div meant "sky"?
The question what the phrase really meant, is by far more interesting
than very many that the commentators have discussed, certainly more so
than the meanings of Arusha; for it relates directly to the intellectual and
spiritual development of the race at that time. I do not pretend to explain
the phrase. I only say that I do not believe that the Vedic Poets knew or
said anything about any other heaven or sky than that which they saw;
and that it is absolutely certain that they believed the old Rishis to have
become well-known stars, every night seen in the visible sky; and that they
did not expect or ask to be themselves translated to invisible stars in an
invisible sky. The triple sky or heaven may have been that of the sun,
planets and fixed stars. The old observers could easily learn by observation,
that the moon came at times between the earth and sun, and was therefore
the lower of the two, and that the planets were below the fixed stars. And
this is what was meant, is made probable by the fact that the Rishis, which
were certainly stars, are sometimes said to be in the highest heaven, and the
worshipper here asks to become a Deva in the third.
586 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
And as the same differences of height are discoverable by day, the sky
of the day and the sky of the night are both named. And whether this be
or be not the real meaning, it is at least absolutely certain that the sky or
heaven in which the fixed stars shone was the highest heaven.
10. Make me immortal in the world where there are pleasures and enjoyments,
in the sphere of the sun, where ambrosia and satisfaction are found.
It is hard to say what is the meaning of kdmdfy nikdmds, rendered
"pleasures and enjoyments." Kdmd means, in Benfey, "wish, desire,
love." Ni, prefixed, seems generally to add little to the meaning : and Benfey
gives "desire" as the meaning of nikdma. Svadhd rendered "ambrosia" is
the food sacrificed; and triptis, rendered "satisfaction," means that, and
also "satiety and exhilaration."
11. Make me immortal in the world (place) where are joys and delights and
pleasures and gratifications; where the objects of desire are attained.
Dr. Muir says that the pleasures here referred to, by the words dnandd$,
mod&Q, mudab and pramtulafy, are most probably to be understood as of a
sensual kind. Roth thinks otherwise. He insists upon ascribing to the
author of the hymn (a very late one) his own Christian idea of heaven. But
there is no doubt that the words or most of them meant sexual pleasures.
The Vedic ideas in regard to the celestial or starry existence of men trans-
lated to the skies, had already disappeared when this hymn was composed.
Dr. Muir remarks that
it is clear that in the Vedic age, the Gods themselves were not regarded as possessing
a purely spiritual nature, but as subject to the influence of various sensual appetites.
He instances their exhilaration by the Soma juice, and Indra, in Rig-Veda
Hi. 53. 6, being said to have a handsome wife, and pleasure, in his house.
Other passages, imputing revelry and sensual and even sexual enjoyment
to some of them, he quotes from Rig-Veda x. and the Atharva-Veda. But
these are not of the ancient Vedic age. As to the Soma, it went to the Devas
and Gods as light and heat, and thus only exhilarated them; and the passage
in regard to the wife of Indra, or the light, is purely imaginative. Vishnu
is represented as possessing generative ardour and capacity; but this, also,
is as purely imaginative as the gay clothing of the Goddess of Rivers, as a
maiden.
What a "purely spiritual nature" is, I do not know. Light is not
material, nor did flame seem so to the ancients, and certainly heat is not.
We can conceive of nothing more immaterial and spiritual, than light.
YAMA 587
The Irano-Aryans made worship or devotion a Deity, called Qra&sha.,
and ascribed to him valour, as a warrior, armed with the ordinary weapons
of the soldier. Did they, by this poetic personification, cease to regard
him as purely spiritual?
Ushas, the dawn, is the manifestation of light and colour. The sun is
her lover, and impregnated by his rays she blushes rosy red. Saranyfi, the
vapourous cloud, bears children, begotten by Vivasvat. Our gospels say
that Mary was found to be with child by the Holy Ghost. If Vivasvat,
Indra or the Holy Ghost were poetically represented as men, producing
conception in the human manner, with any amplitude imaginable of
description and detail, would any sensible man say that the Poet believed
them to have virility and its organs, and to receive sensual enjoyment as
men do?
It is time, it seems to me, that we should at least begin to understand the
Vedic Poets; and I think it is worth endeavouring to do. If, a thousand
years hereafter, as many amours should be ascribed to the Holy Ghost,
effected in as.many various shapes, as those of Zeus, they would be owing,
no doubt, to what is said by Matthew; but they certainly would not prove
that any such notion was entertained by Matthew.
The truth is that there are no sexual or even sensual ideas in the ancient
Vedic hymns, ascribed to the Deities, otherwise than poetically and figura-
tively; and but one or two brief passages that could, being misunderstood,
justify subsequent intellectual abuses in the phallic and linga worship.
The gross ideas of the later Kabbalists cannot justly be attributed to the
original idea of divine generation. The symbols of the wise always become
the idols of the vulgar; and the inevitable progress of every religion is, from
the adoration of the potency or principle symbolized, to the idolatrous
worship of the symbol itself.
In another late hymn, x. 154, it is prayed that some one may go to those
for whom the honeyed beverage flows, to those who by tapas have become
unconquerable, unassailable, or beyond the reach of harm (anddhrishyds) ,
who, through or by tapas (tapasd) have gone to the sky, to those who have
performed tapas (tapo ye chakrire mahas tdrhQ chid).
Dr. Muir renders tapas, "rigourous abstraction," which is the very
latest and Brahmanic meaning of it; and we shall find in a subsequent
verse tapasvato, rendered by him "austere," and tapojan rendered "born of
rigourous abstraction."
3. Let him go to the combatants in battle, to the heroes who there sacrificed
their lives, or to those who have bestowed thousands of largesses (sahasradakshiyds:).
4. Let him depart, Yama, to those austere (tapasvato) ancient fathers, who have
practised and promoted sacred rites (rjtasdpab, tftdvdnafr, tifawdhaV).
5. Let him depart, Yama, to those austere (tapasvato) Rishis, skilled in a
thousand sciences (sahasrantthdb kavayo) who guard the sun (gopdyanti SAryam).
588 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
That these Rishis "guard" the sun, i. e., are his guards or attendants,
proves that the Rishis were deemed to have become stars. Nttha,
'
'guiding,
' '
from ni "to conduct, guide, lead away, lead to." Nt-ti, "guidance, moral
behaviour, prudent counsel, etc." Kavi is "wise." I cannot find any
warrant for the use of the word "sciences." There were no sciences in the
Vedic days, but there were prudent counsels and wise advice.
The "largesses" bestowed were gifts for the sacrifices later, for the
Brahmins.
Tapas has several meanings. Tap meant, at first, "to warm, heat,
shine, illuminate, to burn up," and thence, "to give pain, to suffer pain,"
and finally, when the practice of mortifying the body by penance and
austerities grew up, it came to mean them. Its original meaning certainly
appears in the participle tapta, "hot, melted, refined."
So tapas at first meant "fire," and afterwards "penance, mortification,
religious austerity, devotion." And I greatly doubt whether it is used in
this hymn in its later sense. I think it means sacrifice by fire. I think,
even, that the Poet said of those who had become stars, that by sacrifice
they were invincible and had gone to Heaven. There, I think, the tapas
was their own cremation, by which becoming fire, they had ascended to the
sky. How could a Sage, a Rishi, a star, be said to be "born of rigourous
abstraction," or even of the sacrifice? I think the meaning is, that as
stars they were born of the fire. There is no evidence elsewhere of the
practice of austerities by the ancient Rishis, nor do I believe they did
practice them. They sacrificed; and they chanted their songs, and
received large presents for doing it, and became rich, being simply travelling
Bards or officiating Priests, fed upon the sacrificial food, and exacting
largesses.
In Rig-Veda x. 14. 4 to 6, and x. 15. 8, the different races of the fathers
are mentioned by name, viz., Angirasas, Vairtipas, Navagvas, Atharvans,
Bhrigus, Vasishthas, etc. In x. 15. 13, though not all known to their
worshippers, they are known to Agni. For it is Agni that shines in each,
even of those that are not visible, or, perhaps, of those not distinguished
and known as particular stars.
Dr. Muir's references, to passages ascribing potencies to the fathers, and
adoring them or praying for favours, are all to the tenth Mandala and to
Atharva-Veda ocviii. In these they are worshipped, and oblations offered to
them; their good will is supplicated, and their anger deprecated; they are
entreated to hear, intercede for and protect the worshippers, and to bestow
on them opulence, length of life and children. They are represented as
thirsting for the oblations prepared for them on earth, and are invited to
come with Yama, Vivasvat and Agni, and feast on the sacrificial food.
They accordingly arrive by thousands, borne on the same car with Indra
YAMA 589
and the other Devas (i, e., as indivisible portions of the one light from all
the orbs in the sky) , and range themselves in order on the sacrificial grass.
What is more natural than the idea that the Heavenly were pure light,
concentrated, or divided into fragments; and that the light which reached
the earth was a part of the Very Self of each, itself coming down, to return
again when the star ceased to shine? As Agni was every particular fire,
so he was the Very Self of every luminary, and Indra, his subsistence,
emanating from him, came to the earth in every ray of light.
It is very evident that all this was but a rank growth from an original
idea resembling that of the translation to the sky of Enoch in the Hebrew
Book Barasith or of Generation, which appeared again in the ascent of the
Prophet Elijah, and finally in that of Yesus in the sight of his disciples.
At first attributed to a few, perhaps only to the seven Rishis, it came at
length to be considered the general destiny of all, until even bad men were
smuggled in among the good, and became baleful stars. There was no
other heaven, until the Brahmins invented one.
How the idea first came into being, that certain stars were ancient heroes
or Sages, can, even with the aid of etymology, only be conjectured. At
first, perhaps, it may have been a poetic fancy, embodied in a name, or it
may have been the outgrowth of popular names applied to certain stars and
groups of stars. The popular fancy gives such names before it is done by
the Poets, and then the Poets weave legends to correspond with the
popular names.
The three stars in the belt of Orion are popularly called the Three Kings.
We have no legend, to which to assign the origin of the name. In such
cases, the name precedes the legend; and we should have, no doubt, a
legend of the Three Kings, but for our having outgrown that state of the
intellect in which legends are invented.
I say that we have no legend of the Three Kings. But the name has
begotten legends, and somewhat, more; for these stars are the three wise
men of the East that came at dawn, bringing perfumes, to salute the newly
born Saviour ; and there remain still more modern legends in the folk-lore of
various countries, naming the same origin.
So the stars in Gemini were called "twins" and "the twin horsemen,"
Agvinau, before they became children of Leda, by Tyndarus and Zeus; and
the Pleiades were called the "girls, virgins or daughters," before a legend
made them Atlantides. The popular fancy never is at rest, and is never
content until it personifies and gives name to everything that the eyes
behold.
The origin and derivation of the word Rishi are easily discovered. Ri,
tish, rij, fit are all from the original biliteral root fi, "to go, to move," the
primitive form of which was ar. There are a hundred derivative words in
590 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Sanskrit from this root. In Zend, the old root ar, "to go," remains un-
changed. In Latin it became ire, "to go," whence Her, "journey"; in
Greek eo (eco) and iemi ("jjuO- Rij and fish meant originally "to go, "and
fishi simply "itinerant" or "journeyer" : and the Rishi was an itinerant bard
or minstrel.
The Seven Stars of the Great Bear, which never disappear or pause in
their movement, were also naturally called the Seven Rishis, as in the Zend,
Hapto-iringa. Ir, also, in Sanskrit, meant "to go/' as ish did: and the
name of this constellation therefore meant, in both languages, "The Seven
Goers."
Kshi meant "to possess, rule," and also "to dwell"; and fikshi probably
meant "moving without deviation, on a fixed and unchanging circuit."
Riksha was probably from rich, "to shine" ; for it meant "a star" as well
as "a bear." Arch is the same word, and is found in the Greek Arktos,
"a bear." Any one who has ever seen a bear chained to a stake will under-
stand why riksha may have been formed from r^, "to go"; for it is the most
restless of animals, continually travelling round its stake in a circle: and the
comparison of the Seven Stars to a bear would inevitably suggest itself to
any one who knew a bear's habits.
By and by, of course, the derivation of riksha as well as that of fishi
was forgotten, and the Rishis became saints, the Great Bear the Seven
Rishis, and so many saints translated to the skies.
SARASVATI.
Sarasvati, Dr. Muir remarks, "appears to have been to the early
Indians what the Ganges became to their descendants." The texts which
he cites from the Mandalas of the Rig-Veda not translated by Professor
Wilson, do not enable us to identify the river, and otherwise do not give us
much additional information in regard to the Vedic conceptions of this
Deity. Even in the Atharva-Veda she continues to be both river and
Goddess. It is as a river, that she is called "purifier"; and in the passage
(Rig-Veda x. 17. 10; Atharva-Veda vi. 51. 2), where the waters, the mothers,
are asked to purify the worshippers, Sarasvati having been mentioned
immediately before, it is said,
for these Goddesses bear away defilement: I come up out of them pure and cleansed.
The purification ascribed to Sarasvati has nothing to do with sacrifice.
It is simple baptism, washing.
In x. 64. 9, and 75. 5, etc., she is specified along with the other well-
known streams that are there named, the Sarayu, the Sindhu, the Gang&, the
Yamunat and the Sutudri. In Hi. 23. 4, she is named with the Drishadvati
and ApSyt. In vn. 96. 2, and viii. 21. 18, reference is made to the chiefs
and people living along her banks.
A striking example of the fallibility of interpretation of difficult passages
of the Veda, as well as of the resoluteness with which the simplest passages
are spiritualized, is afforded by the translations of Rig-Veda i. 3. 12, the
original of which is
Maho ar%ab Sarasvati pra chefayati ketuna dhiyo vigvab virdjati.
S&yana understands it of the river, and explains it thus:
The Sarasvati, by her act (of flowing), displays a copious flood.
Roth makes it
A mighty stream is Sarasvati; with her light she lightens, illuminates all pious
minds.
He considers the commencing words as figurative, and not as referring to
the river. Benfey renders :
Sarasvati, by her light, causes the great sea to be known; she shines through all
thoughts.
He understands "the great sea" as the universe, or as life, which he says is
592 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
often designated in common Sanskrit also by the word sdgara. And Dr.
Muir thinks that
the conceptions of Sarasvati as a river, and as the directress of ceremonies, may be
blended in the passage.
Dhiyo vigudb virdjati certainly means, literally,
*
Illuminates all minds,
or, intellects." Chetayati, which Roth renders "lightens," and Benfey,
"causes to be known," is third pers. sing, of chetaya, causative of chit. Chit
means "to perceive"; and chetaya, "to perceive, get consciousness, think,
cause to think, know." Both translates ketund by "light." Kit is
"to perceive, to know"; and ketu is "a sign by which objects may be
recognized." Ketund I do not find in Benfey. Arya is the ocean. If by
it was meant the Indian Ocean, this hymn was composed after the Indo-
Aryan emigration had reached its shores. If it was, as I believe, the Cas-
pian, then the Sarasvati was originally the Oxus, the Ardvigura, probably,
of the Zend-Avesta.
May not the former portion of the verse mean that Sarasvati makes
known or enables men to find, the great sea, by being the means of reaching
it, or by showing the way to it? And the latter part, that she removes all
doubt as to the existence of the sea from all men's minds? I am sure that
the correct interpretation must mean something, and not be nonsense pure
and simple. Even S&yana felt that, as to this verse.
I am chiefly led to believe that Sarasvati was originally the Oxus,
because another stream is called Sindhu; and if she was not the Indus, I do
not know where else except in Bactria, called in the Zend-Avesta the land of
the Seven Kareshvares, she could have been called saptasvasd, saptatM
sindhumdtd, "having seven sisters," "one of seven rivers," and "mother of
streams." Nor should I think that if the Indus had once been so celebrated
as Sarasvati, it would even have lost the name, and been called simply
"the river." Yet Sarasvati may have been the Indus, and that river have
ceased to be called so, after the Indo-Aryans had occupied the Ganges
country.
In v. 43. n, Sarasvati is called on to descend from the sky, from the
great mountain, to the sacrifice; and in vi. 49. 7, she is called the daughter
of the lightning, and Vfra-patni. Dr. Muir renders this "wife of a hero."
I find that vtra means "fire" as well as "hero"; and vira-patni may mean
"wife of fire," because water, heated by the fire, gives birth to the vapour
and clouds.
She is said to descend from the sky (divo) and mountains, because her
sources were on the heights of the immense mountains, on whose summits
the sky appears to rest. Atlas, we remember, was said to bear up the sky
on his shoulders.
SARASVATl 593
Sarasvati is described as bestowing wealth, fatness and fertility; and
prosperity and riches of all descriptions flow from her fruitful breasts. She
is the receptacle of the powers of life, and bestows offspring, and in x. 184.
2, is associated with the Deities who assist procreation. These attributes
would indicate a river that enriched and made fertile the country by
irrigation.
In x. 75. i, the Indus is especially lauded as the Sindhu and as the
mother-river, into which the others flow. Among eighteen other streams,
the Sarasvati is named, with the Gang&, Yamuni, Sutudr!, Parushni.
Described as flashing, sparkling, gleaming, the most abundant of streams,
the Sindhu is said to roll her waters over the levels; and yet is mistress of a
chariot with noble horses, richly dressed, etc.
In Rig-Veda mi. 33, the Rishi Vasishtha is said to have sprung from an
Apsaras, Urvagi. Bohtlingk and Roth describe the Apsamses as female
beings of a ghost-like description, whose abode is in the atmosphere. They
are the wives of the Gandharvas, have the power of changing their forms,
love playing at dice, and impart good luck. Professor Goldstiicker says
that originally they seem to have been personifications of the vapours which
are attracted by the sun, and form into mist or clouds. We have already
seen, in x. 10. 4, Gandharva in the waters and his aqueous wife designated
as the parents of Yama and Yami.
Ap is "water." Saras is "a lake," sri+as, sri meaning "to flow, extend,
spread, spread out." So Sarasa is "a pond," and sarasija "a lotus," which
grows in ponds. Sarasvant is "the ocean**; sari, "a water-fall," and sarit,
"a river." Apsaras is simply a lake of water, as nabhas-saras is a lake or
expanse of clouds: and the Apsarases were, no doubt, the lakes in which the
various rivers, or part of them, had their rise. Urva, fern, of urn,, is "large" ;
and Urva$i, the Apsaras, was, no doubt merely a large lake, like Siricol,
out of which the main branch of the Oxus flows. Vasishtha was born,
probably, near some lake, so called.
CRADDHA.
Rig-Veda x. 151, is addressed to CraddM, or "religious faith." By her,
it is said, the fire is kindled, and the oblation offered. She is asked to
prosper the liberal worshippers of the Gods, and to impart faith, and is said
to be an object of adoration in the morning, at noon and at sunset.
Qraddhi is unmistakably the Qra6sha of the Zend-Avesta, "worship" or
"devotion," supposed by the commentators to have become one of the
AmSsha-CpSntas at a comparatively late period. But, Qradsha was not an
Amsha-Cpnta. As worship was the efficient cause of prosperity and
victory, ra6sha was represented as a warrior, fighting on the Aryan side.
THE RIBHUS.
In note to i. 51. 2, the protecting and fostering Ribhus are said to mean
the Maruts. They hastened to the presence of Indra, and uttered encourag-
ing words. Hymn 1 10 of Mandala i. is addressed to them, and they are
invited to drink to their utmost content of the Soma juice, when it is offered
in the fire. They are, therefore, Light-Gods, i. e., stars; what stars, it may
not be possible to ascertain.
And they were mortals deified, translated to the sky as stars, for in
verse 2, the Rishi Kutsa, author of the hymn, calls them sons of Sudhanvan,
and says that when they were amongst his own ancestors, they went to the
forest to perform (penance), being desirous of enjoying (the Soma libations),
and while immature (apdkd, literally, Wilson says, "unripe," and meaning
here "immature in wisdom77
).
When they so retired, it is said, then, through the plenitude of their
completed, they came "to the hall of the worshipper Savitri."
(3). 'Then Savitri bestowed upon you immortality, when you came to him who
is not to be concealed, and represented to partake of the libations; and that ladle
for the sacrificial viands which the Asura had formed single, you made four-fold.*
p. 20. 6. *The IJibhus have divided into four the new ladle, the work of the divine
Tvashtri:' (2). 'They created (tatakshuK) mentally (manasd) for Indra the horses
that are harnessed at his words:' (3^. 'They constructed (takshari) for the
Nasatyas, a universally-moving and easy car, and a cow-yielding milk'.]
Lauded by the bystanders (i. 1 10. 6), the Ribhus, with a sharp tool meted
out the single sacrificial ladle, like a field, soliciting the best, and desiring
sacrificial food amongst the Devas.
6. To the leaders, dwelling in the firmament, we present .... the butter,
and praise with knowledge those IJibhus, who, having equalled the velocity of the
protector, ascended to the region of the sky, through of food.
And then Ribhu is declared in strength the defender of the worshipper,
and his asylum through gifts of food and wealth. This must mean that each
of the Ribhus is so; for the functions of all are the same.
They are styled nribhyah, "leaders
77
(yajnasya, "of the sacrifice,'
7
being
according to the commentators, understood); as in the text Ribhava hi
yajnasya netdrab, "the Ribhus are the leaders of the sacrifice." Rosen
thinks that in the text first quoted they are leaders or chiefs of the air.
But nri means, simply, "a man,
7 '
and nribhyah is its dative pluraL The
meaning of the text is, 'To the mortals who abide in the firmament"
(antarikshasya), i. e., to those who once were mortals.
THE RIBHUS 595
In note to v. 6, Professor Wilson says that a text of the Veda identifies
the Ribhus with the solar rays (Adityamsmayo api Ribhava uchyante). But
uch means only "to like, to be accustomed to," and the text does not identify
them with the Aditya-rasmayo, even if Aditya there means "the sun.
77
But
Wilson adds, "the Ribhus are, indeed, said to be rays of the sun." Where?
Benfey considers Ribhu to be rabh+u. And rabh, originally grabh,
labh, according to him, means "to seize, to take:
77
but it must have had
other meanings; or its derivative rabhas would not mean, in the Veda, "zeal,
strength, strengthening food, sacrifice
77
: nor rabhasa, "joyful, joy, passion,
speed, velocity, precipitation, regret, sorrow
77
(though all these are later
meanings). Accordingly, labh means "to obtain, get, acquire, enjoy,
undergo, perform
77
; and grabh or grah, not only "to take,
7 '
but "to captivate,
gain, undergo, perceive, learn,
77
and many other things. But I am skeptical .
as to this derivation. The change of rabh into ?ibh is, to use a pet word,
"startling.
77
It is quite as likely that fibhu is from rebh, "to praise.
77
In i. 161, the legend of the ladle is more fully given, but none the less
remains an enigma. In verse I, the Ribhus, sons of Sudhanvan are repre-
sented as saying,
Is this our senior or our junior who has come? Has he come upon a message?
What is it we should say? Agni, brother, we revile not the ladle (chamasa) which
is of exalted race. Verily, we assert the dignity of the wooden.
In verse 2, the messenger replies:
Make four-fold the single ladle: so the Devas command you, and for that purpose
I am come, sons of Sudhanvan. If you accomplish this, you will be entitled to
sacrifices along with the Devas.
They replied, that having made a horse, a car and a cow, and two persons
young, they were ready to execute this new order. They did so, and then
asked for the messenger, Tvashtri; but when he saw the one ladle become
four, he disappeared among the women (gndsu antar nydnaje; but what
gndsu means is uncertain).
5. When Tvashtri said, 'Let us slay those who have profaned the ladle for the
drinking of the Devas,' then they made use of other names for one another, as the
libation was poured out; and the maiden propitiated them by different appellations,
anyair endn kanyd namabhih sparat.
Benfey gives, as meanings of spri, "to gratify, protect, live.
7 '
Who the
girl or virgin was that protected the Ribhus, is unknown: probably the
dawn, Ushas.
6. Indra has caparisoned his horses: the Agvins have harnessed their car:
Bjihaspati has accepted the omniform: therefore, IJibhu, Vibhwa and Vaja, go
to the Gods, doers of good deeds, enjoy your sacrificial' portion.
596 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
7. Sons of Sudhanvan, from a hideless (cow) you have formed a living one;
by your marvellous acts you have made your aged parents young; from one horse
you have fabricated another: harness now your chariot, and repair unto the Devas.
8. They have said, 'Sons of Sudhanvan, drink of this water, or drink that
which has been filtered through the Munja grass; or if you be pleased with neither
of these, be exhilarated at the third sacrifice.'
9. Waters are the most excellent, said one: Agni is the most excellent, said
another: the third declared to many, vardhayantim [said by the Scholiast to mean
either a line of clouds, or the earth. Vardhaya, causative of vr.idh, means 'to aug-
ment, to make powerful, to exalt.' But what 'that which augments, enlarges or
makes powerful' is, is to be ascertained from the preceding verse. It is, of course,
the third thing named there, that which, when drunk, exhilarates, i. e., the Soma 1
juice, or, more probably, that aliment of the stars which ascends to them from the
fire of the sacrifice]: and thus speaking true things, the Bibhus divided the ladle.
10. One pours the red water upon the ground : one cuts the flesh, divided into
fragments by the chopper: and a third separates the excrement from the other parts.
In what manner may the parents render assistance to their sons?
Nothing more is said in this hymn, in regard to making the ladles.
In iv. 33, addressed to the Ribhus, we find as follows:
5. The eldest said, 'let us make two ladles': the youngest said, 'let us make
three': Tvashtri, O IJibhus, applauded your proposition.
6. The men kept their word, for such they made, and thereupon the Ribhus
partook of that libation. Tvashtri, beholding the four ladles, brilliant as day,
was content.
iv. 35. 2. May the munificence of the IJibhus come to me on this occasion;
there has been the drinking of the effused Soma, in consequence of one ladle having
been made four-fold by their dextrous and excellent work.
3. You have made the ladle four-fold, and have said, 'assent!' therefore have
you gone, Vajas, the path of the undying: dextrous-handed IJibhus, the company
of the Devas.
4. What sort of ladle was that which by skill you have made four? ....
5..... By your deeds you have made the ladle for the drinking of the Devas.
. 36. 4. You have made the single ladle four-fold .... therefore you have
obtained immortality amongst the Devas.....
Other things said to and of the Ribhus are:
i. 161. 11. IJibhus, leaders, you have caused the grass to grow upon the high
places: you have caused the waters to flow over the low places; for good works
[for abundant production? Thus the spring rains are attributed to them, causing
the grass to grow on the high grounds, and enabling the -husbandman to irrigate
the alluvial lands]: as you have reposed for awhile in the dwelling of the unappre-
hensible (agohyasya gtihe), so desist not today from this.
a is "a house." Guhya, partic. of the fut. pass, of guh "to conceal,"
means "to be concealed, hidden, mysterious." Agohyasya must mean
"the unconcealable." In verse 13, the translation has,
THE RIBHUS 597
Ribhus, reposing in the solar orb, you inquire, 'who awakens us, Agohyasya, to this
office?' The sun replies, $vdnam bodhayitdram, 'the awakener or arouser is the
dog'. [The commentator 'explains' cvdnam as 'the wind'. It is Sirius, the Dog-
Star, which we have elsewhere seen called the dog]: and the year (being ended),
you again today light up this.
12. As you glide along enveloping the regions, where, then, are the parents?
Curse him who arrests your arm: reply sternly to him who speaks disrespectfully.
In iv. 33 are noticeable these passages :
1. I send my prayer as a messenger to the IJibhus. I solicit the milch cow,
the yielder of the white milk .... for they, as swift as the wind, the doers of
good works, were borne quickly across the firmament by rapid steeds.
2. When the ?.ibhus, by honouring their parents with renovated, and by other
works, had achieved enough, they thereupon proceeded to the society of the Devas;
and, considerate, they bring nourishment to the devout.
It is then recited that they made their aged parents young, and investing
a cow with flesh, continued its beautyfor a year, and so obtained immortality.
7. When the IJibhus, reposing for twelve days, remained in the hospitality of
the unconcealable (sun), they made the fields fertile, they led forth the rivers,
plants sprung up on the waste, and waters were on the low lands.
Unmistakably, this means that these three stars rose, for twelve mornings
so short a time^before the sun, as to be enveloped by the light that preceded
his coming in the east.
8 those Ribhus who constructed the firm-abiding, wheel-conducting
car; who formed the all-impelling multiform milch-cow
9. The Gods were pleased by their works .... V&ja was the artificer of the
Devas, Ribhukshin of Indra, Vibhvan of Varuna.
In verse 10 they are said to have constructed for Indra his two docile
steeds. In iv. 34. 6, it is said of them,
associated with Indra, with whom you are intelligent,
i. e., their light is his manifestation; and in verse 7 they sympathize in
satisfaction with Varuna, as, in verse 8, they are said to sympathize with
the Adityas, Savitri and others. In verse 9, they are the all-pervading
leaders. In iv. 35. 8, they are
Sons of strength, who have become Devas by soaring aloft in the sky like falcons.
And in iv. 37. 4, where they are called Vajins, they are said to be borne
by stout horses, mounted on a brilliant car; and they are called ayaksiprd
and sunishkdh. The latter means "beautifully ornamented": the meaning
of the former seems undiscoverable. And, in the same verse, they are
Sons of Indra and grandsons of strength:
598 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
or rather, they are son and grandson; for the two nouns are in the singular,
though followed by vah, "you" in the plural.
These Deities are munificent, givers of food, and showerers, and also
intelligent and wise, and are prayed unto for many blessings.
Vdja means "a wing, food, feather of an arrow, battle, speed, sound.
"
It is from vdj, "to go." Another vaj means "to strengthen," and Benfey
thinks there was probably a verb vaj, "to increase, to be strong." From
it are the Latin vigor and vigere.
Vibhd is "light, lustre, a ray of light"; vibbdvan, "shining"; vibhava,
"power"; vibhu, "omnipresent, all-pervading, eternal, solid, master, lord.
M
It is very clear that these Ribhus were three stars, large and brilliant,
and near enough to each other to be deemed a trinity or single constellation.
They were in the same quarter of the heavens, also, as the Agvins, and
Sirius rose before them, leading them up. Originally, also, they were real
or legendary personages, to whom, if real, many legendary tales had
attached. What was meant by their having made the car and horses of
Indra, I cannot even conjecture; and the multiplication of the sacrificial
ladle or cup is as great an enigma to me as ever. No doubt, those who
heard the hymn, when it was composed and long after, knew what it meant;
but the allegory has lost its meaning for us.
As to the stars so named, I think they were the three in the belt of Orion.
RUDRA.
In i. 114. I, in the translation of Professor Wilson, Rudra is called "the
Destroyer of Heroes." The original of this is Kshayad Virdya, of which
he says,
in whom heroes (vird) perish (vinagyanti) ; or it may mean, of whom the imperial
(kshayantah prdptaisvaraydh, heroes, i. e., the Maruts) are the sons.
In the Zend-Avesta, the fourth Amesha-Qp&ita, or emanation from Ahura
Mazda, is Khshathra-Vairya. The two names or epithets are evidently
identical. Khshathra means "sovereignty, royalty, dominion/' Vairya,
means "heroic/' from the Sanskrit vaira,
'
'heroism, prowess." In those
ages, sovereignty was won only by heroism and prowess in war. Vira is
the same word as vaira, meaning "heroic, strong, powerful, eminent, a hero,
a soldier"; and virdya, a denominative from it, means "to show one's
heroism." Vtrdya or virya is "strength, power, fortitude, heroism, dignity,
splendour, virility"; and it is also an adjective, and means "strong, potent,
heroic," etc.
Kshaya, in Benfey, is kshi+a, "loss, destruction," etc., from kshi, "to
destroy." But also he gives kshi, part, kshaya, "to possess, to rule"; and
from this come kshatra, "dominion, sovereignty," and the kshayad of the
text; and also the Khshathra of the Zend-Avesta, the Russian Tzar, and the
word Tarshatha in Nehemiah.
So that the epithet, applied to Rudra is, "heroic sovereign." And it is
an interesting fact that this epithet of one of the potencies of fire should
have become, with the Irano-Aryans, the name of an Amsha-Cpnta, the
original of Malakoih, the Tenth Sephirah or Emanation, of the Hebrew
Kabbalah.
UNITY OF INTELLECT AND POWER.
I have endeavoured all the time to keep in mind that those men whose
uttered thoughts in the Veda and Zend-Avesta I have endeavoured partially
to understand and interpret were my ancestors, with intellects of like nature
as my own, and who thought and sung as Wordsworth and Shelley would
have done, if they had been of that age. It is necessary to identify ourselves
as perfectly as possible with them, to imagine ourselves, with as little
knowledge of Nature as they, living when and where they did, subject to
the same influences, encompassed by the same surroundings, unacquainted
with the causes, even proximate, of the phenomena of Nature, having their
intellectual wants and aspirations, with no restraints such as modern good
taste and chaste refinement imposes, to hinder the most audacious flights
of the imagination, and with that ungovernable fancy for personification
which filled the temples of Athens with male and female statues of the Gods
and peopled the poetry of every branch of the race with a thousand graceful
and beautiful beings, creatures of the imagination, making the seasons, the
years, the potencies of Nature, the virtues and the vices, Fortune with her
blinded eyes, Hope leaning on her anchor, and Charity, beings like ourselves.
And we must not only make ourselves to be, for the time, what they were
intellectually; but we must live their life, be with them herding their cattle
on the steppes, sacrificing at dawn in the open air, cultivating their fields
and subjugating the native tribes.
We must be with them in their own land also; for no one is ignorant of
the influence on the intellectual character of a people, exerted by the
scenery with which it is familiar. It is to their mountains the Swiss owe
their continued freedom.
Samuel Johnson, in his Oriental Religions, very lately published, speaking
of "theBactrian Highlands, at the northeastern extremity of Iran, nestling
under the multitudinous heights of the Bolur-Tagh and Hindu-Kush," says:
They who have penetrated farthest into these mountain ranges report that the
silent abysses of the midnight sky, with its intensely burning stars, and the colossal
peaks lifting their white masses beyond storms, impress the imagination with such
a sense of fathomless mystery and eternal repose, as no other region on earth can
suggest. The mean altitude of these summits of Himalaya, the Home of Snow, is
loftier than that of any other mountain system in the world; and their mighty faces,
unapproachable by man, overlook vast belts of forest which he has not ventured
to explore. From one point, Hooker saw twenty snow peaks, each over twenty
thousand feet in height, whose white ridge of frosted silver stretched over the whole
horizon for one hundred and sixty degrees. Here are splendours and glooms,
unutterable powers, impenetrable reserves, correspondent to that spiritual nature
in whose earlier education they bore an essential part.
UNITY OF INTELLECT AND POWER 601
This writer has the key of interpretation of the Veda, and has, I think,
in a few sentences expressed more of the real meaning of its hymns, than
any other commentator. For example:
The word Divt designating at once the clear light of the sky [which is an error,
since dyu meant the sky itself, and only that]; and whatsoever spiritual meanings
. these simple instincts intimately associated therewith, has endured as the root word
of worship for the whole Aryan race: in all its branches the appellatives of Deity
are waves of this primal sound, flowing through all its manifold and changing
religions with the serene transcendence of an eternal law. . . .
We may infer, from the testimony of the two related Bibles, that the oldest Aryas
found God in all the forms and functions offire .... The Sacred Fire, kept kindled
on the domestic altar, as the centre of religious sentiment and rite, and as conse-
crating all social, civil and political relations, is found to be a common heritage of
all Aryan races. Its flame ascended from every household-hearth, watched by the
Pitris, or fathers, alive and dead, of this primitive civilization.
Here Dr. Johnson loses sight of the idea which, reflected upon and
developed, would have been fruitful of truth; and wanders into a by-path
that "gives out" in the woods. He adds,
Modern scholars have traced its profound influence, as type and sacrament of the
family, in shaping the whole religious and municipal life of ancient Greece and Italy.
But every people has had the household fire and the family. These are
not peculiar to the Aryan race. The "sacred" light was in every house,
also, whether of the sun by day or the fire or lamp at night: but it was not
its connection with family that was most excellent in either. Nor does it
appear that the household fire was kept always burning, or was regarded
as entitled to veneration, except as a part of the Universal Fire.
But in a subsequent page he is in presence of the truth again, when after
an interesting discussion of the character of the Hindu mind, he says,
To appreciate the results of these contemplative tendencies, we must recall the old
Aryan worship of the dear Light of Day.
And further on, treating of the Rig-Veda, he says:
These hymns are outcomes of a yet remoter past; they point us beyond them-
selves to marvellous creative faculty in the imagination and faith of what is other-
wise wholly inaccessible, the childhood of man. They present a language already
perfected without the aid of a written alphabet [one of two, itself and the Zend,
dialects of one older language spoken before the separation, ages before, of these
two branches of the Aryan family, itself the development of one still older, spoken
by the ancestors of Kelt, Goth, Sclave, Latin and Greek, before any of them emi-
grated]; a literature already preserved for ages in the religious memory alone.
They sing of older hymns, which the fathers sang of 'ancient Sages and elder Gods.'
They were themselves old, at the earliest epoch to which we can trace them. Their
602 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
religion, like their language, was already mature, when they were born. Do not
seek in them the beginning of the religious sentiment, the dawning of the idea of
the Divine. Their Deities are all familiar and ancestral. It is already an intimate
household faith, which ages have endeared. 'This is our prayer, the old, the prayer
of our fathers.' 'Our fathers resorted to Indra of old; they discovered the hidden
light and caused the dawn to rise; they who showed us the road, the earliest guides.
1
'Now, as of old, make forward paths for the new hymn, springing from our heart.'
'Hear a hymn from me, a modern bard.' As far back as we can trace the life of
man, we find the river of prayer and praise flowing as naturally as it is flowing now.
We cannot find its beginning, because we cannot find the beginning of the soul.
That is true of the Aryan race. But we know nothing of the lacustrine
dwellers or the Troglodytes of the Quaternary period, or the indigenes of
various countries, of the age or period of stone. And we find prayer and
praise flowing among the Egyptians, Hebrews and Chinese also, as far back
as we can trace them.
What is much more important, of incalculable importance to us, is this,
that if the ontological conceptions which I think are really contained in the
Veda and Zend-Avesta, are really there, it has needed neither special inspira-
tion nor special incarnation of God to teach men any truth of 'which the
human intellect is now possessed. The Aryan human intellect was able
to discover them all.
For as to the perfection of the language, the Turkish is said to be
so much so that it might seem to have been invented by a Congress of
most accomplished men of learning. And there are languages of very
barbarous tribes that astonish us by their wealth of forms. The thoughts
of the Vedic poets are of far greater import to us than their language.
Again Dr. Johnson says:
This infantile nature nevertheless adored, the light. The dawn and the decline of day,
and the starlit night that hinted in its splendours an unseen sun returning on a
path behind the veil, were dear to its imagination and its faith; and fire, in all its
mysterious forms, from the spark that lighted the simple oblation, and the flame
that rose from the domestic hearth, to that central orb, in which the prescience of
their active instinct saw, so long ago, an all-productive cosmic energy, was every-
where one and the same, alike mysterious, alike divine! And this vital Fire of the
Universe was everywhere within call, stooping to human conditions, respondent to
their need and will; at once a father and a child; born when the seeker would, out
of dark wombs in herb and tree; waiting there to kindle at the touch of his hand,
when he rubbed the two bits of wood, or turned the wheel of his fire-churn, as if
his busy fingers reach through the bright deeps on high, and brought life at their
tips, kindled life, fresh from the central flame.
Light, as element of Nature, as vision of the Soul! The symbol is forever dear.
And it was as symbol, not as mere material element, that it had religious homage
in the early ages. Unconscious symbolism [he thinks it is], a sense of help, beauty,
power, in the elements, already obscurely suggesting the intimate unity of Nature
with man; the condition and germ of all later development in man. And this is
what we find in the Veda.
UNITY OF INTELLECT AND POWER 603
The old Vedic Deities all center in this purest of the elements [Light].
But neither is this Vedic worship the mere personification of the elements, the
mere calling the thing fire, or cloud or moonplant, a God. What we do in fact note
here, in the not yet differentiated instinct, is a predominance of the spiritual element,
and this not only in its constant recognition of intelligence as everywhere, the
substance of Nature, and in its admiration of conscious energies and volitions, etc.
.... It is indeed what Quinet finely declares to be the meaning of the whole
Vedic religion 'Revelation by Light.'
That a profound theistic instinct, the intuition of a divine and living whole, is
involved in the primitive mental processes we are here studying, I hold to be beyond
all question. For these hymns are in reality not so much the worship of many
Deities, as the recognition of Deity everywhere .... there is manifold revelation,
but there is also unity of impression. The response to these divine invitations
takes outwardly different directions, is addressed to different objects; but intrinsi-
cally it is seeking the same spirit in all.
It is not mere element-worship [he says]: the religious sentiment recognizing
the aesthetic faculty, rather; an assertion of inherent rights and capacities of the
soul. It is, 'no mere element-worship/ and the Grecian cosmogonies, like it,
clearly indicate the recognition of life and mind as the essence of these outward
forms.
In no other way can we explain the fact that these Vedic Deities are in no
essential respect distinguishable from each other. It is not merely that they are
mostly forms of light or fire: this recognition of unity in the symbol points back to
the intuition of a deeper spiritual and moral oneness. They are ail described in
the same way, all are truthful, beneficent, generous, omniscient, omnipotent. All
are bestowers of life, inspirers of knowledge. They are alike the refuge of men,
alike immortal; creators and measurers of the world, for the benefit of men; radiant
with all-searching light, transcending and pervading all worlds. . . .
They have
all equal praise. ... All are invoked for the same blessings. They are even
mutually interchangeable, .... and all alike are supreme.
These mysterious forms and processes of light,
to which diverse names were attached,
really flowed into one another; sometimes by imperceptible gradations, sometimes
by instantaneous shift, as of feeling or mood.
Even so is this whole religion contained in the adoration of light; in the sense of a
vital fire in the universe, one with the life that stirred within the soul; in the search
for this through all disguises, and the recognition of it in all visible powers.
The Vedic hymns belong to different epochs, and must represent many changes
in the special ideal associated with each of the Gods; and that every fresh form
would naturally be held the offspring of the last. Doubtless, too, these images
of birth and youth in part refer to natural transitions or phases of the heavenly
bodies, the visible symbols of Deity; and report the ever-fresh productive vigour
of their outgoings and renewals.
The good man ascends to heaven and stands among the Gods. The stars of
the generous shine in the firmament. They partake of immortality.
I quote these passages for that of truth in them which others than their
author have failed to discover. What there is of error I do not care to
point out. And I conclude with this sentence:
For the germs of this our larger opportunity, which guarantees wisdom and
gladness to man's present and future thought; of his genial outlook upon life as a
604 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
home, and his fearless hospitality to its forces and laws; of the home-born courage
to use all faculties and open all paths; of the assurance that we are not slaves of
prescription, whether to person, creed or distinctive religibn, but natural heirs to
universal truth; of the self-respect whose religion is rational, and the liberty whose
ideal is endless progress, we must go back to the frank Aryan herdsman, inviting
his Gods to sit as guests beside him on his heap of kusa-grass.
And for all our conceptions of God as an Universal Substance, a Supreme
Unity infinitely extended and containing in Its Self all manifoldness, as the
One Essential Light that is the Life of the Universe; the One Intellect that
is revealed and manifested in all Intellects, as it is manifested as Light
wherever Light is; of a Deity beneficent, indulgent, protecting and not
merciless, cruel and vindictive like the Semitic Gods that have so long been
the Christian God; for our conceptions of the creative Wisdom and the Word
that is the Deity's very Self manifested ; of Spirit, of the immaterial soul, of
immortality, we must go back to the Poets who chanted their devotional
songs in the hearing of the same herdsmen, at the morning-sacrifice, to the
dawn, to Mitra the Morning Star, and Varuna, the regal Jupiter, as mani-
festations of the Light.
For all these are either their conceptions, or have grown out of theirs.
And there is an immense wealth of content and satisfaction, to me, in
surely knowing that nothing which is known to us in regard to God, our-
selves or Nature, nothing of true religion, nothing of sound ontology, has
come to us from the race that had its origin in the low flat alluvion of the
Euphrates and the Tigris; and we no more think the Semitic thought than
we have in our veins Semitic blood, or speak a Semitic tongue.
ADVANCE OF THE ARYAN INTELLECT TOWARDS REASON.
In Section xxi. of Volume V. of the Sanskrit Texts, Dr. Muif considers
"The Progress of the Vedic religion towards abstract conceptions of the
Deity."
After quoting the notions of Yaska, he proceeds to say :
These, however, are the views of men who lived after the compilation of the
Brdhmanas, at a period when reflection had long been exercised upon the contents
of the hymns, and when speculation had already made considerable advances. In
the oldest portions of the hymns themselves, we discover few traces of any such
abstract conceptions of the Deity. They disclose a much more primitive stage
of religious belief. They are, as I have already remarked, the productions of simple
men, who, under the influence of the most impressive phenomena of Nature, saw
everywhere the presence and agency of divine powers, who imagined that each of
the great provinces of the universe was directed and animated by its own separate
Deity, and who had not yet risen to a clear idea of one Supreme Creator and
Governor of all things. This is shown, not only by the special functions assigned to
particular Gods, but in many cases by the very names which they bear, corre-
sponding to those of some of the elements, or of the celestial luminaries.
Thus, according to the belief of the ancient Rishis, Agni was the divine Being,
who resides and operates in fire; Sflrya the God who dwells and shines in the sun;
and Indra the regent of the atmosphere, who cleaves the clouds with his thunder-
bolts, and dispenses rain.
Agni is not a divine being, who resides and operates in the fire. He is-
the Fire or Fire, Itself; that which is limitedly manifested in every particular
fire. To this Universal or Unity, only visible in diversity, the Poets
ascribed intellect, wisdom, power, will, foresight and beneficence; and these
being human attributes, the ascription of them to Agni made him a Deity,
precisely as we make ourselves a God, by imagining non-matter having
being and extension, and investing this creature of the intellect with our own
intellectual and moral attributes; and it being very doubtful whether we do
not, in spite of our resolution not to do it, ascribe to him our physical
attributes, as well, being only semiconscious of it.
Neither is Stirya the God who dwells and shines in the sun. He is the
sun, by whom Agni and Indra shine, the Very Orb itself. And Indra is not
the regent of the atmosphere. He is Light, and has nothing to do with the
atmosphere. He cleaves the clouds with his lightnings, to dispel the
darkness which they create, that darkness being, protanto, the annihilation
of himself. The rains that follow are but the incidental result.
While, however, in most parts of the Rig-Veda, we not only find that such Gods
as Agni, Indra and Stirya are considered as distinct from one another, but that
varipus other Divinities, more or less akin to these, but thought of as fulfilling
606 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
functions in some respects distinguishable from theirs (such as Parjanya, Vishnu,
Savitri, Pushan, etc.) are represented as existing along-side of them, there are other
hymns in which a tendency to identification is perceptible, and traces are found of
one uniform power being conceived to underlie the various manifestations of divine
energy. Thus Agni is represented as having a threefold existence, by which may
be intended, first, in his familiar form on earth; secondly, as lightning in the atmos-
phere; and thirdly, as the sun in the heavens. In other passages, where the same
God is identified with Vishnu, Varuna, Mitra, etc., it is not clear whether this
identification may not arise from a desire to magnify Agni, rather than from any
idea of his essential oneness with other Deities with whom he is connected.
In iv. 42. 3, too, where Indra appears to be represented as the same with Varuna
(aham Indro Varunah, etc.), the design of the writer may have been to place the
former God on a footing of equality with the latter.
There is a singular want of logical coherency in these notions of Dr.
Muir. How could Indra be made equal to Varuna, by declaring him to be
one and the same? Does a desire to magnify Agni (as if each Deity had his
partisans) explain the Vedic idea of the oneness of Agni and any other
Deity? This idea of oneness is a distinct, peculiar and striking one, like
that of the oneness of the Logos and Father of Philo and St. John. It is a
peculiar metaphysical conception, not in the least explained by a desire,
however great, to magnify, and especially not by a desire to magnify the
greater, Agni or the Father. When it is said in the Zend-Avesta that
CpSnta-Mainyu, the Divine Intellect abiding in the Very Deity, is the
Amsha-Cpntas, which are emanations from the Deity, no desire to magnify
can explain this. The emanation-theory explains it. But Dr. Muir,
missing that idea of emanation and manifestation by limitation, which
explains everything that seems obscure, is continually engaged in endeavour-
ing to explain inexplicable contradictions, incoherencies and absurdities,
which the texts, as he interprets them, present. He continues to say:
There are, however, other passages, in the earlier works of the Rig-Veda, which
suffice to show that the writers had begun to regard the principal Divinities as
something more than mere representations or regents of the different provinces of
Nature.
That is true. There is nothing in the earlier books to show that they ever
regarded them as "mere representations or regents" of any provinces of
Nature. But on the other hand, there is nothing to show that they had any
conception of "one uniform power underlying the various manifestations
of divine energy," as distinct from or as superior to the fire. Fire itself,
invested with the attributes of intellect, with an intellectual and moral
nature, was itself the one uniform power ; but there were supposed Deities
whose power was not the power of Agni, nor they any manifestation of Him.
Such were the Maruts and Sarasvati.
ADVANCE OF ARYAN INTELLECT 607
Varuna, Indra, Sfirya, Savitri and Agni are severally described (in strains
more suitable to the Supreme Deity than to Subaltern Divinities exercising a limited
dominion), as having formed and as sustaining heaven and earth, and as rulers of
the universe [and the Soma-juice may be added to the list]; and Varuna in particular,
according to the striking representation of the hymn preserved in the Atharva-
Veda iv. 16 (though this composition may be of a somewhat later date), is invested
with the divine prerogatives of omnipresence and omniscience.
This is a very great and grave error. All luminaries are said to see all
things, meaning that their light shines throughout the expanse, and over all
the sky, and on all the earth below them; and light, whether called Indra,
or, as manifested by one orb, Suray or Varuna, is said to be everywhere, for
the same reason. That is not what divine omnipresence and omniscience
are, for us.
Although the recognized co-existence of all these Deities is inconsistent with
the supposition that their worshippers had attained to any clear comprehension
of the unity of the Godhead, and although the epithets denoting universal dominion,
which are lavished upon them all, in turn, may be sometimes hyperbolical or com-
plimentary, the expression of momentary fervour, or designed to magnify a partic-
ular Deity at the expense of all other rival objects of adoration, yet these descrip-
tions no doubt indicate enlarged and sublime conceptions of divine power, and an
advance towards the idea of a Sovereign Deity.
Agni was God, as we understand that word, but not God as Creator.
There is no speculation in the Veda as to his existence without beginning,
and he is not represented as having created the material universe. Neither
does his unity include all the Deities; but the Aryan Poets had a perfectly
clear idea and comprehension of his unity, so far as other Deities were
manifestations of him. If the Divine Unity, to be such, must include in
itself all Deities, must it not also include in itself all intellects, and our creed
be Pantheism?
Agni had the essential attributes of God and was veritably God, as
being without form or shape or limitation, or local habitation, indefinable
and not cognizable even by the intellect; as a power, intellectual and moral,
with no idea of materiality connected with a pure and perfect Spirit, an
intellect, one, simple and without body or limitation. It needed only the
one step further that Zarathustra took, to give the universe a God as pure
and perfect, as inaccessible and immaterial, as any religion or any philosophy
has ever imagined. There is nothing whatever of the B&1, Al or Yehuah of
the miscalled Semitic race, in the character of Agni. No human form or
sensual appetites or detestable passions were ascribed to him; but chiefly
truth, wisdom and beneficence. To obtain the Veritable God of our own
conception, The One Pure and Perfect of the highest Hindu, Bactrian and
Grecian Philosophy and of Christianity t
(which began as a reform of Hebraic
608 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
morals and ended in a revolt against the Hebraic creed) , it was only necessary
to separate the intellectual and moral attributes of Agni from his nature as
simple fire, give the former personality and indefiniteness, and call them
Ahura and Mazda. Neither philosophy not religion ever has procured or
ever will procure for itself a more perfect and spiritual conception of Deity,
than that of Zarathustra the Great Bactrian, or the Unknown Thinker,
earlier than he, who first taught the being of such a Deity, Supreme Power
and Wisdom, Substance of all Light, Source of all Intellect, Author of all
Good, supremely just and right and perfectly beneficent.
When once the notion of particular Gods had become expanded in the manner
just specified, and had risen to an ascription of all divine attributes to the particular
object of worship who was present for the time to the mind of the Poet, the further
step would speedily be taken, of speaking of the Deity under such new names as
Vigvakarman and Projdpati, appellations which do not designate any limited func-
tion connected with any single department of Nature, but the more general and
abstract notion of divine power operating in the production and government of
the Universe.
It is perhaps in names such as these that we may discover the point of transition
from polytheistic to monotheistic ideas. Both these two terms, which ultimately
came to designate the Deity regarded as the Creator, had been originally used as
epithets of Indra and Savitri, in the following passages: Rig-Veda iv. 53. 2,
'Savitri the supporter of the sky and the Lord of creatures' (divo dharttd bhuvanasya
prajdpatify. mii. 87. 2, Thou, Indra art most powerful; thou hast caused the sun
to shine; thou art great, the universal architect, and possessest all Godlike attributes'
(team Indra abhibhir asi foam Sdryam arochayah vigva karmd vigvadeoo mahdnasi).
As I am convinced that the Aryan intellect was the same and its laws
of thought and modes of thinking were the same, seven thousand, and ten
thousand, years ago, that it and they are to-day, and that the intellectual
characteristics as well as the physical and moral ones, of race are unchange-
able otherwise than in the line of development and progress, I do not believe
that these ancient Aryan Poets ever uttered so perfect an absurdity, such a
specimen of nonsense, as that the sun or moon "supported" the sky. Even
the Negro intellect is too high above the ape's to have uttered that.
Dharttd is the past participle passive of dhri; and the meanings of this
verb are, as given by Benfey, "to bear, carry, maintain, support/' and,
passive, "to exist, live, stop, retain, resist, have, keep;" and the casual,
dhdraya, means "to bear, hold, weigh, continue to live, support, keep,
possess, practice, endure, contain, recover." There is nothing more
.ridiculous in the translation's of the Veda than the phrase "supporting the
sky," applied to a star or planet.
Besides, dharttd is a passive participle, and divo is not in the genitive or
accusative; and I think that divo dharttd means "being, or dwelling, in the
sky ; a denizen of the sky." There is, not a figure of speech in the Veda that
ADVANCE OF ARYAN INTELLECT 609
might not occur or suggest itself to an English, French or German Poet,
and if we meet with one in the translations of the Veda, that never would
occur to us, we may be quite sure it never did occur to them. It is very
certain that no Poet not insane would at this day think of saying that a
star or planet or the moon or sun held up the sky.
Prajd means "progeny, offspring, creature, subjects, people." Pati is
"master, governor, lord, husband"; and bhuvanasya is gen. sing, ofbhuvana,
"being, creature, world, man, mankind, heaven, water." I think that
bhuvanasya prajdpatify means "chief of, or among, the beings of the sky."
Indra, being the light that flows forth through the sun, of course makes
him to shine. Neither the firmament nor the atmosphere could be said
to do that; and all the commentators make one or the other of these Indra.
Vi$va-karmd is vigva, all+karma, from k?i, "to make, produce, cause,
utter forth." I think that vigva-karmd vigvadevo means "producer, or,
causer, of all, and all, the Devas"; L e., that they are all manifestations of
the light, and all are the light or Indra.
Soma, also, is called prajdpati, "chief or master of beings, progeny or
people," in ix. 5, 9 : and in x. 170. 4, Stirya is called vigvakarman and viguadev-
yavat. The attributes and potencies of the light, of which the sun is the
manifester, the utterer-forth, in later language the Logos or Word, are
ascribed to him, as the powers of the Father are to the Logos; and so Stirya
is Indra and vigvadevo and vigvakarman, as the Logos, is the Father, and as
the Kabbalistic emanations are the Deity whom they express and whose
utterances they are, and as the Amsha-Cpntas are Ahura.
Therefore it is said in x. 114. 5,
The Bards in their songs represent in many modes the well-winged (supanpam) who
is one.
Su, so prefixed means "good, well, beautiful, beautifully, much, very,
easily." Parya is "a wing, feather, leaf, tree." Tdmra-pariti is the name
of a river. Parkin is "a tree" ; and pary, "to be green" ; but for this there
is no authoritative reference. Parkin is the name of an Apsaras, i. e., of a
lake or pond; and it was so styled, no doubt, from being covered with the
broad leaves of the lotus or water-lily. Benfey suggests that parna may
be pri+na; but the past part. pass, of pri is punia, and it forms also prina,
print, and moreover has no meaning from which "wing" or "leaf" can be
obtained. The true root may be pri, to "protect" or "shelter."
In i. 164. 46, we have,
They call Him Indra, Mitra, Varuna, Agni, and (he is) the celestial, well-winged
gvrutmat. Sages [Poets] name variously that which is but one. They call it Agni,
Yama, MUtericvan.
610 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
As garut means "a wing," gamtmat must mean something winged, a bird.
Gveta-garut is "a goose/'
What was meant by these "wings," unless the flame of the fire, I am at a
loss to imagine.
In Rig-Veda ti. 35. 8, all other creatures (bhuvanani) are said to be
branches of Ap&nmnapat, "grandson of the waters." Miiller understands
the words mahad devanam asuratvam ekam, with which all the verses of
Rig-Veda tii. 55 conclude, to mean
The Great Divinity of the Gods is one [which, says Dr. Muir], might be understood
as if they asserted all the Gods to be manifestations of one Supreme Deity.
They do assert that all the Devas of the sky are manifestations of Agni.
But [he says], the cause need not mean anything more than that the divine power
of the Gods is unique.
Asuratva is asura+tva, the suffix making an abstract noun, like amritatva,
"undyingness," from amrita, "undying." And asuratva does mean divine
power, but "being, existence," from as, "to be," or "radiance, shiningness,"
from as, "to burn, to shine." I think the meaning clearly is,
the great radiance or light of the Devas is one.
Or mahad may mean "light," which is one of its meanings; and we should
read,
the radiance of the Devas is one light.
Hymn 129, Rig-Veda #., acquaints us with the later speculations of the
Poets as to the origin of things, out of which grew the Brahmanic ideas as to
Brahm and Maya. It is thus translated by Dr. Muir:
1* There was then neither non-entity nor entity (na asad fatd no sad dstt
In a note at page 359, Dr. Muir says that in x. 5. 7 it is said that Agni,
being "a thing both asat, non-existent (i. e., unmanifested) and sat, existent
(i. e., in a latent state or in essence) in the highest heaven, etc., became, etc."
There was no atmosphere nor sky above. What enveloped, where, in
the receptacle of what? Was it water, the profound abyss? (Kim dsU
gahanam gabhiram.) Gahana is "impervious obscurity" ; gabMra is "deep,
unfathomable."
2. Death was not then, nor undyingness; there was no distinction of day or
night. That one breathed calmly, self-supported: there was nothing different
from or above it. 3. In the beginning darkness existed, enveloped in darkness.
ADVANCE OF ARYAN INTELLECT 611
All this was undistinguishable water. That one which lay void, and wrapped in
nothingness, was developed by the power of fervour (tapasas). 4. Desire (kdmas)
first arose in it, which was the primal germ of mind (manaso). Sages, searching
with their intellect have discovered in their heart to be the bond which connects
entity with non-entity (sato bandhun asati). The ray which stretched across these,
was it below or was it above? There were there impregnating powers (retodhdb)
and mighty forces (mahimdnafy), a self-supporting principle (svadhd, 'spontaneity,
self-will, strength,' according to Benfey:), beneath, and energy (prayatify, erotic
energy in action), on top. Who knows, who here can declare whence has sprung,
whence, this creation? The Devas are subsequent to the development of this:
who then knows whence it arose? From what this creation arose, and whether
(any) made it or not, he who in the highest heaven is its ruler, he indeed knows or
he does not know.
Evidently there is nothing about One Supreme Divine Creator here.
There is nothing but a mystical copulation, impregnation and production.
Kama arose in the Primal Unity, as it lay dark and undistinguishable; and
kamas is simply the sexual impulse and desire. The ancients called it love.
We call it concupiscence. Retas (nom. of retodhafy) is that which impreg-
nates, literally the semen virile. From this hymn and other like passages,
all or almost all post-Vedic, grew after a long time, the Linga and Yoni
worship.
It is said in x. 97. 1, that certain plants are older than the Devas, by three
yugas.
The first movement in the process of generation of things (or of creation
by generation) is the development of the Primal Unity by the potency or
energy of tapas by its own inherent heat, Miillersays; by rigourous and
intense abstraction, Professor Roth says, and Dr. Muir recites the passages
in which tapas is mentioned, to show that there is reason for taking this to
be the meaning. In every one of the texts cited by him tapas has either its
original meaning of "fire," from tap, "to heat, warm, shine, burn up," or that
of sacrifice. Here it is simply the heat of the organs of generation, which
excites kama, "desire." There is no doubt that nothing imaginable is so
absurd that some one may not be expected to say it. But one is a little
"startled" to learn that the great, dark, indistinguishable mass of inert
chaos, in a condition half-way between being and non-being, the crude raw
mass of material, without form or life, entered upon and persisted in a
course of "rigourous abstraction," long before the sexual impulse stirred,
that was the first germ of intellect, mind and thought; and that by means
of this "rigourous abstraction," erotic desire or the. sexual impulse to
libidivatewas developed, and caused the first small and undeveloped germ of
intellect to spring up. It is beyond all comparison more absurd than any
notion of Dr. Haug.
PURUSHA.
Dr. Muir says:
Another important but in many places obscure hymn of the Rig-Veda, in which
the Unity of the Godhead is recognized, though in a Pantheistic sense, is the nine-
tieth of the tenth Book, the celebrated Purusha SAkta.
From the sixth verse onward, the hymn recites the offering and cutting
up of Purusha by the Devas, they and the S&dhyas and Rishis sacrificing.
From this sacrifice came the hymns Rich and Saman, the Metres and Yajush.
The four castes came from different parts of the body, as did the moon and
sun, Agni, Indra and Vayu, the atmosphere, sky and earth. It is no wonder
Dr. Muir thinks some parts of it obscure.
I think that the first five verses may be of the later Vedic period. The
residue is later than the establishment of castes and the compilation of the
Rig-Veda and Sama-Veda. The first five verses are thus read by Dr. Muir:
1. Purusha has a thousand heads (a thousand arms, -4.-F.), a thousand eyes
and a thousand feet. On every side enveloping the earth (sabhtimim vi$vato vrftva),
he transcended [it] by a space of ten fingers (aty atishffwd dagdngiilairi).
2. Purusha himself is this whole Universe (Purushafr evedaM sarvain), whatever
has been, and whatever shall be (yad bMtarh yach cha bhavyam). He is also the
Lord of Immortality (dtam r
t itatvasyeQano), since through food he expands (yad
annendti-rohatf). [Does the Supreme Being expand by food?]
3. Such is his greatness, and Purusha is superior to this (ato jyayamg, more
powerful than this). All existing things (vi$vd bMtdni) are a quarter of him (pddo
*sya), and that which is immortal in the sky is three quarters of him (tripadt
asyamr.itam dwi).
4. With three quarters Purusha mounted upwards (tripdd drddhvah ud ai
Purushab [went up above or on. high]). A quarter of him again was produced
here below (pddo
'
syehabhavat punaft). He then became diffused everywhere (tato
vishvan vyakrdmaf) among things animate and inanimate (sdgandnagane abhi).
5. From him Viraj was born, and from Viraj Purusha (tasmdd Virdl ajdyata
Virdjo adhi Pfaushajf). As soon as born, he extended beyond the earth, both be-
hind and before (sajdto aty arichyata pa$chdd bhdmim atho pura$).
In these verses I find nothing like the Unity of the Godhead, in a
Pantheistic sense or in any other. Puru, the Zend pouru, in the Veda also
p&ru, means "much, many," and puruska or pdrusha, "a man generally or
individually a male, mankind." Its true primal meaning is "man, mankind,
humanity/' the unit of the race: thence, the first man, as containing all the
race; and the Universal Soul of mankind, the Supreme Being.
It is perfectly clear that in this hymn, Purusha is humanity, mankind,
in the first five verses. Therefore he is said figuratively to have had a
thousand heads, arms, eyes and feet He does not "envelope" or "pervade"
PURUSHA 613
the earth. He "spreads over it, occupies it, covers it, fills it" Those are
equally meanings of vfitod. Nor did he "transcend it by a space of ten
fingers." Sthd is "to stand, stop, wait, stay, abide." Adhi and ati, pre-
fixed, mean "above, beyond, over on." And sthd, withadhi prefixed, means
"to stand on, to be supported by, to rest on, to stay, to remain, to inhabit,
to command, govern, lead, pass over, surpass, overcome, subdue." Adhisht-
hita means "guided, occupied, fixed, established, overpowered, subdued."
Aty, by itself, means "over, exceedingly, in a high degree, much," as an
adverb ; and, as a preposition, "over, beyond, more than." I take the phrase
clearly to mean that Purusha subdued and subjected to his will, occupied
and cultivated, the earth, extensively, by his ten fingers, that is, by or with
the labour of his two hands.
He is not said to be "the whole universe." Evedam sarvam does not
necessarily mean that. It may quite as well mean all the race; all the
individuals, that is, of the race: and yad bhdtam yach cha bhavyam, "whatever
has been born and whatever is to be born."
Man is utdmfitatvasyecdno, also i. e., ut+amritat+va$a+ye$ano, "able
to secure for himself long life"; for, annenatirohatit
i. e., annena+ati+
rohati, annena meaning "food," ati, "abundantly," and rohati, third person
sing. pres. of ruh, meaning "grows": and the whole, "for food grows
abundantly."
Such is his present greatness; but he is even more powerful than this.
There is in him an indefinite capacity for increase and extension, and he is to
spread more and subdue new lands.
It is not said that all existing things are a quarter of him. Vigva
bhtit&ni does not necessarily mean "all beings or creatures." Bhdta means
"a living being, a creature"; but also "an element," -and five bhdtas are
enumerated, earth, fire, water, air and aether. One fourth of man is
composed of the several elements ; three immortal or undying parts of him
are of the sky, and with these three he ascended to the stars, when burned
upon the pyre. The one fourth composed of the elements remained,
resolved into its component parts. One of the parts that ascended was so
much of the body as was by burning changed into light. The others were
probably the soul and spirit, as distinguished from each other. The light
was vitality, and this and the other parts were undoubtedly those which,
borrowed by the Hebrews from the Magi were called Nephesch, Ruach and
Neschamah, or, in the Latin of the Kabbalah, Psyche, Spiritus, mens.
The quarter that was of the elements, was produced again, below and
diffused among the various portions, animate and inanimate, of the physical
creation.-
When thus burned, Virdj, splendour or radiance, was born of or produced
614 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
from Purusha, and this, feeding the stars and invigorating Indra, became
again the vitality of men.
Finally, it is said that, as soon as born (sajato), as soon as man began to
exist, he began to spread over the earth, pagchdd atho purab, behind and
before, or westward and eastward.
All this is mere poetry, with certainly no purpose of establishing a new
Deity. It is all easily enough understood, and must be an old fragment, to
which ages afterwards, the succeeding verses were added. It is impossible
to believe that any sane human being ever imagined Universal Humanity
sacrificed, cut to pieces, burned, by the stars, SMhyas and Rishis. Nor is
that a possible allegory.
The old verses of the hymn are valuable for the conclusive corroborating
evidence which they give upon several points. They prove that the Devas
were the heavenly bodies, and that many of the stars and Devas were ancient
Sages, supposed to have been translated to the sky. They prove that this
translation and the existence of the stars were the only other life and immor-
tality known to the Indo-Aryans; and they leave no doubt in regard to the
fact that the moving cause of sacrifice and offering was that the oblations
were deemed to become light, to replenish the stars and invigorate Indra
himself; and that this was also the reason for the adoption of the custom of
burning the dead.
The nonsense of the Bhtgavata Purana, and even of the Atharva-Veda,
about Virllj and Purusha is only worth referring to, as it is quoted by Dr.
Muir, to show how the Brahmanic stupidities had their origin. Vir&j
was the earth, all the universe; she entered into the sacrificial horse. Purusha
is all that has been, is or will be, enveloping the universe, and occupying but
a span. He kindles Vir&j, and is Lord of Immortality and Security, because
he has transcended mortal nutriment. Everything exists in his feet, which
are the worlds; immortality, blessedness and security abide in the heads of
the three-headed.
But there is by far more warrant for the modern nonsense, in what
remains of the hymn, if it is correctly translated, and if it really represents
Purusha as immolated, sacrificed, cut in pieces, by the Devas, Sidhyas and
Rishis, or by the S&dhyas and Rishis who became Devas.
That it is correctly translated, I doubt exceedingly, and should feel quite
sure, but for the fifteenth verse.
Sddh means "to finish, accomplish, effect, perform, overcome, conquer,
and learn." Sddh, "perfect, good, a Muni or Sage"; sddhya, "accomplish-
ment, perfection.
"
The Rishis were the itinerant bards ; the Sddhyas, Sages,
perhaps skilled in medicine, as sddhya also means "to be cured, curable";
sddkaka, "an adept," and sddhana, "medicament, drugs." These being men,
could not have sacrificed humanity or mankind, of which they were a part:
PURUSHA 615
and the idea of such an immolation and burning, and of the production of
Vedas and Castes, atmosphere, sun and moon, by cutting the body of
humanity into pieces, is so supereminently preposterous that one can find
no allegorical meaning in it. Let us scrutinize the translation, and see if the
Vedic Thinker cannot be relieved of the imputation of babbling nonsense
without a redeeming feature.
6. When the Devas offered up Purusha as a sacrifice (yat Purushena havishd
devdfr yajman atanvata), the Spring (was) its clarified butter, Summer its fuel, and
Autumn the (accompanying) oblation (vasanto asydstd djyatfi grtshmafy idmafy garad
havify).
Havis means, according to Benfey, "clarified butter, oblation, sacrifice,"
from hu, "to sacrifice, to worship by oblations." Hava, also, is "oblation,
sacrifice." Yajna is "a sacrifice/' from yaj, "to sacrifice, to worship." Tan
means "to spread, direct, arrange, cause."
As Bopp shows, Section 933, the suffix as forms equivalents of English
present participles, e. g., in manas, "thinking"; srdtas, "flowing"; grdvas,
"hearing"; chakshas, "seeing'*; whence, for these, the substantive meanings,
"mind, stream, ear, eye," all of which include the idea of action. The
suffix is, he regards (Section 937) as a weakening of as. For examples, he
gives $6cMs, "lustre" (shining); archfo, "lustre" (shining); havis, "butter
clarified" (from hu, "to sacrifice"); chadis, "roof" (covering); jyotis,
"splendour" (shining).
In all these, except havis, the noun includes and expresses the active
present participle meaning: and I cannot but think that this word, instead
of meaning the oblation, or that which is offered or sacrificed, means the
offerer of the oblation, the one who furnishes it.
If that is so, the first clause of the. verse would be read,
when the Devas arranged, directed, or prepared the sacrifice, Purusha furnishing
the oblation, or being the offerer.
In the second clause I do not think the word "was" belongs. I think the
verb used in the first clause, or the participle, is understood, and that it
should be read,
Spring furnished the clarified butter for it; Summer, the fuel, and Autumn, the
oblation.
It seems to me that the whole of these verses refers to the supposed first
sacrifice offered by men, mankind or humanity, the S&dhyas and Rishis who
thereby became Devas, officiating.
616 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
7. This victim, Purusha born in the beginning, they immolated on the sacrificial
grass (tain yajn&m barhishi praukshan Purusham jdtam agmtafr) : with him as their
offering, the Gods, Sadhyas and Rishis sacrificed (tena devdfr ayajanta sddhydfr
rishayas cha ye).
Agratab means "in the presence of"; and I venture to submit that the verse
means,
This oblation they sacrificed on the sacred grass, in the presence of mankind, then
already old; with it the Devas worshipped, the Sadhyas and the IJishis.
8. From that universal oblation (sarvahutaTf) were produced curds and clarified
butter. He (it) formed those aerial creatures, and the animals, both wild and tame.
The first three words, tasmdd yajndt sarvahutafy, mean, "from that
oblation all consumed"; and the evident meaning is that such oblations, by
the changes effected by the fire, enter into new combinations, replenish the
orbs (chakre) of the sky, with light, and become parts of the animals.
9. From that sacrifice all consumed sprang (jajnire, were born or produced)
the Rich- and Sama-Veda, the metres and the Yajush.
Because these were the consequences and outgrowth of worship.
In Verses n to 14, it is asked,
when they divided Purusha, into how many parts did they distribute him.
The answers are
The Brahman was his mouth; the Rajanya his arms; the Vaicya his thighs, and the
Stidra sprang from his feet.
These are merely subdivisions of humanity. Then it is said that the moon
was produced from his soul (or vitality) ;
the sun from his eye, Indra and
Agni from his mouth, and Vayu from his breath; the atmosphere from his
navel; the sky arose from his head; the earth came from his feet; the four
quarters from his ear: and "so they made the worlds." Any explanation of
this must be merely conjectural.
15. When the Gods, in performing their sacrifice, bound Purusha as a victim
(devah yad yajnaM tanvanah abadhnan Purushan paQum), there were seven pieces of
wood laid for him round the fire, and thrice seven pieces of fuel employed.
Abadhnan Purusham pagum certainly means "they bound the victim,
Purusha." Benfey informs us that purusha-pa$u means "a beast-like man" ;
and nri-pagu, "a man destined to be immolated." And it is very probable
that the reference is to the immolation, in ancient times (then long disused)
of human victims, prisoners of war, perhaps ; as there is reference elsewhere
to ancient sacrifices of horses.
PURUSHA 617
16. With sacrifice the Gods worshipped the sacrifice (yajnena yajnam ayajanta
Devas. which means, I think, 'with worship, the Devas performed the sacrifice*).
These were the first institutions (tdni dharmdni prathamani asan; these were the
most ancient, or first, ceremonials of worship). These great beings (mahimdnafy,
great men) attained to the heaven [sky] where the Devas, the ancient Sadhyas,
reside (santi, are).
It is clear enough that Purusha was not the Supreme Being, and that no
sacrifice of the Supreme Being is thought of here. It was a sacrifice
performed by men, the first of all ceremonial acts of worship, a sacrifice of
clarified butter and the productions of autumn; and by such pious acts the
Sidhyas and Rishis earned the right to be translated to the sky and become
stars.
Purusha, originally humanity, may have come to be virility of the
universe, by the action whereof upon the dark undistinguishable chaos, the
generation of things began. But in this hymn, there is no such idea.
PRAjAPATI.
HIRANYAGARBHA AND SKAMBHA.
The word Prajdpati was originally employed as an epithet of Savitri and
Soma, and it then meant "Lord of Creatures, Beings or Luminaries.'*
Afterwards it came to mean, probably, that Unity or Universal, in which
all creatures are included, as Brahmanaspati meant prayer and Vanaspati,
fuel. He certainly became that in the Brahmanic period, and is in the
Catapatha Brihmana identified with the universe of creatures, and described
as having alone existed in the beginning, as the Source out of which creatures
were evolved. In the Atharva-Veda he is identified with breath, Prdna or
vitality and said to have been generated by Kala, Time.
Mahidhara speaks of Prajdpati Hirayyagarbha,
existing as an embryo in the egg of Brahma, which was golden, consisting of the
golden male Purusha.
Hiraya, i. e., haran+a means "gold, a cowry, the semen virile." Hari and
harit mean "green, tawny, yellow, a ray of light/
1
and birds and animals
that are yellow or green, as a lion and a peacock. Hiranya is "gold, silver,
substance, imperishable matter, the semen virile.
11
We have already seen
that $ukra, "resplendent/* means also the semen virile.
'
Gold has always
been the metal of the sun, and synonymous with light : but why should the
words that mean "gold" and "light" also mean the human semen? The
Kabbalists give us the answer to this question.
Rabbi Chajim Vital says (Discursus Initialis i. t Libri Sohar),
Exinde et post modum describitur lux [guia dicitur, Fiat Lux. Ubi indigitatur semen,
guod provenit per gradum Fundamental, qua creata est, et occultata et comprehenditur
in fadere itto [id est, ilia Lux occultata, qua est Benignitas, occultata est in membro
faderis], [circumcisionis, guod est quasi membrum virile, numeratio (Sephirah) scil,
nona] guod ingreditur in Rosam [Basiliam quasi membrum fcsmininum, dum conjun-
guntur gradus (Sephiroth) Yesod and Malakoth] et producit in ilia semen, et hoc vocatur
lignum faciens, fructus, cujus semen in eo, et hoc semen revera manet in Signo faderis
[id est: non est sicut semen humanum guod non manet in membro, sed prodit: nam lux
ista qua, influit in Basiliam etiam in fundamento manet].
And in the Commentary of Rabbi Jizchak Lorja in these Discursus,
enough more will be found, on the same subject, of which I quote only a
part of one sentence:
Fundamentum [the SepHrah Yesod], guod dicitur omnis vivens, et est effluxus gutte
seminalis e cerebro, quod vocatur Sapientia.
The Divine Creative and vivifying Light and Wisdom were thus designated.
PRAJAPATI 619
Garbha, from grah, original grabh, "to take, seize, marry, hold, bear,
catch,receive,etc.," means "the womb, the interior, foetus, embryo, a sprout,
conception." As the latter part of a compound, "holding in one's interior,
containing."
The Hymn x. 121, which celebrates Hiranyagarbha, may enable us to
understand the meaning of the name. As given by Dr. Muir, it is as
follows :
1. Hiranyagarbha arose in the beginning (samavarttatdgre, which rather means
'included
1
or 'contained/ 'aggregated
1
or 'assembled,
1
at the beginning): born
(jdfafy), he was the one Lord of things existing (bhtitasya patir ekah dsft): he estab-
lished (sa dadhara) the earth and this sky (pr
m ithivim dydm utemdjti) : to what Deva
shall we offer our oblation (kasmai Devdya harishd vidhema)?
2. He who gives breath, who gives strength, whose command all the Devas
reverence (yasya mgve upddate pra^ishant yasya Devafy; whose shadow (chhdyd,
'shade, reflected image, reflected light, splendour, colour
1
) is immortality, whose
shadow is death; to what Deva, etc.?
3. Who by his might (makited} became the sole King (rdjd) of the breathing
and winking world (prdyato nimishato jagatd) ;
who is the Lord of this two-footed
and four-footed [creation] (ya i$e asya dvipadag chatushpadafr) ; to what Deva, etc.?
4. Whose greatness (mahitvd) these snowy mountains (himavanto, himavant,
'cold/ the Himalaya), and the sea with the Ras (river) declare (samudraffi rasayd
SahdhuV) of whom these regions (yasyemdfr pradigd), of whom they are the arms
(yasya bahu) : to what Deva, etc.?
5. By whom the sky is fiery (y&na dyaur ugrd), and the earth fixed (pzithivt
cha dtrilhd), by whom the firmament (svaV), and the heaven (nakalf) were established
($tabhitanti\ who in the atmosphere (antarikshe) is the measurer (vimdnafy of the
aerial space (rajaso): to what Deva, etc.?
6. To whom two contending armies (krandasi) sustained by his succour (avasd
tastabhdne), looked up (abhy aikshetdm) trembling in mind (manasd rejamdne); over
whom the risen sun shines (yatrddhi Surah, udito vibkdtt): to what Deva, etc.?
7. When the great waters pervaded the universe, containing an embryo, and
generating fire (dpo Ha yad fyihattr vigvam dyan garbham dadhdndb janayantir Agnim),
thence arose the one spirit (tato samavarttatdsur ekaV) of the Devas: to what Deva,
etc.?
8. He who through his greatness beheld the waters which contained power
(daksham) and generated sacrifice (yajnam), who was the one (or, only, or chief,
pre-eminent) Deva above the Devas: to what Deva, etc.?
9. May he not injure us (ma no himstj), he who is the generator of the earth
(janitd yak pritUvydfy), who ruling by fixed ordinances (satyadharmd, acting with
unvarying regularity?) produced the heaven (dvoanijaydna), who produced the great
and brilliant waters (chdpag, in Benfey, 'bow;
1
Indra-chdpag, 'rainbow'): to what
Deva, etc.?
10. Prajipati, no other than Thou is Lord over all these created things (vi$va
jdtdni part)-, may we obtain that, through desire of which we have invoked thee:
may we become masters of riches!
The breathing and winking world pr&^ato nimishato jagato, in Verse 3,
is the living and twinkling creation, i. e., the stars. Samudram rasayfL, in
620 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
Verse 4, means, I think, "the sea with its water/' Ugra, rendered by
"fiery" in Verse 5 means 'Very strong."
Krandast, Dr. Muir says, is explained in Bohtlingk and Roth's Lexicon,
as meaning two armies engaged in battle. Mahidhara thinks it means
heaven and earth. In ii. 12. 8, speaking of Indra, it is said,
Yam Krandast sanyati vihvayete [which Wilson renders by], Whom crying aloud,
encountering (two) invoke.
There is, he says, no substantive, and Sayana proposes rodasi, "heaven and
earth/' or dve senel "two armies."
Krand and krad mean "to cry miserably, to roar, and to implore."
There is certainly no reason for interpolating anything about armies.
Krandast probably means the two implorers or suppliants, and the reference
may be to the Priests or Atharvas, and the Bards or Rishis. This would
explain the phrase, "when the risen sun shines" ;
since that was the time for
completing and ending the sacrifice.
The phrase in Verse 7, "when the great waters pervaded the universe"
conveys no meaning to me. / or Ay not only means "to pervade," but
also "to conceive" and "to desire." And there is no doubt that apo ha yad
brihatir vigvam ayan means, "And when the vast water conceived the all"
(the water meaning the abyss of infamous and weltering matter), and then
there is sense and connection in this that follows,
containing the embryo, and producing (or giving birth to) Agni, or the fire, then
the one light or radiant splendour (asfi) of the Devas went forth thence, or emanated
from it, or, was contained in it.
He who through his greatness beheld the waters which contained power,
does not, I think, express the meaning of the original. Paryapagyad, i. e.,
pari+apagyad is a compound of the adverb and preposition pari, "round,
all round," and pagya, which forms some tenses of drig (the same as pag
and spag, meaning "to see, behold, look at, discover, search, learn, know,"
and with pari, "to frequent, see, consider, search, know"). But the true
meaning here is that of sparg, spag, "to embrace," whence, sparga, "touch-
ing, contact, sexual intercourse." Pag, pas and pash mean "to bind" and
"to touch."
So in the Hebrew, the verb JTV, yedang, in the phrase translated
"and Adam knew Eve his wife," means "saw, knew, and to have carnal
connection with."
And the meaning of the eighth verse is, that Hiranyagarbha through his
greatness knew the waters that contained daksha, power, and produced
worship, or the sacrificial fire. He, therefore, was the one Deva, pre-eminent
above all the others, or the source of all, or Unity including them all.
PRAjAPATI 621
He is called in Verse 9, generator (janitd) of the expanse, and is said to
have generated also (jajdnd) the sky. That he "rules by fixed ordinances,"
does not express the meaning of satyadharmd. Satya means "truth, reality,"
and dharma, "law, justice, right, virtue, duty, custom, necessity, etc."
It is from dhiri, which means "to bear, carry, maintain, support, exist, live."
The meaning of the compound word probably may be, "acting in accordance
with the laws of Nature, or the laws of things." It is certainly not meant
that Hiranyagarbha rules according to ordinances fixed by himself, or
"rules" at all; but that in obedience to a law already existing, a law of the
True and Real, he generated the sky and expanse: and that "law" is the law
of sexual desire, which was considered as inherent and self-existent in
Nature. He was the generative energy personified, supposed to have
existed as an energy, before the existence of either beings or things.
In the Atharva-Veda, x. 7. 28, is this verse:
Men knew Hiranyagarbha, the Supreme, the Ineffable (HirayyagarWiam paramam
anatyudyam jandfy vidufy) : before him Skambha shed forth gold in the midst of the
world (Skambhas tadagre prdsinchad hirayyarft loke antard).
Jandb may mean either "creatures," "beings," or "men": Parama,
"most excellent, highest, first." "Ineffable" means "unspeakable," and
may apply to the Name of a Deity, but not to the Deity or energy itself.
Anatyudyam means "unsurpassable"; an prefixed meaning negation or
deprivation, and ati, "over, on," and udyama, "raising, effort, energy."
Skambh means "to make firm, to support, to stop, obstruct, inpede."
Stambh, another form of the same verb, "to make firm, to stop, make
immovable": stabdha, "stopped, blocked up, immovable, firm" : stambha, "a
post, a pillar, a stem, obstruction," as "supporting, upholding, stopping."
Skambha is "the fixed, the immovable, that on which a superstructure
rests." Before Hiranyagarbha, i. e., before the mysterious union of the male
energy and the female capacity to produce, in the womb of Chaos and
Darkness, Skambha poured forth the seed of impregnation, the virile or
generative energy in the midst of the universe.
Skambha, as a name, at least, does not occur in the Rig-Veda. Hymns oc.
7 and 8 of the Atharva-Veda are devoted to him. The whole of the former
and a portion of the latter are quoted by Dr. Muir, in Volume 7. of his Texts,
and a small portion of each in Volume IV. pp. i8ff. It would be profitless
to copy all these portions. It is inquired in them who that Skambha is, on
whom Praj^pati supported and established all the worlds: how far Skambha
penetrated into that highest, lowest and middle universe, comprehending all
forms, which Prajtpati created ; how far into the past; and how much of the
622 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
future is contained in his receptacle? How far he penetrated into that one
membrum virile (anga), which he separated into athousand parts? Skambha
established both these, the earth and sky, the wide atmosphere, the six wide
regions and pervaded the entire universe. He who knows the golden reed
(vetasam hirayiyayain) standing in the water (tishthantam salile Veda), is the
mysterious Praj&pati.
Vetasa is a cane or rattan. But hiranyaya has the same meaning as in
the name Hira&yagarbha and vetasa hirayyaya here means the virile member,
the Linga, capable of impregnation, standing in the chaotic abyss or waters.
These two, the earth and sky, stand, supported by Skambha. Skambha
is all this which has vitality which breathes, which twinkles. Whatever
moves, flies or stands, whatever exists breathing or not breathing, or
twinkling, that omniform sustains the expanse; that, combined, is one only.
These notions are dreamy enough, and incoherent as the vagaries of
nightmare. The later books rioted in wilder extravagances, of which one
can have but a faint idea from these vague utterances in regard to Skambha.
Skambha was but a word, a name for an unknown somewhat, of which
the mind endeavoured in vain to form or grasp an idea; of an unknown,
stable, permanent and fixed; self-being, and not matter, but from which
matter was born. It would be idle to endeavour to explain or understand
that of which the mind can have no comprehension.
EVIL SPIRITS.
In speaking of Agni, I have cited the passages in the first five Mandalas,
in which the Rdkshasas are mentioned.
In m. 62. 8, the anger of the Devas is invoked against "him who is
associated with the Rtkshasas (Rdkshoyuje)." And in the next verse it is
said,
He hurls his weapon against the strong Rikshasa, against the malignant menaces
of man (droghdya chid vachase dnardya eva).
In vi. 63. 10, the Acyins are prayed to give horses to the worshipper.
Achievers of great deeds [it is said to them], may the Rakshasas be slain!
In vii. i. 13, Agni is prayed to protect from the odipus Rakshasas, and that
protection is also asked "from the illiberal, the malignant, the iniquitous;"
and it is added,
may I, with you for my ally, triumph over the hostile.
In mi. 1 6. 10, Agni is prayed to keep off the Rakshasas. In vii. 21. 5,
Let not the Rakshasas, Indra, do us harm, not the evil spirits do harm to our prog-
eny.
In mi. 38. 7, it is prayed that the VHjins may destroy the murderer, the
robber, the Rakshasas. In mi. 73. 4, the Acvins are called "destroyers of
Rakshasas.*' In mi. 85. 1, it is said to Mitra and Varuna,
I offer adoration to you both, uninterrupted by Rakshasas.
In vii. 104. 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, etc., the Rakshasas are specially denounced. Indra
and Sonxa are asked to afflict and destroy them, to cast down those who
delight in darkness, the destructive, malignant; to put to flight the stupid,
and consume, slay, drive away and utterly exterminate the cannibals.
They are the haters of Brahmans, hideous, vile; and it is prayed that they
may perish like the offering cast into the fire, and be chastised, being plunged
into surrounding and inextinguishable darkness, so that not one of them may
again issue from it. And verses 4 and 5 are
Indra and Soma, display from heaven your fatal, the extirpator from earth of the
malignant ones: put forth from the clouds the consuming, wherewith you slay the
increasing Rlkshas race. Indra and Soma, scatter around from the sky, pierce
their sides with fiery searching undecaying, so that they may depart without a
sound.
624: INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
7. Come with rapid steeds, slay the oppressive mischievous R^Lkshasas: let
there be no happiness, Indra and Soma, to the malignant who harasses us with his
oppression.
16. May Indra slay with his mighty weapon him who calls me the Y&tudh&na,
which I am not; the Rakshasa who says, 'I am pure.' May he, the vilest of all
beings, perish.
17. May the stones that grind the Soma destroy the Rikshasas by their noise.
18. Maruts .... seize the Rlkshasas, grind them to pieces; whether they
fly about like birds by night [on marauding raids?], or whether they have offered
obstruction to the sacred sacrifice [by attacking the worshippers at dawn].
19. Hurl, Indra, thy thunderbolt from heaven .... slay with the thunder-
bolt the Rikshasas, on the east, on the west, on the south, on the north.
20. They advance, accompanied by dogs: desirous to destroy him, they assail
the indomitable Indra. Qakra. whets his thunderbolt for the miscreants; quickly
let him hurl his bolt upon the fiends.
21. Indra has always been the discomfiter of the evil spirits coming to obstruct
the offerers of oblations: QaJbra advances, crushing the present Rikshasas, as an
axe cuts down a forest, as the earthen vessels.
22. Destroy the evil spirit, whether in the form of an owl, or of an owlet, of a
dog or of a brown goose, of a hawk or of a vulture: slay the Rakshasas, Indra, with
the thunderbolt as with a stone.
23. Let not the Rlkshasas do us harm: let the dawn drive away the pairs of
evil spirits, exclaiming, 'What now is this?' May the earth protect us from terres-
trial, the firmament protect us from celestial mischief!
24. Slay, Indra, the Ytodh&na, whether in the form of a man or of a woman,
doing mischief by her deceptions; may those who sport in murder perish decapitated:
let them not behold the rising sun. [Which certainly alludes to marauding bands
that plunder at night, and advises their summary execution, when captured, before
return of the daylight.]
25. Soma, do thou and Indra severally watch, be wary, be vigilant: hurl the
thunderbolt at the malignant R&kshasas.
In iv. 4. 15, it is said to Agni,
consume the uiiadoring (OQCLSO, 'who offer no praise') Rakshasas: deliver us from the
reproach of the oppressor and reviler.
It is evident that the R&kshasas were native tribes, encountered by the
Aryans in the Punjab. They are mentioned in the Ramayana, also, where,
in all the country south of the Jumna, it is said that wild beasts ,and
Rtkshasas everywhere abound. Though the Ramayana describes them as
huge, beastly, disgusting demons, cruel, terrible, ugly, huge-bellied, loud-
shouting, etc., they were plainly the aborigines of the country, who slew the
'Brahmani.c hermits, in the country south of the Vinhya range. Kabandha, a
'R&kshasa whom Rama encountered was burned on a funeral pile in a
trench by Laksmaria. Khara, one of their chiefs, describes them in the
Ramayana, as being "of fearful swiftness, unyielding in battle, in colour
EVIL SPIRITS 625
like a dark blue cloud." Khara was "the perpetual enemy of the Brahmans,
cruel, hated of the Brahmans, devoid of righteousness and wicked."
Ravana, another chief, is stigmatized as wicked and cruel, a killer of
Brahmans, polluter of sacrifices and ravisher of wives. Sanskrit Texts,
Muir, ii. 409 to 416.
In the Mahabharata, the R&kshasas are described as following Brah-
manical observances, and a thousand learned Brahmans are entertained by
Virfipaksha, a RSkshasa king.
VRITRA, AHL
Vritra, sometimes termed Ahi, Professor Wilson says (note a. to i. 32. i),
is nothing more than the accumulation of vapour condensed, or figuratively, shut
up in, or obstructed by a cloud. Indra, with his thunderbolt, or atmospheric or
electrical influence, divi/des the aggregated mass, and vent is given to the rain,
which then descends upon the earth, or passes off in rivers. Later writers [he says
(those of the Puranas)] converted this into a literal contest between Indra and an
Asura, or chief of the Asuras; but it is merely an allegorical narrative of the pro-
duction of rain.
This is dwelt on in i. 32 and subsequent Sfiktas. Indra clove the cloud,
broke a way for the torrents, sent the waters down to the earth. With his
thunderbolt, sharpened by Tvashtri, he struck the first-born of the clouds
(the first-formed cloud: Wilson). He struck the darkling mutilated
Vjitra: Ahi lies prostrate on the earth like a tree felled in the woods.
Vritra, arrogant, having neither hand or foot, defied Indra, who struck
him with the thunderbolt on his mountain-like shoulder, like one emascu-
lated who pretends to virility. Then Vjitra, mutilated of many members,
slept. As he lay recumbent on the earth, the waters flowed over him:
Ahi was prostrated under the feet of the waters that Vjitra had obstructed.
The mother of Vrftra was bending over her son, when Indra struck her
buttock with his shaft; so she lay above and Vyitra below, Danu sleeping
like a cow with her calf. The waters carry off the nameless body of Vr.itra,
tossed into the midst of the never-stopping, never-resting currents. The foe
of Indra has slept a long darkness.
When the single resplendent Vjitra returned the blow, Indra, by thy thunder-
bolt, thou becamest like a horse's tail [whisking off flies: Wilson]. Neither the
lightning, nor the thunder, nor the rain which he showered, nor the thunderbolt
harmed Indra, when he and Ahi contended, and Maghavat triumphed also over
other. But had entered his heart, when about to slay Ahi, and he traversed ninety-
nine streams, like a hawk, and then became sovereign of all things, movable and
immovable, of the cattle hornless and horned, the monarch of men, comprehending
all things, as the circumference of a wheel comprehends the spokes.
Ahi and Vritra, Wilson says (note c. i. 32), are both given as synonyms of
Megha, a cloud, in the Nighantu; the former is derived from han, "to strike,"
with d prefixed, arbitrarily shortened to a: the latter, literally the "encom-
passer" or "concealer," is from v?i, "to enclose," or v?it,
"
to be or to exist/
1
or from vfiddh, "to increase," a choice of etymologies intimating a vague
use of the term. He is said to be vyan$a, having a part, or metaphorically
a limb, detached, thus confounding things with persons, as is still more
VRITRA, AHI 627
violently done in a following verse, where he is said to have neither hands nor
feet.
Vritra is clearly "darkness," and nothing more or less, from vri and vtf,
"to cover, conceal, overspread, enwrap, endose, surround, envelope/' To
"conceal" is its Vedic meaning: and literally, Vfitra is "the concealer, the
coverer,
the enveloper.
' '
Ni-vfita is
'
'a wrapper, cloak, veil.
' '
And it means
"a cloud," only because a cloud covers and darkens; and "an enemy," only
because darkness is the opposite, antagonist and enemy of light. And
Vritra is said to be vyanga, i. e., vi+amga, "without parts or limbs," as if
vi+amU, "without rays, rayless," because darkness is without form,
shapeless.
But what, then, is Danu, the mother of Vritra? Benfey gives danu as a
proper name in the Ramayana; and danuja as a danana or demon; without
indicating its derivation. Nor do I find any other meaning for AM, except
"snake." Vritra and the Dasyus are often named together, as will be seen;
and Benfey gives us merely, dasyu, "a ruffian, a thief, the name of one of the
mixed classes": and ddnu, danu, ddnana, danuja, "a demon." Damg, dams
and das mean "to bite"; and danta is "tooth."
In the next hymn, it is not so plain what Vritra is. In verse 4, Indra has
slain "the wealthy barbarian, with his adamantine" (bolt), and Professor
Wilson adds in a note to this,
Vritra, the Dasyu, literally a robber, but apparently used in contrast to Arya, as if
intending the uncivilized tribes of India. 'Thou, singly assailing him, although
with auxiliaries at hand. Perceiving the impending manifold destructiveness of
thy bow, they, the Sanakas, the neglecters of sacrifice, perished.'
The Sanakas, Wilson says, are the followers of Vritra, called ayajvdnas,
non-sacrificers, in contrast with the yajvdnas, sacrificers;
here, apparently, also identifying the followers of Vritra with races who had not
adopted or were hostile to, the ritual of the Vedas.
Vrftra, then, must have become, in this hymn, something more or other
than "the accumulation of vapour condensed."
These non-sacrificers (opposed to the worship of the fire and light),
contending with the sacrificers, fled with averted faces, when Indra blew
the disregarders of 'worship from off sky, expanse and earth. Scattered
before him and the holy men who encouraged him, conscious, like the
emasculated contending with men, they fled by precipitous paths (retreated
through the mountain-passes?). He destroyed them "on the farthest
verge of the sky"; consumed the robber, from heaven. Decorated with
gold and jewels, they were spreading over the circuit of the earth (over the
628 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
whole country, to the mountains, or from the mountains, "the farthest
verge of the sky") : but mighty as they were, Indra dispersed them with the
sun.
Here it seems doubtful whether it is the shades and glooms of night that
are meant, or the native tribes. Were the shades non-sacrificers, merely
because the sacrifices were made at dawn, and therefore considered to be
opposed by the darkness?
In verse 9, Indra has blown away the robbers, with or by means of
prayers. But in 10 and the following verses the hymn returns to the original
idea of Vritra. The waters flowed to provide the food of Indra, but
increased in the midst of the navigable: then Indra with his fatal and power-
ful shaft slew Vritra, whose thoughts were ever turned towards him.
In 12, Indra set free the obstructed by Vritra, when sleeping in the
caverns of the earth, and slew the horned dryer up (gringinam gushnam).
Thou, Maghavan, with equal swiftness and strength, didst kill with thy thunder-
bolt the enemy defying thee to battle.
In the following verses, Indra destroyed "their cities," and then reached
Vritra with his thunderbolt and slaying him, exhilarated his mind. He
protected Kutsa, grateful for his praises; defended the excellent Dagadyu
engaged in battle. The dust of his courser's hoofs ascended to heaven.
The son of Switr& rose up, to be again upborne by men. He protected the
excellent son of Switri, when combating for his lands and encouraged when
immersed in water (i. e., when struggling to protect his lands against
inundation) : and he is prayed to, to inflict sharp pains on those of hostile
minds, who have long stood against the Aryans.
In i. 51. 4, it is said to Indra:
Thou hast opened the receptacle of the waters: thou hast detained in the mountain
the treasure of the malignant (parvate ddnumad vasu) : when thou hadst slain Vritra
who is Ahi, thou madest the sun visible in the sky.
Here Ahi is explained "hantri, the slayer." Ddnumad may mean "one
doing an injury," or one descended from Danu, as Asura, or it may be an
epithet from danu, "giving."
Here Vritra is the dispeller of the darkness caused by the clouds, and
enables the sun to shine out. In the next two verses, he is lauded for
having humbled the deceivers who ate the oblations; for having, propitious
to the Aryans, destroyed the cities of Pipru and assisted Rijiswin in destroy-
ing robbers. He defended Kutsa in deadly fight with Gushna, destroyed
ambara in defense of Atithigva, trampled under foot the great Arbuda,
and from remote times was born for the destruction of oppressors. "In
destroying robbers" is in the original, dasyu hatyeshu, "killing the Dasyus."
VRITRA, AHI 629
And in v. 8, Indra is besought to discriminate between the Aryas and
those who are Dasyus ;
and subjugating those who perform no religious rites,
to compel them to submit to those who do sacrifice, to humble the neglecters
of holy acts, in favour of those who observe them.
In i. 52, the slaying of the stream-obstructing Vritra is spoken of; and
he is termed the "wide-extended," who, having obstructed the waters,
reposed in the region above the firmament. In v. 10, the strong heaven was
rent asunder at the clamour of Ahi, when the thunderbolt of Indra struck
off the head of Vritra, the obstructor of heaven and earth.
In i. 53 and 54, Indra is lauded for slaying Namuchi, Karanja and
Paranaya, demolishing the hundred cities of Vangrida, besieged by Rijisvan
overthrowing twenty Kings who came against Sugravas, preserving him and
Tfirvay&na, and making Kutsa, Atithigva and Ayu subject to the mighty
though youthful Su^ravas, slaying Qambara, defeating the Asuras, pro-
tecting Narya, Turvasa, Yadu and Turviti, of the race of Vayya, guarding
their chariots and horses in battle and demolishing ninety-nine cities of
Gambara. Then, in v. 10, it is said that the darkness obstructed the current
of the waters, the cloud was within the belly of Vritra, but Indra caused
them to flow down. In i. 55. 6,
destroying the well-built dwellings of the Asuras, expanding like the earth, and
setting the luminaries free from concealment, he enables the waters to flow.
This would seem to mean by the dwellings of the Asuras, either the clouds
or darkness, covering the whole extent bounded by the horizon ; but it is not
possible that the cities and kings spoken of were merely the clouds and their
potencies personified. We have, in what is said of them, references to wars
of a time then very remote at the first settlement of the country, against
the native tribes, and the names are those of Aryan heroes and leaders of
the aborigines.
In i. 74. 3, Agni is the slayer of Vritra, and winner of booty in many a
battle. In i. 80, Indra is lauded for slaying Vritra, striking him off from
earth and heaven, striking his jaw and letting the waters flow, striking him
from the sky, and on the temple. In i. 63. 4, he slew Vritra and put to
flight the Dasyus in battle. In i. 101. 2, he slew the mutilated Vritra and
Qambara and the unrighteous Pipru, and extirpated the unabsolvable
Qushna (agusham Qush^am). Qush means "to become dry, to be withered,
afflicted, emaciated, destroyed": gusha, "drying"-: Qushna, "the sun, fire, as
drying": gushma, "strong, the sun, fire, wind, light": gushman, "light,
lustre, strength." The phrase is a peculiar one, to be applied to a man:
and rather seems to mean that Indra extinguished a fire that could not be
diminished, or confined within due bounds.
630 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
But the exploits of Indra are singularly intermixed. In i> 100. 18,
attended by the moving (Wilson adds, Maruts: more probably Aryan
troops, the "active" of the G^thts), he attacked the Dasyus and Cimyus,
slew them with his thunderbolt, and divided their lands among his white-
complexioned friends (sakhibhih guitnyebhih) , and rescued the sun and set
free the water. In i. 103. 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, and 8, he has slain Ahi, pierced
Rauhina and destroyed the mutilated Vritra; has destroyed the cities of the
Dasyus, and is prayed to direct his shaft against them and augment the
strength and glory of the Arya. He has destroyed the Dasyus and recovered
cattle, horses, plants, waters and woods; takes from him who performs no
sacrifice, and gives to him who sacrifices; awoke the sleeping Ahi with his
thunderbolt, and slew Qushna, Pipru, Kuyava, Vritra and destroyed the
cities of Qambara.
In i. 174. 2, he humbled the people who sued for pardon, when he had
destroyed their seven new cities; and dispersed the flowing waters, destroy-
ing Vritra for the sake of the youthful Purukutsa. In verses 7 and 9, he
destroyed Kuyavicha for Duryoni, made the land productive, made the
waters overspread the earth like flowing rivers, but protected the property
of Turvaga and Yadu against inundation.
In i. 177. i, Trita slew the mutilated Vritra, Trita being the trinity,
Agni, Indra and Vishnu. In ii. 14, Indra slew Vritra, Dribhika, Bala,
Urana, Arbuda, Svagna, Qushna, Pipru, Namuchi and Rudhikri, and the
assailants of Kutsa, Ayu and Atithigva, demolished the hundred ancient
cities of Qambara, and cast down (defeated) the hundred thousand (fol-
lowers, troops) of Varchin. In ii. 15, he slew Ahi, carried off Dabhiti,
burned all their weapons in a fire, and enriched the Aryans with their
cattle, horses and chariots;, turned the Sindhu to the north, ground to
pieces with his thunderbolt the wagon of the dawn, scattering the tardy
enemy with his swift horses, destroyed Bala, forcing the mountain passes,
and slew the Dasyus, Chumuri and Dhuni, having cast them into sleep;
protected Dabhiti, while his Chamberlain (rambhfy gained in that the gold.
In ii. ii. 1 8, he crushed the spider-like son of Danu (danum auryavdbham),
Vritra, and let open the light to the Arya, the Dasyu being set aside on his
left hand : and men are spoken of who, through his protection surpass all
their rivals, as the Aryans surpass the Dasyus.
In vfo 19. 3, Ahi, whom Indra slays, is styled
the insatiable, unnerved, ignorant, unapprehending, slumbering Ahi, obstructing
the downward flowing of the streams:
and in verses i and 2, the Devas send Indra to destroy Vritra, and slay the
slumbering Ahi for the water, and mark out (the channels of) the rivers,
He shatters the clouds and sets free the obstructed rivers, releases the
V&ITRA, AHI 631
imprisoned rivers: and in v. 8, having slain Vritra, he has liberated many
mornings and years, swallowed up by darkness, and has set the rivers free.
In vi. 17. 9 and 10, we have the assailing Ahi, the ambitious, audacious,
loud-shouting Ahi, crushed by Indra.
In vi. 20. 2, strength has been given to Indra, that, associated with
Vishnu, he may slay Ahim Vfitram, obstructing the waters. Wilson renders
those words, "the hostile Ahi." In this hymn all the exploits of Indra are
recited. The Panis, by hundreds, fled from the Sage, his worshipper, in
battle: he conquered Qushna and deprived him of sustenance, and when
Cushna fell, the infidel power was broken, and the Aryan faith extended far
and wide. He bruised the head of Namuchi, protecting Nami, son of Saya:
he demolished the strong cities of the Pipru, and gave spoil to Rijisvat, his
worshipper: he compelled the submission to Dyotana of Etasa, Dasoni,
Tfituji, Tugra and Ibha; shattered the seven cities of Carat, killing the
enemies and giving them to Purukutsa: benefited Uganas, son of Kavi,
slew Navavistva, and saved Turvasa and Yadu when the rivers overflowed;
and, finally, he killed Dhuni and Chumuri, and thereupon Dabhiti sacrificed
to him.
In vi. 22. his aid against the Asuras, Rlkshasas and t)asyus is magnified
and extolled. In vi, 35. 2, he is besought to overthrow, in favour of the
Aryas, all the servile races everywhere abiding (Vigua abhiyujo msMcUr
drydya vigo ava tdrfi-d&sih}.
In vi. 27, new names appear. Indra has slain the race of Varagrikha,
favouring Abhyavartin, son of Chayam^na, killing the descendants of
Vjichivat, on the Hariyflpiy^, on the eastern part, whilst the western was
scattered through fear. Hariyfipiyd, Professor Wilson says, is the name
either of a river or a city. Ham, in Zend, is "a mountain"; Harabfrfaaiti
being the Bolor Tagh range. Three thousand mailed warriors (Aryans)
assembled on the YavSyati to acquire glory. The VrfchivSts advanced
against them and were annihilated. Yavya, is "fit for producing barley,"
and yavyavati would mean a place or ground where it was produced, barley-
fields. Turvaga submitted to Stfnjaya, and the Vrichiv&ts to the descendants
of Devavita: and Abhyivartin, son of Chayamtna, an opulent Raja,
presents to the Rishi who composed the hymn two girls riding in cars, and
twenty cows.
In w.
31.4, Cambara is called a Dasyu. Elsewhere he is called an Asura.
A hundred of his cities were destroyed. In vi. 33. 3, it is said that Indra
destroyed both enemies, Dasa and Arya. It would seem from this and
some other passages that there were feuds among the Aryans. It would be
strange if there were not. There have been ever since.
In iv. 28. I, 2 and 3, Indra has slain Ahi, sent forth the seven rivers, and
opened the shut-up sources; taken off the wheel of the chariot of the sun,
632 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
and slain the Dasyus in battle, and Agni consumed them before noon. And
in verses 5 and 6 it is said that Indra has made the Dasyus devoid of all, the
servile races abject; and that Indra and Soma have distributed great
numbers of horses and cattle that had been concealed, and land won by
their power.
In iv. 38. i and 2, two Deities not named give the Aryans, it seems, the
open land and forests of the Dasyus, and horses for their subjugation.
Wilson follows Sayana, under protest, in reading
you two have given a horse, a son (ksketrdsdm urvards&m), a weapon, of the Dasyus.
Kshetra means "landed property, a field" (from kshi, "to possess, rule").
Urvara is not in Benfey, who has only uru, fern, urvi, "large"; but in the
Zend urvara is "a tree." The suffix sdm, Sayana says, is from san, "to give."
In vii. 19. 4 and 5, Indra is said to have slain with the thunderbolt the
Dasyus Chumuri and Dhuni, on behalf of Dabhiti, and also Vritra and
Namuchi. In viii. 3. 19, Indra has extirpated Vritra and destroyed Arbuda
and Mrigaya. In viii. 6. 6, he has cloven with his thunderbolt the head of
the turbulent Vritra: and in verses 13 and 14 has divided Vritra joint by
joint, and sent down the waters to the ocean, and hurled his thunderbolt
upon the impious Cushna.
Yaska says, in the Nirukta, who was Vritra? A cloud, say the etymologists;
an Asura, son of Tvashtri, the tale-tellers say. The fall of rain arises from the
mingling of the waters and of light. This is figuratively depicted as a conflict.
The hymns and Brahmanas describe Vritra as a serpent. By the expansion of his
body, he blocked up the streams. When he was destroyed, the waters flowed
forth. Muir: Sansk. Texts, ii. 174.
Dr. Muir conclusively shows (Texts, ii. 359 et seq.) by many of the texts
above quoted, and many others, that the Indo-Aryan bards called their own
race Arya, and expressly distinguished them from another people or other
tribes called by them Dasyus,
a race of distinct origin from the Aryans, and perhaps different from them in colour,
as they certainly were in language, in religion and in customs, who had been in
occupation of India before it was entered by the Indo-Aryans from the northwest:
and that these, as they advanced eastward and southward, drove these
indigenous tribes before them into the mountains and forests, and took
possession of their territory.
These indigenous "tribes" seem to have been, nay, certainly were, a
settled, civilized and powerful people. They wore ornaments of gold, and
jewels, and had builded great, strong cities. They had, no doubt, a history
reaching back many centuries: and their languages, which still exist among
VB.ITRA, AHI 633
their descendants, yet numerous in Northern India, are no doubt much
more ancient than Sanskrit or Zend. The whole world swarmed with a busy
population, hundreds of thousands of years before what we call "history"
began. The true history of man is found in language, in the bogs of
Northern Europe, the caves of Central Europe, the lacustrine habitations
recently discovered, and the weapons and domestic utensils, of stone and
bronze, that attest the antiquity of the race and the absurdity of the legends
that have so long amused the world.
Dr. Muir also shows that fundamental differences exist between the
Sanskrit and the languages of the South of India, proving that the tribes
among which the latter dialects were originally vernacular, were of a
different race from the Indo-Aryans, as the ancestors of those tribes were,
which in the mountain regions of the sources of the Indus and Ganges still
preserve their ancient tongues.
Many passages, quoted by him, of which I have cited only a part, prove
that the Dasyus were a native people, or that the word was a general name,
given by the Aryans to the natives generally, though they may have spoken
many different tongues and were divided into a multitude of small tribes.
They are described, by a general characterization, as non-observant of the
sacred rites. They are termed Ddsa as well as Dasyu, as contradistin-
guished from the Aryd; as having cities; as being of black skin or dark
complexion, tvacham krishydm, and thus distinguished from the Aryan
colour, drya varna.
We find also prayers to Indra for victory over kinsmen as well as
strangers hostile to the worshippers, against both Ddsa and Arya enemies:
and Indra is said to have slain the two Aryas, Arna and Chitraratha, on the
opposite bank of the Sarayu, and to have averted the bolt of the D&sa from
the Arya in the land of the seven streams, saptasindhushu.
Dr. Muir, after deciding that the Dasyus were the indigenous people,
hostile and observing different rites, and regarded with contempt and
hatred by the superior race, says:
It is, of course, not to be expected that we should find the Indian commentators
confirming this view of the matter more than partially; as they had never dreamt of
the modern critical view of the origin of the Aryas, and their relation to the barbar-
ous aboriginal tribes.
They generally understood the Dasyus to have been superhuman beings,
demons or Titans, rather than human enemies. But the author of the
Aitareya-Brahmana represents Vaigvamitra naming, as progeny of his
disobedient sons, the Andhras, Puncjras, Cabaras, Pulindas, Mtitibas and
other numerous frontier tribes, and adds,
most of the Dasyus are descended from Vaigvamitra.
634 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
And Manu tells us that without the pale of the castes are those who speak
the language of the Mlechhas, or of the Aryas, all of whom are called Dasyus.
The MaMbh^rata says,
Having vanquished the Paurava in battle, the Pandava conquered the Utsavasan-
ketas, seven tribes of Dasyus inhabiting the mountains.
It says that Pakagts&ni conquered the Daradas, with the K&mbojas, and
the Dasyus who dwell in the northeast region, as well as all the inhabitants
of the forest, with the Sohas, the furthest K&mbojas, and the Northern
Rishikas. And in another place, that Qaineya conquered thousands of
Kambojas, C&kas, C&v&ras, Kir&tas, Varvaras; and that the ground was
covered with the helmets and shaven and bearded heads of the Dasyus; this
word being evidently a generic term denoting the whole of the tribes
previously mentioned.
But there are many other passages of the Rich-Veda, Dr. Muir says, in
which the words Dasyu and Ddsa are applied to demons of different orders,
or goblins (Asuras, Rclkshasas, etc.).
Professor Benfey, quoted by Dr. Muir, says, that in several passages,
the dasyu and ddsa are the races that were subjugated by the Aryans, while
in not a few those names
are applied to the demons with whom the Gods are in conflict, and whose defeat is
a condition of the earth receiving the heavenly blessing which is bestowed by the
Gods.
The essential similarity of the words ddsa and dasyu he considers to be
beyond doubt, ddsa meaning "slave."
He says,
Both ddsa and dasyu, in contrast with the Arya, at first designated the original popu-
lation subjected by the latter at the time of their diffusion; and this relation which
subsisted on earth, which no doubt was not rarely interrupted by revolts of the
subject people, was transferred by the Aryans to the domain of the Gods, whose
harmful demons were represented as the rebellious slaves of the Deities.
There are two errors in this, I think. I do not find that the demons
were considered to be rebellious slaves : and it is not possible that ddsa and
dasyu originally meant "slave." Each came to mean it, because the D&sa
and Dasyu were enslaved. In the same way we have the word "slave"
itself. It was originally the name or an epithetical designation of the
Bulgarians, and came to mean "subjects or those who serve/' when they
became subjects of the Greek Empire. The Slaves or Sclaves, them-
selves, derive it from slava, "glory." Others derive it from slovo, "to
speak." But both are from the same root, for glory or renown consisted
VRITRA, AHI 635
then as it does- now, in being spoken of. The original root of it is the
Sanskrit $ru, "to hear," whence graoa and $raw, "the ear," "renown";
su-Qravas, "famous"; prithu-Qravas, "widely renowned."
Professor Roth, always on the spiritual side, when there is question
between a spiritual and material meaning, naturally defines dasyu as 1st,
superhuman beings, and 2d, as hostile, wicked or barbarous men. And he
thinks that
many of the demons subdued by Indra, designated by particular names, as Cambara,
Cushna, Chumuri, etc., bearing the general appellation of dasyu, are not only spirits
of darkness like the R^kshasas, but are extended over the widest spheres.
He deems it advisable seldom to consider the word as meaning "men."
I think that it is impossible to hold that the word originally meant both
barbarians and demons. It was originally an appellation of the native
tribes, and came at a much later day to mean "demons," and it is an infal-
lible test, where it occurs, by which to determine the greater or less antiquity
of a hymn.
The Dasyus are particularly designated in several places as anindra,
without or despisers of Indra. In U. 20. 7, they are called the ddsih of
black descent, k?ishitayarify, which, as well as kfishnagarbkafy, in Rig-Veda i.
10 1. i, Roth explains as descriptive of the black clouds. Benfey also
explains as clouds, "the black skin" (krishiva toacha), in 4x. 41. I. In vii.
5. 3, the "black tribes" (vigah asiknir), who fled, scattered, relinquishing
their possessions, when their cities were demolished and burned, are held by
Roth to have been "spirits of darkness." The value of such perversions of
plain language and perversions of meaning is little greater than those of the
delirious glosses of Philo Judaeus and the Kabbalah, on what they consider
the allegories of the Hebrew Scriptures.
The epithet mfidhmvach is applied in the Ri^h-Veda to the native
tribes, and the meaning of the word has been much discussed. Dr. Muir
renders it
injuriously speaking [but thinks it], too uncertain to admit of our referring it with
confidence to any peculiarity in the language of the aborigines.
I do not think that it had the meaning of "speechless," or "bereft of
speech," or "softly-speaking," or "stuttering." Ravach is "speech." Mridh
means "to kill," and mridha, "war, battle." Mridhravach, I imagine, means,
simply, "hostile," or "openly* hostile," or, literally "maledictory." Kuhn
thinks it refers to the gradual dying away of the distant thunder, which is
regarded as the voice of the vanquished demon. It is astonishing into what
absurdities a theory can lead a man; and with what exemplary patience a
636 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
sensible and sedate scholar like Dr. Muir listens to and repeats such
worthless vagaries.
So the aborigines are called andsas, which Miiller thinks means "nose-
less," and Sayana says means "devoid 'or deprived of word ;" dsya, "face" or
"mouth;" being put by metonomy for gabda, "the speech" that comes from
the mouth. A is a negative prefix, and so is an; and the word may either
be a-nasas or an-asas. Ndsd, compounds, nasa, means "a nose ;" but it is not
permissible to suppose that the indigenes had no noses. Asant means
"wicked, a heretic." As means "to sit, abide, stay" ; whence dsana, "sitting
encamped, dwelling," and dsyd, "sitting" ;
and anasa may mean "unsettled,
wandering, nomadic."
Qambara, whose towns Indra destroyed, is styled the DSsa, son of
Kulitara, in iv. 30. 14, and to have been hurled down from the great
mountain ; which proves that he was a mountain chief, and that the hymn
was composed at, or refers to, a time when the Indo-Aryans still resided
near the mountains and were at war with the North Indian tribes.
Dr. Muir says:
I have gone over the names of the Dasyus or Asuras mentioned in the Rig-Veda,
with the view of discovering whether any of them could be regarded as of non-
Aryan or indigenous origin; but I have not observed any that appear to be of this
character. But we should recollect that the Aryans would not unnaturally desig-
nate the aboriginal leaders (if they specified any of them in their sacred hymns),
by names of Ayarn origin, or at least softened into an Aryan form. The Greeks
introduced Greek modifications into Persian and other proper names, and the
Chaldaeans are stated in the book of Daniel to have given Chaldaean appellations
to the Jews.
We know how the Romans Latinized Keltic, German and British names,
and how we have Anglicized, with the most ludicrous results, French,
Spanish and Indian ones. We have, among our Indian tribes, the Snakes,
Creeks, Blackfeet and Sacs and Foxes, and have given English names to
hundreds of chiefs, whose real names we have never known.
The texts in which the Dasyus seem to be spoken of as demons or
superhuman, are but few. In oc.
99. 6, the loud-shouting Ddsa, with six eyes
and three heads, is spoken of, which reminds us of the snake Dahaka of the
Zend-Avesta, with several heads, which was evidently a tribe of several
villages or bands. In viii. 14. 14, Indra hurled down the Dasyus, when they
were mounting upwards and seeking to scale heaven ; and in ii. 12. 2, to D&sa
are said to have regarded themselves as immortal (amartyam), which is no
more than if it had been said that they regardfed themselves as invulnerable.
In the recitals of the contests of Indra and Vifitra, Dr. Muir says, we are,
no doubt, to understand both the God and his adversary as personifications
of atmospherical phenomena. In the same way, he thinks, Cambara,
VRITRA, AHI 637
Qushna and Namuchi are to be regarded as mythical personages, of a
kindred character with Vritra. And yet there are many passages in which
the word vritra has the signification of enemy in general ; and Spiegel thinks
that Vritrahan had originally nothing more than a general signification, and
that it was only at a later period that it came to be a special designation of
Indra. The mythical narratives generally identify Qambara with Vrftra;
and Roth says:
It is true that Qambara is employed, at a later period, to designate an enemy in
general, and in particular the enemy of Indra, Vritra; but it is not improbable that
this may be the transference of the more ancient recollection of a dreaded enemy
to the greatest of all enemies, the demon of the clouds.
Qambara is not spoken of in the Righ-Veda as identical with Vritra.
He is clearly a powerful chief or King of the aborigines. Vritra is nowhere
mentioned as having cities that Indra demolishes. If the cities of Qambara
and others were cloud-cities, would they not have been called cities of
Vritra? Nor is Vritra called a Dtsa or Dasyu in any hymn composed
before the D&sa or Dasyu had become in the popular opinion demons or
superhuman beings. The special and highest appellation of Indra, often
repeated and with emphasis, is "slayer of Vritra"; and as no other foe of
the Aryans is thus eminently distinguished, it is clear that Vritra was his
principal antagonist. But it seems hardly probable that the "greatest of
all enemies" was the demon of the clouds, who prevented the falling of the
rain.
Miiller says that dasyu simply means "enemy," and that even Aryan
tribes may be so called, as Vasishtha himself, the very type of the Aryan
Brahman, when in feud with Vigvamitra, is called not only an enemy, but a
Y&tudhina, and other names which, in common parlance are only bestowed
on barbarian savages and evil spirits. In Rig-Veda x. 87. 16, it is said that
the Yttudhtnas gloat on the bloody flesh of men or horses, and drink the
milk of the cow, meaning, probably that they marauded upon the Aryan
settlers and drove away their cattle. Yttu means a traveller, but what
dhdna means is uncertain. Benfey says it is "the latter part of compound
words, implying especially the place of the preceding notion," "residence."
Dhana means "property, abundance, gold, cattle, booty." Dhanu is "a
bow," and dhanus, "armed with a bow, an archer"; and Ydtudhdna may
have meant, originally, "swift bow-men." Rdkshas, Muller says, originally
meant "strong, powerful," but it soon took the sense of "giant and bar-
barian." Rdksh meant "to preserve, spare, guard, keep, tend, govern,
protect"; and rdksha, "one who guards; preserving, guarding, protection,
protecting." I do not see how a word with this meaning could have
produced the meaning of "demon," or "evil, harmful spirit," in rdkshasa:
but I do not find for it the meaning of "strong, powerful."
638 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
The aborigines are also called kravydd and dmddas, "flesheater" and
"raw eaters/
1
because they ate uncooked meat. Another epithet applied
to them is giQna-devd, rendered "lascivious wretches," but meaning, more
probably, "phallus-worshippers."
The process of Aryan settlement and conquest has been repeated in
North America, as it is described by Dr. Muir (ii. 392). The warfare waged
by the Dasyus was like that of the American Indians, and, in the words of
Dr. Muir, their black complexion (only dark, probably), ferocious aspect,
barbarous habits, rude speech and savage yells, and their stealthy and sudden
attacks, under cover of the night and of the impenetrable forest, naturally
led the Aryans to speak of them as demons. The return of day would
cause them to retire and restore the bewildered and harassed Aryan settlers
to security, and sunrise be said to drive the demons away. To the settlers
of New England, Ohio and Kentucky, the Indians were the "red devils,"
"fiends in human shape," and similar figurative expressions in the ancient
Vedic hymns came after a time to be accepted literally.
And Dr. Muir well remarks that the Vedic poems were composed at
different dates during a long period of time; new compositions being
continually added, in which many thoughts and phrases were incorporated,
borrowed from the older hymns. The old hymns did not remain unchanged,
either, for that was simply impossible.
And, as circumstances changed, the allusions and references in the older hymns
might be forgotten; and it might happen that some of the expressions occurring in
them would no longer be distinctly understood, and might in this way be applied
to conditions and events to which they had originally no reference. The same
thing might happen by way of accommodation; phrases or epithets referring to one
class of enemies might be transferred to another .... Hints and allusions in
the Vedas have been often developed in the Puitnas into legends of an entirely
different character and tendency; the functions and attributes of the Vedic Gods
were quite changed in later ages, and even in the Brihmanas the true meaning of
many of the Vedic texts have been misunderstood.
And hence, he concludes, and it is not possible to deny, that even in the
age when the later hymns were composed, the process of misapplication may
have commenced, and that their authors may, in various instances, have
employed the words of the earlier hymns in a different manner from that
in which they were at first applied.
In this way [he says], it is conceivable that what was originally said of the dark-
complexioned, degraded and savage aborigines, of their castles or rude fortifica-
tions, and of their conflicts with the Aryas, may have been at a later period trans-
ferred to the foul spirits of darkness, to the hostile demons of the clouds, and to the
conflicts of the Gods with the Asuras and the Daityas. Or, it is, perhaps, a more
probable supposition, that in the artless style of early poetry, the earthly enemies
of the worshipper were mentioned in the hymns alongside of the malicious spirits
of darkness .... or the aerial foes of Indra.
VELITRA, AHI 639
There are two or three things in this passage that deserve a moment's
notice.
The Vedic poems cannot properly be styled early poetry, nor was their
style artless. Logical evidence (the testimony of words or language, for
"philology" means love of words, as ''philosophy" means love of wisdom)
infallibly establishes it as a proven and demonstrated fact, that great
intervals of time elapsed between the successive out-fiowings of the several
streams of Aryan emigration; and that, when the Vedic hymns were
composed, the race had an immense antiquity, and Aryan thought and
imagination had been busy during great cycles of centuries. The ancestors
of the Kelts, Goths, Germans and Sclaves, as well as those of the Greeks and
Latins, were men of full intellectual stature, and in no sense barbarians;
and these had gone with their herds to conquer Europe, ages before the
separation of the Irano- and Indo-Aryan branches of th^ir race: and
centuries more had passed, after that separation, before the ancient tongue
spoken in the valleys of the Bolor Tagh and in the valleys of Samarcand
and Bokhara, had become the Sanskrit of the Veda and the Iranic of the
Zend-Avesta.
It is not so certain that the aborigines of either India or Bactria were so
degraded or savage as they are supposed to have been. There were Turanian
chiefs who were honoured by the Irano-Aryans ; and there were, undoubtedly,
powerful indigenous races in India. The puro spoken of in the Veda, of
which C^mbara had a hundred, were, it is far more probable, not castles,
but towns. These people were by no means savages. They had gold and
jewels and wore helmets, and were unquestionably brave and formidable
antagonists. All the intellect of the world was not confined to the Aryan
race. Not to speak of the Egyptian and Semitic intellect, we know that
the Etruscans, Lycians and Circassians (except the one tribe, the Os) were
not of Aryan blood.
Dasa has in Benfey the single meaning "slave/* as, probably, dam+sa,
dam meaning "to be tamed, to tame, to subdue." But those not subdued,
and who were open and dangerous enemies, numerous and powerful, were
called by this name, and also dasyu. The latter was probably their real
name, and the other probably was applied to them on account of its resem-
blance to the latter, and by way of contumely. I do not believe 'that the
two were synonymous, or from the same root. Dasyu may have come from
da, "to cut off, destroy."
When the Dasyus had become evil spirits, the original character of
Vritra had changed also, and what was at first the gloom or darkness,
the direct opposite and negation of light and therefore the mortal enemy
of Indra, came to be considered one of the Dasyus or demons. What
Ahi meant and what Danu, the mother of Vritra, was, it remains to dis-
640 INDO-ARYAN DEITIES AND WORSHIP
cover. It would seem from some of the texts that Ahi was the cause of
the obstruction of the flow of water in the rivers by ice, by melting
which, Indra set the waters free and filled the river channels. In the
ist Fargard of the Vendidad, the "opposition" which Anra-Mainyus
created in Airyana-Valjt was "a great serpent and winter,
"
or "a mighty
serpent and snow." I have not been able to see how a serpent could have
been appropriately spoken of in connection with intense cold and a winter
of ten months, and either as a symbol of it, or a figurative expression for
it, or an agent in producing it. The Sanskrit ahit
'
'snake" became azi,
in Zend. I am now more than ever convinced from the stoppage of the
waters (of the flowing of the rivers) being attributed to Ahi, that neither it,
in this connection, nor Azi in the Vendidad, meant "serpent." It must
have meant "cold." The adjective and noun kima (Latin heims, "winter";
Greek x"^, "snow") i. e., Benfey says, lost hyam+a, means "cold,' frost,
snow"; and himd (fern.) "winter." Hence the name Himalaya, of the
great Asian range of mountains. Haima is a variant of hima.
We recognize, Bopp says (Section 80), the simple pronominal base ma
in the Sanskrit suffix ma, which in adjectives or substantives denotes the
person or thing that completes the action expressed by the root, or on whom
that action is accomplished. Abstracts also are formed by this suffix,
which, however, is seldom adopted in that state of the language which
has descended to us. Examples are, rukma, "gold," as "glittering," from
ruck, "to shine"; yudhma, "combatant," from rudh, "to fight"; bhama, "the
sun," as "giving light"; Qushma, "fever," as "drying."
Hd means "to abandon, leave, forsake, lose, resign, let fall"; and the
participle passive perf., Una, "deprived, wasted, decayed, vile, bad, low,
deficient"; and h&ni, noun, "loss, privation, absence, want." From this
verb, perhaps, came hima or haima, as a name of winter, the season of
desolation, decay and abandonment or forsaking by light and warmth.
And from this, also, with the augment a, Ahi, the wintry cold. Vritra, Ahi
and Danu are evidently very ancient words, belonging to the old Aryan
tongue. The root from which Danu came, if it still exists, has lost its
original meaning. There are three verbs d&, two of which mean "to bind,"
and "to cut" or "to cut off." It would seem that Night must be the Mother
of Darkness: but there is now no evidence that danu meant "night" and
danam, "children of night." But who of us knows the derivation and real
meaning of our own words "night, winter and summer?"
In the first passage in which we find the name of Vritra (i. 4. 8), we
have it in the plural, and seeming to be the name of human enemies of the
Aryans. Indra, by the appellation of Qatakratu ("honoured by a hundred
sacrifices," ^xaronxaios: Benfey. Qata, like 'exarov and centum, an.
VRITRA, AHI 041
indefinite number) is said to have become the slayer of the Vritras (V?itr&-
ndni), and to defend the warrior in battle. And in i. 23. 9, the Mamts,
liberal donors, along with the mighty and associated Indra,
are invoked to destroy Vritra, and let not the evil one prevail against the
Invoker.
Qatakratu means just what centum mrilis would mean in Latin, i. e.,
a hundred-fold strong or mighty.
In i. 84. 13 we have,
Indra, with the bones of Dadhyanch, slew ninety times nine Vritras.
[In ii. 11. 5 and 9]: Indra, Hero, thou hadst slain by thy prowess the glorified
Ahi, hidden privily in a cave, working in concealment, covered by the waters in
which he was abiding, and arresting the rains in the sky .... The mighty Indra
has shattered the guileful Vritra, reposing in the cloud.
[And in ii. 12. 3]: He who, having destroyed Ahi, set free the seven rivers.
[And in Hi. 32. 6 and 11]: Thou hast slain with active strife the slumbering,
darkling, water-investing Vritra, thou hast let forth the bright waters like horses
into battle .... Thou hast slain Ahi, enveloping the slumbering water and
confiding in his prowess.
These passages clearly show that Vritra was Darkness and Ahi Cold.
The latter not only obstructed the flowing of the rivers, but arrested the
rains in the sky, turning them, there, into snow and hail. And if Ahi is
ever used as a name of Vritra, the reason is that as light and heat are mani-
festations of the one substance, and the rays of sunlight are hot, so darkness
may be regarded as the cause of cold, and the cold only the darkness itself.
INDEX
Agvinau 530-541
Ac.vins, names of 534
Aditi 480, 490-500
Aditi, Diti, Daksha A 480-501
Agni 43, 111-125, 309, 437-446, 605, 607, 629
Agni and Indra 138-147
Agni, epithets applied to 62
Agni, texts relating to 53-67
Agni, the domestic fire 438
Ahi 628
Ahi-Vritra 626
Ahuna-Vairya 412
Ahura Mazda 371-380
Ahura Mazda, the Creator 372
Ak6-Man6 373
Aldebaran 323
Alexander the Great, period of 24
Ameretat 373
Am&sha-Cpentas 373-378
Andar 373
Anra-Mainyus 371, 372
Ansa 301
Antar within 431
Apologetic 413
Apsaras 593
Arcturus 322
Ardibehest 373, 375
Arian a primitive language . 27
Arian languages, radical affinity of 27
Vrna 592
Vrusha 178-185
Vrya 412
yrya, the word 26
Vryaman 44
.Vryaman Mitra Varuna -. 252279
Aryan and Semitic 1
Aryan emigrants 409
Aryan intellect, advance of 605-611
Aryan language, branches of 35-41
Aryan numerals, coincidences of 40
Aryan race, cradle of 17-18
Aryan race never barbarians 13
Aryan separation, period of 365
Aryans, early 639
Aryans, feuds among 631
Aryans preceded in Europe by savages 35
Asha 390
Asha-Vahista - 373
644 INDEX
Ashis-Vanuhi 394
Asterisms 322-324
Aswins, texts relating to 87-93 t
Aswins, the 283-298
A. U. M Preface vii, 46
Author, modesty of Preface vi-vii
Bactrian Aryan religion 407
Bactrian Aryans, ancient 406-412
Bactrians and Scyths 410-411
Bhaga 326-327
Bhuvanani 190
Bleeck, Mr 365
Bokhara 21-22
Brahm 329
Brahma 346
Brahmanas 212
Brahmanaspati 204-216
Brihaspati 204-209
Bulgarians are Finnic 411
Bunsen, Baron 2, 363-365
Canopus 322
Castor and Pollux 293, 323
CatavaSga 391
gaurva 373
Common terms, origin of 37-39
Cpenta 408
Cpenta-Armaiti 373
Craddha 593
Craosha :
373, 378, 379
Craosha Craddha 593
Create, definition of 15
Dadhikra 301
Daksha 498, 500
Danu 627
Dasyu 637
Dasyus 633
Date of this volume, 56 years since Preface ix
Decimal numeration known early 39
Deioces 365
Deities of Veda 300
Deities of Veda all beneficent 131
Deities offered by Nature to the Aryans 94-109
Denghis, Lake 573
Devas and Gods 3,339 422
Devas, Vedic, were stars 428
Dioscuri , 293
Diti 483-484
Drvagpa 392
INDEX 645
Earth, Sky and Heaven 429-436
Emanation, idea of 463
Emerson, saying of 406
'
Emigration, sequence of Aryan
'
39
Etymology 16-17
Evil spirits 623-625
Family names, comparative philology of 36
Family names, origin of 37
Family relationship names had early meanings 36
Finns are Scythic 411
Fire, adoration of 125
Fire in the Zend-Avesta 367-370
Fire, domestic 369
Fire, sacrificial 369
Fire, why produced by attrition 6
Fravashis 393
Gangu 302
Garbha '....." 619
Gath&s, the 398-406
Gnostics, the 127, 128
God, Aryan name for 3
Ha 640
HaSma 396
Ha6ma Soma 369
Haurvat 373
Heat 200-201
Hermes 526
Hesiod and Homer compared 32
Higgins, Godfrey 358
Horn 412
Horse, the 567, 568, 569
Horsemen, the two 294
Hotra 303
Hungarians are Finnic 411
Hyades 360
Ila 303
Indian text, example of 42
Indians, American 638
Indo-Aryans, cosmic ideas of 97-98
Indo-Aryans, immigration of 23-24
Indo-Aryans, the Preface v-vi
Indra 44, 138-168, 413., 447-469
Indra and Varuna, texts relating to 77-78
Indra, Asuras slain by J^
Indra, epithets applied to 71-72
646 INDEX
Indra is all of the luminaries 466
Indra, texts relating to 68-71
Indra, the Universal Light 447, 462, 469
Irano Deities and religion 407
Irano-Aryan religion older than Veda 125
Irano-Aryans and Scyths 411-412
Jajana 482
Janman 487
Jatavedas 67, 582
Jaxartes river 573
Johnson, Samuel 600-604
Julian, the Emperor 129
Kabbalah, the 127, 416
Khordad 373
Khshathra-Vairya 373
KrttildL 321
Kshi dwelling
'
427
Language and translation 11-24
Languages, derivative 417
Languages, origin of present Aryan 28
Light 183-184
Logos, the 127
Maghavan 165
Maha great 427
Mah Nyayis 397
Mantras 212
Maruts 332, 361
Mary 587
Mata mother 482
Medes and Arioi , 26
Mercury 521
Metals, some known early 39
Method of inquiry 52
Mithra and the Sun 383-390
Mitra 44, 413
Mitra and Mithra 506
Mitra and Varuna 502-512
Mitra, the Morning Star 439
Mitra-Varuna-Aryaman 252279
Mitra, Varuna and Aryaman, texts relating to 78-86
Mrigasirsha ; :
323, 324
Muir, Dr 331, 419-420
Mulciber 329
Muller, Max 412
Muller versus Aryan polytheism 133
Mythology, dualism 535
INDEX 647
Nasatyas 327
Night 585
Numbers 359-360
Oneness 605
Origen 129
Ori5n
323,324,425-426
Orion, three stars in 539
Ouranos 5^0
Oxus river
573^ 575
Pan 522
Parjanya 165-166, 477-479
Parnin 609
Parsee prayers, the great 397
Pegasus 322, 567
Periods shown by constellation 541
Philo 124
Philo Agni 124
Philosophical definitions 126-131
Pitu '.'.... 313
Plato 124
Pleiades
426, 529
Pleiades and Hyades 427
Plotinus 130
Prajipati 618-622
Prayers, Aryan 400
Prjsni
305-306
Pritfiivi 306-307, 435-436
Proclus 130
Punjab, the 19-20
Purusha 612-617
Pushan 44, 3 14r-325, 520-529
Pushan and Mercury 524.
Rakshasas , 624-625
Regulus 322
Religion, Irano-Aryan 407
Religion of the author
'
5
IJibhu 559
Ribhus 347-349, 594-598
Ribukshin 301
Rig-Veda Introduction xi
Riksha 590
Rishis 215, 589
IJishis, the seven 425
Situ 566
Rodasi 303
Rohini 321
648 INDEX
Rudra 330-339, 503, 599
Rudrasya .- 332
Rudraya 332
Sabellius 129
Sanakas 627
Sanskrit and Greek and Latin 3
Sanskrit and Latin, common origin of 41
Sanskrit letters Preface x
Sanskrit, perfection of .' 13
Sapandomat 373
Sarama 350-358
Sarameya 356
Saranyft 546-551
Saranyti, wife of Vivasvat 543
Sarasvati 342-346,591-593
Savitri 231-242
Savitri, the Moon 240-242, 519
Siricol, Lake 573
Sirius *
358
Sfea 305
Skambha 310
Sky never deified 550
Soma 246-251, 609
Soma Haoma 369
Soma and Ha6ma '. 247
Spiegel, Professor 365
Stars, the 391-397
Substance, definition of 126
Sun adored by the ancients 551
Sun, the child of Ushas 553
Supreme beings and emanations 127
Surya 44, 229-230, 605
Surya and Savitri 513-519
Surya, the Sun 513
Tamerlane, period of 24
Tanunapat 67
Tertullian 128
Theosophy, Vedic 132-137
Tishya :
301
Tistrya 391
Triple triangle 362
Trita 301, 545, 630
Turanians 407
Turkish language, the 602
Tvashtri 542-545
Tvashtri, a potency of Agni 543
Tvashtri, father of Yima's wife ,. . . 543
Tvashtri Vulcan 542
Twashtri 328-329
INDEX 649
Ushas :
280-282,340-341,587
Ushas bore twins
'
548
Ushas, daughter of Agni 123
Ushas, the Dawn 552-555
Vahni 228
Vaisw^nara 223-227
Vanant. 391
Vanant-Yasht 395
Vanaspati 217-222
Varuna 44, 413, 481
Varuna-Mitra-Aryaman 252-279
Varuna, texts relating to 74-76
Varuna, the Evening Star 439
Vasus 311-312
Vayu 169-177
Vayu and Vata 556-559
Veda and Zend-Avesta 584
Veda, difficulty of translation of 32
Veda later than Zend-Avesta 125
Veda, meaning of 1
Veda, misunderstanding of in Brahmanas 31
Veda not Brahmanic Veda 584
Veda, other Deities of . . 300-312
Veda, the ':-. /. .* 1-10
Veda, the age of
*
10
Vedas 639
Vedas, age of compilation 1
Vedas and their age 25-34
Vedas, collections of 2
Vedas, Deities /of 47
Vedas do not t^each an anthropomorphic God 133
Vedas, Hindu/ idea of the origin of 34
Vedas not Indian writings 25
Vedas not monotheistic 3
Vedas, origir of 34
Vedas, when compiled 26
Vedic Deities Preface vii
Vedic Deiti&s, origin of 419-420
Vedic Gods-' their number and nature 421-428
Vedic Gods!, thirty-three in number 421
Vedic hymiis, their characters 4
Vedic langi
Vedic Poet!
age. .414-418
, period of 416
Vedic theo&ophy 132-137
Vedic worship and interpretation
48-52
Vega i 322
t
1
Vendidad, ithc 365, 406
Vernal equinox, the 254
Vibhwan . J 3(>2
650 INDEX
Vicpatt 533
Vishnu 44, 186-203, 470-476
Vishnu, three steps of 473-476
Vistaspa '363
Vivanhao, father of Yima 543
Vohu-Man6 373-400
Vouru-Kasha, the sea 409-410
Vrishan 414
Vritra 451
Vritra, Ahi 626-641
Vulcan 329
Yama 243-245, 560-590
Yazatas 381-382
Yima and Zarathustra 574
Zarathustra 363-366, 407
Zarathustra and Scythians 410-411
Zarathustra, home and period of 23
Zarathustrian Gathts, the 398-405
Zend-Avesta 365, 574
Zend-Avesta and Vedas 574
Zend-Avesta, fire in the 367-370
Zend-Avesta older than Veda 125
Zeus-Dyu 432-133
Zohik , 573
