{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__prince_immanuel___lupus_and_fidus.pdf","mytitle":"Lupus And Fidus","mylang":"de"}
LUPUS AND PIDUS
Prince Imanwel of Jorusalwa,
S
.
"file mills of the gods grind slow,but they grind exceedingly small.*
The Persons of the Drama >
Lupus,40,aln® ^pemstor and speculator.
Mrs.Uspu3a55=
Lucille Lupus, 16,their daughter.
Pldtt8,50 ,hie partner•
Angelica,18,hia daughter.
Prince of the Alps,Italian.
Count Sehroraot,Prussian,
Chief of the (gangsters.
Brady,a miner.
Foreman.
Father Ignatius,a priest,
Bruno,a lawyer.
A Physician.
A Professor.
A Hurse.
A Chauffeur.
A Oar©taker.
An American Medium.
A Private Secretary.
A Private Deetsetive.
A Oolostial Judge.
An Angel.
An Opera Singer.
A Corpse made up to represent Lupus.
(guests,Nobles,Miners,Secret Service Sen,Fiends.
Period *
Five years hefhre the Great far and continuing to 1920.
Places
(teal Mines in Colorado,ah adjoining city. A Cottage in the Sierra Hevada.
Rome,
2.
ACT 1. Seen© D
Exception Boom in the House of Xtupis^ia a Siiy adjoining Goal Mine®,
in Golorada.M Earning Party. MS,, !Sps.,Miss tep0,s,F&>
.and Miss Fiins,
Guessta.
Hdust Angelica hae premised to recite one of her pe@ms.She is becoming
quite a poetess,I understand,and I'm proud of her.Gome now,Angelical
Don't be bashfulI
Angelicas SHE SfRIKE •
Deep in the mines,dens® gloom profound,
Dor picks nor shovels now resound,
But a sullen hum,as of swarming bees*
Strike! Strike,while the innocent freeze!
We'll damp the boiler,and starve the stove.
Slack the white fUrnae® and lights. By Jove 1
Our masters we'll squeeze and bring to their knees!
Strike! Strike,while the innocent freeze!
We'll stop transportation,have expropriation,
lore pay and lees work,or we'll shirk,we'll shirk!
To hell with the world and its industries!
Strike! Strike,while idle innocent freeze!
Fire-damp,blast and slide,we have learned to deride.
Shall we fear an injunction ? To hell with ooapunetion !
Our tyrants are deaf,they deny our pleas.
Strike! Strike,while the innocent freeze!
. Gompaasioa be darned,haven't miners beau hanged ?
Shall we sell our soul for the profiteer's coal t
To us belongs all; we alone,refers©®,
Strikel Strike,while the innocent freeze!
Lupusi Excellent! Those are their plans,their very words.How you see,
my friends,and you Ildus,even your c m daughter eondems those
bums.
Angelicat But I'm not finished yet,Sr0Lupus.
Lupusi Go right ahead.You can't unsay what you’ve said alr^gdy.
Angelicas High in their mansions,the lights in full glow,
Hear the strain of the strings,the wine's lawless flow!
But how brief their defence,how blunt their decrees!
Strike! Strike,while the innocent freeze!
Make the swines' hours long,and their pay a mere song,
Keep the high prices high,though the miners may die!
Shall we bend to these ? We alone,legatees.
Strike! Strike,while the innocent freeze!
Lupust That's alright! It doesn't hurt a bit.I own the coal,so I expect
I can bu m it as I pleas©;and I'd like to see the fUel Administrator
who'll stop me,or prevent me charging what Z like for ay own prop
erty! If he won't do as we want,we'll fire him;and if Washington
wont pass our anti-strike laws,we'11 can the government. And as to
th© wins,if the Prince of Wales can ship it to Washington,! c m
drink it her®.Those who don't like it,©an stay dry,or try my grape
5.
Fiduet Lot's hoar th® man, (To Brady.) We want to be fair with you boys,so
we'd like to hoar what you have to say.lhat's all this talk about a JO#
redso,and the other stuff ?
Bradys We know you're straight»boas,so I'll tell you exactly how it stands.
We didA't want to strike at this her® nine,hearse you're always given
us a square deal*but w© belong to the union,and what the union says goes.
Ofcoups© we're no better off in the long run than the men at the ether
mines.Tou*v© given us good hospitals,good schools,good ©lubs,a home for
the aged and ©ripples,and God knows there's enough of ?am,but we ain't
get enough work nor enough pay.I'm not blaming you Mr,perhaps it ain't
your fault.As Mr.Lupus says,if we dig toe much coal,the prices'll drop,
and our pay'll drop as much.Se we've got to lay off,work only half the
year,half the week,half th® day.But we've got to live all the year,all
the week,all the day,and our wives and kids to®.How can w® live all th® time,
when we get pay for only half time f The® you're paying us regular union
pay,and you give us a bonus that they don't get at the other adiias,but
there's no union prises for what we've got to buy.Xou give us a co-opera
tive star® and we're better off than lots ef others,felt th® H.O.L. has
gone higher,and whan we've grubbed and slothed the family,there ain't
nothing loft,and no work to make a bit.We'v© got to do it boss.We've got
to live.And you know it® a risky job®Look at th® ©ripples we've got,th®
esplesions and accidenta.But we ain't afraid of that,we*re used to it.
It's a hard job,but we're willing to do it.We only want enough for the
wife and kiddies.
Flduss And I'll see you get it.(lo back to the mines and tell*am so.
Bradys Thank you,boss! (Ea&i.)
Lupusj What you're going to do ?
Fidnss I don't know yet.X'11 think it over.We've recognised the right of collect
ive bargaining, so we'll probably have to do something that the other o
operator© agree to.But I don't believe that's going to settle our labour
problss&s.Heither will your anti-strike laws.The men have as much sight to
walk out,as we have to leak them out.So long as workers strike,there must
be a reason.It5s our duty to discover the causes and remedy theaa«Repres©ioh
will mean nothing to them but oppression,it will simply aggravate the
evils,and ®® doubt drive ©very working man in the ©ountry to strike.¥e may
have to oome to profit sharing — not a more bonus added to a man's wages.
That is merely an increase in wages and has no direct relationship to a
man's own work.I believe that a man should have a direct share of the
profit© derived from the particular unit ©f work he kiaself is doing.lhat
th® laboring man wants,as I see it,is,above all else,to be treated as a
man of flesh and blood.
Lupus8 S© long as Lupus is a parkier in the firm of Ildus and lupus there's
going t® be no sharing of profits with working-m®i,take it from me !
Hdnsi I've given you my opinion and I'll give it to the commission.
Lupus* (Aside.) The damn fool! I'll have to get rid of Mm,the sooner the better.
Udmss Hu th® mean time I intend to share my art of the profits with the men.
Lupuss you ©an do as you please with what's your ewn.All I know is,the more
you give 'em the more they want.
Pidus* They're Ilk© us.Working men are as insatiable aa progress.Let9s go into
your study.
(Exeunt Pidus and Lupus.Lights are lowered and a curtain dropped
representing a study.)
%
JOT 1. Some S
Study. Lupus and Hdna9
fldu®» 8m her©,Lupus,19
s going to make the great ©3q?©rim6nt«I knew 2*«© so
right to I m you in,hut 1 ■want you to do me a favor.Our annual profits
am the mines are about four million. dollars,my share is three milllca,
yours sue raillion.I8v© decided t® give th© nan, two million,half the
profit,bit you see it*11 all som out &f ay pooket.I’
ve only got on®
million that 2 can draw oa,you know the rest is all tied up in new
properties er the old m&aes.Sou*v» ©at about a million in your banks,
2 went you to lead it me,them 2*11 ©ire the tee siH i on to Fidna and
Lupus,and they911 divide it among all thesasn equaXly.Th&l'11 settle
the strike for ever.
Lupuss Let's think it over a minute.X just want to figure out if 2'v® got the
million handy.You9re a damn fool,anyhow!
(Aside.) lore's my chance,but how to use it! X may never have it again.
With this profit-sharing attet,who knows what my quarter share will he
worth in a couple of m®nth®.lW® got to settle his hash,quick.... I've
got it,his signature first,then I'll figure how to use it!
Alright,Pidus,I think I can do it for you.X'H just get x
s
& secretary
to type a receipt} and as it's a pretty little cheek,w® might as well
have a witness.
(felt Lupus.He returns in a few seconds with his Private Secretary and
Private Detective.)
dust make out a receipt for Fidus to m® for a million dollars.
Private Secretary! I©s6Sir8
(He takes a double sheet of foolscap and inserts it in a typewriter.)
Lupusi I'll just make out a c$eek.(H@ sits down and writes check.) Here you
are,Ildus. I'm sorry to see money that once belonged to me thrown to
the Devil in this way.But that's up to you.
Pidues I'll endorse it over to Pidus and Lupus,and make cut my personal cheek
to fidus and kapua,th®a you can arrange to have the two million made
up into pay envelops.(He takes the seat vacated by Lupus,endorses cheek
and while writing his own,continues!) I'll go down to the mines first
thing in the morning,and tell the boy® what we've done,and what we're
going to do0I want to see the effect.
Lupus! I'll fix it up.Perhaps I'll be able to get down myself later in the day,
and see the fireworks.Let's have the receipt. (The Secretary hands it
to Mm,he places it before Pidus who signs it and then rises froia the
seat.)
Piduss I'll go and listen to the singing. (HbdLt.)
Lupus* Torn two fellows just sign this as witnesses. (They both sign.) Now you
ean join the girls,bat I want to have a little talk to you. (Exit Sec
retary.) Have you got everything fixed ?
Private Detectives Tea,Sir!
Lupus! Shoot 8
Private Detective! I've got five hundred sluggers at the mine.Bbet of 'em
joined a couple of weeks ago and know all the leaders.I've got their
names and you can have '
<
a
$ served with the injunction.The gang's all
ready,just waiting for orders to put the machinery out of commission
and start a riot.A bunch of your miners didn't want to join the strikers,
and w® had some trouble getting '®a out of the sines.It'll be & oinch
6.
to start a fight,and lay out any you don't want*
Lupus* I don't w i t any one that's got a lut of say,whether ho*s Bith the
strikers or tho loyal bunch.Get th© ring-leaders,or run 'em out of
the mines.Lot your a m smash the machinery tonight, If any of the ring
leaders escape tomorrow,arrest *m for sabotage,and we'll get th® balance
of the erew with the injunction.1 want a clean-up, D'ye get a® f
Private Bet@etd.wes Tea,Sir! The. chief of the gang’s hander and I'll give him
the word.
Lupust Oh5 he is,is he ? Stepp©sing you bring him tqp.X'Mlike to see what kind
ef a specimen he is.Don’
t legs any one see him come up here.Bse this door,
and you'd better stay in th® reception Boom and us® your ears.
Private Detectives Tea,Sir! (Exit.)
Lupus* buck's with me! I'll get the whole damn shooting-match at one shot.
Glean out the mines,get possession of 'em,and get rid of Pidud.Let me
see.(Is reads*)
Received of Lupine Lupus one million dollars.
Felix Fidaso
How to complete this Bill of Sal©.There's plenty ef room above th©
receipt. (Ss inserts th© paper in the typewriter and writes.Then he
withdraws it and reads*)
1 have this day sold to my partner,Lupin© Lupus,all my interests
in th® coal mines known as the Black liver Collieries far one
million dollars,receipt ef which is acknowledged below.I have the
right to buy back th® said interests within thirty days for one '
million dollars plus six percent, interest,Xf Z fail to make use
of my right of redemption within th@ period named,or if I should
die within the said period,this sale to Lupine Lupus shall stand
and require no farther documents ef legitimation.
Received of Lupine Lupus one million dollars,
Felix Fidus,
As Witness*
Sydney Sykof
Bud Budmash
(There is a knock at th® add® door.)
And now we’ll see if luck's still with a®. Gome in t
(Eater Chief of the Gangsters.)
Chief* Want to talk to me,boss 7
Lupus* Only want to take a peep at your phis.
Ohieft tort s' niekl® show,eh f
Lupus* That's about it«3een a long time at the game 7
Chief* What gam© have ye particularly in yer head,boss 7
Lupus* Well,boxing touts where the ether fellow's knocked out and stays out
for good.
Ohieft Guess I’
ve practised the noble art o’ self defence sine® I was a ple-
aainny.
Iaipust Tou look Ilk® a grown-up on® still.
Chief* Tain51 looks as count,boss.
Lupus* Bo,guess it's the referee,that's me this time,as I've got a guy that
I’d like to count out.Can you do it 7
7
.
Chief* 'Pends on the stakes,boas !
Lupus* I'll make the purse tea thousand bucks ,
Chief* lust b© some scrapper,an* X reckon there*s a bit o' risk to r
a
y own skim.
Lupus* that's up to you.Ar© you gam® ?
Chief* He's mot to com® bask*eh t
Lupue* that's the talk.And you've got to keep your mouth shut.
Chief* X know that.fhere'a the match to bo pulled off ?
Lupus* He'll bo down at th® mime® tomorrow mornings fher©*11 bo a bunch of
accidents and some casualtias.
You've got to get in training tonight,
and not let him open his mouth to the miners.! don't want the® to hear
what he's got to say.
Chiefs Sort oV orator,eh t
Lupus* lot eaetly.
Chief* lhat's he call himself ?
Xaipuss Bo you agree to the conditions ?
Chief* Ten thousand I How about the rope or the pen,boss t
Lupus* I'll keep you out.It'll only be an extra accident.
Chief* X take ye. that's his name ?
Eupus* Hdus of Pidns and Lupus I
Chief* His f She match's off I We'll have to double,boss •
Lupus* It's a go,but no raoney passes till its over.
Chief* That's the rule,Jay other propositions,boss f
Lupus* Hot tonight. Set out by this door,and hide your phiz 3
Chief* Might,boss i (SadLt.)
Lupus* fhe mines are worth dieast six million a year,but he gives 'em two in
bonuses and charity.I've got two million ef his checks,in a year I'll
have eight.I'll comer all the coal mines,than I'll talk to the rail-
reads,the steel trust,th© factories,every man Sh this country or any
other country that want® my coal,fhay'll pay my price or freeze. •••
Z'll have a strike every year,that'll send my coal up,and other indus
tries dowa.fhea I'll buy their sioek,and sell it bade to 'em wh®i they
go up again with the help of my higher priced coalafho best stock I'll
keep,until I control Wall Street.Then Washington,the polio® force and
the amy! We'll see if this damn s@um of a proletariat is going to run
America 8
(Curtain.)
a.
AQf 2. Scene $
The Goal lines. Groups of liners. Miner Brady stands an a toeelybarrow to
address them.
Bradyi I was up t& Fidna last night,and h© told a® we'd get tost we're asking
for.I know we'll get it,and you all know it.toai's toe use af leafing
around waiting till toe other operators some across ? fidas gave me his
word,and wo all knew what that cleans, ®vsm if toe others don't agree
to toe miners conditions,wo*11 get a square deed, at this pit. What ye
ssy,b®y», shall we go dawn and gig coal ?
linersI X feel like talcing a chance. So i© I. So do X.
Chief of toe Gangsters* Ye're a fine hunch o' union lam.Lot o! scabs! Yah!
Dirty scabst to dig coal before toe others make a deal.Ye ought to be
plugged,to® whole das®* lot o' ye»Sb digging for me,till the others dig.
in1 X don't boiler© a d am word o' this here Fidus.Perhaps it's only a
stall to get us back on the job again.Lot8s see toe color o* his coin
first,toon we'll 'gree to consider it.
Brady* Who the hell are you ? You ain't got m say her®, anyhow. You're only
bean at this here pit two weeks,and X newer seen you do any work.Boys,
you all know Pidns.Let's go down this morningS
Ohief* I'll shew ye too X am,ye dirty scab!
( General fight,shots fired,several fall. In the distance Hdus and
Angelica are seen approaching.)
& liner* there he is! There's Fidus,boys! Let him talk to ust
(Several miners help Fidus on to toe wheel-barrow.)
Ildust $
f
y boys.... (A toot rings out and he falls into toe arms of miners.)
Angelica* 0 God! He's shot! Daddy! Daddy! Speak to me,Daddy!
(Th@ miners lay his on toe ground.)
Fidus* Lads! X forgive him who did it. X know you've had plenty of provocation,
but X was going to make good.Aak Lupus,lie'11.... ... (He dies In An
gelica9a asms;)
(Brady approaches with blood on his face.)
Brady* There's toe damn skunk that did It. Get Mm, toysI We'll lynoh him!
(They rush towards toe Ohiaf of the Gangsters.! posse of plain
clothes men,led by the Private Detective,run to get in between them,
and surround the Chief of toe Gangsters.)
Private Detective* I'll arrest him.
Miners* Lynoh him! Lynch him! String him up on a derrick!
. (Lupus is seen approaching guarded by secret police.)
Chief8 There's Lupus! Ask him what we're going to get.
(Lupus approaches.)
Chief* Are we going to get our terms ? This g
u
i
y says yer partner promised
everything we asked fer.
Xagjudt Mover heard of it.lhat9a all this maapusf
(Curtain.)
9o
AST 2w Some 2.
A curtain representing inside of offlee is dropped, between the front and the
book part of the stage.The mines and miners are still seen through windows,
Lupus and private Detective.
P.B* I've arrested 'em all.The eM@f of the gang wasts to have a private talk
with yott,bef@re I let him go.
Lupus* Salk with me f fhai'v® I got to do with him ? You've paid 'em all,haven't
you!
P.D* The chief says he's got a little private Mil to rn.sk in.fe'11 have to let
him slip quick.The miner© have get it in for Mm, say he laid out their
churns,and Brady says he s m M m shoot Fldus.That's a pretty serious affair.
Lupus* Don't think you'd better let the chief go.I didn't bargain for murdering
PiduseLet him swing for it.I don't want to see him.If the miners want
to lynch him,let 'cm. What you arrest Brady for f
P.B* Sabotage i
Lupus* Bring him in here. I'd like to talk to him.
(Exit Private Detective.)
Sot to get that ohief out of the way.Knows too much. H© may get arrested
any minute for murder,and blow th© whole game.
(Re-enter Private Detective with Brady handcuffed.)
You say you saw that fellow shoot Fidus ?
Brady* Yes Sir, saw the gun in his hand,and the smoke.
Lupuss Are you quite sure ? There were lots of guns today.
Brady* I'll swear to it.
Lupusi Then why the hell didn't you ©top him ?
Brady* God fbrgive me,Sir, but I was sort o® hypnotized,and when I run towards
him,he'd done it.
Lupus* Why didn't you fellows knock kirn on the head after ?
Brady* Didn't get a ohaaoe.The police got M m and arrested me.
Lupus* (To P.D.) What's Brady in for ?
P.Dt Sabotage,Sir!
Lupus: nonsenseI I know Brady.He's been with us ten year©.He wouMn't smash
a crow-bar.Let him go,Gap! i'll vouch for him.
P.B* Alright,Sir8 (He frees Brady.)
Brady* Thank you,Sir! I won't forget it.
Lupus: I wish you'd got that murderer.
Brady* We'll got him yet,Sir.
Lupus* Luck to you!
(Exit Brady.)
Lot ’em get him!
(Exit Private Detective.)
(Through the windows of the office a group of miners is so® welcoming
Brady.Brady addresses them*)
Brady* Boys,let*a rush toe police,and get that murderer.! believe he shot our
boys also.Goa© on5
( Pellowed by a crowd he runs towards a group of prisonera,They seise
the Ohief of the Gangsters and hang him to a derrick.)
Lupuss Damn good riddance! and twenty thousand dollars saved 5
(Curtain.)
10.
AOT 2® Seen.® J®
Sam© office as in Seen® 2. Lupus and Angelica in mourning®
lupus* What do you intend doing ?
Angelicas I'm going to stay here,!r®bupuss I want to be near Baddy*s grave®
Lupus* What good will that do you ?
Angelicas HHtiteKpus t
Lupus* I mean what'll you do for a living?
Jfeigelie&s X haven’
t thought of that yet*I ©xpeet Daddy left me enough to live
On,but X don't want to do that.! want to work.! believe everybody should
work,and earn his own bread®
Lupus* That's correct®!*m glad you look at it that way.Fidus didn't leave you
much®! don't think there'll be anything for you,when X get things st
straightened out«He gave most of it away in charity,and had to sell M s
interest in th® ain@0.fhm all the debts are paid,Ms interest may be
nest to nothing®
Angelicas But Baddy told me he was going to aha?© two million dollars of M s
own money with th® miners®
Lupus* Bid he ? X think you must have misunderstood him.E© did speak about a
profit-sharing plan,but it couldn't have been as much as all that®fe
did have some money set aside far something like It,but that'll all bo
absorbed now in replacing tha maeMnory that these ragamuffins broke
to pie@es.Xf there m s anything over,! wouldn't give it 'em anyhow,
after what they've don©#What did Fidua get from 'em for M s eharity?
A bullet !
Angelica* Oh! Mr•Lupus,X don't believe any of our men ever thought ef sash a
terrible dead®It was that stranger they hanged.I'm going to devote my
life to them®X*m sure Baddy would have wanted me to.I'll get a position
in the hospital«H®v©r mind if there's no money for me«X would have
given it bask to them enyway.lt belonged to them,except Daddy's share
for M s services to them«X'm glad he gave them everything®
Lupus* I think you're foolish,but if your mind's set upon it,you might as well
stay her© in the offlee.We want somebody,sad X^d pay you fifteen dollars
a ©seek®
Angelicas Oh! Mr.Lupus,do you really thimk I'd b@ useful here ?
Lupus* 7ou might be able to do sometMng.Xou know shorthand and typing®
Angelicas Oh! Thank you,Mr.Lupus,you'r® very kind 1
Lupus* I've got to do something for my partner's child.
(Be strokes her cheek,but she is uneonseioue of his desires,Suddenly
she jumps up.)
Angelica* I'm going to thank @ed on Baddy's grave, (ffodi.)
Lupus* item her Baddy 9
(Curtain.)
II®
ACT 2c Seen© k
8am offl&e as in previous sees©.Angelica at typewriter and Lupus*
Lupus? Have you ever thought of marrying,Aagslioa f
Angelicas lhat a strsag® questionplr.IaipuB f What makes you ask it ?
Lupus? You've get sush strange ideas about different things,! thought you'd
have seme shout marriage,
Angelica? X don't think 1 have, Bfet 1 haven't really thought sueh about it
myself,although I've read quite a b&t.larriag© always brings up to me
the pietare of Baddy,H© used to speak about my dead mother,and said
she and I had mad© M s what he was. It must be the most wonderful thing
that Sod gave man,if it made Daddy what he was,That8s the way X look at
marriage ■
=
— a father,a mother,children,all helping each other to beeome
better people.
lupus? (Aside.) Always her Baddy 8
Angel!eat lhat did you say ?
Lupus? Ho ! X said... Yes S That's a beautiful description,but it doean't
always happen.Sometimes they don't love sash other,what then t
Angelica? X think people shouldn't marry unless they are sure of each ethers'
love.lasriag® is simply the union of two people who love eaeh other.
If there is mo love,there is no marriage.Xt seems to me that is what
Sod wanted us to do.
Lupus? Shat*s right. But they may love eaeh other when they get married,and
©ease to love later on.
Angelica? X think if people really live eaeh other,they can never ehaage.Xt
must be passion that they mistake for leve,But ofcourse,I really don't
know what passion or love is. X can only imagine.
Lupus? (Sending towards her.) But X know.
Angelica? ( Soatiauing her line of thought without noticing his ardent looks,)
If such a thing is really possible,that people may ©ease to love each-
other,them they should b© divorced.
Lupus? Then you believe in divorce ?
Angelica? Ihy shouldn't XI I'm not a Catholic,and X just seid,Xf there is no
love,there is no marriage.
Lupus? gut I'm a Catholic.
Angelica? X don't understand you,Mr.Lupus.
Lt$us* X... X mean what is a Catholic to do f
Angelica? That is beyond ae.X expect your church thought as X do when it forbad
divorce — that people should not marry unless they love each other,
and that true love lasts as long aa life.
Lupus? But why shouldn't a Catholic rebel,though he is married t You said
love is before marriage, (He takes her hand.) Why shouldn't X.....
(Mra.hupus enters abruptly.)
Lupus? (Starting up.) that the devil are you doing here f
Mrs.Lupus? Thank you t X earn® to see what you are doing here. (She looks at
Angelica.) You've been coming down to the mines on Easiness very often
lately. (Angelica leaves the room.) X see you have besy important
business,.
Lupus? At least my business is no damn concern of yours. I've never consulted
you,and don't intend to. X do what suits me. If you don't like It you
have your remedy. Might as well save yourself any more dirty spying.
Hext time you'll knock before you come into my office,or you'll have
the pleasure of being shown the door by the clerk.
Mrs.Lupus? Your’
re very kia&,Mr.Lapu®eSh© must b® a wonderful creature to
have captivated. you.
. %Lapus; You can either shut up and gat out,or I’
m going.X’w© told you i
f
f
you don’t like it?sue for a diveroe.
lye.Lupus? And give you the opportunity of marrying that thing .
LupUBt X never wait for ©gperiunitieSaWhat X wit X take.
Mrs.Lupus8 So X ©e®, That1© why you married my money.
Lupusi It was the best invesbaent your father ever made.
Mrs.Lupus; dud X m s your commission.
(Bsdt Lupua.)
Th© pig 8 The hussy f 1 expected it of him,but herewith that Innocent
baby face, and the cloak of religion f
( Enter Angelica.)
Angelicas 0 Mra.Lupus,I hope there’s nothing serious the matter ?
Mrs.Lupus$ X wonder what your dead father would hare said.
Angelicas About what ?
Mrs.Lupuss You and Mr.Lupus.
AngelIdat X don’
t understand you,Mrs.Lupus0 Please tell me what you mean.
Mrs.Lupua* (Adide.) She plays it off beautifully. (Aloud.) Why all your friends
are talking about it.It’s disgraceful! A young girl like you.,and he
a married man,father of a girl as old as yourself !
Angelicas (She stares at Mrs.Lupua.) Mew X think I understand.And you believe
it 1 You think that of me f I won’
t even try to deny it,it's toe
contemptible,,too.,
. too.....
(I&ter Lupus.)
Lupus; X see you are still her®.
J (Mrs.Lupus looks at M m in fear and leaves the office.)
Angelica; I’
m going,Mr.Lupus,I can’t stay here any longer. (She takes her coat
m d hat.) Thank you for all you’
ve done for a®.
Lupus; 1 don’t know what she said to you,but she doesn’t know what she’s talking
about.She’s erasy. Jealousy,nothing but jealousy S Don’
t take any notice
of her.
Angelicas ©ood-byepMrMLupus.
Lupus; But where will you go io,Tdiat will you do?
Angelicas 2 don’
t know. Fergapfe I'll go East to Daddy’s relatives.X’11 go to
Daddy’s grave to say Good-by®,and X’
m sure he’ll show mo the way*
Lupussfhat’s foolish 8 You oan't go like that. I’ll tell you what I’ll do with
you.Xfve got a beautiful little oottage in the Sierra Ievada.Th®r©1e
nobody there but an old caretaker.It8a far away from everybody»@e up
there for a couple of months,till all this nonsense is fbrgotten.Shen
you can either co$e back or go East,just as you liks.Aay way it’ll give
you tim© to think it ever.
Angelica; X don’
t think X ought to accept your offer.
Lupus; Ofeourse you should.!’!! send the cleric over to help you pack.I’ll
go and get a ticket.
(Exit Lupus.While Angelica is pondering,th© curtain drops.)
15.
AOS 5® Some 1*
Sunset at Qottag© in Sierra levada. Pin®®*orange gr@v©,w&4®rf&ll*orange bushes*
vaXl®ys*Mlls,& brook*a beshiv©.Angelica on the porch.
Angelica* Isn't it wonderful her® 8 I'd like to stay fox* ever*but I oust go
into the world to work as ©thers.I'a no better than they.Look at the
wonderful sunset 8
How the nocMg
Wearied with sultry tell*declines and falls*
Into the mellow stos- the west puts on
Her gorgeous beauties,- palace® and halls*
And towers*all ©arv'd of the matable cloud*
Welcome the calmly waning monarch — h©
Sinks gently midst that glorious canopy
Bom on his ©ouch of rest — m m like a proud
King of the earth — <the ocean.
(She turns to^erds the waterfall,rise® from her chair.In the distance
lupus approaches*dressed in motoring clothes.She does not notice him.)
Everything here inspires one with poetry.Look at that wonderful fall*
catching the rays of the setting sun.Certainly Byron stood before
such a sight.
(Lupus stop© to listen to her.)
The fall of waters? rapid as the light*
The flashing mass foams shaking the abyss;
The hell of waters! where they howl and hiss*
And boil in endless torture; while the sweat
Of their great agony*wrung put fra® this
Their Phieg©thon*eurls round the rooks of jet
That gird the gulf around*in pitiless horror set*
And mounts in spray the skies*and thane© again
Returns in an unceasing shower*which round*
With its wnsaptied clouds of gentle rate*
Is an eternal April to the ground*
Making it all on® emeralds- tew profound _
_
The g&lfl and how the giant element
From rook to rook leaps with deliribs bound*
Crushing the ®1iff®*whi©h,downward worn and rent
With his fierce footsteps*yl@ld in chasms a fearful want
To the broad column which r&lls on.
Lupus; Wonderful!
(She turns in surprise.)
Angelicas I did not know anyone was listening to me.lhen did you oom® ?
Lupuss I was inspecting some new properties in the neighborhood*and thought
I'd com© and sleep here tonight®It8s a wonderful place*but I must confess
I newer saw it© beauty*till X heard you describe the fall© just now.
Angelicas Isn't it lovely! But I must go and prepare a room for you*and perhaps
you're hungry ?
Lupuss Wo*don't trouble.I told the caretaker to get the rosea fixed up*and
I've had my dinner.Sit down nd tell me tew you're getting on.
14.
Angeli i
* I've been going back t® my poetry sine© I*ve been here.fou ©aa't
?lp £t*I'm sure I'll be a poetess after I'm dead.
I
f
l
i
pasi fhy wait till you're dead f
Angelica* X must go back to the haunts of men to earn my bread by the s
W
^
e
r
f
c
of my brow.
j
s H u meedn't.fhls place is yours if you wish.Aageliea.....
'H,® can't accept it.It's very kind of you,but I can't live on charity.
Lupus! It*® not charity,Angeliea.lt'a.. > • « , don't you understand,
f
.Angelica* I know you feel as if you had some responsibility towards me,and I
appreciate it,but I believe it's everyone's duty to share in the toil
of the world,and I must do my share®I believe that's what Sod put us
here for.Ther©'® your chauffeur.!'XX get him some supper.(She disappears
in the cottage.)
lupuss She make® me mad.If she can't understand,I'll fore© her.It can't be
that she doesn't know.iBvery woman does.... Perhaps it's that that
determines me to have her.T©s,I'll have her,tomorrow,and 1*11 make her
understand..,. It's impossible that she'll repulse m®.Haven’t I offered
her this place,and all the money she wants.,... If she doesn't understand,
so mush the bettor«Tomorrow!!
I
ftamgfmpt J m S&rl
lapses (f@ fere-taker#) tod you can go with hia»Tau h a m H had a vacation for
sesa© time, a® you needn't get bask till bed-tim®»
Garsrtakers Thmk you,Sis',your9r© very considerate,,
Lupus*"(S© Angelica#) Bo you want anything in th© tom ?
AagaXie&s I can't just think ©# anything*!!©,,newer mind this tia@a
(Rjdt Chauffeur and Oar©taker8fh® noise of th© antoiB&Ml© is heard#Sh©
looks around while h® looks at her#)
©ky9armed as with da&te,
bow to H®sp©rus shot.
Hark! th© glorious chorus @f the birds.
A
i
S
w
F U
U
S
I
V
R
S
& &
0
r WtAWAa©p©vwl w v
u
r
w
w
i
l WIO
And hush th© br©@s®,
that steals through their ®onif®r@u@ bowers&
It wafts to me a quickening fragrance,
kdai with ros© and orange grove and sweet werbsna,
that draw from yonder drowsy hiv©
Baaaeipated be®@ to dewy baths#
to glw® th© no®tar of our lips to those who love
And harbor us with car® and wisdom2
But to th© drones that sip in ease and lust
®$m© death,infLiet®d by ®ur sting©8
kapus* 2 don't know much about poetry,but it sounds good*But haven't you for
gotten something about th© hoe© ? Z road something last night in on®
of your books,! think it was Keats8
As you wish to follow th© bees,let m@ b® your poiac®pfl®wer9Angelica®
Angelicas that is th© first tia® you haw© ®v©r quoted poetry, so 1*11 cap it#But
let a woman answer you,for somehow I eema to f@@l like a m a m this
mornings
1 know th® very differme© that lies
'Twist hallow'd low© and base unholy lustj
2 know th© on© i© as a golden spur,
Urging the spirit to all noble aims?
Th® other but a foul and miry pit,
09©rthrpwiag it in ;ddat of its career«
laspast ©all it lust,if you will.Call it whatever you like,I don't car© any
ra®r©,I want yom,and 1*11 hav© you,
(He seises her asm.)
Angelica* Mg,Lupus,what8a th© matt©? with you?
kipus* I don't want to hurt you so don’
t force me to*
'" •
:. tries to drag her into th® e@tt®g®oSh© resists*!!©
lifts her up and carries her into the cottag®,Th® midienes is left
In suspense for several minutes,them Lupus emerge® dishevelled and
flushed,)
1 should have used the chloroform or th® drug,She8
© like a mad bdt@h,
wore® than a swarm ef bees„I m s a fool*. .
. ¥©11 haven't I given her
this cottage,and all th© money she wante,th© ungrateful idiot! Without
me ah® would have starved,had to go to work to m m a few dollars*Z'll
tell her she’ll have to get out of this,What!
Xi bring her to her senses*
(fegellca emerges,haggard,dishevelled,with a cloak thrown across her
arm.)
Angelicas Ton. cowardly wretch,you infernal scoundrel,so that*® what you brought
m© here for,that is why you sent the servant® away! That is what you
call love! (She flings some coins and bills in his face.) There*® tha
last of your money! If there is any justice in the land,you511 pay for
this with your life.There must be mm in America who will avenge me!
(She starts off.)
Lupus* Z must stop her.fh©8!! ruin me,
(1® hurriedly takes a bottle out of hi© pocket,pours so$® chloroform
on a handkerchief,rushes after h©r,seise® her from behind,and thrusts
the handkerchief into her fac®*Ih© becomes limp in h%* arms,he oarries
her bask to th® porch and places her in a chair.)
Item her! How th® devil could I take such a risk for a baggage Ilk® that..
.
But what'll I do when she wakes up ? and the servants get ba@k ? Than
there may b@ some visitors before I can fix things up.... It*d b© better
if ©he didn't weke up at all..... It's risky,but I've got to take th®
ehaaee.X’ll tell th® chauffeur and the caretaker die took an overdose
of a sleeping-draught,and that they'd better keep their mouths shut,as
I don't want any newspaper talk.They'll do it.They can’t afford to do
anything but what I tell 'em*
(S© looks around to see that no one is bn sight,takes the bottle
from his pocket,and pours the contents between her lips*)
(Ourtain.)
*
17*
ACT kg Scene 1
Palace of lupus In Rome, Iaaptt8,Mr8,Lttpu8,Hi8© lupus,Count von Sahwem©t,Prino®
of the Alps,Nobility,Unifamod Diplomats and Officers,Opera Singers,Private
Secretary,Private B©t©ctiv®.A Prima Donna sings a selection,,
Count von Schwemots (To Lupus where no others can hear*) Mr,Lupus,I believe
your country is very favorably disposed towards Russia,Isn’t that so ?
Lupus8 Exactly,your Highness t
Count? Can you imagine any eventuality that would cause a reversal of this
traditional attitude ?
Lupus* Many,your Highness.
Count* For instance ?
Lupus* Business!
Count* Ah,ye«l I understand that Miss Lupus has a very high opinion of our
German nobles,and that many of my countrymen have laid the&r titles
at her feet.
Lupus* Mostly empty ones,your Highness,and my daughter is worthy of a reigning
prinoe.
Count* That is difficult without the permission of the Emperor,
Lupus* It has been granted in the case of young ladies whose fathers have been
raised to the nobility.
Count* Ah,yes! I see.But the grooms were not quite reigning princes.
Lupus* My daughter is ambitious,your Highness.
Count* No doubt! And American heiresses are usually worthy of their ambitions.
Lupus: You flatter my countrywoman,your Highness,
Counts Not at sill.I consider American men the equals of American women.You,
for instance,! believe control the whole American financial world, I
voiderstand your commands on Wall Street are as faithfully obeyed as
the behests of our Emperor in Germany,
Lupus* You exaggerate,your Highness.
Count* I daresay in case of war you could determine the direction to be taken
by all America’s resources.
Lupus* That would depend,your Highness.
Count* Do you think American public opinion could be turned even against Russia,
so that ih case of war your country would not only not remain neutral
but would give flnsQxctal and material aid to Russia’s enemies ?
Lupus* If it would pay us better,your Highness.
Count* Most interesting,Mr.Lupus*You Americans are the most practical people
in the world.I shall esteem it an honor to serve yuu said the charming
Mis® Lupus when I return to the Court at Berlin. (The Count withdraw®
to another part of the room.)
Lupus* (To himself.) I wonder what’s his game. Looks like Germany’s going o
plug Russia.Thai means Italy,Austria,France,England,perhaps the whole
doggone earth. Well,I should worry! But i'll gat busy.Perhaps I can do
more on Wall Street than his Highness imagines.Guess he was kidding me
about Americana,Trying to get my goat,and. draw me,Didn’
t spill much,I
reckon.If my kid’s not good enough for a sauerkraut prinoe,a Dago one’
ll
have to do,and I’ll buy the title of baron from Ekaanuel cheaper than
I’
d get it from Whilea,Perhaps it’
d be better business too in the long
run*Who knows where Germany* 11 be in a gereral shake-up.England5a got
it in for Germany,and it’
d cost someMiing to run the blockade of John
Bull’s fleet,if John Bull takes a hand against Germany.! calculate I’ll
have a little business talk with 0aanuel| ae@ if I can$ queer the Triple
Alliance. (He approaches an Italian nohl@aan and draws him aside.)
18
lour Italian, musi© deserves its position of preeminence,Prinoe.lt certainly
is unapproachable.In fact,you Italians are a moire gifted people than the
rest of the world gives you credit for.% art collector here telle me
you are not an unworthy progeny of Ancient Rom®.The old marbles are not
greater than the canvasses of Raphael*Michelangelo,Titian,Tintoretto and
Leonardo da Vinci.Dante is probably greater than the Ancienta.Marconi
ranks with our Edison.I am proud to live in Rome*and will esteem it a
privilege to be allied with a modem Roman.
Prince of the Alps8 Such praise coming form the Croesus of the lew World de
serve® to be acknowledged by th® whole of Italy.Speaking €or myself,Mr.
Lupus,I can assure you than an Alliance with the American who appreciates
Italian art*science and literature so eloquently would be deemed the
highest honor by any Roman.But I have not heard of the alliance at which
you hint.
Lupus8 It8a nothing,Prince| merely sn expression of my sentiments.
Princes With such encouragement the fait Miss Lupus will soon be besieged by
a myriad of suitors.
Lupuss Keep it to yourself.
Princes Xour confidences are highly flattering,Mr.Lupus.
Lupuss Ho flattery at all.I'm sure the trust reposed in you by His Majesty
has never bean betrayed,and that your affection for your country will
, constrain you to use with due caution whatever I may say to you.
• Prince* You are enigmatic,Mr.Lupus,but you hav® my word of honor that our con
versation will go no farther.
Lupuss That's not what I mean,Prince.I want it to go to His Majesty.
Prince* I must be unusually dense tonight*or 1 would understand the interest
of my royal master and cousin in the alliance you mentioned.
, Lupuss Let me speak dearly.I do not refer to my daughter now.That was merely
a little secret between ourselves.I have reason to fear that a grave
calamity threatens Italy.
Prince* Xou astonish me.Pleas® speak freely.
Lupus* Let us take a suppositional case,for instance*wap^between Germany and
Russia.Italy would join Germany.
Friases Certainly,we have the Triple Alliance.
Lupus* That would mean the slavery of Italy,perhaps its disappearance form th®
; map of Europe.
' Prince* Xou astound me! If you were Mr.Lupus,I would barely take your words
'! at the value I must.Pray esntinue*
Lupus* Xou know our traditional friendship for Russia.England and Prance are
allies of Russia.Speaking for American business interest® I can assure
you that America will be against you.If Germany wine you will never
recover Italia irredenta*you will never set foot in Asia Minor,If
— Germany is defeated*and Italy is on the side of Germany*Italy will
shrink almost to nothing.If however,Gemany Is defeated,and Italy is
with u®,then there is Italia Irredenta,Trieste,Flume*Asia,Africa,and
freedom from Prussian dictatorship.
Prince* I do not know what to think,Mr,Lupus,your .
'
o
r
d
s are so overpowering.
But why do you speak of war between Germany and Russia ?
Lupus§ I do not say there will b© war,but if it comes to that*I hope you will
let His Majesty know what I have said.
Prince* H© shall know it immediately.And now I will go and pay my respects to
Has Lupus.
Lupus* Remember our little secret,?rinse.
(Curtain.)
%%
AST 4* Seen® 2*
Palace of Lupus In Rom©.Lupus and, Prino® of the Alp© In uniform.
Prince* X recall the evening when you promised me the unattainable*
Lupus* Haven’
t I fulfilled my promise 1 She war has made me the richest man
in the world.You and my daughter will inherit it all*
Frias®* X speak for my country.At this very moment,the Austrians may have
launched their march on Rome.Instead of Italia Irredenta,Trieste,Africa,
Asia,we are to be divided between Germany and Austria*Before that I
will die.% men are waiting for me to lead them to death.I have com©
to miy Adieu!
ImtpasfBut surely you will marry Lueillb before you leave Bom© again f
Prlnc©*! will not make her my wife today,and leave her my widow tomorrow*
Lupuss You san resign form the army,and return with us to America,Ram© is
not the safest plase in the world just now.
Primes You once said w® were a worthy progeny of Ancient Rome.Why think that
I have since turned traitor and poltroon.Americanfl may ignore the das-
tardly murder of women and children on the Lousitania,we Italians are
different*Adieu 1
Lupus* Wit! All is not lost yat,Promise me not to get shot,and Italy will
win*
Prime®* S
l
y dear Lupus,you amuse me! Of what value are your promises f
Lupus* America shall enter the war! Ye^million Yanks will be here in a few
months! I’ll flood Italy with American ooal, steel,food,ammunition !
Prinoet You seem to forget that Wilson was elected President because he kept
you out of war*
Lupus* Wilson be damned I I’
m boss in the U.S*
Pr&noet Then why have your promises to failed ?
Lupus* Because I’
m in this game for grefit.fh© longer it lasts,the more there’s
in it for me.I’
ve mad® England part with her securities«I’v® bought
English bonds and my own back at a discount*I’ve floated loans for
Bhgland in America*The Old World owes me more than it can ever pay*
Itv® transferred the Bank of England to myself.IS couldn’t be done,
unless John Bull was almost bled to death*
Prinoet And you would have left us to eur fat® ?
Lupus* You’d be alright In America.
Prince* IntiI the German navy reached Hew York*After Italy,America I
Lupus* Let’s drop that.I'll show you what I can do*(He rings a bell and his
Private Secretary enters.)
@ede this to my lobbyist in Washington*
German treaty with Mexico*Preparing to invade America*
Roosevelt made peao© between Russia and Japan.Wilson can
dictate European peace,but only on condition that America
enters war immediately*Also necessary,if German invasion to
be forestalled* Opportunity for greater nam© than Roosevelt,
lot merely peace-maker,but chance to apply some democratic
ideals| say control by the people,in other words self-deter-
minatioai say treaty for universal peace,in other words a
league of nations.Tell Wall Street,we’ll drop ©very cent Europe
owes ua,if we don’
t save eur debtors.
(To Prince.) low,will you promise ?
Prince* If It means the salvation, of Italy,I must promise,but I will return
to my troops*
Lupus* It’s a bargain.
(Curtain.)
ACT 4. Seen© 5»
Pal&e© of Lupus in Rome. Reception in hc%%r of marriage of Lucille Lupus to
Prince of the Alps.
Princes Allow me to greet you,Baron Lupus 8
L&puss Bam i
Patnms For jour service® to Italy,Hi® Majesty has hem pleased to confer this
title upon you*
Lupust Prince,this is the happiest day of my life.I did what X oould and newer
©xpestad to he paid for it.Pleas© convey my eternal gratitude and sub
mission to M e Majesty,the King 9
Prinset I also wish to thank you,Baron,for that fieant gift. (Points to
an oilpainting.) It is a masterpiece and is another proof of your ex
cellent Judgaent and unexampled patronage of art*
(Lupus and the Prince withdraw to one side out of hearing of the
other guests*)
X really cannot understand your lore for everything artistic.Tour col
lections ar® the marvel of th© world.! hop® they afford you the pleasus®
they were intended to inspire.
Lupus! Pleasure I Yes pleasure through profit. This studio Jargon and my col
lections bring me in contact with the fashionable world,diplomats,people
who haw© money to inwest.I depend on my art collectors to make th® right
selections.Besides,its a good investment*Art treasures increase i
f
t value
as quick and safer than stocks a,h£ bonds*
Prince! Ah 9 I understand.
Lupuss Then my collectors in all parts f th® world keep m® pasted on th©
geni|us of the people.
Princet How ar® you interested i
l
i
athat ?
Lupusi By genious X mean th® policy of a nation.For instance,th® g<mi|us of
Ehgland is expressed in F^ee Trade,the Survival of th© Fittest,formu
lated by Darwin.X counted on that to destroy Self-Determination,the
League of Nations.
Prince! Ahl You proposed it because you knew you oould destroy it ?
Lupus? Tee8 With Half-Determination what would Italy have in Asia or Africa ?
England would lose her possessions.She is now in th® position of a gamb
ler who has lost practically all,and can reeouperate only by oontin dng
th® game.A League of Nations would step th® game of the Survival of the
Fittest to promot® which England has Free Trad©.So long as the game con
tinues there is a chance for her to get back what she has lost.If Eng
land had not lest so much, ®h© undoubtedly would be th© strongest
advocate ©f th© League.She has always stood in th© van-guard of similar
movements,but until she gets back what she has lost during this war,
X can stifle th® League.X don't want it.It9® bad for business.! make
money when there's trouble,not when people or nations can settle their
disputes amicably.! stir up the stock-exchange,and buy when others ar©
compelled to sell.Without this war,English financiers would not have
lost to me.Without this war,Italy would not have gained what she ha®,
and with Self-Determination and a League of Nations ah© could net keep
what she has gained.
Prinoei It does not seam honorable.I suppose there is a flaw somewhere in your
philosophy,though I oanriot name it.It,however,works cut Justly in the
case of Italy,so X must submit.
2
1
By th® way,you spoke of returning to America.
kipuas (
f
e
l
l
y poor Americans Hire In Am®riea,and they go South in Winter,North
ia Summer,lest in Spring,and Bast in th© Fall#
Princes Ah! low I understand why Amerleans ©at lee er©as at CJhristaias.
(A young lady eoa®s hurriedly tewrds than*)
Young Lady? Oh! Baron! Th® American medium Jaa just written a •pom. with th®
planehsite,and w® want you to hear it((8h© drags him towards th® other
guests.)
Quoatai Read it1 Read it!
Mediums
FROM MMEkWA.
Lupus* Stop!
Medium* Yea,Baron!
Lupus* Let me see it! (He takes the paper and reads it hurriedly,while attempting
to hide his anxiety.Mrs.Lupus oases next to him.)
Guests* Read it aloud,Baron! Read it aloud!
(Lupus hands th® paper back to the Medium.)
Medium*
I hare crossed th® natal bourn©,
I have won the spirit plan®,
Where th® waiting o®as@ to mourn
And imortala know no bane.
My transition was a dream
Out of which I wok® to life,
’ To a world of lor® and paean,
Where all heart ties still are rife.
For the sir® who sought a® long
Held m® clasped within his arms,
And I heard th® welcome song,
That enthralled me as with ©harm®.
Thus 1 wandered in his oar®
Through the friendship© of the soul,
Midst th® fields and flowers rare,
And th® pleasures without toll.
And th® earth and all bereft
las effaced as by a mist,
let th® waves «f those I left
All the dikes of heaven kissed.
Till they grew unto a roar,
Told a© of th© votes®9 dearth,
Bade me enter an rappsrtf
And my message sailed to earths
There's no death! We all do live!
You may hear th® voie@s still,
Se© the auras that w® give.
If you wish it,if you will!
22
Quests* How beautifUli Isn't it wonderful ?
Lupus* (Aside.) I m s almost afraid she m s going to say something.What ret!
It isn't her.There's no such thing! Bunk! But it's stasng® he got her
name, and about her sire*
Quests* fho's Angelica ? Bo y >
u know her,Baron? Please tell us all about her!
Lupus* He! Ho! I never heard of auc§ a person.It1» nonsense!
Quests* And you,Baroness ?
Mrs.Lupus* Gee! It almost scared me to de&th.X thought it was somebody I used
to know,but it wasn't.! never heard of such a person. Let us dance.
(A dance and curtain.)
ACT 5» Soon© t
The stage is divided into two parts,front and back.The back represents a bed
room in which th© deathfbed scene takes piace.The front half is in obscurity
during Scene 1
.
Bed-room.Lupus sick in bed.A Surs© busy.A Bootor examining Lupus.Sitting around,
Mrs.Lupus,a Priest,professor,a Lawyer.
Lupus: Well,Doctor,! expect I'm going ?
Doctor: While there’s life there's hop®.
I'm not afraid to go.I've never been afraid of anything.That's vrhy I
could do what I did.That's why live got what I have.I didn't even fear
the Devil.How about that,Father Ignatius ?
Ignatius: No good man need fear Satan.
I built a churoh just to nag him.Perhaps I ought to build another,just
for spite,to keep him away from my death-bed ?
Ignatius: H® dare not approach you.If all th© sons of the Ghurch were
as faithful as you,ay son,Hell would soon be empty.
Here,Bruno,give Father Ignatius half a million,no make it a million,
for a new church.Gall it a fee for absolution.
Tea,BaronS (Bruno makes a note.)
Ignatius: My son,I absolve thee.The Holy Father will remember you for
this in his prayers.The blessings of the whole Catholic Ghurch will
follow you.May the intercession of th© Saints assuage your suffering !
Tut! Tut! I'm alright.It's just to spit© the Devil.... and those
accursed miners.Build it among 'em.They're all atheists.If they'd only
go to church,they wouldn't go on strike.Whan I'm gone they'll want to
forget me.The church will make them remember Lupus and his iron fist.
Drat 'em! .... Well,Professor,what can I do for you,before I go T
Professor: Baron,I m. not here to receive,but to give whatever lies in my
power.I have been delegated '
t
o express the sorrow of th© whole student-
body,;*®? alumni,and faculty of th© noble foundation that bears jtour
name.
Lupus: I expect that's about all you can do for me.I at least did something;
with my money,but what can you do for me with your science ? You've
been experimenting with the living and with the dead.You haven't found
tli© origin of being,the elixir of life,or the cause of death*I exper
imented with goId,and learned all there is to know about it.
Professor: It takes time and money.
Lupus: That's it — time a
nd. money ! I might as well give you a few million
more.I can't take it with me.But I don't see what good it's going to
do m© now.fh&l® I was alive,it was a sop to public opinion.You have to
give charity and build universities and endow libraries,just as you
hav® to pay takes.But I'd rather give It away and get some honor and
advertising,than let the people take it away from me in the form of
taxation*. ..Well,I suppose you and the Ghurch did all you could for me,
y$u helped me sell stock,you defended r
a
y reputation and r
a
y financial
operations,and I'd rather give i
t
, you,than share with the damned
proletariat.They never did anything for me.My own workingmen did nothing
but strike,and try to rob me of the profits which I earned through my
own intelligence without the helb of their brute bodies.If it hadn't
been for me,they'd hav© starved* the ingrates !
Lupus:
Father
Lupus:
Father
Lupus:
Bruno:
Father
Lupus:
Professor* Education will teach the working classes t® appreciate justly the
services rendered humanity f
e
y great captains of Industry such as you,
Baron..
Lupus* X d
>n t know so much about that. Th© mos*® they kSsowsth@ more they want.
Professors fimt8@ because wrong systems of education. ...*••
Lupus* Alright,Professor.Giv® *m the rightkind and we911 make it fire millions.
Bruno,arrange that.
Professors Baron..... ..
lupuss I might as well get something for my money. Professor,! understand you’
ve
made some startling discoveries about the dead and dying.
Mrs.Lupus* OhI don’
t let us speak about that now 8
Doctor* 1 % afraid,Baron,you are tiring yourself with all this eonversaftion.I
shall hare to order the visitors out of the room.
Lupus* I’
m doing the ordering still. When I’
m dead somebody else’11 do It.While
I’
m alive I'm going to know it.I'll die talking.*.. « low,Professor,
sit down again. YougiFather Ignatius,I*11 emeus© you. Whan X step talking,
give me the unction. (Father Igaatius hows himself out.) Professor,have
you been able to oomimlo&ie with the departed ?
Professors We have investigated some inexplieable oases of psychic phenomena
and received messages purpoting to come from diseamate beings,but we
have not y^t been able to establish their eompl te authenticity.
Lupus* And never will. When we're dead,we’re dead 8
Professor* Wot always,Baron.
Lupus* Howis that ?
Professor* We have not yet been able te explain or recognize all cases of
suspended animation or trance.
Lupus* You mean to aay that I may be buried alive f
Sector* Oh no,Baron ' Medical science had provided against such an eventuality.
Lupus* How ?
Doctor* I'd rather not ©xplain just now.
Lupus* I demand to know, jfou tell me,Professor 8
Professor* While transferring a cemetery some year® ago,it was discovered that
a high proportion of the corpses showed sign® of having been buried alive
It was then decided to inject a virulent poison into all eprpses to make
death certain before interment,
u
g
i
t
l
s
® Lupus* Lector,Be© that it's done.! don't want to wake up in my coffin....
Mrs.Lupus* Oh,dead,do let us stop this..,.
LupUs* Alright. Professor,!® it true that the dying s®@ their past rise before
thesa.f
Professor* that happens very often. Thee® who have recovered from a trance,
also affirm that they see their future.
Mrs.Lupus* Please,dear 8
Lupus* Alright 8 I'm tired anyway. I'll rest a little and.......
(Be sinks back on a pillew.fhe doctor bends over him. After a few
moment® he goes out and returns with Father Ignatius who administer©
extreme motion. Suddenly Lupus starts up with a cry*)
I mm it 8
(and drops back dead.)
(durta^n.)
AST Seen® 2.
While the lights ay© lowered* se©n@ry from th© ©lags shuts the view of the
bed-room,end th© front half ©f th® stag© takes ©n a ©®le@ti«l app®arane®.
Oolostial Ju&ge and Spirit ©f Lupus.
Spirit of Lupus* Ar© you Sod f
Judge* I am hut on® ©f his judges.
Spirit* Is there a God ?
Judge8 I have ©aid*I am hut on© of his judges.
Spirit* Then why does he not show himself t
Jpdge* Her®sor on earth f
Spirit* Both.If I had seen him on earth*X would haw© regulated my life differ
ently. If I s®® him her©*I will hollow you.
Judge* Thou didst not ®e® all th® kJ$gs of th® earth*though thou w®rt honored
by many.Thou didst nevertheless believe that ®th©r® ©siete&.Ke®. who
haw seen God have lived on th® earth.They left their testimonies.If
thou hadst not learned to ©omsides* all men. liars*thou wouldst have
believed them. •.. Only such as ar© judged worthy according to thy
earthly standards ar® presented to thy earthly monarch®. Best thou
consider thyself fit to stand in th© presene® of God t
Spirit* fhy haw© I been brought Befor® you f
Judge* To be judged.
Spirit* I did not know,I did not believe in a future life*
Judge* Thou Shalt not b® judged according to that belief*but a©cording t®
thin® acts.
Spirit* But my acts would have been different,if 1 had known that I was to b©
arraigned after death.
Judge* Th© criminal constrtitn® his acts through respect for earthly laws*not
through spontaneous action. If thou hadst forsees, this day^thou wouldst
have ordered thy life in fear of punishment*t® profit her® as thou didst
profit on earth.Both thy 'eonaeienee tell the® that reward is granted
for deed® don® through fear or solf-iaterost f Th® standard of torresti&l
eonaeienee is not different from that of heaven.Whether thou didst
or didst not bellow® in immortality,eould not cast thy conscience in a
different mould. Dost thou plead igaoranc© of conscience9 law f
Spirit* But God9s law teach®© forgiveness.! demand that my sins b© forgiven.
I dare not plead ignorance*for all ay deeds are known.*ar© they not t
Judge* If they were not*perehano© thou wouldst lie her© as thou didst on earth.
Didst thou invoke God9e law on earth f Hast thou a right to call upon
it her© ? Dost thou show repentance ? Hast thou made an effort to atone
for th© wrongs thou didst commit in th® flesh T Thou hast not even in
thy defence a death-bed repentance.If the unrepentant sinner may appeal
to th® law which he despises*then th© good will suffer in wain*the ®vll
v 11 escape with impunity.Hot a tooth for a tooth*but God9® eternal
justice ordain.® a day of reckoning for all thin® acps on earth.....
The godless believe there is no God,no after-life*therefore*they commit
all mannetfof crimes.Some who even believe in an after-life and profess
t© communicate with th© departed*teach tfe&t there is no retribution in
th© life beyond th© grave.Divin© justice says th® good shall haw® their
reward in heaven,and th© wicked shall be punished in hell.On earth
thou didst have thy rich©®*thy honors.Thou didst do much evil.Thou
didst commit horrible crimes®.... T© ©rr is human*to forgive divine.
forgave M s ©tt@rai@s„but h© arang the lash in the fem.pl©8„eItest thou know
this woman f
(fh@ Spirit of Angelica appears.)
$gdfii of Lt^&ss 0 QoS I Angelica 8 .
Judges Angelica*s
d
i
a
t hast thou to say of this man f
Spirit of Lupus8 Mercy S Mercy f I cannot listen, (dowers M s ears wit^ M s
hands.)
Judgei lot only must thou hear it8but thou ©halt hear all thy earthly deed®,
and so® them*whether good or had. fhou eanst not stop thy ear© her®.
%irit of Angelicas He.....
Spirit of t&puss Angels of a@roy 3 J hear her wioeS Silence,,X tell you t
JhSges hook upon her 3 (Spirit of tapu® holds M s hands before M s eyes.) In
wain thou sMel&ebt thin® eyas,thou met look upon her.
Spirit of Lupus* fske her away ! I ©ee her t I ©s© her 8
Judges Speak*Angelica^t@I1 this man that which he did unto thee.
Spirit of Angelicas H@ poisoned a©phe r©wished ®e9h© robbed m©ph® murdered,
■my father.
Spirit of Lupuss A lie f A lie 8
Judges Trulyethat #it©h thou utterest is a lie.
(fh© Spirit of Fidus appears.)
Jhdges Hdus^what hast thou to say of tM© man ?
Spirit of Lupus8 Holy Mother of Ohrist*strike me deaf and blind i
Spirit of Ilduss He plundered m@,h® plundered my child. He assassinated a®,
he assassinated my child.H© violated ay daughter.
Spirit of Lupus8 0 Saint© of Heaven 3 Pardon 3
(A hoot i© seen approaching.)
Judges Look yonder i Approaching,,thou a©sot the miner© and soldiers thou didst
send to their graw@s9th® widows and orphans thorn didst pillage.Anem thou
shalt answer them. San,thou hast mush to answer here . But go thou now
to thy semblable©.
(Curtain.)
2?«
iOT 9. 3.
fhil© tii® lights a?® lowered,th© front half of th® stag® 1® changed to repre
sent hell.Sdrpents painted on scenery ,red flames leading fvm caves,demons
and lost soul® strutting across th® stage.Th® bed?-r©oa is hidden in daskaess.
There i© a trap door hidden from th® and!ms® by a rock#The Spirit of Lupus
disappears through this trap door in Soon® 4.
Spirit of lupus chained#&sier Spirit of th® Chief of th® toag©t®rs.
Spirit of Chiefs W®1eom®,boss 9 I’
v© boon m i ting for ye.But 1 perceive yer
chained#So m s X ,but I put on® over ®sa# Ho M y©r chain in this flam®,
af it’ll melt like butter.
(Spirit of lupus holds chain in flan®.)
Spirit of Lupus* It bums, it bums ! Liar 9 Water 9 for Christ’s sake 9 Water 9
It bunas 9
( Spirit of Chief grin© at him,while an angel brings a cup of water,
and places it on a reek*fh® angel disappears immediately,the Spirit
of th® Chief seises th® water and drinks it.)
S.of lupust Thief,givo me my water I
tIt bums 9 It burns 9 Idar 9 thief 9 Give
me ay water 9
S.of Chief* (Mockingly.) Me,a thief,a liar 9 X never stole a cent,! never told
a lie# I’
m Georg® Washington* Won lied me to the rep®,you stole twenty
thousand bucks of me#T®m*r© a liar,you’
re a thief# lave a drink 9
( Is holds the cup of water towards S. of lupus,then drinks it
himself.) Melts Ilk® butter 9 Ah I Ah 9
S.of lupus* Water 9 Water 9 Xi bum® 9 Water 9
S.of Chiefs X’
m drinking water,ain’t X I What’s th® matter with ye f
t Melts like
butter f
t (Be smacks his lips.) Say,there’s yer daughter 9
( Behind a gs.ua© is seen th© picture ef the cottage in the Sierra
Wevad&.Lueills is sitting on the poreh.Count von Sehwemot appears.)
Lucille* Why,what bring© you her^Count f
t X never thought you were in America.
X understood you wer® in Holland with the Kaiser.
Counts X was,but His Majesty sent m® her© to inspect seme properties*! heard
you were staying up fe@r®,Prlnee®s,ffind thought I’d just drop in and
renew ouetold friendship.
Lucille* X’
m sure you’re vary weloome.Mcther’ll be back in a few days,She’s
visiting so$® friends in Los Angeles,so it happens I’
m quit® alone,
not a soul her® till the oaretaker returns to nighi#?®yy romantic,
isn’
t It f
t Pray b© seated 9
Counts And how is th© Prince of th® Alps f
t
iMcillet Be was sailed bask to Italy by the King.Sher© is still much unrest
in Europe.
Count* Xou know,Princess,X’
m quite jealous of your husband,— a victorious
hero,while X am a defeated -
.outlaw,— he,the husband of th© woman
whom X had once thought to make mistress of my Prussian castle.
Lucillet Count 9
Count* Xes,Z must tell it you now#! loved you then,but your father told me you
were ambitious,only a r©igeiing prince could win your hand.X love
you atill,Lucille. (He seises her haad*8fe© rises.)
Lucilles Please lot me go,Count,you frighten me 8
Count* Can’t you love me,Luoille f Com© back with me,and one day we’ll return
to Prussia.
(She tries to drag herself away.He rises.)
23*
Efo,I won't let you go.You belong to me.We've lost all,but I'll not lose you.
(He attempts to put his arms around her,she breaks loose and rushes
into the cottage.He follows her.)
S. of lupus* Set me free ! Set mo free I He's killing her l Set m® free !
S.of Ohiefi Why don't ye put yer irons in the fire ? Melt like butter 1 Ah f
Ah ! Kill yer daughter.That*s nix ! Didn't ye tell me to kill Fjdus
a
n
.
6 the strikers ? When I oorae hero,they lied me x
t
p as a witness agin
ye,an' I heard ye plained Aldus's daughter.You ain’t got no kick
coming.Ah! Ah! Melt lilce butter ! (He smacks Ilia lips.)
(Count emerges from cottage.)
Count* She'® mine now ! But what am I to do next ? She's in a OToon.If somebody
comes along,they may ask about her.I ought not to be seen. here.I'll
go.But I can't leave her here.I can't carry her like that down to the
machine...* She may come to any minute...... She called me a cowardly
Hun 1 Curse her ! Perhaps I made a mistake.If these accursed Americans
shou^ld hear of it t And like an idiot I told her about the Kaiser's
propert3.es here. (He looks at a ring on his finger.) Majesty gave it
me to use if I failed. It was intended for himsblf in case the Allies
captured him. (He takes the ring from hie finger,and lifts the stone.)
Re told me it was a deally poison,instantaneous,painless,leaving ab
solutely no trace,the discovery of our great german scientists. (H©
lifts it slowly towards hie mouth,when about to swallow it,he stops
suddenly.) What a fool I am.I haven't failed yet.I'11 give it her.
(He enters th© cottage.)
S.of lupus: Let me go * Let me go t The hell fiedd's dishonored my chiId,and
now he's poisoning her I
S.of Chief: Welluwho's holding ye ? Put yer bracelets in the flames ! Melt
like butter ! Ah ! Ah t Dishonored yer child I an* now he's pisining
her l Who dishonored Fidus's chiId,who pxsined her ? Reckon yer old
pardner’s^bout square with ye now. Melts like butter ! (He amoks
his lips.) So long,Count ! Hop© to see ye again ! (The Count is
seen emerging folrm the cottage and disappears.) Have a drink f
'Tatn't gone dry up here yet.Expect ye'd like to have a drop of the
stuil ye left down there.I'll see what I can do fer ye. Cost ye
twenty thousand bucks a drop,but that's a flea bite fer a bloated
plutocrat like you.Say,there’s yer missus.Reckon I'll wait a bit !
(Mrs Lupus and the Count are aeon sitting on the porch of the
cottage.)
Mrs.lupus* It was terrible,Count ! She m s all by heroelf.Tlx© doctors said
it was heart failure.
Count* I can imagine your state of mind.Baroness. You must feel terrible lone
some now f (j
Mrs.Lupus* Yes,Count,I hardly know what I shall do with myself.
Count* (He s
S
§
J
c
e
s her hand.) If you will permit me,I will endeavor to make you
forget all your bereavements.
Mrs.Lupus* 0 Count,this is so sudden.You must give me time to think it over.
(The Count takes her in his arras.)
S.of Lupus: Hell and all the fiends here,free me,only for a brief second,that
I may strangle that adulterer I
S.of Chiefs Why don't ye pit yer irons in the flames ? Eelt like butter! (H©
smacks his lips.) Adulterer ! Sh ? What y© call yerself,then,Mr.
Lupus ? A lily white virgin,who didn't put one over his missus 8
Have a drop i (Offers the cup,but drinks it himself.) What,ye
refuse an old friend ? Perhaps,yer thirsty fer blood ? Jealous 8
ffa© gyaen «ye& Boaster*a gat y©»®hJ took at #«au S©© *®a hugging e&oh other.
fas’fa©© is Ilk© a burning eoal^ye? liks 'an ugly Head o* hall yerself*
10hy donH y@ get ®
«
a
a f SHakem,Ia^ua9.
$
i
i
a
k
e
a
a I Ah 8 Ah I Melts like butter 8
(Ss masks his lips.)
(Ctoiaiuo)
50e
lit® green. ey®& aonetar3s get y©s©hi I»ook at ’«* See *m. hugging each ether*
Ter face is Ilk® a homing eoal9yer like "an ugly fiend o’ hell yerself*
fhy don’
t y® get % f Siekem,lupttSgStekea I Ah t Ah I Belt® like butter I
(Eh masks his lips.)
(Ourtalno)
50®
t
A M 5o Seen© to
The front half of the sta|j© is in complete darkness,only the Spirit of Isspus i®
seem look£g towards the bed-room which is £llumint®& with candle® suround the
corps®.EntW th@ Doctor with hypodermic syringe in M s hand.
Doctor* He’s gone 8 Perhaps the greatest force of our tlne.Ec mad© war and
peace,gent millions to an untimely grave.len tremble before his power.
Whole nations toiled to fill his vanltg.H© ©mod them. body and soul*
more completely than the slave-owners their slaves. 4md all by means
of a handful1 of gray matter,apparently no different tr&m the brain© ©f
other men... What is the seeret of it all f Me had less vital force*
less will power*less magnetism,character,education than thousands of
other man who were M s abject slaves.Waa it the cortical substance*or
luck*chance*opportunity*aided by the artificial arrangement of our
modem society ?.. .
. ©ne thing is certain*® less complex social
system would make such an organism totally impossible.! cam well giag-
nose*though I cannot prescribe*the anarchist's methods far purging
the world of its organisations....The secret may one day be discovered
in the psychic powers which are threatening to revolutionize our exact
sciences.Till thm w® must reckon without the psycho*deny its very
existence.
( So bends over the corpse to insert the needle.The Spirit @f tapue
raises its arm®,enc^avofc© to move towards the corpse*bu^Teannot.)
Spirit of Iftipus* Stop 8
(The Doctor start®
Doctors X thought X heard a voice. (He looks around.) It must be my imagination,
affected ly1my musing.(He rapidly inserts the needle and injects .the
virus.With a cry of agony the Spirit of Lupus disappears through the
trap door.The corpse starts up from the bod,but falls back immediately.
She Doctor in horror start® back,then slowly approaches the corpse to
examine it.)
He must have been in a trance.
End.
y
)
51.
