{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__prince___the_enchanted_boundary.pdf","mytitle":"The Enchanted Boundary","mylang":"de"}
The
Enchanted Boundary
BEING A
Survey of Negative Reactions to Claims
of Psychic Phenomena
1820-1930
By
WALTER FRANKLIN PRINCE, Ph. D.
Executive Research Officer of The Boston
Society for Psychic Research
DECEMBER, 1930
BOSTON SOCIETY FOR PSYCHIC RESEARCH
346 Beacon Street,
Boston, Mass.
It>2l
.n < >
Copyright, 1930, by
Boston Society for Psychic Research,
346 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGES
Preface....................................................................................... vii-x
PART I
B ooks and A rticles H ostile to P sychic R esearch
I. Is Psychical Research Worth While?........................... 1-18
II. The Enchanted Boundary.............................................. 19-133
III. Some Sample Explanations........................................... 134-143
IV. Houdini and Doyle......................................................... 144-162
V. Old Dogma and Later Statistics................................... 163-197
VI. Psychical Versus Visceral Hallucinations................... 198-206
PART II
D iscussion E voked by a Questionnaire
I. A Hypothetical Question............................................. 209-222
II. Belief in Psychic Events the Result of Pathological
S tates....................................................................... 223-237
III. The Argument from Negatived “ Premonitions **. . . . 238-260
IV. The Coincidence Argument............................................ 261-268
V. Psychic ( ?) Incidents Explained................................. 269-283
VI. Then Why Has it not Happened to Me?.................. 284-303
VII. Miscellaneous Arguments and Opinions...................... 304-329
VIII. A Very Doubting Thomas............................................ 330-343
Concluding Remarks...................................................... 344
v
To
Mrs. Ellen A. Wood
and
Mrs. Harriet L. Hemenway,
Friends of Psychic Research.
PREFACE
Some will not like this book; they will say it is not psychic research,
but only about psychic research. So it might be said that much writ­
ten by Tyndall and Huxley—and can we ask better models?—was not
science, but about science, clearing out the obstacles in the way of
scientific understanding, removing prejudices and misconceptions,
paving with the logic of science.
Some will not like this book, since it is made up of controversy;
bring forward fresh evidence, they will say, and heed not those who
oppose it. But controversy sometimes best clears up the fogs of
thought, and leads to the appreciation of evidence. Look back and
see if it was not so when the two great scientific leaders already named
employed it in the nineteenth century.
Behold a wonder! For more than forty years a considerable group
of persons of culture, learning and high scientific standing have been
testifying to certain conclusions based, they declare, on evidence; op­
posed to these a much larger group, similarly made up of persons of
culture, learning and high scientific standing, have been rejecting those
same conclusions with peculiar scorn, and denying that they are sup­
ported by any respectable evidence! The vast majority of those who
are qualified by intellect and training to be judges are silent, and we
can only conjecture regarding them. But that the vocal should face
each other in as uncompromising opposition as ever did the Greeks and
the Persians is in itself a phenomenon which rivets attention and calls
for explanation. This book pays the phenomenon the attention it
merits, and professes to furnish the needed explanation.
Individuals may claim too much or deny too much and yet be in thei
main right. But when there are two opposing groups, one claiming!
that there exist facts of the order provisionally called “ psychic ” or
“ supernormal,” the other denying that any such facts exist, one group
must be right and the other wrong. No matter how learned, one side
or the other must be ignorant of the facts or the nature of the facts in
this field; one side or the other must be swayed by prejudice or infatu­
ation ; one side or the other must, in this particular field, be employing
defective logic.
Certain scholars devoted the most or a large part of their time and
vii
V lll PREFACE
energy for many years in the study of the facts under discussion, and
came to the conclusion that a great number of them are entitled to be
called “ psychic ” or “ supernormal.” Among the greatest of these
scholars were Myers, Hodgson, Barrett, Podmore, Hyslop, and, still
among us, Lodge and Mrs. Sidgwick. All of them, I say, agreed as to
the rating of the facts, although not all sought to account for some of
them by the same theory.
Undoubtedly a multitude of intelligent men and women have been
mightily impressed by the spectacle of the larger group of scholars
who have denied and deny the validity of the facts themselves, and
principally on this ground favor opposition. Although the most which
they have seen from the pens of the learned skeptics has amounted to
little more than ex cathedra dicta or contemptuous ejaculations, they
suppose that the authors, had they taken the trouble, could have justi­
fied the expressions overwhelmingly. Or, if they have read what pur­
ports to be an argument in refutal of evidence offered, they have
trusted in its surface appearance of effectiveness, not thinking it neces­
sary to ascertain whether the Case Reports have been met squarely and
analyzed fairly, or have been garbled, nibbled about the edges, and
treated with an evasion, sophistry and persiflage which would be
deemed unworthy in any other field of discussion. Particularly readers
not themselves informed could hardly suspect that any highly-esteemed
scholar would rush to save the public from “ superstition,” so ill-
equipped as to strew his course with blunders of fact which a little of
the care that he takes in his own territory would spare him.
\\ This book embodies the first attempt to appraise on a large scale
j{writings hostile to psychic research. It seeks to deal fairly with per­
sons who, through the course of more than a century, have expressed
their disbelief in any facts “ psychic ” or “ supernormal,” according to
the understood meaning of these terms. It proposes to ascertain with
what degree of knowledge these persons are equipped to deal with the
subject, to see whether the logic they employ is such as is employed in
other types of investigation or is of a sort deemed good enough only
for this, and generally to analyze and set forth their polemical method­
ology. All of these persons are respectable, and some of them illus­
trious, representatives of the classes to which they belong, physical
scientists, psychologists, university and college instructors, physicians,
clergymen, magicians and what-not. There are more than one hundred
of these to be heard in this book.
Part One deals with writers of printed books, articles and letters
from 1820 on, and embraces forty men and women, not counting Doyle,
PREFACE IX
who finds place only because of a comparison made between him and
Houdini. Dr. Head’s statistics, it should be explained, were not
alleged by him to argue against the validity of the apparitions of
psychic research literature, but have been supposed by others to do so.
Doubtless the list could be added to, but so far as the search for hostile
writers in the English language was continued, not one was omitted
from the survey.
Part Two is a by-product of a questionnaire whose direct results in '
the way of individual experiences will appear in a volume to follow this
in a few months. One of the queries in that document was purposely
framed to be coyly provocative, and won many expressions of skepti­
cism in all the tones from mild compassion to acid contempt. I was
really more interested in getting these reactions than I was in getting
incidents, since masses of testimony to experiences have been collected
and analyzed, but there has been no considerable collection and analysis
of testimonies and arguments in opposition to the existence of psychic
facts. Consequently, in terms of politeness which must mostly be
omitted from this book (with the consequence that many of the letters
appear brusque), an effort was made to induce the writers to develop
the logic of opposition further, to state more explicitly the grounds of
the negative certainty expressed. Some were willing to do this, others
not. The views, whether or not supported by argument, of seventy-one
persons, mostly of the professions, are the result. Names appear
where this was expressly permitted. Certain paragraphs of my own
letters, too hastily dictated, have been improved for printing; the
letters of others are of course quoted with exactitude.
It would be a grave error to suppose that it is the aim of this book
to lessen esteem for any of the hundred and eleven persons whose opin­
ions, and their grounds, and the logic by which they are urged, are
discussed in it, or that their general intelligence is doubted. It is the
extremest test of human nature to be quite just and entirely governed
by reason in relation to what one does not like. The zeit-geist, particu­
larly in America, is at present unfavorable to psychic facts, and for
many the vane is set, from childhood, against liking them. In some
cases the dislike is so great that it prevents one from making any
understanding examination of the evidence and at the same time be­
trays him into making declarations based on manifold misapprehension.
A writer is sometimes quite taken aback by learning that some ex­
pression of his which he had supposed perfectly luminous has been
wholly misapprehended by one or more readers. His sensation then is
that of the youth who, having remarked, “ How tempus fugits!,” was
X PREFACE
solemnly informed by a grave and reverend senior, “ Young man, the
Latin verb, present tense, third person singular, unlike the English
verb, does not take the terminal s.” I had better, then, explain to the
ultra literal-minded, that the expression “ Enchanted Boundary ” does
not stand for any serious theory of mine that a number of talented
gentlemen are in the net of occult forces. It is only a playful inven­
tion, a device to account most charitably for the fact that they do
not, in the discussion of matters relating to psychic research, seem to
display all the intelligence which they undoubtedly possess.
Facts are sacred. At least as much as any man, Darwin taught us
that, by his years of observing, testing and recording millions of facts,
each conscientiously placed on the side of the ledger where it belonged.
The many who assailed him by their prejudices, their reckless guesses,
their dogmas and their fears for the edifices of thought which the past
had reared, would have done better to have bared their heads before the
saintliness of his intellectual rectitude. Facts cannot be destroyed.
Like the stars in the sky, they shine on until the evolution of thought
has proceeded so far as to compel their observation.
Although he himself did not always heed them all, three sayings by
Huxley deserve to be engraved in the consciousness of every seeker
after truth.
On the one hand:
Doubt is a beneficent demon.
And on the other:
I am too much of a skeptic to deny the possibility of anything.
And:
Nobody can presume to say what the order of the Universe
must be.
PART ONE
BOOKS AND ARTICLES HOSTILE
TO PSYCHIC RESEARCH
I. IS PSYCHICAL RESEARCH WORTH WHILE?1
No cautious and intelligent person can or should be convinced by
testimony that supernormal phenomena exist except on the basis of a
great many case reports, nor can he take into consideration any case
report which is not full, detailed and critical in the extreme. There­
fore it would be quite hopeless for me to attempt, in the limits of one
lecture, to convince any one by citing cases. I shall occasionally refer
to one by way of illustration, and toward the close I may present one
or two case sketches with the understanding that they are only
“ thumb-nail ” sketches and that the full reports are available in print.
In the main, what I have to say will constitute a study in trends
and reactions. What were the causes which led to the foundation of
Societies for Psychical Research? What has been the effect of inspec­
tion and study upon the minds of persons apparently well qualified?
Why is it that after nearly half a century Psychical Research Societies
are still in existence and even multiplying? Have the methods of
psychical researchers, to outward appearances, been cautious, logical
and painstaking, or otherwise? How far has earnest and protracted
psychical research, deserving of the name, resulted in making thorough
skeptics? How far have opponents shown themselves qualified by
experience or by study? On which side, among the most scientific
leaders, is there the greater appearance of dealing with facts rather
than dogmas, with logic rather than appeals to authority? What are
some of the arguments against psychical research, and to what extent
are other branches of scientific inquiry also liable to the weight of
them? Is psychical research becoming more or less formidable with
the passage of time? Are there sets of facts on which experienced
researchers are practically agreed? If there are sets upon which they
differ greatly, how is this to be explained? Has psychical research
made, aside from the category of the supernormal, any worthy contri­
butions to knowledge? In the main, this paper is, though I dislike the
term, a study in behaviorism as related to psychical research.
1. Phenomena of the same nature as those which now form the
1 From The Case For and Against Psychical Belief, Clark University, Worcester,
Mass., 1927, by consent of Prof. Carl Murchison.
2 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
subject-matter of psychical research are witnessed to from the first
records of the human race, apparently in all lands. They are in our
Bible and other hibles. They are in ancient Roman histories and biog­
raphies. They are in the writings of the Christian Fathers, and so on
to our day. Many of them are given at second-hand, many are doubt­
less distorted and curiously interpreted in the telling, yet the narratives
witness to human belief in actual experiences. Oddly, we sometimes
hear it said as a taunt that such beliefs were common in ancient times
and are common among aborigines, which is exactly what we should
expect would be the case if the phenomena to which they relate, cor­
rectly described, are integral to the human race.
2. Such testimonies may be found far more frequently in our own
vaunted period of enlightenment than in any former period, now that
effort is being made to collect them and it is comparatively an age of
recording. They are not confined to the ignorant or the credulous, but
are shared by the greatest intellects. Nor do they shun the lives of sci­
entifically inclined men, though these tend to discourage them, discount
them, and much less frequently to record than tell them to intimates.
I have noticed that if a small group of intelligent men, not sup­
posed to be impressed by psychical research, get together and such
matters are mentioned, and all feel that they are in safe and sane
company, usually from a third to a half of them begin to relate excep­
tions. That is to say, man after man opens a little residual closet and
takes out some incident which happened to him or to some member of
his family, or to some friend whom he trusts, and which he thinks odd
and extremely puzzling. I made a remark of this kind once when with
six men of high standing in various professions. No sooner had I
ceased speaking when a physicist whose name is known over the world
told of something which happened to him when a young man—how he
heard his father’s voice pronouncing his name at the very hour, as it
afterward proved, when his father died, hundreds of miles away. He
ended: “ That is something I never could understand.” I do not think
the physicist would forgive me if I revealed his name. Then, to my
equal surprise, a very prominent physician, whose name is familiar to
the profession all over the country, told stories of what seemed like
telepathy in his own family. A noted editor and a well-known lawyer
followed suit.
8. There is a large degree of homogeneity in the stories ancient,
mediaeval and modern, subject, however, to at least two disturbances
even when told at first-hand. (1) Superadded interpretation, as when
Luther said that he saw the devil, whereas had he lived in the twentieth
IS PSYCHICAL RESEARCH WORTH WHILE? 3
century he would have said he saw the apparition of a man, the notion
that it was the devil being his interpretative addition. (2) Modifica­
tion by the subconsciousness under the influence of the zeit-geist and
the individual composite. As among the waving grass-blades shimmer­
ing in the morning light a pious child would be more likely to experi­
ence the illusion of a winged angel, and an ardent youth the illusion of
a dancing girl, so, admitting that there are veridical apparitions, they
are probably subject to modification by that strange mechanism, the
mind, which at the same time is acted upon and acts upon itself. Thus,
if one saw a vision of his deceased mother gazing pityingly upon him,
a few moments after, as it proved, his far-distant father died, we
might well, on the background of many similar cases, suspect a super­
normal stimulus, but likewise suspect an intermixing memory stimulus
to account for her being dressed in the familiar garb of years ago.
Nevertheless, many of the ancient and medi«eval stories strikingly
resemble the recorded and authenticated ones of our own time. Un­
becoming as they may be in an age of science, dreams more complexly
coincident with uninferrible events of the near future than any pro­
phetic dreams in the Bible have been proved to occur in our generation.
Lest some of my hearers should gaspingly turn for relief to Royce’s
theory of pseudo-memories, I add that I refer to dreams actually
related to intelligent witnesses before the astoundingly coinciding
events occurred. The raps which I studied in my own house, in my
office and in the office of a New York physician lead back to the
startling thumps which Luther heard in his monastery and in Wart-
burg Castle. The Apostle Peter’s becoming aware of the messengers
from Cornelius before they were in sight is analogous with the authen­
ticated recent case of the lady who saw while awake a vision of a man
of whom for a long time she had heard nothing, with his face tied up
in a bandage, at the hour when her husband at a distance beheld with
astonishment this man’s face so bandaged as he lay in his coffin. The
double incident of Peter and Cornelius is of a type with the recent
authentic case of a New Jersey woman of culture who had a waking
vision of her dead father and living foster-brother, which she immedi­
ately told to persons whose testimonies I have, it afterward proving
that at that hour her brother, on a warship in the North Sea, as a
torpedo was approaching, saw the apparition of his foster-father on
the deck beside him. These were not beliefs, they were actual experi­
ences, strangely coinciding subjective facts, which no so-called “ logic
of science ” can annihilate.
4. The foregoing considerations determined a group of English
4 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
university men forty-four years ago la to found a society for the inves­
tigation of such alleged incidents. One of the prime movers, Professor
Henry Sidgwick, who has been called the “ most incorrigible skeptic in
England,” nevertheless agreed that it was the scandal of science that
it had never more than sneered at all this testimony of the ages, that
it made no effort finally to determine whether there is or is not any
fire back of so much smoke. At least it would be worth while as a
study of folklore and of psychology, and would, if all was found illu­
sory, have the effect of discouraging an epidemic which if it begins in
the slums of human mentality, frequently enters the palaces thereof.
5. Forty-four years have passed since the Society for Psychical
Research was founded. Several other worthy organizations have in the
meantime arisen to engage in the same inquiry, not to give heed to less
respectable ones. Some of the most eminent scientists on earth have
taken part, some of the most brilliant intellects, some most familiar not
only with pathological mentality, but also with the occasional queer
mechanisms of the normal mind, not omitting some expertly conversant
with the methodology of fraud in this field. If, after all, comparatively
few with such varieties and combinations of equipment lent themselves
to the work, it really seems as if there were enough and the time elapsed
enough to have already proved to approximate certainty that only su­
perstition and credulity, illusion and delusion, infantilism and mental
aberration underlie these million stories, if such indeed is the case. But
the forty-four years have not had this result. If I could go no farther,
this would be a striking announcement. After thousands of years
science at last turned its critical eye upon the matter, men of learning,
intellectuality, logic and familiarity with critical procedure took hold,
some of them with the full expectation of showing that the whole class of
beliefs was without rational foundation, and—they have not succeeded.
6. More than this, a number of species of claims formerly almost
universally derided by intellectuals so far as their public announce­
ments were concerned, have been placed upon a firmer basis than ever
before. And, mirabile dictw! a not inconsiderable number of eminent
scientists, men of brilliant intellects, adepts in logic and critical pro­
cedure, trained detectives in the jungle of human illusion and delusion,
have actually become convinced on the evidence, that more or less types
of supernormal claims are valid. It would appear that, if it was worth
while in 1882 to begin an organized attempt to study the phenomena
alleged, there is now ten times the motive to continue that study.
lB This lecture was delivered at Clark University in 1926.
IS PSYCHICAL RESEARCH WORTH WHILE? 5
7. Let U
8 not lose sight of the significance of the fact that many
of these convinced men started their quest as materialists, and that the
training and prepossessions of the scientific fraternity were adverse to
the claims under consideration. And yet as honest analyzers and
reporters of the facts they have declared their conviction that certain
species of hitherto discredited claims are, as a matter of fact, justified.
To cite one example, if any man was fitted by mental constitution
and by equipment to build a road clear across the bog, assuming that
the whole region of psychical research is a bog, Dr. Richard Hodgson,
the academic product of two great universities, lecturer in one of
them, seemed to be the man. Of keen and logical intellect, author of
historic exposures of fraud, co-author of the finest demonstration
of the possibilities of mal-observation and memory aberration in exis­
tence, unusually versed in the methodology of fraud and deception, he
was regarded as the arch skeptic, and his appointment to the head of
Psychical Research in this country was hailed by its opponents with
approval. After years of study, particularly with Mrs. Piper, he
became convinced that several types of mental supernormal claims
were valid, and that certain phenomena were best explained by the
spiritistic hypothesis. Therefore it is now dogmatically asserted that
he was all the while a victim of the “ will to believe,” although for years
manifesting the very opposite symptoms.
8. As intimated, the favorite jeer of scientific opponents is that
such men as Lodge, Barrett, Crookes, Myers, Hodgson and Hyslop,
were victims of a “ will to believe.” If uttered in good faith this cry
is simply a tabloid of desperate superstition,—superstition because it
is a belief irrationally grounded and desperate because beyond it is the
deep sea of utter inability to explain the conviction of those qualified
men who have most laboriously and protractedly studied the phenom­
ena, without admitting that they probably obtained some respectable
evidence. Of course no man is absolutely without bias, and it is pos­
sible that some man even of the caliber of those I have named was not
inwardly displeased to find evidence in favor of supernormal claims,
exactly as it is very possible that a scientific opponent allows the
scales of his thinking on the subject to be weighted by a will to dis­
believe. But prior to his study of the evidence the man with the hypo­
thetical will to believe may have seemed to keep it in good subjection.
If he secretly longed to live after bodily death, in some cases he
neither went to church nor read nor conversed much on religion. It
really looks as though, with most men, actual present advantages
rather than those of a hypothetical future world are more influential.
6 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
We don’t know what inner craving for continuance a given psychical
researcher may have had (for aught I know, most scientific men, pro
and con, if their lids could be taken off, would reveal at least a vestige
of such an instinctive craving, and if so the fact would be to a degree
evidential), but we do know, and he knew, that his reputation for sanity
and judgment, that his scientific standing, that his very job, would be
less secure if he announced that a claim to the supernormal was estab­
lished. It is certain that such motives to create a will to disbelieve
would press upon him as they do on those who announce themselves as
opposed, while the slogan that a Lodge or a Hodgson is actuated by a
will to believe is purely a dogma, as fully as that of the philosopher’s
stone. But, equally enamored of this comforting dogma and of the
Freudian technique, an eminent gentleman undertook to reconstruct
the biography of a living man, encouraged by lack of response from
dead worthies subjected to a similar process. Sir Oliver Lodge, said
he, is convinced of survival because he is getting to be an old man who
doesn’t wish to lapse from being, and because he wants to see again his
son who was killed in the great war. How evident that, instead of
yielding to the logic of observed facts. Sir Oliver gravitated toward
the fulfilment of his wishes! Only—Sir Oliver was not an old man
when he arrived at his convictions, long before the war, and his son was
yet a boy. But why should facts be allowed to spoil a fine theory?
9. For the most part all this talk about a “ will to believe ” is
beside the mark and foolish. What if Columbus did have a will to
believe that if he sailed westward far enough he would reach land—the
essential thing is that he proved his belief correct. As Tyndall has
told us, there comes a point in a man’s investigation of an obscure
phenomenon when he legitimately employs his “ scientific imagination ”
to picture a cause or concurrence of causes which would satisfactorily
explain the phenomenon. From the time that he has so framed his
theory, and so long as it continues to form the most economical and
adequate solution, he can hardly help wishing that it may prove to be
the true one. That must have been the case with Galileo, Kepler,
Newton, Faraday, Darwin and all the rest. Who cares for that? The
only question is, what was their evidence and what their argument
founded thereon.
10. A man reaches his convictions in any one of three ways. (1) In
the main by the intellectual route, through study and reasoning, or
(2) partly by this route but also partly through his emotions, his
prejudices and likings, or (3) mainly through these emotional by-ways.
Whatever class he belongs to can be pretty well gauged by the way he
IS PSYCHICAL RESEARCH WORTH WHILE? 7
writes or talks. It is certain that many advocates of supernormal
phenomena and theories belong to the last class. Their reports of
cases are full of leaks, their inductions are hasty and fragile, they rush
to defend cases of another continent against the judgment of the
actual and competent observers, their language is heated and horta­
tory, they display a degree of zeal becoming to an apostle but not to
an investigator of facts. There are also the half-way class, those who
have had and set forth some evidence, but mix with it so much indis­
crimination, incaution and intemperate zeal as also to make them
ineffectual except with the unthinking and as marks for their adver­
saries. Mesmer in his time announced a new and very important fact
to the world, but in his ignorant zeal invested it with so much extrava­
gant nonsense as to delay its scientific reception for half a century.
Nevertheless it was the reproach of science that it turned away in dis­
gust and did not go directly to the dust-heap and lay hold of the valu­
able thing therein hidden, as a similar course is a reproach to it today.
But there have been and are persons whose works show them to have
been careful, intelligent and patient observers, experimenters, analyzers
and synthesizers of evidence. Fully as much as Darwin or Huxley or
Tyndall or Spencer, do such leaders minutely collect, examine, weigh
and classify their facts. They are fully as conservative, paving their
way as they go, their language is as temperate and they as seldom
give vent to exclamations of impatience at the impudent and vacuous
volubility of their adversaries. They set forth the facts and the con­
ditions in detail, they dodge no difficulties, and calmly discuss the
various possible theories to account for the facts. They have built up
a precautionary methodology from which many a psychological labora­
tory, as Dr. F. C. S. Schiller has shown,2 might borrow hints to make
its inferential errors less frequent. Hence the spectacle of such men,
standing up before a taunting scholastic majority and calmly an­
nouncing that they have reached, severally, one or another stage of
conviction that supernormal facts actually exist, is a profoundly
impressive one.
11. Now let us apply the same test, analysis of modes of discussion, \
to the physical scientists, psychologists, physicians and others who 1
have written books and articles attacking the whole domain of psych- 1
ical research, including telepathy. I make a statement which will 1
seem incredible, but which defies confutation. Every one of them, by 1
the application of the test is shown to belong, when he enters the 'field j
2Proceedings S. P. R., Part 35, pp. 361-364.
8 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
of Psychical Research with general hostile intent,8 to the third class,
that composed of persons whose conclusions in that field are actuated
mainly by their emotions, by manifest bias and prejudice, rather than
by calm reasoning on the basis of careful study; persons who react
j irrationally to particular subjects which for some reason are obnoxious
\ to them, and evidence the fact by generalities, a priori assumptions,
refusal to squarely face and calmly discuss main issues, attacks on men
of straw, weird logic which they would deride were it employed in their
own special field, indulgence in wild and unsupported hypotheses in
| regard to the intellects of all their opponents, exhibitions of ignorance
\ of their subject matter by frequent blunders of fact, exclamations of
\ disgust and sundry marks of emotionalism. So emphatically is this
1 true that I wrote for a London magazine [Psyche] an article exhibit­
ing these traits in the printed output of fifteen prominent writers,
I under the title “ The Enchanted Boundary.” I am fairly familiar
\ with the literature on this subject of the last forty-five years, and
\have been searching in vain for a case where a hostile spear, however
effective outside, did not turn to a reed when it crossed the border of
this region of inquiry, and where this cannot easily be shown. No
rejoinder came from one of my fifteen subjects of demonstration,
because the facts were irrefutable when once pointed out. One could
recite instances for hours; how opposers of psychical research pick
out, for attack, incidents which the original reporters for honesty’s
sake did not omit but expressly stated were not evidential, while care­
fully avoiding the real evidence; how they mutilate and do malpractice
on records they profess to summarize; how they ludicrously miscon­
ceive and misstate the problems and opinions of those whom they
criticize; how in juvenile awe of scientific assumptions which are con­
tinually altering and enlarging they undertake to demolish facts by3
3 The reader is asked to take account of every word in this italicized passage. I
do not accuse scientific men in general of being emotional or unfair, or the particular
men referred to of being so characterized in other fields than that of psychical
research, nor even men who have written against the spiritistic theory, endeavoring
to account for the facts by telepathy. Nor is my statement based upon conjecture.
It is an induction drawn from an actual survey of books and articles which indis­
criminately attack all alleged supernormal facts and theories. Most scientific men
lack both interest and time to pay attention to psychical phenomena—and write
little or nothing relating thereto. Such as do have the interest and time to study
the facts tend to become impressed by what they find and either to express to one
or another degree their favorable interest or at least to refrain from careless dis­
paragement. But a comparatively small number, to whom psychical research is as
the traditional red rag to the bull, turn their attention to it, mainly to collect
material for polemic purposes and betray insufficiency of their acquaintance and
departure from a scientific spirit by the characteristics of their writing. It is solely
to the last class that I refer in the text.
IS PSYCHICAL RESEARCH WORTH WHILE? 9
dogmatic pronunciamentos; how they boast of their unwillingness to
get first-hand knowledge by patient experiment, and betray their lack
of acquaintance with the works of those who have done so by childish
blunders of fact (I counted six in one short paragraph) ; how they
sweep away hosts of authenticated actual cases by one oracular dictum
as intelligent as that of the farmer who, when he saw a giraffe, said,
“ There ain’t no such animal ” ; how they betray emotional bias as in
the case of the psychologist of whom Dr. Hyslop said that if he was
so actuated he ought to join the Salvation Army.
Even Huxley lapsed from his logical rectitude when he said that
the only good of a demonstration of “ Spiritualism ” was to furnish
an argument against suicide. If he had heard some one in or out of
Texas say that the only good of a demonstration that men are biolog­
ically related to apes is to furnish an argument for suicide, I can
imagine his acid retort that facts do not pay heed to emotional repul­
sions. I myself have a decided prejudice against biting and stinging
insects, and my feelings declare that my world shall not contain them,
but now and then in my travels I am painfully reminded that it never­
theless does. Suppose it proved that all subconscious twaddle of
a medium comes from heaven and that the indications are that we all
become idiotic when we reach that region, still facts would be facts,
whether blissful or otherwise.
Think of Dr. Hyslop, who had his human subjects for experiment
introduced after the psychic was in trance, had them sit behind her
and keep silent, reported every word, and even every time the pencil
fell from the writing medium’s hand, then think that a Doctor of
Philosophy attempted to demolish him in a book which mutilated, dis­
torted and misrepresented every incident which she professed to quote,
without exception, and finally think that an eminent educator, not
without interest to Clark University, was so unguarded in this field
that in its preface he expressed the hope that the now forgotten book
would prove to be “ the turn of the tide!” ,
12. Or take my own case as that of one convinced of several type
of supernormal phenomena, and supremely unconvinced of certain
other claims. Put me under the microscope as the bug some people
think I am. Excessively cautious, and regarded by the Spiritualistic
religious cult as a hard-hearted skeptic; formerly thoroughly skep­
tical all along this line; always occupied during a curiously varied
career, from the boyhood days when no mechanical or other puzzle
was ever given up unsolved, in the analysis and resolution of one kind
of a problem or another, in history, sociology, abnormal psychology,
10 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
etc., up to psychical research; one to whom accuracy is a religion
and minute analysis an obsession so that it is an agony to terminate
the testing process and write a report; intolerably detailed in report­
ing and in presenting the subject in hand at every possible angle; alive
by experience and study to the various pitfalls of illusion, delusion and
deception—all this has made me a kind of a scrutinizing, analyzing
and rationalizing monster, quite unpleasant to the tender-minded. For
years I have been inviting any man in the world to face squarely such
affirmative reports as I have been willing to make, and to discuss them
fairly; to point out precautionary measures overlooked, serious flaws
in scientific method and weaknesses in reasoning. Few have made any
appearance of opposition, none has more than entered mere formal
a priori objections or uttered a few oracular and evasive generalities.
Is this boasting? Not at all, the very point is that if so humble
and plodding a student as myself, whose main intellectual merit leans
to the side of a failing—that of being scared to death of being caught
in an error—can present his facts in such a way that no one seriously
attempts to refute them, how strong must be the case for psychical
research! For years I have tried to find a man who would take any
one of a number of reported cases in psychical research which I will
name, and make a critical attack upon it as a whole, show that any of
the necessary precautions were lacking, that the method of investiga­
tion was scientifically defective, that the reasoning from it was not
sound. No one has done so, though one professor of psychology, at
once my friend and my forensic opponent,8®is notably voluble on the
subject. Several declared that they could do it. One promised that
he would do it and was furnished with all the materials which, after
four years, he has yet. I predict that on his deathbed he will murmur:
“ I could have done it if I only had had time.” (By the way, I think
that my friend, the voluble professor, may have the Saul of Tarsus
complex. You remember that Saul, knowing nothing in particular
against the Christians, imagined that they were a bad lot, and having
no official functions which required him to persecute them, went out of
his way to obtain an official license to do so. We know he listened to
Stephen at the time of that martyr’s execution, and it well may be
that he was half convinced that the Christians were right. He verily
thought, as he tells us, that he was doing God service in harrying them,
and yet all the time it was probably a subconsciously initiated psycho­
logical defense against his own heretical tendencies. There is nothing
3a Joseph Jastrow, now professor emeritus of the University of Minnesota.
IS PSYCHICAL RESEARCH WORTH WHILE? 11
in my friend the professor’s official functions which calls upon him to
tour the country and enrich the magazines with his attacks upon
psychical research, within which his revelations of knowledge are not
very profound. Have certain facts like winged arrows pierced the
joints of his armor, and is he, actuated by the Saul of Tarsus com­
plex, fighting for the preservation of his own academic orthodoxy?
It is an interesting psychological question.)
13. Even rational men, unable to cope with facts against which
they have an emotional complex, frequently react irrationally, set up
an illusory dogma and cling to it as a pillar of safety. So we hear
that psychic or supernormal facts are “ impossible ” by the “ logic of
science,” are contrary to the laws of nature, and destructive to the
principles of universe. Psychologists, much more than physicists and
biologists, are apt to cherish the delusion that science has reached the
point where it can perfectly delimit between the possible and the im­
possible, that its principles and final concepts have been perfectly and
fully ascertained. Science has been in our own time a changing
panorama, continually enlarging the circle to introduce facts formerly
regarded impossible, tearing down old and erecting new theories and
altering some of its very foundation principles. Was it not Lord
Kelvin who said that hypnotism was half fraud and half mal-
observation? Certainly it was denounced by many eminent men as
gross humbug. Edison’s electric light was declared by several scien­
tists, when the newspapers first reported it, impossible. The phono­
graph was impossible. The flight of heavier-than-air machines was
impossible. So the catalogue could be extended indefinitely. Hence
Von Helmholz’s dictum to Sir William Barrett was not quite final, great
a scientist as he was: “ Neither the testimony of all the Fellows of the
Royal Society, nor even the evidence of my own senses, could lead me to
believe in the transmission of thought from one person to another inde­
pendently of the recognized channels of sensation. It is clearly impos­
sible.” As impossible is a word which admits of no comparative
degree it follows that since some “ impossible ” things have nevertheless
been found true, others probably will be. And thus far the universe
has not suffered from the establishment of “ impossible ” facts.
But, more than this, the formulas, the theories, some of the very
so-called laws relating to the origin, and constitution of and relations
existing between material things have changed. As Will Durant has
lately said [Harper's Magazine, December, 1926] : “ To what distant
star has our famous nebular hypothesis flown? . . . Where are the
laws of the great Newton now, when Einstein and Moskowski and
12 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
other disreputable foreigners have upset the universe with their un­
intelligible relativity? Where is the indestructibility of matter and
the conservation of energy in the chaos and dispute of contemporary
physics. . . . Where is Gregor Mendel now that *unit characters ’
are in bad odor with geneticists ?” And again, such queries could be
extended. Nor do they breathe contempt for science, whose noble
building grows in solidity and grandeur, albeit it undergoes many
alterations, some of them so radical as to change its appearance and
parts of its very structure. It is only when a scientist becomes a
philosopher, and adopts the philosophical theory of mono-materialism,
that psychic facts seem impossible in the scheme of things. Let these
facts reach to the indisputable stage and the scientists' philosophy of
the universe will alter to include them, and they will composedly smile
at the perturbations of their predecessors.
14. But is it not a fact that the field of psychic research extends
back through centuries of gross and silly superstitions? Superstitions
are often wrong interpretations of facts. But there certainly is very
much of superstition in the sense of irrational and unfounded occult
beliefs and practices perceptible in our glimpses of ancient times, and
amongst cultured peoples of the present age. Think of the fact that
some newspapers still print daily “ horoscopes,” despite the fact that
no scientific investigator in the world credits the absurdities of astrol­
ogy. And of the host of generally intelligent people who have respect
for the theory that human destiny is portrayed by the lines that folds
of flesh happen to make in the palm of the hand. Or for that moronic
superstition called numerology, or for a machine which will determine
from your autograph whether you have a cancer or the chickenpox
and what was the religious belief of your father. But other sciences
also have had their history and have today their disreputable camp
following of superstition. Chemistry was largely born out of alchemy,
and astronomy out of astrology. Shall we flout the science and art of
medicine for the hotbed of superstition in which it was nurtured and
for the queer theories which accompanied its main current of progress,
as well as for the grotesque doctrines and practices which hang to its
skirts still ? Is the hypnotism of today to be twitted with Mesmer the
charlatan? So psychic research is not so very lonely. It is a science,
later to develop, like the others, order and discrimination in the midst
of chaotic and heterogeneous materials.
15. Next a question, supposed to be quite deadly, is put: “ Have
not psychical researchers, even scientists among them, been fooled by
phenomena which turned out to be illusive? ” Certainly, some have
IS PSYCHICAL RESEARCH WORTH WHILE? 13
blundered in certain cases. Has it not been so elsewhere? So Bastian,
a scientist, claimed to have produced living creatures in hermetically
sealed jars devoid of life, and wrote a book about it which Tyndall
refuted, but biology remains a science. And a German geologist was
fooled into accepting as genuine fossils, weird manufactures by wag­
gish students, and published a monograph on them, but geology still
survives. Charcot fooled himself into thinking that hypnosis always
proceeds by three described stages; his observations were deceptive,
but hypnotism is yet a fact!
Now and then a scientific man, a psychologist, or whatnot, gets
logically impressed by a case where the conditions are both as fully
under his control and as adequate for judgment as those of a lab­
oratory, particularly a case of mental character. Then, in his
newly-awakened interest he attends a sitting of so-called “ physical
phenomena,” where the conditions are mostly prescribed for him on the
basis of alleged “ psychic laws,” which correspond closely to the pre­
cautions which hinder the detection of fraud, where in short everything
is almost the precise opposite to his familiar laboratory. In darkness
or near darkness, his hands probably held, listening to the suggestions
around him (and even college professors and laboratory experts are
human), knowing little of the great area of conjuring possibilities
under such conditions, and in some cases feeling a knightly unwilling­
ness that an appealing medium shall be less innocent than she looks—
under these conditions, when things occur quite outside of his familiar
experiences—he sometimes becomes, as Samson did when his hair was
cut, “ like any other man,” and goes forth to give his favorable
opinion, though it be counter to that of investigators of twenty times
his experience. These tragedies will become less and less in number
with the passage of time, as in other branches of research equally
blundering conclusions are already infrequent.
16. “ But,” again it is urged, “ psychical researchers do not
agree in their theories to account for the facts. A particular class of
facts is accounted for by some on the basis of spiritism, by others on
that of telepathy, while ‘ cryptesthesia *
—whatever that is—is the
watchword of another, and we even hear of the Cosmic Mind as the
explanation. How can we be expected to pay attention to your
alleged facts until you come to some agreement in the interpretation
of them? ” If such a demand had been enforced by the thinking
world upon other sciences, there would be little science today. Look
at the past history of every science and see the record of conflicts of
opinion, and the skeletons of perished theories which line the road.
14 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Does chemsitry still explain combustion on the theory of phlogiston?
Would medical men today bleed George Washington for pneumonia?
Psychical research is almost the youngest branch of scientific explora­
tion, and of course there are differing theories. This is the very sign
that it is alive and that opposing schools agree on a large basis of
facts, although not yet on all classes of alleged facts.
It is not a century since psychology was nothing more than a
theoretical discussion of the three formal categories of the “ soul,”
intellect, sensibility and will. It is not fifty years since William James
said that he did not see that it had any practical use. It has enor­
mously developed, various methods hitherto undreamed of are applied
to its investigation, and it is of use in various ways for various practi­
cal ends. But is there unity of theory; do all psychologists agree in in­
terpretation? I need only to mention the psychology of James, or of
McDougall on the one side and of that obstreperous young scoffer Be­
haviorism on the other, or Freudism—and anti-Freudism. Wundt at
one period held that psychology is merely a branch of physiology, and
later reversed his position, lamenting the wild oats of his youth, but
he remained a pioneer of psychological method.
No general test should be applied to psychical research, in order
to ascertain its validity, which would not be regarded as equally
significant if applied to other branches of science.
17. But was not Podmore a keen and indefatigable psychical re­
searcher, and did he not combat the spiritistic theory? Only pausing
to remark that there is much in psychical research besides spiritism,
I answer that he did, but did so by urging, with extreme ingenuity and
multiplied minor assumptions, the claims of telepathy. That is, he
combated one theory of supernormal character by another. It must
not be forgotten that telepathy, if it exists, is a supernormal fact,
that is, it is not within the present “ logic ” of the science most com­
monly accepted,—it means that thought passes from one person to
another by some process unknown and other than by the recognized
channels of the senses. The opponent of the authenticated facts of me-
diumship is between the devil and the deep sea, either he must resort to
telepathy, usually abhorrent because fatal to his materialistic philos­
ophy, or he must pretend that the evidence does not exist, and, cover­
ing his eyes, murmur for the safety of his hypothetical soul formulas
and shibboleths about the “ logic ” and the “ laws ” of science, “ ani­
mistic tendencies ” and the “ will to believe.” Dr. George M. Beard
was frank when he wrote that to face the evidence appeared so deadly
that “ for logical, well-trained, truth-loving minds, the only security
IS PSYCHICAL RESEARCH WORTH WHILE? 15
against spiritism is hiding or running away.” 4 Incredible as it may f:
seem, these are the actual words printed by an opponent of psychical '
research.
18. Do psychical researchers all agree that any types of phenom^'
ena are supernormal? If I may be allowed to define a psychical ,
researcher as a person of evident intelligence and cultivation, whose \j
writings reveal acquaintance with and employment of critical method, j
and who has had much experience in this field, and who is interested in
the fixation of facts and not in propaganda, religious or other, I
answer in the affirmative, and will name four types upon which I think
that there is practically unanimous agreement, nor is the list neces­
sarily exhaustive.
(1) Telepathy is generally agreed to by psychical researchers, on
the basis of numerous experimental series, and on spontaneous cases
of extraordinary character. One instance of the latter class is the
fact that the naturalist John Muir, not having seen his friend Pro­
fessor Butler for years, nor having heard from him for a month, in a
letter which contained no hint that he thought of going to California,
was impressed, while high up on a plateau of the Yosemite Valley, by
the feeling that he must go down and find his friend, descended thou­
sands of feet and found Butler lost and about to be benighted among
the rocks. The facts were testified to by both gentlemen. Several
incidents almost as remarkable occurred in my relations with a
single person.
(2) Veridical (truth-telling) apparitions. The English Society
gathered a large list of cases, from which it eliminated all but the
most thoroughly authenticated, then applied the mathematical method \
with the result that some of the most critical minds in England were 1
convinced that a relation, other than chance, exists between the seeing
of such apparitions and the deaths of the persons whom they represent. J
I think there is practical agreement on this. j
(3) Mediumistic deliverances. There is agreement that experi­
ments by stranger sitters under scientific management, with more pre­
cautions than opponents have ever thought to suggest, and with
absolutely complete records of every word by any one in the room,
have produced series of facts pertinent to sitters, and provably >
unknown to the medium, far, sometimes millions of times, beyond the
probabilities of chance. Such instances can be exhibited convincingly
only in this totality, but I may mention one detached incident. . . .
4North American Review, July, 1879.
18 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
nent in mental therapeutics, was directly inspired to specialize therein
by the researches of Edmund Gurney, psychical researcher. And
there have been fresh springs; for example, the Emmanuel method of
mental therapeutics which has had a large and, when its principles
have been adhered to, salutary influence, originated with Dr. Elwood
Worcester, a psychical researcher.
Psychical researchers such as Janet, Gurney and Myers, Hyslop
and others since have done much to explore and enlarge the boun­
daries of the subconscious mind. Myers is the man who invented the
term “ subliminal.”
Psychical researchers contributed the oft-quoted Ansil Bourne
Case of dual personality, the Brewin Case, the Doris Case of Multiple
Personality, and the Heinrich Meyer Case to the literature of abnor­
mal psychology.
And psychical researchers have accomplished these things and
more because, from Myers to William James and from James to
Hyslop and the present, they disdained not to handle what others
thrust aside with contempt, because, like anatomists, they searched
down to the entrails of human experience, and because, after they had
observed and tested and verified and studied, with unflinching honesty
they declared the facts which they had found.
II. THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
And so they set forth toward the region which they had vowed to
conquer, a hand of gallant knights, all hedight in massy armor and
bravely bearing lances and swords, all seated on steeds which were
both swift and sure. But as soon as the first had crossed the border
of that region his weapons became like rotten wood, the joints of his
armor began to gape widely, and his proud steed altered to a sorry
jade, which stumbled at every pebble in the way. And thus fared it
with every knight as he crossed, for lo, it was an enchanted boundary.
Thus begins a tale which still continues. For the knightly band is
made up of sundry learned and professional men, the region which they
set forth to harry is that of psychical research, and verily, it seems
to have an enchanted boundary, for it happens to them when they cross
it even as has been said. In other fields they are prudently silent until
they have acquired special knowledge, but they venture into this with
none. Elsewhere they test their facts before they declare them, but
here they pick up and employ random statements without discretion.
Elsewhere they use a fair semblance of logic, but here their logic
becomes wondrous weird. Elsewhere they generally succeed in preserv­
ing the standard scientific stolidity, but here they frequently manifest
and confess a submission to emotions ill befitting those who sprang
from the head of Brahm. Elsewhere they observe the knightly eti­
quette of the lists, but in this field think it no shame to decline the fair
encounter, and, from the safe shelter of the barrier, to jeer about the
presumptive quality of their opponents’ brains.
I am not here defending anything within the debatable region, I
am only pointing in wonder to the effects of the enchanted boundary
upon those who cross it with deadly intent. Be it remembered that all,
or nearly all of these are as hostile to telepathy as to the theory of
spirit communication. With a full sense of responsibility, I assert in
regard to these that:
1. None have squarely faced and fairly discussed the real evidence. 1
They either avoid the great evidential cases altogether, or they make ;
a travesty of them, usually picking out incidents for dissection which I
no psychical researcher would think of putting forward as proof, and '
19
20 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
passing by or maltreating those which the psychical researcher does
emphasize as significant of some species of supernormal acquisition of
information.
2. Most of them are frequently guilty of absurd blunders in mat­
ters of fact which are comparatively easy of reference.
3. Some of them seem unable to quote correctly.
4. Many of them give evidence of lacking acquaintance with the
literature of psychical research (other than by special cramming) by
queer spelling of proper names familiar to students.
5. They fall into curious solecisms of logic such as would expose
them to universal laughter in any other field.
6. Generally, they exhibit impatience, “ loathing,” and other emo­
tional aberrations such as ill befit those who sit as voluntary judges.
7. Especially, they are inclined to the logical fallacy of entrench­
ing themselves behind the barrier of supposed scientific maxims which
beg the very questions of fact in dispute.
8. Particularly of late, they manifest a tendency to exchange argu­
ment for technical billingsgate, applying to their opponents expres­
sions of which the shorter and plainer equivalents are “ cranks ” and
“ simpletons.” i _
FARADAY, TYNDALL AND HUXLEY
M ic h a el F aeaday was a great chemist, but when he consented to
investigate the claims of D. D. Home, it was on conditions of which
one was as follows :l
“ If the effects are miracles, or the work of spirits, does he [Home]
admit the utterly contemptible character, both of them and their re­
sults, up to the present time, in respect either of yielding information
or instruction, or supplying any force or action of the least value to
mankind? ”
Suppose that the American Geographical Society had reluctantly
consented to examine Peary’s claim that he had discovered the North
Pole, on conditions parallel with those which Faraday demanded in
advance from Home:2 “ Will Admiral Peary ‘ admit the utterly con­
temptible character *of his reputed discovery, in the way of supplying
anything *of the least value to mankind *? ” Do such terms represent
the spirit and the logic which science applies to the determination
of facts?
1 Modem Spiritualism, by Frank Podmore, II, 145. 2lb., II, 145.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 21
Podmore, who was very suspicious of Home, nevertheless justly
comments :8
“ From the whole tone of the letter it is clear that Faraday had
made up his mind that the phenomena were delusive or fraudulent, and
Home an impostor, and that he had no desire to conceal his opinion.
Whether Faraday’s conclusions were justified or not, no philosopher
was justified in undertaking an inquiry of which he had so ostenta­
tiously prejudged the issue; nor could the subject of the proposed
inquiry have been fairly blamed for declining a trial in which the judge
had already pronounced sentence. As a matter of fact, it appears that
the proposal was declined by Robert Bell, the intermediary in the
matter, without even consulting Home.
“ The letter was of course altogether unworthy of Faraday’s high
character and scientific eminence, and was no doubt the outcome of a
moment of transient irritation.*
4* The position taken was quite inde­
fensible. It would have been reasonable for Faraday to plead that his
time was too much occupied with his proper work to undertake a task
of this kind; or that he was not qualified for an investigation which
confessedly led or might lead beyond the limits of the physical sciences.
But to enter upon a judicial inquiry by treating the subject-matter as
a chose jugSe was surely a parody of scientific methods. Faraday
either had grounds sufficient for condemning Home, or he had not.
In the former case an inquiry was superfluous, and could only be mis­
chievous ; in the latter, Home and his manifestations were alike entitled
to strictly neutral treatment.”
J ohn T yndall was a great physicist, but he also lost his scientific
pose when once he put his foot beyond the enchanted boundary. For
when he gave out to the world 8the fact that Faraday had been invited
to examine the manifestations of Home, he said that the arrangement
had fallen through because the conditions made by Faraday were not
accepted. That was true but misleading, since the reader would sup­
pose that Faraday had made fair conditions and that Home had
backed out. But supposing that Home had phenomena which he be­
lieved of utmost importance,—how could he be expected to admit, as a
preliminary to the examination of his “ effects,” that they were “ ut­
terly contemptible,” both in themselves and in any of their implications
for mankind? That would be to admit prior to examination that there
*76., II, 145-6.
4 This was the view taken at the time by Mr. F. T. Palgrave (Pall Mall Gazette,
May 16) and the editor (Pall Mall Gazette, May 22, 1868).
8Pall Mall Gazette, May 5, 1868.
22 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
was nothing worth examination. Suppose that Fulton, before his
steamboat was built, or his predecessor, had been told by one of
the scientific men of his day: “ Yes, I will examine your sketches and
ideas, if you will first admit that they are utterly contemptible and can
never be of use to mankind.” Would Fulton have ever conceded to
such a stipulation? Even the worst knave and the most arrant cheat,
if he is to be tried at all, deserves a fair trial.
Later 6Tyndall attempted to justify Faraday’s demand, although
surely in any other field of research he would have seen how insolent it
was, and declared that he was willing to investigate “ in the same
spirit.”
So deadly is the blinding power of prejudice, Tyndall not only
justified Faraday’s demand that a creed should be acknowledged as a
condition prior to examining facts, but his own acts and remarks in
connection with the only psychic experiment he ever witnessed were so
at variance with the scientific procedure which characterized him in his
own proper field that even so resolute a critic of the spiritistic hypoth­
esis as Podmore is obliged to condemn them.7
T homas H . H uxley was a great scientist, and, like Faraday and
Tyndall, disposed to reach decisions by calm examination of facts.
But when he was invited by the Committee of the London Dialectical
Society to assist in its investigations,8 he could make such reply
as this:9
“ Sir,—I regret that I am unable to accept the invitation of the
Council of the Dialectical Society to cooperate with a Committee for
the investigation of ‘ Spiritualism ’; and for two reasons. In the first
place, I have no time for such an inquiry, which would involve much
trouble and (unless it were unlike all inquiries of that kind I have
known) much annoyance. In the second place, I take no interest in
the subject. The only case of ‘ Spiritualism ’ I have had the oppor­
tunity of examining into for myself, was as gross an imposture as ever
came under my notice. But supposing the phenomena to be genuine—
they do not interest me. If anybody would endow me with the faculty
6 In Pall Mall Gazette, May 18, 1868. See Modem. Spiritualism, II, 145-6.
7lb., II, 147.
8 One of those invited was the philosopher George Henry Lewes, and in his letter
of declination he said (Report, 230): “ When any man says that phenomena are pro­
duced by no known physical laws, he declares that he knows the laws by which they
are produced.” Surely, Mr. Lewes’s logic was affected by the enchantment. If a
scientist, traveling in the heart of Africa, finds tracks which he says are produced by
no known animal, does he thereby declare that he knows the animal by which they
were produced?
9Report, edition of 1871, 229-30.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 23
of listening to the chatter of old women and curates in the nearest
cathedral town, I should decline the privilege, having better things
to do.
“And if the folk in the spiritual world do not talk more wisely and
sensibly than their friends report them to do, I put them in the sanae
category. /
“ The only good that I can see in a demonstration of the truth of
‘ Spiritualism * is to furnish an additional argument against suicide.
Better live a crossing-sweeper than die and be made to talk twaddle byI
a *medium ’ hired at a guinea a stance.”
A scientist objects to “ trouble and annoyance” ! Besides, he had
examined just one case, and that was an imposture! So a man might
report when told that off a certain shore rock-cod were plenty: “ But
I put my line in once, and caught a sculpin.” Not even the most
bigoted Spiritualist had ever denied that there were impostors. And
did the scientist mean to say that if a machine were invented that
should enable him to hear conversations in the nearest cathedral town,
and that were no nearer, say, than twenty miles, he would take no
interest, in case what he heard was the chatter of old women and
curates? And what contempt Huxley or Darwin would have felt for
the man so under the spell of emotional repulsion against the mere
thought that he could be biologically related to apes as to exclaim,
“ The only good I can see in the demonstration of such a claim is to
furnish an additional argument for suicide, in order to get beyond the
sight of such unpleasant relatives.” If they had patience to answer
such a piece of inconsequence at all, would they not have remarked, in
substance, that facts are neither determined nor abolished by one’s
emotions in relation to them?
T. B. MACAULAY
Referring to his History of England, the Encyclopedia Britannica
says that Macaulay “ spared no pains to ascertain the facts.” And
some biographer has told of the miles he would travel and the pains
he would take to be sure he committed no error of fact. But when he
came to write about that man who, perhaps more than any other
Englishman of the eighteenth century, approached the standard of a
psychical researcher of our day, the magic of the boundary paralyzed
his zeal for exactitude, and with the book which might have taught him
better, Boswell’s Life of Samuel Johnson, before his eyes, he could
write such statements as these:
“ Johnson, incredulous on all other points, was a ready believer in
24 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
miracles and apparitions. He would not believe in Ossian, but he
believed in the second sight. He would not believe in the earthquake
of Lisbon, but he believed in the Cock Lane Ghost.1
0
“ He once said, half jestingly we suppose, that for six months he
refused to credit the earthquake of Lisbon, and that he still believed
the extent of the calamity to be greatly exaggerated. Yet he related
with a grave face how old Mr. Cave, of St. John’s Gate, saw a ghost,
and how this ghost was something of a shadowy being. He went him­
self on a ghost hunt to Cock Lane; and was angry with John Wesley
for not following up another scent of the same kind with proper spirit
and perseverance. He rejects the Celtic genealogies and poems with­
out the least hesitation; yet he declares himself willing to believe the
stories of the second-sight.” 1
1
But Boswell had made it emphatically plain that Johnson did not
believe in the Cock Lane Ghost, but, on the other hand, was one of the
group which discovered the imposture, and the very man who sent to
the press its first exposure. He says:1
2
“ Churchill, in his poem entitled *The Ghost,’ availed himself of the
absurd credulity imputed to Johnson, and drew a caricature of him
under the name of ‘Pomposo,’ representing him as one of the believers
of the story of a Ghost in Cock Lane, which, in the year 1762, had
gained very general credit in London. Many of my readers, I am
convinced, are to this hour under the impression that Johnson was
thus foolishly deceived. It will therefore surprise them a good deal
when they are informed that Johnson was one of those by whom the
imposture was detected. The story became so popular that he thought
it should be investigated, and in this research he was assisted by the
Rev. Mr. Douglas, now Bishop of Salisbury, the great detector of
impostures, who informs me that after the gentlemen who went and
examined into the evidence were satisfied of its falsity, Johnson wrote
in their presence an account of it which was published in the news­
papers and Gentleman's Magazine, and undeceived the world.”
There is no evidence that Johnson believed in second-sight, as
affirmed in the first quotation from Macaulay. The version in the
second quotation that Johnson was willing to believe, is correct. But
what did Johnson mean when he said that he was willing to believe?
That he cherished a will to believe? That he was even anxious to
believe? No, simply that he was open-minded to evidence and was
10Essay on Ranke’s History of the Popes.
11 Essay on Boswell’s Life of Johnson.
12Life of Johnson, II, 72-73. Edited by Augustine Birrell, Philadelphia, 1901.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 25
courageous enough to say so. As a matter of fact, he never reached
the point of conviction. He thus sums up his examination of
“ second sight ” :
“ There are against it the seeming analogy of things confusedly
seen and little understood, and for it the indistinct cry of natural per­
suasion, which may be perhaps resolved at last into prejudice [in the
sense of prepossession] and tradition. I never could advance my curi­
osity to conviction, and came away at last only willing to believe.” 1
3
And Boswell says :1
4
“ The real fact then is that Johnson had a very philosophical mind,
and such a rational respect for testimony, as to make him submit his
understanding to what was authentically proved, though he could not
comprehend why it was so. Being thus disposed, he was willing to
inquire into the truth of any relation of supernatural agency, a general
belief of which has prevailed in all nations and ages. But so far was
he from being the dupe of implicit faith, that he examined the matter
with a jealous attention, and no man was more ready to refute its
falsehood when he had discovered it.”
There is no evidence for Macaulay’s allegation that Johnson “ was
a ready believer in miracles and apparitions,” but, on the contrary,
all indications which we discover either in his own works or in Bos­
well’s Life, one of the most unsparingly candid biographies ever
composed, are that he was not easy to convince of “ miracles and
apparitions.” It should be remembered that much which he uttered
on such subjects was drawn from him by the queries of Boswell, who
was so eager to test his mental reactions that he once asked the philos­
opher what he would do if he found himself shut up in a tower alone
with a new-born baby. Thus we know that if Johnson had seemed to
see and hear an apparition, this would not by itself have convinced him
of its objective reality.
“ We talked of belief in ghosts. He said, ‘ Sir, I make a distinction
between what a man can experience by the mere strength of his imagi­
nation, and what imagination cannot possibly produce. Thus, sup­
pose I should think that I saw a form, and heard a voice cry,
“ Johnson, you are a very wicked fellow, and unless you repent you
will certainly be punished,” my own unworthiness is so deeply im-1
8
18 W orks of Sam uel Johnson, 1825, IX, 107. 14L ife of Johnson, II, 72-73.
26 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
pressed upon my mind that I might imagine I thus saw and heard, and
therefore I should not believe that an external communication had been
made to me. But if a form should appear, and a voice should tell me
that a particular man had died at a particular place and a particular
hour, a fact which I had no apprehension of, nor any means of know­
ing, and the fact, with all its circumstances, should afterwards be
unquestionably proved, I should in that case be persuaded that I had
supernatural intelligence imparted to me.* ” 15
Again we are told that he said “ we could have no certainty of the
truth of supernatural appearances unless something was told us which
we could not know by ordinary means, or something done which could
not be done by supernatural power.” 18 He required proof, as does a
hard-headed psychic researcher today, only the latter would say
supernormal rather than “ supernatural.”
“Boswell asked him if there was not a story about the ghost of
Parson Ford. He replied that there was; “ according to the story,” a
waiter saw it twice while going down cellar, not knowing that Ford
was dead, and came down with a fever; that after he had recovered he
said he had delivered a message from the spirit to some women which
had a startling effect upon them; that “ Dr. Pellet, who was not a cred­
ulous man,” investigated the story and was convinced, and that Mrs.
Johnson made inquiries and was also convinced. Did he say that he
himself was convinced? Far from it; this is his own reaction: “ To be
sure the man had a fever, and this vision may have been the beginning
of it. But if the message to the women and their behavior upon it
were true as related, there was something supernatural. That rests
upon his word, and there remains.” 17
What was there in relating the story of the ghost at St. John’s
Gate to convict Johnson of credulity? He did not say, as one might
suppose from Macaulay’s language, that Mr. Cave did see a “ ghost,”
but that Mr. Cave said he did, and that Mr. Cave was an honest and
sensible man.18 Mr. Podmore later told many stories of people who
had seen “ ghosts,” 19 yet he did not believe in their objective reality.
It was not Johnson who said that the ghost was “ something of a
shadowy being,” but Cave, and Johnson simply responded to Boswell’s
desire to know how Cave described “ the appearance.” Macaulay’s
“ yet he related with a grave face ” is sheer imagination. He was
born sixteen years after Johnson’s death, knew nothing about the inci­
dent except what he read in Boswell’s Life, and had no right to pin
76, II, 72. i« 76, III, 8. ™ lb ., V, 52-3. 18lb ., III, 36. 19N ew V iew of G hosts.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 27
any particular expression upon Johnson’s countenance to suit his own
prejudices. It is just as likely that Johnson’s face wore a quizzical
smile. Or he may have answered Boswell quite casually—not gravely
—between sips of his eternal tea.
But we are told that he “ was angry with John Wesley for not
following up another scent of the same kind [as the Cock Lane Ghost]
with proper spirit and perseverance.” Certainly one’s impression from
these words would be that it was Johnson who believed in this case, and
probably Wesley who did not. And that in Boswell’s Life there could
be found evidence that Johnson became enraged with Wesley about it.
What does Boswell really say? Johnson had been talking about Wes­
ley, and Boswell inquired: “ Pray, sir, what has he made of the story
of the ghost ?”
“ Why, sir, he believes it, but not on sufficient authority. He did
not take time enough to examine the girl. It was at Newcastle, where
the ghost was said to have appeared to a young woman several times,
mentioning something about the right to an old house, advising appli­
cation to be made to an attorney, which was done; and, at the same
time, saying the attorney would do nothing, which proved to be the
fact. ‘This (says John) is a proof that a ghost knows our thoughts.’
“ Now (laughing) it is not necessary to know our thoughts to tell
that an attorney will sometimes do nothing. Charles Wesley, who is a
more stationary man, does not believe the story. I am sorry that John
did not take more pains to inquire into the evidence for it.
“ Miss Seward (with an incredulous smile): ‘What, sir! about a
ghost.’ Johnson (with solemn vehemence): ‘Yes, madam; this is a
question which, after five thousand years, is yet undecided; a question,
whether in theology or philosophy, one of the most important that can
come before the human understanding.’ ” 20
First we note the difference between being “ sorry ” and being
“ angry.” Next we observe that, while he is interested in John Wes­
ley’s story, he cannot accept it, for—
1. The proof is insufficient; Wesley did not take time to examine
the girl who told it.
2. The supposed prediction may easily have been a mere guess
with a large chance of fulfilment.
3. Charles Wesley, who is more inclined than John to be conserva­
tive, disbelieves the story.
20 L ife, IV, 299-300.
28 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Yet he regrets that John Wesley did not examine the evidence
better. It would have been worth while. For—
(a) The question is undecided after [at least] 5,000 years.
(b) It is one of the most important, whether of theology or philos­
ophy, which can come before the human understanding.
All this is in perfect harmony with the principles and prevailing
practice of our modern psychical researchers, though of course the
majority of savants still think it not at all important to decide the
question whether there are in the experiences, still repeating themselves
after the testimony of ages, any grains of supernormal truth, since
they have already, to their own satisfaction, answered the question
by fiat.
In the first passage quoted from Macaulay it is affirmed without
qualification that Johnson “ would not believe in the earthquake of
Lisbon.” In the second it is acknowledged that Johnson said this
“ half jestingly, we may suppose.” Then why bring up the remark,
if it was made half in jest? And without examination of the first
reports in the press, we cannot know that they were not exaggerated,
terrible as the disaster actually was. There was hardly more justice
in bringing forward the remark than there would be in assuming that
Johnson was serious in his standing pretense to a dislike of Scotland
and Scots. He was always joking about them, but this was only a
pose. He had a sense of humor so unruly that it intruded even into
his Dictionary. Witness his definition of oatmeal: “A grain used in
England as food for horses, in Scotland for men,” and of lexicog­
rapher: “A harmless drudge.” But it is said that the assistants he
chose to help him compile the Dictionary were mostly Scots, and his
familiar friend and accepted chronicler “ could not help ” being born
in Scotland.21
It is now plain that the historian’s prejudices unfitted him to deal
justly with psychic research, so far as that subject, not yet entitled,
developed itself in writings and utterances of Samuel Johnson.
We may fitly finish this section with a few paragraphs from this
mighty thinker, which will still further show how falsely Macaulay
pictured him. They were not originally directed to the discussion of
the questions embraced in what is now known as psychical research,
but are peculiarly applicable to these discussions. It would be well if
all parties to the great debate laid them to heart.
21 But does coupling Johnson’s disbelief in the Ossianic myth with his “ half
jesting ” skepticism in regard to the actual earthquake of Lisbon, indicate that
Macaulay himself did believe in MacPherson’s account of the antiquity of his poem?
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 29
The first bids us remember that the negative side of a ques­
tion can always manufacture arguments against evidence, however
overwhelming.
“ It is always easy to be on the negative side. If a man were now
to deny that there is salt upon the table, you could not reduce him to
an absurdity. Come, let us try this a little further. I deny that
Canada is taken, and I can support my denial by pretty good argu­
ments. The French are a much more numerous people than we; and
it is not likely that they would allow us to take it. *But the ministry
have assured us, in all the formality of the Gazette, that it is taken.’
Very true. But the ministry have put us to an enormous expense by
the war in America, and it is their interest to persuade us that we have
got something for our money. *But the fact is confirmed by thou­
sands of men who were at the taking of it.’ Ay, but these men have
still more interest in deceiving us. They don’t want that we should
think the French have beaten them, but that they have beat the
French. Now suppose you should go over and find that it is really
taken, that would only satisfy yourself; for when you come home we
will not believe you. We will say you have been bribed. Yet, sir,
notwithstanding all these plausible objections, we have no doubt that
Canada is really ours. Such is the weight of common testimony.” 22
Objections, he goes on to say, may be raised against anything, even
each of opposites, one of which must certainly be true.
“ The human mind is so limited that it cannot take in all the parts
of a subject, so that there may be objections raised against anything.
There are objections against a plenum and objections against a
vacuum; yet one of them must certainly be true.”
The professional critic and objector can argue against the most
firmly established positions, but by constantly seeking to evade the
force of evidence, reason is violated and its machinery gradually
thrown out of gear.
“ I never spoke but to contradict. . . . I sometimes exalted vege­
tables to sense, and sometimes degraded animals to mechanisms. . . .
Having demonstrated the folly of erecting edifices like the Pyramid of
Egypt, I frequently hinted my suspicion that the world had been
long deceived, and that they were to be found only in the narratives of
travelers. . . .
22L ife, H, 92-83.
30 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ Having now violated my reason and accustomed myself to in­
quire, not after proofs, but objections till my ideas were confused,
my judgment embarrassed and my intellect distorted. . . .
“ Engaging reason against its own determinations. . . . Argu-
mental delirium.” 28
The resolute doctrinaire, who opposes experiments which refute
him, will ingeniously invent all sorts of subterfuges to becloud the
clearest demonstration and the will to contend becomes at length
befuddlement and sincere infatuation.
“ I have heard of one that, having advanced some erroneous doc­
trines in philosophy, refused to see the experiments by which they were
confuted, and the observations of every day will give new proofs with
how much industry subterfuges and evasions are sought to decline the
pressure of resistless arguments, how often the state of the question
is altered, how often the antagonist is wilfully misrepresented and in
how much perplexity the clearest positions are involved by those whom
they happen to oppose. . . .
“ There is yet another danger in this practice: men who cannot
deceive others are very often successful in deceiving themselves: they
weave their sophistry till their own reason is entangled and repeat
their positions till they are credited by themselves; by often contending
they grow sincere in the cause and by long wishing for demonstrative
arguments they at last bring themselves to fancy that they have
found them.” *
24
PROFESSOR SIMON NEWCOMB
i
j Professor Simon Newcomb, head of the department of Astronomy
! in Johns Hopkins’ University, director of the United States Naval
Observatory, editor of the American Journal of Mathematics, etc.,
| published an article in Nineteenth Century for January, 1909, in the
| course of which he said:
t
j “ The volumes of Phantasms of the Living might be continued an-
I nually without end, could all the cases be discovered. The few hundred
I cases published are actually fewer than what we should expect as the
\ result of known conditions. There is therefore no proof of telepathy
| in any of the wonders narrated in these volumes, and in the publica-
l tions of the Psychical Society.”
28Rambler, Feb. 12, 1751, Essay on the “ Prejudices and Caprices of Criticism."
24lb.. Essay of July 3, 1750. For a fuller discussion see my article entitled
“ Samuel Johnson as a Psychic Researcher,” Journal A. S. P. R., XI, 701-19.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 31
In the course of his extended comments on this article, Dr. J. H .,
Hyslop said:26 I
“ In the usual courts of science a man is supposed to stick to his \
last, and would not venture to express an opinion outside his special \
department. But it seems that any man is qualified to speak on
psychic research, though it is much more complicated than normal )
psychology, on which Professor Newcomb would not think of /
speaking.”
Farther on, Dr. Hyslop said:26
“ The kind of objections presented to the alleged evidence are the
commonplaces of the subject, and Professor Newcomb does not tell
the reader that he perhaps owes his whole knowledge of them to the
very men whose conclusions he criticizes and rejects. He speaks as if
he were instructing mere boys on the precautions necessary against
illusion in judging these phenomena. Of course, this is all that a man
can do who intends to repudiate telepathy. To treat it, seriously, as
a probable truth, would be to minimize the usual limitations of the
evidence, and opposition would have nothing to rest upon. We all
know, at this period, what objections lurk in the possibilities of chance
coincidence, guessing, illusion, hallucination, etc. But if we cannot at
least mention that the authors of the work quoted had tested chance
coincidence on the most liberal assumptions, and rejected it in terms
that have never been disputed by the calculus of probabilities we ought
not to discuss the problem at all. Professor Newcomb only indulges
in the most palpable generalities in this matter, and one would imagine
that no one had ever thought of the specific questions that had to be
investigated in the case. But the Phantasms of the Living exhausted
the limitations of the evidence, and the method and conclusion were
repeated in the Census of Hallucinations,27 whose conclusion was that
the apparitions of the dying, even after eliminating the majority of
cases collected, and limiting the calculation to only 52 cases out of
350, were not due to chance, and that the calculus of probabilities were
such that this view was proved. Professor Newcomb should have met
this by much more definite proof than the general and unsupported
assertion that a 'priori expectation—as if science could tolerate the
a priori—would favor a much larger number.”
Professor Newcomb was the first President of the first American2
5
25Journal A. S. P. R., Ill, 256. 26lb., 270-71. 27Proceedings S. P. R., Vol. X.
32 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Society for Psychical Research, founded in 1885. In order better to
appreciate the spirit in which he occupied the chair of an organization
' whose expressed purposes were the same as those of the Society for
I Psychical Research in England, established three years earlier, let us
read an extract from the inaugural address of Prof. Henry Sidgwick,
the first President of the English Society.
“ We are all agreed that the present state of things is a scandal to
the enlightened age in which we live. That the dispute as to the real­
ity of these marvelous phenomena,—of which it is quite impossible to
exaggerate the scientific importance, if only a tenth part of what has
been alleged by generally credible witnesses could be shown to be true,
—I say it is a scandal that the dispute as to the reality of these phe­
nomena should still be going on, that so many competent witnesses
should have declared their belief in them, that so many others should
be profoundly interested in having the question determined, and yet
that the educated world, as a body, should still be simply in the atti­
tude of incredulity.
“ Now the primary aim of our Society, the thing which we all unite
to promote, whether as believers or non-believers, is to make a sustained
and systematic attempt to remove this scandal in one way or another.
Some of those whom I address feel, no doubt, that this attempt can
only lead to the proof of most of the alleged phenomena; some, again,
think it probable that most, if not all, will be disproved; but regarded
. as a Society, we are quite unpledged, and as individuals, we are all
agreed that any particular investigation that we may make should be
carried on with a single-minded desire to ascertain the facts, and
without any foregone conclusion as to their nature.”
The address of President Newcomb 28 was not characterized by
this fair and open-minded spirit. While he formally agreed that it
might be well to investigate claims of psychic phenomena, he argues
throughout against the likelihood that any of them will prove valid.
He paid attention especially to claims of thought-transference and
dealt with them in a disparaging fashion, comparing attempts to
ascertain whether they are ever valid to attempts to discover whether
there is in existence gold of a different density than that of the gold
with which science is acquainted. He hinted that the two inquiries are
equally foolish, though some useful by-products might accrue from
the first-named.
Referring to alleged incidents of persons experiencing the “ visual
28Proceedings A. S. P. R., July, 1886.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 33
image of some absent friend or relative in a state of suffering, or the
voice of a speaker calling aloud,” he continues:
“ Such is the order of events as commonly described; but, if de­
scribed as they actually come to knowledge, they would appear in a
different form. The experience of the observer would be: ‘ I heard
that my friend was dead or that he had met with an accident and
cried aloud. After inquiring when the death or accident occurred, I
remembered that about that time I heard this very exclamation or
saw his image before my sight.’ ”
Very well, if it was settled that such visual or auditory experiences,
dreams, etc., are never recorded or related before the coincidental event
is learned, then it would be equally foolish to spend pains upon such
claims. Professor Newcomb does not expressly say this, but no other
conclusion can follow.
He proceeds to allege that he himself frequently was unable to tell
whether some memory was of a dream or of an actual occurrence. Of
course the inference from this autobiographic testimony was that be­
cause he was frequently puzzled to distinguish past real occurrences
from dreams, everyone else must have the same difficulty, and because
he never directly recorded or related a dream which for some reason
stood out as exception, so as to fix its verity, no one else ever does so.
The last and cryptic sentence is:
“ I even venture to say that, if thought-transference is real, we
shall establish the reality more speedily by leaving it out of consider­
ation, and collecting facts for study, than by directing our attention
directly to it.”
He did not explain how we are to collect facts on telepathy and
study them without “ taking them into consideration.”
Professor Newcomb was a mathematical expert, yet when he en­
tered the field of psychical research to discuss what he knew little
about, he was capable of supposing that there is one chance in a
million of drawing from a bag containing one million grains of corn,
the one black grain which it contains. Abstract mathematics is one
thing, however, and additional considerations have to be taken into
account in applied mathematics. Dr. J. H. Hyslop showed29 that,
to contain that number of grains, a bag would have to be of more than
"Journal A. S. P. R., Ill, 272-76.
34 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
three bushels capacity, and if the black grain were at the bottom one
would have no chance whatever of drawing it, since his arm would not
reach so far; whereas, if it happened to be on top, the chance would
be much greater than one in a million.
Again, Professor Newcomb said that if the black grain were drawn
at the first attempt “ we should justly claim that there was some un­
fairness in the proceedings.” The fact is that we would have no right
to claim this as a fact, since there would be as much chance (provided
all the grains were equally accessible) of drawing the black one at the
first trial as at the hundred thousandth or the millionth. It would be
indeed very unlikely that it should be drawn at any particular trial,
which is precisely what I mean when I say of a mediumistic statement
which is correct against the chances of 100,000 to 1, that this is un­
likely as the result of chance. But I have never said, and no careful
psychical researcher would say, that any one such instance would be
such that a “ claim ” could be based upon it. Perhaps Professor New­
comb is only unfortunate in his language, for he continues: “ If, on a
thousand of trials of this kind, the black grain were drawn several
times, our suspicion would ripen into a practical certainty.” That,
substantially, is the situation in many of our psychical cases, and such
is the foundation of my practical certainty that (all normal knowl­
edge having been excluded) chance is not the explanation in some of
the cases with which I have had to do and which I have mathematically
appraised. So many hits in the same group, a part of them against
enormous odds, achieve practical certainty. No human being has yet
hinted at any possible leak in the network of precautions surrounding
the utterances of the Mother of Doris.30 Let us suppose there is none
in the corn-drawing experiment, and that every grain were equally
accessible, and then compare the cases.
Professor Newcomb says that “ several ” successes in a thousand
trials would amount to practical certainty that the explanation was
not chance. Three drawings would be “ several,” and certainly Pro­
fessor Newcomb would have admitted that five were sufficient to con­
vince him to that effect. Every drawing of the black grain out of the
million in a thousand trials would defeat chance expectation in the
ratio of 1,000 to 1. Five successes would defeat chance expectation
1,000,000,000,000,000 to 1. But the sum total of the Mother of Doris
statements concerning the past, plus one interjected purporting to
be from Dr. Hodgson, were, as has been elaborately shown, against8
0
*
80See The Mother o/ Doris (Proceedings A. S. P. R. for 1923, 8-17) for the pre­
cautionary measures, and 184-216 for the mathematical evaluation.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 35
chance expectation in the relation of 4,500,000,000,000,000,000,000,-
000,000,000,000. If, in spite of all the precautions displayed in the
printed report not to overvalue any of the items which entered into
the problem, it be thought—though no one has yet suggested this, in
print or orally—that some may have been overvalued, then divide the
enormous figure by 1,000,000,000,000,000,000, and the result will still
be more than four times what to Professor Newcomb, the mathema­
tician, meant, and very properly meant, “ practical certainty.”
Without any such unjustified division, the figure in the Mother of
Doris case is more than four billion times a billion times larger than
that which sufficed for practical certainty in the case of the corn.
My results in one single experiment, lasting not half an hour and
with every word uttered taken into account, that experiment being
with Mrs. King,81were exceeded by chance expectation five quadrillions
to one. As we have seen, a result combining to make one quadrillion
to one was a “ practical certainty ” to the mathematician and
astronomer.
DR. AM Y E. T A N N E R
Amy E. Tanner, Ph.D., in 1910 published a book entitled Studies
in Spiritism,82 Since she was for three years the “ research coadju­
tor ” of Professor G. Stanley Hall, President of Clark University, and
was pronounced by him “ an able and indefatigable worker ” *
88 and
author of an excellent work on child psychology, we would expect to
see in these studies in a new field marks of the scholastic virtues
ascribed to her. But alas!it happened to her exactly as in the parable
with which this article begins. The result was one of the most awful
travesties of analysis and criticism ever seen. Dr. Hyslop reprinted
in the Journal of the A. S. P. R.84 every word which Dr. Tanner wrote
in reference to incidents of his sittings with Mrs. Piper, and con­
fronted them with the facts in the record which she had consulted.
The exhibit is almost terrifying. It appears beyond question that she)
persistently avoids the strongest incidents; that she persistently picks
out a few details of the incident which she deigns to notice, in order to
deride them, while silent upon important particulars and avoiding
altogether collective significance, that in many cases she materially
mis-states, or even reverses the facts; that she persistently distorts
the relation of the facts; that she repeatedly misrepresents Dr.
See Proceedings A. S. P. R., XVIII, 204-18. «2 d Appleton & Co., 1910.
88Studies in Spiritism, p. xxxiii. 84 January, 1911.
36 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Hyslop’s arguments and opinions; that she repeatedly declares that he
regarded a particular incident as evidential when he, by express state­
ment, did not; that she repeatedly declares that he regarded a state­
ment by a “ communicator ” as correct, when he did not, but the
contrary; and that she discounts the conditions of the sittings by sheer
flights of imagination, without any basis for so doing in the record she
is studying, or even in defiance of what it says. I give one incident as
Dr. Tanner reports it, and it is a fair sample. The facts are placed
in brackets.
“ James McClellan said that his brother John would be there soon,
the context indicating plainly that his brother would die soon and join
him. It turned out, however, that John had already died, nearly a year
before [False; the record plainly stated that he died more than nine
months afterward] and of course the control proceeds to explain his
ambiguous phrases, and Hyslop accepts the explanation [No such
explanation was made and, consequently, none such was accepted].
“ The same control said that the same John had had a sunstroke
from which he never fully recovered [False; he said that John's
brother David had had the sunstroke]. After much labor, Hyslop
found that he [No, not John, but a David] had been a little overcome
by the heat, but had never suffered permanently from it, and yet this
statement is regarded as correct.” [Doubly untrue, since Dr. Hyslop
stated that it was another David related to John who was affected by
heat, and also that according to the children of this David, there had
been no permanent effects, though doctors declared that one never fully
recovers from even slight sunstroke.]
The following is all that Dr. Tanner reports of a complicated
group of statements in the mediumistic record:
“ The father spoke of visits to Hyslop’s brother which Hyslop did
not remember. But do not most fathers visit their children? Any one
could make such a reference without knowing anything whatever about
a family.”
[Who would dream from this that the “ visit ” was correctly re­
lated to a previous trip west, that the visit was not to one but to two
brothers, that the brothers were correctly named, and that the com­
municator correctly stated that he went west to live after the visit?]
Instances of the constructive use of imagination are found in such
statements as these: that Dr. Hodgson took no stenographic records,
that Hyslop said that in some sittings he himself spoke no word, that
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 37
“ minerals are something practically every child makes a collection of
at one time ”—all untrue, and the last false as tested by every
reader’s recollection.
In the Proceedings of the S. P. R.38 Mrs. Sidgwick politely demon­
strates Dr. Tanner’s perverse analyses, her reckless misstatements
and her singular logic, and says that she could “ multiply instances of
inaccuracy and misrepresentation.” One is found in the “ attempt to
provide a common train of thought in three automatists to account for
cross-correspondences on the words ‘ cup ’ and ‘Diana,’ and (in two of
them) references to Macbeth.” Miss Tanner says that she got a clue
“ in the fact that Henry Irving played *Macbeth ’ and ‘The Cup ’ in
London that winter.” But the facts were that Irving died a year or
more before “ that winter,” and never acted in the two named plays in
the same year.
I myself, for the sheer fun of it, compared many other of Dr.
Tanner’s summaries of incidents with the original records, and found
them almost without exception atrocious to the point of becoming
comic. It seemed to me that she was incapable of grasping the salient
points in any paragraph more than two inches in length. Dr. Hyslop
found in the 27 incidents from his record 148 misstatements, and a
host of omissions of important particulars, while she was silent on 38
incidents more significant than any she treated in her fashion.
I have referred above to summaries by Dr. Tanner examined by
myself. A single example out of scores will be given. It is to be found
on page 119 of Studies in Spiritism, and is supposed to represent the
facts of an incident told in Proceedings S. P. R., Vol. XX, pages
209-10, and as the original narrative comprises but a page and a quar­
ter, this should not have been a difficult task for a doctor of philos­
ophy. Here is the way Dr. Tanner puts it:
“ Mrs. Thompson had asked Mrs. Verrall to try for writing on a
certain evening between nine and ten. At this time the script wrote:
[sic] ‘There is someone with Mrs. Thompson, another woman, taller
and slighter—she helps her to write—the message is not clear to you.
I do not know the house. I cannot take you there.’ A week later, and
before she had heard anything from Mrs. Thompson, the hand wrote,
‘ Mrs. Thompson named a name, but not yours—Nelly could help if
she could come—she finds it hard to write but would easily speak.’
“ Later, Mrs. Verrall heard that on the first evening Mrs. Thomp­
son had with her a friend answering to the description, and that Mrs.
8» XXV, 102-108.
38 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Thompson had referred by name to Mrs. Verrall’s daughter, but we
are left ignorant as to whether the place of the sitting was an unknown
place, or whether from the way Mrs. Thompson made her request, Mrs.
Verrall did not have some reason to infer that someone would be with
her while she was sitting. Of course, the description of the woman is
too indefinite to have value.”
Inexcusable Omissions
Dr. Tanner, while quoting Mrs. Verrall’s script of April 22, closing
with the words, “ I do not know the house. I cannot take you there,”
obviously signifying that the communicator was not able to identify
the house where Mrs. Thompson and the other woman were, omits her
important script of April 24, which apparently does profess to identify
the house. On that date, after “ Wensday ” [*ic] there came: “ the
case has been identified—but they wait for more about the room.
There is a portrait hanging near the fire. Edmund Gurney books in
cases in the room—no colored picture.” She omits Mrs. Verrall’s
statement that “ those who know the rooms in Hanover Square [rooms
of the S. P. R.] will recognize the intention in the above.” She omits
the fact that Mrs. Thompson and the woman did sit in the rooms of
the S. P. R. to write. She omits to note that the mention of Wednesday
in connection with those rooms corresponds with the fact that it was
on Wednesday that Mrs. Thompson and the woman wrote in them.
Although she quotes the fact that Mrs. Thompson asked Mrs. Verrall
to try for writing between nine and ten on a certain evening [April
22], she omits that while Mrs. Verrall then expected that Mrs. Thomp­
son would also write at that hour, she had no expectation that the
latter would do this in the S. P. R. rooms or other than her home.
She omits Mrs. Verrall’s declaration that she fully expected that Mrs.
Thompson would be alone. Quoting Mrs. Verrall’s script of April 30:
“ Mrs. Thompson named a name, but not yours,” she omits the fact
that, as stated, Mrs. Thompson’s script did not, as would perhaps
have been expected, name Mrs. Verrall. Admitting the fact that during
Mrs. Thompson’s experiment, Mrs. Verrall’s daughter was mentioned,
Dr. Tanner omits what makes this significant, the fact that Mrs. Ver­
rall’s daughter sat with her mother at the experiment of April 22.
She omits that Mrs. Thompson had no knowledge that Mrs. Verrall’s
daughter was to sit with her, or that the daughter had also experi­
mented with her own automatic writing.
Contradictions of Mrs. Verrall's testimony
Not only was Dr. Tanner guilty of all these vital omissions (as if
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 89
a man should go through a house, tearing out part of the foundation
wall and ripping away sills and braces and rafters here and there, then
complain that the house is not sound), but she makes statements
directly contrary to Mrs. Verrall’s express testimony.
1. “ We are left ignorant as to whether the place of the sitting
was an unknown place ”—i. e., the rooms of the British Society at
Hanover Square, where Mrs. Thompson and her friend sat on
April 22.
Whatever this statement means, it is untrue. We are not “ left
ignorant ” as to Nelly the control, for she said, “ I do not know the
house.” As to Mrs. Thompson, if she did not know the place she
would not have gone there for the sitting. Mrs. Verrall, being a mem­
ber of the Council of the Society, certainly knew the place. But Dr.
Tanner probably means that we are left ignorant as to whether Mrs.
Verrall knew or suspected that Mrs. Thompson would sit in that
place. But this is untrue. Mrs. Verrall expressly says, “ I . . . fully
expected that at the hour arranged she would sit alone and at her own
house.” What more could Mrs. Verrall affirm to lift the cloud of Dr.
Tanner’s ignorance respecting this point?
2. “ We are left ignorant as to . . . whether from the way that
Mrs. Thompson made her request, Mrs. Verrall did not have some
reason to infer that some one would be with her while she was sitting.”
It is wholly incorrect to say we are left ignorant when a statement has
been made explicitly covering the point. Mrs. Verrall says: “As we
were parting, Mrs. Thompson asked me to try for automatic writing
between 9 and 10 in the evening of April 22,” and again, “ I . . . fully
expected that at the hour arranged she would he alone and at her own
house.” How could Mrs. Verrall more forcibly have declared that she
had no “ reason to infer that some one would be with her? ” It is true
that we cannot depend upon the positive statements of some people.
For instance, I should be justified in suspecting that any given page,
yet unexamined, in Dr. Tanner’s book contains misstatements, since
nearly every page I have examined contains such. But Mrs. Verrall
was not only a highly accomplished woman, but her whole treatise in
which the incident we are discussing is found shows her to have been
a critical and cautious one, aware of the pitfalls which psychical
research must keep in mind, and decidedly disposed to present any pos­
sibly explanatory particulars. It is not intelligent to treat her as
though she were an ignoramus of careless speech, and to intimate that
besides what she declares was said, something else was said whose vital
importance Mrs. Verrall had not the sense to recognize.
40 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Illegitimate reasoning
1. To suppose that Mrs. Thompson actually hinted that she was
not only going to be accompanied but that the person would be a
woman, and that the woman was taller and slighter than herself, that
Mrs. Verrall received this information, and that neither of the ladies
had any recollection that the information had been given, when one of
them, at least, was so keenly aware of the criteria of evidence, is rather
brazen. But even if Mrs. Verrall had inferred or guessed that “ some­
one would be with ” Mrs. Thompson, it would not follow that the
someone'would be (a) a woman, (b) taller and (c) slighter than Mrs.
Thompson. Dr. Tanner’s wheelbarrow breaks down with this load.
The woman was unknown to Mrs. Verrall, so that even the mention of
her name would not have suggested her description.
2. “ Of course, the description of the woman is too indefinite to
have value.” This is an illogical declaration. Suppose the person
with Mrs. Thompson had been a man, thicker and shorter than herself,
would not Dr. Tanner have seized upon the discrepancies? The agree­
ments, then, have value. They are not conclusive, of course, but they
have value, as far as they go.
DR. G. STANLEY HALL
That distinguished psychologist must also have been affected by
the magic of the enchanted boundary, else he would not have given his
imprimatur to such a book as we have described, in a lengthy Intro­
duction, ending with the words:
“ It is significant, too, that the chief works of the English Psychic
Research Society have never before had a searching, impartial, critical
estimate, often as they have been worked over by believers. Those
with skepticism enough to have been impartial have never been able to
arouse interest enough to treat these studies thoroughly. Thus, I
cannot but hope that this book will mark a turn of the tide.”
A row of exclamation points ought to come after each of these
sentences in turn. What bewitched Dr. Hall that he took all of his
assistant’s analyses on faith, and never looked up the original in a
single case? Or did he, and was the spell even then too much for his
discernment? To think that the book which he endorsed and which he
piously hoped would mark a turn in the tide, has now been for years
the laughing-stock of all who know the facts! There is evidence that
the spell was really upon him, for he could not even get the title of the
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 41
Society for Psychical Research correctly, and actually intimated that
to be skeptical is the preparation for impartiality.
Dr. Hyslop showed that Dr. Hall, while suspecting without cause
the completeness of the records made by psychical researchers, by his
own admission was guilty of making incomplete records of his own
sittings with Mrs. Piper. Mrs. Sidgwick points out his faults of
experimentation, which psychical researchers have learned to avoid.
And Andrew Lang36 makes merry with “ the method and logic of
your contributions to the book of Dr. Tanner.” One funny instance
which he mentions is where the ostensible communicator Hodgson com­
plained with reason of Dr. Hall’s “ awful whoppers,” says “ I think I
told you so before,” and Dr. Hall remarks, in the book, “ which he cer­
tainly had not.” And yet he certainly had, as any reader of the book
can see.37 Mr. Lang turns Dr. Hall’s words back on him: “ It is you
who here *display the inability that we should expect from a secondary
personality.’ ” What is this but another way of saying that the erst- ]
while alert psychologist, having crossed the fateful boundary, has
fallen under the spell of an enchantment? 1
In a later fulmination against Sir Oliver Lodge,38 a typical piece
of oracular generalization, Hall begins by calling Sir Oliver a “ noble­
man,” which he is not, and saying that he was “ once of high standing
as a physicist,” as though he had ever fallen from his estate. He asks,
“ Who ever heard of an up-to-date psychologist of the normal who
advocates spiritism,” “ unless we except Mr. Myers ? ” And why
should we except him—presumably because to accept spiritism made
him not “ up-to-date ” ! And yet later he has to regret the “ pro­
foundly sympathetic attitude of William James,” but then, “ he died
before the psychoanalytic movement was felt in this country,” so can­
not be called “ up-to-date.” To say nothing of the fact, to be ad­
verted to later, that psychoanalysis cannot in the nature of things
solve the problems which exist, I happen to know of three psycho­
analysts, one of them of wide repute, who are interested in the appear­
ances as of supernormal information in crystal gazing, psychometry,
etc. But this very fact would probably make them old fogies to Dr.
Hall, who scorns telepathy as he does spiritism. He affirms that
psychologists believe that coincidenceslind tKe similarity of structure
and function of the minds of friends and relatives are sufficient to
explain all so-called telepathic phenomena. Friends and relatives are
unnecessarily lugged in, as the phenomena are not limited to these as*
8
8
86Proceedings S. P. R., XXV, 90-101. 37Studies in Spiritism, Cf. 255 with 228.
88 Boston Herald, Feb. 12, 1920.
42 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
agents and percipients. But even in cases where they were—think of
attempting to explain in this way the following: the agent imagines
“ Dostoievsky writing in a very bare room, I think in France, and
hearing the bailiff people banging at the door, and pretending he is not
in the house,” and Professor Gilbert Murray says, “ I think it is out
of a book—it’s Russian—it’s a man inside a house and the people
beating and beating on the door outside—and he’s keeping quite still
so they shan’t know he is there—it’s a big sort of a bare room and he
is a writer—seems a mad sort of person—don’t somehow feel as if I was
going to get it—I think it is in France—but he must be Russian—I
don’t feel as if they were going to murder him at all—I should think
it is a story of Dostoievsky, that I can’t get—I have a feeling that I
can’t be right—are they bailiffs?” 89 Will Dr. Hall say that he
believes that this result came about through coincidences and the
similarity of structure and function of the minds of relatives? Let
him say that a marvelous degree of hyperesthesia is the explanation,
let him declare that there was a general conspiracy of S. P. R. officials
and others to defraud, but let him not foist upon us the similarity-of-
structure-and-function formula, for it is not only incredible, but fairly
unthinkable in application to such a result.
Dr. Hall ends his article with the words: “ I insist that there is no
single golden grain of truth in all this mass of spiritualistic dross
which will stand the assay of modern psychology. If there is, as so
many affirm, what is it? ” But where is the evidence that he has ever
attempted the assay of any case upon which psychical researchers
,place emphasis ? Or that he has ever experimented himself, except to
qirove that suggestion can paint upon the subconscious of the psychic
«U sorts of pictures, which no psychical researcher worthy of the name
questions? If he is willing to attempt the assay of one case which
covers not more than fifty printed pages, and to print his explanation,
he has only to say so, and the documents will be placed in his hands.*
40
This case has been recommended to a number of psychologists and
| ^.thers who use confident language similar to that just quoted, since it
is one of comparative brevity, and the attendant circumstances singu­
larly easy to appraise, and they all dodge it. There is one exception,
a psychologist did promise to undertake the task and to publish his
explanation; he has a copy of the record still, after nearly three
years,41 but has unfortunately been “ unable to find time.”
30Proceedings S. P. R., XXIX, 109.
40 Dr. Hall (1846-1924) was living when the article in Psyche was printed.
41 Now nine years.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 43
HUGO MUENSTEfiBBfte—
The late Professor of Psychology at Harvard University wrote an
all-round attack upon psychical research which Dr. Hyslop answered
in the Journal of the A. S. P. R.424
3 Therein he garbled records,48
though not so badly as Dr. Tanner had done. He scattered wild and
random statements which are not even consistent with each other. He
declared that in what professed to be communications from Dr. Hodg­
son through Mrs. Piper “ there is nothing characteristic of the man
who purports to speak,” though his knowledge of Hodgson’s charac­
teristics was exceedingly limited; that “ everything is characteristic of
the woman,” though he did not know Mrs. Piper and refused oppor­
tunities to study her; that Hodgson’s “ idioms blended with her mem­
ory of the man,” although he had just declared that the messages
contained nothing characteristic of him. He depicted Dr. Hodgson as
having been “ absorbed by one passion ” for many years, “ to under­
stand the conditions of existence after death—devoting his whole
scholarly career to this one group of problems and discussing them a
thousand times with his most intimate friends,” though Dr. Hodgson
had no such passion, the conditions of existence after death were never
his quest, and he never discussed them once with one of his most inti­
mate friends, Dr. Hyslop.44* Finally Muensterberg blurted out the
42 January, 1908.
43 Dr. Hyslop’s condemnation of this procedure is scorching. “ One of the most
inexcusable acts of a man pretending to be scientific and to be fairly discussing his
opponent’s facts and theories is to quote the part of his evidence which the writer
does not value and to omit that which he does value. It is amazing to see the
evasion involved in the treatment of one of the cross-references. Professor Muen­
sterberg wants to ridicule certain passages and selects those to which I attached no
value at all and neglects to tell the reader what I did value. The passage I have in
mind is the one on pages 129-132 of the Journal. Professor Muensterberg quotes
only what he finds on page 1291! Of course he did not dare quote the rest of it
and make such assertions as he wanted to make in a newspaper article. We should
apply his instrument for getting people to tell the truth in such situations. He
escapes being convicted out of his own mouth only by a policy of prevarication.
A list of a hundred words here ought to make him stammer like the poor girl whom
he found to have been eating chocolate candy and lying about it. . . . Professor
Muensterberg does not quote a single incident to which I attached importance. He
garbles what I said and allows the reader to think that there are no better facts in
the record than those to which I myself gave no evidential value alone.”
44This is what Muensterberg said:
“ Fancy a scholar, through many years of his life, absorbed by one passion,—to
understand the conditions of existence after death—devoting his whole scholarly
career to this one group of problems, and discussing them a thousand times with his
most intimate friends. And now he enters into the land of eternal mystery; all the
secrets which no living man has ever grasped are unveiled to him, and, with full con­
sciousness of personal identity he at last attains the power of direct communication
with his friends; he can be the first to convince mankind and to transform the hopes
of millions into a certainty,—and in this glorious position he speaks, or rather
gossips about the most trivial and most insignificant matters 1” Again:—
44 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
truth, that his hostility to any possibility of there being evidence of
the existence of spirits was in major part due to emotion. “ Behind
the mere argument of reason stands more powerfully still the argument
of emotion,” he says, “ his [the psychologist’s] whole being abhors this
repellant caricature of immortality,” etc. Since science utterly dis­
cards emotion as a test of objective fact, what brought Professor
Muensterberg so completely under its vitiating influence, and caused
him even to confess the fact without shame, if not the magic of the
enchanted boundary?
Another article by Dr. Muensterberg, entitled “ Psychology and
Mysticism,” was answered by Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, of Oxford Uni­
versity, in what I take to be one of the finest pieces of polished satire
in the language, as well as one of the most unanswerable expositions
of the folly of scientific obscurantism in reference to the.subject matter
of psychical research.45 He shows the erstwhile astute Harvard pro­
fessor floundering in a morass of blunders, fallacies, and “ ridiculous
and incoherent reasonings ” ; that he impresses uninformed or careless
readers through a show of academic authority, sheer dogmatic asser­
tion, juggling with definitions and terms, and even by a smoke-screen
of metaphysical unintelligibility. He compares the onslaught against
psychic research with the famous prosecution of Dreyfus.
“ Perhaps in a critical age, such ex cathedra pronouncements, even
of the greatest scientific dignitaries, are not as safe nor as effective as
the lofty and scornful silence affected by most of his confreres on the
General Staff of the Army of Science. The Goliath of Authority can­
not stalk forth into the field of debate without a risk that a little pellet
of reason may pierce through the thickness of his skull and put an end
to his pretensions. For too often the effect of authority is impaired
by argument, and the impressiveness of a judgment is destroyed by
divulging the reasons on which it was based. Professor Muensterberg
“And even if he were unskilful in proving his existence, he would have furnished
his friend Hyslop at least with some new insight into the wonders of the over-world
which they discussed so often.”
This is a part of Hyslop’s reply: “ It was not Dr. Hodgson’s one absorbing passion
to understand the conditions of the existence after death. Professor Muensterberg,
with his one conversation on hypnotism, was not likely to discover what that passion
was, especially as he admits they both carefully avoided conversation on it I I
happen to know that it was not. I had sixteen years of intimate acquaintance and
frequent conversation with him, and we never once even talked about the subject.
His passion was for evidence that there was such a world, not what it was like, and
he accepted precisely the same view of what is evidence for it that I hold, and spent
his intellectual efforts in finding it. He did not waste time on investigating what
such a world was like.”
48Proceedings S. P. R., XIV, 348-65.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 45
should have remembered Lord Mansfield’s advice to the man who un­
dertook the job of judging what he did not understand, or, as one
must say in Professor Muensterberg’s case, what he would not under­
stand. For Professor Muensterberg’s inability to grasp the nature of
the case for Psychical Research is manifestly of an emotional rather
than of an intellectual character, and affords as fine an example of
the effect on the mind of a passionate *will to disbelieve ’ as I have had
the pleasure of meeting. I am accordingly confident of expressing
only the sentiment of every psychical researcher when I thank Pro­
fessor Muensterberg for the interesting light he has (however inadver­
tently) thrown on the psychology of psychologists, and the nature of
the fixed ideas by which they seem to be obsessed.
“And, personally, I owe Professor Muensterberg a debt of grati­
tude also on account of the undesigned, exquisite, and almost ideal
illustration which his remarks yield of the aptness of a comparison I
ventured to institute in reviewing Mr. Podmore’s book in the pages of
Mind,46 when I called *psychical ’ phenomena ‘ the Dreyfus Case
of Science.’ I then pointed out that they had never received a fair
and open trial, coram populo, that the evidence on which they had been
condemned had never been published, and could not be produced, that
their banishment from the society of scientific fact and their relegation
to the company of the Devil had been effected by a secret and nameless
court-martial, which made no serious pretence of examining the evi­
dence, and that for nearly two centuries the authorities who professed
to speak in the name of Science had, when questioned, done nothing but
invoke the sanctity of the chose jugSe, and intimidate inquirers with
solemn prophecies of the absolute ruin that would overtake the whole
scientific order if any investigation or revision of the matter were to
be attempted.47
“ I also drew attention to the fact that, in spite of all discourage­
ments and threats, a demand for ‘ revision ’ had grown up, which was
supported by an increasing number of ‘intellectuals,’ who were not
afraid of being maligned as the hirelings of ‘ a conspiring syndicate of
all the superstitions.’ But I could not anticipate that Professor
Muensterberg would simultaneously have been goaded into divulging
the contents of the secret dossier, of which we have heard so much and
seen so little, that he would have exhibited to an astonished urbi et orbi
the ridiculous documents on which he relies to substantiate his case.”
46 For January, 1899. No. 29, N. S.
47 Professor Muensterberg, of course, trots out this old bugaboo also. Cour­
ageous confidence in the ability of science to deal with every order of fact—with
“ the psychology of spirits, angels, and demons, if such things there be, as well as
with that of men and beasts” (as I said in Mind), he declares to be “ wrong and
dangerous from beginning to end.” Can it be that he has a lurking fear that if he
attempted to investigate demons, they might fly away with him?
46 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Dr. Schiller’s paper should be read in its entirety. But the
temptation to present one more sample is irresistible.
“ It is a relief to turn from such excursions into ‘ the vast inane *
to the pleasant side-lights Professor Muensterberg sometimes throws
on his personal characteristics. He is a very Galahad among psychol­
ogy professors. He has never, he assures us, *taken part in a tele­
pathic experiment or in a spiritualistic stance.’ But he once had a
thrilling adventure ‘with two famous telepathists in Europe,’ who had
discovered ‘ a medium of extraordinary powers ’ at a distance, un­
fortunately, which would have involved him in ‘ 15 hours’ traveling ’—
no slight journey even for a well-girt man. For a moment the
professor wavered in his decision, and his mighty mind was nigh
o’erthrown. But, before he had started, the telepathists had discov­
ered the fraud. A most providential escape, surely; for if the pro­
fessor had come and seen, he might have been conquered, and then a
flood of superstition might have swept us all back into the Middle
Ages! But, after all, his (and our) escape was not, as he confesses,
so much due to his scientific caution as to his dilatoriness; the virgin
purity of his scientific character was preserved unsullied only by his
professorial slowness in packing his trunks!48 Perhaps his readers
would have been more interested to hear the reason why he has never
expended a couple of hours and of 5-cent car fares and, fortified only
with, say, a couple of bags and a choice selection of psychological
instruments, tried his luck with Mrs. Piper! After such heroic readi­
ness to pack his trunks for a 15-hour journey, that seems a little
strange.
“ The reason, doubtless, lies in his sense of the surpassing inno-
cency of his character. He is in very deed *the Israelite in whom
there is no guile ’ we read of in the Scriptures. *Why do I avoid
these stances?’ he asks pathetically. ‘It is not because I am afraid
that they would shake my theoretical views and convince me of mysti­
cism, but because I consider it undignified to visit such perform­
ances . . . and because I know I should be the last man to see
through the scheme and discover the trick.’
“And, after an appeal to the effete old ignava ratio that a con­
jurer and not a scientist is the proper person to detect trickery,49 he
48Note the plural.
49Thi8 seems a truism a priori, but is not borne out by experience. For such
experts have often most unreservedly admitted the supernormal character of many
of the disputed facts—even where the scientists subsequently discovered trickery.
The explanation, of course, is that the expert is quite as liable (or in some cases,
because of his conceit of knowledge, even more liable) to be deceived by trickery on
lines which are unfamiliar to him. And, as Messrs. Hodgson and Davey have shown,
the subtler sort of spiritistic fraud really rests on a higher plane than ordinary con-
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 47
proceeds to commend himself, and his science, for his lack of detective
insight. As an experimental psychologist he is by his whole training
‘ absolutely spoilt for the business of a detective.’ He does not know
‘ another profession in which the suspicion of constant fraud becomes
so systematically inhibited as it does in that of the scientist.’ Daily
work in a scientific laboratory he regards ‘ as a continuous training of
an instinctive confidence in the honesty of one’s co-operators.’ . . .
“ Now, of course, we must accept Professor Muensterberg’s de­
scription of his own idiosyncrasy. I am quite ready to believe that he
is as easy to deceive as he is difficult to convince. But on the other
points of this argument I take leave to differ.
“ I think he exaggerates the incompetence of other scientific men
in psychical research when he judges them by himself. They are, of
course, not born experts in psychical research, but become such by a
pretty severe training, in the course of which they may often fall into
error. For they are no more infallible in their observations than in
their a priori convictions. An instinctive insight into the possibilities
of fraud comes to them, as to the detective, only as the fruit of long
experience. (That is just why I am not impressed by the authority
of scientists whose qualifications resemble Professor Muensterberg’s.)
But they can make themselves very fair judges of trickery, though
perhaps they would do well, both before and after investigating, to
consult with a real expert with the long and varied experience of,
e. g., Dr. Hodgson. And it is just because isolated investigation is so
hazardous, because experience and special study are so valuable, that
it is so desirable that the S. P. R. should have the means to employ
dozens of trained investigators, who ‘ know the ropes,’ and are fully
alive to all the difficulties of the subject, instead of one. For our
science here stands shivering on the shore of an *unharvested sea ’ of
unknown dimensions.
“Again, I am a little reluctant to accept Professor Muensterberg’s
account of the experimental psychologists’ superhuman guilelessness.
This may in part be due to the unfortunate outcome of my only
attempt to enlist an experimental psychologist’s cooperation in a
‘psychical ’ experiment. He took advantage of the opportunity to
secure the failure of the experiment. No doubt his scientific conscience
permitted, nay, persuaded, him to protect ‘ science ’ against the pos­
sible inroad of ‘superstition ’ by such means, but after this I naturally
incline to guard myself against the possibilities of deception on both
sides. For it is decidedly humiliating to have escaped the wiles of the
juring. It rests not so much on the deception of the senses by apparatus and
prestidigitation, but on the fact that the spectator is induced to deceive himself by
lapses of attention and errors of interpretation. Hence his mental processes present
far subtler, more complicated and interesting psychological problems than those of
the conjurer’s audience.
48 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
professional mediums only to fall a victim to the excessive zeal of a
professorial psychologist, whose good faith one had taken for granted!
“ Further, and this is a contention which has a wider scope, I
would maintain that, whatsoever may be the natural and acquired
guilelessness of psychologists de facto, they have no business to pride
themselves on it and to cultivate it de jure, and that if Professor
Muensterberg’s account of the mental attitude of himself and his
‘ experimental ’ confreres is correct, it pro tanto unfits him, and them,
for the prosecution of delicate psychological inquiries.”
Finally, a number of brilliant and irrefutable paragraphs show
that, as respects the pitfalls which lie in wait for the psychic re­
searcher, the position of the experimental psychologist “ is precisely
analogous, only he does not appear to know it,” whereas the former has
to a large extent developed a technique for their avoidance. Why did
the brainy Muensterberg, whenever he wrote on a certain subject,
immediately begin to drool blunders and inconsequences, to quote un­
fairly, and to wind in and out in his logic, if he was not smitten by a
magic spell?
DR. CHARLES A. MERCIER
In 1917, Dr. Mercier, a specialist in insanity, published a book
entitled Spiritualism and Sir Oliver Lodge. A considerable part of
this is made up of a discussion of general principles, good enough,
though elementary, to psychical researchers, and delivered in a tone
of oracular finality worthy of one who at the end of his book announces
that he is preparing “ courses of study and books ” on “ Witchcraft,”
“ Criminology,” “ Psychology,” “ The Grounds of Belief—what we
ought to believe, to disbelieve, and to doubt, and why,” “ Explanation
—A Course of Instruction in Principles of Explanation and Causa­
tion,” “ Conduct—A Course of Study in the right conduct and regula­
tion of action in all the circumstances and relations of life,” “ Thinking
and Reasoning,” etc. We would say that one who knew all that could
afford to be oracular.
But when it comes to the field of psychical phenomena, there is an
appearance as though Dr. Mercier had never heard of it until some­
body sent him Raymond for review. He says that this astonished him
so that he sent for The Survival of Man, by the same author, of which
he apparently had never heard, and was still more astonished by that.
And then, according to his own account, he made inquiries, and found
that such ideas had attained a very wide vogue. Having come out of
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 49
his Rip Van Winkle sleep of thirty-five years to this extent, he read
the two books by Lodge, and was prepared to blight the whole disgust­
ing business of alleged psychical phenomena by the light of pure rea­
son. In experiments conducted by Sir Oliver, Dr. Mercier can, by the
telescope of imagination, discover all manner of defects which were
invisible to the scientist of greater fame who was actually present.
And yet he himself is so naive as to say that if a man “ has been seen
to raise a full pint pot to his mouth, and if when he lowered it the pot
was found empty, that is proof that he has had a drink.” Yet I have
seen a conjurer duplicate that performance, and he had not had
a drink.
Mercier apparently thinks that all the evidence for telepathy is in
The Survived of Man, and that collusion is the explanation of till that
is perplexing in it. If he had any acquaintance with the many sets of
experiments, with their conditions varied and imposed upon the prin­
cipals, he might not be so dogmatic, or he might, after all. Perhaps
he might intimate that Professor Murray’s remarkable feats were the
result of collusion between himself and others.60
But he is not fair to the evidence given by Sir Oliver Lodge. He
finds fault because Sir Oliver had experiments (which the latter did not
hold were conclusive) with the agent and percipient in the same room.
But the experiments between Miss Miles and Miss Ramsden, a brief
account of which directly follows, is completely ignored, although they
were twenty miles apart and the conditions were such as utterly to
shut out collusion. There was enough about these experiments to
incite a man who really wanted to get some notion of the evidence for
telepathy to go to the Proceedings of the S. P. R., Volume XXI.
There he would have found that on October 17 Miss Miles, at the hour
set, mentally proposed “ spectacles,” and that at the same time
Miss Ramsden thought “ spectacles,” and “ sense perception” ; that
at the next experiment Miss Miles thought “ sunset over t h e
oeatoey,” this being suggested by the fact that a Mr. MacNab
called her attention to the sun setting over Brampton Oratory, and she
saw it with his head illumined by its rays, and that Miss Ramsden
wrote “ First it was the sun with rays and a face peering out of the
rays,” etc.; that at the next experiment Miss Miles thought the name
of a lady and Miss Ramsden thought a lady’s name, but not the right
one; that at the next experiment Miss Miles thought “ hands,” and
Miss Ramsden first thought of Miss Miles going upstairs and putting
00 This has since been suggested, though not by Dr. Mercier.
50 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
on a wrap, which apparently had no relevance, and next of “ a little
black hand.” Take these four experiments in unbroken succession, to
say nothing of the rest, some of them failures, some complete or partial
successes—why did Dr. Mercier not face them?
He attacks the cross-correspondences between Mrs. Verrall, the
accomplished scholar of Newnham College, and Mrs. Forbes. He
mentions but two of these, one in the following terms:
“Again, on December 18, attempts were made in Mrs. Forbes’
script to give a certain test word, *Dion ’ or *Dy,’ which it was stated,
‘will be found in Myers’ own . . .’ Mrs. Verrall interpreted the test
word at the time, for reasons given, as ‘Diotima,’ and a description of
the same part of the Symposium, including the mention of Diotima,
did occur in Human Personality (by Myers), which was published
about three months later. This is quite as convincing as the bricks
in Smith the weaver’s chimney which ‘ are alive this day to testify it;
therefore deny it not.’ ”
Here Dr. Mercier is more reckless than even Dr. Tanner. She did
look through the original report of the incident; all that Mercier did
was to quote what are hardly more than references to the incident, and
treat them as though they were complete. She stated a number of
other details of importance in the “ Diotima ” incident, threadbare as
her recital is; he states particulars which in comparison with the mass
which make up the entire incident are like the facts that Smith wore a
derby hat and was seen standing on a certain corner at 10 p. m., in
comparison with the mass of circumstances which convict Smith of
murder. Mercier quoted from Lodge, but Lodge was not summing up
the evidence for cross-correspondence, but illustrating its nature, as
one would discuss two or three bones of a dinosaur. Mercier, like the
unlettered peasant, sneers at the isolated bones, and will not take pains
to go and look where the entire skeleton is set up on view. He leaves
his reader to believe what is not true, namely, that the two incidents
which he cites are substantially set forth. One of them, which his
quotation sums up in seven lines, fills nearly seven large pages in the
original printed record. He declares that “ there are very few of these
so-called cross-correspondences,” probably because he thinks that Sir
Oliver mentioned them all; whereas there are many, and even many
between Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Forbes alone. He quite neglects the
cumulative effect of so large a percentage of correspondences in a
series, which is exactly what strikes the scientific unbiased mind most
forcibly. This was probably not from malice prepense, but from sheer
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 51
ignorance and such haste to demolish Lodge that he could not wait to
learn more.
Psychic researchers who did not need to be told that fraud exists,
and malobservation and credulity, and who had no respect for bad
logic and innuendo, reviewed Spiritualism and Sir Oliver Lodge some­
what contemptuously, almost apologizing for noticing such a piece of
inconsequence at all. Apparently stung, “ Charles A. Mercier, M.D.,
F.R.C.P., F.R.C.S., sometime Examiner in Psychology and Mental
Diseases in the University of London, Lecturer in Insanity at Medical
Schools of the Westminster Hospital, Charing Cross Hospital and the
Royal Free Hospital,” as he stunningly announces on the title page,
issued a little book called Spirit Experiences, which descends a step
lower, in that it is nothing but burlesque. It may be, indeed, that the
doctor did try a telepathic experiment with his two daughters, allowing
one to choose her own subject with full opportunity for collusion with
the other; it may be that he really was puzzled by their rapping and
tossing things about and by one of them telling what card he was
thinking of after she had got him to say in which row vertically and
which horizontally it was; it may be that he was taken in by the pea-
under-the-thimble trick. If so, we can willingly laugh at him; if he is
lying we can laugh with him over the droll yarns; in neither case have
they any more bearing upon or relation to the methods of psychic re­
search than has grimacing or thumbing one’s nose. But even in a tour
de force of humor one ought to observe some degree of accuracy in his
allusions to history or legend. One’s appreciation of drollery on the
subject of the pyramids would be jarred by locating the pyramids in
Rome. It is so when Dr. Mercier says that Chicago is “ famous for
the manufacture of wooden nutmegs,” when tout le monde knows or
ought to know that the glory of that legend belongs to the State of
Connecticut.
EDWARD CLODD
We now turn to Edward Clodd, who has written a book called The
Question: If a Man Dies, Shall He Live Again? 6
1
The general reader, who cons statements set down with an air of
authority about cases and materials with which he himself is imper­
fectly acquainted quite naturally supposes that the cases and materials
have been canvassed with critical care, and that the statements can be
Bl London, 1917.
52 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
trusted. But the general reader, if shown that a writer makes blunders
in the simplest matters of fact, on which cyclopedias and other easily
accessible books of reference could set him right, must see that the same
person will inevitably be still more likely to be untrustworthy when
dealing with complex and intricate matters, and abstracting from
lengthy records.
Dr. Hyslop pointed to the blunder of saying that the real name
of “ George Pelham ” was Pennell. Even less pardonable is the
inaccuracy of changing the name of Daniel Dunglas Home to David
Dunglas Home, as is done on page 41. There are other blunders
in the same passage. “ Home or Hume ” is said to have been the
name. There was no “ or Hume ” about it, as might have been seen
from Mrs. Home’s biography of her husband.62 “ Home always
wrote his name ‘Home,’ but he retained the ancient Scottish pro­
nunciation of that name, ‘Hoorn.’ ” She calls the spelling Hume “ a
mistake made by many persons.” But there was no reason why
Clodd should have repeated the mistake, if he had had any desire
to be accurate. Again, we are informed that Home, “ in his seven­
teenth year . . . came out as a medium, finding support in that pro­
fession from a group of spiritualists.” But Home himself, who
ought to know, tells us that this took place in the month when he
was eighteen.63
Clodd is not more fortunate in his reference to the Rev. Dr. Phelps
and the “ Stratford rappings ” in his house. He calls that gentleman
a “ Presbyterian minister,” which is no insult, but the fact was that he
was a Congregationalist. And he says: “As for the Stratford disturb­
ances, the report of them is practically valueless, because it was not
set down by a son of Dr. Phelp’s [#ic] till thirty years later, and then
at secondhand, since he was no witness of what he affirms happened.”
If the Stratford disturbances are not worth consideration it is not for
the reason assigned. Does Mr. Clodd think that there were no news­
papers in the United States in 1850? On the contrary, the house was
visited by editors and reporters, as well as by other persons, and
accounts, some of them lengthy, were printed in many papers while
the events were in progress; notably in the Daily Derby Journal and
the New York Suv, but also in the Journal, Palladium and Register of
New Haven, Connecticut, the Bridgeport Standard, Hartford Times,
New Britain Advocate, New York Tribune, New York Journal of Com­
merce, etc. The intimation that the story was solely dependent on5
2
52D. D. Home: His Life and Mission, 31. 53 Incidents in My Life.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 53
what a son of Dr. Phelps wrote thirty years later is a laughable per­
version of the facts.
There is as poor luck with quotations as with concrete facts. Re­
lating an incident told by Sir William Crookes about Home, Mr. Clodd
says, using quotation marks and claiming to take the words from
Crookes’s pen, that Home “ folded a handkerchief, and putting his left
hand into the fire took out a red-hot cinder and put it on the handker­
chief, which remained unburnt.” The incident is told by Crookes in
the English Proceedings, VI, 103-104, and the statement is that Home
“ folded it up and laid it on his hand like a cushion [he does not say
which hand], putting his other hand [he does not say which] into the
fire, took out a large lump of cinder red-hot at the lower part and
placed the red part on the handkerchief.” How does Clodd know that
Home put his left hand in the fire? What is worth while stating so
particularly is worth while having authority for.
Again, he declares that “ Sir William tells us that on another occa­
sion Home ‘took a good-sized piece of red-hot coal from the fire, put it
in his right hand and carried it with the other hand.’ ” This, too, coun­
terfeits a direct quotation. But what Sir William wrote was this :64
“ took out a red-hot piece nearly as big as an orange, and putting it on
his right hand, covered it over with his left hand.” Clodd goes on with
his vain attempts to quote Crookes: “ Then ‘he blew the small furnace
thus extemporized till the lump was nearly at white heat,’ ” in place of
“ then blew into the small furnace thus extemporized until the lump of
charcoal was nearly white hot.” Small divergences, but what Clodd
says that Crookes wrote, Crookes did not write.
Other quotations are misapplied. He speaks of the cold air, some­
times amounting to a decided wind, “ which frequently preceded the
manifestation of the figures ” [materializations]. But Crookes did
not mention this in connection with materializations. He was talking
of Home’s phenomena, in which materializations bore little part, and
particularly of the movement of objects without contact. His lan­
guage was:66 “ These movements (and indeed I may say the same of
every kind of phenomena) are generally preceded by a peculiar cold
air, sometimes amounting to a decided wind.” The reports by Crookes
are short, and if Clodd cannot get them straight, what ability would
he be likely to have of dealing correctly with, or of even understanding
(if we are to acquit him of dishonesty), the voluminous Piper records?
Insinuation often takes the place of argument, and a peculiarly
______________ I____________
64Proceedings S. P. R., VI, 103.
m Notes of an Enquiry into the Phenomena Called Spiritual.
54 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
vicious form of insinuation which dares not face the facts of record.
Referring to the famous experiments with the spring balance, he slyly
suggests that a hair may have been used. But the pull indicated was
sometimes 3^ pounds. If Mr. Clodd has in mind a human hair, he
might have experimented and found that no human hair will bear such
a weight. If he means a horsehair, not only would that increase visi­
bility, but he should, to be fair, have shown how, in a good light, with
five investigators watching him, it would be possible for a man at one
and the same time to have the fingers of his hands touching one end of
a board three feet in length and be pulling down the other end of the
board with a hair, without detection. The sneer that Crookes was
too short-sighted to be trusted is unworthy, even if Sir William Ram­
say stooped to it. In the first place, there were four other observers
present. In the second, Crookes used spectacles, and it is the nature
of these to correct defects of sight. The late Theodore Roosevelt,
without his spectacles, was exceedingly near-sighted, but with them he
could detect the markings of forest birds at a distance as well as John
Burroughs himself. I have no objection to any intelligent criticism of
Crookes’s experiments, but this juggling with the facts, this mere
carping and insinuating, is nauseating. It is the same with the talk
about the mythical Blue Book, of which “ the Boston section alone
contains, we are told, seven thousand names.” Granting this were true,
suppose that a particular inhabitant out of some 700,000 in Boston
paid a visit to a medium for the first time, how large a chance would
she have of finding him listed, even if he gave his right name? And how
much if he gave an assumed name, as he would if he had any sense?
And supposing, as often happens, that he comes from another part of
the country, and gives neither his name nor his residence, a very fre­
quent case, how then would the Blue Book, granting that the monster
existed, be of service? This would be a greater wonder than the one
which it is sought to explain away. But there seems to be no difficulty
in believing wonders, if only congenial ones can be selected. There is
nothing funnier than the extreme credulity of some of the flouters of
spirits. Another example of Clodd’s avid belief in any sort of a
statement which he thinks can make a point against the “ occult,” is
his quoting with empressement, an allegation “ in a paper called
Health, that above one thousand houses in London are tenantless be­
cause they are believed to be haunted.” Does he really believe that the
upwards of 7,000,000 people of London have that list of one thousand
houses memorized, so that none of these can get a tenant? Let any
one think, if he were walking through the streets of New York looking
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 55
for an apartment, what likelihood there would be of his knowing
whether any particular house where a sign “ To Let ” is displayed has
a “ haunt ” story attached to it, and whether he would ask ere renting,
“ Is this house haunted ? ” And yet there are upwards of a thousand
houses in London that cannot get a tenant on such account! Rubbish!
I have often marveled at that assurance of editors, surely depend­
ing upon an afflatus from high heaven or—somewhere, since mere
mortal man could not attain such wisdom, which enables them, even in
the hot haste of their daily scribbling, to pass upon the protracted
labors of any specialist on earth, and to show where he is right and
where he is wrong by a few twirls of the pen. And I marvel at the like
assurance of Mr. Clodd. The Rt. Hon. Gerald Balfour,58 not
inferior in intellect to Mr. Clodd, as perhaps Mr. Clodd himself would
admit, made certain statements about the lack of communication be­
tween Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Willett, the automatists in the “ Ear of
Dionysius ” case. Balfour was in a position to know something about
the matter, Clodd was not, and yet the latter feels qualified to express
dissent, saying that this is “ a statement hard to reconcile with what is
known of the relations between two people eager to solve a conundrum
and sharing a common belief.” What is the matter with the man, that
he cannot imagine how any one interested in what he is pleased to call
a conundrum, can patiently pursue the only methods by which it can
possibly get a trustworthy answer? And on what sort of meat has he
fed that he should have the face, after skimming a report, to place his
dictum over against the verdict of Professor Sidgwick, F. W. H.
Myers, Frank Podmore, Alice Johnson and Mrs. Sidgwick, which they
formulated after long and patient analysis? They show why the
figures warrant the verdict, he simply says that the figures do not
warrant it, since the census was not big enough. If it had been bigger
they might have added more emphasis to their very cautious opinion.
I will admit that the report on the *
*Census of Hallucinations ” 57
is not primer reading throughout, but there was the privilege of letting
it alone. It was not a duty that devolved upon Mr. Clodd to fall on
the report, on the contrary, it would better have become him to have
avoided it if it was too involved for him to follow. There is no excuse
for saying that of those who reported their experiences, “ 322 affirmed
that they had seen apparitions of the human figure,” when the report
states that 352 reported having seen apparitions of living persons,
163 of dead persons, and 315 of unrecognized persons. And the state-8
6
86Now Earl of Balfour. 87Proceedings S. P. R., X.
56 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
ment that “ 32 reported death coincidences ” is also untrue. The
report said that 62 persons reported death coincidences. For one
reason and another the committee scaled these down to a selected list
of 32, but the fact remains that 62 were reported.
Many examples of childish logic could be given. After asserting
that mediumship, apart from fraud, is the result of “ an unstable
nervous system, with resulting weakness of control of the higher brain
centers,” an allegation evidently cribbed from some vaporing psychol­
ogist who knows in his bones, and in no other way, that it must be so,
Clodd goes on to say that “ age would appear to count in impairment
of mediumistic power,” and to instance Mr. Home and Mrs. Piper, who
lost their power to a large degree (both being under fifty). It would
seem that practice in “ instability ” ought to produce increasing
“ weakness of control of the higher brain centers ” instead of working
a cure. The fact that Home’s general health was breaking when his
mediumistic abilities began to diminish would, in the absence of preju­
dice, be taken to denote that such abilities are not pathological.
- Clodd, after relating “ a modern instance,” usually skips back two
thousand years or so to show that something like it was alleged then.
Contrary to those who believe that almost anything could have hap­
pened before the close of the “ apostolic period,” though now quite
prohibited by “ science,” he seems to take it for granted that any
ancient claim must be false, since those were “ unenlightened days,”
and that therefore any modern resembling case is discredited by its
likeness to the ancient one. Whereas, if there are genuine and widely
diffused phenomena in our times, it would logically be expected that
there would have been such phenomena in former periods and among
many races. Of course he picks and chooses, and may make his ancient
exhibits as ridiculous as he pleases.
Out of a wealth of instances I select two utterances of pure preju­
dice. The writer actually makes the fact that at the Crawford experi­
ments prayer is offered by some member of the Goligher family, a
presumption of fraud! “ These pietistic preliminaries . . . lend an air
of suspicion.” Of course the prayers are not evidential of genuineness,
but that their employment by persons of religious proclivities in con­
junction with what is to them sacred should be presumptive of guile is
a mystery to any but a jaundiced mind. And only a pen dipped in
prejudice could write about “ the thin lips, hard expression of feature,
and calculating looks as if to take the measure of their sitter’s credul­
ity ” of Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Wriedt. I have not seen the portrait of
Mrs. Wreidt, but Mrs. Piper surely deserves the derogatory description
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 57
no more than a million other American women. In one portrait before
me she looks a little constrained from the knowledge that she is having
her picture taken, and in another not even that, and in both she is the
very picture of a refined, reserved gentlewoman. Some psychics have
thick lips, some thin, and others lips that are “ betwixt and between,”
without any discoverable bearings of their labial measurements upon
their character or abilities.
We might go on indefinitely quoting passages which enforce the
conclusion that Mr. Clodd’s book is a study in prejudice and the art
of special pleading, but these must suffice.
JO SEPH McCABE
In 1920, Joseph McCabe issued a book called Spiritualism: A
Popular History from 184-7. It is designed to be popular, but a his­
tory it is not. It is a diatribe based on selective attention, and is com­
posed of sketches of fraudulent cases, together with a few burlesques
on cases of a higher character, replete with blunder and innuendo.
Space is accorded for but one specimen, but it is quoted entire.
“ In 1907 also occurred what is known as the *Hope, Star, and
Browning incident,’ which is regarded as very impressive. Mrs. Piper,
in America, gave (supposedly from Myers) a reference to ‘Hope,
Star, and Browning.’ This was on February 11. It was then found
that in the written records of Mrs. Verrall there were curious refer­
ences to stars, to hope, and to Browning’s poetry on January 23 and
28. The weakness is that Mrs. Verrall’s record was already in Apierica
on February 11, and had been seen by the sitter, Mr. Piddington;
because Hyslop tells us that he went straight from the sitting with
Mrs. Piper to search Mrs. Verrall’s script. He adds that, later, Mrs.
Verrall, who ‘had not been told what was happening,’ received further
references to the matter. But as Hyslop gives no date for this, it is
useless. Indeed, unlike many of his colleagues, Dr. Hyslop concludes
that in this case, ‘ the evidence for cross-correspondence is not the
best ’; and the reader will probably agree.”
Woe to the amateur who relies confidingly on Mr. McCabe for his
facts, since he was under the spell of the enchanted boundary as he
wrote. (1) Mrs. Piper was not in America, and on the very page of
Dr. Hyslop’s Contact with the Other World, where the material which
Mr. McCabe consulted begins, is the plain statement, “ Mrs. Piper was
in London.” (2) Mrs. Verrall’s record was not in America on Febru­
ary 11, or at any time. (3) Mr. Piddington was not in America, as is
58 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
intimated. (4) Mr. Piddington’s going from the Piper sitting to
search Mrs. Verrall’s script does not prove that he had previously seen
it. But if he had (since he was one of the committee whose business it
was to compare the scripts produced by the mediums involved in the
tests), the fact is irrelevant, unless it is meant to suggest that Mrs.
Piper may have looked into his mind by that telepathy which Mr.
McCabe frowns upon elsewhere in his book. (5) The “ further refer­
ences ” in the script of Mrs. Verrall were not rendered “ useless ” by
Hyslop’s not mentioning the date of them, since he had nothing to do
with the experiments. Why did not McCabe seek the dates in the
original record published by the S. P. R. instead of discounting an
incident because of what an after commentator did not mention?
(6) To stop with “ Dr. Hyslop concluded that in this case ‘the evi­
dence for cross-correspondence is not the best,’” and not to add that,
nevertheless, he regarded it good enough to prove cross-correspondence,
is to mislead the reader. Besides, the faulty construction of sentences
is liable to cause the reader to suppose that it was Dr. Hyslop who
went straight from a sitting, and that he went with Mrs. Piper.
Dr. E. J. Dingwall comments, in part:
“ We confess that we have thoroughly enjoyed this book. It is not
a history, but a racy narrative, written by a man who, it seems, does
not believe that the *supernormal *has any existence in fact, and who
has put together his work in the hope that his readers may be left with
the same impression. A short unbiased history of the spiritualistic
movement was wanted, but Mr. McCabe has not fulfilled the want. A
history, in order to be worth anything, ought to consist in the presen­
tation of an ordered array of facts and events untinged by the author’s
own special predilections. Mr. McCabe’s prejudices, on the contrary,
do not permit him to marshal a mere chronicle of events supplemented
by a dispassionate criticism. He delights in fraud and fraud hunting,
and if a medium has ever been detected in such practices, he or she is
promptly dismissed with some caustic comments. When certain me-
diumistic phenomena do not admit of so easy a treatment, Mr. McCabe
resorts to the ‘mirrors or wires ’ theory of the youth at a conjuring
entertainment, or deliberately omits to mention mediums whose mani­
festations are both beyond his own explanation and also that of his
advisers.”
PROFESSOR MARGARET F. WASHBURN
Margaret F. Washburn is a psychologist of excellent standing,
being a professor in Vassar College and co-editor of the American
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 59
Journal of Psychology. In the summer of 1920 she had an article in
a periodical entitled The Chronicle, with the heading “ Psychology and
Spiritism.” Learned as she is and high as is the reputation she enjoys
in relation to her specialty, when she crossed the enchanted boundary
she met the usual fate. I replied in the October issue of the same
magazine.
“ How little knowledge the writer shows of the approved methods,
common to both the British and the American Society, is evinced by
the following astonishing excerpt. ‘The record of a sitting with a
medium, to be really of scientific value, should contain not only what
the medium and the communicating spirits said, but every word said
by the sitter or by any person present. This precaution has been
almost uniformly neglected.’ This is tantamount to a confession that
the writer is wholly unfamiliar with the most important literature of
the subject with which she is dealing, namely, the Proceedings and
Journals of the two Societies for Psychical Research. For what she
asserts ‘has been almost uniformly neglected ’ has been their procedure
for many years, as witnessed by many volumes. Dr. Hyslop’s practice
was to go farther and record every slip of the pencil, every fall and
resumption of it, every significant movement, as well as *every word
said by the sitter or by any person present.’ He has been criticized
and almost cursed by many of his readers for recording and printing
everything; yet at this late day there comes along a learned lady,
insistent on scientific caution, and proud of the skill of psychologists
in its exercise, and ventures such statements as those quoted!
“ One would suppose, also, that psychical researchers did not take
into account the resources and activities of the subliminal mind, or if
the phrase better suits, the *dissociated consciousness.’ Yet the very
word ‘ subliminal ’ was coined by a psychical researcher who believed in
spirit communication, F. W. H. Myers, and psychical researchers,
Myers, Hodgson, Hyslop and many besides, have discussed subcon­
scious functions ‘ and developed personalities,’ in all phases and mani­
festations. Whenever the subconscious (or dissociated consciousness)
can possibly be the source of the material evoked, it is provisionally
assumed to be responsible for it, whatever the fact may be. And all
sorts of subliminal warpings and colorings are regarded as possible.
But—nothing can be evoked from the subconscious which was not first
precipitated into it, if not from experience then from some other source.
If there are records which exhibit statements of facts provably un­
known at any time to the medium, in such a ratio and of such charac­
teristic quality that they make the explanation of chance ridiculous,
and if all the sources of error are eliminated, then there is no help from
the doctrine of the subliminal or dissociated consciousness. And there
60 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
are such records, which no cocksure psychologist has ever yet even
attempted to discuss and explain.
“ The subconscious mind is very suggestible—in fact suggestibility
consists in the susceptibility of the subconscious mind to take hints.
Professor Washburn’s way of saying it is that ‘dissociated conscious­
nesses are as a rule extremely suggestible,’ and I consider it a very
faulty way, though a number of psychologists share it with her. . . .
“ The subliminal mind is suggestible; it is like a sensitized photo­
graphic plate which will take impressions from the light of the sun or
from artificial light. Those of us who are convinced that spirits of
the dead succeed in imprinting impressions upon the sensitized plate
of the medium’s mind are not so deluded as to suppose that her mind,
with all its subliminal suggestibility, can take impressions from no
other source. If messages come from the dead, they come through the
subliminal mind of the medium in consequence of a passivity which is
very unstable, and demands that the experimenter keep his hands off.
To the examples of how President Hall by falsifications led the sub­
liminal of Mrs. Piper through all sorts of vagaries, I retort that of
course he did. I can do that sort of thing at any time and thereby
prove two things; first, that the subconscious is suggestible, which
everybody knew already, and second, that I am a stupid blunderer if I
experiment for the supernormal and first proceed to fog the plate.
“ I knew of a physician whose son began to have visions of being in
strange places. The doctor, who had been very skeptical but who
toppled with a ‘sickening thud ’ when the matter came home to his
own circle, as sometimes happens to psychologists, would say when the
boy announced that he was in a village in France, ‘ Well, go to the
priest’s house. . . . Ring the bell . . . say to the priest. . . . Now
find the schoolhouse. . . . Go in and ask the schoolmaster . . .’—
and the boy never failed to find and do according to directions. I—a
poor, simple psychical researcher—had to tell him that whatever
chance there was of his getting anything supernormal was being spoiled
by his method. He was simply painting on the canvas of the boy’s
mind instead of waiting to see what came spontaneously. Dr. Hall’s
brilliant feats with Mrs. Piper are precisely on a par with testing a
man in hypnosis for hyperaesthesia and at the same time telling him
that he feels or hears nothing. The results which might have been
obtained would be completely overlaid and obscured by the insistent
suggestion. This was the method of a psychologist, it never could be
that of a competent psychical researcher. . . .
“ Not only is there the curious assumption that the professional
mind must work like an automaton, that a physicist’s mind can never
transcend its professional boundary and study mental facts intelli­
gently, and that only psychologists in a technical sense are fitted to
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 61
pursue investigations in the field of psychical research, but we also
read that ‘psychologists know,’ ‘psychologists have learned,’ etc., as
if psychologists all told the same story and had reached exactly the
same conclusions. Yet it seems to me that I have heard that F. W. H.
Myers, who wrote Human Personality and Its Survival of Bodily
Death, was something of a psychologist, and he was a psychical re­
searcher who experimented with mediums and reported what he con­
sidered supernormal incidents. There was a William James reputed to
be a psychologist, and he experimented with mediums, and was strongly
inclined to posit a supernormal quality in some of the results he re­
ported. F. C. S. Schiller, of Oxford, is also considered something of a
psychologist, and it is not difficult to ascertain his stand. And J. H.
Hyslop was learned in psychology and taught psychology in college.
“ Psychologists, we are informed, are the proper persons to investi­
gate in the field we are discussing.58 Well, those who have done so most
laboriously have not come to the conclusions reached by psychologists
whose investigations have been of the dilettante order, so much so that
they cannot make elementary general remarks about psychical re­
search, its methods and literature, without falling into errors.
“ What strikes me as most droll in Professor Washburn’s argument
is her skepticism of the power of the human intellect to keep cool in
the discussion of evidence of spirit communication. *We may doubt
whether any amount of scientific training can ever make our reason
trustworthy in any realm where the deep pull of instinct is so strong.’
Well, then, why does she attempt to argue the subject? Or does she
think that one can preserve his balance up to the point where he begins
to see that there is evidence for spirit communication, but that pre­
cisely at this point his intellect goes to pieces from emotion? Has any
scientific psychical researcher ever had to make so humiliating a con­
fession as did the late Professor Muensterberg, when he wrote, ‘But
while the psychologist rejects . . . the explanation through spirits as
superfluous, he ought to be willing to confess that behind the mere
argument of reason stands more powerfully still the argument of emo­
tion; his whole being abhors . . .,’ etc.?
“Any one would suppose, from reading Professor Washburn’s re­
marks, that most human beings, including the most learned, are on a
level with a negro revival meeting in their interest in a future life.
Yet where is the evidence of it? Professor Leuba, another psycholo­
gist, has been showing us by statistics that a large percentage of col­
lege professors, including psychologists, care nothing for a future
existence. And here comes one and implies that they are probably6
8
68 And yet Professor Muensterberg, in Atlantic Monthly, January, 1899, declared
that he, by virtue of being a psychologist, would “ be the last man to see through
the scheme and discover the trick ” in a case of fraud!
62 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
all so subject to a *pull ’ that their reason refuses to function properly
in relation to this one matter!
“ They may reason soundly on politics, love, their salaries, and
various subjects which exert a *pull,’ but once a purported ‘ communi­
cation,’ containing sundry statements corresponding with facts un­
known to the ostensible writer, is placed before them as a simple
problem for the reason to act upon, the reason becomes hysterical and
unreliable unless it takes the anti-spiritistic side! And it must assume
the skeptical position instinctively and at once or it is lost. For ‘ it is
safe to say that everyone who undertakes to investigate in this field
does so with a deep and powerful bias.’ The writer of this is brought
into a dilemma by her curious statement; either she bases her argument
upon investigations made under a deep emotional bias which has viti­
ated her reasoning based thereon, or else she is giving forth opinions
based upon no investigation of the subject which she is talking about.
“ The sentence which follows fascinates me. *If he were really
guided only by a perfectly impartial scientific curiosity, he would
probably be willing to wait until the end of his life for the solution of
that puzzle,* etc. That is, a *perfectly impartial scientific curiosity ’
would do nothing whatever for its own satisfaction. Scientific curiosity
—and we do not pause in other matters to ask whether it is perfectly
impartial, but only ask to inspect the proofs it brings forth—may
investigate bugs and rocks, and the composition of the stars, and every
other subject under heaven, but cannot inspect documents dealing with
the subject of survival unless it suffers from a pathological bias!
Possibly Peary did not have a ‘perfectly impartial scientific curiosity ’
when he was searching for the Pole, but nevertheless he found it,
though perhaps if he had been well balanced he would have waited until
he was dead, in which case he might have bumped upon the Pole without
trying. It is quite certain that from the day that Darwin was struck
by his great conception of the origin of species, his scientific curiosity
was partial to his theory, nevertheless his reason continued to function
and he brought forth a multitude of proofs, and this is all that counts.
All that can be required of those who hold to the spiritistic hypothesis
is that they present proofs, and though odium spiriticum—to employ
a barbarism—may prevent some intellects from reacting soundly on
the documentary evidences, I am confident that other minds, regarding
these simply as logical problems, will react as calmly and soundly as
on any others.
“ I have sadly been compelled to express the opinion that Professor
Washburn has little acquaintance with the best records on the subject
she is discussing. One illustration is her statement that ‘ as a matter
of fact there is nowhere, so far as I know, on record a case where the
communicating spirit exhibits traits of character which the communi-
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 63
eating medium could not easily conjecture him to have possessed in
life.’ Really the records are not responsible for any one’s lack of
acquaintance with them. One case, and I refer to the same one of less
than seventy-five pages which I keep recommending out of tender con­
sideration for the valuable time of psychologists,69 contains a detailed
and lifelike portraiture of true characteristics, and since the medium
was an entire stranger she could not ‘ easily conjecture ’ anything
about them.
“ Finally Professor Washburn proposes ‘ one last chance ’ for the
spirits to prove themselves other than ‘bits of the medium’s mind,’ and
that is to examine the records and see if they can furnish ‘ facts on the
earth plane ’ which the medium could not have known. This sounds
fair enough, though she says, ‘it is very hard to deal satisfactorily,
from a scientific point of view,’ with the alleged instances. At least
the reader feels sure that she will proceed in a scientific spirit, so far
as she goes. It would not be scientific nor even intelligent if Darwin’s
Origin of Species were in dispute, to pick out from thousands of data
set down by Darwin, just two, and those facts on which he placed no
emphasis or even regarded as not constituting intelligible proofs at all.
But out of Dr. Hyslop’s voluminous Report of 649 pages in fine print,
with its many hundred incidents, she has culled just two, both expressly
stated by Dr. Hyslop to be faulty. And her version of one of these is
erroneous by statement, and her versions of both are erroneous by
omission.
“ 1. Reference to a visit.
“Professor Washburn’s version. ‘ The latter [Robert Hyslop] re­
ferred to a visit that he paid his son just before he died; Dr. Hyslop
considers this a reference to a visit that occurred some years before
his father’s death.’
“ The facts of record.80 ‘And do you remember the visit I paid to
you . . . you? (When was it?) I cannot tell the date, but it was
just before I came here. [If this had been “ the visit you paid me ” it
would have been nearer right and pertinent. J. H. H.] ’
“ 61‘ I do not refer to these facts to show the pertinence of my
father’s statement [to a visit paid to the father some years before
his death].’
“ So then, Dr. Hyslop did not ‘ consider this a reference to a visit
that occurred some years before his father’s death,’ but inclined to
think that the reference was to his own visit shortly before the death.
He points to the spontaneous correction from ‘my last visit ’ to ‘your
last visit ’ on page 474. Indeed, it is not unlikely that if in the first*
6
0
88See Proceedings A. S. P. R., X, index references to “ Mrs. Fischer; communica­
tions,” or preferably “ The Mother of Doris,” ibid., XVII.
60Proceedings S. P. R., XVI, 440. 61 lb., 508; note by Dr. Hyslop.
64 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
instance Dr. Hyslop had not interrupted after ‘I paid to you . . .
you,’ there might have been written ‘you paid to me.’ But he nowhere
lays any stress upon this incident, or regards so much of it as eviden­
tial. There was much that was evidential in the whole incident, for
the father went on to give the subjects upon which they had conversed,
‘hypnotism,’ ‘ a young woman who had experiences and dreams,’ etc.,
and to state his son’s attitude, ‘ You were doubtful about life after
so-called death,’ all of which was correct. It is 'precisely the evidential
features and the only ones so regarded by Dr. Hyslop, that Professor
Washburn omits.
“ 2. The Dog Peter.
“ Miss Washburn’s version.
“ ‘ The supposed spirit of Dr. Hyslop’s cousin asks, “ Do you re­
member Peter who was or belonged to Nanie? ” After investigation,
Dr. Hyslop finds that this cousin, when between two and four years
old, had a dog named Peter, but no Nanie seems to have been involved.’
“ The facts of record?2
“ ‘And do you remember Peter who was . . . or belonged to
Nanie? [I can detect no meaning to the name of “ Peter ” and
“ Nanie ” in this connection. J. H. H.] (I do not recall Peter now.)’
« «3< meant by Peter? [No meaning. J. H. H.] Was it
the dog George had? (I do not remember this.)’
“ Dr. Hyslop thought that ‘George ’ referred to a brother of his
when he answered, ‘ I do not remember.’ But afterward 84 he learned
that the communicator’s son George had owned a dog named Peter
when a small child. Dr. Hyslop was never in a position to have known
this. And the communicator did have a sister named Nannie. Who
shall say that there was no association between her and the dog, for­
gotten by the living? Yet Dr. Hyslop does not suggest this, and lays
no stress upon the coincidences. But there are scores of better indi­
cations in the Report. Why does Professor Washburn select these
comparatively weak ones, why does she mangle even these, and is this
the treatment to be recommended from ‘ a scientific point of view ’ and
as an example of the superior acumen of the psychologist?
“ The report on ‘ Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance ’ 88
by Myers, Lodge, Leaf and James, filling 223 pages, is annihilated by
the supposed dissection of one minor incident.
“ Professor Washburn’s version.
“ ‘ Sir Oliver Lodge’s Uncle Jerry, communicating through Mrs.
Piper, states that his brother Bob killed a cat in Smith’s field, and
tied it to a fence; it is found that his brother Charles once killed a cat,
but not in Smith’s field, nor did he tie it to a fence.’
02lb., 428-129. as lb., 452. «4/b , 515. lb., VI.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 65
“ The point which Sir Oliver stresses is that there proved to have
been a ‘ Smith’s field ’ in the home region of his uncle, a fact which he
never knew. And how did Mrs. Piper, going to England a stranger and
carefully guarded afterwards, know that there was an ‘ Uncle Jerry,*
a ‘ Bob,’ etc. ?
“And it is far from *scientific ’ to allege that the statement about
killing a cat was in error. Provisionally, we treat it as incorrect, and
yet no one is in a position to assert that as a fact. A well known
university professor wrote to Mr. Chauncey M. Depew, asking if the
newspaper interview alleging that he had a certain remarkable vision
afterwards fulfilled was true, and received the reply that it was. Yet
eighteen years later the professor had not the slightest recollection of
the vision or the correspondence, now in the files of the American
S. P. R. Would it have been remarkable if two brothers met in the
flesh and one failed to remember a cat-killing incident related by
the other? The living brother in the alleged incident did not deny the
truth of it, but said he did not remember that it took place.
“ I confess surprise that Professor Washburn has been won over
to the polemical methods of Dr. Amy E. Tanner!
“ Raymond, although it contains some good pieces of evidence, by
no means ranks so high in that respect, as do certain other experimen­
tal records. But, mainly because certain sentences coming through the
psychic lend themselves to pointless ridicule, certain psychologists have
centered their attacks upon it to the neglect of the more formidable
cases,66a aside from a few carefully selected passages and sundry mis­
quotations and bizarre blunders.
“ This is not idly said. I have been for some time specifically
calling the attention of objectors, principally psychologists, to a par­
ticular case, covering less than seventy-five pages, and asking them to
face and discuss it, and to explain by any ‘normal * postulates the
facts therein. I will furnish the materials and all facilities for the
examination. If any one will give an intelligent explanation on any
other basis than a ‘ supernormal ’ one, I will accept that explanation
like a shot. So long as psychologists are so sure of their ground, and
have time for articles filled with sweeping assertions and particular
observations which reveal nothing so much as lack of exact knowledge
of the literature of psychical research, it would seem that they might
find opportunity to read seventy-five pages, and analyze the contents,
and clear up the problem of their production.
“ The experiments embodied in the brief record to which I refer
were conducted by one of the most exact and cautious of investigators,
a man of sphynx-like demeanor; every word uttered is set down and
6BaThe best of all, in my judgment, is the remarkable episode of the peacock.
See my discussion of it in Journal A. S. P. R., XVI, 94-8.
6 6 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
even every fall of the automatist’s pencil. Fraud is excluded by the
conditions set forth. ‘ Fishing ’ and information given by the persons
present can be exposed if either is there. The subconscious mind of
the psychic surely could not have poured forth a flood of correct state­
ments of fact of which she was never aware. The chances of attaining
by guess the results set down can be shown to be less than one to the
population of billions of worlds like this.
“ But we are told that *in no case of alleged supernatural [super­
normal] communication through a medium are the conditions known to
have been such as to rule out other explanations.’ Very well, I submit
that there are many such cases, and I especially instance one because
of its compactness and brevity, and challenge Professor Washburn to
meet the issue which she had made. Short of accusing Dr. Hyslop, the
sitter and myself of a conspiracy and a forged record, I am skeptical
of her ability to do it with success. If she makes even a plausible
showing, I shall be the first to congratulate her for doing what her
psychologist colleagues have thus far been too shy to attempt. She
may choose her own periodical, provided that in fairness the periodical
will give me an equal place in the arena. Or I will throw open to her
the pages of the Joumal of the Society which I represent. The gaunt­
let is at her feet. Will she take it up? ”
She did not. There followed a silence like that of the grave.
DR. MILLAIS CULPIN
Dr. Culpin is the author of an amateurish book called Spiritualism
and the New Psychology, and Professor LEONARD HILL wrote an
introduction for it. The evidences for enchantment in both I have
analyzed at length.66 Professor Hill was so ignorant of the recorded
evidence for telepathy that he supposed it covered by this explanation:
“ It is to be expected that the sensory stimuli received from a given
environmental condition will often arouse the same train of thought in
two or more people, standing together, especially in those who habit­
ually associate. Such coincidences of thought, which astonish the
ignorant, are due to natural law.”
To him it is all of a piece with a family sitting at dinner, and all
having the thought that the beef is excellent. What was there in
relationship or environment or proximity which can account for the
following: 67
66Journal A. S. P. R„ XVI, 74-98.
67 Illustrative material to confute Professor Hill could be drawn from many
sources, but I choose to select from a noteworthy report published by Mr. Upton
Sinclair in 1930, under the title of Mental Radio, and dealing at length with experi­
ments indicating telepathic powers on the part of his wife. The particular experi-
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 67
First Experiment by Craig and Bob, forty miles apart
What Bob did and drew
1. While deciding what to draw
he sat facing the sideboard, on
which were silver candlesticks.
2. He sat at the dining-room
table.
3. He sat at the northeast corner
of the table.
4. He made his drawing on a half
sheet of green paper.
5. H e drew a chair w ith solid
legs with horizontal strips
across the back and wrote the
word “ chair ” in capital let­
ters, beneath the drawing.6
6. After he had drawn the chair,
he lay down on the bed, gazing
through the foot of the bed at
the chair he had taken as a
model. The bed-foot has ver­
tical bars.
What Craig drew and wrote
1. “ I saw Bob take something
from the sideboard—think it
was the glass candlestick.”
2. “ I saw Bob sitting at dining­
room table—a dish or some
small object before him.”
3. “ (on N. E. corner table).”
4. “ I try to see object on table—
see something white at last. I
can’t decide what it is, so I
concentrate on seeing his draw­
ing on a green paper.”
5. “ I try hard to see what he has
drawn—try to see paper with
a drawing on it and see a
straight chair.”
H ere she drew a chair
w ith solid legs, with hori­
zontal lines across the back.
6. Here she made a second draw­
ing, seeming to represent a
chair, but with the lines at the
back now running vertically,
and three short lines repre­
senting the legs. She also
wrote:
“Am not sure of the second
drawing. It does not seem to
be on paper. It may be his
bed-foot. I distinctly see a
chair like first [drawing] on
his paper.”
At the second experiment, the following day, Bob drew a watch.
Craig’s drawing was a partial success hard to describe without the cuts
ments whiph I shall briefly describe were of a set planned by Mrs. Sinclair and her
brother, and carried out sitting at the same hour when they were forty miles apart.
“ Craig ” is Mrs. Sinclair, “ Bob ” her brother. Craig would not only draw but also,
in some cases, write out her impressions. The conditions of the experiments seem
to be well authenticated. The drawings are shown in the book.
68 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
of both drawings. At the third experiment, the next day, Bob drew a
pair of scissors, and again Craig’s impression, although it can hardly
be represented by words, showed significant approximation. At an
experiment three days later, July 13, Bob drew a table fork; Craig
drew nothing, but simply wrote: “ See a table fork. Nothing else.”
But the experiment of July 11 deserves special mention.
What Craig drew and wrote
1. She drew several concentric
circles around a black point.
2. After making the drawing she
seemed to see a dark spot over­
spreading the paper, felt in­
tense depression, tried to draw
the spot, and wrote alongside
of it: “All this dark like a
stain—feel it is blood; that
Bob is ill—more than usual.”
What Bob drew and experienced
1. With a compass making a hole
in a sheet of paper he drew a
large circle around it.
2. Then he discovered that he had
a hemorrhoid “ and couldn’t
put my mind on anything else
than the thought, ‘ My God,
my lungs—my kidneys—and
now this!’ ” (And a hemor­
rhoid naturally suggests the
likelihood of hemorrhage.)
There are four witnesses, two for each end of the experiments, as
well as the original drawings and writing.
Dr. Culpin apparently is profoundly ignorant of Sir William Bar­
rett’s lengthy report on dowsing, but thinks he has solved the whole
business by explaining that the movement of the diviner’s twig is due
to subconscious muscular action, which no intelligent person doubts,
and to guess-work, judging by the mass of cases with which he is
acquainted, three in number, and one of these from a newspaper, and
a second told him in conversation. He annihilates an old recorded
apparitional case by a process of imagining the facts quite otherwise
than all the witnesses stated—a process which, as it had no warrant
but prejudice, could be applied to any human testimony whatever. He
makes Sir Oliver Lodge’s very impressive incident of “ Mr. Jackson,”
the peacock, ridiculous by quoting only the first lines of it for the
purpose of showing that Lodge tried to help the medium, and very
carefully stops at the point where Lodge tried to mislead the medium,
who, nevertheless, poured out a lot of particulars which were by no
means implied in anything that the sitter had admitted. And he
pauses amidst his tilting at windmills to warn us gravely against
“ logic-tight compartments,” and indulging in “ pseudo-reasoning ” !
Now let us note the caution with which a physiologist, the proper
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 69
judge of such matters, analyzes an old case.68 One Mr. Lett related
that about six weeks after his wife’s father’s death, Mrs. Lett and a
Miss “ Britton ” [this should be Berthon] entered a room and saw an
apparition of the dead man, half-figure but life-size, as it were reflected
upon the polished surface of the wardrobe, clad in his familiar gray
flannel jacket, so vivid that they first thought it was the reflection of
a portrait, but there was none. “ While they were looking and wonder­
ing, my wife’s sister, Miss Towns, came into the room, and before either
of the others had time to speak she exclaimed, *Good gracious! Do
you see Papa ?’ One of the housemaids happened to be passing down­
stairs at the moment, and she was called in and asked if she saw any­
thing, and her reply was, *O Miss; the master.’ Graham—Captain
Towns’ old body-servant—was then called for, and he also exclaimed,
*Oh, Lord save us! Mrs. Lett, it’s the Captain!’ The butler was
called, and then Mrs. Crane, my wife’s nurse, and they both said what
they saw. Finally Mrs. Towns was sent for, and, seeing the appari­
tion, she advanced toward it. . . . As she passed her hand over the
panel of the wardrobe the figure gradually faded away, and never
again appeared.
“ These are the facts of the case, and they admit of no deceit; no
kind of intimation was given to any of the witnesses; the same question
was put to each one as they came into the room, and the reply was
given without hesitation by each.”
Mrs. Lett is positive that the recognition of the appearance on the
part of each of the later witnesses was independent, and not due to any
suggestion from the persons already in the room.
If Dr. Culpin had limited himself to objecting that in the lapse of
twelve years between the phenomenon and the written recital errors of
memory might have crept in he would have been on safe ground. But
when he says that “ we know what happens under such conditions,”
implying that the story was certain to have become distorted and
exaggerated, he states what simply is not true. I know by actual tests
that with some persons such a story after the lapse of many years
simply loses some of its details, while the main structure remains essen­
tially unaltered.
But the critic continues, “As the tale is given (my italics), however,
it reveals more than the narrator thinks it does.” Now comes in the
fine work of the physiologist. Words to which special attention is
68Phantasms o) the Living, by Gumey, Myers and Podmore, II, 213-14.
70 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
called will be put in small capitals and my comments italicized, within
square brackets. Let us see what the tale reveals, as it is given.
Picture Miss Towns coming into the room whilst the first two
were “ looking and wondering ” (and not in silence we may be
sure, in spite of the words “ before either of the others had time to
speak,” which are in terpo la ted to strengthen t h e story) [This is
not what “ the tale reveals, as it is given," it is contradicting the tale
and ascribing a purpose to strengthen the story contrary to the facts.
Is it not possible for people to be silent, or not to have time to speak
before something else happens? Well, then, only a determination at all
costs to break down the story can make us sure that anything was
said. And if we are resolved to hew away every obstacle to our pur­
pose, because the story cannot be true anyhow, why not make the
process shorter and simply say with the countryman when he first saw
the giraffe, “ There ain't no such animal," and dismiss the story as a
lie?] ; she straightway experiences the same emotion and sees what they
see. [These witnesses declare that no intimations were given; suppose
the first two ladies did not describe to the third what they saw, would
simple emotion infallibly indicate that the apparition of Captain Towns
had been seen?] Now we have three em otional pe o p l e [There
is not a shred of evidence for this statement; for all the critic knows
they may have been particularly cool and calm people, for even such
might “ look " and “ wonder," be “ surprised " and even “ half-
alarmed " at such an unusual experience], and as each new witness is
brought along the emotion increases till it would require a very self-
possessed and skeptical person to resist its influence [an admission that
such a person might resist the influence, but coupled with an assump­
tion, without an atom of knowledge of the facts, that not one of the
eight persons was that sort of a person. Yet a single such person, if
as voluble as it is again assumed, in contradiction of the testimony,
that the witnesses were, might have broken the power of suggestion
for all who subsequently came in. Is it likely that out of the eight,
not one was a cool, incredulous one, proof against subtle suggestion to
the extent that he or she could not be caused to see an apparition of
a particular dead person?] The butler and nurse simply had to
see the ghost [Even if we agree that they had to see something, it
does not follow that they had to see the same thing— the apparition of
Captain Towns] though the account is a little ambiguous at this point.
[Verbally it is, but there can be no doubt what is meant. And why are
the housemaid and body-servant, with their explicit statements, and
why is Mrs. Towns, with the explicit statement as to what she saw, left
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 71
out of account, if not for the reason that there is less opportunity to
cavil at the testimony related to them?]
“ The same question was put to each one as they came into the
room,” but is it likely that under such a condition of excitement
enough self-control was left to every individual to insure that the same
question, and nothing else, was put to each newcomer? [In the first
place the degree of “ excitement ” which it is supposed must prevail on
such an occasion, is exaggerated. I have been present at two or three
scenes which theoretically would have frightened and excited the par­
ticipants, and they remained calm, though interested and surprised.
Many instances are known to me. I have been myself surprised,
though by no means thrown into a state of uncontrollable emotion
about it, that usually people take such things as apparitions so
coolly. But again the critic, after promising that he was going to
show what “ the tale as given ” revealed, contradicts the solemn state­
ments of two witnesses and that of a third person (Mr. Lett) who had
an opportunity to question all immediately afterward.] Such a thing
COULD ONLY HAPPEN BY CAKEFUL PEEAEEANGEMENT [Is this true?
Could not a single person be intelligent enough to warn the others in
turn, even by the gesture of a finger to the lips, before the next came
into the room, to be silent? Surely Dr. Culpm would have had the
sense to see the importance of such a precaution. It would certainly
have been my instinctive course, and I venture to contradict and say
that there could have been such a person, say Mrs. Lett or Miss
Towns, who first entered, in this group with the no excessive quantity
of sense requisite to adopt the same procedure. Both Mr. Lett, who
talked with all the witnesses directly afterward, and Mrs. Lett, who
was a witness, as the narrative is given, assure us that no intima­
tions were given what had been seen. But this very assurance is made
the ground for a subtle objection.] which was lacking here, and the
writer’s insistence shows th a t somew heke in his mind was
PEESENT THE SUSPICION THAT SUGGESTION HAD A HAND in the
production of the unanimous evidence. [Take this in connection
with what follows.] Mrs. Lett is equally insistent that the recog­
nition was not due to any suggestion from the persons already
in the room, but she was unawake th a t suggestion can occue
w ith o u t in t e n t and that the most powerful suggestion is that
which is unintentional. [How does Dr. Cvlpin know that she
was unaware of this? I will agree to invalidate any story which
he may tell if I am at liberty to contradict any of his statements
according to my notion of what is likely or conceivable, and to ascribe
72 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
to him without any ascertained data whatever psychological make-up
is convenient for my purpose. If he had said that perhaps Mrs. Lett
was unaware, etc., or even that she probably was, I would not object,
but no physiologist or other man has a right to affirm positively what
he does not know is true. But especially note another proof of his
determination to make all grist for his mill. He invalidates the testi­
mony because Mrs. Lett does not signify that she understands about
the power of indirect suggestion, and he earlier invalidates it because
the witnesses signify that they do understand what direct suggestion
can do. “ The writer's insistence (as well as his wife's), that no
*intimation ' or *suggestion ' had been made, shows that somewhere in
his mind was present the suspicion that suggestion had a hand in the
production of the unanimous evidence! ” What is a poor witness
to dof
“You are damned if you do.
You are damned if you don't.”
One is reminded of the procedure for trying if a woman was a
witch by throwing her into the water—if she floated, execution fol­
lowed; if she drowned, it was much the same.\ Can we suppose that
there were no signs of wonder and awe on the faces of those present, no
excited exclamations, no glances towards the wardrobe, no pointing of
hands, only a few calm and self-possessed people asking each newcomer
if he or she saw anything? [Nowhere does Dr. Culpin charge or inti­
mate that any one described what he saw to the person next entering,
his whole argument at this point is that the efficacious suggestions
were unintended and indirect. And he does not see the logical hiatus
that he has created. Allow that the witnesses were in a state of excite­
ment bordering on frenzy, so that each particular hair stood on end
like quills on the fretful porcupine, granted that they uttered ejactda-
tions such as “Oh! ” and “My! ” and “Heaven help us!” grant that
they all glared at the wardrobe and pointed all their fingers at it, how
could all these signs infallibly indicate the same thing, that an appari­
tion was to be seen, and that the apparition was to be that of Captain
Towns? I grant that Captain Towns had recently died, though the
passage of six weeks would not suggest that his ghost was to be ex­
pected. But why need every mind have gravitated at once to an
apparitionf Why might not this one have thought of an infernal
machine and have looked to see if one was visiblef And another that
perhaps a burglar was shut up in the wardrobe and that he was being
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 73
called on to see a trembling movement of that article of furniture? Is
it credible that out of six who came in subsequently to the first two, not
one, when asked if he or she saw anything, would have looked in great
perplexity and have made some such answer as, “ No, I don't see a
thing. What is the matter with all of you? What do you see? " If
there was something unusual apparently reflected on the wardrobe, it
might well be that suggestion toould cause some of the eight to think it
looked like Captain Towns, though it is hard to believe that not one
would say something like, “ Yes, I see a peculiar appearance on the
wardrobe, it must be the reflection of some object." But if there really
was some peculiar appearance on the wardrobe in the bright gaslight,
what became of it? Why did it gradually disappear and why could
none of the excited and highly-suggestible group get any renewal of
the impression?] The minute account of the apparition, given by
someone who was not present [It does not appear to be convenient to
quote Mr. Lett's statement: “/ was in the house at the time, but did
not hear when I was called," for this would have revealed that he had
opportunity to hear the testimony of all eight witnesses within the
hour—a very different situation from that when a man tells a story
years after the facts which happened at a distance, and the auditor,
who never has talked with any other witness, afterward rehearses the
story] and told as if it were the result of the immediate observations
of the first two witnesses [/ can see no possible justification for this
statement. Furthermore, it seems not quite ingenuous to set down such
a sentence and to ignore the signed declaration of Mrs. Lett and her
sister which makes Mr. Lett's account their own: "We, the under­
signed, having read the above statement, certify that it is strictly accu­
rate, as we were both zvitnesses of the apparition.” And it seems to a
misguided psychical researcher to be of importance that these witnesses
“ never experienced a hallucination of the senses on any other occa­
sion " as bearing upon the extreme suggestibility credited to them, as
well as the remaining six witnesses, by the physiologist, on no evidence
whatever.] has b een influenced by discussion after the incident
[Verily, the man must be omniscient/] and is itself another product of
suggestion [First the apparition was the eight-fold product of sugges­
tion and now the whole narrative about it is the product of suggestion.
Some people use that word to conjure with, to paralyze any fact,
statement or evidence which they do not fancy. And this good doctor,
though doubtless an expert physiologist, really seems to use the
word “ suggestion " as recklessly as his profession used to use calomel.
Here is a story guaranteed by two witnesses and written by a man who
74 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
had conversed with six more, and it is resolved into " a product of
suggestion." I can imagine the doctor called as an expert witness.
" The story which that man has just told is the product of sugges­
tion," he declares. The cross-examiner takes him in hand. “ You
heard two persons declare that they were eye-witnesses, and all that he
says is true; you have heard that six other persons were present at the
time and that all testified to the same thing; how, then, can the account
he the product of suggestion? " “ Don't you see," says Dr. Culpin,
" the actual witnesses might have forgotten what really took place, and
various circumstances might have suggested what they now tell."
“ But," replies the lawyer, " they declare there was no suggestion
about it, that they have always adhered to the same story." "Ah, but
that might be part of the product of suggestion; it might, and I affirm
that it was." “ Not so fast," says counsel, “ we want to learn how you
know it was." “ Because the story is so improbable." "And that is
your ground for stating that the story is the product of suggestion? "
" Yes, and that I don't like such stories at all." And the lawyer
wearily says, "As we are not here to determine whether the testimony
is to your liking or whether it is probable, but whether it is true, you
may step down.”~
\ The narrator has overshot his mark in his protest
against the possibility of suggestion [We have already attended to this
beautiful specimen of petitio principii], and has produced a story in
which the apparition is not the only improbable feature. [Earlier, the
apparition was so probable a feature as to be certain in the given cir­
cumstances— “ the butler and the nurse simply h a d to see the ghost "
—but now it has become improbable. Presto, change! We must in­
form Dr. Culpin that apparitions as subjective facts are not ques­
tioned by any well-informed persons. If he meant to say that the
objectivity of the apparition is improbable, that is another thing, and
he should really learn to express his meaning more accurately.]
Finally we read, “ I have given this analysis because the story is
quoted repeatedly by writers on the spiritualist side, and until one
examines it critically [as one would examine a watch with a claw­
hammer] it appears convincing.”
And I have given this analysis of the analysis because it is a type
of the sort of thing in which many professional gentlemen who have the
loathing-for-psychical-research complex but who are tyros in the field
of psychical research, feel it is fitting to indulge, and until one ex­
amines it critically it might appear convincing. It is convincing to a
great many people to whom anything, no matter how full of misappre­
hensions and misstatements, suppression and distortion of evidence,
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 75
lame logic and sounding generalities, so long as it favors their preju­
dices and is proclaimed with Olympic assurance by academics and pro­
fessionals, is sweet and juicy meat. But incorrect statement and poor
logic are incorrect statement and poor logic no matter by whom ut­
tered nor by how many. Dirty water may in Asia become fit for use,
provided a sufficiently large tank is filled with it, but nowhere else.
We respect any painstaking, learned and intelligent argument against
the alleged supernormal, and will combat it respectfully or agree with
it, as the case may be, but practically all that is served out by the
intellectuals is of a grade that they would not dare to employ upon
another subject. It seems as though some enchantment seizes upon
men of ability in their respective fields the moment they pass the
boundary line of psychical research with deadly intent. Even though
psychical research were a windmill, there would otherwise seem to be
no reason why they should tilt against it with wooden lances and on
rickety Rosinantes.
DR. C. B. FARRAR
Dr. Farrar, a Canadian psychiatrist, had an article entitled “ The
Revival of Spiritism ” in the American Archives of Neurology and
Psychiatry for June, 1921, which is analyzed in the Journal of the
A. S. P. R. for October, 1922. It is characterized by all the tokens of
enchantment which we catalogued at the beginning of this paper, in­
cluding the misspelling of proper names familiar to psychical research­
ers. Farrar’s main thesis is that no man ever reaches conviction that }
there are spirits through evidence, but that it is always achieved by 7
“ an act of faith temperamentally determined,” which dogma pleasantly \
relieves Farrar of the trouble of paying the purported evidence any I
attention. His main argument in support of the dogma is that such
men could not have become convinced by evidence (he puts the word
between scornful quotation marks, since he is sure without examina­
tion that it would not be evidence to him), because they have been
studying this evidence a long while! Sir William Barrett began his
investigations “ upwards of forty years ago.” “ Hodgson devoted
years of his life to the subject.” Others have “ grown old in their
quest.” As there appears to be no reason why this logic should not be
of universal application, the conclusion seems to be that the only way
to reach a rational conviction upon a subject is to refrain from
studying it.
“ The earliest antecedents,” we are told, of the “ spiritistic ” move­
ment are to be found in the period of the Old Testament and that of
76 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Greece and Rome, and this is said as though it implied a reproach. It
appears to me that if purported supernormal phenomena had never
appeared before the nineteenth century this would have been claimed
as a damning fact. “ Why,” it would have been demanded, “ have
such things never happened before in the long history of the race, if
they happen now? ” Contrariwise, if such phenomena are fundamental
to human nature, we should expect to find them in the ages of the Old
Testament and of Greece and Rome.
But as by the magic of the pen a sinister aspect is given to the
fact that “ modern phenomena have their prototype and pattern in
the early days of our race,” so in the next paragraph “ Modem Spirit­
ism ” is twitted for being so young. It dates back, we are told, only to
the Hydesville rappings of 1848. “ Modern Spiritism dates from
1848,”—and if by “ modern spiritism ” we are to understand a par­
ticular cult, the statement is correct. But if it means phenomena such
as are alleged to happen now and more or less widespread interest
therein, it is far from correct.
/ Andrew Jackson Davis was already known as the “ Seer ” in 1843.
' From 1838 to 1848 phenomena ascribed to spirits swept through all
the Shaker communities in this country. It is said that spiritistic sit­
tings were being held in San Bernardino, California, before 1840. On
the other side of the sea, as early as 1824 the “ Seeress of Prevorst ”
was seeing and talking with apparitions, manifesting psychometrical,
clairvoyant and previsionary powers, in trance states, which prevailed
for many years. The case was widely known. Forty years earlier,
Jung-Stilling, whose experiences so much interested Goethe, was seeing
apparitions, having premonitions, making predictions and collecting
with moderately critical care accounts by his contemporaries of all
sorts of phenomena such as are alleged today, including raps that were
accustomed to sound when deaths occurred, premonitory dreams, mes­
sages, and even the feeling of a “ cold wind,” which accounts were
published in his “ Pneumatology.” In 1743 began the “ clairvoyant ”
visions of the great engineer, Jagfidentiorg, which impressed Kant, the
talks with spirits and angels, the dreams and other experiences which
he related. In 1716 came the raps, groans and poltergeist perform­
ances in the house of John Wesley’s father which made John a believer
in spirit manifestations all his life. We go back to George Fox, who,
born in 1624, heard voices and saw visions, made predictions said to
have been fulfilled, wrought cures and banished obsessing spirits.
Back of this, in the sixteenth century, the “ Tremblers of the Ce-
vennes ” largely overran Germany, and these had visions, believed that
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 77
they communicated with good and evil spirits, and performed psychical
cures. Jacob Bohme, the noted mystic, born in 1575, had a range of
experiences, did automatic writing, saw and conversed with what he
appeared to regard as an unearthly visitor, heard music inaudible to
others, and claimed to have seen different spheres of the supernal
world. Martin Luther, a little earlier, heard raps, bangs and terrific
noises in his room at Wartburg Castle, as he had earlier heard inex­
plicable sounds in his monastic cell at Wittenberg. He saw apparitions
which his prepossessions identified as the devil, exorcised and made
cures. And everyone knows, or ought to know, the story of Joan of
Arc in the thirteenth century.
The point is not that all of this list of instances, which might be
indefinitely extended, were correctly interpreted at the time, and for
present purposes it is immaterial whether they were or not. The
point is that if one cares to travel back through the generations, he
keeps running upon alleged phenomena of types similar to those
asserted to occur in our own times. Thus it is quite erroneous to say
that “ modern spiritism dates from 1848.” A certain religious cult
may be said to date from 1848, but that is a very different thing.
If I should write an article criticizing several eminent members of
Dr. Farrar’s profession and should spell their names Janey, Sydis,
Morton Printz, Ossler, he would be warranted in presuming that I
had never been familiarly acquainted with either these men or their
works, else the true form of their names would have been a part of
the records of my brain. And if I had no other evidence of his un­
familiarity with the literature of psychical research I would find it
in his spellings, “ Meyers,” “ Edmunds,” “ Seibert,” and in the mix­
ing of the initials of F. W. H. Myers (“ F. H. W. Myers ”). Even
physical science cannot be very familiar, else he would hardly have
written “ Tindall.”
Dr. Farrar entertains the theory that, so far as religion is con­
cerned, personal attitudes “ are not arrived at by processes of de­
liberation, logic and judgment, but are, first and last, questions of
temperament, to change which lies not within the power of the individ­
ual.” This he admits applies at both ends of the scale, so that religious
skepticism as a psychological attitude is no more rational than is
religious faith. Of course this generalization flies in the face of the
testimony of millions that they were irreligious, if not opposed at least
indifferent to religion, until well on in life, when something occurred to
cause an inward revolution. And it flies in the face of the evidence
furnished by the visible lives of millions. Furthermore, multitudes of
78 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
people went through the process of “ deliberation, logic and judgment ”
before arriving at settled conclusions on religion, as printed biog­
raphies show, and they did not believe and never would have admitted
that this process was without force or meaning. That is, the dogma
that men are mere automata so far as religion is concerned, is contra­
dicted by both consciousness and external observation. Whence, then,
does Dr. Farrar draw assurance that his dogma is true? If we point
out a man—and there are hosts of such cases—who has been a ma­
terialist, and so far as he or any one else could see, was satisfied in his
materialism, until the age of fifty or sixty, when he somehow made a
right-about-face, Dr. Farrar says that all the while the man was a
predestined believer in religion. Byron wrote that
“ When Bishop Berkeley said there was no matter,
And proved it—’twas no matter what he said.”
I should say that when a man, in the face of all the evidence which the
nature of the case admits of puts forward a generalization which he
can support only by barren assertion, it is of interest only as swelling
the list of curious and rickety psychological speculations. If religious
attitudes “ are first and last questions of temperament ” I would like
to know what temperament was doing all of sixty years before a man
of that age finally changed his views. It reminds me how a phrenolo­
gist, when I was a youth, declared my organ of “ form ” to be the
largest in the whole nest, which would imply that I was wonderfully
keen in remembering faces. I told the phrenologist that my memory
for faces was very poor, and he said that the faculty was large in me,
but “ latent.” But I cannot understand what is meant by a strong
faculty which remains latent, as that one has in me to this day. Nor
can I understand an innate disposition which works in a contrary
direction for half a lifetime and then suddenly begins to work as it
would be expected to do.
All this is relevant because our writer advances a step and says
that the belief in spirits is also “ an act of faith temperamentally de­
termined.” And I do not see why the doctrine is not every whit as
applicable to all human beliefs and convictions, just as easy to assert,
just as unlikely, just as impossible to prove. Thus we should be
landed in the midst of a universal skepticism of reason, and be spared
the examination of any facts hitherto supposed to support this or that
belief, or any mental effort at all aside from a languid interest in those
fatalities of birth which gave us fixed beliefs as it gave us fixed com-
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 79
plexions. But I do note that in advancing his “ temperament ” theory
so as to include views on spiritism, the good doctor forgets to let it
work both ways, as he did in the case of religion. That is, he main­
tains that “ belief in spirits is an act of faith temperamentally deter­
mined,” but he does not, and he should, add that disbelief in spirits is
also not reached by any process of reasoning about it, but is tempera­
mentally determined. To have done so would have destroyed any util­
ity in his article, for what could be the use of arguing against spiritism
in a world of beings hopelessly sewed up in their individual bags of
reason-proof temperament? Besides, the doctrine that “ belief” in
spirits is never really based on reasoning from facts, enables one to
disregard the facts and arguments of psychical researchers as irrele­
vant, while the implication that disbelief in spirits is, must be, and ever
shall be the result of intelligent processes makes golden coin out of
many a criticism of psychical research which is otherwise counterfeit
as to fact and to logic.
What nonsense! There is no subject upon which a sound and
candid mind is not capable of acting according to the “ processes of
deliberation, logic and judgment ” ! There are no subjects in relation
to which the reason of all men is paralyzed. To hold that there are is
manifestly to be superstitious on those subjects, for they would have
to be regarded as possessing a resistless fateful power of inhibiting
human reasoning unless it happens to take an adverse direction. There
is no other subject, politics, medicine, psychology, biology, art, litera­
ture, on which human beings cannot hold differing views without either
side laying down a doctrine that the logical processes of the other are
in absolute abeyance. To be sure, this is a convenient dictum, for it
avoids the necessity of attending to the troublesome evidence and argu­
ment of the adversary; it is sufficient to ascribe to him on purely imagi­
nary and theoretical grounds a certain psychological make-up and
then to illustrate it with carefully selected quotations wrenched from
their connections.
Does Dr. Farrar entertain such a skepticism of his own mental
capacities as to believe that if he had a visual or an auditory hallucina­
tion he could not record it at the time, as he could record in his diary
the bodily visit of a friend? That if the apparition made a prediction
he could not as easily watch, report, and prove the fulfilment of the
prediction as its failure? That, if after living in twenty-six houses
without a thing happening that did not readily answer to normal ex­
planations, he should take up residence in the twenty-seventh, where
(I have in mind an actual case) raps sounded in various parts of the
80 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
house, beds shook and a variety of singular things occurred, he could
not investigate the raps and other facts as coolly as he would investi­
gate cockroaches or defective drains? That if automatic writing re­
hearsed a variety of facts regarding a deceased friend, which the
psychic provably did not know, he could not reach a rational conclu­
sion, at least tentatively, whether or not the correspondences were too
many and too particular to be ascribed to chance? Unless he made
haste to deny the facts, must he worship them and be drawn into a
whirlpool of unreasoning credulity? He discourses as though there
were no objective facts on record, but only delirious fantasies. But
there happens to be on record a great body of facts, and a great many
witnesses whose testimony in regard to other types of facts would be
regarded with respect. I am not here defending any particular inter­
pretation of the facts, but only maintaining that since, if any of them
took place in the vicinity of Dr. Farrar, he could keep his head and
observe, call in other witnesses to observe, truthfully report and attest
by corroborative testimony, and afterward calmly set down arguments
pro and con, others can do the same. Or will he admit that he could
not do it? Does he think that “ hereditary and developmental neuro-
psychical attitudes, tendencies and inclinations ” create facts external
to the possessor of the assumed characteristics? If not, how in the
name of common sense can the vexed question of “ spiritism ” be settled
solely by inventing psychological theories about the observers?
I pass over the claim that Sir William Osier, in his Science and
Immortality, teaches the same doctrine of temperamental determinism,
with the remark that to read the little book to the end is to refute the
claim. Osier does indeed classify temperaments, and of course they
exist, but he emphatically does not hold that these are chains which
cannot be broken. Otherwise there would be no sense in his words,
“ Some of you will wander through all phases, to come at last, I trust,
to the opinion of Cicero, who had rather be mistaken with Plato than
be right with those who deny altogether the life after death.” The
temperament is not a mold but a current which may have its course
shaped.
But let us see how the psychiatrist proves his contention that spir­
itists of the type of Hodgson, Lodge, Hyslop and Barrett were not
moved by facts, but by the irresistible tendency of a native tempera­
ment. His main argument is that such men could not have been per­
suaded by “ evidence ” in quotation marks, because they have been
studying this evidence a long while! Sir William Barrett began his
investigations “ upwards of forty years ago.” “ Hodgson devoted
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 81
years of his life to the subject, and made it practically his whole occu­
pation.” Doyle, “ for more than thirty years has devoted most of his
spare time to psychical research.” Others have “ grown old in their
quest.” Therefore they did not really, rationally investigate, therefore
their “ evidence ” was not evidence, therefore they were simply trotting
round and round in the circle of their temperamental prison-cell, with­
out adding an iota to the stock of facts worthy of attention.
If this is logic, it should be mercilessly applied. We need not pay
attention to Darwin’s evidence, it will suffice to put the word in derisive
quotation marks, for Darwin spent nearly twenty years of his life on
the subject of Natural Selection and made it practically his whole
occupation prior to the publication of his exposition. Almost from
boyhood Peary was engrossed with desire (and desire is the great
provocative of imaginary wish-fulfilment) to reach the North Pole; it
was his study and passion for many years (probably “ largely a matter
of endocrine glands,” etc.), he tried again and again (“ this is the
factor of habit ”), and as “ there is another factor in the psychological
metamorphosis of conviction, the striving, if one may so express it, of
every thought process to arrive at a definite goal” he at length be­
lieved he had found his! Why consume valuable time examining and
accepting or else controverting his “ evidence ” when psychology,
without leaving its cloister, can so easily explain the delusion? Sem-
melweiss was another of that infatuated set who “ have practically
devoted their lives ” to a particular subject, his subject being the
investigation and promulgation of the art of asepsis. He was one of
those who “ dedicated themselves to [an] inquiry . . . which, assum­
ing for them more and more importance as the years passed, eventually
became a veritable obsession.” Perhaps because they divined his
“ natural constitutional bent ” the great majority of his medical con­
temporaries refused to examine his “ evidence,” though they con­
temptuously repudiated it, and he at length contributed to their
psychological theory by going mad over the matter. Oddly they are
all following in his footsteps now in regard to asepsis. Alas! if it
should be discovered that Dr. Farrar himself long ago devoted himself
to the subject of psychiatry, and has spent many years in study and
investigation preeminently in this field, for we should then be assured
that whatever he considers to be “ evidence ” within that field is prob­
ably only the buzzing of a neuropsychic center in his brain, and should
be compelled to request him to discuss some topic which neither of us
had given any particular attention to, in order that our reason might
be released from remorseless bias.
82 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Let us see how the account stands between the psychical researcher
and the psychiatrist, each of whom thinks he has found something
worth while in his respective field. We will choose usual and typical
cases:
Psychical Researcher
1. Pursues general courses of
study in psychology or phys­
ical science with view to a
profession.
2. Continues his profession for
years, uninterested in and skep­
tical to psychical research.
3. His attention is attracted by
some fact hard to explain on
“ normal ” grounds.
4. Although his colleagues, who
can give no explanation, make
light of it—
5. And he knows he may lose
caste and injure his profes­
sional and financial prospects
if he does not leave such mat­
ters alone.
6. He pursues independent inves­
tigations, and reads the rec­
ords of other investigators.
7. He spends much of his spare
time continuing his investiga­
tions, although they are re­
garded askance and are not
lucrative.
8. He publishes a complete rec­
ord of a series of experiments
containing incidents which he
regards as weak or uneviden-
tial, also incidents carefully
guarded and corroborated,
which he regards as evidential,
discusses the whole matter
thoroughly, and asks that an­
other than a supernormal ex­
planation of the incidents on
Psychiatrist
1. Pursues medical studies with
view to become a physician.
2. Interested in psychiatry—con­
fides in it on authority—early
in his medical studies.
3. His attention is still more
attracted by psychiatry as
promising a career.
4. Especially as his instructors
speak well of it—
6. And there is good money in it.
6. He listens to cut-and-dried
lectures, faithfully takes notes,
and believes all he hears.
7., At length he spends all his
time studying and practising
psychiatry as a gainful and
well-reputed profession.
8. Without any knowledge what­
ever of the psychical re­
searcher except that the latter
has studied his subject a long
time, he invents, on purely
theoretical grounds, a neuro­
psychic determinism for him,
and disposes of both the evi­
dence and the argument by the
innuendo of quotation marks,
or else picks out the incidents
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Psychical Researcher Psychiatrist
which he places emphasis be for annihilation which had ex-
brought forward. pressly been designated as un-
evidential, and ignores those to
which attention had specifically
been called.
The above comparison is intended and believed to be perfectly fair.
And I boldly affirm that I know of no doctor, psychologist, physicist,
or other man of scientific pretensions in America who, since the day
when Hodgson landed on these shores more than thirty years ago, has
attempted or purported to confute the results of such psychical re­
searchers as those of Hodgson himself and Hyslop, and whose success
has surpassed what is described in the eighth section above. If there
is a single, solitary instance where the parts of an automatic record
upon which a scientific psychical researcher places emphasis, have been
fairly met and an attempt made, by the kind of logic employed in
other fields, to deprive them of supernormal significance, let it be
pointed out.
DRS. SANDS AND BLANCHARD
It is a matter of history that in the course of the last fifty years
many persons who had earned reputations for intellectual rigor, be­
came convinced of the “ supernormal ” character of certain phenomena,
and not a few went so far as to favor the theory that discarnate intel­
ligences have been able to give tokens of their existence. At first the
favorite explanation was that the prominent men were not trained
scientists, and a call went forth for a man like Crookes. Crookes and
other physicists were convinced, and it was said that they were beguiled
in consequence of being out of their own bailiwick, and that, after all,
the psychologist was the proper man to investigate. Myers, James
and certain other psychologists became either convinced or benevolent,
and lately it has been stated that the physiologist is the better fitted to
judge. But the fact is painfully apparent that a number of well-
known physiologists have become also convinced or been made favor­
able, and pretty generally resource has been found in a dogma, unac­
companied by proof, that all cases of conversion to supernormal facts
of any kind, particularly spirit communication, or even respectful con­
sideration of the problems, is due to a psychoneurotic tendency, to an
innate predisposition or “ will to believe ” that is bound to find its goal.
Dr. C. B. Farrar, as we have seen, is one of the most confident expo-
84 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
nents of this theory, for which no proof but mere assertion is offered
by him or any one else. And now come along two other psychiatrists,
Drs. Irving J. Sands and Phyllis Blanchard, Ph.D., with a theory to
account for at least a part of the mournful catalogue of cases, a
theory which looks as though it were at war with the theory of Dr.
Farrar and others. We quote from the book by Drs. Sands and
Blanchard, Abnormal Behavior: Pitfalls of Our Minds.
“Arteriosclerotics are apt to become intolerant of opinions of
others. They find difficulty in adapting themselves to new customs and
habits of life. They often become cranks and faddists. By virtue of
their recognized authority in their various callings, they are apt to
gather new followers and disciples in various movements which they
may undertake. Thus several prominent men who have in their later
years become actively engaged in such movements as spiritualism have
done so because of impaired judgment due to cerebral arteriosclerosis,
and have gathered many disciples because of the prominence which
they have achieved in some field of human endeavor during their prime
of life.”
In the cases referred to, at least, then, interest in “ spiritualism ”
was not due to an innate psychoneurotic tendency impossible to resist,
but to impaired judgment owing to a morbid condition of arteries
in the brain, with the presumption that if this physiological condi­
tion had not come about the obnoxious opinions would never have been
embraced.
The authors are not very precise. After asserting that the tend­
ency from impaired arteries “ often ” operates, they come down to
“ several cases ” which they say exist. They do not tell who the several
men are. But the accompanying description makes it nearly certain
that such men as Lodge, Hyslop, Hodgson, Myers, Crookes, Wallace,
and Conan Doyle are referred to.
The majority of the men just named, as well as other men of the
class described, came to their opinions before their “ later years,” and
it is improbable that the confident writers can show that these men
were ever proved to be afflicted with cerebral arteriosclerosis or that
there are any indications that they had it. Some of them died before
much was known about the malady. It is difficult to see how anything
more than a mere guess can support the proposition so oracularly
affirmed.
If the examples are collected from a lower range of prominence,
then the “ several ” are the pick of a much larger number of cases than
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 85
if drawn from the first rank, and the “ several ” are so much the less
convincing.
Will the authors say that the “ several ” were subjected to exami­
nation which determined that the physical condition named existed,
and that as a matter of fact they are not simply dogmatizing? Even
if they know of three such actual cases (for three cases would be
“ several ”) of prominent men who in their later years embraced “ spir­
itualism ” and acquired followings of “ disciples,” how are we to be
sure that post hoc is not mistaken for propter hoct If of twenty-five
prominent cerebral arteriosclerotics, twenty-two remain by their pre­
judices and three depart from them, may not the malady be a blessing
in disguise? We have known persons so hidebound that almost any
change would be welcome. More seriously, if of twenty-five or thirty
persons who come to adopt opinions which somebody doesn’t like, I
find that three, or “ several,” adopted them at an age when that some­
body thinks they were old enough to have arteriosclerosis, isn’t that
slender material for an indictment of the opinions ?
Later in the book it is admitted that spiritualistic belief may some­
times be quite useful in preventing the “ development of a frank
psychosis.” However,
“ One must not lose sight of the unscientific and false attitudes of
the spiritualists, or be deceived by the statements of these deluded
sufferers. We have seen many frank psychoses precipitated by lectures
delivered by well-known spiritualists who have recently toured this
country. Thus one case of Dementia Prsecox in a state of remission,
who was able to lead a fairly satisfactory life, was again thrown into
active excitement after listening to one of the lectures. He there and
then again began to see his sweetheart who had died several years
before. It was necessary to have this patient committed to a state
hospital because of his excitement.”
It appears to us that the statement just quoted falls far short of
proving the point aimed at, even granting that the “ many psychoses ”
were all real ones and not the false diagnoses of prejudice, and that
they became overt and recognized after the lectures. Many psychoses
are first called to the attention of psychiatrists after they have cen­
tered around some such object as wireless telegraphy or aeroplanes,
following some thrilling article on that subject in a newspaper or
magazine. Dementia praecox and paranoia must fix upon some subject
or subjects, and some event or other must immediately precede their
becoming recognized, or their resumption after temporary recovery.
86 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
It is not fair to pick out one subject sometimes thus superficially con­
nected, and to let the others go scot free.
The danger in psychical experimentation has been monstrously
exaggerated. There is no logical reason why utter absorption in such
matters to the neglect of others should not be dangerous, and it is, as
the same type of undue absorption in religious exercises, politics,
science or art in the cases of persons whose cerebro-neural or mental
constitution contains a factor of instability. People become insane
following troubles in business and love, but this is not urged as a
reason why everyone should shun business and courtship.
Again, it is very common for a person who is beginning to become
insane to fix his attention upon something of a recondite nature,
around which his imagination can play, and which satisfies the de­
mand of his disordered intellect for a cause to which he can ascribe
his hallucinations.
The paranoiac hears voices and believes that they come from
phonographs concealed in the walls to annoy him. Or he is persecuted
by some telepathist who, wherever located, can read his every thought.
Or some one once stared at him, and he has been under hypnotic in­
fluence ever since. Or the notions buzzing in his brain are charged
upon wireless telegraphy. Or it is spirits who are doing the mischief
or conferring supernal favors. Many more cases come to my notice
where the fixed ideas are concerned with phonographs, telepathy, hyp­
notism and wireless telegraphy, than where they relate to spirits, yet
the same persons who confidently claim that spiritism or interest in
psychical research has caused the insanity in certain cases would never
think of blaming phonographs, wireless telegraphy, etc., in the more
numerous cases. That is to say, it is infrequent to get trustworthy
data on cases where interest in psychical phenomena has been fol­
lowed by insanity due to that interest, but frequent to hear of cases
where minds whose disorder has already begun gravitates to spiritism
or concealed phonographs, wireless telegraphy, telepathy, radium.
X-rays, et al.
We can agree with whatever any one may say about the theoretical
dangers of too great absorption in any of these subjects, but have
come upon very little evidence of their causing mischief to a person of
sound mentality who conducts himself with common prudence.
Nor can we, nor ought we, stop all investigation and progress in
relation to subjects upon which people may apparently, or really, go
insane. To do so would stop not only all investigation and discovery,
but the human race itself, for there is no matter which is so frequently
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 87
connected with insanity as love between the sexes. Yet none thinks of
framing a fearful indictment against loving by saying, what would be
perfectly true, that thousands of frank psychoses have been precipi­
tated by incidents in connection with falling in love, and that we have
known of relapses in consequence of meeting an old sweetheart, or
hearing that she or he has married or died.
It is time that it were understood that the truth or falsity of any
matter is not determined in any degree by the reactions of the insane
toward it. This is already recognized in relation to every subject
but one.8
9
If only to see how, in one generation as another, prejudice makes
writers shun reality, or recreate facts to suit their fancy, we go back
a quarter of a century to6
9
69 Mr. H. J. Osborne, a scholarly Spiritualist, furnished an article from Reason
from which the following extracts are taken. A fuller selection may be found in
Journal A. S. P. R., XVI, 226-27.
“A year or so ago I put the subject to the test of close and definite research. I
put under contribution, in evidence, the medical superintendents of most of the
great lunatic asylums of England and Wales; and I ransacked, over a series of
years, the government reports on statistics on lunacy.
“ The replies of the asylum doctors were, uniformly, that these asylums did not
contain any inmates whose insanity has been certified as caused by Spiritualism;
and in the rare cases where it enters at all as a causation, it is shown to be only
contributory, if that, because of the presence in the case of heredity or other
leading cause.
“ The government figures are uniformly against the slander. The asylums of
England and Wales contain few over 100,000 lunatics, of all types and conditions;
none are certified as due to Spiritualism; and so far from this being a cause the real
causes are shown to be in the heaviest proportions—alcohol, heredity, privation and
syphilis. These, and some others, are preventable causes, and the slanderers of
Spiritualism would be better employed in trying to secure better laws and better
application to these subjects.
“ It became obvious, from a study of the official figures, that if Spiritualism be
a cause of insanity, its incidence must be sought in one line—that dealing with
sudden mental stress. Under that heading in the official records are included all
cases of religious mania, so certified.
“ I carefully examined a table covering five years—the latest—and found that
this phase of mental stress, standing alone, gave only—males, 1.4; females, 2.3. That
is about one and a half hundred—the totals, as well as the percentage, being negli­
gible. It is evident, then, that Spiritualism as a factor in the causation of insanity
is, practically, a minus quantity.
“ I found it, however, an interesting diversion, after proving that Spiritualists do
not become insane, further to inquire where the preachers and the doctors—our chief
slanderers—stand as regards insanity.
" From the same government figures I found, according to the latest report,
which showed the incidence of insanity in respect of ‘ all occupations ’ the proportion
of insane per 10,000 is 4.94. But the clergy of the Church of England average 10.3—
more than double the general average; and that one cleric is certified insane
every week I
“ Of the doctors, three are certified insane every five weeks, and the average is
14.3—nearly three times as many as the general average.”
88 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
E. W. SCRIPTURE, PH.D.
In a book entitled The New Psychology (1897), by E. W. Scrip­
ture, Ph.D., then Director of the Yale Psychological Laboratory, seven
pages are devoted to psychic research. I borrow from Dr. Hyslop’s
• 70
review.
“ Professor Scripture’s mode of attack consists in a comparison of
what he regards as the slipshod method of psychical research and the
more scientific procedure of Hansen and Lehmann in their criticism of
the Sidgwick experiments. How much he knows about the Society’s
work is shown by the single fact that there is not the slightest evidence
of his ever having seen the Society’s Reports. The first instance of
this negligence is found in the reference to some experiments alleged to
have been made by Dr. Ochorovicz, and ridiculed here with a persiflage
that is wholly unscientific. The character of the experiments I do not
defend. They may be anything you please. But we are entitled to
know where they were published and how much weight was given them
by Ochorovicz himself. Not a reference is given, while it would seem
from the very language that Ochorovicz attached no value to them.
The record of them is not found in any of the publications of the
Society, nor can I find any trace of them in Ochorovicz’s book on
Mental Suggestion. A few of his experiments were mentioned in
Phantasms of the Living,71 but not a word in them refers to the in­
stances criticized by Professor Scripture. If psychical research is to
be held responsible in this way for matter to which it has never given
its imprimatur, what is to be said of the author’s boasted scientific
method? . . . The example of scientific method here recommended for
imitation is that of the two Danish students, Hansen and Lehmann.
The value and suggestiveness of their experiments I shall not question,
but recognize with unstinted praise. But Professor Scripture shows no
knowledge of either Professor Sidgwick’s original experiments or his
reply 72 to Hansen and Lehmann.”
If Professor Scripture had been animated by any fair spirit toward
psychic research, he would surely have wished to see what Professor
Sidgwick had to say in reply. And he would have looked at the many
reproductions of results of telepathic experiments published by the
S. P. R. and found for himself how impossible it is to explain a part of
them, such as irregular figures which have no name, on the theory of
“ involuntary whispering.” And he would also have found instances
where the original drawing could be named, but where the drawing of7
0
70Proceedings S. P. R„ XIV, 144. n II, 660 ff. « Proceedings S. P. R., XII, 298-314.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 89
the “ percipient,” while too like the original for chance, is not what it
would have been had there been, on the part of the “ agent,” successful
involuntary whispering of the name. Take the complicated original
drawing on page 95 of Volume I of the Proceedings. One part of it is
a well-drawn profile of a man’s head, the face turned to the left. Two
attempts at reproduction show to the right the curved line correspond­
ing to the back of the head in the original figure, and to the left a
jiggling perpendicular roughly corresponding, suggesting the line of
features in the original, but not revealing the slightest consciousness of
a human head and face. But surely, any involuntary whispering would
have contained the word “ head ” or “ face,” and the result would have
been a distinctly recognizable head or face.
We turn again to Dr. Hyslop’s criticism:
“ Further, Professor Scripture says:—‘ Hysterical or hypnotized
persons are the most frequent percipients in such experiments.’ But
what evidence is produced for this statement? None. Professor
Scripture lays great emphasis on quantitative measurements, and
surely here is a statement that is capable of statistical method! The
statement, indeed, is a pure assumption entirely without foundation.
But what if it were true? What difference would that fact make in
careful experiments of the kind under review, viz., drawings? The
percipients could just as well be insane. It matters not who or what
the percipient may be, if the precautions are sufficient to prevent fraud.
If we should prove telepathy, and assume or prove that the percipients
were abnormal, the fact might require us to abandon the materialistic
theory of insanity.”
And, finally, Dr. Hyslop shows that Professor Scripture attempts
to criticize experiments and calculations by the S. P. R., while he is in
ignorance of the nature of those experiments, and misrepresents them.
“ His words are: *We might, like the psychical researchers, proceed
to calculations of probability, e. g., if a counter be drawn by chance
from the total of 90 counters, the probability of drawing any particu­
lar one is 1—
90, and likewise the probability of recording at random
any particular one of 90 possible figures is 1—
90. Now, the probability
that the two agree by chance is equal to the product of the separate
probabilities, or 1-8100. Only once out of 8100 times ought an experi­
ment to succeed.’ The probability that Professor Scripture describes
is the probability that the number drawn and the number recorded will
both agree with a previously designated number. But this is not the
question. For example, to take one of the instances quoted by Pro-
90 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
fessor Scripture, the problem is not the determination of the chance,
prior to the experiment, that the agent would draw the particular
number 33, and the percipient also guess 33. The problem is the
determination of the chance, that after the agent has drawn one of the
numbers, no matter which, the percipient should guess the same num­
ber. The agent having drawn 33, this number is already settled, and
is calculated as a certainty. It is one of 90 numbers, any one of which
the percipient may choose, and the chance that he will guess right is
obviously 1 in 90. I do not blame Professor Scripture merely for
being ignorant of the very simplest application of the laws of proba­
bility, but I do blame him for being ignorant and at the same time
attempting, in a professedly scientific work, to deal with a subject
where some elementary knowledge of these laws is absolutely essential
for even a superficial judgment.”
Here is a specialist in experimental psychology who takes pride in
the exactitude of his methods, and yet who breaks into the field of
psychic research with the blundering violence of a bull in a china-
closet. How shall we explain the phenomenon, if not by the magic of
the enchanted boundary?
JOSEPH JASTROW
Joseph Jastrow, Professor of Psychology in the University of Wis­
consin, evidently has a Saul of Tarsus complex on the subject of
spiritism, telepathy, and everything that savors of the supernormal,
since for years he emitted a stream of articles, lectures and interviews
in opposition. He evinces no experimental acquaintance with the dis­
puted phenomena, only superficial first-hand knowledge of the records,
and openly avows that “ there is no real obligation to consider minutely
all the circumstances ” attending any claim,78 since it is sufficient to
rely on certain scientific maxims, the “ will to believe ” of those who
have reported affirmative evidence, and the “ temper ” under which it
was accumulated. He reproaches the Research Officer of the A. S.
P. R. for failing to be governed by dogmas which beg the very issues for
which the Society exists to try, and which, if assented to in advance,
would automatically put it out of business. And, so powerful is the
spell of the enchanted boundary, that he fails to perceive his comical
position as an Advisory Scientific Counselor of that same Society. He
relies with touching confidence upon such writers as Clodd and Mercier,
and, to crown all, refers with unqualified approval in a syndicate
78See his article in Journal A. S. P. R., January, 1923.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 91
article of the public press to the work of Amy Tanner, the greatest
atrocity of misrepresentation that ever was issued on the subject.
Personally a charming gentleman, and no doubt an authority on psy­
chology, he seemingly cannot lift his pen to write a paragraph on
psychical research without an error of fact or a solecism in logic
falling from it.
Some psychologists seem to think that modern science is a steel-
riveted structure into whose rigid framework no facts radically new
and unexpected can be introduced without wrecking it. Professor
Jastrow writes that “ obviously if the alleged facts of psychical re­
search were genuine and real, the labors of science would be futile and
blind,” that what psychical researchers “ fail to remember is the solid
integration of science without which modem life and rational thinking
in the environment which it has slowly created would be impossible.” 74
An anthology of similar passages could be compiled from his writings.
It happens that I am largely in agreement with Professor Jastrow’s
estimate of the particular book and case which furnished his texts for
the remarks quoted, but the remarks themselves are not the less un­
sound. It is well that they were answered by a scientist, Edwin C.
Kemble, Professor of Physics in Harvard University, who, whether or
not he feels any particular interest in psychic research, cannot share
in Dr. Jastrow’s touching confidence in the immutability of present-day
science, and responded as follows :7
B
“ The central point of Professor Jastrow’s contention is his belief
that the phenomena reported by the psychical research investigators
are logically inconsistent with the general body of modern science.
This inconsistency is so obvious to Professor Jastrow that he is con­
tent with reiteration unaccompanied by elucidation.
“ In a final slightly arrogant passage, he remarks that ‘what the
revival of the belief in occultism proves is the weak hold which prin­
ciple and logic have gained upon minds otherwise of fine quality and
more than ordinary caliber.’
“ Your correspondent, a physicist, is reminded of a story told him
years ago of a gentleman who, returning to his laboratory after a
vacation, had great difficulty in getting his quadrant electrometer to
behave properly. The deflections of the delicate little instrument were
irregular, and it showed an unaccountable tendency to ‘kick,’ when by
all the laws of science it should have remained steady. Finally, in
anger, he took the instrument apart and found to his disgust that
during his absence a spider had woven its web about the top of the
74 Weekly Review, July 14, 1920. 75lb., July 28, 1920.
92 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
suspension. Perhaps Professor Jastrow will find a flaw in the analogy,
but it does seem to your correspondent that the assertion, *if the
alleged facts of psychical research were genuine and real, the labors
of science would be futile and blind,’ is at least very nearly on a par
with denying the laws of physics because of the discovery of a spider.
“ I venture to suggest two reasons for believing that the statement
last quoted above is wrong.
“(1) Let me, in the first place, call attention to the fact that
practical science is merely a detailed description of Nature’s ordinary
modus operandi. It is absurd to suppose that any psychic discovery,
however true, will alter that modus operandi, and therefore it is absurd
to suppose that any such discovery can affect the body of practical
science. The acceptance of the Einstein theory of relativity has
brought with it an entirely new science of mechanics. Does this send
Galileo, Newton, and Poincar6 to the scrap heap? Must we teach
beginners the theory of relativity before we can explain to them how to
calculate the torque required to accelerate a fly-wheel at a given rate?
By no means. The classical mechanics remains the mechanics of engi­
neers and of ordinary life. Within a certain limited field it gives an
essentially correct and very much simpler account of the facts than
does the more exact theory of Einstein. The discovery of new phe­
nomena may add to the field of scientific inquiry, may modify old
theories, and alter our philosophical interpretation of well-known
facts, but nothing short of a revolution in the order of Nature itself
can relegate established practical science to the scrap heap.
“(2) In the second place, I would observe that there is no present
reason to allege that the supernormal phenomena reported by the
scientific spiritualists, if true, constitute a break in the reign of law
any more serious than that involved in the behavior of any small boy.
The laws governing the spiritistic phenomena have not yet been formu­
lated, and the origin of the forces behind them is as yet mysterious,
but, despite all the work which has been done on child psychology, who
would be so bold as to say that the laws governing small-boy nature
have been formulated, or that small boys have lost all elements of
mystery? And be it remembered that small boys are much more com­
mon and more easily investigated than the alleged phenomena of
spiritism.
“ If there is any true logical inconsistency involved in the belief in
the reality of the phenomena reported by the psychical research in­
vestigators, Professor Jastrow and his fellow critics will do all the
world a service by pointing it out. If they cannot do this in a clean-
cut manner, their strictures on the mental housekeeping of those who
maintain an open mind with regard to these phenomena may recoil on
their own heads.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 93
“ Behind a very large part of the opposition to psychical research
from both popular and scientific sources seems to lie the superb confi­
dence which nearly every man seems to have in his theory of the uni­
verse. His mind is a semi-orderly place where, rightly or wrongly,
things are tagged and pigeon-holed. The gaps in his knowledge are
unconsciously filled with the works of his own imagination as some
maps of the ancients were extended beyond the regions of actual
exploration. He is at home, and more or less at ease, in his mental
world and meets any attempt to upset its order with an opposition
nearly as violent as that which he bestows on those who would under­
take to undermine the social structure.
“ Perhaps no antidote for this attitude would be better (if it were
possible for the average man) than a study of the progress of the
science of physics in the last two decades. The period in question has
been marked by an extraordinary double revolution which has reck­
lessly overturned many of the basic principles which in 1900 seemed
established beyond question. The public is more or less familiar with
the Einstein relativity theory, which in its primary limited form is
meeting at present with well-nigh universal acceptance from those who
have studied it. The public is much less familiar with the even more
subversive and more powerfully illuminating *quantum ’ theory, the
discussion of which has for some years filled the pages of the journals
of physics the world over. The fundamental ideas of these theories did
as great violence to the preconceptions of the physicist of fifteen and
twenty years ago as do the alleged phenomena of spiritism now. And
they met with violent opposition. Today, in spite of the fact that
they bring with them great unsolved problems, they are proving the
key to a thousand mysteries, and we begin to see how little we knew
in 1900. If the basic ideas in the highly developed and relatively
simple science of physics could undergo such a complete revolution at
the beginning of the twentieth century, are we to believe that the
fundamental hypotheses of modern biology and psychology are so
firmly established as to make it possible to ridicule those who report
phenomena which seem to conflict with them?”
Extracts from an article with which I closed a brief debate between
myself and Professor Jastrow still further describe the peculiarities of
his dialectical technique, when dealing with psychic research.7
8
“ Professor Jastrow has much to say about logic, but his own is
peculiar. He finds in the fact that most persons who seriously pursue
psychical research become convinced that the ‘ supernormal ’ exists,
evidence that they are wrong and that those who won’t study are right.
™Forum, March, 1924, 401-02.
94 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
He thinks that since some psychical researchers are less cautious than
others and some who call themselves such are charlatans, they are all
fools together, though this logic would annihilate his science of psy­
chology, whose advocates are divided into exactly the same classes.
After complimenting my critical abilities of which he has had *con­
vincing evidence,’ he supposes me capable of uncritical blundering and
credulity. Because I rule out testimony which is ‘ spurious or too
feebly evidential ’—which is exactly what every judicial tribunal does
—he thinks a presumption established that all the testimony is of the
same quality, which logic would not only stop the proceedings of every
court but would also produce the grim corollary that Professor Jas-
trow is in the same class with the psychological quacks whom he occa­
sionally denounces. A large fraction of his *reply ’ attacks alleged
facts which I did not mention and which he knows that I do not advo­
cate. As well might I oppose some psychological contention of his by
a diatribe against Christian Science and Yogism.
“ He makes me say that every advocate of an unusual claim is
entitled to be met on his own ground, as if I thought that claimants
that the earth is flat, and that the stars influence human affairs, were
so entitled. What I say is that after a supposed *law of nature ’ is
questioned by leaders in natural science, and a body of data in justifi­
cation of their doubt is on record, then all persons who will not ex­
amine the alleged facts and meet the specific arguments should keep
still. Resort to the dogma that opponents are possessed by a *will to
believe ’ is hysterical and irrelevant. Darwin probably had a will to
believe, but his facts and his arguments were not answered by alleging
it. Professor Jastrow desires it to be understood that whenever I
report laborious investigations and the reasons for affirmative conclu­
sions, I am dominated by a will to believe, and that his own persistent
evasion of the facts and the arguments of his opponents is not evidence
of a will to disbelieve. He promised to *explore the evidences of Mr.
Prince’s mental processes,’ and then simply paints an imaginary por­
trait of the man whom he had pronounced critical and qualified, as one
suddenly become uncritical and blundering.
“ My article was entirely devoted to cases, two telepathy groups
and one of purported spirit communication. My adversary answers
these, respectively, in fifteen, sixteen, and thirty lines.
“ He meets my assertions in the West telepathy case with counter
guesses which have exactly as much warrant as there would be for my
guessing, if that could help me out of a difficulty, that he once stole a
sheep. And he—or any other man—would not find it easy to prove
that he had never done so. He meets my solemn declaration that not
even my wife and daughter had been told the title of a poem, by the
sage remark that *we exaggerate the “ privacy ” of much that we
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 95
regard as known to no one but ourselves.* Perhaps the professor does,
but it is my business not to do so. Does he not see that any assertion
of individual experience and observation which he could make might be
discredited by the same process? He saw a particular man on such a
date? But sometimes we undergo subjective experiences known as
visual hallucinations. He can bring the man to prove it? So can I
bring my wife and daughter to prove my assertion. . . .
“Any factious objection which is made to a particular case for
which I stand can be met by other cases. Many investigators of ‘the
highly critical group ’ are at work by methods more exact than are
usually in vogue in the psychological laboratory, and the tendency of
such critical first-hand study, as the professor admits, is toward con­
viction that the ‘ supernormal ’ exists. And here and there stands a
critic moved by some emotional complex to vocal disgust, who, while
he will not experiment for himself nor fairly meet the evidence and
arguments of those who do, yet expects his guesses to be accepted as
*logic,* and his nightmare fancies as to the mentality and methods of
his opponents to be accepted as solutions of the problems involved.”
Dr. Jastrow, in his books and articles, not infrequently gets his
missiles from the psychic researchers themselves—their studies of
sources of error, their criticism of spurious or doubtful cases, etc.—
and, without thanks or decent acknowledgment, fires them back upon
the psychic research camp.
In an article by him in the Popular Science Monthly of April, 1889,
he told a story of the confession of a medium regarding his fraudulent
modus operandi in the production of “ materializations,” and said it
was D. D. Home who confessed. Someone must have called his atten­
tion to this perversion of the facts, for the latter statement does not
appear when the story is repeated in his Fact and Fable in Psychology
(1900). But he gives no source and no authority. The truth is that
Home told the story in his Lights and Shadows of Spiritualism, not
naming the medium, but saying that he copied the tale from “ an
American newspaper,” not even specifying what newspaper it was. In
the first place, it was careless reading which caused Dr. Jastrow to
represent that the medium was Home himself. In the second place,
what would he think of a psychic researcher who printed as evidence
of the supernormal a story which he said he saw in a newspaper, and
regarding which he had no other information whatever? But any un­
sponsored floating yarn is good enough if to the discredit of mediums,
although he could have procured plenty of authenticated exposures of
pretended mediums had he applied to a society for psychic research.
r
96 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Any one who desires to read an extended analysis of Dr. Jastrow’s
peculiar logic may find ten pages of it from the pen of Mr. F. N.
Hales, in the S. P. R. Proceedings, XVII. We content ourselves here
with two extracts, both of which reveal that, while supposing himself
very scientific, the attitude and spirit of Jastrow are the reverse of
that. Mr. Hales is reviewing Fact and Fable in Psychology.
“ ‘The present collection of essays is offered as a contribution
towards the realization of a sounder interest in, and a more important
appreciation of, certain problems upon which psychology has an
authoritative charge to make to the public jury. These essays take
their stand distinctively upon one side of certain issues, and, as deter-
minately as the situation seems to warrant, antagonize contrary po­
sitions ; they aim to oppose certain tendencies and to support others;
to show that the sound and profitable interest in mental life is in the
usual and the normal. . . .’ In other words, Professor Jastrow claims
the right and assumes the responsibility of making a number of ex
cathedra statements upon a variety of subjects, some of which he con­
ceives have dangerously engrossed the public interest to the detriment
of others. He wishes to educate the interest of the public in psycho­
logical matters. He conceives that a science cannot prosper if the
public take no interest in it, cannot thrive if it be misunderstood by
the layman. It is difficult to see what the layman’s opinion can pos­
sibly matter on a question of pure science, or why the layman should
be allowed any voice whatever. To the public, science is revealed
religion, and the savant its prophet. The layman believes on author­
ity, that is his privilege. But in what sense can he be supposed to
form part of a jury? ”
And Mr. Hales is emphatically right. It is quite proper to en­
lighten the public (although mere ex cathedra ejaculations are poor
materials for enlightenment), but no scientific man thinks of appealing
to laymen as a jury, or can be influenced with regard to his own
findings one tiny particle if every shopman in seven cities ridicules
them.
Also, according to Jastrow, psychology cannot be expected to
investigate any psychical claims.
“ The psychological problem [with Jastrow] in all these cases is a
quite different one: ‘ It takes up the inquiry as to how such marvelous
pretensions came to be believed, by what influences conviction is formed
and doctrines spread.’ Such is the fundamental difference of principle
between psychologist and psychical researcher, according to our
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 97
author—that while the psychologist knows there is ‘nothing in it,*
without the tedium of a special inquiry, the psychical researcher takes
the trouble to collect evidence in order to have some special proof
whether there is *anything in it ’ or not.
“ We protest, in the interests of psychology, against this caricature
of psychological ideals, and in fairness to psychical research we pro­
test no less strongly against the charge of occultism insinuated by
Professor Jastrow’s phrase ‘ something in it.’ It is a mood which he
thus characterizes, not a definite logical position; it is a mood which
we detest quite as much as he does; it is a mood which every scientist
detests, because it denies the rationality of his pursuit. And we gladly
abandon to any one’s satire the idly curious layman who, by a kind of
Schadenfreude rejoices whenever some outhouse of science collapses on
the heads of the masons within. Such a mood has nothing, however, to
do with logic. The scientific conservatism upheld by Professor Jastrow
is no less a mood, and no less foreign to logic. Is psychology, then, so
perfect a science that we need not trouble to investigate phenomena
which at first sight seem difficult to explain by the theories current in
any one year? Is the basis of our science, then, so secure that it is
mere waste of time to study facts which at first sight do not harmonize
as perfectly as we might wish with facts already investigated? Does
not the very essence of research consist in finding out whether there be
or be not ‘ something in ’ a certain fact at present obscure; in finding
out whether this fact makes for one theory or for another? ”
DR. IVOR L. TUCKETT
This gentleman in 1911 published a book entitled The Evidence for
the Supernatural, and of all books known to me which attempt to dis­
count the evidence for the supernormal, including telepathy, this makes
the best superficial appearance of being a rigorous frontal attack.
The uninformed reader who takes no pains to compare statements in
the book with the original records and to compare what its author says
with what the actual experimenter said, would certainly think that the
former had made an onslaught all along the line and had inflicted an
irretrievable defeat. This appearance is very deceptive, but thor­
oughly to demonstrate that this is the case would require the marshal­
ing of citations and the comparison of statements with facts to the
compass of fifty pages. I am confident that, avoiding all the passages
from the records which Dr. Tuckett chooses, I could construct at least
as plausible an argument to account normally for all of Mrs. Piper’s
phenomena, and could then answer, exposing my fallacies and incon­
sistencies of logic, and the insufficiency of all my explanatory sugges-
98 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
tions, partly gleaned from the admissions of the critical original
experimenters or reviewers, and partly the products of my ingenuity in
guessing that facts and conditions were other than reported, to explain
the totality of the automatic material. And, with the same amount and
quality of study devoted to The Origin of Species as Dr. Tuckett de­
voted to records of Mrs. Piper, those for cross-correspondences, etc.,
and employing the same methods, I could to the uninformed and hasty
reader produce an effect fully as annihilating. Such in fact were the
methods employed by some clerical amateurs in the third quarter of the
nineteenth century, regarded by themselves and by many readers as
quite devastating.
The author tells us on his title-page that he is “ M.A., M.D.
(Cantab.), M.-R.C.S., L.R.C.P., formerly Fellow of Trinity College,
Cambridge, and Senior Demonstrator of Physiology in Cambridge
University.” It was perhaps not quite cricket for Dr. Hyslop to be
sarcastic in referring to this array of dignities,77 seeing that his own
title-pages announce his degrees and former academic position. Very
' ‘ likely both men yielded to the wishes of their publishers. I quote the
portentous list only to emphasize the fact that no amount of learning
and official standing can save a man from crossing the enchanted
i boundary insufficiently prepared.
/ The author’s amateur quality is betrayed in the very title of the
/ book. Writing in criticism of psychic research, he is apparently un-
I aware that its exponents from the first had repudiated the notion that
/ anything can actually exist and be above or outside of the system of
) “ nature.” Or else he would crowd this concept down the throats of
( psychic researchers despite their protest. He quotes with approval 78
I Huxley’s words: “ The world of psychical [mental] phenomena ap-
1 pears to me to be just as much a part of ‘ Nature * as the world of
i physical phenomena,” and every sensible psychic researcher is of the
( same opinion. The sub-title: “A critical study made with ‘ uncommon
\ sense ’” should not be mentioned without regard to his explanation
that he has in mind the fact that many people are betrayed by what
they esteem “ common sense,” but it is fair to conclude that the writer
thought he had accomplished a very successful undertaking, and that
the sense he had displayed was very superior to that of Myers, Gurney,
the Sidgwicks, Hodgson, Lodge, Hyslop, Piddington and a long list of
persons who had studied the subject matter at first hand and at the
expenditure of vastly more time, labor and pains. On what meat do
T
TJournal A. S. P. R., VI, 507. T
8Evidence for the Supernatural, 6.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 99
men feed that they feel themselves competent almost offhand to con­
tradict and outlawyer men who have been at infinite pains?
On the very first page begins an astounding sentence, seeing that
it was penned in 1911. “ In the following pages I do not profess to
have written much that can be described, even vaguely, as original,
seeing that it is largely a reproduction of ideas much better expressed
by philosophers like Herbert Spencer and G. H. Lewes, by experts in
natural science like Tyndall and Huxley, by a student of psychical
phenomena like Mr. Frank Podmore.” To be sure, 130 pages of the
book are devoted to such themes as Prayer, Miracles and the Soul, but
there remain 269 relating to psychic research, and these are not ex­
cluded from the general statement that what he has written has been
expressed much better, by a man who died before there ever was a
society for psychical research, by two men whose only interest was
expressed in brief utterances of contempt for psychic research, and by
Frank Podmore. Therefore, according to his own confession, his ideas
derogatory to such supposed evidence of the “ supernatural ” as are
included in the limits of psychic research have been already better ex­
pressed by Podmore. Here he is perfectly correct; then why not have
left the exposition to Podmore? And while he depends with all the
fidelity of a disciple upon Podmore up to the borderline of telepathy,
at that line Podmore is no longer, in his judgment, a reliable guide,
being in all the region beyond quite demoralized by “ bias.”
This sentence confronts us: “ We know . . . that the S. P. R.
was founded in order to establish the existence of telepathy. Therefore
it is fair to consider that those early members of the S. P. R. were
biased in favor of telepathy.” But surely the place to find what the
S. P. R. was organized for is in its own official publications. And in
the earliest draft of its Constitution its chief object is thus stated:
“ To unite students and inquirers in an organized body, with the view
of promoting the investigation of certain obscure phenomena, including
those commonly known as Psychical, Mesmeric, or Spiritualistic; and
of giving publicity to the results of such research.” Telepathy is not
even specifically named, though of course it was included among the
purported phenomena in view, and there is not a hint at a wish to
“ establish ” anything. Special committees, as we learn from the first
Proceedings,7
Bwere assigned to investigate five named subjects, one of
which was “An examination of the nature and extent of any influence
which may be exerted by one mind upon another, apart from any gen-
» I , 3.
100 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
erally recognized mode of perception.” “ May be,” mark you, not is.
At the very start it is evident that Tuckett needs to be watched or he
will slip in some counterfeit change.
He thinks that one of the ways of accounting for Mrs. Piper is
muscle-reading. Was it “ uncommon sense ” to assume because he saw
in a report of 1889 that she sometimes held a hand of the sitter that
this practice had continued during all the years up to 1911? Igno­
rance is no excuse to the man who appoints himself a judge, yet will
not read the facts of record.
Dr. Hyslop had stated that all that was mentioned about John
McClellan in the county history was that he had been an ensign in the
War of 1812. It was not quite fair in Podmore to say “ to whom
reference was made in a county ” history, as though an explanation of
other true particulars given in the Piper trance might be in that
direction. Dr. Tuckett does no original thinking on the matter, but
depends wholly on Podmore, giving exactly his references to pages.80
Dr. Tuckett says he proposes to give a specimen of Mrs. Piper’s
“ wonderful [italics of sarcasm] skill in medical diagnosis—where her
success was not surprising, seeing that Phinuit first said there was
something wrong with the throat, then altered the statement by saying
it was a stammering kind of speech and all the time the sitter was
assenting and leading him on.” Referring to the father of the sitter
(Miss Alice Johnson), the control said:
“ ‘Ah (feeling her cheek and jaw), there is a sort of numbness here.
What is it? Is he paralyzed? ’ A. J.: *No—oh, no—he is not para­
lyzed.’ [Then she began to feel my face and under my chin, finally
coming to the angle between the chin and throat.] Phin.: ‘ This is the
place. There is a peculiar condition here.’ A. J.: ‘Do you mean in
the throat, or further up in the mouth? ’ Phm.: ‘ Here (touching me
quite at the top of the throat). Not quite in the throat—at the root
of the tongue. [She wavered a little in the exact localization of the
part affected.] There is something curious about him in the top of
his throat—when he talks it catches in his throat—at roots of tongue.
Sometimes when he goes to say a thing he can’t—then again, he can
talk again as well as any one. Speech seems to be cut off for a mo­
ment—he stammers a little (she cleared her throat to illustrate how
he did it). Sometimes this troubles him much—then he is not troubled
at all.’ [This description seemed to me, and to all of my family, in­
cluding my father, to whom I repeated it, to be remarkably good and
accurate. During the description of my father’s throat, I at first
80Evidence for the Supernatural, 137.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 101
answered, ‘ Oh,’ in a doubtful way, thinking of something else suggested
to me by her first words and gestures. Then I saw this did not fit, and
thought of the other thing, which she was really describing. I prob­
ably assented to her description at various points.]” 80a
Now let us see. The trance consciousness of Mrs. Piper somehow
gets an idea that there is something peculiar in relation to the throat
of Miss Johnson’s father, which was true. Where was the “ leading ”
in that direction? It is certainly desirable that no question should be
asked the sitter, but it is not certainly a sign of trickiness, any more
than if I met an old friend for the first time in years and in the course
of conversation said, “ Let’s see, your sister married a man named
Brown?,” when the name was really Browning. There is one stern
rule to be adopted when the medium puts a particular in an interroga­
tive way and that is to regard it as one would an affirmation. So to
this point the medium has correctly announced that there is something
peculiar connected with the father’s throat, but has not yet correctly
stated what was wrong, and was told so by the sitter. Presently the
medium succeeds in relating what is wrong, that “ there is something
curious about him in the top of his throat—when he talks it catches in
his throat—at roots of tongue. Sometimes when he goes to say a
thing he can’t—then again, he can talk as well as any one. Speech
seems to be cut off for a moment—he stammers a little (she cleared her
throat to illustrate how he did it). Sometimes this troubles him much
—then he is not troubled at all.” It will be noted that this is rather a
precise description, it is not a case of stammering alone, but a peculiar
form of stammering. The description seemed to the sitter, all the
family, and the father himself, “ to be remarkably good and accurate.”
Very well, but Dr. Tuckett says that Miss Johnson was all the while
“ assenting and leading him on.” Let us study how she did it. The
first thing she said was, “ Oh, ” in a doubtful way. If Mrs. Piper was
being guided, the doubtful tone should have stopped her, but she went
on. Miss Johnson said: “ Do you mean in the throat or farther up the
mouth?” Will someone inform hie what data that question afforded
for the description of peculiar symptoms associated with stammering,
and their intermittancy ? And several times, as the description went
on, she assented. How in heaven’s name can saying “ yes ” after one
particular has been correctly stated, give a hint for a further
particular?
One is reminded of the horse which, having broken through the ice
lb., 332.
102 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
in winter at a particular spot and cut its leg, ever after refused to go
over that spot in summertime. For a great many years expert psych­
ical researchers have been showing how unskilful sitters may, quite
without intention, supply information and “ lead ” mediums by their
own responses. And they have furnished or analyzed many illustrative
instances. If, following the words “ an old lady with white hair, who
wears glasses,” the sitter weeps and says, “ Oh, mother! Are you
happy? ” there has certainly been leading—the medium can infer that,
so far, the description fits the sitter’s mother, and that she is dead. If
the “ message ” should continue, “ Your mother wants to send a mes­
sage to another of her children,” and the sitter impulsively says: “ I
will take it to her,” two more facts have been furnished gratuitously,
one that the deceased has but two living children, and secondly, that
the other child is a daughter. But such critics as Dr. Tuckett, having
learned principally from the psychic researchers themselves the lesson
that “ leading” vitiates some mediumistic results, proceed to apply it
unintelligently. They become credulous, almost superstitious, in their
hazy imagining that a medium can draw secure inferences where they
themselves could draw none, and where they would be quite powerless
to explain how on earth the medium could have done so. How would
Dr. Tuckett go to work to show that Miss Johnson’s query whether
the “ condition ” was “ in the throat or farther up in the mouth ”
would lead the medium to reply that it was—not in the mouth or ex­
actly in the throat, but—“ at the root of the tongue ” ? If, after the
medium said “ when he talks it catches in his throat,” Miss Johnson
assented, how could her “ yes ” lead to the statement that the stammer­
ing was not constant but intermittent, or that he “ stammers a little,”
instead of very badly? Remember that all the family, including the
father himself, recognized the description as remarkably good and
accurate.*1
In an article entitled “A Sceptical Sitter ” 8
1
82 I analyzed the report
of a lady who had read much critical discussion by expert researchers,
and had learned, parrot-fashion, the necessity for caution in regard to
“ leading,” but who, like the horse, shied not only at thin ice but at a
patch of hard ground. According to her own record she had some
unusually evidential results, but she made an appearance of voiding the
most of it by a series of misapplied explanatory suggestions. For in­
stance, Mrs. McLeod said that when she handed a cardboard box to the
81 Miss Alice Johnson was a woman of very keen mentality, who afterward served
the S. P. R. as Editor, and also for a time as Research Officer.
82Journal A. S. P. R., XII, 356-74.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 103
medium the latter said: “ I see S written all over the box. S - u - e.”
Mrs. McLeod testifies: “ No one but Mr. McLeod [who was supposed
to be communicating] ever called me Sue.” But, she says: “ I was
surprised when she gave S, and my expression may have been tell-tale.
I probably was sufficiently alert to let her see that she was on the
right track.” Yes, surely she could see from Mrs. McLeod’s expression
that the name was not Sarah, not Stella, nor Sophie, nor Sylvia, nor
Selma, nor Sophronia,88 but Susan, and furthermore, that the form of
the name employed by the sitter’s late husband was Sue! How plain
that is, when we remember that the medium’s “ long experience has
taught her to enlarge very cleverly on the slight supernormal impres­
sions she may receive ” ! Having received the slight supernormal im­
pression that S is the initial letter, she is not further informed from
the source of that supernormal impression, but proceeds to study her
sitter’s face. A certain “ expression ” would make it clear that her
name is Sarah, another expression and there would be no doubt that
her name is Stella, but in fact she had an expression of the Susan
species, variety Sue!
Let us look at another specimen of Dr. Tuckett’s “ uncommon
sense,” exhibited under the sub-heading, “ Knowledge obtained (from
hints) during the sitting.” He says :*
84
“ Other interesting extracts from the sitting are:—
“ *. . . Messages were then given from Miss C.’s father and mother
of the same import as those told to the other sitters.’
“ ‘. . . Dr. Myers spoke of Miss C. as Mrs. Robinson, a name
which Phinuit indignantly repudiated. “ That lady’s name is Emily.
She is not Mrs.” ’”
We go to the record 85 and find that a Miss C. was for the first
time taken to a sitting with Mrs. Piper, and was introduced as “ Mrs.
Robinson.” Dr. A. J. Myers, well-grounded in science and elected a
few years later a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, was the
note-taker. He was a brother of F. W. H. Myers and was thoroughly
versed in the methodology of precaution. In accordance with the
necessity for precaution, when Dr. Myers had occasion during the
88 Limiting inspection to family stocks seemingly from Great Britain and Ireland,
since Mrs. McLeod appeared to be of such origin, the first 200 of feminine names
beginning with S found in Boston telephone directory brought the following result:
Sarah, 88; Sara, 16; Sadie, 19; Sallie, 2; (Total, 125). Susan, 30; Susie, 10; Sue, 4;
Susanne, 1; (Total 45). Stella, 6; Sophie, 4; Sophia, 2; Selma, 6; Sylvia, 3; Sybil,
2; Sibyl, 2; Sigrid, 2. Sophronia, Sabina, Selwyn, Selda, Selena, 1 each.
84 Evidence for the Supernatural, p. 336. 85Proceedings S. P. R., VI, 635-6.
104 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
sitting to refer to Miss C. he called her, of course, Mrs. Robinson.
And Dr. Myers records as a noteworthy fact that “ Dr. Phinuit (the
‘ control ’) indignantly repudiated the name, said the lady was named
Emily and was not Mrs.” And Dr. Tuckett triumphantly remarks:
“ This last sentence shows that Mrs. Piper was quite alive to the fact
that sitters were introduced under pseudonyms, which did not deceive
her.” And he puts the incident under the heading: “ Knowledge ob­
tained (from hints) during the sitting.” This is sheer insolence.
There is no hint anywhere in the record of the sitting. Dr. Myers says
he gave an assumed name to the lady and kept up the use of it. Of
course Mrs. Piper knew that sitters were frequently introduced under
pseudonyms, but, assuming that it were so in this case, how could that
fact inform her that the lady was not a Mrs. and that her name was
Emily? And the name Emily was applied to her “ immediately ” after
the sitting commenced, a fact which Tuckett acknowledges was in the
record. Does the immediate application to the sitter, never before
seen, of her Christian name show that Mrs. Piper must have known it
previously? When not only it was asserted that Mrs. Spencer did not
tell a medium a set of odd pet names applied to her by her deceased
husband, and that they were known to her alone, but it was also shown
to be beyond any intelligent suspicion that she could have told them,86
Professor Jastrow’s reply was that the medium evidently knew them,
just the same. So we find Dr. Tuckett here and in many other places,
not dealing fairly with testimony and evidence, but assassinating it.
Under the heading: “ Knowledge acquired in the interval between
two, or more, sittings,” we find this proof: “ Thus, in the sixth volume
of the S. P. R. Proceedings I find that on at least fourteen occasions
she [Mrs. Piper] gave information at a second or subsequent sitting,
which she had not succeeded in giving at the first sitting.” It quite
takes one’s breath away that Dr. Tuckett should find that fact either
a strong indication that the medium picked up information in the inter­
vals between sittings, or that in itself it is even in the slightest degree
suspicious. If a psychic shows knowledge not normally obtainable in
her first sitting with a stranger, why, even were she locked up in the
interim, should she not state other facts gained in the same way at the
next experiment? But Tuckett has formulated a law that any true
statements made subsequent to a first sitting must be regarded, ipso
facto, as derived by surreptitious effort between sittings.
Dr. Tuckett obtains a considerable share of his criticisms from
8«Journal A. S. P. R., XVI, 635-45.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 105
statements by the experimenters themselves that they made mistakes or
that for other reasons certain details given in the trance were evi­
dentially impaired. It is curious, after they have done this so frankly
and have made due deductions accordingly, to enter these very in­
stances in the indictment, as though they had not been laid aside. For
instance, we read that when “ Phinuit ” said “ She’s very near to you,
a good mother to you,” Professor Lodge said: “(stupidly indicating
the fact of decease), Yes, she was.” How does the critic know that
Lodge “ stupidly ” did this ? Because this is the language of Lodge
himself.
The critic is quite confident that Mrs. Piper must have obtained
information between sittings, since, as he shows at some length, later
sittings would disclose facts not stated in earlier ones! He throws out
hints that while in Professor Lodge’s house she managed to pick up a
great deal of information about relatives long dead and a variety of
little facts regarding them which surely no one would have talked about
in her hearing unless intentionally coaching her. When I remember
that Mrs. Soule told a variety of things which happened half a century
ago in my family and which she could not have learned had she read
every book, letter and manuscript in my house (which she has never
entered) I doubt if Mrs. Piper could have extracted all her information
had she ransacked everything in his house. But at any rate it is an
audacious thing to indulge in such speculations and disregard entirely
two very important considerations. First that Mrs. Piper had been
watched by many keen investigators, including the eagle-eyed Hodgson,
and had never, so far as is known, been detected in any suspicious
course of conduct. Secondly, that Lodge himself discussed at consid­
erable length all possible theories of her normal acquirement of facts
and was convinced that none or all of them in combination could
explain the results.87 To that discussion Tuckett pays not the passing
glance of a single sentence. He does not note that Lodge, although
convinced that any information gained by Mrs. Piper normally was a
bagatelle, yet was willing constructively to grant to the critic that she
saw everything in his house, in which case his verdict would not have
differed. No one in contact with her saw any appearance of indirec­
tion, caught her in any suspicious situation or act, although her bag­
gage was examined, and her movements watched, but a man who never
saw her has “ no reason for doubting that Mrs. Piper had observed the
place where Mrs. T. was in the habit of keeping her paint-box,” 88 and
87Proceedings S. P. R., VI, 446-449. 88 Evidence for the Supernatural, 347.
106 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
whenever any pinch comes finds relief in imagining the medium as
prowling and peeking around.
He feels competent to dispute the witness point blank, when
nothing else will do. Thus Lodge reported 89 that in broad daylight
the medium was handed several papers among which was a letter; with
but one hand free she put the set on top of her head, flicked away the
blank papers one by one, then told a number of particulars which were
in the letter. Lodge says: “ She did not inspect them." But Tuckett
says: “ The only explanation is the exceedingly probable surmise that
the words given by Phinuit had caught Mrs. Piper’s eye.” The italics
are mine and I think are warranted. I would very much like to see
the trained conjurer who could take a group of papers among which
was a folded letter, and with one hand so lift them and so manipulate
them on his head that he could read parts of the letter without my
being aware of anything of the sort. Here, however, is Mrs. Piper,
who, whatever she is, certainly is not a conjurer, and it is exceedingly
probable that in broad daylight, with one hand and with the eyes of
Professor Lodge upon her, she did exactly this. I am quite aware that
Lodge and myself and any other man is liable to illusions in the midst
of the conditions surrounding some phenomena in entire or near dark­
ness, but the feat ascribed to Mrs. Piper and the blindness accredited
to Professor Lodge does not belong to that category. Perhaps this
Boston gentlewoman did perform a feat which would make a magician
turn pale to attempt under the same conditions; the contemplation of
that possibility is not nearly so enthralling as the complacent remark
that the feat was exceedingly probable.
Everyone who is not exactly of Dr. Tuckett’s way of thinking is,
in his view, biased. Myers,90 James,91 Hodgson,92 Lodge,93 Leaf,94
Hyslop,95 Piddington,96 with all their varying shades of opinion, are
biased more or less when brought to the norm of Tuckett. Podmore
is unbiased in regard to spiritism—like Tuckett, he was not an advo­
cate of that doctrine, but in regard to telepathy he was biased 97—
for, unlike Tuckett, he was convinced by the evidence for it. Dr.
Bramwell “ cannot be accused of bias ” 98—he did not believe in telep­
athy, and “ has before now put his powers at the service of the
S. P. R.” But the fact that the condemned had rendered manifold
service to the S. P. R. does not help them—it is rather an indication
of bias. Professor Alexander and Darwin were “ impartial,” because
8» lb., 340. »
<
>lb., 353 seq. 91lb., 355 seq. 92lb., 388.
9®lb., 357. 96/b., 359. ^ lb., 359. 98lb., 397.
“ lb., 357. 94 lb., 358.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 107
on the basis of exactly two experiments each they drew unfavorable
conclusions, which the S. P. R. duly printed."
One of the evidences of Dr. Leaf’s bias, we are told, is that he
sometimes speaks of an “ unsatisfactory sitting,” whereas to an in­
vestigator anxious only to get at the truth, “ all phenomena carefully
recorded are interesting.” This is a foul blow, and only by the con­
fession of ignorance can Tuckett claim that he did not deal it wilfully.
One, and a common, sense of the word “ satisfy ” is convince, and that
Leaf meant that the sitting was unconvincing is shown by his remark
directly following that the unsatisfactory sitting led to “ justifiable
incredulity on the part of the sitter.”
One other example of Leaf’s bias is given, consisting in his opinion
“ that telepathy is more probable than muscle-reading ” to explain the
results of a certain experiment. And how is it contrived to present an
appearance of bias? By carefully cutting out the intelligent reasons
given by Leaf for his opinion.
As Dr. Leaf’s use of the word “ unsatisfactory ” was unjustifiably
misrepresented, so the only evidence presented for bias on the part of
Mr. Piddington consists of an unwarranted construction of an unfortu­
nately selected word. After Piddington had given considerable atten­
tion to certain “ cross-correspondence ” material, to quote his own
words: “ Before, then, the next reference to the Latin Message was
made in the trance, on February 19, I had become impressed, I may
even say obsessed, with the idea that there was perceptible an intelli­
gent effort in the scripts of one automatist to make connections with
those of another.” Podmore unfairly says that this shows “ the state
of mind in which he approached [my italics] the stances,” when in
fact it shows the state of mind produced by their study. Of course
Piddington did not mean to imply by the word “ obsessed ” that he
became the victim of either a daemon or a pathological fixation, but
that he became, because of what he found in the scripts, not only im­
pressed but very much impressed.
These very instances of strain by Dr. Tuckett to show bias on the
part of others go far to demonstrate his own bias. And the fact that
he could change Piddington’s language from “ I had become impressed,
I may even say obsessed ” to “ I had become possessed, I may even say
obsessed,” as though to rub in the notion of pathological victimship,
is probably evidence for his own assertion that bias “ is essentially a
subconscious, emotional factor.” 100 When a man is really strongly
lb., 365. ioo/6., 354.
108 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
biased, that is swayed by a feeling, whether of prepossession or preju­
dice, to a degree that the working of his reasoning powers is embar­
rassed, he is apt to search so hard for what he wants to find that he
at times quite fails to notice what he does not want to find. Tuckett
makes much of leading questions or remarks by sitters. And on page
358 he points to what he says is “ an excellent example.” The control
“ Phinuit ” had spoken of cancer. The sitter did indeed ask a very
leading question: “ Was it a relation of my mother’s—her sister?”
And the answer was, “ No, a relation of your father’s,” the fact being
that the sitter’s stepmother died of cancer. Yes, the question was a
very leading one, and Tuckett saw that, but he took no notice of the
very interesting fact that it did not lead, that it was contradicted.
Had the control said “ Yes, it was your mother’s sister,” we should as
in other cases have heard the doctor’s merry ha-ha.
The whole of Appendix R, of three and a half pages, is an exhibit
alone sufficient to convict the author of fatal bias. Out of all the
series of experiments for thought-transference reported by the S. P. R.
in its Proceedings, just one, that with Messrs. Smith and Blackburn,
is chosen for the reader’s benefit, and this because Blackburn, thirty
years later, claimed that he and Smith systematically cheated in it by
the use of a code.
The statement that “ these thirty-one experiments were considered
to establish satisfactorily a case for telepathy,” is not correct. The
original report,101 referring to the “ possibility of a code ” expressly
said that it would “ be an exaggeration to affirm that the possibility of
such signals was absolutely excluded.” It was doubtless on this
account that the Smith-Blackburn series was not reprinted, as were
other series, in Phantasms of the Living, issued three years later, long
before Blackburn’s “ confession.” Why, then, did Tuckett choose it,
and it alone? Not because it was the best, not because it was consid­
ered a conclusive test, but surely because of the Blackburn story. We
need go no farther to infer bias, since this is no fair method of dealing
with a mass of evidence.
We are told that Blackburn told the story thirty years after, but
we are not told that by his own statement he waited until he thought
that all the participants in the experiments were dead.102 But Pro­
fessor Barrett and Mr. Smith happened to be still living. We are told
that Smith indignantly contradicted Blackburn’s statement, saying it
101 Proceedings S. P. R., I, 161-216.
102Daily News (London), Sept. 1, 1911: “ I am the sole survivor of that group
of experimentalists.”
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 109
was “ a tissue of errors from end to end, and that there was no trick­
ery,” but we are left to suppose that Blackburn’s account was just as
respectable as that of Smith, and several sentences slyly hint that
Smith probably lied.1
08
It is held that since slate-writing mediums frequently confuse their
clients, “ there is nothing essentially improbable about Mr. Black­
burn’s statement that there was little difficulty in deceiving Messrs.
Gurney and Myers.” This ignores the great gulf between the two
species of experiments. A slate-writing medium talks and acts at will,
shuffles slates, takes them up and puts them down, puts them under the
table, twitches, directs his sitters to do this and that. But the com­
mittee of the Smith-Blackburn series, Messrs. Gurney, Myers, Barrett
and Podmore, made their own conditions, and established their own
procedure. Blackburn would be taken out of the room and a drawing
would be held before his eyes a few moments. He was then led back
into the room to a spot facing the blindfolded Smith’s back, where he
sat or stood at about two feet distance. All preserved silence and
members of the committee who, as Tuckett admits, “ were well aware
of the possibilities and dangers of collusion, deception and malobserva-
tion,” watched Blackburn, near enough to detect any sound from or
motion of his lips. The situation was radically different from that in
a slate-writing performance, and while, as the committee themselves
said, signaling was not absolutely excluded as a possibility (even
though they declare that anything unusual in the way of shuffling feet,
coughing or breathing inevitably would have been noticed), it is very
difficult to understand how it could have been carried on.
There is not a whisper from Tuckett of anything suspicious in
Blackburn’s belated “ confession,” yet it is full of questionable sen­
tences. He claimed to have detected the secret of W. I. Bishop’s pre­
tended thought-reading; Smith challenges him to produce any record
of proof that he did so. He claimed that “ two youths, with a week’s
preparation ” began a series of successful fooling of the committee and
advanced so rapidly that shortly after the first experiment they per­
formed a feat which “ to this day no conjurer has succeeded in ap­
proaching ” ; a statement which includes magicians who had practiced
their art for forty years, and Zancig, the supreme master of code­
signaling. Supposing Smith was dead, he declared that the latter had
been “ the most ingenious conjurer I have met outside of the profes­
sion ” ; Smith turned up to say, “ I am the worst conjurer in the1
0
3
*
103 Ib.t issue of Sept. 4. Subsequent letters by Blackburn and Smith Sept. 5 and
Sept. 6.
110 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
world,” an expression he would hardly have dared to employ had
any one known him as an even passably good conjurer. He says that
the signals were at first “ produced by the jingling of pince-nez, sleeve-
links, long and short breathings, and even blowing ” ; the committee had
distinctly reported that anything unusual in his breathing “ must in­
evitably have been noticed,” and it is incredible that either on his nose
or taken off and held in his hand he could have jingled a pair of eye­
glasses loud enough to have been heard by Smith and never have
attracted the attention of two or three watching observers of the
caliber of the persons composing the committee. He says that the
code was “ developed ” further, but does not tell us how. I am ac­
quainted with the nature of many codes and do not believe that in the
positions of Blackburn and Smith relatively to each other and the
watchers any code was ever devised which could direct so close a
reproduction of such peculiar and irregular drawing as, for instance,
No. 8.104 Examine the reproduction in this case and test it by Black­
burn’s statement that “ irregular drawings completely snuffed out the
psychic power which, according to Mr. Smith, I possessed.” He says
that in the case of “ a grotesque irregular figure,” “ the result was
always a failure” ; Nos. 2, 3 and 7 of Report I I 105 and Nos. 5, 8,
20 and 22 of Report I I I 108 refute him. The reproductions were not
perfect, but they too strongly resemble the originals to be chance
products. Try substituting any of the reproductions for another, and
see if there is then any impressive resemblance to the original drawing.
But in the case of No. 22, says Blackburn, a different process was
employed, that of conveying to Smith a copy of the drawing, which he
imitated. This was the experiment in which Smith’s ears were stopped
with putty, a bandage tied around his eyes and ears (this particular
weighs little), a bolster-case fastened over his head, and his entire head
and trunk enveloped in a blanket. Blackburn says that Myers showed
him the drawing in the same room, that he took it, and for perhaps ten
minutes paced the room, repeatedly redrawing the figure under the
pretense of fixing it on his brain, that one of the copies was made on
cigarette paper and tucked into the brass protector of his pencil, that
he gave the signal for “ ready ” by stumbling, that thereupon Smith
called for a pencil and was given the one conveying the drawing, and
that by the light of a luminous slate Smith, under cover of the blanket,
having pushed up the bandage over his eyes (which of course he could
have done), “ copied the figure with extraordinary accuracy.” Mr.
iw Proceedings S. P. R., I, 187. 105 T
) 85) g7> 9 5 . loe i, ig7, 191, 2 1 1 , 215.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 111
Smith declared all this a tissue of misstatements, and challenged Black­
burn to repeat his alleged success, or to arrange any code by which
under like conditions to convey knowledge sufficient for the essential
reproduction of irregular drawings like some in the S. P. R.’s series, a
challenge which the latter seems not to have taken up.
But we need not rest on Smith’s statement. The committee, re­
porting that experiment, had said, “ Figure 82 was now drawn by one
of us and shown outside the room to Mr. Blackburn, who on his return
sat behind Mr. Smith, and in no contact with him whatever, and as
perfectly still as it is possible for a human being to sit who is not
concentrating his attention on keeping motionless to the exclusion of
every other object. In a few minutes Mr. Smith took up the pencil
and gave the successive reproductions shown below.”
Note that the committee reporting at the time, said that the draw­
ing was shown outside the room; Blackburn, thirty years afterward,
said this was done in the room. Tuckett ignorantly judges that the
committee could have been deceived as sitters are in regard to small but
important movements in the midst of the many non-significant move­
ments of a slate-writing medium. But it has never been supposed that
a sitter in a slate-writing stance could be confused to the extent of
thinking he had gone outside a room when in fact he had never done so.
And it has never been supposed by the most skeptical that in broad
daylight two or three unusually intelligent and well-informed men could
be hallucinated into thinking that a man sat almost perfectly still
when in fact he was on his feet pacing up and down a room for ten
minutes making drawings, and performing other acts. The elaborate
precautions taken in respect to Smith (acknowledged by Blackburn)
presuppose that the regular program of locating and keeping Black­
burn back of Smith would not be relaxed in this crucial experiment.
That the committee did fully realize the importance of this precaution
is indicated by the emphasis of the assertion that Blackburn “ on his
return sat behind Mr. Smith . . . and as perfectly still as it is possible
for a human being to sit who is not concentrating on keeping motion­
less to the exclusion of every other object.” The idea that in the most
critical experiment of all, what the committee declare was the modus
operandi of the experiments was repeatedly violated—that instead of
showing the Blackburn drawing outside the room they showed it in the
same room with Smith; instead of being “ held before him for a few
seconds,” it was now put into his hands and he was allowed to retain it
throughout; that instead of locating him at one point he was allowed
to trot about at will, multiplying the chances of signaling which they
112 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
were guarding against; instead of concentrating on the memory-image
he was allowed repeatedly to redraw the figure—all this is extremely
unlikely in itself, and no one can intelligently credit it in face of the
committee’s statement and that of Smith.
But this is not all. Blackburn knows of only one attempt at re­
production; Smith made four attempts before he emerged from the
blanket. The first and second are very imperfect, as though only part
of the original were sensed, and a different part in each case. The
third is sufficiently like to be incredible as a chance result. The fourth
is not quite so good. One feature of the original, the serrate basal
termination, is not reproduced at all, but is replaced by a curved line
without the saw-teeth. Even had Smith judged it best not to copy
perfectly the drawing alleged to have been in his possession, how could
he have resisted the temptation in one of the four drawings to have
given some hint of this feature? But Blackburn says he did copy the
figure “ with extraordinary accuracy.” Yet there in the Proceedings,
published twenty-nine years previously, is the refutation of this allega­
tion. Strikingly alike as the fourth attempt was, considered as the
result of thought-transference, a child of five could have made a better
copy with the drawing before him. And there in the Proceedings is the
drawing, said by Blackburn to have been “ a tangle of heavy black
lines, interlaced, some curved, some straight,” etc., but which shows no
tangle and no interlacing whatever.
All these facts were open to Dr. Tuckett—the misrepresentations
of Blackburn, the categorical statements of the committee admitted to
be “ well aware of the possibilities and dangers of collusion, deception
and malobservation,” their exclusion of the series from the best evi­
dences for thought-transference exhibited in Phantasms of the Living.
Yet he prefers to credit the patent misrepresentations, quotes not a
line by the experimenters, and upon this one series rests his argument
against experimental thought-transference.
So far as Dr. Tuckett has convincingly pointed out weak spots in
evidence they had been for the most part those already designated by
the original reporters and investigators; but he announces them with
the air of a discoverer. He also largely borrows weapons from Pod-
more’s armory, but dulls them by rejecting the telepathic theory which
Podmore carried to the greatest lengths in order to explain otherwise
puzzling phenomena. His own contributions to the negative argument
on psychic research are not formidable, although they might appear
to the uninformed reader to be so, and he probably honestly thought
they were so. One gets the impression that he is an earnest soul.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 113
without malice, and meaning well. But out of the innocence of his
amateur quality and out of that other quality, which if noted in
another he would call bias, and which at all events causes him to flit
and dip as selectively over a field of evidence as a bumble bee over a
field of flowers, he derives, paradoxically, his superficial appearance of
effectiveness.
PSYCHOANALYSTS
Psychoanalysts are for the most part silent on the subject of
psychical research, but when they do speak, it is to fall into the traps
already mentioned, and also one peculiar to themselves. We find A. A.
B r ill, translator of Freud, inventing a biography for Sir Oliver
Lodge (in a newspaper article), encouraged, no doubt, by the inabil­
ity of the dead to resent psychoanalytical imaginings regarding them.
He forgets that Sir Oliver is not dead, and can refute the reckless
statements that his convictions are due to the wish of an old man to
continue his own existence, and to his desire to meet his son Raymond,
by showing what everyone is supposed to know, namely, that his con­
victions were reached before he was an old man and long before his
son’s death.
WILFRED LAY, PH.D.
A special trap that psychoanalysts fall into is well illustrated by
the book, Man’s Unconscious Spirit. I quote from Dr. Dingwall’s
• 107
review. 1
“ I do not remember any book purporting to be written by a psy­
chologist which contains so many absurdities in so small a compass.
We are told that ‘ Psychical research is striving to prove that the
laws of the material universe are not the same as those of the world of
mind and spirit, and this without adequately showing what is the rela­
tion of mind or spirit to matter, and even incidentally what mind or
spirit really is.’ Imagine research trying to prove anything! Some
researchers might try and prove something, and this is I suppose what
Dr. Lay is trying to say, but the passage is typical of the book, nouns,
adjectives and verbs all jumbled up and used in their wrong senses till
the reader is left in a whirl of hopeless confusion. That is to say, if
he does not see through Dr. Lay. For what is the matter with this
book, as with so many others on psychical research, is that the author
has very little idea of the subject with which he is attempting to deal.1
0
7
107 Journal A. S. P. R., XV, 249-50.
114 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Listen to this paragraph on supernormal information imparted
through the agency of trance mediums:
“ ‘And here it may be remarked that the familiar argument that
the so-called supernormal information is due to mere chance is far
more potent when we have taken the unconscious into account than it
has ever been before. It is the commonest argument of the psychical
researcher, that the information which is gained by telepathy, or by
any form of spirit communication is much more remarkable than could
possibly be subjectively guessed on the theory of probabilities. This
information, he says, could not possibly have been guessed or divined
or otherwise subjectively evolved by the person into whose conscious­
ness it comes. This impossibility would mean that all the combinations
and permutations of all former experiences, sensations, perceptions,
etc., on my part would never give me the material to make the com­
binations of ideas constituting the message in question. Possibly not,
if we take into account only those mental states of which we have been
conscious from the date of our birth onward. But when we consider
the innumerable perceptions, external and internal, we have had during
our entire lives of which we have not been conscious, but which yet
remain in the almost infinite storehouse of our individual unconscious,
we shall clearly see that from the merely mathematical point of view
of the theory of probabilities alone, the chances are at least tenfold
greater that the message is but a message from our own unconscious
to our conscious life, and that until this chance is absolutely removed
by means of laboratory methods comprising the strictest scientific con­
trol, we shall not have fulfilled the most rigorous requirements of
science.’
“ This explanation of the *supernormal ’ element in trance com­
munications is certainly the most remarkable that I have ever encoun­
tered during a fairly extensive acquaintance with these matters. Let
us analyze it and get some idea of what Dr. Lay means. He begins
by confusing the word information with the word message, a confusion
which is necessary for his argument. Supposing that a medium had
a sitting with a person X, whom she had never seen before. Supposing
also that the sitter was told that he (or she) had previously had a
nurse called Susan Potts, who possessed a peculiar trinket shaped
rather like a scarab. Suppose thirdly that all these things happened
to be true. Dr. Lay thinks that all this can be explained and that the
‘material ’ might certainly have formed part of *the innumerable per­
ceptions, external and internal, we have had during our entire lives.’
Of course it might! The medium knows the name Susan; she has per­
haps heard the surname Potts; she is aware that trinkets exist and
that some are shaped like scarabs. What is supernormal is not the
material but the relation the information in the message hears to the
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 115
sitter. This relation Dr. Lay ignores, and the whole paragraph above
quoted is so much beating of empty air. No combinations and permu­
tations of personal experiences will account for the relation which
certain statements bear to certain sitters, not in one case but in dozens
of cases.”
I have talked with psychoanalysts and tried to make them see the
point in the above paragraph, and have indeed reduced them to a
feeble pawing of the air, but never, I think, have quite rid them of the
queer conviction born of the “ will to believe ” in their own particular
complex.
I spoke in the preface of writers using a logic when they wandered
into the alien field of psychic research which they would never employ
in their own fields. But an exception must be made of certain psycho­
analysts, who employ in their own field a logic which they would recog­
nize as ridiculously lame if the like were indulged in by psychic
researchers.
Thus Dr. Lay, in another book, Man's Unconscious Conflict, pages
98-9, tells us that if I receive a letter from a man who owes me money,
I naturally think that maybe the man is enclosing a check, but “ I tear
open the envelope and I read that the wretch is going to be married to
a girl whom I know quite well and think very highly of. There was no
chance that this idea should ever have come into my mind! ” [My ital­
ics.] Suppose a psychic researcher had made this statement, and
added that the thought did arise, nevertheless, implying that it had a
supernormal source. Dr. Lay quickly and properly would have re­
sponded that the combination of a dozen facts previously seen and
heard regarding this man and girl, or any one of them, in quite normal
fashion might have suggested the thought. But what psychic re­
searcher would ever have made so bald a statement!
Dr. Lay immediately follows with the incident of a man who feels
horror when he sees a horse apparently step on another man, who
thereupon gets up uninjured, and he declares that the witness uncon­
sciously desired to see the man hurt. To be sure, from the point of
view at which the spectator stood it really looked as though the horse’s
hoof was on the man, in that case the man would be hurt, and humane
sympathy would seem sufficiently to account for the horror. But
humane feeling, sympathy, compassion, seems to have no place in the
psychoanalyst’s concept of a human being, so some secret motive must
be sought. And what is the proof that the right one is found? This,
that a crowd immediately gathers around when there is any accident.
116 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Suppose a psychic researcher claimed that crowds gather in such a
case because victims of accidents telepathically attract the crowds,
would he not be reminded that crowds also collect to see a man frying
flapjacks in a shop window? People gather to see anything unusual,
but this is far from demonstrating that they wish the unusual to result
in blood and death.
The mother who says she doesn’t want Willie to go out in a row­
boat with a couple of other small boys, and explains, “ Oh, I’m afraid
he might get drowned,” would seem to be quite justified by the number
of accounts we read in the newspapers of little boys who get drowned
when out together in rowboats. But no, says Dr. Lay, for the great
majority of boys in boats do not get drowned. We are led to infer
that a sensible mother would take a betting chance. Really, he tells
us, what prompts the mother is a subconscious wish that Willie shall
get into trouble, since “ her own importance, her size in Willie’s world,
so to speak, is greatly enlarged by any mishap that can occur to him.”
It is hard to understand how her importance in Willie’s world would be
increased after he is drowned. But the doctor’s “ unconscious ” subtly
alters the terms; “ If he only gets a fishhook in his foot, he and she
both go backward, maybe several years, to the time when he was
wholly dependent on her for life and sustenance.” Since now it appears
that Willie has advanced, “ maybe ” only several years beyond in­
fancy, one would think that her reluctance to have him go out rowing
on the bay with two other little boys was sufficiently accounted for by
the wish to keep her son alive, unless love and common-sense are
nonentities.
One more gem from this treasury of logic. Dr. Lay informs us 108
that when “ a person sits down to write a letter that he does not very
much want to write and begins by biting the end of the penholder, he
shows in that act the working of the unconscious on his actions. The
biting of the end of the penholder is a return to the nutritional level.”
Suppose a psychic researcher were absurd enough to claim that the
true reason for the act is that the union of wood and saliva (the latter
increased by the act of biting) generates vibrations which reach to the
brain and stimulate thinking. Even so quaint a psychic researcher
would stutter, when called on to explain why, then, the act of biting a
penholder is not more general with those who do not want very much to
write—why some instead scratch their heads, others tap with the pen
on the desk, and still others walk the floor. Not that the psycho-
108 P age 187.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 117
analyst need be at loss for an answer. Walking the floor is a return to
the toddling level of infancy, scratching his head a return to the level
of the clutching movements of infancy, while tapping on the desk
might be explained, since one is but very distantly related to the
woodpecker, as a biological return to the club-fighting habits of
remote ancestors!
On pages 47-8, Dr. Lay recounts an old alleged incident and pro­
ceeds to state what it “ shows clearly.” Psychoanalysts of greater
fame have related this same incident without any visible scruples, and
have used it as valuable material for psychological inferences. Person­
ally, because of its content, I think it is probably true, at least to some
extent. But the acceptation of it as certainly and entirely true shows
that some noted psychologists might do well to take lessons from
psychical research, whose standards would not permit the story to
pass as first-class evidence.
Suppose that Dr. Dingwall, from whom I have quoted, should print
a story
1. Traceable only to the pen of a man who, as is well known:
(a) All his life was characterized by a dreamy and imaginative
mentality,
(b) Had been, at the date when he told the story, for fifteen years
a victim of the opium habit, often consuming from two to
three quarts of laudanum a week,
(c) Besides being addicted to the use of alcohol;
(d) Fifteen years before the story was told, as a biographer ex­
presses it, began to show “ diminished power to distinguish
fact from fiction,”
(e) And wrote to his correspondents “ fabrications adapted to the
taste of each correspondent.”
2. Suppose this man declares that the incident
(f) Took place some sixteen or seventeen years earlier,
(g) In a German town which he does not name and to which he
gives no clue,
(h) And concerns an unnamed servant-girl
(i) Of an unnamed clergyman,
(j) And was investigated by a physician of whose name and where­
abouts we are given no information or slightest clue,
(k) Who made remarkable discoveries which it would certainly have
been expected that he would report to some learned society
or publish in some professional journal, yet no word from
him has ever been discovered.
118 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Suppose further that the narrator does not say
(l) That he ever saw the maid,
(m) That he got the story directly from the physician,
(n) Or that he ever saw or met any direct witness in the case.
And suppose, finally, that the incident as related contains many
particulars and that its importance largely depends upon the accuracy
of a number of these particulars in combination.
Then, I ask the reader, at the same time asking Dr. Dingwall’s
pardon, what would he think, what would Dr. Lay think, if Dr. Ding­
wall printed that story without any slightest question of its entire
authenticity, and proceeded to say what it “ shows ” ?
Yet this is precisely what Dr. Lay and a number of psychologists
have done with the famous story told by Samuel Taylor Coleridge in
his Biographical Literaria about the servant-girl who, in fever, uttered
sentences in Latin, and Greek, and Hebrew, of which whole sheets were
written out; the phenomenon being investigated by a physician, who
found that when nine years old she used to hear an old pastor “ read
to himself in a loud voice out of his books,” some of which in Latin,
and Greek and rabbinical Hebrew were found, and in which many of
the servant-girl’s glossolalic ravings were identified.
The frequent retelling of this story launched by the poor victim of
opium whose mind, constitutionally unstable and imaginative, had so
degenerated under the influence of the drug that the boundary between
fact and fiction had become hazy indeed, seems to imply that no more
recent and well-authenticated one of exactly the same sort and of the
same excellence for pedagogic purposes is at hand. In that case my
doubts whether there was ever anything more than slight foundation
for Coleridge’s story are much increased. Psychical incidents which
are authenticated, at any rate, though they may be sporadic, yet do
not wait a hundred and forty years to reproduce their like.
There remains to pay attention to some clerical classes of hostile
adventurers into the psychical field. Most of these believe that all
sorts of supernormal occurrences took place two and three thousand
years ago, but that they ceased at about the close of the apostolic age,
without any intelligible reason for so believing. Some admit that they
probably occur now, but are inimical to them, since they hold, again for
no intelligible reasons, that any external intelligence which may be
connected with them must be diabolic. The most vocal and emphatic
of these clerical classes are Roman Catholics and certain sects calling
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 119
themselves Adventists. Almost without exception these fall into the
same pitfalls which have been named, except the psychoanalytical one.
REV. C. M. DE HEREDIA
Father de Heredia has written a book entitled Spiritism and Com­
mon Sense. He differs from the most of his Catholic colleagues in
thinking that diabolism has played comparatively a small part in the
*
*witchcraft, black magic, satanic societies, and the like ” of history,
which for the most part were based upon “ the inventions of ingenious,
shrewd, imaginative men and women, to mystify their followers.” This
is probably a concession to “ common sense,” though it is not quite
common sense to make the phenomena at the same time the work of
imagination and of invention for a calculated purpose. But when we
consider the many bulls of pontiffs which recognize and affirm the real­
ity of witchcraft (especially the bull Summis Desiderantis of Eugene
IV., and that of Innocent IV. which directed authorities to leave no
means untried to detect sorcerers, and especially those who by evil
weather destroy vineyards, gardens, meadows and growing crops), the
MaUeus Maleficarum or handbook of the Inquisition for the detection
and prosecution of witches, and the dire results upon the thousands
who were condemned as wizards and witches, and then turn to Father de
Heredia’s assertion that there was seldom any “ origin of fact ” to cor­
respond, and, still again, our eye falls on his warning counsel that the
judgment of the Church is to be followed on all such matters, it seems
to us that he has involved himself in a bull of unpontifical character.
Father de Heredia cites one case which he thinks is one of real devil
possession. A little girl in Natal did things which have much the
appearance of hysteria, sometimes understood and talked Latin (but
whether more than she could have picked up from her ecclesiastical
superiors is not stated), and had her dress and bed set on fire (but
whether when any one was looking does not appear). By holy water,
relics, and the like, a devil was presumably expelled. It seems singular
that recourse should have been made to this lonely case in Africa, when
the churchly literature is so rich in cases of more dramatic character,
such as those of Nicole Aubry at Vervins in 1566, Madeleine de la
Palud de Mandolx and Gafridy at Aix in 1609, of the nuns of St.
Brigitte at Lille in 1613, of the Ursulines and Urbain Grandier at
Loudun in 1634—
1637. Not even when the exorcizing priests became
themselves possessed and their devils stubbornly and victoriously re­
sisted all the sacred objects and ceremonies, as in the cases of the
noted Fathers Lactance, Tranquille and Surin, did they doubt their
120 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
diagnoses and remedies. And here comes Father de Heredia and tells
us that there was seldom any “ origin in fact ” to correspond, and yet
that “ The Church is our mother. Her maternal eyes are keen to
detect danger even afar off,” and that the judgment of the Church
should be followed in all these matters.
The author is obliged to acknowledge that “ the argument that
offers the testimony of the ‘spirits ’ that they are Satan or his servants
is a two-bladed one, for if such testimony is to be considered, one must
also put credence in the testimony of the other ‘ spirits ’ who insist that
they are the souls of the dead.” That is quite true, and one must add
that neither can the fact of diabolical possession be proved by holy
water, relics or exorcisms, for all these fail too often, and profane
suggestions too often seem to work as well. For example, in the
famous case of the Ursulines of Loudun, a skeptic, the Count of Lude,
brought to the exorcists a box of relics which he desired them to test
on Jeanne de Belfiel, a possessed nun. The exorcists applied the relics
to the body of the nun, who at once began to cry out and make fright­
ful contortions as if she suffered horribly. They were taken away and
she became quiet again. When opened, the box was found to contain
feathers and hair of quadrupeds. The only sequel was a good scolding
for the doubting Thomas, and renewed use of relics of a better odor
of sanctity.
Father de Heredia is fortunate that it is in this age that he does
his rationalizing, instead of the age wherein the Jesuit Delrio harried
Cornelius Loos, Professor at Treves, for just such liberal ideas, and
Dietrich Flade, Rector of the same university, met his hard fate.
Nevertheless, he is to be congratulated for his courage and progress.
After relating how the impostor Taxil, at that time a member of
the Roman Church, successfully fooled its dignitaries and secured the
blessing of Leo XIII., the .author rather inconsequently remarks, “ We
must be very careful not to take the word of non-Catholics, however
pretentious is the scientific authority that pronounces it, when that
word touches on matters that have to do with faith and endeavors to
declare what we should or should not believe.” Dr. Hyslop is classed
as a “ pseudoscientist,” on the strength of the fact that a study of his
books (seven are said in the appendix to have been consulted) reveals
one chronological error, which the Father charitably pronounces a
“ falsification ” with a motive.109
109 See review in Journal A. S. P. R., XVII, 390-92, written by myself but mostly
on the basis of facts furnished by “ F. L.,” an erudite man who did not wish his
name to appear.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 121
Another logical difficulty is encountered when clerics write books
denying that there can be communications and apparitions of a benefi­
cent nature, although their Church has issued a whole library of stories
narrating the beneficent apparitions and communications granted to
the very choicest Saints of the calendar. And when Herbert Thur­
ston, S.J., says that although the faithful must not have dealings with
mediums, yet the Church does not condemn psychical research, which
must necessarily deal with mediums, it would seem that all the faithful
of inquiring turn of mind need to do is to call their dealings by the title
“ psychical research,” and go to it.
Much of de Heredia’s book is made up of descriptions of fraud,
which are so trite that one is reminded of the reason which King
Kalakaua gave for not attending a horse race, “ Everyone knows that
one horse can run faster than another.”
PROFESSOR RINE
Adventists cannot view any evidence for survival with clear vision,
since they wear the colored spectacles of a dogma, to the effect that
when a man is dead he is absolutely dead, and remains so until he is
resurrected at the Day of Judgment. Ask them a question which you
think will be embarrassing, and it proves not to be so in the least, for
they at once construct an epicycle to take care of it. An Adventist
orator was asked about the apparition of Moses and Elijah on the
Mount and replied that they were specially resurrected for the occa­
sion, but was quite certain that no one else can be resurrected for any
occasion prior to the general resurrection, when the constituent par­
ticles of all human bodies, miraculously preserved distinct, will be
reassembled.
Considering their small numbers, the Adventists are diligent in
issuing books and pamphlets against theories which psychical research
must consider. One of these was written by a Professor Rine. It
confounds Washington I. Bishop, the “ mind reader,” with Washington
Irving, and actually calls him “ the eminent author.” It calls Pro­
fessor Charles Richet “ the great authority on medicine in France.”
It declares that “ after more than a quarter of a century of pains­
taking, scientific investigation of all sorts of occult phenomena the
Society [meaning the S. P. R.] unanimously reports that the reality
of telepathy, clairvoyance, clairaudience, telekinesis, materialization,
prevision, and automatic writing and speaking, has been definitely
proved.” It refers to Hamlin Garland, an American novelist, as the
“ eminent Polish scholar,” when he is neither a Pole nor erudite in the
122 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Polish language. It refers to the predictions in Mrs. Piper’s script,
and adds, “ all of which actually took place.” Then, having authenti­
cated so much that “ ain’t so,” it ascribes all the maxvels to the devil
and his imps. But the most staggering proof that Mr. Rine’s intelli­
gence was obfuscated by the influence of the enchanted boundary is
found in his assertions that “ Professor Wundt, of Germany, and
Professor Carpenter, of England, and Professors James and Ladd, of
America, succeeded in completely discrediting the old traditional psy­
chology based upon the assumption that all mental life was simply the
expression of the various energies of an indestructible, ethereal prin­
ciple within man, named the soul ” ; that “ they proved incontestably
that all mental phenomena are manifestations of nerve or brain energy,
and that therefore, without brain there can be no intellect ” ; and that
“ this momentous achievement has naturally dealt an irreparable blow
to the immortality hypothesis.” Rine could not have fallen upon
worse selections in support of his views. It is well known that Wundt
turned entirely away from his earlier materialism, and insisted on
“ independent psychical causality, which is related at all points to
physical causality and can never come into contradiction with it, but
is . . . different from this physical causality.” Carpenter said that
“ the view here taken does not in the least militate against the idea that
mind may have an existence altogether independent of the body which
serves as its instrument,” and much else to the same effect. Ladd said
that physiological psychology “ shows no decisive reason against the
belief that such a non-material and real *unit being ’ as the mind is
should exist in other relations than those of its present admitted de­
pendence upon the structure and functions of the body.” James’s
interest in the question of survival alone is a refutation of the refer­
ence to him.
As though to prove how far enchantment can go, Rine makes John
Fiske a supporter of his dogma, by quoting a sentence which Fiske
puts into the mouth of an opponent and then proceeds to refute at
length, and this in a book whose very title, Life Everlasting, would
seem to have been warning enough to a mind not under a spell.
REV. CHARLES REYNOLDS BROWN
Let us now glance at the state of knowledge relating to psychical
research exhibited, and the arguments resorted to, by the Rev. Mr.
Brown, Dean of Yale Divinity School, in a very respectable book of
its class, Living Again (1920).
The author pays respect to psychical research, and thinks that its
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 123
product should be attended to with an open mind. But, says he, “ I
am frank to say that in my own investigation of these claims, I have
never seen with my own eyes or heard with my own ears what other men
claim to have seen and heard.” We are not told how extensive his
personal investigations have been, and the statement, though it may be
weighty to him, has little value for others. Has he ever seen a case of
multiple personality? Has he ever heard the African Pygmies sing?
“ I am reluctant to credit the full report which some of them make.”
This sentence does not weigh much, either, for any person of sense
would say the same.
He does not believe that his mother, if she communicated with him,
“ would seek out some dark, dingy room in the back parlor [«c] of a
professional medium.” Well, if there is such a thing as communication
from the dead, she would not, unless he frequented only such places,
have to come in a “ room in the back parlor,” or a dark room, or a
dingy room, or to a professional.
He thinks his mother, if she came to him, would come in *
*church ”
or in his “ study.” This demand ignores the whole theory, forced by
the appearance of things, that some persons are so constituted as to be
conductors of communications, while others are not. Supposing that
she, when on earth, had desired to send him a telegram to let him know
that she had survived a railway wreck; would she have declined to do
so because the available telegraph office was dark and dingy, and she
had to pay the operator?
As Professor Brown carefully picks his medium and her surround­
ings to make an unpleasing appearance, so he as unnecessarily chooses
his sample “ message ” with the view that it shall be banal. And he
declares that nothing of permanent value on religion has been received.
If this is true, he should, considering that many “ messages ” teach the
ethics of the pulpit with an equal fervor and mellifluence of diction,
make his indictment broader in application. If he means that nothing
new in religion is said, we are forced to remark that some of his col­
leagues complain that novelties are taught, and to ask if he really
makes it a condition that there should be a new revelation. One of the
very sentences which he quotes as “ trivial and commonplace,” namely,
u Be good and love Jesus and he will bring you here ”—is it the Dean
of a Divinity School who declares its teaching not of “ permanent
value ” ? What of his own essay, which contains not a thought, not an
affirmation, which has not been expressed repeatedly before? For the
arguments adduced in favor of “ living again ” are the old familiar
deductive ones. That most people want to live again, is one; that sur-
124 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
vival is demanded by the moral nature of man, is another. The dean
believes that he will survive death because he believes in. God, and
because Jesus said so. This is all, except for some picturesque and
moving stories.
We are told that much which seemed to spiritualists proof of com­
munication has been explained by psychology. Yes, and psychical
research has done the most to explain these particular factors, and yet
the problems which psychology has not explained, and shows no indi­
cation of explaining, loom up as before.
MORRIS H. TURK
The author of They Live and Are Not Far Away 110 is a clerical,
or at least a theological writer. He declares (p. 31) that “ immor­
tality can never be adequately proved by physical or psychical phe­
nomena. Proofs of any kind are of little use in gaining a conviction
of eternal life.” It is difficult to see how a man who so reveres the
New Testament, and is presumably familiar with it, could be unaware
that this flatly contradicts its plainest teaching. If ever there was a
religion founded on the claim that a fact had been proved, it is Chris­
tianity. And that alleged fact is a psychical fact, the survival of
Jesus after his crucifixion. If “ proofs of any kind are of little use in
gaining a conviction of eternal life,” what did Jesus mean when he
said: “ Because I live, ye shall live also ” (John 14:19) ? Why, after
the surviving Jesus had said, “ Ye shall be witnesses unto me,” and the
apostles determined to elect a man in the place of Judas, did they
require one qualified “ to be a witness with us of his resurrection ”
(Acts 1:22), if the psychical fact of that resurrection was of little
value as proof of continuing life? Why did the first preaching pro­
claim the survival of Jesus and allege by way of proof that “ all we are
witnesses ” (Acts 2:32; 3:15; 10:39-42; 13:30-31), if it is of little use
to offer proof? If the survival of Jesus was of “ little use in gaining a
conviction of eternal life,” then the whole of St. Paul’s magnificent
argument comprised in the fifty-eight verses of the fifteenth chapter of
I Corinthians is persiflage.
Mr. Turk repudiates any value in psychical research. He will not
entertain even the possibility that any of its evidence points to surviv­
ing intelligences. Then on what does he base his confident affirmation
—“ They live and are not far away ” ? On feeling, the power to
visualize, and “ perhaps.” He quotes with approval the Rev. Dr. G. A.
110 A. B. Barnes & Co., 1923. The book sold so well that a second printing
followed the first in but two months.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 125
Gordon’s expressions of scorn for psychical research, and the reason
of his assurance that his father was still living and conscious of earthly
affairs—“As I thought of him and his blessed state I began to feel
distinctly that he was near.” What looks to the psychologist ex­
tremely like auto-suggestion, the subjective realization of a wish, was
sufficient for Dr. Gordon, who distinctly affirms that he wants and
would value no further proof (89-96). Carlyle, we are told, wrote
“ Perhaps my father, all that essentially was my father, is even now
near me, with me” (87-8). Mr. Turk evidently thinks that a “ per­
haps ” from so great a man as Carlyle lends considerable support to
his thesis—“ They live and are not far away.” But perhaps, after all,
the father was then dancing a Highland fling before Henry VIII.
Now the author gives his own grounds for assurance that his father’s
spirit survives. “ We may visualize the faces of our Immortals. So I
see my dear father now in his spiritual body. I picture him in the height
of his powers, in the strength and beauty of his ideal manhood. . . .
He is as real to me now as when I saw him in the flesh” (86-7).
Oddly, this passage comes only four pages after another, wherein the
author speaks of “ the uncritical but persistent habit of thinking in
pictures. We are forever trying to imagine how a thing appears ” !
Mr. Turk unintentionally often comes into conflict with the Bible
which he reveres, and even with himself. He says: (83) “ No one has
a soul; he is a soul. A better word is person. Soul, spirit, person—
these words mean one and the same thing.” Then I wonder how the
“ dividing asunder of soul and spirit (Heb. 4:12) is managed, and why
Jesus said, “ My soul is exceeding sorrowful” (Mark 14:34). And
how came Mr. Turk himself to say “ he commits his soul” (25), “ in
his soul ” (47), “ the soul of man ” (52), “ his soul ” (61) and “ souls
of men ” (64, 148) ? The fact is, of course, that soul, as well as spirit,
is a word used in different senses, and it is too late to attempt con­
fining it to one.
One gets the impression that the author of They Live and Are Not
Far Away is a pleasant gentleman, and rather dislikes to add to
selected specimens of enchanted logic, examples of bewitched dealing
with facts.
It is hard sometimes to determine what he means by his frequent
word “ spiritualism.” If the doctrine that spirits survive, are con­
scious of happenings on earth, and come into helpful relations with
their surviving friends, then he himself is a most fervent exponent of
it, although he spurns any attempt to find if it is supported by evi­
dence, resting his assurance contentedly on religious ratiocination and
126 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
ability to visualize. Generally he must refer to a certain religious cult,
and consequently is in error in his intimation that such an organization
as the Society for Psychical Research has been of aid in building up
that cult (37). On the whole, it may have encouraged spiritualism,
but Spiritualism it certainly has not. It has never taken an attitude
of opposition, but as a historical fact has generally been criticized,
frowned upon and bitterly opposed by the cult.
The statement that “ following the Civil War in America, spiritual­
ism held the attention of many eager persons for several years ” (34)
is faulty in several ways. There has never been a year in the last
eighty of which the same could not correctly be said. Neither during
any one of the several years following the Civil War nor any year since,
so far as I can glean from histories or files of Spiritualist publications,
was there, in America, such a furor of popular and largely indiscrimi-
nating interest as during the last years before the Civil War. Mrs.
Emma Hardinge Britten did make the claim in 1870 that there were
11,000,000 Spiritualist adherents in the country, but the sole founda­
tion for this ridiculous claim was a declaration to the same effect made
by an alarmed bishop in a Roman Catholic convention held in Balti­
more in or about 1860. It may be that there was a slight impetus
received from the War, but between the years 1860 to 1870 Spiritual­
ism was increasing in England without any Civil War, and if after
1870 there was a decline in America, there also was in England.111
In 1866, according to the North American Review, there were twelve
or fourteen Spiritualist periodicals in the country; in 1877, Mrs.
Britten, the Spiritualist historian, knew of only eight.112 It was for
the period 1860-1866, rather than for the several years following the
Civil War, that she made exultant claims, such as that in Auburn, New
York, circles were being held in every other house.
Our author also declares that “ the origin of Spiritualism,” by
which he means the Rochester rappings and other events connected
with the Fox sisters, “ was utterly non-religious. Its development was
equally innocent of any religious content or quality” (39). Now I
hold no brief for the Fox sisters, and am convinced by handwriting
tests, for instance, that the messages supposed to have been written by
a baby under spirit influence, were written by his mother, Kate Fox
Jencken. Nor do I think that any alleged phenomena are validated
by a religious accompaniment. But I believe that every writer should
be careful not to set down statements which are not true. Mr. Turk,
ill Podmore’s M o d em Spiritualism , II, 354. n 2 N in eteen th C entury M iracles, 451.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 127
as well as myself, is dependent upon the testimony of the Fox sisters
and their friends. According to them, in the very first period of
modern Spiritualism, the “ spirits ” were exhorting the witnesses to
“ Go forth and do your duty and good will come of it,” promising the
protection and rewards of God, declaring that their duty was to “ pro­
claim these truths to the world,” and that “ You have been chosen to
go before the world to convince the skeptical of the great truth of
immortality,” etc.118 Mrs. Underhill, referring to 1849, says, “ We
were truly converted, and as the dear old Methodists used to say,
*born again.* We could then realize that we had something to live
for, something to hope for, in that sacred hour when each one in our
humble group ‘lay at the feet of Jesus,* willing to be guided and
directed in the paths of truth and duty.” If all this is true—and no
one is in a position to say it is not, it looks very much like “ religious
content and quality.”
I select one more specimen illustrating the easy confidence with
which well-meaning men venture to make assertions regarding a sub­
ject of which they have little knowledge, providing that subject is
psychical research. Speaking of the records of experiments with
psychics such as are contained in the reports of the S. P. R. and those
issued by Dr. Hyslop, he says (40-41) : “ Not one item of knowledge
above that which any average intelligence could easily imagine, has
been transmitted from the supposed spirits. . . . To every item of in­
formation so far reported the question might well be in kindest sin­
cerity, *What of it ? **
* After forty years of publication of records
which have baffled the efforts of the keenest investigators to explain by
normal processes the knowledge displayed in automatic deliverances,
after the failure of every critic who has attacked these records to do
so other than by unfair selection, malpractice or quibbling, and with
all this carefully compiled official literature of documents facing him
like a sphynx demanding reply, Mr. Turk, who perhaps has never
taken pains to lift a single cover of this literature, calmly says that it
contains “ not one item of knowledge above that which any average
intelligence could easily imagine,” and asks “ in kindest sincerity,
‘ What of it? ’ ” !
REV. I. M. HALDEMAN, D.D.
Referring to Can the Dead Communicate with the Living, published
118 The Missing Link in Modem Spiritualism, by Mrs. A. Leah Fox Underhill,
22, 25, 26, 48, 49, 58.
128 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
in 1920, Dr. E. J. Dingwall, who has never been suspected of favoring
the spiritistic hypothesis, wrote :114
“ This book, by a writer who has been called ‘ the greatest prophet
of the Lord now standing in any pulpit in this country,’ aims at show­
ing that the so-called phenomena of modern spiritualism are due to the
agency of evil spirits. Psychical researchers are always willing to
listen to anybody who presents theories which have some evidence to
support them. Dr. Haldeman presents no evidence, and this is not
really surprising. The devil theory is often held by persons of the
clerical persuasion who naturally see in the religious aspect of spiri­
tualism a menace to their own profession. Dr. Haldeman imagines that
by pointing to the Bible he can put these subjects beyond the range of
discussion. Anybody who can read at all knows that any sect or any
school of religious thought can quote the Bible to advantage, and in
this respect the spiritualists themselves are often singularly successful.
The Rev. Walter Wynn, for example, an English pastor, and curi­
ously enough also a ‘prophet,’ is now touring South Africa demon­
strating the essential unity of Biblical and spiritualistic teaching.
The author of this book claims to answer these questions:—Where are
they? What are they? and Are they? yet his ignorance of psychical
literature is such that he writes calmly of the ‘ case of Howe caught by
Browning,’ 113 and of ‘ Euspasia Palladino.’ Further comment on this
production is unnecessary.”
A FEW MORE WRITERS
G ustav S pil l er in 1902 published a book entitled The Mind of
Man, in which he pays some little incidental attention to the subject-
matter of psychic research, which he regards as all humbug. Mr. N.
W. Thomas informs us in his brief review 116 that Mr. Spiller also
has no good opinion of psychologists either, so it is odd that he picks
out psychologists as best fitted to investigate Spiritism, especially as
he thinks that “ competent persons ” should investigate the subject,
which he is sure is not worth any attention. An extract from the
book reads:
“ There is no science of spiritism . . . after the short experimental
stage came undiluted dogma and reckless speculation. Professors Wal­
lace, Crookes, Lodge and James illustrate what I am saying. Only
ii*Journal A. S. P. R., XVI, 584.
n® He meant Home, and Home was never caught by Browning.
11° Proceedings S. P. R., XVII, 426.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 129
the last of these is a psychologist, and he has never written anything
bulky.”
I have heard this kind of logic before, but the particular test to
be applied to a man, whether or not he has written anything bulky,
in order to ascertain his standing, is new to me. If the scientific
world of the present generation had borne it in mind they would
not have been so impressed by the theories of Einstein, who embodied
them, not in anything that was bulky, but in the compass of but a
few pages.
The Rev. A. V. M ille r , O.S.C. (Roman Catholic), in his Sermons
on Modern Spiritualism (1909), shows that he has not been so negligent
in research as some of the representatives of science, and accordingly
he admits that there are supernormal phenomena. But he is sure that
the object of all these is to destroy the True Church, hence the re­
semblance of some cases to instances in the Bible is for him evidence
that the former have been fabricated by the great deceiver of human­
ity. Why, then, may not the devil have brought about the Scriptural
examples? Of course the proof that they could not have been is to
be found in the very fact that they are in the Bible, which is good
clerical logic of a sort.
Dr. G u ise ppe L a ppo n i in 1906 printed an enlarged edition of his
Ipnotismo e Spiritismo— Studio medico-critico. The book has antici­
patory interest because it was written not only by a physician but also
by the physician who for years was charged with the chief responsi­
bility of guarding the health of that remarkable pope, Leo XIII. But
it might almost have been written in 1870, for all the acquaintance with
psychic research manifested therein. It deals with crude spiritualism.
It admits the genuineness of some mediumistic phenomena, but hints
that the devil is the prime cause thereof. It makes the definite charge
that all purported messages are nonsensical and stupid. Now this
broad statement, although it has been echoed by writers who, if re­
solved to go into the matter at all ought to have better informed them­
selves, simply is not and was not, in 1906, true. Heaven knows a great
deal purporting to be from spirits has been banal, vapid, foolish,
ignorant. But those epithets emphatically do not apply to the
“ Patience Worth ” utterances. They do not apply to the two
books of Mary McEvilly. They do not apply to Spirit Teach­
ings of Stainton Moses, which antedates 1906. But no scientific
psychic researcher would ascribe evidential weight to Spirit Teachings
130 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
on account of its clear thinking, excellent diction and lofty ethics,
since the automatist was a learned clergyman.117
By the same logic and for the same reasons incoherences, apparent
stupidities, etc., could not with certainty be credited to the spirit,
granting that a spirit was concerned at all, as the subconsciousness of
the “ medium ” could mix in to mar as well as to improve. Dr. Lap-
poni knows nothing of all this, but writes almost as remotely from the
times in which he lives as if he were the physician of Pio Nono.
F a th er A. M. L e pic ie r , O.S.M., Professor of Divinity in the Col­
lege of Propaganda, Rome, wrote, in or about 1909, a book entitled
The Unseen World. It deals with the subject in an ajmost exclusively
dogmatic and oracular fashion, not attempting to give any proof of
its declarations which would be acceptable to any one not disposed to
bow to ecclesiastical authority. Thus Father Lepicier dwells upon the
alleged evil effects of spiritism, physical, mental and moral, but brings
forward no evidence that his assertions are true. In view of all which
is related in the purported biographies of canonized saints, he wisely
does not deny that there may occasionally be a case of communion
between the living and good spirits. Referring to spiritistic phenomena
he says:
“ What the Church condemns in them is their abuse, not their right
and lawful use, if such a thing can be said respecting some of them.
It approves of these practices so long as they do not require entering
into any kind of compact with the spirits of the unseen world, and pro­
vided their result can be turned to a useful and laudable purpose.”
This leaves us in the dark whether psychic research, as such, is
permissible according to the Church (although Father Thurston says
it is). Certainly it does not make a practice of “ entering into any
kind of compact ” with purported spirits, but is the ascertainment of
facts, per se, a “ useful and laudable purpose? ” There was a time
when William James said that he knew no practical use whatever of
psychology. Much of the investigation of pure science is directed to
objects for what there is, for the time being, no known use. It is
doubtful if any psychic researcher expects that telepathic faculty will
be developed to the point of being dependable, for example, as a guide
117We have a more difficult problem when we try to account for the output of
“ Patience Worth,” since it manifests a number of qualities and abilities far tran­
scending anything ever normally shown by the automatist in that case.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 131
for dealings in the stock market. I suspect that “ the useful and laud­
able purpose ” which the Church which Father L£picier represents is
the making of saints. But if psychical practices had to wait until
sainthood was officially determined, the Church would today be lacking
many of its saints. Despite the grudging admissions of some of its
theologians, the Roman Catholic Church in our day generally views
with a suspicious and chilly countenance the curious phenomena which
are plentiful in its hagiology.
One F. B. Stockdale in 1921 issued a book entitled The Future
Life: Facts and Fancies. “ The fallacy of ouija boards, and medi­
ums, . . . critical, convincing, constructive,” the publisher’s announce­
ment assures us.
It is simply a piece of ignorant effrontery, and its critical and con­
vincing quality may be tested by a single quotation from its page 104:
“ Now suppose that you could dissect a bird. . . . If your knife
were sharp enough and your sight keen enough, you would find inside
the body a disposition. We call it the migratory instinct.”
Think of a man who talks about dissecting out a disposition and having
eyes keen enough to see an instinct, and who pretends to tell his readers
what’s what in psychic research!
An article by one J ames B lack, in the Scientific American for Sep­
tember, 1922, was so full of misstatements as to call forth a chorus of
protests in which one of the editors joined, in the December issue. No
less than eleven proper names were misspelled, historical facts were
outrageously misstated, and a document, the only source of informa­
tion, was falsified in order to make out a case. As the writer was
certain to be convicted, he could not have intended all these errancies,
therefore they must have been due to the enchantment of the boundary.
The same remark applies to Db. A. T. S c h o field , who wrote a
book called Modem Spiritism (1920). We call attention to fourteen
lines on page 20, wherein he speaks of “ W. Stainton Moses, BA.,” *
*a
college master at University College,” and of “ a D. D. Home,” and
then of “ their advent and, at the same time, the wonderful talents of
the Rev. Henry Irving, the founder of the Latter Day Saints, or
so-called Holy Apostolic Church,” which “ combined to interest all
society.” This is all correct except that it is the initials M. A. rather
132 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
than “ B.A.” which have a somewhat noted connection with the name
of Moses, he was not a “ college master,” he was a master in University
College School, and not in “ University College,” Irving and the popu­
lar vogue of his movement were not “ at the same time,” but both were
dead before Moses was born or Home was two years old, this Irving’s
name was not “ Henry ” but Edward, he had and claimed to have no
occult talents as is implied, his followers were never called “ Latter Day
Saints,” which is the title appropriated by the Mormons, and the
official title of his sect is not “ Holy Apostolic Church,” but Catholic
Apostolic Church.
Many such errors appear. Daniel Dunglas Home becomes “ Doug­
las D. Home ” ; the founding of the Society for Psychical Research is
put at 1891 instead of 1882; it is incorrectly stated that Mrs. Piper
“ denied she ever had any communications with the departed ” ; the
“ opportune conversion ” of Sir Oliver Lodge is falsely said to have
taken place during the Great War; it is declared that Mrs. Piper was
“ exposed in fraudulent practices,” which is untrue; Richard Hodgson
receives the title of “ Professor,” which was never his; Professor New-
bold, of Pennsylvania, becomes “ Professor Newbolt ” ; and so on. It is
said that spiritism is “ the child of theosophy,” that is, the child was
born before its mother. On page 101 readers are informed that
“ Professor Hyslop ” died some years ago, early enough for William
James to pass upon the validity of messages claiming to be from his
spirit!118 And on page 32 they are gravely told that belief in com­
munication from the dead “ mainly rests on this work of one medium,
Mrs. Piper,” while belief in genuine “ physical manifestations ” (levita­
tion, sounds, lights, etc.) being real and not fraudulent, rests on the
work of Eusapia Palladino!
There is considerable good material in the book, but one must tread
with wary step amidst the not infrequent erroneous statements of fact,
misleading arrangements of material, and contradictory reasonings.
It has not been my purpose in these sketches to champion any par­
ticular opinion on the subject matter of psychical research, but only
to sketch a strange and seemingly irresistible tendency on the part of
those who enter its field with hostile intent. No man wants to make a
laughing-stock of himself. Then what induces these writers to shun
real acquaintance with the matters which they discuss, to misquote or
reverse the meaning of sentences before their eyes, to misspell familiar
ns Hyslop died in 1920, James in 1910.
THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY 133
names, to rely without misgiving on secondary and unreliable sources,
to misstate facts easy of reference, to employ schoolboy logic, to yield
to emotion and boast of it, to parrot materialistic dogmas instead of
discussing evidence, and to parrot dogmas regarding their opponents’
intellects instead of meeting their arguments. Surely my hypothesis
of the enchanted boundary is the most charitable one, and it is quite
sufficient to explain the phenomena.
III. SOME SAMPLE EXPLANATIONS
AN ATTEMPT TO EXPLAIN AWAY TELEPATHY
A book palled Aberglauben und Zauberei, by Dr. Alf. Lehmann,
Director of the psychological laboratory in the University of Copen­
hagen, was issued in 1898. Dr. Lehmann and Dr. Hansen were the
gentlemen who, on the basis of their own experiments, attempted, with
a large degree of unsuccess as it seems to me, to explain away the
S. P. R. experiments for telepathy. Dr. F. C. S. Schiller reviewed the
book,1and the most of what is said here is quoted or summarized from
his remarks.
Probably as the direct consequence of Dr. Lehmann’s having
deigned to experiment for himself in the field of psychic research, he
is not animated by a spirit of entire condemnation and scorn toward
it. But yet he is somewhat dogmatic and oracular, and accordingly
we find, as we might expect, some of the defects with which we have
now become so well acquainted.
Dr. Schiller says:
“ Owing either to his early training or to a cautious deference to
popular and scientific prejudice, Dr. Lehmann occasionally lapses into
crudities of judgment for which the bulk of his narrative and his ad­
missions elsewhere hardly prepare the reader.
“ To give a few flagrant examples. In his historical survey of
ancient sorcery the Jews receive a ‘ favored nation ’ treatment which
it would be hard to justify on scientific grounds. Per contra in his
preface Dr. Lehmann takes up quite a comic and Canute-like attitude
of one stemming the rising tide of superstition. Yet in the rest of his
book he is largely occupied in showing, with great skill and success,
how most or all of these superstitions arose as well-meant, though
erroneous, attempts at a scientific explanation of phenomena. Again,
in his final paragraph, he warns us that the modern ‘occultists ’
(among whom he seems for the moment to include the S. P. R., al­
though he ordinarily makes much and appreciative use of its work)
have burdened their consciences with a terrible responsibility for the
new superstitions, to which he fears the new conceptions of telepathy,
1Proceedings S. P. R., XV, 437.
134
SOME SAMPLE EXPLANATIONS 135
subliminal consciousness, etc., will lead. Yet in the body of his work
he found these new conceptions useful and even indispensable. He
admits that there is no intrinsic absurdity in the assumption of tele­
pathic forces, and, on his own showing their assertion has at least
enriched science by the discovery (made by himself) of *involuntary
whispering.’ As for the subliminal, he is constantly compelled to have
recourse to it or its equivalents in explaining hypnotic phenomena,
automatisms, etc. Not that he likes it: indeed he has to explain that
he prefers to use the term ‘unconscious * in such cases just because
unconscious ideas or states of consciousness are sheer nonsense (!),
while ‘subliminal * and ‘subconscious * (though intrinsically prefer­
able, cf. p. 431) imply theories. Are we to infer from this that it is
scientific to adopt a nonsensical, and superstitious to adopt a work­
able formula? ”
Dr. Lehmann attempts to show that Sir William Crookes’s two
accounts of the phenomena of Home, one in the Quarterly Journal of
Science, the other in the S. P. R. Proceedings (VI) are marked by such
discrepancies as to justify the conclusion that Crookes imagined what
he wrote, and either did not think the circumstances omitted from the
first account of importance or else was guilty of intentional deception.
But Dr. Schiller says:
“ I own that it passes my comprehension how Dr. Lehmann should
have arrived at conclusions of such gravity from premises so flimsy as
those which he adduces. For the two accounts correspond so com­
pletely in all essentials that it seems to me a gross exaggeration to
speak even of discrepancies between them, and the only legitimate infer­
ence would seem to be the very obvious and harmless one that the first
account was a highly condensed, and not a verbatim, account of what
occurred.”
Lehmann says that the account by Crookes was lacking in many
details which we would like to know (whfch criticism I think just, but
Crookes wrote at a period when it was not yet apparent that any
psychical experiment must be reported with more particularity than
any other type of experiment), but Dr. Schiller reminds him that “ he
himself is unwittingly sitting in the same glass house,” for his report
of the “ involuntary whispering experiments ” are very far from being
as complete as they should be for our satisfaction. And the adjective
“ involuntary ” is exceedingly questionable. Professor Sidgwick had
already given his opinion that, in the nature of things, whispering
could have been at most only “ semi-involuntary,” and now Dr. Schiller
is unable to credit that it was involuntary at all.
136 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ It seems to me a strange abuse of language to describe the whis­
pering as ‘ involuntary,’ and I do not wonder that when Professor
Sidgwick tried to repeat Dr. Lehmann’s experiments he could not
attain to the ‘involuntariness.’ The fact is that Dr. Lehmann’s whis­
perings, as is practically admitted by Dr. Hansen, were quite voluntary
and conscious. The agent was perfectly aware of what he was about
and could regulate the loudness and distinctness of his whispers to a
nicety. I am surprised only at the moderation of the experimenters in
limiting the percentage of their successes to 33 per cent. They might
just as well have made it 100 per cent! I suppose they stopped where
they did in order to ‘mimic ’ better the telepathic series of the S. P. R.
But the analogy between Messrs. Lehmann and Hansen’s experiments
and bona fide telepathy seems to me wholly illusory.”
And I, too, doubt the practicability of consciously experimenting
to see what can be accomplished by involuntary whispering, and at the
same time keeping certain that no volition enters in. On psychological
grounds I do not think the thing can be done.
In 1930 we can judge what a rash statement was made by Dr.
Lehmann when he said that in consequence of catching Eusapia Palla-
dino in tricky conduct, “ spiritism has ceased to exist as a scientific
problem.”
“Altogether he is not quite fair to the spiritist theory. He tends
to regard it as intrinsically superstitious and a priori inadmissible, in
a way in which *occultism,’ i. e., the assumption of unknown forces, is
not. He is consequently puzzled to understand why both f spiritism ’
and *occultism ’ have so often been held together. But surely a
moment’s reflection would have shown him that if there is room in the
universe for undiscovered forces, *spirits ’ may be among them, while
if a spirit world interacts with ours, the forces whereby this occurs are
practically unknown. In point of fact, the spiritist hypothesis is in­
trinsically as good as any other, and has certain well-marked advan­
tages, if it is treated in a scientific manner. It must therefore be
repeated as often as is needful that superstition consists, not in holding
any particular theory, but in the way in which it is held.”
Finally, while Dr. Lehmann pays no slightest attention to the
modern evidence relating to “ haunted houses,” much of which is very
formidable, he can credit on a poor state of evidence certain fakir
feats. “ Verily,” says his critic, “ Dr. Lehmann also is sometimes
capable of the feat of swallowing a camel!”
SOME SAMPLE EXPLANATIONS 137
It would seem that while there is much which is admirable in the
book, it manifests here and there dogmatism and prejudice, and that
the factor of blunder and faulty logic is directly proportioned thereto.
“ MESSAGE ” MEDIUMSHIP EXPLAINED (?)
In 1920, Lieutenant E. H. Jones, a British officer of the Great
War, published a book called The Road to Endor. For the purpose
of putting amateur experimenters in the field of psychic research on
their guard it merits high praise. I have not seen it, but have read a
long and able review of it by Mr. W. H. Salter,2to whom I am indebted
for a part of what follows:
Lieutenant Jones and several other British officers were together
for many months in a Turkish prison camp, and to beguile the tedium
began to practice on a ouija-board. Presently he conceived the idea
of attempting to fool his companions, and the book is a history of his
success. Fortunately for him, his companions included no person
abreast with the methodology of modern psychic research nor, it would
appear, was a single one of them at all familiar with its critical litera­
ture, or anything other than a rank amateur, else it is highly probable
that the book would have ended at an early chapter. Mr. Salter says:
“ Dogmatism is the great blemish on Lieutenant Jones’s book. He
is, of course, too logical and cautious to assert in so many words that,
because he ‘ faked ’ psychical phenomena so as to deceive his compan­
ions, therefore no genuine psychical phenomena exist. He doubtless
reflected that he would have exposed himself to the retort, *In that
case, because you and Lieutenant Hill simulated madness so as to de­
ceive the mental experts, do you say that there is no such thing as real
madness ?’ What he does suggest is that he produced phenomena as
remarkable and varied as those produced by any medium, under con­
ditions at least as rigorous as those to which mediums are ever sub­
jected, and that therefore fraud, which was certainly the cause in his
own case, cannot be eliminated as a possible explanation of the others.
It is no doubt due to the paucity of psychical literature at Yozgad
prison camp that Lieutenant Jones has committed himself to this un­
tenable position.”
His companions blindfolded him, and were amazed that the pointer
still indicated the letters and spelled out sentences. But if a single
up-to-date investigator had been present, he would have known that
one can nearly always, with the muscles of his forehead, lift an ordi-
2Proceedings S. P. R., XXXI, 229-40.
138 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
nary bandage sufficiently to see out from beneath it, would have taken
pains to improve the method of blindfolding, and if it still offered
means of peeking would have detected the fact by observing that
Jones held his head at a particular angle. They then turned the
blackboard upside down, but an experienced investigator would not
have failed to observe the nicks on the edge by which Jones assisted
his unusual visual memory. What further means were employed to
complicate the task were extremely faulty, and no experienced psychic
researcher of the critical type would have chosen them.
Lieutenant Jones also amazed the men by the knowledge, real or
apparent, of them and their past lives and associations which came in
the form of messages. But the conditions under which these “ mes­
sages ” came were antipodal to those of the best experiments in psychic
research. I quote again from Mr. Salter:
“ But in point of fact Lieutenant Jones was working under con­
ditions far more favorable to fraud than the average medium enjoys.
He was one of a small group of men shut up together for months and
even years: to relieve the tedium of captivity they freely told each other
all sorts of details of their past lives, both before and during the War,
and then forgot they had ever told them: they shared with each other
news from the outside world: and finally, as the book clearly shows,
they none of them had the slightest idea of the precautions necessary
to exclude fraud.
“ Very different is the lot of a professional medium. Any member
of the public may obtain a sitting with him. Many of his sitters will
no doubt be as guileless as Lieutenant Jones’s victims, allowing them­
selves to be ‘pumped,’ or of their own accord giving away vital infor­
mation without knowing that they have done so. But not all will be
of this class: from time to time the medium will be confronted with
sitters he has never seen before, to whose identity and previous history
he has not the slightest clue, who say little (if anything), and keep a
careful note of what they say to him and he says to them. If they
have more than one sitting, they carefully check anything said by the
medium at the later sittings, to see whether he is working on any state­
ment made or hint given at a previous sitting. Nor is the possibility
of the medium making inquiries between the sittings overlooked. Pri­
vate detectives have even been employed to discover whether anything
of this kind has been done.” 8
Many of Mrs. Soule’s most surprising results have come in con­
nection with sitters brought from hundreds or thousands of miles and
8lb ., VI, 438; XXX, 343, etc.
SOME SAMPLE EXPLANATIONS 139
whom she was not allowed to see or, in some instances, to hear utter
a word.
Since Lieutenant Jones gives what purport to be verbatim accounts
of certain sittings, it is in order to ask if such word-for-word records
were actually made at the time. The reviewer does not inform us.
But it is next to absolutely certain that they could not have been.
Surely Lieutenant Jones, while operating the board, could not also
have been making a record. And it is not likely that any one would
put down such details as, “ Tony ran his hands through his hair.”
Nor would any of the believers have put down in the notes, “ There
was a sharpness about his questioning that showed he was hooked.”
No, what looks like a record was written afterwards, probably long
afterwards, and must be regarded with misgivings. Not that there is
any reason to doubt the slips made by the sitters which appear in the
account given, and which afforded much guidance to Jones. But I
doubt whether Jones had not more information given him than he
acknowledges, more, probably, than he remembered when he came to
write. It is indeed probable that when, sometime before, Tony had
talked in a sentimental fashion about a road in Egypt that looked so
“ spiffing by moonlight,” Jones guessed that there was a girl mixed
up with it. But when it comes to granting that Jones quite acci­
dentally in the sitting hit upon Louise as the name of the girl, one
may be permitted to doubt, considering the long time that the two
men had been together, that Tony had not tenderly mentioned the
name Louise.
But let that pass, and grant that at the sittings or before no more
was divulged by sitters than appears from Lieutenant Jones’s account.
That the account, then, represents the carelessness of many clients of
professional mediums, there can be no question. But it does not repre­
sent the quality of the best work done with, for example, Mrs. Soule,
or with Mrs. Leonard. Take the purported utterances of the Mother
of Doris.4 The sitter was not allowed to speak and was not even seen.
She was brought unheralded and unknown from across the continent.
The only person besides Mrs. Soule to speak was Dr. Hyslop, and very
seldom could he have given away anything had he desired, for there
was very little he knew. All he said appears literally in the report.
This is the point, that the leading societies for psychic research
have reported many experiments with mediums to whom the sitters
have been unknown, and have reported every word written or uttered
4Proceedings A. 8. P. R., XI, and particularly XVII.
140 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
in the room by any one present. If any of them have printed records
of experiments the sitter wherein had been the daily, almost hourly,
associate of the psychic for many months, and if in the records it
appears that the sitter gave much added information, as where Tony
exclaimed, “ Yes, I know; Egypt—Cairo,” then Lieutenant Jones has
satisfactorily explained them.
As I study the purported record of a part of a sitting reproduced
by Mr. Salter, the more I see reason for suspecting that it was written
long after the actual sitting, and that constructive imagination has
supplemented defects of memory. For while it claims to explain how
Jones hit upon the facts, in part it quite fails to explain, and would
almost force one to conclude, assuming the excerpt is a fair sample,
and is a verbatim report, that he was psychically endowed, after all.
Exactly as we find Sherlock Holmes gravely inferring as certain
something whose certainty the premises do not warrant, we find in
the excerpt referred to several instances where Jones assumes to
explain how he was certain of a fact, when to no ordinary mortal
would there have existed any certainty.
1. Tony had, a month or so before, talked rapturously about a
moonlight scene in Egypt. Jones, as purported medium, ventures the
name “ Louise,” and when Tony gives “ a little start ” correctly infers
that this was the name of the girl who witnessed the moonlight scene
with Tony. I submit that Tony might have given a little start had
Louise been his sister or his mother, or his favorite maiden aunt, or a
lady whom he had that lovely dance with in Paris, or another lady, say
at Nice, with whom he had corresponded.
2. Jones makes the board ask, “ Why did you leave me? ” and ex­
plains: “ Tony must have left her, because he had come to Yozgad
without her.” But here is a big logical hiatus. Louise could easily
have left him and gone away somewhere before ever he started for
Yozgad. But, exactly like Sherlock Holmes, we are told that he must
have left her, because he appeared elsewhere without her. And, like
Holmes, he hits the bull’s-eye.
3. “ You told me to go,” answered Tony; “ I wanted to help.”
And Jones adds: “ which showed he hadn’t.” But it showed no such
thing, although that would be more likely. It is quite conceivable that
a situation existed in which Tony could help her by going elsewhere on
some errand for her sake.
4. Tony asked, “ Have you gone ba—” he checked himself. But,
says Jones, “ He had already, without knowing it, answered his own
question.” So the board answers, “ I told you I was going back. I
SOME SAMPLE EXPLANATIONS 14>1
went back.” But he had not, with certainty, answered his own ques­
tion. He might have been intending to say, “ Have you gone back on
me?” He might not have known whether or not she went back, and
have thought it better for some reason to ask.the question in the form
which he immediately substituted, “ Where are you now? ” And cer­
tainly his question in no degree betrayed that she had told him that she
was going back. For aught I can see she was as likely not to have
told him, and yet Jones again hits upon the fact.
5. There is another example of what we are expected to accept as
a sure inference. Probably Tony had handsome hair, which would
explain the message, “ I did love so your hair.” We are told that this
pleased Tony, who again asked, “ Where are you now?” and Jones
adds that he “ was thinking, no doubt [my italics], of her soft hands
on his hair.” Now surely there have been many instances of girls who
took a moonlight walk with a young man yet did not paw his hair.
Why Tony might not have been pleased simply to learn that Louise
admired his hair I have not the intellect to fathom; yet probably Jones
could have put the hair-patting in a message and again have rung
the bell.
Lieutenant Jones purports to explain how his answers were guided,
and for half of them in the excerpt before me he has really given no
adequate explanation. That he could have guessed correctly in all
four instances on the very insufficient data is unlikely. I do not doubt
that he received many hints, on the contrary I suspect that he received
more than he thinks or remembers. Attempting, long after, to recover
the substance of what was said and done, he has pictured himself un­
cannily shrewd, and I think that constructive imagination has often,
in his narrative, helped out memory.
While the book utterly fails as a key to many stenographically
recorded and carefully guarded cases which have been reported, it
serves as a useful lesson to the learner in psychic research, who will,
however, probably be disappointed if he expects to find such marvelous
powers of normal inference displayed by mediums.
It is one thing to deal with experimenters who are utterly green
both in practice and pertinent reading, and with whom one has inti­
mately associated for months, and long after to attempt to reconstruct
what took place, with all the pleasing glamor that fancy under the
stimulus of self-appreciation casts over memory. It would have been
quite another thing had Lieutenant Jones attempted to show what he
could do with a sitter utterly unknown to him, an experimenter who
because of experience and reading knew how to conduct the experi-
142 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
ment, and with a stenographer who contemporaneously recorded every
word which was uttered.
THAT EXPLANATORY BLUE BOOK
In several publications there have been references to a mysterious
Blue Book which is privately printed for the benefit of mediums. There
was a short-lived attempt to furnish mediums with mimeographed
sheets containing data about persons in particular towns who had
attracted attention to themselves by their zeal in visiting mediums.
There may be, although I doubt it, some remnant of the practice still.
But a “ blue book ” is local, not general. On the other hand, it is
regarded as etiquette when a fraudulent medium visits a place for
mediums of his ilk to supply him information, “ give him a load,” as
the argot has it. What a big tome a Blue Book would need to be, to
serve such a psychic as Mrs. Soule, who has experimenters come to her
from distant States! It would have to contain many millions of names
and data in connection with each, to be of use. And since in many of
these experiments the name is not disclosed, it would also be necessary
to have millions of photographs and to require some days’ notice after
making an inventory of a stranger’s points, before giving the initial
sitting, in order to have some chance of hunting the right photograph.
It is well not to be credulous, and it is well, also, not to be credulous
in one’s incredulity.
Another instance of inverted credulity was displayed in one of the
late popular magazines.8 The writer was showing how easily some
mediums perform their marvels, which he could have succeeded in
doing, if he had carefully selected his instances. But he brought for­
ward the case of a medium who told a friend of his, whose first initials
were “ E. E.,” that he was born in 1861, that his father was a Union
man, etc. Now, remarked the astute journalist, these were easy facts
to guess, since almost every man who appears to be in the neighborhood
of sixty years old and has the initials “ E. E.” was named after Elmer
Ellsworth, the first Union man to be killed in the Civil War, and con­
sequently of course he would have been born in 1861, his father would
have been a Union man, etc.
Well, that explanation is satisfactory, providing that nearly every
man who is somewhere in the neighborhood of sixty years, and who
boasts the initials “ E. E.,” was named after Elmer Ellsworth. It re­
minds one of an alleged remark by General Longstreet, lately quoted
DThis was written in 1921.
SOME SAMPLE EXPLANATIONS 148
by James M. Beck in a Saturday Post article. Longstreet is supposed
to have learned that the average age of Union generals was much less
than that of Confederate generals, and to have made a remark indi­
cating despair of the Southern cause, since “ gray-beards ” were pitted
against “ invincible youth.” But a fresh examination of the ages of
the first thirty Union generals whose names came to mind, including all
the leading ones, and of a corresponding number of Confederate chiefs,
revealed that while the former averaged 40 years and 7 — months,
the latter averaged 41 years and 9 + months, hardly enough differ­
ence to constitute the former “ invincible youth ” and the latter “ gray-
beards.” 8 Doubtless the remark attributed to Longstreet belongs in
the same category with “ Ring, Grandpa, Ring,” “ The Old Guard
dies, it never surrenders,” and “ Shoot, if you must, this old gray
head.”
But this is wandering from our subject, which is “ E. E.” It
occurred to me that a good many men were named after Everett, who
was a famous statesman and orator, but to whom the particular date,
1861, is not so relevant as it is to Ellsworth. And an examination of
the first ninety “ E. E.’s ” observed in the telephone directory of New
York, showed that the men named after Edward Everett outnumber
those named after Elmer Ellsworth, about three to one, and that the
“ E. E.’s,” whose first names are Edgar, Edwin, Emil, etc., are about
as many as the Elmer E.’s. No doubt many a reader of this shrewd
“ explanation ” at once “ told the world ” that the journalist juvenile
was smart, and had shown up those psychic research fellows well. For
readers of magazines and newspapers are shown by the cartoonist that
the psychical researcher is mainly engaged in sitting opposite a
greasy, fat fortune-teller, with his hands on a planchette and his eyes
raised devoutly to the skies. How beautiful upon the mountains is any
slick and ingenious piece of plausibility that can be “ put across ” !
Why should a magazine writer spend time in the dry business of test­
ing his own statements when he can get just as much a line without
that annoyance?
®Any one who has misgivings may look up for himself the dates of birth of the
following generals, and gauge by the date of the first battle of the Civil War.
Union Generals: Grant, Sherman, Sheridan, Meade, Thomas, McClellan, Hancock,
Hooker, Schofield, Rosecrans, Slocum, Hunter, McPherson, McDowell, Halleck,
Smith, Wallace, Buell, Burnside, Canby, Reynolds, Howard, Pope, McClemand,
Butler, Garfield, Sigel, Lyon, Fremont, Porter.
Conjederate Generals: R. E. Lee, J. E. Johnston, Jackson, A. S. Johnston, Beaure­
gard, A. P. HU1, D. H. Hill, Longstreet, Stuart, Early, Ewell, Bragg, Hardee, Price,
Pickett, Smith, Forrest, Morgan, Gordon, F. Lee, Polk, Wheeler, Van Dorn, Breck­
inridge, Buckner, Magruder, Pillow, Cobb, Hood, Pemberton.
IV. HOUDINI AND DOYLE
Houdini himself administered an antidote for that almost super­
stitious estimation which many intelligent people put on the astuteness
of magicians, as such, seeming to think that these can infallibly detect
the false, and infallibly guide to the true. He says,1 “ I want to call
attention at the same time to the incompetence of the opinion of the
ordinary magician with a knowledge of two or three experiments in
Spiritualism who stands up and claims that he can duplicate the experi­
ments of any medium who ever lived. My personal opinion is that
notwithstanding the fact that innumerable exposures have been suc­
cessfully made, such fact is no proof that any investigator, legerde­
main artist or otherwise, is fully capable of fathoming each and every
effect produced.”
He knows that magicians, like Maskelyne, Kellar and Hoffmann
have been hocussed to the point of acknowledging the supernormal
character of tricks, which they afterward learned to execute them­
selves. The magician Dunton staked his reputation on the genuineness
of Alfred James’s flower-apports, the trick of which was unriddled by
a layman a few weeks later.2
On the other hand, many persons are awed by the confidence with
which many magicians assert that there are no supernormal phenom­
ena. Yet very few of the latter have any expert knowledge of the field
of mental phenomena, beyond the fact that there are many mercenary
professional mediums abroad who, to give their money’s worth, employ
various species of trickery. And that every intelligent person is
supposed to know.
Sometimes the magician informs his audience not only that there
are no supernormal phenomena, but also that he can present as satis­
factory an appearance of any alleged type as can any so-called psych­
ical person. I think that the magician on a platform before an
audience must be distinguished from the same magician, off the stage
and talking in private. A magician’s profession is to deceive people.
There is nothing reprehensible in this; they know he is doing it, and it
is what they have paid to see. But it is necessary to employ language
1A Magician Among the Spirits, 1924. 2Bulletin XII, B. S. P. R., 84-5.
144
HOUDINI AND DOYLE 145
in connection with tricks which is deceptive also. The more wonderful
he is the more he attracts, and the bigger the claims he makes, the
more wonderful he appears. Thus it is easy, on the platform, to slip
into the habit of claiming that he can duplicate anything alleged to be
supernormal. I have heard a magician make such a sweeping claim on
the stage when he had already told me in conversation that he did not
know much about mental phenomena.
Once Houdini and I had a friendly public debate in New York
City. I briefly described the vain efforts I had made to trace to a
normal source raps that sounded in a former residence, upon my
dressing-table, upon a stand by my bed in a room where I slept alone,
in all sorts of places in the house and under various conditions. He
said that he could go to my house and make raps. I replied that I had
no doubt he could rig up a rapping contrivance; but, said I, “ Give me
the same liberty of examination that I had and exercised in my house,
and I will root out your method within two hours at most. If you think
otherwise, I invite you to come over and try it.” He did not come.
On another occasion he rose after I had told about the amazing results
of Mrs. King’s “ psychometric ” impressions from a letter held between
the palms of her hands, and said that she probably, by sleight-of-hand,
got a chance to peep into the letter. I responded that for the most of
the 34 tested affirmations, of which 33 were literally and 1 partly
correct, she would have received not a hint had she read the whole
letter. But I would waive that and allege that she could not have
peeped into the letter, for it was folded with only white outside, and
remained unmoved between her hands. “ You cannot juggle without
making movements.” He reminded me that there have been witnesses
who swore that writing appeared between slates while they were all the
time within sight, and yet it was afterward shown that they were mis­
taken. I replied that this was a very familiar fact, and one which was
easily explained. “ Their attention was wearied by the time con­
sumed, and distracted by a great variety of movements, and the tricky
acts were slipped in by such means, exactly as in the work of magicians.
I repeat that this woman used no conjuring movements, held the folded
paper quietly between her palms, sat directly before me in the light of
day,8waited but a few moments before she slowly began to speak, and
every sentence was taken down at once. You know me and my experi­
ence in the detection of fraud. Do you think I can be so easily de-
8 But I again remind the reader that we would be very far from explaining the
results, even if she had deceived me, since the contents of the letter would give
hints for only a few of her amazing remarks.
146 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
ceived? If you do, please come to me some day and try it. If, holding
between your palms a letter with writing folded inside you can tell a
single significant word in it, or if under such conditions you can move
your hands and I not be aware of it, I will publish it to the world.
You are a great magician, she is a humble private person. You should
be able to do it if she did. Please demonstrate that my observation
can be thus deluded.” He did not say he would demonstrate. In pri­
vate he had shown me physical tricks, but neither he nor any other
magician has ever offered to duplicate or equal any of the incidents
which I have reported as being, in my judgment, of supernormal char­
acter, and none has ever made any serious attempt to throw light
upon them.
I would not have it supposed that I am condemning or deriding
magicians, even while remarking that one must not take too seriously
anything they say in a professional capacity, on the platform. In
general they are good fellows, and I felt honored when they invited me
to become a member of the S. A. M.4 Least of all would I have it
supposed that I did not respect and admire, in many ways, Houdini.
I have no belief whatever that he ever did or would play a mean trick
to convict a medium, as he was charged with doing. In the same con­
nection a great many statements without foundation, or twisted out of
semblance to the real facts, affecting myself, were put in print. Few
of them have I publicly noticed, since it is to me extremely distasteful
to be involved in controversy which in its very beginning takes the form
of unscrupulous misrepresentation. Some of the attacks launched
against Houdini, to my personal knowledge were without foundation,
and I am deeply skeptical of certain others.
Houdini was a remarkable man, one of the most dynamic of per­
sonalities. I knew him well, and the world seemed poorer when his big
heart and eager brain were stilled. He always remained something of
a boy, enthusiastic, boisterous, vain, apt to think that he only had
preserved from scrapes and blunders any group to which he belonged,
but in the genial sunshine of his presence one hardly minded these little
peculiarities. His biographer has told us that at times he would fly
into a fit of temporary rage, but I never saw anything of the kind,
although I have seen him when engaged in sharp oral controversy. I
once rebuked him when it seemed to me that he was refusing credit due
to his colleagues, and he said nothing—only looked at me with an
“ et tu, Brute ” expression which made me feel guilty. Poverty and
4 Society of American Magicians.
HOUDINI AND DOYLE 147
chance turned his attention to magic when he was a boy, and he became
great in it, greater perhaps in his consummate showmanship even than
in the feats he performed. But there is no question in my mind that if
he had had opportunity, and if his attention had early been turned in
the direction of scholarship, he would have achieved fame as a scholar
and an investigator. He had the instinct, and it came to expression
more and more as time went on. He haunted bookshops, pored over
catalogues, and collected books, pamphlets, manuscripts, etc., relating
to magic, Spiritualism and psychical research, many of them old and
rare. He got to know considerable about the history of these subjects,
but the two latter in an uncertain and scrappy way. His highest point
of authorship was reached in The Unmatking of Robert Houdin, a book
of real value, the fruit of much research in the history of the magical
art, and largely compiled from original sources comprised in his own
large collection of materials. It is not specially to his discredit if a
“ ghost ” assisted in getting up his books, seeing that many eminent
men have utilized the same intervention. Robert Houdin himself had
his memoirs composed by a gentleman more accustomed to the art of
literary composition than a magician is expected to be, although he
really ought not to have placed upon the title-page—“ Written by
Himself.” I should say that A Magician Among the Spirits was really,
in the first instance, composed by Houdini, for I recognize some of his
characteristic expressions, though it was probably smoothed over
somewhat by another hand. The Unmasking of Robert Houdin, I have
no doubt, was written entirely by another person.8
But it was certainly Houdini himself who sought everywhere for
rare and curious materials to add to his collection. Not long before
his death I saw quantities of boxes of such materials yet unpacked in
the basement of his house. I witnessed his enthusiastic zeal in search­
ing out and purchasing old books, pamphlets and papers related to his
favorite subjects, at his last visit to Boston. And I have no doubt that
the writing of the Unmasking was on the foundation of Houdini’s own
discoveries in relation to Robert Houdin and of his study of the relics
of other magicians.
I see no signs of haste, slap-dash judgment, or one-sided selection
° The style of the Unm asking is far superior to that of the other book. Another
curious proof of disparate authorship is found by comparing the length of sentences
in the two works. The Introduction to A M agician A m ong the Spirits is made up
of sixty-one sentences, of an average length of 37 words. The first sixty-one sen­
tences of the Introduction to the U nm asking average 23 words in length. The
former shows 15 sentences of fifty or more words, the latter but 2. The longest
sentence in the former is of 142 words, of the other 58.
148 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
of materials in this book, which, as said, was his masterpiece. He sets
himself to a task and attacks it in front and all along the line—one
does not feel at the close that large aspects of the matter have been
avoided, and that, even granting the particular instances which he
brings forward, yet one is not forced to agree to his sweeping conclu­
sions. One feels that Robert Houdin has indeed been cornered, hemmed
in on every side, proved a charming liar, and a purloiner of the credit
due to other men.
But A Magician Among the Spirits has not escaped the influence
of “ the enchanted boundary.” First we note that instead of the me­
ticulous care shown in the other book to fix and found every statement
of fact, this book is strewn with blunders. He says that Margaret Fox
was but eight years old and Kate six and a half when the “ Rochester
rappings ” began in 1848.6 They were somewhere about 15 and 11
respectively.7 He says that Leah Fox was 23 years older than “ little
Margaret,” 8 whereas we have in hand no evidence to dispute her own
statement 9 that she was but 19 in 1848. The statement that Leah
immediately began to exploit her sisters and began in Rochester, “ pub­
licly exhibiting their feats to great crowds for money ” 10 is against
such evidence as we have. They did not go next to New York City,
as stated, but first to Albany and then to Troy. Thus far he is put­
ting confidence in what Margaret said during her short period of con­
fession. But she was then a wreck through drink, and what she said
was a mixture of truth and falsehood. She was even capable of
alleging “ Nobody has ever suspected anything from the start in 1848
until the present day as to any trickery in our methods.” 11 Thou­
sands suspected them. And in 1851 three professors of the University
of Buffalo published their detection of the method of producing raps
by joint-snapping, exactly the method which Margaret afterward con­
fessed. A Mrs. Culver made a sworn statement in the same year that
Margaret had told her how the tricks were done.1
2 Other and later
investigations came to the same conclusion, as Houdini is aware.1
8
We meet the assertion that the reader will find “ many such cases,”
i. e., of “ proofs of fraud by Home,” “ reported by Mr. Frank Pod-
more in Modem Spiritualism, London, 1902, and Newer Spiritualism,
London, 1910,” accompanied by the astounding statement that “ Mr.
6A Magician Among the Spirits, 1.
7Podmore says they were 15 and 12; Doyle that they were 14 and 11; Holms
that they were 15 and 11.
8A Magician Among the Spirits, 2. 8 The Missing Link, 30-31, 252.
18A Magician Among the Spirits, 3. 11lb., 8.
12Modem Spiritualism, Podmore, 184-86. 18A Magician Among the Spirits, 9.
HOUDINI AND DOYLE 149
Podmore was a Spiritualist.” 14 But the reader will search the named
volumes in vain for the proofs. Podmore discusses three claims or
rumors of detection, but concludes: “ Home was never publicly exposed
as an impostor; there is no evidence of any weight that he was even
privately detected in trickery ” 18—this in spite of Podmore’s opinion
that probably Home did employ trickery. The story that Browning
caught Home’s bare foot posing as the head of a baby was repudiated
by Browning himself.16 The story quoted by Houdini from Stuart
Cumberland to the discredit of Home,1
7with its guarantees “ a famous
diplomat assured me,” and “ so the story came to me,” etc., cannot
seriously be considered evidence. If we may not accept anonymous
testimony at second-hand in favor of a medium, it is worth no more
when against him.
As Houdini tells it, Carrington, Feilding and Baggally had their
sittings with Palladino in 1895, then brought her to London, where
Dr. Hodgson joined them and caught her cheating.18 The latter event
did take place in 1895, but the three persons first named had their
experiments in 1908, after Hodgson’s death. Nor did they bring her
to London.
How far the assiduous collector of materials on Spiritualism and
psychic research was from knowing the history of either movement may
be judged by the fact that he actually says that the famous Committee
of the Dialectical Society never published any report, and that all the
information he could find about it was in garbled form in Spiritualist
publications of 1877.19 The committee, of course, printed its report in
book form, in 1871. The fourth thousand was issued in 1873. There
is no evidence for the assertion that “ a large majority of that com­
mittee were full-fledged Spiritualists,” and the committee itself declared
the contrary. It is not true that the reports of the sub-committees
were “ based on hearsay evidence.” In large part they were based
on their own experiments.
He makes Mrs. Deane and Mr. Veamcombe, the spirit-photog­
raphers, members of the Crewe group,20 which they were not. There
never was a “ New York branch of the Society for Psychical Re­
search.” 21 Mrs. Margaret Deland never wrote the paragraph at­
tributed to her.22 The statement that “ there are over 80,000 lunatics
in England alone who lost their minds through this modem necro­
mancy,” 23 is an ancient preposterous one whose falsity has long been
u lb., 41. 16Modem Spiritualism, Podmore, II, 230. 16lb., II, 230.
17A Magician Among the Spirits, 43-4. 187b., 52. 19 lb., 160, 201.
99lb., 123. 27 lb., 53. 22/6., 206. ™Ib., 165.
150 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
demonstrated.24 W. S. Davis never was a “ practicing medium ” 25
in the sense that would be conveyed by that term; although for a time
he held mock stances to demonstrate that he could convince sitters as
well as professional mediums of physical phenomena. “ Poor old Pro­
fessor Zoellner ” 28was 48 when he died. 1 agree that he probably was
fooled by Slade, but not that he was a doddering ancient. The first
pages of Mrs. Home were read very carelessly to exchange the re­
spective homes of the Home’s aunt and mother, in Norwich and Water­
ford, and to allow the statement that at the death of his mother, when
he was seventeen, he went to his aunt, with whom he had really lived
since his ninth year. But I cannot spare more space to illustrate the
influence of the enchanted boundary upon Houdini in the matter of
blunders, and entirely pass by the long list of misspelled proper
names.
Doyle27 correctly says that Houdini “ stuffed so many errors into
his book,” and “ has shown extraordinary bias on the whole ques­
tion.” But the errors which stare you in the face were not wilful
ones, since few of them were of any advantage to the argument.
And bias is less reprehensible in a book which professes from the be­
ginning to the end to be an assault than it would be in what professes
to be a history.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle deservedly gained a great reputation, first
as a writer of fiction perhaps not entitled to be called “ great,” but
certainly very charming and clever. His invention of Sherlock Holmes,
the man who could trace the solution of all mysterious crimes from
“ clues,” caused a multitude of unreflective readers to suppose that the
author was himself a man of superior ability of the kind that a suc­
cessful detective possesses, and that therefore his judgment in matters
relating to psychic research must be peculiarly valuable. The infer­
ence is quite unwarranted. Doubtless the tales were plotted backward.
For example, suppose a man who commits murder has lived twenty
years in India, is left-handed, and favors a particular brand of to­
bacco, etc., etc. It does not show detective ability to interpret clues
when one knows all about the murderer in advance, since he has con­
structed him, and when he can plant all the clues of which he knows in
advance the interpretation. Does the murderer use oil on his hair?
Then let him rest his head a while against the wallpaper. Is he an old
man ? Then let him carefully leave behind a gray hair. The ability of
the author is displayed in the thinking up of facts about the murderer
24E . g., in Journal A. S. P. R., May, 1922. 28A M agician A m ong the Spirits, 11.
28lb ., 80. 27H isto ry of Spiritualism , I, 228.
HOUDINI AND DOYLE 151
and his crime, providing clues to balance, and picturing a super­
intellect capable of proceeding with infallible certainty from the clues
to the facts, as the author has gone from the facts to the clues. But
while clues are of great value to a flesh-and-blood detective, he knows
well that many of them are ambiguous and may have any one of several
significations. With an invented detective they may, and in the Sher­
lock Holmes tales do, always point infallibly in the right direction. A
particular complexion means to Sherlock Holmes that the man has long
lived in India, and the author sees to it that he has lived in India,
whereas in fact that same complexion might have been produced by a
sojourn in some other hot country. A cigar-ash means to Doyle’s
detective that the murderer was addicted to a particular quality of
tobacco, and it is even so, but in real life the murderer may have been
given the cigar by another man. A pipe is found charred on a par­
ticular side of it—therefore the owner was left-handed, but a right-
handed man may have an idiosyncrasy in regard to his method of
lighting a pipe. Every clue leads back to some particular cause, and
it is necessarily assumed that all men act in the same fashion, whereas
different causes may produce similar effects, and men are not automata,
but have differentiating peculiarities. A woman in the story commits
suicide with a pistol to which she has tied a cord leading to a weight
beyond the rail of a bridge, so that when she falls the pistol is drawn
over the rail and into the water. As the pistol strikes the stonework
of the bridge in passage it nicks off a chip of the stone. Sherlock
Holmes sees the little chip and at once visualizes the whole scene. But
the chip could have been broken off in any one of numerous ways.
There is no foreordained size and shape for a chip knocked off by the
impact of a pistol—much might depend upon the peculiarities of the
stone at the particular spot struck, much would depend upon the par­
ticular angle which the flying pistol took, and this on whether it
dropped from the woman’s hand or was convulsively flung this or that
way as the bullet entered her body. Much would depend on the par­
ticular weight of the object attached at the further end of the cord.
But not so with the detective of the story. He takes a pistol, ar­
ranges it with a string, weights the string and fires the pistol and
drops it. Thanks to the author, the pistol strikes the stone balustrade
and knocks off another chip exactly like the first. Were the experiment
really tried, this probably would not be the case once in fifty trials.
No, the Sherlock Holmes stories are proofs of facility in imaginative
construction, not of skill in the interpretation of indicia.
Sir Arthur was big-hearted, zealous, sincere, and “ an earnest godly
152 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
man,” 28 but these qualities, admirable as they are, do not define an
astute psychic researcher. And however excellent the cases may have
been which first brought about his conviction, as the years went on
he surely showed himself lacking in the power or will to analyze calmly
and dispassionately, and to discriminate between the certainly or prob­
ably authentic and the certainly or probably spurious, without fear or
favor, solely from the evidence.
The persistency and ingenuity with which he argued in favor of
some of the most suspicious mediums of our day or the most discredited
ones of an earlier day has conferred no benefit upon the sober business
of psychic research.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and Harry Houdini, who seemed person­
ally to like, even though they belabored, each other, resembled one
another in several respects. With each, propaganda in relation to
Spiritualism partook of a religious nature, and perhaps with each it
was a substitute for the religion of his youth. Doyle was reared a
Roman Catholic, which religion he forsook. When he became a Spiri­
tualist, he avowedly adopted Spiritualism as his religion. Houdini was
reared in the Hebrew religion and was the son of a rabbi and de­
scendant of a line of rabbis. He gave up Judaism, but the fervor with
which he carried on his anti-Spiritualistic propaganda, not publicly
only but in earnest private conversation, was to me so striking, that I
once told him that the preaching-zeal of his fathers had descended to
him, only it was turned in another direction. It was his religion. Both
men carried on their propaganda with apostolic zeal, one to preach
the gospel of Spiritualism, the other to banish the superstition of
Spiritualism.
Each felt that his personal work was vastly important to mankind.
If Houdini showed plainly that he felt no one else understood the sub­
ject so well as himself, or could test claims as well as himself, if he felt
that no old-time faker was quite exposed until he administered a finish­
ing stroke, so also Doyle felt entitled to say: “ With all modesty I am
inclined to ask, is there any man on this globe who is doing as much
psychic research as I.” 29 Each favored pictorial illustrations contain­
ing his own portrait. Houdini, in A Magician Among the Spirits, does
not afford us solely views of Doyle, Mrs. Houdini, Davenport, Martin
and Kellar, but of himself in company with these persons in turn;
besides one of himself alone. Doyle, in Our Second American Adven­
ture, gives us gratifying views of himself in the company of the Rev.
28The Rev. F. Edwards in Journal A. S. P. R., Vol. XVII, 273.
» Letter to Journal A. S. P. R., XVII, 266.
HOUDINI AND DOYLE 153
Vale Owen, himself in company with Mary Pickford and Douglas
Fairbanks, himself with a group of prominent Spiritualists, and, over
the caption “ Oil-Bearing Ground, Ventura, California,” himself hold­
ing out what may possibly be mud on the end of a stick. These
innocent evidences of a sense of one’s own importance I do not find
in the least offensive, and only remark that both manifest in the
same way.
It would have been strange if the university man and trained physi­
cian had committed so many perfectly obvious blunders of fact and
citation as we have noted in the book written by the man who had to
launch out and earn his own living when he was a mere boy. But Sir
Arthur was not by any means so immune from palpable misstatements
as he on several occasions intimated to the public was the case. Yet
on careful comparison, one is impressed by one peculiar difference—the
mistakes of Houdini very frequently do not help his argument—that
is, if he had got the facts straight they would have served his type of
propaganda just as much, while Sir Arthur’s blunders nearly always
work to the favor of his argument. It is not to be understood that the
latter deliberately misrepresented the facts, but that his intense zeal in
behalf of a cause, his burning wish that “ phenomena ” should be vindi­
cated, colored his mental vision and disturbed his judgment to the point
that he did not always mentally grasp sentences actually before him in
print, or appreciate the overwhelming preponderance of evidence.
Thus, in 1923,80he published a letter in which he claimed that in thou- ^
sands of statements made by him relative to psychic research only one j
error had been discovered, and that a venial one, and went on to criti- /
cize the report on Mrs. Stewart’s case, printed in the Scientific Ameri­
can. I had already discovered errors of his concerning which I had
remained silent, but now I assisted Mr. Bird in making plain that ini
this very letter he had made twelve misstatements of fact, in face of the\
report before his eyes, upon which he had to depend.81 Nothing ever \
quite so significantly defined the type of research which he represented \
as the fact that he soon afterward reversed the position he had so
emphatically taken upon the Stewart case, and held that the conclusion
of the committee of the Scientific American was entirely justified, sim-
ply because he learned that in another investigation, eighteen years I
earlier, the lady had been found guilty of fraud, by a committee of \
Spiritualists! 82 This, and this alone, was the specific reason he gave
for his sudden reversal of judgment.•
•
•• Light, Dec. 22, 1923. 81Journal A. S. P. R., June, 1924. 82Light, Feb. 2, 1924.
154 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
In his first lecture in New York on one of his American tours, Sir
Arthur showed a certain picture which, although he acknowledged he
did not know its history and therefore could not vouch for it, yet so
resembled the celebrated Cenotaph picture that he was strongly in­
clined to think it a spirit photograph. The picture showed the faces
of a number of firemen on the background of the smoke of the fire in
which they had perished. The next day I communicated to him the
information that this picture was made by a Chicago photographer to
show Dr. Hodgson that he “ could make as good a spirit photograph as
any one else,” and offered to show him the original correspondence. I
did this so that he would not repeat this careless and credulous act of
exhibiting that trick picture all over the country, and perhaps be
brought unnecessarily to confusion. It was not until some years later,
when no lectures were in jeopardy, that, because Sir Arthur was then
bitterly attacking certain investigators for over-caution, I made this
illuminating incident public.
In The History of Spiritualism 83we are told that Lincoln was per­
suaded to issue the Emancipation Proclamation through a trance-
address by a medium, Nettie Colburn, and that “ the facts are beyond
dispute.” Yet the story rests upon the sole testimony of one Colonel
Kase, an old time Spiritualist of the most credulous type, who told it
years after the war, whose memory was so fuddled that he recollected
a woman of at least twenty-two years who had been lecturing for six
years as “ a little girl,” and the last discouraging months of 1862 as
a period of uninterrupted Union victory. A little research would have
shown the historian that, while the medium’s own story which he quotes
dates her address in December, 1862, the preliminary proclamation
which it is supposed to have inspired was issued in September, and was
first read to the Cabinet in July.
Certainly Houdini was biased in one direction, and Doyle was
equally biased on the other. Houdini’s bias shows itself by his paying
attention almost exclusively to physical mediums, some of whom he
paints blacker than the evidence really warrants, and by the impres­
sion which he conveys to the reader that he has, nevertheless, sounded
the depths of all purported psychical phenomena, and found all want­
ing. In vain will you look for Mrs. Piper, Mrs. Leonard, Mrs. Cheno-
weth 88a or many another name in the index. So far as I recollect no
single person whose psychic work has been reported with respect in the
Proceedings of the S. P. R. is so much as mentioned. He knows8
8
881, 144-6. 834 Mrs. “ Chenoweth ” is Mrs. Soule.
HOUDINI AND DOYLE 155
nothing about them. He knows nothing about Hyslop’s reports or
my own.
Doyle’s bias shows itself particularly by the ingenuity of the
devices through which he persuades himself that mediums of extremely
doubtful character are or were genuine.
In the book The Missing Link, by one of the Fox sisters, printed in
1885, she told how the spirit message to the effect that a pedlar had
been murdered and buried ten ( !) feet under ground in the cellar of the
Fox house was verified by digging, in 1848, and finding some “ human
hair and bones.” It is curious, as Frank Podmore found it,84 that
Capron and Barron, who in 1850 printed an entirely sympathetic nar­
rative of the Hydesville phenomena, did not even mention the finding
of the remains. Five years later Capron wrote a book in which he does
mention it, but says “ it is not generally known.” No statements were
obtained from any of the alleged participants of the digging outside of
the Fox family. This has a very suspicious appearance. Why was an
event of such importance not mentioned by the book of 1850 which
professes to give the whole history? How came it not to be generally
known in 1855, though the world had been ringing with the story of
the “ Rochester ” rappings? But in 1904 “ almost ” an entire human
skeleton was found “ between the earth and the crumbling cellar walls.”
This seems like an embarrassment of riches—remains below ground and
remains above ground under a crumbling wall. But Doyle says in his
history88 that the later discovery “ proved beyond all doubt that
someone had really been buried in the cellar of the Fox house,” and
“ These discoveries settle the question forever and prove conclusively
that there was a crime in the house.”
If the stories were not so pleasing.to him, it is probable that the
genial author would have asked a few questions before becoming so
sure. First, have we any sufficient guarantee that the first story was
true? It is simply incomprehensible why, in that case, Capron and
Barron did not know of it in 1850, and that it should not have been
generally known in 1855. Secondly, what guarantee have we that, if
any bones were found, they were human ones? Again, what proof
have we that the second story was true? Doyle knows none except
that it was in a newspaper. If true, how do we know that the
skeleton under the “ crumbling wall ” was not *
*planted ” there,
perhaps for a joke, perhaps for the propagation of the faith, as
the ancient monks forged scriptures? It may be that putting the
** Modem Spiritualism, I, 182. 881, 73.
156 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
skeleton there is why the wall was found “ crumbling.” Have there
never been hoaxes ?
But the stories are demonstration to Doyle, and he reconciles them
by supposing that the criminal thought that many feet under ground
was not a safe place, so, leaving a part of the bones and (if the Fox
story was true) other evidences there, he dug the rest of the skeleton
up and deposited it on top of the ground under the wall. Would not
Sherlock Holmes have objected that a criminal would not leave two
places in the cellar where the bottom showed signs of disturbance, and
would not have been so careless as to leave bones in two places?
The evidence that Henry Slade, the first of the slate-writers, com­
mitted fraud, is abundant. He was caught again and again, at least
twice by Spiritualists, and by others. One exposure, in Canada, was
so overwhelming that the Banner of Light, even, could not defend him,
and mourned that for some mysterious reason he had resorted to
such means. Doyle himself refers to an instance where Slade’s tricks
were seen through an aperture and Spiritualists denounced him, but
inclines to think that what they saw were “ ectoplasmic limbs ” !86
And if Slade confessed to Truesdell after being caught, as the latter
testified, Doyle explains that this “ may probably be accounted for by
a burst of ill-timed levity on his part in seeking to fool a certain type
of investigator by giving him exactly what he was seeking for!” Long
ago exposures of fakery were explained on the basis that spirits give
naughty skeptics exactly what they are looking for, but it has remained
to the historian of Spiritualism to explain a medium’s abject confes­
sion in the same way. This method of voiding the force of testimony is
capable of wide extension. It is not necessary to deny the story of
Remigius Weiss, the magician, that he also caught Slade and forced
him to sign a written confession; this too was probably just Slade’s
fun! If we are at liberty to assume, without evidence, that a man
does not mean what he says, then we might say that Doyle’s explana­
tion of Slade’s confession was probably written in a spirit of ill-timed
levity.
We are told that “ usually ” investigating committees “ create such
intolerable vibrations,” and “ surround themselves with so negative an
atmosphere, that these outside forces, which are governed by very
definite laws, are unable to penetrate it.” 87 These hypothetical “ in­
tolerable vibrations ” are set up by caution and suspicion on the part
of committee members. We are also told that while the materializer
»«lb., I, 296-7. 87lb., I, 306.
HOUDINI AND DOYLE 157
Monck certainly did sometimes cheat, bringing in paraphernalia to
assist him in impersonating a spirit, “ we must not argue that because
a man once forges, therefore he has never signed an honest cheque in
his life.” 88 But with the knowledge that he has forged is it possible
for any sensible person to feel confidence that he will never forge again,
and should he repress such a thought lest he set up intolerable vibra­
tions which will cause the man to forge again? Note what a dilemma
the assumed psychic law forces upon the investigator. Knowing that
a medium has committed clever frauds, it is a psychological impossi­
bility for him to help thinking that the medium may attempt fraud
again in a given experiment, but if he does have that thought, it is
likely to set up vibrations which may inhibit phenomena or actually
induce phenomena of a fraudulent character! The investigator must
not think caution lest he produce mischievous consequences, and if he
does not think caution, a shrewd trickster can surely deceive him.
The portrait of President Wilson exhibited by Eva C.89 with a
big moustache imposed upon it, Doyle explains as probably one of
“ thought-forms from the brain of Eva taking visible form.” *
40 It is
odd that Eva thought of Wilson thus decorated and disguised, but
some reason must be found.
The evidence against Charles Bailey, the apport specialist, in the
Grenoble case, was so overwhelming that even his patron and promoter,
Willy Reichel, who had been convinced by some of the most shady of
American professionals, turned against him. But Sir Arthur not only
defends Bailey even in the Grenoble incident but, when it was proved
that the tablets claimed to be taken by spirits from ancient mounds in
Mesopotamia were really forgeries, he frames the theory that “ the
forgery, steeped in recent human magnetism, is more capable of being
handled than the original taken from a mound.” 41 It seems of no
account to him that this hypothesis, framed to fit the emergency, con­
victs the “ control ” of lying, and he does not notice that the “ human
magnetism,” recent or remote, would not seem to be indispensable, if,
as he credits, the spirits also brought a nest with eggs from a tree or
bush in India.
The foregoing instances sufficiently illustrate the tenuous apolo­
getics, arising from sincere but too fervent prepossession, so prevalent
in The History of Spiritualism.
Sir Arthur says that Houdini writes under the influence of bias.
Of course he does, and so does Sir Arthur—a bias in the opposite
88lb., I, 305. 89 Schrenck-Notzing’s Phenomena of Materialisation, Fig. 196.
40History of Spiritualism, II, 110. 41/fa., II, 217.
158 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
direction. The proof of this assertion is of similar character for both
persons, and in part consists in unjudicial selection and rejection of
material.
Houdini, for example, telling about the trial of the spirit photog­
rapher Mumler, mentions that photographers testified against him,42
but says nothing about testimony of photographers in his favor.
Doyle tells of the testimony in favor,48 but not a word about that
opposed. Doyle says, “ The evidence of professional photographers
who were not Spiritualists was strongly in Mumler’s favor.” This is
strictly true if he means that the testimony of tome photographers was
strongly in his favor, but not if he means, as readers would understand
him to mean, that the testimony of photographers was either totally
or overwhelmingly for him. Houdini could have made his statement
stronger, and still strictly adhered to the truth, by disclosing that
certain of the photographers, though amateurs in deception, them­
selves produced trick pictures which witnesses, including photog­
raphers, found it as hard to explain as the photographs of Mumler.
But he should have mentioned the testimony in favor, also.
Houdini shows his bias especially by the selection, for the most
part, of mediums and phenomena long regarded, by most careful re­
searchers in America and England, as either spurious or very dubious,
and by silence concerning psychics and phenomena generally treated
with respect by such persons. Doyle shows his bias by the ingenuity
of his defense of some of the most doubtful characters of the past and
by his oversight of unpleasant particulars.
He speaks of David Duguid, “ the well-known medium for automatic
writing and painting,” *
44 but does not mention the fact that Duguid’s
method of producing the mysterious “ spirit ” paintings was discovered
by a Spiritualist, in a sitting of Spiritualists, and the details laid bare
in the Spiritualist paper Light. He says that the magician Kellar
admitted that Eglinton’s work was genuine,4
8 (not strictly correct—
Kellar’s words were, “ If my senses can be relied upon ”), but fails to
inform readers that Kellar soon retracted the statement, learned to
produce similar phenomena himself, and afterwards baffled the Seybert
Commission by his slate-writing performance, although the committee
had detected the methods of the slate-writer Slade, and had reduced
Mrs. Patterson to impotence.48 Pride is taken in the fact that the
account about the Cushman “ spirit ” photograph appeared in the
Journal of the A. S. P. R., but silence preserved about the reasons
. 42 A Magician Among the Spirits, 119. 48History of Spiritualism, II, 133.
44lb., II, 142. 48lb., II, 54. 48 Report of Seybert Commission.
HOUDINI AND DOYLE 159
given in a later issue by the editor of that publication for doubting
that the photograph represented Miss Cushman.47 We are told that
a picture taken in Africa showed a figure of a “ dark spirit ” with a
“ mantilla effect ” over the head, but we are not told that the “ dark
spirit ” fitted perfectly in every way into a group of Negroes, and
that what appeared over her head and hanging down was the exact
replica, at least, of a sort of scarf worn by the women of that tribe.484
9
*
*
*
*
To these illustrations of selective attention, which might be multi­
plied indefinitely, I will add two or three of trustful naivete. We are
told that E. A. Brackett “ saw with the medium Helen Berry in the
United States in 1885 ‘ a small, white, cloud-like substance *which ex­
panded until it was four or five feet high *when suddenly from it the
full, round, sylph-like form of Bertha stepped forward.’ ” 48 Mr.
Brackett, good, simple man of 1885, may be excused, but how shall we
explain the phenomenon of an educated man, writing in 1926 a history
of Spiritualism, who makes this old trick, so many times explained,
once common with materializers but now abandoned except by a very
few survivors of the old school, one of his proofs for ectoplasm? I
have seen this charming illusion, and know exactly how it is produced.
The author also tells us that “ there was no possibility of deception ”
in “ a streak of material six inches long, not unlike a section of the
umbilical cord, embedded in the cloth of the dress ” of Eva C. Why
so sure it was not a deceptive device? Because “ the author was per­
mitted to squeeze it between his fingers, when it gave the impression of
a living substance, thrilling and shrinking under his touch.” 60 Yet a
piece of rubber tubing, closed at one end, passing through the clothing
and connected with a bulb pressed by thighs or under the arm, will
produce exactly the sensations specified. Again, in his eagerness to
find early instances of ectoplasm he identifies as such what Swedenborg
himself said was vision—the first of all his myriad visions—of “ a
watery vapor ” issuing from his body and falling upon the carpet,
where it then changed to worms, which vision the seer understood to
signify that he must not eat so much.81
The more I reflect on what I knew of Houdini and what I have
heard of Doyle,62 the more it seems that the two men resembled each
47 History oj Spiritualism, II, 147.
4876., II, 151. For further particulars see my article in Scientific American, De­
cember, 1925.
49 History of Spiritualism, II, 97. 607b., II, 122-3.
8176., I, 16; Spiritual Diary of Swedenborg, Section 397.
82 My only real meeting with Doyle was in 1927, when I entered his psychic book­
shop in London and, seeing him seated at a desk, advanced and said: “ You prob­
ably do not remember me, Sir Arthur. I am Prince, from America.” He rose and
160 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
other. Each was a fascinating companion, each big-hearted and gen­
erous, yet each was capable of bitter and emotional denunciation, each
was devoted to his home and family, each felt himself an apostle of
good to men, the one to rid them of certain beliefs, the other to incul­
cate in them those beliefs; and each urged his views as a lawyer or
preacher might, but not in the manner of a dispassionate judge or a
painstaking historian.
Frank Podmore, when he wrote as a historian, to sift and weigh
facts, was as remote from either Houdini or Doyle, as Chief Justice
Hughes is from a police-court shyster lawyer. He looked at facts in
the light of day, the others respectively through green and red glasses.
Take the incident, for example, of the accusation made by Professor
Lankester and Dr. Donkin against Slade. Slade often notified sitters
when the writing by spirits on the slates was supposed to have begun,
and they usually were able to hear the purported writing. One day,
Lankester, Donkin being present, snatched the slate from the medium’s
hands before any sound of writing was heard, and found a message on
the slate.
Now to Houdini there is no possible question that Slade was de­
tected by Lankester, and that the incident so thoroughly proved fraud
that everybody should so conclude. And in his account68 he gives
only the statements of the accusers and does not hint that anything
could be urged against the conclusion.
Doyle, on the same body of facts, comes to the opposite conviction,
that Slade was certainly innocent. Doyle properly points out that the
fact that Slade sometimes knew in advance that writing was coming did
not prove that he must always know it in advance (although this was
not Slade’s reply).64 But Doyle did not tell all the story, and part of
it was Lankester’s testimony that he saw the muscles of Slade’s wrist
working. That fact, once revealed, would make the medium’s innocence
very doubtful.
Neither Houdini nor Doyle was capable of writing such sentences
as the following by Podmore:66
“ No doubt to an observer in Professor Lankester’s position the
demonstration of fraud left nothing to be desired. He had seen*
6
0
said, “ Oh, yes; we have had one or two spats, but no hard feelings.” “ None what­
ever,” I responded. After a few moments’ conversation I paid my sixpence to go
into the basement, and Sir Arthur accompanied me and remained until he was called
away by an engagement, while I looked over the museum of apports, spirit photo­
graphs, automatic drawings, and other curious and interesting objects.
08 A Magician Among the Spirits, 80-82. M History of Spiritualism, I, 284-87.
60 Modern Spiritualism, II, 89-90.
HOUDINI AND DOYLE 161
the movements of Slade’s arm in the act of writing, and had found the
writing so produced, where and when no writing should have been. But
the Spiritualists were perhaps justified in not accepting the incident as
conclusive. Slade defended himself by asserting that, immediately
before the slate was snatched from his hand, he had heard the spirit
writing, and had said so, but that his words were lost in the confusion
which followed. If we grant that Slade’s testimony was as good as
Professor Lankester’s or Dr. Donkin’s, it was difficult summarily to
dismiss that plea.”
This was written by a man who in other parts of his book86
records more satisfactory exposures of Slade, and who undoubtedly
was of the opinion that Slade practiced fraud in the instance under dis­
cussion, but who nevertheless took cognizance of evidence pro and con,
assigning each piece to the pan of the balance where it belonged.
Neither Houdini nor Doyle could do this, and it is indeed difficult for
any one who writes in the spirit of a plumed knight rescuing a fair
lady, to pay attention to anything but the knocks which he administers
to what is to him the dragon.
I once knew a man who in behalf of a cause dear to him got out all
by himself an occasional little paper in which he expounded his views.
In order to impress the reader he employed all sorts of conspicuous
type to emphasize his sentences, to pound his thoughts into the reader.
The paper was so thickly strewn with these marks of emphasis that
their very purpose was defeated, sense was dulled by the frequency
and common-sense disgusted by the eccentricity of the capitalized
words.
So a writer who pontifically assumes to tell the world that there is
nothing worth while in the subject-matter of psychic research, but who
manifests a hasty zeal betrayed by frequent errors of fact, exagger­
ations, selective attacks upon cases already notoriously vulnerable, and
entire neglect of cases and types of material in the forefront of a
cautious researcher’s interest, cannot long impress thinking men that
he is an authority, but in the end will beget distrust even when his
statements are historically correct. And a writer whose zeal is so
excessive in the contrary direction that he habitually employs tortu­
ously ingenious arguments to defeat preponderant evidence relating to
questionable characters of the past and present, seems incapable of
crediting contrary testimony unless it is that of Spiritualists,87 is
m /6., II, 1 9 5 , 216.
87See page 153 in this book and History oj Spiritmlism, I, 305; II, 137, etc.
Persons not convinced by mediums, whose cause Doyle espouses, if they are non-
162 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
capable of summoning witnesses of notoriously unreliable character,68
omits even to mention masses of evidence which cannot justly be left
out of account,89 and brings forward as proof matters which a little
dispassionate and patient examination would have shown to he forged,
irrelevant or illusionary 80—that writer weakens the cause for which
he is fighting, and by all except those already partisans at length comes
to be distrusted even where his position is historically unassailable.*
8
8
Spiritualists, are frequently scorned by him as malignant persons, and called " tra-
ducers ” and the like. See II, 219-20, for an example.
88 Fifteen pages of proof that the materializations of the Eddy family were genu­
ine depend, except for one paragraph, entirely upon the testimony of Colonel H. S.
Olcott. The rehabilitation of the still more shady Holmeses again is made up mostly
of pages from Olcott’s book. And still again Olcott is drawn upon principally in
support of a wonder by Mrs. Compton (I, 254-79).
One would think it important first to establish that Olcott was not only a truth­
ful but also a competent witness. But Dr. Richard Hodgson, who Doyle says had a
“ first-class brain ” (II, 82) and whose testimony, wherever it favors Doyle’s views,
is quoted as reliable and important, had said in a report not unknown to Doyle
(II, 72): “ The testimony of Colonel Olcott himself I found to be fundamentally at
variance with fact in so many important points that it became impossible for me to
place the slightest value upon the evidence he had offered,” and the committee
which sponsored his report, including F. W. H. Myers, referred to the proofs laid
before them of “ Olcott’s extraordinary credulity and inaccuracy in observation and
inference” (Proceedings S. P. R., Ill, 210, 205).
66 With all that is said about Kathleen Goligher, there is not a word about
D’Albe’s experiments, begun in hope and ended in disappointment and disbelief.
We read (II, 115) of the many savants who believed that Guzik’s phenomena were
genuine, but not a word of his many exposures. There is a paragraph endorsing the
veteran slate-medium P. L. O. A. Keeler, but not a lisp about the mass of evidence
by which I so demolished his claims that no one has since attempted a word of
reply (Proceedings A. S. P. R., XV, 315-494). The testimony of Dennis Bradley in
favor of Valiantine is given full weight, but the definite proof by the Scientific
American Committee that every single time any one was touched by a “ spirit ” or
a “ spirit ” voice sounded in the darkness at what would otherwise have been a
puzzling distance from his chair, Valiantine was out of it from three to fifteen
seconds, is thus dismissed: “ He was examined by the committee of the Scientific
American and turned down on the excuse that an electric apparatus showed that he
left his chair whenever the voice sounded.”
60“ Forged,” as the claim that Nettie Colburn brought about the Emancipation;
“ irrelevant,” as the fact that a woman in a group of negroes in Africa was shown in
a photograph to be wearing an article of dress common among women of her tribe;
“ illusionary,” as the instances of “ spirits ” seeming to develop from a small spot of
light on the floor.
V. OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS
About the year 1820 1there was printed in Edinburgh and London
a book entitled An Essay on Capacity and Genius, also an Enquiry
into the Nature of Ghosts. The author’s name does not appear, and
is probably quite unknown, but he was evidently a scholarly person,
and his books reveal considerable research, not of facts but in other
books. Only the second half of his treatise concerns us. This is by
no means contemptible, and indeed it contains many statements which
are acute and just, and a few well in advance of his time. He is not
guilty of repeating Macaulay’s errors in regard to Samuel Johnson.
He correctly points out the commonplaces of our time that some appa­
ritions are morbid hallucinations and that some are the product of illu­
sion. That we should be slow to accept stories which come down from
a remote and unscientific generation, or which have been passed on from
mouth to mouth, is as true when he said so as when we say the same.
He had some inkling of the possibilities of subconscious observation and
recollection, although his thoughts, and hence his words, on the subject
were obscure.2*
*
*
*
*
He was as filled with disgust for “ ghosts ” and the rest of the
flock as any scholar a century to come, and he was as dogmatic and
assured as many of them are without much knowledge except what
they too have gotten by dipping into poorly selected books or glanc­
ing at better ones while safely armored with the determination to
destroy. But none of the latter venture out into so deep water, none
1The book itself is undated, but a study of citations, typography, etc., led me to
fix on 1820 as the approximate date of publication. Subsequently I find that the
catalogue of the S. P. R. Library (Proceedings, Part 104) tentatively gives the
same date.
2“ I remember hearing it said, that a lady inquired one morning if there was such
a place or country as Madagascar, for she had dreamt of it, but had never heard of
it before. The fact is this: the recollection of particular transactions, and of things
which have formerly happened to us, is frequently taken from us in our dreams,
and after we have awakened, by a method as singular as that by which we often
dream that we recollect facts and circumstances which, on waking, we are con­
vinced never did in reality occur to us. The mind, it is likewise well known, seizes
upon circumstances, and lays them into its store, without its own knowledge, so that
it often presents to itself, as new, what was procured from some other place by its
own power of reception.”
163
164 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
of them so patiently spin out, spider-like, a dialectical system of
propositions. It will be of interest then, to read some of these propo­
sitions and affirmations, and then to see how they stand the application
of statistics gathered from actual cases sixty or more years later.
The statistical basis for the comparison is found in 200 reports
of apparitional experiences. These are not selected in reference to
their content, though a few in the collections consulted were passed
over because in them the data needed for comparison was too scanty
or doubtful, or because there was not time to translate them from a
foreign language, or from mere inadvertence in doing the work as
rapidly as possible.8 I will not guarantee that the figures to come
are flawless, but they are certainly approximately correct.
The scholar of 1820 begins by quoting with approval a series of
affirmations regarding “ ghosts ” from Mr. Grose, and by enlarging
them:
“A ghost is supposed to be the spirit of a person deceased, who is
either commissioned to return for some especial errand, such as the
discovery of a murder; to procure restitution of lands or money un­
justly withheld from an orphan or widow; or, having committed some
injustice whilst living, cannot rest till that is redressed. Sometimes
the occasion of spirits revisiting this world, is to inform their heir in
what secret place or private drawer in an old trunk they had hid the
title deeds of the estate; or where in troublesome times they had buried
the money and plate. Some ghosts of murdered persons, whose bodies
have been secretly buried, cannot be at ease till their bones have been
taken up and deposited in consecrated ground, with all the rites of
Christian burial. There are some more important purposes, how­
ever, to which these beings are subservient. They have appeared to
foretell approaching dissolution, and to warn and convince the un­
believing sinner of a state of existence beyond the present. They have
sometimes shewn themselves, to give notice of misfortunes of a tem-
8 They are as follows, the figures standing for pages: Phantasma of the Living,
volume I: 194, 204, 207, 209, 210, 212, 214, 210, 218, 239, 264, 267, 414, 415, 417, 417,
418, 419, 420, 424, 425, 426, 428, 429, 430, 431, 431, 433, 434, 435, 436, 437, 439, 440,
441, 443, 444, 445, 447, 448, 449, 451, 453. Ib., volume II: 30, 31, 34, 35, 37, 40, 41,
42, 44, 45, 46, 47, 49, 50, 51, 51, 52, 54, 55, 57, 59, 59, 61, 63, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71,
72, 74, 141, 143, 146, 149, 150, 162, 176, 178, 179, 181, 182, 199, 200, 202, 204, 205, 208,
209, 210,509, 510, 511, 511, 512, 513, 513, 514, 510, 516, 517, 519, 520, 520, 520, 521,
522, 523,523, 524, 525, 520, 527, 528, 529, 529, 530, 532, 533, 533, 534, 536, 537, 539,
540, 541,542, 543, 543, 544, 545, 545, 546, 547, 548, 550, 551, 552, 553, 554, 555, 556,
557, 603,604, 606, 607, 609, 610, 610, 611, 612, 613, 613, 615, 016, 617, 617, 619„ 622.
Flammarion's “Death and Its M ystery": 49, 52, 54, 59, 64, 67, 69, 127, 133, 137, 146,
147, 151, 152, 153, 168, 169, 170, 182, 182, 183. Journal A. S. P. R., volume V: 109,
139, 481. Ib., v. VI: 440. Ib., v. VII: 124, 362, 474. Ib., v. VIII: 480. Ib., v. IX:
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 165
porary nature, in order that they might be avoided. But, by far the
greater number have appeared for no other cause but that of terrify­
ing rustics, of killing old women, and weakening the intellects of chil­
dren.” (337-9)
“ The generality of ghosts are seen by persons who are alone. . . .
Their standard hour is midnight.” (343)
We will now test these statements and others to come, in the order
which is most convenient.
I. “ Their standard hour m midnight.” (343)
How far does our list of 200 apparitions (really more, since a few
were double cases) vindicate the statement that “ their standard hour
is midnight,” a statement reiterated by Prof. Persifor Frazer as late
as 1875 (in a lecture before the Social Science Association of Phila­
delphia) : “ Midnight is the hour of appearance, because this period is
farthest from the day, a period when the bright illumination of objects
leaves nothing to the fancy ”f It is worth while to give the facts so
far as they are stated by the original narratives, in extenso.
No indication of hour, night or day, 4; night, hour not given, 43;
night, hour not given, but certainly not midnight, 5; “ towards morn-
ing” (probably dark), 1; “ early morning,” 1; day, hour not given,
15; morning, 19; forenoon, 4; afternoon, 11; evening, 20.
A.M. 7, 1; 7 to 8, 1; 8, 2; 10, 2; 10 to 11, 1; 11, 3; 11 to 12, 1;
12 noon, 5.
P.M. 1, 3; 1 to 2 ,1; 2, 3; 3, 3; 1
+
, 1; ^ to 5, 2; 5, 1; 5 to 6, 2; 6 to
7, 2; 7, 3; 7 to 8, 2; 8 to 9, 3; 9, 5; 9 to 10, 2; 10, 7; 10 to 11, 1;
11, 6; 11 to 12, 3; 12, midnight, presumably, 2 (“ about midnight,”
and “ in the middle of the night ”).
A.M. 12 to 1, 5; I, 2; 1 to 2, 1; 2, 2; 2 to 3, 1 ;4 2; 5, 2; 5 to 6,
1; 6, 1; 6 to 7, 2*
The statistics absolutely destroy the validity of the declaration so
confidently made by the unknown writer more than a century ago and
by Prof. Frazer nearly a half century ago. Midnight is not the
“ standard hour,” is not “ the hour of appearance.” Midnight is
specified as the hour in the cases of only 2 out of 210 apparitions. I
am wrong: in neither of these is it declared that the moment was
precisely at midnight. “About midnight ” may stand for anything
from 11 p. M. to 1 a . M. “ In the middle of the night ” ditto. Let us
* The totals in the several lists to be presented must differ according to the
subject-matter. Here the total is 210, since in 6 cases two or more persons saw the
apparition in different places.
166 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
assume that there are two declared cases when the hour was midnight.
But there were 163 declared cases where it was not. Regarding the
remaining 47 we know nothing, except that 43 of them were in the
night. If we knew the hours in these 43 instances, doubtless the fig­
ures for midnight would be increased, but so also would those for
other hours of the night. Doubting, as I do, whether all the 6
“ noon ” cases were precisely at noon, and expecting, as I would,
that a number would say “ at midnight,” meaning that so far as they
could judge their experiences came about in the middle of the night,
I am surprised to find the latter tendency exhibited not at all in these
statistics.
But even though a philosophical scholar of about 1820, who dedi­
cates his book “ to the immortal memory of John Locke,” and shows
himself to have been familiar with many learned writers, and even if
an eminent “ geologist, chemist and bibliote ” of a half century later,
could be so far mistaken in declaring that midnight is “ the standard
hour ” for apparitions, and that “ midnight is the hour for appear­
ances,” the reader would think that before venturing such guesses they
had collected enough data to be sure that all or nearly all appari­
tions are at least seen at night. But what do our statistics show?
Assume that “ evening ” in narratives means after dark, and that
“ morning ” means after dawn (the exceptions would probably about
balance each other). Also assume that darkness on the average
through the year, begins at 7 p . m ., and ends at 7 A. m . inclusively.
Then 121 of the apparitions were seen in period of the dark hours,
and 84, or 40 percent of the whole number (omitting the 6 of which
we know nothing), in the hours of sunlight. There is, therefore, in
fact no such rule as that apparitions appear only in the night—far
from it. If not true that midnight is “ the hour of appearance,” and
since it seems that about two out of five of such experiences occur in
the daytime, what becomes of Prof. Frazer’s explanation, that mid­
night “ is farthest from the day, a period when the bright illumination
of objects leaves nothing to the fancy ”?
The fact that of more than 200 persons who witness to apparitions
only two said that they were at approximately the stroke of twelve
midnight is somewhat surprising in view of the many tales of fiction
which most of them must have read, in which the “ ghost ” appeared
exactly at that hour. It tends to indicate that those who stated the
hour or division of the day were uninfluenced by suggestion, and de­
pended upon their memory and judgment.
But Prof. Frazer is still farther from the facts, and therefore his
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 167
reason for the assumed fact is still more empty, than we have yet
seen. “ Midnight,” he told us, is the hour of appearance, because
this period is farthest from the day, “ a period when the bright illumi­
nation of objects leaves nothing to the fancy.” We have found that
out of our random long list of apparitions 40 percent occurred during
the day. But artificial light and even bright moonlight may as effect­
ually leave nothing to the fancy. And 34 apparitions of our more
than 200, although they appeared during the night hours, appeared
in spite of illumination. Omitting 7 of these cases in which the light
may have been poor, we have the following 27:8
(I, 207) “As the apparition ” passed between my bed and the lamp
I had full view of it; it was unmistakable; (I, 416) “ saw by light
burning in the room” ; (I, 420) “ bright moonlight” ; (I, 446)
“ bright moonlight . . . and all objects in the room and outside the
windows were plainly visible ” ; (II, 34) “ moon shining brightly into
the room ” ; (II, 37) “ in a concert hall ” (of course there was bright
light) ; (II, 46) “ in a theatre ” (must have been well-lighted) ; (II,
54) “ was reading ” (so there must have been light) ; (II, 70) “ under
lamp . . . had a very good view” ; (II, 141) “ large duplex lamp
. . . so it was quite light ” ; (II, 200) “ room . . . was brilliantly
lighted” ; (II, 208) “ room was lighted by a powerful gas light in
the roof and by candles on the table” ; (II, 511) “ the gas was full
on” ; (II, 529) “ was reading, soft facing light, apparition near
sofa ” ; (II, 532) “ busily occupied with her needle ” ; (II, 524) “ still
quite light ” ; (II, 544) “ with a company of ladies in drawing room,
playing piano” ; (II, 548) at a concert; (II, 613) “ at a dance” ;
(II, 616) a: a light in the room for one person was writing a letter;
b: same figure seen by his two boys the same evening, as they were
“ watching the bright moonlight ” ; (II, 617) “ bright moonlight pour­
ing in ” ; (F, 69) “ a bright fire shone in the room and there was a
lighted candle” ; (F, 127) “ was reading” (so there must have been
light) ; (F, 133) “ I saw the moon . . .; its bright beams lighted up
my room” ; (F, 168) Apparition seen “ under the lighted gas-jet” ;
(J. V, 481) “ bright moonlight” ; (J. VI, 440) a “ lamp illuminated
the passage.”
So our statistics seem to show that 111 of the apparitions were
seen in the daytime or in the night by excellent or fairly good light,5
5 Throughout this chapter I in parentheses will signify volume I of Phantasms
of the Living. II will mean volume II of the same. F will refer to Flammarion’s
After Death, and J to Journal of A. S. P. R. Pages given are those on which the
incidents begin; the actual reference may be on the page following.
168 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
only 94 in darkness or perhaps poor light. We cannot be sure that
these figures are exactly correct, but they cannot be far wrong.
II. “A ghost is supposed to be the spirit of a person deceased, who
is either commissioned to return for some special errand, such as [a]
the discovery of a murder
(a) There are just 2 alleged cases in our list of 200, which have
this appearance, both in Flammarion. In one (170) a man’s murder
is said to have been seen in visions (not at the same time) by his
mother and his widow, and his hallucinatory voice to have been heard
giving an unusual mark of the murderer’s description, the same un­
known to the percipients. In the other (138) a girl, before the mur­
dered body of her mother was found, in a vision saw her mother, who
correctly pointed to the location of her wounds.
(b) “ to procure restitution of lands or money unjustly withheld
from an orphan or widow ”;
The list of 200 actual cases includes not one of this character.
(c) “ or, having committed some injustice while living, cannot rest
until it is redressed.”
Not one case in the 200 gives evidence of anything of this sort.
(d) “ Sometimes the occasion of spirits revisiting this world is to
inform their heir in what secret place or private drawer in an old
trunk they had hid the title deeds of the estate; or where in trouble­
some times they had buried the money and plate.”
Not one case in the 200 shows any evidence of a desire to show the
location of any object whatsoever.
III. “ Some ghosts of murdered persons, whose bodies have been
secretly buried, cannot be at ease until their bones are taken up and
deposited in holy ground, with all the rites of Christian burial.”
There is not one case as above described among the 200, though in
one, mentioned above (F, 137) the apparition says: “ Dig a grave
for me.”
IV. (a) “ They have appeared to foretell approaching dissolution ”
If I mistake not, with one exception (F, 49), in none of our 200
cases does a “ ghost ” either tell of the approaching death of any one
or does anything about the vision plausibly suggest that meaning.
(b) “ and to warn and convince the unbelieving sinner of a state of
existence beyond the present.”
The case last cited (F, 49) is the only one in our list of 200 in
which anything of this sort is intimated. Here the “ ghost gave assur­
ance that all that was said of the other life was true, that he [the
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 169
percipient] should change his way of life; that he would soon die.”
Flammarion is rightly doubtful if this case has not been embellished.
V. “ They have sometimes shewn themselves to give notice of mis­
fortune of a temporary sort of a nature, in order that they might he
avoided.*
*
Not one single case out of the 200 gives evidence of any such
intention or desire.
VI. “ But by far the greater number have appeared for no other
cause but that of (a) terrifying rustics
So far as can be ascertained—and the data is nearly always suf­
ficient to judge safely—among the whole list of 201 percipients 8
apparently more than sixteen years old, there were but 5 rustics—3
men and 2 women. Including the servant class there were 22
altogether.
(b) “ of killing old women," 6
7
It is not possible to tell how many of the female percipients were
“ old women.” However, none of them were killed, were in any danger
of death, and only three, or, so far as appears, even suffered illness
afterward from the shock, whatever the age or the sex.
(c) “ and weakening the intellects of children.” There appears
to have been about 27 percipients sixteen years old and younger, a
few more girls than boys. There is no intimation that any intellects
were weakened, either of children or older people.
So far as concerns the insinuation that rustics and children are
specially addicted to seeing ghosts it is sufficient to report that about
79 percent of the percipients were not rustics, servants, nor chil­
dren. Among them were 4 Generals, 4 Colonels, 3 Majors, 1 Ser­
geant Major, 1 Captain, 1 Lieutenant, 1 Sea Captain, 1 Naval
6Sometimes there were two or more percipients of the same apparition and in
two or three instances it is not made certain how many of the group actually saw
it. Here I make the number of chief percipients 228. Close scrutiny shows that
about a dozen other persons were present and saw, but they play no part in the
stories beyond casual mention.
7 Disregarding the actual number of percipients and counting a case as one which
produced fright if one percipient only was frightened, we find that no one was terri­
fied in 56 cases, according to declaration; in 21 it is highly improbable that any one
was: total 77. In 19 one or all percipients were frightened according to declara­
tion; in 9 one probably was: total 28. In 17 cases a percipient says he was
“ startled,” in 4 one probably was: total 21. The “ surprised” and “ astonished”
were 6, the “ agitated,” “ excited” and “ disturbed” 6, the “ awed” 1, the “ un­
nerved ” 1, the “ shocked and bewildered ” 1. In 58 cases we are left quite in the
dark. It seems to me conservative to estimate that probably in a majority of in­
stances, the man or woman who sees an apparition is not at all frightened. But
there cannot from so imperfect statistics be any certainty that this is the case.
170 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Lieutenant, 15 Clergymen, 5 Physicians, 1 Judge, 1 Lawyer, 3 School­
masters, 1 Lady Principal, 2 Legislators, 1 Chemist, 2 noted Writers,
1 Traveler and Writer, 1 noted Sculptor, 8 persons of title, 2 Gentle­
man Farmers, etc., etc. A respectable crowd, with the military men
rivaling the clergy!
VII. (a) “ Either the stories of these ghosts [coincidental with
death of person represented] have grown marvelous by coming through
a number of hands ” (360)
In the whole list of 200 cases there are only 3 (all in Flammarion)
where the story may possibly have come “ through a number of
hands,” although this is by no means certain.
(b) “ or, if not far from the original seer, he is dead, abroad, or
some circumstance prevents him from appearing to testify to the truth
of the relation.”
All that the philosopher of 1820 is willing to grant is that there
are some cases which did not come through many, but only a few
hands. He appears to be certain that the original witness is never
present to testify. But what do we find when we analyze the list of
200 reported cases? That in 125 of them the story is told by one or
more persons who actually saw the apparition, and in 36 by persons
who were present at the time or who were otherwise in a position to
have immediate proof at the time. In 1 case we have what purports
to be a copy of the original statement by the percipient. In 20 cases
the story was told by a person in close touch, as a member of the
family who had heard it many times, or someone who carefully inter­
rogated the percipient. In 18 cases the story is second-hand without
such close touch, as where it passed down two generations, or was
heard on “ good authority.” The most of these 18 are not found in
the S. P. R. list.
So much for the set of cases in general. But our author’s state­
ment refers to apparitions said to have coincided, in point of time,
more or less closely with the deaths of the persons they represented.
So we must inspect this class of the list of 200. There appear to be
165 of the 200 which involve this species of coincidence. We find that
out of the 156 narrations, 94 were written by the seers themselves.
Others were taken down by investigators from the lips of the actual
seers.8 Something like 110 out of 156 cases contradict the dictum
8 It must not be supposed that a narrative not written or dictated by the origi­
nal seer, is necessarily unauthenticated. The most of the remaining cases were told
by witnesses present at the time, or in other ways well accredited.
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 171
that the percipient of an alleged death-coincidental apparition is
always dead, abroad, or for some other reason silent.
Of course our 200 are to a large extent picked cases, with view to
their being authentic and at the same time coincidental with some­
thing, if only the fact of being seen at the same time by another
person. But that does not hinder that they contradict the proposi­
tion so confidently laid down. Also, while it is no doubt true that
there are “ ghost ” stories which have “ grown marvelous by coming
through a number of hands ” there can be found no evidence of this
from the list of 200 cases. None of the 18 which have come through
two or more hands is any more “ marvelous ” than some which are
told by the original witness or witnesses.
VIII. (a) [Referring to apparitions said to] “ have been seen at
the precise period of the death of those whom they represented ” [there
is] “ one general rule in relations of this kind, viz.: that they are not
made public till after the death has been known to have taken place,
and till every fact can be reconciled in order to add to the stories'
credibility. The appearance is not much regarded till the ghost seer
hears of the death of some person whom he knew, (b) and then his
imagination, suppressing every difference and exaggerating every re­
semblance, forces upon him the belief that he saw the deceased pre­
cisely as at the time of his death, and dressed exactly in the same
manner.”
(a) Again let us refer to the 200 cases. Of these about 156 in­
volve death coincidences.9 In some 135 of these 156 cases it is claimed
that the apparition was recognized at the moment of its appearance.
If one had no more data, he might well hesitate before disputing the
testimony of many witnesses of intelligence and standing who declare
in positive terms that they “ distinctly recognized ” the figure at the
moment of its appearance, some that they recognized the clothing or
called out the apparition’s name and by various modes of expression
make it plain that they never had doubt as to the identity, before or
after the news of death reached them. This would require the more
assurance since a large percentage of the apparitions represented
parents, brothers, sisters, and other near relatives whom the percip­
ients really ought to have been able to recognize. The fact that in
13 of the 156 cases the apparition was not identified before the news
came and only inferentially or uncertainly afterward, is proof that
9 The rest are coincidences with near loss of life, accidents, illnesses, and other
peculiar periods of stress, together with a number of apparitions seen by two or
more persons, without any known coinciding relevant event.
172 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
not all persons, even after the death news arrives, reconcile the facts,
to employ the phrase quoted above, “ in order to add to the stories’
credibility.”
When he says that there is one general rule, and that is that ghost
stories are not made “ public ” until it has been discovered that
someone died, to whom the apparition could be adapted, presumably
the author means that it cannot be shown, as a rule, that the descrip­
tion was told before the event, as it could hardly be expected that one
would print the experience in a newspaper or proclaim it upon the
highway before news of the corresponding event. But of the 135
cases where it is claimed that the apparition was clearly recognized at
the moment it was seen, in 98 it is also alleged that prior to the
arrival of news of the death, the identity of the apparition was un­
equivocally declared to one or more other persons.10 In 2 other cases
a note of the event was made prior to the reception of intelligence, in
3 other cases a letter was written inquiring about the person seen,
and in 4 other cases the percipient made a journey purposely to ascer­
tain if anything had happened to the person seen. Such acts being as
affirmative of prior certainty of identity as telling another person,
they properly may be counted in, so we have out of 135 cases of death
coincidence where it was declared that the “ ghost ” was clearly recog­
nized at the moment, 107 where the percipient in some way expressed
his or her conviction prior to knowledge of the actual death.11 And
I leave out of the account cases such as that where the percipient
thought the apparition was her mother, whereas it proved that her
mother’s strikingly resembling sister was the one who died.
So again a proposition very confidently asserted by the writer of
1820 falls to the ground; it is very far from being “ a general rule”
in well authenticated and sponsored apparitional cases that the iden­
tity of the apparition was not clearly recognized and declared to
others prior to information as to a death.
(b) One would suppose from the last sentence quoted, and its
writer evidently was strongly of the opinion, that another general rule
is that the narrators of such experiences come finally to believe and
declare that they saw the person “ precisely as at the time of his death,
and dressed exactly in the same manner.” But this is not true either
10These 98 include instances where two or more persons were percipients and,
as would be expected, told each other.
11 Those familiar with the sources will not need to be told that not all the
“ death coincidences ” fell within the hour when the apparition was seen, though
veiy many did. But all were near enough to be sufficiently striking.
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 173
in the set of cases we are consulting or in death-coincidence cases in
general. Very few of them make any such claim. In fact compara­
tively few, regrettably, describe the dress, and those who do more
frequently say that the apparition was in the “ usual ” or “ custom­
ary ” dress of the person, or it appears (as in the case where the
person seen was a military man or a seaman) that the dress described
was the customary one although the narrator may not say so. On the
other hand there appears to have been no apparition, throughout the
whole list of 200 cases which was seen in a night-garment and
the actual person recognized was not certainly or in all probability so
dressed,—no single case where the actual person was proved to have
been at the time up and about, and the apparition was seen in a bed-
garment. Besides, there are several cases (I am now including all
cases, and not referring only to those coincidental with death) where
the actual person had some unusual feature of dress unknown to the
percipient and the apparition corresponded. But so far as there is
any “ general rule,” it is that narrations of apparitional experiences
which correspond with the death of the person recognized, do not
claim to have seen “ precisely as at the time of his death ” or “ dressed
exactly in the same manner.”
In the face of the array of actual records who would dare to say
today: *
*The identity of the ghost with the person, and the coincidence
in time, are not discovered till it is fownd that about the period of the
appearance some person expired, and then the seer exclaims with aston­
ishment, *I saw his ghost’ ”? (361) Of course, however, the coinci­
dence in time could not be established until news of the death is
received.
IX. “ The generality of ghosts are seen by persons who are alone”
A survey of our trial list of cases reveals that the percipient at the
moment of the apparition was with one or more persons in slightly
more than 30 percent of them.
X. “ These stories generally, when traced to their origin, depend
upon the veracity or credidity of one person.” (361)
“ These stories generally ” is a phrase which does not confine us
to stories of apparitions coinciding with the death of the person seen.
We are at liberty to include coincidence with accident, sudden illness,
etc., and apparitions seen by two or more persons although with no
known relevant coincidence. We find that in the 200 cases, out of the
95 alleged to have been told by the single percipient before the coincid­
ing event, 33 are corroborated by statements of other persons in proof
174 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
that they were told. Of 27 cases seen by two or more persons when to­
gether, plus 6 cases of the same apparition seen by persons separately,
accounts are given by two seers in 10 cases. Most of the remaining
cases have strengthening features of one kind or another, aside from
the standing and reputation of many of the narrators, but which would
require too much space to set forth. Enough has been said to indicate
that such stories do not “ generally ” depend upon the veracity or
credulity of one person.
XI. “As far back as ice can trace, zee have accounts of persons
appearing either at the moment of their death or soon after, but
through all time we have scarcely one relation indisputably proved.”
(361)
This sentence may have been true when it was written but, thanks
to psychic research, it is true no longer, as the foregoing statistics
indicate and as the records abundantly prove.
XII. “ It is by no means uncommon to hear of apparitions appear­
ing just after a light has been extinguished. It will plainly appear
that these are generally produced from the strong spectrum left of
the light, greatly assisted by fancy.” (354)
On the contrary, it is very uncommon to hear this; the percentage
of apparitions seen just after a light is extinguished must be exceed­
ingly small. And the spectrum or after image of the light takes a
definite form, appears wherever one turns his eyes, may change in
color or disappear to return, but otherwise changes only to decrease
and fade out. None of the numerous apparitions described as dis­
tinctly dressed, clearly seen, standing, walking, etc., every whit as
real looking as a living body, could be so caused.
XIII. “ It is observed that in nocturnal visitations of the ghost
kind, the candle generally bums blue, as a kind of announcement of
the apparition.”
There is not a single report of a candle burning blue in all the 200
cases. To be sure many of these were of apparitions seen in the day­
time or in the moonlight or in the darkness, and to be sure where the
nature of the artificial light is not stated it would be rather unlikely
today that it would be that of a candle. But candles are not in­
frequently used even now in England, as a light to go to bed by,
besides some of the cases in the list go back to the fifties. It is note­
worthy therefore that the blue-burning candle is not once mentioned.
And why not a blue-burning lamp or gas-light? But nothing of the
sort do I remember to have read of in any authenticated record.
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 175
XIV. (a) “ But how happens it that apparitions take the shapes
they hear? It is evidently the mind itself that occasions any peculiar­
ity in the shape of apparitions. Thus, they always appear vn garbs
which are well-known to the person who sees them;— because the mind
could not conjure up things of which it knew nothing; (b) they gener­
ally agree in every respect with the seer's idea of apparitions, from
reasons already stated; (c) and as the mind is more subject to melan­
choly or to terror at the time, so there is more melancholy or terror
in the circumstances of the appearance. I will venture to say, that
apparitions of the dead would never appear in the present circum­
stances; if instead of lamenting over a deceased person, a jovial
banquet were held at his interment.” (354-5)
(a) Why should it be a criterion of an apparition causally related
to the death of a person that it should appear in some kind of a garb
which human beings of the race do not wear? Besides, it is possible
for the mind to “ conjure up ” a garb such as it has never seen, made,
let us say, of codfishes or wasp-nests. But apparitions have been seen
dressed or otherwise marked in a singular fashion which the percipient
had never seen in relation to the person identified. Thus there is a
well-sponsored story (F, 52) of a woman who saw her friend in “ a
sort of cape with a hood, which my aunt had never seen her wear,”
worn over her dress, and it proved that she was so dressed in the
coffin. A man (II, 530) saw the apparition of a friend who had been
in distant parts for nearly two years and whom he had no reason to
expect to see soon again, “ wearing a necktie of striking pattern ” and
having “ a kind of excrescence on the cheek,” both novel features.
About twelve hours later this man called, and he was “ exactly as he
appeared in the vision.” In another detailed account (J. V, 481)
which has every appearance of truth, an old lady saw the apparition
of a man whom she had been accustomed to see shockingly ill-dressed
and unkempt, but the apparition had on a black suit and white shirt,
with his hair and beard trimmed, and she described the vision before news
came that he had been found dressed as seen, a suicide that very night.
(b) How the author knew or thought he knew that apparitions
“ generally agree in every respect with the seer’s idea of apparitions ”
is a mystery. Then in I, 204, the woman’s ideas of an apparition were
that it should wear a dirty white garment, a dirty night-cap, and have
a bloody bandage about the head! And the facts were sufficiently
accommodating to have the head of the person seen split open the
same hour with the apparition, while he was similarly dressed. And
in I, 214, the woman’s ideas of an apparition were to have her husband
176 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
run away with by two horses, although he had told her that he was
going in a (one-horse) dogcart, and again the actual facts accommo­
dated themselves so to provide that the man changed his mind and
went in a carriage drawn by two horses, which ran away at approxi­
mately the moment of the vision. A certain clergyman’s ideas of an
apparition, II, 199, must have been that of an old white-bearded man
in dark-blue overcoat and flat-topped felt hat, for he saw such a one
pass the window of the room he himself was sitting in, and no such man
passed the window, since a physician, who adds his testimony to that of
the clergyman, would have seen him, for he also passed the window a
moment later. Nor could it have been the doctor, for he had on a
brown top-coat, a silk hat and no beard. And the doctor’s ideas of
a phantom must have agreed with those of the clergyman for, just
before he rang the bell he saw through the window in the room with
the clergyman an old man of exactly the same description, only that
he did not have on a hat! Examples could be multiplied, where the
facts agree in peculiar detail with the phantoms, but how it is deduced
that the “ seer’s ideas of apparitions ” corresponded, or what ex­
planatory assistance that correspondence would furnish in view of
the external coincidences, is a mystery.
(c) When we take up the actual analysis of cases it is found im­
possible to correlate moods of percipients, whether of a melancholy
character or any other, with the character of the apparitions they see.
Of course all we have to go by is the testimony of the witnesses, and
usually they say nothing of their thoughts and feelings just previous
to seeing the vision. We cannot safely depend upon occupation at
the time, for in spite of the fact that one is “ at a concert,” “ quietly
reading,” and the like, his thoughts might be of a melancholy char­
acter. But we have distinct affirmations, as in the following cases.
(I, 194) “ I was reading geometry as I walked along, a subject
little likely to produce fancies or morbid phenomena of any kind.”
Saw his mother lying on the floor, to all appearances dead.
(I, 218) “A deep melancholy was oppressing me.” About 20
minutes after making a remark to that effect, he saw an apparition,
but not of a melancholy or frightening character, simply of a lady
dressed as if to go out walking, and thought her real.
(I, 431) Was “ far from well.” The apparition was not affected
by that fact, but looked just as the living person customarily looked.
(II, 149) A man was “ in a perfectly cheerful, healthy frame of
mind ” when he saw the phantom of his friend, of whose sudden illness
he had not heard. The phantom’s eyes “ glared into mine, with a
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 177
look so intense and deeply earnest that I fairly recoiled from the spot
and started backwards.”
(II, 513) A young girl in the midst of “ frolicksomeness ” saw a
tall, slight figure in white.
(J. V, 109) A woman “ worn out with loss of sleep and anxiety ”
on account of the illness of her child, saw her husband standing look­
ing at her. He was really drowned at about if not exactly the same
time, but the point here is that the woman’s state of mind did not
make the apparition look disturbed or anything other than his real
self, for she thought him flesh and blood, and merely said that she
would rise and get him something to eat.
(J. XIV, 260) When her “ heart was very sad,” a woman saw the
apparition of her dead daughter, and “ on her face was transcen­
dental joy.”
Even where the percipient is melancholy just before an apparition
appears, if the melancholy mood has seized him suddenly, there is
reason to suspect that, causally, the apparition preceded the mood,
already being present in the subconscious before it became consciously
objectified. One man (II, 63), for no reason that he could discover,
was “ seized with a fit of deep melancholy, a thing very unusual with
me, who enjoy great serenity of mind,” and in order to prevent burst­
ing out crying he rushed out of the house into the strong wind and
pouring rain, and there saw the apparition of his brother. But even
then the apparition presented no appearance corresponding with the
mood, for it looked as usual, and was “ stepping leisurely along . . .
as if the weather were fair and calm.”
Of course there are cases where the percipient had been feeling
“ melancholy ” and where the ensuing apparition was of a melancholy
appearance. And there have been other cases where both the appari­
tion and the previous mood of the percipient were calm and placid.
This would be so on chance. But there is no discoverable causal rela­
tion, and many cases contradict the supposed rule.
Even if such a relation did exist, while it would explain the emo­
tional tone of the apparition, it would not explain the identity of the
person seen and the temporal coincidence of his actual death or acci­
dent. Nor would it furnish the least clue to an apparition seen, identi­
cally the same, by two or more persons, independently.
XV. “ If, however, a ghost appears neither for any purpose nor to
any hut one person, though others are present when it is seen, what is
there that can prove it to he anything hut the effect of a disordered
mind? ”
178 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
We can still agree that an apparition per se seen by only one of
several persons present, could not be proof of anything but the effect
of what may be called, or may be really, a disordered mind. And the
quoted sentence must have appeared very sound and sensible in 1820.
But it is so no longer, now that psychic research has gathered so many
authentic cases of recognized apparitions seen at the hour when the
persons they represented were dying or undergoing accident, and even
cases which pictured the very details of the death or accident. And
the sentence contains two notions which are now quite passi.
1. The notion that an apparition must, if the valid effect of an
external cause, have been planned and intended, is now a non sequitur
because of psychic research. When, for example (I, 443), General
Richardson’s wife experienced the hallucination of seeing her husband
carried off the field wounded, and of hearing him say, “ Take this ring
off my finger and send it to my wife,” which the General’s corroborat­
ing statement asserts is exactly what took place at that hour, it was
not because he was trying to produce an apparition of himself in his
wife’s mind, or to make her cognizant of his words. The effect seems
to have been a telepathic one, operating by laws of mental mechanics
not yet understood.
2. We now realize that the inability of any but one of a group to
experience an apparition fails to prove that it had no cause outside
of that one person’s mind. As well might two partially deaf persons
reason that the sound of a violin, heard by a third person of sharp
ears playing in an adjoining room, must be the effect of a disordered
mind. There have been many instances where two persons did simul­
taneously and independently see an apparition. Wherever other per­
sons were present and saw nothing, it simply argues that they lacked
in their make-up a something which the percipients possessed.
XVI. “ If such callings and apparitions as we continually hear of
did really exist beyond the mind, it is necessary to imagine that they
existed by some law or general providential arrangement, that they
should only appear in particular circumstances, and should always
appear in like situations; i. e., if one man had made an agreement with
a friend to appear to him after death, and had afterwards appeared,
another person who had made the like agreement should do the same;
if a voice should inform one person that a relation was dead or dying,
a voice should be heard by another person telling him of a relation
under similar circumstances. This is no more than the usual regular­
ity of nature, but amongst ghosts and supernatural voices there is no
regularity, and therefore I assert, they have no real existence.” (368-9)
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 179
Now as the author discards the notion of the supernatural,12 his
argument should equally apply to apparitions that do not “ really
exist beyond the mind,” and to the actions of living people. The
“ regularity of nature ” does not provide that what one person does
under given circumstances, another will certainly do. One promises
to keep an appointment and does so; another promises and does not
fulfil the promise, afterward explaining that he forgot it, was too
busy, was unavoidably prevented by circumstances. Assuming that a
person survives bodily dissolution, we still would be in no position to
assume that he never forgets, and is able to do everything that another
spirit can, or to overcome all obstacles. It might be that he did keep
his compact but the living person was incapable of recognizing the
fact. There would be many analogies, despite all the “ regularity of
nature,”—for there are persons who are color-blind, others who are
tone-deaf, others who are quite blind or quite deaf, etc. After a
half century of psychic research, however scanty their reading of its
literature, probably there are few intelligent minds to which so little
of its logic has seeped that they would be capable of making such an
argument.
We now go forward some 55 years to Professor Persifor Frazer,
who delivered an address to the Social Science Association of Phila­
delphia, printed in 1875, in the course of which he says:
XVII. (a) “ The fact that the ghostly wniform is usually white
suggests as reasons, first, (b) that this is likely to be the color which
most attracts the eye in feeble light; and, secondly, (c) custom teaches
us to expect more dead men than any other class of visitants, because
this can prove no alibi, and the robes of the dead are generally
whited (9)
(a) Prof. Frazer first lays down what he assumes is a fact, namely,
that ghosts are usually dressed in white. He does not think it worth
while to give any evidence of the alleged fact, but appears to think
that his auditors and readers will readily agree, so far.
Let us re-examine our same set of 200 cases. There is to be found
no description of the dress of 126 of the apparitions, though in many
instances the language is such as makes it highly probable that the
“ ghosts ” appeared in ordinary, familiar clothing. Five of the
12In a note he says: “ If there were any such word, an apparition ought to be
called supercommon.’’ This word has exactly the sense of Henry Holt’s choice,
superusual. The S. P. R. fixed for psychic research the word supernormal. How­
ever, the term supernormal includes apparitions conceived as having some kind of
objective validity, while such an apparition (the existence of which he denies)
would by our author be regarded as supernatural.
180 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ ghosts ” were seen within a halo or cloud of light or developed out of
it, or were luminous, but such a halo or cloud or luminosity is not cloth­
ing. Of the remaining T9 apparitions, but 9 are definitely said to have
been clothed in white, including one which was “ dirty white,” and a
“ soiled or somewhat worn bridal dress.” The “ shroud ” was probably
white, so add that case. Eight more were dressed in a “ night-dress ”
or a “ night-shirt.” Such garments are not always white, but assume
that all were. Also include the garment which was “ grey, darker in the
middle,” and that which was “ ash-grey,” though these are not strictly
white. Now we have 20 white or constructively white “ uniforms,” or
a little more than one-quarter of the 79 about which we have data.
Thirty-five of the 79 are either distinctly said to have appeared in
their ordinary day-clothing or almost certainly did so appear, since
they were supposed at the time to be the persons themselves in the
flesh. And when we consider that out of more than 200 apparitions,
172 were distinctly recognized at the time of appearance, 5 less cer­
tainly, and 4 seemingly identified by description, it seems very unlikely
that any large proportion of them, except where so stated, appeared
in the spectral white garments to which fiction has accustomed us.
Where there is anything unusual in the apparent clothing, the witness
would be likely to mention it. It is very uncommon for a man to wear
a white suit of clothes, and of the 205 apparitions involved whose sex
was determinable, 132 or 64 + percent were males. Where the appa­
rition was that of a woman dressed as the percipient had been accus­
tomed to see her, it would be of no significance if the dress were white.
But even such cases must have been comparatively few.
Some of the particular descriptions follow: “ Black clothes,”
“ tweed suit,” “ dark figure,” “ sailor uniform with a monkey jacket,”
“ wide-awake hat with a rather oddly-cut Inverness cape,” “ black silk
with a muslin *cloud * over the head and shoulders,” “ in black,”
“ dark-blue overcoat ” and “ felt hat,” “ black cloak and hood,” “ drab
overcoat,” “ big black poke bonnet and a checked black-and-white
shawl,” “ his usual shell-jacket, mess-dress, with my rose in his
button-hole,” “ a dark blue pelisse, buttoned, and the ribbon on her
bonnet,” “ a rough brown shawl,” “ a wide-brimmed hat, and a veil,”
“ in a buff jacket and boots,” “ colonial helmet on his head,” “ a
black suit.”
So Prof. Frazer was wrong, “ ghosts ” are not “ usually ” clothed
in white. And his principal explanation of the fact is as spurious as
the fact itself, for whereas he attributes apparitions to white objects
dimly seen in “ feeble light,” we have already discovered that more
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 181
than half of the apparitions were experienced in daylight, bright
moonlight or good artificial light.
A more detailed exhibit of the 20 cases of white or constructively
white (for we have been very accommodating; very likely half of the
night garments seen were of other colors) will be worth study.
(I, 204) Male apparition seen in “ dirty white garment.” Seen
at night. The man died at same time, in such a garment, other fea­
tures of vision corresponding.
(I, 434) Male apparition “ in his night-shirt.” Seen at night.
The man was then in bed (presumably in his night-shirt) in a state
of coma.
(I, 437) Male apparition “ in his night-dress.” Seen at dawn.
The youth died of illness at that hour. (Was in bed, so undoubtedly
in a night garment.)
(II, 41) Female apparition “ in her night-dress.” Seen at 2 P. m .
The lady died at the same hour, after an illness (hence almost cer­
tainly so dressed).
(II, 49) Female apparition “ in white.” Seen at night; 10 p. m.
The lady had been “ almost bedridden for long.” Said to have died
same night at 7 p. m . (So probably in bed with night-dress on.)
(II, 179) Female apparition “ in her night-dress.” Seen in the
night. The lady died of an illness “ in the middle of the [same]
night ” (so was almost certainly in her night-dress).
(II, 181) Female apparition “ in a long night-dress.” Seen in the
night, “ before light.” Hour of the lady’s death not known, but within
a day of the vision. (However, the death was from “ suppressed
smallpox,” so she was presumably in her night-dress^)
(II, 208) Female apparition “ in what appeared a soiled or some­
what worn bridal-dress” (so presumably white). Seen by several
officers at evening, in a fully lighted room. Resembled a bridal-dress
(presumably white) photograph of the deceased wife of a man lying
ill in the same building who died within two days afterward.
(II, 513) Female apparition “ in white,” resembling seer’s mother,
though features not visible. Seen at night. The mother died about
the same time (so probably was in white).
(II, 520) Male apparition “ in his night-shirt.” Seen in night,
while seer was walking with a candle. About the same moment the
man died. (He was very ill, so probably in bed, and very likely in a
white garment.)
(II, 521) A boy apparition “ in a white night-dress,” and lilies in
his hand, seen at about 6 p. m. by a person awake and about the house.
182 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
The boy, known by seer to be dying of an illness, had died about two
hours previously, while holding lilies. (He was in a white night-dress.)
(II, 522) Female apparition “ dressed in white.” Seen at night.
The woman died the same night after illness. (So was probably in a
night-dress, more likely white.)
(II, 525) Female apparition “ in her night-dress, and her head
bound up as in a turban.” Seen at night. Seer within a half hour
reached the lady (his mother) and found her in bed just as he had
seen her.
(II, 539) Female apparition “ dressed in white,” not stated when
seen. The woman died “ at that time,” but no further particulars
are given.
(II, 606) Female apparition “ in her usual white dressing-gown.”
Seen at night. The woman died “ about ” that time, but no further
particulars are given.
(II, 612) Male apparition “ in his night gown.” Seen at night.
Man died the same hour “ of an epidemic disorder ” (so was probably
in bed, very likely in a white night-gown).
(II, 616) Female apparition in “ a cap with a frill under her
chin, and a dressing-gown of the appearance of white flannel.” Seen
by two persons at night. Grandmother of seers (her daughter also
saw and recognized her the same night, but it is not stated how she
saw her dressed) died the same evening. (No further particulars, but
the dress seems appropriate to an old lady.)
(F, 151) Male apparition “ in a shroud and no longer had his
characteristic mustache.” Seen in the morning. The man had just
died, and seer “ went that very morning,” and found that his mouth
and mustache had been covered with a cloth. (Whether or not a
shroud had been put on not stated.)
Now let us add the two cases where the apparition was not dressed
in exactly white.
(II, 205) Unrecognized apparition, sex apparently not distin­
guished, “ grey, darker and thicker in the middle.” No assignable
sequence or meaning.
(II, 512) Female apparition “ covered over with a loose glistening
robe or sheet of an ash-grey color.” The lady died about almost ex­
actly at the same absolute time, in consequence of childbirth several
days before. (So she was almost certainly in bed in a night-gown,
whether of that shade not stated.)
In one of the 20 cases of white, nearly white and possibly white
clothing the apparition was not recognized and [perhaps conse-
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 183
quently] no corresponding event was traced. In four, we are not given
particulars how the person was or probably was actually dressed
at the time his or her apparition was seen, so we must set them
aside. But in 5 instances the person seen in white seems to have actu­
ally been in white at the time, and in 9 more the probability that this
was the case is high. In the one remaining case, that of the apparition
in a bridal-dress, the only correspondence was that a dying man in
the house had a portrait of his deceased wife in a bridal-dress.
Several more apparitions, not in white, were dressed as they actu­
ally were at the time of death or accident, and without the knowledge
of the percipients that they were or had been so dressed.
Consider all the facts given in this section and then whether it is
not probable that the absence in most narratives of any description
of dress is because there was nothing unusual in the clothing. Thus
will emerge the general rule, subject of course to exceptions, that
apparitions, seen at or near the time when the person represented
dies, has an accident, etc., appear either (1) dressed as the seer has
seen the actual person dressed, or (2) dressed as the person was
dressed at or near the moment of the vision.1
8
Having assumed as a fact that which is not so, the professor pro­
ceeds to explain the fact which is not so. (b) First, because white “ is
likely to be the color which most attracts the eye in feeble light.”
Evidently he supposed that apparitions are nearly always illusions
produced by looking at light-colored objects in near darkness. But
the fact assumed in this explanation is as erroneous as the supposed
major fact, for, as we have seen, in about 40 percent of 210 cases the
apparition was seen in the daytime, and in a majority of cases either
in daylight or by what is declared to have been good moonlight or
artificial light. Besides, an illusion occasioned by an object would
generally be stationary, whereas, as we shall see, in a large percentage
of cases the apparition moves.
(c) But again, he explains, “ custom teaches us to expect more
dead men than any other class of visitants, because this can prove no
18As psychologists are so fond of ascribing apparitions of sane people to imagi­
nation, emotion, suggestion, etc., it ought to seem veiy singular to them that not
one of these more than 200 apparitions appeared as in the standard form of an
“ angel.” Hardly a person but has seen pictures of angels a thousand times from
infancy onwards. These winged shapes have been depicted by a host of artists, the
greatest to the least; they are in the galleries and in books and on religious cards;
they walk, they stand, they wing their way upward, or they come down feet upmost.
Yet not in this set is there a single instance where an apparition had wings, not one
where the figure appeared to be either soaring into the heavens or emerging thence,
even in those cases where the percipient knew or believed the person was dying, or
knew he was actually dead.
184 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
alibi.” I have puzzled much over this sentence and am not yet certain
what it is supposed to mean. It certainly sounds as though most
people expect to see apparitions but expect to see more apparitions of
dead than of living people. Judging from the statements of people
who have seen apparitions, it is doubtful whether one in fifty had
previously expected to see one either of the living or the dead. But
let this pass. The sentence ends: “ and the robes of the dead are gen­
erally white.” But they frequently were not, even so far back as 1875.
Besides, if the ghost were an illusion from seeing a white object in
near darkness, the additional reason for the color is redundant. And
finally, if the “ ghostly uniform ” is suggested by the knowledge that
the robes of the dead are usually white, then suggestion should not
only prescribe the color but also the actual shape of robes of the dead,
and there are not more than two or three cases out of the 200, where
the dress is a shroud or any kind of grave-clothes. The statistics of
psychic research, gathered since Prof. Frazer’s time, show that his
fact is unfounded and his reasons fallacious.
XVIII. We have already attended to Prof. Frazer’s agreement
with the writer of 1820 in the unfounded opinion that, as the former
put it, “ Midnight is the hour of appearance.” He goes on:
(a) “ It is not improbable that the origin of the idea that these
objects glide (b) without noise, may be partly due to the fact (c) that
to be far off to be indistinct (d) they must be too far to be clearly
heard; or else it may be connected (e) with the gradual passage across
the eye of an imaginary picture, as in the case of dreams.” (9-10)
Here again there is assumed to be a fact too well known to need
proof, namely, that “ these objects ” (i. e., apparitions), always or as
a rule “ glide without noise.”
(a) We resort to the same list of 200 cases to see if it is a fact
that apparitions always, or generally, glide. It is to be understood
that in a few of these cases two apparitions were seen, and in a few
two or more persons saw the apparition at different times. The fol­
lowing figures are intended to cover these facts also.
Standing, 68; same + walking, 5 ...................................... 73
Walking, 54; same + standing, 1; same + lying, 1........ 56
Sitting, 9; lying, 8; being carried, 2 ................................ 19
Kneeling, 1; leaning down to or in window, 2 .................. 3
Run away with by horses, 1; riding horse, 1.................... 2
Falling into water.............................................................. 2
Only head, face, or upper part of body seen.................... 13
Instantaneous, no apparent impression of movement. ... 3
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 185
No details regarding movement........................................ 35
Gliding movement, declared or implied............................ 10
Total......................................................................216
There very possibly were other cases where the apparition
“ glided,” but probably silence nearly always means that there either
was no movement or that the figure moved as living persons do. At
any rate, there is no evidence that in this set more than one out of 20
apparitions glided.
(b) There are, it is true, but five cases where the sound of foot­
steps, etc., is reported in connection with the experiencing of an
apparition. But there are these, and in two cases the sound came
before the apparition. But a further number of cases were not sound­
less. In 19 cases the apparition spoke or seemed to speak, the sound
having the effect of being quite external. This is not exactly what one
would expect, even when a sane and healthy person takes a white
object seen in near darkness for a ghost. In several of these instances
the percipient received information about what was then happening at
a distance or what had happened, and we should still less expect that.
We may instance Mrs. M. A. Richardson (I, 443), who says that one
evening she distinctly saw her husband, Gen. Richardson, then 150
miles distant, carried off the field seriously wounded, and heard him
say: “ Take this ring off my finger, and send it to my wife,” and all
the next day could not get the sight or the voice out of her mind. It
was not until sometime after that Major Lloyd told her that he
helped carry the General and that the request was actually made to
him at that hour. We also have the testimony of Gen. Richardson
himself to the same effect. It may be added, in view of what Prof.
Frazer says later, that we hardly expect such things of “ the gradual
passage across the eyes of an imaginary picture.”
Voice Cases
(I, 417) Seer awake in morning. Person seen died that night. Did
not know he was more than ordinarily ill.
(I, 440) Seer awake in bed. Person seen then fatally ill, fact not
known. Died two days later.
(I, 443) Seer dozing. “ Saw ” and “ heard ” actual incident, nearly
or quite contemporaneous.
(I, 444) Seer wakened. Person seen, illness not known, died same
hour.
(I, 447) Seer wakened. Person seen, illness not known, died near
same hour.
186 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
(I, 449) Seer awake in bed. Person seen drowned same night.
(II, 141) Seer up and awake. Person seen nearly drowned ten hours
before apparition.
(II, 143) Seer up and at work. Person seen, illness not known, died
same evening.
(II, 146) Seer up and at work. Person seen, illness not known, died
about same time.
(II, 623) Seer out walking. Voice gave information of injury. Per­
son seen physically assaulted same hour.
(F, 49) Seer rose from bed, and apparition pointed to wound, etc.
Person seen killed in battle; not known how close the coincidence.
(F, 67) Seer writing a letter. Person seen, illness not known, died
about same hour.
(F, 137) Seer ? Apparition correctly pointed to wounds. Person
seen killed same night.
(F, 169) Seer up and at work. Person seen killed by accident
twenty-four hours earlier; fact not known.
(F, 170) Seer ? Apparition described murderer. Person seen
killed, fact not known, the day before.
(J. V, 109) Seer wakened. Person seen drowned within the hour.
(J. V, 139) Seer wakened. Death of person seen already known.
(J. VII, 124) Seer up, holding baby. Apparition correctly told
when he died, etc. Person seen, illness unknown, died at or
near same time.
(J. Vn, 363) Seer had not gone to sleep. Person seen, illness known
but case thought favorable, died fifteen minutes later, of
hemorrhage.
It cannot then be laid down as a rule that “ ghosts ” are unaccom­
panied by sound. In about one out of every eight in our 200 cases,
there was an auditory hallucination also, of voice, or some other sound.
But it is not the voice as such which is to be emphasized, but first, as
in other cases, the more or less close coincidence with the death, acci­
dent, etc., of the person seen, and, secondly, the assertions that in 6
of the 19 voice cases information was given of facts hitherto unknown
to the percipient.
(c) Prof. Frazer next takes it for granted that “ ghosts ” are as a
rule seen indistinctly. This notion is consistent with the Professor’s
theory that apparitions are usually illusions, caused by real objects
viewed in near darkness. But we found that they are seen in daylight,
good artificial light and bright moonlight more frequently than in
the night time with poor light. And careful inspection of our 200
cases shows that they are more generally than not distinct. Our only
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 187
possible way of judging is by the testimony of the seers. Counting
only cases where the seers declare in one way or another that they
saw the apparitions distinctly, recognized them without a doubt or
had no doubt that they were seeing real and recognized persons, the
figures are 111, or more than half. In less than 20 cases are terms
used which aver or from which we can reasonably infer that the appa­
ritions were indistinctly seen.
(d) In order to explain why “ ghosts ” usually glide (which is not
the case), the Professor tells us that to be far off to be indistinct
(which is more frequently not the case) they must be too far to be
clearly heard. In many instances they seem to have been very clearly
heard, but let that pass. It is evident that the Professor thought that
“ ghosts,” when seen, are generally at a considerable distance from
the percipient.
One is puzzled to decide at what distance it is supposed to be
sufficiently “ far off to be indistinct.” It is possible to speak so faintly
as hardly to be heard at a distance of three feet, and it is possible to
speak so loudly and clearly as to be understood at the distance of a
hundred feet or more. Probably it will be agreed that twelve feet or
less is not either far off or far enough off to hear indistinctly unless
the speaker murmurs softly or speaks very thickly. Let us go to our
200 cases again. We are not informed in regard to 52 of the phan­
tasms in these cases. Out of the 164 which remain we find them,
relatively to the percipient:
At bedside, 20; at foot of bed, 18; “ near ” the bed, 2 ;
on the bed, 2; bent over the bed, 3 ........................ 45
In the same room or in its door, 62; probably the num­
ber within 12 feet were not less than half of this,
s a y ............................................................................. 31
Expressly stated to have been less than 12 feet............ 7
Close, 22; very near, 3; near, 8; “ a few feet,” 1 ........ 34
117
Over against these we assume that one-half of the ap­
paritions seen in the same room were more than
12 feet away............................................................... 31
By statement distant (180 feet), 1; probably distant, 1 2
Doubtful (“ a few yards,” “ opposite side of the street,”
“ a few steps,” etc.) : assume all exceeded 12 feet . . 14
47
188 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
By fair construction of terms and calculation we show that the
Professor is as mistaken in supposing that apparitions usually seem
distant to the seers, as he is in all his other confident assertions
regarding “ ghosts.”
(e) Or, if his hearers are not satisfied with his first explanation
of what isn’t so, the good Professor will try again, exchanging his
theory of illusion for that of hallucination. The “ idea that these
objects ” [*. e., “ ghosts ”] “ glide without noise ” may, after all,
“ be connected with the dual passage across the eye of an imaginary
picture, as in the case of dreams.” This sentence causes one to pon­
der and to ask many questions. It is true that in a dream a picture
is drawn across the eye? If an imaginary picture is drawn across
the eye in dreams, in what sense is it a “ dual passage ” ? Does he
mean it is drawn across both eyes? Or does he mean that, besides the
visual imagery, the sounds which one seems to hear in a dream are
drawn across his eye? Did the Professor really think that when
one imagines, say a landscape, a picture is drawn across the eye?
If a “ ghost” is drawn across one’s eye, what draws the ghost?
I think that he thought that any sort of thinking was good enough
for ghosts.
A little later than the Enquiry into the Nature of Ghosts, that is
to say in 1824, there was printed in Edinburgh and London, Sketches
of the Philosophy of Apparitions, or an Attempt to Trace Such Illu­
sions to Their Physical Causes, by Samuel Hibbert, M.D., F.R.S.E.,
and member of several learned societies. It is a book of 460 pages, on
which the author spent a great deal of mental labor and ingenuity,
but with a lamentable paucity of material, in the way of authenticated
actual reports of apparitions. He has to go back to mythology, to
legends of antiquity, and to narrations of the fifteenth, sixteenth and
seventeenth centuries for the most part, aside from the visual hallu­
cinations experienced in shoals by persons suffering from delirium
tremens, paranoiacs and victims of other forms of neural and mental
disease. Poetry is frequently cited by way of illustration 14 and at
least one as proof,15 a means of enforcing one’s conclusions which
would meet little favor with scientific men of today. Pages 243-341
are occupied by an elaborate attempted analysis of mental states,
waking and sleeping, which would furnish quaint reading to a psy­
chologist of our own times if one could be found sufficiently curious
and patient to read it. Even if it were the very psychological gospel,
14On 74 of the 460 pages. 18298.
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 189
it would not in the least shed light on the problem of coincidental ap­
paritions which now confronts us.
Schizophrenia, or disjunction of thinking, is exhibited not infre­
quently by scientific and professional writers of our generation, when
they attack psychic research, but not in the way illustrated by the
following sentence of Hibbert:
“As we are not warranted, for many reasons, which may be de­
fended on scriptural grounds, to suppose that any direct converse
with good or evil spirits, connected with either the Jewish or Christian
dispensation, has extended beyond the Apostolic age, there will be no
hesitation on my part to proceed on the hypothesis, that all subse­
quent visitations of this nature which have been recorded, deserve a
medical rather than a theological investigation.” 87-8.
And, it later appears, only apparitions experienced by Jews, not
those of Greeks or Romans or any other people prior to the close of
the Apostolic period, are to be credited as supernormal, nor even any
incident from Jewish sources, unless it is to be found in the Bible.
Having made this special reservation in favor of scriptural appari­
tions, the author avoids any further reference to them, as though his
intellectual conscience were a little uneasy, after all. The thought,
quickly suppressed, must have flitted across his consciousness that it
was odd that the supreme ruler of the universe whom he acknowledges
should have issued a fiat that certain manifestations from the supernal
world which had been permitted for some centuries should on a par­
ticular year, some decades after the beginning of the new and sup­
posedly more spiritual and free “ Dispensation,” utterly and forever
cease, without notice given. When did the “Apostolic age ” come to
an end? Presumably the year when the last of the Apostles died,
exactly as the “Augustan age ” closed in the year 14 a. d., when
Augustus Caesar died. No one knows when the last of the Apostles
died, but let us suppose the year 80 a. d.
If Dr. Hibbert had allowed himself to think, he might have imag­
ined an incident like this. In the year 81, one Joab, a Christian living
in Jerusalem, says to a friend:
“ Last night, at the third hour, before I had gone to sleep I saw a
vision of my father, who lives in Bethlehem.16 I saw him just as clearly
as I See you. He walked into the door and stood looking at me, then
suddenly disappeared. I fear that he is dead, although he seemed to
be in perfect health when I saw him last.”
16Six miles from Jerusalem.
190 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ Oh,” replies the friend placidly, “ I wouldn’t trouble myself about
that. There was probably something wrong about your stomach.”
“ Why do you talk that way? You yourself heard our great
brother Paul tell how he had a vision from the Lord of a man who said
to him, *Come over into Macedonia and help us.’ I never heard you
say that you thought there was something the matter with his
stomach.”
“ But that happened to an Apostle.”
“ What of that? Did not Cornelius see a spirit who instructed
him to send for Simon Peter? And Cornelius was no Apostle, nor
even a Jew.”
“ But Simon Peter was an Apostle, which explains what hap­
pened to Cornelius.”
“ I don’t follow your reasons—they seem to be drifting away into
clouds. But I call you to witness that only last year Nadab of Bethel
told us that he had seen an angel, which gave him great joy. Nothing
happened in consequence, and Nadab had no proof that it was an
angel, since it appeared like an ordinary man. Yet you believed it
was, and never once suggested that Nadab was not digesting properly.
What has changed you? ”
“ But at that time last year the Apostle John was still living. He,
the last of the Apostles, died two months later. The Apostolic age
has ended; the Lord will send no more visions or spirits of the de­
parted ; henceforth any experience of that kind, although it may seem
precisely like those of last year or a century ago, will be the effect of
some diseased condition.”
Can Joab be blamed if here he breaks out: “ In the name of all the
saints at once, how did you find that out? And what is the sense of
it—why should the Lord change His ways and withdraw His mercies
since John is dead? ”
Just then comes in a messenger and informs Joab that his father
had suddenly died during the night. After a decent interval for the
expression of grief, Joab asks the messenger, “At what hour did he
die? ” and the messenger answers, “At the third hour.” Joab turns to
his friend and inquires, with emphasis, “And what do you say to that ?”
The friend, being a remarkable forerunner of a class of schizo-
phreniacs yet to come, calmly answers: “ It was probably an acci­
dental coincidence.”
And Joab, despite the shadow of death which has fallen upon him,
quite loses his patience, and ejaculates, “ I never in my life before saw
the form of a man actually not in the flesh before me. Last night I
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 191
saw a vision of my father, in the same hour he died, and you argue
that, since it is this year and not last year, my only vision merely
chanced to occur just when the man I saw died, and that the explana­
tion is that I ate something which did not agree with me. Go, fellow
of muddled brain, before I cast a stone at thee.”
Dr. Hibbert declares: “ I believe that no apparitions of profane
history17 were ever seen under any such circumstances [those of
“ perfect health ”] ; but that they have universally arisen from mor­
bific causes.” How men come to conclusions on a large subject, so
positively that they are willing to print them, before ever there has
been made any survey of the subject, any considerable collection of
authentic instances and actual analysis of them, is mysterious and
wonderful. Yet Dr. Hibbert had no difficulty in coming to a general
conclusion before ever there had been any collecting and survey of
cases, worthy of the name. But worse is what we sometimes see now—
men who announce various dogmas since such surveys have been
made, and in defiance of them.
It is true that even yet collections of cases have not gone into the
matter of health so closely and systematically as is desirable, but the
indications agree with the many cases of percipients of apparitions
whom I have questioned, and fail to disclose any such general rule
relating to pathological states. Far from it. On the contrary, many
of the witnesses expressly declare that they were in excellent health
and good spirits when the experience came to them. Whether esti­
mated by their own feelings and convictions or by their appearance
and the vigor of their activities, most persons who have experienced
evidential apparitions seem to be or to have been sound and healthy
persons.
Three excerpts comprise Hibbert’s theory of apparitions.
“All the subordinate incidents connected with phantasms might be
explained on the following general principle:
“ In every undue excitement of our feelings . . . the operations
of the intellectual faculty of mind sustain corresponding modifica­
tions, by which the efforts of the judgment are rendered proportion­
ally incorrect.” iv.
“An adequate cause of spectral illusions may arise from an undue
vividness in the recollected images of the mind.” 19.
17 There it is again; any apparitions recorded in the Old or New Testaments, or
any among Christians up to the year when the last Apostle died, could have been
and probably were, supernormal and unrelated to ill health, but any subsequent
ones are from “ morbific ” causes.
192 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ A pparitions are n o th ing more th a n morbid symptoms, w h ich
ARE INDICATIVE OF AN INTENSE EXCITEMENT OF THE RENOVATED FEEL­
INGS of t h e m ind.” [Capitalized in the book.] 342.
It is not easy, even with all the context, to discover just what the
man is driving at, but as best it can be determined, I will try to put
his meaning in clearer language.
I understand him to mean that an apparition is simply a symptom
of a pathological condition. A state of excitement roused by some
“ morbific ” cause, raises a memory image to that degree that it seems
external and at the same time so disturbs the intellect as to deprive
the victim of the power to distinguish it from reality.
But with the advantage of our large collections of attested cases,
see how utterly this formula fails to fit the generality of the facts.
In the first place, in many instances the apparition occurred when
the person was pleasantly occupied and in a state, so far as he or she
knew, of mental calm. Here are a few cases.
(I, 194) “ I was reading geometry as I walked along, a subject
little likely to produce fancies or morbid phenomena of any kind,
when, in a moment ”—she experienced a coincidental and evidential
apparition.
(I, 415) “ He was in perfect health at the time [says a friend of
the percipient in a death-coincidence case, present when the apparition
was seen], and of a thoroughly practical nature; not at all given to
sentimentality.”
(I, 417) It is John Addington Symonds who says: “ I woke about
dawn, and felt for my books upon a chair ”—when he felt impelled to
turn his head, and saw a death-coincidental apparition.
(I, 448) Harriet Hosmer says she “ retired to rest in good health
and in a quiet frame of mind,” and woke from sound sleep with a feel­
ing that some one was in the room, then saw the death-coincidental
apparition.
(II, 37) Percipient saw the death-coincidental apparition while
enjoying herself at a concert.
(II, 40) Percipient was knitting and listening to the reading of
a story by Dickens when she dropped her work and uttered an ex­
clamation, as that moment she experienced a death-coincidental
apparition.
(II, 41) A General testifies that his clerk was reading some docu­
ments to him when he saw the death-coinciding apparition of his sister.
(II, 45) Lieut.-Gen. Fytche was dressing in the morning when he
saw a friend walk in, and greeted him warmly, not doubting his sub­
stantiality. The death occurred the same morning.
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 193
(II, 54) Percipient was “ reading, when on looking up from my
book ”—she saw the death-coincidental apparition of a friend. She
thought her real and felt “ horror ” only when she disappeared.
(II, 149) Percipient “ in a perfectly cheerful, healthy frame of
mind, no surroundings of any kind to excite the imagination,” “ sud­
denly ” experienced a death-coinciding apparition.
(II, 199) Three persons are “ chatting ” when suddenly all see
the same apparition.
(II, 200) Percipient was playing the flute, and intent on the
music, which was hard to read, when he felt as though some one were
approaching, and then saw a face dimly. Another person present
saw the figure approach the flute-player.
(II, 513) Percipient, a young girl, saw a death-coincidental ap­
parition in the midst of “ frolicsome ” conduct with other girls.
(II, 514) Percipient was practising the piano, when she saw the
death-coinciding apparition of her grandmother.
(II, 519) Percipient, a boy of about two years, was playing when
he called out, “ Papa, papa, come to me.” The father is alleged to
have been killed the same day.
(II, 530) Percipient had been “ listening to some fine music ” and,
afterwards, while “ in good health and spirits ” saw the apparition of
a friend supposed to be on the other side of the North American Con­
tinent, where he had been for nearly two years. The next morning the
friend called, having the same necktie and excrescence on the cheek,
which were new to the percipient, who noted them in the phantom.
(II, 555) Percipient, a little girl, was playing with young com­
panions, when she screamed and pointed to what she said was her
“ papa lying on the ground, and the blood running from a big wound,”
which vision corresponded with the violent death of her father at or
near that hour.
(II, 609) Two percipients, young girls, were “ chattering and
laughing ” when the apparition appeared to both, coincidental with
the person seen being in mortal danger.
It is impossible to conjure out of such narrations, which could be
multiplied, a “ morbific ” appearance. And what of the cases where
there were two or three percipients, who independently of any sugges­
tion, saw the same apparition? Is it to be supposed that morbific
symptoms would reach their climax in two or three persons at the
same moment, and not only that, but reproduce the same “ recollected
image of the mind ” ?
Secondly, the seeing of apparitions is frequently accompanied
by excitement, it is true, but Hibbert has the cart before the horse.
194 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
A dog yelps when a stone hits him, but the stone does not hit the dog
because he yelps—at least not then. Far more frequently than other­
wise, it appears, there is nothing uncommon in the state and environ­
ment of a person at the moment he experiences an apparition. He is
engaged at some ordinary task, or is dressing, or reading, or listening
to music, or chatting, or just wakened from a calm sleep, and the
like, when suddenly the apparition is before him. Sometimes he does
get excited afterward, not by any means always.
Thirdly, the “ judgment,” in nearly every case cannot be regarded
as having anything to do with the formation of an apparition.
Nearly always the figure appears suddenly and entire, before the
judgment has any time to act. It is not as with many a “ spirit
photograph ” which gradually, as one gazes at it, seems to grow in
resemblance to someone, but nearly always, unless we are to contradict
testimony, recognition, if there is recognition, is immediate.
Dr. Hibbert pays almost no attention to coincidences of external
facts with apparitions seen. And if there were at our command as
few cases as he seems to have known, and those of so low a grade, we
should be as little impressed by them. He cites three (351-356). In
one, the person whose death more or less corresponded in time with the
time of the apparition, was known to be exposed to danger from a
plague raging in London. In the second, where a man had a vision
of his absent wife with a dead child in her arms, and the child was
somewhere about that time bom dead, of course he knew that the con­
finement was imminent, and he likewise knew that she was ill. No
sensible person would give weight to such a coincidence. The third is
a case of the fifteenth century related by a man of the sixteenth.
We cannot criticize a writer of 1824 for publishing such opinions,
as we should be compelled to do if he issued them a century later, dis­
regarding the mass of material which had by that time accumulated.
But he did know that, aside from the swarming visual hallucinations
of delirium and of mentally diseased persons, he had made no exami­
nation of contemporaneous and authenticated apparitional instances.
And he really should not have been so cock-sure in proclaiming his
theory.
Sir Walter Scott’s book, entitled Lectures on Demonology and
Witchcraft, hardly manifests consciousness of any knowledge that
many apparitions are seen at or near the hour when the persons they
represent died, or at the time when some accident or other critical or
emotional event happened to them (sometimes picturing the actual
scene). He knows that dreams are said often thus to correspond, but
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 195
argues that, since we have so many dreams this might easily happen
through chance coincidence.
But as a rule those who experience an apparition coinciding as
stated, have not been subject to such experiences, and with the great
majority of them, there has never been another. Were Scott living,
it would be interesting to ask him what he thought of the following
sample cases.
(I, 214) Two hours before the maid, Helen, who had accompanied
her mistress, Lady Waldegrave, to a place where she was a stranger,
Frances Reddell, maid of the hostess, saw the figure of a stout old
woman carrying a candlestick, and wearing a red shawl and a petti­
coat with a hole in the front. This figure she “ instantly felt to be
the mother of the sick woman.” She told her mistress, Mrs. Pole-
Carew, about an hour after Helen's death, saying, “ her mother came
last night," and describing the apparition. We have Mrs. Pole-
Carew’s signed statement as well as Reddell’s. Two days after, the
dead maid’s parents and sister arrived and the mother was at once
recognized by Reddell, and also, owing to the description, which ex­
tended even to the facial expression, by the mistress. Then Helen’s
sister was questioned, and it was learned that the mother's appearance,
including the hole in the petticoat and the candlestick as described,
was exactly what it probably would have been, had she been roused at
night. Furthermore, not having received any letter from Helen for
several days, the mother had said as she went up to bed on the night
of the apparition, “ I am sure Helen is very ill.” It is fairly certain,
then, that she was then anxious about her daughter.
(I, 443) It is common for women to worry about their husbands
absent in military service, and the mere coincidence, under those con­
ditions, of an apparition with death or wounds, would be much dis­
counted. But Mrs. Richardson testifies that she saw a vision of her
husband being carried off the field seriously wounded and heard his
voice saying, “ Take this ring off my finger and send it to my wife,”
and all the next day “ could not get the sight or the voice out of my
mind.” Also that she afterward learned from Major Lloyd, the man
who helped carry Gen. Richardson at or near that hour, that the latter
used just those words. And the General himself testifies that this is
what happened, wound, being carried off, and the utterance of the
sentence.
(II, 35) Mr. Searle, a barrister, testifies that at about 2 p. M., he
saw, as if in a window-pane, the head and face of his wife, “ in a re­
clining position, with the eyes closed and the face quite white and
196 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
bloodless, as if she were dead.” When he returned home he found that
his wife, at about 2 r. m ., had fainted. Observe two additional facts,
first, that “ this is the only occasion on which I have known my wife to
have a fainting-fit** and, secondly, that this was the only time that the
lawyer had ever experienced a hallucination.
(II, 46) Lieut.-Gen. Fytche saw a friend whom he had not met for
years enter his room, and had no doubt of his reality. At “ about the
very time ” the friend died some 600 miles away. The General had had
no news of his illness, and did not learn of his death until a fortnight
later, nor had he himself ever had any similar experience.
(II, 182) A man and his sister, more than 1,000 miles apart, the
same night experienced the apparition of another sister, who within the
same day rather suddenly died, there being no reason on the part of
either seer to expect such an event. The man, at least, had never
before had a subjective hallucination.
(II, 199) A clergyman and two ladies, sitting in a room, saw an
old man in dark blue overcoat, flat-topped hat, and having a white
beard, pass the window just outside. A few moments later a doctor
rang the bell and entered. A lady said, “ But where is the old man
with the white beard? ” and the doctor replied, “ Yes; where is he? ”
and related that he had seen an old man, of exactly the same descrip­
tion except that he wore no hat, sitting in the room, as he himself
passed the window. Neither clergyman nor physician had been subject
to hallucinations. We have the testimonies of both.
(II, 204) A man who had never had any former experience of the
kind sees a figure of a crouching old woman, enveloped in a black cloak
and hood, which slowly goes from the bedroom door to a wardrobe
and then disappears. He so testifies. His wife declares that she woke
to see her husband leaning on his elbow and that she saw an old woman
crottching by the wardrobe, which she supposed to be a real person, but
it suddenly disappeared. Also, it was learned that in another room,
the same night, no one having been told of the above story, their child,
three years old, cried out to the nurse: “ Clara, Clara, there is an old
woman in the room.”
(F, 133) The Rev. Charles Tweedale tells us that his grandmother
died at 12:15 midnight, that he, living in another place, saw an ap­
parition of her in the neighborhood of 2 a. m . that night; that his
father, in another room of the same house, saw her apparition at
2 p. m . ; and that his aunt, living some thirty miles distant, saw her
apparition the same night, at some time later than that of the death.
Would Sir Walter have said that these sample cases, even taken by
OLD DOGMA AND LATER STATISTICS 197
themselves, to say nothing of the numerous other cases and the careful
mathematical calculation of chances made by the S. P. R. committee,1
8
presented no problem to his mind, but seemed quite likely to happen
through chance coincidence?
Selecting the phenomenon of apparitions, I have exhibited the views
of four writers ranging from 1820 to 1875, one a philosopher, another
a physician, the third writing as a historian, and the fourth a college
professor—views as to the nature of the facts and their underlying
causes. We have seen that these writers err as to the facts and that
their theories to account for the facts are in part negatived by the
facts themselves and in part fail to meet the real issues as these present
themselves today. And no wonder, since not one of them evinces any
first-hand study of actual cases, or acquaintance with any even moder­
ately considerable number of authenticated records. Probably no one
since the beginning of the world has been able to frame a correct de­
scriptive summary of widely-scattered and perennial phenomena, and
to spin from his brain a theory which would hold water, upon data
which, so far as his knowledge extends, are scanty and hazy.
We have traveled a long way since 1820 or 1875. Great numbers
of apparitional cases have been collected, authenticated, analyzed,
appraised and submitted to mathematical calculation of chance proba­
bility. Hardly a cultivated person of today is so little aware of these
researches as to repeat certain of the quoted allegations so confidently
uttered, even but fifty-five years ago. But still the voces reclamantes
betray insufficient acquaintance with the facts, and logic vitiated in
consequence. The lessons we have found in these older writers might
well be heeded today.
18See Phantasm a of the L iving, ch. XIII.
VI. PSYCHICAL VERSUS VISCERAL
HALLUCINATIONS
It is very easy for a person who has had considerable experience
with patients in a pronounced pathological condition, and with the
hallucinations to which certain classes of these are subject, to fancy
that the hallucinations reported by psychic research, and which reveal
a surprising percentage of coincidences with external events such as
deaths, accidents and other events of strongly emotional character,
are really of the same order and species, and that the persons experi­
encing them are really in a pathological condition at the time, even
though none of the usual pathological symptoms appear. This is, ap­
parently, the opinion of most psychiatrists who have not given much
attention to the instances reported by psychic research. It is very
unsafe, however, to make a generalization, unless one has familiarized
himself with every part of the field which the generalization covers.
Are the hallucinations of psychic research, in fact, generally of
the same nature as those which occur as the result of disease? Then
they should exhibit, in general, the same characteristics.
Now it happens that this matter has been tested, at least in rela­
tion to certain diseases, in a very important paper by Mr. J. G. Pid-
dington,1which has not, I think, received the attention that it deserves.
In 1901, Dr. Henry Head published a short work entitled Certain
Mental Changes That Accompany Visceral Disease. It was founded
on studies extending over seven years in London hospitals, embracing
the cases of 192 men and women suffering from visceral disease, chiefly
pulmonary, cardiac or abdominal; and who were subject to various
hallucinations, visual, auditory, olfactory, etc. He had noted and
lays down many characteristics of these hallucinations.
In its Proceedings of 1894,2 the Society for Psychical Research
published a “ Report on the Census of Hallucinations.” The com­
mittee which had the Census in charge, Professor Henry Sidgwick,
F. W. H. Myers, Miss Alice Johnson, Frank Podmore and Mrs. Sidg­
wick, so far as possible excluded all pathological subjects. It might
be objected that a number may have passed unsuspected, whom a
i Proceedings 8. P. R., XIX, 267-341. 2X, 25-422.
198
PSYCHICAL VERSUS VISCERAL HALLUCINATIONS 199
medical specialist after personal and thorough inspection would have
found diseased. If, nevertheless, the Census hallucinations should be
found to present with but few exceptions characteristics in striking
contrast to those which Dr. Head assigns to his hospital cases, the
logical deduction would be that (1) the Census embraced but few
cases of visceral disease, (2) the hallucinations of the Census people
in general were of another species than those of the people who cer­
tainly suffered from visceral complaints, and (3) that while there is a
causal connection between the visceral diseases of the hospital patients
and their hallucinations, hallucinations such as are reported in the
“ Census of Hallucinations ” and elsewhere are not the product of
such diseases.
Following, put in smallest compass, are some of the comparisons
which Mr. Piddington presents. We select only those relating to
hallucinations of a visual character.
Sentences enclosed in quotation marks and prefaced by the letter
V are from Dr. Head’s pamphlet, and refer to Visceral hallucinations.
Sentences printed in italics, enclosed between quotation marks and
prefaced by the letter P are from the S. P. R. Census Report and refer
to what purport to be Psychical hallucinations.
Sentences enclosed between quotation marks, prefaced by the letter
P, but not printed in italics, are in the language of Mr. Piddington.
Sentences not enclosed between quotation marks are based upon
facts stated by Mr. Piddington.
We start with the datum that both V and P visual hallucinations
represent human beings.
(I, a). V. “ Neither arms nor legs are seen.”
V. “ The limbs are never visible.”
P. “ When they [the phantoms] move . . . the movement is
almost always such as we are accustomed to see. The phantom stands
on the ground and appears to walk along the ground.”
P. “ There can be no doubt that the majority of Psychical Per­
cipients either saw the legs of the figures or failed to notice their
absence. Skirts and trousers are mentioned specifically, and though
skirts and trousers are not legs, still as they cover the places where
legs ought to be, it would be unfair not to infer that they hid spectral
legs from view.”
[Until the late change in the dress of women it was seldom that
one met a living man or woman and saw deeper than trousers and
skirts.] Also, very frequently one sees a flesh-and-blood man or
200 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
woman and afterward is unable to remember having noticed his or her
lower extremities.
(I, b). V. “ The figure appears to be draped and not clothed.
Patients are unanimous that the figure is unlike anything that they
have ever seen and they are peculiarly definite in describing it as
‘ draped,’ ‘wrapped in a shawl,’ ‘ wrapped in a sheet ’ . . . The head
may be covered.”
P. So far as the reports as to dress enable us to judge, phantoms,
both recognized and unrecognized, generally appear in ordinary mod­
ern dress. The great majority of hallucinations are like the sights we
are accustomed to see.
(I, c). Y. “ The face is frequently misty.”
V. “ The face is frequently not visible.”
P. “ Any one who will take no more trouble than to scan either the
Census Report or the S. P. R. Proceedings or Journal, passim, will
readily discover that mistiness of the face is emphatically not a trait
of S. P. R. apparitions, and that Psychical Percipients again and
again insist on the distinctness of the features of the hallucinatory
figure.”
There are a few instances where the face was not seen, some of
them because it was turned away.
(I, d). V. [The face] “ when seen is always beardless.”
P. The beard is seldom mentioned in the reports of Census ap­
paritions, but since it is often stated that the resemblance to the real
person was perfect, a beard must have appeared in many instances.
The absence of a beard on a recognized person who in fact possessed
one could hardly have escaped notice and mention. In one of the few
instances where a beard is mentioned the person did not wear one to
the knowledge of the percipient, but had in fact, since becoming ill,
grown one, short and white, exactly as with the apparition.
(I, e1). V. “ Patients express great difficulty in deciding whether
the figure was that of a man or a woman. The face is frequently not
visible. When seen it is always beardless, which makes many say they
think it must have been a woman.”
P. “ Out of 793 apparitions of human figures, reported at first­
hand [in the Census Report], 673 were classed as ‘ realistic,’ and if a
figure is realistic, there can practically be no doubt as to the sex. Of
the remaining 120, although classed as incompletely developed [cloudy,
dimly seen, etc.], it must not be assumed that the sex was necessarily
PSYCHICAL VERSUS VISCERAL HALLUCINATIONS 201
open to doubt.” In only three instances was doubt expressed by the
narrator.
(I, e2). V. “ The complete flatness and absence of the usual un­
dulations of a woman’s figure suggest that it may have been a man.”
P. “ This point is met by the comments on e1
, unless, indeed, the
cruel suggestion be advanced that all the female figures described [in
the Census Report] as realistic, or recognized as those of female rela­
tives or friends of Psychic Percipients, were wanting in the ‘usual
undulations.’ ”
(I, /). V. “ If the figure was white, most say at once ‘ It was a
corpse.’ Curiously, not one of my patients spoke of the hallucination
as a ghost, possibly owing to the almost entire ignorance shown by the
London-bred population of ghost stories and fairy tales.8
P. “Apparitions of the dead, like other apparitions, usually appear
dressed like ordinary human beings, and without symbolic accompani­
ments, such as white robes or wings.
“ In four cases it is specially mentioned that the phantom appeared
in the clothes in which the dead person was buried. Usually the ap­
pearance in dress and otherwise is what the percipient was accustomed
to associate with the person in life."
Not that the clothes in which the dead person was buried were
always grave-clothes; in one case they were a black suit of evening
dress, such as it subsequently appeared was the actual dress. It is
not true of the seers of psychical phantoms that the most of them say,
when the figure is dressed in white, “ It was a corpse.”
(I, g). V. “ Whatever the form assumed, the figure or face is
single. I have found no instance so far in the sane where more than
one face or figure appeared if the patient’s eyes were open.”
P. “ In the great majority of realistic cases, the apparition repre­
sents a single figure only, though there are exceptions.”
In one psychical instance of the Census, the percipient saw her own
dead mother and two children, a little girl and a baby apparently
lately born. The apparition informed her that their mother had just
8 That the people of London are in this peculiar condition of virginity in regard
to ghost stories I find it hard to credit. Passing over the S. P. R., “ Light,” news­
paper accounts of materialized ghosts, and such collections of narratives, including
ghost stories, as those of William Howitt and Catherine Crowe, published in Lon­
don, are we to understand that the people of London did not read Dickens and
Scott, that dozens of English novels containing ghost stories, that the weird nar­
ratives which had been for generations connected with certain old castles and
residences were all to Londoners quite unknown? Mr. Piddington justly remarks
that few people are willing, in relating the experience of an apparition, to call it a
“ghost,” as this term invites ridicule.
202 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
died. It was afterwards learned that her sister-in-law was dead, leav­
ing a little girl of the age seen, and a baby three weeks old, of whom
the percipient had not heard. In another case a wife and child were
seen, in another a mother and child, in a fourth an old woman nursing
a child, in a fifth an Indian nurse and child, and in the sixth an uncle
and two other persons. These instances are few, but it cannot be said
that they “ never ” occur.
(I, h). Y. “ In the majority of instances the figure remained
stationary at the foot or on one side or the other of the bed. It may,
however, pass in front of the bed, from left to right or from right to
left, and is sometimes seen in the doorway.”
P. “ In more than half the visual cases the figure is seen to move in
various ways”
“ When they [phantoms] move, which . . . happens more often
than not, the movement is almost always such as we are accustomed
to see” 45
(I, i). V. “ Usually the patient wakes from sleep to see [the
figure] standing near his bed.”
P. “ In 38 percent of visual . . . cases the percipient was in bed.
[But] the proportion that occurs immediately after waking [is] about
12 percent of visual hallucinations.” 8
(I, w
i6). Y. “ The figure did not speak [in any case].”
P. “ In 106 out of 1,120 first-hand cases of visual hallucination
in the Census collection the apparition seemed to speak articulately.” 7
4 A glance through the Report reveals not only that the psychical phantoms are
not limited to movements at the foot of the bed, from left to right and from right
to left, but that they are to be found doing a variety of things in a variety of
places. Walking in a room, or a corridor, or down or up stairs, or on a gravel path
or on a street; walking from one room to another, sitting at a table writing, stand­
ing looking out of the window, coming into a room and going to a mirror and then
taking down the hair, lying apparently ill with servants walking in the room and
sighing, sitting by one in a railway carriage, thrown from a tricycle, entering a room
with papers in hand, jumping into and sinking in the water, leaning over a Bible
as if reading it, entering a room and sitting down in a chair,—these are samples.
There is nothing stereotyped about the movements of psychical apparitions.
5 Mr. Piddington could have made the contrast between “ usually ” and “ 12 per­
cent ” more impressive if he had remarked that a considerable proportion of the
12 percent who woke to see an apparition did not wake to see it “ standing near
his [the] bed.” A hasty glance through the Report shows that the apparition was
seen before the fire, lying beside the percipient, shaking her and then walking out
of the room, coming into the room on hands and knees, passing from a window
toward a door, in the right-hand comer of the room, etc.
81 have taken the liberty to change Mr. Piddington’s order so as to bring the
items about vocal sound and sound in general into conjunction with each other. But
his letter-order—here m, not j—is retained for convenience of reference to the origi­
nal paper in the Proceedings.
7In several instances giving information of an unknown event.
PSYCHICAL VERSUS VISCERAL HALLUCINATIONS 203
(I, j). V. “ No sound accompanies the appearance of the hallu­
cinatory vision in any case.”
V. “ When [the figure] moved no footsteps were heard.”
P. “ There are 71 cases . . . in our collection where a non-vocal
8 0 imd is heard accompanied by a visual hallucination, and in 56 of
these the sound precedes the apparition.” 8
The cases of accompanying vocal and non-vocal sounds combined
were 177 of the whole number of 1,120 visual hallucinations, or nearly
16 percent. But, while it is probable that practically all percipients
who seemed to hear a voice reported the fact, it is very doubtful if in
all cases non-vocal sounds were reported. If all had been interrogated
on this point the percentage might have risen to 20 percent. But of
the nearly 16 percent of contrast to the visceral set we are sure.
(I,* ), v. “After a variable interval it [the figure] disappears
without movement.”
P. “Appearance or disappearance by an unrealistic means is . . .
rare. Even when a phantom is stationary, it does not usually either
suddenly appear out of empty space, or similarly vanish before the
percipient's eyes, but is generally seen by the percipient on turning his
eyes that way, and vanishes, he does not know how, or when he is look­
ing away. There are, however, instances of sudden appearance and
disappearance in free space." 9
(I, »). V. [The figure] “ made no gestures, and the ‘grimacing ’
occasionally mentioned probably refers rather to an unpleasant ex­
pression of the face than to any mobility of the features.”
P. “ Gesture is a common characteristic of S. P. R. apparitions;
so common that it is unnecessary to quote examples. . . . On the
whole, though there are hardly definite enough data from which to
8 Mr. Piddington remarks that consequently in but 15 cases did the sound
accompany the visual hallucination. But here I think he leans backward in meticu-
losity. To accompany is not necessarily to be precisely contemporaneous with.
When “ The Persian dames in sumptuous cars accompanied his march ” they were
probably not beside him. Surely Dr. Head meant that in no case was sound a part
of the hallucinatory incident.
9 Dr. Head did not say that in all cases the apparitions of his patients dis­
appeared while they were being gazed at. And it is not entirely clear what the
boundaries of “ unrealistic means,” as understood by the S. P. R. Committee, are.
Ib it “ realistic ” for a phantom to seem to pass through a closed door, for instance?
But at any rate the rule of visceral apparitions that they disappear without move­
ment, is contradicted by a very large percentage of psychical apparitions, which
disappear while walking around a bed, while walking into another room, while
approaching the percipient, by apparently walking behind the percipient, while
walking down a garden path or a stairway, by apparently passing through a closed
door, etc.
At this point I omit one of Mr. Piddington’s comparisons(1), since the data are
so scanty that it is doubtful if any inference can be drawn.
204 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
form an estimate, I am inclined to think that while mobility of feature
is sometimes met with, immobility is much commoner.”
But often the S. P. R. apparitions smile, whether or not in mobile
fashion. “ Grimacing is not mentioned, and an unpleasant expression
is very rare indeed,” while it appears not to be rare in visceral cases.
(II) . Sometimes the visceral hallucination consisted of a face only,
and 30 of the Census set consisted only of a face or head. In one only
of the doctor’s cases a hand and arm were seen, while in the Census
collection there are 15 cases of hand or hand and arm only, and 3 of
legs only.
(III) . Y. “ These hallucinations in all cases are white, black or
grey. They are never, so far as my experience goes, colored or even
normally tinted. For if the face is white, even the lips are said to be
colorless. . . . This forms a differentiating point between these hal­
lucinations of the sane and the usual hallucinations of the insane.”
P. “ Color is a very common characteristic of psychical hallucina­
tions. Specific reference is often made to the color of the clothes or
the face of the apparition; and even where no such reference is made,
there is usually little doubt about the vision having been colored.”
This seems to be the rule with fully developed apparitions. “ The
constantly reiterated and emphatic statements of numerous percipients
as to the lifelike character of the features of the phantoms is evidence
enough that the faces and lips are not pale and bloodless like those of
the ghost of literary tradition.”
(IV) . Y. “ Hallucinations of vision do not occur in the bright
light of day. . . . In other cases the hallucination appeared in the
evening when the patient was sitting quietly in a dimly-lighted room.”
P. Of what they regarded as genuine visual hallucinations (as dis­
tinguished from hypnagogic visualization, etc.) the S. P. R. Committee
found in its Census 30 cases seen in the dark. In 17 of these the figure
alone appeared illuminated, in 12 the room seemed illuminated, al­
though it was really dark, and in one there was the hallucination of a
figure with a light upon it proceeding from a particular spot. Dr.
Head makes no mention of any figure seeming to emit light or of the
room seeming to be illuminated.1
0
10 Mr. Piddington cites Beveral illustrative cases of apparitions seen in the day­
time or by good artificial light, but I do not think that he has sufficiently empha­
sized such cases, which are very many in the Census. Unfortunately, it was not
estimated how many of the apparitions were seen by daylight, although it appears
that more than half were seen when the percipients were “ up ” or “ out of doors.”
Several hundred must have been seen in the daytime, in strong contrast with the
visceral apparitions, “ which do not occur in the broad light of day.”
PSYCHICAL VERSUS VISCERAL HALLUCINATIONS 205
(V) . V. “Almost every case felt frightened with the first hallu­
cination of vision, and in many cases the fear was accompanied by
sweating, heart beating, and *goose-flesh.’”
P. The Census took no direct account of emotional states accom­
panying an apparition, and only where the report happens to mention
the effect upon the percipient does it furnish this datum. “ The large
majority of cases of hallucination in the Census collection were unique
experiences in the lives of the various percipients,” and therefore in­
stances of “ first hallucination.”
“ Fright is often admitted, and even horror; yet it would be very
far from the truth to say of S. P. R. cases that ‘ almost every case felt
frightened.’ Not only is fright often expressly denied, but composure
or even pleasure is affirmed.”
(VI) . V. “ The feeling-tone that accompanies the colorless white
figure varies greatly, but the dark or black hallucinations are uni­
formly associated with fear or 11 its physical manifestations.
P. “ Except possibly for a few examples among ‘ incompletely de­
veloped ’ cases, I doubt if the Census report contains any instances of
dark or black hallucinations in the sense intended by Dr. Head.”
(VIII).12*
*
*
*
* V. “ These hallucinations are not uncommonly accom­
panied by the depressed mood. . . . In such cases the patient is
convinced that the appearance is a sign that some ill-fortune has
happened, or is about to happen. He believes some near relative is
dead or in trouble, and not infrequently says that the figure was that
of some dead relative, e. g., ‘my sister.’ Asked if it resembled his sister
he answered, ‘ Not in the least, but I know it must have been my sister,
because she is the only one of my relations who is dead.’”
P. “ The latter part of this statement might be paraphrased as
follows: ‘Recognition of the figure is inferential, not instinctive.’ 18
The large number of unrecognized apparitions—315 first-hand cases
out of 830 first-hand cases of realistic apparitions—as well as the
large number of apparitions recognized as those of living persons—
352 out of 830—show that there is little tendency among Psychical
11 The “ or ” would literally imply that there were some cases which did not
cause fear but in which the physical manifestations of fear were visible—which
would be nonsense. Dr. Head probably meant that the patients either confessed
fear or showed it by their actions.
12 Mr. Piddington’s No. VII is omitted, since it cannot be condensed into small
compass. But it appears improbable that a majority of the psychical hallucina­
tions were preceded by “ depression,” as Dr. Head says was always true of the
hallucinations of his visceral patients.
I8 Or one might put it: “ Recognition of the figure is an indirect inference, not
an immediate conviction from resemblance.”
206 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Percipients to assume causelessly that apparitions represent dead or
dying persons, or subsequently to identify an apparition which at the
moment of its appearance was unrecognized. In other words, there is
little tendency to inferential recognition.”
Of the twenty propositions laid down by Dr. Head in regard to
visceral visual hallucinations only one, No. II, is true in relation to
psychical visual hallucinations. To every other one of his rules, the
Census shows exceptions, frequently a majority, nearly always many.
Further, where a Census case agrees with one characterization set down
by Dr. Head, it disagrees with others. Mr. Piddington says: “ I do
not believe that there is a single case of hallucination [including those
of an auditory character] printed or referred to in the Census Report
which completely falls into line with the visceral type.”
It follows then that the Census list of cases contains either no or
very few visceral cases, and that there is something about the Census
hallucinations and those generally to which critical psychic research
calls attention which very markedly differentiates them from the
hallucinations of visceral disease.
PART TWO
DISCUSSION EVOKED
BY A
QUESTIONNAIRE
I. A HYPOTHETICAL QUESTION
THE QUESTION
Suppose:
(a) That a woman (incidentally I will say that she was a private
person discovered by my own experiments, the only one possessing what
seemed to me demonstrated powers for this particular kind of experi­
ment whom I have ever myself discovered) sits in the bright light of
day, and there is put into her hands a letter written by a person living
at some hundreds of miles distance (really a number of the details I
give are not necessary to the question, as the question does not call for
any opinion as to the accuracy of the facts), the letter folded so that
not a word appears on the outside, the letter is held motionless between
her palms, so that no conjuring is possible, whatever she says, and all
that I say, is taken down verbatim, and she makes thirty-seven state­
ments respecting an unnamed man, a church and its environs, and a
journey (nearly all of which could not have been ascertained had she
read the whole letter);
(b) That of these thirty-seven statements, nothing could be ascer­
tained respecting three, so that they must be set aside; one proved true
but exaggerated, and thirty-three were exactly true regarding the
writer of the letter, the church of which he was pastor, and a journey
made by him just before the letter was written;
(c) That a prominent mathematician, Alan S. Hawkesworth,
F.R.S.A., was called in to pass upon the mathematical probabilities
of the items, severally, being hit by chance guessing; he asked me also
to estimate, and my estimates proved to favor chance much more
than his,
(d) On the basis of my estimates for the items separately, the
mathematician then calculated, by exact mathematical processes, the
chance of the woman's getting all her results, the thirty-three items
separately, one item say one-half right, and found that there was cer­
tainly not more than one chance in 5,000,000,000,000,000 of her doing
all this by guesses:
Would you then (assuming that the facts are as stated, and that
there actually was no possibility of normal leakage of the facts to this
209
210 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
woman's consciousness), conclude that the notion that some process of
gaining this knowledge, at present not isolated and explained by
science, was involved, or would you regard that notion as irrational?
Names, in this and the following sections, with a few exceptions,
are given when express permission was granted to print them.
P bofessob. A. A., a Ph.D. and College President (Church of the
Brethren), expressed himself with vigor:
“ I am past fifty years of age and I have never yet seen anything
that could by any stretch of the imagination be called mysterious.
And neither has any one else. It is all due to a half-baked philosophy
and to arm-chair science. Forget it and go to work on something that
has at least the semblance of truth and reason.”
Letter to the president, enclosing a copy of the above hypothetical
question:
“ I thank you for the interesting reply which you made to the ques­
tionnaire sent you. I could not help wondering, as I read that you had
never yet seen anything that could by a stretch of the imagination be
called mysterious, ‘ and neither has any one else,’ whether you, as a
member of the Church of the Brethren, consistently applying that same
doctrine to all times as well as our own, would say that in the time of
Christ and the apostles no one ever saw anything that could by a
stretch of the imagination be called mysterious? And as I read your
interesting opinion that ‘ it is all due to half-baked philosophy and to
arm-chair science,’ my mind reverted to my two journeys to Europe,
to my journey to Mexico, another to Nova Scotia, one to Kansas, one
to Missouri, innumerable shorter journeys, and very many hundreds of
experiments, and meditated, a little humorously, on what constitutes
*arm-chair science.’
“A number of persons are being asked a certain hypothetical ques­
tion which I am sending out and of which you will find a copy on a
sheet enclosed. The question is purely a logical one, not requiring the
least assent to the claims of facts set down therein. Those who answer
it may regard those facts as fictitious, the experimenter an imbecile or
anything he likes, and he may express himself to that effect. The only
thing that is asked is to answer *yes ’ or ‘no,’ on the assumption that
the facts are true. I have no right to expect this of you, and yet I am
not able to see any reason why any man should decline to do it.”
A HYPOTHETICAL QUESTION 211
But the learned member of the ultra-fundamentalist Church of the
Brethren did not answer “ yes ” or “ no.”
P ro fe s s o r A. B., P h .D., LL.D., who occupies a university chair
in Philosophy, has written works not only on philosophy and psychol­
ogy, but also on religion (probably of a type related to the Christian
Scriptures). The use of his name was allowed, but advantage is not
taken of the consent. He says:
“ There are many phenomena the explanation of which is ‘ not ap­
parent.* The question is whether the hypotheses offered by ‘ spirit­
ism ’ are acceptable, and my view is that they are not.”
When the words “ not apparent ” were written in the question, it
was fully understood that they were subject to criticism; they were
chosen in order to stimulate greater variety and, perhaps, vehemence
of expression, and also, guilefully, to bring in incidents which puzzled
the learned reporters but for which an experienced psychical researcher
might be able to suggest an easy explanation. It could not be expected
to occur to the persons addressed that for this report bad cases might
be wished even more than good ones.
Professor A. B. was reminded that the questionnaire papers did not
contain the word “ spiritism ” and that there are purported psychical
phenomena which have no plausible relation to the spiritistic theory.
The hypothetical question was sent him, but he did not reply to it.
M edicax D octor A. C., university Professor of Bacteriology,
kindly gave advice:
“ You will find ‘Pancrobilin[?] Pills, Plain,’ Reed and Carnrick,
a splendid ‘ antidote.’ ”
With thanks to the doctor for his prescription and promising to
profit by it if there ever should be the least need, he was asked kindly
to answer the hypothetical question. The doctor has brains. He saw
the deadly two horns of the dilemma, and nimbly leaped the barrier:
“ Having, unfortunately, qualified as a witness of fact I may not,
under the rules of evidence, answer an hypothetical question.”
And there is no such rule of evidence! Thousands of doctors have
212 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
qualified and testified in court as witness to medical facts and after­
wards have answered a hypothetical question related thereto.
D octob of P hilosophy A. D., miscellaneous writer, Naval Officer,
and World War hero (Deist), is (or should I, in view of what is to
come, say was?) among those to whom the expression “ psychic re­
search ” acts as a rubicund fragment of fabric upon a male bovine
quadruped. He is willing to be quoted by name, and asseverates:
“ By no means. I despise all totally unscientific stuff of this
kind, founded on the silly hope of a personal survival in some other
existence.”
The annotator remarked:
“ I thank you for your remarks upon the blank, which I found very
interesting. I confess to not being able to appreciate the logic of
them, since many alleged psychical phenomena have no apparent rela­
tion to the ‘hope of a personal survival ’ and there are many psychical
researchers who have no faith in a personal survival.”
The hypothetical question was sent him, and he replied:
“ I hope you did not find my remarks in any manner flippant,
though I think such things should be left to a very few of the highly
trained, practical psychologists, just as vivisection should be left to
one or two especially qualified physiologists in each State. The danger
of course is, that a horde of semi-wits will try to prove individual life
of the so-called soul after death.
“ I don’t know what good any expression of mine would be in regard
to your hypothetical question. I am, if anything, a pure agnostic, and
do not pretend either to affirm or deny things which I cannot possibly
understand. I believe, with Hamlet, that *there are more things in
heaven and earth than are dreamt of in thy philosophy.’ Mind reading
and many other things have, I take it, been demonstrated, with no
wonder on my part. Why not much more wonderful things, since man­
kind has just begun to think and investigate?
“ Therefore,—go to it! I’m with you. If it is worth anything to
you, I will state that my impression is, that anything is possible in
psychology except seeing into the future; I mean beyond what human
experience enables us to prognosticate.”
That is frank and manly, and an amende honorable for having
spoken, as the Psalmist once did, too hastily.
A HYPOTHETICAL QUESTION 213
P rofessor A. E., a Ph.D., Psychologist and university teacher of
Philosophy (Unitarian), was at first uncompromising enough. He
thus expresses himself in liquid terms:
“ I have come across a flood of such instances, but none that would
seem to me more than the floating superstitions that come out of the
wish-wash of sentimentality.”
The hypothetical question was sent him. He did not dodge it.
“ The case you mention of the woman making the thirty-seven state­
ments picked up from a letter held in her hand, one must confess that
that is a challenging instance. I believe I have never had any disposi­
tion to be insensitive to such cases. I should like to inquire, however,
whether you who stood by were conscious of the contents of the letter.
You see I am looking towards the possibility of a very subtle sort of
thought transference. Since my student days I have tried to tinker in
the direction of discovering evidences of a hypersensitivity of mind in
its reaction on mind, and should not be surprised any day to find dis­
coveries in that respect which run parallel to the new energies that
physics and chemistry have been opening up of which we were quite
innocent a while ago.
“As a working hypothesis, I hold rather strongly to the notion that
whatever energies of that type are ever discovered they will move in the
direction of thought transference only through some refined means of
specific intercommunication. I would not want to swear that they
might not happen even with the palm of the hand as interpreter of
handwriting, though that staggers me to the point of just about
bowling me over.”
The professor is one of those men, unfortunately not very com­
mon, who, notwithstanding how strongly they have expressed them­
selves, do not pretend they cannot see facts presented to them and
looming up like elephants. He wrote again:
“ Thank you heartily for sending this fuller statement about the
Baltimore woman. I confess it is challenging if not staggering the
report you have made about her. I shall watch for a fuller report,
which I dare say you will be writing up in one of the journals.
“As I confessed to you before, I belong to the tougher variety of
the students of mental life, though I shall be very happy to have my
shell of psychological assurance shattered.”
He was informed that the case is to be found in detail in Proceed-
214 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
ings A. S. P. R. for 1924, pages 204-18, together with all the other
experiments with Mrs. King, pages 178-244.
P rofessor A. F., a Ph.D., Zoologist and College President (Latter
Day Saints), not unwilling that he should be quoted by name, was sent
the hypothetical question. His reply consisted in underlining two lines
in it, “ conclude that the notion that some process of gaining this
knowledge, at present not isolated and explained by science, was in­
volved,” and saying, “ I should conclude the above.”
And so should I, and so I do.
D octor of P hilosophy A. G., Engineer and successful inventor
(Presbyterian) says:
“ No. Whenever I come into such a circle the operations cease.
For many years I offered a substantial prize if any medium could tell
me how many peas or beans, dumped into a pan in an adjoining dark
room, there were. Quite a few tried, some succeeded. If ‘ spirits ’
can’t count a handful of peas or beans lying in one layer on a pan, I
don’t believe they can do much more.”
How prone even scientific men are to read their prepossessions into
documents which do not please them! The paper blank sent contained
no reference to either “ circles ” or “ spirits,” but Dr. A. G. assumes
these are what it chiefly concerned.
He was told:
“ I thank you for the remarks which you entered upon the blank.
I sympathize with you in your effect upon a *circle,’ since, so far as
professionals of several alleged species of phenomena are concerned,
the effect of my presence, when I am known and do not give a guar­
antee to keep ‘mum,’ often seems quite similar. But I do not know
whether spirits ought to be expected to count beans in the dark or not.
Personally, I am more accustomed to inquire whether certain phenom­
ena which I have actually observed are of ‘normal ’ causation, than to
make the criterion some stunt, which I am unable to be certain would
have any bearing upon the situation. Of course, if in a particular
*circle *the claim should be made that the ‘ spirit ’ is able to go into a
dark room, count a lot of small objects and report, your test was an
excellent one.”
Dr. A. G. is somewhat like the man of the parable who refused to
A HYPOTHETICAL QUESTION 215
go to the vineyard but later was found there, since, although one of
the Noes, in reply to the letter, containing the hypothetical question,
he says:
“ We are all aware of the phenomena of thought transference and
hypnotism. They cannot be denied or scientifically explained any more
than can gravity, electricity,—we go into the realm of the unknown
quickly when we begin to enumerate the many effects observed in
daily life.
“ I believe it possible for some persons accurately to read thought;
and I know thoughts can be transmitted long distances. In other
words, whatever is known to any living person can be revealed by a
‘mind reader ’ who ‘ tunes in ’ on that person’s thought emanations.”
The writer of the above apparently does not know that to most
psychologists, particularly (though there are brilliant exceptions),
telepathy is as obnoxious as spiritism. He likewise does not know that
telepathy is “ supernormal,” according to the definition of that provo­
cative word by psychic research. He might justly be added to the
list of Yeses.
It may be inferred that, although he does not directly say so, his
belief in telepathy is his answer to the hypothetical question. But it
ignores the stated fact that many of the facts declared by Mrs. King
were not within my conscious knowledge, and some of them were never
known to me.
The engineer narrates an experiment he had with Bert Reese which
convinced him that this venerable genius was a mind-reader, but as
there are reasons for thinking his observations faulty and his infer­
ences erroneous, it is not worth while to print it here. He adds:
“ I still contend that my late beloved father and son would, to
please me, count beans in a dark room, if able to do so, and transmit to
me the result.”
Why not make the test a still more satisfactory one, and insist that
his father’s spirit should go out into a field and plant the beans, while
committee men take notes and newspaper reporters crank motion
pictures?
If able—most necessary proviso! Even if the father’s spirit were
able, occasionally, to get into such telepathic rapport with a psychic
as to inject some of his memories into her consciousness and thus trans­
mit them, it would not follow, as the night the day, that he must be
216 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
able to go into a dark room, see a lot of beans in the darkness, paw
them over, count them correctly, and report the result.
M edical, D octor A. H., a Psychiatrist held in honor by his pro­
fessional brethren, Superintendent of a hospital for the insane, and
author (Unitarian), writes that while without personal experiences
“ which could not be satisfactorily explained as having a basis which
would be understood and appreciated by all familiar with mental life
and physical laws,” he entertains no “ prejudice against the investi­
gation of facts which may seem supernormal to others, or even to
myself ” and has “ read with keen interest accounts of many psychic
phenomena.”
His attitude was commendable, and it was desirable to learn how
the hypothetical question would strike such a man. To this Dr. A. H.
replied:
“ Your letter of the 7th inst., together with mimeographed copy of
‘A Hypothetical Question,’ has been received. I am not one of those
who would throw such a matter aside as being of no particular interest
any more than I could accept one such exhibition as you describe, with­
out being personally able to exclude the possibility of collusion or
deceit on the part of the woman in question, nor should I be willing to
accept beyond question the statement of any other person that there
was no such possibility, unless I had full knowledge of all the details
connected with the experiment.
“ I should, however, take the attitude that if such a phenomenal
feat could be done once by any individual, it could be repeated, and I
should be actively and honestly interested in further experiments so
carefully checked and guarded as to avoid any possibility of deception.
Then, if the results were as convincing as they appear to be in the case
you have reported, I should be convinced that something had been done,
concerning the mechanism of which I knew nothing, that would satis­
factorily account for the result of the experiments.
“ I think it would be unfortunate if there were some investigators
who did not approach these problems in an agnostic frame of mind,
prepared as you have done, to check deceit and to further appreciate
that not all the possibilities of the human mind have been, as yet,
thoroughly catalogued.”
If I correctly understand every sentence of the above, then every
sentence is approved by me. If I had never personally had proofs
from experimentation I certainly should not be convinced by an ab-
A HYPOTHETICAL QUESTION 217
stract of such a case, written and signed by Dr. A. H. If I read his
full report, and it evidenced conditions and care taken to cover every
possible opportunity of leakage, I should be impressed; and if I
learned that the author has a reputation for doing careful scientific
work, and for experience and skill in the discovery of fraud and the
operation of normal causation, I should be still further impressed. I
expect no more from any scientific man who himself has either not
found or not embraced opportunities for successful experimentation
of the kind; to this much I feel entitled.
The demand for repetition of a success is proper, and Mrs. King
did have repeated successes. The others of course could not be as
brilliant as the case selected because it was the best; but several were,
as the printed report shows, successful to such a degree that to suggest
they were achieved by guesswork is nothing short of being grotesque.
Mr. A. I., a man of many adventures, and a writer, particularly
about foreign countries, after expressing the opinion that I am “ full
of prunes,” claimed that he was “ unable to comprehend what you
want to know or what you are driving at. Is it a ghost story you
want? ”
Somewhat doubting if his mind was quite in that virginal state of
innocence regarding psychic research, I yet responded that certainly I
would like a ghost story, especially if the narrator could give any
evidence for the genuineness of the ghost. I also sent him the hypo­
thetical question and, simply to see how his intellect would cope with
the situation, asked what his explanation would be.
He responded by recounting a long dream about a ghost (probably
invented for my discomfiture) and ending with an 0. Henry climax,
save that 0. Henry would never have written anything unprintable.
He did admit that “ the example you present is altogether too deep for
my shallow intelligence” (homo frugi!) but asked: “ But now, really
coming right down to plain, every day, common-sense talk, don’t you
think my example of psychic phenomena a darned sight better than
the mathematical process of billions you send me? ”
My friend balked at the inquiry addressed to his intellect, and
turned to “ common-sense talk,” which means the tabloids and super­
ficialities of the herd.
P rofessor Y a n deel H enderson, P h .D., of the chair of Applied
Physiology at Yale University, returned the observation:
218 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ I have no patience with such superstitious nonsense.”
The hypothetical question based on the Mrs. King experiment1
was sent him. He responded in p art:
“ I am very glad to answer to the best of my ability the questions
which you put to me regarding ‘ spirit photography,’ ‘ ectoplasm,’
‘ spirit-slatewriting,’ *telekinesis,’ and so on. The answer is that it is
only a short time since even well educated people and the most intelli­
gent members of the community believed in witchcraft and ghosts. In
fact much of what the orthodox religion of today teaches, or at least
expresses in the church services, is equally spiritualistic. All of this
seems to be quite well presented in the book on witchcraft by Kittredge,
which has just appeared. I enclose a review of this book from the
New York Times.
“ There are fashions in thought as in clothes. The general fashion
of our time is to make everything *scientific.’ The particular fashion
of this decade is to bring everything that can be under the head of
‘psychology.’ Following this fashion those instinctive forms of
thought which two centuries ago were called witchcraft now appear
under the form of the science of psychics, mind reading, telepathy,
and so on.
“ In regard to the hypothetical question which you put under heads,
‘A,’ ‘B,’ ‘ C,’ and ‘D,’ I do not feel that a calculation of probability
has any bearing whatever. It is exactly the same sort of calculation as
that by which the theologians prove the necessity for recognizing the
existence of God. That argument neither proved nor disproved His
existence, nor did it afford the slightest evidence regarding the proba­
bility or improbability of His existence. The same sort of argument
applies to the existence of life on the planet Mars. An excellent dis­
cussion of the worthlessness of calculations of probability, when facts
are not available or pertinent, is contained in a book recently published
by Fry, entitled Probability and Its Engineering Uses. I can report
from my own experience a coincidence against which the probabilities
can be estimated probably into the billion billions, yet it happened. It
consisted in the fact that during just five minutes of my life I was in
one place through a most improbable succession of events and that just
at that very instant an old lady, a relative of mine, was brought to
that spot because of an accident in which she had been wounded in a
most unusual way.”
The remainder of the professor’s very pleasant letter was to the
effect possibilities may exist where we do not suspect them, that the
1See page 209.
A HYPOTHETICAL QUESTION 219
mind is a function of the brain and he thinks purported telepathy is
either clever faking or guessing.
Annotator’s reply ran:
“ Please regard this brief note as simply an expression of thanks
for your kindness in taking time to answer my letter. I shall not at­
tempt to controvert any of your opinions or arguments; I was inter­
ested, however, in getting your reactions.
“Allow me, however, to correct your intimation that I asked you
questions regarding *spirit photography,’ ‘ ectoplasm,* ‘ spirit slate-
writing,’ *telekinesis,’ and so on, of a similar nature. My reference to
these alleged phenomena was in connection with my having *laid bare
the methods of certain frauds of these species.’ And I will add the
remark that there is at least this difference between the case alleged in
my hypothetical question and the argument for the existence of God,
that the former was capable of being, and actually was, the result of
inductive experiment, and susceptible of mathematical estimation within
limits, whereas the latter is amenable to neither. Also I will indulge
myself to remark that I have repeatedly, in print, remarked that among
the almost infinite number of details in a human life it should be ex­
pected that sometimes there will occur a singular coincidental combina­
tion, and I have given historical instances. Between such a case and
the production of thirty-three and one-half coincidental particulars
with an error of only one-half by a stranger under circumstances which
demonstrably permitted of no normal information (every word by the
‘ psychic ’ and by the experimenter being recorded) there exists but
little likeness. When you are able to select the time and place of your
coming upon your relative in connection with an accident, without any
conjunctive cause and without actually pushing her under a trolley-
car, we can compare the two cases.”
Professor Henderson remembers one very unusual accidental co­
incidence in his lifetime. He gives such scanty data that we are unable
to judge whether or not he has exaggerated the mathematical value of
the coincidence. And confessedly, it is only a guess. But in the case
furnished him from the record of an experiment it was possible to make
a reasonable minimum estimate of probability in each of the thirty-
three items, after which the one chance out of 5,000,000,000,000,000
for the thirty-three in combination is easily figured out.2 And all the
steps of the process were laid before readers.
2 Of course it is not meant that this valuation is exact, or anything like it. What
is meant is that the separate items were estimated with such evident moderation that
the total valuation cannot be le ss th a n th e enorm ous figure given. The margin
of error is on the side of the true valuation being more, even very much more.
220 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Now the events in one’s lifetime, small and great, including all one’s
contacts with multitudes of people and events and things, tremen­
dously outnumber all the items in the records of a psychical re­
searcher’s experiments with psychics. Hence there is vastly more
likelihood of a remarkable coincidental combination occurring in one’s
miscellaneous and multitudinous affairs than there is of such a com­
bination coming by chance in an experimental record. And yet, if in
the course of my years of experimenting I only once got a combination
obviously no more complex and unexpected than the coincidence of the
professor’s meeting his relative just as she had been brought to the
spot by an accident, it would not for a moment impress me as being
other than a remarkable product of chance. Consequently, there is
no reason why I should be brought upon my haunches by the profes­
sor’s incident.
Cannot it be made so very plain that every reader, be he a man of
science or not, will understand? I and other exacting psychic re­
searchers are impressed because in our experimental work we have met
so many combinations enormously unlikely to come about by chance.
Once, and I can think chance the probable explanation; twice, or three
times and chance is possible; but I cannot stomach too many chances
of prodigious improbability in the course of my experiments. Just so
I could well credit that a tenderfoot, casually wandering about the
mountains where many have searched in vain, chances to stumble upon
a gold mine of immense productivity. It was initially a very unlikely
thing to happen, but not at all an incredible one. In the whole history
of the West it might happen that there was one instance of a tender­
foot discovering by accident two bonanzas, each in a region supposedly
bare. But if this tenderfoot has that good fortune a third time, a
fourth and a fifth, in the same circumstances, I cannot credit that all
was chance,—posit any cause you please, any imaginable cause is
better than to admit that it was all chance.
To put it another way, after the analogy of the many who searched
and the one who found mines. I have experimented with many sup­
posed psychics, and with some of them many times. From most of
them I never get anything which, taken in bulk, is evidential; with
others I sometimes get enough to surmise or even to think there is
something in them which the first class do not possess; and there are
a few who, along with occasional barren tracts, reveal also evidential
oases, and occasional mountain peaks of complex and startling cor­
respondence with external facts, provably unknown to the psychic. If
all is guess-work and chance coincidence, how is it that with equally
A HYPOTHETICAL QUESTION 221
guarded experiments, a few persons persistently loom so much higher
than the rest? Does the god chance play favorites?
Study my series of trials with Mrs. Soule, printed in Leonard and
Sovle Experiments, and observe group after group of complicated par­
ticulars corresponding almost literally with the remote facts, which
could not possibly have been normally known to the psychic. Such as:
A. The description of the objects surrounding the house where I
lived as a boy, as they then were, and objects on the farm and in its
neighborhood: the martin-house which has been gone more than half a
century; the tree out by a path, up which climbed a wild grape-vine;
the sage reached by going from the house and passing the caraway,
with the wall and prickly bushes near the sage; the journey back of
the house which led to an ancient zigzag fence, then to a very rough
pasture and a hill with a place dug in it more or less like a cellar, and
bushes, bunch-plums and checker-berries growing; in another direction,
iris, and trees from which we made whistles; some distance from the
house a corn-field beyond which were woods whence the crows came; a
spring on the farm and a railroad near enough so that the trains could
be heard from the house; a group of buildings in a particular direction
from the little hill, with a brook and a little pond back of them. Very
few errors in detail, a number of correct ones in addition, such as the
cellar on the “ back road ” where a fire had been. Two errors curi­
ously suggestive, as “ sassafras ” when referring to something growing
in a spot where sarsaparilla really grew; and a name said to sound like
DeMerritt associated with the cellar over which the house of G. Myrick
really once stood. A combination, with due deduction for the few
small errors, incredible as the result of chance.
B. The “ Mephistopheles ” plus “ Teddy ” incident.
C. The Story of Stephen, giving the actual name of the man, say­
ing that in my boyhood he made a charge against me which has rankled
all my life, stating what the charge was, describing this man’s physical
appearance, his mind and his manners in detail, saying that he carried
the charge to my father, with other particulars the most of which I
know are correct and almost none of which I am able to contradict.
D. The prediction of a great disaster, described by many details,
and the locality of it also almost unavoidably determined by the de­
scription ; the disaster coming to pass exactly according to description
and, moreover, taking place but three squares from where the sitter
spent her girlhood. I have as yet been able to trace no other disaster
in American history, which all the given details would by chance fit.
These were not all the great evidential groups. There was that,
222 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
giving to an astonishing degree of accuracy a great variety of facts
about a certain woman, and particularly those relating to her last
illness, the latter having the curious appearance as though the stamp
of her selection were on them, since many are mentioned which were
uppermost in her sick mind, while others, of which she knew nothing
or little but which are vividly in the memory of surviving relatives, are
not mentioned.
Professor Henderson points to one coincidence which he estimates
very extraordinary, in the course of the interaction of the innumerable
items which have made up his life of more than fifty years. That is one
thing, and by what some curiously call “ the law of chance,” it can
happen. But that in material, mostly executed by the slow process of
automatic writing, in the course of but a few score hours, the bell of
enormous improbability, measuring from say one chance in 100,000 to
one in millions, should strike again and again and again, and still
again and again, is quite another thing, and it is inverted credulity
to suppose it can happen—by mere guess-work.
II. BELIEF IN PSYCHIC EVENTS THE RESULT
OF PATHOLOGICAL STATES
The doctrine announced in the title is implicit with one of the
learned gentlemen quoted below, explicit with the rest. It may be
found occasionally peeping out in other sections.
P rofessor B. A., a D.Sc. and Ph.D. who fills a university chair
of Anatomy, author on his subject (Baptist), says:
4
4Not one man or woman who has had real training in and is
capable to grasp the development, architecture and functions of the
nervous system ever uses the stock terms of your group except in deri­
sion. The brain and spinal cord is an organ as much so as liver, kid­
neys, etc.,'reacting to its appropriate stimuli, and its more complicated
architecture naturally allows more complicated reaction phenomena.
From primitive times and in the jungle and Catholic races today igno­
rance of and inability to grasp structural detail as related to function
has resulted in a set of secondary reactions of the apparatus known as
superstition.”
To Professor B. A.:
“Although not technically anatomists, I should have thought that
the following persons, among others, had, in their time or now, consid­
erable acquaintance with the development, architecture and functions
of the nervous system: William James, F. W. H. Myers, F. C. S. Schil­
ler of Oxford, Prof. William McDougall, Dr. T. W. Mitchell. They
have used the terms to which you object, without derision.
“ If no 4psychical *phenomena are possible on account of the brain
and spinal cord being 4an organ as much so as the liver, kidneys, etc.,
reacting to its appropriate stimuli, and its more complicated structure
naturally allows more complicated phenomena,’ it seems clear that, by
the same reasoning, the mind can originate no thinking by its own
activity, or, in other words, that all mental activity is the mechanical
reaction from stimuli. Wundt, the founder of physiological psychol­
ogy, held, at the maturer stage of his career, that the mind is an entity
in itself. Would you hold that he had no real training in or was not
capable of grasping the development, architecture and functions of
the nervous system? Ladd, the American physiological psychologist,
223
224 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
agreed with his old master. Do you think him lacking in the respects
specified?
“ I am not writing with the slightest intention of arguing or oppos­
ing your views, but only with the desire of understanding you, as I try
to understand other correspondents who express themselves, as it seems
to me, obscurely, or who seem to me to be facing two ways at one time.
I see by Who's Who that you report yourself as being a Baptist. I
have known many Baptists, and all I ever knew expected to survive
bodily death. But if the mind is only a stream of reactions from
stimuli applied to the brain and spinal cord, I cannot see any rational
basis whatever for such an expectation. Furthermore, most Baptists
believe that many ‘psychic ’ facts took place in New Testament times,
such as the Peter and Cornelius incident (call it the work of superior
intelligences or rationalize it as an instance of telepathy). Certainly,
any objection to telepathic and other ‘psychic ’ incidents now equally
shuts out such incidents in the Bible. If our inquiries whether there is
anything in such claims is *superstition,’ then I suppose that holding
these New Testament incidents as other than fictitious or legendary
would be superstition. If not, I would very much like to know why not.
Perhaps you discard everything of the sort in the accounts of the
Evangelists, the Acts and the Epistles. If so, you are quite consistent
in your science, but I cannot help wondering what has become of you
as a Baptist!
“ Really, I was glad to get the expression of your views, and am
writing as above solely in the hope that you will open them up a little
more fully.”
The hope was in vain.
M edical D octor B. B. is a physician, formerly Professor of Ma­
teria Medica in a homeopathic medical college, author, permits his
name to be given, but on the whole it is perhaps best not to print it.
He sets forth his theory thus:
“ I am of the opinion that one universal force, or mode of motion,
that has been sufficiently demonstrated, operates as fear, ecstasy, hys­
teria, telepathy, clairvoyance and coincidental dreams, from one indi­
vidual to another in a purely mechanical manner. Persons troubled
with visions and apparitions are, quite certainly, afflicted with static.”
This seemed to the commentator a fine piece of schizologic (to
coin a word meaning a piece of purported logic consisting of an
assumption and a conclusion separated by an unbridged gap), and he
was curious to have it put at its best. Hence the following:
PATHOLOGICAL STATES 225
“ I wish you would develop and clarify your statement. As it
stands, it seems to me to raise as many questions as it attempts to
answer, such as,
“ (a) Do you mean that the one universal force or mode of motion
which ‘ operates as fear, ecstasy,’ etc., is fear, ecstasy, etc., or that it
produces fear, ecstasy, etc.? I presume you mean the latter (though
the terms would seem to imply former), after analogy of those modes
of motion which precede, as causes in part of vision and sound, which
are not themselves modes of motion.
“(b) Demonstrated by whom, in what treatises, for example?
“ (c) Whether you are not denying that there is valid telepathy or
clairvoyance or coincidental dreaming or supernormal significance, as
I suppose from the derisive expression ‘ afflicted with static ’?
“(d) If you deny the validity of telepathy, visions, etc., are you
also denying the validity of fear, whether as an actual emotion, or one
which often is based on adequate grounds? (I should suppose so from
their being classed together as due to the one universal force.)
“(e) Whether there is more reason for classifying fear with clair­
voyance, etc., as due to the operation of one universal force, than
there is for including other emotions than fear which can be trans­
mitted from one person to another by persuasion, suggestion, etc., such
as courage and confidence, the opposite of fear?
“(f) Whether, to isolate one particular, your expression ‘ operates
as fear, ecstasy, hysteria, telepathy, clairvoyance and coincidental
dreams from one individual to another,’ does not carry with it the ad­
mission that, in your opinion, there is such a thing as telepathy?
“(g) Whether, if there is such a thing as telepathy, in the form of
transmitted dreams (‘operates . . . from one individual to another ’)
or otherwise, the phenomenon is not eminently worth investigation?
“(h) Whether this mental phenomenon’s being the consequent of a
‘universal force,’ or its production ‘in a purely mechanical manner,’
makes it any the less worth study? Are not scientists seriously and
worthily engaged in studying forces which operate in a mechanical
manner, and their results?
“(k) Whether, if there is some interference with the one universal
force or mode of motion, justifying the term ‘ static,’ which operates
to produce ‘ visions and apparitions,’ it should not be studied? You
must be aware that the static of the radio is not fully understood, and
is being studied.
“ (1) If ‘ persons troubled with visions and apparitions are, quite
certainly, afflicted with static,’I suppose that somewhere the demonstra­
tion of that fact can be found in print. I do not mean assertion of the
fact. An entire certainty can be demonstrated. I will be gratified if
226 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
you will name the book or article in which this certainty is demon­
strated, or any attempt is made to demonstrate it.”
Dr. B. B.’s reply answered none of the questions, but reiterated
his formula, and added that “ mathematical processes ” will probably
determine the “ value in these phenomena,” and that taking “ as a
foundation measurements of vital processes operating normally in all
organisms, statical or fixation points produced by specific toxic sub­
stances such as alcohol, ether, hashish, marihuana, and absinthe should
be of value in checking conclusions as to the accuracy of pending cal­
culations,” thus throwing “ light upon such phenomena as hallucina­
tions, illusions and delusions, including visions and apparitions.”
Presumably as an illustration of the effects of the “ one universal
force ” the good doctor closed with an incident which was one, he says,
of “ presumed telepathic communication.”
“At a public entertainment a man passed rapidly about the audi­
ence glancing at different objects presented to him, asking the name of
each of a blindfolded woman on the stage of the theatre. I gave him
a slip of paper upon which I had written a name of my invention. To
his inquiry, *What word am I looking at? ’ she correctly replied, ‘ That
is a funny word, f-l-o-g—flog; I never heard of that word before.’ ”
[It was the word written.]
Still curious to see whether the doctor could be induced to attempt
the construction of a bridge over the gap in his argument, or could be
made to see that the gap existed, W. F. P. wrote him as follows:
“ I should have been glad if you had cared to give your reactions
to all the points which I brought up in my letter, but do not complain
because you did not. But, it is fair to you to admit that your second
very courteous letter leaves me still puzzled. Let me put my difficulty
in the simplest and most concrete way.
“ For example, you think that the one universal force or mode of
motion accounts for apparitions. I cheerfully admit that this might
be, if only the apparition as such were the problem presented to us.
But in many cases this is not the fact. Does it also, to your mind,
satisfactorily account for the frequent coincidences between the time
of the apparition of a person and the time of his death or his under­
going some great emotional disturbance? Would it satisfactorily ex­
plain a woman’s seeing, while awake and in the daylight, the appari­
tions of her dead father and her living brother, at the time when he,
standing on the deck of a war vessel in the North Sea watching an
enemy torpedo approach the ship, saw the apparition of his father
PATHOLOGICAL STATES 227
beside him? Allowing that these were facts, does your formula give
any comprehensible solution of the double coincidence (a) in time and
(b) in the persons and person seen? I do not ask you to admit that any
such facts ever occurred.1 My question is purely one of logic; if they
did occur, does your formula of ‘ one universal force or mode of mo­
tion ’ explain or make a particle clearer to your intelligence how, not
simply the apparitions, but the coincidences involved were brought
about? Would you say that the force or mode of motion split, at a
point midway between brother and sister, and went in two directions
at the same time? My query is not if you still adhere to the dogma,
but if it helps you to understandf
“ I will remark that in my judgment all public performances which
profess to exhibit telepathy, and which work with almost unerring
accuracy, are done by cues passing from the person walking about in
the audience to the person on the platform. The nature of these cues
would not be recognized by one person in a thousand, previously in­
experienced in this sort of thing. There are many methods known to
me, and doubtless some with which I am not acquainted.”
It is not worth while to print the doctor’s concluding letter, as the
only intelligible relevant sentence in it is one which says that “ it is
impossible for me to make answer to several of your requests, as I
consider the field tenanted by spectres has not been covered by quali­
fied investigators.” But the one question which faced him in the last
letter he received did not hinge on any confidence in either facts or
investigators. It was one purely of the logic related to his formula.
He perceived that it was deadly, and jumped over the fence.
P eofessoe B. C., an E.E. and teacher of Civil Engineering in a
university (Presbyterian), gives his opinion that:
“ Most cases reported to you may be classed under deranged
stomach or nervous system, or a desire to tell or retell something of a
startling nature.”
Eager to learn the process by which colic or shaky nerves could
.bring knowledge of a fact happening ten or thousands of miles away,
the annotator wrote:
“ Whatever my own opinion may be, I have no missionary spirit and
no desire to convert any one to it. Therefore my only reason for writ­
ing this letter is that I hope to have your theory, which as it stands in
the above sentence is, I fear, but obiter dictum, stated so as to be more
l But they did, according to consentient testimony unreasonable to doubt.
228 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
impressive. Just a little more clearly, how the deranged stomach, for
example, would produce what we find in many well attested cases.
“ Take that of Lord Brougham, who, as you know, was one of the
greatest lawyers and finest intellects of England. He saw an ‘ appari­
tion ’ of a friend of his who had been in India for years, and about
whom he had not heard for years, sitting in a chair as fine as life, and
wrote down the fact in his diary. Afterward, he learned that his friend
had died upon that very day—it being several weeks before the news
came. I can understand how the stomach-ache might produce a visual
hallucination (although one seldom does), but what needs to be ex­
plained is the process by which it brought about the death of the man
seen, on the same day. Out of numerous testimonies of persons of ap­
parently good stomachs and nerves, I select for its brevity, another
incident, this time relating to John Muir, the naturalist. He was high
on the Sierras, when he became impressed with the feeling that Profes­
sor Butler, his old teacher, living in the East, from whom he had not
heard for months, was near, and made the five-hour journey down
into the valley. He found Butler’s name on the hotel register, for he
had arrived that day. Butler had started up the mountain, and Muir
went after him, finding him lost at sundown. We have the account over
Muir’s signature, and Butler’s endorsement. I could credit that the
‘ deranged nervous system ’ of the hardy naturalist gave him the notion
that Butler was down in the valley, and caused him to do such a foolish
thing as to walk five hours to find him, but it is not clear how Butler
happened actually to be there and to have just come. Nor do I see
how the entry in Brougham’s diary is accounted for by the desire to
tell something of a startling nature, while that theory applied to both
the sober naturalist and the pedagogue seems to me a rather drastic
application of pure dogma.
“As I glance back, it looks as though I were trying to ridicule
your theory, but nothing could be further from my thoughts; it is the
bare application of the theory to the facts which produces that appear­
ance. As stated, the formula sounds neither sophisticated nor ade­
quate. If you would explain the rationale, point out the steps in the
process by which Muir’s hypothetical colic or jumpy nerves or desire
to tell something of a startling nature informed him that a man sup­
posed to be three thousand miles away was near at hand, I would be
sincerely grateful.”
To this the professor kindly replied:
“ I still maintain that my views on psychic cases is correct—•
*most
cases reported to you may be classed under deranged stomach or ner­
vous system, or a desire to tell or retell something of a startling
nature.*
PATHOLOGICAL STATES 229
“ It appears that most psychic believers forget all about the factor
of coincidence in the events of human life as well as all events of the
universe. Millions of coincident things are happening daily. As a
simple but vivid example, automobile accidents are caused by the com­
mon coincidence of two cars arriving at a street crossing at the same
time. A few seconds earlier or later for one of the cars might spoil
the case of coincidence and save a few lives.
“ I wish to cite a case which might be classed as psychic except for
the missing factor—coincidence.
“A father, sleeping alone in his home, was suddenly roused by
screams of his wife (who was several hundred miles away) calling him
by his first name. He recognized his wife’s voice, but it was only a
dream, as the wife experienced nothing unusual. Years later the wife
experienced great suffering and danger without any psychic effect on
the father. Years later a daughter of the pair was almost killed in an
accident (brought about by coincidence) without any psychic experi­
ence by father or mother. Now if any two or all three of these events
had happened within a few hours, I suppose it would be called a most
evident psychic case. But why is it that when coincidence is missing
the psychic fades away?
“ Take away entirely the factor of coincidence in the cases of Lord
Brougham and John Muir, and what do you have left? Then go back
and read the quotation relating to stomach, nerves, etc., and you have
absolutely nothing left. The only reasonable way of scientifically
analyzing what appear to be psychic, ghost or witch cases, is to first
apply the test of eliminating coincidence.”
The reply to Professor B. C., considerably revised, as it was written
hastily, follows:
“ I care nothing about ‘most psychic believers,’ and think that
your estimate may be true. The psychic investigators with whom I
have anything in common by no means neglect the possibilities of
coincidence. The only way we can ‘eliminate it ’ is by mathematical
computations of likelihood. No one instance could eliminate it, unless
it be an instance of a great many and rare particulars, and it would
still be theoretically possible that all were merely collective coinci­
dence, as it would remain mathematically possible that once in a million
or quintillion times the combination would turn up. [Here the Mrs.
King case, which surpassed chance expectation 5,000,000,000,000,000
to 1, was outlined.] This is but one of many calculations which I have
made or had made to estimate the likelihood of coincidence being the
explanation.
“ The case mentioned by you, of the man who was wakened with the
230 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
hallucination of his wife’s voice screaming his name, would not be
deemed by a cautious psychic researcher as conclusive in and by itself,
though it had proved that she incurred an accident at that hour. It is
well recognized that hallucinations of all kinds may result from dis­
turbed physical or mental conditions, contemporaneous sensory stimu­
lations, etc. But if as remarkable coincidental incidents accumulate
they become evidence sufficient to warrant further collection of cases
and calculation of chance expectation.
“ I do not think that you realize how little one or two cases such as
you cite of startling and unusual experiences which do not coincide,
count against a case of the same sort which does coincide within, say,
the hour. Suppose it were established that on the average every person
has one visual hallucination in his lifetime, or that part of it which can
be remembered, in say fifty years. One of these is wakened to see an
apparition of his mother, and in the same hour, at a great distance,
there being no knowledge that death was impending, his mother dies.
That one case would prove nothing. But it would defeat chance expec­
tation in the ratio of 437,999 to 1. If the other nine persons had each
a similar experience in his lifetime with nothing in the way of cor­
respondence, these nine cases taken together, being what would be ex­
pected, would mathematically weigh almost nothing against the one
absolute correspondence.
“ It astonishes me that you think the ‘ coincidence ’ of two auto­
mobiles hitting each other parallel with the cases which are taken into
consideration by psychical research. That seems to me a mere jug­
gling with a word. In that sense there is a ‘ coincidence ’ equally every
time a car meets another car. And under ordinary circumstances that
*coincidence ’ is certain to happen dozens or hundreds of times an
hour at the same spot. But was it certain, when the psychic told me
that I had owned a cat named Mephistopheles (a fact of long ago that
no one living but myself could have vindicated), that this would be the
case? In close connection with the declaration that I had owned a cat
of that name, one other name came, but with no implication that it
belonged to the cat. Was it certain—was it likely—that this name,
Teddy, should have been as relevant to the context and to me as that
the last dog I had owned (as Mephistopheles of thirty-five years ago
was the last cat) should have been named Teddy? Was it certain
when the eminent physicist (whose name I have not received permission
to give, but whose story I have heard from his own lips) was wakened
by the ‘hallucination ’ of hearing his father call him by name, that the
far-distant father, whose illness was to him unknown, should have died
at that hour?
“ One car hitting another car presents no problem to the intellect.
But if, without knowledge of or influencing the plans of the drivers, a
PATHOLOGICAL STATES 231
person should pick out a given car, say in Boston, and another in
Cambridge, and put on record the statement that the two would hit
each other on a given day, and it happened as stated, we would have
the problem whether the coincidence of the utterance with the event was
from chance or from some perhaps hidden cause.
“ Of course; ‘ take away the factor of coincidence, . . . and what
do you have left?’ Take away the factor that I had owned a cat
named Mephistopheles, and a Teddy, and of course there isn’t anything
left. Take away the fact that the psychic whom I earlier mentioned
hit the bell 3 3 ^ times out of 34, and of course there is nothing left.
One does not solve a problem by talcing away one of the two factors
which constitute it a problem. The question is whether such a tremen­
dous percentage of hits is likely to have been due to chance coinci­
dences. I do not think that one or a dozen cases even as extraordinary
as this entirely settles the question, but the progressive accumulation
of instances which are capable of some mode and degree of calculation,
makes it more and more difficult to ascribe all to chance.”
M edical D octoe B. D., an M.D. and Sc.D., former university
Professor of Ophthalmology, prominent ophthalmic surgeon and
author, permitted the use of his name, but it is omitted lest some read­
ers should think that a man really held in respect is derided. To the
questionnaire he responded:
“ Each and every one of the honestly reported so-called psychic
phenomena have been, are, and will be elucidated by coincidence, the
psychoses of delusions and hallucinations, the conditions of the dream
state or hypnosis due to external or auto-suggestion and unconscious
cerebration. Reports of such events have been impressed upon minds
prepared to believe in supernatural manifestations and favored by
trickery of dishonest charlatans. All such events appreciable to the
senses have been duplicated, explained and exposed by well known
prestidigitateurs.
“ Unless the new book treats psychic manifestations as explainable
by natural laws it would simply be a further contribution to supersti­
tion and subversive of science.”
In the hope of moving him to further expression, this was written:
“ I often wonder, when reading such comments, at the frequent
belief that all persons known as *psychical researchers ’ are naively
unfamiliar with the considerations which you lay down.
“ Take myself, as a humble example. It happens that perhaps no
living American has printed so much explanatory, analytical and de-
232 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
structive of ‘physical phenomena ’ of certain types, ‘ spirit photog­
raphy,’ ‘ spirit slate-writing,’ fake telepathy, etc., etc., as I have done.
I have never seen any mediumistic physical phenomena which convinced
me. It is entirely likely that I have a much larger range of actual
acquaintance with conjuring, and the psychology of deception, than
yourself. My Doris Case of Multiple Personality has often been called
a ‘ classical ’ case; you are evidently unacquainted with it, or you
would not suppose that the possibilities of ‘ the psychoses of delusions
and hallucinations, the conditions of the dream state or hypnosis due
to external or auto-suggestion ’ are to me unknown territory, nor am I
the only investigator in this field to whom such themes are familiar, and
who are almost daily taking them into consideration. I confess that
*unconscious cerebration,’ that incantatory term inherited from Car­
penter, Beard, etc., is to me as meaningless as ‘ abracadabra.’
“ Neither the circular letter nor the blank we are sending out has
anything to do with the ‘supernatural,’ which is the word which I find
twice in your letter. I have not the remotest idea that anything exists
which is not as natural as anything else. But we may be forced to a
wider definition of the term.
“ The Society for Psychical Research in England was founded by
university men, among them Professor Sidgwick, called ‘ the most in­
corrigibly skeptical man in England.’ Psychical research in America
was also the offspring of university training. Certain representatives
have indeed in several lands been fooled by jugglery. But the field of
mental phenomena has furnished instances which have been steno-
graphically reported, critically analyzed, and thoroughly authenti­
cated, and which, as a matter of history, no man who scorns the whole
subject has boldly faced and fairly discussed, with view to explanation,
in forty years.
“ I do not in the least resent what you have written; and am so
familiar with such sentiments that they cause me no disquiet whatever.
I do not think, however, that either you or I know where ‘natural
laws ’ begin or end. But I am quite certain that it is intelligent to
investigate any subject whatsoever, and unintelligent to limit the scope
of inquiry, whether on the ground that it is ‘impious,’ or the opposite
ground that looks so curiously similar, that it is ‘ superstitious.’ ”
The doctor replied, with excellent bonhomie:
“ Since the receipt of your letter I have reread--------- and some
of the psychic or rather psychiatric publications of ---------. The
credulity of the latter, the vermicular verbosity of --------- and the
puerility o f---------, Doctor of Science (from where?) only appeal to
my scientific training, research in psychiatry and their application in
PATHOLOGICAL STATES 233
medical practice for more than forty years. ‘ Can’st thou minister to
a mind diseased? ’
“ I am heartily in favor of research, but its findings should be sub­
stantiated by something more than personal introvert testimony, which
in every case may be explained as errors of observation and the con­
clusions reached as unsubstantiated by other than known causes. In
the case of high authorities as noted in the first part of my letter, I
would quote Ingersoll, *The mistakes of Moses.’
“ Do not misunderstand me in using the term ‘ supernatural.* That
is not necessarily applied to a ghostly domain. I confine it to the
*evidence ’ of those who do not either accept or who do not understand
the limitations of material things and the forces moving, ions, atoms,
molecules and finite bodies. I recognize the possibility that ‘There are
more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamed of in thy
philosophy.’ Go to it, collect the material, evaluate and issue the
material in terms of human understanding! Magna eat veritas et
prevalibit.
“ For your own information to show experience in psychiatry and
personality study: some of the titles following my name are: M.D.,
F.A.C.S., Sc.D. (Flight Surgeon, Air Corps U. S. A., Exam. Bureau
Aeronautics Dept. Commerce, Colonel Med. Res. U. S. A.), etc.”
From a letter to Dr. B. D .:
“ I like you, and if we were neighbors I am sure I should like you
better; I like your being from Missouri (which, if I know myself, was
always my disposition), and your final admission that there may be
more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, etc. I like your humor.
And because you have humor, you too will probably be amused, at any
rate will not take offense, at my few remarks.
“ Having read my letter which stated something of the frauds I had
exposed, and my poor opinion of the majority of the books written
about *spiritualism ’ and psychical research, you inform me that you
promptly reread ---------’s *
---------’ and ---------’s book, as though
giving my views another chance. Since there is no man who has proved
so many o f---------’s blunders and so rudely reproved him for his easy
credulity as I have done in print, and since I do not in the least believe
in ---------’s medium, but think she was a fraud, and that his experi­
ments were evidentially of little value, is it any wonder I smiled? It
is as if I brought against ophthalmology the malpractice of a chiro­
practor who undertakes to cure diseases of the eye by cracking the
vertebras.
“ You remarked that *1 am heartily in favor of research, but its
findings should be substantiated by something more than personal in­
trovert testimony.’ I should say so indeed! But it seems strange to
234 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
me that so many able men will not bring their minds to the grindstone
enough to see that there are kinds of experiences which are not affected
even by the fact (if fact it be), that the subjects of them are intro­
verts. Take one actual case out of many. [Here the Osgood case was
outlined, as on page 337.] Now what the heck difference does it make
whether the subjects of this compound incident were introverts or not?
You might take the ground that all the parties combined to lie, but
that is shifting the ground.
“ I don’t know whether you were having fun with me in your post­
script or not. It reads: *For your own information to show experience
in psychiatry and personality study, some of the titles following my
name are M.D., F.A.C.S., Sc.D., (Flight Surgeon, Air Corps U. S. A.,
Exam. Bureau Aeronautics Dept. Commerce, Colonel Med. Res. U. S.
A., etc.).’
“ Now I was perfectly aware of your very high standing as an
ophthalmologist and surgeon, and of your meritorious services during
the war, etc., etc., but without for a moment intimating that you have
not great knowledge of psychiatry
‘I’ll eat my hand if I understand ’
how the facts that you are a Doctor of Medicine, a Fellow of the
American College of Surgeons, a Doctor of Science, a Colonel and
formerly connected with aeronautics and the department of commerce
are supposed to demonstrate that you are. And while I am afraid
that my respect for the good sense o f----------is not much greater than
yours, don’t you really think that, before you wrote in reference to
him, *Doctor of Science—from where,’ you ought to have looked into
Who's Who, to see if you told where you got your D.Sc.? TouchS!
Especially as it is the custom to do so in Who's Who, and not the
general custom on title-pages.”
Final letter by the doctor:
“ Received your joshing letter of the 14th inst, which, in a way, I
think I brought on myself by too much exhibition of authority. How­
ever, being hardboiled and my experience having shown that all visions
are purely subjective and hallucinatory, I remain to be convinced that
there is any other explanation for subjective conveyance of sensation
except through the material world.
“ I would certainly like to meet you and I could assure you we
would have many delightful encounters which would probably prove to
be a draw.”
M edical D octor B. E., Alienist and Superintendent of a State
hospital for the insane, thus responded to the question whether he knew
PATHOLOGICAL STATES 235
of psychic incidents: “ Only in psychopathic reactions and actual
psychotic states.”
A letter to the doctor informed him that:
“Any incident of which an insane person was the subject, and which
was unexplainable by normal knowledge and faculty, would be of as
much interest as such an incident in the case of a person of sound mind,
for surely the mere fact of insanity would not explain it. I suppose
your reference is to curious rather than to supernormal incidents, and
unless I hear from you to the contrary, I will assume that this is your
meaning.”
He did not reply, so probably his utterance was mere raillery, a
mode of argument held in high esteem by some learned men, where
psychic research is concerned, since it affords satisfaction to the emo­
tions and a minimum of mental effort.
P bofessob B. F., a Ph.D. and occupant of the chair of Economics
in a university, also writer on that subject, answers:
“ No—so far as I know no member of my family or forbears has
been ‘psychic,’ had St. Vitus dance or gone insane. They seem to be of
a very long-lived, hard-headed, rather skeptical stock who devote
themselves to living in one world at a time.”
Certainly the logic of these observations is that having experiences
provisionally called “ psychic ” is on a par with having St. Vitus’s
dance or being insane; and that persons so unfortunate as to have such
experiences are unlikely to be long-lived, hard-headed, of skeptical bent
or practical.
In order that his position might not be misunderstood, the pro­
fessor was asked to put a cross after each of the following affirmations
which corresponded with his deliberate opinion.
Persons who have and testify to psychic experiences
1. Tend to have short lives.
2. Seldom appear to be hard-headed.
3. Are usually, if not always, of credulous bent.
4. Tend to be other-worldly (or mystical) people.
The professor maintained a dignified silence. On second thought it
probably came to him that he had no proof that what he had plainly
236 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
implied was not piffle, as in fact it was. Take the book Noted Wit­
nesses for Psychic Occurrences, and test as to ages. The first twenty
named, the dates of whose deaths were ascertained, and omitting one
who died a violent death, lived to the ages of 77, 75, 66, 72, 65, 55, 71,
76, 46, 84, 75, 90, 73, 69, 71, 81, 66, 69, 77 and 75, or an average of
about 71 years 8 months. Further examination in the same book will
prove that the other three propositions are equally shaky.
B achelor of S cience B. G., member of a prominent firm of pub­
lishers and author of stories, is moved to ejaculate:
“ Put the ‘yes ’ people in an asylum.”
How can one treat so flippant an utterance with respect? A re­
sponse is best couched in terms of humor, and yet humor that contains
a devastating array of facts. If the “ yes ” people are simpletons or
unbalanced, how is it that so many of them have been men of genius
and shapers of history?
“ I received your suggestion (with becoming modesty not signed):
‘Put the “ yes ” people in an asylum,’ with joy, not to say with
hilarity.
“ Had I been for the last few centuries or so the Grand Bailiff of
the race for the purpose of putting all the ‘ yes people in an asylum,’
what a choice assortment I could have collected! Lord Brougham and
Erskine, those eminent lawyers and statesmen; Chauncey Depew, the
foxy man of business and after-dinner oratory; Linnseus, Muir, Pum-
pelly and Romanes, who they do say knew something about science;
those doughty military leaders, Garibaldi, Buller and Earl Roberts;
‘Ian MacLaren,’ Scott, Sir Gilbert Parker, who have charmed our
leisure hours; Goethe and Browning, who have lifted us on the wings of
song; even Harry Kellar the magician, and Houdini, who did tell one
spooky story as though he believed it (and privately told me another).
The sweet strains of Schumann and Saint-Saens would have been
hushed; a heroic story of African exploration would never have been
told, with Stanley kept pacing his padded cell. Burbank’s amazing
work with plants would have been cut short, Pickett would never have
led his immortal charge, Obregon would have died not as the President
of Mexico, but in a lunatic asylum. A lunacy commission would have
given the Bishop of Texas attention, and a bailiff would have fetched
the Bishop of London from Lambeth Palace. Time and space fail to
catalogue all whom I would have to put into that asylum, which, heaven
knows, would have been too much crowded. Abraham Lincoln would
PATHOLOGICAL STATES 237
have had to be shut up there; there would be no statues to Jeanne
d’Arc, for she would early have been hurled in willy-nilly. No German
Reformation would have happened, for Luther would have been chucked
in before it commenced. No doubt you are right, yet I tremble to think
how history would have suffered if all the ‘ yeses ’ had been immuned
as soon as their symptoms broke out. Even now I have the secrets of
several scientists and psychologists of the first rank living in this
country; probably they are afraid of a pogrom, for they don’t tell the
world, yet they have told me—I know that they are among the *yeses,’
and therefore by all rights should be in straightjackets and that
asylum, and yet, we should miss ’em. I even know more than one pub­
lisher, one a confessed ‘ yes ’ but the other not—these should have been
rammed into one of the cells, but how many books we should have lost!
“ I hope, my dear M r.---------, that you are not a solemn and Puri­
tanic gentleman, in which case you probably will not mind my hilarity
more than I did your apparently relentless exclamation. I don’t believe
that you have the spirit of a Torquemada, but rather that you are in­
clined to let such foolish folk as I have named run loose, after all.”
III. THE ARGUMENT FROM NEGATIVED
“PREMONITIONS”
In several of the following instances the word Monition would have
been preferable to Premonition. Psychic research is not particularly
fond of either, since both seem to imply purposed notice given, one of
something happening, the other of something to happen. But in the
great majority of instances, as where an apparition is seen of a person
at the moment of his death, or a dream attracts attention because of
its complex correspondence with a distant event, there is no evidence of
intent. In many instances it has been shown that the dying person was
talking about the person who, at about the same time, saw his appari­
tion, and hence we infer probable or possible telepathy, but not that
there was an effort on the part of the one dying to bring about a visual
hallucination of himself.1
Is there any one so na'ive, one wonders, as to think that, if some
dreams, for instance, are telepathic, all dreams should be so. Take
the case of the dream of Mr. Deering.2* While his daughter was silently
and with repugnance reading about a tall man who carried a coffin
from the room in which were Marie Antoinette and some other ladies,
he dreamed of a tall man in a room in which were several other dimly-
seen figures, and that the man took up the coffin and was in the act of
withdrawing. Or the forthwith recorded dreams of Miss Griggs, which
so closely corresponded with pictures in magazines at which her mother
at the same time was interestedly looking.8 Would it affect the problem
which such striking and complex parallels present to learn that Messrs.
A, B, and so on to X had never experienced any such parallel dreams ?
The gentlemen quoted below appear, unless for one exception,
good-natured toward psychic research, but to suspect that their nega­
tive experiences damage the argument for premonition. No psychic
researcher supposes that having indefinite worries or dreads, dreaming
frequently that a particular person is dead, having a sudden feeling
that something has happened to somebody, or even to an especial per-
1This is not to deny that there is evidence that some instances of a deliberate
effort to telepathically affect a designated person so as to cause him to see an appari­
tion of the experimenter, have been successful.
2Phantasm a of the L iving, I, 400. 8B ulletin IX, B. S. P. R.
238
ARGUMENT FROM NEGATIVED “ PREMONITIONS ” 239
son who is on a journey, having a visual hallucination in pneumonia,
being prevented by accident from going on board a steamer, or appre­
hension of mortal danger where such danger actually exists, gives any
reasonable ground for expecting the experience will prove to be a
“ premonition.”
P rofessor W. F. Ganong, Ph.D., who has the chair of Botany at
Smith College, and has written much on his subject, says “ Yes ” to
the question whether his name may be printed. And since he has made
a real argument, there seems to be no reason why he should regret the
permission.
“ Several times in recent years, I have had sudden vivid impressions
of something wrong with near and dear relatives,—an invalid mother, a
brother on distant travel, or one of my children from whom I was then
separated. It usually had something of the form of a picture of the
way the persons concerned would look if injured, or in a definite kind
of trouble, or dead. In one or two cases at least the impression was
sufficiently arresting to make me note down the time and date. In no
case, however, did anything comparable with the impression occur.
Obviously if by chance it had, I could have said ‘yes *on your letter of
inquiry, and would have had a fine incident to send you.
“ I suppose that such sudden ‘visions ’ of disaster to persons much
in one’s thoughts (especially in cases of those who, like myself, are of a
*worrying ’ temperament), are of the same genus as those sudden recol­
lections of events, often most trivial and long past, which flash into the
mind without any determinable connection with matters in conscious
thought at the time (for this is characteristic of the impressions men­
tioned above), and if it should some time happen (as it must in time
for those having many such flashes) that some mention of, old note on,
or other mode of connection with, the matter soon turns up, a causal
connection for the positive case would be assumed, the many negatives
being forgotten or ignored in the desire to father a wonder.
“ I have a sister who believes and recounts many such incidents
told her by others, but I do not think that she claims to have had any
such experiences herself.
“ The above is written in no spirit of hostility to inquiries being
made, but on the contrary with full sympathy for them. But I am of
opinion that the overwhelming majority of such experiences rest in
occasional chance coincidences of a real event with very many imagined
ones, the coincidence needing not to be very close in view of mankind’s
inveterate tendency to perfect a story.”
Our comments on the above are made with entire respect. Profes-
240 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
sor Ganong is undoubtedly correct in his opinion that the overwhelm­
ing majority of coincidences of which people talk, taking into
account all grades of people who relate them and all the grades and
types of coincidences by their narrators thought to be psychic, are
significant of nothing but chance. But this affirmation gives no help
in deciding whether or not there are coincidences fraught with super­
normal significance, any more than the fact that the overwhelming
majority of girls who think that they have the making of prima donnas
negates the existence of Pattis and Galli-Curcis.
“ Mankind’s inveterate tendency to perfect a story ” is too broad
a statement to be correct. There are those “ who desire to father a
wonder,” most certainly, and there are also those who do not, who are
troubled and puzzled by being the victim of a seemingly psychic inci­
dent, or who at least tell it only to a few and shrink from its publicity.
No doubt, too, that with many persons “ the many negatives ” of a
commonplace order are forgotten and the one hit, although equally
commonplace, is remembered. But Professor Ganong is a witness to
the fact that persons may remember negatives. He has had no hit
and he remembers a number of his failures.
He would, in case of a chance coincidence with one of his periods of
foreboding, have had a “ fine incident ” to send. Perhaps not so fine
as he thinks. He would have received a list of queries including whether
and how many times on other occasions he had had “ impressions of
something wrong,” and whether and how many external correspon­
dences there had been. Having admitted a number such impressions
and no other correspondences of fact, his fine story would have been
discounted just so much. If the hit had coincided with the death of a
relative, and a query brought out the fact that he knew of the relative’s
serious illness, it would have suffered further discount, and so on.
His sister believes and tells many such incidents gleaned by others,
but has had none herself. So the will-to-believe does not with her act
as some psychologists would expect it to do. The fact is that human
beings cannot be divided into just two classes. There are those who
are skeptical and yet have the experiences, those who believe in them,
yet have none, and vice-versa. There are those who exaggerate their
odd experiences as time goes on, and those in whose memories they
tend to dim.
I doubt if a large percentage of human beings ever had “ very
many imagined ” incidents of the kind to forget. All the professor
claims, in spite of that “ worrying temperament ” which in his case
probably explains them, are “ several,” and he remembers them, al-
ARGUMENT FROM NEGATIVED “ PREMONITIONS ” 241
though they were not fulfilled. The present writer cannot remember
and does not believe that he ever in his life had a single picture like
those described or a feeling that something was wrong with a relative
or friend, unless there was an assignable reason for the feeling.
Then, too, if only once out of the “ several ” times, what Professor
Ganong pictured had happened, without any known antecedent danger
that it might, he would still have had, if not a fine story, one sufficiently
beyond chance expectation to warrant attention. With that proviso,
even if, in the course of the last ten years he ten times had a feeling
that disaster had happened to a particular person, the chance of being
correct within the day, in one of those ten cases, would be small.
But most important of all is it to observe the vast difference be­
tween types of “ impressions,” and the evidential quality attaching to
them when they prove to be coincidental with a precisely pertinent
event. Professor Ganong worries, and mentally pictures how a par­
ticular person would look if injured, etc. We do not get from his
narrative the conviction that there was anything specially startling
about them, although in “ one or [ ?] two cases the impression was
sufficiently arresting to make me note down the time and date.” But
contrast these with the incident of three persons seeing the face of a
Mrs. Robinson (Phantasms of the Living, II, 244-7), two of them who
knew her, recognizing her at the moment, and the third, who had never
seen her, afterward spontaneously recognizing her portrait; Mrs.
Robinson’s death having taken place without their knowledge, the same
afternoon. Contrast with the case of the man who died in America on
the eve of departure for England, and on the date when his parents
heard his voice saying, “As I cannot come to England, mother, I have
come now to see you ” (Phantasms, II, 227). The parents were so far
from glorying in the incident that it was difficult to get them to say
anything about it. Contrast it with the incident told me and then
reluctantly written by two people whom I knew well, a hard-headed
business man, and his excellent wife. He was absent some eighty miles
from home. He was awakened in the night by the vivid impression that
his wife had called his name, Walter, and he heard it again after he
was fully awake. He saw the time by the clock, and in the morning
wrote, asking if anything was wrong, and what happened at that time.
It proved that their boy had been dangerously ill until past midnight,
and as the crisis seemed past but she was still anxious, she went out on
the veranda, noting the time as she did so, stretched out arms to the
north in deep longing that her husband might be with her, and twice
uttered his name.
242 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
It must be evident that such incidents, of which there are a multi­
tude recorded and amply witnessed, are quite in a different class from
the mental pictures which worry conjures up and which it occurs to
one’s mind may be premonitory. Such as the former cannot be for­
gotten by any person of sound and good mind. In many cases it is the
sole experience of the kind in a lifetime. And it would hardly be pos­
sible for one to have another so strange and so vivid, even though no
external event happened, and forget it. The present writer has him­
self once in his life experienced, in England, the hallucination of an
apparition. There was no known correspondence, and therefore the
incident is not in the least evidential of “ psychic ” quality, and yet
the incident is not forgotten, and never will be.
Professor Ganong’s statement is, I think, very nearly correct, so
far as it goes, but it does not take into account other classes of wit­
nesses and other classes of events, to which his criticism can be applied
with great difficulty.
P rofessor W. C. J ones, A.M., M.D., by turns professor of Path­
ology, Biology and Zoology in the Universities of Illinois and Alabama,
and in Birmingham-Southern College (Presbyterian), kindly gives his
experience:
“ I have had a good many dreams and also premonitions in the
waking state in regard to future happenings favorable and unfavor­
able; but they never have ‘panned out.’ For example, for years and
years throughout my boyhood, I used to dream that my father was
dead; but he did not die until he had rounded out a life of eighty-four
years. And during the last few years of his life when he might reason­
ably have been expected to be near his end, my dreaming of his death
had entirely ceased.
“ Furthermore, I used to dream often in my younger days of being
dead myself—dream of lying in a coffin and that my relatives and
friends were passing by to view the ‘ remains.’ I am still going strong
at the age of fifty-five and have every promise of living to be as old as
my father.
“ It may be noteworthy that my mother died very suddenly and
unexpectedly; yet I had no premonition of her passing. When the news
was telephoned to me away from home, I was enormously shocked.
“ In my love affairs, I used to have premonitions; but they all
evaporated. And finally I married a woman concerning whom I never
had experienced any of these visionary phenomena.
“ I am much interested in psychology and have studied and taught
ARGUMENT FROM NEGATIVED “ PREMONITIONS ” 243
it a great deal, and the observations and experiences of myself and my
friends lead me to the conclusion that these supposed premonitions of
future happenings are best explained by the fact that, according to the
mathematical laws of chance, our thoughts, dreams, etc., in regard to
happenings of the future must now and then actually coincide with the
time happenings.
“ Thus you see all of my experience has been negative, not because
I am prejudiced, for I have an open mind.”
In reply to queries, Professor Jones states that the “ premoni­
tions ” were all in the form of dreams, that they did not tend to be any
more vivid than dreams of a different nature, and that there did not
seem to be any more reason, when he woke, to regard them as premoni­
tory, than was derived from thinking that they concerned marriage, etc.
Two very frequent accompaniments of dreams which do coincide
are absent here. That is to say, in a large percentage of dreams which
strikingly coincide there is an emotional accompaniment to a dream
seldom experienced by the same person in connection with other dreams,
and, secondly, an immediate feeling of reality when the dreamer wakes.
No well-read student of such matters thinks that the fact that a
dream pictures the death of any one furnishes any ground for expect­
ing that it will prove premonitory or coincidental. But if it does
coincide, it weighs more or less according to the sum of all the particu­
lars of the dream itself and of the coinciding external fact, and then
not in isolation, but as one added to a great stock of classified cases.
It is well known that some people have a great many dreams about
dying. Freudians say that dreams of the death of another person
signify that the person has vexed the dreamer so that the dream ex­
presses the infantile wish that the person were out of the way with his
annoyances, but Professor Jones repudiates such an interpretation,
saying that his father was seldom stern and never harsh. And it is
said that dreams of dying oneself are another reaction to troublesome
persons, saying as a child does, “ You’ll be sorry when I am dead.”
Professor Jones does not agree to this solution, and I am not respon­
sible for it.
But if he had frequent dreams of his father dying, there would have
been comparatively slight evidence if his father had died near the time
of one of them. This is one of the factors which psychic research
always takes into account. Witnesses are asked if they have had simi­
lar coincidental or non-coincidental dreams, how often, etc. The stock
objection is that dreams which do not coincide are forgotten. Many
of the letters we are printing, and this one in particular, show that
244 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
there is no such rule. Here is a man who can remember that he had
“ a good many dreams ” of this character, although none of them were
coincidental. Besides, there have been many persons of high intelli­
gence who were certain that they never, or hardly ever, had another
dream of such intense lifelike reality as the one which was coincidental.
Without attempting to qualify for that class I may remark that my four
reported,4I am certain, were never approached in intensity and feeling
of reality by any other of my dreams. And one was not coincidental
at all, yet I remember it with exactly as much clarity as the others.
P bofessob E dwabd E v ebett H ale b also relates an incident
which occurred when he was a boy. He was asked by his brother Her­
bert to go with the latter to skate on a pond. But he declined, “ for
the ice seemed rather dangerous ” and instead went down a road in
another direction toward the seashore, open fields being on either side.
“ I had got about half way to the beach when I heard my brother
behind me calling my name. I stopped and turned round, but could see
nobody. The idea came to my mind that Herbert had gone skating,
had fallen in, had called to me and had been drowned, though of course
I could not have heard him, for it was more than half a mile away. I
paid no attention to the idea, however, but continued toward the beach.
I had got almost there when I again heard my brother behind me
calling my name. In each case the call must have been quite distinct,
for in each case I stopped and turned round and looked back up the
road. This second time I saw nothing, but the idea again occurred to
me that my brother had fallen into the water and been drowned. I paid
no attention to it, however, but went on to the beach, stayed there a
while, and came back to the house. My brother had been skating, but
he had not fallen into the water, had not called me (or thought of me)
and had not been drowned. The two calls which I heard were appar­
ently matters of the imagination, though I had not been conscious of
thinking about him at all.”
In response to queries, Professor Hale confirmed the impressions
that his statement had made, that (1) the voice hallucination did not
induce any conviction that his brother was drowned, but only the
thought that he might be. (His continuing the journey to the seaside
would indicate this.) (2) That there was no particular emotional
accompaniment.
4 “ Four Peculiarly Characterized Dreams,” Journal A. S. P. R., XVII, 82-101.
8See page 267.
ARGUMENT FROM NEGATIVED “ PREMONITIONS ” 245
The key to this experience, probably, is in the words “ for the ice
seemed rather dangerous.” If dangerous to one so that he declined,
there would certainly be consciousness that it was dangerous to the
other. It is well recognized that anxiety may induce hallucinations.
Phantasm# of the Living has several pages devoted to anxiety-
hallucinations.
“A sister in trouble about her brother who has had an accident,
hears the words, *Your brother is dead.’ A mother nursing her son
in a dangerous crisis hears an imaginary voice say, ‘You can’t save
him.’ . . . The fact that the anxiety may not have been actually
dominating the consciousness at the moment of the hallucination can­
not be held to remove the probability (such as it is) that the hal­
lucination was subjectively caused, for it is the rule rather than the
exception for hallucinations which can be at all connected with previous
experience to be developed from ideas that are quite latent.” (I, 509.)
Here we have Professor Hale’s experience classified. Although
anxiety was not in his conscious mind, yet it was subconsciously felt
just sufficiently to produce a hallucination of his brother’s voice, as if
it were calling to him for help, but not sufficiently emotional or con­
vincing to cause him to do more than to look around. Thus the inci­
dent is in strong contrast with many others, where the subject
experiences a sense of emotional conviction sufficient to make him hurry
to the spot and find that a death or casualty has happened. To the
extent that the boy was right in thinking that the ice was unsafe, a
real accident was likely, therefore if Herbert had been drowned that
afternoon his brother’s experience could count for little as evidence,
unless the moment’s hallucination exactly corresponded with that of
the disaster, in which case it would have some, but very much less than
if he had been ignorant that Herbert was skating, and that the ice
appeared to be in a dangerous condition.
Thus the authors of Phantasms of the Living (I, 509n) refuse to
accept as evidence the case of a woman who woke to see the apparition
of her brother who was really killed that morning, since she knew of
the impending battle in which he was to take part.6
8The case (I, 443) of a woman who had a vision of her husband carried off the
field wounded, at approximately the time when this occurred, is accepted since she
also had an auditory hallucination of his voice saying, “ Take this ring off my finger,
and send it to my wife,” which, according to the testimony of one of the men who
carried off the wounded man, and of the latter, Gen. Richardson, himself, was actu­
ally what he said.
246 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
P rofessor C. D. L ockwood, A.B., M.D., who holds down the chair
of Surgery at the University of Southern California (Union Liberal
Church), writes:
“ On several occasions I have had premonitions that death was
imminent, but these fears have always proven fallacious. I have never
observed that the laws of physiology or psychology were in any way
modified by the peculiar belief or so-called experiences of my patients,
and I must therefore conclude, after years of careful and sympathetic
observation, that the laws of physiological psychology are in no way
modified by unusual psychic experiences.”
In reply to queries he adds:
“ These premonitions were very vivid in character, and depressed
me greatly for many days. I was contemplating a trip which involved
considerable dangers, and feared I might be assassinated. The only
cause I could ascribe for these premonitions was the nature of my mis­
sion on the contemplated journey and the fact that I had previously
been under suspicion as an enemy in the section of the country where
I was going.”
Dr. Lockwood’s instances have little more bearing upon the ques­
tion whether there are true premonitions than has a child’s fear in the
presence of a menacing dog. His feelings before the journey are suffi­
ciently accounted for as the reflex of his knowledge that he had been
suspected as an enemy in the very region where he meant to go and
that he was encountering actual danger. Had he actually been killed
on that journey his previous feelings, being thus accounted for, would
not have made it a case for psychic research.
No one who claims that “ laws,” whether of physiology, psychol-
ogy, physics or nature, would be “ modified ” or “ interfered with ” by
psychic experiences has, to my knowledge, made it clear what he means,
and I doubt if any such person has his meaning clear in his own mind.
Much pondering upon these claims has not revealed to me such a
result any more than that if a spider crept into the midst of a delicate
piece of apparatus and affected its operations, this would modify or
interfere with the laws of mechanics. To be consistent with such talk
it should be held impossible, or obnoxious, or at least “ interference,”
for any physical effect to be initiated by human intelligence and will,
but every human being and every animal is constantly bringing about
physical effects which would not have taken place except for such in­
telligence and purposefulness as he or it exercises. The chain of phys-
ARGUMENT FROM NEGATIVED “ PREMONITIONS ” 247
ical causes and effects is complete, to be sure, and yet intelligence and
will get in and choose the links. Not without them would an aeroplane
come into existence, nor a man present the deceptive appearance of
defying the law of gravity, in a million years. It is an absolute mys­
tery today why the thought that it is desirable that the arm should
lift is followed by its actual lifting; there seems to be a link missing,
and we vainly seek to discover it. We are accustomed to such facts—
that is all. My own experience has been rather barren of the sight of
tables and chairs rising without physical contact, but if it should be
proved to scientific men generally that these events occur, then laws
would be discovered or imagined just as successfully, or unsuccessfully,
to account for them as for the everyday effects of human will and in­
telligence upon—its interference with, if you please—matter.
The professors awe laymen with that word “ laws,” but must smile
to each other as did the augurs of Rome. For they know that some of
the “ laws ” of yesterday are not “ laws ” today, and that some which
reign today in scientific thinking will yield the scepter tomorrow. For
laws are nothing more nor less than current views as to what the invari­
able uniformities of nature are. As Webster puts it: A law is “ a
statement of an order or relation of phenomena which, so far as is
known [my italics], is invariable under the given conditions.”
Let us read what a learned physiologist, W. H. Manwaring, pro­
fessor of bacteriology and experimental pathology in Stanford Uni­
versity, has recently said 7 about basic discoveries which have within
twenty years altered “ laws,” or at least enlarged their number, and
made the formerly impossible, possible. He refers first to physical
science generally, and then to physiological science.
“About twenty-five years ago there were introduced into certain
fields of physical science radically new basic concepts, particularly in
reference to atomic structure and radiant energy. Within one decade
the general acceptance of these new hypotheses rendered obsolete a
thousand previous conscientious researches. For two decades the new
theories have been the accepted basis for a hundred hitherto impossible
practical applications. Today we are apparently at the beginning of
a similar basic revolution in certain biological sciences, particularly in
those fields of physiology and biochemistry bearing on the phenomena
of infection and bodily resistance.
“ Within the last five years there have been introduced in America,
Germany, Russia, France and Czecho-Slovakia radically new immuno­
chemical hypotheses, which, if generally accepted, will render inconclu-
7 Science, July 11, 1930.
248 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
sive half of forty years’ accumulated immunological literature. The
suggested theory of biochemistry relativity casts doubt on a hundred
current therapies, challenges a score of physiological orthodoxies, sug­
gests a new perspective in ecology and genetics, has invaded the field
of educational psychology and has already led to at least one previous
chemical impossibility ”
M e . R ichaed F. M aynaed, A.B., Portrait Painter and short story
writer, sends an instance of supposed and frustrated “ premonition.”
“ One evening I was alone in my studio when I had a premonition
that a model who had been posing for me was in trouble of some kind.
I thought this was absurd and that I should pay no attention to it, but
the feeling that the girl was in distress or was ill persisted and I could
not shake it off. Finally I decided to give in to my premonition, and
call her up on the telephone. I was considerably relieved to hear her
voice. She seemed not a little surprised at my inquiry, and said she
was perfectly all right and there was nothing the matter at all.”
Mr. Maynard could not be expected to know that, even if the girl
had telephoned that she was in trouble, the incident would not be reck­
oned by psychic research as evidential for “ premonition ” or “ moni­
tion ” or telepathy. Suppose she were and had been for days in a
condition of despondency because jilted by her lover, with all effort to
appear as usual, it is quite likely that the artist might perceive some
change in her face and in her tones and manner. He would put the
thought away, beguiled by her artificial gaiety, and forget it, but it
would still linger in his subconsciousness and be worked over there.
Then, at ease in his studio, perhaps in a reverie over his pipe, some­
thing reminds him of this girl and in the passive state of his mind that
feeling that she is in trouble comes up. That would be the probable
though not certain explanation. Even if the girl committed suicide a
few days after her telephone reply (since people do not always
acknowledge their trouble, especially if it relates to a love affair) the
incident would remain very doubtful as evidence. If she were at the
moment the artist telephoned on the point of suicide, it would have
some weight, on account of the close temporal coincidence. These
principles are always kept in mind in any careful comment on cases
(witness such works as Human Personality and Phantasms of the
Living).
An apparition of a person or a vivid dream of the person’s death
counts for nothing if the seer or dreamer knows that the person is
ARGUMENT FROM NEGATIVED « PREMONITIONS ” 249
expected to die within a few days, and the death in fact comes a few
days later. If the death is coincidental in time with the vision or
dream, the incident has weight, but nothing to what there would have
been in the absence of any knowledge of sickness.
P kofessob S. C. S chmuckeb, M.S., P h .D ., for many years in­
structor of Biology in State Normal Schools, relates two frustrated
“ premonitions.”
“At fifteen, while very low with pneumonia, a ‘ghost ’ appeared
and pointed in my face. It was laughed over when I awoke from the
delirium or sleep (whichever it was) and I had no bad effect from it.
“ While my mother was an invalid in a town some distance away I
awakened with the clear impression of my name being called in my
mother’s voice. I noted the hour and wrote next day to her nurse, who
reported a comfortable night and no change.
“ If either of the above had *turned out ’—that is, if I had died
shortly before first, or mother had died after second—they would be
considered good testimony.”
Letter to Professor Schmucker:
“ It is quite true that both incidents would have been regarded as
*good testimony,’ if they had ‘ turned out ’; that is to say, they would
have been so regarded by some people. But it is quite a revelation to
me that men of such high intelligence as yourself should be under the
impression that the incidents would have passed as good evidence with
scientific psychic researchers, or, if you happen to be among those who
think there *ain’t no such animal,’ then let us say, the more nearly
scientific psychic researchers. I refer to such men as the late F. W.
H. Myers, Dr. Hodgson, Dr. Hyslop, and, if I may venture to say so,
myself.
“ Let me tell you what I would have been compelled to say, as I
have similarly said in print regarding so many instances.
“ 1. It is well known that in fevers and certain other forms of
disease, visual and other hallucinations are very common. The appear­
ance of faces is a frequent pathological symptom. That being the case,
how could death, another consequence of the illness, make the first one
evidential? No one with any scientific acumen thinks that a death-bed
vision, in and of itself, is proof, though we sometimes wonder, consider­
ing the cases where the mind seems otherwise unclouded, whether there
is anything veridical about some of these. Where it had been carefully
concealed from a little girl doomed to die that her young friend in
250 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
another house was already dead, and the former, while dying, cried out
with joy, saying that Milly was there before her, we come nearer evi­
dence. But there is a flaw even in that case.
“ 2. You may search Phantasms of the Living and Myers’s great
book from end to end, and I do not think you will find a case like your
second one which was regarded as ‘ good testimony.’ Whether or not
you remember yourself as being in a condition of anxiety for your
mother, known to be ill, it would have been presumed that you were so,
and that this could account for the dream of your name being called by
your mother, which woke you with the impression that your name had
been called. Once I found that you were aware of your mother’s
illness, I should regard the incident as but slightly evidential, even if
your mother had died. Had it proved that she died within the hour, I
should give it some weight, but very little compared with what would
have been the case had you known nothing about her illness.”
P rofessor W illiam S. T aylor, M.S., Ph.D., of the department
of Philosophy at the University of Maine and writer on psychology,
furnishes the following interesting incident:
“ I awoke one morning, apparently from a dream, with a surpris­
ingly strong and definite feeling that something tragic had happened
at my parental home; but whether it concerned my father, or mother,
or brother, or sister, I could not tell. As I was somewhat interested in
the psychology of evidence, I resolved to make a written memorandum
of this *premonition ’ and see whether it was borne out by any word
that came from home.
“ The memorandum, however, I failed to make; and the incident
passed from my mind. But about a week later, in class, when a student
asked ‘how the psychologists explain it when you dream of something
and it really does come true,’ I was reminded, with a shock, of my care­
lessness in not recording my own dream; for I had the strong feeling
that had I not been reminded in this way, and before many more days
had elapsed, I would have forgotten the incident altogether. This, I
think, would have been an unfortunate loss of a negative instance,
because as a matter of fact nothing unusual had happened at home, nor
has any calamity befallen the family during the two years that have
elapsed since that time.”
The substance of queries addressed to Professor Taylor and his
replies:
“ 1. Did your dream distinctly refer to any event which you re-
ARGUMENT FROM NEGATIVED “ PREMONITIONS ” 251
membered, or do I understand you correctly to mean that you only
woke with a feeling apparently based upon some forgotten dream? ”
Ana. “ The latter.”
“ 2. If you did not remember the substance of the dream, and that
dream really concerned some person of whom you were fond, not a
relative, might it not be that the depth of the feeling would suggest to
you by secondary elaboration that the dream probably concerned one
of your immediate family? ” Ana. “ Yes.”
“ 3. Would it not be theoretically possible that the dream was the
reflex of a telepathic impression of some kind of mental suffering on
the part of a relative or friend, not necessarily of a disastrous event?
(I am not seeking to make the dream evidential—of course it was not.
But we are so used to applying every kind of obstructive hypothesis to
an apparently strong coincidental case that it seems to me only fair
that we should apply counter-hypotheses to negative dreams also.)”
Ana. “ True.”
“ 4. Did you ask members of the family whether at that time for
any reason there was coincidentally any strong emotional perturba­
tion? (On the basis of other apparently telepathic cases it would be
more likely that such emotion concerned you, that your mother, for
instance, for some reason was thinking strongly of and perhaps worry­
ing about you. Even if you asked, it would be quite possible that the
fact was not remembered or that one was reticent about it.)” Ans.
“ I did not ask. It may have been true.”
“ 5. I am interested in negative incidents. I do not think a dozen
negative cases of a definite source weigh much against a striking cor­
respondence between dream and fact practically contemporaneous.
Do you?” Ana. “ No.”
“ Even when the dream is definite, a lack of correspondence between
it and fact does not mathematically weigh much against a case where
the dream does correspond with the fact. You of course see this. An
analogy is the fact that guessing right a card drawn from a pack of
cards has only one chance out of fifty-two of succeeding, whereas the
chance of guessing wrong has fifty-one chances out of fifty-two.”
Ana. “ True.”
“ On the other hand, it is of course difficult to prove that the most
perfect coincidence is not a chance one. Even a tentative conclusion
must rest on a very comprehensive and protracted study with an ap­
plication of delicate mathematics such as was employed by English
scholars in Phantasma of the Living.”
There is no evasion or unwillingness to face the logic of the situ­
ation, with Professor Taylor.
252 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
J. J. T homas, M.D., A.M., associate professor of Neurology at
Harvard Graduate School of Medicine, etc., recounts:
“ When about eighteen years, was in country with mother, two sis­
ters, whom mother called home by illness of father. This did not alarm
me, as illness was not severe. On second or third day of mother’s
absence, about 3 p . m., was reading an interesting book under a tree
near house, when I heard my name called loudly in my mother’s voice,
so I started up and called back in reply, at once, not realizing her
absence—so startling I made a note of this day and hour, and on her
return asked my mother if she had called me, or wanted me much. Got
the reply that she had not thought of me in any such way, nor needed
help at any time during her absence.”
In response to queries, Dr. Thomas added that he is confident that
the experience was a hallucination, not an illusion; also that he was in
excellent health, not fatigued, anxious or perturbed about anything.
But psychologists and neurologists who remind us that (as we our­
selves insist) memory of a state of mind experienced thirty or forty
years ago must be regarded with some reserve, will not refuse to take
their own medicine. It seems quite possible that time may have dimmed
the recollection of a real anxiety when the mother was called home on
account of the illness of the father, an anxiety reasoned with and put
out of view, and hence the more likely to play tricks from the subcon­
scious to which it was relegated. In that case, the incident would
classify with similar auditory hallucination of Professor Hale, and the
remarks made about that would apply here.
Dr. C. A., a prominent Physician, remembers that
“A colleague once drummed with his fingers on the footboard of
my bed when I was sleeping, imitating the sound of a galloping horse.
When I awoke he stated that he was trying to make me dream of gal­
loping horses. I had such a dream while he was drumming, but I think
the dream was produced by the sound rather than by his mental
effort.”
The annotator agrees with the doctor in his conclusion. It is an
interesting instance of dream interpretation, and a tribute to the imi­
tative skill of the drummer.
The doctor goes on:
“ Very much to my annoyance, I was once prevented from making
ARGUMENT FROM NEGATIVED “ PREMONITIONS ” 253
a sea trip by circumstances beyond my control. I was very greatly
disappointed because I could not make this trip, but I had absolutely
no premonition that something might happen. On the morning follow­
ing the day the steamer sailed, I read an Associated Press dispatch
stating that the steamer had sunk, and giving details.”
Presumably the witness implies that being deterred by a “ pre­
monition ” from embarking on a steamer, and being prevented by one
of the thousand possible accidents of life are logically equivalent
as relates to the subsequent sinking of the steamer. I do not think
that they could, in any case, be quite equivalent, since probably a large
steamer never starts on a voyage without leaving on land a number of
persons who for one commonplace reason or other have relinquished
their purpose to take passage, while staying off because of some sudden
impression of impending danger to the vessel is probably rare, although
we have no statistics to prove this.
Of course, demonstration of the significance of such purported
premonitions cannot be attained, if at all, short of the accumulation
of a vast number of cases, carefully analyzed, and mathematically
tested as to chance probabilities in relation to time, etc. But it is pos­
sible for a single case of seeming premonition to be so complex and
characteristic in its coincidences with an impending event as to bring
the question whether it has not normal significance fairly before the
mind. Take the case narrated in the Journal A. S. P. R. for 1923,
pp. 86-89. The witness has no recollection of dreaming either before
or afterward about any railroad accident. But this time he had a
dream involving (1) a collision of railroad trains, (2) in a tunnel,
(3) one train only in motion, (4) the stationary train just protruding
from the opening of the tunnel, (5) a rear-end collision, (6) the
killing or at least injuring of people at the first impact, (7) the added
horror of fire or hot steam as indicated by dense clouds, (8) the con­
sequent further damage to human beings, (9) the fact that men rushed
in with axes to cut away the wreckage and make rescues before the
clouds broke forth from which they shrank. Every particular cor­
responded with the newspaper account next day, and two more fea­
tures must be added: (10) temporal proximity, the tragedy occurring
less than six hours after the dream, and (11) comparative spatial
proximity, the tragedy occurring not in some foreign land or remote
part of the country, but seventy-five miles away, at a place familiar
to the dreamer. An additional factor which adds to the suspicion that
something more than chance may have been involved is the fearful
254 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
vividness of the dream, so great that for many minutes after waking
the after-effect of the frenzied screams seemed still to be heard, and the
dream has remained in memory as a real event would do. The still
other fact that this witness has had exactly four dreams characterized
by such vividness, and thus remaining in memory, as would actual
events, and that another of these was equally marked by coincidences
of unusual character, including proximities of time and place, causes
one the more to ponder. Those who suppose that the dreams were
remembered as real events only because they happened to coincide with
realities should take note that one of the four which stand out in the
witness’s memory as a class apart because of their awful vividness,
had no known counterpart in actuality. Seven years have passed
since these four dreams were published, there have been no more of
that class, and the witness hereby declares his firm conviction that he
never could have had a dream so marked by vividness and tremendous
emotional stress, and have forgotten it.
Would Dr. C. A., after deliberation, conclude that his failure,
owing to “ circumstances ” to take passage in the vessel which sank
within a day afterward, could counterbalance a dream of the vessel
sinking, with many particulars, afterwards realized in order and
detail ?
Ma. C. B., an A.M., in the United States Forest Service (Congre-
gationalist), writes a letter, the substance of which follows:
As a boy he was cared for after the death of his mother by one
Sarah, to whom he continued to feel affection, and she spent her last
years in his brother’s home. When she was old, and known by him to
be in feeble health and “ liable to pass out most any time,” and at a
time when he was doing a surveying job, one night he dreamed, “ real­
istically,” that she was dead. The next day, in the deep woods, he and
others heard a shout repeatedly, traveling from north to south. After
the sounds ceased, it occurred to him that someone might be trying to
locate him and inform him that Sarah was dead. Again the shouting
sounds began, this time traveling northward. It dawned upon him
that they were moving faster than a man could travel. And then he
remembered hearing, years before, a wounded bear uttering cries which
could not be distinguished from those of a man. Nothing happened to
Sarah at this time.
“ Thought transference, dream warnings, etc., there may all be for
all I know. Had my daylight surmises proved true, no doubt I should
ARGUMENT FROM NEGATIVED “ PREMONITIONS ” 255
have been a believer in dream warnings at least. I suspect that numer­
ous beliefs of that kind have arisen from unusual circumstances and
coincidences.”
It is quite true that unsophisticated and simple persons have often
assigned to merely “ unusual circumstances and coincidences ” signifi­
cance beyond any logical warrant. But had Sarah died about that
time and had the shouts been those of a man, this case would not have
been regarded a strong one by psychic research. Of course the shouts
of the man would add nothing to it, since his coming would have been
the normal sequence of the death. And since Mr. C. B. knew that
Sarah was feeble and “ liable to pass out most any time,” his thinking
about it or rather his trying not to think about it, would tend to bring
on the dream. Had she died at that very hour, a small evidential
value would have attached;8 had she died only within a day or two,
the value would have been very little indeed.
In the next volume a case will be given where the narrator did
not know of illness or likelihood of dying, where death did occur and
coincide in time, and where messengers did go to the woods.
P rofessor C. C., a Ph.D. and university teacher of Mathematics,
says:
“ I have had premonitions of accidents or death happening to rela­
tives, always finding that no sort of harm has come to them at or near
the time of premonitions. On the other hand, relatives or near friends
have died without my having had any premonitions.”
In a later letter he says:
“ I ought to preface any statements by giving you this much of an
idea of my background. Mathematical training has given me a rather
unusually rigorous conception of what evidence and proof should be,
and perhaps a skeptical tendency. On the other hand, I think it has
also given me an instinct for fair play, and a wish to consider all
possibilities.
“ Still, I remember being impressed by a remark of Woodrow Wil­
son’s, in his course in jurisprudence which I attended while a student
at Princeton. He remarked that the favorable cases of premonitions
8 Of course I mean as one of a mass of cases; no case taken alone, no matter how
many and how extraordinary the coinciding particulars, can be proof of anything
soever.
256 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
were usually recorded and given currency, while little attention is given
to cases in which nothing happened to correspond to the premonitions.
“As to my actual experiences, they have none of them been recent.
I do recall the fact, however, of three or four times having the feeling
come over me with pretty convincing force that something serious had
happened to my father, a brother, or my wife (in each case to a spe­
cific person dear to me). In fact, the experience was sufficiently vivid
to make me remember it for a long time, and to remember the fact of
its occurrence today. In no case was there any occurrence to justify
the premonition. These were waking experiences, and came without
my thinking, at the moment, of the person involved. I have had more
or less frequent dreams that injury has come to a loved one, though I
recall none recently. Such dreams were always vivid, and resulted in
a great feeling of relief upon awakening, and upon realizing that they
were but dreams.
“ Dreams of a different character have been those in which a dead
person was alive in my dream. This has frequently occurred—and I
think it has been invariably my father who was concerned. I adored
my father, in spite of some faults I saw in him. Sometimes in the
dreams these faults would be accentuated, and sometimes they would
be prominently absent. Usually, he would appear as he had in the
flesh.”
The professor was impressed by the remark he heard, “ that the
favorable cases of premonitions were usually recorded and given cur­
rency, while little attention was given to cases in which nothing hap­
pened to correspond.” That remark had been, in substance, made by
various people many times before, and has been made many times
since. Yet it lacks little of being “ merely an article of faith.” From
long experience I know that, alas! favorable cases are not “ usually ”
recorded, and that at least three out of four are withheld from publi­
cation and from any use by a student of psychic research. And it is a
bit droll to read approval of the view that non-correspondent cases
are given little attention in the same letter which so distinctly states
that the writer remembers many experiences, none of which had any
external counterpart.
If I were to guess, it would be that Professor C. C. passed through
some very emotional and trying experience in his early life, most likely
his childhood, involving an injury to a relative or dear friend, or the
fear of it, and when, in subsequent years, anxious about anything, not
necessarily a person, and at the same time one of his family was away
subject to possible danger, that anxiety was liable to stir up the sub­
conscious elements of the old shock, and result in a feeling as of im-
ARGUMENT FROM NEGATIVED “ PREMONITIONS ” 257
pending injury or misfortune bubbling up into the conscious. Of
course there would not be any logical implication that such was to be
expected in fact. And yet, although the number of these apprehensive
episodes would weaken the force of any coinciding instance, I suspect
that if, just once, the professor had a “ premonition,” so detailed and
so immediately realized as many which have been set down by respon­
sible persons and in some cases amply corroborated, he would be im­
pressed, though perhaps not convinced, the rest of his days. For
example, if he found himself in a reverie after waking in the morning,
thinking what a pity it was that a statue had fallen and broken during
the night, and odd that the head should have been so neatly knocked
off and no fracture anywhere else, and later had gone into the garden,
not visible from any window to which he had access, and, realizing that
he could not have walked there in his sleep without being soaked by
the rain, found the statue just as he had seen it.9 Or if he had been
wakened by the auditory hallucination of hearing his daughter-in-law
say, “ Oh, I wish papa only knew that Robert is ill,” and it proved that
Robert was dangerously ill on that night three hundred miles away,
and his daughter-in-law did utter those words.10 Or if he dreamed that
he saw his father on a sledge attempting to pass a cross-road, and
another traveler coming at right angles so near that his horse reared
with his hoofs above the father’s head, and learned in the morning from
two witnesses that this was exactly what happened during the night.1
1
And incidentally, the dreamer testifies that she is not, like the pro­
fessor, in the habit of visioning horrors about her relatives. “ I have
never had any other dream of this kind, nor do I remember ever to
have had a dream of an accident happening to any one in whom I was
interested.” She does not declare that certainly she never once had
dreamed of an accident, etc. Will the professor, who remembers his
unfulfilled day dreams and night dreams be the one to say that this
intelligent witness probably had many such but forgot them?
Judging by the remarks of a number of learned gentlemen, they
have the notion that a coinciding dream or apparition is balanced by
one which fails to coincide. This is curious, but it is surprising that
a professor of mathematics should suppose that his experience of
having had, “ three or four times ” the feeling come over him that
something serious had happened to a particular relative when in fact
nothing of the kind corresponded, has any appreciable bearing in rela-
9 Human Personality, I, 381.
10 Human Personality, I, 396. T he am ply-corroborated statem ent of the R t. H on.
Sir John Drummond H ay. 11 lb., I, 395.
258 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
tion to a definite factual and temporal coincidence. And yet he would
laugh if from a bag containing a hundred marbles he three times in
succession drew the one black marble, and some one else should say,
“ That signifies nothing; I drew twenty times yesterday and never got
the black marble once.” He would instantly recognize the fact that
since the objector’s total bad results were according to expectation
4 to 1, the results of his own trials were against expectation to the
degree that there was 1 chance in 1,000,000 of achieving it, and that
the twenty failures of the other man, as set over against his result,
would not appreciably affect it.
Again, the professor’s so-called “ premonitions ” consisted each, it
appears, of a feeling that something serious had happened to some
specific person. As I have hinted, it is likely that, if he were psycho­
analyzed, his tendency to have such recurrent feelings could be ex­
plained. But at any rate, the failure of his feeling, in three or four
instances, that something had happened, weighs practically nothing
against such an instance as that beginning on page 424, volume I of
Human Personality, and told by another college professor. His wife
woke terrified and told him that she had seen in a dream her headless
brother standing with his head lying on a coffin. She was so impressed
that she looked for sad news of her brother, about whose movements
she had no knowledge to cause apprehension. And it proved that a
Chinaman cut off her brother’s head at or very close to the hour of the
dream, and, furthermore, that only his head was recovered by his
friends who, of course, buried it.
If a hundred professors should every one three or four times feel
as though something serious had happened to somebody, the total of
all these feelings would weigh almost nothing against this one definite,
complex and supremely unlikely coincidence of the fact with the
dream. The principle governing the marble-drawing illustration would
apply, although of course we can here make no exact mathematical
measurement.
The correspondence closed with a request on the part of the
commentator:
“ Would you be willing to read fifteen pages of a book I will loan
you, prepaying return postage, and to give your opinion as to the
mathematical weight of the evidence on the supposition that my ex­
periment was without flaw or to point out any flaw in the methodology
of the experiment which you can either see or theoretically assume
short of my consciously lying?
ARGUMENT FROM NEGATIVED “ PREMONITIONS ” 259
“ Please do not let the expression *give your opinion as to the
mathematical weight ’ frighten you. I do not mean that it calls for a
lot of time and effort on your part, or that it admits of any exact
mathematical valuation. But it does, within limits, and I think an
opinion could be formed without much trouble, and it is possible that
you might find the case interesting enough to warrant that very little
pains. I am not seeking your opinion to publish it with your name.”
It was thought that the professor’s expressed “ wish to consider
all possibilities ” might make the opportunity offered a welcome one.
But this was evidently not the case.
P rofessor C. D., an M.S. and Ph.D., college professor of Mathe­
matics (Presbyterian), says:
“ Recently dreamed that there was a hole in leg of my trousers.
While brushing myself the following morning, before starting to my
office, I looked down and found that the cloth in knee of my trousers
was worn entirely through. I exclaimed to my wife, telling her of my
dream of just a few hours before.
“As a death in the family next door engaged my attention, I paid
so little attention to the matter that I cannot recall whether or not the
details of the dream very closely coincided with the reality (as to char­
acter of hole, etc.). The only point I have in mind is this: If the
coincidence had occurred in connection with some important event (like
a death) it would have been remembered as a very striking and impor­
tant incident.”
Letter of W. F. P. to Professor C. D .:
“ I don’t think your parallel holds good.
“ 1. A particular person dies but once, while one has a hole in the
knee of his trousers perhaps a hundred times in a lifetime.
“ 2. And (far more important) your dream probably did not cor­
respond with the fact by mere coincidence, but was caused by having
taken abstracted or subconscious note of the hole before the dream.
That is, there was a normal causal factor. But what would be the
normal causal factor in dreaming a person was dead or in seeing his
apparition the moment he died, there having been no knowledge of
danger?
“ No scientific psychical researcher supposes that one or a dozen
even such cases prove a supernormal causal relation, but they may be
too many statistically to be credible as mere coincidences. That is
one of the things we are trying to learn.
260 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ If you have any criticism to make I should be glad to learn
wherein my reasoning is faulty.”
P rofessor C. E., a Ph.D. and former university professor of
Mathematics, now of Vital Statistics, author on his subject, has also
had what he thinks ought to have been “ premonitions,” if there are
such things:
“ I have had a few striking incidents which would have been treated
as *psychic ’ by bad statisticians and credulous folk if it had not
happened that the coincidences failed to occur or the premonitions to
be justified by events.”
Response:
“ So long as I am studying the possibilities of illusion, hallucina­
tion, delusion, erroneous inference, the possibilities of chance, etc., etc.,
with as much interest as I study cases which present problems of a very
different character, I would have been glad if you had described the
striking incidents which some bad statisticians and credulous folks
would have treated as *psychic,’ in case there had been factual coinci­
dences. There is no question whatever that bad statisticians and
credulous folk are inclined to reason from very insufficient premises and
in entire disregard of mathematics. I have shown this in print many
times, and am always glad to get new instances. Even if there are
apparent premonitions as judged by after events, it does not neces­
sarily follow that there was any real premonition. Many particulars
have to be taken into consideration, and no one case could prove any­
thing. It is all a matter of evidence and logic, like anything else.
This subject does not stand alone in being one where some people judge
rashly and foolishly. That there are facts and experiences which the
principles of science as now understood do not fully explain I person­
ally have no doubt, but I did not come to this conclusion until after
many years of inspection of the evidence. I am not impatient with
any one who differs with me, knowing every man has his specialty and'
scarcely time for anything else. I do think that it would pay, in times
of leisure, to look at some of the real evidence.”
The professor did not furnish any instances, so we may not know
what sort of day dreams or night dreams, worries or inferences he
thinks psychical researchers should think “ premonitions,” the non-
fulfilment of which hopelessly damns all our evidence under that head.
IV. THE COINCIDENCE ARGUMENT
The plea that coincidence is the great solvent of the purportedly
psychic crops up incidentally in other sections; it is most prominently
displayed in this. Professor Hale really offers no plea, but simply
hands over two incidents, and agrees that they are probably due in
the one case to chance coincidence, and in the other to apprehension
for reasonable cause.
M r. D. A., an A.M. and Botanist, writer on his specialty (Congre-
gationalist), gives his opinion:
“ I have never known of any experiences on the part of others or in
my own experience that could not be fully explained by known natural
laws. I do not believe that there are any such events.”
•-••
•
•
'*
» s
'- C
J
To which the annotator replied, after the usual courteous
preliminaries:
“ 1. Have you become familiar with the evidence reported in the
Proceedings of the [London] Society for Psychical Research; have
you read the books of Sir William Barrett, Myers’s Human Person­
ality, Holt’s Cosmic Relations, Thomas’s Some New Evidence for
Human Survival, Pagenstecher’s Past Events Seership, Warcolier’s
La Telepathie, or any even of my own books and reports, or anything
at all equivalent in rating?
“ 2. Assuming that a woman of intelligence and good standing,
while fully awake, for once in her life sees an apparition, or rather the
apparitions of her deceased father and of her brother then upon a war
vessel in the North Sea, relates the vision to her mother and sister the
same day, and later it is ascertained that on that day and that hour
the brother, at the moment that an enemy’s torpedo seemed to be
about to strike his ship, saw the apparition of his father beside him, in
accordance with what known natural law would you explain it? Note
that this question is put in a hypothetical way and does not call for
any belief on your part that the facts are authentic. You can even
maintain that if they are authentic the explanation is to be found in
what someone called the law of chance coincidence.”
261
262 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
And D. A. responded, in p art:
“ I am not familiar with the books enumerated in your letter, but I
have read a great many articles relating to psychical research.
“ It is my opinion that all psychical occurrences, which are sup­
posed to transcend natural law, may be explained as due either to hal­
lucinations or ‘the law of chance coincidences.’ Hallucinations of
sight and sound are common, and may be induced in various ways.
One is apt to see, as well as believe, what they want to. Conan Doyle
wanted to see fairies, and he tells us that he did so.
“ Remarkable coincidences occur in the life of everyone. Some
years ago my father was reading a newspaper and came upon the Latin
of the sentence, ‘Let the shoemaker stick to his last,’ which he re­
quested me to translate. At the same moment I met with the same
sentence in the book I was reading. Such a coincidence might not
occur again in a million years. Had he been in Europe, and had the
same thought in regard to some mutual friend occurred to both of us
at the same moment, very likely some would have regarded it as a case
of telepathy.
“ The erratic nature of the phenomena and the numerous im­
postors and credulous people connected with them must also receive
consideration.
“ I have not the slightest objection to believing that events occur
which cannot be explained by known natural laws. If there are such
events I should be glad to have proof of them, and I should be glad to
read any evidence you may send to me. Perhaps telepathy is possible.
A recent statement was made in Science to the effect that certain ani­
mals and plants emit waves or rays. But, if they exist at all, they
conform to natural law.”
He has read none of the books mentioned, he has no acquaintance
with the accumulated material of the S. P. R., but he has read a great
many articles, presumably meaning in newspapers and popular maga­
zines ! He is ignorant of the evidential situation, but has his firm
opinion, this being the one branch of research whereon a multitude of
otherwise intelligent men make up their minds without knowing much
about it.
It is quite true that credulity makes some people see things that are
not there, and so does incredulity cause other people to remember
things which never happened. Conan Doyle wrote a book in defense
of fairies, but did not profess to have seen them himself.
It is evident that the incident cited to Mr. D. A. is regarded by him
as due to chance coincidence. Had this been told him as a “ psy-
THE COINCIDENCE ARGUMENT 263
chical ” incident it would be said that probably in the lapse of years
memory had improved it, and that very likely in fact the son had come
across the expression in his reading five minutes or half an hour before
the father asked the question. But only on one side of the line is
memory supposed to play tricks! Yet let us assume that his memory
does not err. Still I do not think that father and son happening at
the same moment upon a frequently-quoted phrase at all ranks with the
man’s having a vision of his father, and at the same time his sister
having a vision of him including the hallucination he saw. Nor do I
for a moment allow that such a coincidence (that is, one of this char­
acter) is likely not to occur again in a million years, whether he means
to anybody in the world or to his father and himself, if they lived so
long. I was once talking with a young Jew who was practically insane
over the supposed significance in his life of certain names, and among
the latter was Franklin. The fact that I bear that name is what
brought him to me. As he entered on one of his calls I laid a reading-
glass, about three inches in diameter, which I had been using, carelessly
upon a newspaper. After he had talked for a while I happened to
glance downward, and there, framed by the rim of the reading-glass,
was the name “ Franklin,” and a line or two below it something about
a Jew. Never for a moment did I think this other than a pure acci­
dent, although a very unusual coincidence, so unusual that I have no
recollection that anything similar to it and comparable in improbabil­
ity ever happened to me at any other time in my life, though I remem­
ber a coincidence as remarkable but of a different type. But if thrice
more, when this man called, there should be found something framed
by the reading-glass as peculiarly significant, I should certainly be
unable to believe it was all chance and should look for a cause. In
other words, my intellect would revolt at the notion that the only four
instances of this kind in my lifetime should be concentrated within a
few weeks, and all when a particular man was present, merely by
chance. It would be more tolerable to think that, all unknown to my
conscious self, I had laboriously searched for passages on which to
lay the glass. And so when out of scores of automatic writers I find
one, Mrs. Soule, who yields the results I reported in Leonard and Soule
Experiments,1 and she again and again and other agains rings the bell
of combinations of statements coinciding with external facts to her
unknown, each against probability in ratios of from 100,000 to 1 up to
11 would not have it inferred that there are not groups of evidential facts in
Mrs. Allison’s sittings reported in the same book. I refer to my own to save time,
since they are more familiarly in my memory.
264 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
billions to 1, I again despair of chance and seek a cause. Going
back to former records of the same lady’s work I come upon the series
of statements purporting to come from the deceased Mrs. Fischer, to­
gether with a purported interruption by Dr. Hodgson. Whoever or
however these statements came, they almost without exception cor­
responded with the long ago facts which took place in a humble house­
hold in a distant city of which the most resolute imagination cannot
suppose that the psychic ever heard. These statements were tried out
upon fifty women, to see what chance would do. On the basis of the
returns, most conservative estimates were made of chance probability
for each of the many statements, everything was cut down to the
quick, and the whole process exposed to the judgment of the reader.
No criticism of the mathematics has ever reached my ears, from saint
or sinner, philosopher or simpleton, or from the most belligerent
skeptic. The chance of getting all the statements right by guess
was conservatively found to be 1 in 4,500,000,000,000,000,000,000,-
000,000,000,000. Almost beyond belief, but true.2
But Mrs. Soule is not the only psychic through whom, under con­
ditions prohibitive of any normal information, I have had these
“ accidental coincidences.” The bell of extraordinary coincidental
groups rang in several of my few experiments with Mrs. King, and
once so loudly that it signaled, as we have seen, one chance out of five
quadrillions at the very least, of getting this result! 3
This is by no means the measure of my results through experiment.
Yet is it not enough to make one stop parroting “ chance ” and begin
to think? Correspondents can tell of one or two very unusual chance
coincidences which have happened to them amid all the uncountable
multitudes of minutiae of their whole lives; of course they can, and so
can I. But in that comparatively small part of my life devoted to
experiments I have had, setting aside all scattered pieces of evidence,
repeatedly these great evidential groups, the valuation of some of
which runs into astronomical figures, and with each new added group
of such enormous antecedent unlikelihood, the absurdity of clinging to
chance for explanation, the necessity of positing some cause or causes,
becomes more patent.
Most true it is that “ the erratic nature of the phenomena ” merits
attention, and they have had it, exactly as in the case with volcanoes
and meteorites and mathematical prodigies. Yes, and “ the numerous
impostors and credulous people ” must receive attention, and were the
2Proceedings A. S. P. R. for 1923. 3Proceedings A. S. P. R. for 1924.
THE COINCIDENCE ARGUMENT 265
botanist familiar with psychic research he would know that its leaders
have been very busy with these considerations for many years.
Mr. D. A. is by no means hide-bound, and at the end of his letter
thinks that telepathy may be possible. Only it must “ conform to
natural law.” What other law is there to conform to? And what do
we mean by conforming to law? The word does not really signify some
force or power outside of and higher than the phenomena of nature
themselves. “ Laws ” is only a convenient but somewhat mythological
term for the uniformities of behavior or action that we discover in
nature. If telepathy is, the ways in which it acts will be its laws, and
of course it will conform to them. But even as the “ laws ” of the
human mind are elusive and hard to define, so, and probably for the
same reason, may be those of telepathy.
Mb. D. B., a noted chemical investigator and author on Chemistry,
B.S., M.Sc., writes:
“ I have never personally seen or heard an entirely credible case
which could not be explained on (1) chance, (2) worry, or similar
mental states or a combination of these. As an example of a curious
coincidence, I once (at an 0 . B. K. meeting) heckled a German-
American exchange professor—about 1909. In 1917, when I went to
register under the draft, the president of my local board (whom I had
never personally met) recalled the incident to me about 9:30 p. m.
That same evening I went to Washington, and next morning about
8 :15 a. m. another man whom I had never met stopped me in the dining­
room of a Washington hotel and also recalled the incident. Both, these
men had been at the 0 . B. K. meeting and believed that my questions
had indicated that I foretold the war. Thus by mere chance, twice in
eleven hours, two men I had never met spoke to me of an incident eight
years old. But there were perfectly good reasons why they should
remember the incident.”
Reply to above:
“As I have in mind commenting upon this testimony, though with­
out giving your name, and I wish to treat everybody with fairness, I
will tell you how this instance strikes me.
“ It seems to me that there is a little confusion of thought here, as
though there were two singular coincidences involved. There cer­
tainly was nothing remarkable in your meeting one man who had been
present at the society meeting years before, nor was there anything
remarkable about this man remembering the incident, as you yourself
266 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
observe, since that was the last previous time you had met him and
his memory would be likely to go back to it. Had that factor existed
alone you would never have thought of anything odd, because there was
nothing odd. The one curious coincidence is in your meeting another
man who had also been present, and while this was curious enough to
attract attention we should certainly expect that a few times in a life­
time such a coincidence should take place by chance. I do not think
that the fact that he also spoke of the society meeting is at all remark­
able, seeing that that occasion was the last time that he, also, had seen
you, and you appear to have furnished a graphic incident on that occa­
sion, one likely to remain in memory. It was, therefore, the most
natural thing that both should speak of that meeting.
“ I have an impression that you will agree with me, but it is prob­
ably your idea that the kind of coincidences which give psychical re­
searchers pause are just as liable to be general coincidences. That is a
perfectly legitimate theory, but I think that it falls down in practice.
Such a case as yours does not weigh much in the balance against the
case of a man who once in a lifetime sees an apparition and it proves
that the person seen died within two minutes at the most of the time
that this apparition was seen. I do not think, however, that any
scientific psychical researchers would think one even such remarkable
instance conclusive. It is the number of such cases that gives rise to
great doubt whether, by mathematical calculation, these coincidences
could be the result of chance.”
It should be added that psychical researchers are alert to discover
any relation which “ worry or a similar mental state ” can possibly
have to a reported incident. I can remember none ever printed as
evidence by, for example, the S. P. R. or B. S. P. R., where the assump­
tion of any such state of mind would have any explanatory force.
When Mrs. Leonard tells a whole series of facts relevant to an unknown
experimenter, how can worry or a similar state of mind, either on her
part or that of the sitter, affect the problem? Conceivably it might
make telepathy easier—that is all—but telepathy itself is “ psychical ”
or supernormal. The same as to her famous book-tests. If a man
sees the apparition of his mother at the hour of her death at a distance,
and it is found that she had been ill but a short time and that he knew
she was desperately ill, then the evidentiality of the apparition is put
almost at the disappearing point. But if the mother was not known to
be ill and for the first and only time in his life the man sees an appari­
tion, and it is of his mother and at the moment of her death, we may
indeed assume that he began to worry at that moment, but the problem
why he suddenly began to worry so intensely that it caused the appari-
THE COINCIDENCE ARGUMENT 267
tion at that coinciding moment, would be exactly as great as the prob­
lem of the unique apparition of the particular person at the particular
moment, in the absence of worry.
P rofessor D. C., a Ph.D. whose university subject is Philosophy,
has “ noticed some rather striking coincidences, explicable without
appeal to supernormal explanation.” Quite so, and who has not?
But he would not relate one of them.
E dward E v erett H a le, Ph.D., professor of English at Union
College, author, supplied a curious coincidence. While walking among
the hills he was naturally reminded of the Biblical passage, “ I will lift
up mine eyes unto the hills.” Returning to his residence, on the way to
his study he passed a case filled with books whose backs had been dam­
aged by fire so that they were unrecognizable. He casually took one
out, and it happened to be a Latin version of the Psalms, and the first
words which met his eyes were “Levavi occulos ad m onticolasthe
Latin of the same passage. The book, which had come from the library
of his father, Rev. Edward Everett Hale, was one he had scarcely ever
looked at.
Extract from a letter by W. F. P. to Professor Hale:
“ I am as interested in steering away from the pitfalls of chance
coincidence, etc., as I am in establishing incidents which seemingly defy
the doctrine of chance. I take it that your interpretation is that this
case must conservatively be treated as a probable one of rather re­
markable chance coincidence. You know the extraordinary one (per­
haps the most extraordinary in history) which may be stated thus:
“ John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, first political foes and then
personal friends for many years, both on the Committee which brought
about the Declaration of Independence
1. Died on the same day.
2. That day was the anniversary of the day when the Declara­
tion of Independence was adopted.
3. And that 4th of July marked exactly one-half century of
independence.
“ I, Walter Ffranklin] Prince, born and then living in Detroit
[Maine], learned of a Walter Ffrancis] Prince, who was on the De­
troit [Mich.] baseball team.
“ Of course, you may have been impelled to take down the book and
open to the passage, but we can hardly urge this. On the other hand,
268 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
I am convinced that there have been many complexly coincidental
cases which cannot reasonably be ascribed to chance.”
To this Professor Hale responded, saying that he fully agreed.
PaoFESsoa D. D., a Ph.D., etc., a Psychologist and President of a
university (Methodist), says:
“A certain type of dream (about dark water, or flood) has occurred
more than once in my father’s experience (deceased 1917) and in my
own, prior to the death, unanticipated, of relatives or friends. How­
ever, I am prone to explain these verified happenings upon the basis of
(1) coincidence, (2) a kind of conditioned reflex, (3) summation-effect
of heads, anxiety, (4) retroactive amnesias.”
The annotator tried to get a fuller and clearer explanation, but
got only the statement that he had had the dream several times prior to
the deaths of relatives and friends, and thinks that they were “ due to
the factors already indicated.”
The professor differs from many people (including myself) in that
their attention has never been attracted to any particular type of
dream as having occurred repeatedly before the unanticipated deaths
of relatives and friends. How an unanticipated death could condition
a previous dream as its reflex, or how anything whatever could time
dreams of a particular type so that they would come just before en­
tirely unexpected deaths, I cannot claim to understand. Nor, although
I can easily understand why dreads and anxieties should produce
dreams of a particular type, is it plain why these should be timed so
as to be the prelude to unanticipated deaths. Of course the professor
has a right to impeach his own memory, but one would think that, being
of scientific trend, and having noted in his own case more than once
coincidences of the same peculiar type related by his father, his atten­
tion would be alert to discover and his memory impressed to retain, any
instances where this type dream was not followed by the death of a
friend or relative. And that his attention being thus attracted, as a
psychologist desirous to know something about his own retroactive
amnesias he would record every such dream. It is doubtful if guesses
furnish better evidence, really, for the negative than they do for the
affirmative of a question.
V. PSYCHIC (?) INCIDENTS EXPLAINED
The reporters of experiences in this section have discovered or are
able to conjecture explanations thereof. It is possible that every one
supposed that, had he not given or conjectured an explanation, his
incident would have been accepted as possessing credentials entitling it
to be regarded as probably psychic in character. Not once, however,
is this the case. In every instance, unless fuller and guarding details
were obtained, any careful psychic researcher would have assumed a
normal explanation, since a normal explanation is not excluded by
the terms of the narration.
P rofessor W illiam H. A llison, Ph.D., who teaches Ecclesiastical
History at Colgate University (Baptist clergyman), sends an illustra­
tion of mental mechanics.
“ The nearest approach [to a psychic incident] was the clear
vision of a landscape as I was sitting on right side of railroad train
looking across the Merrimack River above Hooksett, N. H. I tried to
locate it in my memory. On return trip, later in the day, I recognized
the same landscape (Hooksett Pinnacle) below Hooksett, and on oppo­
site side of train. I had earlier been over that railroad a good many
times, but had not for two years and in the meantime had traveled
extensively in Europe. The two landscapes are perhaps one-half mile
apart. Subconscious association in memory is my explanation of it.”
Dr. Allison’s wording is not entirely clear, and he neglected to
answer the letter asking him to make it so. Presumably he means that
the landscape seen on the return journey was the actual one, previously
seen mentally when about a half a mile from the actual spot. He does
not necessarily imply that psychical researchers would interpret the
experience as a supernormal one, and they certainly would not. Surely,
as he intimates, the scenery above Hooksett roused a subconscious
memory of the Pinnacle, probably the most striking object in its neigh­
borhood, and this rose in his upper consciousness in the form of a
picture.
Neither Myers nor any one governed by his canons of research
would regard the vivid visualizing of a landscape, even if a man experi-
269
270 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
enced it in his arm-chair, wrote down its detailed description at once
and afterward came upon the actual landscape, as “ psychical,” once
it were found that the percipient had visited the spot before. It would
be assumed that some emotional association revived a memory image
so energetically that it became, so to speak, exteriorized.
P ro fe s s o r S a m u e l A v ery , Ph.D., B.Sc., etc., Chancellor emeritus
of the University of Nebraska, chemist and author of technical bulle­
tins, writes:
“ Some eighteen years ago I was riding through a valley in Vir­
ginia when the thought came to me, ‘I am revisiting a familiar
scene ’; yet, I ‘knew ’ that I had never been in Virginia before. For
several days I suffered some mental distress on the subject. At length
I thought it through. I had actually visited, a time or two, a very
similar valley in Germany not far from Heidelberg. In each valley
was a tannery and the odor of the bark created the illusion. Thus a
subtle odor permeating a lovely valley almost created for me a
‘psychic experience.’ ”
This classifies with Professor Allison’s incident. The actual spot
was not close at hand in Chancellor Avery’s case, and he had no
mental picture. But there was a haunting feeling of familiarity.
Probably the visual resemblance would not have been enough to cause
this; there he may have seen a dozen valleys more or less similar.
Olfactory sensations are, at least with some people, powerfully oper­
ative in rousing memories. Thus the odor of tansy always brings to
the mind of the annotator the picture of a spot by a brook where tansy
grew, since he lingered there once when a boy, experiencing emotion
because of the death of a relative.
Even had the writer of the incident not traced the explanation, this
book would have been far from accepting the incident as evidential of
a “ psychic ” quality.
M r. E dgar R ice B urroughs, Novelist, relates that in 1899 he
suffered a blow upon the head, so severe that for a number of weeks
thereafter he saw figures, usually shrouded, standing by his bedside,
at the time fully recognizing that they were hallucinations. It was at
this time that an incident occurred which he thinks due to a subcon­
scious act on his own part.
“ It was my habit at this time to carry my keys, three or four in
PSYCHIC (?) INCIDENTS EXPLAINED 271
number, on a red silk cord about an eighth of an inch in diameter.
The ends of the cord were tied in a hard knot and then cut off so
closely to the knot that the ends were not visible. I had carried my
keys in this way for some time, with the result that the silk, which was
originally of a very bright color, was much darkened by use, though
that portion inside of the knot must have been as fresh and bright as
when first tied.”
One morning, the keys having been in a locked room with him, he
went to get them, and
“ found that one of them had been removed from the cord, though
the knot was still tied in precisely the same way that it had been; the
ends were not protruding, nor was there any of the clean, bright-
colored portion visible. This key could have been removed only by
untying the knot and then retying it precisely as it had been, which
would have been practically impossible for any one to accomplish
without evidence of the knot having been tampered with being apparent.
“ While the above appears to have not much bearing upon the
subject of your investigation, it has suggested to me, when considered
in the light of the fact that it is the only occurrence of its kind in a
lifetime of over fifty years, that much other, perhaps all, so-called
supernatural phenomena are the result of injured or diseased brains.
Prior to my injury I had no hallucinations; subsequent to my recovery
I have had none.”
I do not have to urge that “ practically impossible ” does not mean
the same as “ possible,” for Mr. Burroughs himself thinks that his own
hands performed the act subconsciously, and as the result of a tem­
porarily injured brain. Even had Mr. Burroughs been of another
opinion, that this was a psychical performance, no scientific researcher
would have been convinced. Without further testimony, one would
not have been certain that the whole incident was not a hallucinatory
one, owing to the morbid condition, involving paramnesia of time se­
quences regarding the removal of the key and cutting the ends of the
cord. Nor does the narrative give any assurance that there remained,
on the morning the key was found to be off, any “ clean, bright-colored
portion ” left anywhere on the string. Working on the string to retie
it might have soiled the spots, or this might have been done out of some
subconscious purpose, and the slightly protruding ends cut off and
concealed. Or by a rare good chance in making the knot at first
loosely and then pulling in the ends, it may have settled down on the
272 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
old lines. This would have been a rare chance, but not an impos­
sible one.
Only the other day a lady brought several sheets of paper at the
top of which she had typed words, and she was mystified to find faint
replicas of a part of a line in each case above. She said that persons
familiar with typewriters told her that it was impossible for the ma­
chine to produce such a double effect, and she came to ask me if I could
explain the matter or was it a “ spirit ” phenomenon. I have no idea
how the effect could have been made in the course of the ordinary type­
writing process. But it could easily have been made by shifting the
carriage back to the beginning of a certain word, turning the roller up
for five single spaces, then typing the words again, striking the keys
very gently. The faint replicas in every case were found immediately
above and at the same distance. The lady could have invented the
“ phenomenon ” with the purpose of seeing whether I would accept it
as a heavenly one, or it might be that she executed it in an altered
state of consciousness. I by no means fix on either theory, but neither
am I convinced that there is anything supernormal in the matter.
It is quite pardonable that Mr. Burroughs, presumably not famil­
iar with the data of psychic research, should wonder whether all its
phenomena are not “ the result of injured or diseased brains.” But, in
the first place, the indications are that in but a small percentage of
instances had the subjects of noteworthy phenomena suffered injury,
or were their brains diseased. Mrs. Piper, while she was being investi­
gated, appeared to be quite normal as to health; there is not the least
reason to suppose that Mrs. Soule has not been—barring colds and
other small illnesses, such as few escape, she has seemed the very pic­
ture of mental and physical poise and vitality. Mrs. Leonard made
the impression upon me of being a woman sound and vigorous in mind
and body, and I never heard any rumor contradicting this impression.
Mrs. King, whose astonishingly evidential psychometric work I have
reported, has shown no indication of “ diseased brains.” And even in
cases, reported by critical investigators, where the subject was not in
good neural condition, that condition affords no key to the phenomena,
no possible explanation. Sra. Maria de Z., it is true, was a great
sufferer from insomnia, which may or may not have affected her brain,
although her mentality to all appearances was sound. But were she
as mad as a March hare, how could that fact explain her holding a
sealed envelope containing a note written by a man just before his
ship went down, carrying all its passengers and crew to death, and then
describing, while in hypnotic trance, a scene of terror and confusion
PSYCHIC (?) INCIDENTS EXPLAINED 273
on a crowded deck, correctly describing a man, picturing his tearing
a leaf from a notebook, enclosing it in a bottle and flinging it into the
waves, and finally the going down of the ship? 1 The assumption of
injury to or disease of the brain proceeds not one inch in the direction
of explaining the acquisition of knowledge otherwise than through the
known senses.
Da. L aubence L aF obge, Ph.D., of the United States Geological
Survey (Congregationalist), testifies:
“ When I was a lad of about thirteen and sleeping with a brother
two years younger, we had an identical dream on waking one morning.
As, however, it was a waking dream, and each spoke to the other during
it, it seemed to me entirely probable that the dream was ‘directed ’ by
the circumstances, rather than being due to any metaphysical inter­
communication of brain processes.”
And the commentator entirely agrees with the conclusion.
P bofessob C. A. N eym ann, A.B., M.D., Professor of Psychiatry
in the Northwestern University, has attended numerous so-called
stances held without financial recompense on the part of the medium.
“ These could all be explained as hysterical manifestations. The
pencil rappings were produced by crossing the legs and making the
leather of the medium’s shoes squeak,” etc.
So far as appears, these numerous seances were with one medium.
The annotator has attended hundreds of sittings with dozens of me­
diums of which it could be said that “ all could be explained as hyster­
ical manifestations, and many more where all could be explained as
fraudulent manifestations. And he has had many experiments with a
comparatively few mediums, of which neither could be said. The
method of producing fake raps (presumably “ pencil rappings ” means
sounds like the tapping of a pencil) stated above is one of the clumsiest
of dozens.
P bofessob F. C. P bescott, A.B., of the department of English at
Cornell University, author (Episcopalian), relates:
1See Dr. Pagenstecher's “ Past Events Seership ” in Proceedings A. S. P. R.,
XVI, also Prince’s report of experiments with the Senora, lb., XV. Both present
many other evidential results.
274 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ Some twenty-one years ago I was called home by the very serious
illness of my brother. I had not been at home for a year or two. On
arrival (twenty-four hours before his death) I learned that he had had
a brain lesion and was only dimly conscious. As it was late at night
he had not been told of my coming and I was not to see him until the
next morning. I went upstairs to bed in a room next his, and as I did
so heard him calling my name in what seemed to me a tone of surprise
and dismay. This, which seemed very strange at the moment, might be
explained by supposing that, though I entered by a distant door, he
had heard my name spoken as I was greeted, or that he recognized my
footstep on the stair.”
Exactly so. Furthermore, were the possibility of the sick man’s
knowledge through hearing excluded, the psychic researcher would
still have to recognize that a dying man, “ dimly conscious,” would
not be very unlikely to call his absent brother’s name, and that the
tone interpreted as “ dismay ” more appropriately would signify dis­
satisfaction because of the brother’s absence than joy because of his
presence.
P rofessor F. W. Sardeson, M.S., Ph.D., formerly professor of
Geology in the University of Minnesota, afterwards geologist of the
United States Geological Survey, reports that when
“ Between twenty and thirty years of age, I several times saw
*ghosts * when I was greatly overworked. They were seen in each
case out in the open, under clear sky, etc. But in each case retracing
my steps and returning the matter solved itself.”
Asked to give a sample, he says that when on a geological journey
in Iowa, as he started to walk over a railroad trestle he saw at a little
distance from the further end what he thought was a man in his shirt
sleeves, standing on the railroad. He crossed the trestle, of necessity
watching his step, and when he had got over looked up, and the man
was gone. He retraced his steps and again saw the “ man.” But now
it is recognized that the “ man ” is really “ a reflection of the sky in
a pond some one thousand feet beyond,” which disappears as one
advances.
“A number of such incidents of which this one is the last, convinced
me that my carrying a pistol was making a coward of me. I laid it
aside and have never been annoyed [in like manner] in the thirty-five
years that followed.”
PSYCHIC (?) INCIDENTS EXPLAINED 275
The professor explains that he had taken up the practice of carry­
ing a pistol as “ these were days of tramps and ugly farmer’s dogs,”
and he was traveling alone as a geologic field worker.
His “ ghosts,” it will be recognized readily, were not hallucinations,
but illusions, misinterpretations of visual impressions made by real
objects. Any one is liable to an occasional illusion, but in his case the
general liability was increased by an over-worked condition and conse­
quent nervous tension, and also by apprehension of possible attack.
As attack would most likely be from a man, the illusions tended to take
the form of a man. Carrying a pistol seems to have operated power­
fully in the way of direct suggestion.
Of course no psychic researcher would think of ascribing evidential
weight to any such experience, even had it had no explanation.
Though it had been purely a visual hallucination, merely as such and
apart from any correspondence with an unrecognized event, it could
have no evidential weight. On the other hand, it is quite conceivable
that an illusion might have evidential value, but a hallucinatory factor
would need to mingle with the illusion. Professor Gilbert Murray tells
us (Proceedings S. P. R., v. XXIX, pp. 59-60) that some of his
apparently telepathic deliverances were meditated by sense impres­
sions. While the “ agent ” was thinking of Savonarola and the people
burning their luxurious possessions in the public square of Florence, a
bit of coal tumbled out of the fire. Murray “ smelt oil or paint burn­
ing,” and so got the whole scene. At another time the subject of the
experiment was: “ Mr. Z. . . . galloping along a beach in Greece.”
In part the correct response of Professor Murray, according to his
testimony, was mediated by his “ happening ( ?) to hear a horse gallop­
ing in the street outside.” But in each instance the attention somehow
selected and fixed upon one sense impression out of the many experi­
enced at the time. And probably, while other experiments were in
progress, bits of burning coal tumbled, and doubtless horses galloped
in the street, but only when they could serve as a bridge, apparently
did these particular sense impressions come to the forefront of atten­
tion. These and many other of the experiments seem to indicate that
knowledge in the subconscious struggled (so to speak) to emerge into
the conscious, and if the “ percipient ” chanced to experience any sense
impression, visual, auditory, olfactory or other, similar to some factor
of that subconscious, knowledge of the subject set, it served as an
easier path to conscious expression.
So one might seem to see a man, and then discover that, generally
speaking, it was but the reflection of a cloud upon water. But if the
276 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
reflection for a moment was, particularly if with emotional shock,
recognized as the face of the subject’s father, and it was afterward
found that the father died at that hour while calling for his son, the
impression would not be without evidential weight, although its point
d'appiri was a mere illusion.
T h e H on. E. A., former Associate Justice of a State Supreme
Court (Roman Catholic), says that he formerly thought that he had
experienced a premonition or apparition. Traveling in an automobile
on a country road by night, he seemed to see some cows in the road
ahead, shouted to the driver to slow up, they disappeared, and later, he
cannot now say how long, they again showed up. The facts could,
he says,
“ be rationally accounted for several ways: (1) fear on my part,
(2) did actually see them and light may then have gone dim, or re­
mained dim and rebrightened, (3) error in vision, (4) some coinci­
dental factors may have been at work creating the illusion, or many
things, if one takes time to work at possible suggestions.”
The annotator agreed, but preferred another explanation, and
wrote, inquiring:
“ May not the automobile have swerved on a curve of the road after
the headlights revealed the cows, so that the beams left them for a few
moments?”
And the judge answered “ Yes.”
P bofessob E. B., Botanist of a university, a Ph.D., sent this
statement:
“ From my family I have heard much concerning ‘ rapping.’ How­
ever, the ‘ rapping ’ was most emphatically not psychic but of defi­
nitely known origin. I can give details if you wish.”
A number of persons besides wrote that they could give details, but
when wooed to do so, even repeatedly, retreated into the vale of silence.
One wonders whether they supposed that “ normal ” explanations
would be unwelcome, and lost their zest for exposition when the fact
was found to be otherwise. The commentator would have delighted to
learn of some method of trick rapping of which he previously had no
conception.
PSYCHIC (?) INCIDENTS EXPLAINED 277
B achelor of A rts E. C., Dramatist (Episcopalian), reports:
“ While engaged in the long sustained and absorbing study and in
the intense imaginatively creative work of dramatic writing, I have not
infrequently felt, seen, or heard one or more of my characters actually
present and talking with me, and even at times critically considering
my work. They were sometimes quite as vividly clear to me as if they
had been truly objective, but if I chose to reflect on their nature I was
never deceived into thinking they were objective rather than subjective.
I have therefore always believed that I was justified in regarding these
‘visions ’ or whatever they might be called not at all as abnormal phe­
nomena but as quasi-objective visualizations quite within the range of
the normal imagination.”
Exactly so, imagination cultivated to the point of causing at times,
probably usually after protracted dramatic labor, more or less of hal­
lucinatory objectivation. Dickens, it is said, often had similar experi­
ences. Tissot, after imaginative living for years in the New Testament
period, sometimes saw a Biblical scene so static that he painted from
it as one would from posing models.
No species or instance of hallucination can in itself be evidence for
the supernormal, however vivid. The evidence, if any, is to be found in
the relation of the hallucination to something else, with no discoverable
causal link connecting them. The hundreds of recorded instances of
apparitions of persons seen at or near the moment of their unexpected
deaths at a distance are to the point. In none of these cases is it the
hallucination of seeing a person not really present which is reckoned
as evidential; the evidence is in the (1) identity of the person (2) with
the person then dying or just died (3) without knowledge on the part
of the percipient that the person is in any danger of death. Take the
case of a man who once in his life experiences an apparition, and it is
then of the person whose unexpected death occurs at a distance within
the hour—one such case is sufficient to cause an intelligent mind to
wonder if there is nothing more than accidental coincidence involved.
One such case should not produce any conviction or any reaction
stronger than curious speculation. But when such cases have accumu­
lated to hundreds, it should be evident that we have a problem of real
importance on our hands, in which mathematics dealing with the calcu­
lus of chance must play a part.
P rofessor E. D., an A.B., Mathematician and university teacher
of Mathematics (Baptist), writes:
278 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ The only thing approaching this [the ‘psychical ’] is the occa­
sional solution of a mathematical problem, which before was wholly
obscure, without even a conscious clue to analysis.”
Recognizing that we have here ordinary subconscious processes
exercised at their best, it was of interest to know whether, as in some
other cases, the result appeared in a dream or on waking. The witness
responded to the inquiry:
“ Neither dream nor waking from a dream nor early in the morning
nor any other particular time. To my mind it is perfectly normal, and
belongs to the same kind of experience as an effort to recall a lost name.
It will not come. You cannot get the least clue to it. You throw it off
your mind, and in a half hour or six hours after it comes to you like a
flash of light from nowhere so far as you can trace it. You perhaps
call the process *unconscious cerebration,’ and perhaps say, ‘ The
mind once started on the trail of the name never quit the pursuit while
we were conscious of other matters, but now having retrieved the name
presents it to our consciousness.’ But where was it the while? What
blind trail did this unconscious mind (or film of mind) follow? Who
can tell? So a mathematical puzzle recalcitrant and unaccommo­
dating to conscious reason integrates in the dark and emerges as in­
sight and reason does the rest.”
Very well put, for a layman in psychology! When the conscious
mind labors strenuously and vainly on a problem for a considerable
time there is a tendency for the subconscious mind to continue the
effort, bringing out from its storehouse the various necessary items of
mathematical fact and logic, and fitting them together, the result or
the essential clues to it afterward flashing up into consciousness.
Calling the process “ unconscious cerebration,” equivalent to uncon­
scious braination, however, does not make the matter any plainer, con­
soling as Carpenter and others have found that empty expression.2
P kofessok E. E., former teacher of English in a university, Litt.D.,
author, at the age of eight dreamed that he found “ more Bible ” in the
shape of a book “ Monboddin,” which began:
“ 0 King, thou shalt be slain
And Israel shall reign
Thus spake the seer Monboddin.”
2See Wm. McDougall’s Outline of Abnormal Psychology, pp. 209 ff., 253 fif.
279
PSYCHIC (?) INCIDENTS EXPLAINED
He dreamed many times in verse, when a child, and, as time passed, the
verses improved in literary quality. Once he dreamed:
“Alas, in childhood treasuring bits of heaven,
How oft we end our days in hoarding earth,”
which he now pronounces “ sententious but not poetical.”
Without denying that the remarkable literary genius embodied in
the “ Patience Worth ” 8 poetry may be the sudden outflowering of
her subconscious, I have yet maintained that if it is, hers is a case
sui generis, and have invited psychologists to find in all the history of
literature a single other person, who has, at a mature age, suddenly
begun to produce poetry much of which is worthy of poets of first
rank, after never having manifested any literary talent whatever, or
had any literary ambition, or even any noticeable literary taste or
special fondness for literature, up to the age of thirty years. I doubt
if there can even be found the case of a child that broke out into pass­
able verse without previous fondness for and considerable acquaintance
with poetical productions.
Let us turn to the case of Professor H. He did not dream of
finding “ more Bible ” until he had read the Protestant Bible through
and had then discovered that there is, in addition, an Apocrypha. He
also says:
“ Where this queer name came from puzzled me, until years later I
came upon a bound volume of Harper's Magazine of the year preceding
the dream, and found in the Editor’s Drawer, which being ostensibly
*the funny part ’ I read as a child, a skit in verse on Lord Monboddo,
a predecessor of Darwin in belief of the animal origin of man. But the
metre of my verse was different. I must have got it from the narrative
poems of Sir Walter Scott, which I was reading at the time of the
dream.
“ I used to dream quite often in verse, which I thought remarkably
good, but which I laughed at when I awoke, and found my ‘ fairy gold ’
dried leaves. Still, it grew better and better, as my taste in poetry
improved in my waking hours, and as I read better models. Once I
remember two lines of poetry that did not rhyme, and were evidently
the conclusion of a poem. So I wrote a sonnet ending with them.”
There we have it; he saturated himself with poetry, before he began
to produce it in the subconscious dream-state. The dream verses im-
8 See The Case of Patience Worth; a Critical Study of Certain Unusual Phenom­
ena, Boston Society for Psychic Research.
280 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
proved in proportion as he “ read better models.” In answer to queries
it was learned further that, having learned to read at the age of
six years:
“ Thereafter reading aloud was an aesthetic joy to me, and by the
time I was eight years old I had read all of Milton, dipped into Shake­
speare, could repeat by heart numerous passages from these, and
many short poems of Burns and other poets whose works were in our
home. Before I learned to read I could repeat rhymes taught me by
my mother and my paternal grandfather. He died when I was five
years of age, but I remember still his rhyme of the ‘Borrowin’ (Bor­
rowed) Days,’ which he brought from County Donegal, Ireland, and
which version, handed down by word of mouth, is much cleverer than
the literary one found in ‘The Compleynt of Scotland.’ Father would
recite such heroic poems as ‘Balaclava.’ ”
This is just about such an answer as had been expected. I still
maintain that the sudden bursting forth in 1914 of the literary
splendor associated with the name “ Patience Worth ” is, considering
Mrs. Curran’s history, psychologically unaccounted for; that if the
case were put only as a hypothetical one it would be regarded as con­
tradictory of the laws of the human mind. I make no assertion as
regards precocious children, but wonder if the case can be found of a
child who has either dreamed or consciously written passable verses,
previous to warming himself at the Promethean fire and borrowing a
spark therefrom—or, to forsake mythology, previous to reading or
hearing considerable poetry and experiencing aesthetic gratification
therefrom.
P rofessor E. F., a Ph.D., of the department of Latin in a college
(Congregationalist), has had no psychic experiences:
“ Save for occasionally finding that a person in the same room
with me was thinking of a subject of which I was, sometimes not at all
suggested by our previous conversation and not (apparently) growing
out of any observation we were making in common. Doubtless it was
due to some suggestion unrecognized by either of us.”
If at a loss to find any nexus, it does not seem quite logical to say
that “ doubtless ” one existed. Of course it may have, and something,
also, should be allowed for chance coincidence.
P rofessor E. G., an M.E., holding the chair of Electrical Engi-
281
PSYCHIC (?) INCIDENTS EXPLAINED
neering at a technical institute, furnishes an amusing explained mys­
tery. At the age of fourteen he was preparing to go to bed in a room
over that in which the dead body of a favorite uncle lay, several times
he heard “ a long-drawn-out sigh,” rejoined the family but did not in­
form them, an hour later returned to his room and again heard the
sounds. This time he reported the facts, another uncle went to the
room with him. After a short wait the sighs began to be heard again.
The room below was examined without any result. The sounds in the
bedroom recurred at short intervals, and all was mystery, until a very
tiny dog crawled out from between the sheets at the foot of the bed.
The proper course in such a case is to assume some normal causa­
tion and diligently to seek for it. A person at all familiar with investi­
gation would have listened in different parts of the room and thus soon
have located the sounds. It is to be expected that sometimes sounds
should be heard, simple as to their source when the source is discovered,
but puzzling until then. It is evident that the explanation of such an
incident as the above has no logical bearing on another case, any more
than the discovery that a body of land in the Arctic zone, at first
thought to be an island, is really a part of the mainland, has upon the
question whether another body of land in the Antarctic zone is or is
not an island, or any more than the exposure of a wild-cat mine swindle
explains the Comstock mines. In The Psychic in the House is the
account of mysterious sounds which efforts continued unremittingly
for weeks and months failed to explain, but the writer remained fully
aware that people are sometimes mystified by sounds which a very little
of suitable investigation would trace and explain.
Me. E. H., a prominent Bacteriologist (Unitarian), replies “ No ”
to the query whether he has had any psychic experiences, but he is a
bit perplexed, for all that, by his experiences with a certain noted
medium for mental and physical phenomena.
He could not see the lights that some others saw, he had an ani­
mated conversation with “ maternal great-uncle John ” who never lived
(nor was the matter helped when this spirit switched himself to the
paternal side), his living “ mother ” communicated, other “ relatives ”
whose names could not be recognized greeted him, the boast that spirits
can see in the dark seemed to be negated in his case, and the bringing
of an inoffensive scientific instrument stopped phenomena. No evi­
dential statements are mentioned, except that the professor’s wife’s
“ father ” was introduced by his last name, •with the direction to
282 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ mention the locket ” to his daughter. He had in fact once given “ a
cheap locket ” to her. If this fact had only been stated! But if her
mother had owned a locket, or she herself had when a girl, or she had
bought a locket with money given by the father, etc., etc., the mention
would still have had its very limited evidentiality, and probably most
women and their fathers share memories of some locket in the family.
Presumably the medium knew the professor’s name. He attended a
number of times in the course of several years. Who's Who in America
is a handy volume of reference, and it prints the family name of the
father of Professor E. H.’s wife. It does not reveal his first name, and
that was not given by the “ spirit.”
Again, the professor thought that he heard his grandmother’s pet
name for his mother pronounced, but, oddly, it did not purport to
come from the grandmother but from the mother herself, then living!
The mother’s name also was in Who's Who, but with no sign whether
she was living or dead. The chances were, judging from the profes­
sor’s age, that she was not living. Now, while the annotator is on
record as convinced that names have come in some cases and under
some circumstances, which were quite protected and had considerable
evidential value, yet he is obliged in this case to point out possibilities
in connection with that diminutive name which have escaped the
professor.
(1) The medium could have learned the name in Who's Who, where
it appears as that of the professor’s mother, and gambled on a diminu­
tive of it, with great likelihood that someone had employed it. (2) Or,
since the medium apparently whispered the name, only the first half
of it, almost identical with the pet name, may have been caught by
the listener.
If Who's Who rendered no help at this point, there are other possi­
bilities, as observation has shown. (3) There is a tendency on the part
of sitters (and the most learned is not necessarily exempt), if a name
is pronounced obscurely, in whispers or indistinctly through a trum­
pet, and it resembles that of a relative, to “ hear ” it as if it were given
correctly. The name Annie, for example, may be understood as Anna,
Amy, Fannie, Nannie, Emma, or the pet name of E. H.’s mother.
(4) The stated condition that “ the sitter must talk freely to get the
best responses ” is suspicious. It is what we meet often in fraudulent
work, especially where physical factors mingle with the mental. The
talk serves to cover up betraying noises. But it also serves another
purpose. If one talks freely with the “ spirit,” it is very difficult to
avoid saying something at some point from which the medium may at
PSYCHIC (?) INCIDENTS EXPLAINED 283
least draw inferences, and it becomes practically impossible to remem­
ber all one has said and just according to what sequences he said it.
Here is a case. Through a trumpet came a name which seemed to some
present to be Mary. But the person apparently addressed had a sister,
then deceased, whose name was Cary. He responded. “ Did you say
‘ Cary ’?” Now through the trumpet came the name again, this time
clearly and unmistakably “ Cary.” A conversation ensued. The sitter
afterwards cited the incident as evidential, especially since Cary is an
uncommon name. In such sittings common names are purposely pro­
nounced obscurely, since the medium has learned that sitters may thus
be caused to imagine that a similar name which fits some one of his
deceased relatives or friends, was the one given, and add as a highly
evidential feature that the name was peculiar and no one else present
knew that it belonged to him.
Contrast all the conditions with their great liabilities of illusion,
on the one hand, with those of a standard experiment chosen by the
experimenter, on the other. Light instead of darkness, clear pronunci­
ation instead of obscure whispering or trumpet speaking, no necessity
to “ talk freely,” stenographic record of all said on both sides instead
of vain efforts to remember exactly what each said and in what
order, etc.
P rofessor E. I., a Ph.B., university teacher of one branch of
Mathematics, and author of books on his specialty (Methodist), has
been impressed but not convinced by personal incidents which might
suggest telepathy.
“ The thought of some person has so often come suddenly to my
mind very shortly before receiving a telephone call from that person,
that the frequent repetition of the experience has come to appear sur­
prising to me. I consider it subject to a ‘normal ’ explanation, how­
ever, as I so frequently think of some one without receiving a call, that
I put it down to the law of averages—and doubt the explanation.”
One can but doubt when the witness doubts. Such coincidences
certainly could be no more than the law of averages would account for,
or a person could have had them due to some telepathic capacity too
small to give assurance of its existence.
VI. THEN WHY HAS IT NOT HAPPENED
TO ME?
This is the question which seems to underlie all of the following six
statements. Two persons desired messages from the dead and did not
receive them, the grandfather of another “ promised to return,” but did
not, the fourth is agnostic to all evidence of the supernormal furnished
by others, since his own life has been barren of it; the fifth does not
disregard the testimony of others but thinks it “ dubious ” for the
express reason that he has had no such experience, and the professor
who is bold or indiscreet enough to allow his name to appear has had
no phenomena, although “ keen ” in his interest.
P rofessor F. A., a Ph.D., who holds forth on Chemistry in a uni­
versity, author on his subiect, writes:
..................................... ■
“ Since the death of my wife in ------t
— I have been perfectly confi­
dent that she would have communicated with me if she could. No such
communication has been received, even in a dream.”
Reply to Professor F. A.:
“ I wonder if, in your mind, the assumed power of some spirits to
communicate argues that necessarily everyone should be able to do so?
It seems to me like assuming that, if the evidence which has been
offered for telepathy between the living, some of which is very cogent,
is sufficient to prove that phenomenon, every two persons ought to be
able to produce the phenomenon of telepathy between them. We know
that this is far from being the case, that in fact there are very few
persons who have the experience to a demonstrated degree. If there is
communication from the dead, it is probably of a telepathic order (at
least for the most part), and it probably implies conditions, part of
which may be mental or temperamental, on the part of both the
‘ agent ’ and the ‘percipient.’ It might be that you yourself are not a
good receiver.
“ I myself have never had the slightest feeling as though my de­
ceased wife were attempting to communicate with me, not the slightest
feeling of her presence, which some describe. Yet in a book which is
284
THEN WHY HAS IT NOT HAPPENED TO ME? 285
out today, entitled Leonard and Soule Experiments in Psychical Re­
search, there is printed a great deal of what appeared like, and is
offered as, evidence of communication from her, through another per­
son—a ‘psychic.’ I would not take this series alone as evidence, no
matter how difficult it would be to account for it, but on the background
of other evidence and connection with it, I think that the spiritistic
hypothesis is not to be lightly set aside. Yet I have no idea whatever
that the time is or is likely to come when everybody can get such evi­
dence. I am about as critical and hard-boiled as they make them, and
previous to the experiments with this particular psychic, I have had
very little that I could regard as evidential purporting to come from
Mrs. Prince. But explain it as you may, the evidence to which I refer
is very striking indeed.”
M edical D octor F. B., Professor of Pathology and writer on his
subject (Episcopalian), gives similar testimony to the preceding.
“ In spite of the fact that I have always had more or less interest
in psychic investigation, and right after the death of a scientific friend
tried to put myself in a receptive mood, in a dark room, after having
asked him to reply to my question, I never received the slightest indi­
cation of attempted communication.”
Reply to the above:
“ I wonder if you regarded and now regard this experiment as
decisive? It appears to me that a negative result in a single case could
not be accepted as an indication in one way or another, any more than
a failure to get telepathic results between two designated living persons
would in the slightest tend to disprove the evidence which has been
offered, that between certain persons telepathic phenomena have ap­
peared. On the spiritistic theory it would be most probable that any
so-called communications from the dead would be of a telepathic char­
acter, and not at all, as many people naively seem to think, after the
fashion of a conversation between two persons whose powers of com­
munication have no limit.
“ I wonder, also, if, in case you had, *right after the death ’ of
your friend, apparently received a reply to your question, unless the
question were one which you could not yourself answer, you would now
regard that experience as evidential, and not an hallucination due to
emotion? I know a man who had arranged with his wife that she
would communicate with him if possible after death, and had consider­
able expectation of her doing so, but for eleven months he had no
experience whatever that gave him the impression of even the effort.
286 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Then, in a distant city, in a hotel, one night, entirely without expec­
tation or without any introduction of which he was aware that could
give any possible hint of a normal explanation, he had a startling
experience as of his wife conversing with him, which is convincing to
him unto this day. I do not offer this case as proof, but simply as
something we would not expect.”
P bofessob F. C., an Artist who teaches Art in a university (Uni­
tarian), makes an objection, somewhat like the two preceding it:
“ My paternal grandfather on his death-bed promised to return.
He was a minister in a New Bedford Seamans’ Bethel. No manifesta­
tion has been received.”
Letter to Professor F. C.:
“ Of course I have no right to put you to any further trouble, and
yet I am curious to know if the facts you state seem to you in any
degree to argue against the spiritistic theory.
“ While there is much in psychic research that has no apparent
connection with the spiritistic claim, and while I am decidedly not a
propagandist for spiritism, I personally am unable to see that such a
failure to keep such a promise had very much value as evidence. Ad­
mitting there is such a thing as telepathy between the living, if a par­
ticular person should promise that a message would go from him to
another person, and if nothing happened to verify the promise I do not
think that it would in the slightest invalidate the evidence for telepathy
which actually exists. On the other hand, I should say it was very
imprudent on the part of the persons to make such a promise. Appar­
ently there are only a few who can act as an ‘ agent ’ successfully.
We are apt to assume that if a person survives after his death he
ought to be able to do anything. But we have no reason to make this
assumption. For aught we know, assuming that there is any such
thing as spirit communication, the spirits capable of *telepathing ’
messages to those on earth might be very few in number.”
P bofessob F. D., an M.D., Librarian and professor of Library
Methods in a university, testifies:
“ Particularly during my college years and a few years after I was
very much interested in the whole question of psychical research and
was more than unusually on the lookout to observe any such phenom­
ena as you describe in your letter. I was educated at Haverford, a
THEN WHY HAS IT NOT HAPPENED TO ME? 287
Quaker college, dominated largely by the tenets of a religious body
which has always stood for mysticism and other-worldliness. I grew
up in a Pennsylvania-German neighborhood where belief in the super­
natural still persisted, even though there was a large body of skeptics
also resident in the section. In spite of all these predilections to the
receipt of impressions of a psychical or unexplainable nature, I cannot
honestly say that I have ever had any experience which actually be­
longs in this class. You will draw your own conclusions. Perhaps it
is a natural tough-mindedness which William James describes, or per­
haps some other reason. It is not skepticism, but at most simply
agnosticism.”
From response to Professor F. D .:
“ It is of interest, of course, that you grew up under such in­
fluences and yet have had no such experiences, and yet the fact does
not in the least surprise me. It would surprise me, possibly, if I
thought that all such experiences were the effects of credulity. As a
matter of fact, there are many persons who have grown up under in­
fluences which stimulate faith, imagination, etc., and even have been
themselves firm believers in psychic occurrences, and yet have never
had any themselves. On the other hand, there are many others, in­
cluding men of science, whose environment has been just the opposite,
who breathed the very air of distrust of them, and yet such an experi­
ence has suddenly come to them. It may be interesting to you to know
that very few psychical researchers of the more scientific order appear
to have had any such experiences themselves. It is difficult to show
that clergymen, the most of whom base their teachings upon purported
supernormal facts, tend to have these experiences more than un­
religious men.
“ Therefore I should say it was not necessarily *natural tough-
mindedness ’ or *agnosticism ’ in your case which prevents your having
such experiences, but that it is something as much a part of yourself
as your complexion. There apparently are some persons who have
demonstrable telepathic power, but most people have not, irre­
spective of whether they are credulous or incredulous, scientists or
ignoramuses.”
P rofessor Clyde W. Votaw, Ph.D., who has the chair of Biblical
Literature at Chicago University, author of books on the Bible and
religion, writes:
“ I am now at the age of sixty-five years. Graduate of Amherst
College and Yale Divinity School. Then for thirty-seven years at the
288 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
University of Chicago as Professor of New Testament Literature.
All these years I have been a special student of philosophy, psychol­
ogy, and biological science. I am critical, not credulous; matter of
fact, not fanciful or mystical. I have been keen for forty years as
regards the phenomena here under consideration, but have never ex­
perienced anything of importance in this line, and have never person­
ally known of anything important.”
We hear much of the “ will to believe,” and theologians are sup­
posed to be particularly liable to it. To be interested in psychical
claims has been declared quite enfeebling to intellectual poise, while
long interest in the subject has been pronounced fatal. But here is a
man who graduated from a divinity school, which throughout main­
tains a super-sensible world, and, moreover, has had a “ keen ” interest
in the subject of psychic research for forty years; and yet has had no
psychical experience in his life and no personal connection with one.
The annotator has met a multitude of cases of such men, open-minded
or, more, benevolently inclined, toward psychical experiences, or even
desirous of having them, yet who have never experienced one. On the
other hand, they have come, like lightning out of the blue sky, to many
<persons indifferent to or even prejudiced against such claims.
P rofessor F. E., an M.D. and M.S., prominent Oculist and Aurist,
former university professor of diseases of the eye and ear (Episco­
palian), writes a thoughtful letter, which furnishes the text for a some­
what extended discussion.
“ I think that testimony, bearing within itself something of the
character of opposition, is not undesirable in viewing any big problem.
It may have, in itself, some elements of the constructive.
“All of my life—especially my more mature life—I have watched
myself and my contacts with my environment, to see if there were ever
a realization that I was a receptor to immaterial stimuli. After the
death of my mother, between whom and myself there existed an unusual
understanding and mental intimacy, I was particularly interested. I
felt sure, owing to this unusual sameness of mental and spiritual values,
that I would have some consciousness arising from her. I carefully
watched and receptively waited any form of reaction from this source.
It has never come. It has been possible for me in my own psychic
world, to build up a contact, but I have always been assured that this
was purely subjective, and lacked entirely the corroboration of any
evidence that any one acquainted with the rules and methods of reason
THEN WHY HAS IT NOT HAPPENED TO ME? 289
would insist upon. I have also had many other intimate relationships
broken by death, or such that even in life, may have been manifested,
but I have never been able to assure myself that I was ‘listening in ’
with satisfactory results, to an outside separation from a spiritual or
body presence. My attitude in these cases has been a willing, and not
an unwilling frame of mind and spirit. It has never been one of exclud­
ing doubt. But the results have been, in all cases, the same.
“ It is presuming too far, simply from this personal experience, to
cast aside all evidence submitted by others as not valid and authentic.
But from the exercising of rules of reason and judgment, the only
source that I can judge from—myself, I have held these reports as at
least dubious. From an analysis of them, with a knowledge that
should be possessed by one who has studied much and written much
on neurology, I have the suspicion that the phenomena arose purely
from within, and not from external environment. There is nothing so
disreputably tricky as the human brain, for it is the inheritor of the
sum total of all the environments that have surrounded its ancestors
back to the first living cell. The nervous system in its entirety may
reflect all of these phases, but our inability to interpret them correctly
may lead us to very false conclusions, and, what may appear to be
resulting from the present, may be only a purely materialistic reflec­
tion of the past. Our minds are great storehouses of unconscious
experiences. I am led to believe that its function is a purely material
matter, even into the realms of the highest psychic phenomena. I be­
lieve what we would designate as psychic is very often nothing but
physiology unrecognized and not understood.
“ One thing that is often entirely forgotten, or not recognized, is
the undoubted fact that our thoughts and entire mental processes are
largely pictorial. The pictorial enters into the functioning of every
other sense. For example, the memory concerned with the sense of
hearing nearly always has, if not always, the background of a picture.
This applies to taste, to touch, and to hearing. We are not conscious
of this until after careful analysis. W
T
ith the memory of the actual
pain is the picture of that instant. I believe that these pictorial back­
grounds constitute almost the entire mental complex of our memories.
“ The phenomena of hallucination is also interesting in considering
the subject you are investigating. These are purely and entirely from
within us. They are different from illusions which are perceptual
realizations of things from without, but wrongly interpreted. It is my
belief that all of these processes are purely physical and physiological,
just as I believe all manifestation of the mind’s activity is physical and
mechanistic. No report that I have ever read regarding visions, pre­
monitions, and the like, have ever been such that their apparent reality
was as vivid or more vivid than the pictorial play of the brain in the
290 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
case of what we fully realize is a pure hallucination. The individual
may not be conscious that he has ever experienced such pictures before,
and does not know where they come from. But it will be noticed that
they never possess any element or character that does not find their
material counterpart. We cannot conceive of the beauty of heaven,
except in the terms of such figures and values as our earthly experience
has presented to us. If we go beyond these values, the pictures become
pure mists or nebulous formations. The extremely delicate and highly
organized state of certain minds render them extremely susceptible to
the most marvelous development of the pictorial. With this, the sense
of hearing also offers its dispositions. I believe that these mental re­
actions, resulting in visions and similar experiences, are just as actual
when there is no external stimulus of any kind, as when such exist;
that is, in some individuals. As much of a mystery as thought itself is,
I believe it is no mystery, but simply something we do not yet under­
stand—of course, in this sense, a mystery. From these remarks, it is
very evident that I am not persuaded in my own mind that those who
have passed beyond the portals influence us, except through our own
subjective memories that concern them in the realities of the flesh.
Their influences upon us, whatever they be, are such influences as were
exerted in life, and which have become a part of our being. They are
not pressing immaterial stimuli, being received from an actual im­
material source.
“ My dear Dr. Prince, I am very much interested in your investi­
gations, and hold an entirely open mind. Nothing will please me more
than to find I am entirely mistaken. In fact, I yearn to discover that
I am entirely in error, for the implications in my arguments are un­
avoidably connected with doubts. I shall be very pleased indeed if
you will be so gracious as to give me the opportunity to see the results
of your investigation. It is possible that there are more things in this
world than are dreamt of in our philosophies, and that others are
attuned to certain things that some of us are not.”
The first thing to remark is that here again is a man with at least
the wish-to-believe, one who fairly “ yearns ” to have his belief that
“ all the manifestation of the mind’s activity is physical and mechan­
istic ” refuted, but he has had no experience which in the least tended
to that end.
The expression that “ all manifestation of the mind’s activity is
physical ” is not a lucid one; presumably it means that all the content
of consciousness is purely a product of the brain. In that case the
death of the brain is the extinction of the mind, and one wonders how
such a view escapes extinguishing the professor’s Episcopalianism.
Once admit that mind is a real though impalpable entity, and its
THEN WHY HAS IT NOT HAPPENED TO ME? 291
working mechanistically is irrelevant to the discussion. Hallucinations
would be mechanisms though they were, some of them, instigated from
without. Telepathy would be mechanistic, yet telepathy still, with all
its supernormal significance. If the mind can out of its own energy
determine that the hand shall grasp an object, some mechanism of its
own which we do not and may never understand comes into play which
acts upon the efferent nerves; then come two mechanisms, one of the
nerves which makes a nexus with the muscles, the other a mechanism
by which the muscles contract so that the object is grasped. Thus, if
there is such a thing as a spirit and if it can ever get a message
through a psychic, mechanisms are involved, and while we cannot
picture or comprehend that by which the spirit affects the psychic’s
brain, we can do so as easily as we can picture or comprehend the
mechanism by which the mind calls into play the mechanisms of nerves
and muscles which result in picking up a ball.
As the professor has stated, the phenomena of hallucination are
also interesting in consideration of the subject we are investigating;
more than that, they are vital to it. And we assume that a hallucina­
tion is what he says it is, an immaterial visual or auditory image
arising from an interior mechanism. But it cannot be granted that
this mechanism is always initiated from within. The spark, so to
speak, which starts it may be from without. Professor Hale tells us
that after his brother said that he was going skating, and he himself
feared the ice was not safe, he experienced the hallucination of hearing
his brother call his name, as if for help. Another witness tells of anx­
iety caused by news of a mother’s illness, followed by a like hallucina­
tion of hearing her voice. A very susceptible person, smelling the
powerful odor of flowers commonly found at funerals, sees a coffin.
Since a hallucination may be initiated by some cause without the
sensorium, it seems to follow that it might be initiated by telepathy, if
there is such a thing as telepathy, and partake of the character of
something existing beyond the reach of the ordinary sense, exactly as
the odor of the flowers caused the hallucination of the coffin which
formerly existed in the experience of the percipient. And if we were
persuaded by independent evidence that spirits exist, it would not be
difficult to suppose that now and then a spirit might stimulate the
mental mechanism of a susceptible person to produce an apparition
of itself.
It almost seems as if the professor supposed that a hallucination,
apparition or whatever it may be, is regarded by psychic researchers
as being in itself evidential of something supernormal. This is not the
292 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
case, any more than they regard a dream as such evidential, or auto­
matic writing as such. The question rises, in view of the peculiar
content of a few dreams, and the peculiar content of a comparatively
few examples of automatic writing, whether or not, in these particular
instances, some unusual factor has been injected. So in regard to
hallucinations, visual and other. Certain instances are so character­
ized that the question is forced upon one’s attention, if he thinks of
them at all, whether or not the picture-exteriorizing mechanism has
been utilized, automatically or under intelligent direction, to produce
a supernormal result. And I point particularly to the correspondences
between the visual hallucination of seeing persons, or auditory hal­
lucination of hearing them speak, and the time of their deaths, or near
it. It is a pity that everyone who has occasion to say anything on
these matters, either pro or con, will not read and reread Chapter
X III of Phantasms of the Living until he thoroughly understands and
appreciates its overwhelming mathematics. I am convinced by the
calculations in that chapter and others which have been made, that
coincidences between hallucinations and the deaths of the persons
specifically seen or heard occur with frequency millions of times in
excess of the expectation of chance. I am equally convinced that the
mathematics of certain concrete groups of work, in their entirety, done
by Mrs. Soule and by Mrs. King, and which I have published to the
world, will not in the future any more than in the past be attacked
other than by innuendo, however they may be evaded and ignored. I
mention these groups because they happened to be of a character
unusually susceptible of mathematical testing.
The late work Leonard and Sotde Experiments was loaned to Pro­
fessor F. E., out of curiosity to observe the reaction. The results
therein reported are not mathematically appraised, but they are, for
the most part, exceedingly impressive. After reading the book, the
professor was frank to admit that it seemed to present a weighty
problem, but one thing especially bothered him. That was that the
purported “ communications ” were so exclusively occupied with
“ mundane ” affairs, and said so little appropriate to the presumed
environment of the communicators.
This was about the last objection which I had anticipated from my
friend who had said, and justly, that “ we cannot conceive of the
beauty of heaven, except in the terms of such figures and values as our
earthly experience has presented to us,” and that the human mind is
forever making pictures founded on experience. In the first place, if
there are in “ heaven ” no end of things and states quite unrelated to
THEN WHY HAS IT NOT HAPPENED TO ME? 293
figures and values which our earthly experience has presented to us,
they could only be described to us symbolically by means of the terms
of our earthly experience, since we are incapable of conceiving any
other. Supposing the book had contained a quantity of such at­
tempts to describe, would my friend have been impressed? Not so;
he would have pointed out that every item of the description may be
traced to memories of mundane sensory experience, and is therefore
unevidential.
Further, the book, in reporting an experiment, often gives notice
that unevidential matter is omitted. There had been so much work of
Mrs. Soule reported in its entirety by Dr. Hyslop, that it was judged
proper in this particular book to omit material which could not bear
on the evidential problem. It should have been explained in the intro­
duction that part of this omitted material related to “ heaven.” On
page 283 it is said that a sitting contained “ little besides remarks
about the alleged life beyond and mental healing.”
It was well understood that I much preferred “ mundane ” state­
ments such as would serve the purposes of identification, etc., and the
spirit, the control, or the subconsciousness of Mrs. Soule—whichever
the reader prefers—sought to accommodate me.
If spirits are attempting to get their thoughts through to us they
must by this time be bewildered by the difficulties of telling us anything
that, in case we are ingenious in imagining hypotheses, will be regarded
as at all satisfactory. If they tell us what we are at the moment think­
ing of, we pronounce it telepathy under the very conditions by which
we appear to have had successful results between the living; if they tell
us what we are not at the moment thinking of, we say that the medium
has read our subconscious mind; if what they declare we cannot remem­
ber ever to have known but find by inquiry it is true, we say that our
latent memories have been explored; if it proves that we never knew
what is declared, but Grandfather Robinson in Missouri knows one
item of it, Aunt Dorinda in New Hampshire knows another item and
Cousin Gladys in Saskatchewan knows a third, we say that something
has traveled from the medium to these widely separated relatives, dug
out the facts from their memories while they were busy about their
occupations, and brought them back, or that something has attracted
these memories like a magnet and brought them to the experiment room
from Missouri, New Hampshire and Saskatchewan; if no living person
to whom it was of any concern knew of the matter, but a man in Ice­
land or Timbuctu may have read it in a book of which he has the sole
surviving copy, we say that the telepathic current found its way to
294 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
that man; and all else failing, there are those of us who will say that
it is a case of memory “ embryologically ” transmitted from dead and
gone generations, or else the medium has been angling in the Cosmic
Reservoir.
Or let us, if only for the humor of it, assume that my father was,
as claimed, trying to give me evidence in the story of “ Stephen,” and
that he carefully chose that incident from a thousand others with view
to its being entirely convincing to me that his memory survives. He
would think it quite a triumph to project through the psychic’s con­
sciousness a description of a man familiar to me in my early years—a
description so detailed and accurate that if a man unknown to me
because of the changes time had made should come to me and give it, I
should almost irresistibly be compelled to believe that he was familiar
with the neighborhood fifty years ago, from that description alone.
Then my father would think that getting the name through, consider­
ing that the name is far from being a common one and that there was
not another person in all the range of our acquaintance who possessed
it, ought to convince me. When he further told me that this person,
so described and so named, lied about me, stated the nature of the lie,
said that “ Stephen ” had a conference with him about it in the open
air and that afterwards he (my father) informed me of the charge
which I denied, admitted that he never afterwards expressly told me
he was convinced of my innocence, and added other particulars, he
might naturally think that no doubt whatever could remain in my mind
that he had proved his identity by his memories.
So it seems to him, but I proceed to reason as follows: That com­
plex of facts given—the name and the description of the man who bore
it, and the unique incident of my boyhood related to this man—is a nut
which no man who rejects both spirit communication and telepathy
between the living can crack; not even by charging forgery and whole­
sale falsehood, for the record of the automatic writing through which
the statements were made is producible, and witnesses can be produced
to testify to the man’s name and description, after which my testimony
to the particular incident will hardly be questioned. But if one does
not deny telepathy, I reflect, then all this, although a stupendous feat,
may have resulted from the psychic lady’s getting the content of my
mind. Continuing our effort to see how a spirit trying to give evidence
would feel, what would my father say on these reflections becoming
known to him? He might say: “ But I told many things that could
not have come from your mind, such as details of what passed be­
tween me and ‘ Stephen,’ in the field and on the way from the field to
THEN WHY HAS IT NOT HAPPENED TO ME? 295
the carriage house. Cannot you see that the story is told from my
point of view, not yours ? For instance, again, I told of the talk of the
neighbors because I knew of that. I said nothing of what you had to
suffer in consequence from the derision of boys in school since you
never told me of that, and a man of forty fails to imagine such
juvenile troubles.”
But I think: “ There is that surface appearance, but it may be only
dramatization. Further, I do not know that the details said to have
taken place in the field and on the way to the carriage house actually
occurred. What I can test could have been derived from my own
mind, and what could not have been derived from my own mind I am
unable to test.”
Here my father might show some little irritation, and say: “ You
talk about your experiments for telepathy and of successes when a
couple, rarely adapted to each other, are engaged, one actively in con­
centrating his attention upon a particular diagram, sensation, word,
thought—whatever it may be, and the other passively waiting for im­
pressions. And I start by giving you the name “ Stephen ” and a
number of items of description, when you had not been thinking of him
at all; then when, as you admit, your mind concentrated on a particu­
lar detail, which I had not told, thus creating an ideal situation for
your telepathy, you got nothing.”
But I think: “ I wonder why, when I asked what happened next,
referring to my being sent to a lot to pick stones, I got nothing.” And
my father, could he be aware of the thought, might retort: “ I really
thought you could reason better than that. Suppose you had re­
ceived, just at that point, a statement about the stone-picking, would
you have been satisfied? Would you not have regarded it a brilliant
indication of telepathy by Mrs. Soule, that she wrote this directly after
your mind concentrated on it? You ought to see, also, the weakness
of your intimation in regard to ‘dramatization ’ in view of your tele­
pathic explanation. The two dramatic scenes which have always lin­
gered in your memory and which were in your field of consciousness
while I was getting my memories through, were my taking you out of
school and our talking on the way home, and your gloomily picking
stones on the lot, while you had scarcely ever pictured anything of my
talk with ‘ Stephen.’ Answer; why did you get the last, and fail to
get the two former scenes, unless it was because the incident of
*Stephen’s ’ coming to me when I was in the field and accusing you,
was the most dramatic scene in my memory? ”
But I think: “ The meeting me at the schoolhouse door and our talk
296 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
in the carriage on the road home would be remembered by my father as
well as myself. Why did I not get these? ”
And my father would be justified at this point if he fairly lost
patience and said: “ Surely you are not so unobserving as that. In
the first place I did give the substance of our talk in the carriage,
that ‘ Stephen ’ accused you of throwing something at him, saying
something and laughing, that you denied it, and that I was puzzled
since the story did not accord with what I had known of your conduct
and yet I could not see why *Stephen ’ should have told it unless there
was something in it. And did you not see in my references to ‘ school,’
‘ School,’ ‘ schoolhouse,’ *roads,’ ‘ roads,’ that I was probably trying
to complete that part of the story, but could not get it fully expressed
through the psychic? ”
I repeat that the way of a spirit is hard, assuming that there are
spirits and that they do try to get identifying memories across to
the living.
Now that the extraordinary “ Stephen ” incident has been used by
way of illustration, I am tempted to try and give it a certain degree of
mathematical valuation. Any exact measurement is of course impos­
sible, but it is not impossible to give a mathematical valuation below
which it cannot possibly be rated.
Because of persons now living it is inexpedient to give the actual
name of the man referred to as “ Stephen.” But if there is any person
in the world who is disposed to test the figures which follow I will dis­
close the name to him in confidence, and Who's Who in America, as one
of the bases of calculation, is as open to him as to me.
In Leonard and Soule Experiments (p. 334) it is said that
Stephen is about of equal rarity as the concealed name, the former
occurring in a list of 3,200 standard “ Christian ” names as they run
from the beginning of Who's Who eight times, the latter seven times.
Another set of 3,439 standard names lately examined gives six Stephens
and seven of the other name, making their number equal for the com­
bined lists. The selection of the name Stephen to represent the one
which must be suppressed is an instance of the laborious pains taken
to exhibit facts and relations justly.
Since these two lists of names, not far from the same in number,
3,200 and 3,439, each yield seven of the name, which for convenience we
will hereafter call “ Stephen,” it will be fair to give exclusive attention
to the latter list, as there is not time to analyze so carefully as I intend
to do, the two combined. It is likely enough that the first list could
have been pursued 239 names further without finding another
THEN WHY HAS IT NOT HAPPENED TO ME? 297
Stephen. That number, 3,200, was arbitrarily selected. But the
second ended at 3,439, so as to close with the seventh “ Stephen.”
This, if not just, was eminently conservative.
This list begins with page 1000 of Who's Who in America, edition
of 1926-7, and ends with page 1201. The whole number of first and
middle names until the seventh Stephen was reached is 5,590. A per­
son either unregardful of the factors involved in calculation of proba­
bilities or anxious to magnify the importance of giving the name of the
person so minutely identified, might say that Mrs. Soule had one
chance in 798 + of getting it by guess.
But many persons have a “ front ” or middle name derived from a
surname. Thus, on page 1000 of Who's Who we find DeWolfe, Heber,
Flint, Burnett, Hart, Carr and Clay. Now if one should guess the
name by which an unknown man was familiarly called, she would prob­
ably not select any name usually found only as a surname; at least the
range of such possible selection would be comparatively small, being
prompted by her memories of persons so named. Therefore I exclude
from the account all such names, except the few which were originally
surnames but have been fully adopted into the family of standard
“ Christian ” names, such as Franklin and Harvey.
Furthermore, since the medium might assume (with danger, but in
this case correctly) that there would have been within my boyhood
environment very few persons not descended from the stock of the
British Islands, I proceed to weed out nearly all the names which
rather imply origin from one of the countries of Continental Europe.
About the only ones retained are the Louis’, of whom more than a
third, and the Ottos and Maxes, of whom a part, are attached to names
which have no continental flavor. Any country village and its environs
is likely to have one or two if not a number of families descended from
Germany, France, etc. Besides, the omission of the names Alpha,
Alanson, Clare, Cassius, Dennis, Myron, Theodosius, Lucian, Csesar,
Calvin, Irwin, Hector, Benedict, Erastus, Dugald, Basil, Hilary,
Justin, etc., is a counter-balance.
Also, on the supposition that a medium might have at her tongue’s
end only a limited number of the less frequent Biblical names for guess­
ing purposes, I have left out of account the greater number of these:
Darius, Lucius, Justus, Herod, Absolom, Uriah, Zebulon, Eleazar,
Elisha, Asahel, Alpheus, Clement, Gideon, Philetus, etc.
Thus there are left 202 different “ standard ” Christian names,
from the list totaling 3,439, whence we have taken our seven
“ Stephen’s.” One might think that we are now prepared to calculate
298 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
the medium’s chance of guessing that “ Stephen ” would fit the man so
minutely described in his physical and mental characteristics, and
further identified by a specific and peculiar act, and find the chance
one in 491.
Not so, for many persons have two of the names in our now very
much diminished list, and what we want to find out is how much chance
there was of the name “ Stephen ” being actually that of the person
described.
I found that of persons sharing the 3,439 names
1286 had two names of which one was “ standard ” ........ 1286
376 had only one name, and that a standard one.......... 376
196 had two names, one standard, the other represented
only by an initial letter......................................... 195
791 had two names, both standard................................ 1582
2648 persons 3439 names
As the 791 have, as it were, two throws of the dice relatively to
their 1,582 names, we must halve that number to get the chance of one
throw, like the rest.
Now we are ready but for one particular; we do not know what the
other name is with respect to 195 persons. True, in only two cases is
there any chance of its being the name given in the trance of Mrs.
Soule, since in only two cases out of the 195 is the initial the same as
that name. The necessity of concealing the name represented by
“ Stephen ” prevents me from proving what I now assert, that the
chance in either of those two cases that the name is that given by the
psychic is very small. But there is a chance, so let us throw all
the 195 names of this set overboard.
Will any one question that we are now down to hard pan, if not
1286 + 376 + 791
deeply in it? Very well, then;------------------------ gives 350 + . So
calculated, on the most conservative basis, there was one chance in 350
of striking the right name, “ Stephen,” by guess.
Now we are prepared to move more swiftly. As soon as the name
“ Stephen ” was given, he was described. An unimportant person of
poor mentality who however took himself seriously though he was a
character who made the neighbors laugh; wore awful clothes, and in
particular a queer *
*scrunched ” hat; looked “ like the old Harry, face
and everything,” and as if he never took a bath; had a peculiar walk
THEN WHY HAS IT NOT HAPPENED TO ME? 299
which alone identified him almost as far as he could be seen; was some­
times seen by W. F. P. crossing the field; a character familiar to
W. F. P.’s father and to W. F. P. in boyhood, etc. What value shall
we give this? Almost everyone has casually seen such a figure some­
times in his life, but to have familiarly known one in boyhood in whom
all these points converge—I doubt if there is one chance out of five that
it would hit. I am unable to recall any one else whom I ever knew well
and listened to and watched, in all my sojournings in seven States, who
fills all the requirements of that description. But the “ Stephen ” I
knew, in my boyhood, in my home neighborhood, as stated, did so com­
pletely. My father used to stand at the window and grin when he saw
“ Stephen ” in the distance, waddling along up the road, and I used to
run to the window to watch him, and we would remark about his awful
“ scrunched ” hat and clothes and odd walk. Every farmer about,
however he might dress for work in the field, would wash up and make
himself tidy for various occasions, but “ Stephen,” Sundays and week
days was the same, a living scarecrow. I cannot be persuaded that
there was more than one chance in five that all the particulars of the
description would photographically fit a particular period in a par­
ticular country neighborhood. But put it 1 chance in 3.
As a part of the story, the psychic declared that in my boyhood a
lie was told about me which had such an effect that, to quote her lan­
guage, “ the acid of the wrong done to the youth . . . ate into the
peace of mind of the boy,” “ his spirit was in rebellion and he has
never thought of the incident since without a feeling of momentary
injustice done to him,” and the accusation gave “ so much pain that it
will not be forgotten after forty years.” Of course it is common
enough for lies to be told about lads, and of course many a man, if he
thinks back, can remember of being lied about. But in most cases the
pain of boyhood is evanescent and such things become shadowy memo­
ries in mature life. The wrong done me, however, was so unfounded
and the hopelessness of proving to my father that I was innocent was
so complete, that, as it were, a sore spot remained in the depths of my
consciousness, and even after half a century the memory rankles when
it comes to mind. From all of my youth only one other experience
(not associated with death) remains in memory with anything like the
same poignancy, and no falsehood was mixed with that. I have in­
quired of a number of persons whether they remember any lie told
about them in childhood which is still vivid and painful in memory, and
have not yet been answered in the affirmative. But I put the chance
of such a guess proving correct in relation to a given person as 1 in 2.
300 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
The psychic declared that “ Stephen ” was the person who told
that lie about me, which has haunted my memory all my life. What
was the chance of her guessing that? From the point of view of my
actual environment there was no more reason to expect that such an
act should come from him than from any one of at least a hundred
persons whom I knew before my ’teens ended. The lie which was to
make a lasting scar might as easily have been told by a boy or girl as
by a grown person, and this would have seemed more likely. If a boy
or girl had told that lie and my father and others had for a time
believed it true and I had seen no way to clear myself, the feeling of
disgrace and injury would have been as great and the effects would
have been as lasting. I knew at least sixty persons in my own and
surrounding towns, old enough to have lied about me. It might have
been somebody whom I did not know, or some stranger visitor to the
neighborhood, who lied and departed. I went to a boarding school in
my ’teens where there were two hundred scholars. From term to term
I knew at least a hundred of them, and any other boy, for example,
could have attempted to clear his skirts by asserting that he saw me
do something. “ Stephen ” had appeared inoffensive, and I do not
recall hearing of his telling another false story either before or after,
and why he lied about me, or if it was a case of mistaken identity, I
never knew. Not with any justice can the chance of guessing that the
described “ Stephen ” was the author of that memorable lie be put at
more than 1 in 50.
The psychic gave the substance of the lie, which was that I had
“ thrown or done something to him,” and “ there were words and
laugh.” The fact was that “ Stephen ” said I threw stones at him and
derided and laughed at him. If a lie was to be told, was it necessarily
to that effect? I might have been accused of being the guilty one when
tricks were played on the teacher, of stealing, of attempt at arson, of
myself lying, of swearing, of destroying a neighbor’s property, of way­
laying and attacking a schoolmate, of stopping the schoolhouse chim­
ney by night and smoking the school out (that was actually done, but
not by me), of throwing a dead cat into some one’s well, or any one
of dozens of other things. “ Throwing something,” “ words,” and
“ laugh ” sum up the actual accusation. It seems to me conservative
to put the chance of such a precise guess at 1 in 4.
Then, it was declared: “ Stephen ” made the false accusation to my
father. Person for person he was the most likely person to go to. But
undoubtedly he might have found my father absent and made his men­
dacious charge to my mother. He might have said to my older brother
THEN WHY HAS IT NOT HAPPENED TO ME? 301
or sister, “ You tell your father that your brother W------ has done
thus and so and should be punished.” He might simply have spread
the story among the neighbors. But we will put the chance of a guess
on this item at the moderate figure of 1 in 2.
The psychic said that “ Stephen ” had the conference with father
out of doors. I should say the chance of this being correct was not
more than 1 in 2.
Also that the conference was in the Fall. As stated in the book,
this almost certainly is correct. It was not in Summer, for then I did
not go to school, and it was to the schoolhouse that my father went
and fetched me. It was not in Winter, for he would not then have been
engaged as he was in the field. It was probably not in the Spring, as
he would probably then have been busy preparing for the crops rather
than engaged in the slow operation of splitting a rock with drills. If
certain that it was in the Fall, then the chance of guessing the season
would be 1 in 4, as one can lie in one season as readily as in another.
But the uncertainty exists, so we make it 1 in 2.
The declaration that I denied the accusation was almost certain to
be correct, on the assumption that the charge was a false one. That I
“ could not retract and was not made to do so ” would also be most
probable, although there have been many cases of young persons so
overborne by authority and punishment that they have confessed what
was not true. But, considering that the charge was a lie, that I bit­
terly resented it, that I was not on the spot if any such scene was
enacted (all these particulars stated by the psychic), the chances
surely favor my having been able to prove my innocence. But the
words, “ You wanted to prove you were right and you couldn’t,” are
true. Being a boy, and a shy one, I saw absolutely no way to vindicate
myself and no express vindication ever came. But put the chance of
the statement being right at 1 in 2.
There are plenty other correct details. It is true, as stated, that
the attitude of my father (although in view of the strange answer I
made him—see book—probably justified that attitude) troubled me
more than the accusation itself. To the best of my belief it is true as
stated, that the incident powerfully influenced me in after life, in the
way of wishing to “ hear all sides ” before forming a judgment. It is
true that when “ Stephen ” accused me to father, I was “ not far
away.” It is true that the accusation became known throughout the
neighborhood. It is true that after the accusation was made father
walked away and at the end of the walk stepped “ on to wood—almost
like a platform.” This would not be the language to employ about
302 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
entering a house through an ordinary door. Father went from the
field and got the carriage out of the carriage house with its broad
entrance revealing the “ platform,” and either went directly to the
schoolhouse or more likely went somewhere—I do not know where—
and on the return trip took me from the school. It is true, and is not
true of all men, that “ Stephen ” was surly and showed temper at
times. It is true, in a particular sense, that his life was its own pun­
ishment. For he was supposed to have told the lie about me in revenge
for some trouble I had had with a boy of his family, and not many
years afterward his whole family deserted him. The description of my
father’s manner, conduct and words and mental processes, both at the
interview with “ Stephen ” and that with me which followed (See pages
347, 348 and 350 of Leonard and Soule Experiments) are remarkably
like him. It is true that I had never harmed “ Stephen ” in any way.
It is true that no other neighbor, to my knowledge, had ever had reason
to complain of my conduct or had done so. But let these and other
true particulars go unweighed, to more than counterbalance the few
minor details which are not correct. That the latter cancel out and
leave a balance I think no candid and careful reader can doubt. Then
we have left the particulars of which we have calculated the proba­
bilities cautiously and conservatively, as 1 in 350, 1 in 3,1 in 2, 1 in 50.
1 in 4, 1 in 2, 1 in 2, 1 in 2, 1 in 2. The chance of guessing all these
correctly was, then, of course, one in six million, seven hundred and
twenty thousand (6,720,000).
If any one thinks that any of the ratios do not favor chance suffi­
ciently, let him alter according to his judgment and give his reasons
for doing so.
I very much doubt if any living person in the world but myself
remembers that incident, or any part of it. It was one of a thousand
incidents to those of the country neighborhood in Maine more than
fifty years ago; to one lad only it was a tragedy. I can think of but
three persons who might possibly have some dim scrap of remembrance
of it. Two of them to a certainty never saw Mrs. Soule nor had any
communication with her—they are older living relatives of mine. The
residence of the third has been unknown to me for many years. Let us
imagine that this man chanced to meet her and did such a grotesque
thing as to tell her this incident of long ago, in more detail than he ever
could have known. Did the medium also happen to run upon someone
else who knew the topography of the home farm, just where various
growing things were located on it, and details of what was in my
grandfather’s garret, etc., etc.? For much of this the man referred
THEN WHY HAS IT NOT HAPPENED TO ME? 303
to certainly never knew. The only people knowing these things in
detail are those same two relatives. And whom did the psychic chance
to meet, capable of telling her the true incidents which happened in the
hospital in New York during my wife’s last illness? And the person—
for it could not have been the same one—met by chance, who knew so
intimately matters relating to her in a New Jersey town? And what
other person was it whom Mrs. Soule chanced to discover so familiar
with my household of thirty-five years ago in a fourth place, and so
blest with memory, that she told of my owning a cat named Mephisto-
pheles? To the best of my belief, no living person except myself could
have vindicated that statement. And who was that sixth person who
knew so intimately the interior arrangements of my foster-daughter’s
girlhood home in Pittsburgh, and happened to give the psychic a de­
scription of them? To put these questions is to show the palpable
absurdity of supposing that the psychic was loaded with information
in any such fashion.
Nor is there any help in the thought that many sitters themselves
give facts away without meaning so to do—which is quite true. I do
not stand on any reputation for skill and caution in such experiments
which I may possess, but say: “ The experiments were stenographically
recorded; the book shows what was said and what was not said.”
And my friend the professor deplores that what was given an
investigator seeking evidence was so “ mundane ”—that there was not
more about heaven!
VII. MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND
OPINIONS
Some of the nineteen men represented in this section make their
statements or present their objections seriously; in other cases what
they have to say is, as Artemus Ward would put it, “ write skarcastic.”
But sarcasm implies that he who employs it has good reasons at hand
for its justification. Therefore attempt was made to get those reasons
stated,—with what success will be seen.
P ro fe s s o r M ax F. M e y e r, P h .D., of the chair of Psychology in
the University of Missouri, prolific writer on his subject (Presby­
terian), had with the Research Officer a good-natured exchange of
spicy letters. He answered the first query of the blank thus: “ This
cannot be answered by Yes or No. I have had many experiences which
ordinary folks would call so. But I think it ridiculous to call them by
such terms.” To query 4 he replied: “ Yes, I once broke my right arm
before I had time to eat my lunch, I think this is the reason why I am
so skinny.”
Since he expressed his willingness to answer questions, the following
were proposed:
“ 1. Will you explain the logic of your response, ‘This cannot be
answered by Yes or No,’ as related to the query, ‘Have you ever ex­
perienced an incident of the kind indicated in paragraph 2 of the
accompanying letter, a ‘normal ’ explanation of which is not to you
apparent?’ etc.? Do you mean that you have had experiences the
‘ normal ’ explanation of which is to you neither apparent nor un-
apparent? I have a curiosity to know what such an incident could be.
If you have had a coincidental dream, for instance, of such a nature
that you are unable to answer either yes or no to the query whether
there was any apparent explanation, I should be much more interested
to learn the reasons of that inability than to know the explanation for
your being, I regret to quote, *skinny.’
“ 2. Do you not think it was irrelevant to bring in what ‘ ordinary
folks ’ would think, when I am interrogating extraordinary folks,
yourself and others?
“ 3. The reasonings of some psychologists are so tenuous that, for
304
MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND OPINIONS 305
aught I know, your remark that you think you are so skinny because
you broke your arm before lunch, may be intended seriously. It may
be your theory that the disaster created a complex, a trophaphobia,
which has prevented your eating sufficiently since. But why, may I
ask, should you regard your becoming skinny a ‘psychic ’ phenome­
non, if such phenomena there be?
“ 4. If, however, your remarks in relation to your much-to-be-
deplored condition of skinniness were written as burlesque, have you
found burlesque a valuable aid to a tabulation of guaranteed and
analyzed facts? ”
Letter by Professor Meyer:
“ To your first question I reply with Hamlet: *There are more
things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamed of in your
philosophy,’ interpreting ‘ dreamed of in your philosophy ’ as meaning
‘explained in terms of natural science.’ Therefore, not being divine, I,
for one, as a mere man of science, leave those *more things ’ alone.
“ To your second question I reply thus: It is distinctly unethical
to increase the interest taken by the credulous populace in ‘ghost
stories ’ (like those published in the Psy. Res. Volumes) by covering
such stories with the prestige of Who’s Who. Being in Who's Who
does not qualify a man for being shown up as an authority in scientific
methodology. (The Psy. Res. methods have not the faintest resem­
blance to the methods of natural science.)
“ To 3 and 4: The coincidences in the Psy. Res. stories are just as
‘ burlesque ’ (I am glad you used the word, which I adopt as most
fitting) as the coincidence of my ‘ skinniness ’ with my breaking my
arm ‘just before lunch.’
“ If you could give me a definition of ‘ a psychic phenomenon,’ I
should be glad to know what that definition is. I know none which can
be accepted by a man of science except during temporary madness.
“ You are entirely free to quote in its original content anything I
have ever said or written. If I am more emotional (as you seem to
think) than you, my emotion consists only in pity that good money
should be thrown away on Research like that in question. I readily
admit, of course, your good intentions.”
Reply to Professor Meyer:
“ In reply to your fervent request for a definition of a ‘psychic
phenomenon,’ I should say that it is about synonymous with what you
mean in your first paragraph (if I am successful in making out its
meaning) : ‘There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than
306 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
are dreamed of in your philosophy,’ *interpreting “ dreamed of in your
philosophy ” as meaning “ explained in terms of natural science,” ’
without the implication that one must be *divine ’ in order to attempt
their more precise definition and classification.
“ ‘Psychic phenomenon ’ is, to me, a provisional term, and applies
to authenticated facts which have the appearance of not being ex­
plainable in terms of *natural science,’ or the science of the present
day. Whether such a phenomenon is in fact thus unexplainable is what
I am trying to find out; it is not to me a matter of faith.
“ I am so shameless as to be willing to remain in the company of
William James, F. W. H. Myers, F. C. S. Schiller, William Mc-
Dougall, etc.
“ I never before knew that science was deterred by fear of ‘ un­
ethical ’ consequences, from continuing its search into the meaning of
facts. It seems to me that I have heard that same warning in reference
to evolution, etc.
“ Of course, being in Who's Who does not qualify a man for ‘being
shown up as an authority in scientific methodology ’ and no one that I
am acquainted with ever dreamed that it did. There are some big
fools in Who’s Who, no doubt, as there are many outside of it. ‘It
will all come out in the wash ’—of course, I cannot write a book to
make plain to a small but worried minority that the horrific things
they imagine are plotted will not take place.
“ I don’t admit that it is scientific to credit me with good inten­
tions. Why not remain an agnostic on that point? Only if you are,
you will also have to be agnostic as to whether my methods and my
writings on psychic research are trash, for I fear you know as little
about the one as the other.
“ When a psychologist admits that there are more things in heaven
and earth than are explained in terms of natural science he is close to
the kingdom of psychic research.”
P bofessor G. A., a Ph.D. and university instructor of Psychology,
responded:
“ No: but, as I once said in the------------, the concept of the super­
normal is meaningless to me (and should be, I think, to all). If su­
pernormal = that-which-is-not-explained, then of course every problem
of research in the psychological laboratory, to which I devote my life,
is supernormal when it is first attacked. I obviously do not reply
Y es to questions 1 and 4, because I know that this logical conviction
of mine cannot be shared by the author of this questionnaire.”
The professor evidently thought that the words in Census query 1,
MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND OPINIONS 307
“ an incident . . . a ‘ normal ’ explanation for which is not to you
apparent,” signified that in my view, any and every such incident would
be supernormal. Not so, that question was shrewdly devised to invite
not only incidents of evidential character, but also incidents which
were simply puzzling, to see how the narrators reasoned about them
and also whether I could assist to solve the puzzles. And also to draw
just such remarks as those by Professor G. A.
From a letter by W. F. P. to the professor:
“ I recognize the liability of the word *supernormal ’ to criticism,
and have long done so, though I think I should have no difficulty in
defining ‘ supernormal ’ if some one would define the word ‘normal ’ so
that this, too, would escape a similar reproach. ‘ Supernormal ’ was
chosen, as you know, to escape the implications of ‘ supernatural.’ It
seems as though people were beginning to project into it all the content
of the latter word.
“ I sometimes think we shall have to adopt a hieroglyphic to desig­
nate those categories now embraced under the objectionable word.
“ We do not mean by it that-which-is-not-natural, for I suppose
that everything which is, is embraced in the scheme of nature. But
‘ nature,’ too, is an equivocal and ambiguous word. If we can imagine
persons existing in space and reasoning on matters concerning this
planet, it might well appear to them any physical changes or manipu­
lations arising out of human intellect and will (such as leads to the
running of railroad trains, the production of light and power by elec­
tricity, the phenomenon of airships, etc., etc.) would be subversive of
the ‘laws of nature,’ and hence unthinkable. Any claim that there
had been noted evidence of action upon the earth implying mental
manipulation would be a claim of the ‘ supernormal.’ The word there­
fore is to be understood relatively. . . .
“ I cannot help thinking that psychologists sometimes, like other
people, amuse themselves with a harmless game of logomachy, that they
take a naughty pleasure in throwing a fog-screen of words about the
poor psychical researchers, all the while knowing what the facts at
issue essentially are.
“ If the inhabitants of Boston saw ‘ an angel come down from
heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his
hand,’ and if the angel cried ‘ Boston is fallen, is fallen,’ I am nearly
certain that you, living elsewhere and hence escaping the cataclysm,
would admit that there had happened something radically different in
kind from what you had hitherto acknowledged as actualities. Angels
which fly down from somewhere in the sky would henceforth have a
place in your scheme of nature though they did not before, and though
there would still be in the phenomenon *that-which-is-not-explained.’
308 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ If it should be established, as some think it already is, that
thoughts can somehow slop over beyond the periphery of the brain, so
as to be demonstrable though rarely, in persons related to each other
in a way not understood, after the manner known as telepathy, there
again, I think you will admit, we would have something which is
different in kind from the great range of facts which are universally
acknowledged. Even though to define that difference is difficult, the
difference is there.
“ Whether there is such a thing as telepathy or not, that is a
different matter, one of evidence only. It is such things which uni­
versity men of England, more than forty years ago, began seriously
to investigate, in order to see if there could be any residuum of truth
in all the age-long and world-wide stories which people have been telling,
and to shut the door against them for all intelligent people if reason in
the light of tested evidence showed them to be mere superstition. They
have not been able to shut the door. In fact, the only safety for think­
ing men from becoming convinced that there is at least something,
different in kind, meriting study, as Dr. Beard said long ago, is not to
give much attention to these matters in the way of serious study, but
to cut and run.
“ This is in no sense a retort, or a remonstrance, or anything but
a chat. Only, how could you be so cruel as to say that you know that
your *logical conviction ’ that, ‘if supernormal = that-which-is-not-
explained, then of course every problem of research in the psycholog­
ical laboratory, to which I devote my life, is supernormal when it is
first attacked,’ cannot be shared by me? ‘This was the most unkindest
cut of all! ’ I am prepared, now, to hear from some quarter that of
course I do not agree that a whole is equal to the sum of its parts.”
Partial as I am to psychologists, I cannot help noting that of all
scientists (if it be lawful to call them scientists) they are the most
likely to draw hasty inferences from incomplete data. Thus it seemed
to Professor G. A. that my letter was an emotional reaction. He did
not know that at the very beginning of the questionnaire project it
was planned to draw correspondents out, to study their reactions to
the general subject of psychic research, to get their objections in in­
telligible form, to see whether they could convict me and my colleagues
of unreason, and whether their own logic, in this particular field, was
entirely sound. No more emotion necessarily lurked in such a task
than would if one was making entomological researches, except that
men are infinitely more amusing than bugs. Professor G. A. wrote:
“ The real reason that I do not like psychic research is that there
has been so much personal disagreement that the mere discussion of
MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND OPINIONS 309
its facts gets colored with emotion, and emotion is unfriendly to re­
search. I am not criticizing you, but I do note that a casual, half-
whimsical answer to a questionnaire has produced two pages of single
space typed by your own hand. There is some unusual spring of
energy for it to be released so easily.
“ But let me accept your challenge to define the ‘normal.* I think
with David Hume, Ernst Mach, and Karl Pearson that a scientific fact
is always a statement of a relationship between terms, a correlation;
and moreover, that the terms of the correlation take the form of a
cause and an effect. I am not here speaking of cause and effect as
implying a quantitative equivalence, but am using the broader meaning
and thus allowing all the facts of psychology to come into science.
The simplest facts are simple relationships between two terms, a causal
term and an effectual term. The bigger facts build up into complex
systems. The ideal of a science is to become a single interrelated
system, but one never in practice finds this anywhere nearly complete.
An isolated observation of a single term is not a fact and has no
scientific meaning; it must stand in observed relation to something
else, and thus the total system grows.
“ We have now a well recognized body of knowledge which forms
such a system or set of systems, and we call it physical science.
Whether psychology could have been an entirely separate system I do
not know, but the truth is that it has not gained its facts except by
relation to the physical system—in terms of stimuli and the nervous
system. Any new isolated observational datum that is observed in
relation to terms of this system, and which therefore gains a causal
meaning in respect of it, yields a new fact which is normal.
“ There! Now you tell me what the ‘ supernormal *is. If my wife
and I think of the same thing at the same time, it does not seem to me
that I have a relationship of the causal order. It does not fit the
normal system. The event is true as a particular, but it is not a fact
in the scientific sense. If I find that we think of the same things syn­
chronously only when there is a nasal whisper of the one of us or only
when there are statable associations common to us both, then I am
dealing with a normal fact. To say that we can do it with all normal
explanations excluded is to say that we have one term in relation to
nothing else, and thus to make a meaningless and useless statement as
far as research is concerned.”
Letter from W. F. P. to Professor G. A.:
“ True, an emotion did cause me to write *two pages ’ (one and a
half)—the emotion of curiosity, which is the impelling force of scien­
tific investigation. I am very curious as to human reactions to stimuli.
310 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
On the other hand, I am rather indifferent to whether my correspond­
ents ‘like psychical research ’ or not, being at the farthest possible
removed from a propagandist. Your first paragraph was worth all
the pains of provoking it.
“ It would not be necessary to say more, but in courtesy I must
make some response to ‘ Now you tell me what the “ supernormal ” is.’
The trouble is that you have not given a stable definition of the *nor­
mal.’ It has the attribute of relativity. Had the science and inven­
tions of *radio ’ a hundred years ago been comprised in the mind of
one man, and he had disclosed nothing, but simply put forward the
claim that it was possible to hear the voice of a person at a thousand
miles distance, there could have been to other men no assignable cor­
relation of cause and effect. Therefore the claim would not have
related to the normal, because of the then absence of any relevant
known norm. It would not have been a scientific fact—it would only
have been a fact. If telepathy should ever be universally acknowl­
edged to be a fact, of course a cause will be assumed to exist, and
probably eventually would be assigned. It is even barely conceivable
that the cause might be vibrations from one brain to another, produc­
ing effects upon the brain-cells of the ‘percipient.’ Do not understand
me to be advocating this theory.
“As already intimated, the definition of ‘ supernormal ’ is relative
to that of *normal.’ Relatively to your definition, I should say that
any facts which exist (if any do exist as facts) and which are expressly
excluded from the scheme of facts which you say are ‘ normal,’ are
*supernormal ’ facts. If they are facts and if their modes of causation
become known, I suppose that they will become *normal ’ facts. The
term *supernormal ’ was rather forced upon us, by criticisms which
employed the term *supernatural ’; it is a provisional term, and a
relative one.
“ If I may indulge in my weakness of humor, this letter, applying
your mathematical standard, is only a little more than half as emo­
tional as yours.”
And Professor G. A. finished the correspondence:
“ Why of course I am as emotional as anybody else when the topic
is psychic research! I was talking about the topic, and not people.
“ You seem in general to agree with me, and the distinction between
the fact and the scientific fact could certainly be made. Only now I do
not see how the facts, that are not these related scientific facts, are
ever to be selected for *psychic research.’ The majority of data about
the world belong in this class, and they all become ‘ supernormal ’ on
this definition. Moreover, there is the further question as to *authen-
MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND OPINIONS 311
tic phenomena,’ and without repetition, experiment, and the conse­
quent normalization of such facts, I should be put to it to get any
meaning for ‘ authentic.’ ”
The professor is so fond of seeing his cosmos in apple-pie order
that he prefers to hide any litter under a decent cover. His corre­
spondent is so constituted that an ascertained fact or type of facts
still exists, even if it at present does not give a satisfactory account of
its relations. If the professor and his wife think the same thought at
the same time, and he discovers that she whispered it through her nose,
then he is “ dealing with a normal fact.” But what if she and he, a
thousand miles apart, synchronously thought of and repeated ten
identical poetical passages from ten different poets and he knew that
they had plotted nothing? I rather think the fact would bowl him over
as effectually as if the rationale of it were apparent. The same
aprioristic reasoning which is now applied to psychic research kept
men of science up to the close of the eighteenth century from acknowl­
edging that meteorites fall from the sky. Heavy stones could not stay
up in the air, for what would keep them from falling; or if they fell,
why did they not fall before? Such a pestiferous fact which (then)
seemed unrelated to any other facts, could not be allowed. Yet scores
of lesser folk had seen the stones fall and knew that in fact they did
come from the sky. At length the scientific world had to accept the
fact, and relations were found for the poor orphan, and all went merry
as a marriage-bell.
P rofessor G. B., a B.S., whose university specialty is Viticulture,
responded, referring to query 1 of the questionnaire:
“ ‘Normal ’ and *apparent ’ require definition, but with the defini­
tion I intend my answer is No.”
The annotator wrote Professor G. B.:
“ I have no right to expect any further service on your part, and
yet I would be pleased if you feel to give me your definition of the word
‘normal.’ I have been receiving some attempts at definition from
various persons and am interested in both the attempts and their
variations. It has usually begun by objecting to the word *super­
normal.’ I have realized the difficulty of defining that word, and think
its definition is only relative to the definition of the word ‘ normal,’
which in my mind is exactly as shifting in its signification as used by
different persons.”
312 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
Professor G. B. responded in part:
“ I have your letter of March 7, asking for my definition of the
word normal. By its origin and general use of course it means con­
formable to some rule or measure. It must differ then according to
the case in which it is used. Some things are incapable of exact
measurement. I think the usual meanings of the word normal are—a
mode—a mean—or the usual. For the purpose of my answer to your
questions I define a normal cause as one which is in accordance with
the immutable laws or ways of nature, i. e., of the universe and its
contents.
“ This definition is a postulate and excludes the idea of any super­
normal cause. Therefore all causes are by definition ‘ normal.’ ”
Of course anything is “ normal ” or not, according to definition,
and if the professor is correct then the words “ normal ” and “ super­
normal ” should be struck out of the dictionary. After saying that
his scale of confidence runs from “ I know ” or “ I believe ” through “ I
think,” “ perhaps ” and “ I doubt ” to “ I disbelieve ” (and one would
suppose that to be the case), he goes on:
“ There is no place in this system for supernormal causes. Causes
and results are figures of speech to describe usual apparent sequences
of events. When we see an unusual sequence why need we look for
something supernatural. If we realize our comparative ignorance in
all cases is it not better and more reasonable simply to acknowledge a
little greater depth of ignorance in this case.”
Letter to Professor G. B.:
“ I fully concur with your remark that ‘ there is no place in this
system for supernormal causes,’ understanding the word ‘ supernor­
mal ’ as you do. But that you do not use it in the sense which Myers
and others had in mind when they adopted it for use in psychical
research, is evident from your next sentence: ‘When we see an unusual
sequence why need we look for something supernatural? ’
“ It may interest you to know that the very protest you make was
so fully sympathized with by Myers, Prof. Henry Sidgwick, Prof.
William Barrett and others, that they adopted the word ‘ supernor­
mal ’ as an express repudiation that there could be anything ‘ super­
natural.’ I have for years watched the growth of a tendency to
suppose we mean by ‘ supernormal ’ exactly what was formerly meant
by *supernatural,’ something outside of and higher than nature.
“As I understand the term ‘ supernormal,’ it is meant to designate
MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND OPINIONS 313
whatever powers, faculties, functions or phenomena, are inherent in or
connected with men or animals, and which are altogether outside and
transcendent of those which are generally recognized by scientific men
of the day. I am not now claiming that there are, nor conceding that
there are not, such powers and phenomena. And when I say, outside
and transcendent, I mean in quite different categories. For instance,
we may and probably shall find out much about hearing that we do not
know now, but we expect it to classify with what we now know. But
telepathy, if it exists, is in another category, for it supposes communi­
cation of thoughts by other channels than any we now recognize.
“ If an apparition is ever caused by an intelligent something out­
side of the person who experiences it, and the fact becomes accepted, a
new realm of reality is opened. It is not above nature, for it is in
nature, but it is something radically different, and there is needed a
word to designate the quality of that something. It would be the same
were it established that some persons can look into the future. The
evidence for these and kindred claims is what some of us, who have
accumulated it, are discussing.
“ It is no part of my wish to convince you that there is any reality
in such claims. Nor have I any right to expect you to answer this
letter. You may not wish to do so, and I shall quite understand. But
I should be greatly interested to learn if the word ‘ supernormal ’ seems
objectionable to you after the explanation I have made of its history
and its use. And, in case it does, if you can think of any word which
would better take its place. Without some general term, we should
have to keep repeating the list of alleged phenomena, like ‘the cornet,
flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and all kinds of music ’ of the book
of Daniel.”
The professor’s response first shifted the ground by complaining
that psychic research “ seems to me to be dealing with the preposter­
ous,” and ended by reiterating that “ your definition of supernormal
simply refers to things which to me do not exist at all; as soon as I
know they exist they become normal.”
The last letter in the courteous series was one by the annotator:
“ I feel really grateful to you for your patience in explaining your
views, and I certainly shall not expect you to take any more trouble,
although I do not think that you really answered the question which I
asked in my last. There are certain alleged phenomena which people
talk about for and against, claim and deny as existing facts. Never­
theless, they talk about them, and my question was what term would be
best to apply to them as a class or genus, so to speak. Exactly as
you (and I) do not believe in little creatures that drink dew and dance
314 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
on the leaves, wearing wings and clad in red jerkins and pointed hats,
but we sometimes talk about their fancied existence, and agree to call
them by the generic term of fairies. You seem to me to avoid the
question by refusing to talk about the matters I have in mind as even
hypothetical ones. I personally do not believe in ‘vampires ’ as facts,
but I know what is meant by the term, and find it easy to discuss
whether or not it is the best term for what it expresses. So, too, I
understand the term ‘phlogiston,’ that is, I know what concept it
stands for, and can give the opinion that it is as good a name as any
for what neither I nor any one else now thinks exists.
“As I expect to discuss your views briefly in my book, although I
shall not mention your name unless I get express permission to do so, it
is only fair for me to say that one point I shall make is that if you are
correct in saying that whatever exists is normal, then there is no such
thing as abnormal psychology, and that a maniac must then be a per­
fectly normal person, since he is as real a human being as any other.”
P rofessor G. C., a Ph.D. and well-known university Psychologist,
author of books on his subject, and crusader against the “ supersti­
tions ” of psychic research, answers Query 1 of the questionnaire:
“ No. By this I mean that I have no reason to suppose that a
‘ normal ’ explanation is not possible, whether I can give it or not.”
If the professor has experienced or been related to any incident
which puzzled him, an effort, at least, would have been made to assist
him to a “ 1normal ’ explanation.” No fault can be found with an
attitude of agnosticism or doubt; it was only on occasions when he
opposed mere dogma to evidence that the present writer has criti­
cized him.
P rofessor G. D., teacher of Mathematics in a university and a
Ph.D. (Episcopalian), waxed severe:
“ It is my opinion that an investigation of this type can only
reveal the amount of ignorance and superstition concealed under the
hats of presumably intelligent persons. Furthermore, I consider the
proper approach to psychic research to be through the psychological
laboratory in the hands of competent psychologists.”
A letter to Professor G. D., from the office of the Boston Society,
proceeded on the irenic “ Come let us reason together ” order:
MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND OPINIONS 315
“ I am interested in all such expressions of opinion, and always
respond, not controversially but in the hope of getting some fuller
expression. The following are some of my reflections:
“ 1. No one respects work done in the laboratories, psychological
and other, more than I. But it seems obvious that there are classes of
facts which cannot be observed at will therein, such as the fall of
aerolites, volcanic eruptions, historical events (such as the memorable
saving by Washington of his army by crossing East River in the
night, and the influence of Madame du Barry upon the history of
France), the birth of twins united in the manner of the ‘ Siamese
twins,’ and the production of a poem in a dream, as in the case of
Coleridge.
“ 2. I should suppose that these and other classes of facts and
events of importance to science or in some other relation.
“ 3. And that thousands of them are credited and accepted by
scientific and other intellectual men who would regard it as unintelli­
gent not to accept them.
“ 4. Although they are established by human testimony and col­
lateral proofs gathered outside of the laboratory.
“ 5. I take it that facts are, as such, never too undignified for
scientific attention, in some relation.
“ 6. And that, consequently, if it is a fact that a man sees an
apparition of his father, for instance, at or near the moment of his
father’s death, of which he had had no warning, it would not be *super­
stition ’ or *ignorance ’ to acknowledge the fact.
“ 7. I take it, that there could be such a fact, if only by chance
coincidence.
“ 8. And that it would not be unintelligent to mention and even
discuss it, if only to illustrate the possibilities of chance coincidence,
but that first it should be established as a fact.
“ 9. That it would be unreasonable to expect such a fact, any more
than the dreaming out of the poem of which we have a fragment in
‘Kubla Khan,’ to take place at will, in a laboratory.
“ 10. So that it must be accepted, if at all, on human testimony.
“ 11. That, while if such a claim stood alone, or a single one were
even supported by persons who testified hearing the experience related
before the corresponding event, it would be more reasonable to suppose
that the person lied, or the group formed a conspiracy to lie, this
becomes more difficult to hold in proportion to the number of such
cases, and the standing and intellectual qualifications of the witnesses.
“ 12. That of all classes of men, those of recognized scientific
standing are the most likely to have that balance of intellectual quali­
fications, that exemption from the temptation to lie on a matter re­
garded with so much distaste by the most of their colleagues, and
316 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
therefore the most likely to be impelled by regard for scientific truth to
overcome their natural repugnance against relating such a story.
“ 13. That if such a person once in his life experiences the appari­
tion (whether it be a telepathic effect, a mere coincidence or not, I do
not now discuss) of a person, at or very close to the moment of that
person’s death, this would be such an experience as he would be likely
to remember clearly and without distortion (disregarding the cases
where there are corroborating witnesses).
“ 14. If a distinguished geologist testifies to having experienced a
visual hallucination but once in his life, and that of a person who died
at about that moment; if one of the most noted physicists living de­
clared that he had an auditory hallucination once in his life, and that
of hearing his name called twice by the voice of a relative who died at
a great distance away in the same hour; and if the testimonies of many
men and women of recognized scientific standing, including psycholo­
gists, are in hand as to experiences of a similar character, a combina­
tion of such testimonies at least intelligently justifies us in thinking
that such facts do occur.
“ 16. And also justifies our consideration of the question whether
they are mere coincidences, and if not, what the causal factor is which
lies behind them.
“ 16. Mathematical calculation enters into the determination of
that question, although there are great difficulties in the way of its
application, and we can never hope for any exact results by it,—only
a more or less great presumption.
“ 17. Neither would such calculation be a matter of the laboratory.
“ I am not arguing, only thinking. I wish I could get many men
like yourself to point out the fallacies or errors in the steps of this
thinking. If you care, or are willing, to make any response, I shall be
greatly obliged.”
The professor is one of those too rare men who, on becoming con­
vinced that they expressed opinions without sufficient consideration,
are ready to admit it. In part he responded:
“ Your letter of October 3rd seems to me to attack successfully the
position which I assumed in my reply to your questionnaire. In fact
the questionnaire has revealed some of the ignorance and prejudice
regarding psychic research which resided under at least one hat. . . .
Ghosts and kindred phenomena have troubled the minds of men for
centuries. The problem they present should be studied as carefully as
possible by such methods as we have. I hope that workers in this
difficult field will eventually succeed in finding a scientific basis for the
phenomena.”
MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND OPINIONS 317
D o c to r o f L aw s G. E., a prominent Author and Diplomat, A.B.,
set down a rather drastic opinion.
“ The difficulty with all of this is: Human testimony, no matter
how honest, is almost worthless as to explicable sensations and inci­
dents ; it is even more worthless as to whatever appears inexplicable.”
A copy of the letter to G. D. was sent to G. E. and his attention
directed to paragraphs 10-14, in order to get his reactions. I also
added that I could subscribe to his dictum if one word were added,
“ much,” before “ human testimony.” In reply he coincided with my
opinion by changing “ almost ” to “ often.” He added: “ I am much
interested in the oft-repeated phrase of those who believe that every­
thing must be explained at once. ‘It is supernatural: there can be no
other explanation!’ Such is the assuredness of the ego and the smaller
the latter, the greater the former!” There is little fault to be found
with this expression. But what deep emotion must have been awakened
by the questionnaire to evoke the initial utterance! Incidents are seg­
ments of experience, for we know nothing save as part of the experience
of someone, and all experience is directly through sensation, save only
the experience of thinking, which derives its material mainly—some
would say entirely—from sensation. All science is based on testimony
of experience through the sensations. Therefore, science itself would
be nearly worthless were G. E.’s dictum true. And—perhaps most
dreaded of all corollaries—the excellent books of the diplomat himself,
being full of incidents to which he testifies, would hardly be worth
purchasing.
P rofessor G. F., a Ph.D. and university specialist in Physics
(Unitarian), blithely remarks, referring to a partial list of reporters
in the book Noted Witnesses for Psychic Occurrences:
“ The only kind of psychic research worth while is the kind which
Houdini did! I do not see his name on your list.”
Response:
“As my list comprised only 50 out of the 170 persons, it should not
be surprising to you that you did not see the name of Houdini, even if
it were in the complete list. It will gratify you, I am sure, to know
that it is. In the book referred to, Houdini is responsible for relating
a story which he heard from the lips of Harry Kellar, another con-
318 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
juror possibly as great as Houdini himself. It may interest you
further to know that I heard from Houdini’s lips another incident
which occurred in his own experience and which, slightly to polish up
the sentence that he employed, ‘ gave him a slap in the face.’
“ I was friends with Houdini, knowing him very well indeed. He
was a great magician and stage general, yet it has again and again
surprised me that men of science should regard him as an authority
upon the subject of psychic research. He knew a great deal about
‘physical phenomena.’ He knew very little regarding the actual evi­
dence for certain types of mental phenomena, and when with me was
frank to say so, but naturally upon the platform used the language
which magicians are accustomed to use. His book, A Magician Among
the Spirits, is literally crammed with errors. If he had lived and
another edition had been gotten out, I was proposing to help him
clear out a few score of these.
“ It may interest you further to know that in the same book re­
ferred to, another of the persons on the *lists ’ is J. N. Maskelyne, one
of the most noted magicians of England, who vouches for a ‘psychic ’
incident in his family.”
P rofessor G. G., a Ph.D. and university professor of Psychology,
author in his specialty (Unitarian), writes that he has dreamed of
having a dream whose veridical character the primary dream demon­
strated. Also in a dream obtained positive proof of both thought-
transference and clairvoyance. But alas! in the waking state the
phenomena all become normal. At request he narrated a very inter­
esting and dramatically-constructed dream of proving telepathy and
clairvoyance. It is not pertinent, however, to print this dream, as
Professor G. G. makes no claim that it has any logical bearing on the
question whether there are in fact valid claims of the psychic. All that
such dreams might indicate, on the principles of psychoanalysis, is that
the professor has sought to repress, for prudential reasons, a wish-to-
believe, and it consequently expresses itself in dreams. The commen­
tator cannot, by the way, remember ever having had dreams of this
character, possibly because he never felt any particular desire to prove
such claims true, but only to determine whether they are true or not,
hence has no repressions on the subject.
P rofessor G. H., a Ph.D. who has a chair of Psychology in a
university, testifies:
“ I attended a typical spiritualistic seance. Horns were sounded,
MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND OPINIONS 319
etc., but the notable thing to me was that a month or two later the
organizer of this stance began to hear the voice of his dead wife—a
typical hallucination—and he at once committed suicide so as to be
with her.”
Of course we all know that there are pathological hallucinations,
but this fact does not settle the question whether or not there are
veridical ones. As well would dream voices, being unreal, indicate that
nobody talks.
Nor did the fact that the man committed suicide after thinking he
had a communication from his wife necessarily bear upon the question
of the validity of that supposed communication. If his wife had in
fact risen bodily from the dead he might still have committed suicide.
If it were common for suicides to occur in consequence of alleged com­
munications, it might be best to avoid having communications, but it is
not, and one swallow does not make a summer. People, insane or not,
commit suicide post, and often propter, all sorts of occasions. I knew
of a man who shot himself shortly after marriage, and also because of
a “ communication ” from his (living) wife, but probably no one would
cite this suicide as an argument against getting married.
P eofessoe G. I., a Ph.D. and college teacher of Mathematics and
Astronomy, utters a note of sarcasm:
“ I am skeptical about almost every question except on perpetual
motion and spiritualism. I think there is about the same type of
reasons for believing in either.”
In spite of languid interest in what the professor believed or dis­
believed, yet he was thanked for reciting a portion of his creed. It is
doubtful, however, if the ejaculation of disgust signified more ac­
quaintance with the evidence of psychic research than the yokel has
of astronomy when he pronounces it “ all rot that these sky-sharps
can tell anything about how far off the stars are.” And an astrono­
mer ought to be more of an exact observer than an intuitionalist.
None of the blanks sent him had a word about “ spiritualism ” or
named a type of alleged phenomena which has not been defended by
persons who reject the spiritistic hypothesis.
P eofessoe G. J., an A.M. and university President (Presbyterian),
likewise undergoes an emotional recoil:
320 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ My opinion I know is of little concern to you, but this question­
naire indicates to me that you must be hard put to find material for
a publication. Frankly, isn’t there quite enough of this sort of thing
in print? ”
From a letter by the annotator to President G. J .:
“ First to answer your query. No, frankly, while I think there is
more than enough of certain sorts of ‘ this sort of thing in print ’
already, I do not think there is enough of another sort of this sort
of thing.
“ Now let me pay courteous respect to your opinion. Suppose I
were for the first time cognizant that this sort of thing were being
discussed and had before me the stack of replies to questions concern­
ing it. I take up yours and think, ‘ Since he is the President of a
university, this sort of thing must be ridiculous moonshine.’ But then
I come upon replies by other Presidents, and many Professors—of
geology, biology, physics, astronomy, mathematics, etc., etc., which
relate incidents in their careers belonging to the category of this sort
of thing, which they do not regard as ridiculous at all, and for which
they vouch as veritable though very puzzling facts. Would I be un­
intelligent in pausing to consider whether this skepticism of the men
who have neither had any such experiences themselves nor patience to
pay adequate attention to those who have is worth quite so much as
the earnest testimonies of peers who declare that they testify from
personal knowledge?
“ I do not intend any derision when I refer to the fact that you
appear from Who's Who to be a Presbyterian; which implies that you
place considerable reliance in the New Testament. While I do not
think that the statements of the Bible, however sacred, have weight for
determining a scientific question, I often feel considerable curiosity to
know how one and the same person can confide in the New Testament,
which, as Phillips Brooks has said in other terms, is saturated with
claims of a psychic nature, and yet can view all such claims in our own
day with utter contempt.
“Are the alleged facts of no value, even though they were estab­
lished? On the contrary, the psychological, philosophical and ethical
consequences of some of them would be illimitable. So long as there
exist a great number of men and women of highest culture and standing
who allege that these are facts, and they have not been shown to be
fancies, I do not think the time has come to cease printing about them,
whether pro or con.
“ Take ‘ telepathy,’ for instance. Its psychological and philosoph­
ical implications would be prodigious. I have before me a letter by
MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND OPINIONS 321
one of the leading neurologists of this country which says, ‘ I have seen
what seemed to be the phenomenon personally.’ Much evidence for it
has accumulated, enough to have convinced some scientific men, and
not enough (or not sufficiently heeded) to convince others. On what
grounds shall the settlement of this grave question be regarded as not
worth while? ”
P rofessor G. K., a prominent Architect and professor of Archi­
tecture, says:
“ I am afraid I may be classed under paragraph 5 of the reverse
page [Those who feel “ dislike of the whole subject ”]. The spiritual
degree [*ic] needs no proof to me, and I doubt if you can prove it to
others by the method of *exact science.’ By others I mean those who
deny it.”
We are not trying to “ prove ” anything. We are collecting, test­
ing, analyzing and classifying facts. “ Proof ” is a reciprocal process,
and the facts offered have to be more or less numerous and cogent
according to what the Zeitgeist happens to be. And it is curious to
find one who believes in a certain type of facts yet dislikes the whole
subject, is not interested in seeing his faith supported by evidence.
Still more curious that many others say the same.
M edical D octor G. L., an honorary A.M., occupant of several
important medical positions, Medical Writer mostly for the general
public, writes:
“ Little or no value can be attached to the testimony of art, litera­
ture, clergy, army, navy, physicians, surgeons, language, ‘ statesmen ’
or Who's Who in a topic such as this. Pardon this expression, but
it is my experience that those who report such ‘ authentic ’ experiences
are of the emotional, sentimental, unscientific (objectively, experi­
mentally) type. Most physicians and others on your list will give
testimony that is worthless.”
Opinions regarding the comparative reliability of classes have been
and will be sufficiently attended to elsewhere. Our attention is espe­
cially called here to the effect of “ a topic such as this ” upon the
reliability of testimony.
An attempt was made to analyze this opinion, and to induce the
doctor to commit himself to its successive factors:
322 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ Literally, as you are a member of one of the disabled classes,
your negative testimony (that is, that you have had no experience
which can be classified as ‘in a topic like this ’) cannot be relied upon.
But you may mean that the inability to give reliable testimony exists
only when the testimony is affirmative. May I ask:
“ 1. Whether you really believe that if you had the hallucination
of seeing your uncle clearly at noon-day, when he actually was not
there, you could not give testimony to the fact of having had that
hallucination as you could to any other species of fact ?”
The doctor replied: “ Perhaps I could, and would describe the
experience as a typical ‘hallucination.* ” So far, so good; I also had
called it a hallucination.
“ 2. And if so, and you saw by the clock that the hallucination
took place exactly at noon, is there any magic in *this topic ’ which
would make you necessarily uncertain afterwards as to the hour?”
The doctor replied: “ I have no reason to say I was ever uncertain
about the time a clock’s hands pointed,” and added that he never had
experienced any hallucination. But he was not asked what had been,
but whether in case he did experience a hallucination, “ this topic ”
would render him incapable of ascertaining the time and being certain
of it afterwards.
“ 3. And, if it afterward were proved that this uncle died at exactly
the same moment or within a few minutes of it, the receipt of that news
would exercise an influence to make you less certain of the fact of your
hallucination and the moment when it occurred? ”
Again the doctor evades the question. He knows that in the event
that he saw his uncle’s apparition, timed it, and then learned that his
uncle had died, he would be quite capable of comparing the events as to
time, and he is unwilling for the sake of argument to say that he is
such a ninny as to be incapable. Also he sees how futile it would be to
proclaim his own ability and the inability of other educated and in­
telligent persons. So he says: “ Wherever confirmations of such re­
ported coincidences have been sought from persons said to have been
told of the experience, before receipt of the news of the death, it has
been found that no mention of it had been previously made. The
alleged *hallucination,’ ‘ghost,* ‘ anticipation,’ or what have you, has
never been confirmed, checked, corroborated by unbiased objection,
unsusceptible trained judges. A sk---------, Watson, et al.”
MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND OPINIONS 323
I have often remarked that psychic research is the one field into
which intelligent men have no fear of precipitating themselves to make
skeptical affirmations without offering or knowing data to prove them.
In a great number of cases confirmations have been obtained from per­
sons said to have been told beforehand of apparitions, dreams and
what-have-you of seemingly significant character, corresponding in
time with the moment, hour or day of the death. They are to be found
in a number of carefully compiled books.
Take Phantasms of the Living, for instance, and glance through it
for half an hour. We find (II, 397) two persons testifying that a
third in the presence of several people, one morning, on the basis of a
visual experience, declared that a certain woman died at a specified
hour of the previous night, that the date and hour was at once set
down, and that it was afterwards found to correspond exactly with
that of the woman’s death. We find (II, 174) that two persons
thought they heard the voice of a certain officer uttering the name of
one of them, that the matter was talked over, that the officer died at
about the same time, and that the confirmation sought was given over
signatures. We find (II, 178) a woman who faints on seeing the ap­
parition of her aunt, that the aunt’s unexpected death took place that
day, and that the witness who was told of the apparition before news of
the death came, supplied her signed testimony. We find cases told
beforehand, cases where two persons shared the experience and both
testify, cases recorded before knowledge of the corresponding event,
cases numerous and of great variety. One (II, 230) relates to a man­
servant Arthur, ill in St. Catherine’s Home, but who was expected to
live some days, so that his mistress on Friday wrote that she would
visit him on Monday. That evening, at 10:30, the time he had been
accustomed to extinguish the lights, his mistress and her daughter, in
separate rooms, near a hall gas burner, both heard a man’s tread
approach it, then retire, and both emerged into the hall and remarked
with surprise that the gas was still burning, and that it sounded like
Arthur’s step. We have both their testimonies, and also that of the
woman in charge of the Home, to the fact that Arthur died at 10:30,
just after asking the time.
It is really irrelevant what a writer’s “ bias ” may be when we are
examining the evidence he furnishes. Was not Du Chaillu “ biased ”
by what he had seen in his African explorations, when he wrote about
the pygmies and gorillas? Of course, and many authorities charged
that he was romancing, but his statements were afterwards vindicated
to universal satisfaction. Phantasms of the Liznng is as carefully
324 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
guarded from any just liability to the charge of special pleading as
any book I know. Nor is there any doubt about the standing, intelli­
gence and character of many of the witnesses.
One is not sure whether the doctor implies that Professor Watson
is one of the “ unbiased,” but one suspects that the professor would
laugh heartily at the idea that he is unbiased on the subject of
“ ghosts.”
“ 4. Or suppose the case to have been thus (and there have been
many of this character) : you had the hallucination, you noted the
time by the clock, and you told others before the news of the uncle’s
death at the same time arrived. Do you still think that your testi­
mony would be not worth taking since you belong to a blacklisted class
(physicians) ? If so, it must be that ‘ this topic ’ has a black magic
which disintegrates the intellects of all concerned—is this your view? ”
Again the doctor declines to answer the question, but says that he
has examined every Baltimore case brought to his attention, and he
hasn’t found a valid case. But he fails to state whether his cases were
more or less than a half dozen, or in what his “ investigation ” con­
sisted. “ No Edison, Lindbergh, Hoover, Coolidge, Mellon, Borah,
Byrd, ever reported such.” Appeal to some of these men is odd, seeing
that the doctor had already discarded any testimony by army, navy or
parliament! Borah and Coolidge are statesmen, and Hoover a states­
man plus. Byrd is a Rear Admiral, and Lindbergh a Colonel, which
titles should automatically disable their testimony. Probably the doc­
tor would not limit his remark anent these gentlemen to death coinci­
dences; he thinks that no such man would have any disgraceful
“ psychic ” experience and be convinced of its supernormal character.
Perhaps Edison could not, but Linnaeus, one of the greatest scientists
and closest observers of facts in his century, testified that he recog­
nized the footsteps of his friend “ precisely at that hour ” when his
death took place. Edison could not, but another great inventor,
Hiram Maxim, could and did. Whether Hoover has ever given any
attention to such matters we do not know, but we do know that the
mining engineer Greenawalt, and the aeronautic engineer Dunne have,
and have become affirmatively impressed. Coolidge has not told of any
psychic experience, but his best friends will not claim him greater than
the statesman and Lord High Chancellor Brougham, who set down in
his diary that he saw the apparition of a friend who was in India, and
afterwards wrote that he learned the friend died that day. And Borah
may be faced by Constans, Depew, etc.; Mellon the financier by Henry
MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND OPINIONS 325
Clews; Byrd by Henry M. Stanley; and Colonel Lindbergh by other
adventurous men with military titles, as General Fremont and Generale
Garibaldi.
P rofessob D avid Cam p R ogers, Ph.D., who teaches Psychology
in Smith College (Congregationalist), writes:
“ I have been interested in the topics mentioned in paragraph two
of your letter. For a number of years I have had repeated experiences
myself that could be classified under these heads, and have heard re­
peated reports from others of similar experiences and many times
have not discovered a complete *normal ’ explanation. I have in my
own experiences always had the impression that there were ample
unknown factors so that in every case it was probable that an explana­
tion in terms of ‘normal ’ processes would be discovered if these
factors were fully known.
“ I am reporting two incidents which I regard as typical. Some
years ago an unusually serious student wished to make tests of telep­
athy which seemed to her significant as having a bearing on the belief
in immortality, and I cooperated with her in making plans for
her tests.
“ Her first method was to get one of her friends to relax in the
corner of a darkened room while she sat in the opposite corner. When
the friend signalled that she was in a relaxed and receptive condition,
the experimenter would develop as vivid an image as possible of one of
the four suits of playing cards and make a record. The friend in turn
would wait until an image of one of the suits came to her mind and then
would record her image.
“ During a few preliminary tests she found that each of six subjects
had either approximately the same proportion of right images as would
be expected by chance, namely one-fourth, or a smaller proportion, and
with a seventh subject the proportion of right images was considerably
larger than the normal proportion. With the seventh subject also
both the subject and the experimenter had the feeling that actual
communication was occurring.
“ She then dropped the six less successful subjects and continued
tests exclusively with the seventh. She continued these until she had
made in all 1,664 tests. Of these, the right responses amounted to 422,
which is 6 more than the number which is probable by chance, a smaller
deviation from that number than the probable deviation.
“ This same student and others have tested their capacity to cause
individuals in an audience to turn around, by themselves thinking about
them and willing that they should. They found that they would not
326 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
turn around any more frequently under their intended influence than
without it.
“At one time when I was attending a class reunion an impressive
man with swarthy skin undertook to read for us the thoughts of myself
and my classmates. Each one of us was asked to write a question and
the answer on a slip of paper. We were then to do anything that we
chose with the slips of paper. I put mine in my pocket, and my class­
mates around me did the same. Later he went into a condition of
extreme concentration [?], told us a question, asked whether any man
present had asked that question. A classmate with whom I was well
acquainted rose and said that he had. He then asked my friend
whether he had ever seen him before or entered into any agreement to
assist him, and my friend said he had not. Then, after further concen­
tration, he gave the answer which my friend reported correct. This
procedure was repeated with a considerable number of my classmates.
I could not see that there had been any possibility of communication
between the medium and these classmates with whom I was well ac­
quainted, and so I could think of no possible explanation except telep­
athy and set about readjusting myself to this new experience so that I
should be ready to present quite a different view of this topic than
heretofore to my classes in psychology. Eventually another classmate
pointed out to me something which I had entirely overlooked in my
thinking, though I remembered the facts afterward when they were
mentioned, namely, that the medium had given us the opportunity of
putting our slips in a hat which was passed, that a hat had been
passed through a small section of the audience, and that all of the
classmates whose questions had been answered were in this small part
of the group in which the hat had been passed. Though I had not dis­
covered the method by which the medium had secured the information
from the slips in the hat, it seemed to me there was no difficulty in sup­
posing that it had been secured through a so-called ‘normal ’ method.”
Letter to Professor Rogers:
“ Thanks for your thoughtful and discriminating letter.
“ If there is such a thing as the passage of thoughts from one
person to another, it seems fairly well established by this time that (a)
very few persons are qualified to be agents, whether experimentally or
spontaneously, in any impressive degree, at any time; (b) that the
few who are impressively qualified at times are not so qualified at all
times; (c) and that persons who in the first experiments, or the first
of a series, while their minds are passive or simply mildly curious, have
results greatly or considerably above chance expectation, often, as the
experiments continue and their conscious minds become keenly inter­
ested and anxious to keep up the record, have less favorable results,
MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND OPINIONS 327
dropping even to chance expectation or a non-significant variation
from it. This was the case with the ‘ seventh subject *that your stu­
dent tested. Whether the seventh subject actually was to some extent
affected by ‘telepathy ' in the first experiments, and lost the necessary
passivity or emotional equipoise in the succeeding ones, of course can­
not certainly be known.
“ Many years ago I tried some experiments with my wife, myself as
percipient, and in the first eight or ten experiments got a correct result
or nearly so, in the majority of cases. But the next time I had a
series with her, being keenly interested, my conscious mind fully ‘ on
the job,’ and with a desire, no doubt, to ‘ keep up with my record,’ I
had no impressive results, nor had I in subsequent attempts.
“ Within the year I was one of many tested by a somewhat different
experiment in which the drawing of a card figured. In the first set of
five trials, which I performed in a careless, amused fashion, I got
something right, number of spots, suit, or color, in all five instances, a
result much beyond chance expectation. But in thirty subsequent
series of five trials each, on different dates, I never had one series which
showed anything at all impressive. I tell you these experiences simply
because they may interest you and may quite possibly be significant of
the fact that a mental passivity which few people can maintain, even
if they can sometimes hold it for a little, is the sine qua non, although
my experiences demonstrate nothing. It would indeed require a large
number of experiences, rigidly observed and recorded, of different per­
sons, if they went no farther, to establish a strong presumption. But
suppose that there were had a hundred experiments each with 1,000
people; of these 1,000 only twenty showed at any point of the series
a group running far above the expectation of chance, and with all the
twenty this group occurred either at the very beginning or close of it,
and none at the middle or end, we should then, I think, have established
a strong presumption of both telepathy and the effect of fatigue or
the loss of passivity. I would be glad if you care to tell me how these
remarks strike you. The more irenic discussion there is at this period
when experiments are being conducted, the better for the experimenters.
“ We have long ago determined that the opinion of people that
they can make others turn around by staring at the back of their
heads is unfounded, or, at least, that when they attempt to do it under
rigidly experimental conditions, they fail. But it might still be true
that out of a thousand of such persons one could do it. I am express­
ing no opinion that this is the case with any one, however.
“ Referring to the interesting case of the ‘ swarthy man ’ who pro­
duced an effect which you now think was produced by an unperceived
trick, I entirely agree with you and would judging merely from the
description of act. There are a number of ways by which magicians
328 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
can get possession of slips of paper gathered up in a hat or other
receptacle. I could probably conjecture what method was employed
if I knew exactly what was done with the hat—I mean from the time
the slips were put in and the time the man spoke, and every even slight­
est movement, which of course no one could now be certain of. I take
it that the swarthy man was not a classmate, and was a stranger. The
solution would be easier to suggest if I knew whether he himself passed
the hat, and if not, whether it was a man of the class or another
stranger. Of course a member of the class could learn a magical trick.
I have seen apparently impossible things done in broad daylight
directly before me, and which no amount of learning except ac­
quaintance with juggling methods would have enabled me to explain,
mysterious tricks which baffled Muensterberg, Edison, and others.
“ One remark of yours shows that you recognize a fact which many
learned persons do not seem to recognize, namely, that one may entirely
forget or leave out of their thinking, the most important fact within
the range of their observation when the feat was performed. In your
case you failed to remember or at least to think of the fact that the
man had part of the slips gathered into the hat, and he answered only
questions which were among those on these slips.
“ I have had dozens of accounts from lawyers, business men, etc., to
feats of the famous Bert Reese, all in good faith, and all supposed by
them to be complete and accurate, but which were defective and inaccu­
rate because they (as would be the case with 999 men out of 1,000
persons unversed in the methodology of conjuring) failed to notice or
to remember a few very unobtrusive but all-important movements on
the part of Reese.”
On October 9, 1929, a letter was sent to G. M., an M.E., Army
Officer and military engineer (Roman Catholic).
“ In response to your letter of December 10, 1928 (which itself
was in response to my questionnaire), you said in part:
‘“ If I understand correctly the intent of your book is rather a
one-sided one. That is, to prove by examples that there are manifes­
tations for which there is no normal explanation rather than an un­
biased resume of the thoughts on both sides of the subject. If I am
wrong in this and you desire to include some of my experiences, I
should be glad to write them up for you. In either case I would be glad
to hear from you further on the work you are doing.’
“ I replied on February 20, saying that I would be glad if you
would carry out your offer to write out some of the cases referred to
of seeming supernormal phenomena which you had cleared up. But I
have had no reply.
MISCELLANEOUS ARGUMENTS AND OPINIONS 329
“ I am more eager to keep my book from being a ‘ one-sided ’ one
than my doubting correspondents, apparently, are to help me to that
end. May I ask you to fulfil your promise? ”
But he didn’t.
Letters were also received from a university Law School Pro­
fessor (A.B., Episcopalian), a well-known University Professor of
Psychology (Ph.D.), a College Professor of Journalistics (Ph.B., Con-
gregationalist), a miscellaneous Writer of some repute (A.B.), a
Musician and composer, and a Zoologist and museum curator (hon.
Sc.D.) ; all professing to have investigated and blasted purported
cases, from one to “ hundreds.” The psychologist had “ run down a
vast number of alleged cases of this kind.” All were importuned to
relate one instance and its explanation, but only a single person re­
plied, and he had forgotten.
The psychologist also said: “ I have come to look on these things
as explainable in principle, although I may not at the moment have a
particular key in hand.” Persons who have studied locks may not
have in hand the particular key necessary to open a particular lock,
but they can form some idea of the key that is needed. It were de­
voutly to be wished that the professor would describe the key which
would unlock the case described in the Mrs. King hypothetical ques­
tion,1 or say if he can imagine what that key might be, short of sup­
posing that the whole case is fiction.
1 See page 209.
VIII. A VERY DOUBTING THOMAS
To one correspondent an entire section is devoted, not because his
polemics are particularly novel or formidable, but because he returned
to the charge again and again, and from first to last produced almost
a summary of the customary objections to and dogmatic arguments
against psychic research. Such good-natured persistence and inge­
nuity in contriving theories and surmises intended to have explanatory
significance, was very gratifying. In fact, though at the end I felt
increased esteem for many a correspondent, Mr. Thomas’s name, as
in the case of Abou Ben Adhem, *
*led all the rest.” If of the opinion
that his logic anent the theme of this book was more peccable than that
relating to other subjects, I attribute the difference entirely to the
enchantment of the boundary.
Chauncey T homas, lecturer on English in Denver University, also
a lecturer on literary, scientific and historical subjects, authority on
frontier history and ballistics, magazine editor, etc. (Agnostic), re­
lated the following experience:
“ The nearest I myself ever came to such a thing was one night in
1893, when I was on guard at the Chicago World’s Fair. I was
twenty-one at the time, in fine health, but having gone without my
usual sleep during the day, I was very sleepy, though not bodily tired
to amount to anything. It was the day after Easter, when the women
had put on the large hats covered with artificial flowers. About mid­
night, while walking my beat in the Manufacturers’ Building, I sud­
denly saw two girls I knew who during the day attended to the soda
water booth. Apparently, there they were, outside the booth however.
I looked at them closely, then slapped myself in the face and they
vanished. At intervals there they were again, but always motionless
and in the same position. Another slap in my face cleared the atmos­
phere completely for the time being, as did washing my face several
times in cold water during the night. But all the time I was walking
my beat as usual, and no doubt appeared normal to an observer, yet
several times I found myself from about ten to sometimes about fifty
feet beyond the end of my beat, practically asleep on my feet. And at
times my knees would suddenly sag under me. . . .
“ Now the explanation. Next afternoon, now broad day, and I
330
A VERY DOUBTING THOMAS 331
fully rested, I went to the same booth to unravel the matter. The two
girls had the morning before put on for the first time their new large
Easter hats. I recalled that then. On the wall, facing the end of my
former night beat, but perhaps one hundred feet from it, some one had
that same day tacked up some new advertising matter in the form of
large flower clusters. My sleepy eyes had mistaken these for the girls’
beflowered hats, and my sleepy imagination had slowly pictured below
these ‘hats ’ the rest of the girls themselves. When I had slapped
myself they had faded instantly, except the advertisements on the wall,
and I stood and watched the ‘girls ’ slowly form beneath them, about
like smoke making a shape, gradually thicker and thicker, till seem­
ingly the solid girls’ bodies were there with those *hats ’ on them.
They were there all the rest of the night, off and on, from 12 midnight
to 4 A. M.
“ Of course all this is not at all *psychic,’ but it serves, to me at
least, to explain many another ‘ case ’ as sincerely reported by others,
but which, to my mind, has somewhat the same explanation.”
Of course Mr. Thomas was gently informed that his experience,
even had an explanation not been at hand, would have had no standing
as a “ case ” for psychic research. No quasi-sensory effect, no matter
how striking, is a “ case,” unless there is some conjoined feature, or
approximately contemporaneous event, which gives it seeming signifi­
cance. If a man “ sees ” the apparition of his wife, living or dead, that
and nothing more, there is no “ case.” If he “ sees ” the apparition of
his absent wife, and she dies by accident that same hour, there is
a “ case ” for consideration.
Mr. Thomas’s experience was an illusion, caused by extreme neural
fatigue. He was, he says, practically asleep on his feet, so that his
knees would suddenly sag under him. Every psychologist knows that
illusions are not uncommon when a very tired and sleepy person is
forced to keep awake. I myself had one experience of the sort many
years ago. Going direct from long residence in a city, I walked a
difficult twenty-five miles to Mt. Katahdin. While still aching from
the effort I climbed the mountain, and on the way down was, with my
brother, overtaken by night. We built a fire, sat by it all night, and I
never slept a wink. Toward morning, while it was still dark, the burn­
ing coals of the fire transformed into a scene made up of a farm­
house, an orchard behind it, and a field with hay-cocks. It was not
like the ordinary seeing things in an open fireplace, for I could not
make the vision go. I turned away repeatedly, I rubbed my eyes, but
the vision remained for several minutes. Later, a long stick protrud-
332 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
ing from the fire, partly charred black but here and there showing a
glowing spot, created the illusion of a train of cars standing upon a
bridge. The scene was realistically perfect—I could examine the
details of the bridge and train, windows and all, not in miniature but
as of the real thing seen at some distance. In vain I tried to banish the
illusion. Only as the glowing spots on the long stick died out did it
disappear. Not for one moment did I suppose the experience anything
more than an illusion caused by weariness and want of sleep. Momen­
tarily I could even note the actual points d’appui, but in a second the
illusion‘was there again as vivid as ever. Still, it never occurred to me
that it was a “ case ” for psychic research or afforded a key to the
incidents in Phantasms of the Living, except such as are given ex­
pressly by way of illustrating unevidential illusion.1
My correspondent was asked what possible light his illusion cast
upon the apparition seen by the great lawyer and statesman, Lord
Brougham,23
*
*
*
*contemporaneously with the death in a foreign land of the
one person with whom, in youth, he had made a compact that the first
to die would try to appear to the survivor. His only response was the
dictum that “ history is not evidence.” One wonders that the author
of such an opinion should think it worth while to lecture on history,
and what it means to be an “ authority on frontier history.” Does he
have no hope of reaching any dependable results in his lectures, and is
he an authority on that which presents no evidence? He probably
draws the enchanted line, and means that “ history ” can present no
evidence of psychic facts. What, when Brougham wrote down an
account of the apparition in his diary even before the news of the death
arrived, is that not evidence that he did have the experience? And his
subsequent written statement that a letter announced the death of his
friend on the night of the apparition was not any evidence at all ?8
1“ The slight sensory signs which Scott would normally have interpreted as the
folds of coats and plaids hanging in a dimly-lit hall, were interpreted by him, at a
moment when the idea of Byron was running strongly in his head, as the figure of
the deceased poet.” (Phantasms of the Living, II, 185.) Here we probably have
the clue to Mr. Thomas’s interpretation of the slight sensory signs in his case. He
was at the romantic age of twenty-one; surely the two charming girls seen a few
hours earlier were “ running strongly in his head.”
2Noted Witnesses for Psychic Occurrences, 59.
3 1 am aware that Lord Brougham is said not to have been always veracious in
his public utterances and that he did not actually set down the facts about the letter
until long afterward. Nevertheless I am convinced that he did have the experience,
that he did set it down in his journal and that he did copy it later. His later
attempt to minimize the importance of it by arguing that the coincidence was
merely a chance one, and his effort to interpret as a dream that whifh originally had
been described as an apparition seen while awake and taking a bath, exhibit in a
manner hardly to be counterfeited the disintegrating effect of time and a rational-
A VERY DOUBTING THOMAS 333
Asked how his non-coinciding illusion induced by fatigue “ ex­
plained ” the coincidence between the apparition of his father seen by
a young man on a vessel in the North Sea, and the apparitions seen of
himself and his father by his sister in New Jersey, of which she told
others at once,*
4 Mr. Thomas responds: “ Testimonials are not evi­
dence.” This contemptuous word, “ testimonials,” which others beside
Mr. Thomas have applied to statements of psychic experiences, is
probably reminiscent of testimonials to cures supposedly wrought by
patent medicines. But there is no analogy. A person may think his
cure due to the medicine when in fact it was due to other causes, and
even when nature cured him in spite of its injurious effect. A medicine-
testimonial involves a belief, a question which can be argued. But
when Sir J. H. Drummond Hay, British Minister to Morocco, “ heard ”
the voice of his daughter-in-law, three hundred miles away, saying,
“ Oh, I wish papa knew that Robert is ill,” it was an immediate and
unmistakable fact about which there was no question and could be no
argument, the words clear and distinct, the’voice of the speaker recog­
nized.5 There was therefore no reasoning, with its liability to error,
from an effect back to a cause; there was direct knowledge of a fact,
as startling, unique and concrete, as though a bolt of lightning had
struck the house. To call Sir John’s statement of that fact, which he
immediately noted in his diary, a “ testimonial,” is a misuse of words
of which a lecturer on English really should not be guilty. And I do
not believe that there is any scientist in the world so ossified that had
he himself had the experience and afterward received from his
daughter-in-law news that her husband had been ill of typhoid fever,
particularly on the night which was the night of the voice-hallucination,
he also would not have written and told her what had occurred. And
any man, no matter how he may look askance at the experiences of
others, if his daughter-in-law, whom he knew to be honest, wrote him
that she actually, in her distress, uttered those very words, would at
least wonder very vigorously whether the unique experience and the
double coincidence of time and verbal identity, occurred by mere
chance.
Asked if his illusion really solved the problem why, as one of the
greatest physicists related in my hearing, in the hour when the wit-
izing mentality upon a valid experience. Hardly, either, could a man of Brougham’s
intellect have been mistaken about the letter connected with so remarkable a unique
experience. However, I could have cited many another notable witness, instead of
Brougham.
4Journal A. S. P. R., XVI, 197, statements from the Osgood family.
5Noted Witnesses, 119.
334 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
ness’s father died, he himself, far distant, was wakened by the halluci­
nation of hearing his name pronounced in what he distinctly recognized
as his father’s voice, Mr. Thomas replies: “ Greatness in one line is no
proof of ability in another line. A dozen explanations possible, each
more likely than that it actually occurred.” But what peculiar “ abil­
ity in another line ” is required in order to recognize one’s name and
the voice of one’s father? If it were a matter in which trick magic
could enter, I would agree, but this is a matter requiring only sanity
and intelligence. And as to the item of coincidence in the death, cer­
tainly the fact that the narrator is a physicist of distinguished intel­
lectuality and noted for the exactitude of his work is of great value in
giving assurance that he was not careless in ascertaining that there
was temporal coincidence. I can hardly imagine one, if present when
such a man gravely related the facts, expressing or even holding the
opinion that, as told, the incident never “ actually occurred.” And
although the correspondent said that a dozen explanations were pos­
sible, each more likely than that it actually occurred, he was not so
helpful as to suggest one. He did, a little farther on, grudgingly
admit that possibly there may be telepathy, but that explanation,
which is probably the correct one as applied to this particular incident,
would be an abandonment of the position that it never occurred.
The correspondent went on to say that he had “ no belief in psy­
chical research whatever.” But psychical research is for the purpose
of ascertaining facts, and so far as possible, explaining them. I re­
marked that “ in my professional work I renounce all belief, and hardly
know what the term means in application to this subject. I know only
evidence and logic.” My friend commented, “ Both tricky tools of
thought.” That may be—tricks may be played with anything actual
or conceivable, but evidence and logic are the best tools we have, never­
theless. From these alone come science—systematic knowledge—of
any kind.
Then we have:
“ Testimony is worthless, no matter how sincere. Read history and
see the testimony about what today all men of intelligence regard as
nonsense, such as the earth is flat, the snake that flirted with Mamma
Eve. See the numbers who give away everything when the world is
coming to an end.”
My friend is a very bright man, but he has fallen under the enchant­
ment of the boundary; surely, had he not been in full tilt against
psychic research, he would not have employed what is known in logic
A VERY DOUBTING THOMAS 335
as the fallacy of equivocation. In other words, he is using the word
“ testimony ” in a sense as foreign to psychic research as it is to law.
In no court would a man be allowed to testify to a belief, but only to
facts within his own knowledge, through his senses. As little does
psychic research bring forward as evidence any man’s religious creed,
or his reactions to tradition, or his philosophical notions, but only his
witness to experienced facts. And there is another logical fallacy
involved in the paragraph quoted above, that of the undistributed major
term. “ Testimony is worthless ” is substituted for “ Some [or much]
testimony is worthless,” which is all that can be intelligently main­
tained. If testimony is worthless, then every court in the world should
be abolished. If testimony is worthless, then it is silly even to maintain
scientific laboratories, for it is of no avail to perform experiments if
testimony to their results is worthless. Let us make another syllogism
after the pattern furnished us.
Cats have tails.
Manx cats are cats.
Therefore Manx cats have tails.
But they haven’t. And no more are we assisted one inch toward a
safe conclusion by the syllogism:
Testimony (meaning some or much “ testimony,” such as that one
believes that snakes talked 6,000 years ago) is worthless.
The statements of Brougham, the Osgoods, the Hays, the eminent
physicist, etc. (to facts of their experience), are testimony.
Therefore the statements of Brougham, the Osgoods, the Hays, the
physicist, etc. (to facts of their experience), are worthless.
But no such conclusion can be drawn from the premises, any more than
Manx cats were logically proved to have tails.
I have noticed that when bright men are so eager to discredit the
evidence of psychic research that they utter general statements which,
if true, would indict all human intelligence and honesty, they always
except themselves. They become, for the nonce, of a species of solip­
sist, in that while they are skeptical of all other human experience and
testimony, they believe in their own experiences and expect to be be­
lieved when they relate them. Thus Mr. Thomas, the same man who
insists that “ testimony is worthless,” tells of his own illusion relating
to the pretty girls and expects to be credited. Directly after he
336 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
has condemned us all to external nescience by declaring that “ testi­
mony ” is worthless, he also relates a remarkable coincidence that came
under his notice, and says, in substance, “ Say why that accidental
coincidence is not as good as any of your supposedly ‘psychic ’ cases.”
And it does not occur to him that, to employ the inelegant metaphor of
Professor Bowne when criticizing Spencer, he has already mown the
legs off from that incident offered as rebutting evidence. What do I
need to say except that if “ testimony is worthless,” his testimony to
coincidences, hallucinations and everything else which he has cited from
his experience has no value whatever?
My friend says: “ I find that a *cultured ’ person is just as liable
to get things twisted, or add to them, or omit things that mar their
tale, as a ditch-digger.” Certainly a cultured person may do that.
But again the correspondent does not notice that if we are to discredit
all for what some do, his own stories are discredited. “ Even if cor­
rectly quoted [reported] by the parties concerned,” he says, referring
to the narrators of my sample incidents. Evidently he does not believe
any of them. Then why should he expect any one to believe his story
of an illusion? Yet it does not occur to him that I might disbelieve it,
and he would have felt insulted had I expressed disbelief. I have no
reason to discredit it, but let us see how the account stands between his
story and another of the sort which he regards as “ worthless.”
(a) Chauncey Thomas,
(b) university lecturer on Eng­
lish, lecturer, editor, expert
in ballistics, etc.,
(c) says he experienced an illu­
sion,
(a) Richard Redmayne (after­
wards Sir),
(b) professor of mining in a uni­
versity, metallurgist, Govern­
ment expert on mining,
(c) says that one Tonks told him
that the night before he had
a vision of his mother, thou­
sands of miles away, dead,
and heard her say she should
never see him again; that he
laughed at Tonks and quoted
him to others as an example
of superstition, but that
news came about six weeks
later, to his knowledge, that
she did die as stated and did
make that remark before
sinking into coma.
A VERY DOUBTING THOMAS 337
(d) an account of which was not,
so far as appears, set down
at the time, and is told years
afterward from memory,
(e) without any corroboration.
(d) He wrote down all the facts
in a letter and sent it to his
father within a very few
days of the confirmatory
news, and the actual letter is
quoted.
(e) He also procured a corrobo­
rative statement from Tonks
himself.
And yet Mr. Thomas expects his statement to be credited and to be
given negative weight, but Professor Redmayne’s array of proofs he
would regard as “ worthless ” !
Again take the Osgood case. We have Miss Laura E. Osgood’s
account of seeing the apparitions of her father and foster brother,
side by side, telling her mother soon afterwards and again talking with
her mother about it the night before her brother came home, the next
day hearing her brother tell of seeing the apparition of the father, that
same afternoon and at least near the same hour, beside him on the deck
of a vessel in great peril. We have the signed corroboration by the
mother and sister. We have the statement of the brother, corrobo­
rating all that concerned him. Where was the chance of getting facts
“ twisted,” or “ added to ”? On the side of the lady, there was only
the fact of the figures of the two men, and the time when they were
seen. On the brother’s side there was only the fact of seeing an appari­
tion of his father and the time it was seen. Take away these simple
facts and there would be no reason for the mutual surprise of learning
each what happened to the other, to which the four persons present
testify. How, then, could anything have been added?
Presumably, Mr. Thomas’s coincidence story is correctly told, but
if suspicion could attach to either narrative, his is a hundred times
more likely to have been “ twisted,” “ added to,” etc. He says that in
a ranch in Colorado a man, who was a poor marksman, shot a coyote
at about three hundred yards distance, and hit it in the left front and
right rear legs, and that the next week another man, also a poor
marksman, with the same rifle, shot another coyote through the left
front and right rear legs. There is no corroboration. We have no
knowledge whether one or both of the men referred to would have ad­
mitted that they were poor shots, or that the distance was nearly as
much as three hundred yards. The skill of the shooters could be
“ twisted,” a few score of yards could have been “ added.” We are
not even told that Mr. Thomas was witness of either of the feats. We
338 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
are not told that he saw the carcasses. For aught we know, the second
man may have romanced and his romance may have been accepted,
since it had an agreeable hunting flavor. Our correspondent would be
indignant did we express skepticism of his story, yet writes on the
margin of the far better authenticated Osgood incident an expression
of contemptuous skepticism—“ Testimonials are not evidence,” and
adds that persons of culture are likely to “ get things twisted,” or
“ add to them,” whereas, if any feature of their declaration is un­
twisted out of it or subtracted, there is left nothing for the whole
family to get excited about on that day of meeting. Why this re­
action? Simply and solely, as with many other bright men, since this
sort of an incident is not to Mr, Thomas’s taste.
From a letter to Mr. Thomas:
“ I quite agree with you that very remarkable coincidences can
occur by chance only. That is, I agree that for something-or-other to
happen to somebody-or-other at some-time-or-other against the chance
of a billion to one is not proof nor even evidence. For example, there
might not be one chance in a billion that a particular man living in
China today would meet a particular man, or any particular man
living today in the United States, say on February 1, 1925. And yet
there are doubtless a number of men now living in China who will on
that date meet some man in the United States. It is not proof or even
evidence of anything but chance if some man can be found to truly
testify that some event happened to him three times in succession,
although this involved an improbability measured by a billion to one.
For when you take into account the millions of men and the uncount­
able millions of events great and small that make up the existence of
each of them, such coincidences are bound to happen by the strictest
calculus of chance.
“An example is found in the deaths of John Adams and Thomas
Jefferson. They were peculiarly associated in their lives, particularly
with the great event which is celebrated on the Fourth of July; (1)
they died on the same day, (2) that day the Fourth of July, (3) and
that Fourth of July marking exactly half a century of their country’s
independence. Probably the histories of great men since the beginning
of human records could be searched without bringing to light another
case so remarkable in the way of coincidences of that particular kind.
But sets of coincidences of one or another of the innumerable possible
kinds can be found, nearly or fully as remarkable. The dice are being
shaken innumerable times for innumerable men through the centuries,
and of course amongst them all extraordinary coincidental combina­
tions occasionally turn up.
A VERY DOUBTING THOMAS 339
“ But, when I discovered a particular private person who repeatedly
produced sets of ‘ coincidences ’ at call, at the time selected by me, and
relevant to the particular stimulus which I provided, there was a very
different situation. It is not now a case of the dice coming out in an
unusual way sometime and relating to something and someone, but we
are getting results at our own time and under our own conditions.
When I placed in Mrs. King’s hands, folded so that only white paper
showed,6 and she made thirty-four statements (setting aside three re­
garding the truth or falsity of which we know nothing because the man
who knew would not reply) of which thirty-three were correct, and the
remaining one partly correct, all relevant to that man and his affairs,
which statements, estimated by a leading mathematician, exceeded
chance probability 5,000,000,000,000,000 to one, it is inverted credul­
ity to say that this neither proves nor is evidence. I put to your
common-sense; if a man told you as many things, some of them very
unusual and striking, which happened when you supposed yourself
alone, you would hardly pass the matter off as a mere set of chance
coincidences, you could not be induced to accept such an explanation,
but would begin to inspect the possibilities of the keyhole and of a
dictaphone. If there were one person with you when these described
incidents occurred, it would be very hard to convince you that the
other person had not blabbed. You probably at this moment entertain
the theory that the woman mentioned above had normal knowledge who
wrote the letter and of the facts about him; your reason revolts at the
idea that at a selected time and with a selected object a person could
out of blank ignorance evolve a complicated set of facts with no ascer­
tained error except the exaggeration of one item.7
61 must repeat that while it was impossible for her to read it, she would have
gotten hints for very little which she said had she read the whole.
7 Mr. Thomas’s reply to the Mrs. King case was what a psychologist might call
a “ flight from reality.” I had told him that she was a private person; he pictures
her as a professional sharper. I had explicitly shown that the terms and conditions
of the experiment were of my devising; he replies that “ no test is possible when
the medium fixes the test.” I had said nothing to warrant the notion that the
woman’s thirty-four allegations related to what was in the folded paper she held
(and very few of them did); he finds relief in picturing her as “ reading those
folded papers” held immovably between her palms. He says: “ I’ll bet she’ll not
read a word of mine. . . . They savor human nature usually very keenly and pick
their man. . . . Pay my expenses and I’ll come to Boston and dry up those medi­
ums. . . . I’ve not had thirty years newspaper reporter experience for nothing, or a
touch of the Secret Service years ago. . . . I think your woman folded-letter-reader
would suddenly remember those biscuits in the oven and have to go straight home.”
He also gives me information (?) regarding certain old tricks and bunco games,
having evidently pictured me as a doddering old chimney-corner theorist, who had
had little contact with the hard, cold world. To get his reaction, I swapped a few
autobiographical notes for his, told him that I had been rooting out frauds and
tricks of various kinds since I was fifteen years old, mentioned my long-ago five
years experience as the Assistant Secretary of a State organization which warred
against certain crafty species of crime, my planning work for detectives and occa­
sionally going out on some difficult job myself, the three consecutive months when
340 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
“ Still further, if it was a matter of mere fortuitous coincidence
that in this instance the woman got such amazing results, you would
not expect her to accomplish such a feat, less astounding mathemat­
ically, but nevertheless tremendously beyond the calculus of chance,
five times out of twelve trials. Seeing that she did this (by the way,
she had never been experimented with until I did it), would you still
say that there was no evidence of telepathy or some other unknown
power—or (this will be just as good for my argument) of her having
normal knowledge in spite of all my precautions?
“And does the fact that I followed up the experiments with her by
one hundred experiments, five each with twenty other persons, and not
in a single case got more than that slight sprinkling of minor ‘ coinci­
dences ’ which were unimpressive because in company with preponder­
ating blunders and irrelevancies—would this, I ask, have no effect upon
your reasoning processes? The results of this particular woman are
beyond those of the others by what I might call astronomical distances.
Why were her results so different, if all was a matter of chance coinci­
dence? Is chance so selective, consistently and persistently? Then I
shall expect to hear that when in turn twenty persons are shut up in a
room with a musical instrument and only discordant sounds are heard
to issue therefrom except in the case of one, it was all chance coinci­
dence and there was no real evidence that this person could play better
than the others.
I brought seventy suits into court, all successful, and named certain other chapters
of experience with the puzzles which animate and inanimate objects present. He
replied that by no means did he (then or earlier?) think me doddering, but was still
skeptical of the formidable King case, and still confident that he could reduce any
psychic to impotence. Of course he could, and so could I go into a shop where
clocks and watches are kept, and in half an hour cause that not one of them would
tell the correct time or any time at all. And so have I expressed doubts of certain
confident reports of alleged psychic phenomena, but because of defects in the re­
ports, gaps in the conditions or evidence which could be pointed out. But every
smallest pertinent detail of the experiment with Mrs. King has been printed, and I
have in vain asked, begged and entreated not only the general circle of readers but a
number of specific individuals of academic standing who have uttered disparaging
remarks, to point out a defect in the conditions, or even to imagine any explanatory
factor other than lying on the part of the experimenter. On the other hand, after
having become familiar with intimations of some scientific men and other men not
so scientific that the methods of that grade of psychic research which I represent
are very, very bad, it has been a delight to watch some of these when they have
nimbly hopped into the field of psychic research to show what they could do. I
have never seen one such amateur who did not betray that he was an amateur, and
have witnessed crudities which psychic researchers long ago learned to avoid.
If any one of scientific, academic or professional standing in the world will
examine the printed report of the King experiment referred to, with view to its
criticism and to an explanatory theory, and ij the result is one grade higher than any
response which has thus far reached me (“ Pooh!” or “ It wouldn’t have taken
place if I had been there ”), I will gladly print it, with or without the name of the
author, according to his permission or prohibitory stipulation, and will give him my
thanks in the bargain. The Report is only fifteen pages long, and wUl be sent to
any such person who may express his willingness to undertake the little task.
A VERY DOUBTING THOMAS 341
“ Spontaneous coincidences also, in my judgment, may be evidence,
and strong evidence, not, to be sure, in single instances, no matter how
remarkable, and not in many instances when they are of all sorts. But
when spontaneous instances of a particular kind occur in numbers, if,
for example, out of a hundred cases of persons who have had the ex­
perience of an apparition but once in their lives, fifty of them should
coincide with the time when that person died, and fifteen more with a
time when that person was undergoing some very great emotional
experience, if not indeed sufficient proof of some causal connection, it
would be evidence of a relation between the two classes of events. It
would not be evidence if the apparitions coincided with all sort of
things, nor is an apparition evidential in itself. But when we consider
the multitude of things which happen in a man’s life, and the number
of days and hours of which it is made up, for this particular kind of a
coincidence to happen in so large a percentage of cases, for the coinci­
dences to show so strong a tendency to be selective, is something which
should attract notice, on exactly the same lines of reasoning by which
anthropologists calculate the antiquity of human remains because of
the ‘ coincidences ’ of their being found with remains of the cave bear
and saber-toothed tiger.
“ It is the same kind of reasoning which you yourself employ when
you attempt to account for apparitions per 8e, partly on the assump­
tion that the most of them occur in bad light. If coincidences are not
even evidence, what difference does it make if eighty, or ninety or
ninety-nine out of a given hundred coincide with bad light? It proves
nothing, it is not even evidence. This is what you ought to say, it
appears to me, to be consistent, yet I do not hear you saying it.”
For what the philosopher did in 1820, and the college professor did
in 1875, the lecturer on English, history, etc., boldly does in 1930—he
erects dogmas on no foundation unless on his acquaintance with the
“ ghosts ” of fiction.
“ It is at least notable that most ‘ ghosts,’ visions, etc., are seen at
night, or not in clear sunlight; also most of them under unusual mental
strain, which in itself tends to upset the orderly workings of the various
faculties of the brain.”
Having appealed to imaginary statistics, our friend could hardly
object to my actual statistics on the ground that statistics are of no
value anyway. “ Most ” must signify nearly all, since no argument
can be drawn from a mere majority. In most cases, it is held, darkness
or poor light prevails. In reply I cited statistics given in the division
of this book entitled " Old Dogma and Later Statistics,” and informed
342 THE ENCHANTED BOUNDARY
the correspondent that inspection of two hundred cases, involving two
hundred and five apparitions whose appearance, whether by night or
day was stated, revealed that forty-one per cent of these were seen in
the daytime, and one hundred and eleven, or more than half, either in
the daytime or by good light at night. Of course I do not know how
many of the daylight cases were in cloudy weather, but neither does
Mr. Thomas. He was also told that special search of two hundred
cases shows it impossible to conclude that “ most,” or a majority, or
even a considerable percentage, of the percipients of “ ghosts,” were
at the time “ under unusual mental strain.” In a few cases they were,
certainly, and it may be in more than appears. But apparently many
of them—some expressly say so—were at the time peacefully and hap­
pily engaged, or waking from sound sleep. A few of them were chil­
dren, “ frolicking ” and playing when the veridical apparition came.
One more extract:
“ Incidentally, a man may have a great mind in one direction, and
a childish one in another direction [several alleged examples given]
. . . My good old friend, Hiram Maxim, the expert on explosives, who
*never made a mistake or I’d not be here,’ wrote a big book on poetry!
So it is useless, a waste of paper and time, to quote great men on any­
thing out of their own line.” 8
Mark that, “ anything ” ! Certainly very great, and even scientific
men may, and some of them do, utter opinions without wisdom on sub­
jects which require expert knowledge of a particular kind to handle,
whether that subject be poetry or alleged spirit slate-writing. But
the remark is absolutely without meaning when applied to the cases
which I had mentioned by way of illustration, and which furnished the
text for it. The great lawyer Brougham was certainly not a specialist
on apparitions, but it is most feeble to intimate that the one which he
saw and instantly recognized, the night that the man whom it repre­
sented died, is not to be credited because it was out of his line. Nor
would it require a mathematician to recognize that the 19th of Decem­
ber which, he declares, a letter afterward announced was the date of
8 The reiterated expression of skepticism to any psychic experience which is not
in the line of its subject, implies that Mr. Thomas would respect such an incident if
told by a man in whose line it lay. It would be in Dr. Hodgson’s line, since he
specialized in psychic research for many years. As a matter of fact, Mr. Thomas
would as little accept it on the testimony and authority of Dr. Hodgson or any
other psychical researcher, but would void his testimony on the ground that it was
biased. “ We have piped unto you and ye have not danced; we have mourned unto
you and ye have not lamented.”
A VERY DOUBTING THOMAS 343
the friend’s death, was the same day as the 19th of December on which
the apparition was seen. Or take the case of Arthur Severn and his
wife.® He was a painter, what more she was than cousin of John
Ruskin and wife of Severn does not appear. But in what particular
“ line ” did she need training in order to test and correctly record the
experience of waking with the sudden sensation of having received a
blow upon the upper lip and of sitting up and pressing a handkerchief
to the spot in the belief that it was bleeding, of seeing that no blood
was left on the handkerchief, concluding that she had dreamed and
noting by her watch that it was 7 a. m . ? What possible “ line ” of pro­
ficiency would have made Mr. Severn any more competent to give reli­
able testimony that at about 7 a. m . that morning, while out sailing, the
tiller of his boat swung around and gave him “ a nasty blow ” on his
upper lip, which was still bleeding on his return to the house, where he
then learned what had occurred to his wife? The experience of each,
his physical, hers quasi-physical (really mental), was immediate, un­
mistakable, as certain as anything could be. The only other constitu­
ent of the incident was that of time, known by her to be 7 a. m ., judged
by him to be about 7 p . m . Provided the parties were sane and did not
lie, the facts are indisputable. If there were but few such stories, with
unknown names appended, one could intelligently adopt the theory of
falsehood or insanity. Where an experience is, like the above, simple
(free from complexities and obscurities calling for a particular train­
ing and expert judgment) and lightning-clear, it is of course in itself
as weighty if told by an ordinary person of common-sense as when told
by a person of recognized standing. The old fling, not yet quite
silenced, was that nearly all such tales emanate from the ignorant and
the unbalanced. Obviously this dogma is effectually met by citing, as
in Noted Witnesses, or in a collection of cases drawn from people in
Who's Who, numerous experiences of persons generally reputed to be
neither ignorant nor unbalanced. It is a scientific datum that such
things happen to the cultured, to the sagacious and to the scientific
classes.
• Noted. Witnesses, 246.
CONCLUDING REMARKS
We have now examined some forty books, articles and printed let­
ters hostile to psychic research and contemptuous of its results. We
have also quoted from some seventy letters specially evoked, of which
by far the greater manifest general incredulity in reference to the
same topic. Whenever this was the case effort has been made to induce
the writer to set forth more fully his grounds for the opposition and
disparagement indicated.
As stated in the preface, all this has been for the purpose of ex­
plaining the phenomenon exhibited by two groups of intelligent and
cultured persons articulate on psychic research, one of which claims
that there is evidence for “ psychic ” or “ supernormal ” facts, the
other of which declares that there are no such facts and no valid evi­
dence for them. We said that one of these groups must necessarily be
relatively ignorant of the facts or the nature of the facts, must be
swayed by prejudice or infatuation, must be employing defective logic.
If the deliverances of that group should be found thus characterized
in a very marked degree, herein would lie the explanation of this phe­
nomena at the outset so puzzling.
The explanation is now before the reader. He knows that (dis­
regarding the hot-heads who attend every movement) the affirmative
has gathered a mass of evidence of which we had space only for
illuminating glimpses, and that it has expended long, careful and dis­
criminating study upon it. He also knows that the ignorance, mis­
apprehension, evasion, haste, emotion, eccentric reasoning and unfair
tactics charged in the eight numbered paragraphs on pages 19 and 20
have in fact characterized the uncompromising opposition for a cen­
tury. This book has amply proved and illustrated these allegations.
That being the case, no further words are necessary.
344
INDEX
OF PRINCIPAL NAMES, TOPICS AND ILLUSTRATIVE
EXAMPLES
Capitalized, names are those of persons whose opinions are subjects of comment.
Italicized titles represent theories, arguments or methods of the opposition.
Allison, W. H., 269-70
Anonymous writer of 1820, 163-179
Apparitions, 15, 24 ff., 69 ff.; psychic ver­
sus visceral, 198-206
Apparitions:
accompany visceral disease, 198-206;
affected by mood of seer, 176; agree
with seer’s notion of apparitions,
175 f.; always appear in familiar garb,
175; are morbific symptoms from ex­
citement of renovated feelings, 189,
191 ff.; are seen indistinctly, 186; are
seen rather far off, 187; claimed seen
exactly at and dressed as at death,
172 f.; coincidences with deaths easily
accounted for by chance, 194ff.; come
to terrify, kill and injure, 169; gar­
ments of usually white, 179 ff.; gener­
ally make candle bum blue, 174;
generally seen when alone, 173; glide,
184 f.; make no noise, 185 f.; no co­
incidences of with death proved, 174;
not authentic if they post-date the
Apostles, 189 ff.; often appear just
after light extinguished, 174; said to
coincide with a death not told until
after the death, 171; seen by only one
of persons present, indicate mental dis­
order, 177 f.; should exhibit the “ regu­
larity of nature,” 178 f.; standard hour
of, midnight the, 165 ff.; stories of as a
rule second hand, 170 f.; supposed to
come on some specific errand, 168 f.;
tales of depend on word of single per­
son, 173 f.; usually seen in feeble light,
166 f., 180 f., 183 f., 341 f.; usually seen
when under mental strain, 341 f.
Apostolic age, Not since, 189 ff.
Arm-chair science, 210
Arteriosclerosis, Acceptance of psychic
claims the result of, 84 ff.
Assertion in face of facts, Bald, 30 f., 42,
127, 128
Avery, S., 270.
Bailey, Charles, 157
Balfour, Gerald, 55
Beard, George M., 14
Bias, 154 f., 158, 160 f.; Psychical Re­
searchers disqualified by, 99,106 f., 322 f.
Bible against spiritism, 128
Bible and psychic phenomena, 3, 320
Billingsgate, 20
Black, J ames, 131
Blackburn and Smith, 108 ff.
Blanchard, P hyllis, 83-7
Blue book, 54
Blundering misstatement of psychic
problems, 66
Blunders as to questions asked on the
blank, 211, 214, 218 f, 232
Blunders in factual statement, 20, 23 ff.,
24, 35 ff, 40 f, 43 ff, 52 ff, 57 f, 59,
62 f, 76, 80, 84, 95, 99, 113, 121 f, 128,
131, 132, 148 ff, 153 f, 262
Blunders in figures, 33 f, 89 f.
Blunders in quotation, 53 (See “ Mal­
practice ” and “ Mangling ”)
Blunders in spelling, 20, 77, 131, 132
Boswell, James, 22 ff.
Brill, A. A , 113
Brougham, Lord, 228 f, 332, 342
Brown, Charles R eynolds, 122-4
Bruce, H. Addington, 17
Burlesque as an argument, 51
Burroughs, E. R , 270-2
Clodd, Edward, 51-7
Coincidences, Chance, 41 f, 255, 261 ff,
337 ff.
Coincidences, Extraordinary chance, 267,
336 ff.
Coincidences, Spontaneous and Experi­
mental, 218 ff, 229 ff, 263 f, 337 ff.
Cock Lane Ghost, 24
Coleridge, S. T , 117 f.
Credulity, 17
Credulous incredulity, 54 f, 142 f.
Crookes, Sir William, 135
Culpin, Millais, 66-75
Curiosity would wait, Scientific, 62
De Heredia, C. M , 119-121
Delusions, hallucinations, suggestion, etc.,
231 f.
345
346 INDEX
Desire to tell something startling, 227 ff.
Dignity, Spirits would come with, 123
Dilemma, Religious, 119, 210, 224, 290,
320
Dingwall, E. J., on McCabe, 58; on Lay,
113; on Haldeman, 128
Discuss, Vain invitations more fully to,
329, (See “ Hypothetical Question ”)
Discuss, Vain search for opponent who
will squarely face and fairly, 10, 19, 41,
63, 65, 83, 340
Dogmas, Opposition by mere, 11 f., 20,
91 ff. 96 f. 314
“ Doris, Mother of,” 34 f., 139, 264
Dowsing, explained by subconscious
muscular action and guessing, 68
Doyle, Arthur Conan, 144-162
Dream of railroad disaster, 253 f.
Duguid, David, 158
Durant, Will, 11
Ecclesiastical opposition involving log­
ical dilemma (See Dilemma)
Ellsworth, Elmer, 142 f.
Emotion influencing reason, 6 ff.
Emotional reaction, Opposition from, 20,
45, 95
Environment the explanation of “ telep­
athy,” Given, 66
Eva C., 157, 159
Everett, Edward, 142 f.
Evidence, A Spirit’s difficulty in giving,
293 ff.
Exorcism, 119 f.
Faith temperamentally determined, Ac­
ceptance of psychic phenomena an act
of, 75 ff.
Faraday, M ichael, 20-2
Farrar, C. B., 75-82
Feeling, visualization and “ perhaps,”
124 f.
First Sitting suspicious, Statements not
made at, 104 ff.
Fox Sisters, 148, 155 f.
Fraud under favoring conditions as'ex­
planation of cases under antipodal
conditions, Successful, 137 ff.
F razer, Persipor, 165-167, 179-188
Ganonq, W. F., 239-42
Generals, Ages of, 143
Greatness in one line no proof of ability
in another, 334, 342
Guessing facts, Argument by, 49, 84 f.,
89, 94, 105 f.
H aldeman, I. M., 127-8
Hale, E. E., 245-6, 267-8, 291
Hales, F. N., on Jastrow, 96 f.
H all, G. Stanley, 9, 40-2
Hallucinations, 198 ff., 262, 277, 289 ff.,
(See “Apparitions ”)
Hansen and Lehm ann, 88 f., 134 ff.
Hawkesworth, A. S., 209
Hay, J. H. D., 333
Head, H enry, 198-206
Helmholz, 11
H enderson, Yandell, 217-222
H ibbert, Samuel, 188-194
H ill, Leonard, 66
Hodgson, Richard, 5, 43, 162 n.
Home, D. D., 20 ff., 52 ff., 135
Houdini, Harry, 144-161
H uxley, T. H., 9, 22-3
Hypothetical Question, 209 ff.
Hyslop, James H., 9, 31; on Hall, 41; on
Muensterberg, 43 f., 63 f.; on New­
comb, 31, 33f.; on Scripture, 88ff.; on
Tanner, 35 ff.
Illusions, 274 ff., 330 ff., 336 f.
“ Impossible,” 11
Insanity, Psychic experimentation evi­
dences or leads to, 85 ff., 235 ff., 318 f.
Insinuation, Argument of, 54 f., 56
Introvert, Psychic testimony is, 233 f.
J astrow, Joseph, 10 f., 90-7
Johnson as a psychic researcher, Samuel,
23 ff.
Jones, E. H., 137-42
Jones, W. C., 242-4
Kelvin, Lord, 11
Kemble, Edwin C., on Jastrow, 91 ff.
King, Mrs., 35, 145 f.; 209, 213 f., 216,
219, 229, 264, 292, 339 f.
Laforqe, L., 273
Lang on Hall, Andrew, 41
Lapponi, Guiseppb, 129-130
“Laws of Nature,” Psychic Phenomena
contrary to the, Ilf., 91 ff., 232 f.,
246 ff., 262, 265, 307
Lay, Wilfrid, 113-8
Leading by facial expression, 103
Leading by the sitter’s words, 100 ff.
Lehmann and Hansen, 88 f., 134 ff.
Lepicier, A. M., 130-1
Lewes, George H., 22 n.
Lockwood, C. D., 246-8
Lodge, Sir Oliver, 6, 49 f., 64 f., 68
Logic, Illegitimate, 40, 44, 49, 56, 61 f.,
69 ff., 93 ff, 96 f, 97 f, 113 ff, 124 f ,
127, 129, 136, 155 ff, 224 f„ 268
Logic of psychoanalysis compared with
logic of psychic research, 113 ff.
McCabe, Joseph, 57-8
Macaulay, T. B , 23-8
INDEX 347
Magicians as judges of psychic claims,
144 ff., 317 f.
Magicians can duplicate everything,
231 f.
Malpractice upon testimony, 68 f f 103 f.
Mangling of records, 20, 35 ff., 43 ff., 50,
57, 63 f., 68
Mathematical Arguments, 33 f., 34 f., 35,
89 f., 209, 257 ff., 263 f., 292, 296 ff., 339
Maynard, R. F., 248-9
Memory of psychic incidents unreliable,
336 ff.
Memory retains hits, not misses, 239 ff.,
254, 255 ff., 262 f.
Mephistopheles incident, 221, 230 f., 303
Mercier, Charles A., 48-51
M eyer, M. F., 304-6
Miles and Ramsden experiments, 49 f.
M iller, A. V., 129
Mind physical, Activity of the, 289 ff.
Monck, “ Dr.,” 157
Motion shuts out psychic phenomena,
Universal, 224 ff.
Muensterbero, H ugo, 43-7
Muir, John, Experience of, 15, 228 f.
Mumler, William, 158
Mundane affairs, Purported messages
deal with, 292 f., 303
Murray, Telepathic experiments with
Gilbert, 42, 275
Muscle-reading, 100
“ Nature,” Psychic phenomena not
claimed to be outside of, 98
Negative arguments easy to manufacture
against evidence, 29 f.
N ewcomb, Simon, 30-5
N eymann, C. H., 273
Nibbling around the edges of evidence
(unfair selection), 49-50, 63
“ Normal,” Meaning of, 307, 309ff.
Osgood case, 226 f., 234, 261, 263, 333, 337
“ Patience Worth,” 279f.
Personal experience, Edison, etc., had no,
324
Personal experience, No, 123, 284-303
Physical phenomena, 273, 281 ff., 318 f.;
Peculiar difficulties in observation and
recollection of, 109, 111
Physiology rules out psychic phenomena,
223 f.
Picking cases and material, 49 f., 84 f.,
108 ff.
Piddington, J. G., 198-206
Piper, Mrs., 36, 43, 57 f., 60, 100 ff.
Podmore, Frank, 14, 99, 155, 160
Prejudgment, 20 f., 21 f.
‘‘Premonitions,” Unfulfilled, 238 ff.
Prescott, F. C., 273-274
Prince, W. F.:
Boyhood home of, 221, 302; Experi­
ence, etc., of, 9 f., 231 f.
Problem of the book and its solution,
viiff., 1, 7 f., 19 {., 132 f., 344
Promise to return not kept, 286
Proofs cannot convince of eternal life,
321
Pseudo-memories, Royce’s theory of, 3
Psychic and Visceral apparitions com­
pared, 198-206
Psychic claims, The proper judges of:
Magicians, 144, 317 f.; Physicists, 83;
Physiologists, 83, 223; Psychologists,
61; Psychologists not, 46 f., 128, 314
Psychic incidents never told before co­
inciding event, 322 f.
“Psychic incidents ” explained, 269 ff.
Psychic phenomena:
From old times, 1; homogeneity of,
2f.; physical, 16 f.; prevalence of, 2;
spurious, 16 (See “ Spiritism ”)
Psychic phenomena have never been
proved by proper judges, 322 ff.
Psychic phenomena mostly from the
devil, 122, 129
Psychic phenomena mostly not from the
devil, but wicked human inventions,
119
Psychic Phenomenon? What is a, 305 f.
Psychic Research:
And superstitions, 12; Bunglers in, 60;
By-products of, 17 f.; Founding of or­
ganized, 4; Importance of, 27 f., 32;
Methods of, 9, 34, 59, 95; Not con­
demned by Roman Catholic Church,
130; Progress of, 4 f.
Psychic Research bad, Methods of, 88 f.
Psychic Research morally wrong, 45, 134,
305 f.
Psychic Research proves temperamental
slavery, Long-continued, 75, 80 f.
Psychic Researchers:
Agreements among, as to certain facts,
15 f.; Convinced contrary to prepos­
sessions, 5; Deceived, 12 f.; Disagree
in theories, 13 f.; Employ psycholog­
ical concepts, 59 f.; Qualifications of,
4, 7, 9f.; Taught their A B C’s, 31,
48, 102
Psychoanalysis and Psychic Research, 41
Psychoanalyst’s argument, irrelevant to
the issue, 113 ff.
Psychologists and Psychic Research, 41,
61, 82 f., 96 f.
Psychometry, 16, 145 f. (See “ Mrs.
King,” “ Maria de Z ”)
Psychopathic reactions, 235
Public as a jury, The, 96
348 INDEX
Reason helpless against strain of interest
in psychic research, 61 f., 79 f., 322 ff.
R ine, P rofessor, 121-2
R ogers, D. C., 325-8
Salter, W. H., on Jones, 137 f.
Sands, Irving J., 83-7
Sardeson, F. W , 274-6
Saul of Tarsus Complex, 10 f., 90, 318 (?)
Schiller, F. C. S., 7; on Muensterberg,
44ff.; on Lehmann, 134ff.
Schofield, A. T., 131-2
Schmucker, S. C , 249-50
Scott, Sir Walter, 194-197
Scripture, E. W., 88-90
Severn, Arthur, 343
“ Sherlock Holmes ” not a proof of de­
tective sagacity, Creation of, 150 ff.
Sidgwick, Henry, 4
Sidgwick on Tanner, Mrs., 37
Sinclair, Upton, 66 ff.
Slade, Henry, 156, 158
Smith and Blackburn, 108 ff.
Soule, Mrs., 138 f., 142, 221 ff, 230 f..
263 f, 285, 292 ff.
Spillbr, Gustav, 128-9
“Spiritism ” comes down from early an­
tiquity, 75 f.
Spiritism, Evil effects of, 130
"Spiritism ” so very young, Modern, 76 f.
Spirits should count beans, 214 ff.
Statistics:
Ages of Generals, 143; Ages of “ psy­
chic ” persons, 236; Apparitions (26
sets relating to), 165-187; E. E , 142f.;
Experiments in “ involuntary ” whis­
pering, 136; Feminine names beginning
with S , 103 n.; Lunatics, 87 n.; Psy­
chic vs. visceral hallucinations, 199-
206; Spiritualist, 126
Stephen, Story of, 221, 294 ff.
Stewart, Case of, 153
Stockdale, F. B , 131
Stomach or nervous system explain, De­
ranged, 227 ff.
Stratford Rappings, 52 f.
Subconscious mental construction, 278 ff.
Suicide after receiving a “ message,” A
man committed, 318 f.
“Supernormal ” meaningless term, 306 ff,
312 f- . .
Superstition, Psychic research silly,
211 ff, 217, 218, 223, 231, 314 ff, 319 f.
Tanner, Am t E , 35-41
Taylor, W. S , 250-1
Telepathy, 30 f, 41 f, 49, 66 ff, 88 f..
108 ff, 134 ff, 215, 262, 265, 275, 29L
293, 308, 320 f, 325 ff.
Telepathy, Fake, 326 ff.
Telepathy vs. Spiritism, 14 f.
Testimony worthless:
Human, 317, 334; Of specified classes,
321 f.
T homas, C, 330-43
T homas, J. J , 252
Triviality and Silliness of “ Messages,”
22 f, 32, 123
T uckett, Ivor L , 97-113
T urk, Morris H , 124-7
T yndall, John, 21-2
Unfair tactics, 20 ff.
Verrall’s testimony, Mrs, 37 ff.
Vibrations of investigators damage phys­
ical phenomena, 156 f.
Votaw, C. W , 287-8
Washburn, Margaret F , 59-66
Wesley, John, 27 f.
Whispering the explanation of telepathy,
Involuntary, 88 f, 134 ff.
Will to believe, 5 f , 61 f, 94, 240, 288ff.;
Length of study a sign of, 75
Witchcraft, 119 f.
Wonder, Desire to tell a, 239 f.
Z, Maria de, 272 f.
