{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__inquire_within___light-bearers_of_darkness.pdf","mytitle":"Light-bearers Of Darkness","mylang":"de"}
Light-bear~rs of Darkness
By Inquire Within
For some years a Ruling Chief of the Mother Temple
of the Stella Matutina and R.R.etA.C.
As the three grades of ordinary Masonry included
a great number of men opposed, by position and
principle, to every project of social subversion, the
innovators multiplied the degrees of the mystic
ladder to be climbed. They created occult lodges
reserved for ardent souls ... shadowy sanctuaries
whose doors were only open to the adept after a
long series of proofs calculated to test the progress
of his revolutionary education.
LOUIS BLA"Krr-F1'encn Revolulio'K
In all he did, in all he taught, he kept this aim
in sight:
To get the deeds of darkness done, disguised as
works of light.
He spread his poison, slow and sure, through many
a specious sect,
And made the evil seem the good, bamboozling
God's elect. ~
The Coming of Lucifef'. By X.
First PriDted 1930
RepriDted 198.5
RepriDted 2001
CONTENTS
CHAPTER I
The Overshadowing Power 1
CHAPTER II
Oriented by Jewry; The Theosophical Society 20
162
176
205
CHAPTER V
CHAPTER VI
CHAPTER VII
CHAPTER VIII
Aleister Crowley
CHAPTER IV
The Stella :Matutina and the Rosre-Rubere et Aurere
Crucis 82
The Panacea Society
CHAPTER III
The Anthroposophical Society 59
Index
American Cults
Conclnsion
CHAPTER I
THE OVERSHADOWING PO'VVER
THIS book is an attempt to show, by means of actual
investigations, of documentary evidence, and personal
knowledge of the inner workings, that this present move-
ment for World Revolution leading to "\iVorld Domina-
tion is but an age-long and culminating, fanatical effort
on the part of some Overshadowing Power workiDg
through many secret illuminised sects.
Whatever his ideas on the Messianic era and the true
destiny of man may have been, the following account or
mysticism and magic, written from 1823-5 by Hoene
"\iVronski, might well be an actual picture of world con-
ditions to-day under the influence of similar mystic and
secret societies-far more numerous and influential than
the public imagine-through which the Invisible Centre
is again seeking to direct and dominate the nations and
the world.
In his Trmte mhhodique de magic Prat£que) Papus,
the well-known occultist and cabalist, Dr. Gerard
Encausse, writes:
" A learned initiate and encyc1op<edist, Hoene \Vronski, in a
work which is almost unobtainable to-day, L'Apodictique Mes-
sianique, has given an analysis of magic and its origins, as wdl as
its results, which merits a close study on the part of .serious -
inquirers. We hope therefore to render service to such by repro-
ducing the whole of the section devoted to mysticism and magic."
Briefly, Wronski states that the aim of Mystic
Associations is ({ Participation in Creatiott/) and the
physical end is ({ Direction of the Destinies of the Earth.n
This mysticism " consists of the mystic limitation of the
absolute reality (universal life-force or energy), form-
ing in general the neutralisation of this negative and
positive energy," a form of magnetic polarisation, creat-
2 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
ing the etheric link; for this reason these societies
cultivate supernatural sentiments and arts such as . . .
U Hermet£c Philosophy, Alchemy, the Great Work or
StOlle of the Philosoplte1's, the Panacea, Magnetic-
heal£11g, Regcllerat£on, etc., and certain mysteries of
physical generation, etc." Being unable to discover
scientifically, by reason, the destinies of the earth, they
profess to foresee it by a « Cabalistic interpretation . ..
of the traditions of the Holy Scriptures"; then they
seek to direct these-destinies by means of special missions
given to chosen men in all ranks of society.
Secret Sodeties.-He says:
" As the supernatural efforts made by the Mystic Association to
'Gi-:e part in creation can neither be practised nor discussed publicly
... and being equally debarred from openly directing the des-
tinies of the earth as Governments would oppose it, this mysterious
association can perforce only act t~h Secret Societies. Thus
2ctually it is in the heart of mystIcIsm that all secret societies,
which have existed, and still exist, on bur globe, 'are born, and
which, controlled from this mysterious source, have dominated
and, notwlthstanding Governments, continue to dominate the
world. These secret societies, formed when ne~ded, are detached
into groups distinct and apparently opposed, professing respectively
and in turn the most contrary opinions of the day, so as to direct,
apart and with confidence, all parties, political, religious, economic,
and literary. They, in order to receive common direction, are
<:.gain united to an unknown centre, where this powerful source is
hidden which seeks thus invisibly to control all earthly sceptres
_ .. and without doubt all these secret societies are themselves,
through the skill of certain of their chiefs, controlled and directed
according to the ideas and orders of an Unknown Supreme Com-
mittee who governs the world."
Freemasons, Applied or Political.
"Pure or speculative masonry is properly only the great
nursery from which all mystic associations choose their high
chiefs (cpoptes).... Also the grades of initiation are so
arranged that the great part of Freemasons, far from doubting
the aim of their affiliation, see in it only an object of mutual
pleasure and good-will. Only those who have been tested are
admitted into the higher grades, and it is from among the latter
that the difierent branches of applied Freemasonry are formed,
,!hose ~ is IDaD;ifestly to realise, by deeds and according to
~ , the liberal mystic speculations of Freemasonry.
•
THE OVERSHADOWING POWER 3
Thus in our day have been successfully formed the Nocturnal
Chapters of Ruel and PasSYi the Lodg-e of the Contrat-social, the
Philadelphes, the Carbonan, the Tugend-Bund, the Burschaften,
the Comuneros, etc." (Thi~ does not apply to British Masonry.)
Reciprocal Influences between the Visible and In-
visible World. (Etheric Link.) The Illuminati (Illu-
minism).
U The name Illuminati (not"Wissende) ... appears to have
been introduced only about 1775 by the secret society which was
founded by Weishaupt, and developed, it is said, by Baron Knigge.
But ... it must have existed from the greatest antiquity. And
actually the mystic affiliations under the Pyramids of Egypt, the
esoteric sect of Pythagoras, the astrologers or mathematicians of
Rome in the time of Domitian, the House of \Visdom of Cairo,
the Ismailis or Assassins, Companions of the Old Man of the
:Mountain, the Templars, the Rose-Croix ... appear to form but
an uninterrupted chain of these superior affiliations . . . under the
name of Illumines."
Also their branches of " Stricte Observa1lce} or pre-
paration for Illuminism," including {( eclectic Lodges or
Egyptian Masonry, such as the Lodges ::t. JaIm) of
Melchisedeck} the Souffrants, RO'j'al Priests, Masters of
the Wise, and the Chercheurs.J1
The Asiatic Brethren,
either with these or the Illumines.
The Directing Power-the Invisibles or Earthly
Beings (Masters working on the Astral).
U Once only have these Invisibles shown themselves to men,
that was when, at the terrible Secret Tribunal-seeing that all the
powers of earth, ministers, princes, and even sovereigns them-
selves begged the favour of being admitted to this formidable
~oo-these invisible Chiefs believed that at last they- had
conquered -the-earth, and they dared, so to say, to give away the
secret ?y openly showing the way in which they intended to govern
!h~ world..0.. These earthly beings do Dot appear to-day, but
It IS they who form the Supreme Committee from which emanate
the orders which rule all secret societies, and· in this Committee
the ancient Book of Records ever remains open... ." (Here we
have the " Supreme and Invisible Hierarchy of Cabalistic Jews.")
Here is the Oath administered to the Illuminati:
• " In the name of the son crucified (the Pentagram, the ilIumin-
ised man), swear to break the bonds which still b~d you to your
The reason for Wronski's exposure of these sects
was to show the appalling spread of Illuminism at that
time and its diabolical plan of destruction.
Mrs. Nesta Webster, in her Secret Societ1'es an.d
SHbvers£ve Movements, tells us how about A.D. 872, an
Ismaili, Abdullah ibn Maymun, brought up on the
doctrines of Gnostic Dualism, a pure materialist, formed
a sect known as the Batinis, whose project was thus
described by Dozy in Spanish Islam.
II To unite in the fonn of a vast secret society with many
degrees of initiation, free-thinkers ... and bigots of all sects; to
make tools of believers in order to give power to sceptics . . . to
build up aparty, numerous, compact, and disciplined, which in due
time would give the throne, if not to himself, at least to his
descendants. . .. The means which he adopted were devised
with diabolical cunning. . .. It was ... not among the Shi-ites
that he sought his true supporters, but among the Ghebers, the
Manicheans, the pagans of Hanan, and the students of Greek
~~o'phy; on the last alone could he rely, ~o them alone could he
gradually unfold the final, mystery, and reveal that Imams, religions,
and morality were nothing but an imposture and an absurdity . • .
but he took care to initiate devout and lowly souls only in the first
grades of the sect. His missionaries, who were inculcated with the
father, mother, brothers, sisters, wife, relatives, friends, mistresses,
kings, chiefs, benefactors, and all persons to whomsoever you may
have promised faith, obedience, and service. Name and curse the
place where you were born, so ·that you may dwell in another
sphere, to which you will attain only after having renounced this
pestilential globe, vile refuse of the heavens! From this moment
you are free from the so-called oath to country and laws: swear
to reveal to the new chief, recognised by you, what you may have
seen or done, intercepted, read or heard, learned or surmised, and
also seek for and spy out what your eyes cannot discern. Honour
and respect the Aqua Tofana as a sure, prompt, and necessary
means of purging the globe by death of those who seek to vilify
the truth and seize it from our hands. Fly from Spain, Naples,
a...d all accursed land; finally fly from the temptation to reveal what
you may hear, for the thunder is no prompter than the knife,
which awaits you in whatsoever place you may be. Live in the
"ame of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. (This is the Trinity
of Illuminism-Cabalistic and Gnostic. The Father-the generat-
ing fire; the Holy Spirit-the Great Mother Nature, reproducing
all things; the Son-the manifestation, the vital fluid, the astral
light of Illuminism. It is a perversion of Christian symbolism.)"
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
4
THE OVERSHADOWING POWER 5
idea that their first duty was to conceal their true sentiments and
adapt themselves to the views of their auditors. . .. In the
presence of the devout they assumed the ~3:Sk of virtue and piety.
With mystics they were mystical, and unfolded the inner meanings
of phenomena, or explained allegories and the figurative sense of
the allegories themselves. . .. By means such as these the extra-
ordinary result was brought about that a multitude of men of
diverse beliefs were all working together for an object known
only to a few of them..•."
Here we have the system not only of \¥eishaupt but
of all secret subversive societies of to-day, as later we
hope to make plain in this book.
Again, in 1090 Hasan Saba, called" the Illumin-
ator," founded the sect of the" Assassins" at Alamut
in Persia on the Caspian Sea. He adopted the methods
of Maymun, adding to them wholesale assassinations of
those who opposed him. He also used as his ground-
work the organisation of the Grand Lodge of Cairo.
His was a " system of organised murder on a basis of
religious fervour." As von Hammer said, '" Nothing
is true and an is allowed' was the ground of their secret
doctrine, which, however, being imparted but to few, and
concealed under the veil of the most austere religionism
and piety, restrained the mind under the yoke of blind
obedience." Their secret doctrines were eventually
revealed by the leaders themselves. And von Hammer
again said: " In the annals of the Assassins is found the
chronological enumeration of celebrated men of all
nations who have fallen victims of the Ismailis...."
And again: "Poison and the dagger prepared the grave
which the Order. had opened for so many," and so Hasan
and his Grand Masjers wer~jn tum assassinated by their
next-of-kin (Mrs. Webster, ibid.).
As will be shown later, the Templars' self-appointed
role was, "\Ve shall be the equilibrium of the Universe,
arbiters and Masters of the \Vorld." .
In the March issue of the occult u Revue Inter-
nationale des Societes Secretes, began a French trans-
lation of the two most important collections of the
original flocuments relating to the Bavarian Illuminati
of Weishaupt-Leo :
The documents are thus described:
In one document Zwach speaks of the proposal to
form a woman's order, to consist of two classes, each
constituting a separate society, each remaining unknown
to the other: one class of virtuous women, a means of
obtaining money, secret information, and benefits fo~ the
real Order; the other of light women, to satisfy the
.. Some Original Writings of the Order of the Illuminati
u-hich were found at the House of Zwach, former Councillor of
C-oYernment, in the domiciliary visit carried out at Landshut,.
October II-12, 1786."
"The present collection has been published by the Supreme
order of His Highness the Elector in order to convince the public
of this and foreign countries of the undoubted falsity of the
reasons giYen for. the ceaseless outcry from the Illuminati against
the injustice, yiolence, and prosecution to which they are subjected
L'1 Bavaria, and also at the same time to put them on their guard
against this epidemic sect, and against all other such illegal and
clandestine societies. For these merely set themselves to deceive
credulous people and get money out of them-and in place of
spreading truth and morality; as they profess to do, absolutely ruin
the latter and suppress or completely falsify the former. If
anyone doubts the authenticity of this collection, let them present·
themselves at the secret archives of this town, where orders have
been given to show the originaIs.-Munich, March 26, 1787."
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
l< (1) Einige Originalschriften des Illuminaten-
ordens. :Munich, 1786.
"(2) Nachtrag von ·weitern Originalschriften,
·welehe die IlIuminaten-secte- ... betreffen en 2 parties.
!\funich, 1787." .
Speaking of the occultists of Haute Maconnerie of
the eighteenth century, the R.I.S.S. writes:
" These Illumines were in fact the secret rampart of the Sect.
The Illumines of France, with Martinez Paschalis, the unknown
philosopher, Pernetty, and the whole school, which has left such
deep roots in Lyons and its surroundings; the Illuminati of
Bayaria, with \\'eishaupt and his accomplices. It was in these
secret Lodges that the French Revolution was conceived and pre-
;.ar-ed; to-day it is in the Temples of the same Order, cabalistic
::..:,d satanist, that the World Reyolution has germinated and
:-:;>ened. . .. The plans of yesterday will better assist us to grasp
:::e intention and methods. of to-day."
6
THE OVERSHADOWING POWER 7
passions of F.M. so inclined. "Both should be kept in
ignorance that they are directed by the men's Order."
Of their camouflaged and supposed aim Spartacus
-Weishaupt-writes:
"As in the past, the future aim of the Order remains-to
interest man in bringing to perfection his mind and moral char-
acter; to develop humane and social sentiments, to oppose wicked
designs in the world, to fight against injustice, to help the un-
fortunate and oppressed, to encourage men of merit who a .; useful
to the Order, and to spread knowledge of the sciences; and they
are faithfully and solemnly assured that this is the real and not
merely the supposed aim of the society. That it is vain to hope to
gain greater power and riches by entering this Order."
The scheme of this Order is apparently to form a
united machine absolutely controlled by the Superiors,
who alone know its true aim. For this purpose there
must be complete harmony among its members, no
hatred, no jealousy, no unworthy egoism; having one
spirit, one consideration, and one will! To help to bring
about this desired orientation, a special list of books is
prescribed upon which the members must build up their
outlook. "The society cannot use men as they are; they
must be shaped according to the use that is to be made
of them." Here we have the same sinister methods as
found in all similar societies of to-day!
\Veishaupt further writes that the adept must learn
the art of dissimulation, qbserving and probing others.
Discovering secrets he must disclose them to the
Superiors, who in turn promise not to make use of the
information unless permitt~d ..by tl}e_ jnfonner! "The
Order exacts complete submission in whatsoever concerns
the affairs of the. Order.. They must practise perfect
circumspection and discretion with regard to the world
outside. Silence and secrecy constitute 'the soul of the
Order," and even the Frater's grade is kept secret, saye
\\:i~h equals, among whom there are signs for recog-
mtlOn.
As to the true aim of this Order, a document drawn
~p by Zwach shows its political progress for one year
In Ua,oaria-Jcsuits rcmo\"ed from all professorial chairs,
Then in the Oath which follows he swears-
.. eternal silence. and faith fulness and everlasting obedience to all
superiors and regulations of the Order. I also renounce my own
personal ....iews and opinions as well as all control of my powers
and capacities. I promise also to consid~r the well-being of the
Order as my own, and I am ready, as long as I am a member, to
serve it with my goods, my honour, and my life. . .. If I act
against the rules and well-being of the Society. I will sqbmit
and entirely cleared out of Ingolstadt University; pene-
tration by F.:!\1. of the Church, control of German
schools, charitable societies, and other university chairs.
" On the recommendation of the Fratres, Pylade has
become treasurer of the Ecclesiastical Council, and in
this way the Order has the revenues of the Church at its
disposal." Thus it was able to assist the Fratres and
save some of them from the clutches of money-lenders!
Again:
" The widowed Duchess has organised the Institute of Cadets
absolutely according to the plan indicated by the Order; all the
professors are members of the Order ... and all the pupils
become adepts of the Order.
" \Ve will draw to us all the young priests of the Bartholomew
e:1dowment ... there is every chance that we may in this way be
able to provide all Bavaria with instructed priests."
LIGHT-BE.>\RERS OF DARKNESS
Also among the documents were various recipes-
"One for Aqlla Toffana) a poison imperceptibly slow
but deadly." Another to bring about abortion; and yet
another concerning herbs having deleterious properties.
The Initiation took place after one, two, or three
years of probation. In the Revers de sileHtio) a form
signed by the candidate before the initiation, submission
and silence is promised, and he is assured that there is in
the Society nothing contrary to "State, morals, or
religion." Before the Oath is administered it is said-
a sword pointed at the breast:
.. Shouldst thou become a traitor or perjuror, let this sword
remind thee of each and all the members in arms against thee.
Do not hope to find safety; whithersoever thou mayest fly, shame
and remorse as well as the ....engeance of thine unknown brothers
will torture and pursue thee."
8
THE OVERSHADOWING POWER 9
myself to the penalties to which my superiors may condemn
"
me....
He received a classical name, by which he was hence-
forth known in the Order. He was required also to keep
all things appertaining to the Order in a special place,
having a label attached \\'ith the address of his superior,
to whom the box had to be sent in case of his sudden
death. In one of the recipes is found the description of
such a box which, when opened by an uninitiated person,
would at once burst into flames! To such an extent was
secrecy and silence demanded!
After the breaking up of his Order \Veishaupt and
his follO\vers still secretly carried on their intrigues, for
by 1789 the 266 Lodges controlled by the Grand Orient
Freemasonry were all Illuminised unbeknown to the large
majority of the members, and a few months later the
French Reyolution of that date eyentuated.
In 1794 the Duke of Brunswick, Grand Master of
German Freemasonry, issued a Manifesto to all the
Lodges showing how Masonry had been penetrated by
this International Sect, and suggesting, for a time, sup-
pression of all Freemasonry until it was freed from this
unseen canker. It says:
" A great sect arose, which, taking for its motto the good and
happiness of man, worked in the darkness. of the conspiracy to
make the happiness of humanity a prey for itself. This sect is
known to everyone: its brothers are known no less than its name.
It is they who have undermined the foundations of the Order
(Freemasonry) to the point of complete overthrow; it is by them
that all humanity has been poisoned and led astray for several
generations. The ferment that reigns amongst the peoples is their
work." They founded the plans of their insatiable ambition on the
political pride of nations. Their founders arranged to introduce
thi.s pride into the heads of the peoples. They began by casting
?dl.um on religion. . . . They invented the rights of man, which it
IS Impossible to discover eyen in the book of Nature, and the\'
urged the people to wrest from their princes the recognition o'f
the:'e supposed rights. The plan they formed for breaking all
SOCIal ties and of destroying all order was revealed in all their
speeches and acts. They deluged the world with a multitude of
publications; they recruited apprentices of every rank and in every
position; they deluded the most perspicacious men by falsely
Again, Bernard Lazare, the ]e,wish writer, affirms:
"It is certain that there were Jews even at the cradle of
~reemasonry-eab~istic Jews, as is proved by certain existing
ntes; very probably during the years which preceded the French
alleging different intentions. They sowed in the hearts of youth
the seed of covetousness, and they excited it with the bait of the
most insatiable passions. Indomitable pride, thirst of power, such
were the only motives of this sect; their masters had nothing less
in \;ew than the thrones of the earth, and the government of the
;'lations was to be directed by their nocturnal clubs. This is what
has been done and is still being done. But we notice that princes
and people are unaware how and by what means this is being
accomplished...." (Mrs. Webster, wid.)
Later, a law was passed, as a result of all this, by
the English Parliament in I 799, prohibiting all secret
societies with the exception of Freemasonry. To-day,
it is said, these secret societies are still illegal, and
although some call themselves semi-public, an oath of
.secrecy is still required by their chiefs, concerning the
most important and secret teachings, relating, more
especially, to contact with the mysterious controlling
power on the astral plane.
According to Monsignor Dillon, 1885 (Mrs. \Veb-
ster, ibid) :
" Had \Veishaupt not lived, Masonry might have ceased to be
a power after the reaction consequent on the French Revolution.
He gave it a form and character which caused it to outlive that
:-eaction to energize to the present day. and \...hich will cause it to
adyance until its final conflict with Christianity must determine
whether Christ or Satan shall reign on this earth to the end."
\Vas \Veishaupt not merely the tool of another and
more formidable Sect? Of this "Overshadowing
Power," which is the life, as it were, of Illuminism, we
are told, in The Victories of IsraelJ by Roger Lambe1in:
" Joseph de Maistre who was, one knows, a FreemaSon of
fairly high grade, noted the influence exercised by the Jews. In
J8Il, e>..-amining the causes of the French Revolution, in' a letter
written to his King from St. Petersburg, he says: 'The power of
this sect oriented by J(!wry, to bewitch Governments, is one of the
most terrible and most extraordinary phenomena that have been
~een in the world.' "
10 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
THE OVERSHADOWI!'\G POWER II
Revolution they entered in still greater numbers into the councils
of the society, and themsel..es founded secret societies. There
were Jews round \Veishaupt; and ~1artinez de Pasqualis, a Jew
of Portuguese origin, organised numerous iIIuminised groups in
France, and recruited many adepts, whom he initiated into the
doctrine of reintegration (regeneration). The Martinist Lodges
were mystic, whilst the other Orders of Freemasonry were rather
rationalist, which proves that secret societies represented the two
sides of the Jewish mind-practical rationalism and pantheism;
that pantheism which, while a metaphysical reflection of a belief
in the One God, ends at times in a Cabalistic Theurgy."
And of the Jewish aspirations he writes:
"The Jew is also a builder: proud, ambitious, domineering,
he tries to draw everything to himself. He is not satisfied with
de-Christianising, he J udaises; he destroys the Catholic or Pro-
testant faith, he provokes indifference, but he imposes his idea of
the world, of morals, and of life upon those whose faith he ruins;
he works at his age-old task-the annihilation of the religion of
Christ! "
And 11. Roger Lambe1in adds: "They are the
ferments of reyolution in all ethnic groups foreign to
their race."
Further, .Rabbi Benamozegh says:
"Is it surprising that Judaism has been accused of forming
a branch of Freemasonry? \Vhat is certain is that masonic theology
is only theosophy at bottom, and corresponds to that of the Cabala.
. " Those who will take the trouble to examine with care the
connection between Judaism and philosophic Freemasonry,
theosophy, and the mysteries in general ... will cease to smile
in pity at the suggestion that Cabalistic theology may have a role
to play in the religious transformations of the future. . .. It
contains the key to the modem religious problem."
In an interesting book, Les--J~if; et Ie TaI1~ud) by
M. Flavien Bernier, we find some light thrown on this
Pantheistic creed of the Cabalistic Jews and the " Deified
Man" of Illuminism. He writes, 1913:
"Now the dominating philosophic doctrine among learned
Chaldeans . . . was absolute Pantheism. In the vast Temple
which is the Universe. the learned Chaldeans suppressed the
Creator.. " Everything was cause and effect; the world was
uncreated and itself became its own God. Even the idea of
Divi~tywas confounded with Universal Harmony which regulated
all things, and with each of the things it regulated.. God was
In a footnote the author adds:
"Those of our readers who are familiar with the works of
Hermeti~_Freemasonry will at once recognise the favourite ideas
of the pontiffs of that sect, ideas which they have inherited from
the alchemists. of the Middle Ages, who held them from the
Cabalistic Jews. The same may be said of the cult of the
• Deified Man: which was the basis of Chaldean Pantheism, and
which has remained that of Occultism, ancient and modern.
"Certain traditions give to Zoroaster, a Jewish .Prophet, as
Master.. " But, on the other hand, Chaldean thought acted
powerfully upon orthodox Judaism and determined the growth of
a sect in its midst which was to transform -Israel. . .. This sect
was that of the I Pharisees.'. .. What they borrowed (from the
Chaldeans) in fact ..... was the essence of the Pantheistic
doctrine • •• It was then that was formed from these borrow-
therefore in tum, and as a whole, Earth nourisher of man, the
dew which fertilised it, the Sun which gave light and heat, the
wind which carried the fertilising. pollen of vegetation; God was·
the life principle which perpetuate<!the species, human and animal;
which caused plants to germinate, grow, die, and spring into life
again, which manifested even in apparently inanimate bodies.
Identified as a kind of breath of Nature, uncreated and eternal.
God emanated from the world not the world from God.
" It is realisable that such a system, which bears the imprint of
a bizarre but undeniable poetry, would, in all ages, have the power
to seduce the human mind. It would seduce it all the more that
the system had, as immediate result, the increase of human pride
in the cult of the' Deified Man.'
"In effect, if no Supreme Being as distinct from Nature was
imposed over the latter by right of creation-if all things had in
some manner an intelligence or soul, and if God was merely the
O':.;m of all these conscious or unconscious souls of the Universe, a
berarchy would necessarily exist among these souls of which each
was a part of God, but which could only contain God in a very
ui1equal manner. The divine principle would find itself distributed
in less abundance in a stone than in a tree, which lives, breathes,
grows, and dies; in a tree than in an animal, which thinks, per-
ceives, and acts; in an animal than in a man who meditates on the
past and iuture, solves the problem of Nature, corrects the latter's
irnperfections by his labour and ingenuity, and seeks to perfect
himself indefinitely. At the summit of the ladder of beings Man,
much more perfect and more intelligent than any of the others,
e,;dently absorbed the greatest amount of the divine essence of
which tI-.c Universe is composed. Having emptied the heavens
of any being superior to himself, he was in truth God of the
\\'orId, where all were apparently inferior and subordinate to him."
LIGHT-BE..A..RERS OF DARKNESS
12
THE OVERSHADOWIKG POWER 13
ings that Kabalah of the Pharisees which was for long transmitted
orally from Master to disciple, and was, 800 years later, to inspire
the compilation of the Talmud, and found its completest expres-
sion in the' Sepher ha Zohar.' _ . _ This religion of the • Deified
Man,' with which they were impregnated in Babylon, was only
conceived as benefiting the Jew, superior and predestined being.
_ .. The promise of universal domination found in the Law by
the orthodox Jew was not interpreted by the Pharisees in ..he sense
of the reign of the God of Moses over the Nations, but in the
sense of a material domination which would be imposd by the
Jews over the Universe. The expected Messiah . _ . was to be a
temporal King, all bloody from battle, who would make Israel
master of the world and trample all peoples under the wheel of
His chariot."
Have we not here the basis of the teaching in all
these Orders and groups, mystic and occult, of the
present time-the cult of the life-force, the LA.O., the
" Serpent Power," the all-peryading ether? And haye
\\-e not also the key to the Cabalistic Jews, in these
Pharisees of old and of to-day; these so-called" Divine
Guardians" working behind and through these secret
Orders, who profess to teach the doctrine of the deifica-
tion of the adept, but who in very truth create Illuminised
slaves controlled by the Cabalistic Jeos, who claims to be
the" Deified Man "-as M. Bernier says, II the God-
people" rather than the II People of God:'"
In the Patriot, March 7, 1929, we find some interest-
ing material in connection with Secret Societies and the
French Revolution; it says:
II In 1910 there was published a very remarkable book,
ent,itled Marie-Antoineye et Ie Complot Mafonnique. It was
wntten by M. Louis-Daste, ,an erudite historian, who had spent a
great deal of time in examining published and unpublished docu-
ments _throwing light on the part played by secret societies in
prepanng the French Revolution....- The extracts show, among
o~her things, how anti-Christian and revolutionary ideas were
CIrculated by bodies ostensibly engaged in educating the French
people. Behind these bodies was French Freemasonry, which was
and is, unlike our own Freemasonry, anti-Christian, political, and
revolutionary."
We quote the following extracts showing their
methods:
14 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
" At the beginning of the eighteenth century France was still
fervently attached to her religious and political traditions; at
the end of that century she broke--or rather a secret influence
r.1ade her break-with all of them. \\That was this secret in-
fluence? It was in eyery case the influence of Freemasonry....
For more than half a century the Freemasons had, in fact, been
secretly preparing the mine, whose explosion in 1789 wrecked the
old France. . .. From 1750 onwards Reading Societies were
started in most of the towns in France. Like the Free Thought
Societies of the present day, they were under the control of Free-
masons. . .. Members of these societies who had been the most
easily caught by the Masonic bait, and who, in addition, possessed
literary talent, were admitted into groups of a higher degree, the
societies called ' Academic.'. .. Like the Reading Societies, the
Academic Societies were secretly directed by Freemasons ...
who proyided the money spent either on pri~es given for ami-
Christian pamphlets or on the printing and publishing of them.
. . . Finally, above the Reading and the Academic Societies were
the so-called Societies of Action, which were neither more nor less
than exteriorisations of Masonic Lodges. . .. The work which
the Reading and Academic Societies did in conjunction with the
Lodges controlling them was as deadly as it was simple. under
the influences of these groups of Masons and their helpers, luke-
warm Catholics gradually became unbelievers, and finally fanatical
anti-Christians. . .. Freemasonry first infected the King's
ministers and the high functionaries; then magistrates of eyery
kind; lastly the Church of France itself. . .. Thanks, therefore,
to their ignorance of the Masonic danger and to their semi-
complicity with the enemy, the two d'Argensons, ~1aurepas, and
St. Floremin allowed the Freemasons of the eighteenth century
:0 destroy the Christian monarchy of France... ."
In the Rf!7-'ue 11lterllationale des Societes Secretes
there was an article on "Revolution, Terror, and Free-
masonry," which explained the connection of Grand
Orient Freemasonry with the French Revolution and its
present-day aim at a ., World Republic "-Universal Free-
masonry (see Patriot) August 16, 1928).
"In 17S9 the reyolutionary crimes were prepared by the
Committee of PropaRanda of the Lodge Lrs A111is rhlllis, and the
plan of • The Terror' is due to one of its most influential members,
the Jacobin Freemason, Adrien Duport (wHo when questioned as
to his plan said) ... ' Now, it is only by means of terror that one
can place oneself at the head of a revolution in a way to govern
it. . .. It is therefore necessary, whatever repugnance you may
have, to resign oneself to the sacrifice of some marked persons.'
THE OVERSHADOW1KG POWER IS
.. ' Instructions in conformity with the plan were given to the
principal age~ts of the depc:rtment.of insurrections which was
already organIsed, and to whIch Adnen Duport was no stranger;
execution followed quickly. The massacre of de Launay, de
Flesselles, Foulon, and Berthier, and their heads paraded on pikes,
were the first effects of this philanthropic conspiracy.
"In 1Q22 the Orator of the Grand Lodge (France) said:
• My brother Masons, my hope is that Freemasonry, which has
done so much for the emancipation of men, and to which history
owes the national revolutions, will also know how to make that
greatest reyolution, which will be the International Revolution.'''
Speaking of subversive propaganda at that time,
Arthur Young, in his Travels 1'11 France and Italy
(Young, in Paris at the opening of the French Revolu-
tion, was one of the acutest observers of the eighteenth
century) writes (see Pat1'iot, February 2, 1928):
" June 29, 1789. Will posterity belieye that while the Press
has swarmed with inflammatory productions that tend to prO\"e
the blessings of theoretical confusion and speculatiye licentious-
ness, not one writer of talent has been employed to refute and
confound the fashionable doctrines, nor the least care taken to
disseminate works of another complexion? "
Does the above not apply equally to the present "VlorId
Revolution," engineered by the same hidden and "for-
midable Sect?" How many dare or will publish the
bedrock truth?
Let us now study the present aims of Grand Orient
Freemasonry as shown by their own records. It is a
Judceo-Masonic body, political and revolutionary, work-
ing for World Domination.
In U La Dictature de La Franc-Mafonnerie sur La
France;" M. A. G. Michel exposes some of these rnachin-.
ations :
"It is the duty of universal Freemasonry to co-operate
absolutely with the League of Nations in order that it may no
longer have to submit to the interested influences of Govern-
ments" (Convent. Grand Orient, 192 3).
"T~e principal tasks of the League of Nations consist in the
or~ls~tJon of peace, the abolition of secret diplomacy, the
apphc:'-tlOn of the right of peoples to self-determination, the
estabhs~entof commercial relations inspired by the principle of
Free Trade, the repartition of basic matters, the regulation of
transport, restoration of normal relations between national devices,
and the creation of an International note; the development of
international legislation of labour, and especially the participation
of an organised working-class in international councils; the spread
of a general pacifist education based notably on the extension of an
international language (Esperanto!); the creation of a European
spirit, of a League of Nations patriotism-in brief, the formation
of the United States of Europe, or rather World Federation"
(Convent. of the Grand Lodge 6f France, 1922).
"Affirms that this Assembly (League of Nations) must
evolve in a democratic sense and rapidly admit representatives of
all nations; declare that the new establishment must assure equality
of nations; report with satisfaction the creation of a Bureau of
International Labour as a permanent organ of the League of
~ations." (Convent. Bull. Off. Grand Lodge of France, 1920).
"The Commission demands that the Convention should
;.:r:animously vote that in all manner of cases the League of Nations
~~2.:j henceforth have supreme authority to decide between peoples
c.::o Governments" (Convent. Grand Lodge of France, 1923).
" Further, it demands that the League of Nations, in order to
c.S5ure the execution of its decisions, should be endowed with a
~rmanent armed force placed under its sole authority, diminishing
by so much the different national armies" (Convent. Grand
Orient, 1923).
"The Federal Organisation of Peoples implies the establish-
::1ent of an Over-State, or super-national State, invested with three
powers-executive, legislative, and judicial; that is to say, possess-
ing the three organs indispensable to all constituted society-a
Government, a Parliament, and a Court of Justice. The Court of
_~ustice must be furnished with a penal code, civil code, and a code
ci international procedure. The international authority must be
sanctioned by an army or international police. To disarm separate
States and arm the Federation of United States, these are two
phases of the same progress" (Bull. Off. Grand Lodge of France,
I92~
- -" Studies through the League of Nations to create an Inter-
national Bank]lased on _th~. mobilisation of invested (fonciere)
property, public or private" (Bull. Off. Grand Lodge of France,
1922 ). . .
Leading to a programme of Universal Masonic Dictatorship:
1. Policy of Destruction (Solve of Illuminised Masonry):
Destruction of the Church. Revolution.
II. Reconstruction of a new regime (Coagula of IIIuminised
Masonry): (a) Economic and social; (b) financial and
fiscal refonn; (c) socialisation of individuals.
III. Universal Masonry:
"This International Revolution is for to-morrow the work
of Freemasonry" (Convent. Grand Lodge of France,
1922). "Three Revolutions-I789, 1871, 19-" (Bull.
Hebd., 1922).
16 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
THE OVERSHADOWING POWER 17
The Grand Orient penetration of many groups is
explained by the following extracts from the same docu-
ment:
." Masonry must be felt everywhere, but must be found no-
where" (Convent. Grand Orient, 1922).
"We are forming a great Association, dumb to the outside
world, whose sole endeavour will be to express ideas collectively
and overrun the country with them . . . we must earnestly en-
deavour to make our thoughts penetrate the whole mass . . . but
our whole satisfaction will come from that which our ideas ger-
minate" (Convent. Grand Orient, 1922).
" An active propaganda is urgent, so that Freemasonry shall
again become the inspirer, the sovereign mistress of the ideas
through which democracy is to be brought to perfection. . .. To
influence social elements by spreading widely the teaching received
within the Institution" (Convent. Grand Orient, 1922).
.. Sports societies, Boy Scouts, art circles, choral and instru-
mental groups. All organisations which attract Republican youth
to works of education, physical and intellectual. There are so
many fertile fields where Masonic propaganda ought most usefully
to be exercised. Everywhere add to these adult courses, wherever
there is any chance of them being taken up and frequented,
libraries, etc." (Convent. Grand Orient, 1923)
"Freemasonry is not exactly internatior•. 1, it is universal;
it is a society non-national, a society of ' humanity '-not a society
of international brotherhood, but a society of Universal Brother-
hood" (Bull. Off. Grand Lodge of France, October 1922).
The Grand Orient ".'as founded in I 772, formed
a coalition with the Grand Chapter in I 786, and became
a body both subversive and dangerous. By I 789, we
have seen, it was i1luminised just previous to the Revo-
lution. It is therefore illuminised esoteric masonry,
largely domiI¥Lted by Jews, and its aim is political power.
Their god is the Creative Principle, and they look upon
God the Creator as a myth. On the other hand, the
British masons are exoteric, non-political, and philan-
thropic, and they believe in God as the Great Architect
of the Universe. For these reasons in :March 1878 they
broke off relations with the Grand Orient.
Many of these secret and pseudo-public societies,
yvhich are to be discussed later, are affiliated directly or
mdirectly to the Grand Orient, and are, as it will be seen,
subversive.
18 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKKESS
Anyone who has at all considered the matter must
realise that no movement such as the present \Vorld
Re\'olution, with all its intricacies, could gain the propor-
tions which it has very evidently done unless there was
a means of cohesion and a powerful central mind direct-
ing the whole. \Vhat the late Bishop of Dijon has said
of the Jews in his book Les PhariS1'ens dJautrefois at
Ceuz dJaujourdJh.HiJ might well be said of the above
movement. He writes:
II But, in order that these colonies of Jews, so widely scattered
as they are among such different races, under such dissimilar rule,
buried among hostile masses, and without any apparent link, should
!:aye nevertheless succeeded in preserving their original character-
istics, always the same ideals, everywhere the same mentality, the
same ideas, a perfect similarity, it is indispensable that they should
:-:2.ye some i:1Yisibie uniting link, a common mind, a head, in a
word a central government, and that government can only be an
occult government."
In a footnote to the same book, and speaking of Grand
Orient Freemasonry, he says:
H In the Lodges the discussions are not .for the purpose of
getting at the truth, but their aim is action. What matters is not
a connected and real opinion corresponding to the convictions of
each as a whole, but a collective and practised opinion, the result
of a prearranged understanding for an interested end. They do
not search lor it by means of study as the philosophers do; they
suggest and impose it. . .. One is not forced to enter Masonry,
but once in, the adept must take on the spirit of Masonry-it is
, initiation.' They set themselves to infuse him with it in order to
orient him. But if each mason is personally oriented, so also is
each group, unbeknown to themselves, by the higher groups, in
such a way that, because of tile impossibility of seeing what leads
them or where they are being led to, they believe themselves free,
whereas in fact they are oriented or directed by this ' M :ysff.rieflx
lr10teur Central, known to us alone' says the author of that strange
book The Je""<L-ish P ml.}}
The same secret system will be found in all illumin-
ised secret societies of to-day, which are all ruled and
directed by some mysterious hidden centre. Speaking
of his own system, Weishaupt says that he forms his
ranks H out of men who would submit to be led blindly
onwards by unseeri directors." He says:
THE OVERSHADOWING POWER 19
"One must show how easy it would be for one clever head
to direct hundreds and thousands of men. I have two immediately
below me into whom I breathe my whole spirit, and each of these
two has ~ain two others, and so on. In this way I can set a
thousand men in motion and on fire in the simplest manner, and in
this way one must impart orders and operate on politics" (Mrs.
Vlebster, Secret Societies and Subversive Movements).
This is Weishaupt's system, but what of the mysteri-
ous central power?
It is not this book's purpose to prove or disprove
"the Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion," which
have been somewhat unconvincingly pronounced by
Philip Graves, in The Times of August 16-18, 1921,
and again in 1923 in his book Palest-ine the Land of
Three Faiths, to be plagiarised in parts from Maurice
Joly's revolutionary pamphlet, Dialogues aHZ Enfers and
in part supplied by the Okhrana or Tzarist secret police.
\Vhat interests us, however, is that Mr. Graves admits
that the same ideas and methods as expressed in the
Protocols and the aforesaid pamphlet underlie all revo-
lutions: "The French Terrorists, the ~TJ.poleons, the
Turkish Chiefs of the Committee of Progress and Union,
Lenin and his adherents." And of the Jews he says:
" Do not these facts sufficiently explain why the Eastern Jews
have been to a great extent the driving force of the Russian
Bolshevik Revolution, intensifying its fanatical bitterness against
Tzar, Church and Capital, but suppl};ng it with greater brain
power, greater continuity of policy and persistence, than could be
found amon~ the Russian masses or among the Communist fraction
of the intelligentsia."
;_.!I~!e ancl there _we quote these Protocols, comparing .-
them with the work of these many secret societies solely
to show that these same revolutionary ideas and methods
. still underlie the principles of the.se Jew-dominated secret
and undoubtedly subversive movements 9£ to-day.
CHAPTER II
ORIENTED BY JE\VRY
BEFORE proceeding with the results of our investiga-
tions and research into some of the more magical and
dangerous of present-day cults and societies, the con-
clusions arrived at by a learned French occultist may be
of interest, as supporting and adding to some of our
points.
But first we would explain that occultism is the
knowledge and use of the dual sex or hidden creative
forces in all Nature, and the Jewish Cabala, based on
these same-secret laws, is one of the most learned and
powerful systems for gaining control over Nature and
over the mind and actions of man, bringing into play and
perverting these forces in order to attain power and
dominion. It is polarity and a subtle method of sug-
gestion. The Re'"JUe Internat-ionale des Socihes Secretes
has for some time been investigating and exposing the
age-old source and hidden power of these secret socie-
ties, hoping also to assist other investigators, and supply
a choice of weapons to those who are already fighting
step by step against contemporary Jud:::eo-Masonry. M.
Henri de Guillebert, "a specialist of first order in these
matters," has taken a leading part in these investigations.
_We give a few extracts from his articles, " Studies in
Occultism" :
.. The importance of the part played by secret societies in
religious, social, economic, and political evolution is generally
denied. . .. There is no trace in the history of peoples of any
international attempt to determine the origin, the vicissitudes, the
aim, the claims, the doctrine, and discipline of sects, considered
no longer as isolated phenomena, but as a permanent organisation,
thus monstrously and solidly formed of a multitude of separate
parts. It is therefore to a certain extent a novelty to show the
action of occultism upon ~ple_ in its successive phases by estab-
20
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 2 I
lishing what secret societies are; how they are linked together in
time and space; where they come from and whither they wish to
lead men; who constitutes them, and who directs them. • .. In
our time occultism can no longer be other than a material and
human reality, a problem to be solved by recognised methods of
criticism, a work analysable by means of investigations, capable
of unmasking secret societies as a whole. To obserye, analyse,
classify, and compare all sects is a purely scientific work. . . .
" Judcro-Masonry.-This term can be used, making all reser-
vations as to its correctness, to designate the organisation com-
posed of Cabalistic Jews and secret societies, considered no longer
as isolated phenomena in time and space, but as a whole, having
a common doctrine and discipline, a common aim and methods....
The method employed always consists of perversion of the tradi-
tions and institutions of Christianity, conforming them to the
beliefs and organisations inspired by occultism. . .. The destruc-
tion of the family. country, of authority, and of the Church is
for occultism merely a means. . .. The principle of the teaching
minority is not only to keep the knowledge of the mysteries from
the adept, but also to divide its teachings between twisting the
mentality and peryerting men in such a way as to destroy all
obstacles to the establishment of its rule oyer the world, and to
establish its tnannv over a land freed from all Church institutions.
. .. The finai aim is the enthronement of the so-called world king,
placing universal authority, by means of subordinate dupes, into
the hands of the Grand Masters-all Jews; the subjection of all
peoples to these men, by monopolising social offices, the trans-
formation of man into a domestic animal, the exploitation of the
masses by the Jew, once the heads of Christian control have been
suppressed.
" The present revolution is the actual end. It is the consum-
mation, by a formidable convergence of efforts made everywhere
and at the same time, of a permanent conspiracy, which failed,
Was taken up again, and pursued with a terrible tenacity, and with
ever-increasing skill gained through long centuries of experience.
Their aim, for ever inaccessible, would be the final domination
of all peoples by the god-people. all esoteric religions having beel\
but ethnological forms of the Cabala, transitory forms which
vanquishing Judaism must get rid of. . .. The sole force of
Jewish cohesion lies in the submission 'uf its scattered communities
to the religious supremacy of a Patriarchate, whose social seat,
constantly changed, remains unknown to the profane.
"The Jew looks upon himself as the sun of humanity, the
male. opposed to which the other peoples are but the female,
manifesting and assuring the coming of the Messianic era. In
order to realise this sociological manifestation, the Jew organically
~ends his influence by means of secret societies, created by him
III order to spread everywhere his initiating force • • • (hoping
22 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
to realise) the' Universal Republic' controlled by the god of
Humanity, the Jew of the Cabala. . .. The chief effort of these
secret societies is to gather into their plans the religious traditions
of all peoples. . .
.. Thcurgy.-Theurgy has for its object the condensation in
the thcllrgist of vital matter, by methods, in places and with aims,
other than those possible through the limitations of organs. It
results in the production of • grand phenomena,' super:human
phenomena, that is beyond the powers of ordinary humanity. The
realisation of •grand phenomena' assures the multiplication of
adepts and the glorification of the initiates. Theurgy places the
• diviner' (seer) higher than humanity, in a state of liberation
which approaches the' divine.' Also to attain this end, the theur-
gist recoils from no method permitting him to liberate, to his
profit, the ....ital matter of which he has need in order to produce
these •grand phenomena.' . .. Theurgists attribute surprising
re!ations, which they claim to be able to establish with the pheno-
mena of the universe by setting in motion a 'fluid' without the
existence of which they recognise that their proceedings would
be but jugglery. . .. They claim to have the power to charge
themselves with this fluid, and to project it at will upon organisms
less strongly charged than they, and to put themselves thus- in a
state physically and physiologically of condenser and distributor
of natural energy, rendering- themselves capable of stunning and
dominating by means of claimed fluidic exchanges" (hypnotic
control as practised in these orders). .
It is the force spoken o£ in the" Protocols": "\Ve
put Freemasons to death . . . they all die when it 1S
::ecessary, apparently from a natural death."
The celebrated occultist and cabalist "Papus," in
his book on Practical Magic, gives the following simple
explanation of mag-ic: " A vehicle, a horse, and a driver,
. this is the-whole of ·magic if one only knew how to look
.. at .it." . He says the driver cannot· set the vehicle in
motion ,,~thout a motor, whi~h. is the horse, which at
the same· time is stronger than the driver, but he controls
and uses the brute force by means of the reins. The
driver represents the intelligence and above all the will
which governs the whole system-it is the" Directing
Principle." The vehicle represents matter, which is in-
active and which is the H Passive Principle." The horse
represents ~'F()rcc,~' obedient to the driver, and acting
upon the vchic~c. the horse mo.vc.s thc whol.; system; it
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 23
is the U Active Principle," and at the same time the in-
termediary between the vehicle and the driver, the U link"
which unites the material basis and that which directs it,
that is, between matter and will.
In practical magic the driver is the human will, the
horse the U Vital Force," that dynamism carried by the
blood to all the organs and to the brain itself. The
vehicle is our body, the driver our will, and the reins the
nervous system. The mind cannot act directly upon
matter, it acts upon the intermediary, which again reacts
upon matter; this intermediary is the astral plane, the
life-force in nature and in man, that which continually
modifies matter. This organic life-force of man can be
projected by him and can act at a distance, and this is
the hyperphysical force used in magnetic healing and
hypnotic control. As Papus said: " Among the ancients
magic could be defined as the application of the will to the
forces of nature, for the student learnt to control heat,
light, and electricity." It is always the two contending
forces united by a third producing manifestation.
All these many secret and pseudo-public occult socie-
ties-be they esoteric Masons, Rosicrucians, Illuminati,
or merely calling themselves Universal Brothers-are,
we believe, consciously or unconsciously, linked up with
the Central Group which is acting behind the Third
International of Moscow. Many of these orders out-
wardly appear antagonistic to each other, and each
would, in fact, seem to believe that it and it only knows
the WHOLE TRUTH. The craft of this lies in that
members breaking away for various reasons almost in-
evitably seek for another, preferably opposed -to the one
they have left. These groups and orders are varied, so
as to appeal to the many and diff.erent types of humanity.
Many, if not all of them, are' nominally working for
.. the Service of Humanity," but this appears to have
resolved itself into the service and rights of the so-called
~orkers of the world, and, although their watchword
IS said to be Love and Unity, it appears to mean c1ass-
hatred.
The Great White Lodge·is apparently the centre of
24 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
instruction, and many are looking for a " Messiah," be
he a Christ or Christian Rosenkreutz. To us this spells
im'isible world domination by means of illuminised pup-
pets or tools-Light-Bearers as they are called in some
of these Hermetic Orders. It is no doubt the same secret
organisation which earlier and on a less ambitious scale
worked behind the French revolutions, the Balkan
risings, and even the rising of the Lollards in
our own country, all of which were merely experi-
ments in preparation for the Great World Revolution
of to-day. This secret movement is a plague generated
in the hidden vaults and subterranean places of the
world, which only rises to the surface when the hour of
consummation appears to approach. \Vho can tell where
this plague begins and where it ends, and who is immune
f rom its deadly taint?
Illuminism or so-called spiritual development is, we
believe, the key to the movement, and the link which
unites the whole organisation, and one and aU of th~se
various groups are but bodies built up for the purpose
of preparing instruments, and the methods of arriving
at this condition are briefly these:
I. Oric1l,tation.-Thought dir.ection .by means 6f
selected meditations upon writings said to be inspired
by these ~1asters of the Great \Vhite Lodge.
2. Polarisation.-Direction of the currents of the
dual sex-forces by thought and will-power uniting them
with the forces directed by these Masters from without.
Reciprocal vibrations-the action of one mind upon
another.
3. Il/umination.-Illuminism by means of the astral
light; produced by, and leading to hypnotic obsession by,
these same Masters.
To quote The Great Work, a publication of the
"Sadol :Movement" in California: " In truth it is that
principle in Nature which impels every .entity to seek
vibratory correspondence with another like entity of
opposite polarity." In the same work we are told that,
analogous to a farmer passing an electric current through
the soil, at the root of the stalk, in such a manner as to
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 2S
touch the vital processes, thus multiplying their acth'ity
and intensity, so--
"through ages of experimentation and study, the School of
Natural Science (White Lodge) has wrought out and discoyered
a definite and scientific method whereby the intelligent student may
supplement, facilitate, and intensify the process by which Nature
evolves and unfolds the spiritual and psychical faculties, capaci-
ties, and powers of men. . . ."
This is simply a hurry-up system producing illu-
minism, and leading to all sorts of unbalanced results.
These orders almost invariably culminate" in com-
munications, teachings, and instructions from these
masters or so-called spiritual beings-this Central Group
of occultists and black magicians who, no doubt, from
their many "experimentations" upon unsuspecting
humanity, have acquired a most profound knowledge of
these hidden laws of nature. \Vho can put a limitation
to the powers of the human body, its brain and ner-
vous system, as a mechanism for receiving and trans-
mitting these mysterious forces so little understood?
Further, this book tells us:
"\Vith a natural adjustment of economic, sociological. and
ethnical relations, the opportunity \\-;11 come to all who are ready
and willing to develop their spiritual and psychical powers equally
v.;th the physical. . " The solution has already been wrought
out by the Great School and when the time is right, it will be
given to the world through channels which will C11S1/re its recog-
nition and adoption."
We will now study the doings and sayings of some of
these illuminated and subversive" channels."
THE THEOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
In Le Theosophisme Rene Guenon gives much well-
docu~ented information on the TheOsophical Society,
showmg its gradual growth into an instrument in the
hands of some "inner Government of the World," an
Invisible Power.
Mme. Blavatsky, the real founder, was born iJl
Ekaterinoslav tri 1831. In her many early extraordinary
26 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
wanderings she apparently came under the influence and
teachings of Paulos Metamon, a magician or conjuror;
of the revolutionary Joseph Mazzini and the Carbonari;
of Michel, a mason, mesmerist, and spiritist, who de-
velopecj her mediumistic powers. These influences prob-
ably aCC()Ulted not a little for her" phenomena."
On October 20, 1875, a society was founded in New
York, said to be for" spiritualist investigations"; Olcott
"'as President, Felt and Dr. Seth Pancoast Vice-presi-
d.ents, and Mme. Blavatsky Secretary. Among other
members were \Villiam Q. Judge, Charles Sotheran, one
of the high dignitaries of American Masonry, also for a
short time General Albert Pike, Grand Master of the
Scottish Rite for the Southern Jurisdiction U.S.A., who
\\'as said to be author of the rituals of the thirty-three
degrees-receind from the Arabian member of the
" Great School."
\Ve are further told that George Felt, Vice-presi-
dent, gave himself out as Professor of Mathematics and
Egyptology, and" was member of a secret society usually
called by initiates ( H.B. of L.' (Hermetic Brotherhood
of Luxor) ... now this society ... is officially opposed
to spirit'""l.listic theories, for it tea.ches that these pheno-
melza are d1te 1I0t to spirits of the dead, but to certain
forces directed by l£ving men." It is said that Felt per-
suaded Mme. Blavatsky and Olcott to become associates
of the H.B. of L. On November 17, 1875, the society's
name was changed to "Theosophical Society," although
Felt would haye preferred the name "Egyptological
Society." Shortly after this ..felt suddenly disappeared.
As Rene.Guenon ,remarks, "no doubt his mission was
accomplished!" .
In November 1878, Mine. Blavatsky and Olcott left
for India, and in 1882 founded the Theosophical centre
in Adyar, near Madras; there she initiated her" esoteric
section," and contacted the so-called" Mahatmas," and
her phantastic phenomena multiplied prodigiously. These
" phenomena," precipitated letters, astral bells, materiali-
sation,s, etc., were ,~n time suspected and expose?- The
matter was taken up by th~ ".Society for PsychIcal Re-
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 27
search," which in December 1885 reported her as "one
of the most accomplished, most ingenious, and most inter-
esting impostors." She herself affirmed the need of
such phenomena in order to maintain her hold over
some of the members, and in certain Theosophical circles
they largely contributed to keep the society and its chiefs
alive.
In conclusion Rene Guenon sums up:
" From all we have exposed, it is legitimate to conclude that
Mme. Blavatsky was above all a ' subject' or instrument in the
hands of individuals or occult groups sheltering behind her per-
sonality, just as others were in their turn instruments in her
hands! This explains her impostures, without excusing them, and
those who believe she invented everything herself and on her own
initiative are almost as much mistaken as those who. on the con-
trary, believe in what she said concerning her relations with
pretended 'Mahatmas.'''
It was after this, in 1887, that she compiled and
published her Secret Doctn·'t.e, which is still the book of
books to many Theosophists. This ~posure, to a cer-
tain extent, broke Mme. Blavatsky, but did not break the
Theosophical Society. There were many resignations,
and some lodges, such as the tc Isis," in Paris, of which
Papus was a member, closed down only to be reformed
under another name. Papus and some of his school,
Martinists and Illuminists, remained members until
1890, when they either resigned or, as was said, were
expelled on a charge of " black magic."
Mrs. Besant was presented to Mme. Blavatsky in
1889 by the SQci~1ist Herbert Burrows (wtIo was als.o
member of the Stella Matutina), and she immediately
succumbed to Mme. Blavatsky's irresistible maglietism
a?d ~ormidable power of suggestion. Mme. Blavatsky
dIed III London May 8, 1891. Mrs. Besant was elected
President in 1907. From 1910 to its consummation one
of ~er chief works, assisted by Leadbeater, was to train
~nshnamurtias Messiah, or as he preferred to Ix- called.
be
WOrld Teacher." On February 19. 1922, an :tlli;uh'l'
t:veen Mrs. Besant's Co-Masonry and tIll' (;t';l\l,l
Onent of France was celebrated at tIl(' (;ranl! "1'("tll(,lr
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
of the Droit HUn1.ain in Paris. 'Her present work is
wholly political and subversive, It to build up India into
a mighty self-governing community." But of her poli-
tical activities more will be said later.
Charles Sotheran, the above-mentioned American
mason, wrote to Mme. Blayatsky, January II, 1877:
"In the last century the ll1uminati taught 'peace with the
cottage, war with the palace' throughout the length and breadth
of Europe. In the last century the United States was freed
hom the tyranny of the mother country by the action of the
Secret Societies more than is commonly imagined."
?\{rs. Besant wrote in India Bond or Free} September
1926 :
"Really, the awake11ing of India is ... part of the \Vorld
~foyement towards Democracy, which began for the \Vest in the
revolt of the American Colonies against the rule of Britain, ending
1!1. 1776 in the independence of the Great Republic of the West,
a..:1d in the French Revolution of 1789!"
_-\gain quoting from Le Theosopht"sme} we find much
curious information on the production of this expected
future " Messiah." Rene Guenon writes:
" Here we find the method by which. according to the Theo-
sophists, the manifestation of a ' Great Teacher' is produced, or
eyen sometimes that of a 'Master' of less importance; in order
to save such an 'evolved' being the trouble of preparing a
, yehic1e' for himself, by passing through all phases of ordinary
physical development, it is necessary that an ' imtiate ' or ' disciple'
should lend his body when, after having been specially prepared by
certain tests, he renders himself worthy of this honour. It
would be from that moment that the' Master,' making. use of his
body as if it were his own, would speak through- his mouth in
order to teach the 'Wisdom religion.' . .. It must be added
that living' Masters' are able in a similar fashion to make occa-
sional use of a disciple's body. . .. The' Master' could only
enter in, as Leadbeater says, 'when this body was enfeebled by
long austerities.' . .. The Great Head of the department of
religious instruction, said Leadbeater, the Lord Maitreya, who has
already taught the Hindus as Krishna and the Christians as Christ,
has declared that he will soon return to- the world in order to
bring healing and help to the nations, and to revive spirituality
(psychic), which the earth has almost lost... , One of the
greatest works of the Theosophical Society is to do all in their
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 29
power to prepare men for his coming. . .. A single forerunner
announced his coming formerly; now it is a society of 20,000
members spread over the whole earth who are given this task"
(Occultism in Nature).
" Such is, therefore, the task which they assign to-day to the
Theosophical Society, which :!\1rs. Besant declared years ago had
been chosen ...• to be the link pure and blessed (etheric) be-
tween those above and those below'" (Introduction to Theo-
sophy). '1 h· h h Th h·ca1 S' ·b . 1£
" The ro e w IC t e eosop I OClety attn utes to ltse
is not limited to announcing the corning of the' Great Teacher';
it has also to find and prepare ... the chosen ' disciple' in which
he will incarnate when the time arrives. To tell the truth, the
accomplishment of this mission has not been without failures;
there was at least a first attempt which failed piteously. . .. It
was in London, where a kind of Theosophical community existed
in St. John's \\Tood. There they brought up a young boy, sickly
in appearance and not very intelligent, but whose least word
was listened to with respect and admiration, because he was no
other, it appears, than 'Pythagoras reincarnated.' . .. Some
time later the father of this child, a retired captain in the
British Army, suddenly withdrew his son from ~Ir. Leadbeater's
hands, who had been specially charged with his education (Soleil,
August 1, 1913). There must have been some threat of scandal
about this, for Mr. Leadbeater was in 1906 excluded from the
Theosophical Society for reasons concerning which a discreet
silence was kept. . .. It was only later that a letter ,,,ritten
by Mrs. Besant was made known, in which she speaks of methods,
'worthy of the severest reprobation' (Theosopl:i<:a1 Voice, of
Chicago, May 1908). Reinstated, however, in 1908, after
'having promised not to repeat these dangerous counsels' (Theo-
sophist, February 1908) previously given to young boys, and
reconciled with Mrs. Besant, whose constant collaborator he be-
~me in Adyar, Mr. Leadbeater played yet again the principal
role in the second affair, much better known, and which had
almost the same wind~u'p.... o' ~ -
-. -- "In 1911 -Dr. J. M. Nair had already published in his medical
Journal (Antiseptic) a very caustic article against Theosophy,
and h~·did not he~itate clearly to accuse Mr. Leadbeater of im-
morahty. In consequence of these attacks, and after a consider-
able: time of reflection, three cases were filed in December 1912
agamst Dr. Nair, Dr. Rama Rao, and the Editor of the Hindu.
All
d
thr~ were lost by the Society and its president. . .. All this
en ed 111 upsetting the father of Krishnamurti and Nityiinanda.
~. He demanded at the Madras High Court that his sons should
Bak"eturned to him. In giving judgment for the father, Judge
ewell said: 'Mr. Leadbeater agrees in his deposition that
he has had and continues to have opinions which I can only
30 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
specify as being unquestionably immoral and of a nature com-
pletely disqualifying him as tutor for young boys ...'" (The
."'fadras La.{·suit).
After an unsuccessful appeal in Madras, Mrs.
Besant was successful in London, May 5, 1914. Thus
we saw Krishnamurti in 1926, the year appointed, pre-
sented by this society as the" \\Torld Teacher" or New
~1essiah!
Concerning the auxiliary groups again we quote
Rene Guenon:
" ... For the moment we wish to point out only a few
of these auxiliary groups (of the Theosophical Society), and first
of all • The Order of the Rising Sun,' organised at Benares by
)1r. Arundale, afterwards cOl1yerted, January I I, 191 I, into
the 'Independent Order of the Star in the East,' with Alcyone
(Krishnamurti's astrological pseudonym) as nominal chief and
~frs. Besant as • Protector,' • in order to group together all those
who, whether within or without the Theosophical Society, belieyed
in the coming of the Supreme \Vorld Teacher.' It was hoped' that
its members would he able to do something on the physical plane
to prepare public opinion for the idea of this coming by creating
;m atmosphere of sympathy and re\'erence, and that they would
be able, by uniting together, to form an instrument on the higher
planes which the ~1aster would be able to make use of.' This
Order • excludes no one and recei\'es all who, no matter what
10rm their beliefs may take, share the common hope J; the
~cccptance of the following principles is all that is necessary in
order to be admitted:
• 1. \Ve belieye that a great Teacher will soon appear in
the world. and we wish so to live now that we may be worthy
to know Him \"hen He comes.
• 2. \\'e shall try therefore to keep Him in our minds
always. and to do in His Name. and therefore to the best·
of our ability, all the work which comes to us in our daily
occupations.
• 3· As far as our ordinary duties allow, we shall endeavour
to devote a portion of our time each day to some definite
work which may help to prepare for His coming.
• 4· \\7e shall scek to make Devotion, Steadfastness, and
Gentleness promincnt characteristics of our daily life.
•.5· We shall try to beg-in and end each day with a short
fl(:nf)d devllted lei the askin~ of IIis blessing upon all that
wr try If) (Ir, f, ,r IIirn ancl in IIis NalllC.
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 3I
'6. \\7e regard it as our special duty to try to recognise
and reverence greatness in whomsoever shown, and to strive
to co-operate, as far as we can, with those whom we feel
to be spiritually our superiors:
"Concerning the connections of the Order with the Theo-
sophical Society, here is what ~fr. Leadbeater said in the presence
of Alcyone, at a meeting of the Italian section at Genoa: ' \Vhilst
the Theosophical Society de11umds recognition of the brotherhood
of humanity, the' Order of the Star in the East' commands be-
lief in the coming of a Great Master and submission to its six
principles. Apart from that, the principles and precepts of the
Order can be admitted without accepting all the teaching of the
Theosophical Society. The initiation of the Order has shown
us that, all over the world, there are people who are expecting
the coming of the Master, and thanks to it, it is possible to group
them together. . .. The work of the Order and that of the
Theosophical Society are identical: to enlarge the ideas of Chris-
tians and of those who belieye that there is no salntion outside
their own little Church; to teach that all men can be sa,-ed....
For a large number amongst us the coming of a great Teacher
is only a belief, but for others it is a certainty. For many the
Lord !\'Iaitreya is only a name, although He is a great being to
certain amongst us who have often seen 2nd heard Him' (Le
TMosophie, October 16, 1912).
" A little later these declarations were contradicted in certain
points by 1fr. Arundale affirming in the name of Alcyone that
the' Order does not indicate who the Supreme Teacher is for
whose coming it was founded'; that • no member had the right
to say, for example, that the Order awaited the coming of
Christ or of the Lord 1faitreya,' and that' it would be prejudicial
to ~he interests of the Order and those of the Theosophical
SocIety to regard the aims of these two organisations as iden-
tical'" (The Da}·brcak, August 1913).
Yet in a small pamphlet ca}le9 Mrs. BesQ.11-t's Pro-
Phecy, a lecture, given by R. F. Horton, D.D., August
6, 19II, and published by the H·Order of the Star in the
East," he (Dr. Horton), besides quoting the six princi-
ples, says, speaking of :Mrs. Besant's prophecy concern-
mg the World Teacher:
"But while she does not attempt to determine wll(~re the
~VOrld ?-,each~r will appear, or under what .conditions. she leaves
I er audience In no doubt as to who that World Tt'adwr will tl(".
n the most explicit terms she says that Ill' i~ thl' {)Ill" wh,'",
We Christians know as Christ ... :UIlJ lie.- wh'l W:I!' ..'-hll~( \~
Again:
l..-nown as the Lord of Love ... and there is no question in
her mind that the great World Teacher who is coming is also the
same Lord of Love."
Nothing seems more definite yet contradictory to Mr.
Arundale's statement as quoted above.
Rene Guenon continues:
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
.. 'l\Te again read elsewhere that' if some members believe
that the \\Torld Teacher will make use of such and such a body it
is only their own personal opinion, and not the belief to which
the other members adhere.' It is probable that it might have
been otherwise if things had turnct:l out better. In any case,
here is a very clear example of the way in which the Theosophical
chiefs know how to bow to circumstances and modify, to suit
t::e occasion. appear;lnces so as to enable them to penetrate into
.....<?Tied circles. and i rom them recruit auxiliaries in order to realise
t l~ei r plans."
.. At ~he time of his first visit to Paris (he returned May
1914) Alcyone was sixteen years old; he had already written,
or at least they had published under his name, a little book called
At the Feet of the -'faster, for which Theosophists have shown
the greatest admir:ltion, although it was scarcely more than a
collection of moral precepts without much originality."
32
These moral precepts are common to all illuminised
orders, where the ., vehicle" being prepared, must be set
apart, letting go its hold upon material life, living in the
ideal, more often false, seeking self-abrogation and
muting of personality, so that the Master, so-called, may
take possession, as in the case of Krishnamurti.
. Speaking on all neo-spiritualist -movements Rene
Guenon writes in his Introdu.ction to the Study of Hindfl
Doctri1Zes} 1921:
" For those who do not rely on appearances there would be
some very curious and very instructive observations to be made,
there as in other domains, on the advantage to be extracted
sometimes from disorder and incoherence, or from that which
appears to be such, in view of the reaf'uation of a weU-defined
plan and nnknown 10 all those who are its more or less ~mcon­
scious f~trunlellts. .' These are political means of a sort, but
"the polslacs arc rather special. ..."
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 33
Continuing in Le Theosophisme, Rene Guenon says:
.. Organisations have been created so adapted as to reach
each of the desired circles. . .. There are some also which
apply themselves especially to the young and even to children.
Thus alongside of the 'Star in the East,' another association was
founded called the' Sen'ants of the Star,' having as 'protector'
Krishnamurti and as chief Nityananda (Krishnamurti's young
brother, who died November 13, 1925, on his way out to India) ;
, All the members of this Order, except honorary members, must
be under twenty-one years of age, and the youngest child desiring
to serve can join it' (The Da)obreak, October 1913). Previously
there already existed two other organisations of the same kind-
the' Golden Chain' and the' Round Table.' The' Golden Chain'
is a ' group for spiri~ual training,' where· children of seven years
are admitted and wbose aim (at least the avowed aim) is ex-
pressed in the formula which the members must repeat every
morning: 'I am a link of gold in the chain of love which sur-
rounds the world; I must remain strong and bright; I wish
to try to be gentle and good to all living creatures, to protect
and aid all those who are feebler than myself, and I will try to
have none but pure and beautiful thoughts, to speak none but pure
and beautiful words, to do none but pure and beautiful actions.
Then all the links will become bright and strong' (article by
Mme. 1. de l\fanziarly, Theosophist, March I, 1914) .
.. If there is openly no talk of the coming of the 'Great
Teacher' in the 'Golden Chain,' there is likewise none in the
'Round Table,' which can be joined as •Associate' at the age
of thirteen, as 'Companion' at t1fteen, and as 'Knight' at
twenty-one (it is scarcely necessary to point out the analogy,
certainly intended, between those three grades and those of
Masonry), and whose members must take a formal oath of secrecy.
Here it has to do with 'following the great King which the
West has named Christ and the East Bodhisattwa; now that
hope is given to us of His near return the time has come to
form Knights who_will prew-re His coming by so serving Him
from now; it is required of .those who would enter mto the
League to think each day of this King and to do each day a
?~ in His service' (Theosophist, August I, 1913). To sum up,
It IS above all a recruiting centre for the ' Star in the East,' which
pr~tends to be the kernel of the' Kew Religion,' the rallying-
pomt of all those who expect the ' Coming of the Lord.'''
In New Zealand Dr. Felkin, late head of the" Sma-
ragdine Thaiasses," used what he called the "Order of
the Round Table" as a cover and also a preparatory
Drder for the R.R. et A.C. It is for men and boys from
fifteen years and over, and there appear to be also three
grades, " pages," " squires," and" knights." The aim is
said to be sen'ice, and Dr. Fe1kin claimed to be the forty-
first Grand ).Iaster of that particular" Round Table."
A despatch from Chicago on August 31, 1926, de-
scribes" the third day of the Conyention of the' Theoso-
phical Society' and the first meeting of the Round
Table" as follows:
"With upraised swords and swinging banners, the Knights
of the Order of the Round Table entered the auditorium of the
Hotel Sherman to-day. The young white-robed knights, with
red and blue shields shining on their breasts, led their protector,
Dr. Annie Besant, and the honorary knight, Krishnamurti, to the
cJrar. and then stood to attention....
" ~1r. Krishnamurti gave a brief talk on purity and nobility
of conduct: 'You do not carry swords of Damascus or Toledo
steel, but you do carry rapiers, and they must be eyer in the
sen;ce of the right. You must be knights at heart-always cour-
~eous, gentle, and strong. You must not grow old emotionally
or mentally, but keep ever the enthusiasms of youth, with its
i:-eshness, faith, and love. You must always be the ideal
knight;. never raise your hands against the weak nor take unfair
advantage of another. You are knights, that is a great respon-
sibility.' The closing ceremony was picturesque and impressive,
2..S the little ones, with hands on heart, pledged their service to
t.."le King" (Krishnamurti as • World Teacher'!) (Patriot, Sep-
tember 23, 1926).
Further, an article in the H emid of the Star of that
month, entitled" The World Federation of young Theo-
sophists," says:
"The young Theosophist may be said to deal with the life
of Theosophical youth,- while the 'Knigh-!s of ~he _Round Table'
deals more- with the ceremonial aspect of the fonn side. Such
a fellowship King Arthur planned in the early days of English
history, and it was to revivify this noble' idea that the Modern
Order was formed. . .. The supreme governing body of the
Order is the Council, composed of the Chief Knight in each
country where the Order is working, and with the Protector, Dr.
Annie Besant, and the Senior Knight at its head. Lieutenant
\Vhyte was the first Senior Knight, and remained so until his
death in Palestine in 1917, when Bishop.. Leadbeater accepted
that office. The following are Knights of Honour: Bishop and
Mrs. ArundaIe, Mr.. ]inarajadasa, and the Rev. Oscar Keller-
strom. There are ceremonies written by the Protector, the Senior
34- LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
.,
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 35
Knight, and Bishop Arundale for initiations, and other cere-
monies for 'those Tables that care to use them, but the real
spirit has to be translated into personal service! The motto is
, Live pure, speak pure, right wrong, follow the King,' in whose
name all service, great or small, is performed."
Thus we see the highest ideals and the finest of our
British legends perverted to help forward Mrs. Besant's
now discredited scheme-the coming of aNew Messiah.
Mrs. Besant's Co-Masonry was derived from the
Mixed Masonry founded in France in 1891 by Maria
Deraismes and Dr. Georges Martin, and known as
"Droit Humain." Maria Deraismes had been initiated
in 1882, contrary to the constitutions, by the Lodge" Les
Libres Penseurs" of Pecq, for v.,hich the Lodge was put
into abeyance and the initiation declared null by the
"Grande Loge Symbolique Ecossaise." At first the
" Droit Humain " only practised three degrees, but later
introduced the 33 degrees of Scottish Rite, and in 1899
the" Supreme Conseil Universal Mixte" was formed
and became the directing power. This Masonry spread
to England, Holland, Switzerland, and the United States,
and on September 26, 1902, the first English Lodge was
formed in London under the name of "Human Duty."
In this Mrs. Besant was initiated and rapidly rose to the
highest grades and offices. Then she founded the Lodge
at Adyar under the name of "Rising- Sun"; became
Vice-president of the' Supreme Conseil ' in France, and
a national delegate for Britain and her dependencies.
She then organised the English branch known as
U C<>:-Masonry," and having obtained certain concessions
from the '~ SupreII!~_ConseiIt she, under the pretext of
adaptation to Anglo-Saxon mentality, made statutes dis-
tinctly different from those customary in the French
branch. Among others she retained the use of the·
volume of the Scriptures in the Lodges; also the for-
mula" To the Glory of the Great Architect of the Uni-
yerse," which had been suppressed by the Grand Orient
In 1877 and replaced in French Mixed Masonry by" To
the Glory of Humanity." In 1913 a Grand Council was
appointed as head of British Co-Masonry7 with Mrs.
36 L1GHT-BE.I\RERS OF DARKNESS
Besant as Grand Master, assisted by Ursula M. Bright,
James L. \Vedgwood as Grand Secretary, and Francesca
Arundale as representative for India. On September 21,
1909, l' '. s. Besant installed the Lodge of Chicago. In
France the T~eosophists apparently soon had an assured
preponde mce, and hoped in time that London would
become the central organism of Co-Masonry Universal.
And as we have seen, in 1922 they formed an alliance
,..:~~ the revolutionary Grand Orient of France.
In Secret Societies and Subve1'sive Movements Mrs.
~esta Vvebster writes:
"That in Co-:!Ifasonic lodges we find 'the King' inscribed
oyer the Grand Master's chair in the east, in the north the empty
c:-:c;r of ' the ~laster '-to which until recently all members \\'ere
expected to bow in r:tssing-and oyer it a picture, yeiled in some
lodges, of the same mysterious personage."
The" King" may be Krishnamurti, as representing
their so-called "Lord of Love," and the "Master" is
said by some to be Ragocsky-Prince of Transylvania!
Mrs. Besant apparently looks upon Co-Masonry as
a powerful organised force, which will bring about the
freedom 0f India from British rule!
Tht: following are the origins of the Theosophical
Liberal Catholic Church, another perversion!
The head of the Old Catholic Church in England,
Archbishop Mathew, whose real name was Arnold
Harris :Matthews, was born at Montpelier of Irish
parents. A student for Orders in the Scottish Episco-
palian Church, he became a Catholic in 1875, and was
ordained priest'afGlasgow in June 1E7i He gave up'
the priesthood July 188g, and in October 1Bgo he took
the Italian name of Arnoldo Girolamo Povoleri, and
married in 1892. He then called himself the Rev. Count
Povoleri di Vincenza. About this time he also claimed
and took the title of Earl of Llandaff. For a short time
he was apparently reconciled with Rome, and in 1908
be was consecrated Bishop by Dr. Gerard Gul, who was
bead of the Old Catholic Church of Utrecht, Hol-
land. The new bishop in turn consecrated two other
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 37
unfrocked English priests, Mr. Ignace Beale and Mr.
Arthur Howorth, and at the end of less than three
years he founded the "\\Testern Orthodox Catholic
Church in Great Britain and Ireland," repudiating all
subordination to Utrecht or Rome. Soon after this he
induced his bishops to elect him archbishop. This Church
took, successively, various names, and meanwhile the
head tried, at different times, to negotiate for recog-
nition and union with the Holy See, the Established
Church, and the Orthodox Eastern Church. In 191 I
he was formally excommunicated by the Holy See.
In 1913 he ordained Mr. James Ingall Wedgwood,
then General Secretary to the English section of the
Theosophical Society; Mr. Rupert Gauntlett, Secretary
to an " Order of Healers" attached to the Theosophical
Society, and also author of Health alld the Soul-" a plea
for magnetic-healing"; Mr. Robert King, expert in
" psychic consultation based on the horoscope," and 1fr.
Reginald Farrer. All four had been students for the
Anglican ministry, and had later joineq the ranks of the
Theosophists. Archbishop Mathew, who was completely
ignorant about Theosophy, took fright on finding that
Mr. \Vedgwood and his companions were expecting the
corning of a new !\1essiah, and failing to secure their
recantation, he closed the Old Catholic Church and
offered his submission to Rome, but withdrew it, and
instead founded the ce \\-'estern Uniate Catholic Church."
Mr. Wedgwood, failing to obtain from Mr. Mathew the
episcopal consecration he desired, was at length conse-
crated by Bishop F. S. Willoughby-who had himself
been consecrated by Mr. Mathew in 1914, but was ex-
pelled the following year from the Old Catholic Church,
by Mr. Mathew on account of .facts which were then
1..l1own. Mr. Willoughby consecrated first Mr. King
and Mr. Gauntlett, and later, with their assistance, Mr.
Wedgwood, February 13, 1916, and then made his sub-
mission to the Holy See. Mr. \Vedgwood left immedi-
ately for Australia, and at Sydney consecrated Mr. C. W.
!;ea.dbeater, formerly an Anglican clergyman, as
BIshop for Australasia."
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
In 1916 an assembly of bishops and clergy of the
Old Catholic Church adopted a new constitution, which
was published under Mr. Wedgwood's name, in which
there was nowhere any mention of Theosophy or a new
:Messiah. However, in November; 1918, ther.e was
another declaration of principles, in which the name of
the Old Catholic Church was replaced by that of the
L£beral Catholic Church. In the Valum, June I, 1918,
:Mr. Wedgwood writes: " ... Another part of the work
of the Old Catholic Church is the spreading of theo-
sophical teachings 'in Christian pulpits; and a third and
most important side is the preparing of the hearts and
minds of men for the coming of a Great Teacher."
In the Theosophist, October. 1916, Mrs. Besant
writes:
" There is slowly growing up in Europe, silently but steadily,
with its strongest centre perhaps in Holland, but with members
~cattered in other European countries, the little-known movement
called the Old Catholic, with the ancient ritual, with unchallenged
Orders, yet holding itself aloof from the Papal Obedience. This
is a living Christian Church which will grow and multiply as
the years go on, and which has a great future before it, small
as it yet is. It is likely to become the future Church of Christen-
dam' when He comes.' "
What of the" ancient ritual"? for we find in the
Theosophist, October 1917: "Bishop Leadbeater's great
work, which he hopes to carryon uninterruptedly, is the
preparation of the liturgy of the Old Catholic Church,
in which Bishop Wedgwood, as presiding bishop, col-
-laboratcs.u
'Ve are further told: ~'·On Easter Sunday
1917, the revised liturgy was'-used -at -a Mass for the
first time." Again the" clairvoyant": "Bishop Lead-
beater is investigating the occult side of the Mass, and
is preparing a complete book on the 'Science of the
Sacraments'" (The Messenger of Krotona, November
1918).
As Mr. Stanley Morison truly says in his book Some
Fruits of Theosophy, from which we have drawn the
above information·: "The so-called High Mass' done'
by Mr. Leadbeater has no connection with Christianity."
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 39
It is merely a method of charging the elements and con-
gregation with the forces of their Christ Maitreya.
In his introduction to Serpen.t Power-translated
from the Sanskrit-Arthur Avalon, in criticising Lead-
beater's clairvoyant experiences, writes: "This experi-
ence appears to consist in the conscious arousing of the
, Serpent Fire' (Kundalini or sex-force) with the en-
hanced ' astral' and mental vision which he believes has
shown him what he tells us." It is in fact altogether
astral, laying him open to deception and mental sugges-
tion from his so-called Masters.
This Eucharist Service, as described by C. W. Lead-
beater (Bishop), in his Seience of the Sacraments) 1920,
is pure paganism, a pantheistic conception e\'olnd out of
Illuminism. Apparently it serns much the same pur-
pose as the rituals and ceremonies of illuminised occult
orders, more especially the Corpus Christi ceremony, and
those of the nrnal and autumnal equinoxes which are
held for the purpose of drawing down the astral light
into the Order, reaffirming the link with the hidden
Centre. The Trinity of the Liberal Catholic Church
is that of Paganism and Gnosticism. Their" Kingdom
of Heaven" is the "Great \Vhite Brotherhood "-the
so-called "communion of saints": and their so-called
Christ is Maitreya, whose pO\\Ter they attract and mani-
fest during the service.
The whole scheme is a pen'ersion of the Roman
Catholic liturgy-deleted, added to and altered-using
the prayers, etc., as magical invocations or incantations,
so as to generate a magnetic force-finer forces of Na-
ture-which in turn 'attracts the universal life-forces,
and through them the influences of their "World
Te.acher," or Maitreya, a method, Leadbeater says, "of
spiritual outpouring to help on the evolution of the
world!" Always the same old excuse of the Illuminati!
According to Leadbeater, in the "Asperges" the
altar and congregation are enclosed in an "etheric
astra-mental bubble "-an area cleared for the magical
Opera~ion! The forces are generated by the fervour,
devotIon, an,d enthusiasm of the worshippers, by the
40 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
ritual, music, and incense, creating vibrations; the Cross
is the direction down which the forces descend upon the
Host.
At High Mass a Triangle officiate, receiving and
distributing the force, very similar, as we shall see, to
triangles of power in all occult orders. A deacon and
subdeacon, representing positive and negative, gather up
the forces generated by the people, which they pass
on to the priest, who stands in front of the altar before
the Cross, and who, Leadbeater says, with the aid of at-
tending angels and rays (seven aspects of the solar force),
builds up an astro-mental-thought-form-eucharistic
edifice over the elements, in the form of a M'osque with
a square foundation having domes and minarets rising
abo\'e, enclosing- the elements within it. This becomes, he
says, a centre of magnetic radiation, condensing and dis-
tilling the force, and can be " imagined as a power-house,
the etheric eddying- round the altar is the dynamo, and the
celebrant is the engineer in charge!" The censing, he
says, isolates the altar by "a shell of powerful mag-
netism," which later is extended, by a second censing, to
enclose the congreg-ation, binding them into a magical
'whole; they must then think not as individuals but as a
body. The incense, more especially sandalwood, recom-
mended by Leadbeater, loosens the astral body, inducing
passivity, and prepares the people for the reception of the
influences invoked.
The force from the congregation wells up and
creates a vortex round the altar, down which rush the
for,ces from above into the edifice and elements. The
- force -radiating from'1he Host he describes as H a mani-
festation of the finer forces of matter-a stream of
liquefied light, of living gold dust," that is the ether or
so-called spirit of illuminism, and the communicant in
turn radiates the force upon aU around him. He further
states: H A bishop lives in a condition of perpetual radi-
ation of force, and any sensitive person who approaches
him will at once be aware of this. . .. Whenever he
chooses he ,can ga~her together this force and project it
-upon any dcsir~ object.OJ
This is simply the Astral
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 41
Light or t< Serpent Power" which slays or makes alh·e,
and judging from the past history a~d present activities
of some of these Liberal Catholic Theosophical bishops,
can the force radiated and projected by them lead to any-
thing but moral and mental disorder, even when used
by them for magnetic healing?
That this is merely Illuminism, playing about with
Nature's forces, is shown by th~ following statement
made by Leadbeater:
"The marvellous efflux of the Holy Eucharist is arranged to
synchronise with and take advantage of a certain set of conditions
in the daily relation of the earth to the sun. There is an outflow
and a backflow of magnetic energy between sun and earth-a
magnetic tide, as it were, and the hours of noon and midnight
mark the change. . .. Therefore the Holy Eucharist should neyer
be celebrated after the ho.ur of noon ... the reseryed Host may
be administered at any time," or used for" Benediction."
\\That of our Anglican priests who are also Illumin-
ati-is this in part their conception of the meaning of
the Eucharist service?
At the beginning of 1927 Mrs. Besant issued an
appeal for £40,000 to purchase a Happy Valley in Cali-
fornia, "where the seat of a higher-plane civilisation
may be prepared for the corning of the Messiah," with
Krishnamurti as "vehicle!" And Krishnamurti him-
self writes of this valley, December 1926, in the Herald
of the Star:
"I have decided to stay at Ojai, California, till April, in order
that I may help in building up the Centre there. . .. Ojai will
be another World Centre like Ommen (Eenie Castle,. Holland) ..
I am very glad indeed that we shall have our own school here
in Ojai, and- Mr. N. S. Rama Rao, M.A., of the University of
~bri~ge in England, and late Vice-Principal of the National
UHnIVerslty, Madras, India, has kindly consented to act as the
ead Master...."
We have seen that Mrs. Besant, the t< Protector"
of this Messiah, had formed an alliance with the political
and Subyersive Grand Orient Freemasonry, who bring
~~ut their schemes by means of revolution. Of this
hIgher-plane civilisation," Lady Emily Lutyens, one of
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
?\frs. Besant's most faithful followers, writes in the
Herald of tlte Star} March 192 7:
"\Ve are witnessing the birth of a new-world consciousness,
of a world ciYilisation . .. \Ve are witnessing all around us
L~e destruction of the old world, the old civilisation, with the
corresponding suffering which destruction always brings in its
train. Old traditions are being broken down, old customs
destroyed, old landmarks swept away. The values of life are
changing, the emphasis is being laid upon new conditions and
jx>int of view. \\"ith the suffering born of destruction goes also
t!1e birth pangs of the new world which is coming into being.
\\llen the outer form becomes so rigid that the life is in danger
of being crushed, when civilisation has become too material, that
iorm and that ciYilisation are broken, in order that the life may
t-e released. . .. Xew world conditions demand a new Gospel,
2:;d the Teacher is here, . .. Christianity has also been an in-
:ensely individualistic religion, laying emphasis on personal salva-
::0n ... but it is a spirit which must give way to the new trend
c.r modern thought and to the world ciYiJisation which is being born.
The new Gospel, if it is to meet the needs of the world, must
be universal in its application. and the Christ to-day, by the mouth
of Krishnaji, tells us that He comes to establish the Kingdom
of Happiness on earth. . . . There must be anarchy before
there can be creation...."
Through 5uch instruments and by such teachings do
these subtle masters of subversion and perversion blind
t~e people and pa\'e the way to their long-thought-out
., Uni\'ersal Republic," the destruction of Christianity
and all old ci\'ilisations.
Of this gradual o\'ershadowing or obsess'ion of
Krishnamurti, by their master Maitreya, many have writ-
ten as follows:
- ,In the Herald of the Star} January 1927, C. Jinara-
jadasa writes: "I knew that, in 19II, the great Teacher
'was experimenting with the young body of Krishnaji to
attune it eyen then." As Leadbeater told him: "Even at
that time the great Teacher was using the vehicles of
Krishnaji as a pivot from which to discharge forces
to movements in the world, of which Krishnaji knew
nothing."
Twice he saw the Teacher's face in that of Krish-
namurti: '
OPIENTED BY JEWRY 43
"The second occasion was one evening when I was reading
to Krishnaji and his brother. . .. I looked up at him, and there
I saw that wonderful Face. Of course not a line of Krishnaji's
face was changed. . .. And yet there was such a change as it
is utterly impossible to describe. I can only say, it was the face
of the Lord."
In all occult societies the chiefs and ad\'anced adepts,
at times, look with the face of their Master and speak
His words-a partial obsession!
The Rev. Charles Hampton, of New York, writes,
H emld of the Star, December 1926:
"The Order of the Star in the East, which exists for the
sole purpose of preparing the way for the Coming, has oyer
50,000 members throughout the world. . .. The Head of the
Order is Krishnamurti, who is now thirty-one years old. The
• Protector' is ~1rs. Annie Besant, Internation21 President of the
Theosophical Society. . . . On December 28, 191 I, the first
overshadowing of the \¥orld Teacher took place at Benares,
when the Head, then a boy of sixteen, was gi\;ng out some certifi-
cates of membership. No words were spoken. On that occa-
sion, in the presence of over 400 people, among then: many promi-
nent men, the spiritual force was so obviously manifest that
almost all of them spontaneously knelt. The overshadowing
was unmistakable, but it only lasted a few minutes. It was,
however, a most striking scene. Brahrnanas and Buddhists,
Parsis and Christians, haughty Rajput Princes and gorgeously
apparelled merchants, British Army officers, University pro-
fessors, grey-haired men and young children-all in rapt devo-
tion in the presence of an extraordinary spiritual outpouring
flowing from a sixteen-year-old Hindu boy.
" The next public manifestation came when Krishnamurti was
thirty years old. On the evening of December 28 of last year
he was speaking at the Jubilee Convention of the Theosophical
Society at Adyar, in India. This time the World Teacher Him-
self spoke, although He only said a few sentences._ Mr. Krishna-
murti was explaining why the Teacher was coming and some-
thing of what He would do, when a Voice of penetrating sweet-
ness, speaking in the first person, said these words: • I come
for those who want sympathy, who want happiness; who are
101!ging to be released; who are longing to find happiness in all
th~ngs; I come to reform not to tear down; not to destroy but to
build.' '" This same World Teacher will soon come again, speaking
through another disciple, as he spoke through Jesus 1,926 years
ago.. " In our view we draw a clear distinction between Jesus
and. Christ. . .. We know that at the Baptism of Jesus, and
agaIn at the Transfiguration, something was added to Jesus that
was not there before. That is perfectly explained by this dis-
tinction between the disciple Jesus and the Lord Christ. . .. \\Te
look upon Krishnarnurti as a disciple, whose body will be used
by the Viorld Teacher. . .. At first months ,,,-ill separate the
public manifestation of the Lord. Later He will speak more
irequently, until we hope it \\-ill be possible for Christ to
stay with us for many years. \\Then He came before, He was
only allowed to stay for three brief years doing public work, when
He was murdered. As a result of that effort all He left was a
little seed of 120 people. . .. If we make it possible for Him
to stay ten times three years, what harvest will not that seed
bring forth? When He came before, John the Baptist alone
prepared the way for Him. To-day tens of thousands of sincere
people are His forerunners. . .. Vie hope to make it possible
for Him to stay many years once the body of His disciple is
tempered to stand the strain sufficiently. Wil\ the Christian
C-:urches accept Him? . . ."
In the Star Camp, Castle Eerde Ommen, July or
_-\ugust 1926, the Teacher again spoke through Krish-
namurti to the assembled people, and briefly He told
Ll-Jem the" only happiness worth possessing" was to act,
think, and feel through the mind and heart of the
Teacher! Here are two accounts of this occasion given
by Geoffrey Vlest in his Life of Ann.ie Besant:
rt A retired British officer writes:
, It happened at the evening camp fire... , I suddenly felt
an o,·envhelming. impulse to remove my hat reverently...,. I
~ conscious that another voice than Krishnamurti's was speak-
ing. The voice used old English (no uncommon habit with these
Masters!), which Krishnamurti 'had never done. .This con-
tinued for four or five minutes, then Krishnamurti sat down. I
was conscious of the utter stillness. Not only the two thousand
pilgrims, but the very insects in the trees were quiet, and even the
fire-stopped crackling. We felt we had all become parts of one
great body.' " .
" Another witness, a Cambridge physicist . . . de-
clared he saw a 'huge star over Krishnamurti's head
burst into fragments and come raining down. For an
instant I thought I was back in France'!" This astral
light. phenomenon is not unheard of in other Illuminised
Orders; it is the illuminating 'Serpent Fire' projected.
by these hidden Masters, and more often it is hypnotic.
Finally, at Ommen 1927, Krishnamurti announced:
44 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 45
"My Beloyed and I are One." The obsession was com-
pleted, Krishnamurti's own personality was in absolute
abeyance!
In a pamphlet, issued by Mrs. Besant's Theoso-
phical Society, on "The Doctrine of Rebirth Scientific-
ally Examined," \\T. Y. Evans-\\Tentz, M.A., D.Litt.,
D.Sc., appears to attempt to proye the unprovable, and
by quoting Celtic beliefs to show the possibility of the
reincarnation of the so-called great teachers. As
"the logical corollary to the rebirth doctrine . . . the gods' are
beings which once were men, and the actual race of men will in
time become gods. '. .. According to the complete Celtic belief,
the gods can and do enter the human world for the specific pur-
poses of teaching men how to ad\"ance most rapidly towards the
higher kingdom, In other words, all the great Teachers-Jesus,
Buddha, Zoroaster, and many others .. , are ... di\"ine beings
who in inconceivably past ages were men but who are now gods,
able at will to incarnate into our world...."
The pamphlet ends:
" In the same way, what in this generation is heretical alike
to the Christian theologian and to the man of science, may in
coming generations be accepted as orthodox."
I suggest that this reincarnating ~1aitreya is neither
god nor divine being, but is more likely one of these
Cabalistic Jews, still in the body of the flesh, whose aim
is perversion of Christian beliefs.
In a speech, given before the Esoteric School of
the Theosophical Society, we find 11r. Baillie V/eaver
propounding the same theories; he said:
II Equally inevitable also is the fact that these superhuman
beings take a share in the governments of the world; that they
appoint, train, and use pupils and agents, and from time to time
cO?Je to earth to teach their less ad\'anced brethren, and that
this school is one of the agencies, both for training of pupils and
the purpose of transmitting power."
Again, Mary Gray, of California, writing on the
" Path of Probation" in the Herald of the Star~ Decem-
ber 1926, says:
':As the chela passed successfully the tests, as he proves his
capaCIty to stand alone . • • he begins to draw closer to the
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
Master and to share in His work. More power is made available
for the chela's use, since it has to be proved that he can be
trusted to react well to its stimulation. He begins to enter upon
hi;; period of sen'ice, in which he distributes the Master's force-
or, more accurately, smail portion of the forcc of thc l¥hitc
Lodge-either in active service in the outer world or in intimate
contact with those about him. The use of the force expands
and develops his vehicles and their powers. His brain increases
in power, his de\'otion in intensity and purity, his actions in accu-
racy, skill, and power. . .. Moreover, he becomes more radia1lt,
a luminous, serene, and joyous figure in the dark atmosphere of
worldly life. At the same time he begins definite training on the
inner planes, in which he is taught the use and control of forces
there. Little by little he gains k'l1owledge of the control of the
yarious elements there. . .. In all these things he is taught how to
command (forces) ... in the name, and by the authority of
t~e \\'hite Lodge, as an agC1lt of its power. ..."
After the consummation of the coming, the" Order
oi the Star in the East" assumed a new name. They
2?parently believed that the star of the World Teacher
was at last among them and that they no longer required
to look for it in the East, and no longer required a herald
to announce His coming, so it very simply was reduced
to the "Order of the Star," with its national organ
the Star Re"c.,iew. Its organisation was said to be inter-
national and national, but nevertheless it was universal.
Its objects were said to be (I) To draw together all those
who believe in the presence of the \Vorld Teacher in
the world; (2) to work with Him for the establishment
of His ideals. Its international magazine was the Star.
In the February issue of this Review, 1928, through
his mouthpiec~,Krishnamurti, the World Teacher, in the
name of LIberation, expounds his doctrine of absolute
negation, necessary for the building up of his new King-
dom-the peace, unity and happiness of universality and
deindividualisation, Here are a few extracts from
teachings given at Ommen, August 1927, and at Paris,
September 27, 1927:
.. The purpose, the manner of attaining this happiness, of
gaining this Liberation, is in your own hand. It does not lie in
the hand of some unknown gOd, or in temples or in churches, but
in your own self. For temples, churches, and religions bind, and
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 47
you must be beyond all dreams of God in order to attain this
Liberation. There is no external God as such who urges us to
live nobly, or to live basely; ~her.e is bu~ the voice of our own
intuition. . .. \\Then that vOice IS sufficiently strong, when that
voice-the result of accumulated experience-is obeyed, and you
yourself become that voice, then you are God. . .. So the most
important thing is to uncover this God within each one of you.
That is the purpose of life; to awaken the dormant God (the
unused sex-force, the Kundalini within you) to give life to the
spark which exists in each one of us, so that we become a flam.e
(illuminised), and join the eternal flame of the world (the UnI-
versal life-force or ether-as above so below, of Hermes) ....
In the permanent is established, is seen, the only God in the
world-yourself that has been purified."
Here we have the creed of Cabalistic Je\"s-the
"Deified Man." Now Krishnamuni being merely the
" vehicle," the flame, the voice and intuition within him,
and which he listens to, can only be those of the \Vorld
Teacher; remembering this, the following extract is in-
teresting:
" And so it is my desire that you should not be mesmerised
by anything I say, because if you are put to sleep by my words
or by my thought, by my desire, by my longings, you will be
just as much in prison or even more so than you were before
you came to this place."
But is this not just what has happened? A negative
body prepared for the reception of these hypnotic sug-
gestions; do his followers not all live and mO\'e and have
their beings, as it were, in Krishnamurti as the' vehicle'
of the World Teacher? By their ILiberal Catholic
Church Mass do they not one and all u~te in communion
with this World Teacher, this so-called Christ?
Further, in a poem in his book The Search, an ab-
solute freedom from everything is required-freedom
from the narrowness of tradition, custom; habit, feeling,
thought, religion, worship, adoration, nation, family pos-
session, love, friendship, even thy God, etc.-then all
bar~iers will have fallen; and what is to take their place?
The flame, the voice, the intuition from the World
Tea~er, the New Kingdom of Happiness-the hypnotic
COntrol of Illuminism!
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
And who is this World Teacher? Mrs. Besant, in
the Herald of the Star, April 1927, enlightens us.
Speaking of Krishnamurti's " great initiations," where,
in the first, she promised the "Great Ones" to guard
him with her power, and Leadbeater promised to guide
him with his wisdom (here we have, with Krishnamurti
as the apex, the Triangle necessary for the manifestation
of the power of the World Teacher!), she says:
" And then the day came when our office ended ... we took
the child, whom we had received as guardians, as a man no longer
wanting aught of us (the manifestation being accomplished!)
... to the Lord Maitreya ... the then bud had blossomed out
into a wonderful flower; and that flower is placed at the feet of
i:s Owner, the Lord Maitreya, the Christ, the Saviour of the
\\·orld."
.-\gain, in the Herald of the Star) March 1927, she said
2t Ojai, California:
" As much as each can see will be to each of you the mani-
festation of the Christ. For my own part, who know Him in
His far-off Himalayan home (astrally), where I have heard Him
speak of His Coming, and being here with our Krishnaji, I need
Dot say how, having loved Him for so long a time, I rejoice to
recognise in Him the Presence of our Lord."
Is this not a liberation unto bondage, a body pre-
pared in which to sow the seeds of world disintegration,
by the power working behind and through Grand Orient
Iudeeo-Masonry, to which Mrs. Besant's Co-Masonry
is allied?
And what is the outcome of this manifestation? At
the 1929 Ommen Camp Krishnamurti announced that the
Order of the Star was to be dissolved; all he had desired
was to lead people to " freedom," but, he said, they did
not want freedom. Mr. Lansbury, for many years a
follower of Mrs. Besant and believer in the World
Teacher's'mission, making the best of the appa-rent
failure, said:
"Krishnamurti has broken the bon9age of mere organisa-
tion . . . with a magnificent gesture he has bid the surrounding
}~ung people of all races to develop their own individuality in
their own way-responsibility for one's life and character depend-
ing on oneself." .
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 49
A correspondent in the Patriot, August 29, 1929,
gives some interesting details as to what went on at this
Camp Meeting at Ommen which we give verbatim:
" I have studied Theosophy and its kindred movements, such
as Co-Masonry, the Liberal Catholic Church, and the Star, for
some years, and have formed the definite opinion that behind
the mask of the innocent study of symbolism, brotherhood, and
comparative religion there lies a deep-seated anti-British organisa-
tion. The link between these movements is Dr. Annie Besant....
" Last year the camp at Ommen was a most astounding place.
Though the key-note of the Star teaching is 'freedom for all,'
the camp was surrounded by a seven-foot barbed-wire fence; all
members had to wear a label which showed clearly their name
and number, and without which they were not allowed in or out of
the camp; there were endless irritating rilles and regulations, all
destined to reduce the inmates to the last stage of servility.
" Brotherhood among the different nationalities was supposed
to prevail, but it was noticeable that the German contingent, who
were frequently in positions of authority, took every opportunity
of insulting the English and French members, the Englishmen
always allowing themselves and their womenkind to be thus
treated.
"The table manners of the campers would have disgraced
a farmyard, though, of course, Krishnamurti did not feed with
the common herd, but in luxury at Eerde Castle, the residence of
Baron von Pallandt, a prominent member of the Theosophical
Society, who also holds a very high degree in the Co-Masonic
Order.
"The camp was for men and women of any class, creed, or
colour, and it was customary to force well-bre9 Englishwomen
at every meal to wait upon Indian and African natives mostly in
their native dress. These women were reduced to such a state that
they literally fawned upon the coloured men, beseeching them to
eat, and often producing special_ tit-bits for them, while their
fellow-countrymen went hungry.
" The clothing worn by man) of the members was as scanty
as was compatible with, the most elementary decency. Photo-
graphs brought home prove this, and copies of these photographs
a:e in the possession of the Authorities, and also in my posses-
SIon. One of these shows a native, in native dress, walking round
the camp with an English girl clad in nothing but a flimsy shirt
and a pair of shorts, .each with an arm around the other.
" Among other details, the smell of ether from one of the
tents at night was overpowering; this drug, according to some
~tists, being one of the most powerful in • liberating the
splnt from the body.'
50 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
.. The 1929 camp at Ommen has just ended, and it was appar-
ently there that Krishnamurti publicly announced that the Order
.Pi the Star would be dissolved. . \Vhat is going to happen to his
unfortunate dupes who have followed him slavishly, have given
up their own religion, and who have worshipped him blindly is
impossible to say. His own words and writings urge them to
have no other support but themselves, which in plain English
means having no other support but him; he is now casting them
away with broken beliefs, no ideals, and no leader or Teacher on
whom to rely. He has undennined their faith in God and their
country, and now leaves them in a state of utter chaos.
"Is it possible that things have been rendered too hot for
the Order of the Star to continue? Is it because they have fought
among themselves? Or can it be that Dr. Besant and the black
Messiah have ceased to see eye to eye in their anti-Empire and
occult activities?
"Time will show; at present let us be duly thankful that
O:le group, at any rate, of the subversiye societies is as a house
di\;ded against itself, and there are still loyal men and women
who will risk their time, money, and even more in unrewarded
service to their King in order to' unmask these subversive and
seditious organisations."
Nothing could be more damning than the aboye, but
yet it is only a glimpse of the real diabolical work that
is being slowly carried out through secret societies and
many other movements, some apparently harmless. It
is the work of the same disintegration power as is being
carried on in Russia through the" Godless" and similar
groups; it means the degradation of humanity, the
death of its soul, making it lower even than the brute-
beast.
In these secret societies the methods are ever the
same; it is gradual obsession by this hidden' power
through so-called illumination, or the age-old illuminism
by means of the perversion of the sex or creative forces
in man and in Nature. This is shown in the symbol of
the Theosophical Society.
The symbol represents Illumination or Initiation.
~fost of these esoteric and secret Orders are ruled and
directed by the invisible Masters of the Great White
Lodge, and under their instructions. illumination is arti-
ficially and intensively induced in a comparatively short
time. The individual, as directed, works from within,
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 51
while the master works from without, both using this
" Serpent Power "-the dual creative forces of all Na-
ture, the forces of attraction and repulsion. The indi-
vidual, by means of exercises, meditations, etc., inspired
by these masters, awakens v."ithin himself this" Serpent
Power"-the Kundalini or unused sex-forces-which lies
coiled up in the lower part of the body. It is said to
be sublimated or purified by fire and water-as indicated
by the hexagram or interlaced triangles-the Jewish
Star of power--or more correctly perverted; and rising
up through the nerve-centres, vivifying them, awaking
clairvoyance, clairaudience, and intuition, the head and
the tail-the positive and negative forces-unite at the
base of the nose, the Pineal Gland. The symbol in the
small circle above is the Svastica or electric Hammer of
Thor, a whirling, disintegrating electric force breaking
down the protective barriers-the will and the reason-
creating a vortex dowp which enters the outside mag-
netic force of light from the masters. Thus the adept
is illuminised, and the Etheric Link is formed by these
controlling masters from without just as in the Liberal
Catholic Mass.
The Ankh in the centre is the Egyptian symbol of
life, it is the creative principle, the lingam. The encir-
cling serpent isolates, conserving the force within, ren-
dering powerful the illuminised tool. This tool is ready
for the appointed work; he is free, not to use his free-
dom for himself, but for these masters. It is a liberation
unto bondage. At the top of the symbol is the three, the
!riangle of power or unity, by means of which the...power
IS manifested in the Order and individual.
Illuminism-can be individual, group, or world, and
this can be applied to present world conditions. \Vorld
revolution-the electric Hammer of Thor. Its consum-
mation-invisible world domination through prepared
and illuminised "vehicles.''-
Take the Protocols of the Learned Elders of ZionJ
which have been marvellously correct as prophecy, what-
~ver their first origin, before M. Jo1y used part of them
In 1864:
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
Page 10:
"To-day I can assure you that we are only within a few
strides of our goal. There remains only a short distance, and
the Cycle of the Symbolic Serpent-that badge of our people-
will be complete. \\ hen this circle is locked, a1l the States of
Europe will be closed in it, as it were, by unbreakable chains.
The existing constructional scales wiiI soon c01lapse, because
we are continuaJly throwing them out and destroying their effi-
ciency." (The disintegrating Hammer of Thor!)
Epi., page 90:
.. " " . Constantinople is shown (on the sketch of the course
of the Symbolic Serpent) as the last stage of the Serpent's course
before it reaches Jerusalem. Only a short distance still remains
before the Serpent wiIJ be able to complete its course by uniting
::s head to its taiL ..."
Page 16:
" \\Tho or what can dethrone an imisible power? Now, this
is just what our Gwernment is. The ~1asonic Lodge (esoteric)
throughout the world unconsciously acts as a mask for our pur-
pose. But the use we are going to make of this power in our
plan of action, and even our headquarters, remain perpetua1ly
unknown to the world at large."
Mr. Philip Graves, in his book, Palesti1teJ
the Land
of Three F aWtS} speaking of the Okhrana, or Tzarist
Secret Police, said that these police knew the Jewish and
non-Jewish re\"olutionaries so well that it was said no
one k"TIew where the Okhrana ended and the revolution
began!
After reading The Tcheka} by George Popoff, one
is inclined to ask, who is the ruling power behind the
Tcheka, and who was the power behind the Tzarist
Okhrana, many members of which remained in the ser-
,;ce of the Tcheka? Was it not Jewish and occult? Ac-
cording to Popoff, whoever took service under the Tcheka
immediately changed, and from simple, honest men be-
came crafty, brutalised, and fanatical, and during the
examinations of prisoners appeared to use hypnotic
force.
Is the same not true of most of those who are en-
trapped by these secret and subversive societies? They
enter with high ideals, seeking spiritual development for
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 53
themselves and others, the result being often a fanatical
obsession, perverting all that is high and sacred; curi-
ously enough, invariably the higher the ideals the greater
the blind acceptance of their master's call to take part
in their diabolical work of destruction.
Further it is interesting to find that the oath of
secrecy and silence demanded from the candidate and
adept is always in connection with the astral methods of
contacting these masters and the real aims and work of
the Order as directed by them in this mysterious secrecy
and silence. Of the Theosophical Oath, Rene Guenon
writes:
"One thing with which secret societies, and in particular
Freemasonry, is most often reproached is the obligation under
which they compel their members to take an oath the nature of
which varies, as also the e:-"Lent of the obligations which they
impose; it is in most cases an oath of silence, to which is added
sometimes an oath of obedience to the orders of the chiefs known
or unknown. The oath of silence may itself concern either the
methods of recognition or the special ceremonial used by the
society, or even the existence of the latter, its organisation, or
the name of its members; more often it applies in a general
way to what is said and done in it, to the power exercised, and
to the teachings received in it under one form or another. Some-
times they are pledges of another kind, such as the promise to
conform to certain rules of conduct which can, with good reason,
appear abusive as soon as they take the form of a solemn oath.
. " "\Vhat alone interests us at the present is this, that if it is a
valid reproach against Masonry and against some other societies
more or less secret ... it is equally valid against the Theosophical
Society. The latter, it is true, is not a secret society in the
complete sense of the word, because it has never made a mystery
of its existence, and the greater part of the members do not try
to conceal their grade. . .. For our present purpose we will
her~ admit as sufficient the opinion according to which a secret
sOC;lety. is not necessarily a society which conceals its existence
or Its members, but is, above all, a society which has secrets, what-
ever their nature may be. I f this is so, the-Theosophical Society
~n be regarded as a secret society, and its very division into
ex~teric' and 'esoteric' sections would jbe sufficient proof;
be It understood, in speaking here of C secrets' we do not
mean by that the signs of recognition, but the teaching strictly
reserved to members or certain among them to the exclusion of
?ther~, and for which they exact the oath of silence; these teath-
lOgs 10 Theosophy appear, above all, to be those relating to
• psychic development,' SInce such is the essential aim of the
• esoteric' section....
"Let us now return to Mme.. Blavatsky's statements, and let
us see what concerns the oath· of silence: •As for the inner
section actually known as the" esoteric" since 1880, the follow-
ing rule has been determined and adopted: " No member shall use
for personal ends anything which has been communicated to him
by a member of the higher section. The infraction of this rule
v.;ll be punished by expulsion." However, now, before receiving
any communication of this kind, the postulant must take the solemn
oath never to use it for personal ends, and never to reveal any-
thing confided to him, unless he is authorised to do so' (Mme.
Bla\-atsky's Key to Theosophy, 1889). Elsewhere she refers to
these teachings, which must be kept secret: ' Although we reveal
G.11 that is possible, we are nevertheless obliged to omit many im-
portant details which are only known to those who study the
e:;o:eric philosophy, and who, haying taken the oath of siience, are
c.::-nsequently alone authorised to know them' (Ke')' to Theosophy).
I n another passage allusion is made to ' a mystery relating directly
to the power of consciously and voluntarily projecting the
•. double" (astral body), which is never revealed to anyone ex-
cept " chelas," who have taken an irrevocable oath, that is, to those
who can be trusted' (The Key to Theosophy).
"Mme. Blavatsky insists, above all, upon the obligation to
observe always this oath of silence, obligatory even for those
who, voluntarily or not, should have ceased to take part in the
society: she puts this matter in these words: •A man who is asked
to leave or forced to resign from the section, is he free to reveal
things which he has been taught, or infringe one or other of the
clauses of the oath he has taken?' And she replies: • The fact
of resigning or being sent away frees him only from the obliga-
tion to obey his teacher, and from taking an active part in the
work of the society, but does in no way free him from the sacred
promise to guard the secrets which have been confided to him....
All men and women who possess the slightest sense.of honour will
_ understand that an oath of -silence taken on a word of honour,
still more taken in the name of his" Higher Self," the god hidden
in us, must keep it until death, and that although having left
the society no man or woman of honour would dream of attacking
the society to which they. were thus bound' (The Key to Theo-
sophy). .
" We also see from these quotations that the oath of silence
taken in the • esoteric' section includes an oath of obedience to
the 'teachers' of the Theosoph.ica1 Society. One is forced to
believe that this obedience is carried very far, as there have been
examples of members who, ordered to sacrifice a great part of their
fortune in favour of the society, have done so without hesitation.
These pledges. of which we have just spoken, still exist. as also
54 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 55
the t esoteric' section itself ... which could not exist under any
other CQ,lditions. . .. In such a circle all independence is entirely
abolished."
Mrs. Besant, on her return from India in 1924, de-
manded from all members of the " esoteric" section an
oath of implicit belief in and obedience to her as the
mouthpiece of the hidden Masters. However, the London
Lodge, numbering about sixty members, refused to com-
ply or recognise Mrs. Besant's autocratic rule and poli-
tical aims. They .therefore formed a small group out-
side her jurisdiction for the study of comparatiye
religion. The" esoteric" section of the Theosophical
Society is said to consist of three inner circles-Learners,
Accepted or Initiates, and :Masters of the Great \Vhite
Lodge. Very similar to the" Temple of the Desert"
in the Near East, to which some of these hidden masters
belong, as will be seen when speaking of the" Stella Ma-
tutina."
As we have shown, !\.frs. Besant's political aims are
largely connected with disrupting India under the mis-
taken idea of forming India's heterogeneous peoples and
religions into a " self-goyerning community." .
In 1907 from social work she turned to politics,
although not until 1913 did she definitely declare for
Home Rule. Lord Sydenham, speaking in the House of
~rds, October 24, 1917, said of Mrs. Besant and her
alms:
tt She wrote a book, which contains more recldess defiance -of .
facts than I have ever seen compressed into the same small space,
and in her paper New India . .. she said that t India was a
perfect Paradise' for 5,000 years before our ad"ent, that it had
become 'a perfect Hell' owing to the 'brutal British Bureau-
cracy.' . .. The Government of Madras decided to enforce
the provisions of the Press Act, and Mrs. Besant was ordered
tl? give security for the good conduct of her paper. As the
VIolence of New India continued quite unabated, the security was
s(uestrated. That gave her a right to appeal to the High Court
o Madras. The case was heard by three judges, of whom two
were Indians, and the action of the Madras Government was
confirmed.. " Well might one of these' judges point out that
56 L1GHT-BE.o\RERS OF DARKNESS
• this pernicious writing must tend to encourage assassination by
removing public detestation of such a crime.' "
In his book, bui1:a as I knew £t, Sir Michael O'Dwyer
writes: It Mrs. Besant's Home Rule Movement in India,
which was afterwards adopted and amplified by the In-
dian extremists, was started in 1916 soon after the
Easter Monday rebellion in Ireland." It was introduced
as a private bill in 1925 and again in 1927, but it aroused
little or no interest except among the Labourites who
sponsored it.
Mrs. Besant was one of the original promoters and
shareholders in the Socialist Publication Company, regis-
tered April 12, 1918, under the title of Victoria House
Printing Co., Ltd., in which Mr. Lansbury and other
Theosophists were the moving spirits. This company
produced the Herald, which became the Daily He1'ald in
:March 1919.
Further, Sir Michael O'Dwyer writes in the same
book of an interview given by Mrs. Besant at Bombay,
August 28, 1924, in which she said:
"I may say ... that I have worked for the Labour Party
for these fifty years of my public life, and also that I have been
a member of the Fabian Society, to which several of the Ministers
belonged, since 1884. . .. I think we may fairly say we have
made India a burning question in the political life of England.
\Ve found the Labour Party entirely with us, and as Mr. Smillie
publicly said, the majority of the Cabinet (Labour) are with us."
The Patriot) April 1, 1926, speaking of the tc Labour
Research Department," originally the tc Fabian Research.
Department," remarks: "Most of these names show
plainly how Red these pink Fabians have become in
pouring over the iniquities of the existing capitalist
systems."
George Lansbury's political outlook is well known-
he joined the Theosophical Society in 1914, and was a
follower of and believer in Krishnamurti-and his sedi-
tious utterances are many_ In connection with the rail-
way strike in 1919 there was one inciting class hatred
as follows:
ORIENTED BY JEWRY 57
II A General Staff for London is needed to avert the bloody
revolution desired by the master class, which only the statesman-
ship, the courage, and the solidarity of the working-class can
prevent. We know well that there is to-day a large element in
the master class which deliberately desires and intends to provoke
a bloody revolution in order that the workers may be shot down
like dogs, and forced back into slavery by bayonets and machine
guns."
This from the follower of the so-called" Prince of Peace
and Love!"
In New India, January 26, 1928, Mrs. Besant's voice
was heard once more stirring up the people of India to
revolution!
" Awake! Arise! men and women of eyery caste, class, and
community. Your Mother's voice calls you, to make Her Mistress
of Her Household. Do not desert Her in Her Hour of need.
Boycott the Simon Commission-AKKIE BESAKT."
And as President of the Indian Journalistic Asso-
ciation she urged the editors of the Nationalist papers
to boycott all reports of the proceedings or the Simon
Commission.
In Freemasonry U1'l-iversalJ
Mrs. Besant's official
organ of Universal Co-Masonry, Spring Equinox, 1929,
there is an article reproduced from New I1uiiaJ
which
says:
"In the midst of a crisis such as the present, every effort
must be made by those who have the inner knowledge to carry
through one of the greatest triumphs the world shall ever know.
. .. Try to perceive the Great Plan as a whole... , It is all
one plan, and each part is but a part, however much it may seem
!o..be a ~~C?le, all by itself. • .• India is the keynote, India
IS the centre of that great storm which shall usher in a splendid
Peace. . .• No true Theosophist, and certainly no one who is
wo.rleing for the Inner Government of the fVorld, will be careless
of ~ndia's welfare. . " Masonry o.ffers a very special oppor-
tunity for the practice of Brotherhood. . ._. There must be
!D0~t careful selection in the beginning as regards admission, and
1IlSlStence on the most scrupulous observance of the Obligations.
• . . Co-Masonry has been given to India that it may be a powerful,
organised force for India's service."
Apparently India too is to be broken asunder, if
necessary, by the " giant harrow" of revolution, so that
58 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKl'ESS
she may share in this same "splendid Peace," under
whose yoke the true Russia now groans and suffers-a
peace which is to usher in the Universal Brotherhood
and Vl/orId Domination of the Invisible Centre of the
reyolutionary Grand Orient Judceo-Freemasonry, to
which Mrs. Besant's Co-Masonry is allied.
She follows this up in the U.S.A., August 24, 1929,
as reported by the Ch1:cago Tribune, with false statements
against the British Empire, spread over the four quarters
of the globe.
At the world congress of Theosophists in Stevens
Hotel, Mrs. Besant said that recently she had been trying
to help India obtain political measures by which the
country may throw off the" yoke of England." "It is
estimated that 7°,000,000 of India's 3°0,000,000 popula-
t:on are actually starving." . .. "England's rule has
throttled the education of India and the fine civilisation
she had before England came... , The trouble started
when the yillage system under which India prospered
was destroyed." And she stated that" Taxes" was the
cause of the widespread starvation (Patriot, September
19, 1929).
"... I haye been trying to help obtain the dominion system of
gO\'emment ior India-her only salvation. I hope revolution will
::ot come. . .. If a revolt were to flare up, the English, with
their bombs from the air and their land and water machines of
war, would simply cut them down like grain before a scythe."
She had prev'iously announced that she was going
back to India to increase the movement for Indian Free-
dom, which might mean a war of colour. And whC!.t is at
the back of this evil work of Mrs. Besant? In The
Theosophist, October 1928, it is said: "The Masters
have assured her that Dominio~ Status for India is part
of the Great Plan, and she knows that she will not pass
away until that freedom is accomplished!" And she
has said: "If you see anyone of us working for any
particular movement in the world, you may know it is
part of the World Plan." And the 'Great Plan is, " A
New Heaven and a New Earth, built upon the ruins of
all old-established 'systems and civilisations."
CHAPTER III
THE ANTHROPOSOPHICAL SOCIETY
RUDOLPH STEINER'S early history is somewhat of a
mystery, but it is said by some that he was born in 1861,
at Krakjeyic in Hungary, by others that he was an
Austrian. In 1902 he became a member of the Theo-
sophical Society under Mrs. Besant, and was Secretary-
General of the German section until 1913, \yhen he broke
a\vay from ~1rs. Besant, nominally because of the
Krishnamurti affair and the Madras Lawsuit; fifty-fi\'e
of the German Lodges seceded with him-about 2,500
members in all. He then formed a new group, under
the name" Anthroposophical Society," a name doubtless
deriyed from a work, Anthroposophia AIagiwJ
dated
1650, by the well-known alchemist and OCL:ultist Thomas
Vaughan.
His centres were Munich and Stuttgart, but being
unable to obtain the required ground in Munich for his
proposed Temple, he finally built it at Dornach in Swit-
zerland. The" ]ohanneum," later changed to " Goethea-
num," was finished in 1920, and to help to meet the
enormous expenses he formed an association called the
" Society of St. ] ohn," alluding, it is said, to the ancient
brotherhood of operative Masons. In this Goetheanum
he. professed to give a new architecture, a new painting,
and a new sculpture. It was in fact a symbol of his
teaching, wholly pantheistic and entirely unbeautiful in
f<;>rm and design. This was mysteriously burnt down one
ntght at the end of 1922, but was later rebuilt on a smaller
and less expensive scale. Steiner apparently neyer got
over the loss of his Temple, and died in Dornach, March
30, 1925, to the last an instrument in the hands of his
masters, recording their teachings and instructions.
In an article in the Patriot, October 1922, a sound
S9
authority has giyen some interesting information con-
cerning Dr. Steiner and his past history. It says:
"At this stage of my inquiry I may refer briefly to the
existence of an offshoot of the )'heosophical Society, known as the
Anthroposophical Society. This was formed as the result of a
schism in the ranks of the Theosophists, by a man of Jewish birth,
who was connected with one of the modern branches of the Car-
bonan. Not only so, but in association with another Theosophist he
is engaged in organising certain singular commercial undertakings
not unconnected with Communist propaganda; almost precisely in
the manner in" which' Count St. Germain' organised his dyeworks
and other commercial ventures with a like purpose. And this
queer business group has its connections with the Irish Republican
movement, with the German groups already mentioned, and also
'wlth another mysterious group which was founded by Jewish
, i:;tellectuals ' in France about four years ago, and which includes
:..., its membership many well-known politicians, scientists. uniyer-
siry professors, and literary men in France, Germany, America,
a.:lG England. It is a secret society, but some idea of its real aims
may be gathered from the fact that it sponsored the' Ligue des
_·\.IlCiens Combattants,' whose aim appears to be to undermine the
discipline of the Armies in the' Allied countries. Although
nominally a 'Right VYing' society, it is in direct touch with
members of the Soviet Government of Russia; in Britain it is also
connected V\-;th certain Fabians and with the Union of Democratic
Control, which opposes' secret diplomacy.' ... The third (force)
is the pan-Jewish organisation, which is probably the fountain head
cf all internationalism, yet is strictly national in its ultimate aim
-V'/orld Domination.. ". Lastly, there is the vast underground
network of Arcane Sects and Occult Societies which in Europe
and America are represented by the various Continental Rosi-
crucian and Templar Orders, the Theosophists and higher degrees
of Orient Freemasonry, whose real aim is the overthrow of
\Vestern ideals, Western civilisation, and the Christian religion.
Of ~s _system of intricate secret societies the various Socialist,
Communist, Syndicalist, and Anarchist organisations are the
political mole-hills that indicate the nature of the underground
burrowings, which are sapping the foundations of our Western
cn.wsation. . ... It has been suggested, and there may be a
measure of truth in the idea, that behind all subversive movements
there is yet another nameless Force, deeper in the shadows of the
underworld of international secret intrigue--something greater
than all, and directing all. ..."
According to a leader in the Morning Post~ May 15,
1925, Dr. Steiner c~ made a link between the Bolshevists
and pan-German and Monarchist societies as well as with
60 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARK!\"ESS
the higher grades of Grand Orient Masonry," and was
also associated with the Bolsheyist Tomsky.
As stated by the late Dr. Carl Unger, one of Steiner's
most devoted followers, Dr. Steiner, when asked to define
(I Anthroposophy" for the Oxford DictioHarYJ wrote:
H Anthroposophy is a knowledge produced by the Higher
Self in man"; that is the man whose H inner senses"
have been awakened by certain processes, etc., taught by
Dr. Steiner in his so-called Spiritual Science. It is the
building up of a medium. To his disciples his definition
was: " Anthroposophy is a path of knowledge to guide
the Spiritual in the human being to the Spiritual in the
Universe." Here we haye the Hermetic axiom, "As
above so below" ; the union of the life-force or Kundalini
within man with the uninrsal life-force \yithout, form-
ing the" deified man," knowing all that was, is, and shall
be, reading the records imprinted on the astral light,
under control of these so-called spirit beings or masters.
It is initiation.
Speaking of this initiation in his lecture, "Christ
and the Twentieth Century'" (see A11throposoph3'J Xmas
1926), Steiner says:
"The processes to which the soul of man was subjected in
the ancient Mysteries were such that through the influence of
other, more highly advanced, personalities (who themselyes had
passed through this' M)'stery Initiation'). a kind 0 f sleeping state
(trance) was induced ... the body was left behind ... but the
soul (astral body) was able for a certain period to gaze into the
spiritual (astral) world consciously.n
Having been led back to the body, H this soul, having_
parti~ipated in spiritual life (astral), could then come
forth as a prophet before the peoples...." According
to this Spiritual Science, the ancient Wisdom-teachings
"emanate from the 'Initiates.'" He continues: "At
the time of the beginning of Christeridom the soul of
m3:n had become ripe for 'Self-Initiation,' under the
guIdance of those who knew the experiences which it
was n~essary to undergo, but witlrout the active co-
°Bperahon of the leaders of the Temples or Mysteries."
ut we have good reason to know that the leaders of
THE ANTHROPOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 61
62 LIGHT-BE/I.RERS OF DARK~ESS
Mysteries still co-operate on the astral plane, shaping,
hewing, and initiating their future instruments or
, prophets.' ..
He further tells us that the M'ysteries
.. stepped forth upon the great stage of world history through the
founding of Christianity. . .. Jesus of Nazareth reached the
point where ... He could unite Himself with a Being who
hitherto had not been united with any human individual-with the
Christ-Being. . .. The Christ permeated the being of Jesus of
Xazareth" for three years, and" mighty forces stream out from
this event as an impulse for all later human development....
And the fact that it was possible for the Christ impulse to enter
humanity was brought about by the ancient Initiation principle
t'ecoming his:oriccl fact."
After initiation. " through my O\yn ego, God speaks
to me." That is, He becomes clairvoyant, clairaudient,
2nd intuitional, as in all illuminised groups. All this
means that the Christ impulse is merely the initiating
force of the Serpent or Logos of the Gnostics! ,Ve are
elsewhere told that the Christ was sent forth by the Gods
of the Sun. Moon, and Saturn-the Serpent Power!
Dr. F. \V. Zeylmans van Emmichoven writes, in
Antlu'oposophy, Easter 1929: "At the Goetheanum in
Dornach stands a great g'roup sculptured by Dr. Rudolph
Steiner. It represents the Christ as the Representative
of Humanity, placed between Lucifer and Ahriman."
Of this Christ he says: "In the face all the forces seem
to be concentrated at one point on the forehead, where
divine wisdom seems to shine." This is the Pineal Gland,
where the Serpent Po~v~r within unites with that which
is without, producing- illuminism and control. IIi his
Stuttgart lectures, 1919, Steiner said that for the res-.
cuing' of the ,,"orld from materialism the Orient is too
Luciferian and the Occident (Anglo-American) is too
Ahrimanic-materialistic knowledge. It is the German
mission to steer a rig-ht course between the two extremes
and save the world! In other words, Germany was to
act as the Christ Impulse to the world!
According- to Mrs. Besant, Krishnamurti, in trance,
was initiated by the" Great Ones," and thus became the
THE ANTHROPOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 63
" vehicle" of the Master "Maitreya, the Christ, the
Saviour of the \~Torld." As such he taught the v,orld in
his book, L1"fe £n Freedom: " As e,"ery human being is
divine, so eyery individual in the world should be his own
master, his own absolute ruler and guide.. " There
is no God except the man who has purified himself (by
initiation) and so attained the Truth." Yet as we haye
seen, Krishnamurti's individuality is in abeyance, he is
but the "prophet" of his "owner" and bondmaster
" Maitreya."
In his lecture on "Exoteric and Esoteric Christi-
anity," given at Dornach, April 1922, Dr. Steiner
expounds his cult of Christian Illuminism. Speaking of
the early Christian traditions, he says:
"The most that can be said is that the\" exist in the form or
historical notes in the archives of certain secret societies. where
they are not understood. Anything that goes beyond the frag-
mentary indications relating to the Christ after the :-iystery
of Golgotha must to-day be rediscovered by Anthroposophical
Spiritual Science. . . . It is possible for humanity to have Divine
teachers ... beings who descended to Earth from the realm of
the Hierarchies, and who ... actually gave spiritual teaching.
The men who received such teaching . . . were able to induce in
themselves a condition of consciousness in which their souls (astral
body) withdrew from their physical bodies...."
This is Yoga, such as is taught in all illuminised
groups. The nature of the so-called" Divine Teachers" is
thus explained: " The Beings of the Higher Hierarchies
are endowed with forces whereby they created Saturn,
Sun, Moon, and (from these) finally the Earth." Then
for the evolution of man they decreed that the develop-
ment of intellect was necessary, and this these Gods
themselves were incapable of doing, so "the Gods were
forced . . . to enter into a pact with Ahriman (the
: black god of the Manicheans, the' Ahriman of old
~dolaters,' according to Eliphas Levi). . .. They real-
Ised that if Ahriman were once admitted as Lord of
Death, and in consequence Lord of Intellect, the earth
would no longer remain in their keeping...." To
prevent this the Gods themselves must gain knowledge
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
of Death." It was only possible for 'them to learn
of death as it takes place on earth by sending one of
themseh'es-the Christ Being--down to earth. It was
;;ecessary for a God to die upon earth. . . ."
.. The Beings of the Hierarchies, belonging to Saturr., Sun,
)100n, and Earth, allowed Ahriman to play a part in earthly
eyoJution, but succeeded in restricting his dominion, in that they
used him for the purposes of earthly evolution. \Vithout Ahriman
~he Gods could neyer have made man into a being of intellect;
were it not for the fact that the edge of his power was broken at
the time of the Christ event, Ahriman would have succeeded in
intellectualising the earth completely, in reducing it to a state of
utter materialism."
One cannot fail to see at a glance that this is but
c.:Jother pantheistic, illuminised cult of the LA.G.-the
Sun. 1\1oon. and destroying Fire.. the Serpent Power or
life-force of all Nature, "interwoven with the earth."
That is the "fixation vf the astral light in a material
basis," forming illuminised tools. It is the God Pan once
more arisen, playing upon his old mysterious pipe, show-
ing forth the mysteries of the interlaced triangles-gen-
eration, creation. By this force the world was to be
initiated or illuminised, but first Saturn had to dis-
integrate and destroy all old-established systems and
religions, and from the ashes, like the Phrenix of old,
',',as to rise up the new kingdom of Lucifer-the Great
Peryersion! Not by intellect and reason, but by negation
and blind faith was this to be accomplished.
After studying Steiner's H Knowledge of the Higher
\VorLds,~' _or H Way of Initiation," it becomes increas-
ingly clear that it mean~_in._ r~ality a preparation for
obsession by these hidden beings, so much spoken of by
Steiner, who, working on the astral plane, are every-
where seek;ng for dupes and tools through whom they
can carry out \Vorld Revolution leading to \Vorld
Domination. By this means these beings instruct and
orient, building up a "Spiritual Science," through an
iIluminised adept and teacher such- as Steiner was,
whereby many mare are trained, instructed, and gathered
into their fold of devilish usefulness, largely under the
THE ANTHROPOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 65
mistaken belief that the scheme is divinely inspired for
the" higher evolution of the world."
Although, as we shall see, Anthroposophy has been
declared by Steiner to be entirely a public society, still
he writes: " Only so much will here be explained as can
be publicly imparted." His science is still" occult," and
in all that matters remains secret and hidden. There are
three stages in his Initiation scheme:
(I) Probation.-The awakening of the inner senses
by meditation. For this, devotion, reverence, humility,
the muting of all criticism or adverse judgment is re-
quired; the personal must be subdued, the universal out-
look must be awakened for the service of "humanity."
Calmness, leading to complete passivity, must be culti-
vated, and all impressions of the outer world shut out;
then comes the "inner silence," in which "hidden
beings" speak to him. For th'e awakening of these
senses he must if possible live near Nature, among the
pine-perfumed forests and the woodlands, or gaze upon
the snowy peaks. In these meditations his thoughts
must be oriented by the thoughts of advanced men who,
according to Steiner, throughout the ages have been thus
inspired by similar beings-" Bhaga.Yad Gita, St. John's
Gospel, Thomas a Kempis, and Spiritual Science!"
Here we have Johannism and one of Weishaupt's well-
known methods more or less universally employed in
illuminism. The Kundalini must be awakened by con-
~entration on the feeling produced by growth and decay
m nature, one akin to a "sun-rising," the active life-
force, and the. other to the "moon-rising," the passive
life-force; and this ..opens up the" astral plane." He
m~st nev~r intellectualiseJ only feel. This leads to
onentation: he begins to hear. The passivity must
extend "to listening without criticism, even when a
completely contradictory opinion is adva'nced, when the
most hopeless mistake is committed before him; then he
learns, little by little, to blend himself with the being of
him
~other and become identified with it." This would train
hims
to let go his own personality and opinions, laying
elf open to obsession by another, or even by these
.. hidden beings," on the astral plane, who only under
such conditions can communicate with him, implanting
their ideas in an " empty vessel."
(2) Enlightenment.-Again, by further awakening
these positive and negative forces of the KundaIini-the
t:nited force which must eventually attract the controlling
forces from the masters-he becomes clairvoyant, and
sees the colours of these forces: they are red-yellow and
blue, the positive and negative poles of the OD of the
Jews, the astral light. Finally, he awakens the central
and uniting force, then he meets these beings. Further,
all fear must be conquered, for, as the Stella Matutina
ritual says, "fear is failure," for without the fearless
:aith of the hypnotised subject, on the part of the adept,
:nese beings cannot safely attempt the final stage of this
c.iabolical obsession.
(3) Init£ation.-He must pass through" trials," to
test his endurance and faith. In these all his doubts are
removed, he acts instantly as inspired by these beings, he
ceases to act and think for himself, he is controlled-" as
above so below." He now becomes a vessel of light, and
is taught by these masters how to apply the knowledge
given and use it for "humanity," or more correctly,
against humanity. He is told that" he must only lend
his hand to destruction, when he is also able, through and
by means of destruction, to promote new life "-the
d.J1cient creed of Illuminism, "the evil helps forward the
good!" It is perversion, and the way to World Revolu-
tion, not to the " salvation and higher evolution of man,"
but leading to his collective retrogression, and to death
of- all Christian civilisation as seen in the Russia of
to-day. .
The following, taken from M.· Robert Kuentz'
article, "Le Dr. Rudolph Steiner et la Theosophie
actuelle," in Le Feu, December 1913, is interesting as
being apparently. written from inside knowledge.
He gives verbatim twenty-four questions which he
put to Steiner's representative in France, concerning
Steiner's s~iety apd its connection with Grand Orient
Masonry and Rosicrucianism, a questionnaire which was
66 L1GHT-BE.ARERS OF DARKKESS
THE ANTHROPOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 67
evaded and never answered. Here are some of the
questions:
1. Is there, or is there not, similarity between Steiner's occult
ceremonies and those of the Grand Orient? Are the
formul<e the same? Do you find in them the history of
Hiram and the three circumambulations in the darkness,
with the eyes blindfolded (the latter must be familiar to
members of the Stella Matutina!) ?
4. The exercises given by Steiner, incomplete1y, in his book
Initiation-exercises the details and occult developments
of which I have seen given by Steiner himself-do they
not very surely lead to that masonic state of mind, so
well known to me?
5. The exercises, for example, called" Faith," and that which
develops" Passivity," do they not orient the pupil in such
a manner, towards crcdulit,y on o;:e side and terror of all
critical spirit on the other, that the mimi thus worked
upon is ready to digest everyth::lg offered to it and to
find it good and beautiful even when it is ugly and
evil?
6. Are there, in truth, a large number of fools or unbalanced
minds in Dr. Steiner's masonry and few really intelligent?
8. Does not Dr. Steiner say in his books that Theosophy,
which has no creed, rises above religions w~ich have
creeds and dominates them?
9. Does not Steiner, however, officiate before the altar in his
Temple of the Rose-Croix?
10. Is he not the High-Priest of this Order?
I!. Has he not the sacerdotal vestments, even as the Catholic
priests?
12. Does he not marry the Theosophical Masons?
14. Do you wish to construct the ., Temple," named" Vault,"
at Munich, because, moreover, it will represent the
symbol which that word expresses?
16. Why in Steiner's writings is there no trace of all that, of
this" Holy of Holies," of this Masonic school, where
only the "elect." penetrate, that is to say, those who
have consciously studied Steiner's. books and who have
done the exercises indicated in the book Initiation?
17· Do they themselves swear (under the penalty" of wander-
ing through space for all eternity without a guide ") to
keep secret what they are going to see in the Temple,
before they kn9W anything whatsoever of what they are
promising by this oath, which' assuredly must terrorise
the visionary and the feeble-minded (similar to the taking
of the oath in the Stella Matutina!) ?
24. Is not the title" Lucifer Gnosis," of the old Steiner review,
unfortunate and needlessly troubling, if it does not really
mean a true Luciferian (satanic) and Gnostic initiation?
:M. Robert Kuentz continues giving the equivocation
he got in place of answer to his questionnaire:
" Behold the command of masonry. To reply in a straight-
forward manner to these direct questions would have simply con-
ierred upon me the initiation itself, then and there, without the
ordinary rites and required conditions. The initiation is nothing
more than the answer to these questions, after promising on oath
on the part of the candidate not to betray this secret, and when
the disciple has been sufficiently alienated from his own free judg-
ment to stand and to accept this' truth' without horror, or no
longer understanding the nature of it or to what it is leading. This
~.;;:verisation of the mental faculties, this treatment of the mind
by the process of ' occult exercises' to which the disciple is sub-
jected, and 'who will without doubt soon become the 'patient,'
e..'\.-plains in Steinerism these adepts of good faith of incontestable
::1orality who are nctims following an end and masters of whom
t.~ey are ignorant, under the illusion of idealism. (This applies
to all such Orders.)
" The answer of Steiner's representative was' to confess that
it is such doubts which formed a sieve around the teachings of
Steiner, which scatters all feeble minds from his esoterism.' ...
_-\}so he would give no further information than that contained in
6e documents I already possessed, so that ' my belief in his ex-
planations should not take the place my own free and absolute
j":.1dgment alone ought to inspire! ' "
Speaking of his own questionnaire, M. Kuentz
remarks:
"Was it not a chivalrous gesture of confidence and trust to
ask, not for proofs, but a word of honour denying the incriminat-
ing facts. We Ne.therefore obliged to accept the facts! "
Describing these mind-pulverising exercises of
_Steiner's Initiation, M. Kuentz writes:
'\\'ithout going further, however, one can easily guess that
J~ has to do not with • Faith' but with' Credulity,' and a rare and
devastating' passivity,' if one is to be able to accept with calmness
the religious and historical monstrosities embodied in the first
part of this study. Nevertheless, Steiner calls this 'passivity,'
• equilibrium." and I willingly yield to him the originality of his
expression; in describing a quality allowing one to accept with trust
that the • Oock of the' neighbouring church has, during the night,
68 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
THE ANTHROPOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 69
suddenly placed itself in a horizontal position.' The disciple, says
Steiner, in the fifth exercise ought not to reject the bizarre as
absurd. All astounding things presented to you should be put to
one side without rejection. In order to arrive thus far then~ must
be a complete training, a depressing regimen to be submitted to,
varying according to the candidate; these are the stages of the
prostitution of the mind.
" From the first exercise which consists in 'concentrating on a
thought' (trivial to begin with), the pupil is habituated to lose
touch with the sense of what is practical and real; the second in-
culcates in him a mad routine, indispensable to the perfecting of
his inner derangement. Exercise third is in truth •paSsivity.' . . .
It is that which blunts the power of feeling and suffering, which
mechanically extinguishes enthusiasm, horror, and all strong and
sane sensation, which blows on the mind in the name of ' equitable
temper' like a sirocco of indifference. Then one is ready for
, positivity '--exercise four-yeritable erosion of the critical
faculty. . .. It is said that the esoteric pupil knows weJl that if
he still retains the critical mind, he must giye up all hope of occult
development, rather must he help to cure himself of such! Only
then is he capable of the fifth exercise: 'in order to develop a
certain feeling of faith, he must no longer reject straight away
anything, whatsoever it may be, that is presented to his mind.'
" This is the terrible noviciate that must for long be submitted
to in order to become an apt initiate! One sees here the systematic
formation of the masonic mind; as also the insinuating and subtly
deceptive inspiration of a kind of haJlucination (or hypnosis)
which assures his docility. These exercises occupy all the faculties
and have curious precisions.
Read this!
" , The inner exercises are done evening and morning in bed.
You must imagine yourself to be in seas of light from which the
waves of fire enter into the body. Then the head, the middle of the
body, and the whole body ought successively to live separately:
thr0!lgh the forehead (pineal gland) the light enters, and you hear
a VO!ce at the -root of your nose say: !! The pure rays of the divine
are 10 you." The heart in its tum hears something similar, only
the rays pass through it. Then the abdomen -~ (don't
laugh 1), so that the world -force can come out through the navel.' ..
. Now we know that Steiner;s moYe~ent is not only
~lhed to, if not actually Grand Orient Freemasonry, but
IS also Rosicrucian; concerning the latter they have per-
for~e to. be silent as, like Weishaupt's Illuminati, no
ROSICruCIan may admit that he is so. M. Robert Kuentz
~u.~ des~ribes Steiner's .. Initiation to the Grade of
OSlCI"UC1an Apprentice _" :
70 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
.. On the nening they begin by gathering together all new
adherents, and after a little sermon from Steiner, vague and
fraternal, you are told to sign a paper by which you acknowledge
that Steiner is the Grand Master of the Order of the Rose-Croix;
it is added that you must subscribe to the expenses of the Order,
that you must consider your inferiors as your equals, and it ends
with the fonnula of the oath indicated in my questionnaire....
You are told beforehand to dress preferably in white. You enter,
you recognise the Theosophists; there is an air of mystery; all
speak low. . .. You are blindfolded, and all metal taken away
from you--ehains, rings, etc. An officer behind you places his
hands on your shoulders, then the procession begins.
" The first dialogue takes place before the Temple door. ...
The Temple door opens, and you pass in, and circumambulate the
room three times, sitting down three times, during which the
< Master of the Ceremonies' declaims in a religious voice, mysteri-
ous and sphinx-like, the well-known formul~ of the rite used by
the Grand Orient. . .. Then at last you sit down still blind-
foided, and you feel something happening at your waist and neck.
Suddenly the bandage is raised by the guide, and you see in front
of you a skull which Steiner holds under your nose. Steiner has a
server. one on each side-a deacon and vice-deacon (as in the
Liberal Catholic ?lfass! )-bearers of wax-candles: the whole in
dense obscurity. The bandage falls again: after a time it is taken
away altogether, you are ... Initiated: you begin to see light.
This light comes from wax-candles placed on three altars; black
draperies hang e\"erywhere, symbolising the darkness which is
always near. . .. Steiner, the High Priest, is completely clothed
in red, with a long Mephistophe1ian tail and red cap; he is before
an altar, in the form of a cube, on which are a crucifix, a cnp, and
a candle; the two servers, wearing masonic aprons, are before
a:lother cube holding candles; the Grand Master of the Ceremonies
is near to Steiner (a woman of high Bavarian nobility, well-known
to the Theosophists, at times took this office; she had a kind of
alb and chasuble). You glance at yourself and see the masonic
apron in front with triangle _aI}d tro~el. You place your hand on
the Gospel of St. John (Johannism); then you are told the pass-
word, the apprentice sign, and the sacred name which you can only
stammer; it is YAKIM. Then with two extended swords curious
signs are made in front of you: Then a sermon from Steiner on
the legend of Hiram and Solomon. . . . Then the Repast, during
which they look for the underground Temple, the Vault, then
being built in Munich (no doubt the pantheistic repast of
illuminism). Second address from Steiner, he has taken off the
red robe and now wears an alb of lace; he speaks on the Triangle
and the eye of God (?), which is in the centre of the Triangle and
of man's being. (This is the Triangle of manifestation, and the
eye is the power manifested-tbe Universal Creative Principle,
THE ANTHROPOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 71
the astral light of Illuminism, for such is Steinerism). Oose of
ceremony, which has lasted four hours: ritualistic knocks with
mallets on the three cubes; candles extinguished and again lighted,
the black draperies of burial are removed; you are surrounded
with red of bullock's blood (ruby the colour of unity) ; it is the
light at last! . .. Ite missa est! . .. You are Initiated!
"I know no fonn more precise and insidious than the
occultism of Steiner (of this Satanism of the twentieth century).
" This is the conclusion to which my inquiry has led me. . . .
Steiner first attacks the individual whose faculties he deranges;
then he ruins society by drawing his adepts from among it; and
lastly and above all in making man God (the f Deified Man') his
laical ritual defies and scorches religion with the anarchy of
Lucifer. To justify and conclude this study, we cannot do better
than quote M. Ferrand: f To know Theosophists is a social duty,
to unmask them a political duty, and to fight them a religious
duty! '
. "Let us add that the Apprentice-Rosicrucian is only just the
fringe of the Rosicrucia.'1 Order. There follow minor Orders
and sacred Orders in which initiation goes farther-very much
farther! "
Robert Kuentz speaks of the "underground
Temple," the" Holy of Holies" which Steiner was then
building in Munich. This I presume contained the
" Vault" or Tomb of the Adepts, which figures in all
higher Rosicrucian grades and ceremonies.
Notwithstanding the secret and " occult" nature of
Steiner's teachings, leading to final initiation and loss of
personality under the control of these so-called spirit
beings or masters on the astral, and notwithstanding his
secret masonic and Rosicrucian grades, Steiner, in his
News Sheet, Xmas 1923, wrote:
- . . . .
ff The Anthroposophical Society is an entirely public organisa-
tion: politics it does not consider to be among its tasks. (Yet
c~:msider Steiner's political and subversive activities!) All publica-
hon~ of the society will be open to the -public, as are those of other
publIc societies. The same will apply to the publications of the
School of Spiritual Science; but in regard to these works, those
respon~i~le for th~ s~ool reserve the right from the outset to deny
the validity of 0plmons unsupported by the proper qualifications,
namely, by the training of which the works themselves are the
o~tcot,ne. In this sense, and as is customary in the recvgnised
~entific wvrld, they will admit the validity of no judgment which
15 not based on the requisite preliminary studies. The publications
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
of the School of Spiritual Science will therefore contain the
f allowing notice:
" , Printed in manuscript for the members of the School of
Spiritual Science, " Goethearium .. class ... no person is held
qualified to form a judgment on the contents of these works
who has not acquired through the school itself or in an
equivalent manner recognised by the school-the requisite
preliminary knowledge; other opinions will be disregarded:
the authors decline to take them as a basis for discussion.'''
The investigator into this reliable (?) Spiritual
Science thus gains his kn~wledge:
"He, by the faculties that are in him (his awakened inner
senses!), enters consciously the worlds where spiritual beings
dwell and spiritual processes take place. He sees spiritual beings
er:d spiritual processes, and he sees too how the beings and the
?:-ocesses of the physical world arise out of the spiritual. It is
L::en his funher task to express certain domains of what is
revealed to his spiritual sight in the form of ideas. . .. The
school will lead its members on into the regions of the spiritual
world which cannot be revealed in ideas-where it becomes neces-
sary to find the means to express imagination, inspiration, and
intuition. Here too the various departments of life-artistic,
educational, ethical, etc.-wiIl be pursued into those regions where
they receive the esoteric light and impulse to creative work."
If we substitute "astral" for "spiritual" and
., flesh and blood men working on the astral plane" for
., spiritual beings," we again arrive at the age-long game
01 these Cabalistic Jews, seeking \Vorld Domination
through credulous dupes and illuminised tools-permeat-
ing, in this way, all departments of national, social, and
religious life with their disintegration ideas and systems
of perversion.
Another method evolved by Dr. Steiner for- bringing
about this mind-destroying illuminism is " Eurhythmy,"
built up, as in other occult Orders, from mystic and
magical inspiration. Here we are playing with the
hidden forces of Nature, and it becomes magic, black or
white, according to the inspirational source. There are
to-day many simple forms of Eurhythmic, Swedish, and
folk dances quite harmless and even health-giving. Most
of these Orders haye been built up through communica-
tions from hidden masters largely or altogether for sub-
THE ANTHROPOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 73
versive purposes; therefore eurhythmy inspired by them
would be a danger not only to the individual but to the
country in which it is taught, for we are told by Eliphas
Levi: « Black magic is a contagion of vertigo and an
epidemic of unreason" ; eyen such as our country is suf-
fering from to-day.
\\Te must first understand that man himself is a little
universe-the M£crocosm-within the Great Universe-
the Macrocosm-bound by the same laws and built up
of the same forces. Ether permeates all, and links all
together-It as above so below." In his" Eurhythmy "
Steiner uses the vowels as representing planetary
activities, and consonants those of the Zodiac. In the
sixteenth century Cornelius Agrippa ascribed the fi\'e
vo\\-els and j and v consonants to the se\'en planets; the
consonants b) c} d) f) g) /) 11'L) 11.. p} r} s} t) to the tweh'e
signs of the Zodiac; k) q) x) z) to the four elements, and It}
the aspiration, to the spirit of the world-ether.
Further, Arthur Ayalon, in his translation from the
Sanskrit of Tal1tra of the Great L£berat£oll) says:
" A Mantra is composed of certain letters arranged in definite
sequence of sounds, of which the letters are the representative
signs, To produce the designed effect, Mantra must be intoned
in the proper way, according to rhythm and sound ... a Mantra
is a potent compelling force} a word of power,"
In one of the Tantras it is said: " I fear, 0 Lord)
that eyen that which Thou hast ordained for the good of
men, will through them turn out for e\'il." Is, then,
Dr. Steiner's eurhythmy for the" great good or for the
great evil" ?
-- His eurhythmy appears to be magical, awakening
and reawakening corresponding forces in man and in
the universe, even as we know takes place in all cere-
monies in these occult orders. The vibrations are set in
~otion by sound, rhythm, colour, and movement, attract-
l!1g by polarity Nature's finer magnetic forces, creating
links not only with like universal forces, but with other·
minds working with the same set of vibrations, having
the same keynote, no doubt, with those who inspired the
eurhythmy! In Anthroposophy it is said: "Eur~ythmy
74 LIGHT-BE..o\RERS OF DARKNESS
indeed is an expression of the Song of the Stars, of the
speech of the gods to man." This is the pipe of the
pagan god Pan, the vibrations of the seven-voiced
harmony of the planets. The gods being Nature's forces,
so with the ancient Egyptians Osiris represented the Sun,
Isis the Moon, Apophis the destroying fire-sun, moon,
and fire of the Serpent Power, the astral light which
Eliphas Le,-i tells us is in itself a blind force, but under
the impetus of powerful wills is the basis of all magic,
both black and white. Again Anthroposophy says:
« The movement in eurhythmy passes in plastic visible
form int() the light} and is seen by the eye." These
movements therefore attract and bring down this same
astral light, and these forces are drawn into the in-
dividual \,-ho "becomes the bearer of the spirit self,"
or is it not the spirit of another obsessing mind!
\Ve would therefore ask: Did Steiner, by clair-
yoyance, clairaudience, and impressional teachings, in-
spired by the masters or (( spiritual beings," evolve and
build up his eurhythmy? \Vere not these masters the
same Invisible Power which directs and instructs all
these occult groups for the accomplishment of their
world schemes? If so, is this eurhythmy not simply a
means of creating (( ves·sels of light," receivers and trans-
mitters of these forces, hypnotically controlled by these
masters, blindly obedient to all their subtle and secret
suggestions? Are they not just eurhythmic mantras,
potent compelling forces, awakening the Kundalini,
creating illuminism, brought about by the will-power of
these masters from without?
In-The- Sociaiist N&&ork, quoting Walter Pahl's
account of the religion of the (( Youth. Movement of
Germany," Mrs. Webster writes:
If They were Christians no longer, so they released the body,
and set themselves to ' the dance of the earth and the stars within
us.' in order to restore the great harmony and holiness into our
lives. 'Dancing, in fact, offers ihe greatest religious emotion to a
great part of our German youth: It is here we can trace the
inspiration of the eurhythmic dancing practised by the Steinerites
of Germany, etc." .
THE ANTHROPOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 75
In Anthroposophy, the first number of that Stein-
erite quarterly, we find an article on "Eurhythmy," in
which it is said: "Eurhythmy has grown out of the
essence of Anthroposophical Spiritual Science, and is
based on an understanding of the true nature of man and
his relati01'£ to the Earth, as well as to the Planetary and
Zodiacal lffysteries of the Cosmos." Is this not" the
earth and stars within us " of the " Youth Movement"?
Again, to quote the Steinerites:
"The etheric body derives its inner mobility from Planetary
and Zodiacal (starry worlds!), hence from Cosmic forces....
In Eurhythmy the mobility is carried over by the ego consciously
into the physical body (earth) . . . (the ego can draw these
forces into the various bodies). Life spirit is coming into ex-
I?ression."
This is fixation of the astral light in a material
body; it is the illumination or illuminism as depicted in
the drawing " Anthropos,"-as aboye so below-at the
beginning of the second number of their quarterly. Does
not this emotional dancing of the " Youth :Movement"
in Germany av,'aken the Kundalini in the same way and
for the same purpose? And in fact both movements are
wholly pantheistic!
In trying to explain the raiS011, d'etre of the Steiner
cult and its eurhythmy, which is eyen now penetrating
education and schools-as the " Protocols" say: "Re-
education of youth by new temporary religions "-it
might serve a useful purpose to compare it with the
rhythmic dance~ a.nd cult of the primitive Rtlssian £ect,
the "Khlysty," or " People of God," to which Rasputin,
that licentious and evil genius of Russia, belonged.
Dr. Rudolph Steiner's cult is, as we have seen,
largely Gnostic, and is Manicheanism, ·which supposes
dualism in Deity, inequality in the Absolute, inferiority
in Supreme Power. It is Luciferian. It has for goal
the Pantheistic deification of man.
The Khlysty-a sect directed by Christs or deified
men-is generally dated back to the middle of the seven-
teenth century. The founder was said to be a fugitive
76 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
soldier, Danila Philippovitch, who threw his many books
of piety into the Volga, declaring that he was a re-
incarnation of " God the Father," and that there was no
God but himself, that the one and only" Golden Book"
of inspiration was within each one of us; is this not just
tt intuition," the god of Krishnamurti, the "Higher
Genius" of the Rosicrucians, the " God within" of Mme
Blavatsky? Along with Ivan Timotheievitch Souslov,
his "Christ," he wandered over Russia, spreading his
cult, and this cult was said to be a form of Gnosticism,
in particular Manicheanism and Montanism. Montanus
was given oyer to boundless licentiousness of frenzy and
ecstasy, such as is apparent among the Khlysty; they
pretend to spiritualise matter, but actually they materi-
alise spirit, and the cult of the Khlysty shows a Pan-
theistic conception of Deity. The sect was more or less
secret, and the newly affiliated was sworn to keep secret
all he saw and heard during the ceremonies; to suffer
fire, the knout, torture, and death, rather than deny his
faith. He was further bound to celibacy-apart from
his cult!
In their cult the Father, Mother, Prophets, and
Prophetesses officiated, and its principal and most
popular form was the" fervour." The fervour consisted
of numerous rhythmic figures of circ1.liar dances always
moving with the sun, always quickening, and accom-
panied by chants and exclamations, sometimes "Eva-
Evo! "-the cry of the Bacchantes of the god Dionysus,
the LA.a. of the Rosicrucians-the chants marking the
_t:hrt~ of the fervour. It produced the illusion of
moving as on wings, and usually continued many hours
-it ended sometimes with the utterance of the "word"
or prophecies, or the light would be extinguished, fol-
lowed by a sexual orgy. Before long they found that
they could not live without this fervour; they would
sooner give up a point of dogma or a moral rule. The
aim of the fervour was the descent of the "Spirit"
or astral light, deifying and creating "Christs"-
llluminism! .
. In his- book, the Russian Sect, the People of God,
THE ANTHROPOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 77
or the Khlysty, M. J. B. Severac quotes the following as
explanatory of this fervour:
II History at all times, writes M. Ribot, abounds in physio-
logical processes, employed to produce artificial ecstasy . . . so to
say, having divinity within oneself. There are inferior forms,
mechanical intoxication produced by the dance. rhythmic music of
the primitives, which excites them and puts them into a condition
ripe for inspiration; the soma, the wine, the Dionysia, the orgies
of Menades, the shedding of blood so widespread in the cults of
Asia Minor, the Goddess Atys, the Corybants, the Gauls,· mutilat-
ing and cutting themselves with swords; in the Middle Ages the
Flagellants, and in our day the fakirs and dervishes, etc."
M. Severac says: "The fervour of the people of
God has its place alongside these examples of physio-
logical processes of inferior form destined to attain this
divinity."
This Eurhythmy of Dr. Steiner, \vhich is also
accompanied with rhythmic music, hov,rever learnedly,
scientifically, and occultly thought out and applied, attains
to no more and no less than the fervour of these primitive
Gnostics, the Khlysty. Their god is no less and no more
than the god of all Illuminism, the creative principle of
all Nature, and in both groups they seek to awaken the
Kundalini, the serpent within, that they may be, accord-
ing to both beliefs, "penetrated" by the universal
" spirit" of Nature from without, in order to bring
about the condition known as "deification," an Illu-
minism which may unite them, unknown to themselves,
with their" masters," the Cabalistic Jew, the originator
of Gnostic mysticism. Thus they became but an oracle
or instrument.
-·DIiiitry Merejkovsky, the Russian historical writer,
makes one of his characters in " Pierre Ie Grand" thus
describe the creed of the Khlysty, a creed applicable to
many more or less degrading and unbalanced movements
of to-day:
:' I will explain a great mystery: if thou desirest to live,
mortify, for the glory of God, not only thy body but thy soul,
thy reason, and even thy conscience. Free thyself from all rules
a"4 ail laws, all 'Virtues of fasting, of abstinence, and of virginit~l.
Free thyself from holiness. Descend into thyself as into a tomb.
78 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
Then mysteriously dead thou shalt rise again, and in thee will dwell
the Holy Spirit, and thou shalt never lose it, no matter what thou
mayest do." .. He believed he was flying without knowing where
he was flying to, whether it was towards Heaven or towards the
abyss, towards God or the Devil! "
This is the way of the cross of Illuminism, and leads
without doubt to the abyss and moral degradation.
In Steiner's lectures, given at Stuttgart in 1918, we
get a very clear idea of his political outlook at that time,
and we are forced to conclude that it was not that of a
high spiritual teacher. Here is an authentic resume:
" He speaks of the \Var throughout as a German, and gives
the impression that Germany ought to have won, and it would
have pleased him. He speaks at length of the violation of Belgium,
but says not a word of condemnation. He explains the Bolshevist
5ystem; he apparently approves of it, as he gives as his own opinion
that only the workers ought to have rights, capital is wrong and
ought to disappear; means of living must not depend on work,
~C. \\'hen you buy, say a coat, with your money you are buying
men's work, and he condemns it! Mone\' should be allowed to
buy only goods. (He does not explain co'iltradictions.)
.. A work of art is, say, in Rome; a •bourgeois' (capitalist)
Ca.!1 go there to see it; his money will command the work of many
railway men, etc.... to enable him to enjoy the sight of that
work of art. \\ hy should a poor worker, to whom it belongs as
well as to the bourgeois, not see it? The works of art should be
b~ought to the workers everywhere. Money left with compound
interest in a bank will double itself in fourteen years, and yet the
capitalist will have remained idle. Money is the power of com-
mandeering other men's work!
.. There are in England occult societies which inspire English
politics. They know the course of evolution for the next few
decades, and are using their knowledge for the material advantage
of England. The English will try an<Lkeep !he people east of the
Rhine (Middle Europe and Russia) in a weak state by keeping up
socialistic institutions amongst them; in order to exploit their work
as slaves, for the benefit of the British Empire as Masters.
.. It is the English occultists who have caused the Tzar to be
overthrown and Bolshevism to gain power. .They are making
socialistic experiments at the expense of Russia and Middle
Europe. But as the English-speaking people (England and
America) will only be able to evolve materialistic occultism which
ultimately would destroy their evolution, they will make use for
their advantage of the other kinds of occultism which their
victims will evolve-the hygienic occultism of the German and the
eugenic occultism of the Russian and the Asiatics.
THE ANTHROPOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 79
.. The English occultists are already in possession of know-
ledge which will soon enable employers to work their machines by
some force which will do away with most workmen. The masses
of idle workmen will revolt in anger, but the English occultists
know of the means which will subdue them. (Steiner does not
explain the means!) The cause of the present unrest .in E;urope
is the kind of stuff a 'lazy' clergy has been preachmg m the
churches for a long time, because its preaching has no connec-
tion with men and lives. Steiner e>..-plains at length what the
Bolshies want and what they have done. While he never misses
a chance of insulting the churches he is very polite about the
Bolshies and is careful even to say that he is not criticising them.
\Vhen explaining what they have done 'with their opponents he
does not use the word' murder' or even' execution'; he says they
have' chased them away' or got rid of them.
" About British politics he says they are very powerful, and
will succeed in ruling the world because they are essentially selfish;
he says that selfishness must not be criticised, as it is part of the
evolution, the development of self-consciousness. The French are
finished, because their qualities of logic. intellect, reason, etc.. are
merely the perfecting of the Roman civilisation. The only nation in
the world that knows right from wrong is the German nation
(1918)! Steiner is apparently so anxious to show that he
means what he says, that he adds: • The other nations 'do not
understand anything about it at all.' German politics are always
idealistic!
.. The telephone, wireless, express trains, and other modern
conveniences have been placed at our service at the cost of misery
to millions of workers. It was very easy for the early English
Theosophists in the second half of the nineteenth century to take
kindly to the new teaching in their comiortable rooms well-heated
with coal extracted in the terrible conditions to which they never
gave a thought. Humanity as a collective whole is on the verge
of going over the threshold more or less consciously, and this
momentous .step will be done by the proletariat. 1£ proletariat
- thinking is still chaotic and wrong, it is because it is still imitating
bourgeois mentality.
.. As far back as 1880 the Anglo.::A.nierican'occult leaders, direc-
ting the political leaders, knew about the coming World War and
prepared for it. The Gennan leaders knew nothing, and would not
take warning, that is why they lost! The physi~ war was easily
won by England, but it will be followed by a spiritual war between
East and ~est (Ea.st-India, Russia. and Germany; \Vest-
Anglo-Amenql), which will be much more dangerous for the
West. For instan~e, India, which is half starving (according to
Mrs. Besant!), wIll rebel and be helped by powerful spiritual
forces out of her past. Germany must fulfil her mission otherwise
the European civilisation will be ruined." •
80 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
Re1l1arks.-From beginning to end, in that course
or about eight lectures Steiner is almost continually
abusing e,-erybody and everything except himself and
his teachings. He is repeatedly drawing general and
e'-en cosmic conclusions from purely local German
conditions (for instance, the autocratic hold of the
Government on education, religion, and the Press), and
threatening the whole world with awful catastrophes if
those conditions are not altered. His state of mind is
obviously that in the whole Cosmic evolution Germany
is IT and the rest nowhere.
On being asked what will become of money and
capital in his" Threefold" scheme, he said he need not
·,,'orry about such details, because his scheme being so
dearly founded on a practical basis, every detail would
work out of itself in the right direction!
In this mad, ccmmunistic scheme of a "Threefold
State," again evoh'ed out of this dangerous " Spiritual
Science," under the direction of unknown beings on t.he
astral, Steiner advocated that all nations, peoples, and
races should be divided up into three £nternational, in-
dependent, autonomous Corporations (headless as some-
one remarked!)-spiritual (religion and education),
political, and economic. And to co\'er the enormous
e...'penses of this disintegrating scheme he formed a
public limited company called "Der Kommende Tag
_-\ct "-" The Coming Day, Ltd,," or as known in
England, " Futurum, Ltd.," but it was -soon found to be
too communistic for English ideas and was closed down.
Among i~.s supporters were the late Dr. Carl Unger and
Dr. Arensonn.- . - -- -
Another of Steiner's experimentations, based on
this" Spiritual Science," is his" New Therapy," and to
dispense the results of this so-called " Anthroposophical
M:edical Research," the British Weleda Co., Ltd., was
incorporated January 19, 1925, with a capital of £2,000
in £1 shares. The first directors were Daniel Nicol
Dunlop, Heinrich Dank, an Austrian, and Josef Emanuel
Van Leer, Dutch.. The International Laboratorien of
Arlesheim, -Switzei-land, held 1,050 shares on March 5,
THE ANTHROPOSOPHICAL SOCIETY 81
1925, recei\'ed for rights sold in the British Empire
(except Canada) for certain medicinal remedies. The
business is described as that of Chemists and Druggists;
office, 21 Bloomsbury Square.
In his laboratories he carried out his "researches
for future medicine-the art of healing through spiritual
knowledge." He had no medical degree, but apparently
based his" New Therapy" on psychical investigations,
whereby he claimed to see the processes without in
Nature, and their relations to the processes within the
human body, claiming by special processes to be able to
arrest the required plant activity and free it within the
human organism as kinetic energy, entrapping cosmic
energy! \lI.le would lea\"e those who are still free from
this mind-destroying" Spiritual Science" to realise the
possible danger of subjecting their minds a:1d bodies to
this new and psychic therapy.
Further, as Dr. Steiner himself has declared that
" all publications of the Society will be open to the public
as are those of other public societies," we would strongly
advise all members of the Anthroposophical Society and
those interested in Dr. Steiner's teachings to obtain not
only these eight or so Stuttgart Lectures, but also
Steiner's Apologia Germall£ca) \\Titten at the end of the
V{ar, and whether they have received the training con-
sidered essential by Dr. Steiner for the true understand-
ing of such teachings or not, judge for themseh'es
whether, as Mr. Dunlop would have us belie\'e, these are
the teachings of a spiritual leader whose object is "to
turn. the life and mind of man to the tI]J.e .thjngs of the
spirit," or an Illuminatus, subversive and revolutionary,
·aiming at the destruction of all national life, of old.;
established systems, and of Christianity itself.
CHAPTER IV
THE STELLA MATUTINA AND THE ROSJE-
RUBEJE ET AUREJE CRUCIS
\VE have in our possession one of the original copies of
a short history of the Stelia Matutina, drawn up by Dr.
Felkin in 1912, before going out to New Zealand for the
first time. He went there in order to found a Temple in
Ha,-elock :Korth, largely at the suggestion of a London
member, a father of the Community of the Resurrection
ci1d of Mirfield, a training college for young clergy, who
had been doing mission work in New Zealand, and at the
same time a little propaganda for the Stella 1\1atutina.
In 1921, when two of the London Chiefs, who had reason
to suspect that the Order was subversive, stood out
against Dr. Fe1kin, demanding more definite information
and investigations into the true nature of the S.M. and
his more recent German connection, this history, at their
request, was gone over and annotated by one of the
original Chiefs, Dr. Wynn V\lestcott, who wrote at the
eIJ.d: II I give a general assent to all that I have not
marked-(Signed) Sapere Aude 5~; Non Omnis
:Moriar 7-4," these being his Outer and Inner mottoes.
He further advised the two Chiefs against handing over
any Order.. documents, then in their possession,. either to
Dr. Felkin or his delegates until definite and satisfactory
information could be obtained. Nothing satisfactory
was ever vouchsafed, and from 1919, when suspicion was
first definitely aroused, up to the present moment, in-
vestigations have been carried out by a small group, and
gradually the suspicion has become a certainty.
The Order of the H Stella Matutina," or as it is
called in the original MSS., {( The Order of the Com-
panions of the Rising Light of the Morning-the Golden
Dawn in the Outer/' was built up from certain cypher
8z
THE STELLA MATUT1NA 83
MSS., found by a clergyman, the Rev. A. F. A. \Vood-
ford, in 1884, on an old bookstall in Farringdon Street.
These he took to Dr. Woodman and Dr. Vvynn \Vestcott,
both well-known and high Masons, and learned in the
Kabalah; the MSS. consisted of notes and rough diagrams
for the five rituals of the Outer Order-o-o to 4-7-
along with certain lectures in elementary occult and
cabalistic k'TIowledge. Accompanying these MSS. was, it
was said, a letter in German, saying that if anyone cared
to decipher these MSS. and would communicate with
"Sapiens Dominabitur Astris," c/o Fraulein Anna
Sprengel, living in Hanover, they would receive interest-
ing information. Having deciphered the MSS., they
were then told by S.D.A. to elaborate the rituals, which
was done by a Mason, MacGregor Mathers, assisted by
Dr. Wynn \\Testcott. They were then told that if
diligent they would be permitted to fortil an elementary
branch of the Rosicrucian Order in England, and finally
S.D.A. \"Tote to \\Tynn Westcott and authorised him to
sign his (or her) name to any warrant or document
necess.ary for the constitution of an Order, and promising
later on further rituals and advanced teachings if the
preliminary Order was successful. On March I, 1888, a
\\Tarrant was drawn up according to a design given in the
MSS., and was signed by Dr. \\'oodman, :MacGregor
Mathers, and, for S.D.A.) by \7-lynn \Vestcott, all three
of whom received the honorary grade of 7-4 from
S.D.A., so as to enable them to act as chiefs in the new
Temple.
Several letters passed between these men ...and
S.D.A., c/o Fraulein Anna Sprenge1, but none of them
ever. actually met her, and nothing was ever known save
~at Anna Sprengel died in an obscure German village
m 1893. There is no date on these MSS., no address,
nor are they signed by any adept except in the accom-
panying letter. When deciphered they were found to be
~awn up in English, although the letters received were
In German. Therefore we are led to believe that these
MSS. were not the work of S.D.A., and were un-
doubtedly intended for the use of English-speaking
84 LIGHT-BE...\RERS OF DARKNESS
people, possibly with the idea of penetrating England and
English Masonry, and were purposely deposited on the
bookstall by some member visiting England.
Among other instructions given in the MSS. we
find, " Ayoid Roman Catholics, but with pity"; and the
obligation to be taken in the Initiation was, "The can-
didate asking for Light is taken to the altar and forced
to take an obligation to secrecy under penalty of expul-
sion and death or palsy from hostile current of wil1."
In the elaborated version this became: "In addition (to
expulsion) under the awful penalty of voluntarily sub-
mitting myself to a deadly and hostile current of will
set in motion by the Chiefs of the Order, by which I fall
slain or paralysed \\Oithout \-isible weapon, as if blasted
by a lightning flash."
A. E. \Vaite, in his Brotherhood of the Rosy Cross}
1924, quoting from the Trallsac(£ons and History of the
"Societas Rosicruciana in Anglia," recapitulates much
of the aboye information about" the Isis Urania Temple
of the Hermetic students of the Golden Dawn," the
Hebrew name being" Chabreth Zerech Aur Bokher."
\\Taite concludes that these cypher MSS. were post 1880
(but possibly they were part of the reorganisation of
\Veishaupt's Illuminati in 1880). "The grades, besides
a N eophyte~ were four (the four elements or the Tetra-
grammaton)-Zelator) Theoricus, Practicus} and Philo-
sophus; also a sub-grade, the Portal} leading from the
Golden Dawn" to the ROSCE RubeCE et AureCE Crucis}
the Inner Order. Apart from the cypher MSS. and
-MSSr found in libraries by M;ac_Gregor Mathers, most
q~ the early teaching-still used in the Stella Matutina
-was received Clairvoyantly by Mrs. Mathers, a sister
of M'. Henri Bergson, the Jewish-French writer, from
the "Hidden and Secret Chiefs of the Third Order";
against her wish she was induced to take an oath of
secrecy Wore the teachmg was given, and it was later
said by these unknown Chiefs: H In the case of Mathers,
the former Chief, there was a human adept (as inter-
mePiarY or etheric link), and also communication was
given to bUn by clairvoyance,· clairaudience, and impres-
THE STELLA MATUTINA 85
sional teaching, whereby the true interpretation of exist-
ing MSS. was given to him." Mathers was, we also find,
doing political work under these Secret Chiefs, and was
mixed up with war and military matters.
In 1897 Dr. \Vynn Westcott resigned from the
Order, and from then ceased to take active or official
part in the work. His own account of the reason was,
that the Chairman of the Coroners' Society in London
heard that he was teaching magic and got him to resign
from the Order.
" Rene Guenon, in Le Theosophisme, 1921, says:
H The English secret society of ' The Order of the Golden
Dawn in the Outer' is a society of occultists studying
the highest practical magic, somewhat akin to Rosi-
crucianism. Men and women are admitted on equal
terms. There are three principal officers. lmperator,
Prcemonstrator, and Carz.cellar£us." He further says,
MacGregor Mathers writes in a letter, Lucifer, July
1889: "This society studies \Vestern traditions....
The Theosophical Society is in friendly relation with
them." The letter bears the following mottoes-
H Sapiens dominabitur astris (the continental adept),
Deo duce comite ferro (Mathers), Non omnis moriar
(Westcott), Vincit omnia veritas (\Voodman)." It ends
with these words: "Published by order of the Superior,
I Sapere Aude' (\Vestcott), Cancellarius in London."
Rene Guenon further continues, that much stir was
created in Paris in 1899 and 1903 over an attempt made
by Mr. and Mrs. MacGregor" (Mathers) to restore the
cult of I~is. Mr. MacGregor Mathers represented the
G.D. "fn Pciris,- and was a member of the Theosophical
Society. """ """
An account of this attempt was given in the
Chronicle, March 19, 1899, which said:
.. M. Jules Bois, the litterateur ... recently discovered here
a High-Priest and High-Priestess of Isis ... and induced them
to go through their < devotions' in public, at the Bodiniere
Theatre. . .. This couple of devotees to ancient deities profess
to have been converted to the strange and P"SSionate mysticism of
the worship of Isis during their travels in Egypt. They pretend
that they constituted the rites and ceremonies of the religion, and
for some time past they have been carrying on their devotions in
an underground chapel which they established at their residence.
. .. After preliminary prayers, the High-Priestess performed
the ceremony of 'unveiling the gods,' and then she invoked Isis
with such passion and force . . . that she quite saved the situation
... which otherwise might have turned into the ridiculous ...
in conclusion ... the men (in the audience) were supplied with
a few grains of corn, which, deposited upon the 'altar,' would
bring success in the enterprise they had in hand, even if of a
political and worldly character."
A. E. \\Taite was an early member of the" Golden
Dawn," but at a meeting held at Dr. Felkin's residence
in 1903, according to Dr. Felkin's history, "a split
occurred, as \\Taite and his followers denied the existence
of the Third Order, refused to have examinations in the
inner, objected to all occult work, and said they must
work upon purely mystic lines." A Concordat was
drawn up between the two Temples, but in 1912 it came
to an end, as it was proved unworkable by both sides.
\Vhen \Vaite and those who seceded with him left, they
took with them certain properties and retained the name
<l Golden Dawn," and Dr. Felkin and his supporters
e"-entually became the politico-pseudo-religious <l Stella
1\iatutina," a Temple of mediumship. Waite still used
the same magical rituals, somewhat modified, to suit his
mystical ideas. He ceased to be Chief of the " Golden
Dawn" about 1915, and soon afterwards it went into
abeyance. He, however, formed a new Temple, calling
it the " Rosy Cross," and still, we have reason to believe,
using the old· Cypher MSS. rituals, and thus retaining
the link with these unknown continental Rosicrucians
and Illuminati. -
Since early in the nineties the "Stella Matutina"
(then knoVY"ll as the" Golden Dawn") has been directed
and instructed by unknown chiefs, acting under various
pseudonyms. Curiously enough, it was at one time sug-
gested that Dr. Falk, the cabalistic Jew who came to
London in 1742, was the author of the original cypher
MSS., but·that cannot be vouched for. In this Order
we first hear of them as II The Hidden and Secret Chiefs
86 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
"
THE STELLA MATUTINA
of the Third Order," under whom Mathers and his wife
worked. In 1900 the London Temple revolted against
Mathers, who had <t issued a manifesto to the T.A.M.
(inner) members, demanding personal allegiance to him
... and this manifesto was greatly resented by the senior
members in London." A meeting was held, and he was
deposed. In an interesting document, printed in London
during this revolt, Mathers is described as " the Earl of
Glenstrae, otherwise Count MacGregor," and his emis-
sary, who was sent from Paris to take possession, in
Mathers' name, of the London Temple and property,
variously known as <t E. A. Crowley, Aleister Mac-
Gregor, Count Svareff ... arrived in Highland dress,
a black mask over his face, and a plaid thrown over his
head and shoulders, an enormous gold or gilt cross upon
his breast, and a dagger at his side!" Needless to say,
the bluff was called, and after some trouble Crowley
was removed and expelled. During this revolt we find
Mathers writing to the <t rebels," April 2, 1900:
"I therefore know . . . when the Great Adepts of this
Planet, still in the body of the flesh, the Secret Chiefs of our
Otp,er are with me . . . and I tell you plainly that were it pos-
sib1e to remove me from my place as Visible Head of our Order-
the which cannot be without my consent, because of certain magical
links-you would find nothing but disruption and trouble fall upon
you all until you had expiated so severe a Kanna as that of
opposing a current sent at the end of a century to regenerate a
Planet. And for the first time since I have been connected with
the Order I shall formulate my request to the Highest Chiefs
. for the Punitive current to be prepared to be directed against those
who rebel, should they consider it advisable."
Again, in 1902 Dr. Felkin and the chief of the
Edinburgh. Temple "Amen Ra," were contacting this
Third Order through the" Sun. Masters." Now these
were the hidden masters of a Sun Ord.er, still, we are
told, in existence, and to which these chiefs belonged,
closely connected with and influencing the <t Golden
pawn," and which was started in Edinburgh some time
m the early nineties. We are told in the history that
after the revolt of 1900, U it was then decided that the
Order should be ruled by a committee of ten. This went
on for a year, but was not very satisfactory, and then
it was decided to revert to the rule of three chiefs, and
Fratres L.G., F.R. (Dr. Felkin), and S.S. (Edinburgh),
were appointed chiefs (May 3, 1902)." On May 28,
1902, we find Dr. Felkin saying:
It We beg to assure you that we are in entire sympathy with
the ";ew that if in fact the Order is without the guidance and
inspiration of higher intelligences its rationale- is gone. It
occurred, however, to certain members that it might be possible,
by reverting to the original constitution, to re-establish a link
v,;th the Third Order. There are now tangible grounds for
believing that this step has not been taken in vain, and while we,
as nominal chiefs, will not lightly yield allegiance to any force,
power or being purporting to act as the Third Order, the i'rospects
seem to us sufficiently encouraging to warrant our own co. J:inued
activity in the Order, and also we suggest your co-operatior. "
These masters controlled and directed both OutEr
and Inner Order in this way until at least 1911-13-
this included instructions concerning rituals and Temple
regulations, and even their attitude to Waite, who had
seceded from them.
In 1909 a pledge was demanded, and was to be
signed before these masters would give the chiefs further
and higher teachings; it pledged them to absolute belief
in messages, teachings, and rituals given by these un-
known beings, and said:
"Frater F.R. (Dr. Felkin)-Thy communication has been
submitted to the inner and secret Chiefs who rule the Order of
the RR et A.c., and in reply they say-the communications
with the Third Order (secret) are resumed, but only through the
present means, and you are to take a pledge by all that you hold
most awful and sacred never to betray that means to mortal man.
• : .- There has always been some connecting link between the
Second and Third Orders in every Temple receiving teaching,
through which such teaching is given... -. One member of our
Council, being also an adept of the Third Order of the RR. et
A.C., believing that in the Temple of Amoun there were serious
students, full of faith and anxious for progress, was willing to
act as intermediary, and to allow communications and teachings
to pass. Thou must understand that this is the way permitted,
and that there is no other. . . . A small and faithful band is far
more powerful than a large body divided against itself. Therefore
be of good courage . . . if the following pledge • . . be written
88 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKKESS
THE STELLA MATUTINA 89
out and signed by each member of the Order entitled and desirous
to receive further teachings in the RR et A.c., the Adept I have
mentioned will crave leave to reopen communications: ' I declare,
in the presence and in the name of all I hold most awful and
sacred, that I fully believe in the genuineness of the messages and
communications, the teachings and the rituals of the Order of the
. .. That I know not, neither will I seek to know, how the same
are transmitted or received, but I will receive them without ques-
tion from their appointed medium, and that if hereafter I am
assailed by doubt, I will reveal such doubt only to the Masters.
I will in no case ever attempt, directly or indirectly, to destroy
or weaken the faith of any other, but on the contrary will attempt
to remove doubts and confirm faith. I will neither bring, nor will
I listen to any accusations or any imputations of bad faith, against
anyone of my brothers or sisters of the Order, but I will reprove
any who shall attempt to do so in my hearing and recall to them
their pledge of brotherhood. And if in the past I have ever trans-
gressed against the pledge, I promise that to the best of my ability
I will make reparation.. " And this shall apply also to all com-
munications from the Third Order of the RR. et A.C. which
may be vouched by the Masters of the (Sun) Order through their
appointed medium. Finally, should I at any time find myself
unable any longer to keep this pledge, I will say nothing to my
brothers and sisters of the Order to weaken their faith, but I will
quietly pass into abeyance.' "
That this was taken and signed we have reason to
believe, for the above Chief writes, April I I, I9II: " So
far I have kept perfect faith with the Masters and acted
on their advice."
Here is another curious and interesting communica-
tion received from this Third Order by Dr. Felkin:
Ordo R.R. et A.C.
II The Inner and Secret Chiefs of the Third Order, unto the
V.H. Frater F.R Imperator of Amoun Temple, greeting.
II Hereby by the hand of Q.M. our scriJe, we sanction and
a~rove for general use the 5-6 ritual sent for approval, and -
\Vhi.ch we herewith return. Delay in sanctioning this was un-
aVOIdable, as no word or letter or symbol of any ritual may law-
fully.by the constitution of the Order be altered after being once
san~tIoned, save by the consent of a council of the Third Order,
which only meets occasionally, or under powers conferred by them
on ~ ~depts. Y.et shall y~ not discard altogether the ritual
preytously In use, but shall retaIn the same and the copies thereof
which ye have, for -reference and for use on special occasions if
SO ordered, but ye need make no new copies.
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARK!\ESS
"The password for the ensuing six months shall be Osiris
Onophris-O~iris the Justified one, signifying that your zeal and
the progress of your Temple have found favour with the Inner
Chiefs of the Third Order, and that hereby ye are justified and
signifying also that your hopes and trust must be in him whom
the Lord of the "Cniverse (LA.O.-the Creative Principle) hath
justified by whatsoever name men call him. Fare thee wel1."
Further, the following shows how unsuspecting
adepts are controlled and used by these Masters, May 19,
1902 :
" In coming to thee he came not of his own initiative, but in
obedience to an impulse from the Chiefs of the Third Order, who
desired to use his aura as a vehicle for testing and examining thee.
But this was \yholly unknown to him who was used unconsciously."
About 1908 suddenly another astral teacher ap-
peared, an Arab-Ara Ben Shemesh; he said, on
January 26, 1909, that he came
t< from' The Temple in the Desert,' and those who live there are
the ' Sons of Fire.' There are three ranks-Neophytes or Caie-
cllumens; the Accepted and Proven; and the 111dwellers. The
last are those we call Masters. They live in personal communion
with the Divine (deified), and being no longer bound in the flesh
(liberated) their material life is entirely a matter of will. So
long as they are required as teachers, so long may they continue
to inhabit the earthly tabernacle. When they have completed their
task they haye only to cease to will and they will dematerialise.
Christian Rosenkreutz came to us and learnt much. From us he
took the letters c.R., the true interpretation is one of the great
mysteries of the Universe."
The Temple he said was in the Near East -Meso-
potamia!-and he professed to be a personal te'!..cher.of
the Felkins, but gradually and insidiously he dominated
and controlled the Order, and not only in England but in
New Zealand prepared the Order and members for the
part they were expected to play in the drama of this
Great World Movement, which he said was to bring
about the <t Union of the East and the West." Towards
the end of 1918 this work was accomplished to his satis-
faction in New Zealand, but new teachirtg, he said, would
De given to the London Temple, Amoun, which they
would find difficult to assimilate. Then in 1917-19 the
THE STELLA MATUT1NA 91
Lord of Light-the cabalistic" Prince of Countenances,"
the transmitter of light-and his Twelve Brethren made
their attempt to take possession and control this Temple
through a Triangle of adepts as will be explained later.
Further, Christian Rosenkreutz, the mystical and
perhaps wholly mythical Head of the Rosicrucians, was
said to be contacted in the Vault of the R.R. et A.C., and
it was also said that he was to reincarnate about 1926-33
by possessing himself of some adult body-suspiciously
like obsession; lastly, we find these masters impersonat-
ing a Christ (solar) with Cross of Light and Red Roses
-a symbol of what is expected of all adepts thus
controlled--erucifixion through suffering ar.d absolute
sacrifice of their own individuality, upon the Cross of
IIluminism-a veritable Christian Rosenkreutz!
To return to Dr. Fe1kin and the history of his chief-
ship. Later he became dissatisfied with the status of the
Order, and he tells us in his history that in his travels in
Germany he made many efforts to contact Rosicrucians,
and
"... finally met a professor, his adopted daughter, and another
gentleman near Hanover, who he believed were undoubtedly Rosi-
crucians. They were, however, very secretive, and averse to
giving much information, because they said that although they
knew him as a scientific man, he was not a Mason, nor did he
belong to any occult society that they had knowledge of. Owing
to }};lis, Frater F.R. immediately applied to his old friend ... of
Edinburgh, and was initiated as a Freemason in Mary's Chapel,
Edinburgh Lodge, No.1., on January 8, 1907.
"In 1908 Frater F.R. with Soror Q.L. (his wife) at last got
into touch . . • with several members of the Third Order in
Germany." - -
Yet as we have seen previously, Dr. Felkin appar-
ently signed a pledge in 1909, given to the mysterious
astral Third Order! Again: .
"In June and July 1912 Frater F.R. and Sarar Q.L. were
able to go to Germany, and altogether visited five Rosicrucian
Temples in different parts of the Continent, and- were initiated
themselves, Sorar Q.L. obtaining grades equivalent to our 7-4
and Frater F.R. S-3. . .. The rituals not being in MS. form,
they are memorised."
They brought back notes of these ceremonies 6-5
to 8-3, and elaborated them, using for this purpose the
Egyptian "Book of the Dead," some extracts from
Mabel Collins's writings, also the" Hymn of Hermes,"
and a mantra-a compelling force--given to them by
the Arab of "The Temple in the Desert," and these
became the Higher Grades of the RR et A.C.! These,
as they adyanced in grade, are more and more given on
the astral plane by the hidden chiefs, while the adept is in
a trance or semi-trance condition, brought on by the
preparation and opening ceremony, or by these hidden
chiefs themselves. The last grade, 10-1, is never given
on the material plane, but wholly on the astral; the adept
is in trance and completely under hypnotic control, and
i rom then onwards is merely the oracle and vehicle of
these Masters! It is Illuminism!
The history continues:
" But an arrangement has been come to whereby anyone con-
.ersant with German, French, Italian or Dutch, who is full 5-6,
may be sent abroad with an introduction signed by F.R., and
should it be considered that a candidate is sufficiently developed,
one or more grades may be given him. This is not essential, as,
if the new methods are carefully introduced into our curriculum
(psychic processes leading to Illuminism). the candidates will
progress just as well without the necessity of going abroad."
It is known that some members of the RR. et A.C.
have had training and grades under SteinerJ. and some
Steinerites have been members of the RR. et A.C.
Again, the history says: H F.R. was given the commission
to represent the Order (Continental) in Great Britain
cmd Ireland, and also in the Southern Hemisphere."
Dr. Steiner was questioned, March 1921, and re-
port said:
If Dr. Felkin was anxious to get'a charter from Dr. Steiner,
and made many attempts to gain this and be appointed his sole
representative in England. Dr. Steiner, in a letter to Dr. Felkin,
of which I (our informant) was the bearer and which I read, said
be was unable to grant his request, for though ready to admit that
Dr. Felkin's Order was beneficial and useful, his way of working
W4S quite d.i1ferent. . .. Dr. Felkin was a spectator at one of
Dr. Steiner's ceremonies in Munich. No grades were given him
by Dr. Steiner,.no grades given him in Munich, but Dr. Steiner
92 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
THE STELLA MATUTINA 93
gave Dr. Felkin a great deal of instruction, such as he gives to
other pupils who desire it."
Further, his Arab teacher said to Dr. Felkin:
If Go on with Steiner, which is not the ultimate end of search,
and we will come in contact with many serious students who will
lead us to the real Master of the Order, who will be so over-
poweringly impressive as to leave no room for doubt."
In 1914 Dr. and Mrs. Felkin got as far as Pyrmont
in Hanover, meaning again to get in touch and receive
further grades and instructions, but the War intervened,
and they were forced to return to England about the end
of August. It was mainly due, we believe, to the help
given to him by the Masons in HanO\-er and Amsterdam
that he and Q.L. at last got out of Germany. \\Then they
questioned their astral teacher, the Arab, August 9, he
U repeated our work is not yet over, and until it is we are
safe. . .. Sorry this has happened now, it was not
expected till some months later.JJ
The scheme did not
apparently work out to date!
June 9, 1918, F.R. writes:
"From what I was told abroad I was under the impression
... that a few, I was told TWELVE, were to be picked out of all
the T9Dples to be trained to be ready to help e.R.e. when he
again £nanifested in about 19~33 or 35. The whole of that was
to have been told me face to face in 1914 when we went to
Germany. We had the tickets then which took us to a place
S.S.E. of Austria, where we were to have been met and taken to
the Old Vault, and also to have met several Hidden Chiefs. Why
we were not told t~ go earlier in the year is a mystery, as we
could have done so had we been told. They knew when we
proposed to go."
The War "was not expected II so soon I In his
U Suggestions" for the future working of the Order,
Dr. Felkin said in 1916: . _
"In addition to e.R.e. (Christian Rosenkreutz), there are
certain members who still function on the material plane; most
of.them live very secluded lives (all of the grade equal to 5r2 are
AId to retire from the world!), and can only be met with after
IDUch difficulty has been overcome. .. ' Q.L. and myself have
also
be1
met them at various times, and received instructions and
p."
In reading the above we must realise that Dr. Felkin
was a mere tool in the hands of some subversive men,
who would inform him as they saw fit for their game.
What then is the truth about this mysterious
Third Order, and Dr. Felkin's claim to "sole German
authority? "
There is ample evidence to show that the Stella
Matutina and the R.R. et A.C. are, constitutionally, in
no way akin to British Masonry, but are linked up with
Continental Masons and Rosicrucians-subtly and
secretly subversive and controlled by these "Unknown
Chiefs," all still" functioning on the material plane."
To continue Dr. Felkin's history:
" ... The methods which (S.D.A., c/o) Fraulein Anna
S?:engeJ, sanctioned were (said by these Germans to be) totally
c.gainst the methods which were and always had been in vogue in
Gennan)', and it may be mentioned now that the first three grades
were very much like the first three grades in ordinary Masonry
(yet Steiner approved of them as useful!), and, as a matter of
fact, up to a date which cannot be given accurately, Masonry and
Rosicrucianism went hand in hand. It was about 1597 that the
?>lasons separated themselves entirely from the Rosicrucians, and
decided to modify their procedure, and they refused in future to
admit women to their ceremonies. This was partly due to political
circumstances, as both Masons and Rosicrucians tried to influence
the political de\'elopment of the nations amongst whom they lived
and worked. . .. Practically the Masonic Lodges became very
active political agencies, whereas the Rosicrucian branches were
more secret in their operations, and it was, and is, an absolute
rule that no one should confess to being a Rosicrucian. So strict
was this that Rosicrucians who even knew one another were not
allowed to speak or discuss matters connected with their society
-within the confines of a city or town. There were definite rules as
to when a member of the Fraternity went to a new place and met
a Frater or Soror. They appointed a time to meet outside the
town or city with reference to certain points of the compass. It is
quite true that on several occasions leakages of MSS. did occur.
One was due to the action of a certain number of Roman Catholic
priests who belonged to the Order; and again in 1777 a leakage
of rituals took place in Paris. and this made our Continental
Fratres and Sorores still more strict in their methods. . •. F.R.
bad receiv~ the promise that the Council would investigate the
condition of the Branch of the Order in London with which he
.as connect~, and' would if possible enter into definite relations
94 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
'i"HE STELLA MATUTINA 95
with him. . .. A definite arrangement was then come to between
E.O.L. (of whom more later) on behalf of F.R., and the heads
of the Rosicrucian Society in Germany, that he should bring over
the necessary 'processes,' for psychic development to F.R., who
is alone permitted to transmit them (to his members for the
purpose of arousing the Kundalini and bringing about Illumin-
ism)."
In 1916 we find the Chief of Amen Ra, Edinburgh,
writing to Dr. Fe1kin of this claimed German connection:
""Whatever was the origin of the rituals and the teachings
(Stella Matutina and R.R. et A.c.), they indubitably came to us
from Mathers, he being, as I know for certain, the intermediary
of Higher Authorities (Hidden Chiefs). . ... Your Temple
pursues, and still pursues, this up to a certain point-when you
come in contact with the Germans. Then came the pledge (de-
manded by these Germans, not to work with Mathers!), the effect
of which was, to use all Mathers' work and to repudiate him, also
to assert that further teaching and help were to be haq on qther
lines . . . given to members picked out seemingly, as· a reward
for accepting the German position, all the time, as I say, using and
basing on Mathers' work. This again could emanate from nothing
but German sources . . . the honest course would be to leave
behind all the rituals and teachings, and begin de novo on the
superior sys;"m."
Agaid, another member ..writes to Dr. Felkin with
regard to the above: " You cannot, of course, accept his
proposition, because you have accepted sole authority
from Germany, but this he does not know! "
Notwithstanding this claim of "sole authority"
from Germany, Dr. Felkin became sadly in need of
further advanced teaching for his adepts, who were
clamouring for it; and having apparently received little
or none from his-German connection~-he wrote in 1913
to thl; Chief of Amen Ra in Edinburgh, seeking to draw
from his well of hidden lmowledge. In reply this Chief
wrote:
"To me it matters little personally: I have stacks of MSS.
and .teachings going to far further lengths than I used to think
POSSible. . . . All the teaching I have got I will gladly pass on to
you on the same conditions as I have received it . . . I received
the MSS. as Deputy Archon Basileus in this country.. (August 5,
1913). My commission as such comes from the Third Order-
or not to make. any ambiguity of these words from those High~
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
Adepts whom I so term-and I can pass them on to such as
acknowledge my authority and position. This of course involves
also recognition of Mathers, who has committed his authority
to me." .
In spite of the above pledge not to work with Mathers
or any of his followers, certain of these MSS. became
the 6-5 teaching under Dr. Felkin.
The following letter, written to a German member
by the above adept E.O.L., who was for a time trained
by the German connection, is interesting, in that it shows
the proposed method for the penetration of England and
British Freemasonry by Continental and Grand Orient
Illuminism, 1912.
"DEAR SIR AKD BROTHER (Baron C.A.W.),-
"I have heard from Dr. F-- of the proposed Inter-
LZtional Bund, which seems in many ways an excellent scheme
to which I wish every success. As. Dr. S--'s name is so potent
on the ContineI}t, it is bound to prosper there. In England he has
a band of admirers, but his name is not so generally kno\'m. The
conditions in England are also peculiar. Dr. S. himself said to
me that he recognised the difference. Therefore, I write to you,
for we have a double tie-the Rosicrucian Fraternity both of the
Continent and in England, we can speak freely. What I say now
I wish to be laid before Dr. S. by you, and the risk is mine. For
if I do not speak without fear or favour, no one else can.
" Dr. S. is a statesman in his schemes (?). But a statesman,
when inquiring into the conditions of a country unknown to him,
does not go only to the members ~f one party of it. For Austrian
politics one would not consult only Magyars, nor for German,
members only of the Catholic Block. In England the few
members of the Continental Order are all Theosophists, i.e.
members of the T.S. They are none of them members of the
English Freemasons. They see thing~ from the T.S. point of
view, and they have to use their spectacles. I am the only member
of the Continental Order who is not and never has been a T.S.
member; lowe no allegiance·to Mrs. Besant. I am, as the Doctor
knows, entirely with him in the policy of abandoning Oriental and
Indian for European or Kabalistic training; I am also an English
Freemason, so that I can give him the point of view of the other
parties.
"En~lish occultism is roughly divided into (I) members of
the T.S., J.e. Mrs. Besant's followers headed by the ctrMasons in
one sense; (2) members of the Hermetic Orders and Freemasons;
(3) Independents, whether in small groups·or individuals.
" The first class is the· only one really known to the Doctor.
THE STELLA MATUTINA 97
Of the second Dr. F. is very representative. Of the third, Mr.
T. P. . .. Now when the Doctor comes to establish his BUND,
there are certain considerations of great importance. With regard
to Group I, the T.S. and its branches, I cannot pretend to say
what will happen. Mr. S. and Mr. C. both know the T.S. people
and its style of work-by lecture, etc. The risk, however, is with
regard to Groups 2 and 3. The BUND will, unless carefully man-
aged, be regarded merely as a schism of the T.S. It will command
as much attention as the Quest Society of G. R. S. Mead, and
it may arouse great prejudice, for many will take it exactly in the
spirit in which England took the German telegram to President
KrUger. I am quite serious when I say that to many the BUND
will be thus considered-' We don't care for Mrs. Besant any
more than we cared for Jamieson and his raid, but after all, Mrs.
Besant is English; who are these Germans to interfere?' It may
sound ridiculous, but I know my country.
" The ne>..-t point, a very serious one indeed, is the attitl.\de of
the Freemasons. This must be taken into consideration. Here
for a moment I must apparently digress. I wish to contrast the
working of Group~ I, 2, and 3. Group I works on the familiar
lines of lectures, magazine publications, etc. Dr. S. does much
the same. Group I attracts a large number of idle women who
have the leisure to take a little occultism with their afternoon tea,
practically all the members are people v,;th time and money. It
attracts numbers, but each lecturer is apt to get a personal follow-
ing, hence scl'isms, i.e. the Quest.
"Grou~ 2 is small in numbers. It works by Lodges and
circulates manuscripts. Its teaching is done by correspondence,
by individual officers, etc. It seldom has lectures. It taps a wholly
different class, gets at more varied social strata, bas a far larger
proportion of men. Being highly organised it has more coherence;
at the same time each Temple is apt to be jealous of outside inter-
ferences. Most of its men are Freemasons. Some entire Temples
are· Freemasonic, e.g. the Societas Rosicruciana in Anglia. Now
these people are busy, there are singularly few idle, moneyed or
!eisured women and men among them, they are very proud and
mdependent. In course of time, if they-can get teaching in their
own manner, by MSS. in circulation, by visits of members from
Lodge to Lodge, by or through their oWn Chiefs, I am certain they
will all, given time, join your BUND•. But they will not. accept any
T.S. .dictation, they will .not tolerate OUefS whom they do not
kt)nw, they will not care for attending cycles or lectures for which
they have no time or inclination. These bodies are older than the
17.5. and they do not for~et it. Humoured they will.help you. If
tb~ey are not considered, they will neither oppose nor regard you.
'!1 will simply leave the BlIND alone exactly as they leave the
.~••alone, the co-Masons alone, etc. They·must b~ got 01 froM.
tDif_~ fIOl from withoNl.
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
" The third group I can assist with in course of time. But
bow they will act now I do not: pretend to know. Most of them
will accept no authority over them. Now I come to the Free-
masonic point.
"Here I tread on very delicate ground. But I feel that I
must state the case, as I said, without fear or favour. The Doctor
is too great a man to be vexed with me. After all, all I wish to do
is to secure that the best teaching reaches those most fit for it in
the easiest way.
" At present to establish a definite branch of the Continental
Order giving grades, etc., in England will be a very difficult
matter. You are not yourself a Freemason. We sometimes call
our Order, the Continental Order, Esoteric Masonry. The grades
are closely akin to Freemasonry. Dr. S-- indeed has some link
with certain English or Scotch Masons-he gave me the name-
from whom he derives a certain authority, a link in the physical
(not etheric!).
Now English Freemasonry is not occult, though it has occult
Lodges, and most English occultists not T.S. are Freemasons, if
men. English Masonry boasts the Grand Lodge of 1717, the
Mother Lodge of the world. They are a proud, jealous, auto-
cratic body. Co-Masonry derives from the Grand Orient of
France, an illegitimate body according to English ruling. No
English Mason can work with co-Masons. Now the Masons who
gave Dr. S. his link are regarded-you had better get Dr. F. to
verify me here-as eccentrics who invent spurious grades. If the
ED~lish Grand Lodge hears of anything called' Esoteric Masonry,'
denved from such sources, under Chiefs once T.S. members,
under a head in Berlin, it will not inquire who Dr. S. is or what
is the nature of his work; it will simply say' no English Masons
of the Free and Accepted Masons may join any society working
pseudo-Masonic Rites,' i.e. no one of ordinary accepted Free-
masonry can attend any meetings or take any grades in this
illegitimate body! Finis!
"Then we who are members of Dr. S.'s Lodge and who
are Freemasons will be in a sad plight. At present this w<?ul~
affect only myself, well, and Dr. F. too. But if esoteric- Masonry
is breathed of in England, and the fiat goes against it, no English
Mason will wish to join the BUNl>. [Note by Dr. Felkin: 'This
is what has already happened with the "Ancient Masons"
(mixed), to whom many regular Masons would be perfectly
friendly personally but are precluded by their oath.']
" After all this cold water, you will ask what useful sugges-
tion do I imagine I have. to make. Well, perhaps nothing very
useful Still. this is my practical suggestion. Let the Bund be
st:artt4. Let Messrs. S. and C. get all the MSS. they can, and
let them es~lish relations with the bodies in Group 2. Either
let them su?P1y such written teaching as can be given to the heads
THE STELLA MATUTINA 99
of the Lodges that will come in, and seek no interference with the
Lodges, or let them form a definite committee under Dr. S. with
representative people in it. All this must be done slowly.
" The system of having people in the Lodges like Dr. F. to
teach l processes' (see aboye in Dr. Felkin's History) within
Group 2 is the most practical, and to have B1,;KD officials like
Messrs. S. and c., one of whom should join an English Lodge,
to go between England and the Continent, and to get the written
teaching will probably work well enough.
" But if a Lodge of the Continental Order is to be established
in England, Dr. S. will be faced with the Masonic difficulty. This
is really serious, and no one of the T.S. will understand it, nor
even any Continental Freemasons. Look at my position and again
at Dr. F.'s-if we were banned from all association with Free-
masons, i.e. from practically all Lodges in Group 2, or else from
association with the m:KD. Either we must be cut off again, or
our usefulness for general purposes is gone. If Dr. S. would
summon one or two non-Theosophical persons to discuss with him,
he would see this at once. The practical solution will be found in
a compromise. If he avoids the name "Esoteric )lasonry" and
allows perhaps a ritual like those used in the Societas Rosicruciana
or in the S.M., and has for officers in England a mixed group,
including the Heads of the chief Hermetic Lodges, etc.-as well
as T.S. people;'who will join anything of Dr. S.'s-it will succeed.
Otherwise, I fcar much that only a few T.S. people and a few
whom Dr. F. and myself- ... can influence directly, will be all
that will join at the outset. As a Theosophist schism, and a
foreign intrusive Masonic schism, the B1,;KD will arouse every
possible English prejudice against it. Devoted to the Doctor as
we are, we should both regret it.
"Yours fraternally."
Mrs. Nesta \Vebster, in her Secret Societ£es and
Subversive l.1ove11lentsJ writes of a Masonic Congress
held in Geneva in September 1902, at which a proposal
was unanimously adopted, " tending towards the creation
of an International BureaiT-ot -Masonic Affairs"; and
Brother _Desmons, of the Grand Orient of France
declared _that the "dream of his life" had always bee~
that U all-democracies should meet and _
understand one
another-in such a way as one day to form the Universal
Republic."
Again she quotes Lord Ampthill as pro-Grand
Master of the British Freemasons, March 2, 1921 in
answer to an invitation to British Masons to attend an
International Masonic Congress in Geneva; he said:
"A further consequence of certain happenings of the \Var
is to make more firm our resolve to keep, as far as in us lies, Free-
masonry strictly away from participation in politics, either national
or international. . .. For these reasons, the invitation to par-
ticipate in the proposed International Conference of Freemasons
at Geneva cannot be accepted . . . we cannot detract from full
recognition of the Great Architect of the Universe, and we shall
continue to forbid the introduction of. political discussion into our
Lodges."
Under this new Continental authority Dr. Felkin,
in 1916, before finally going out to New Zealand, drew
up a "New Constitution," duly and astrally approved
of by these hidden chiefs, and under this Constitution
attempted -to °eslaob!ish three daughter temples in England,
hoping in this way to link various outside esoteric
Masonic groups under the shadow of the SteiJa 1\fatutina,
thus helping forward the" International Bund."
In this New Constitution Dr. Felkin says:
" As you are aware, I can personally permit any branch Rosi-
crucian Societies to be started. But as I am leaving England, I
naturally feel that such branches should be in close relationship
with the Stella M:atutina and the R.R. et A.c. I propose, before
leaving England, to form three such branches, and it will rest with
you to make any arrangements which you may wish with regard to
their utilising your rooms, etc., or not. . .. The two I propose to
form in London could either pay you a yearly sum for the use of
the Temple and Vault, on a definite day to be settled by you, or you
might arrange for them to pay half their initiation fees to you,
which should be, I think, the Mother Temple. With regard to a
Branch in Bristol, which I am going to form, they can at present
work their Outer entirely there, ~nd make arrangements with you
when they have any candidates for the Inner.
"The conditions under which I should found these three
branches are as follows: 0-
"1. Each Branch must be absolutcly autonomous and ruled
by three Chiefs who are at the present time full S-6 in the R.R.
et A.c., and they must follow exactly the traditions of our Order.
"2. The first three Chiefs I should appoint myself; if any
one of them should relinquish office, the Ruling Chiefs and Three
Adepti of the Mother Temple (Arnoun) should confer with the
remaining two Chiefs as to the appointment of a successor.
"3. The Daughter Temples must financ~ their own Temples,
and the Mother Temple is not responsible for their finance in any
way, except in so far as above stated; they should pay dues in
some fonn if they make use of the Mother Temple's rooms.
100 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKl"ESS
THE STELLA MATUTINA 101
"4. The Members of the Daughter Temples who are full
5-6 will belong to the College of Adepti of the RR et A.c. in
Anglia....
"5. With regard to the Bristol Branch (Hermes), the first
Three Chiefs will be: V.H. Sorores Lux Orta est, Magna est
Veritas, Benedicamus Deo, the latter only acting until a Frater
in that district is qualified.
.. 6. The first London Daughter Temple will be confined to
members of the Societas Rosicruciana in _-\nglia, who have taken
at least Grade 4. I may mention here that the reason why I am
obliged to form it is as follows: Wben E.O.L. and I made our
arrangements for recognition by our Continental Fratres, they
stipulated, and he agreed, that the Masonic Rosicrucians, of whom
there are large numbers, should be given the opportunity of being
linked up with us. The first Three Chiefs of this Temple will be:
V.H. Fratres Pro Rege et Patria, Fortes Fortuna Juvat, Faire
sans dire.
"With regard to the third Daughter Temple pferlin), there
are some fifty or sixty members of the Temple (Golden Dawn)
which used to be ruled by S.R (\\"aite) and a number of the
members of the Anthroposophical Society who are seeking admis-
sion. It has be~n pointed out to me, that as these people have
worked on different lines from us, it would not be well to admit
them to the S.M., as they would undoubtedly cause confusion in
the S.M. Temple. I therefore propose that they should form a
Temple of their own.. and that the first Three Chiefs should be:
V.H. Fratres Cephas, Benedic Animo mea Domino, and Kon Sine
Numine. This Frater you do not know, but he has been a member
of the Society for twenty-five years, is full T.A.~L, and was for
many years one of S.R.'s three Ruling Chiefs.
"7. The first three ruling chiefs of the Daughter Temples
would become the first three adepti in their respective Vaults
should they have them.
" I take full responsibility for the formation of these three
Daughter Temples, and it rests with you to do all in your power
to help th~Jo be an added power to the Rosicrucian Movement.
. " Our password for the present six months is ACHAD, signify-
Ing •Unity,' and it is my great ~esire that all the scattered Rosi-
crucian Forces within our reach should be gathered together into
a harmonious whole instead of drifting off into comparative use-
lessness, or into undesirable channels. -
" (Signed) FINEM RESPICE CHIEF, June 18, 1916."
Having therefore fanned and launched his Master's
subversive petard, Dr. Felkin, in the middle of the War
took his departure to the comparatively calm atmospher~
of New Zealand, and left his more or less untried trio of
Ruling Chiefs to handle these fiery elements and face as
best they could the inevitable explosions. As might be
looked for, it has left its trail of tragedies and suffering.
Oi these Three Daughter Temples, the only one to
sun-iYe is the Hermes Temple of Bristol, which was, and
no doubt is. much under the influence of Dr. Rudolph
Steiner's sub"ersi\'e and pantheistic teaching.
That the Steinerites still dream of some such
"International Bund" is quite apparent from their
AlIthroposophJ'J
Easter 1929, in which it is said: "This
leads to all manner of 'movements' beneath which the
real longings are concealed. Yet will men enter more
and more into the goals which Rudolph Steiner re\'ealed,
a:-:d they will thus become his followers." And this
dream-JspirituaL political, and economic-is the dream
oi the Grand Orient Judceo Masonry.
Further. Dr. Felkin's Arab teacher, January 9,
1CJ 15, gi\'es the following interesting instruction:
" The 2.ltern?ti'·e training for those whom we were speaking
01 should be definitely fixed now and put on the same footing as
the Daughter Temples. as a special group for healing. It should
be called the Healers or Therapeuts. and Father F. should be made
'j)ecially and definitely the head of it, and those who wish to follow
that training should be taken from all the different Temples and
kep! in touch \\"ith one another."
102 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
Has this not enntuatcd in the Stella Matutina
Healing Guild of St. Raphael, which is therefore Con-
tinental and International Masonry?
After the London Chiefs had closed down the
Temple in 1919, Dr. Fe1kin wrote: " I have time and time
again written that A.B".S:, the Arab, has nothing to do
\\·ith the Order." Yet as far back as June 9, 1912, we
find this Arab instructing Dr. Felkin, Q.L. and Q.A. in
the London Yault":
" Rt: Kew Zealand, we will have an opportunity such as has
not occurreti in thousands of years in going to an entirely new and
clear atmosphere which will leave us free to form fresh symbols
unprejudiced by any previous tradition. It is most important that
everything should be new and clean and fresh; as far as possible
we must try to diScard recent errors and get the more accuratf>
symbolism.
THE STELLA MATUTINA 103
" Select a few people to devote themselves entirely to occult
work, including healing, and others to see to the material needs of
the few, to live together equal numbers in a divided sort of monas-
tery; others can go and stay for periods. Must always have a
guest-chamber and a sort of special healing wing.
" Everything we take must be carefully purified, consecn:.ted,
and wrapped in white. \Vill have to look after it for a considerable
time. It will develop along independent lines to a great extent.
Name of Temple: 'Emerald of the Sea No. 49-Smaragdine
Thalasses.'
" The new venture is much more important (than London).
. .. He is greatly impressed with the importance of virgin soil,
no occult order has been there before, Theosophists only breaking
the soil."
Again, July 15, 1919, one or the ~ew Zealand
Chiefs wrote" to the Ruling Chiefs in Anglla " :
"For nearly six years A. B. S. taught us reguiarly, meeting
us every week. His teaching we found most helpful and his advice
sound. . . . You can understand that we had a difficult time after
the Order was first founded in New Zealand. I consider that the
help of A.B.S. and the fact that we had a balanced and united
group at the centre, enabled us to keep going... ."
As the "Hidden and Secret Chiefs" said to Dr.
Felkin in 19°9: " A small and faithful band is far more
powerful than a large body divided against itself! "
The following instructions, receiyed in 1914 by Dr.
Felkin from this Arab, are significant of the work re-
quired of the Order:
"Our function is to direct the new life which will spring up
when present disturbances have cleared the ground; it is as if a
giant harro'V. were passing over the face of the world, and when-
that is done those "like us (IIIuminati) must be ready to Sn1V the
seed.. This war was an inevitable means of destroying the old
order of things to make room for the new; that already the ideas
of peace and unity (pacifism or apathy and Universal Brother-
hood) have been implanted, but they could not spread freely until
the old had been broken asunder. It is the 'Tower struck by
Lightning '-the ' Rending Asunder of the Veil.' "
This, according to Papus and other Cabalists, means
fixation of the astral light in a material basis-individual
and universal Illuminism.
104 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
The instructions continue:
"Vitality is being forced into action just now, and the
reaction will be complete depletion unless those who are not
actually taking part in the conflict store up a power to be set free
as soon as the conflict ceases. Not only our own group, but all
those we know of should be instructed to devote themselves to
this aim. The means towards this end are found in meditation
and prayer. . .. In meditation, contemplation, and ecstasy the
human spirit seeks to free itself from earth and rise to the greatest
heights of which it is capable (As in Steiner's Way of Initiation!)
. . . but the human brain is like the transmitter of a wireless
station, its machinery is limited, yet it can send out a vibration
which continues to echo through space until it finds its correspond-
ing receiver, and for every aspiration there is a reply. . .. And
prayer is also an invocation; it not only brings you into communion
",;th that which you pray to, it also awakens and formulates forces
which were previously latent (as in the Liberal Catholic Mass).
A man praying to the devil enters into the communion of evil,
but he also formulates the evil forces which react upon all those
who are not positively in search of the good. For you must never
forget that any force which can be contacted through such prayer
is not only a negative receiver but also a positive transmitter which
sends out its currents and vibrations to all those who are capable
of receiving them. (In tune with them)."
It goes on to say that by forming a circle seeking
this peace and l£ght) they contact not only these invisible
supreme controlling beings who govern the world, but
also open up very powerful channels through which these
beings can pour down their influences and suggestions
-beneficent they are called!
The above is apparently an example"of " Reciprocal
Influences between the Visible and Invisible Worlds"-
the Unknown Supr~me Gommittee spoken of by Wronski "
in his Mysticism and Magic. The R.R. et A.C. is
Illuminism and Rosicrucian, linked to the Grand Orient
Freemasonry, and the wonderful work of the Rosi-
crucians was to begin in Russia, but where is the" Peace
and Light"?
The above savours much of Weishaupt's methods of
camouflage!
ce••• The greatest caution must be exercised not to reveal
to the novice doctrines that might r likely to revolt him. For
THE STELLA MATUTINA 105
this purpose the initiators must acquire the habit of I talking back-
wards and forwards' so as not to commit t!~emselves. I 0ne must
speak,' \Veishaupt explained to the superiors of the Orde). I some-
times in one way, sometimes in another, so that our real purpose
should remain impenetrable to our inferiors.' ..
There are three forms of initiation-individual,
group, or universal-all three leading to conscious or
unconscious control by a central power, who in some
mysterious way makes its influence felt; often clair-
voyantly and clairaudiently seen and heard, but never
physically present or visible. The system in all three is
the sam~abalistic. Secretly here and there individuals
are prepared; these again form groups or centres from
which influences spread until they form a veritable mag-
netic network covering the entire world. Like rays from
a hidden sun these groups are apparently dinrgent and
detached, but in reality all issue from the same central
body. ,Studying all these different groups and move-
ments the system is seen to be an insidious and secret
dissemination of ideas, orienting and creating the re-
quired outlook on life, etc., eventually breaking down all
barriers of family, religion, morality, nationality, and
all self-initiative thought, always under the cloak of a
new and more modern religion, new thought. new
morality, a new heaven and a new earth; until ic evoh:es
a gigantic robot merely answering to the will and com-
mands of a secret Master Mind. They dream they are
free, original, self-determining indi\;duals; they are but
the negative moon reflecting and reproducing the light
from the same hidden C\lld cabalistic Sun: It.is called
regeneration by,the Illmhinati; it is in truth individual_
death and disintegration, followed by a resurrection as
negative If light-bearers" of this cabalistic Sun. As is
said "ip. the 6-5 grade of the R.:'l: et A.C.: " Arise, shine,
for thy light hath corne and the glory of 'thy Lord is upon
thee." The light" 'and glory of the cabalistic Sun!
Illuminism!
" In the July ocq.tit issue 1929 of the Revue lnter-
nationale des Societes Secretes~ there is an interesting
and rare design called, "The Dragon and the Woman,"
which depicts apparently the Pentagram of illuminised
and revolutionary M'asonry, a symbol of the magical and
potent powers by which the mysterious centre would
hope to obtain empire over the universe and thus govern
men. The lower part is the Dragon of the Apocalypse
with the se\-en heads; written across its body is the word
" Kabalah," as also in Hebrew, "Schem Hamphoras"
and "Yod, He, Vau, He"- the Tetragrammaton. The
Schem Hamphoras, the cabalistic Keys of Solomon, the
keys of universal science, by whose combinations all
secrets of Nature are said to be revealed. The four
letters, the material basis as it were, are the four beasts
of Ezekiel's vision; they are the Sphinx with the head
of a man, the body of a bull, the wings of an eagle, and
the claws of a lion. Also the four properties of the astral
light or Serpent Fire--dissolving, coagulating, heating,
2.J."1d cooling-which, directed by the will, are said to
modify all nature, producing life or death, health or
disease, etc., in accordance with the given impulsion.
Further, it is the cross of life or generation-the
Kundalini.
Death and disintegration must precede so-called re-
generation; therefore the- tail of the Dragon ends with
the head of the vulture of Saturn, the destroyer, who holds
in his beak the magical sword of the adept with the dual
crescents of unity on the hilt; this is thrust into the body
of the Dragon, for the blood must be poured out.
Beneath the Dragon the fire burns, it must be immolated,
as the Phcenix of old, so that from the ashes it may rise
renewed and regenerat~d
..As Ral;laud Saint-Etienne has
said: ". E.verything, .yes everything must be destroyed,
since everything must be remade "-it is revolution. The
number ·of the beast is 666, which cabalistically is 9, the
number of generation. The seven heads represent the
seven planets or powers of the Sun or colours of the
prism; cabalistically they are placed on the Interlaced
Triangle, the dual creative forces, each angle having a
planet with the Sun in their midst. Together they repre-
sent complete magical power-the Hebrew Talisman, the
Shield of David! .
106 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
THE STELLA MATUTINA 107
Aboye this basis rises the ,,·oman BABALON, the
mother of all pantheistic and abominable cults. She
stands in the hermetic attitude, " as abo\'e so below," her
left hand raised above holds a lighted torch shaped as
the Heorew letter Sh£a; this letter, together with the
Tetragrammaton below, forms the Pentagram-the
<C Christ" or instrument of illuminised reyolutionary
Masonry. On the torch is this curious inscription, as
deciphered by M. Henri Guillebert: " As for the children,
kill them in great numbers. Holy, holy, holy is the act
of immolating them, as also of exterminating them."
Is this not Saturn again, whci ever devours his own
children-revolution and anarchv? Across her breast is
written" Democracy," the negative and inspired instru-
ment of all revolutions. The inspiration is shown by the
letter" M " over the pineal gland, where the head and
tail of the serpent unite, producing illuminism. She is
the intermediary, receiving and transmitting the influence
from above. From a cup in her right hand she pours
upon the fire. below all abominations and impurities, thus
inciting the holocaust, preparing for the domination of
the unseen Powers. Old civilisations must be dis-
integrated and established systems destroyed.
Now in 1914 in the instructions received from the
Arab teacher of the RR et A.C. it \yas said: " Before
any ceremony, either in temple or priyate, fire must be
banished (energy) and earth invoked, and the invoking
ritual of Saturn performed 'to bring peace and calm-
ness! ,,, Pearce tells us, in his Text-book of Astrology:
H The influence of Saturn is the most lasting and malig-
. nant'of all planets," it brings upon the world not peace
but disintegration, suffering, disgrace, class war, and
anarchy. "Saturn resembles a consumption, which,
though hardly perceptible in its :progres!?, is hard Eo be
averted by any effort of human skill." Is this not true
of the cankerous growth of the influences of these secret
subversive societies.and of Bolshevik propaganda?
It is curious to note with all these illuminised instru-
ments of the "Hidden Hand" how magnetic-healing
and magically inspired politics went hand in hand. One
108 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
has only to consider the present Illuminati in England
to see that this is the case. In the Stella Matutina, from
the late Dr. Felkin, their former High Chief, to their
St. Raphael Guild of Healing, run by a certain influential
group of clerical members, you find magnetic-healing
joined to a subtle form of invoked political influence often
ending in Communism, Socialism, and Pacifism, weakly
inculcating the doctrine of peace and love your enemies
at any price, all inspired by their" hidden masters."
Ceremonies as arranged by the Arab teacher were
carried out in the R.R.. et A.C. during the Vvar to
establish the power of the Pentagram, with special con-
centration upon Russia and other countries, preparing
centres of force for the diabolical work of this" Hidden
Hand"; magnetically linking up the group ,.in New
Zealand with the groups in England, forming a band
round the world controlled by the Invisible Power carry-
ing out the " Protocol" idea of the unbreakable magnetic
chain of the Symbolic Serpent.
In his Transcendental 1.-1agic Eliphas Leyi thus
explains this "Magic Chain":
" To make the Magic Chain is to establish a magnetic current
which becomes stronger in proportion to the extent of the chain.
. .. Herein is the secret of their force, which they (the clerics)
attribute solely to the grace or will of God! . .. Concentration
is by isolation, and distribution by the magnetic chain."
That is those" set apart" as receivers of the forces
from the masters and the transmitters of the same.
"This force is of itself blind, but it can be directed by the
will of man, and is influenced by prevailing opinions. Tire
Universal Fluid .(life force) ... being the common medium 'of-
all nervous organisms and the vehicle of all sensitive vibrations,
es~b1ishes an actual physical solidarity between impressionable
persons, and transmits from one to another the impressions of
imagination and thought."
In all illuminised groups the ceremonies, exercises,
teachings, and messages from the masters set in motion
a magnetic current, and as Eliphas Levi explains:
.. The action of the current is to transport, and often exalt
beyond measure, persons who are impressionable and weak,
nervous organisations, temperaments inclined to hysteria and
THE STELLA MATUTINA J09
hallucination. Such people soon become powedul vehicles of
magical force and project efficiently the astral light in the direction
of the current itself."
As seen in the meteoric figures of all revolutions!
To fight successfully against such a current steady con-
centrated will and initiative are required. Together
these many groups form the magnetic chain transmitting
the forces of the Cabalistic Jews into social, religious,
political, economic, art, healing, and educational life. As
the late Dr. Felkin wrote in 1917: "Vve are the little
leaven that leaveneth the lump." According to
Vveishaupt, artists are among the most desirable instru-
ments!
It should, I think, be clearly understood that the
object of this book is not to show that the Great Hermetic
Arcanum is in itself evil, but rather its perYersion, and
that the knowledge of, and power of applying these
hidden laws of nature can become, in the hands of evil
and ambitious adepts, more especially :c unknown chiefs,"
a tremendous danger to unwary and unsuspecting
"Humanity." The power used in Illuminism is largely
based on a deep understanding of the science of light,
form (geometric symbols), movement (rhythm), num-
bers, sound, colour (Minutum Mundum), scents, etc.
All these, in the form of correspondences, are used in
occult societies, to awaken forces-vibrations which act
upon the mind and nervous systems of men and women.
As it is said, the 5-6 ritual of the RR. et A.C. : " Colours
are forces and the signatures of forces, and Child of
the Children of the forces art thou."
For example, take a square with a symbol in the
centre, coloured a brilliant red, and place around that
symbol and in juxtaposition to it the cor;,:ect comple-
mentary or negative colour of that red; at onte the whole
square will flash and will become aJiye with vibrations.
As illustrating sound-vibrations, the late Max
Heindel, of the "Rosicrucian Fellowship," California,
wrote in his Rosicf'1tcian Cosmo-Conception:
«These invisible sound-vibrations have great power over
concrete matter. They can both build and deestroy. If a small
quantity of very fine powder is placed upon a brass or glass plate,
and a violin bow drawn across the edge, the vibrations will cause
the powder to assume beautiful geometrical figures. The human
voice is also capable of producing these figures; always the same
figure for the same tone. If one note or chord after another
be sounded upon-a violin-a tone will finally be reached which
will cause the hearer to feel a distinct vibration in the back of the
lower part oi the head ... that note is the 'keynote' of the
person whom it so affects. If it is struck slowly and soothingly
it will tone the nen"es and restore the health. If it be sounded in a
dominant way, loud and long enough, it will kill as sure as a bullet
from a pistol."
110 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
De Quincey has said: "This Temple (Solomon's)
is to be built of men, of living stones, and the true method
and art of building with men it is the province of (Rosi-
crucian) magic to teach." These then are some of the
iorces used in building this Temple of living stones.
NO\y it is interesting to find Dr. Felkin's Arab
teacher was also a builder using living stones, for we find
him saying:
" The stones must all be there before the circle can be of use.
Each stone must first be hewn into proper shape. Each must be
able to stand upright hand in hand with the others. The Light
'within each must become strong so as to radiate far enough, and
blending with the others a rainbow will be formed (uniting and
forming the so-called 'Divine 'Nhite Light or Brilliance,' the
LA.O. or Serpent" Power). There must be harmony among the
members and self-reliance. Each stone will intuitively perceive
within itself a symbol which will at once denote the function of
the individual stone and its fitness to fulfil it. This symbol must
be watched for and developed from within; for though the symbol
is in th~ mind of the Arab and is therefore suggested to each from
without; it must be developed froni within, .gradually_meeting the
impression from without. The force necessary to develop these
symbols from without would be so great it would involve a waste
of force, and it is not the right way to be done."
The stones were to be seven Planets for the inner
circle, and the twelve signs of the Zodiac for the outer.
As an example of these methods, the following is
enlightening: One of the members of the Arab's group
wc:s greatly deplet~d after a sitting, and the reason for
thIS was thus explained by the Arab:
THE STELLA MATUTINA III
"She must be more positive getting herself resolutely to
stop formulating thoughts at certain times, thus rendering the pool
of her aura smooth. She should before meeting with strong
vibrations make an equal armed cross on the inside of her aura;
this will meet with one that I am making on the outside of it also.
This done, it will form a door for the vibrations to enter by, and
they will then come in an equilibrated way."
Therefore, if these instructions were followed,
having induced a state of passivity and having opened a
door, thus breaking down all opposition, the Arab would
be free to pour in whatever vibrations and suggestions
were required in ordf-r to shape this stone for the niche
she was appointed to occupy in this temple of living
stones.
Again, the following shows how a more advanced
adept is used, e,'en at a great distance, to act upon
another adept for the furtherance of these schemes,
Dr. Felkin in New Zealand wrote, February 4, 1918, to
the Ruling Chief in England:
" I suddenly felt a presence there (in his study), and it w~ a
tall man, not unlike Tagore (Eastern), dressed in a brownish sort
of dress with brown shoes with longish turn-up toes. Long,
beautiful, white hands and no head-dress. He said, , The time of
a great crisis is now coming, send all the help you can to Het-ta
(the ruling Chief), who needs help.' The vibrations were so
strong my mind went numb. I tried for more, but the words
seemed quite incomprehensible. As he gave a sign . . . a cloud
enveloped him and he vanished, He came twice last week."
The so-called help was to break down possible oppo-
sition on the part of the London Ruling Chief to their
devilish.J;chemes. Their efforts were successful, but for
a short tlme--...only. Who can say who these invisible
magic-workers are, who would build this Temple of living
stones--of men and women, whose lives they would ' eat
up '? They alone hold the rear secrets, and thus eyer
remain the Masters. .
In four articles in the Morning Post, October 25-
29, 192 7, Sir Oliver Lodge discusses., U Physics and
Psychics "-the mystery of the ether, his object being to
advocate scientific investigations of all psychic pheno-
mena, etc., apart from the use of mediums or phato-
graphy, both of which methods he very rightly considers
unreliable as proof of the reality of communications with
the dead. He writes that st~dents of metapsychics-
" know by actual experience and experiment that there is a tele-
pathic method of communication between mind and mind which
does not utilise the organs of sense and is conducted in what is at
present a quite unknown way . . . the safest plan is to assume
that some physical vehicle is concerned even in telepathy and
clairvoyance. . .. Those who study metapsychics are aware of
facts which have suggested the existence of an etheric body-that
is, of some physical instrument which can transgress the limita-
tions of space and perform feats impossible to a more material
organism. Tra1-'elling clairvoyance (or astral projection) is one
of them, apparition is another. . .. The ether is abundantly
substantial, and can transmit every known kind of force."
Ether, he says, has three properties-" dielectric
coefficient, magnetic permeability, and velocity of light."
These three, according to Clerk Maxwell, are connected,
and together can form" definitely and absolutely unity"
--electro-magnetic force, the Serpent Power, the all-
pervading ether!
In occult societies much psychiC work and magic is
done for the purpose of loosening the astral body from
the material-always retaining a connecting link-so that
it may at will be projected through the ether to any
distance and at incredible speed. More often it is the
will and magic of the Master, that, unbeknown to the
adept, withdraw and sends the adept's astral body hither
and thither-somewhat after the method of a medium
under hypnotic control~reatingetheric links, and other-
wise doing the work of helping forward the scheme~. of
these. Illuminati. He is their instrument. As illustrat-
ing this, Mrs. Felkin writes, in a short History of the
Order, 1919:.
" The Hidden Order is therefore International, belonging to
no one race or nation. Although it is always secret and hidden,
the Masters from time to time select one or two to send out as
teachers when the world is ready for them. . .. Such teachers
gather round the inner secret Orde~s, and to members of these
who are found worthy messengers from the hidden masters
are sent to give them. teaching; not materially but on the astral
plane.
112 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
THE STELLA MATU-fl.'\A 113
"If the pupils haye the courage, patience. perseverance,
and loyalty to follow this teaching, and to practise the methods,
the time will come when they will receive direct instructions from
the hidden masters, either singly or in groups; and it may be that
the pupils will eventually be led to one of the great secret hidden
temples that there are here and there in the world. \Ve, your
chiefs, can say that we know this to our knowledge, because we
have thus received and visited. It is in your power to do as we
have done, but it requires patience, faith, self-sacrifice, and the
ordering of the outer life before the inner teaching can be received.
There must be sacrifice, and you must be ready to give up even
your own will at times and eliminate much work and pleasure
which others may seem to enjoy."
The aboye is undoubtedly inspired by these masters
themseh'es in order to deceive and obtain the tools neces-
sary to their Great \Vork. The way to such teaching is
" initiation," and that \\'e haye seen leads to loss of per-
sonality and possible obsession.
The Temple spoken of above visited by the Chiefs
was a Sun Temple, to which they were taken astrally by
the Arab. It had many little chapels, each representing
one of the tweh'e signs of the Zodiac and the planets, etc.,
and having as heads a Triangle of Masters-the Master
of Light, the Master of Peace, and the Rose Master.
They took part in many ceremonies and received much
teaching. Of this Temple the Arab said, November II,
IgII :
"Each chapel foreshado\\'s a life-force which we are now to
~n t.o experience. \Ve have been putting together as it were the
mgredlents, and now the FIRE has to be lit, and the ingredients
are ~o be boiled down. Till this has h?ppened he cannot complete
our Instructions, because we cannot penetrate the veil which always
hangs over the East. _
._. " -~
Ag;:tin he explained:
:' \Ve are not to put ourselves out or force it, but if any
openmg comes we are to be quick and'ready to take it, because it
~~~d help towards linking up the (magnetic) chain that he has
U<:CIl gradually forming psychically. All these ceremonies and
people we have seen when with A.B.S. have been with a definite
puryose which he is slowly carrying out, but when we can pick up
th
a hnk here and there on the material plane it greatly strengthens
e effect of the other."
Again we get a further message from the supposed
Christian Rosenkreutz which says, June 15, 1919:
This is very similar to Krishnamurti's overshadow-
ing by Maitreya; it was a partial obsession by these
masters, CR.e or the Arab! It is the result of blind
and credulous faith!
To allay any doubts or suspicions about the mes-
sages the Arab said:
cr Angelic visit~~s are constantly passing, they bring their.
messages swiftly-; they-may-touch you with their wings, they may
but sweep past you, clothing you with their atmosphere for a
moment, but in these mysterious and wonderful moments they leave
within thy being a message from the divine, and thou wouldst
be missing an opportunity if thou didst not accept this message
and meditate thereon; it might be long ere they come again, and
when they did come, it might be too late for the same message.
. . . Let thine ears be alert and thine eyes ever open, and fear
not to accept such messages. The using of them cannot harm
thee as long as thou rernainest in the protection of the Order. So
long as thou.dost dwel1 in the Sacred Heart and kneel in humility
at the foot of the Cross whereon thy Master died for thee."
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
114
" Vle are coming to a crisis, and those who have been admitted
to the Inner han a right to a clear statement of what we ourselves
believe concerning the Order. If we will go forward without fear,
trusting to what we have received, he (C.R.C.) will stand even as
he has hitherto stood, behind us, using us as instruments in the
work which he has undertaken. If WP. are to be instruments, we
must put aside the thought of self and think only of the message."
To show in what way Mrs. Felkin is used as the
mouthpiece of these dangerous and insidious powers, the
following statement, made by Dr. Fe1kin, is more than
significant (June 1919) :
" Yesterday we had a splendid Corpus Christi Day (ceremony
ior bringing down the light into the Inner Vault and Temple and
reaffirming the link with these masters) . . . as we passed through
the Vault it seemed like passing through liquid fire. Later, when
the 'Divine White Brilliance' (astral light) was brought down,
the electric light looked really dim it was so strong. Everyone was
greatly impressed; when Q.L. (Mrs. Felkin) spoke, her voice
seemed quite changed, and she said afterwards she said things
she had not been at all prepared to say, but words came to her."
THE STELLA MATUTINA I I 5
Not the Christ of the Christian!', but the i\{aster of
Grand Orient Judceo-Masonry. And according to the
Arab their true symbol of eternal life is the Ellipse-
the pathway of Light which all Nature follows: it is
shown in the egg, from which issues life~ontaining all
things. Their wisdom is therefore the wisdom of Nature,
and not of the Omnipotent Divine Creator.
Thus they deceive and enslave those they would use
as instruments. How, therefore, are these scientific in-
yestigators going to satisfy themseh-es and others that
these spiritual apparitions and their accompanying
phenomena are not these hid(len masters !l1asquerading
as spiritual teachers and spirits of the dead seeking whom
they may deyour? To occultists, as \yell c:.s spiritualists,
this is an all-important question; both look for aNew
Heayen and a New Earth, a New Race and a New Age
-the age-old dream of Israel!
It is curious to note the following instructions, sent
from New Zealand by Dr. Felkin and given by the sup-
posed Christian Rosenkreutz in the Vault of the Inner
Temple; it is apparently a subtle method of reciprocal
vibrations to be set up between the New Zealand and
London Temples, binding them together by means of the
Serpent Power or finer forces of Nature, inaugurating
a powerful instrument, a magnetic chain controlled by
this mysterious Centre, which is eyer seeking thus to
dominate humanity. Here are the instructions and ex-
planations:
" The Ruling Chief in London is to do as we are doing here-
take each of the 5~ members in tum- to" the Vault and introduce
the.:;e 'personally to e.Re., receiving for each of them a special
card of the TAROT pack. ¥o'hen each is introduced e.R.e. gives
~em "!l card, and this card is a key to the development of the
mdividual (his symbol). . .. If they can, and we can get the
~mplete Temple of 78 (number of the"Tarot pack!), our Temples
will be capable of functioning to the full, and if each one can dis-
COver the true spiritual (astral) significance of their own card, each
Temple will then, as a whole (be complete). 'When these two
Temples are complete iIi their Inner members they will become
POlarised, and the reciprocal currents will be awakened, and those
'Who get the similar cards (in the two Temples) will make pairs
and should be in touch with each other, for each card has a'positive
and negative aspect. . .. \Vhen the time comes the two Temples
should be ready to act in concert."
Here we have again the " unbreakable chain" of the
:c Protocols," and for what purpose? "The existing con-
structional scales will soon collapse, because we are con-
tinually throv"ing them out of balance in order the more
quickly to wear them out and destroy their efficiency "-
World Revolution and the destruction of the hated
British Empire!
In the Great Kno'W11,J a book written by the head
of the tc Sadol Movement," an illuminised masonic group
of California under control of the Great School (or
Great \i\Thite Lodge), we find a method whereby they are
taught to contact these unknown masters, who are spoken
of as " the very wise and powerful Luminous Ones." It
teaches that "the material body as it evolves upon the
spiritual planes of life becomes a dynamo of ever-
increasing power and LIGHT." In speaking of this con-
dition, Eliphas Levi, in his History of MagicJ
writes:
:c This may take place when, through a series of almost
impossible exercises . . . our nervous system, having
been habituated to all tensions and fatigues, has become
a kind of living galvanic pile, capable of condensing and
projecting powerfully that Light (astral) which in-
toxicates and destroys." It attempts to show that it leads
to mastership and self-control, but on careful considera-
tion it proves to be merely conscious mediumship inspired
by crafty and wilful deception, giving the adept a false
confidence, inducing him to let go his physical senses and
. work upon the astral, where, enclosed by formulre given
by these masters themselves, he is com~letely at their
mercy.
The method is common to other illuminised groups'
-the R.R. et A.C. as well as the Sun Order of Edin-
burgh-and may be used by one or a group of adepts.
A regular hour must be fixed, and kept to-Sun hours
are best, as sunlight apparently'assists communication-
the mom prepared. by formulre which, being secret, are
not given, but they serve to enclose and isolate the
II6 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
THE STELLA MATUTINA 117
workers and to awaken certain forces and set up vibra-
tions which are necessary in order to bring about the
contact. The adept must sit in front of a black curtain,
consciously concentrating and endeayouring to "bridge
the chasm of sense perception," which must be crossed
if the contact is to be made. This may be realised in the
form of suggestion, words, symbol, picture, by the
coming of the Master himself in his astral body, or even
by the projection of the adept's own astral body to a
Temple or any other desired place, always under control
of the Master! There is no way of testing these masters;
they must be taken on trust, a matter of blind faith, the
abrogation of all reason, which inevitably leads to
Mediumship not 1\1'astership. Such \,-as the method used
by the worshippers at the Arab's shrine; they were to
form a dynamo of power and Light, to be used for the
coming world regene1'Qtion by the Illuminati!
Of a truth there is apparently much method in all
this madness! The only possible name for it is Black
Magic, and can one be surprised at the blasphemous and
seditious outpourings of our "red" clergy, some of
whom at least are members of the Stella Matutina and
the R.R. et A.C., the main object of which was, and is,
to get hold of as many clergy as possible so as to bore
from within, disrupt the Church, and hold it up to public
ridicule, even as is done by the Soviet!
Now, ,,,'ho are these masters and what is the" Great
\Vhite Lodge"?
In the publications and proceedings of Theosophists
and some other _secret societies, the "Great White
Lodge" ""isfrequently referred to as an outside- Superior
Power directing the affairs of these earthly societies. In
many references it would appear that the Lodge is com-
posed of superhuman or even "celestial beings, and in
others that they are merely human. Our own belief is that
they are a group of flesh-and-blood men, who can form
etheric links, from any distance, with the leaders of these
societies, and who secretly work by means of that Light
which can "slay or make alive," intoxicating, blinding,
and, if need be, destroying unwary men and women,
using them as instruments or " Light-bearers" tq bring
to pass this mad and evil scheme of World Domination
by the God-People-the Cabalistic Jew.
According to the late Max Heindel, a disciple of
Steiner and late head of the" Rosicrucian Fellowship,"
California:
" There are in different places of the earth a number of these
schools of the lesser mysteries, each of them composed of TWELVE
Brethren, and also a Thirteenth member. The latter is the link
between the different schools, and all these heads or thirteenth
members compose what is ordinarily known as the White Lodge
-namely, a supreme conclave of the Eldest among our Brothers,
who are now in full charge of human evolution, and plan the
steps we are to follow in order to advance."
For some years Dr. Fe1kin and a group of R.R. et
A.C. members met on Sundays to contact and do astral
work with the Arab teacher, whose mission was, as we
have seen, to bring about the union of "the East and
\Vest," by forming a magnetic chain of adepts round the
world as a means of control by these masters. The fol-
lowing is one of the most significant of these astral ex-
periences. As it took place it was recorded word for word
by the scribe, and the" channel "-who, with two others,
saw it-was our informant:
" April 16, 1916.
"A dark room with dark polished floor and dark walls.
People sitting round a long polished table. An old man sitting at
the head in a carved arm-chair. There are lights in sconces round
the walls reflected on the polished floor. All are in dark robes;
the old man has a curious cap, not unlike that of the Jewish High-
Priest, ~urved up at the sides like horns. It is. red, embroidered
-,,-ith- gold and jewels. A brazier is in the centre of the table;
every now aJ:ld then somebody casts a little incense on it. Each
has a dish of incense before him, each of a different kind, and
they all sprinkle in turn. The seat at the foot of the table, similar
to that at the head, is vacant, so thirteen in all; there are six people
on either side of the table. The old man is speaking. He has
bright dark eyes with rather drooping lids. He seems to say: I The
time is approaching, and we are not yet fully prepared. I must
remain here to keep the fire burning, -but you must return each to
his own country, and when we gather here again the vacant chair
will be filled.'. They all make a sign with the left hand, as if they
quickly draw a line with it on the right hand which was held with
!I8 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
THE STELLA MATUT1N"A 119
the fingers stiffly together, the right elbow resting on the table.
They have deeply engraved seal rings on the first finger, large
dark stones. \Ve may meet the one that is to come back to this
country. It is difficult to see the faces, as they wear dominoes
with hoods pulled over their heads. Xow all are standing up and
repeating a Latin verse. First something in unison-I John iv.
7-12 (Johannism!). Then each says a word in turn from one of
the texts. The man that is to come here says' Amor.' Then
together they say, ' Nobis hoc siznum.' The old man looks Italian
or Jewish. . .. It is very mountainous outside. . .. He is
standing now, and has stepped to the side of his chair, which
seems to be on two steps, so that he is leyel with the table. The
people file past him, and each gives a grip and a password. This
password seems to be the word from each that was said in the
sentence. They line up at a curtained door and face him. He has
a heavy gold cross round his neck with which he blesses them.
They make a gesture like a salaam and disap?ear behind the
curtain. On the table before the old man's seat is a black ebony
lotus-wand. The lotus is closed to iorm a cone; it has a light
round it. The old man is leit alone; he goes round the table and
puts the remains of the incense from each dish on to the brazier.
Now he takes off his curious cap and sets it on the table beside the
v.and. He takes off his domino, he is looking yery thoughtful.
He is not more than fifty-fiye or sixty, has a silky dark beard,
dark moustache, dark hair parted in the middle, curling and just
showing thin on the top. He has got on a cassock. Now he is
picking up his wand; he presses a little knob in the handle of it and
the flower falls open. The flower is of mother-oi-pearl with a
shining crystal centre. It is flat, but sparkles in the light. He is
sa);ng something in a foreign language about the Law: 'The Law
shall be fulfilled'!" .
The reason for showing the above was: " The Arab
wants us to realise that all over the world those who are
the Light-bear:ers to the future are bestirring themselves
to be in readiriess." There are, then, mysterious men-
still in the body of. the flesh-who appear astrally, and
do establish etheric links, and build up channels through
which they can prepare the world for the so-called
" Pentecostal Flame" or World Illuminism, which is to
bring about the Grand Orient Jud~o "U'niversal Re-
public."
Now, the Stella Matutina and the R.R. et A.C. have
for hidden masters a head and Twelve Brethren, as we
shall see later, working under him.
In Jane Lead's Prophecies, 168i-1704, which are
Rosicrucian and Illuminism, and closely correspond to
the S.1\1. teaching, and are, .with their seyen successive
Prophets the inspiration of the present Panacea Society,
we find: " He (the Master) will now also elect and assign
TWELVE principal persons as the foundation builders
. . . as directed from their principal Head: and so to go
on, to multiply the number of disciples, till they are
numberless." The Prophecies concern a Second Advent.
\Vith regard to the use of I John, Mrs. Nesta
\\Tebster, in her Secret Societies and Subversive Move-
mettfs, writes:
"Thus Dr. Ranking, who has deyoted many years of study
to the question ... in a yery interesting paper published in the
masonic journal, 'Ars Quatuor Coronatorum,' observes: 'That
f rom the yery commencement of Christianity there has been trans-
mitted through the centuries a body of doctrine incompatible with
Christianity in the yarious official Churches. That the bodies
teaching these doctrines profess to do so on the authority of
St. John. to whom, as they claimed, the true secrets had been
committed by the Founder of Christianity, that during the Middle
Ages, the main support of the Gnostic bodies and the main re-
pository of this knowledge (Johannism) was the Society of the
Templars.' And he further said, 'The record of the Templars
in Palestine is one long tale of intrigue and treachery on the part
of the Order.' "
Many of the groups of to-day believe themselves to
be in direct communication with Christ!
Again she quotes Lecouteulx de Canteleu: "In
France the Knights (Templars) who left the Order,
henceforth hidden, and so to speak unknown, formed the
Order of the Flaming- Star and of the Rose-Croix, which
in the fifteenth century spread itself to Bohemia and
Silesia."
Curiously enough the symbol of the Stella Matutina
Is the Fiye-pointed Star, and that of the R.R. et A.C.
the six-pointed Star and the Rose-Cross.
Further, she tells us that in the "Me1chisedeck
Lodges," the Rose-Croix degree, occupies the most im-
portant place. That the Order was usually described as
the· "Asiatic Brethren," of which the centre was in
Vienna, though its· real origins are obscure.
120 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
THE STELLA MATUT1NA 121
"Their further title of 'Knights and Brethren of St. John
the Evangelist" suggests Johannite inspiration. . .. de Luchet,
who as a contemporary was in a position to acquire first-hand
information, thus describes the organisation of the Order which,
it will be seen, was entirely Judaic. 'The superior direction is
called the small and constant Sanhedrim of Europe . . . the Order
has the true secrets and the explanations, moral and physical, of
the hieroglyphics of the very venerable Order of Freemasonry.'
The initiate has to swear absolute submission and unswen'ing
obedience to the Laws of the Order. . . . '\\"ho,' asks de Luchet,
, gave to the Order these so-called secrets? That is the great and
insidious question for the secret societies. But the initiate who
remains, and must remain eternally in the Order, never finds this
out; he dare not even ask it. He must promise never to ask it.
In this way, those who narticipate in the secrets of the Order
remain the masters.''' (See Dr. Felkin's pledge to the Third
Order in 1909.)
This is profoundly true of present-day secret
societies. In Jane Lead's Prophecies, they speak of the
"Upper Court and Council," and we read: "In order
unto the rising-up to the successiye degrees of the Mel-
chisedeck Order, the whole burnt-offering is required."
In the S.M. we find a special ritual for the im'ocation of
l\1elchisedeck, and also a higher Grade in the R.R. et A.C.
As the Count de' Saint-Germain said of his Melchisedeck
Priesthood: " You shall guide the course of stars, and
those who rule empires shall be goyerned by you." Is
this not equally true of these secret societies to-day, or
at least the power that is working through them?
Further, Mrs. Nesta Vlebster writes with reference
to "the Master" of Mrs. Besant's Co-Masonry:
" But in the third degree the astonishing information is con-
fided with an appearance of great secrecy, that he is no other than
the famous Cornte de Saint-Germain, who did not really die in
1784. but is still alive to-day in Hungary under the name of
Ragocsky ... the Master is in reality. an Austrian of royal birth."
In Eliphas Levi's H1'story of Magic a note says:
" Saint-Germain testified on his part . . . that he was
the son of Prince Ragocsky of Transylvania."
Now it is interesting to note among the Orders of
to-day how closely the dates of their various consumma-
tions correspond:
Theosophists and Order of the Stm' £11- the East-
1926. The Coming \\TorId Teacher supported by twelve
Apostles. He has come and gone and failed to captivate
or convince the V'/orId!
5.111. alld the R.R. et A.C.-1926 to 1933-5. Re-
incarnation of Christian Rosenkreutz, with a probable
support of tv,'e!ye priests.
Panacea So6ety--1923-7. Second Advent sup-
ported by tweh'e women Apostles.
Spiritualists-1925-8. A catastrophe leading to a
purged and purified world and Church! A new Heaven
and a new Earth!
Must we not therefore conclude that all these Moye-
Dents are but "channels II used by the "Great \Alhite
Lodge "~r is it ;1 the small and constant Sanhedrim"
of the Learned Elders of Zion ?-to bring about \\TorId
Domination by the Jews-for they decree, "The Law
must be fulfilled! "
Here is another piece of significant pictorial teach-
ing given to Dr. Felkin in 1916 by his Arab Master. It
depicts the great \\TorId \;York by these hidden masters,
as accomplished in Russia to-day, and now being
attempted among all other races and nations-it is
",Vorld Reyolutionary Initiation; it is the solve and
coagula-the destruction and reconstruction-of Illumin-
ised Grand Orient Jud<eo-Masonry; for "everything,
yes, everything must be destroyed, since everything must
be remade." It is the establishment of the Kingdom of
Adonai, the Jewish Lord of the Universe, built upon the
ruins.of _all old civilisations.
122 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
" It is the picture of a woman, weeping and seated-she is the
Spirit of Earth. Behind her is anoth.er figure in flowing robes; he
is Adonai, the Lord of the Universe. His arms are stretched out,
a.nd a crown is on his head; in his left hand is a sword pointing
upwards 'with drops of blood running down the blade to the hilt.
In his right hand is a cup, and from the cup blood is spilling,
falling on to the woman's green robe. The figure behind holds
the cup to the woman's lips; she drinks and her tears fall into
the cup; he turns the sword and drives it through her side so that
it transfixes her. As he does this, still holding the cup to her lips,
his arms embrace her, and one, or both is saying: • I am thou, and
THE STELLA MATUTINA 123
wheresoever thou seekest thou shalt find me.' And the two figures
seem to dissolve into LIGHT and one tremendous and glorious
figure emerges."
This initiation can be individual as well as universal,
and we have seen how such initiation means untold suf-
fering and sacrifice and loss of one's personality; out of
it emerges a mere lifeless illuminised automaton.
The following somewhat recondite cabalistic teach-
ing was given to Mathers, one of the early Chiefs, by
the tl Hidden and Secret Chiefs," and was passed on to
Dr. Felkin by the then Chief of Amen Ra Temple,
Edinburgh. It is a curious description of how a Triad
or Triangle of adepts, forming an etheric link, bringing
into action "reciprocal vibrations" with the hidden
masters, were to transmit their influences and control
the Order. It is given here for the benefit of the few
who may be able to follow it, as it explains what happened
later when the masters attempted to establish such a
Triangle of Power in the R.R. et A.C. in 1917-19. For
those who cannot, or do not care to, follow, it may be
passed over.
THE LAW OF THE CONVOLUTED REVOLUTION OF THE FORCES
SYMBOLISED BY THE FOUR ACES AROUl\D THE
NORTHERN POLE
" . In the book T. (the Tarot) it is written, 'Also the
Dragon (i.e. Draco the constellation of the Northern Pole of the
Heavens) surroundeth the pole of KETHER of the celestial
Heavens: It is furthennore laid down that the four Forces sym-
bolised by the four Princesses or Amazons rule the celestial
heavens from the North P61e of the Zodiac unto 45 ·degrees of Lat.
North of the ecliptic, and .from the Throne o~ the four Aces which
rule in KETHER. And again it is stated that the Throne of the-
.Ace of Cups Head of Draco.
Ace of Swords = Fore part of the body.
Ace of Pentacles = Hind part of the body.
Ace of Wands Tail of Draco.
"Regard thou therefore the form of this Constellation of
..Draco. It is convoluted in four places answering to the rule of
the Aces. For in the four Forces of Yod, He, Vau, He, fire and
124 LIGHT-BE.J\RERS OF DARKNESS
v,-ater be contrary and also earth and air be contrary. And the
Throne of the elements will attract and seize, as it were, the
force of the element, so that herein be the forces of antipathy and
sympathy, or what are known chemically as repulsion and attrac-
tion....
" It is said KETHER is in MALKUTH and again that MALKUTH
is in KETHER, but after another manner. For downwards through
the four worlds the MALKUTH of the less material will be linked
into the KETHER of the more material. From the synthesis of the
ten corruscations of the AUR proceedeth the influence into ...
the KETHER of ATZILUTH, and the connecting link or thread of
the AIN SOPH is extended through the worlds, through all the ten
sephiroth and in every direction. . .. Now the symbol of the
connection between the MALKUTH of YETZIRAH (mental) and the
KErHER of ASSIAH (material) will be of a form somewhat re-
sembling an hour-glass, the thread of the AIN SOPH, before
alluded to, traversing the centre thereof and forming the connec-
tion between the worlds. So that the symbol of the connection
between the planes is this, and also the modus opera.Hdi of the
translation of the force from one plane to another is this. And
hence does the title of the sphere of KETHER of ASSIAH signify
commencement of the whirling motion.
From the diagram of the hour-glass symbol it will be manifest
that the MALKUTH of YETZIRAH will be the transmitter of the
Yetziratic forces unto KETHER of ASSIAH, that the latter will be
the recipient thereof, and that the hour-glass symbol or double
cone will be the translator from the one plane unto the other.
Hence therefore let us consider the nomenclature of the tenth path
(answering unto MALKUTH) and of the first path (answering unto
KnHER).
" The tenth path answering unto MALKUTH :
" , It is called the Resplendent Intelligence, and it is so called
because it is exalted above every head and sitteth on the
Throne of BINAH, and it illwnineth the splendour of all the
Lights and causeth the current of the influence to flow from
the Prince of COuntepances' (i.e. Mettatron or the .~rd of'
Light).
"The first path answering unto KETHER:'
" ~ It is called the wonderful or hidden intelligence (the
highest Crown). For it is the Light to cause to understand
the Primordial without commencement, and it is the Primal
Glory-for nothing created is worthy to follow out its
essence.'
.. Whence it is plain that MALKUTH is as it were the collector
and synthesis of all the forces in its place or world: while RETHER,
being superior to all, also in its place and world, will be the re-
cipient and airanger of the forces from the plane beyond, so as to
THE STELLA MATUTINA 125
distribute them into its subordinate sephiroth in a duly ordered
manner.
(I And therefore any force of the multitudinous and innumer-
able forces in MALKUTH may act through the upper cone of the
hour-glass symbol, and by means of the lower cone translate its
operation into the KETHER below, but its mod~ of transmission
will be through its cones by the thread of the AIN SOPH or of the
unformulated. So that in the transmission between the two worlds
the formulate must first become unformuIate ere it can reformu-
late in new conditions (death and disintegration!) . For it must
be plain that a force formulated in our world if translated into
another will be unformulated according to the laws of a place
different in nature, even as water in its fluid state will be subject
to different laws to those governing it when in the conditions
either of ice or steam.
" And as before said, there being a chief elemental division
of the sephira MALKt:TH in the !\lINt:Tt:~f Mt:KDt:lIf diagram,
each of these will have its co-relative formula of transmission unto
the succeeding KETHER. Hence is there the dominion of the four
knaves or Princesses of the Tarot around the North Pole in the
book T. attributed unto the Heayens-(The triangle and Unity).
"Now as KETHER has to receive from MALKUTH, it is neces-
sary that in and about KETHER there should be a force which par-
taketh of the 11ature of MALKt:TH, though more subtle and refined
in nature, and therefore is it that the final' He' or Princess forces
have their dominion placed above KETHER, that so they may
attract from the MALKUTH of the higher and form the basis of
action for the Aces. So that a refined matter may attract its like,
and that the spiritual forces may not lose themselves in the void
and so produce but a mistaken and whirling destruction for want
of a settled basis. And herein is the mutual formula in all things,
of a spirit and of a body, seeing that each supplieth unto each
. that wherein the other is lacking. Yet herein also must there be a
certain condition, otherwise the harmony will not be perfect, for
unless the body be refined in nature it will hinder the action of
the spirits cognate. unto it; and unless the spirit be willing to
ally itself to the body the latter will be injured thereby, and each
will naturally react· on the other. . .. But it is as necessary to
govern the spirit as to refine the body, and of what use is it to
weaken the body by abstinence if at ·the same time uncharitable-
ness and spiritual pride are encouraged. It is simply translating
one sin into another, and therefore are the final • He' forces
necessary in KETHER as it is said in the tenth path of YETZIRAH,
• It is so called because it is exalted above every head and sitteth
on the Throne of BINAH.' Now, in the Tree the sephiroth
CHOK14AH and BINAH are referred unto the BRIATIC world which
~s called the Throne of the Atziluthic world, unto which KUHER
IS referred in the Tree, and referring unto the dominions of the
126 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
four Princesses, thou shalt find that in the sphere they include
CBOKMAB and BINAB as welI as KETBER.
" Now there will be not one but four formula:: of the applica-
tion of the four forces of MALKUTH into the revolution of the
ACE in KETHER, and these acting not singly but simultaneously
and with a different degree of force. And seeing that while (were
~ALKt:TH and KETHER in the same plane or world) the trans-
mission of these forces from the one unto the other would proceed
more or less in direct lines, in this case (seeing that MALKUTB
and KUBER be in different planes and worlds) the lines of trans-
mission of these forces are caught up and whirled about by the
upper cone of the hour-glass symbol into the vortex, where and
through passeth the thread of the unformulate-i.e. Am
SOPH (etheric link). Thence they are projected in a whirling
convolution (yet according unto their nature) through the lower
cone of the hour-glass symbol unto KETHER. Hence it resulteth
that these formulce are of the nature of the Dragon or Serpe?lt;
that is to say, moving in convolutions, and hence are they called
the Dragon or Serpent formula:: (winged, air; finned, water; or
footed, earth).
H Another action of the forces of :!\1ALKUTH of YETZIRAH
transmitting into KETHER of ASSIAB will be that of continued
....ibratory ra)'s acting from the centre of the circumference, and
that bringing into action the forces from the Thread of the un-
formulate (AIX SOPH).
" Recall that which is written in the chapter of the Chariots,
Ezekiel Iv. 5-6:
, And I beheld, and lo! a tempestuous whirlwind came out
from the north, and a mighty cloud and a fire violently whirl-
ing upon itself and from the midmost as an eye of brightness
from the midst of the fire, and from the midmost forms of
four chariots.' "
This' then is the method whereby these devilish
Masters of the Cabala wor.k on the mentaJ or astral plane,
forming etheric links through which they can act upon
an Order and again through it directly upon the world.
An example of how this was attempted in the R.R. et
A.C. will be giYen shortly, showing how these masters
sought to form a Triangle of adepts "KETHER,
CHOKMAH, and BINAH, through which their EYE of
Power was to manifest. But first the Triangle was to
become, as it were, an " empty vessel," which was to be
filled with astral. light-illuminised-a dynamo, con-
densing and projecting the Masters' forces, receiving
THE STELLA MATUTINA 127
their instructions, and like automata passing them on
to those around them. In this way, like an epidemic or
like wild fire, these teachings and forces spread along the
magnetic chain, orienting an Order, group, nation, and
the world. It is a devilish scheme which could only be
evolyed out of a cabalistic mind.
But first let us attempt the difficult task of explain-
ing this universal ether or life-force which is the basis
of their power.
A candidate wh.en desiring to enter the Stella
Matutina must sign a form of personal consent and
secrecy, in which the aim of the Order is stated to be
" spiritual development "-that is, awakening the inner
senses. And they are further told that the reason for
this secrecy is that the teaching can be used either for
black or white magic, and would therefore become a
danger if made generally h.-nown. The great aim, how-
ever, of all these secret societies is to train the member to
let go his hold on material things, and function con-
sciously on the astral plane; for only on that plane can
these diabolical masters, without betraying themselves,
contact, influence, link together, and use adepts in their
secret universal plans. In the early grades of the S.:M'.
neophytes are given meditations, breathing exercises, and
processes brought over from Germany by E.O.L., the
adept who had been trained there to act as etheric link
between the German body and the Order in England.
These arouse and raise the unused sex-forces, the Kun-
?alini or U serpent within" the adept, and awaken the
mner senses.
- - Some little time before entering the Inner Order,
the adept is taken a stage farther i~ this astral develop-
ment; he is initiated into the mysteries of Tatwic vision,
?- form of Yoga. Briefly, according to the yogis, there is
In the Universe a Great Breath or Swara--evolution and
involution; it is the universal creative principle or life-
force.. It is PingalaJ
the positive or Sun breath, IdaJ
the
negative or Moon breath, and SusumnaJ
the uniting or
dest~oying fire. It is the Serpent Power or Triangle of
tnanifestation in all creation. Within the adept it is the
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
Kundalini, and the merging of this with the universal
life-force without, Nirvana, is the end of all yoga.
Further, there are five modifications of this Great
Breath, called Tatwas, ethers, or refined matter, each
ha\·ing distinct vibrations, different.functions, a different
form and sense; each of these is again charged in turn
with all five. They are akin to ether and the four
elements-the Pentagram.
They are: (I) A kasa-ether (called spirit), dark,
egg-shaped: sound. (2) Vayu-gaseous, air, blue
sphere: touch. (3) Tegas-igneous, fire, red triangle:
sight. (4) A pas-liquid, water, silver crescent: taste.
( 5) Pritltivi-solid, earth, yellow square: smell. All
lour states of terrestrial matter exist in our sphere-
and each is constantly invading the domain of the other,
and thus we get what is called the mixed or intercharged
Tatwas. These Tatwas or breaths flow in regular rota-
tion throughout the nervous system of the human body
exactly as in the universe without-as above so below.
Rama Prasad, in a book, Nature's Finer Forees,
written for the Theosophists in 1889, tells us that the
whole process of creation, on whatever plane of life, is
performed by these Tatwas in their aspects of negative
and positive, and that everything in every aspect that has
been or is in being on our planet has a legible record on
the ether. He further says that at will "the practised
yogi can bring any picture of any part of the world, past
or present, before his eyes," and " a yogi in contempla-
tion might have before his mind's eye any man at any
distance whatsoever, and might hear his voice ats.Q";
that it only requires sympathetic minds-that is, tuned to
the same key. He calls it "the phenomena of mental
telegraphy, psychometry, clairvoyance, and clairaudience,
etc." Also reciprocal vibrations. Again, we are told in
a S.M. MS.: "The student will by degrees become able
to look into futurity at will, and have all the visible world
before his eyes, and he will be .able to command Nature;
this power also lays bare the secret workings of the
world." By the power of this life-force, willed and
directed and controlled by an adept, "an enemy may be
THE STELLA MATUTINA 129
destroyed, power, wealth, pleasure, etc., obtained." Also
it can cause or heal disease, and by it hypnotic control
can be exercised. And by this power apathy can
be engendered in any body or group, a form of mass
hypnotism! In these orders the use of this power is
always controlled by the masters!
These, then, are the forces used in all illuminised
groups to bring about $o-..called spiritual development and
attainment, and by these forces and its profound know-
ledge of their potentialities, this mysterious centre seeks
to influence the mind and actions of the adept, not for
the good of humanity, but for its enslavement. Always
in the Stella Matutina the adept is assured that as long
as he remains within the Order, using Order methods, no
evil can befall him! In this Order these coloured Tatwa
symbols, with their corresponding forrnulce and cabalistic
divine names, which are potent astral forces, are used to
obtain astral vision according to the nature of the Tatwa,
always using incense to help to loosen the astral from
the material body. At first these visions are vague and
slight, but grow in clarity and seeming reality as the
adept develops, until suddenly one day, from apparently
nowhere, a mysterious brown-habited monk or brother,
a guardian of the Order, a master, or even a false Christ,
appears and takes charge of the astral expedition, ca.rry-
ing the adept away perhaps to some isolated monastery,
rocky stronghold, temple, gloomy cavern, or even to the
North Pole! where some sinister and magical rite is
generally performed and instructions given symbolically
or ip. words. These astral adventures continue and grow-
·in intensity until gradually the adept's outlook on life· is
oriented towards these masters' world schemes, and the
niche·he himself is to occupy. .
The dangers to the .adept's· individuality and men-
!a1ity are indeed great and very real. For instance,-two
Inner adepts, who knew nothing of Dr. Fe1kin's Arab
Master, by means of these Tatwas found their way, time
and again, to an isolated monastery perched high up on
a rocky precipice overlooking a somew4at turbid stream,
and before entering the monastery they had to give a
130 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
sign of recognition which later proved to be that of the
Arab Master! \Vithin the monastery an attempt was
made to obsess one or both of these adepts, and who is
to say that they were not eventually controlled by that
master? They both continued for long these astral visits,
and remained faithful instruments when others doubted
and departed! Other adepts using the same Tatwa
arrived apparently at the same monastery, where they
were shown the pastos, or tomb, in which lay, they were
told, the Master who had been slain! No doubt
Adoniram or Hiram, the Master of the Templars whose
death was always celebrated by the Templars, as a pledge
of vengeance! Dr. Felkin wrote that he had also
astrally visited this same monastery!
In time this work becomes as the intoxication of
hashish, inciting an eternal craving for more and ever
more astral dreams and gymnastics, and gradually the
adept's own personality becomes withdrawn, life becomes
shadowy, the masters dominate his every thought and
act, he becomes their instrument, carrying out their
sinister, deceptive, and often little understood commands.
This is "liberation" or freedom within these Orders,
and, like the Russian Khlysty with their " fervour," life
to the adept soon becomes dead without astral excitement.
It becomes his life-work and even his religion!
Throughout the whole history of the R.R. et A.C.
we find contrQlled " channels," forming etheric links with
these hidden masters, who _
are almost invariably, men-
tally and physically worn down, by way of trials and
tests, until absolutcfty_~auste.d tlley clutch at th~ " peace_
and rest u-self-immolation and enslavement-::-offered
by their ambitious, fanatica11
and devilish torturers. ---
Dr. Felkin, in his already quoted history, writes:
"Frater F.R. (Dr. Felkin) , 1910, was able to introduce
E.OL. (who was abroad seeking health) to the members of the
Third Order (in Germany). These Fratres then said that in
order to form a definite etheric link between themselves and Great
Britain it was necessary for a Frater from Great Britain to be
under their instructions for a year.. -.. Frater E.O.L. decided
that he woul~ place himself under the instruction of the 'Third
Order. He commenced his teaching at once, and after residing for
THE STELLA MATUTINA
some time in North Germany and Austria, he was sent for a time to
Cyprus. He was then sent to Egypt, then to Mount Carmel, and
should have gone to Damascus, but did not. He was then sent to
Ccnstantinople (where he was in close touch with the 'Young
Turk Party! '), and finally returned to Germany, where, having
passed his tests, he was initiated by special dispensation into the
first few grades of the Rosicrucian Society, corresponding to our
6-5·"
Although the German Third Order was supposed to
be training E.O.L., we find the ubiquitous Arab teacher
saying, January 29, 19II: "E.O.L. will get all he can _
from Steiner, and we will find someone else in process of
time." And again, July 5, 19II:
"He is following after his own desires instead of the quest
which was set before him. He ought to have gone to Damascus,
but he cannot be driven; he received the messages which were
given him, and he has not accepted them. The Arab will make
one more effort and try to bring him in contact with someone in-
Constantinople, but it will be more difficult, and the result will be
more than doubtful."
November 26, 19II, we find the Arab forming a
group of the RR et A.C. members to attract and bring
down the forces, and so fix the Light in the Order as a
material basis for his world work:
It is similar to the Druidic circles:
". . . around the symbol (in the centre) was gathered the Inner
group (seven planets or aspects of solar force) from which arises
the LIGHT or flame, but that light will only bum steadily if each
member contributes his own share of the necessary energy or fuel.
. " Each has his own element to give, and without each the fire
cannot burn. But the outer group (Zodiac signs) is in part a
shelter-to the inner, ~d a source of energy to the inner mem~s
and to fan the flame. - Imier members-are to draw from them... ."
E.O.L. was given the symbol of Luna-the waxing
and waning moon of Baphomet of the Templars. Ap-
parently he was to be the negative, vessel which was to
receive the LIGHT from the masters and transmit it to the
Order-the etheric link. He had evidently been brought
to such a condition of depletion and depression that the
Arab warned him:
({ R.O.L. is consuming his forces by misdirected energies
(asserting his own individuality!) ; his time has not yet come, but
he is attracting the destructive forces instead of repelling them,
and unless he ceases to do this he will die before his time, thereby
missing the fulfilment of his destiny and vocation. . .. Forcibly
ejecting the demon of melancholy which is attracting the outward
form of death ... he must substitute a centre of Light in its
place, and then he wiII attract the forces of life and get weI!."
\\That of the malignant and negative forces of his
symbol Luna? And further, there were to be pairs of
adepts and E.O.L's opposite" should be someone of very
intense vitality from whom E.O.L. can draw force when
necessary." In other words, KO.L. was to obey his
bandmaster and become his " vessel of Light," and thus
this master builder sought to build his "Temple of
Living Stones! "
On the eve of Dr. Felkin's first visit to New
Zealand in the autumn of 1912, KO.L., who, though still
in ill-health, \vas to take over charge of the Order during
Dr. Felkin's absence, suddenly and unexpectedly died.
The Arab was greatly upset, for his devili:sh game had
gone awry; and he said there was no reason for his death,
he simply let go and slipped out! Was that all? The
Arab, however, declared that E.O.L.'s work was not yet
finished; like Christian Rosenkreutz, he would in time
find and take possession of an adult body, ousting the
rightful owner, and in it he would fulfil his inter-
rupted destiny! Later, Dr. Felkin was told that he
must find someone else to take E.O.L.'s place as etheric
link!
In reading these authentic accounts of the inner
workings of these illurniniseg orders it is well to bear in
mind-as one explanation of the mystery of the directing
power-what Hoene Wronski wrote in 1823-5, as shown
in Mysticism and Magie at the beginning of this book:
.. Secret societies which have -existed and still exist on
our globe . . . which, controlled from this mysterious
source, have dominated and notwithstanding Govern-
ments continue to dominate the world . . . all parties,
political, religious, economic, and literary." This centre,
as many writers, and even Jews, point out, is "the
supreme arid Invisible Hierarchy ?f Cabalistic Jews."
132 LIGHT-BEARERS OF D:\RK~ESS
THE STELLA MATUTINA 133
The Orders controlled all claim to be working to the end
of leading the world into " Peace and Light"; but they
all gamble with the lives and souls of their members,
while never admitting them into the inner circle. .
It is a queer and almost incredible story, and can
only be sketched here, how another adept of the R.R. et
A.C. was chosen, and though rebellious was t( shaped and
hewn," battered and bruised, in an attempt by these
masters to fill E.O.L.'s place as etheric link in th~ Order.
Dr. Felkin, before finally returning to New Zealand in
1916, as we have seen, under these masters' directions
drew up a New Constitution, and he attempted to include
in it a « Delphic Oracle," adepts who were to be the
vehicle through which these masters were to work upon
the Order and issue commands. But this was Yetoed by
the committee. Three Ruling Chiefs were appointed,
one of whom only had been trained in magic, the other
two were clergymen (one of whom resigned about 1919),
who \\'ere to carry Order teachings into healing, re-
ligious, social, and ethical problems. Dr. Felkin made
the 'Var the excuse for not entering into details con-
cerning his claimed German authority, but he retained
nevertheless his office as High Chief in London.
The legacy left to the Ruling Chiefs by Dr. Felkin's
rule, .which was no rule, was far from enviable, and
Dr. Felkin was aware of this himself. '\That followed
was an illustration of the methods described by the
Protocolists: C( It is imperative in all countries to disturb
continually the relationship which exists between people
and Governments." And so with Orders! - The Arab
Master, speaking to Dr. Felkin of the dissensions in the
London Temple said, December 1918: U They must pass
through a time of conflict before they enter the House
of Peace," the C( giant harrow" again preparing the
ground! Before Dr. Felkin had left England, and up to
the closing of the Temple in 1919, the Order was rent
by dissensions, jealousies, underground whisperings, and
open strife and rebellion, which apparently was to lead
to that peace which meant unconditional and willing
surrender to the masters and their work.
134 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
The masters were, however, determined to have
their oracle, and this was to be a Triangle of Adepts,
as the Serpent Power, manifesting their forces and
teachings in the Order. This was to be brought about
by means of psychic fluidic exchanges, as spoken of in
~f. Henri de Guillebert's Studies £,1, Occultism. Accord-
ing to him the Master and adept or adepts would be in
the position of hypnotist and subject under hypnosis, and
the completion of that state would be for the adept, " the
final annihilation of his personality, the destruction of
his chief attribute."
To bring about this polarity and consummation the
mind of the adepts had first to be oriented. For this
purpose in the RR et A.C. early in 1917 messages from
these hidden masters suddenly poured forth almost daily;
the language was cabalistic, dignified, and beautiful,
though at times arrogant and dominant. They created
an atmosphere, they awakened an expectation, and in
19J9 the consummation -was definitely said to be a Great
Jnitiation. As a preparation for this Initiation, three
;<depts were formed into a Triad or Triangle, and sym-
bolically placed upon the cabalistic Tree of Life, as
KETHER, CHOKMAH, and B1NAH, as in that curious
teaching previously given, "the Law of the Convoluted
Revolution of the Forces," so that the forces from the
?\fasters should be attracted from above by a refined
material basis, and flow down through it into the
Order, forming an etheric link with these Hidden
Powers.
__ -=- ..-The refining - process brought many unexpected -
troubles said by the masters to be naught but te$ts in
preparation for some wonderful consummation. As
these Po-wers said: " Learn that which thou hast to learn
and all will be well!" which meant absolute obedience
and willing sacrifice of anything and everything de-
manded.
Always comparing them with the teaching on the
revolution of the forces, witness the messages given by
the Lord of Light, or "Prince of Countenances." and
his Twelve Brethren:
THE STELLA MATUTINA 135
"Oh, ye Children, indeed are ye the three chosen for my
work. Ye are the Love, the Power, and the Perfect Reconcilia,-
tion, and to ye shall come the Perfect Unit~(Four Princess
forces).
" The day of disintegration and death lieth indeed before you,
but fear it not. ye have passed beyond the harming power of death
and only the final test remains. Unharmed and unhurt shall ye
pass the barrier, the veil is thinning, urge ever upwards to the
Light...."
The trained Ruling Chief was to be the apex, the
etheric link; as Dr. Felkin wrote, March I I, 19I 7: " You
are the chief channel now in Anglia."
"Learn of your colours, for ye must now use them.
"To you who standeth in the east (the Chief-KETHF.R) has
the colour of Unity been given, for in it blendeth the Fire and
Water, and from it proceedeth the Spirit (astral light) presiding
over all. Ever in thy work use well this colour, that from the
multifarious claims of matter may arise the union of and with the
pure spirit. Let thy watchword be Unity, one and alone--for one
is thy Lord, and ye must unite ever with Him. Ye the receiver
and transmitter of the contending forces must be indeed the Pure
White S pint enclosed in the unity of colour."
Ruby is the colour of Unity, and the above means
the fixation of the astral light in the purified body of the
Chid, controlled by the Lord and Master !-Illuminism.
" Ye, oh Child, who standeth in the left basal angle (Br:!"AH)
have received the colour of pure Love (blue), the waters of love
flowing down to purge the evil world. Ever encompass the world
with thy colour, get it in the Vault, and use it freely ever and
anon: all need the divine love, so use it ever freely and fear not."
Here w.e have a deadly negative force let loose over-
the world, false pacifism and blindness, lack of fighting
force, creating no doubt a form of apathy necessary for
domination! .
"To ye, my child (CHOKMAH), has the colour of negation
and strength (purple) been given, for ye must ever lead upwards
the so~l of t~e multitude to the perfe:t offering of pure negation
and WIth thIS your colour ye can gIve strength to the halting
ones." (A form of false idealism!)
"When consciously ye meet, let thy colours merge with the
pure whiteness of the Christ (astral light) and then let the blend-
Ing form a link wherewith to encompass the world."
136 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
The three form the negative and positive forces
united by the apex, it is the magnetic chain of influence.
" Yea, ye have indeed brought down the spirit into the
material."-Illuminism!
"Ye, my Child (BINAH) must ever consciously rest at the
Master's feet, for ye are the messenger of the gods."
The scribe and receiver of the instructwns.
"To ye, oh Ath (Air. CHOKMAH), have I other words to
say; rest consciously indeed in my presence, but be ye not a mes-
senger but a carrier."
Tral1S11l£tter of the forces and instructions.
" \Vork other and mightier have I for your Chief (KETHER),
but of it the Chief shall learn in the coming silence, when ye shall
all enter into the vast majesty and purity of God."
After the ceremony of Initiation and Illuminism!
"Ye (KETHER) form the apex of the Triangle, and ye must
f.rst pass within the veil, that from the apex may shine down the
glorious beauty from the Father's face (the SUN is the Father).
In pure spirit (astral) must ye work upon the earth, for ye are a
reflection of that brightness (the Moon is the Mother and re-
producer) and purity which ever burns within the flame.
"Let the Triad shine forth in dazzling whiteness, the pure
basis on which the Son (the' Christ' or astral light) can manifest
to the world."
The IIluminised Instrument!
The Chief, by a H compelling force," was induced
to enter the Anglican Church, partly in order to establish
confi~ence among the dtrn whom the masters hoped to
entangle in their net~ meralso to create the necessary
uplift and atmosphere in which to fix the etheric link.
Before the attempted Great Initiation, as usual with
oracles of the Illuminati, the Chief was told: CI A
Guardian of the Order shall be given unto thee who will
never leave thee!" The Chief was to be under the
Master's constant supervision, having no will or thought
but theirs, and no individual initiative.
The two basal anps. (approved by Dr. Felkin,
:May J 4, 1919) lived more or less constantly on the astral
THE STELLA MATUTINA 137
plane, and as one of the previous chiefs had done, they
went to church to see visions, receive teaching, and per-
form rites as directed by these masters. In the Vault
(the power-house of these masters) they received astral
grades, and as tests were put through extraordinary
astral gymnastics. One of the final ceremonies was
given by the false "Christ" or Lord of Light and
his Twelve Brethren, and in this they had to take an
oath of fealty, secrecy, service, sacrifice, and absolute
obedience, and this had to be signed with their O\\'n blood
-a common rule among Illuminati and adepts of Black
Mass.
The Initiation was called the "Opening of the
Tomb "-Liberation, but-" free no: to use your free-
dom for yourselves but for ME." The password was
KADOSCH. The adept was to gaze fixedly at a six-rayed
star, projected by the Master, and pass through the fire
into the astral vault beyond. There an obligation of abso-
lute secrecy, obedience, and willing sacrifice was to be de-
manded by the so-called Christian Rosenkreutz, and he
and his T\'\'ehoe Brethren ,vould officiate at the ceremony.
Finally, the adept was to return to his body with the
power upon nim. Hypnotic control! Not until after
this initiation would the work required be made clear,
and then there would be no further need of the Church.
Suddenly, without warning, the Lord of Light and
his Twelve Brethren attempted to give the Chief this
Initiation. This was in a London church at the Tenebres
service, Thursday, April 17, 19i9. Easter is a special
time for Illuminati black magie. They said it meant
l( death and disintegration." Briefly, before the entrance
of the officiating clergy, the Chief saw in place of the
altar the great Vault of the inner Order-, into which the
Twelve Brethren, in black habitS with cowls over their
heads, were hurriedly entering, and almost at once a
d~zling light was focused upon the Chief, and above in
th~s astral fire was the Lord of Light. A sharp pain
seIze.d the heart, followed by a curious creeping faintness,
and It required all the Chief's determined will to prevent
complete trance, but a$ the clerC)' entered, graduall~' tl.~
138 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
light faded and the faintness passed. Next day the
~laster announced that the failure had been due to a
mistake on the part of one of the Brethren, for which
he had been riuly punished!
And once more the Master sent forth his messages:
"Ye have risen, but I have not used you freely because not
yet are ye able fully to fulfil my work, but gradually are the
limitations being purged away. The roses are blooming, but as
yet they are not white and clear, pure offerings meet to be accepted
at my Father's throne." (See the Tenth Path; also" Now in the
Tree the sepiroth CHOKMAH and BINAH are referred unto the
Briatic World which is called the' THRONE' of the Atziluthic
\Yorld, unto which KETHER is referred.")
" I that ~?eak am sent from the Lord of Light, the Incarnate
Son of God."
From the Transmitter .of the Astral Light! The
Gnostic Logos worshipped under the image of the
Serpent!
The Chief broke up the Triangle, and then followed
the most extraordinary astral persecution, unexpected
attacks, forces, overpowering scents and projections of
astral light, etc., all in an attempt to induce trance or
work upon the adepts physically and astrally in the hope
of controlling them and others through them. As the
?\faster said: " Round ye like a curtain spreads the power
from on high; can ye not see it and feel it? "
In reply to the Chief's request for enlightenment,
Dr. Felkin cabled from New Zealand: " Christian Father
reassures, hold fast, Ephesians vi. II-12. Letter follow-
ing." And the Christian'llather's (Rbsenkreutz) mes-
sage which followed was (July 10, 1919, in the N.Z.
Vault) :
" The messages of which you speak are true, but the channel
through which they come has been faulty. It must be that the
Powers of Light work through such vehicles as are available, and
ofttimes it happens that a shard is cast aside because of a flaw which
destroys its value. Nevertheless, the crystal vessel will be found
which, being filled with Light, shall shine out through the darkness.
• .. The source of evil is of little moment (the masters!), for it
can but find entrance through the weakness that lies within them-
THE STELLA MATUTINA 139
selves (want of blind faith!) Bid them be of good courage,
for their feet are set upon the Path. . . .
" The Brethren are indeed the Elder Brethren and the mes-
sengers of the Lord, but they are neither infallible nor do they
belong to the company of the gods. They are but men highly
advanced indeed, and waiting for the torch to be kindled in their
midst, yet are they not of those of whom ye know as Masters,
and it is not in their power either to kindle the torch nor yet to
say at what day or hour the flame of Pentecost shall descend. "
And Dr. Felkin added:
" Such attacks as those you have had are quite definitely an
attempt of evil forces to distract the soul in its ascent of the
Mountain. So soon as this aim is accomplished the attacks cease
(hypnotic control!). They are in themsel\'es a proof that the
teaching receiver is both good ::.nd highly important."
And he said you cannot be initiated without passing
into trance-true, but what does it lead to? \Vhen asked,
Cl \Vhat proof have you that the masters are not black
magicians? " the answer ,,-as, Cl How can you test astral
beings? you must have faith "-abnegation of the
reason! Further, Dr. Felkin advised:.
" I think it would be better if, instead of fearing imaginary
black Rosicrucians in Germany or elsewhere, you would con-
sciously endeavour to co-operate with the true Rosicrucians who
do undoubtedly exist (his German authority), and are seeking to
guide Central European thought into the Light; you would then
belong- to the Great \Vork for the world."
And as we have said, this gTcat Rosicruci1.n work
was to begin in Russia and is now spreading everyw.here !
As a final warning of coercion, .if need. be, the mas~ers
said: " If the Chiefs do not choose to walk in the Path
appointed, they must needs climb the Mountain of
Initiation through much trial anq tribulation! "
Still more dissatisfied, the two Chiefs demanded in-
vestigations, but Ur. Felkin and some of his followers,
adopting Illuminarf tactics, made every effort secretly
to discredit the two Chiefs and gain possession of the
Order documents. In 1916 these two Chiefs had received
~e ceremony of the '~Etheric link" from Dr. Felkin, a
ntual brought over from Germany. Later one of these
140 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
Chiefs died in a mental home, and the two basal angles
returned to Dr. Felkin and their Master!
The Order was to be a Centre of Light in London,
and they were told that shortly messengers of light would
appear in many parts of the city who would lead and
teach the people. Was this to be revolution? And
this subversive Order has not only temples in England
and New Zealand, but also in several great cities in
Australia!
In the Morning Post} July 14, 1920, "Cause of the
\Vorld Unrest," speaking of Revolutionary Masonry,
it said;
"When at length the candidate is admitted into the 30th
grade, and, after going through terrifying ordeals to test his
obedience and secrecy, becomes a Knight Kadosch, he learns that
it is no longer Adoniram or Hiram whose death cries for ven-
geance...."
\Ve conclude with a few significant sentences taken
from the catechism of the Knight Kadosch degree:
" Do you fully understand that this degree is llV[, like much
of so-called Masonry, a sham that means nothing and amounts to
nothing; . . . that what you are now engaged in is real, will
require the performance of duty, will exact sacrifice, will expose
you to danger, and that this Order means to deal with the affairs
of nations, and be once more a Power in the world? "
Further light is thrown upon this Kadosch degree
in an unfinished manuscript of the autobiography of
Pierre Fourrier Chappuy, who wa~ born in 1762 and
died in 1830 (see" Masonry and Revolution," Patriot)
August 5, 1926);
." We were in the spring of 1789. . .. I was the more
enthusiastic from the fact that those ideas were the same as I had
already absorbed in Freemasonry. . .. Prifie. always pride! This
it was which separated me from my God and from love of my
like, to create a divinity in my heart. which was nothing but a
livdy egoism, to which I referred and sacrificed all things. . . .
It was plainly the Society of the IUumina#. . .. It is no longer
unknown what are the spirit and objects of this sect which, after
uniting with the Freemasons and the impious of all countries, has
THE STELLA MATUTINA
set Europe on fire, and threatens more than ever at this time to
extinguish both Christianity and Monarchism . . . but I was far
away from the sixteenth, in which alone one learns the famous
secret. After having read what concerns this last grade, which is
that of Chevalier Kadosch-signifying regenerator-and the dis-
course made to the adept, I saw the light; and I understood per-
fectly and at once the symbols, formulre, and the tests which had
hitherto been enigmas for me. They are all allegories borrowed
from the procedure of the Templars, of which they are the
successors."
Who, with any insight, can hesitate to say that this
is the same canker which to-day, as in 1789, is corrupt-
ing our religious, social, and political1ife, and that within
these Rosicrucian and IlIuminised Orders this evil is
generated; that by means of their adepts, consciously or
unconsciously, this disintegrating cankerous growth is
carried and transmitted throughout our Empire and
among all nations.
In the 5-6 ritual of the R.R. et A.C. it is said:
"The Order of the Rose and Cross has existed from time
immemorial, and its mystic rites were practised and its wisdom
taught in Egypt, Eleusis and Samothrace, Persia, Chaldea, and
India, and in far more ancient lands. (It is the ancient worship
of the Serpent Power or Creative Principle.) "
Hippolytus (RefutationJ book v) tells us that the
Nasseni, a sect of Christian Gnostics, apparently of
Hebrew origin, derived their creed from the Cabala, and
worshipped the Logos, or soul of the world, under the
name and image of the Serpent-Hebrew N cuhashJ
which according tQ the cabalistic science of numbers, is
equivalent to M essiahJ the Christ (solar) of occult
societies.
. .. The Nasseni affirm concerning the • spirit of the seed' that
It is the cause of all existing things and·is the secret and unknown
mystery of the universe, concealed and revealed among the
Egyptians ... who confessedly were the first to proclaim to all
the rest of men the rites and orgies of all the ~ods as well as the
unspeakable mysteries of Isis."
This is the Kundalini or dual creative forces of
Nature, as described in Serpent Power and Tantra~
142 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
translated from the Sanskrit by Arthur Avalon. It is
the "Rye, Cye, the great unspeakable mystery of the
Eleusinian rites." Again;" Mercury (the Great
Hermes) is Logos . . . at once the interpreter and
fabricator of the things that have been, that are, and
will be." It is also the Cabalistic Adam Kadmon; the
Ben Adam as depicted on the pastos in the Vault of the
R.R. et A.C.; he is hermaphrodite, and is thus described
in the ritual:
II I beheld seven golden Light-bearers, and in the midst of
the Light-bearers one like unto Ben Adam clothed with a garment
down to the feet, and girt with a golden girdle. His head and his
hair were as white as snow, and his eyes as a flashing fire. His
feet were like unto fine brass, as if they burned in a furnace. and
his voice was as the sound of many waters. And he had in his
:-ight hand seven stars, and out of his mouth went the sword of
flame, and his countenance was as the sun in his strength."
Rere we have what would at first appear to be the
" Alpha and Omega" of the Apocalypse, but it is the
Gnostic Logos. On the pastas Ben Adam was placed on
the cabalistic Tree of Life, with the two pillars of Mercy
and Severity-the positive and negative forces--on
either side, and in the midst of the ten sephiroth and
twenty-two paths of the Jewish Cabala. The face was
that of the " Lord of Light," the transmitter of the ini-
tiating light to the individual or Order; it was arresting,
dark and sinister, full of a subtle magnetic and com-
pelling force. In the right hand were the seven geo-
metrical stars of the seven planets, the seven aspects of
the solar force, which united form the White Light ot
illuminism. Out of his mouth proceedeth the Flaming
Sword, it is the initiating or illuminising light.· The
whole represents the power of the Illuminati. Its name
is not the "\\ford of God" but the " Lost Word" of
illuminised Masonry, bringing wisdom, so.:called, from
the "unknown Chiefs."
Here we have without doubt Johannism, the clue
to the Templar heresy; it is Cabalistic and Gnostic,
luciferian and a perversion of Christian symbolism. It
is Baphomet! The badge by which the aspirant gains
THE STELLA MATUTINA 143
entrance into the inner Temple is this Serpent and the
Flaming Sword. It means arousing and raising the
Kundalini or unused sex-forces-the Serpent coiling
hither and thither, and its union with the power from
without-the descent of the Flaming Sword; producing
what is called the " Great Liberation," but controlled by
these sinister masters for their own ends.
Let us consider the "Smaragdine or hmerald
Tablet of Hermes." Mme. Blavatsky writes:
"Tradition declares that on the dead bOdy of Hermes, at
Hebron, was found by an initiate the tablet known as the Smarag-
dine. It contains in a few sentences the essence of Hermetic
wisdom. To those who read with their bodily eyes the precepts
",-ill suggest nothing new or e..xtraordinary, for it merely begins
by saying that it speaks not fictitious things, but that which is true
and most certain."
The precepts are:
"What is below is like that which is above, and
what is above is similar to that which is below to accom-
plish the wonders of one thing "-manifestation accord-
ing to principle.
" As all things were produced by the mediation of
one being, all things were produced from this one by
adaptation "-Life-force-ether.
"Its father is the Sun; its mother is the Moon."
The Sun was considered by ancient mages to be the great
magnetic well of the universe; he is the generator. He
is Osiris, the sun in his rising and setting. The Moon
is Isis, Mighty Mother, reproducing all principles.
Na!Ur,e ~ h~r vastness-The two contending forces.
"It is the cause of all perfection throughout the
whole earth "-The life-force-equilibrium.
"The power is perfect if it is changed into earlh ,-
-Fixation of the astral into' -a material basis or
" vehicle."
" Separate the earth from the fire, the subtile from
the gross, acting prudently and with judgment "-A
prepared and. purified material basis.
" Ascend with the greatest sagacity from the earth
to heaven, and then descend again to earth and unite
SpeakIng of the source of Necker's power about the
144 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
together the power of things inferior and superior; thus
you will possess the light of the whole world, and all
obscurity will fly away fro~ you "-The ascent of the
Kundalini or Serpent, and descent of the Flaming Sword,
producing Illumination, or illuminised instruments. Ac-
cording to Eliphas Levi, the secret of the Great Work
is the fixation of the astral light in a material basis, by
a sovereign act of will-for the Great Good or the Great
Evil; it is represented as a serpent pierced with an arrow.
It is the Sun, Moon, and uniting and destroying fire of
the" Serpent Power."
"This thing has more fortitude than fortitude
itself, because it will overcome every subtile thing and
penetrate eyery solid thing. By it the world was formed"
-Electro-magnetic forces, the" unbreakable chains" of
the " Protocols."
This mysterious thing is the universal magical
agent, the all-pervading ether, "which enters into all
magical operations of nature, and produces mesmeric,
magnetic, and spiritualistic phenomena." It is the OD
of the Jews, the astral light of the MClrtinists. As
Eliphas Levi has written: "It has been said that this
universal agent is a light of life by which animated beings
are rendered magnetic." And" the practice of that mar-
yellous Kabalah reposes entirely in the knowledge and
use of this agent." This, then, is the power which
renders the adept "a dynamo of ever-increasing power
and light."
In a curious pamphlet, dated about 1836, reprinted
in 1888 by the "Theosoph~~al_PublishingSociety-" (see
Patriot~ September 8, 1927), we read of this unseen
power: . .
" The pamphlet purports to have been written by the Wander-
ing Jew, and describes how at the fall of Jerusalem he took the
Hebrew Talisman, the signet of Solomon (interlaced Triangles)
from the Temple, and how by its power he secured the rise of the
Jews in all lands throughout history, -till by finance they obtained
entire control of the Gentile kings and rulers."
THE STELLA MATUTINA 145
time of the French Revolution, 1789, the Wandering Jew
says:
"It was I, it was the talismanic power which I gave him
for a brief breathing space, to inspire his friends with admiration
and his enemies with envy. I withdrew thai power and there arose
the scene of bloodshed and confiscation which was especially neces-
sary to enable my people to spoil all the nations of Europe. . . .
From the Revolution of France sprang bloody and expensive
wars."
We read of the sinister influence at that time of
Cagliostro and· Weishaupt's Illuminism. What was the
secret power behind them? And has not the Grand
Orient Judceo-Masonry, which was illuminised in March
1789, boasted of its power in bringing about "Three
Revolutions-1789, 1871, I9-?-Bull. Hebd., 1922."
Further, do not the" Protocols" say: "Tbc secret
Power will not mind changing its agents who mask it
. . . the masonic Lodge throughout the world un-
consciously acts as a mask for our purpose." It is
written in the Stella Matutina rituals: "The Light
shineth in the darkness, and the darkness comprehendeth
it not." How many among us recognise the power of
this sinister light, working secretly in and through the
darkness and death of World Revolution?
In the August 1928 occult issue of the Revue Il1ter-
nationale des Societes Secretes, M. Henri de Guillebert
gives the following interesting points on the Interlaced
Triangles known as Solomon's Seal:
It In synagogues, in front of sanctuariesLin.maso~cLodges,
in esoteric temples, are"shown two interlaced triangles, one white
the other black. It is the Seal of Solomon. The colour black
signifies that the object symbolised remains for ever in the dark-
ness within the body; it represents the. feminine. In the centre of
the figure, the symbolism of whose interlacing is apparent enough
t? make explanations unnecessary, is the great and mysterious
lingam.. " In the Sanskrit the word lingam signifies what is
~eant by the Latinised Greek word Phallus. . .. Its situation,
10 the middle of the interlaced black and white triangles, points
out, under another form, tl:te union of the sexes. Usually in the
upper and lower angles of Solomon's Seal are the letters--Alpha
and Omega. The sides of the triangles are enlarged in order to
III1
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
receive a letter inscribed at each of the four angles. These four
letters form the Hebrew word (Eheieh) initial and final, by
which Jeho\-ah taught Moses His incommensurable name: (I AM
that I Am:
"The syntactical union of this word with the letters Alpha
and Omega and the signs of the lingam, in the interlaced triangles
of Solomon's Seal, gives therefore the text: ' I lingam, I am Alpha
and Omega, the First and the Last, the eternal Pan.' For the
whole hieroglyphic indeed supposes that the motto 'I am Alpha
and Omega: is made actual by means of acts, phenomena of
human life or microcosm, and the total phenomenality or macro-
cosm (uniyerse) by the personified and deified lingam. The same
device is found among some sects under the form' Generation,
Creation.' To initiators, generation is an operation peculiar to
divinity, when accomplished by themselves or their initiates. It is
:he divine act par excellence. Man who gives himself up to it
E.."Xercises or usurps divinity."
Now, Eheiek is the password of the S-6 grade of
the R.R. et A.C.,--and in this ceremony the Chief Adept,
as representing .• the divine LA.G.," says: "I am the
First and the Last. I am He that liveth and was dead,
and behold I am alive for evermore, and I hold the key
of Hell and death."
In E1iphas Levi's History of Magic, a diagram is
shown of the "Great Symbol of Solomon," the inter-
laced triangles. This too has the lingam reflected in man
from the universe above, and the whole is encircled by
t..1-le serpent biting its tail-the symbol of the Kundalini.
The lower part of the Theosophical symbol, as we have
shown, is this interlaced triangle, also encircled by a
similar serpent, and having in its centre the ~gyptian
Ankh-the key of life-another form of the lingam; It
is the pathway to-initiation. In a curious book -em the
mysteries of.the Cabala we read:
"Eliphas Levi called this mystic seal the Great Arcanum,'
and in his version of the diagram a man and a woman occupy the
two interlacing triangles. The figure illustrates the following
passage from the ' Lesser Holy Assembly': ' So also here, where
the Male is joined to the Female, they J>oth constitute one complete
body, and an the universe is in a state of happiness because all
things receive blessing from their perfect body. And this is an
-arcanum.' ..
THE STELLA MATUTINA 147
In the celebration of the High Mass in the Universal
Gnostic Church, as given in the February 1928 occult
issue of the Re'"tJue I11tenzatiollale des Socihes Secretes,
the High-Priest thus im'okes their Lord LA.O.:
" Thou art unity. Thou art our Lord in the universe of the
Sun. Thou art our Lord within ourseh·es. Thv name is the
mystery of all mysteries. . .. Open the way and the door of
Creation, and the links between us and thou! Lighten our under-
standing. Enliven our hearts. Cause the light to penetrate into
our blood, to achieve realisation. All in [-<1.'0. Two in one. One
in nothinglless. Glory be to Father and to Mother, to son and
daughter, and the Holy Spirit without and uoithin. (The Tetra-
grammaton with the shin in the centre-Jehesuah.) Which was,
is, and shall be, world without end. Six in one through the names
of Seven in one. Ararita! Ararita! Ararita!" The High-
Priestess interposes with: "There is no other iaw than this, Do
what thou wilt and love under control."
It is also worth noting that in the R.R. et A.C., the
six-rayed star of interlaced triangles represents the seven
planetary forces; a planet at each angle with the Sun, of
which the others are but different aspects or manifesta-
tions, in the centre. It is thus used in invocations of
planetary forces, and the word" Ararita " is always used
in these invocations to symbolise the united force, one
letter being attributed to each planet as well as all to each,
the solar power working in and through each, a part of
the whole.
One must understand that these Orders are always
built up and worked on the principle of two contending
forces ever united by a third, producing manifestation
- -the eye in the centre of the Triangle. That is, spread-
ing the initiating- forces of these invisible cabalistic Jews
to bring about. their power and glory. It may mean
temporary power and even glory--·ul1der control-for
the adept, but eventually death'of his 0\VI1' personality.
He loses his birthright; his life becomes a twilight of
unreality.
In one of the late Donn Byrne's books, Brother
?aul~ a novel which depicts the life of Saul of Tarsus,
It is interesting tC' read of the duel of wills between Saul
and the black magician: Bar-Jesus.
148 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
Bar-Jesus boasts: " Satan or Adonai, I serve a God
and I have powers. I can make the ill well, and cast
out demons. I can foresee the future and retell the past.
I discover hidden treasure, and hinder armies. I invoke
and command the dead. But Saul, all you have is words,
empty promises." But Saul answers: " I have the power
of withstanding evil."
(Bar-Jesus' god is LA.O., and his power is the
power of the interlaced triangle!)
Then Bar-Jesus proceeds to display his evil powers
and says: " I will call up David, King of Israel." Four
young boys, his disciples, enter with sword, wand, and
crucible. "The boys were only alive by his wish. They
had no life of their own. Somehow they had come under
his power and he had eaten their li\-es. They were not
living; they were undead." That is under control or
obsessed! Then he took the sword and made a circle
enclosing all, and again a second, between the two, he,
with the point of the sword, wrote Hebrew letters, which
in themselves are potent powers. But Saul and Barnabas
stepped outside the circle, and remained there during the
evocation. With raised sword Bar-Jesus conjured and
exorcised in the names of ({ Tetragrammaton Elohim;
Elohim Gibor; Elvah-Va-Dnath; Shaddai Elchai;
Adonai M elekh, etc.," and commanded the Apostate
Spirits" that ye come immediately to execute our desire."
Then Saul, without the circle, felt all that was evil gather
and pad around him, but he stood fast. At last Bar-
Jesus knew he was beaten, and departed the spirits (or
forces) saying, " In the name of Adonai the Eternal and
Everlasting One (the Creative principle), let each of you
.return unto his place; be there peace between us and you,
and be )'e ready to come when ye are called."
This must be very familiar to members of the R.R.
et A.C., for what is especially interesting in this evoca-
tion, as performed by the Black Magician Bar-Jesus,
is its similarity to magical evocations as taught and
practised in the Stella Matutina- Outer and Inner, an
Order which counts quite a number of rather well-known
clergymen among its members.
THE STELLA MATUTINA 149
One of its rituals is known as 22, and is for the
evocation of so-called planetary spirits, such as "Bart-
zabel, the spirit of Mars," and charging a Talisman with
the power evoked. In the Stella Matutina Temple the
four points of the compass are fixed with symbols and
burning lights, and for this evocation a single enclosing
circle is made, lights are placed on this, in number corre-
sponding to the spirit evoked. Hebrew names similar to
those used by Bar-Jesus and others, corresponding to the
spirit, or force, are used in order to bring. about mani-
festation, and the words of the final banishment are
practically the same.
Without the circle is placed a triangle; at each angle
burns a brazier, and as the EYE of Po\ver in the Triangle,
the spirit, force, or is it !',{aster? manifests in the centre!
While this evocation is progressing, and until after the
banishment, the adept must remain within the circle, for
it appears much evil is attracted. The ritual is based on
one of the Cypher MSS., found, as has already been
stated, in 1884. Members who do not care to practise
such magic may undertake some special work, such as
healing, or social work, under the direction of the mys-
terious masters, who, like Bar-Jesus, appear to " eat the
lives" or souls of their disciples, so that they blindly
accept an evil perversion, believing it to be a Sacred
Truth.
Many unsuspecting members are blinded to the true
nature of the aims of these masters, who are but Black
Magicians such as Bar-Jesus, only more subtle and
powerful, by high-sounding teachings on Love, Unity,
. Service, and Universal Brotherhood. They are led to
believe that this teaching contains many profound truths
not understood by the Christian.Churches, and that it is
one of the works of these societies to enlighten this dark-
ness-to be the light shining in the darkness!
In the Patriot, May 1924, are some articles by 2.
on" The Jew and Masonry"; in one it says:
« D~s Mousseaux quotes the German Freemason, Alban Stolz,
J
Who in a brochure published in 1862 says: • The power which the
ews have known how to acquire through Freemasonry . . . is
I
~'I
IS0 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNES5
one of the most imminent dangers to the Church and State. • . .
There exists in Germany a secret society in Masonic form which
is controUed by unk1lOum chiefs. The members of their associa-
tion are mostly Jews. . .. The Jews only use Christian symbols
either in derision or as a maSk for their intrigues.' . .. \Vith
reference to the' Temple of Solomon,' Des Mousseaux says: 'This
symbolical term, of which the real meaning is only known to the
Supreme and Invisible Hierarchy of the masonic Lodges, and
which are composed of Cabalistic Jews, signifies the reconstruction
of the Jewish power from the ruin of Christianity' "-(the solve
and coagula of II1uminised Masonry).
In the RR et A.C. the cabalistic ritual 22. spoken
of above, was one of the tests which 'most of the members
had to pass through before receiving a certain higher
grade, the 6-5. The last and most important of these
tests was the evocation of "Adonai Ha Aretz," the
Tewish Lord of the Universe-Dr was it a Master! In
this evocation no circle was used~nly a line of de-
marcation-between the adept and so-called spirit to be
evoked. \Vriting the Hebrew letters with the point of
the sword the adept evoked the Power until his own body
radiated with LIGHT (Illuminism!). If successfully
evoked, "Adonai Ha Aretz" appeared standing upon
the Uni,-erse, his arms outstretched in the form of a
Cross, holding- in one hand a cup of red wine and in the
other a sheaf of corn, representing the dual forces of
Xature. This" Lord of the Universe, the Vast and the
~1ighty One," is the spiritual or magical ruler of the
R.R et A.C. as well as the Stella Matutina, for it is in
his name that many of the invocations are made during
the various grade ceremonies. The whole Order is based
-on·this Jewish Magical Cabala.
. _ Speaking 9f this German masonry Alban Stolz
again says: "Their grades and systems observe certain
Christian rites and symbols in order to cloak their real
meaning."
Briefly, the Stella Matutina or Outer Order has for
its symbol the Pentagram; that is, the four elements-
earth, air, water, and fire--to which the four grades are
referred; and above all the Spirit-the ether-which is
referred to the Portal leading into the Inner Order. The
the candidate
Hierophant as
THE STELLA MATUTINA lSI
Order represents a body being prepared for the descent
of the Light, individually or as a whole-the Pentagram
or IlIuminised instrument. And to form the individual
link with the masters the Kundalini is aroused and raised
by Processes-a form of mental suggestion.
Knowing nothing of the true nature of the Order,
and unaware of the oath to be taken, the candidate, blind-
folded, is led into the Temple, and after consecration by
fire and purification by water is placed before the altar,
where he is thus addressed by the Hierophant:
. "We hold your signed pledge to keep secret everything that
relates to the Order. To confirm it I now ask you, are you willing
to take a solemn obligation in the presence of this assembly to keep
the secrets and mysteries of the Order inviolate? There is nothing
illcom.patible with )'O:IT ci,:il, lIl~ra1 or religious duties in this
obligatioll [the same was said by \ Veishaupt !] .. are you ready
to take this oath? "
Mystified and somewhat dazed,
assents, and kneeling, repeats after the
follows:
" I -- in the presence of the Lord of the Universe, who
works in silence, and whom naught but silence can express, and
in the Hall of the Neophytes of that section of the Mysteries of
Egypt, the Stella Matutina, regularly assembled under warrant of
the Greatly Honoured Chiefs of the Second Order, do of my own
free will hereby and hereon most solemnly promise to keep secret
this Order, its name, the names of its members. and the proceed-
ings which take place at its meetings, from eYery person in the
world who has not been initiated into it, nor will I discuss them
with any member who has not the password for the time being or
who has resigned, demitted or been expelled.
- "I undertake to maintain a kindly and. benevolent relation
to all the Fratres and Sorores of this Order. I solemnly promise
to keep secret any information I may have gathered concerning
tJ:1is Order before taking th~s oath. I solemnly promise that any
ntual or lecture placed in my care and any cover containing them
shall bear the official label of this Order· (so that, as with
\Veishaupt, they may be returned to the Order in case of death).
I shall neither copy, nor allow to be copied, any manuscript until
I have obtained a written permission from the Second Order, lest
Our s~ret knowledge be revealed through my neglect. I solemnly
p.r~nuse not to suffer myself to be placed in such a state of pas-
SlVlty that any uninitiated person or power. may cause me to lose
control of my words or actions. I solemnly promise to persevere,
152 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
with courage and detennination, in the labours of the divine
science, even as I shall persevere with courage and detennination
through this ceremony which is their image. And I. will not
debase my mystical knowledge in the labour of evil magic .(!) at
any time tried or under any temptation. I swear upon thiS holy
symbol (the White Triangle-the Light of Illuminism) to observe
all these things without evasion, equivocation, or mental reserva-
tion, under the penalty of being expelled from this Order for my
perjury and my offence, and, furthennore, submitting myself by
my own consent to a deadly stream of power set in motion by the
Divine Guardians of this Order living in the light of their perfect
justice, who can, as tradition and experience affinn, strike the
breaker of this magical obligaJion with death or palsy, or over-
whelm him 'J.!ith misfortune. They journey as upon the winds,
they strike where no man strikes, they slay where no man slays.
(Hierus places sword on candidate's neck.) As I bow my head
to the sword of the Hierus so do I commit myself into their hands
for vengeance and reward. So help me my mighty secret soul-and
the Father of my soul, who ,yorks in silence and whom naught
but silence can express."
This is the Lord of the Universe, the Creative
Principle of all Nature, and the force is that mysterious
current which" slays and makes alive."
Later in the ceremony this oath is further em-
phasised by two pure liquids being placed before the
candidate; one is poured into a dish, followed by the
second, which changes the pure liquid into the semblance
of blood. The officer warns the candidate:
"Let this remind thee, 0 Neophyte! how easily by a careless
or unthinking word thou mayest betray that which thou hast
sworn to keep secret, and mayest reveal the Hidden Knowledge
imparted to thee and implanted in thy brain and in thy mind, amI
let the hue of blood remind thee that if. thou shalt ·.fail of' this
thy oath of secrecy, thy blood may be poured out and thy..body
broken, for heavy is the penalty exacted by the Guardians of the
Hidden Knowledge from those who wilfully betray their trust."
Experience tells us that this is no empty threat, and
if, as is asserted, this Order is merely a means to spiritual
development, and in no way subversive or dangerous,
why th~ the need of this terrible and terrifying secret
and obltgatory oath? The (( divine" and Cabalistic
Guardians alone know and guard their diabolical secret!
At the close of the Initiation ceremony, in which
THE STELLA MATUTINA 153
the above oath is administered, which foreshadows all the
subsequent Outer grades, eyery member preseht partakes
of the "Mystic Repast." Upon the altar in the centre
of the Temple, is placed a white Triangle, for the mani-
festation of the Light, aboye it the red Calvary Cross
of suffering, the means of attracting and establishing
the light. Around the Cross are grouped the four
elements-Air, the red Rose of the Order, whose scent is
as the repressed sighs of suffering; Fire, the red Lamp,
the will to self-sacrifice; TVater, the Cup of red wine, the
blood poured out as a sacrifice unto the Great Work;
Earth, a Paten with bread and salt, the body destroyed
to be renewed for this same Great \Vork. It is the
Tetragrammaton. The whole represents the refined
subtle Malkuth forces, the Cabalistic Bride, a "body
prepared" for the descent of the Light-the " Christ"
of the Illuminati.
The Hierophant descends from the Throne in the
east, passes to the west of the altar, projecting light upon
it as he approaches, saying: " I invite you to inhale with
me the perfume of the Rose as a symbol of air; feel the
warmth of the sacred fire; eat with me this· bread and
salt as types of earth; finally drink with me this wine, the
consecrated emblem of water."
He makes a cross in the air with the cup, above the
altar, and drinks. Each member, in order of office and
grade, receives the elements from the previous partaker,
but in absolute silence, until lastly the Kerux-" The
Watcher Within "-partakes and finishes the wine; up-
_
turning the cup and raising it on high, he cries, with a
loud voice, " It is finished I "-the blood is poured out, the
body is broken, the willing sacrifice is- accomplished!
But, we would ask, for what end?
The perfecting of the adept; this illuminised instru-
ment, takes place in the R.R. et A.C., the Inner Order.
First the adept is made to recognise that as an individual
~e is "nothing." In taking the required Inner obliga-
tIon, he is clothed in a black robe, with ::t chain round his
neck, and with outstretched arms he is bound upon the
red Calvary Cross of suffering and self-sacrifice; above
154 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKKESS
his head is a scroll bearing the letters LN.R.I. The
obligation is in the form of clauses in accordance with
the ten sephiroth on the Cabalistic Tree of Life. Before
it is taken one of the initiating Chiefs, in attestation of
the obligation, im'okes "the Avenging Angel H UA, in
the Di\'ine Kame LA.O." Then the adept repeats the
Oath after the Chief:
" Keflzer-r.-I (Christian Rosenkreutz) a member of the body
of Christ, do this day spiritually bind myself even as I am now
bound physically to the Cross of Suffering. Chokmah-z.-That
I will, to the utmost, lead a pure and unselfish life, and will prove
myself a faithful and devoted servant of the Order. Binah-3.-
That I will keep all things connected with this Order and its
secret knowledge from the whole world, equally from him who is
a member of the First Order of the Stella Matutina as from an
uninitiated person, and I will maintain the veil of strict secrecy
between the First ?nd Second Orders. Chesed-4.-That I will
uphold to the utmost the authority of the Chiefs of the Order;
that I will not initiate or advance any person in the First Order,
either secretly or in open Temple, without due authorisation and
permission. That I will neither recommend a candidate for
admission to the First Order without due judgment and assurance
that he or she is worthy of so great a confidence and honour, nor
unduly press any person to become a candidate; and that I will
superintend any examinations of members of lower grades with-
out fear or favour in any way, so that our high standard of
knowledge be not lowered by my instrumentality; and I further
~ndertake to see that the necessary inten'al of time between the
grades of Practicus and Philosophus and between the latter grade
and the Second Order is properly maintained. Geburah-S·-
Furthermore, that I will perform all practical work connected with
this Order in a place concealed and apart from the gaze of the
outer and uninitiated-world, and that I will not display our magical
inu>l~m~ts, nor reveal the use of the same, but that I will keep
secret this inner Rosicrucian knowledge, even as the same has
been kept secret through the ages. That I will not make any
symbol, or talisman, in the flashing colours for an uninitiated
person without a special permission from the Chiefs of the Order;
that I will only perform any practical magic before the uninitiated
which is of a simple and already well-known nature; and that I
will show them no secret mode of working whatsoever, keeping
strictly concealed from our modes of Tarot and other divination
of clairvoyance, of astral projection, of'the consecration of talis-
mans and symbols, and the rituals of the Pentagram and Hexa-
gram, etc.; and most especially of the use and attribution of the
THE STELLA MATUTIKA I S5
flashing colours, and the vibratory mode of pronouncing the
Divine names (Cabalistic and Hebrew). Tiphercth-6.-1 further
promise and swear that, with the Divine permission, I will from
this day forward apply myself to the Great Work, which is so to
purify and exalt my spiritual nature, that with the divine aid I
may at length attain to be more than human (deified), and thus
gradually raise and unite myself to my higher and divine genius,
and that in this event I will not abuse the great power entrusted to
me (raising the Kundalini and uniting it with the universal ether
and so linking with the masters). Ncfzach-7.-1 furthermore
solemnly pledge myself never to work at any important symbol
without first invoking the Highest Divine names (cabalistic) con-
nected therewith, and especially not to debase my knowledge of
practical magic to purposes of evil and self-seeking and low
material gain and pleasure, and if I do this, notwithstanding this
mine oath, I invoke the Avenging Angel that the evil and material
may react on me. H od--8.-1 further promise always to support
the admission of both sexes to our Order on a perfect equality,
and that I will always display brotherly love and forbearance
towards the members of the whole Order, neither slandering nor
evil-speaking, nor tale-bearing, nor repeating from one member to
another, whereby strife and ill-feeling may be engendered. (This
is invariably broken.) Yesod-<).-I also undertake to work un-
assisted at the subjects prescribed for study in the various practical
grades, from Zelator Adeptus Minor to Adept Adeptus Minor, on
pain of being degraded in rank to that of a Lord of the Paths in
the Portal of the Vault only. Malkluh-Io.-Finally, if in my
travels I should meet a stranger who professes to be a member
of the Rosicrucian Order, I will examine him with care before
acknowledging him to be so. Such are the words of this my
obligation as an Adeptus Minor, whereunto I pledge myself in the
presence of the Divine One LA.O. and of the Great Avenging
Angel Hua, and if I fail herein may my Rose be disintegrated
and destroyed and my power in magic cease."
" Then the officiating Chief takes a dagger, and,
dipping it in red wine, marks the stigmata in the form
of a cross upon the forehead, feet, palms~ and heart of---
the adept, saying in turn: "There are Three that bear .
witness in Heaven; the Father, the Word, and the Spirit,
and these Three are One." (The Gnostic Trinity.)
"There are Three that bear witness on Earth: the Spirit,
the \Vater, and the Blood, and these Three agree in One."
H Except a man be born of water and of the spirit, he
<:annot inherit eternal life." "If ye be crucified with
O1rist ye shall also reign with Him."
156 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
In reading this obligation it must be clearly under-
stood that this Order is Cabalistic and Gnostic, Jewish
and anti-Christian. In it we have the Lord of the
Universe, the I.A.O., the Pan of the Gnostic cults. The
Christ is the Serpent, the Logos of the Gnostics; a
" Christ" is a deified man. The" Great Work" is
Luciferian, the "incarnation in humanity of the sove-
reign Sun," the deification of the adept, who directing
and commanding the astral light, performs seeming
prodigies and miracles not for himself but always under
control of the " Divine Guardians of the Order."
Turning to the letters above the adept's head, the
LN.RL, ,ve find that it is the keyword of the S-6 grade,
and is analysed thus:
I.-Virgo, Isis} Mighty Mother-the reproducer of
seeds and fruits on the earth-the Preserver.
N.-Scorpio, Apophis} destroyer-the destroying and
uniting force-the Destroyer.
R-Sol, Osiris, slain and risen-the generating force
of the Sun-the Creator.
I.-Isis. Apophis, Osiris.-I.A.O.-LN.RL The
Preserver, Destro'yer} and Creator} as invoked in
the Equinox S.M. ceremony when bringing down
the light. The Inner Sign is L.V.X.
According to RR et A.C. correspondences, there-
fore, I.N.R. is another form of LA.O.-the Creative
Principle, the final I. being the synthesis of I.N.R.-it is
the Moon, Fire, and Sun-the Serpent P9:w~r,.the Kun-
clatini. "Two basal ..angles of the Triangle and one
forms the apex, such is the origin of creation, it is the
Triad of Life." Further, the signs of this grade repre-
sent the solstices and the equinoxes, and the descent of
the light and the affirmation of the links with these
hidden Guardians of the Order are further ensured at
the ceremonies of the Equinoxes and Corpus Christi, all
of which are solar and not Christian.
The above Int:J,er Oath is also taken at the Corpus
Christi ceremony by the Chief Adept on behalf of the
THE STELLA MATUTINA 157
whole Order. Thus it will be seen the Order is wholly
Pagan and Pantheistic!
This ceremony of the Rosce RubeCl! et Aurece
Crucis depicts the" Chymical \iVedding" of the Rosi-
crucians-Union with the Universal Ether. According
to the Cabalists the Triad of Ether is: A£n-nothing;
Ain Soph-unlimited, undifferentiated, infinite space;
Ain Soph A'ur-boundless universal light-manifesta-
tion. Marriage of the Universal Light or life-force in
man with the limitless light or life-force of Nature.
This Universal Ether, the Lord of the Universe, is
thus invoked in aid of the' aspirant to this Initiation:
"... 0 God the Vast One, Thou art in all things; 0 Nature,
Thou Self from Nothing, for what else Ca.;l I call Thee? For
myself I am nothing, in Thee I am AIJ-Self. 2l1d exist in Thy Seli-
hood from Nothing. Liye Thou in me, and bring me unto that
Self which is in Thee."
Seeking this Light of Nature, the aspirant is led
into the Vault, the Tomb of the Adepts, for death and
disintegration awaits the seeker after this Light, death
of his own Selfhood and absorption into the All-Self-
not God but Nature's Creative Principle--<:ontrolled by
the Guardians of the Order.
The key to the Vault is the Rose and Cross, which,
like the Ankh, is a symbol of the dual forces of life. The
seven sides represent the seven planets, the varying
aspects of the solar force, and the whole shows the work-
ing of the Spirit or Serpent Power in and through these
planets, the twelve signs of the Zodiac-the whirling
force of initiatiQn-.-.and the three elements-the material
basis. The Altar in the centre is the Pentagram, the_
four e1eme.nts dominated by the· Hebrew letter Shin, the
Solar fire. It is Jehesuah or Je~us the illuminised man.
And thus the Rosicrucians say: " From God we are born.
In Jesus do we die. Through the Holy Spirit we rise
again "-the Serpent Power.
Above, in the Vault, is the Light, and below the
Darkness; and here comes the Illuminati creed: "But
the Whiteness above shines brighter for the blackness
which is beneath, and thus mayest thou at length COl!l-
158 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
prehend that ~uil helpeth forward the good. And by
the juxtaposition, on the seven sides, of symbol, colours
and evocations by formul~, the Vault becomes a place of
yibrations and flashings, attracting and fixing the forces
from the masters, and in this Vault these forces may
neyer be banished.
Beneath the altar is the pastas, in which lies the
Chief Adept, representing Christian Rosenkreutz, the
man crucified upon the Cross of Light. The pastas is
opened, and touching the buried adept on the breast with
his wand, the aspirant says: "Out of the Darkness let
the. Light .arise!" Then from the pastas issues a mys-
terIOUS "Olce:
.. Buried with that Light in a mystical death, rising again in a
::-.ystical resurrection. Oeansed and purified through Him our
~raster, 0 brother of the Rose and Cross! Like him, 0 adepts
or al1 ages, have ye toiled; like him have ye suffered; tribulation,
;"::>verty, torture, and death have ye passed through. They have
been but the purifications of the gold in the alembic of thine heart,
:hrough the athanor of affliction. Seek ye the Stone of the \Vise.
"Quit thou this tomb then, 0 aspirant, with thine arms
Gossed upon thy breast, bearing in thy right hand the Crook of
~dercy and in thy left the Scourge of Severity, the emhlems of
those eternal forces betwixt which, in equilibrium, the Universe
cependeth. These forces whose reconciliation is the key of life,
whose separation is evil and death. . . ."
Here we haye resurrection by means of the Stone of
the Wise-the Serpent Power, the Key of Life, it is
Illuminism! The lid of the pastas illustrates the means
of this Illuminism. It is divided into two parts, dark
below and light above, and both are placed upon the
Cabalistic TreJ~ of Life... Below is the crucified adept in
the form of the Crucified Christ on the Cross Of Light,
and the Great Dragon Leviathan, with the seven heads
and ten horns, rises up to the Daath-the pineal gland-
of the adept, where the head of the serpent unites with
its tail-the negative and positive life-forces. From
above descends the lightning flash, attracted by and
uniting with the· serpent, and illuminising-destroying
the adept's selfhoop, linking him with the universal ether
and the Guardians of the Order.
THE STELLA MATUT1NA 159
Now Aleister Crowley, who was an initiate of this
Order, still, we belieye, uses these rituals in his per-
nicious Orders. In his Equinox, The Review of Scien-
tific Illuminism, he writes:
.. In Daath is said to be the head of the Great Serpent
Leviathan, called evil to conceal its holiness (!)-the Messiah or
Redeemer. It is identical with the Kundalini of the Hindu
philosophy ... and means the magical force in man which is the
sexual force applied to the brain, heart, and other organs, and
redeemeth him."
That is, illuminises him. The Kundalini, the
Dragon with the seven heads, or Serpent Power, is there-
fore the Christ or Redeemer of the Rosicrucians and
Cabalists! It is Luciferian!
The Chief danger therefore in all these secret and
occult societies of to-day, as of yesterday, is that they
are ruled and influenced by an invisible hierarchy, which
cannot be more closely defined than as composed of
Cabalistic Jews. The visible societies train and orient,
physically, mentally and astrally, instruments or mediums
to be used at will by this hidden centre. Their" inner
senses" must be awakened, the Kundalini or unused sex-
forces must be aroused and perverted to bring about this
mediumship. The danger of mental unbalance is recog-
nised and risked by these masters and the chiefs working
under them. It was said by a Stella Matutina chief of
one such medium through whom the messages and in-
structions were coming: " Christian Rosekreutz said she
would be of g-reat use if her brain stood the strain." If
mental unbalance took place it- was never said to be
because of the Order work, but always through some
inherent weakness in the adept so afflicted.
There was a bad case, one, who had been a brilliant
student, and who later under Order influences became
undoubtedly unbalanced and obsessed by the masters,
believing herself to be the Christ or "the woman clothed
in the sun with the moon at her feet." Much physical
suffering and danger is entailed by these initiating forces,
often reducing the adept to the lowest ebb of vitality,
and some have even slipped out of life under the strain
160 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
and vital depletion. Doctors are often puzzled to account
for these illnesses. Always they are looked upon by the
credulous adept as mystery. tests. No matter how bad
the past record of an Order may be, the faithful ever
believe, H we at least can make it beautiful and spiritual,"
and so the deception works out to its evil end.
Many brilliant men and women have joined, and
even ruled, these Orders---only to be broken on the wheel.
Fine young clergymen, who have gradually and uncon-
sciously become imbued with the false and subversive
teachings of these masters, believing them to be heaven-
sent, now co-operate with revolutionaries, extolling the
doings of Moscow, and at every opportunity decrying the
British Empire, s,eeking to wipe it off the face of the
earth, blasphemously perverting Christ and His teach-
ings in their attempt to prove their points. Others are
men and \\'omen with every apparent chance of a brilliant
career; but, all, even legitimate personal ambitions, must
be given up at the bidding of these masters, who say,
" \Ve ha\'e need of thee and all thy gifts." We have
known of brilliant brains in all walks of life thus prosti-
tuted to the cause of a diabolical dream which has no
place for God or Christianity.
There must be no communication with outside and
uninitiated mediums, the masters must alone control and
enlighten! They know the power of Christianity and its
Holy Sacraments and the uplift of religious fervour, and
these they pervert, encouraging the adept to let go the
material under the influence of perverted idealism. In
the Church'messages and visions are given, and even
diabolical initiations attempted by these masters.
_. Most of the heads of these Orders, more often
women, are illuminised; controlled power is given to
them, they are as "magnets" drawing people to these
Orders. One g-roup in the Stella Matutina had as a
chief, an educationalist, and this group was designed by
the Masters to influence all professors, masters, and
·those interested in education, and the influence is now
apparent. .The London group was appointed to influence
and bring in clergy of all denominations, and for this
THE STELLA MATUTINA 161
purpose the chief had to become a member of the
Anglican Church; and so it was decreed that the per-
nicious teachings of the Order were to eat into and
corrupt the Church, and although this chief refused, the
work is being done by other members, mostly clergy,
and everywhere the Church is becoming permeated,
consciously or unconsciously, with this subversive
Illuminism.
Under such chiefs as the notorious Aleister Crowley
and his O.T.O., which is openly immoral, many have
been ruined in fortune, mentality, and morals. But
these masters, who are behind all, what of their mental
and moral outlook? They profess to deify humanity and
bring peace upon earth, but only so that humanity may
be a pathway leading these Cabalistic Jews up to their
throne, there as the" God-people," to rule over a "col-
lective man," whose peace is apathy.
CHAPTER V
ALEISTER CRGWLEY
THE thoroughly exposed and pernicious Aleister Crow-
ley, alias Aleister MacGregor, Count Svareff, was,
according to his own statement, born at Leamington,
October 12, 1875, and was undergraduate of Trinity
College, Cambridge, 1895-8. In November 1898, he
became a member of the" Golden Dawn," the original of
the Stella Matutina, where he ,,'as known as "Perdur-
c.bo," and under this pseudonym he wrote many of his
unsavoury \"erses and books on Yoga; etc. He was, how-
ever, on account of his well-kno\\"n reputation, refused
admission into the London Inner Order the R.R. et A.C.
As we haye already stated, the then chief, MacGregor
~1athers, had established a "Temple of Isis" in Paris,
and in 1900 we have seen Crowley acting as his emissary
to the London Temple, which had rebelled against and
suspended this chief. He broke into and took possession
of the London premises, but was eventually evicted.
~evertheless, he retained a full set of the Outer and
Inner rituals and MSS. of the "Golden Dawn," and
:£rom 1909 to 1913, by direct orders, he said, from the
Secret Chiefs, he published these documents in his Equi-
1l0X) The Review of Scientific Illuminism, under the title
of " The Temple of Solomon the King," along with much
putrid and blasphemous stuff. This Review, with these
rituals and MSS. as, teaching basis, was also the organ
of his own Order of A.A.-the Atlantean Adepts, or
Great White Brotherhood.
Of the A.A. he writes, in the Equinox:
"It is the unique and really illumined community which is
absolutely in possession of the key to all mystery, which knows
the centre and source of all nature. . ., Lux is the Power
always present (Serpent Power)..' ... Yet besides their secret
holy work, they have from time to time decided upon political
162
ALE1STER CROWLEY
strategic action. . .. It is the most hidden of communities, yet
it contains members from many circles; nor is there any centre of
thought whose activity is not due to the presence of one of our-
selves. He who is fit is joined to the chain) perhaps often where
he thought least likely, and at a point of which he knew nothing
himself."
Many are caught unbeknown to themselves and linked
to this evil chain.
The Key to all Mysteries is shown by their symbol.
It is the seven-pointed Star of Venus or Cytherea-the
goddess of the ancient Serpent Fire, the Goddess of Love
(also representative of the R.R. et A.C.). In the centre
is the Vesica, or symbol of the union of the dual sex-
forces of Nature, and in each angle is a letter of the
name BABALoN-the Great Mother of all Gnostic and
illuminised cults; it is Nature in her Vastness. The work
of the A.A. is said to be the opening of the "inner
senses" by rousing and raising the Kundalini. Therefore
do his disciples say of Crowley, " Blessing and worship
to the Beast, the Prophet of the Lovely Star!" Equinox)
1911.
Of the same nature, if not actually the same,. are his
" Ordo Templi Orientis," and his M.M.M.-" Mysteria
Mystica Maxima,"-and all are apparently akin to the
"Universal Gnostic Church." An account of the
" Ordo Tempi Orientis " will follow later.
In 1905 Crowley went to India and made an un#
successful attempt to climb Kinchinjanga, with fatal
results to four of his party. In November of that year he
was in Calcutta, and ·his night-prowling in the_ bazaars
ended in such serious trouble that he, his wife, and young
child left precipitately and-proceeded to Burma. From
Bhamo they trekked through Southern Gina to Hong
Kong, and he was again in Engla.nd in June 1906.
In 1912 his Temple was in 33 Avenue Studios, Ful-
ham Road. In 1916 his O.T.O. Temple, near Regent
Street, was raided by the police, books and papers were
seized, and Mary Davis, the well-known medium, who
Was in charge, was fined. Later she was in a Temple
4-in Hampstead as priestess of the Cult of the Beetle,
164 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
again under Crowley. According to the Patriot, May
17, 1923: "During the War Crowley went to America,
renounced his allegiance to his country, and conducted an
active anti-British propaganda."
In 1922 we hear of him in his" Abbey," at Cefalu,
Sicily, to which, according to the Sunday Express,
February 25 and March 4, 192 3, he enticed a brilliant
university man of twenty-two and his young wife, and
there, after going through unspeakable horrors, the
young man died. Shortly after Crowley was cleared out
of Sicily by the Italian Government, and for nearly seven
years his headquarters have been in Paris, and only
recently (April 1929) was he asked to leave France on
the score of his immoral calts and practices.
Here and there from out the enforced silence a
tragedy, due to Crowley's evil power and vicious influ-
ence, shows its ghastly face, renegade priests, broken and
ruined, officiating at his Black Mass; young students and
women demoralised and demented, hypnotised and forced
to do the will of the " Beast 666" (the solar serpent),
whose doctrine is the doctrine of the" Universal Gnostic
Church." " Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the
Law; Love is the Law; Love under will." According to
Crowley, Christianity is played out, and a new era is
about to begin, an -era apparently of the Cult of the
Serpent-sex, the so-called redeemer of humanity!-the
power of Illuminism and ]ud<eo-Masonic domination!
The following quotations from certain instructions
issued by the Fratres of the O.T.O. to outsiders in the
hope of .drawing them into the net, November 1924, and
also fo De found in the Equinoz, September' I9i2, will
show how easily one might be deceived by apparently
inspiring words and lofty ideas.
In the Equinoz it is called:
U LN.R.I. British Section of the 'Order of Oriental Tem-
plars O.T.O., M.M.M.,' and adds: 'The Prremonstrator of the
A.A. pennits it to be known that there is not at present any
necessary incompatibility between the A.A. and the O.T.O. and
M.M.M. and allows membership of the same as a valuable pre-
liminary training.''' .'
ALEISTER CROWLEY 165
In the instructions of 1924 the heading was:
{{ S£g1't of the Seal of Hermes] O.T.O.] Ordo Templi
Orie1ttis] RosicruC£a11. Order of Freenulson-r),.JJ
Then follows the Preamble:
"During the past twenty-five years constantly increasing
numbers of earnest people and seekers after truth have been
turning their attention to the study of the hidden laws of Nature.
. . , Numberless societies, Orders, groups, etc., have been
founded in all parts of the civilised world, all and each follow-
ing some line of occult study. . .. There is but one ancient
organisation of Mystics which shows the student a royal road
to discover the ONE TRUTH. This organisation has permitted the
formation of a body known as the ANCIENT ORDER
OF ORIENTAL TEMPLARS. It is a modern school of
Magi, it derives its knowledge from Egypt and Chaldea.
This knowledge is never revealed to the profane, for it gives im-
mense power for either good or evil to its possessors. It is
recorded in symbol, parable, and allegory, requiring a key for
its interpretation. . .. By the right use of the 'Key' alone,
the' Master \\lord' can be found."
blstructio1l,s.-
"Let it be known that there exists, unknown to the great
crowd, a very ancient order of 'Sages, whose object is the
amelioration and spiritual elevation of mankind by means of
conquering error, and aiding men and women in their efforts
at attaining the power of recognising the truth. The Order has
existed already in the most remote and prehistoric times; and
it has manifested its activity, secretly and openly in the world
under different names and in various forms; it has caused social
and political revolutions, and proved to be the rock of salvation
in times of danger and misfortune. It has always upheld the
banner of Freedom against Tyranny in whatsoever shape this
appeared, whether as clerical or political or social despotism, or
oppression of any kind.••....Those persons who are already suf-
'- ficlently spiritually developed to enter into conscious communica-
tion with the great spiritual Brotherhood (Great White Lodge)
will be taught directly by the spirit of wisdom; but those who still
need external advice. and support will find this in the external
organisation of this society ... it is the Spciety of the Children of
Light who live in the Light and have obtained immortality therein.
. " The mysteries which are taught embrace everything that
can possibly be known in regard to God, Nature and Man. . . .
We all study only one book-the Book of Nature-in which the
keys to all secrets are contained, and we follow the only possible
.~ethod in studying it, that of experience. Our place of meeting
IS the • Temple of the Holy Spirit' pervading the Universe
166 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
(ether or astral). . .. The first and most necessary require-
ment of the new disciple is that he will keep silence in regard
~o all that concerns the society. . .. Not that there is anything
in that society which needs to be afraid of being known to the
virtuous and good, but it is not necessary that things which are
elevated and sacred should be exposed to the gaze of the vulgar
and be bespattered by them with mud(!) . .. There may be
things which appear strange, and for which no reason can be
given to beginners, but when the disciple has attained a certain
state of development, all will be dear to him or her. . .. The
next requisite is obedience. . .. The conquest of the higher self
over the lower self means the victory of the divine consciousness
in man over that which in him is earthly and animal. Its object
is realisation of true manhood and womanhood."
Crowley is said to ha\'e established these (( Temples
of Love" all O\-er the world. JaIm Bull, Feb. 4, 192 5.
In 19II, according to the Equinox, he had more or
less flourIshing branches of his cult in F;ngland, America,
South and West Africa, Burma, India, Malay Peninsula,
Australia, British Columbia, Paraguay, Brazil, Hol-
land, Switzerland, Germany, France, Algeria, and Egypt,
and" excellent accounts from the Caucasus!" And thus
is the canker spread abroad.
The following, which might well be applied to all
these pantheistic and cabalistic cults of to-day, is an inter-
esting' statement, said by Mme. Blavatsky in her Isis
Unveiled to be the words of General Albert Pike at a
Supreme Council of the Ancient and Accepted Rite held
in New York, August IS, 1876:
" This Principe Createllr is no new phrase-it is but an old
term revived. Our adversaries, numerous and formidable, will
say, and will have the right to say"that o.ur Principe Createur, is
identical with the Principe Gineraleur of the Indians and Egyp-
tians, and may fitly be symbolised, as it was symbolised anciently,
by the Lingce. . .. To accept this, in lieu of a personal God,
is to abandon Christianity, and the worship of Jehovah, and
return to wallow in the st)'es of Paganism."
THE UNIVERSAL GNOSTIC CHURCH
The Jewish EncyclopCEdia points out that Gnosticism
.. was Jewish in character long before it became Chris-
tian," and quotes the opinion, " a movement closely con-
ALE1STER CROWLEY 167
nected with Jewish mysticism." The Freemason Ragon
says: " The Cabala is the key of the occult sciences. The
Gnostics were born of the Cabalists." Again, to quote
Dr. Ranking, " During the Middle Ages the main support
of the Gnostic bodies ... was the Society of the Tem-
1 "
pars.
In his History of MagicJ
Eliphas Levi tells us:
"The idea of Christian hierophants was.to create a society
pledged to self-sacrifice by solemn vows, protected by severe
rules, recruited by initiation, and as sole depository of the great
religious and social secrets, making kings and pontiffs without
being itself exposed to the corruptions of empire. . .. A similar
realisation was also dreamed by dissident sects of Gnostics and
Illuminati, which claimed to pin their faith on the primitive Chris-
tian tradition of St. Tohn. A time came when this dream was an
actual menace for the Church and the State. when a rich and
dissolute order, initiated into the mvsterious doctrines of the
Kabalah, seemed ready to turn on legitimate authority, on the
conservative principles of the hierarchy, menacing the entire
world with a gigantic revolution. The Templars ... were the
terrible conspirators in question. . .. To acquire wealth and
influence, to intrigue on the basis of these, and at need fight for
the establishment of Johannite dogma-such were the means and
end proposed by the initiated brethren. . .. '\Ve shall be the
equilibrium of the universe, arbiters and masters of the world.'
The Templars had two doctrines: one was concealed and reserved
to the leaders, being that of Johannism; the other was public,
being Roman Catholic doctrine. . .. The Johannism of the
adepts was the Kabalah of the Gnostics, but it degenerated
speedily into a mystic pantheism carried even to idolatry of
Nature and hatred of all revealed dogma. . .. They fostered the
regrets of every fallen worship and the hopes of every new
cultus. promising to all liberty oLconscience and a new ortho-
do>..)' which should be- the synthesis of all persecuted beliefs.
They 'went even so far as to recognise the pantheistic symbolism
of the grand masters of Black Magic . . . they rendered divine
honours to the monstrous idol Baphomct."
Is this not equally true of the present \\Torld Revo-
lution and the hidden power, working through the many
secret Orders and groups of to-day?
In February 1928 occult issue of the Revue Interna-
tionaIe des Societes Secretes, M. A. Delmas, speaking of
the Universal Gnostic Church, with its centre in Lyons,
tells us that it has adherents in France, Switzerland, Ger-
many, Austria, Hungary, Holland, Russia, Rumania, the
Slavonic States, Turkey, and America. It is known
under different names, two being, "Order of the Tem-
plars of the East" and " Order of Light of the Seven
Communities of Asia," and its affiliations are now gener-
ally known as Neo-Christians and Neo-Gnostics. Its
Supreme Head is Sovereign Patriarch and Vicar of Solo-
mon. M. Delmas gives a curious and interesting account
of its office and liturgy of High Mass. The following are
its doctrine and creed: "Do what thou wilt, this is the
whole Law. But remember that thou must render an
account of thine actions. Therefore I proclaim the Law
of Light, Love, Life, and Liberty in the name of lAO."
Here again we have the Serpent Power, the Lord
of the Universe. "Love is the Law, Love under con-
trol of the will." At once we recognise the doctrines
of the notorious Aleister Crowley. Love too is the
watchword of the R.R. et A.C., said to be love of human-
ity; but in the 5-6 ritual it says: " Note well that through
the side of the Planet Venus thou hast entered" into the
seven-sided Vault of the Adepts, the place of initiation.
And we find in A. J. Pearce's Text-book of Astrolog:y:
" It was early recognised that Venus was the chief cause
of generation and the mother of Love-the universal
passion ... 'the Star of Being and existence.' "
The Creed:
"I believe in the Lord, a God secret and inexpressible (in
the S.M. ritual we find, 'The Lord of the Universe who works
in si.1ence and whom naught but silence can express ') ; in a star
among a group of stars (sun and planets), by whose fire_ we
are generated and to whom we return; a father of life; 0 mys-
tery of mysteries! his name is Chaos (the all-pervading ether) ;
it is the sole representative of the sun upon earth; in air, nourisher
of all beings who breathe. And I believe in earth our mother,
from whose womb is born all who are born. 0 mystery of
mysteries! her name is Babalon (' Babylon, the Great Mother of
the idolatrous and abominable religions of the earth '). And I
believe in a Serpent and a Lion, 0 mystery of mysteries! it is
called Baphomet (the Serpent of Wisdom and the Flaming Sword
of the R.R. et A.C.; according to Eliphas Levi 'the Lion is the
celestial" (astral) fire, while the serpents are the electric and
168 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
ALEISTER CROWLEY 169
magnetic currents of the earth,' the Gnostic Logos, the spirit of
the seed). And I believe in a Universal Gnostic Church, whose
Law is Light, Love, Life, and Liberty; whose name is Thelima.
And I believe in the Communion of the Saints. And seeing that
our daily bread, material and eartWy, which we eat is trans-
formed each day within us into a spiritual substance, I believe
in the miracle of the Holy Mass. And I believe in the baptism
of Wisdom by which we accomplish the miracle of becoming
men. (Crowley, in his O.T.O., says: 'Its object is a realisa-
tion of true manhood and womanhood '). And I confess and
believe that my life is eternal, which was, is, and ever shall be.
Amen. Amen. Amen."
The ether is said to be a storehouse of all that was,
is, and shall be; and to be without beginning or end. It
is Luciferian!
THE EMPEROR JULIAN AND MAX1MUS OF EPHESUS
In connection with these many illuminised orders-
all of the Kingdom of Lucifer-the following is inter-
esting.
Dmitri Merejkovsky, the Russian historical writer,
in his book, La Mort des Dieux, gives a wonderful pic-
ture of a mystery initiation supposed to be given by
Maximus of Ephesus, the theurgist, to Julian, the Apos-
tate, before he became Emperor.
It begins at midnight ,\-ith Julian, clothed in hiero-
phant's tunic, entering the long, low, mystery hall.
" A double row of orichaic pillars sustained the vault. Each
pillar, representing two interlaced serpents, served as supports
for perfume-boxes. . .. At the end shone two golden-winged
bulls (emblems of life), supporting a superb throne upon.. which -
was seated, like a god, the very great Hierophant Maximus of
Ephesus, clothed in a black tunic entirely embroidered with gold,
emeralds, and rubies. . .. Someone approached Julian from be-
hind and securely bandaged his eyes; saying, • Go, fear neither
fire nor water, spirits, bodies, life nor death.'"
He is passed through a door into a long, dark pas-
sage; descending into the depths of the earth he passes
through the trials by water and by fire, succeeded by
nauseating odours and following shadows; an icy hand
clutched his, which "had the playful movement and re-
170 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
pugnant caresses of dissolute women." In horror he
signs himself thr~e times with the cross and loses con-
SCIOusness.
" Wnen he recovered his senses the bandage no longer covered
his eyes. he was in . . . an enormous dimly lit grotto. . .. In
front of Julian was a man, emaciated and nude. with copper-
coloured skin. the Gymnosophist (Yogi), Maximus's assistant.
Motionless above his head he held a metal disk. Someone said
to Julian: • Look!' He gazed at the circle. scintillating with
an almost painful brilliance... , Long he looked, the contour
of the objects blurred. and a pleasant languor took possession
of him. It seemed to him that the luminous circle no longer
burned in space but within himself, his eyelids closed. . ..
Seyeral times a hand lightly touched his head, and a voice asked
, _-\rt thou asleep? . .. Look into mine eyes!' Julian obeyed,
21d perceiyed Maximus leaning over him. . .. Under his thick
eyebrows ~faximus' eyes shone, alive, searching, penetrating,
in tum mocking and tender. . . . Julian, lying motionless, pale,
with eyelids half-dosed, watched the rapid visions which un-
rolled themselves before him, and it seemed to him that he saw
them not of himself, but that someone willed him to see them....
'Wouldst see the Rebel? (Lucifer) Look! .. .' Above the
head of the spectre shone the Morning Star, the Star of Dawn;
and the Angel said: 'In my name deny the Galilean' (thrice
demanded and thrice denied). 'Who art thou?'-' I am the
Light, I am the Orient, I am the Morning Star! '-' How beau-
tiful thou art! '-' Be as I am.'-' V"hat sadness in thine eyes!'
-' I suffer for all living; there must be neither birth nor death.
Come to me, I am the shadow, I am peace, I am liberty! (libera-
tion, loss of personality) ... rebel, I will give thee force ...
break the law, love, curse Him and be as I am.'''
Julian awakes. He climbs the stairs with Maxi-
mus' firm hand in his: "He feels that some invisible
force raises him on its wings (psychic force) .... 'Didst
thou call him?' asked Julian-.'N0, but when a cord of
the lyre vibrates another responds to it, the .contrary to
the contrary (polarity)." Maximus demands that Julian
should choose one of two ways-the Kingdom of Lucifer
or the Kingdom of God. Julian refuses the cross, and
Maximus says: " Then choose the other way, be power-
ful as the ancients! Be strong and proud, pitiless and
superb! Without pity, love, or forgiveness! Rise and
conquer all. . .. Eat of the forbidden fruit; but repent
ALEISTER CROWLEY 171
not. Believe not, doubt not, and the world shall be thine.
Dare! thou shalt be Emperor! "
« They find themselves on a high marble tower-
astronomical observatory of high theurgy-built after
the model of ancient Chaldean towers, on a high rock
above the sea." Below were luxurious gardens, palaces,
etc., and beyond on the mountain Artemision and Ephe-
sus. It Stretching out his arm, the Hierophant said:
, Look! all this is thine. . .. Dare!... Unite, if thou
canst, the truth of the Titan and the Truth of the Gali-
lean, and thou shalt be greater than all men born of
women." (Is this not Johannism?)
In his marvellous library Maximus talks of this
initiation with one of his disciples.
"How can Maximus, the great philosopher, believe in all
these absurd miracles ?-I belie\'e and I do not believe in them,
replied the theurgist. Nature, which you and I study, is it not
most wonderful of miracles? \Vhat a superb mystery in the
vessels of the blood and the nen'es; the admirable combination
of organs. . .. Our mysteries are more profound and more
beautiful than thou thinkest. Men require entht:siasm. For him
who hath faith the prostitute is truly Aphrodite and the luminous
scales, the starry heaven. . .. Julian hath seen what he wished
to see. I have given him enthusiasm, force, and daring. Thou
sayest I have deceived him. . .. I love the lie which contains
the truth. . .. Until my death I will never forsake Julian. I
will allow him to taste of all forbidden fruits. He is young, I
will live in him, a second existence; I will um'eil for him the
seductive and criminal mysteries, and perhaps he shall be great
through me !-Master, I understand thee noL-And because of
that I thus speak to thee."
Is this not an illustration of what is taking place to-
day in all ~ese Luciferian Orders? This Invisible Centre,
by means of theurgic power, deceives, hypnotises, sug-
~ests; promising power, liberty, and peace, a peace which
IS the peace of the controlled, of a living yet wiII-Iess and
soul-less man, filled with the power of these devilish
masters such as Aleister Crowley!
. It is interesting to find in the R.R et A.C. that the
chIef who refused the initiation was some time before
astrally taken up a similar tbeurgic tower and shown the
172 LIGHT-BE..<\RERS OF DARKNESS
world aboye and below, as a promise of future power!
This power is the " Hebrew Talisman" !
Turning back the pages.of Russian history we come
across a man who was obviously another tool in the hands
of this Central Power. In his booklet, Mysticism in the
Courl of Russia, M. J. Bricaud says: "In all ages the
Court of Russia knew of, and submitted to, the influence
of prophets and theurgists. . .. Certain writings
of Dostoiewsky, Tolstoi, and Merejkovsky have revealed
to \\7'estern people the secret nature of the Russian soul,
tormented and eager for the marvellous." Merejkovsky,
in several of his books, has vividly painted the various
aspects of this soul-sickness of Russia which, according
to ~L Bricaud, " ended in 1917 in the fall of the dynasty
and the oyerthrow of its ancient institutions."
In Le M'ystere d'Alezandre ]tr and La Fin d'Alez-
andre In', Merejkovsky gives an interesting and detailed
account of certain secret societies which were initiated
and which spread throughout Russia in the reign of
Alexander 1. The translator, E. Halperine-Kaminsky,
tells us in his prefaces that it was after the march through
Europe, after the retreat of Napoleon, that the Russian
officers became imbued with, more especially, the French
revolutionary ideas. On their return "a first secret
society was founded by them in 1816, called' Alliance de
Salut '; one of the chiefs was Paul Peste!.
In 1818 this society took the name of " Alliance de
1a Prosperite." Under Pestel a revolutionary organisa-
tion (Society of the South) was formed within this,
having for its aim the yiolent abolition of autocracy. The
society for the union of the Slavs was formed in the
south, and later· fused with the Society of the South.
<t It is certain, in fact, that the movement created in 1816
marked the beginning of the Russian Revolution, which
a hundred years later, in March 1917, triumphed in the
name of the same principles as the 'Decembrists' of
1825."
Again, E. Halperine-Kaminsky shows the extra-
ordinary parallels between the reigns of Alexander I and
Nicholas II. He writes:
ALEISTER CROWLEY 173
"Other parallels could easily be established. But what will
astonish even the best-informed on Russian affairs is the dis-
closure of actual Bolshevik roots working in the ground which
gave rise to secret societies recruited from among the better
class, even from the Imperial Guard, and which empoisoned
the whole latter part of Alexander's life. To listen to the chief
conspirator, Colonel Pestel, is to believe oneself listening to Lenin
in person."
Let us listen to this conspirator Pestel, director of
the Society of the South, who was executed in 1826. This
was written by Merejkovsky in 1910, and was remark-
ably prophetic of what came to pass in 1917 and later:
" 'The reunion of the Society of the North with that of the
South is proposed by our Tribunal, commenced Pestel, on the
following conditions: (I) Recognition of a sole director and
sovereign dictator oyer the t\\'O tribun2.ls, (2) Swear to 2.n
absolute and passive obedience towards this dictator-director.
(3) Abandon the long road of civilisation and slow action gener-
ally accepted, and decree regulations more absolute than the
futile principles given in our statutes. Finally, accept the con-
stitution of the Society of the South and swear on oath that
there shall be no other in Russia. . .. The first and principal
action is revolution, insurrection in the anny, and abolition of
the Throne. . .. The Synod and Senate must be forced to
grant the provisional Government absolute power. . . . The
reigning dynasty must, therefore, in the first place cease to exist.
. .. The murder of one only will cause divisions, will produce
internal dissensions, and will lead to all the horrors of popular
insurrection. It is, above all, necessary that the destruction of
all tyrants should be consummated.' He spoke placidly but un-
naturally. 'He is an automaton, thought Golitsine, or rather one
possessed! . . .'
" 'The events of the years 1812, 1813, 1814, and 1815, said
Pestel ... as well as those of preceding and subsequent times,
hav~ shown us so m.any thrones overturned, so many kingdoms
abohshed, so many coups d'etat accomplished that these events
have familiarised minds with revolutionary ideas, the possibilities
and opportunities of their realjsation. . .. From one end of
Europe to the other, from Portugal to Russia, not excepting Eng-
land and Turkey, these two political opposites, the spirit of
reform is setting all brains seething' (the actual words of
Pestel).
_ .- _." He spoke as a master, and the fascination of his 10glc
a~ed as the charm of music or the beauty of women. Some were
.~!ugated, others were enraged ..• but all felt that what had
:~ only a distant dream became all at once a near reality,
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
terrible and heavy with responsibilities. . .. •These aristocrats,
said Peste1, are the principal obstacles to public prosperity and the
surest support of tyranny; only a republican Government can
level them. . .. I have greater faith than you in the predestina-
tion of Russia-the" Verite Russe" is the name I have given to
my constitution. I hope indeed that the .. Verite Russe " will one
day be the universal truth, and that it will be adopted by all
European peoples, asleep up to now in a slavery less apparent
than ours, but perhaps worse, because inequality of property
is the worst slavery. Russia will be the first to free herself.
Our way goes from complete slavery to integral liberty. We
have nothing; we want all ! Without that the game would not be
worth the candle. . .. All differences of fortune and condition
will cease, all titles and nobility will be annihilated. The mer-
chant and bourgeois classes will be suppressed. All nationalities
will renounce individual rights of its people. Even the names
of nations ,\,ill be abrogated except only the name of the Great
Russian People. . . . The citizens will be divided into rural
communities so as to give all a uniform life, instruction, and
government, and all will be equal in a perfect equality....
The severest censure of the Press, secret police with a staff of
spies, all tried citizens; qualified liberty of conscience. . . .'''
Murmurs went round: " It is a penitentiary colony,
and not a republic ... the most detestable autocracy! "
.. Pestel saw nothing, heard nothing. . .. The little man
was a mere simulacrum, a waxwork automaton. He obeyed a
fatal obsession coming from beyond, he no longer controlled
himself, an invisible hand set him in motion, pulling him by a
string like a marionette!"
The revolution was attempted in the reign of Nicho-
las I, December 14, 1825, and miserably failed. Five of
the conspirators were hanged July 13, 1826, among them
PesteI.··.:- ., - . _. .
MerejkovskY further says that these secret societies
were branches of the Carbonari. Also speaking of their
control, he writes:
"Our aim is the same and our forces are yours on the
sole condition that you submit yourselves absolutely to the
Sovereign Duma of the Society of the South.-· What Duma?
Where is it, and who belongs to it?' ~, According to the rules of
the Society I cannot reveal it . . . but look!' He took a pencil
and piece of paper, .drew a circle. writin~ within-' Sovereign
Duma: tracing rays from it. at the extremIty of which he drew
ALEISTER CROWLEY 175
other smaller circles. 'The great central circle ... is the Sove-
reign Duma; the lines from the circle are the intermediaries, and
the little circles the districts which communicate with the Duma,
not directly, but by intermediaries.'''
Was not Pestel merely a controlled intermediary,
and the Sovereign Duma the Supreme Directory of the
Cabalistic Jews, the Invisible Power of the" Protocols" ?
Is this not the system of all revolutionary Judreo-
Masonry, of yesterday and of to-day?
CHAPTER VI
THE PANACEA SOCIETY
IN the preface to Jane Lead's Early Dawn of the Great
Prophetical Visitation to England, "Octavia," of the
Panacea Society, tells us that since 1666 the plan of re-
demption for England has been set forth thus:
"(I) As a prophetic whole by Jane Lead (1681-17°4).
" (2) Split up into the seven prismatic colours (the seyen
~5pects of solar force, the planets!) and given forth by -
Brothers, Joanna Southcott, George Turner, \Villiam Shaw,
.Tohn \\'roe, ]ezreel, and Helen Exeter in succession, 1792-
!918. (The last was drowned in the Galway Castle, which was
torpedoed in the Channel on September 14, 1918.)
"(3) As an operative whole, now being set forth by Octavia
and by Rachel Fox, supported by the four, the Twelye, and the
gathering , remanent: "
Jane Lead, associated with Dr. Pordage, and her
son-in-law the Rev. Francis Lee, founded the Philadel-
phian Society in London in 1652. In The M),stery of
God in T¥omml, Rachel Fox, President of the Panacea
Society, writes:
" ... Between 1623 and 1704 a certain Jane or Joan Lead
received reyelations of a very pure and exalted nature. These
are printed in what is called ' Sixty Propositions to the Philadel-
phian Society, whithersoever dispersed as the Israel of God: In
this Prophecy is set forth the future rise of the Philadelphian
Church, depicted in the Apocalypse as the ideal Church ... • a
Virgin Church which has known nothing of man nor human con-
stitution •.. shall be adorned with miraculous gifts and powers
beyond what ever yet hath been:"
A careful study of these " Prophecies" shows that
they are pure Illuminism and cabalistic. The teaching,
as usual in all these cults, mystic or occult, leads to an
initiation, forming an etheric linK with some invisible
powe"r, arousing and perverting the Kundalini for this
176
THE PANACEA SOCIETY 177
purpose, awakening the" inner senses": clairvo:yance-
,I a clear crystalline sight . . . without any medium";
clairaudience-" a supernatural hearing ... the Heavenly
language as from eternal nature spoken"; intu£tion-
II profound deep wisdom." Finally, fixation of the
astral light in a prepared and purified material body. To
describe one such cult is to describe all; it leads to pure
negation of Self, cutting off "the rational understand-
ing," bringing about complete subjection; as with Steiner,
no intellectualising is permitted.
As we have seen in the RR et A.C. (1919), a
Triune-cup, or Triangle, was to be prepared (1700),
formed of three" Love-elders," placed at the top of the
Cabalistic Tree of Life, representing the Pn'est or recon-
ciler, full of Faith.. and to whom was said as to the chief
of the Triangle in the R.R. et A.C.: "Except ye drink
of My Blood, ye have no life in you." (Compare this
with the vision, as previously described, of the Spirit of
Earth and Adonai, when the woman had to drink the
cup of blood!) It is said to relate to the " ~.fe1chizedek "
priesthood; the second love-elder is the Prophet} or pas-
sive receiver of the wisdom from above. The third is
the King} the active transmitter or wielder of the Power,
always under control. The whole attracting and mani-
festing the superior forces. Further it was said:
"Whereupon from the Upper Couri cmd CoU11.cil did
come forth a decree that it (Triune-eup) should be en-
closed round with a threefold circle. The first appeared
as a circle of golden light (Sun), the second was a circle
of a silver light (Moon), the third a mild, gentle fire,
yet. invincible strength for defence (destroying fire)-
.., Stili, Moon, and Fire of the Serpent Power. And the
.final fixation of the light in the "vehicle" is expressed in
words similar to those used in the' RR et A.C. 6-5 ritual:
" Arise, shine, for thy light is come, and the glory of thy
bridegroom is now become thy covering." The light
and glory of Illuminism!
. This was to be built up for the purpose of establish-
lIlg a Love Kingdom to be ruled by their Prince of Love
and Peace; first, invisibly in the hearts and minds of
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
178
certain persons who are H to scatter among all fellow-
ships and societies these pure. sparkling powers of Love
received from the Deity--ether." Their deity is the
Creative Principle, the Great Mother is Nature, and their
Christ is the illuminising astral light. Finally-
" a healing embassage from heaven is now sent down, that calleth
and urgeth for a universal harmcniy and unity (universal republic
and brotherhood!). . .. For the Prince of Love and Peace is
near to pitch his Throne-Dominion and Kingdom ... and from
whence 'will go forth such mighty influencing powers as shall
cause all that is destructive to the Love-Kingdom to cease."
This is the power spoken of by Dr. Felkin's Arab
teacher: "\"\Te can project the psychic fluid with such tre-
mendous power that it is positiyely possible to literally
SL\y or make ALIVE ... but this pO\ver is so tremendous
and dangerous that it is only permitted to a few"; as a
curative or punitive current, or even hypnotic. What
is this but the Jewish \Vorld Dominion by means of Illu-
minism-Krishnamurti's " Kingdom of Happiness"?
As etheric link and oracle, Jane Lead, like all such
links, suffered much both mentally and physically. In
1699 she speaks of " great war and muting in the bodily
parts ... that might very easily have released the im-
prisoned soul ... and such a depression of my superior
life and spirit, which prevented me free use of my super-
sensual faculties." As sole answer to her complainings,
her master said: " You must not think it much (trial)
to have your faith ground down, tried and proved "-a
faith attained only when reason and sense-" were cast
into a deep sleep "-hypnotic_,c..9ntrol!. _
- Coming- now to the present-day manifestation of
this movement, Rachel Fox, in her book, The Finding of
Shiloh, tells us of the "triangle of workers" and the
founding of the Panacea Society, whose work is to
H spiritualise the material and materialise the spiritual,"
that is, to prepare" empty vessels," fill them with light,
forming light-hearers for the masters' work for the
world. Their master is a so-called-Christ, no doubt one
of the invi~ible co~ncil. The members of the triangle
for the manifestation of this invisible power were:
THE PANACEA SOCIETY 179
Octavia, widow of a clergyman and gifted, the apex
and etheric link; Rachel Fox, a member of the Society of
Friends, and K. E. F., as basal angles. Apparently the
work was to be done through women, for it was said:
" Know that it is not in all your thoughts how mighty and
astonishing is this great work that I am come to perform.
Therefore I can only permit man and woman to associate with
me in supreme obedience. . ., Herein I will show how the
weakness of woman tends to my glory, for that she readily renders
up to me the reins of government...." Again:" Do not ques-
tion, do not argue, only obey and all will be well . . . in an
instant I can so inspire you that ye shall think as one man and
act as one body."
Mass hypnotis~n! One of their chief works was
to enlighten the Church and to induce hventy-four
bishops to open Joanna Southcott's box, the contents of
which they believed would saye England. To further
this end Rachel Fox was strongly impressed that she
must first be baptised and later confirmed in the Anglican
Church so as to " hold her own with the bishops." She
was therefore confirmed June 25, 1919, by the Bishop
of Truro.
Octavia, being the etheric link with the masters, suf-
fered intensely. Vve are told of a nervous breakdown,
the result of the bishops' refusal to act, and a long so-
journ in a mental institution about which she writes,
November 1915: "What I suffer is hell. . .. How can
I live out each day in this torture with no aim, no hope,
no ideal? I am horribly sane, but I am too full of a
nervous dread ever to be myself again." And when her
.diabolical master considered her sufficiently chastened, he
said, September IS, 1916: HI kTIow her faithful work
and her suffering, and it was my \\"ill that she should
drink of the cup of pain, for so 'she is taught and puri-
fied, and she shall have reward. Bid her now come forth
from her house of pain, and fear not, for I will be her
guide." She only came out, however, to be imprisoned
(set apart!) within her house and garden for some years,
and still she suffered intensely; she was to be isolated
trom all that might influence and turn her aside from the
great work! November 27, 1917, the triangle took an
Oath, swearing to be led only by the Master, and to seek
light on the Visitation from no book but the Bible, the
Apocrypha, and the writings of their prophets. August
4, 1918, this master asked Octavia, " Art thou willing
to lose thy personality for a period?" Believing the
:Master to be divine she consented, and on March 27,
1919, she tells of the fixing of the link, the illuminising
power-Shiloh, Prince of Peace-descended into her
body ready (( after suffering great and terrible." 'Her
reason' and sense " were cast into a deep sleep" !
Finally, they are told:
"All who would enter the coming Kingdom, which is the
:-eaJisation of what has hith{.rto existed in vision, speech, and
,,-riting, must enter a period of cessation from psychic momenta
(it was said in the R.R. et A.c. that a time would come when
all magic must cease!). Those have been allowed by me to
develop in the last decade for this reason, that I had to gather
many in this manner ... but all must now walk on the material
plane. . .. Concentration upon soul-development (that is, astral-
development) will hinder the Coming. This is a hard saying, but
be it knovm I will now to be a centre (having taken possession
of his • vehicle '), drawing my people unto me, whereas in soul-
development my people endeavoured to draw me unto them...."
(As in Steiner's Way of Initiation, leading to obsession.)
In other words, these masters-doubtless identical
with the terrible power behind the horrors of Russia's
sufferings and World Revolution-have in reality no in-
terest in soul or astral development except as a means
of forming passive illuminised tools, completely con-
trolled in mind and actions.
As we have seen, one of the main objects of this
Society waS to get Joanna Southcott's box opened by
twenty-four bishops, but only under specified conditions
as decreed by their masters. These conditions are as
follows:
180 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
.. 1. The exact location of the box is known to a lady who has
seen the box herself, and upOn bearing from the Bishops, will put
them into communication with the intermediary, who will supply
the custodian's name and address.
.. 2. Portions from the writings of Joanna Southcott, from
THE PANACEA SOCIETY 181
the moment they were written, were commanded to be kept close
till the Bishops should ask for them, , in a time of grave national
danger.' The initiative must therefore be taken by the Bishops
or by some authority in the land and not by believers in the Visita-
tion. But, when the Bishops agree to send for the box, twenty-
four believers will come forward to form a jury, to meet the
twenty-four Bishops or their representatives.
"3. The Book of the trial of the claims of Joanna South-
cott (1804) must be read by all those consenting ~o be present.
It will be produced for the Bishops.
" 4. An attorney must be present.
" 5. There are written instructions for the Judges and jury,
which are to be kept sealed until the Assembly meets.
"6. A suitable house must be lent or rented for the occa-
sion. The box of writings must be previously placed for three
days in the vault or cellar of the house. (Note.-Perhaps the
writings are charged with the' original atom' eyen as the sections
of linen are said to be!)
"7. The house must be close to a field or railed-in space.
(Is this to 'set it apart,' in order to place round it the' three-
fold circle'?)
"8. The sixty-five books and any original MSS. possessed by
believers are to be exposed for investigation on the first three
days of the Assembly.
"9. In the first the double jury of believers must meet the
Bishops, that they may discuss the problems at stake.
" 10. On the second there ,,,,ill be a sign from the Lord of
great importance.
" I I. On the third the sealed writings are to be cut open and
examined.
" 12. This trial is the herald or precursor of the doom of
Satan, as described in Rev. xx. There will be no rest in the
yvorld until the opportunity be afforded of putting the assertion
10 Joanna's writings to the proof.
"13. If the verdict of the Bishops be against the writings,
they may be burnt. __
. "14- It will be recognised, when the box is opened, that the
trial compares for importance with the Trial of Christ before
the Sanhedrin. .
"IS· In the published writings, the ceremony is also compared
to the reading-of a last will or testament. (It might be the death
of the British Empire! brought about -by the 'small and con-
stant Sanhedrin.')
th "16. It is also compared in the writings to an inquest (!),
.e box to be regarded as men regard a body which has been
discovered.
. "17· On this occasion the Church of England will stand her
trial, to keep or lose her place among the Candlesticks.
"18. Those calling the trial must sustain the cost-i.e. the
expenses of jury and witnesses, etc. (Bishops!)
"19. No sealed person is to be refused admission to the
Trial. .
"20. ' As I made Myself known in the breaking of bread at
Emmaus, so will I make Myself known in the breaking of the
seals of the Writings.''' (Taken from H caIittg for All.)
Jane Lead's Prophecies are the basis of all this, and
they are Illuminism and Rosicrucian. As we have seen,
one of the great aims of the R.R. et A.C. was to corrupt
and disintegrate the Church in England and the Empire..
A box, said to be Joanna Southcott's, was eventually
opened, and one of the most interesting accounts was
given in the Dat'l'y Telegmph, May 9, 1927, written be-
fore the actual opening. \Ve are told that she was born
in 1750, had little education, working in domestic service
and in shops, and in an orthodox way was an assiduous
attender at church and chapel. At the age of forty-two
she began to prophesy, announcing the near approach of
the Millennium and coming convulsions in Europe. Ac-
cording to her prophecies, the faithful were to number
144,000 (Rev. vii.), and certificates of their appoint-
ment to felicity, no doubt a form of sealing, were issued.
Notwithstanding this, "one of the recipients was
certainly hanged for murder"! In 1813, at the age of
sixty-three, she announced " that she was to become the
mother of Shiloh the Prince of Peace," a new Messiah!
But" Joanna died without bearing a child." " Upon her
death-bed, it is reported she gave to a companion a sealed
.box, with the injunction tl1~t i.t was.only to be opened in
time of dire national need, and in the presence of a num-
ber of bishops; under these conditions .it would reveal
an unexpected means of saving the country." What is
saidJo be this box, though it is denied by the Panacea
Society and others, was opened, and the result was not
only a fiasco but a farce.
In The Impatience of the People, by Mark Proctor,
the Panacea Society once more made a brave effort to
catch the public eye. The consummation of their hopes,
.. the Second Advent," so-called, which was looked for
182 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
THE PANACEA SOCIETY 183
in 1923, is now long overdue! Joanna's box, or at least
one of the many, has been opened and has passed into
oblivion, resulting in a fiasco to all such as believed in
her supposed power to save an England which apparently
has no desire so to be saved! England still rides the
storms and still holds her own, notwithstanding many
onslaughts visible and invisible, and long may she do so.
The first thing that impresses one in this little book
is its profound and almost insolent arrogance, a trait
common to these hidden illuminati, these Cabalistic Jews,
but not what one expects from Divine inspiration, such as
they claim! In it he says:
"How good, then, it is to learn that man's extremity is
God's opportunity, and that ,,,,hen things are getting to such
a climax that no one knows what to do, God is coming to the
rescue with a fresh message (through the Pa:1acea Society!)
which brushes aside the confusion of academic intellectualism, of
false ecclesiasticism, of mystical spiritualising, of ritual staging,
of quarrelsome Anglicanism and Protestantism, of the emotional
religiosity of the !\"onconformists, and of the whole gamut of
cults and sects daring to call themselyes 'religious' to-day."
One wonders in what respect the Panacea Society
differs from "the whole gamut of cults and sects,"
illuminised as they themselves are. Do they not each
one believe, as does the Panacea Society, that they alone
are not as other cults and sects?
Further he writes: " A prophet is not a priest at all;
he is an automatic receiver of a direct divine message,
stated in a sequence of words, which he must set down
precisely as he heard them." He adds that fulfilment
is the proof of their divine nature, in which case their
messages apparently fail in the test; have they been ful-
filled? . .
\Ve have before us an astonishing pamphlet and
leaflet issued by the Panacea Society, April 1926. It
~peaks of their power to give" Divine Protection" dur-
Ing a coming crisis. Now what is this crisis? In their
~gazine, Panacea, they give an explanation. They have
In It a quotation from an amusing article, reprinted from
Punch~ called" the Next War," in which it is said there
184 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
is going to be another war, and this time entirely in the
air-aeroplanes dropping " filthy things" over all, "so
you will just inhale your ration of stink-bomb like a man,
and die like a dog!" Th~ Panacea takes this very
solemnly, and writes:
"Yes, it is true that no weapon fonned against England
will prosper when she awakens to the power of the Panacea
remedy. Our airships carrying the blessed water-the result of
God's Visitation to England since 1792 (Joanna Southcott)-
will be a wall of defence to Britain, a wall which no enemy will be
able to pass or destroy! "
In 1923 they placarded the following poster in Ply-
mouth: " Earthquakes, Thunder, Plague will soon startle
England unless the Bishops open Joanna Southcott's
box." Such troubles are always more or less with us,
but the plague we have to fear more than all these put
together, is the plague of these illuminised societies and
their so-called divine missions, directed from the air;
they are the stink-bombs to be shunned by all whv really
love their country and Empire.
Again they speak of " Divine Healing," and for this
healing the afflicted one must write out a full list of com-
plaints, imaginary or otherwise. This is read to the
" Oracle," who receives the so-called divine instructions,
and the wafer or section of linen is charged with the
required psychic-magnetic forces much in the same way,
no doubt, as a magical talisman is charged. These sec-
tions are to be dipped into the drinking water, bath, and
even it may be into the medicine prescribed by a medical
man, though it seems scarcely fair to the medical man!
Iri-all occult Orders, with varying methods, healing by
means of this magnetic fluid goes on with more or less
success, and. as we know it can slay or make alive. If
curative it may also be hypnotic, creating a band of
faithful followers! They make much of healing, " with-
out money and without price," but, after all, one of the
rules of the Rosicrucians was: "That none of them
should profess any other thing than to cure the sick, and
that gratis/' tho.ugh some adepts have interpreted
H gratis" as "freely/' so that a fee might be asked!
THE PANACEA SOCIETY 185
In their pamphlet, H eaJing for All, they say: " Any
fool can detect Satan's wickedness, but it takes a wise
man, indeed, to discover Luciferian error!" Can they
be sure that they are wise enough not to be deceived by
Luciferians such as these hidden Illuminati? Can they
be sure that they, along with all these other Orders and
groups, are not working to bring about the reign of
Luciferian power-that is, Illuminism? They say:
"We have no hesitation in declaring that no religion
nor cult nor any individual whatsoever, outside of this
Visitation, has the whole Truth!" This is very like
the spiritual pride, that, it is said, brought about the fall
of Lucifer!
One word about their communications which are
re-:orded by them in The T¥r£tings of the Holy Ghost-
that is astral communications. They appear to be very
much the same as many received to-day by occult and
spiritualist groups, and, far from being divine, are full
of crafty deception and flattery. In these records, April
IS, 1920, it is said: "I have led thee to note that in
the years of 1919, 1920, and 1921, the period between
Easter and Ascensiontide was a time of many develop-
ments." Easter 1919 was the time of the attempt, by
these hidden illuminati, to establish the Triangle of
Power in the R.R. et A.C. !
THE UNIVERSAL ORDER
THE Universal Order is yet another pseudo-mystic group,
professing to have nothing to do with occultism, but
neve~_eless_equally deceptive and dangerous. It was
knoWn for many years as the U Order of Ancient Wis-
dom," with its headquarters in M,anchester, and a branch
in London and possibly elsewhere. Its teachings were
Neo-Platonism, and they held their London meetings and
gave grades in the large upper room over Eustace Miles's
vegetarian restaurant. The ceremonies were simple, but
occult, attracting forces, such as are found in all occult
ceremonies, though -they professed merely to teach a
form of philosophy. In or about 1918-19, when similar
186 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
moYements, unbeknown to each other, were taking place
in other groups, the leaders of this group were by some
" compelling fOfce," or occult influence, made aware that
they were expected to recognise and practise the Chris-
tian faith, from which they, as Neo-Platonists, had
lapsed; this they accordingly did.
Somewhat later the name was changed to the" Uni-
yersal Order," no doubt as being more akin to inter-
national brotherhood, and was conducted on more or less
Christi~n lines, including retreats, meditations, and hav-
ing, I believe, modified grades to suit the apparent change
of outlook. This induced a form of pseudo-religious ex-
citement, creating highly nervous, em0tional, and medi-
umistic conditions, leading to possible control, as is uni-
'.-ersally found in all such Orders and groups. The
Order was linked by mutual membership to the S.M. and
R.R. et A.C., and their mission was also apparently to
enlighten the Church or bore from within, as in the S.M.
Later again, some of its groups changed the name to
the " Shrine of \Visdom "-the title of its publication.
Having studied the Leaflet No. I sent by the" Secre-
tary of the Universal Order," a few words about their
aims and system might be useful. From this leaflet the
Universal Order appears to be a veritable Esperanto of
philosophy, religion, and mystic science, for they aim
at the realisation of Universal Wisdom; yet it " is not a
religion, but embraces the essence of all religions; it
is not a philosophy, but it includes the fundamentals of
all great philosophical systems." In seeming contradic-
tion we are told that the finite intelligence nominally is
capable of apprehending_ only one presentation of Truth;
following several it frequently fails to understand any
of them! Therefore, although\ universal, they advo-
cate one definite system of instruction, their own, pro-
fessedly embracing all aspects of Truth! Who then has
built up this apparently contradictory system-universal
yet particular? Who is the judge of the true essence and
fundamentals .....j-lich constitute this system of universal
wisdum ieading to brother1ine~s and tolerance? Have
they. too~ unseen inasters who direct and instruct?
THE PANACEA SOCIETY 187
Let us see what they endeavour to avoid. Following
their "Ideal Harmony," they cultivate such a "wide
sympathy and tolerance, a silencing of that inquisitorial
criticism," that they" do not condemn, nor attack, nor
countenance the attacking of any other mo\"ement, ho\\"-
soever dinrse it may seem," for they belie,"e every move-
ment may serve some useful purpose! \\That of the Grand
Orient Judceo Freemasonry, whose a\"owed aim is " In-
ternational Revolution" and its subsequent "Universal
Republic"? What of the Illuminati ?-who seek by
subtle pseudo-spiritual teachings to create illuminised
tools, blinding and intoxicating by false ecstasy, false
vision, and false teaching, forming" unbreakable chains,"
as the "Protocols" sho\,", whereby they secretly unite
mankind and control them, the only possible method by
which they could hope to rule the world as a whole. \Vhat
of the Bolsheviks and the invisible power behind them?
Does the Gniversal Order passinly condone such mo,·e-
ments?
They endeavour to avoid all dualistic doctrines, but
what is the triangle of their symbol? Is it not the two
contending forces ever united by a third ,,-hich produces
manifestation in conformity with its principle-as above
so below? Again they endeavour to avoid psychic, pas-
sive mediumship, necromancy, and magic or all sorts; but
they "do not turn away or oppose those who follow
any of these pursuits!" Thus through this passi\"e toler-
ance and' lack of using their critical 'faculties, :their
Order may become a secret breeding-ground for all these
evils they do not oppose or turn away.
They use rituals, rite§, and symbolism, rightly or
wrongly interpreted and adapted from the teachings of
the ancient mysteries, even as is done ;n the Stella Matu-
tina and kindred Orders-we ha\"e seen what the basis of
these mysteries was! Upon this unstable and somewhat
contradictory basis the members are encouraged to seek
for" personal illumination" and "interior occultism of
the soul.,·· by "soaring in prayer, meditation, and con-
~emola,tion." Is this not playing with hidden fire, which
UlVariably leads to nervous wreckage? Can the leaders
188 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
of this Order with any certainty assure their members
that this personal illumination will mean union with the
diyine, and not obsession by this invisible material power
which is eyerywhere seeking for instruments, and which
perverts all that is sacred, using it as a means of en-
snaring the unsuspecting yictim?
What do the "Protocols" say of "collectivism"?
" We 'will let them ride in their dreams on the horse of idle
hopes of destroying human indi,,;duality by symbolic ideas of
collectivism. They have not yet understood, and never will under-
stand, that this wild dream is contrary to the principal law of
nature, which from the very beginning of the world, created a
being unlike all others in order that he should have indi\;duality."
\Vhy, then, this demand of absolute self-sacrifice
{rom members of these mystic and occult groups? Is it
not that these groups of pseudo-public and actual secret
societies are merely so many cogs in this great annihi-
lating machine, whose mission, in the name of Unity and
Uniyersal Brotherhood, is a slow and deadly destruction
of all indiyiduality, creating a soulless automaton, whose
driving and directing power is the will of this central
group of Hidden Chiefs, the Great "White Lodge?
A powerful picture of this "Collective Man" as
attempted in Soviet Russia is ginn in The Mind and Face
of Bolshe-uisn1-J
by Rene Fulop-Miller. Here is the
author's final judgment:
"\Vhat concerns the whole civilised world in the highest
degree is this' barbarous jesuitry' (as seen in Weishaupt's Illu-
minism) which claims to be a doctrine of salvation for the whole
of humanity, while in reality it is threatening its very foundations.
BolsheVism aims at more than the confiscation of private property :
it is trying to confiscate human dignity in order ultimately to
turn 'all free reasonable beings into a horde of will-less slaves."·
The same might, with truth, be said of the way
of sahoation and so-called II eyolution of humanity," as
depicted in the teachings of all these secret societies and
l< new temporary religions" of to-day.
CHAPTER VII
AMERICAN CULTS
AMERICA-internationalism personified in her people-
that land of amazing cranks, crazes and cults, teems with
examples of this soul-destroying canker\ of "isms";
only one or two need be touched on in these investiga-
tions.
THE SADOL ?-.fOVBfENT
The "Sadol ~lo\'ement" is yet another esoteric
masonic group, another link in the "magnetic chain,"
prepared by this invisible centre in their schemes for
\Vorld Domination. It \yas established in America in
1883 by ]. E. Richardson, who is known as TK, or the
"Elder Brother," and is the representatiye in America
of the" Great School of Natural Science" (Great \Vhite
Lodge), whose centre, they say, is in India.
According to TK, it is said in their Bulletin} January
1926, that this Great School has a written history ex-
tending over a period of more than 200,000 years! Fur-
ther, that it settled in India 23,000 years ago, at the time
of the sinking of the Atlantean Continent! This is with-
out doubt the "Great \Vhite Lodge" of all esoteric
Masonry, such as Max Heindel's" Rosicrucian Fellow-
ship," Mrs. Besant'sgroup, the Stella Matutina, etc.
Who can say where the centre of this occult government
really is? The whole organisation has been built up by
systematic confusion between things said and things
meant. .
\Ve have before us an extract from the Sadol Maga-
zine} "The Great Work in America," showing that
they follow the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, al-
though in their text-books they speak only of the three
degrees of the Blue Lodge. TK writes:
J89
190 LIGHT-BE.-\RERS OF DARKNESS
.. It is already known by Scottish Rite Masons generally
that General Albert Pike was the author of the ritualistic cere-
monials for the entire 33 degrees of the Order. It is not gener-
ally known that he received the 'Legenda,' which constitute the
philosophic background of each individual degree of the entire
33-directly and personally from the Arabian member of the
Great School."
With reference to the" Arabian Member," it is in-
teresting to note the Stella Matutina " Arab teacher."
The text-books of this Movement consist of the
" Harmonic Series," in four volumes. A careful study
of these clearly shows that the teaching is not construc-
tive leading to Mastership, as they maintain, but destruc-
tiye leading to Mediumship. Volume 4, The Great
Known) might equally be the teaching of Conan Doyle
or Vale Owen! They believe they han found the" Lost
\Vord" of Freemasonry, which, according to TK, means
direct communications from the masters. Thus the
whole teaching would appear to be given for the purpose
of inducing clain'oyance, etc., preparing mediums sensi-
tised by means of secret formulas, and the use, in rota-
tion, of the colours of the spectrum. They believe them-
selves free, absolutely self-controlled; but it is intellectual
bondage induced on the part of their masters by ambi-
tious and diabolical misapplication of occult knowledge
and abuse of power gained thereby.
I have already explained the methods adopted in
this group for contacting the Master or "wise and
powerful Luminous Ones!" and how they correspond
to those used in the Stella Matutina, and the Edinburgh
Sun Order. - -
THE ORDER OF THE INITIATES OF TIBET
These notes are taken from an article in the
H1ash1'1lgton Post) October 31, 1909, entitled (l Washing-
ton's Most Curious Cult-Under Leadership of a
Woman."
Miss A. E. Marsland, Pre~ident of the Order in
America, is a daughter of George Marsland, founder of
the American Bankers' Association. Washington is the
AMERICAN CULTS 191
centre of this mmoement for America, which was founded
there in 1904 by Miss Marsland and four or five enthu-
siasts. There are now (19°9) 5,000 members, and the
cult is slowly and quietly growing. Among her fol-
lowers are found some of the most prominent members
of the social and diplomatic set; they meet twice weekly
at the home of the Oriental Esoteric Centre, 1443 Q
Street, there to drink in the mysteriously transmitted
wisdom. Miss Marsland does not know the exact place
from which her instructions and lectures come, but she
believes that the documents written in Sanskrit are sent
out from the fastnesses of Tibet (not Lhasa) to Paris,
where they are translated into French and then sent to
\Vashington, Br2.ziI, and Egypt. The occult masters
are the fountain-head of kno\yledge, but e2.ch centre is
independent as far as internal goyernment is concerned.
According to the doctrine of the Initiates, the fifth
Great World leader and teacher of mankind is to be born
in America within the next twenty-fiye years. The four
previous leaders were, they say, Rama, Krishna, Buddha,
and Jesus. The mission of the centres established by the
Initiates is to draw men from the study of material effects
which has so far occupied the exclusive attention of
scientists, and to direct them to the study of cause, force,
vibration, and the unseen. This, they say, can only be
done with safety by the man \\'ho is master of himself,
and so the stupendous task of the pioneers of the New Era
is to transmute the scientist into the Mage! According
to Miss Marsland, the world entered upon the New Era
- in 1898, and will show a wonderful advancement in
knowledge of the occult, leading, perhaps, within the next
2,000 years to contact with the inhabitants of the other
planets, who are said to be spirits who have previously
lived upon earth. But knowledge of this and many
other mysteries of the cult are not re\oealed even to Miss
Marslandl
Prof. F. Charles Bartlet is leader of the Order in
France, and a recently discovered spring, which is cura-
tive, at Chatel Guyon, at the foot of the extinct volcano
. Puy de Dome, is now the property of the Order. On
192 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
the summit of the mountain is a ruined Temple to Venus
and the Sun, which appears appropriate to such a cult!
One or two of their precepts. are enlightening, as for in-
stance: " The entire submission of the personality to the
Higher Nature (Masters!); non-resistance or the law
of love (pacifism!); the Universe is one, therefore all
are united in Universal Brotherhood." Also, (( Noon-
t£de A1editations,JJ as tl 0 disciple, it is indispensable to
silence thy reason and give ear to thy mentality. Listen!
but not with the outer ears (clairaudience). Behold! but
not with the outer eyes (clairvoyance). There comes a
voice, a presentiment, a thought, yet it is not a thought, .
a feeling, a vibration, yet it is none of these." No, it is
the Master forming links, trying to control and suggest!
They further profess to believe in a Supreme Deity, but
he is no doubt the Lord of the Universe, LI\.O.
The key to this cult is given in one of its most
interesting symbols-Adda-Nari. She is Nature-
generation, creation, as is shown by the symbols of mani-
festation in her four hands, and the sign of the lingam,
and the Triad of the Serpent Power on her forehead.
The purposes of this cult are: tl To form a chair
of universal brotherhood based on the purest altruism,
without hatred of creed, sect, caste, or colour ... to study
occult sciences of the Orient, and seek by meditation and
a special line of conduct to develop these powers which
are in man and his environment." This is the usual
yoga, awakening and raising the Kundalini!
They have a monthly magazine, The Esoterist,
edited by Agnes E. Marsland ;jn the July issue 1924
there was an article called "Good Government '-' ! Fur-
ther, No\'ember 1927, a letter was sent to members, tl Plea
for investment in the Marsland Centre, and Conditions,
, Live in Community' Stock Farm." It appears to in-
crease and prosper! Finally, a Prophecy Bulletin, with
a tau cross at the head of it, issued last New Year, says:
" This crisis is now imminent, and will decide once for
aU the future condition of the earth. The Great Master
is with us directing the battle." Signed, AGNES E.
MARSLAND, Lexington, N.C.
A},!ERICAN CULTS 193
The moyement is said not to be Jewish; but one
of their publications bears on its front the symbol of
Solomon's Seal!
Again, the above is a Pantheistic and apparently
cabalistic cult.
THE BAHA1 MOVEMENT
THIS movement was founded in 1844 by a Persian,
Mirza Ali Muhammad, who took the title of " Bab " (the
Gate); he revolted against the Hierarchy, who, fearing
his growing influence, had him shot at Tabriz, 1850.
It claims to be the fulfilment" of that which was but
partially revealed in preyious dispensations," and they
look upon Buddha, Zoroaster, Jesus, Mohammed, and
Confucius as merely preparing the ,,,orld for the advent
of the" Most Great Peace" and the" Mib"hty \Vorld
Educator," Baha'u'llah (Glory of God), 1863-92, and
later Abdul-Baha, 1892-1921. It further claims to be
the unity of all religions, also older and modern move-
ments, such as Theosophy, Freemasonry, Spiritualism,
Socialism, etc.; 'it aims at conferring ill1l11l£natiol'£ upon
humanity, and like all illuminated groups, it works for
universal peace, religion, education, language (Esper-
anto) , and uniyersal everything leading to unity of
humanity; therefore all prejudices must be abandoned,
traditional, racial, patriotic, religious and political; all
religions must be in accordance with science and reason.
From The Confusion of Tongues) by Charles Fer-
guson, we· find the following Bahai .c;locumented informa-
ti~n: {ill these nineteenth-<:entury movements" have been
the instruments of God to make the world receptive to
His Cause. (Bahaism)"; and, H Apart from the Bahai
cause, modern world movements and tendencies seem
sinister anarchy; but from within the cause they assume
perfect order and fullness of meaning!" Baha'u'llah's
teachings include It science, philosophy, economic and
governmental problems, as well as ethics and methods of
3piritual purification and attainment (Yoga). It Fifty
Years ago he commanded the people to establish universal
194 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
peace, and summoned all the nations to the Divine Ban-
quet of International Arbitration, so that questions of
boundaries, of national honour and property, and of vital
interests between nations might be decided by an arbitral
court of justice "-all of which makes one think of Grand
Orient Jud~o-:'!asonry !
\\Then the Bahai followers in Chicago heard of the
Great Temple, a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar in'IshqaM.d, in which
city of Turkmenio there are 4,000 Bahai families, they
begged permission to build a similar temple in Chicago;
it was to overlook Lake Michigan. From 1903 they have
been working at its erection, and it is still far from com-
pletion; the towering light was to signalise unity of all
iaiths, and the temple was to symbolise and embody their
,eve1ation (like Steiner's Goetheanum !). Its services
consist of reading or chanting the" Most Holy Word of
Baha'u'llah." In form it is a perfect nonagon, and all
its dimensions are based on the number niH.e-the caba-
listic number of generation, which initiates and leads to
unity with the universal astral light. Of this temple they
say: " \\Then the Temple of God shall be built in Chicago
it will be to the spiritual body of the world what the
inrush of the spirit is to the physical body of man,
quickening it to the utmost parts and infusing New Light
and Power "-uni\'ersal and individual Illuminism!
Further, there is a Guardian of the Cause--Shogi-
Effendi-with nine co-workers, and in each town there is
a Spiritual Assembly of nine members, who must be
consulted, absolutely obeyed, and submitted to. There are
also National Spiritual Assemb1ie~ in all countries to
which the cause has spread, and, iina~ly, they are making
elaborate plans to fonn an International Spiritual Assem-
bly to be elected by all believers-'to enact ordinances and
regulations not found in the explicit Holy Text.
Though full of platitudes, and apparent high ethics,
the teaching is anti-Christian, and suggests that their
.. :Mighty Educator's" source of inspiration was not
God, but the age-old Mysterious Central Power, which is
behind all illuminised movements, and which aims at uni-
fication for the purpose of World Dominion.
CHAPTER VIII
CONCLUSION
THE Morning Post, September 22, 1928, published a very
useful article, by Edgar \iVallace, the well-known writer
and expert on all sorts of weird criminology, entitled,
" A New Crim~Hypnotism as a \Veapon."
It shows that he realises, as we have time and again
stated, that one of the deadliest powers of occult centres
lies in their knowledge and practice of hypnotic control.
Quoting a letter he had received, he says:
" ... There is the criminal about which you have not
written: he or she who exults in the undoing of his fellow....
A friend of mine, a woman with some property, fell under
the influence of a certain occult group. She became fascinated,
and eventually a devotee, and submitted to a form of hypnotism.
· .. It is sufficient to say that the woman "" ho did the hYI>-
notism began to exercise an extraordinary influence, telepathi-
cally-that is to say, when they were not together ... and (the
friend) was only stopped by timely interference from conveying
all her property by deed of gift ... the mischief was wrought
by a superior mental power upon a weaker."
Fdgar Wallace continues:
" Now here is the fact which has interested me. . .. During
the past two years I must have recei\'ed more than a dozen letters,
written by people who are obviously sane. if handwriting goes
for anything, tdling me exactly the same story without any
florid .etceteras. . .. In every case (so far as I remember) . . .
there was a history of occultisin at the beginning, and in every
case it was a practiser of this I magic' who gained dominion over
the mind of the novice. There is support for the theory, that
such a. form of criminality is on the increase, by reported cases.
· " The domination of a strong mind over a weaker is no
unusual phenomenon, but there is more than a suspicion that this
mental tyranny is becoming systematised, and that it may easily
represent a real danger, especially to women of the moneyed class.
· ." It is, at any rate, a matter which is well worth investiga-
tioh, for the practisers of this new I art' are among the most
195
LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
dangerous members of the underworld. They are more danger-
ous because, in the strictest sense of the word, they are not
members of the criminal classes. \Ve are probably on the verge
of making very important disco\;eries in the psychic field, and
when the new truths (whatever they are) are established, when
realities of, let us say, telepathy are revealed. quite a new de-
partment may come into existence at Scotland Yard."
Similar cases have come to our knowledge, and all
due to the powerful influences of advanced occultists, one
at least most unscrupulous. In the Morning Post7
October 4, 1928, there was an interesting letter on the
above article sent by Mordaunt Shairp, in which he
writes: " ... I can quite understand the hesitation he
ielt before writing it. In spite of all that is kno\\-n of
the possibilities of waves of light and sound, we are still
reluctant to believe in these thought waves, which are
the basis of that powerful and dangerous telepathic in-
fluence he so convincingly describes." Speaking of his
own play, "The Bend in the Road," produced by the
Play Actors at the Apollo Theatre, January 1927, which
was well noticed by the Morning Post) Mr. Shairp says:
" It showed a man in whom this thought-power had been
remarkably developed, using it out of motives of revenge
to undermine the health and happiness of his rival to the
verge of suicide. . .. As Mr. Wallace points out, it
is a fact, and we shall hear more of it in the future."
Here we have the use and abuse of the psychic fluid
which" slays and makes alive "-this Serpent Power-
set in motion by powerful will and thought, the worker
of all-magic and. miracles, as used in eSQteric. masonry
and all Rosicrucian and occult groups. In the R.R. et
A.C. there'is a formula used for influencing people from
a distance for good or ill.' In. this is used the power of
the Pentagram and of the Interlaced Triangles (the
Hebrew Talisman I). This fluid is attracted and then
projected with strong and concentrated intention in
the required direction, as if along a path or ray of
light, and interesting and weird results' have been ob-
tained. It not only acts upon the person physically and
mentally, but apparently through the intermediary adept,
CONCLUSION 197
who uses this formula, it links him with the hidden centre
who controls the Order.'
In that curious pamphlet, The Hebrew TaHsma.n
already quoted, the following extract is interesting in
connection with the above. Speaking of Abraham Gold-
smid, who is said to have received the ::'1agic Box from
Dr. Falk, a cabalistic Jew who arrived in London in
1742 (see Mrs. Nesta Vlebster in Secret Societ1:es and
Subversive Movements), the \Vandering Jew says:
"Aye, let the Nazarene dogs lift their hands and eyes in
ignorant wonder; the great Goldsmid was my very and mere
instrument: I raised him because I deemed him worthy; I found
him incompetent to the vast and sacred duty I designed him for,
and I dashed him down eyen as we cast aside the gourd when
we no longer require a drinking-cup. \Vho among the elder fre-
quenters of the great Temple of ~1ammon, which is called the
Exchange, does not remember the golden box with which the
hand of Goldsmid was perpetually occupied in his busiest and
most important moments! It was his talisman. The words of
power had been pronounced aboye it: with it he could encounter
a world and be triumphant. . .. I had warned him again and
again; I had menaced, I had entreated, but in vain; I found
him incorrigible in his neglect of the cause of our people and
our God; and eyen while he was wassailing at his luxurious villa
in the neighbourhood of Morden, the words of power went forth
from my lips, and his talisman had departed from him for eyer.
He appeared upon the Exchange without his palladium;
bargained, lost, and saw absolute ruin looking at him with stead-
fast and unpitying eyes. Two daJs he bore this, and then he
blew his brains out! None can be false to our cause and prosper."
And if an adept destined by these evil masters for
some f( mighty work/~ d.ares to betray their trust, mis-
fortune, discredit, and even deatl~ may follow, but that
great occultist Paracelsus writes:
"The spirits (forces) of a man inay act upon another
without the other man's consent or intention. . .. If man's will is
in unity with his thought and desire, a spirit (force) will be
produced which can be employed for good or evil. If two such
spiritual forces battle with each other, the weaker one, which
d?es not defend itielf sufficiently, will be overcome, and bodily
dIsease may be the result. An evil-disposed person may throw
~he force of his will upon another person and injure him, even
1£ the latter is stronger than the former, because the latter does
not expect and is not prepared for the attack; but if the other
is stronger and resists successfully, then a force will be kindled
in him which will overcome his enemy and which may destroy
bim." -
198 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
Might not England and her Empire take a lesson
from the above teaching of Paracelsus? She is stronger
than the enemy within and without her gates, but she
has been more or less taken unaware. Let her shake off
this insidious apathy and pacificism, which are merely
the poisonous yapours of her enemy; let her resist! and
then and only then will she rise strong and ready to
recapture her old and honoured place in God's Sun not
the Devil's !
And who is this enemy? It is the power behind
these deadly secret Orders, which is slowly but surely
sapping her power of resistance, it is the "serpent,"
which fascinates, but fascinates unto death.
Cheiro, in his Predict£onsJ
tells us of the coming
\\Torld Domination by the Jews, the setting up of their
kingdom in Egypt and Palestine which is to eventuate in
1980, according to his reckoning, a reckoning which we
can falsify if we recognise the possible danger.
This book of Cheiro's appears as if it might be a
subtle piece of propaganda, seeking through astrology,
cabalistic teaching, so-called seership, and much playing
about with scriptural quotations, to prove the inevitable-
ness of the Jewish World Domination. Astrology is an
ancient science we know, but Cheiro himself says: " As
I see it," and" in the light of occultism," man is not in-
_ f~lible, and -occultism, as taught in these devilish secret
societies, was ever a deceiver! On the cover of the book
is an allegorical design by Countess Hamon of a light-
ning-stricken world-Illuminism! A few extracts will
show his ideas and conclusions:
"That the Israelites were for some unaccountable reason a
race set apart for the manifestation of the God Power in con-
nection with the destiny of mankind, is, I think, evident from
the prophecies concerning them. -That they were also intended
to be an example of. the mysterious influence of the planets on
human life appears to be equally evident... , All through the
COKCLUSION 199
story of the Israelites ... the power of the Seven Creative planets
is not only distinctly emphasised, but in aU cases represents the
mysterious' God-Force' in nature ... the mysterious Law of
Vibration or 'God-Force,' symbolised by the number seYen."
Here we have the electro-magnetic forces of the
ether, the" finer force of nature," the se\'en aspects of
the solar force, the spectrum, the Serpent Power.
He appears to throw cold \vater upon the beliefs of
the "British Israel 1-.10vement," which he says repre-
sents-
"England as the children of Ephraim and the U.S.A. as :Manas-
seh. My own opinion is that such a proposition appears to limit
the purpose of the Creator and brings too much into the con-
troversy the personal element of the English and American people.
. .. The present so-called 'Great Powers,' in the intoxication
of their youth, forget they are but children in comparison with
races which have passed away. . .. \Vith the ilmocence of chil-
dren they prattle of their greatness...."
He c1aims-
"that the real meaning of the Great Pyramid is an astrological
one, setting forth the religion of life ... that this plan or design is
linked up with the Children of Israel, and contains in its records
exact periods of years corresponding to the great events in their
history ... (p. 136). It is in fact the Solar-Lunar Clock of
the Universe ... (p. 143). From 1980 ... will, in my opinion,
see the restoration of the Tweh-e Tribes of Israel as the dominant
power in the \Vorld. The Great Pyramid wil1 then become the
control1ing centre in the world's civilisation , , . (p. 144). Be-
neath the thirteen-acre base of the Pyramid a treasure temple wil1
be discovered ... revealing scientific secrets by which the Pyramid
was built, which wil1 upset aU previously known laws relating
to astronomy, gravitation, electricity, the harnessing of the powers
of light, etheric rays, and the hidden forces of the atom. With
such knowledge at-their disposal the Israelites and all the des-
cendants of 'the lost tribes' will become the possessors of the
earth in every sense, as has been predicted so many times in
th7 Bible ... (p. 145). Another Law-gh'er, like Moses, will
anse ... and so in the end through this ' despised race' universal
peace will become established. . . ."
Are the above secret laws not the same forces
used to-day by these hidden Illuminati, these l( grand-
masters, all Jews"?
Further, as in all illuminised orders, he too says that
there is to be a new age of (p. 35)-
"the negation of Self-arrived at through suffering ...-(p. liS).
It may be that the revolutions and upheavals we see around us
on all sides may for the time being bring about the fall of empires,
the destruction of thrones, the death of the ' old' and the birth
of the' new.''' He believes in a H V'far of \Vars" (p. 181):
Co The aftermath of the Great Armageddon will completely revolu-
tionise our present ideas of nations, kingdoms, and republics; a
wonderfully organised Central Government in Palestine will radi-
ate laws of life and humanity to the entire world ... (p. 144).
That 'the stranger' will be a co-worker (subordinate dupe)
with the returned Israelites in making Palestine and its surround-
ing countries the centre of a new and coming civilisation . " .
(p. 182), such perfection cannot be attained until all religions
have become merged in one . . . (p. 183), the language of stars,
planets and suns, will translate the 'Book' into words 'under-
~tandable by the people' (Jewish Cabala!) . . . (p. 151). The
predicted period 'the Times of the Gentiles' is rapidly coming
to a close. . . ."
200 L1GHT-BE..\RERS OF DARKNESS
Compare this with the Protocols as already quoted
in connection with the T.S. symbol:
H To-day I can assure you that we are only within a few
strides of our goal. There remains only a short distance, and the
cycle of the Symbolic Serpent-that badge of our people-will
be complete, etc."
Finally, in all this domination by the power behind
these secret and illuminised societies there is a deadly
danger to civilisation.
\iVith reference to an article in the Pa.triot) March
14, 192 9, on "Growing Moral Degradation," does not
Disraeli, in his novel Lothair) 1870, speaking of the aims
of the Illuminati and Freemasons, make the Cardinal
say:
"The foundation of the Christian family is the sacra-
ment of matrimony, the spring of all domestic and public morals.
The anti-Christian societies are opposed to the principle of home.
\Vhen they have destroyed the hearth the morality of society will
perish." (Patriot, May TO, 1928.)
Prof. Charles Grangent, of Harvard University,
says in his book Prunes and Prisms:
H I f the colour of sex has come to pervade all our thinking,
e'"en as the 'smell of. gasoline forms the major constituent of
our atmosphere, we owe that ether-like omnipresence, in great
CONCLUSION 201
measure, to a Viennese nerve doctor, called by some of his
American disciples' Froude '.11 (Patriot, February 21, 1929).
In he~ Secret Societies and Subversive 1I1cyuemen,ts,
Mrs. \Vebster thus quotes an eminent neuro-psychiatrist
of New York:
.. The Freud Theory is anti-Christian and subversive of
organised society. . . . Freudism makes of the individual a
machine, absolutely controlled by subconscious reflexes. . . .
\Vhether conscious or unconscious, ·it makes for ,destructive
effect. . .. Not only the Freud theory 'of psycho-analysis, but
a considerable quantity of pseudo-scientific propaganda of that
type has for years been emanating from a group of German Jews
who live and have their headquarters in Vienna."
The Freudian theory reduces everything, good or
bad, to a crude sex-basis.
Do we not find the same" ether-like omnipresence"
in all these illuminised and esoteric secret societies, where
the power of illuminism lies in the awakened and per-
verted sex-forces united to the universal agent or ether?
To bring abou.t the unity of humanity, bound by the mag-
netic chain into the " Universal Republic" of the Grand
Orient Judceo-Masonry, perverted sex-eonsciousness by
every means possible is necessary, such as illuminism,
eurhythmy, nudity cults and dances, etc., and perhaps
in some groups psycho-analysis---even ...-hen practised
" in the light of spiritual science" according to Steiner.
Further, Mrs. \iVebster quotes a critic who wrote
of a well-known Jewish artist:
.. He brings to the world of art a new gospel, a black gospel,
a gospel in which everything is to be inverted and distorted. What-
soever things are hideous, whatsoever ~ are of evil report,
whatsoever things are sordid; if there be any unhealthiness o.
any degradation; think on t,hese things."
Is this not 'the curse of ce'rtain other present-day
expressions of life and art-books, plays, music, etc.?
Mr. H. A. Jung, of Chicago, writes of the Hon.
Bertrand Russell:
.. His teaching on the sex question can be bluntly summed up
as follows: complete sexual promiscuity under sanitary conditions;
that man's desires should be the guiding factor in life, and that
-
I have now laid before you some of the results of
outside of human desires there is no moral standing; that right
or wrong can only be determined by consequences. . .. He says
in his book, f17 h}' 1 am 'lOt a Christian: ' I say quite deliberately
that the Christian religion as organised in the churches has been,
2nd still is, the principal enemy of moral progress in the world.'
~\lrs" Russell writes in her book The Right to be Happy: •Animals
we are, and animals we remain, and the path of our regenera-
tion and happiness, if there be such ~ path, lies through our
animal nature'" (Patriot, February 23, 1928).
Rasputin, that licentious evil genius of Russia, had
a similar creed-" Redemption through sin." Likewise
that pernicious Aleister Crowley, of the G.T.O., looks
upon sex as the redeemer of man! Krishnamurti, the
Leadbeater-Besant fallen "Star in the East which was
:0 proclaim the dawn of earth's new and greater day,"
~dvocated in his book, Life in Freedol1'/.} revolt from all
restraints, and said that each one must be his or her own
law-giver-intuition! He writes: "\\Then you bind life
to beliefs and traditions, to codes of morality, you kill
life."
And to all this is linked birth-control and "Com-
panionate Marriages"!
William Farren, who has belonged to the stage for
oyer fifty years, writes in a letter to the Patriot, April 19,
1928: "There are very few theatres, music halls, and
places of entertainment which are not under Jewish
management (the same is said of Paris and New York
in the Victon"es of Israel) ... the theatre has become
a mere workshop to turn out what is ugly, vulgar, and
debasing." Why? Because of the modern "commer-
cial manager"! .
"The Protocols of the-Learned Elders of Zion,"
whatever their origin, foreshadow all this iii ci- remark-
able- way when they say:
"The educated classes of the Gentiles will pride themselves
in their learning, and without \'erifying it, they will put into
practice the knowledge obtained from science (even • Spiritual
Sci.ence! '). which was dished up to them by our agents with the
object of educating their minds in the direction which we re-
quire." - ' -
202 LIGHT-BEARERS OF DARKNESS
CONCLUSION 203
years of difficult experience and research into the hidden
workings of this Great Conspiracy, ha~ched in the secret
and subterranean places of the world by some crafty
Overshadowing Power, who would rule the world by
gaining control over the minds and actions of men and
women, using them as credulous idealists and dupes,
dreaming' of a "universal evolution of humanity,"
caught and held in the snare of these secret societies;
or again as more or less honest sceptics, who are em-
ployed to cover up the tracks of this secret Overshadow-
ing Power, in case, by some unlooked-for miscarriage
of their devilish plans, the truth might leak out-for
they are but flesh and blood men and, as such, are in no
'way infallible--mistakes are made which can only be rec-
tified, if rectified they can be, by bluff, and for this pur-
pose honest sceptics are more than useful-they are ab-
solutely necessary.
As has been said of the Emerald Tablet of Hermes:
"To those who read with their bodily eyes the precepts
will suggest nothing new or extraordinary, for it merely begins
by saying that it speaks not fictitious things, but that which is
true and most certain. 'What is below is like that which is
above, and what is above is similar to that which is below to
accomplish the wonders of one thing '-manifestation of their
ambitious and diabolical V..,rorId Dominion by this mysterious
'Overshadowing Power.'
INDEX
AmpthilI, Lord, 99
Anthroposophy, 59
Aqua Toffana, 4, 8
Asiatic Brethren, 3, 120
Assassins, 3, 5
AtJantean Adepts, 162
Bahai Movement, 193
Benamozegh, Rabbi, I I
Bernier, Flavien, II .. .
Besant, Annie, 27; pohtlcal alms,
55-8
Blavatsky, Mme., 25-i
Brunswick, Duke of, Manifesto, 9
Cheiro's Predictions, 198
Christian IJIuminism, Steiner, 63
Christian Rosenkreutz, 91, 93, 122
Christian Symbolism, RR et
A.c., 142, 150 et seq.
Co-Masonry, 27, 35, 121
Constitution, New, Stella Matu-
tina, 100
Contacting the Masters, II6
Convoluted Revolution of the
Forces, RR et A.C., 123-6, 134
Crowley, Aleister, 87, 159, 162,
168, 169
Dangerous Secret Societies, 159
Dangers to civilisation, 200
Daste Louis, 13
Daughter Temples, Stella Matu-
tina, 100"
Deified Man, II
Delfic Oracle, S.M., 133
Dicta.ture de La Fr~-Ma,o","
fterie sur la France, 15
Dijon, Bishop of, Grand Orient
and Jews, 18
Dillon, Mgr., 10
Dozy, Ismailis, 4
Dragon with the Seven Heads,
105, 158
- and the Woman, 105
Equinox, Crowley, 159, 162
Etheric Link, 130, 135, 139
Eurhythmy, Steiner, 72 77
Evocation of Adonai Ha Aretz,
I~O
- gf Spirits, 148-g
Falk, Dr., 86, 197
Falling Star-Krishnamurti, 48-
5°
Felkin, Dr., Round Table, 34, 82
et seq.; pledge to III Order, 89;
German con;;ection, 91-5; Arab
teacher, 102, 118, 122, 130, 132
Fox, Rachel, 176, li8, 179
Gnostics, 77, 120, I41, 147; Creed
and Trinity, 168
Golden Chain, Order of, 33
Golden Dawn, Order of, 82
Grand Orient Freemasonry, aims
and penetration, 15-17
Graves, Philip, Protocols, 19, 52
Great White Brotherhood, 39, 162
Great White Lodge, 23, 46, 117,
189
Guenon Rene, 28, 30, 32 , 53, 85
Guillebert, Herrri de, 20, 107, 145
Hasan Saba, Assassins, 5
Healers and Therapeuts, Stella
Matutina, 102
Hebrew Talisman. 144, 197
Herald of ihe Star, 34, 41 , 42, 43,
45,48
Hidden Chiefs; S.M., 84
Hypnotism as a weapon, 195
ll1u~inati, Bavarian, 5
India Bond or Free, Besant, 28
Initiation: Krishnamurti, 48
- Revolutionary, 106
- Rosicrucian, Steiner, 69
- Way of, Steiner, 64
I.N.R!. and lAO., analysis, 156
International Bund, 96
2 0 5
206
!oanna Southcott's box, 182; con-
- ditions of opening, 180
lohannites, 120, 167
:i:sifs ct le Talmud, Les, II
Julian the Apostate, 169
~Iysty, is, 130
Kingdom of Lucifer, 169
~ight Kadosch, 137, 140
Krishnamurti, 27, 29, 41, 49, 59
Kuentz, Robert: Steiner's Exer-
cises, 66, 69
Kundalini, 39, 51, 65, 66, 74. 75,
77, 106, 127, 141, 144, 146, 156,
159, 163, 176, 192
LambeIin, Roger, 10
L;;.nsbury, 48, 56
Gzare, Be.nard, 10
:sead, Jane, Prophecies, 120, 121,
176
Levi, Eliphas, i3, 108, 116, 121,
144. 146, 167
Liberal Catholic Church, 38
l-odge, Sir Oliver, I II
l-uchet, de, 121
Lutyens, Lady Emily, 41
~,fagic chain, 108
~.iagnetic healing, 107
~1aistre, Joseph de, 10
~.faitreya, 28, 31, 39, 45, 48, 114
Jfarie-Antoinette et le CompLot
Ma(onllique, 13
Masonic Congress, Geneva, 99
~,1ass, Liberal Catholic, 39
~.1ax Heindel, 109, 118
Me1chisedeck Lodges, 3, 120, 177
MerejkovsJ')', Dmitri: Khlysty,
77, 169; secret societies, 172
Mysticism and Magic, I, 104, 132
. M)'sticism in the Court of Russia,
172
. Mystic repast, 70, 153
~asseni, 141
."-atllre's Fi7JCr Forces 128
Xe.....s Sheet. Steiner, 7'1
Kew Therapy, Steiner, 80
?\ew Zealand R.R et A.C., 102
Oath. Illuminati, 3 .
-, Inner, R.R.' et A.C., 1S4
INDEX
Oath, Mrs. Besant, 55
- of secrecy, S.M., 151
-, Panacea Triangle, 180
-, Theosophical, 53
-, Weishaupt's I11uminati, 8
Old Catholic Church, 36
Ordo Templi Orientis, 164
Overshadowing of Krishnamurti,
42-5
Panacea Society, 120, 122, 176
Papus, Dr. Gerard Encausse, I,
23, 27, 103
Paracelsus, 197
Paschalis Martinez, 6, I I
Patriot, 13, 14, 15, 49, 56, 144,
149, 200, 201, 202
PesteI, Paul, 172
Philadelphian Society, 176
Physics and Psychics, III
Pike, General Albert, 26, 166, 190
Protocols, 19, 22, 51-2, 144, 188,
200, 202
Ranking, Dr., 120, 167
Raphael, St., Guild of Healing,
102, loS
Reading Societies, 1789, 14
Reincarnation, T.S., 45
RevoLuti07J, Terror ar.d Free-
17lGsonry, 14
Revue Internotionale des Societes
Secretes,S, 14, 20, 1°5, 145,
147, 167
Rhythmic cults, 75
Rising Sun, Order of, 30
Rosy Cross, Order of, 86
RR et A.C., Order of, 82
'Round Table, Order of, 33-5
Sadol Movement, 24-5, n6, 189
Secret Societies, English Law
against, 10
- - in Russia, 172
Smaragdine Tablet, 143
- Thalasses, Order of, 102
Solomon's seal, 145
Star in the East, Order of, 30, 43
Star, Order of, 46; dissolution, 48
Steiner Rudolf, 59
Stella Matutina, Order of, 82, 86
Stolz, Alban, 149, 150
Sttldies in Occ~dtism, 20
INDEX
Stuttgart Lectures, Steiner, 78
Sun Order, 87
Symbol, Theosophical, 50
Tatwic Vision, 127
Templars, 3, 5, 120, 167
Temple of Isis, 85
- of Living Stones, 110
Theosophical Society, 25-58
Thirteen, The Hidden, 118
Threefold State, Steiner, 80
Tibet, Order of the Initiates of,
190 .
Tra....elling clairvoyance, 112
Triangle of Power, Jane Lead,
177
- of Workers, Panacea Society,
178
-, R.R. et A.C., 134
2°7
Universal Gnostic OlUrch, 166
-Order, 185
Vibrations. sound and colour, 109
Victories of Israel, 10
Waite. A E., 84, 86
Wallace, Edgar, 195
Webster, Mrs. Nesta, 4, 5, 10, 36,
74, 99. 120, 121, 201
Weishaupt, 3. 5. 9, II, 18, 104
Weleda Co., Ltd., Steiner, 80
\Vronski, Hoene, I, 104, 132
\Vynn Westcott, Dr., 82-5
Young, Arthur, Travels in Frana
and Italy, IS
Youth Movement, 74
