{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1841__romer___sturmer_a_tale_of_mesmerism.pdf","mytitle":"Sturmer A Tale Of Mesmerism","mylang":"de"}
'/^..=^-#.-v^.
/l:;^^^yl^.
STURMER;
A TALE OF MESMERISM.
TO WHICH ARE ADDED,
OTHER SKETCHES FROM LIFE.
BY ISABELLA F. ROMER.
" Truth severe by fairy Fiction dressed."
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L
LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.
184i:.
D-l
i
t- STURMER,
(^ A TALE OF MESMERISM.
:5" There are more things in heaven and earth, Hoi-atio,
'
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
Hamlet.
"^
VOL. I. B
Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2010 with funding from
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
http://www.archive.org/details/sturmertaleofmes01rome
INTRODUCTION.
There are mysteries in and about us, which are not the
more to be questioned because they cannot be expounded.
Galt.
In an age like the present, and in a country
like England, where "the march of intellect"
halts not, and where the diffusion of knowledge
has become universal, (thanks to the Penny
Magazines and Encyclopaedias,—those literary
railroads to the Temple of Science, which
rapidly whirl all classes thither without toil or
fatigue,—perhaps, also, without giving them
time to obtain more than a superficial view of
the ground they are so smoothly carried over,)
it would be little less than insult to suppose
that any person can remain ignorant of the
b2
4 INTRODUCTION.
principles and properties of animal magnetism,
or of the extraordinary physical phenomena
developed by it in the human frame. Of its
action upon the mind,—a subject of the highest
philosophical interest,—little is yet known in
England, and still less believed; for it is
strange, but true, that in this same enlightened
country, prejudice and fanatical scruples (far
more difficult assailants to contend with than
mere ignorance) have arranged themselves in
battle array against the introduction of this
wonderful discovery as an auxiliary to the heal-
ing art; and the few liberal and philanthropic
individuals who have struggled to bring it into
practice for the relief of suffering humanity,
have been treated (in all save imprisonment)
as Galileo was in a darker age, when, in the
teeth of bigoted persecution, he boldly main-
tained that the earth revolved round the sun !
Perhaps time may do for them what it has
done for "the starry Florentine;" and suc-
ceeding ages, while wondering at the obtuse-
INTRODUCTION. 5
ness that overlooked practical results to dwell
sneeringly upon wild theories, vindicate the
memory and applaud the exertions of those
who are now branded as impostors, dupes, or,
at the best, shallow enthusiasts; for it is not
less true that the earth turns round the sun,
than that there exists in some human organ-
isations a latent principle which only requires
to be called into action by the mysterious
agency of Animal Magnetism, in order to pro-
duce a result so astonishing, that I will admit
it must he seen to be believed,—namely, the phe-
nomena of the body being plunged into a death-
like slumber and insensibility to pain, while
the mind, apparently emancipated from the
thraldom of matter, takes a range which, in
a waking state, it never could have aspired to
;
sees, comprehends, and discusses subjects of
which it was previously ignorant; is endued
with previsional faculties; and, when aroused
from the magnetic trance, is utterly unconscious
of all that occurred while it lasted.
6 INTRODUCTION.
The writer of these pages, in thus express-
ing herself, affirms only what she has witnessed.
Originally sceptical upon the subject, she was
yet willing to be convinced by the testimony
of her own senses, and shrank equally from the
injustice of withholding, or the weakness of ac-
cording, belief upon mere hearsay; and, in
order to preclude the possibility of deception,
submitted herself, in the first instance, to a
series of experiments, under the direction of
a skilful and experienced physician. Dr. C—
,
of Vienna. Deep sleep and insensibihty to
pain, and what is technically called lucidity,
were successively produced in her; and al-
though she has no recollection of anything that
occurred during those experiments, except her
own energetic struggles to resist the sleep that
was stealing over her and at last locked all
her senses in oblivion, the notes that were
taken of all that occurred on these occasions
by a friend who was present, were a startling
evidence to her of not merely the existence
INTRODUCTION. 7
of the magnetic principle, but of its wonder-
ful and mysterious influence upon mind as
well as matter. The results in her case fell
far short of those she has since witnessed in
others ; but they were sufficient to set her pre-
vious doubts at rest for ever, and to awaken
in her mind a train of conflicting reflections as
to the incalculable benefits that may be de-
rived from Animal Magnetism when properly
and conscientiously exercised, and the dread-
ful abuses to which it is liable from the ex-
traordinary moral ascendancy obtained by the
magnetizer over the magnetized, —an ascen-
dancy which, in the hands of a corrupt and
unprincipled person, may be, and has been,
turned to the most dishonourable purposes.
The trust should, therefore, never be lightly
confided, and the character and habits of mag-
netizers should be thoroughly ascertained be-
fore they are invested with the awful respon-
sibility which attaches to their functions, or
suffered to exercise an agency which may shed
8 INTRODUCTION.
its influence either "as airs from heaven or
blasts from hell" over the moral as well as the
physical being of the persons who are for a
time spell-bound under the dominion of their
will; and therefore unaccountable for the ac-
tions to which that will may lead them.
When the writer of these pages was in Ger-
many, where magnetism is more thoroughly un-
derstood and more extensively practised than
in England, many miraculous cases were re-
lated to her of cures performed by it when
all the art of medicine had failed in bringing
relief; and among others, one instance which
so forcibly illustrated her previous opinions of
its uses and abuses, that she made notes of the
occurrence at the time she heard it, and has
since been prevailed upon by a dear friend and
enthusiastic disciple of Mesmerism, to draw
those notes from the deep recesses of her
" Scrap Book," and give them to light in their
present form.
STURMER.
CHAPTER I.
The damsel is not dead, but sleepeth.
St. Mark, chap. v. verse 39.
It was on a stormy evening, in the latter
end of October of the year 18—, that a young
student, who was travelling on foot from Dres-
den to Prague through that romantic region
which divides the kingdoms of Saxony and Bo-
hemia, and is known by the name of the Saxon
Switzerland, was overtaken by the tempest
before he could reach the little inn at the
Bastei, where he intended to pass the night,
and was induced to apply for shelter from " the
pitiless pelting storm" at a lone house situated
b5
10 STURMER.
on the skirts of the Ottowalder-grund. The
wind rushing through the trees and whirling
their last withered leaves in eddies to the
ground, and the hoarse dashing of the angry
Elbe, apparently overpowered his efforts to
make himself overheard by the inhabitants of
the house; for, although he perceived lights
from the upper casements, he was left standing
at the entrance, exposed to all the fury of the
elements.
At last, after applying his thick, knotted
walking-stick to the door with such force that
the noise resounded through the house, a step
was heard in the passage, the bolts were with-
drawn, and an elderly servant woman cautiously
opened just enough of the door to enable her
to ascertain who was the intruder. The tra-
veller, in a very few words, made known his
wants. Probably his countenance spoke in his
favour; for the woman, observing that "it was
no weather to keep a dog out of doors," with-
out further hesitation admitted him.
STURMER. 11
" You come in an unlucky moment," said
she, ushering him into a sitting-room on the
ground-floor ; " you will find but poor accom-
modation with us to-night; we are all in a
bustle —there is death in the house, and my
poor master and mistress are beside them-
selves."
The stranger assured her that the permis-
sion to dry his clothes, and to pass the night
in an arm-chair under shelter, was all that he
required of her ; that he would not intrude him-
self upon the family, and that by daybreak on
the morrow he should proceed on his way.
The woman assented to the reasonableness
of this proposal, and, having left the room, re-
turned presently with some cold meat and
bread, a flask of beer, and one of those enor-
mous drinking-glasses that are used in Saxony,
which she placed upon a little table before him ;
and after replenishing the fire in the stove she
wished him good- night and left him alone.
When the young man had refreshed himself
12 STURMER.
with the homely fare set before him, he turned
his attention to the apartment in which he
found himself, and began to inspect it in its
details ; everything there was simple and hum-
ble, but there were the evidences of feminine
taste and good order in the midst of its home-
liness. An old piano stood in one corner ; some
plain book- shelves filled with a tolerable col-
lection of books, a tapestry-frame with its ac-
companying worsted-baskets, a writing-table, a
stand of beautiful flowers, and a cage of canary-
birds, made up the remainder of the furniture.
The walls were hung with several well executed
water-coloured views of the neighbouring pic-
turesque sites ; but the most remarkable object
in the room was an oil-painting suspended over
the piano, representing a young girl apparently
fourteen or fifteen years of age, of such ex-
quisite and ethereal beauty, that he w^ould have
supposed it to be a fancy picture, but for the
name of Charlotte which was carved upon the
STURMER. 13
frame. Beneath it was suspended a faded chap-
let of white roses.
There was something in the expression of
that lovely countenance that irresistibly at-
tracted the stranger's attention ; " all youth,
but with an aspect beyond time," the pensive
smile seemed not to belong to this world ; he
returned more than once to examine it, and when
at last he stretched himself upon the sofa to
sleep, those large blue eyes, and that high
thoughtful brow, were mingled with his dreams.
He had not slept above two hours, when a
noise in the hitherto quiet house aroused him ;
he started up, rubbed his eyes, remembered
where he was, and then listened. There was
an opening and shutting of doors above, the
sound of hurried footsteps upon the stairs,
and as he opened the door to ascertain the
cause, he encountered the old woman already
alluded to, in an agony of tears.
"Oh, sir!" she sobbed forth almost inar-
14 STURMER.
ticulately, " it is all over with the Frauleiii
Lolotte, poor dear child ! she is at the last
gasp — and I have not courage to see her
die ! My poor mistress will die too ; and to
think of the unfeeling doctor refusing to pass
the night here, though I begged him upon my
knees not to leave us ! Oh ! what shall I do,
what shall I do !"
" What is the meaning of all this ?
" said
the stranger. " A doctor did you say ? per-
haps then I may be of use, for I have studied
medicine."
" Oh, sir I it is too late to be of any use
to our poor dear young lady ; Doctor Schramm
said, before he went back to Schandau, that
she would not pass through the night, land that
there would be no use in his remaining; but
now that it has come to the last, my mistress
has not courage to bear her up through the
scene ; she goes out of one faint into another,
—she will die too ! O sir, she will die too !"
" Show me up stairs," said the young man
;
STURMER. 15
" perhaps I may be of use ; at all events it is
well worth trying." And without waiting for
an answer he bounded up the narrow stair-
case, followed by the old servant, and entering
the first open door on the landing-place found
himself in the chamber of death.
Upon a little white bed, which had been
drawn into the centre of the room, was stretched
a young girl, in whose wan and delicate fea-
tures he recognised the original of the picture
which had so forcibly struck him a few hours
before ; one of her hands was clasped in those
of a female who knelt on the ground at one
side of the couch, her face buried in the bed-
clothes, in an attitude of the most helpless
despair ; on the other side knelt an aged man,
his long white hair falling on his shoulders, his
streaming eyes raised to heaven, and his hands
joined in mute supplication, for the unuttered
prayer died upon his trembUng lips. The
stranger approached the bed and gazed upon
the countenance of the dying girl, over which
16 STURMER.
a strong light was cast by the lamp which stood
upon the table near it. Her eyes were closed,
and through their transparent lids the blue orbs
were discernible, fixed as though in death ; the
foam that stood upon her parted lips told of
the struggle that had recently taken place ; and
the chill dews that were gathering on her brow
seemed to be the harbingers of instant disso-
lution. He placed his hand upon her heart
— its pulsations were weak and uncertain ; he
took the hand that lay upon the coverlet in
apparent lifelessness —it was cold and clammy,
and while he yet held it the pulse fluttered and
then stopped.
There was something in the whole scene which
struck powerfully upon the heart of the young
man who had thus so strangely become a witness
to it ; — the raging of the storm without — the
silent sorrow within —the solemn midnight
hour —all conspired to fill him with the deep-
est emotion, and to invest a naturally exalted
imagination with the most superstitious fancies.
STURMER. 17
«' Would to heaven that I could save her," thought
he ; " and why should I not try ? Something
within me tells me that I shall succeed ; I feel
that I have been sent here for some especial
purpose; I feel as though endued with a
power to scare away death from its prey, and to
infuse into that almost breathless frame the
Ufe and warmth that animate my own !
" Then
turning to the old man, he continued aloud,
" Life is not quite extinct, but it hangs by a
fragile thread; still there is a hope, and I feel
as though it would not be a fallacious one;
allow me to take your place for a moment."
And the old man, as if subjugated by the tone
of confidence which the young one had as-
sumed, moved silently away, and took his
station at the foot of the bed, his eyes fixed
upon him in wondering anxiety.
The stranger who still retained the hand he
had taken of the inanimate girl, gently disen-
gaged the other one from the grasp of her
apparently unconscious mother, and held them
18 STURMER.
for some moments in his ov/n, with his eyes
fixed upon her death-like countenance; then
stooping down he breathed upon her forehead,
appUed the tips of his fingers to it, and drew them
downwards to her feet without coming in con-
tact with her limbs. He continued these mani-
pulations for some minutes without producing
any apparent effect, but with a concentrated
energy that seemed to absorb all his faculties.
At last a slight change became perceptible in
the countenance of the young person; her
features lost their rigidity; the ashy paleness
that had overspread them gave way to hues less
livid; tears stole through the long lashes that
lay upon her cheeks ; and her lips moved as if
essaying to speak, but struggling sighs only
issued from them. The stranger bent over her,
" Tell me," said he, " what can I give you to
relieve you?"
" Water !" she answered, in an almost inarti-
culate murmur.
He poured out a glass- full from a decanter
STURMER. 19
that stood upon the table, dipped his finger
into it, and then raising her head presented it
to her lips. She drank it eagerly, drew a deep
breath as if relieved from some painful oppres-
sion, and sank back upon her pillow.
" What more can I do for you ?"
" Let me sleep."
"How long?"
" Eight hours."
" Will you then awaken of yourself?"
" Yes."
" And, if I follow your injunctions, will you
be reheved from your sufiferings ?"
" I shall he saved!**
These answers were all made in a distinct
though feeble tone of voice, and as the last one
was articulated a smile for a moment hovered
around her lips.
" Sir," said the old man, for the first time
recovering his speech, " you perform miracles !
for the last twelve hours our poor Lolotte has
been speechless and insensible, and we were
20 STURMER.
told that in that state she would die ; and yet
by a look you have restored her lost faculties !
Who and ivhat are you, that have thus won-
derfully interposed to snatch her from death,
and us from despair ?
"
The youth placed his finger on his lips to
enjoin silence, laid his watch upon the table,
and drew a chair to the foot of the bed for the
old man ; then suddenly perceiving the pro-
strate mother, he raised her in his arms and
deposited her upon a sofa at the further end of
the room. She was in that state of stupor and
exhaustion that proceeds from over tension of
feeling, and made no resistance to anything that
was done; indeed she had ceased to be con-
scious of what was passing around her, and
thus was spared the intense anxiety of the
moment. As for the other two persons pre-
sent, they scrupulously followed every implied
direction of the stranger who had worked such
wonders, and silently occupied the seats to
which he had pointed ; while he, having placed
STURMER. 21
himself in an arm-chair close to the bed-side,
silently watched the countenance of the sleeper
during the space of two hours, and then after a
few ineffectual struggles to keep himself longer
awake, fell into a deep slumber.
His sleep was visited by harassing dreams
;
but fantastic and disjointed as they were, the
fair form of Lolotte appeared as a prominent
feature in each. He saw her, as but a short
time before he had in reality beheld her,
stretched apparently lifeless before him, but it
w^as in a different place: the cold walls of a
sepulchre surrounded her; the clothing of the
grave wrapped her rigid limbs ; her blue eyes
were unclosed, but fixed and glassy; her mar-
ble lips were parted, and although they moved
not, sounds issued from them like the chill
blast rushing from some icy cavern, and formed
themselves into accents that froze his heart.
" Seek not to bring me to life," she said,
" where sin and sorrow alone await me ! As
yet I have known neither, and happy are they
22 STURMER.
who can thus early escape from the evil to
come. Heaven is opening to receive me ; why
does thy shadow interpose between me and its
glories? stay the impious hand that would drag
me down to earth ! forbear, rash man ! thou
knowest not what thou doest ; thou would'st
save my body for a time, in order to prepare
my soul for everlasting perdition; but death
must come at last, and after that the judge-
ment!"
Then " a change came o^er the spirit of his
dream." He was in a gothic church; the sun-
beams streamed in gorgeous tints through the
stained glass windows ; the organ rolled its rich
tones through the lofty arches in peals of
solemn harmony ; a bridal party stood before
the altar, and in the bride he again beheld the
countenance of Lolotte, but of Lolotte in all
the pride of health and beauty. He endea-
voured to approach her, but the crowd inter-
vened and prevented him ; the ceremony com-
menced and finished —the party moved away
—
STURMER. 2S
he followed them, and as they passed through the
church door he stretched forth his hand and
grasped the veil of Lolotte; at his touch, her
bridal chaplet of white roses became withered,
like that which he had seen suspended over her
picture in the little parlour below, and fell from
her brow, while the veil remained in his hand;
she cast upon him a mournful and imploring
look, and moved quickly away across the
churchyard ; but when he would have followed
her his foot stumbled over some unseen object,
and he fell headlong into a yawning grave.
Again there was a change in his dream. He
was in the streets of Prague, his native city;
crowds of people were pouring from all quar-
ters towards the old bridge that crosses the
Moldau, in the centre of which was erected a
scaffold prepared for some public execution.
Again was Lolotte there ! She stood at its
foot, clothed in black, her eyes wildly strained
in the direction by which the expected criminal
was to approach. At last he appeared, but a
24 STURMER.
thick veil shrouded his features from the gazer's
view. As he mounted the scaffold, every steeple
in Prague pealed forth a death knell, but above
their solemn clang arose the piercing accents
of Lolotte. " Save him !
" she shrieked. The
student struggled to obey the wild entreaty, and
the efforts he made caused him to awaken with
a start ; the horrid vision was dispelled, and he
was aroused to that chilling sense of discomfort
that is occasioned by having slept long in an
uneasy position. Still the bells appeared to be
ringing in his ears, but it was only the house
clock striking the sixth hour of morning; and
as he cast his eyes around the room, now par-
tially lighted by the cold grey dawn, they fell
upon the watch he had placed upon the table,
and he perceived that only half an hour re-
mained unexpired of the eight hours which
Lolotte had predicted that she should remain
asleep.
There she lay, in a slumber so calm and pro-
found, that, but for the gentle and regular
STURMEK. 25
breathings that visibly stirred her nightdress,
she might have been mistaken for an alabaster
statue—so pale, so placid, and so pure was that
virginal countenance ; all traces of suiFering had
vanished from it, and the small hand that lay
locked within his own was yielding and moist
as that of a sleeping infant.
The other persons had kept vigil faithfully,
and it was evident that during his long slum-
ber the mother had shaken off her stupor and
been made aware of all that had passed ; for she
had resumed her place at the bedside of her child,
and with eyes, in which hope and fear struggled
for mastery, fixed upon those loved lineaments,
she sat intently watching her every breath.
But no sooner had the student started from his
dream than she moved hastily towards him, and
grasping his hand pressed it convulsively to her
lips and heart. " Oh, sir !
" she at length said,
" she will live, will she not ? " and she fixed her
eyes upon his with an intensity of expectation
that made her gasp for breath.
VOL. I. c
26 STURMER.
" She herself has pronounced that she will
be saved, and I firmly believe in the predic-
tion," was the reply.
" God bless you ! —God for ever bless you !
"
ejaculated the mother, while tears and sobs
spoke her thanks more eloquently than the
most studied expressions of gratitude could
have done.
" The blessing of the widow be on you, and
prosper you, young man !
" said the old gentle-
man, laying his hand upon the student's head
;
" you have, under Heaven, saved the life of our
precious Lottschen—of her mother, and her old
grandfather ; for we should not long have sur-
vived her, should we, my poor Meta? But let
us not, in the excess of our gratitude to this
good youth, forget that which we owe to the
Giver of all good —to Him who directed his
steps hither, and bestowed upon him the power
to heal — in whose hands alone are the issues
of life and death, and to whom, above all,
praise and thanksgiving are due. Let us pray.
STURMER. 27
my daughter !
" and, falling upon his knees, the
old man poured forth the fulness of his heart
in a flood of such eloquent devotion that the
stranger, as he gazed upon his pious counte-
nance, and listened to the deep tones of his
voice, murmured to himself, " Almost thou per-
suadest me to believe
!
"
While he yet prayed, the sun slowly rose
above the horizon, and its first ray fell like a
glory upon the saint-like countenance of the
sleeping Lolotte, and seemed suddenly to warm
the statue into life ; for, slowly unclosing her
eyelids, she raised herself from her pillow,
clasped her hands as if in prayer, and with eyes
raised to heaven, fixed and dilated, she remain-
ed rapt and motionless, as though in ecstatic
communion with unseen spirits.
" As you value her reason," said the stranger
in a whisper, " be silent ! A word, an un-
guarded exclamation in her present state might
alarm her to a degree that would produce fatal
consequences. Consciousness is gradually re-
c 2
28 STURMER.
turning, but we must not precipitate it ; above
all, she must not see me, as the sight of a
stranger would inevitably hurry her spirits ; and
she has not strength to contend with any great
agitation."
So saying, he glided round the room to the
head of the bed, where a large folding screen
had been placed, and taking up his position be-
hind it awaited the coming scene.
As he had predicted, consciousness slowly
returned to Lolotte, and the heavenly vision
that had rapt her spirit from the earth ap-
peared gradually to fade away ; her eyes lost
their fixed and upward gaze, and wandered be-
wilderedly from the countenance of her mother
to that of her grandfather, without at first seem-
ing to recognise either. For a moment she
passed her hands over her forehead, then looked
again :
—" Mother ! dear, dear mother !
" she
murmured, bending forward ; and the fond
parent, voiceless from emotion, cast her arms
STURMER. 29
around her child, and burst into a passion of
tears, as she strained her to her heart.
" Where am I ?" resumed Lolotte, in a weak
and hurried voice ;
" and why do you weep,
mother ? Ah ! I see it all. It is because I
am dying ! And must I die, then?" she mut-
tered in an under tone. " So young and so
happy, it is hard to be taken from all I love
;
but, God's will be done !
" And her voice was
lost in a low, nervous sob, which gradually
increased until it assumed the character of a
violent hysterical paroxysm, that seemed to
shake her debilitated frame almost to disso-
lution.
As, weak and exhausted by the struggle, she
lay upon her mother's bosom, tears pouring
through her closed eyelids, and every breath
checked by convulsive sighs, the stranger,
emerging from his concealment, placed one
hand upon her forehead, while with the other
he described the mesmeric passes, which he had
so STURMER.
already so successfully employed, and which in
this instance produced a still more rapid effect
:
for, not only did the hysterical emotion at once
subside, but in a very few seconds she was
plunged in the same deep and dreamless trance
that had characterised her first magnetic sleep.
" Lolotte, are you asleep ? " said the youth.
" Yes," was the answer.
" And do you suffer now ?
"
" No."
" You said, when last you slept, that when
you should awake all danger would be over
;
that you should be saved ? Yet, when you did
actually awake your sufferings returned. How
is this?"
" I said, that I should be saved, and / am
saved" replied Lolotte impressively. " At least,"
she continued, as if correcting herself, " I shall
be so if my directions are followed."
" Point out what is to be done, and rest
assured that it shall be fulfilled to the verv
ml
letter."
STURMER. 31
" In the first place, I must be allowed to
sleep for the next twenty-four hours without
being awakened, and during that period I shall
regain sufficient strength to support the con-
vulsions that will return to me to-morrow after
I awake. When the fit is over I must again be
put to sleep, but only for three or four hours
;
and every day during six weeks the same pro-
cess must be observed; at the end of which
period the fits will cease entirely, and I shall
be saved."
" But," said the student, " I cannot remain
with you for the period you specify : I must
depart to-day, Lolotte. What is to be done ?"
Lolotte drew his hands, in which her own
were clasped, towards her, and placing one of
them upon her forehead and the other upon her
heart, sighed deeply, and remained silent.
There was an eloquence in this mute ap-
peal that made the heart of the stranger thrill
with emotions hitherto unknown to him; a
mysterious sympathy appeared to have esta-
32 STURMER.
blished itself between him and the unconscious
Lolotte, as though for every sensation that in-
fluenced her soul a corresponding one was to
be found in his own, an echo for every sigh
breathed by her ; an instinctive divination of
her untold wishes. Should he yield to the
influence, and remain ? or, rending asunder the
links that fate had so lightly and rapidly woven
round his imagination, fly, while it was yet
time, from the strange fascination before his
heart also became enthralled ? Inclination
prompted him to the former, and he was upon
the point of following its dictates, when a few
words from Lolotte's mother checked the head-
long impulse, and forced back the current of
warm feelings that had gushed forth, until it
recoiled upon his heart with a suddenness that
almost sickened it.
" You hear her, sir," said Meta imploringly.
" You alone can save my child ! and if you
abandon her she must perish ! Oh ! if I dared
STURMER. SS
to supplicate you to remain with us yet a little
longer, that she might be restored to health,
and the happiness that awaits her. Not in my
name alone do I ask it, but in that of my father,
of my Lolotte herself, and of an absent one, her
betrothed —
"
" It is impossible," hiterrupted the stranger,
coldly and sharply ; " I must leave you this
very morning. I have remained too long as it
is. But let us ascertain whether the magnetic
influence I possess over your child cannot be
exercised by yourself for her benefit ; if so, my
presence will be no longer necessary; and, by
following her own directions, you will be ena-
bled to effect her recovery without my assist-
ance, or that of any other person."
Then turning to the sleeper—" Lolotte," he
said, in a softened tone, " I must leave you
!
But is there no one near and dear to you who
can replace me when I am gone ? no one who
can produce the same effects upon you that I
c o
34 STURMER.
have done? Your mother, for instance, will
she have the same power over you that I
possess ?
"
'' Yes>" rephed Lolotte.
" And is there no other person ?
"
" There is no other."
Why was it that the stranger's heart felt
lightened by these words, and that, as he placed
the hand of Lolotte within that of her mother
and clasped them in his own, to establish the
magnetic communication between them, he ad-
jured Meta, in an under tone, to delegate the
influence she was about to acquire, to no other
human being; to suffer no other person to
approach her child in the same character?
Perhaps he could not precisely have resolved
the question himself; perhaps, too, he would
have shrunk from believing that an undefined
sentiment of jealousy against an unknown per- -
son had insidiously crept into his bosom, and
assumed the garb and language of prudence
and precaution ; for the human heart, " deceit-
STURMER. 35
ful " as it is, " above all things, and desperately
wicked," will sometimes carry its plausible de-
ceptions so far as to mystify even itself as to
the precise nature of its own motives and
impulses.
That which Lolotte had pronounced was
verified ; for no sooner had she been put into
magnetic communication with her mother than
she freely discoursed with her upon her own
state of health, and pointed out the remedies
that were to be adopted for its improvement and
final restoration ; and having done so, she re-
peated her injunction, that she should be left
in undisturbed silence and repose for the next
twenty-four hours.
Meanwhile, the old woman-servant, Babet,
had prepared breakfast in the parlour below;
and the father and daughter, having in a great
measure regained their tranquillity, and buoyed
up with the hopes that had been infused into
them by the stranger, descended to do the
honours of the morning repast to their guest
;
36 STURMER.
and while they hospitably pressed upon him the
best fare that their humble roof afforded, they,
in the fulness of their hearts, unreservedly
communicated to him not only the circum-
stances which had caused the extraordinary
illness of their beloved Lolotte, but the family
arrangements, which Meta had already touched
upon, when, in her uncontrolable burst of sor-
row, she had spoken to the stranger of Lolotte's
future husband.
They were simple people; but theirs was
not the simplicity of ignorance or vulgarity.
The Pastor Hartmann was celebrated for his
learning and piety ; his daughter Meta had re-
ceived from him an education above her station
in life ; she had married, when very young, an
officer in the Saxon army, who had died a very
few months after their marriage ; and Lolotte
was the posthumous issue of that union. She
was now sixteen years of age, and had been
betrothed a few months before to a nephew of
her father''s, who had also been a pupil of her
STURMER. 37
grandfather's. Franz MoUer had subsequently
gone to make the tour of Germany on foot.
He had crossed the Tyrolese Alps, and pene-
trated into Italy, and, having sojourned for a
time in the various cities of both countries,
most celebrated for their learning and universi-
ties, he had announced, that in the ensuing
spring his wanderings would terminate, and that
he should return to his fatherland, and claim
his youthful bride.
" That is Lolotte's picture," said Meta, point-
ing to the beautiful portrait which had so pow-
erfully attracted the stranger's attention on
the preceding evening ;
" it was painted by an
Italian artist, who had been sent for to Dresden
by the King, to restore some of the pictures in
the Royal Gallery ; and beneath it is her ' cou-
ronne de fiancie *; and those drawings were done
by Lolotte, from nature ; and there is her piano.
Oh, if you could but have heard her play and
sing ! Angels might listen to her harmony and
mistake it for their own !
"
38 STURMER.
" And so good, so gentle, so pious as she has
ever been," said the old Pastor ; " with sense
that has outstripped her years, and a mind
whose innocent maturity has led her to contem-
plate with pity and wonder the folUes and vani-
ties which occupy almost all other young girls
of her age. Thoughtful and sedate at a time
of life when others are giddy and unreflecting,
she has for sixteen years been our blessing and
our joy, and the first sorrow, the only pang she
ever cost us was when we feared that we must
resign her to her God !
""
" We were too proud of her, too happy, too
secure of our blessing," said the mother meekly
;
" and our pride, and love, and security, re-
quired chastening. But, oh ! how stubborn,
how rebelhous have our hearts been under the
infliction ! How far are they yet removed from
the Christian's unmurmuring submission ! We
selfishly forgot that our loss would be her gain,
and we could not resign her, even into the
hands of Him who gave her to us, without a
STURMER. 39
struggle, and a prayer to be spared the sacri-
fice !
"
And then, in a voice tremulous from emotion,
she proceeded to relate that Lolotte's illness
had originated in a violent shock produced by
seeing the boat in which her grandfather, with
several other passengers, had embarked to pro-
ceed by the Elbe from Herrnskretschen to
Schandau, upset in a squall of wind at some dis-
tance from the shore ; and although other boats
had put off immediately to their assistance, and
rescued them from the waves, the terror of
Lolotte had been so overwhelming as to throw
her into convulsions, from which she was with
difficulty recovered, and which had returned peri-
odically with such obstinacy and violence as to
baffle the skill of her medical attendants, and
to reduce her in a very few months to the brink
of the grave.
" They averred that nothing but a miracle
could save her,'* continued Meta, " and they
were right. But there were no workers of mi-
40 STURMER.
racles among them; and so, with folded arms,
they calmly contemplated the rapid break-up of
her strength, and, when the last struggle was
near, left her to sink under it unaided. But
a saviour was at hand, and in the very depth
of our despair we were made to feel that, with
God, all is possible. Oh ! could you but un-
derstand the tumult of emotions with which I
was aroused to a consciousness of what had
passed during my insensibility — the miracle
had been performed — the dead brought to
hfe
!
"
" You were, however, aware of the agency
employed by me ? " inquired the stranger.
" We had already heard of Animal Magnet-
ism," said the Pastor, " but chiefly from those
opposed to it, who treat it either as a delusion
or a vehicle for imposture and the most shame-
less quackery ; and if we thought upon the sub -
ject at all, it was only in the point of view in
which it had been represented to us, as a thing
to be reprehended and discountenanced. But
STURMER. 41
you have convinced us of its wonders in a way
that leaves no possibility for doubt or dispute
—
you have enlisted all our best feelings, all our
energies, in its cause; and, from having been
sceptics, we are likely soon to become fanatics."
" It is a subject which admits of no half
measures in point of faith — no restrictions
upon our belief," observed the student with
enthusiasm ; " as for myself, I believe in it as
firmly as you do in the Bible ! Many persons
sweepingly discountenance Mesmerism, because
they cannot comprehend or account for the
principle which produces its phenomena; as if
the action of the loadstone upon the needle
were not to the full as wonderful and inexpli-
cable as the sympathies and attractions exhi-
bited by Animal Magnetism : others frown it
down because it interferes with their pre-esta-
blished theories ; —for instance, the Materialist
feels that, by its action on the mind, is deve-
loped the strongest argument that can be ad-
duced against his own annihilating creed —and
4>2 STURMER.
Evangelical believers (many such I have met
v^ith) will not hear of it, because it accounts by
natural means for the so-called miracles related
in the Christian narrative, which were one and
all performed by Jesus laying his hands upon the
sick, and straightway they were healed."
" Young man," said the Pastor, in a tone
of grave rebuke, " if my belief in Magnetism
were likely to disturb, or even to call in question,
my belief in holier things, I would close my
understanding against it as resolutely as I now
close my ears to your last argument. The
miracles of our Lord are not to be tried by
such a test, nor must they be compared to the
discoveries of Natural Philosophy. They are
evidences of the divine mission of Him from
whom they emanated—they gave birth to Chris-
tianity—and the power of performing them was
delegated by Jesus to his disciples because, in
the first promulgation of revealed religion,
nothing but miracles could establish its autho-
rity. I cannot listen to any other
—
"
STURMER. 43
But the youth, impatiently waving his hand,
interrupted him by exclaiming, " I know all
that you would say, but we are not here to
enter upon theological discussion. You are a
disciple of revealed, / am a follower of natural
religion ! Let us not attempt to interfere with
each other's belief; you would fail in converting
me, and I, on my part, have no wish to dis-
turb those conscientious convictions of yours in
which I cannot participate, even while I respect
and admire the unaffected piety that springs from
them. Could I bring myself to belong to any
particular sect, it should be to Christianity,
because it bears a stamp of greater moral per-
fection than any other; but my views of reli-
gion are as infinite as the attributes of the
Great Being himself who formed the world. I
cannot consent to enthrall my spirit by adoring
Him in forms that my reason rejects, or to pray
to Him at stated times in temples built by the
hands of men. My soul springs forth in spon-
taneous adoration of Him when I gaze upon
44 STURMER.
the myriad stars or listen to the whirlwind,
but all my devotional aspirations would become
chilled were I to be obliged to confine them
to the words of any particular creed ; and I feel
that walls and roofs built by human hands draw
down my thoughts to human things, and inter-
pose between God and me. But enough of
this — it was of Mesmerism and its antiquity
that we were speaking; for Mesmer was not
the discoverer, but merely the reviver, of Animal
Magnetism."
" You believe then,'' said Hartmann, " that
it was known to the ancients ?
"
" Unquestionably," rejoined the stranger
;
*'
it was understood and practised by the an-
cients throughout the East, not, indeed, as a
healing art, but as a priestly artifice, to subju-
gate and enthrall the minds of the multitude
for especial purposes. I will not again ofi'end
you by reverting to the miracles of Christ as
connected with these natural causes, nor will
I even dwell upon those of Elisha recorded
STURMER. 45
in the Old Testament, but I will instance the
Delphic Oracles, as being, to my firm belief,
pronounced under the influence of Animal Mag-
netism. All the accounts that have come down
to us of the state of the Pythoness, before and
after she was placed upon the tripod, agree
precisely with the phenomena I have so often
seen produced by the action of Mesmerism
upon epileptic patients —the convulsions—then
the syncope or trance, and then the lucidity
under which the oracle was pronounced, w^ere
but the natural effects of that agency being pro-
perly developed in highly susceptible patients."
"Can you," said Hartmann, "define to me
the precise nature of this wonderful agency?"
" My own opinions," was the answer, " are
as follow : — Assuming as the basis of my
argument, that the magnetic fluid forms a com-
ponent part of every human organisation, the
derangement of that fluid I look upon to be
the cause of epilepsy, insanity, convulsions, and
the whole train of minor nervous disorders
46 STURMER.
which fall under the denomination of Hysteria.
Now, those persons who are the most suscep-
tible to Mesmerism, are invariably epileptic
or insane patients, and the first visible effect
of Magnetism upon them is to dispel, during
its action, the painful characteristics of those
visitations. This, according to my theory, is
accounted for by the equilibrium of the fluid
being restored by magnetic action, and equally
distributed throughout the organic system,
superinducing for the time being a return to a
natural and healthy state, but presenting none
of those wonderful phenomena which you have
just witnessed, which those who have not wit-
nessed Will not believe, (because it is too much
the habit of ordinary minds to measure all
things by the narrowness of their own experi-
ence,) but which I shall also endeavour to
account for by a continuation of the chain of
reasoning I have already adduced. It is in the
power of the magnetizer to direct so super-
abundant a mass of the magnetic fluid upon
STURMER. 47
the patient's brain as to leave all the other
organs totally deprived of it, and therefore
completely insensible, while the brain itself ac-
cumulates all their superfluous susceptibility,
and acquires those prodigious faculties of per-
ception which are known by the denomination
of Hellsehen, and which the more fashionable
phrase of clairvoyance so much more feebly
conveys to the understanding. In this state,
objects the most subtle and far removed are
beheld, futurity is looked into, the thoughts
and wishes of the magnetizer are divined, and
the physical conformation of the magnetized
and of those persons placed in magnetic com-
munication with them is revealed to them —
they hear, see, and comprehend all things, not
indeed with the organs of the flesh (for those
are dead for the time being) ; but the eye of
the spirit is opened, the mind, illuminated by a
supernatural light, more nearly approximates
to the divine essence of which it is an emana-
tion, and for a moment soars into that spiritual
48 STURMER.
state of existence which will be ours after
death, when the imperishable soul, emanci-
pated from the thraldrom of matter, shall drink
at the fountain of Eternal Truth, and nothing
shall be hidden from it ! This, the highest
point at which magnetic lucidity can arrive, is
never developed in a healthy state, for it is an
incontestable fact, that the more the body is
shattered, the more acute, clear, and oracular
do the previsional faculties become. The subju-
gation of the somnambulist is then at its height,
and the will of the magnetizer all powerful
over every sensation : in proportion as the
patient recovers his health the lucidity dimin-
ishes; and when strength is completely re-
established it frequently disappears altogether.
All of the most remarkable previsional cases of
somnambulism that have come under my own
observation, as well as all that I have ever
heard of, have been developed in cases of
idiotcy or of epilepsy (which is a temporary
frenzy) ; and this fact accounts to me for the
STURMER. 49
origin of that belief which is current throughout
the East, that insane persons are chosen beings
whom God has inspired with a higher gift than
reason, and therefore are they looked upon
with a respect amounting to veneration, and
their ravings believed to be prophecies."
As with flashing eyes and a flushed cheek,
the young enthusiast gave utterance to opinions
that to the sober judgment of his listeners
appeared like the vagaries of a distempered
imagination, the good Hartmann gazed upon
him with melancholy interest, and sighed to
think that the false meteor-like glare of modern
philosophy had so dazzled and lured that young
and ardent mind, as to make him close his eyes
to the pure sunbeams of Gospel Truth, which
alone can be " a light to our path and a lantern
to our feet," and that with the presumption of
youth and of error (for conviction is ever
modest), he had rushed upon conclusions as
false as they are fatal, and had chosen a path
where, if he continued, he must surely fall.
VOL. I. D
50 STURMER.
" My dear young friend, suffer me to call
you so," he said, laying his hand upon the
stranger's arm, " I have listened to you uninter-
ruptedly, not because I agree with all that you
have said, but because persuasion and not
passion are the arms with which I would com-
bat some of your delusions. I do not mean
your opinions upon magnetism, (for I am not
competent to argue upon a subject which is still
a mystery to me,) but I allude to the deplorable
error which causes you to reject the Highest
and Holiest of all subjects, and sweepingly to
condemn the Christian Faith, with all other
forms of established worship, as mummeries
incompatible with the exercise of your reason !
I do not despair, however, of reclaiming you to
better thoughts, for your mind is of that fine
order which error may for a time mislead but
cannot finally pervert, and which Truth can
alone satisfy ! give me but an opportunity, and,"
he added, looking reverently upwards, " with the
aid of Him whom you now reject, of the blessed
STURMER. 51
Saviour who died for your redemption, I shall
lead back the stray lamb to the flock from
which he will never more wish to wander
! ''
At this moment the conversation was inter-
rupted by Babet bustling into the room, and
announcing that Doctor Schramm, mounted
upon his mule, was approaching the house.
Meta, at this intelligence, hurried out of the
parlour and ascended to the chamber of her
daughter, while the Pastor sallied forth to the
garden-gate to meet the new comer, and having
assisted him to dismount, they both proceeded
into the house together, and followed Meta up
the staircase into the presence of the sleeping
Lolotte.
No sooner did the stranger find himself alone,
than approaching the picture he gazed upon it
for some moments in mute admiration ; then apo-
strophising it with passionate emotion, " Beau-
tiful Lolotte !
" he exclaimed ; " what strange
mysterious charm dwells in the depths of those
Sybil eyes, that even upon senseless canvass
D 2
""'"t'-s-ry Of au«a«
UBRARY
52 STURMER.
their glances should awaken in my soul visions
of passion, and joy, and confidence, shared in
by thee, despite of cold reason, which recalls
the vow that binds thee to another ! Alas !
it was predestined that I should look upon
that fair face, and that it should become my
fate. I fly from thee, because I know the
fatal power that I could exercise over thy soul,
(for thou would'st love me, Lolotte !) ; but I
fly in vain, for my heart is darkened with thy
shadow, and never more can the sunbeams of
love warm it even into transient passion for
another ! Lolotte ! thou shalt be the bride of
my soul — the haunting spirit that shall purify
me fi'om every grosser impulse ! On earth we
may meet no more, but in another world I will
claim thee as mine own, and with this chaste
kiss I seal the holy compact !"
So saying, he mounted upon a chair, and
pressed his lips to the picture with impassioned
tenderness. As he descended with trembling
haste, the bridal wreath, suspended beneath,
STURMER. 53
fell to the ground ; for a moment he gazed
upon it with a changing countenance. " De-
tested symbol of another's felicity ! even as
my hopes have been crushed, even so will I
stamp thee into annihilation !" he exclaimed,
gnashing his teeth, and raising his foot to tram-
ple upon the withered flowers; " but, no !" he
continued, in a softened voice, " thou hast bound
the brows of Lolotte, and that touch has conse-
crated thee — thou hast become to me as the
holy relic of some saint, to be approached only
in prayer, and thus I place thee upon the shrine
where she is worshiped !
" And raising the
chaplet from the ground, he thrust it into his
bosom, slung his knapsack across his shoulder,
and rushing out of the house was soon lost in
the depths of the Ottowaldergrund.
In less than half an hour afterwards the
party assembled in the chamber of Lolotte,
were heard descending the staircase in eager
disquisition, the angry voice of Doctor Schramm
predominating over the calm accents of the old
54 STURMER.
Pastor and the deprecating tones of Meta,
while the epithets of " quack," " knave," " sor-
cerer," " dupes," and " credulous fools," rung
in various changes by him, supplied the place
of cool reasoning and dispassionate argument.
" Magnetism !" he vociferated, " fiddle-stick,
—humbug,—nonsense ! there is no such thing
—it is physically impossible ; and those empirics
who pretend to practise it, laugh in their sleeve
at the silly dupes they make !
"
" But," said fiartmann ;
" we have witnessed
wonders done by it, and those who see must
believe. Have you ever examined the subject,
Doctor, or seen any experiments performed?"
" Never !" he replied ; " and nothing should
tempt me to do so, because I have no fancy
to be made a fool of —because such impudent
charlatanism ought to be discountenanced —
because
"
" Doctor," interrupted the Pastor hastily, and
betrayed into momentary anger by the rude-
ness of the Schandau practitioner; " I have
STURMER. 55
no hesitation in saying that the man who be-
heves nothing but what he sees, and the man
who beUeves everything that he is told, are
equally fools. Those only, who take a middle
course between the two extremes, and will in-
vestigate for themselves, can hope to arrive at
the truth."
" And do you know where your investiga-
tions will lead you ?" said the Doctor ;
" to
Sonnenstein,* my good friend, to Sonnenstein,
where there are already so many discoverers
of new systems."
" Calm yourself, dear Doctor Shramm," in-
terposed Meta mildly ; " and when you hear
all, I think you will revoke your opinions —
indeed I am sure I shall yet make a convert
of you, for I have learned the art, and intend
to practise as well as preach magnetism."
" I tell you, Frau Moller, that you are a
* Sonnenstein is a village between Dresden and Pima,
on the road to the Saxon Switzerland, where there is u
celebrated asylum for lunatics.
56 STURMER.
silly dupe, and I am ashamed of you; but as
you are a weak woman I pity you, and can
forgive you too; but as for Herr Hartmann,
I looked for better sense in him, and have no
words to express my wonder and indignation
at his credulity ! I affirm that the last potion
I ordered for the Fraulein Lolotte has done
wonders for her, as I predicted yesterday when
I told you the effects it would produce, and—
"
" Nay,"" said Meta mildly ; " you yourself
told me last evening, that all was over with
my child, and that before midnight she would
be an angel in heaven; when your potion ar-
rived she was past the power of swallowing
it, and there it stands on the landing-place
untouched ! But speak to the stranger your-
self, and he will explain to you by what won-
derful means he recalled my Lottschen to life
;
he is here to answer for himself," and she
threw open the parlour door, and as they all
entered they looked around for the object of
their discussion, but the room was empty
!
STURMER. 57
Babet was called — she had not seen him ; the
house and garden were ransacked —he was
nowhere to be found ! They gazed upon one
another with blank countenances ; at last the
Doctor broke the silence, and shrugging his
shoulders said in a compassionating accent :
—
" My poor friends, grief and watching have
made you light-headed, go to bed and repose
yourselves; you have had the night-mare, or
between sleeping and waking have dreamed
all that you have told me ;" and then catching
a glimpse of Babet, as with a significant shake
of the head she negatived his supposition, he
spitefully added, looking at her that his words
might produce the terror he intended, " or,
(my dear friends, such things are possible, al-
though I do not believe in them,) you have
seen a vampire, or the devil himself, and I
wash my hands of whatever may now happen
to the Fraulein Lolotte !
"
D o
58 STURMER.
CHAPTER II.
She pined in tliouglit.
Twelfth Night.
Queen. Whereon do you look ?
Ham. On him ! on him ! Look you, how pale he glares !
Queen. This is the very coinage of your brain.
Hamlet.
Years rolled on, like billow succeeding bil-
low, upon the ocean of eternity, and in their
restless and unerring course had borne towards
"the silent shore" two generations of the Pas-
tor Hartmann's family. The good old man
and his gentle daughter Meta slept with their
fathers in the quiet churchyard of Lokmen,
and Lolotte, and her husband Franz Moller,
with Babet the old servant, and a younger
assistant, had become the sole occupants of
STURMER. 59
the lone house in the Ottowaldergrund. Few
changes had been made in its interior deco-
rations. The old piano stood in the same
place ; but the book-shelves had been enlarged,
(for Franz was a savant,) and a writing bureau
covered with the litter of authorship, had
usurped the place of Meta's tapestry-frame.
The beautiful picture of Lolotte was still sus-
pended over the piano; but not alone, as be-
fore : two seraph countenances had been added,
with eyes serenely bright, like those of angels,
and golden hair falling back in wavy clusters
from the calm expansive brows, and a sweet
serious smile, unlike that of infancy, parting
the baby-lips,—two infant transcripts of Lo-
lotte's ineffable loveliness,—the children which
had blessed her union, and which, after a brief
space of maternal happiness, she had been
required to resign to Him who had given them
to her
!
i
Poor Lolotte ! her fate had not been a happy
one ; the loved, the loving, and the lovely, had,
60 STURMER.
one by one, been taken from her, —^her mother,
her grandfather, and her two children, —and
it seemed as though her heart lay buried
with them in their graves ; for, although Franz
was a good man, and loved his wife with
as much warmth as it was possible for him
to love anything, except musty folios, he was
too much absorbed in his studies, too much
satisfied with the honesty and loyalty of his
heart towards her, to bestow upon her any
of those thousand nameless little demonstra-
tions of tenderness, those refinements of sen-
timent which take captive the heart and ima-
gination of woman, and charm her into the
happy consciousness of being the first and
dearest object in her husband's thoughts. In
that interchange of fond endearment in which
she had been brought up by Hartmann and
Meta, he took no delight; and when the time
came that there was no longer any one to lavish
it upon her,—none on whom she might bestow
it, —she drooped and languished, like a flower
STURMER. 61
from which the dews of heaven have been sud-
denly withdrawn. No complaint passed her
lips, for she esteemed her husband's good qua-
lities and admired his talents; but she was
made for the poetry of life, not for the mere
mechanical performance of its duties, to which,
in conformity with his tastes, she had circum-
scribed her efforts to please. The charm of
existence had passed away from her, with its
innocent illusions : it was as though there was
no music in the temple, no perfume in the flow-
ers, no sunshine on the waters. All was dark
and colourless around her ; she felt alone in the
universe with one who did not understand her,
—and for her to feel so, was to wish to die
!
Slowly her health failed beneath the des-
pondency that had crept over her ; languor and
depression were succeeded by nervous parox-
ysms and fits of insensibility. The sickness of
the mind had communicated itself to the body ;
and, at the expiration of eight years after the
period at which this tale commences, Lolotte
62 STURMER.
was reduced to a state of health as alarming
and as impracticably proof against medical
treatment as that from which she had been
rescued by the efforts of the wandering disciple
of Mesmer.
Just eight years, day for day, from the date
of that mysterious person's visit to the Otto-
waldergrund, Lolotte and her husband were
seated, towards the decline of day, in the
little parlour already alluded to. The season
had been unusually mild for that northern cli-
mate, and autumn, in all its glorious hues of
gold, and crimson, and russet lingered amidst
the wild scenery as if loth to resign it to the
cold breath of winter's heralds. The garden
was still gay with China-asters and late roses,
and the windows were garnished with pots of
Balsams and other late-blooming flowers ; while
the interior of the room was decorated with
rare plants and a profusion of bouquets, as if
for some particular occasion. As long as INIeta
and her father lived, they had kept the anni-
STURMER. 63
versary of the day, from which they dated the
wonderful recovery of their child, with extra-
ordinary rejoicings. It was to them not only
a festival of the heart, but a day of pious
thanksgiving; and after their death, that ob-
servance did not fall into disuse, for it still
continued to be a jour de fke for the little
household in general, and for Lolotte a day
dedicated to tender and solemn recollections.
As she sat by the casement in the old Pas-
tor's arm-chair, plunged in deep thought, fancy
peopled the airy solitude with sounds and forms
that had long since passed away. The joyous
laugh and the bright faces of her children, the
mild accents of her mother, the venerable coun-
tenance of her grandfather, seemed once more
to ring in her ears and flit around her. It was
but for a moment; for in the next, her eyes,
which had been wistfully fixed upon the clouds,
wandered from them to the distant church spire,
as it gleamed brightly in the golden sunset, and
pointed out the spot where those loved ones
64 STURMER.
slept their last sleep ; and a sigh so deep and
hollow burst from her bosom, that it startled
Franz from the writing with which he had been
busily occupied. He looked up, and for the
first time seemed to become fully aware of her
sad state, and of the inroads which mental
suffering had caused in her slender frame ; and
that conviction indued him with a delicacy and
gentleness of feeling not habitual to him. He
forbore to remark upon what had so suddenly
struck upon his heart ; but laying down his pen,
aroused her from her melancholy pre-occu-
pation in a voice of unwonted tenderness.
" Dear Lottschen," he said, " it is long since
I have heard your voice : sing me one of those
simple airs in which our good grandfather used
so to delight, and it will cause my ideas to flow
more freely and harmoniously than they do
at present;—sing to me, mein kind, and your
music will inspire me with eloquence."
" I will sing you his favourite," said Lolotte,
with a pensive smile; and opening the piano.
STURMER. 65
she ran over the keys with admirable skill and
science for a few minutes, and then struck into
the accompaniment of that beautiful song of
Goethe's, " Konn 'st du das Land, &c/*' the
music of which was so popular some years
ago throughout Germany, that the whole coun-
try resounded with it from the palace to the
cottage — from the well-organised orchestra
to the itinerant ballad- singer and hand-organ
grinder. Lolotte was one of Nature's own
musicians; the deep rich tones of her sweet
and powerful voice would have made the for-
tune of a public singer, but the great charm
of her performance consisted in the expression
which she threw into it, and the judgment with
which she adapted that expression to the words
she sang —not treating them, as so many pro-
fessors do, merely as vehicles for sweet sounds,
but joining sense to sound with a truth and senti-
ment that spoke to the hearts of the most in-
sensible, and showed that she ever identified
herself with the subject to which she gave ut-
66 STURMER.
terance. And now, as she poured forth those
exquisite lines in a flood of harmony, there was
a passion and a pathos in her voice, a pleading
eloquence in her eyes, that gave to her song the
character of an extempore outpouring of the
heart, and roused even the phlegmatic Franz to
undivided attention. With his eyes fixed upon
her, he listened until the last notes had died
away into silence; and then a pause ensued.
Lolotte was the first to break it.
" I wonder," she said, in a solemn voice, " if
it be accorded to the spirits of the departed to
behold what passes upon earth,—to be con-
scious of the enduring sorrow with which their
memory is cherished
—'*''
" Lolotte," interrupted her husband, some-
what sharply, " you are always thinking of the
dead ! That is not very complimentary to me
:
have you no thoughts for the living also?"
" Surely on this day I may be pardoned for
thinking of them" she answered, repressing a
starting tear ;
" and that song which you made
STURMER. 67
me sing just now, my dear grandfather's favou-
rite, brought back the past so vividly to me !
I thought I saw his benignant face smiling
upon me again; I thought I beheld them all
once more ! I fancied they might be hovering
near, and watching me; and yet," she con-
tinued, in an under tone, " I ought not to de-
sire it; for then they would know all that I
feel, and that knowledge would surely change
their blessedness into bitter anguish !
"
*'
These are foolish fancies,"" said Franz, in
reply to the first part of her remark, (for the
latter part had not been heard by him;) "and
if you loved me, you would not indulge in them.
However, let us change the subject. When
I was yesterday in Dresden, I casually heard
that the famous Dr. Wolfgang Sturmer, of
Prague, has been staying there for a short time,
and has performed some wonderful cures by
means of Mesmerism ; now, I should wish you
to see him, and consult him about your fainting
fits : so to-morrow we will go into town for
68 STURMER.
that purpose : but you must not fall in love
with the Doctor, Lolotte, as all the Dresden
ladies have done," he added, laughing. " His
picture is in all the print-shops already ; and I
must own, that it is a very handsome one, and
quite the sort of face to turn a romantic lady's
head. But here is Babet with your choco-
late."
Now, upon the anniversary in question, it
had been the custom of each mem^ber of Lo-
lotte's family to make her some little offering
of love, for they looked upon it as a second
birthday to her ; and even the servants were not
behindhand in furnishing some simple testi-
mony of their affection to their beloved young
mistress upon those occasions. On the day in
question, Franz had prepared his gift in con-
junction with Babet; a handsome silver choco-
late pot, which he had brought from Dresden,
was accompanied by a porcelain cup and saucer,
which Babet had commissioned him to purchase
for her ; and as the good old creature, nodding
STURMER. 69
and smiling to her master, in anticipation of the
pleasure which their gifts would procure to
Lolotte, placed the tray upon the table, she
hastened to fill her cup and present it to her
mistress. But in doing so, her eyes fell upon
the window close to which Lolotte was seated,
and, uttering a loud scream, she staggered into
a chair, clasped her hands before her eyes ; and
the cup and saucer escaping from her grasp
fell to the ground, and were shivered to atoms.
"What can this mean?" exclaimed Franz
and Lolotte in a breath, as they surrounded
and supported the terrified Babet. The shades
of evening had fallen around, and half shrouded
in obscurity the little parlour and the cluster-
ing garden beyond.
" Get a light, dear Franz," said Lolotte,
" that we may see what is the matter with her
;"
but Babet clung to her master with all the
strength of terror. At last, the power of speech
returned, and, with a violent effort, she pointed
to the window, and shudderingly exclaimed :
—
70 STURMER.
" I have seen him ! I have seen him !
—
—there
!"
"Who?" inquired Lolotte, turning pale.
" The devil !
—the devil himself !
—the vam-
pire ! vi^ho vanished, nobody knows how, this
day eight years ago ! There he was, outside of
the window, with his eyes fixed upon Xhefrau-
lein, just as they were when he bewitched her
into talking after we all believed her dead ; and
the minute he saw me, away he vanished again !
Lord save us !
"
Away rushed Franz into the garden, followed
by Lolotte and Babet; and every corner of it
was visited and examined by them,—but in
vain. No trace of any human being was to be
seen, either within its precincts, or beyond in
the wild woodland, that began to be partially
lighted by the rising moon.
" You were dreaming, Babet," said Franz, as
they all returned to the little parlour; and the
other servant lighted the candles and closed the
window^shutters.
STURMER. 71
" Yes," replied Babet, slowly, *' dreaming as
Doctor Schramm said my old master and mis-
tress were eight years ago ! As sure as I live
and am wide awake, I have seen the devil him-
self. What else, do you think, could have
frightened the cup out of my hands ? Oh, my
poor cup and saucer ! aJles in tausend stilck"
she added, stooping to pick up the frag-
ments.
Lolotte raised her up, and kissed her cheek :
" Good Babet," she said, " I will keep the
broken china for your sake, and put it by with
all your other gifts to me on this day ; so fret
no more about it
!"
" Nay, as for that, I am not thinking of the
cup, and would rather break a hundred than
that any harm should come to you; but that
face, that face ! why was it glaring there upon
you ? and why did it vanish as soon as I looked
at it, if it was there for any good ? Doctor
Schramm was right, honest man ! when he said
that nothing human could have come and gone,
72 STURMER.
and have done what that pretended traveller
did for you eight years ago."
" He cured me, Babet," interrupted Lolotte
;
" would to heaven that I could but once more
behold him!"
" The Lord forbid that you should !" ejacu-
lated Babet ;
" if there had been any sense in
his pawing and clawing, why should not Herr
Franz be able to produce the same effects upon
you that he did ? and yet I have seen him try it
hour after hour without making you wink, much
less sleep. To be sure, your dear mother could,
for it was one of his devices to teach her his
sorceries, and then whenever she put you to
sleep you would be talking of him as if you saw
him; but I can testify that she never had her
health for a single day after he came here, and
that shews what he was, and that he came to
kill, and not to cure ! No, no, God keep us
from such visitors for ever more, say I, for that
it was the devil I am ready to testify —der
Teufel er selbst r
STURMER. 73
The next day Franz and Lolotte repaired to
Dresden to consult Doctor Sturmei:, but to
their great disappointment they found, upon
arriving there, that the distinguished stranger
had taken his departure for Prague on the pre-
ceding day. Such, however, was the fame his
deeds had left behind him, and so miraculous
were the cures performed by him, that Franz
(whose fears for Lolotte having suddenly been
roused, led to a sort of remorseful feeling at
having so long been inattentive to her declining
state, which could only be appeased by some
great exertion on her behalf) determined upon
making a journey to Prague with his wife, for
the purpose of placing her under the Doctor's
care. That he did so may be gathered from
the following letters, which are subjoined, in
order to throw some light upon the anUcedens
of Doctor Sturmer.
VOL. I. E
74 STURMER.
LETTER FROM WOLFGANG STURMER TO
BARON ANTON VON PREINL.
« Prague, October 29, 18—.
" MY DEAR FRIEND,
" Only two hours ago I returned home
from Dresden, punctual to the very moment I
had promised to meet you here; but the re-
ward of my exactitude has been a bitter dis-
appointment to me — a letter from you, instead
of yourself in person ! However, I feel that I
have no right to reproach you for the substitu-
tion, since you tell me that nothing less than
your sister's marriage could have interfered with
our engagement, and that as soon as that happy
event has taken place you will turn your
horses' heads towards Prague. Assure my fair
friend the Baroness Bertha of my heartfelt
participation in her happiness, and tell her that
the fame of her beauty and accomplishments
has flown before her to Dresden, where, during
my late sejour, I heard her universally cited as
STURMER. 75
the prettiest woman who had appeared at
TopUtz this season. Expectation is on the
tiptoe for her arrival in Dresden, as old Count
Carlowitz, who has decided upon all matters of
taste, at the court of Saxony, for the last fifty
years, pronounces her to be in all respects the
most charming German woman he ever met
with ; and as far as my own poor judgment goes,
I have never seen but one countenance that
could surpass hers ; but of that, more anon.
" Well, I have returned from my tour in
Northern Germany, and I may, without exag-
geration, compare it to a triumphal march. In
Berlin and Dresden, my public lectures upon
Animal Magnetism have produced the most suc-
cessful and satisfactory results —that of inducing
people to investigate the subject as calmly and
dispassionately as such a subject will admit, and
leading them to submit those persons in whose
honesty they have the firmest reliance to be
experimentalised upon for the developement of
truth. In this manner I have been enabled
e2
76 STURMER.
to make some wonderful discoveries of hidden
diseases, and to perform cures which have
startled the most sceptical into belief; and so
great has been my success, and the popularity
that has followed it, that I have been suppli-
cated to abandon my native city, and to settle
in Dresden, where fortune and honours would
be showered upon me.
" What a difference to the journey which I
performed eight years ago through the same
country —alone, on foot, unknown, with my
whole fortune in my knapsack, and that fortune,
I believe, did not exceed five gold Fredericks
!
but how rich was I in enthusiasm, and enter-
prise, and energy —how happy in the inexperi-
ence of twenty years ! Life then appeared to
me a beautiful romance, of which I impatiently
longed to turn over the first leaves; now, at
twenty-eight, I look upon it as a melancholy
reality. I have scanned those pages, and found
in them nothing but disappointment and vanity !
True it is, that the chapter of ambition has sur-
STURMER. 77
passed my expectations ; I have there seen the
name of the obscure Wolfgang Sturmer raised to
celebrity, and become known, not only in his own
country, but throughout Europe, as the success-
ful advocate of a persecuted system ; but to the
romantic temperament of the Poet and the
Idealist fame alone has not been sufficient to
secure happiness. As long as I had difficulties
to combat and assailants to overcome, the blank
in my heart was not felt by me ; but now that
I have rendered the path comparatively smooth
for my successors in the same cause, and that
by my writings and personal practice I have
raised the veil of prejudice from the public
mind, and prepared it to receive the lights of
truth which our revived system will one day
shed upon it, —although neither you nor I shall
live to see that day,— I feel as though my mis-
sion were at an end; there are no more rocks
against which the torrent of my energies may
be broken —and the tide rolling onward unob-
structed, and expending itself upon the smooth
78 STURMER.
and barren sands, now overwhelms my soul with
an intolerable sense of restless monotony.
" 'Tis when these dreary convictions press
upon me that I sigh for the days of Gottingen,
when the poor student, with his mine of ima-
ginary happiness still unexplored, parted at the
gates of the University with the only real trea-
sure that he ever possessed — his friend Anton
Von Preinl, and set forth in pursuit of ' the
bubble reputation,' which, now that it is at-
tained, he finds insufficient to satisfy the crav-
ings of his soul. Do you know that, in the
midst of my late successes in Dresden, I be-
came more than ever convinced of the pre-
dominancy of that feeling, and with a captious-
ness which so often follows the triumphs of
mere vanity, I turned from the intoxicating
flatteries of the most beautiful women there,
to dwell upon an episode in my early life, in
which, God knows, vanity had no share.
" You may remember the circumstance that
I related to you eight years ago, of my first
STURMER. 79
essay in Animal Magnetism, and of the romantic
feeling which had sprung up in my bosom for
the young person whom I had, through that
mysterious agency, rescued from death. It was
one of those sudden sympathies which would
puzzle a philosopher to account for, but which
are to me evidences of the truth of one of my
favourite theories, which has so often met with
your unqualified ridicule, namely, the doctrine
of metempsychosis. That the soul of that
young girl should have been known to mine in
some pre-existing state, is an idea which I love
to cherish ;
—we may have been friends, per-
haps lovers ;
—and thus I account for the feel-
ing with which, when all in that youthful form
that could awaken the grosser impulses of
passion lay cold and inanimate in the grasp of
death, a love not less passionate, but more pure
than earthly love, should have pervaded my
whole being, and directed all the energies of my
soul to recall her fleeting spirit, which, although
struggling to emancipate itself from its mortal
80 STURMER.
coil, paused at the voice of its old companion,
and, obedient to the call, returned to place
itself under that loved dominion ! It matters
not now to dwell upon the romantic dreams in
which my imagination then revelled for a mo-
ment: the sum of them was, that I would
remain near Lolotte, restore her to health, win
her affections, and then make her my wife ; but
one word served to dispel the visionary scheme
of happiness. I casually heard from her mo-
ther that she was engaged to be married to
another, and I tore myself from the spot that
held her, before she could be restored to a con-
sciousness of my presence there. But I never
forgot her ; nor has it since been in the power
of woman, however beautiful or captivating, to
awaken in me the same tender emotions that
she did. And so, at the end of eight years,
when I once more found myself in the same
country with her, and separated only by a few
leagues from the very spot where I had first
beheld her, an irrepressible desire took pos-
STURMER. 81
session of me to ascertain whether she still
lived, and still inhabited that place. I had
intended to make a solitary pilgrimage to it on
my way from Dresden to Prague, but that plan
was defeated by the decision of the Countess
Mannteufel, who, resolved upon rendering my
departure from Dresden worthy of my sojourn
there, had organized a select party to accom-
pany me as far as Schandau, where a senti-
mental farewell fete was to be got up for me,
and our mutual regrets at parting were to be
expressed by eating, drinking, and dancing !
" As soon, however, as the latter part of the
entertainment had commenced, I contrived to
slip away unperceived by the society; and
taking the well-remembered path that leads
from Schandau to the Ottowalder-grund, I ar-
rived in sight of Lolotte's habitation just as the
shades of evening were falling around and en-
veloping everything in obscurity. Strange that
it should have been the very anniversary of the
day upon which, eight years before, at the same
E 5
82 STURMER.
evening hour, I had first approached that house;
and now, as with a stealthy step and beating
heart, I stole through the garden enclosure, a
strain of music directed me towards an open
casement, close to which I stationed myself,
screened by the creepers that clustered around
it from the observation of those within, and
listened to one of our popular German ballads,
so exquisitely performed as to give the charac-
ter of novelty and freshness to it. The song
was sung by a woman's voice of such wondrous
sweetness and compass, that, as I hung entranced
upon its rich round tones, I remembered the
expression that Frau Mbller had made use of
when, in describing to me her daughter's sing-
ing, she had said, '
Angels might listen to her
harmony and mistake it for their own/ and I
felt convinced that I listened to none other than
Lolotte. When the last chords of the piano-
accompaniment closed the song there was a
silent pause, followed by the murmur of voices
in conversation, and then only I ventured to
STURMER. 83
emerge so far from my hiding-place as to be
able to obtain through the open window a view
of the interior of the apartment. It was the
well-remembered parlour, from which I had fled
like a felon eight years before ; but one object
alone in it fixed my attention, the beautiful
spirit-like figure of Lolotte, dressed in white,
and seated at the piano close to the window,
her face half shaded by the hand on which she
leaned, but still sutficiently revealed to leave no
doubt of her identity ; a young man, her hus-
band, I suppose — and I could have hated him
for being so, — was seated near her, holding her
other hand, and speaking to her with earnest-
ness. I caught the sound of my own name
pronounced by him, and, incautiously advancing
to hear more of his discourse, I discovered
enough of my person to betray myself, for an
old woman (the same who had admitted me into
the house on my former visit) caught a glimpse
of me while she was in the act of serving some
refreshment to her mistress; and whether she
84 STURMER.
remembered my countenance, or that she mis-
took me for a robber, I know not, but she
uttered a piercing shriek, and letting the tray
fall from her hand gave the alarm. Without
allowing myself time for reflection I sprang
over the garden fence, and quickly regained the
road to Schandau, from whence, when I paused
to take breath, I could perceive lights moving
about in the garden, and hear the shouts of
those who were in pursuit of me.
" I reached Schandau before the ball was
terminated, and accounted for my absence as
well as I could ; but my thoughts were far from
the scene, and still hovered round the spot I
had so recently quitted ; the transient view I
had just obtained of Lolotte, instead of tran-
quillising my mind as to her fate, had revived
in it all the folly and madness that had charac-
terised my feelings during my first extraordi-
nary approximation to her. I found that nei-
ther time nor absence had conquered that
strange infatuation, and that now, as heretofore,
STURMER. 85
my only safety would be in flight; and thus
convinced of the ungovernable nature of my
sentiments for her, and of the existence of the
insuperable obstacle which rendered the further
indulgence of those sentiments a deliberate
crime, I resolved never to attempt to disturb
her tranquillity by obtruding myself into her
presence, or allowing her to become aware of
the extraordinary power which she so uncon-
sciously exercised over me.
" I did not retire to rest until I had gathered
from the innkeeper at Schandau some particu-
lars of the actual state of Lolotte's family ; and
from him I learned that the good Pastor Hart-
mann and his daughter were both dead, that
Lolotte had been married more than seven
years to her cousin, Franz Moller, who is a
savant and an author, but, that since she lost
her children her health has declined, and that
she has not been once to Schandau during the
whole of the summer. Poor beautiful Lolotte !
she has not, then, escaped the common lot of
86 STURMER.
humanity, and afflictions and bereavements have
fallen upon her in the very noontide of her
life. May the undivided affection of her hus-
band compensate to her for all that she has
lost ! Now, then, I might be her friend. Her
friend ? alas ! I fear that I could not be satis-
fied with that title alone !
" I have been insensibly led on to make this
written confession of my weakness, just as I
should have confided it to you in the unre-
stricted flow of conversation, had we met ;
just
as I have ever opened to you every thought
and feeling of my heart since the commence-
ment of our boyish friendship, without shrink-
ing from the consequences my candour has
inevitably entailed upon me, in the shape of
your (sometimes) well-directed censure, and
ever good-humoured ridicule. In the present
instance I am aware that I am furnishing you
with arms against myself, upon a point which
we have so often argued together, namely, the
proneness of imaginative people in general, and
STURMER. 87
of myself in particular, to create their own
misery by rejecting the real good that offers
itself to them in the natural course of events,
and running after visions of ideal happiness
which exist in their exalted imaginations alone,
and lead them from folly to folly, from dis-
appointment to disappointment, until at last
they are forced to comprehend one great reality
—the moral of the fable —that in grasping
at the shadow the substance has been sacri-
ficed, and both have disappeared together in
the treacherous waves. I feel that this may be
very appositely applied to me, for I have all
the elements of rational happiness within my
reach,—moderate wealth, celebrity, popularity,
youth, health ; and yet all these positive bless-
ings are overlooked by me in the morbid yearn-
ing for a shadowy felicity, the possession of
which would not perhaps after all contribute
to my happiness ; for who knows whether Lo-
lotte is in reality what my imagination has loved
to depict her? But in thus anticipating the
88 STURMER.
arguments which I know you will use against
me, I feel that I have ensured your generous
forbearance upon a subject, which I candidly
confess to you I could not bear should be
treated with ridicule ; and it will be a suflicient
triumph for you to read, under my own hand,
the admission that I acknowledge the justice
of your opinion, and that I envy the calm tem-
perament and sober judgment which have ever
enabled you not only to steer your own course
clear of the shoals and quicksands of passion,
but to pilot your friend through the breakers
into which his rashness has so often precipitated
him.
" Adieu, my dear Anton ! a press of pro-
fessional occupation will prevent my writing
to you again for many days ; let me hear, how-
ever, in the mean time of all the gay proceed-
ings at Falkenstein, and believe me to be as
ever your faithful friend,
" Wolfgang Sturmer."
STURMER. 89
LETTER FROM WOLFGANG STURMER TO
BARON ANTON VON PRIENL.
" Prague, Nov. 7th, 18—.
" Of what use are our wisest resolutions,
my dear Anton ? idle vanities all ! the puny
efforts of pigmies to wrestle with a giant
!
Call that giant what you will, either Fate, or
the force of circumstances, it eventually masters
us all; we struggle for a season against its
tyranny —we think we have escaped from its
dominion — in vain ! with an iron grasp it again
clutches us, makes us its slaves, and laughs to
scorn the idle show of strength with which we
dared to brave its power. As for myself, I
give up the contest, I feel myself to be le
jouet d'une etrange fatalite, circumvented in all
my best intentions, and come what will to me
now, of weal or woe, I shall say with Diderot's
hero, that ' c'etait ecrit la-haut
!'
" When I tell you that the person whose
presence I had, as you know, most religiously
90 STURMER.
determined to fly for ever, is here -— that Lo-
lotte Moller, of v/hose strange power over my
feelings I had made no secret to you, is in
Prague, brought by her husband purposely
to consult me, and to be placed under my pro-
fessional care — that I am obliged to see her
daily, watch the fluctuations of her charming
countenance, listen to her gentle accents, and
I fear I must add that I would not now^ if I
could^ relinquish the dangerous delight of being
of use to her ! —when I tell you all this, Anton,
the meaning of my preceding remark will be
intelligible to you.
" To render my recital coherent, I must re-
trograde, and begin by the beginning of this
strange adventure. It was only two days after
my last letter had been despatched to you that
as I was sitting alone in my study in the dusk
of the evening, Gottfried announced to me that
a gentleman from Dresden wished to see me
;
I desired him to be shewn in, supposing that
it might be one of my numerous acquaint-
STURMER. 91
ances from that place passing through Prague,
but, when the visitor entered and hghts were
placed upon the table, I beheld a person with
whom I had no previous acquaintance, but
whose countenance, nevertheless, struck me as
being one of which I had some vague recol-
lection, although I could not at that moment
remember when or where I had seen it. He
was a handsome young man, with one of those
open, honest, phlegmatic German countenances,
which prepossess one in their favour without
exciting any particular interest; his manner
was frank and gentleman-like, and, without
any unnecessary circumlocution or attempt at
compliment, he told me that he had heard
sufficient of my success at Dresden (although
he had heard of my stay there too late to
profit by it on the spot) to induce him to fol-
low me to Prague with his wife, whose health
had been long in a declining state, from a com-
plication of nervous disorders, which had re-
sisted the skill of the medical practitioners
92 STURMER.
near her; but as she had once, a few years
before, derived extraordinary benefit from Mes-
meric treatment, he entertained a hope that
it might again restore her to health ; at all
events, he was anxious to make the trial. He
had therefore brought her to Prague, in order
that she might remain a sufficient time under
my care to enable me to ascertain whether
her ailments were likely again to yield to the
influence of Animal Magnetism, and he en-
treated that I would see her without loss of
time. They were lodging, he said, at the
hotel of the 'Drei Linden,' (which you know
is on the Graben, a great distance from my
residence near the Hraschin,) but he would
bring his wife to me at any hour of the next
day that I might name. I replied that I would
wait upon her at the hotel at eleven o'clock
on the following day ; and in compliance with
my request that he would furnish me with her
name, he took a card from his pocket, laid it
STURMER. 93
upon the table, and making his parting com-
pliments to me retired.
" No sooner had the door closed upon him
than I glanced my eye over the card, and read
upon it Franz Moller ! At that name my heart
leaped into my throat, and I felt thankful that
he was not present to witness an emotion which
I could not have repressed, neither could I have
accounted for it to him, in any rational manner.
I passed the night in a tumult of agitation, but
before the hour arrived for my appointed inter-
view with Lolotte the next morning, I had suc-
ceeded in regaining all the external calm which
it was necessary for me to exhibit on such an
occasion ; and at eleven o'clock precisely I drove
to the Drei Linden, where, upon inquiring for
Monsieur and Madame Moller, I was shewn
into a sitting-room where I found the husband
alone. He told me that in consequence of the
fatigues of her journey, his wife had been visited
by some of her most alarming symptoms during
94 STURMER.
the night, and had therefore been unable to
rise early enough to be ready to receive me,
but that she was dressing and would join us in
a few moments.
" « Poor dear Lolotte !
' he said,—and if there
had been any previous doubt upon my mind as
to the patient I was about to see, it vanished at
that long-cherished name; —'I cannot bring
myself to think that she can be seriously ill, still
less can I forgive myself for having been so long
unconscious of her declining state ; but the fact
is that her beauty is so little impaired, and she
has so constantly abstained from any expres-
sion of suffering, that I have mistaken her in-
creasing bodily languor for a protraction of the
mental depression that followed the loss of her
children. I must tell you that she has oc-
casional aberrations of intellect, during which
visitations she becomes quite exaltte, although
perfectly harmless ; she will then write the most
beautiful and sublime fragments of poetry, and
compose music worthy of Weber himself, but
STURMER. 95
not a line or a note of either does she remember
when she returns to her natural state."
" I at once discovered that what her husband
mistook for aberrations of intellect, were mani-
festations of natural somnambuhsm, and I was
proceeding to tell him so, when the door opened,
and the subject of our discourse herself ap-
peared.
" How beautiful she looked, that fair and
graceful Lolotte, and how little changed at
twenty-four from what she had been at six-
teen ! Years appeared to have glided so lightly
over her, as to leave no trace of their passage
on her smooth white brow and delicate child-
like features ; there was none of the fretfulness
of disease perceptible in her countenance — all
there was characterised by a sweet, serious
calm, which might have cheated the casual ob-
server into a belief that she had never known
sorrow or suffering ; but those who looked be-
yond the surface might read in the soul- sub-
duing expressions of her eyes a history of feel-
96 STURMER.
ing repressed, something mystic and melan-
choly in their abstracted gaze, as though the
objects upon which they wandered were not
conveyed by the sight to the sense, and that
her thoughts dwelt in inward contemplation
upon things which had no link in the chain
of passing events.
" I know not what was said during the first
moments of our interview ; I can only distinctly
remember the moral agitation which her pre-
sence occasioned me, and the feeling of wonder
almost amounting to displeasure with which I
contemplated her own calm self-possession, and
the modest dignity with which she met my
gaze; never recalling to mind that although
she had been the romance of my life, I, to
her, was a perfect stranger.
" Very soon Franz led the conversation to the
subject of her health, and at his desire Lolotte
related to me all the circumstances of her
former illness, and of the part I had acted in
effecting her recovery, not a single particular of
STURMER. 97
which was either altered or exaggerated by
her.
" ' I have,' she said, ' so often heard the whole
circumstance related by my dear mother, that
I could almost fancy I had seen it all myself;
and her descriptions of my unknown preserver
were so vivid, —his pale countenance, his dark
flashing eyes, and his high, noble forehead,
shaded by raven curls, were so minutely deli-
neated by her, that I think I should recognize
him in a multitude.'
"As she pronounced these words she raised
her eyes to mine, and, for the first time, wist-
fully scanning my features, a deep blush sud-
denly overspread her transparent cheek. She
hesitated in what she was going to add; but,
after a moment's painful embarrassment, pro-
ceeded to say, ' Is it not strange that he should
have disappeared as he did, without leaving
a name by which we might remember him in
our prayers ? And is it not still more strange
that he should never have returned, or in any
VOL. I. F
98 STURMER.
way endeavoured to ascertain whether the won-
derful cure commenced by him had ever ter-
minated successfully? I suppose that such
events were of every-day occurrence to him,
and that, in losing sight of us, he forgot us
altogether ; — but we can never forget 1dm I
'
" I could have fallen at her feet at these
words, and, in avowing to her that the nameless
wanderer and Wolfgang Sturmer were one and
the same person, have discovered to her the
fond secret of my soul ; but I checked the wild
impulse, and, forcing myself to remember that
I ought now to be nothing more to Lolotte
than her physician, I proceeded to suggest that
a trial of my magnetic influence over her should
be forthwith essayed.
" And now, Anton, mark what followed, as it
will bear out what I have so often told you, of
that most remarkable and unaccountable pheno-
menon elicited by Animal Magnetism in the hu-
man frame,—the developement in the person
magnetised of a state of being wholly distinct
STURMER. 99
from their every-day existence, and apparently
unconnected with it by any hnk of association or
memory. This is one of the characteristics of
the highly lucid state; and I have never met
with it but in cases of extreme physical debility.
It was some minutes before I succeeded in pro-
ducing any visible effects upon Lolotte; but,
at last, after breathing upon my hands and
applying them to her forehead, she sank into
a slumber so profound that her very respiration
appeared to be suspended.
" Then stooping down, and taking her hand,
I whispered to her the never-failing first ques-
tion of 'Do you sleep?'
" Instead of answering me, a smile of glad
recognition irradiated her countenance, and the
words ' 'Tis He !
' burst from her lips !
" What I then felt it would be impossible for
me to describe; if worlds had been offered to
me as the price of another word, I could not, at
that moment, have uttered it. To my inex.
pressible relief, Mbller hastened to make some
F 2
100 STURMER.
observations, which, by occasioning a pause in
my experiment, gave me time to recover my
self-possession.
" '
You must know,' said he, ' that whenever
my wife has been Mesmerised, her mind has
reverted to the first person who acted upon her
through that agency, and whom she always
designates as He or Him. Her mother has
told me, that each time she magnetised her,
her allusions to that person were unceasing.
She would call upon and apostrophise him, and
any attempt to explain to her that he was be-
yond her reach, would produce such momen-
tary exasperation, that it was thought advisable
not to thwart her belief that she would again
see him. His image seems to be so inseparably
connected with every stage of her magnetic
trance, that it is plain she now mistakes you
for him. I think it better that you should
favour the illusion by replying to her as
though you were indeed that person,—for op-
STURMER. 101
position only irritates her, and, after all, the
deception can create no dilemma ; for when she
awakens, she will have no recollection of any-
thing that has occurred during her magnetic
sleep.'
" I could almost have smiled at the simplicity
and bonhomie of the unsuspecting husband;
but to have resisted his suggestion would have
been beyond human forbearance,—at least, be-
yond the share of it that I possess ; so I obeyed
him.
" * Lolotte,' I said, ' 'Tis I, indeed ; have you
anything to say to me ?'
" ' You must leave me no more,' she replied.
' Why have you remained away so long ?
'
" ' I am now here to do your bidding,—to
remain near you as long as you wish, and to
give you all my attention. Where do you suf-
fer, Lolotte ?
'
" ' Here,' she answered, laying my hand upon
her heart, and holding it there.
lOlS STURMER.
" ' Can you give me any insight into the
cause of that suffering? and can you describe
to me the actual appearance of your heart?*
" With surprising clearness she gave me a
description of the state of that organ, showing
that it was acted upon by a violent nervous
contraction and spasmodic affection, which, al-
though producing alarming and painful sym-
ptoms, was wholly unconnected with any '
organic
vice.' There was also a morbid affection of the
liver, such as I have frequently known to result
from any great and continued mental affliction,
—a spasmodic cough. The circulation of the
blood was completely deranged, and the whole
nervous system in a state of the greatest irrita-
tion.
" All of this was described by her with ana-
tomical precision, to the inexpressible astonish-
ment of her husband; who, however, when he
recovered his speech, assured me, that she must
be quite mistaken, as it was the opinion of
Dr. Schramm, of Schandau, that her symptoms
STUKMER. 103
were all pulmonary. I told him, however, that
I had such faith in the accuracy of all that she
had just told me, which was not an opinion, but
an insight into her case, that I should not
balance my own, or any other professional per-
son's opinion, against it ; but treat her for the
complaints she had pointed out, and according
to the remedies she herself should suggest. I
then asked her if magnetism would be beneficial
to her, and she replied, that it would be in-
dispensable to her recovery; but that other
remedies must also be adopted, some of which
she pointed out, but professed not to be able to
see the rest of them at that time. She then de-
clared herself to be wearied with my questions,
and desired that I would suffer her to remain
quiet for half an hour.
" Her injunctions were obeyed, and Moller
and myself retired to the further end of the
room to await the result. Precisely as the half-
hour expired she stretched her limbs, raised
herself upon the sofa, and rubbing her eyes as
104 STURMER.
a child does, when half roused from slumber,
recovered her perception by degrees.
" ' Well, Lottschen,' said her husband, *
you
have had a famous sleep : how do you feel after
it?'
" ' Oh ! so well,—so much better,' was her
reply ;
' surely I must have slept several hours
;
for all my fatigue appears to have passed away !
'
" ' No,' said I, ' you have only been three
quarters of an hour asleep; but tell me, have
. you had any dreams? Do you recollect any-
thing that passed during that period ?
'
" « Nothing,' she replied, ' except the inde-
scribable sensation of calm that gradually stole
over me. After that, all was oblivion.'
" « Well,' I rejoined, ' having now satisfied
myself of the power of Magnetism over you, I
must hear from you a statement of your sym-
ptoms and sensations according to your waking
perceptions of them.' And then proceeding to
question her closely upon the subject of her
health, I drew fi*om her a minute description of
STURMER. 105
all that she suffered, and also a confession of her
own conviction that she was dying of an aneurism
of the heart, to which had recently been super-
added symptoms of pulmonary consumption.
" Thus you see how widely dissimilar were
the suppositions she hazarded waking^ from the
decision she had so oracularly pronounced while
asleep! When I told her of it, she shook her
head with a languid smile and said, ' You are
deceiving me, but you are mistaken in doing so.
I am prepared to hear the worst — I have been
long prepared to meet it, and have familiarized
myself with the idea of death, even in its most
painful form, so do not shrink from telling me
the truth. Doctor Sturmer ! And as for my
husband, he must learn to look it in the face
also ; I shall have courage for us both ! Only
tell me ivlien it is likely to be — that is the
only point upon which I have now any anxiety,
for I have a yearning to die at home, that I
may be laid in the same grave with my chil-
dren !'
F 5
106 STURMER.
" ' You talk of leaving me,' said Moller, ' as
if it would cost you no regret to do so ! Is it
fair or kind in you thus to express yourself, and
does it not look like a reproach for my having
been so long unconscious that you were ill? If
you had only told me that
'
" * Pardon me, dear Franz," she interrupted,
taking his hand, ' pardon me if I have pained
you — and do not imagine I could ever intend
to reproach you; you have been all goodness
and patience with me, and God knows, I feel
it!'
" Goodness and patience ! they are often mis-
applied terms where carelessness and apathy
would approach nearer the truth. Love and
tenderness should have been the sentiments
exhibited towards Lolotte by the man so blest
as to be her husband. But are they in MoUer's
nature ? —I fear not. Even at that moment
there had been more oi pique than of tenderness
in the tone with which he had remarked upon
those affecting expressions of Lolotte, (which,
STURMER. 107
in unconsciously revealing to me the desolate
state of her feelings, had caused the tears to
rush into my eyes,) but it vanished before the
charm of her frank and gentle manner, and
recovering his good humour he kissed the hand
she had placed in his, and proceeded to read to
her the notes he had made of the opinions pro-
nounced by her in her magnetic trance*
" As for me I felt that it was time to be
gone; I had tried my feelings to the utmost
in that interview, and another moment might
have betrayed me into some imprudence ; so
promising to return the following day, I took
my leave of them, and left the hotel like one
bewildered. Such are the particulars of my
first visit to Lolotte ; since then I have seen
her every day, and by following her own pre-
scriptions I have already produced most bene-
ficial effects. I shall restore her to health,
but it will be at the sacrifice of my own — of
my peace of mind — perhaps of my reason. I
cannot thus constantly approach her with im-
108 STURMER.
punity, and a nearer acquaintance with her,
instead of destroying my illusions, has confirmed
and strengthened the passionate predilection
which the first sight of her awakened in me —
and so matters remain for the present.
" I have never met with a case of greater
lucidity than Lolotte's, or one which more com-
pletely proves the existence of two separate
states of being in the same person. One of the
peculiar features of her magnetic state is a
total oblivion of all her natural ties — the
recollection of her mother, grandfather, chil-
dren, and husband, is completely obliterated for
the time being ; that circle of affection which
had been all the world to her, and which, when
broken, had well nigh caused her heart to
break also — the loves and the sorrows of her
youth are then totally obliterated from the
tablets of memory ; — but she has moments
of ecstatic delirium which occasionally super-
vene, when she will remain with her eyes
STURMER. 109
raised to heaven and fixed, her hps moving as
though she spoke, (and yet no sounds issue
from them,) and an expression so subUme and
so beatified spread over her whole countenance
and person, that one might imagine the glories
of heaven were then revealed to her spiritual
gaze. Once, and once only, as the vision ap-
peared to fade away from her, she murmured
' I have seen them !' but nothing more could
we extract from her, for the characteristics of
her usual magnetic sleep immediately returned,
and she again became ' the queen of a fantastic
realm,' in which, apparently, two persons only
exist -
— herself and me ! At those times no-
thing can exceed the fond familiarity of her
manner to me, or the tender deference with
which she obeys my every injunction — but
when she awakens to her natural state, all is
changed; she is still amiable and charming
—
but retiring, almost reserved with me.
" I must not omit to tell you, that in conse-
110 STURMER.
quence of Lolotte having found the hotel too
noisy and confined for a continuance, Mbller
has hired the small house communicating with
my garden, which you know I have lately had
thoughts of purchasing and fitting up as a
pavilion, and they are settled there for the
winter ; he is busily occupied in a work con-
nected with his particular studies (he is a Pro-
fessor of Persian and Arabic), and she passing
all her intervals from suffering in such feminine
employments as are the evidences of a well-re-
gulated mind. Every morning when I pay my
professional visit there, I determine to restrict
myself to that limited intercourse alone ; and
yet every evening I find myself again at the
door of the little habitation, where a smiling
welcome ever awaits me. I am ashamed of the
feelings which I carry there, when I contrast
them with the guileless confidence that is
evinced to me by both husband and wife. Come
to me, dear Anton, and snatch me from this too
STURMER. Ill
dangerous society. I see her too often for my
tranquillity — too little for my happiness ! I
ought to fly, but were I to do so her health
would be sacrificed ; if I remain, I am lost
!
" Ever yours,
" Wolfgang Sturmer."
112 STURMER.
CHAPTER III.
And her who was his destiny came back.
* -K- * * *
What business had she there at such a time ?
Lord Byron.
Unfortunately for Sturmer, his friend
could not then obey the call; family affairs
rendered his presence necessary in a distant
part of the country, and although his letters
were filled with the best advice urged with all
the good feeling and fearless candour that
were his distinguishing characteristics, although
he shrank not from placing before Sturmer a
picture of the dreadful consequences to which
the indulgence of his unauthorized feelings
STURMER. llo
must lead, and, divesting it of the dazzling
sophistries of sentiment, held it up to him
in its true colours, a black transcript of un-
lawful affection and dishonourable purpose —
yet, those letters shared the fate of almost all
loritten counsels — they were perused with
emotion, aroused the mind to temporary com-
punction and virtuous resolves, and then were
thrown aside to be forgotten in the whirlwind
of conflicting feelings which a guilty passion
had raised in his bosom, or to be superseded
by the all-absorbing enchantment of a con-
stantly sustained intercourse with its lovely
object, where every good purpose — every wise
resolution — everything but love and Lolotte
were forgotten ! Whereas the personal au-
thority of Anton Von Preinl would have been
exerted to tear his friend from the scene of
temptation, or, failing to do so, to have roused
Lolotte to a sense of her danger, and have led
her to remove herself in time from its conse-
quences. This, however, was not to be, and
114 STURMER.
everything appeared to conspire to throw
Lolotte and Sturmer more constantly together,
and thus to rivet more strongly the fetters
which passion had long since forged for the
heart of the one, and love, with gentler but
not less subtle power, was preparing for that
of the other. Besides that the almost undivided
attention which Mbller gave to his literary
labours left him little time to devote to his wife,
and that satisfied with the exertion of having
brought her to Prague, and placed her under
the care of one of the most celebrated prac-
titioners in Germany, he thought that further
anxiety or derangement of his usual habits on
her account would be a useless waste of time,
he had found out two or three literary acquaint-
ances at Prague, with whom he fell into the
habit of occasionally passing the evening, and
glad of an excuse for not leaving Lolotte alone,
he invariably chose the moment of Sturmer's
evening visit to absent himself for that pur-
pose.
STURMER. 115
How fraught with dangerous delight were
those long tke-a-tttes to both ! Sometimes
Sturmer would read to Lolotte selections from
Schiller's and Goethe's works ; sometimes
Schlegel's translation of Shakspeare ; at others,
portions of her favourite poem, Klopstock's
Messiah. But such was his admiration of the
innocence of her mind, and so great the invo-
luntary awe and respect with which the modest
dignity of her demeanour had inspired him,
that he never attempted through the insidious
agency of immoral writers to undermine that
purity, which was at once the source of his
admiration and of his despair. And in that
reserve lay the greatest peril for Lolotte. It
deceived her as to the state of Sturmer's feel-
ings for her, and left her wholly unsuspicious
of the nature of her own for him, wholly un-
guarded against their daily encroachments upon
her heart ! For Lolotte had never before loved;
and, what is more, from having lived out of
the world, she was a stranger to those conven-
116 STURMER.
tional flirtations, those privileged sentimentali-
ties permitted in society, which impart such
premature experience to the minds of young
women, and, by accustoming them to the lan-
guage of love before the sentiment is under-
stood, endue them with the dangerous power
of coldly playing with the passions; of inter-
preting every guarded word, and appropriating
every unguarded look as vanity may prompt
;
of encouraging or repelling the advances of
love, as prudence may direct ; of venturing to
the very confines of vice, and believing them-
selves to be virtuous because they have stop-
ped short there ; —finally, of becoming adepts in
that heartless science which, while it makes the
coquette, spoils the woman. Of all those arts
of attack and defence poor Lolotte was pro-
foundly ignorant ; but in their place she pos-
sessed a charm more powerful for the delicate
mind, more attractive, perhaps, even for the
libertine, that " tender bloom of heart " which,
once rubbed off*, nothing can restore, that virgin
STURMER. 117
purity of feeling for which, if lost, the jargon
of sentiment^ or the calculations of the most
refined coquetry, however artfully applied, can
never compensate. She did not, therefore, at-
tempt to conceal the pleasure which Sturmer's
society afforded her, or to analyse the feelings
which gradually led her to identify his image
with all her thoughts and occupations ; for they
were naturally accounted for by her as evi-
dences of her deep and grateful sense of all the
benefits he had showered upon her. He had,
by his unremitting care, relieved her from severe
bodily suffering, and restored her to compa-
rative health ; he had opened new sources of
intellectual enjoyment to her; he was, besides,
her only society ; the only person who had
rescued her mind from preying upon itself; the
only one who possessed the power to divert her
thoughts from the gloomy contemplation of the
grave. And, if those thoughts now dwelt upon
him, absent as well as present ; if she learned
to live upon the expectation of beholding him
118 STURMER.
" ogni sera, ogni mattina, ciascun ora, e poi
domani," still, gratitude, exalted and enthusiastic
gratitude, were the only feelings which she
believed had caused that fond pre-occupation of
her mind.
It was at this period of our history that
Moller, having terminated the first part of his
voluminous work, and anxious to present it to
the public, announced his determination of going
to Dresden to superintend its publication. The
winter had then set in with unusual severity
;
the cold was piercing, and the snow lay many
feet upon the ground ; it was therefore out of
the question that Lolotte, in her delicate state
of health, should accompany him at that incle-
ment season, even if he had wished that she
should do so ; but he did not ; for her presence,
and the care she required, would have entailed
upon him more trouble than gratification ; he
therefore made hasty arrangements for his de-
parture alone, and promising to return to
Prague as soon as the nature of his business
STURMER. 119
would allow, he set out for Dresden in the
month of January, leaving Lolotte to the care
of the man whom he looked upon as his best
friend, the soul of honour, the type of all that
is noble and honest in human nature.
And Sturmer was an honest man ; his nature
was essentially noble and generous, his inten-
tions upright and pure; but, alas ! we have
seen that there was no governing principle of
religion in him, none of " that strength which
Cometh from above," to enable him steadily to
wrestle with and overcome temptations, how-
ever alluring, or render easy the task of daily
disciplining his feelings into the ways of peace
and virtue. He was the creature of passion
and impulse, driven hither and thither by them,
sometimes to good, sometimes to evil, never
to deliberate treachery. The confidence placed
in hira by Franz Moller touched him to the
soul ; it called forth all his better feelings, and
made him shrink with horror from the mere
idea of abusing it. In the first glow of gener-
120 STURMER.
ous emotion which it had elicited, he believed
that henceforward every sacrifice of selfish in-
dulgence would be possible to him, and, strong
in his virtuous resolve, he determined to impose
such restraints upon his intercourse with Lo-
lotte, during her husband's absence, as would
leave him no opportunity of betraying the sa-
credness of the trust that had been placed in
him. He had been in the habit of following
his magnetic treatment of Lolotte always in the
presence of her husband, that is to say, in the
same room with him, and liable to his super-
mtending and overhearing all that passed upon
those occasions ; but, after the first two or three
experiments had been successfully made, Mol-
ler had ceased to give his attention to them,
and, absorbed in his writing at the further end
of the room, he would leave Sturmer in undis-
turbed communion with his wife, free to listen
to, and to encourage those fond outpourings of
her soul, which he had not the courage to
STURMER. 121
repress, and which so eloquently, and unequivo-
cally convinced him of the power he possessed
over her in that state, and of the strange mys-
terious sympathy which existed between them,
and was then, and then only, revealed to him by
look or word. But, to pursue those dangerous
experiments with Lolotte alone, unrestrained by
the presence of her husband, and exposed to
the combined fascinations of her unequalled
beauty and her unresisting tenderness, would
have been an effort beyond his strength of mind
to achieve, a mad tempting of fate, that could
only have ended in defeat and remorse. He
suddenly suspended his magnetic treatment of
her, upon the plea that, for the present, her
health would not require its continuance ; and
when in her presence sought for safety in the
contemplation of that rare union of dignity and
sweetness which characterized her natural state,
and seemed to possess the magic power of
awing into respectful adoration every wild, un-
VOL. I. G
1^2 STURMER.
hallowed wish of his heart, and of imparting to
his feelings some of the redeeming purity and
gentleness of her own.
But he soon grew restless and unhappy un-
der this continued restraint; he had never ac-
customed himself to any sustained self-control,
and his spirits and temper failed him in this
first trial of his fortitude; even his courage
sank to the lowest ebb, when, at the end of
a few days, he perceived that Lolotte began to
droop and languish under the too-suddenly al-
tered system of treatment he had adopted, and
that symptoms of nervous excitement were again
becoming visible in her. Then wild thoughts
and wilder wishes would obtrude, and assert
their temporary sway over his reason. A thou-
sand times in the day he determined to throw
himself at Lolotte's feet, avow his mad passion
for her, and urge her to fly with him to some
distant land, where, forgetful of every other tie,
they might be all the world to each other.
Was she not already all the world to him ? —
STURMER. 123
her love, her innocent, unconscious love he
already possessed, but that was no longer suffi-
cient for his happiness —earth held no bless-
ing for him unconnected with the possession of
Lolotte — she must participate in his guilty
thoughts and wishes — she must abandon her-
self to him unconditionally —she must be his
alone ! but would she ever consent to such a
sacrifice ? and at that thought he shrank within
himself, abashed by the imagined scorn of her
calm reproving eye, and the bitter indignation
with which he felt that she would resent so
deep an insult to her purity, so ungenerous
an advantage taken of her unprotected state !
Such were the struggles with which the mind
of Sturmer was now torn, and against which
he felt himself each day less equal to contend.
During the day-time his innumerable profes-
sional avocations carried him away from the
contemplation of his own misery, and procured
him a temporary suspension of suffering, but
in the evening the reaction was dreadful. He
G 2
124 STURMER.
had ceased to go into the world because the
irritation of his spirits rendered him unfit to
enact with proper calm and decorum his part
in that heartless and frivolous comedy of which
society is the theatre. He had ceased, too, to
visit Lolotte in the evening as heretofore, and
had contrived to time his interviews with her
immediately after dinner, because at that hour
he was sure to find her maid knitting in the
same room with her, and he felt that the pre-
sence of a third person was now necessary to
restrain his expressions within the bounds of
prudence. Thus unsettled in mind he shut him-
self up in his study during the long evenings,
and endeavoured to force his attention to the
investigation of some point of scientific interest,
but the effort was fruitless ; his eye glanced
over the page while his thoughts wandered
far from it; and in a fit of uncontrolable ex-
asperation against himself, against fate, against
the world, which he accused of having created
conventional rules of conduct, falsely termed
STURMER. 125
virtue and wholly inconsistent with happiness,
he would dash his book to the ground, and
pacing up and down the room abandon him-
self to those dreams of passion which have
already been described.
One night when he had been more than
usually excited by these conflicting emotions,
and that, exhausted by the struggle, he felt
the impossibility of longer protracting it, he
came to the resolution of writing to Lolotte,
and unfolding to her the whole history of his
heart, from the first dawn of his affection for
her, to the present period ;
yes, he would tell
her all — even the encouragement which she
had so unconsciously given to his love during
her magnetic trances, and the mad hopes to
which those looks and words of tenderness had
given birth—she should know of the long strug-
gle between passion and honour that had al-
most driven him to frenzy, and had ended in
despair, because no sophistry could reconcile
to his mind the possibiHty of both triumphing
;
126 STURMER.
— either honour must be forgotten, or love sa-
crificed—vanquished it could never be by him !
He felt that he dare trust himself in her pre-
sence no more, for the pleadings of passion
would silence the voice of virtue —he would
tear himself from the place that held her ; but
in this apparently heartless abandonment of
the trust her husband had placed in him by
leaving her to his care —in this humihating
avowal of all his weakness and all his misery,
he would force her to confess that Wolfgang
Sturmer was an honest man ! He sat down to
embodv these confessions in the most coherent
language he could command, but the burning
tears that fell from his eyes blotted and effaced
the words as fast as he traced them, and ren-
dered the task a work of time. When the
letter was terminated it was almost midnight;
the cold was intense, and the snow, as it fell
in thick flakes upon the ground, was drifted
by the wind against the windows that opened
into the garden ; all without was in unison
STURMER. 127
with his own dreary heart. Sturmer hghted a
lamp and went into an adjoining room, where,
in the drawer of an antique cabinet, was de-
posited Lolotte's bridal crown, which he had
determined to send to her with his letter, as
a symbol of his identity with the wandering
student. Long and fondly did he gaze upon
the faded memorial of his ill-fated passion be-
fore he summoned courage to displace it from
the corner which it had so long occupied; at
last, in doing so, the chaplet caught in some-
thing that lay beneath it, and, drawing forth
both objects, Sturmer perceived that it had
become entangled in the lock of an old pistol
of his father's, the only relic he possessed of
that parent. A gloomy thought, tinged with
superstitious feeling, suddenly shot through his
mind.
" Ha !
'*
he said with a bitter smile ;
" fate
placed you there together to point out to me
the only cure for my ills — the hint shall not
be given in vain !
" and placing his lamp upon
128 STURMER.
the table he proceeded to examine the lock
of the pistol.
At that moment the noise of a window open-
ing in the next room startled him from his
occupation. The lateness of the hour and the
fact of all the servants having gone to bed
rendered any such unseasonable intrusion a
matter of considerable surprise to him, and he
hastily advanced to the door that communicated
with the study, to ascertain who the midnight
visitant might be; but he suddenly stopped
there, transfixed by what he beheld, and, for
the moment, believed that he gazed upon some
" unreal mockery," which, in the next instant,
would " vanish into thin air." There stood
the form that for ever haunted his thoughts.
Was it the breathing form of Lolotte, or only
a shadowy semblance conjured up by his dis-
turbed imagination, to delude him into the
belief that he beheld once more her whom he
had but a moment before relinquished for ever ?
For an instant the figure remained motionless
STURMER. 129
at the open casement, then, stepping forward
deliberately closed the window after her, and
advancing into the centre of the room more
fully revealed to him her features ; and Sturmer
saw that it was indeed the living Lolotte, but
in that mysterious state of natural somnam-
bulism which irresistibly impels the sleeping
body to follow the impulses of the waking mind.
She had evidently just risen from her bed, for
her only vestments consisted of a loose white
wrapping-gown thrown over her night-dress,
and a pair of slippers into which her small
white feet had been hastily thrust; the cap
that confined her beautiful hair was covered
with snow, and the light which she held in
her hand had been extinguished by the falling
flakes as she traversed the garden. There was
a restless melancholy in her countenance not
natural to its usual serene expression, and the
sad abstracted gaze of her large dilated eyes
told of some vision of sorrow that was passing
within.
G .5
130 STURMER.
Sturmer dared not move ; he scarcely dared
to breathe, lest, by suddenly awakening her, he
might occasion one of those alarming paroxysms
which are the inevitable consequence of dis-
turbing sleep-walkers in the midst of their
wanderings ; and so, with the pistol and chaplet
in his hand, he remained motionless as a statue
at the door, following her movements with his
eyes only, but prepared to interfere should she
meditate any egress that would involve her in
danger.
When she had reached the table at which
Sturmer had been writing, she paused for a
moment in a listening attitude, then shook her
head as if in disappointment, and sighing deeply
sank into the chair which he had occupied
while tracing his confessions, and buried her
face in her hands — but presently removing
them, with an impatient gesture she dashed
the gathering tears from her eyes, and draw-
ing the pen and ink towards her busily oc-
cupied herself in arranging materials for writing.
STURMER. 131
The first sheet of paper that fell under her
hand was the blotted transcript of Sturmer's
stormy feelings, which he had scrawled in cha-
racters as illegible and incoherent as the un-
controlable passion that had dictated them
;
and deliberately folding it in the form of a
letter, she placed it, without reading its con-
tents, in her bosom. Again she listened —
then drawing the paper before her, with a rapid
hand traced upon it her thoughts, while Stur-
mer, noiselessly advancing to the back of her
chair, leaned over it, and followed with his eyes
the course of those rambling reflections.
" It is strange," she wrote, " that I cannot
hear him, and yet I feel that he is not far off
—
then why does he not come to calm these ter-
rors which have destroyed my rest ?
" We were but two in the world —we were
everything to each other. Every day that
brought us together but served to rivet more
closely the links that united our souls. If I
suffered, he stretched forth his hand, and that
132 STURMER.
magic touch restored me to ease ! Now all is
changed — all is silent — I hear not his step, I
hear not his voice —and yet I have watched for
them, hung upon their expectation for days.
What has become of the time when a wish of
mine brought him to my side — when his pre-
sence dispelled all my sufferings, and shed life
and light upon my darkened soul ? Now I am
alone — always alone ! alas, what have I done
to deserve so cruel an abandonment ?
" Return to me, my only friend, I can bear
this solitude no longer — the silence and the
chill of death have suddenly surrounded me,
and a vague terror of evil impending to both of
us has scared away my rest —even now a mys-
sterious voice whispers within me ' the danger is
near —seek him and save him, even ifyou perish
in the attempt
!
'
"
There was something so solemn and startling
in this strange illustration of the theory of pre-
sentiments (those forebodings of evil which a
French author has fancifully styled " Les fan-
STURMER. 133
tomes du futur'') — an evidence so strong of
that mysterious sympathy which binds with
electric chain the soul of one being to that of
another, that even Sturmer, prepared as his
mind was to beUeve in every phenomenon of that
nature presented by somnambuHsm, whether
magnetic or natural, could not but marvel at the
prophetic instinct which it had developed in
Lolotte of misfortune impending to himself —
an instinct so strong and so unerring that,
although the precise nature of the evil appeared
to be undefined to her,—yet he, who then held
in his hand the instrument which had sug-
gested to him the idea of self destruction, well
knew its magnitude ! —the sense of his danger
had impelled her towards him with irresistible
force at the exact moment when her presence
might save him from himself. He flung the
pistol from him with a mixture of awe and
horror, but the noise it made in falling to the
gi'ound did not arouse the Somnambulist, who
had no sooner traced the last w^ords than she
134 STURMER.
threw the pen from her, and starting to her
feet with a frenzied gesture, seized the extin-
guished hght she had placed upon the table, and
rushed towards the door which opened from the
study into the vestibule ; and it is a remarkable
circumstance that although the pistol lay in her
way, she turned aside to avoid it, shuddering as
she did so.
There was no time to be lost in arresting her
progress ; her hand was already upon the lock
of the door, and in another moment she would
have been wandering through the house to the
imminent risk of discovering herself to some of
the servants ; but Sturmer well knew that to
have awakened her might have been fatal to her
reason, and he, therefore, interposed the au-
thority of magnetism to calm her delirium
;
advancing gently behind her he stretched forth
his hand, and held it over her head for a second.
The transition effected by that simple gesture
was instantaneous—her countenance, which but
a moment before had presented all the phrenzy
STURMER. 135
and exaltation of a Pythoness, suddenly became
fixed and motionless as that of a statue; her
eyes, which had been dilated to their utmost
extent, closed ; her hands fell powerless by her
side, and she would have sunk to the ground
had not Sturmer received her in his arms. He
bore her to the chair she had just quitted, and
placing his hand upon her forehead, " determin-
ed" by that magic touch the magnetic trance to
the utmost limit of its profoundness and lucidity.
" Ah !" she murmured with a deep and pro-
longed inspiration, as though a weight of misery
had suddenly been removed from her breast,
" I have found him —he is here —he is safe !
"
and she stretched forth her hands towards him.
Sturmer only replied by pressing those beauti-
ful hands to his lips. " Oh, my friend
!
" she
continued, " I see you at last ; but let me hear
your voice — speak to me — tell me that you
will leave me no more — promise me that you
will not abandon your poor Lolotte."
" I promise it
!"
136 STURMER.
" Swear it to me."
" I swear it
!
"
A smile of rapture so sublime in its ex-
pression lighted up her lovely features, that
Sturmer, in speechless admiration, fell upon
his knees as though he beheld a being of
another world before him. " Oh !
" she said in
a tone of thrilling tenderness, and pressing his
hands to her heart, " now, indeed, I feel that
death even cannot tear you from me !
"
Lost in a delirium of happiness, intoxicated
by the beauty and the tenderness of Lolotte,
Sturmer paused not to weigh the peril of yield-
ing to the temptation that assailed him — he
forgot that the innocent being before him was
unconscious of the power which she was so un-
compromisingly giving him over her, and that he
alone must be responsible for the consequences
;
he forgot the sad resolves which but an hour
or two before he had formed ; —he forgot that
if Lolotte were to be discovered by any of his
servants alone with him at that midnight hour,
STURMER. 137
that her reputation would be at their mercy !
With the selfishness of passion he thought only
of the joy of being with her, and of prolonging
to the utmost the dream of love that had suc-
ceeded to the darkness of his despair ; the mo-
ment for calm reflection had passed away, and
impulse had asserted its wild sway over him.
Kneeling at the feet of Lolotte, her hands
clasped in his, he covered them with passionate
kisses ; — a word from her recalled him to him-
self and to a sense of her situation : — "I am
cold !" she murmured, shuddering, and drawing
more closely around her the light night-dress
which so insufficiently shielded her from the
freezing atmosphere, " take me back to my
room."
Sturmer threw open the window, and raising
the unresisting form of Lolotte in his arms,
rapidly bore his light burthen through the
garden, guided by the light which glimmered
from her bedroom window across the white
waste.
138 STURMER.
The door of her house was ajar, and every-
thing within buried in the silence of profound
repose. It was evident that the servant had not
been awakened by her mistress descending the
stairs and leaving the house ; and the heavy
breathings that proceeded from the half open
door of her room as they passed it, told audibly
of slumbers that would have required more
noisy efforts to dispel.
Sturmer lightly ascended the staircase, the
dim rays of the night lamp which streamed
through the open door of Lolotte's chamber
lending its mysterious light to guide his steps ;
not a word was spoken by either of them —
the last step was gained — Lolotte was safe
For a moment he hesitated ere he crossed the
threshold of her room —it was but for a mo-
ment —in the next he stepped forward, and
with a throbbing heart deposited Lolotte in her
chamber — that sanctuary which he had never
before entered
STURMER. 139
CHAPTER IV.
Les liens du sang qui ont tant de poids sur les natures
vulgaires, que sont-ils au prix de ceux que nous forge le
ciel dans le tresor de ses mysterieuses s}Tiipatliies ?
George Sand.
When, at a late hour the next morning, Lo-
lotte awakened, with no trace upon her memory
of anything which had occurred during the night,
or any recollection save that of having retired
to rest in a state of nervous irritation, which
had exhausted itself in tears ; and subsequently
yielded to a deep, dreamless, and unbroken
slumber, the first object which her eyes fell
upon was a sealed letter lying upon the table
near the bedside, and directed in her husband's
140 STURMER.
hand-writing. Close to it lay a paper, folded
in the form of a letter, but without any address.
They had apparently been placed there by her
servant before she awakened ; and she hastened
to peruse them, beginning with her husband's,
which was as follows :
" Dresden, January 31st, 18—
" DEAR LOTTSCHEN,
" Although in my last letter I told you
that I should by this time be able to announce
to you my return to Prague, I find that it will
be impossible for me to leave Dresden for some
time longer, or at present to fix any certain
period for my doing so ; for the publication of
my book is unavoidably retarded by the neces-
sity of adding notes to it in the form of an
Appendix, (which was suggested to me by Pro-
fessor Winter, to whom I submitted the MSS.),
and in the compiling of which I am now busily
occupied ; so that the business of printing, re-
vising, and correcting, is yet all before me, and
STURMER. 141
I cannot see my way through it for several
weeks to come, —certainly not before the be-
ginning of March. At that period there is to
be a sale of Retch's library, at Leipzig, which
I would not miss attending upon any account,
as he has in his collection several curious old
editions, which I should be glad to purchase;
therefore, a journey to Leipzig will be indis-
pensable, and will involve a week or ten days
longer absence from you;—say till the middle
of March.
" In this state of affairs, I leave it to you
to decide whether you will join me at Dresden
or remain where you are until my business will
allow of my returning to bring you home. I
should recommend the latter alternative upon
many accounts ;
principally because you are
evidently deriving so much benefit from our
good friend Sturmer's treatment of you, that
it would be a pity to interrupt it prematurely,
and thus throw away all the time and expense
which it has cost us to place you under his
142 STURMER.
care. Besides, this is a bad season for tra-
velling, and we shall, under all circumstances,
be obliged to pay for the house at Prague until
the spring; and should you come here, I must
take a lodging for you,—an additional expense,
—for a bed-room and cabinet now suffice for
me; and I have brought in Babet from the
Ottowaldergrund to manage my bachelor esta-
blishment. So, all things considered, you had
better remain quietly where you are until the
spring. However, do as you like; and if you
have set your heart upon joining me, come.
" I hope you continue as well as when you
last wrote. Say all that is kind from me to
our good friend Sturmer, who is looked upon
here as a demi-god. Entre nous, my writing
goes on much better at a distance from you and
him. Those musical evenings distracted my
attention in spite of myself; but now that I
have nothing to divide it, I throw off page after
page in the evening with surprising celerity.
I shall get a good price for the work when
STURMER. 143
finished. Adieu ! dear Lottschen, and believe
me to be your affectionate husband,
" F. W. A. MOLLER."
Lolotte perused the apathetic communication
of her husband with fluctuating feelings; at
one moment grateful for his indulgence in leav-
ing to her own discretion to decide whether she
should join him or not; then chilled and mor-
tified by the absence of all expression of so-
licitude, on his part, as to what her decision
might be, and the superior interest which, it
was evident, his book possessed for him over
his wife ; and finally thankful that he had pro-
nounced in favour of her remaining where she
was : for at the mere suggestion of leaving
Prague, a pang had shot athwart her heart,
which it would have been difiicult for her then
to have accounted for, blind as she still re-
mained to the precise nature of her feelings.
She, however, quickly adopted her husband's
views; and having determined to write to him
144 STURMER.
by return of post to acquaint him with her
willing acquiescence, was rising to do so with
an exhilaration of spirits which she had not ex-
perienced for many days, when the other letter,
which had been overlooked by her in the flutter
occasioned by Moller's epistle, caught her eye
and she paused to examine it also.
It was the confession of Sturmer's love and
despair, which she had appropriated to herself
during her nocturnal visit to him, and which
must have fallen from her bosom when he bore
her into her chamber on the preceding night,
and, in all probability, had been picked up by
her maid, and deposited upon the table when
she had brought in the other letter that morn-
ing.
At first her eye wandered carelessly over the
blotted lines ; but soon her attention became
riveted and absorbed by them. Her colour
went and came, now fading to ashy paleness,
now flushing to deepest crimson as she read
on ! Her bosom heaved until she gasped for
STURMER. 145
breath ! At last, a broken cry burst from her
lips, —a cry where terror, surprise, and joy were
mingled in strange confusion, — and crushing
the paper to her heart as though she would
have hidden it there for ever, she sank back
upon her pillow overwhelmed by the intensity
of her feelings !
Yes ! those passionate avowals of long-che-
rished, irrepressible love had suddenly awaken-
ed an echo in her bosom which death alone
would henceforth have the power to silence.
That incoherent yet eloquent history of Stur-
mer's heart had, as with a lightning flash, un-
veiled to her the secrets of her own,—she loved
and was beloved ! Oh ! moment of unequalled
felicity ! to be experienced but once in our lives !
and then to be experienced only by the novice
in sentiment,—when the heart, with a thrill of
ecstasy, awakens from its torpor of tranquillity
to a sense of emotions beautiful as new,—the
blessed consciousness of its untold yet requited
tenderness ! Life has nothing to offer com-
VOL. I. H
146 STURMER.
parable to that fleeting joy,—why, then, is it so
often doomed to be followed by remorse ? Why
are sensations, so gracious and heaven-born,
destined so soon to catch the taint of earth,
and become for ever quenched in tears of agony
and repentance ?
Alas ! for frail humanity that it should be so !
With Lolotte it could not be otherwise. That
transient glow of ineffable joy, which for a mo-
ment had usurped the place of every other sen-
timent in her bosom, quickly subsided into the
chill of despair, as, with a shudder, she remem-
bered that she was the wife of another, and that
Sturmer could never, without a crime, be more
to her than he now was. With tearless, burn-
ing eyes, she resumed the perusal of his letter,
and read to the end the too faithfully delineated
struggles of a heart which passion had en-
slaved, yet had not blinded to the dictates of
virtue, —the avowal of over-tasked energies,
which had prostrated his mind to more than
woman's weakness, yet had left him sufficient
STURMER. 147
strength to seek for safety from her fatal pre-
sence in flight, and to choose his own despair
in preference to her indignation and scorn
All this she read with breathless attention ; and,
pondering over each expression, vainly sought
for a word which might, by wounding her deli-
cacy, arouse her woman's pride to resent the
avowal of a sentiment forbidden by the laws of
God and man. There was not one to be found
—not even in the allusion he had made to the
tenderness she had so fatally and unwittingly
evinced for him during her magnetic trances.
Love, idolatry, respect, despair were there;-—
but the pleadings of passion had, with a last
effort, been forced back upon his bursting heart,
and no evidence of selfish weakness was to be
traced upon that paper, save in the stains left
by the burning tears that had fallen upon and
almost effaced the confession of his misery !
This absence of selfishness in the love she
had inspired, completed the subjugation of Lo-
lotte's soul. One hope imphed, one entreaty
H li
148 STURMER.
urged by him, would have alarmed the dignity
of outraged virtue into severity and reproach;
but his hopeless devotion had totally disarmed
her, and where she would have blamed she
could only pity and admire, and, alas!—what
is more,—love and despair as he did. Terrified
by the vehemence of emotions so new to her,
she fell upon her knees and invoked the aid of
Heaven in restoring calm to her mind, and
granting it strength to resist and vanquish the
unhallowed sentiment that had thus insidiously
crept into her heart. Who is there that has
not experienced, in moments of painful excite-
ment and self-abandonment, the benign influ-
ence of prayer? Who has not felt its efficacy
in calming the troubled and bewildered spirit,
when all the arguments of philosophy and the
reasoning of worldly wisdom have failed to
soothe, to persuade, or to control? Lolotte,
from her earliest years, had been accustomed
" to cast her cares upon Him who careth : for
us ;" and now she rose from her knees purified
STURMER. 149
and strengthened in mind by that devout sup-
plication to her heavenly Father. Tears,—the
first that she had shed,—tears of humility and
contrition for her involuntary fault, had fallen
from her eyes, and calmed the tumult of her
soul as she prayed; but they were not the
childish tears of a weak and vacillating mind,
vainly mourning over difficulties which it has
not energy to contend with. They were the
harbingers of loftier, purer thoughts, and, as
they rolled unheeded over her pale cheeks, her
courage and her composure returned : she blush-
ed for the emotions into which a momentary de-
lirium had surprised her, and resolved to atone
for them by the sacrifice of every unholy sen-
timent upon the altar of duty and principle.
But, oh ! the difficulty of conveying her re-
solution to Sturmer in language that should
not betray the anguish of her soul ! For, al-
though she had determined to relinquish all
intercourse with him for ever, she could not
thus resign him without a pang that made her
150 STURMER.
heart die within her. Page after page was
written by her, and torn in despair as express-
ing too much or too little of what she felt.
She had not the courage to reproach him —
and why should she ? he had asked nothing
of her but her pity and her esteem, and if his
sentiments were unfortunately beyond his own
control, he had proved to her that his actions
were not; he had, to the last, behaved like a
man of honour ! Still less must she betray the
tenderness of her soul to him, or raise one
hope which virtue forbade should be realised
she would enclose his own letter to him, and
confining herself to an announcement of her
intention to leave Prague immediately, request
that he would receive her farewell in writing,
and not seek to see her before her departure
and having thus determined to restrain her
feelings within the limits which prudence dic-
tated, she wrote to him as follows :
" I return you a letter which ought never
STURMER. 151
to have been addressed to the wife of Franz
Moller ! that it has pained and surprised me
in every way, you may well imagine; but I
will not suffer myself to dwell upon its con-
tents further than to tell you that they have
pointed out to me the only course I ought to
pursue, and which I shall adopt without delay.
I anticipate your design of leaving Prague, and
to-morrow I shall commence my journey home-
wards ; a letter received from my husband this
morning enables me to do so without any ex-
traordinary appearance being occasioned by my
departure, as he himself suggests that I should
immediately join him at Dresden. Remain
therefore where you are — where there are so
many claims upon your presence — where you
are identified with so many great and good
actions — where you are so useful, so beloved,
and so respected, that your absence would be-
come a public calamity, — and in the fulfilment
of those duties which have hitherto rendered
your life a blessing to suffering humanity, you
152 STURMER.
will eventually, I trust, regain that peace of
mind which my presence has so unhappily dis-
turbed. Forget, if possible, that such a being
as Charlotte Moller exists —or, if that may not
be, remember her only as one whom your phil-
anthropy has rescued from suffering and death,
and as the wife of a man who loves and honours
you above all others upon earth.
" Farewell — farewell for ever ! do not seek
to see me again — such an attempt would ap-
pear to me now as a deliberate insult, and
would for ever deprive you of those sentiments
which you now possess, and which I may own
without a blush, namely, the gratitude, esteem,
and respect of
" Charlotte Moller."
While Lolotte was thus employed, Sturmer
had been aroused from the feverish slumber
into which he had fallen at break of day, by
the arrival of an express from Czaslau, de-
spatched to him by the beautiful Bertha, the
STURMER. loo
sister of his friend Anton Von Preinl, to sum-
mon him thither without delay. The courier,
who had travelled all night, was the bearer
of a letter from that lady written in the greatest
alarm, telling him that her husband. Count de
Kcenneritz, had been seized with an apoplectic
attack at Czaslau, on their journey from Vienna
to Prague, and was unable to move onward,
and adjuring him to lose no time in coming
to his assistance. It was one of those sum-
monses that admit of no hesitation in obeying,
and in the confusion of his ideas between sleep-
ing and waking Sturmer started from his bed,
and was mechanically preparing to comply with
it, when a second packet was handed to him,
and the superscription, in the hand-writing of
Lolotte, suddenly brought back to his recol-
lection the events of the past night; they
crowded upon him in all the vivid confusion
of a troubled dream, and so strange and im-
possible did they appear, that for a moment he
doubted of their reality, but the contents of
H O
154 STURMER.
Lolotte's letter, and the sight of his own in-
coherent scrawl forced the truth upon him; a
whirlwind of emotions accompanied that con-
viction, but the feeling then strongest in his
mind was terror at the idea of losing Lolotte
and regardless of her request that he would
not again seek to see her, he hastily dressed
himself and rushed into her presence.
After Lolotte had despatched her letter to
Sturmer, she had tasked her energies to com-
mence the various arrangements which her pre-
cipitate departure necessitated ; and that nervous
excitement, that fever of mind, which is neither
strength nor courage, but which often assumes
the semblance of both, and will sometimes, in
great emergencies sustain the sufferer through
exertions which at other times would be deemed
impossible to encounter, enabled her for a brief
space to perform wonders; and having de-
spatched her servant to the Eil-wagen office
to secure places to Dresden for the next day,
she was busily employed in collecting together
STURMER. 155
the books and music which Sturmer had lent
her, that they might be returned to him after
her departure, when he suddenly appeared be-
fore her.
The sight of one arisen from the grave could
not have startled and overpowered Lolotte more
completely than did the presence of Sturmer
at that moment ; her heart beat tumultuously,
her tongue clove to the roof of her mouth, and
her knees trembled so that she would have
sunk to the ground had she not grasped at
the nearest chair to support her ; and thus with
averted eyes and a changing cheek she stood in
speechless emotion before him. One glance at
that speaking countenance revealed to Sturmer
all that was passing within ;
—he read the strug-
gles of her heart in her swollen eyes and quiv-
ering lips — they were evidences to him of
the empire he possessed over her feelings, but
they spoke eloquently, too, of the barrier which
principle would oppose to the indulgence of
those feelings, for he saw at once that she
156 STURMER.
would rather die than make an avowal of them
to him, and perhaps that very conviction ren-
dered more intense the unutterable tenderness
with which he gazed upon her exquisite face.
Lolotte felt that his eyes were fixed upon her
she struggled to regain her composure — to
assert her dignity — to mark her displeasure ;
with a desperate effort to be calm she raised
her eyes to his, but something in the expression
she there encountered caused her suddenly to
withdraw them, while a burning blush suffused
her cheek and brow with crimson, and then
left them paler than before. Sturmer seized
her hand, and would have carried it to his lips,
but hastily disengaging it from his grasp, and
drawing herself proudly up, she waved him
from her.
"Lolotte!" he exclaimed, " you now know
all !
—The secret of my heart, its madness, its
struggles, —its long-enduring hopeless love have
been divulged to you, and they have called forth
your indignation, your scorn, perhaps ; and yet
STURMER. 157
you know not all my madness—God forbid that
you should ! for then your hatred might fall
upon me too !
"
" Mr. Sturmer," said Lolotte, in a tone and
with a look of indescribable dignity, "I had
hoped to have been spared this intrusion ; I
had hoped that my written request would have
been respected by you ; but I see that you are
bent upon offending me to the utmost. Leave
me, sir, and insult me no longer by a repetition
of sentiments which ought never to have come
to my knowledge."
" Would to God that they had not !" he
vehemently replied. " Would that that fatal
letter had never fallen into your hands !
—you
would not then have adopted the cruel resolu-
tion of flying far from me. Could I, by the
sacrifice of all that I possess on earth purchase
for you oblivion of its contents, I would joy-
fully resign all, and feel myself rich indeed in
the restoration of your confidence and esteem
but that may not be, and regrets arc now all
158 STURMER.
too late, and unavailing. Nay, hear me !
" he
continued, seeing that she was about to inter-
rupt him ; and kneeling at her feet, —" Dearest,
best-beloved, most respected of created beings !
I came not here to insult you by urging a
passion which outrages your purity; on the
contrary, I came with deepest remorse to pro-
mise, to swear by all that is most holy never
again to touch upon that forbidden topic, pro-
vided you will relinquish your determination of
leaving Prague. Try me ; put my courage but
this once to the test,—and if it should break
down, if by a word I should allude to the past,
then surely it will be time enough for you to
visit that sin upon me, by withdrawing yourself
from me for ever. But it shall not ; for, oh,
Lolotte ! although but yesterday I thought that
Heaven could bestow upon me no higher gift
than your love, I now feel that there is a higher,
dearer possession still, and that without your
esteem I could not live."
And he spoke truly ; for at that moment.
STURMER. 159
with the conviction full upon his mind of how
completely he must have forfeited the confi-
dence and esteem of Lolotte by the declaration
of his guilty passion for her, he clung to that
precarious possession with the trembling anxiety
of one w^ho, treading upon the edge of a preci-
pice, feels the earth crumbling away beneath
his feet, and, to save himself, grasps with de-
sperate tenacity at the falling stones which are
to crush him in the abyss below. He felt, that
were the secret hopes of his heart to be re-
vealed to Lolotte she would fly his presence
with horror and execration, and that to retain
her still near him, he must dissimulate ; he felt
too ^- oh, strange inconsistency of human na-
ture ! —pride in preserving her still unstainedly
free from the guilt of yielding to his love ; he
shrank from the idea of beholding tainted by
a participation in his own wild thoughts and
wishes that lovely purity of mind which was
her distinguishing characteristic, and without
which the fatal beauty which had first enslaved
160 STURMER.
him would soon have ceased to charm ; and his
heart wept tears of blood when he thought of
her modest self-respect withering beneath a
sense of shame and debasement,—she, the inno-
cent, the virtuous, the high-minded, — but yet
to resign her was impossible ! And these re-
flections communicated a melancholy earnest-
ness to the eyes and voice of Sturmer, which
thrilled to the soul of Lolotte.
" You deceive yourself," she said, " for I will
not think so ill of you as to believe that you
would deliberately deceive me. But were I to
yield to your arguments I should deserve to
be again offended by a renewal of declarations,
which no sophistry can reconcile with virtue.
No ! we must part ! You yourself have point-
ed out to me the necessity of doing so, and
it has required no reflection to convince me
that your first decision was the only right one.
My mind is irrevocably made up, and nothing
can tempt me to alter it."
"Nothing, Lolotte !" he said reproachfully;
STURMER. 161
" not even a knowledge of the misery it will
inflict upon me ?"
" No !
" she replied resolutely ;
" for my con-
science will lend me strength to resist even
that."
"Beware!" he exclaimed; "beware, Lo-
lotte, of driving me to desperation by this stern
impracticability. Do you not know the power
I possess over you, and that if I but raise my
hand I can fix you, in spite of yourself, to this
spot for hours?"
"I know it," she replied calmly; "but I
cannot believe you so lost to honour as to exer-
cise that power over me for evil purposes."
Sturmer buried his face in his hands and
wept bitter tears of mingled passion and sorrow.
At that moment he would have resigned even
the affection of Lolotte to have been able to say
to her with a clear conscience, " You do me
but justice, Lolotte ; I am worthy of your noble
confidence, worthy of your tender commisera-
tion ; and sooner would I die than abuse the
162 STURMER.
one or forfeit the other !
" But something
passing within forbade him to utter that proud
assertion of honest feehng. He was meditating
to mislead her; he was about to make pro-
mises which he felt that he never could per-
form ; and humihated under the sense of his
duplicity, unable to meet as it deserved the
opinion which Lolotte had so fearlessly pro-
nounced of him, he shrank abashed within
hiraselfi and made no effort to surmount his
emotion.
Lolotte felt that it was time to put an end to
the interview; the contagion of his tears was
fast gaining upon her, and she feared that her
courage would not long be proof against the
deep anguish that overwhelmed him.
" Farewell, Mr. Sturmer," she said, in a soft-
ened voice ; " time presses, and I have much to
do. Farewell ! and believe that at a distance
I shall remember only the debt of gratitude I
owe you as the preserver of my life and health.
May God reward you for the good you have
STURMER. 163
done ! and may He soon restore you to better
thoughts and to your better self
!"
She dared not trust herself to say more, and
was moving away from him when he started
to his feet, and rushing between her and the
door grasped both of her hands in his, and
forcibly detained her.
" You disregard my protestations ;
you over-
look my solemn promises ;
you distrust me,
Lolotte. And perhaps you are right in doing
so," he exclaimed almost breathlessly. " Be it
so. I will urge them no more. I will no
longer appeal to your indulgence on behalf of
my wretched self. But there are other consi-
derations which I must not lose sight of; and
for your sake I will urge, entreat, enforce;
nay, I will never leave this spot until you listen
to them. This precipitate departure in a season
so inclement, with no precautions taken to
guard you against it, delicate and suffering as
you are, must not be thought of. You are ill
now, Lolotte, and you would sink under such
164 STURMER.
an effort. As your physician, I prohibit it;
and as the friend of your — of Moller —," and
his voice faltered, " by whom the care of your
health was confided to me, I feel that I have a
right to interfere. Listen to me. I have been
sent for by express to Czaslau, under circum-
stances of the greatest urgency. The brother-
in-law of my dearest friend, Anton von Preinl,
is lying dangerously ill in that comfortless
place, and I ought already to be on the road to
attend him; but your letter has arrested my
departure. And now, Lolotte, mark me ! I
swear to you that I will not go to him at all,
that I will turn my back upon the claims of
friendship and humanity ; that I will forfeit the
regard of my best friends ; that I will never
lose sight of you unless you promise me not to
leave Prague until I return. I shall not be
absent above three days ; and all I ask of you
is, to remain those three days here. Let me
but see you once more at the end of that period,
and then, if you still persist in going, I will
STURMER. 165
no longer oppose your departure. I will myself
suj^erintend the arrangements for it, and secure
proper protection for you during your journey.
Is this asking too much of you ?—and can even
your virtue start at the idea of passing three
days in the place where I shall no longer be, and
then affording me the melancholy satisfaction
of personally arranging a journey which is to
remove you from me for ever?"
Lolotte hesitated. She knew not what to
reply. She feared to exasperate him by a fur-
ther refusal, and yet she felt that she ought to
make no concession to him. In this dilemma
she remained silent.
" Speak, Lolotte," he said; and his dark
eyes flashed impatiently. " I will not relin-
quish this dear hand until I am answered.
Grant my request, and I leave you this moment
to fly to Czaslau ; but refuse it, and I will
never quit you again ; I will remain here in
spite of yourself, and never lose sight of you
until your natural protector comes to claim you
166 STURMER.
at my hands. You see what a heavy responsi-
biUty hangs upon your decision,—the Hfe, per-
haps of ray friend's husband, —my own reputa-
tion, —yet, what are these when weighed in the
balance against your safety ?
" Unhand me, sir !
" said Lolotte ; " I will
not answer you under this unmanly force."
He dropped her hands, folded his arms upon
his breast, and stood with his eyes fixed upon
her : — " And now, Lolotte," he said, " I trust
to your generosity alone to save me from a
heavy delinquency against friendship. In the
name of that friendship, in the name of your
former confidence and regard for me, in the
name of the past, I adjure you to grant my
request !
" Leave me," said Lolotte, struggling to re-
press her tears ; " leave me this moment, and I
will promise to remain here until your return."
Sturmer again seized her passive hand, and
carried it fondly to his lips and heart :
—" God
STURMER. 167
bless you ! God bless you ! beloved Lolotte !
''
he exclaimed, and then rushed from the room.
As he swiftly retraced his way along the
garden walk to his house, she followed his re-
ceding figure with her eyes until it disappeared
within the study window.
" I have seen him for the last time !" she
murmured to herself. " Forgive me, O my
God, for having deceived him !
" And a deadly
sickness came over her ; a black mist seemed
to spread before her eyes ; her heart ceased to
beat ; she grasped helplessly at vacancy to sup-
port her, and sank to the ground in total in-
sensibiUty.
168 STURMER.
CHAPTER V.
Better be with the dead
Than on the torture of the mind to lie
In restless ecstasy,
Macbeth.
" My dear Bertha," said the Count de Kcen-
neritz to his beautiful young wife, as, wrapped
in her fur peUsse, she sat shivering by his bed-
side, on the evening of that day, in the barnhke
room which served for saloon and sleeping-
chamber, at the comfortless gasthof of Czaslau,
" as you have sent for your friend Sturmer
without my knowledge, I must stipulate before
he arrives that I am not to be subjected to any
of his magnetical malpractices. It is quite bad
enough to be detained in such a hole as this,
STURMER. 169
and almost bled to death by a horse-doctor,
without undergoing any other trials of human
patience ; and so, my love —
" Oh, never fear !" interrupted the fair
Grqfinn^ gaily, " Sturmer is not such a maniac
as to substitute magnetism for the lancet in
such a case as yours. Besides, thank God !
the horse-doctor has saved your life, and has
really left nothing for our good friend to do
when he arrives ; and you know, if magnetism
should become necessary, I am a worthy pupil
of his, and quite competent to become the ope-
rator myself."
" Yes, truly,"" said the Count, smiling, " you
are nearly as mad as your master, and fit to be
classed by my good friend Ludwig Tieck
among his Wundersuchti^en." *
" Your friend Ludwig Tieck is my aversion,"
exclaimed the Countess, " notwithstanding his
great talent; I am longing to know him only
that I may quarrel with him ! He will write
Wonder-mongers.
VOL. I.
170 STURMER.
down the imagination of our good Germans as
Cervantes wrote down the chivalry of Spain,
and with a stroke of his pen consign to the
regions of ridicule many of our national charac-
teristics ; —in short, he is tearing up the flowers
with the weeds in his ardour for cultivating
common sense only, and will leave a desert where
he found —a wilderness, perhaps, — but a wil-
derness of sweets
!"
" Bravo, Bertha
!
" replied her husband ;
" never surely had poor common sense a more
inveterate opponent, or lucky nonsense a more
charming advocate than yourself. Why, you will
absolutely make me in love with the whimsical
divinity who has enrolled you among her wor-
shipers, and some of these days I shall be
found gliding in your train into the vestibule of
her temple."
" Very well," said Bertha, laughing ;
" but
pray remember that the divinity I worship does
not acknowledge the name of Nonsense ; Imagi-
STURMER. 171
nation, Enterprise, Genius, Science, would be
better adapted to her
—
" My love, we will not dispute about her
real name," interrupted the Count; " she shall,
if you please, have as many aliases as the veriest
rogue in the annals of cheating, and "
At this moment the sound of a postilion's
horn, and the deadened clatter of horses' feet
upon the hard snow, were heard approaching the
Gasthof; the Count and Countess listened in
silence for a few seconds while the carriage
drove up to the door. " And here," resumed the
Count, taking up the thread of his discourse
where he had suddenly dropped it, " here
comes her high priest in person, to aid and
abet in my conversion."
The door was thrown open, as he ceased to
speak, and the Countess's Heiduque entering,
announced " Herr Von Sturmer."
If any doubts yet remained upon the mind of
Bertha that her terrors alone had magnified the
I 2
172 STURMER.
illness of Monsieur de Kcenneritz into apoplexy
and approaching death, they were at once re-
moved by the unhesitating opinion of Sturmer,
that indigestion and imprudent exposure to the
intense cold had alone caused the syncope
which she had mistaken for an apoplectic
attack, and that nothing now ailed him but the
languor and debility consequent upon the copi-
ous bleedings which had been administered to
him by the Czaslau Esculapius ; and as both of
the evils above stated were likely again to be
visited upon him through the medium of the
execrable cuisine and the ill-contrived doors and
windows of the comfortless inn at which they
had been detained, Sturmer advised a speedy
removal from it ; and the next day saw them all
together on the road to Prague in the travelling
carriage of Count de Kcenneritz.
" Pray, Sturmer," said Bertha, as they were
journeying along, *'
tell me something of your
charming Somnambule, Madame, Vjhat is her
name^ of whom I have just heard enough from
STURMER. 173
my brother Anton to piquer my curiosity au vif,
and too little to satisfy it ; she must be a most
interesting creature, and I am dying to see her,
for two reasons — first, the female curiosity just
avowed — and lastly, because I do believe,
that if anything can convert that infidel of a
husband of mine to our belief in magnetism,
it will be your beautiful patient in one of her
lucid trances. So I shall just remain twenty-
four hours at Prague to get a glimpse of her,
and then en avant for Dresden, where we ought
to be already."
This abrupt allusion to the object of his
thoughts, whose very existence he believed to
be unknown to the lively Countess, startled and
confused Sturmer beyond his power of conceal-
ing ; a crimson blush, which did not escape the
piercing eyes of Bertha, mounted to his fore-
head as he replied, " that Madame Moller
would feel herself honoured by being presented
to the Countess Koenneritz; but that she had
an invincible repugnance to being exhibited to
174 STURMER.
strangers in her magnetic trances, and that he
felt that he had no right to interfere with her
feelings upon that subject."
" Precisely ; I can understand all that," said
Bertha, " but I really wish to be introduced to
her upon her own account, and I am persuaded
she will soon cease to consider as a stranger so
old a friend and ally of yours."
" She could not but be flattered by your
wishes, which I shall lose no time in making
known to her when we reach Prague,'* replied
Sturmer, " but she is on the eve of returning to
Dresden, and I fear will have no opportunity of
receiving you."
These repeated objections, joined to the
unconquerable emotion which Sturmer had
betrayed at the sudden mention of Lolotte,
sank deep into Bertha's mind and aroused
her suspicious conjectures. She said nothing
of them, however, and speedily changed the
subject, but she narrowly watched Sturmer
during the remainder of the journey ; and his
STURMER. 175
fits of preoccupation and absence of mind, the
altered character of his countenance where
melancholy had clouded the brilliancy of his
fine dark eyes, and spread a paler tint over the
clear olive of his complexion — the contraction
of his brow, and the compression of his lips
attesting to the painful workings of the mind
within, spoke volumes to the penetration of
Bertha. " So !" thought she, "he is in love
with this fair dreamer — but he loves hope-
lessly !
" As they approached Prague, his rest-
less abstraction increased ; fortunately for him
the darkness of evening prevented it from be-
coming visible to his fellow travellers : he felt,
however, the impossibility of sustaining anything
like conversation with them, and feigned sleep
to account for his silence. They had promised
to become his guests during the short stay they
were to make at Prague, and when the carriage
drove up to his house and that they had alighted.
Bertha felt the arm upon which she leaned as
she entered the lighted saloon tremble violently.
176 STURMER.
and glancing furtively at his countenance be-
held it pale even to ghastliness.
" Welcome, noble lady and dear friend," said
Sturmer, kissing Bertha's hand, as he led her
to the sofa ;
" welcome, Excellency," turning
to the Count, " to my poor abode. We want
but the presence of the beloved Anton to fill
the measure of my content!" But his face
was in sad contradiction with his words, and
told most eloquently and more truly of the mea-
sure of his woes being nearly filled,
" Anton," said the Count, " is still at Vienna,
and likely to be detained there for months to
come, by his lawsuit. The dilatoriness of all
legal proceedings under your government, Mr.
Von Sturmer, are such as would lead one to
suppose that the most difiicult thing to be ob-
tained in Austria injustice ! and yet the Emperor
Francis is an eminently just man, and truly
the father of his people, be they Hungarians,
Bohemians, or Italians; but the system of ob-
taining redress for their grievances calls loudly
STURMER. 177
for reform^—a word which, I suspect^ grates so
harshly upon his Majesty's ears as to make him
cling to old abuses rather than favour inno-
vations, however salutary, that would be usher-
ed in under auspices so suspicious. And so
our good Anton is suffering under this sloio and
sure policy, not, indeed, with Christian patience,
but with most commendable loyalty, chafing
upon the bit, but never kicking against the
master's hand ; et four passer le temps^ he has
fallen in love with a very pretty woman, whose
fascinations will enable him to bear his trials
with equanimity."
While the Count, who was a declaimer and
loved to hear himself talk, was speaking, the
eyes of Sturmer had wandered from his in-
terlocutor eagerly to fix themselves upon the
window from which the habitation of Lolotte
could be distinguished in the day-time, and,
piercing through the obscurity that reigned
without, they sought for the light which,
for months past, he had been accustomed to
I 5
178 STURMER.
watch burning till a late hour in her cham-
ber; but it was there no longer, — all was
shrouded in darkness, — and the twinkling
of the stars in the clear frosty sky did not
afford sufficient light to enable him to distin-
guish even the outline of that loved abode.
AH was dark, vague, and mysterious as his own
gloomy forbodings. " She is gone !
" thought
he ; and, forgetful of the presence of his guests,
he was about to rush from the room to ascer-
tain the truth, when the sweet accents of Bertha
recalled him to himself. She had remarked
his perturbation, and with feminine tact and
good feeling wished to relieve him from the
constraint of their presence by an act of her own.
"My dear friend," said she, "we are tra-
vellers and invalids, and claim permission to
retire early ; but before we disappear, pray ex-
plain to me the subject of that exquisite picture
over the piano. Is it an original or a copy ? a
saint or a sinner ? The upturned eyes and the
redundant fair hair give it the air of a Mag-
STURMER. 179
dalen ; but the countenance is that of a Mag-
dalen who has had no cause for repentance."
" That is the portrait of Madame MoUer,"
said Stunner, with as much sang-froid as he
could command, " painted in one of her ecstatic
trances, by desire of her husband, who pre-
sented it to me. It is an admirable likeness/'
The Count and Countess drew near to ex-
amine it, and remained in silent admiration
before what appeared to them a masterpiece of
art. The artist had caught with rare fehcity
the unearthly character of Lolotte's beauty in
those moments of ecstatic delirium which some-
times followed her magnetic trances.—The smile
of beatitude that parted her lips,—the rapt ex-
pression of her matchless eyes, in whose full
orbs of deepest blue seemed reflected the holy
joy of that heaven to which they were turned,
the serene and lofty brow gleaming in spotless
lustre between the parted tresses of light golden
brown hair, that fell luxuriantly round her
swan-like throat and pure shoulders,—the deli-
180 STURMER.
cately rounded arms and slender hands, crossed
meekly upon her snow-white bosom, —all were
delineated with a truth and sentiment that gave
to the performance the character of a heavenly
inspiration.
" A noble and delicate beauty," observed the
Count, " and I should think a most perilous
patient for a young physician to take charge
of!"
" What an exquisite creature !" said Bertha;
" she looks as though ' no mortal mixture of
earth's mould' entered into her composition.
Positively, Sturmer, you must make me known
to Madame Moller to-morrow. I am dying to
see her ! and now good night ! I shall cer-
tainly dream of this lovely vision." And with
these words they parted.
Sturmer had no sooner attended his guests
to the door of their apartment, than he hurried
breathlessly to the habitation of Lolotte. The
window-shutters were all closed, and the sound
of the door-bell, as he repeatedly rang it, was
STURMER. 181
not followed by any answering footsteps within.
It was evident that Lolotte had broken faith
with him, and resentment mingled with his
grief as the conviction flashed upon his mind.
He hastily re-trod his way to his own house,
and, ordering lights into the study, shut himself
up there. The first object that he perceived
was a pile of books and of music belonging
to himself, which he had lent to Lolotte,—
sealed letter was laid upon them. He eagerly
tore it open, and sought in vain for some glim-
mering of hope in the few lines it contained;
but those tremulous characters, although be-
traying the physical agitation under which they
had been traced, breathed only the spirit of
moral firmness which had dictated them.
" Forgive me for having deceived you,'' she
wrote ;
" the idea of duplicity is so repugnant
to me, that even in a case like the present,
where the end may be said to justify the means,
I blush to have had recourse to it; but you
182 STURMER.
have left me no alternative ! and, to save you
from sinning against friendship, humanity,
honour^ —to shield myself from the coercion
with which you threatened me,—to spare us
both a renewal of that fearful struggle for
mastery between passion and principle, which
too surely must have been the consequence of
another meeting, I have, for the first time in
my life, stooped to falsehood. My lips assured
you that I would await your return here; but
never, for a moment, did my mind waver from
its first decision, —and by that decision I will
abide. When these lines meet your eyes, I
shall be beyond the reach of entreaties, threats,
or reproach, —in that home which I ought never
to have left, and which I shall never again
leave, except for my eternal one,—in that home
which I forbid you to approach : for, oh ! Stur-
mer ! we are severed by more than distance 1
On earth we must meet no more ; but there is
a world beyond the grave, where ' the pure in
heart' may hope to ' see God,' and, in His pre-
STURMER. 183
sence, be re-united to those they loved m life.
What would this pilgrimage of sorrow be with-
out such a blessed hope ?—and what, oh ! what,
are the poor fleeting triumphs of passion, when
compared to an eternity of joy? Sturmer, on
my knees I write these words,—I adjure you to
fix your hopes there, where nothing can defeat
them. Let your soul soar above the earthly
longings that now chain it to the dust. Purify
your heart from the sinful passion that has led
it astray, and the sacrifice shall not be made
in vain; for, although virtue enjoins that we
should be separated in this world, we may still
look for a reward beyond earthly recompenses,
and in exchange for a few brief moments passed
together here, claim an eternity of happiness in
those blessed realms where parting and tears
are unknown.
" Charlotte Moller."
The traces of tears were visible on the paper,
and Sturmer pressed them to his lips with
184 STURMER.
reverential love. In his heart he could not but
applaud and admire the firmness of Lolotte,
so different from that soidisant virtue which,
springing from coldness, costs not an effort to
exercise : but, with the selfishness which, alas !
characterises man's love, he could have wished
her less immaculate ; and a feeling of irritation
sprang up in his mind as he thought that she
had preferred the repose of her conscience to
the repose of his heart, and, with that feeling, a
determination never to relinquish the object of
his adoration but with hfe. " She has made me
desperate," said he, " and she must take the
consequences." He rang the bell, and Gott-
fried appeared.
" When did Madame Mbller leave Prague?"
inquired Sturmer.
" Early this morning, by the Eilwagen," was
the reply.
There was no possibility of overtaking or in-
tercepting her : she would be at Dresden the
next morning. Besides, he remembered with
STURMER. 185
dismay that the Count and Countess de Kcen-
neritz were to be his guests the following day
and night, and that, under no pretext, could he
absent himself from them. He must rein in
his impatience until they departed, and then, —
but let us not anticipate events.
How the next four-and-twenty hours were
passed, Sturmer scarcely knew ; but the fact is,
that they were got over by him much better
than he had expected. Lolotte's precipitate
departure had driven him to a final resolution
with respect to her, which nothing now could
alter; and that irrevocable determination im-
parted a concentrated calm to his manner, so
different from the nervous abstraction of the
preceding day, as almost to deceive Bertha into
a belief that she had been mistaken in her con-
jectures about him, and to restore the whole
party to that ease which had been banished
from them during the journey from Czaslau.
The whole of the night preceding their de-
parture from his house was passed by Sturmer
186 STURMER.
in writing. He addressed a voluminous letter
to his friend Anton explanatory of his inten-
tions with respect to Lolotte, but as the first
part of it contained a full account of the events
which have been already detailed, it would be
unnecessary to reproduce it here. Suffice it
to say that amidst its incoherencies and its
sophistries, glimpses of better feeling and
touches of compunction occasionally predomi-
nated, like broken rays of sunshine piercing
through the obscurity of a stormy sky, and for
a moment lighting up the dark mass of clouds
with a fleeting glory, only to render the suc-
ceeding gloom more terrible.
" Light and darkness,
And mind and dust, and passions and pure thoughts,
Mix'd and contending without end or order,"
were there. Good still appeared to struggle
with evil for mastery in his bosom, even while
announcing to his friend the desperate decision
to which his ungovernable feelings had driven
him ; above all, he rendered honest and ample
STURMER. 187
justice to the purity of Lolotte's heart in the
doubts which breathed throughout his letter
that she would ever be persuaded to yield
to his prayers, and plunge into irremediable
guilt with him. Yet while explaining his rea-
sons for making this communication to Anton,
it was evident that something yet remained to
be told ; for the first time there was constraint
and inconsistency in his confidences.
" And now, Anton," he continued ; " know
that when this letter reaches Vienna, my fate
will be decided ! I shall either be the happiest
of men, or I shall cease to be numbered among
the living. The flight of Lolotte has convinced
me of one great truth, that without her / cannot
live. The mere idea of her belonging to an-
other is now worse than a thousand deaths to
me. She must know all that I feel, all that I
sufier; she will then perhaps separate herself
from him —she will be mine —mine alone, vo-
luntarily and unconditionally ! Oh ! unutter-
188 STURMER.
able happiness, too great a recompense for
mortal love ! Dare I, or ought I to expect, then,
that it should be vouchsafed to one so unde-
serving as I am? But between that supreme
felicity and the annihilation of the grave, there
can be no medium for me. To-morrow, as
soon as your sister departs, I shall follow Lo-
lotte to the home which she has forbidden me
to approach; I shall unburthen my feelings to
her, and hear my fate from her lips. Should
she, vanquished by the force of my arguments,
listen to the dictates of her heart and yield to
my supplications, I shall fly with her to Italy,
or wherever else she may choose, (for I know
that her own country would then become in-
supportable to her,) and my life shall be one
unbroken manifestation of grateful adoration for
the sacrifice she will have made ; but should
she reject me, her disdain will nerve my hand,
and one moment will terminate all ! She will
then know that she was my universe, my heaven,
my fate -— that in her hands were the issues
STURMER. 189
of life and death for me — that my existence
hung upon her breath — she will know all this
too late —But mark me, Anton ! the mystic
thread which, living, bound our destinies to-
gether, death even shall have no power to snap
asunder ; she will not long survive me !
—and
virtue, the unbending idol to which she will
have sacrificed me, shall not save her heart
from breaking !
" When I look back upon the various cir-
cumstances that have thrown us together, I
cannot admit that chance has had any share
in bringing them to pass ; fate has ruled all —
fate, which I have vainly endeavoured to elude,
for it has baffled all my best intentions, cir-
cumvented all my most conscientious efforts,
and made me what I now am, the underminer
of innocence — the false friend — the premedi-
tated suicide ! Yes, we two were sent into
the world predestined to form each other's hap-
piness or each other's misery ; and that strange
sympathy was felt by me the first moment I
190 STURMER.
beheld her. Look back with me, dearest friend,
to the opening scene of our first approximation
how unhke in every respect to those liaisons
which the world mistakenly calls love ! —and
which flutter into life in the artificial atmosphere
of ball-rooms, are nurtured by the smiles and
glances of satisfied vanity, live upon the excite-
ment of false sentiment, and when that tem-
porary craving has exhausted itself languish
into extinction and expire without a pang,
leaving the unscathed heart free and willing
to recommence the same hollow game ! Now
mark the difiference. A conflict of the ele-
ments, a terrible symbol of that conflict of pas-
sions which was afterwards to devastate my
heart, drove me to seek for shelter in an ob-
scure habitation where no welcome greeted
me ; for death was hovering over that lonely
roof ready to seize upon his prey, and deso-
late bosoms were gathered beneath, whose
yearnings to save the fair young victim were
fast chilling into despair. My presence there
STURMER. 191
was unheeded, and my only companionship was
with a picture — a piece of senseless canvass !
and yet that picture exercised over my feeUngs
the strongest fascination. I gazed upon the
pure and youthful lineaments it represented
with more than admiration of their beauty
there was something in the expression of the
eyes that vibrated through my soul like '
the
music of a dream,' indistinctly floating upon
the memory in a waking hour, and reviving
the mysterious charm that had in sleep '
lapped
the soul in Elysium.' It seemed to me that
the harmonies breathing from that face had
ever possessed an answering chord within me,
silent to every other touch ; and that although
for the first time they were revealed to my
senses, they had haunted my spirit from the
commencement of my being. Was this ima-
gination, presentiment, or sympathy? Weary
and way-worn as I was, I could not for a length
of time withdraw my eyes from that fair shadow
at last I slept, and in my dreams it seemed to
192 STURMER.
hover around me. From those dreams I was
suddenly aroused to be summoned to a scene
of suffering and despair; I stood by the bed
of death, and beheld stretched upon it the
original of the picture which had so fascinated
me an hour before, and with inexplicable emo-
tion I gazed upon those lovely features fixed
apparently in death, yet even in death so di-
vinely fair as to awaken in my bosom a ten-
derness which no living beauty had ever in-
spired, and to close it for ever to the admission
of any other love. With an energy unknown
to me before — the energy of new-born pas-
sion, I exercised over her that mysterious
agency which I had often seen successfully
applied where every other remedy had failed
I infused into her sinking frame my own vital
warmth, and she whom we had believed dead,
awoke to life beneath my reviving touch ! Then
I looked upon her as my own—her restored
existence was my creation — my breath had
STURMER. 193
stayed her fleeting breath — my hand had
rescued her from the icy grasp of Death !
" The remainder of that night was passed
by me at her bed-side, her soft hand clasped
in mine; and again slumber stole upon my
senses, and again in dreams did her image
haunt me, but not as before ; — mingled with
visions of death and terror, she prophetically
appeared to me exercising that power over my
feelings which she was in reality destined to
fulfil. — Were those dreams meant to warn
me ? if so, they were disregarded at the time,
and I awoke from them to indulge in waking
ones, to form rash hopes which were doomed
to be crushed almost in their birth, and to
hear that she, whom I fondly fancied fate
had led me there to restore to life, and claim
as my own, was the affianced bride of an-
other ! Then I fled from her presence ; and
years rolled on, and I beheld her no more;
yet she lived in my heart —and when I turned
VOL. I. K
194 STURMER.
my thoughts to other women, her image rose up
between me and them, and chilled me into in-
difference.
" At the end of several years I found my-
self in the vicinity of her home, and a feeling
of curiosity, of interest in her fate —no ! it
was neither — it was that powerful attraction
of sympathy, stronger far than my will, which,
like the fascination exercised by the serpent
over the struggling bird, has ever mastered
me, led me to seek once more to behold her.
In doing so, I almost hoped to find her so
changed by the lapse of time, or the vulgar
cares of life, that one glimpse would suffice
to disenchant me of the romantic preference
with which I still cherished her image in my
bosom : but that furtive glance, in revealing
her to me lovelier even than memory had de-
picted her, betrayed me into still deeper in-
fatuation; sad, yet serene, her pensive coun-
tenance eloquently told that even in that so-
litude she had not escaped the sorrows of a
STURMER. 195
world where, " les plus belles choses ont le
pire destin."
" Perhaps that very conviction lent a more
dangerous charm to her loveliness. I might
have successfully resisted the triumphant flush
of conscious and happy beauty ; but my heart
was vanquished by the melancholy sweetness
of her aspect, and bowed in tender commise-
ration before the untold sorrows that brooded
there. She sang, and the enchantment was
complete; but while my whole soul, dissolved
in tenderness, hung entranced upon her divine
accents, the spell was rudely broken by another
voice — the voice of her husband! It recalled
me to myself — what had I to do there? and
again I fled the dangerous delight of her pre-
sence, determined that it should he for ever !
" But my worst trials were all before me.
She whom I had resolved to shun was brought
to the very spot inhabited by me, placed by
her husband in my hands, delivered up to that
mysterious power which I knew I possessed
k2
196 STURMER.
over her, thrown into constant contact with
me ; in that state all her secret thoughts were
revealed, and the treasures of her heart and
mind were unlocked to my wondering admi-
ration. Then I found that her beauty was
her least charm —then I felt the immensity of
the temptation which assailed me; she loved
me, but her love was of that spiritualized na-
ture which angels may be supposed to feel, —
which few women understand, and of which no
man is capable. I loved her like a madman,
and yet my respect for her equalled my idola-
try; the innocence of her soul and the purity
of her thoughts, while they awed me into al-
most trembling adoration, increased tenfold the
intensity of my fatal passion. Long and vainly
did I struggle with it, and God only knows
with what desperate energy I endeavoured to
silence the guilty wishes of my heart ! Her hus-
band's presence was a barrier, of which I con-
scientiously availed myself, to prevent the ex-
pression of them to her; but the fatality that
STURMER. J97
pursued me ordained that he should absent
himself from Prague, and leave us exposed to
the peril of being constantly together alone.
My courage and forbearance I knew would
not be proof against such a temptation : she
indeed was above all human frailty, but I could
exercise a power over her which would leave
her helpless ; and what will not passion dare ?
With a last effort to remain true to honour,
I resolved to tear myself away from oppor-
tunities which I felt I could no longer resist.
I wrote to tell her all — all my love and all
my madness —to account for my strange aban-
donment of her, and to bid her an eternal fare-
well ! but my heart was crushed by the sa-
crifice, and I determined to end the struggle
by death. At that moment she whom I was
relinquishing for ever, because I knew that to
see her would be to destroy my best resolutions,
appeared before me alone, in her sleep ! At that
midnight hour, led by a mysterious presenti-
ment, she came to snatch me from the despair
198 STURMER.
that had overwhelmed me. Fate thrust her
between me and death, remorselessly deter-
mined that the measure of my temptations
should be filled. But no more of this ! the
struggle is over, and my mind has at last taken
an irrevocable decision.
" Forgive these repetitions, these outpour-
ings of my heart, dearest Anton ! The unhappy
love to speak of themselves, for grief is garru-
lous ; but these egotisms are, perhaps, the last
with which your enduring friendship will be
taxed, and they have flowed from my heart to
my pen in the irrepressible desire to convince
you that the man who for years was honoured
with your confidence and affection was not a
deliberate villain, a vile plotter, a systematic
seducer ! No, from the seduction of innocence
my soul has ever shrunk with an abhorrence
that would doubtless cause many a man of the
world to smile in pity at my scruples. The
only deception which I can reproach myself
with having practised towards her, was during
STURMER. 199
our last interview — when, to retain her within
my power, and maddened by the fear of losing
her, 1 was ready to promise anything — every-
thing — far more (I will now admit) than it
would have been possible for me to abide by:
but I had dared to found most guilty hopes
upon the presumption that she might be per-
suaded to remain near me after the avowal of
my love had come to her knowledge ; and to
realise those hopes I shrank not from promising
impossibilities. She, however, with that in-
stinctive delicacy which is her peculiar charac-
teristic, and that unerring sense of right which
never abandons her, knew that the woman who
pauses under these circumstances, '
pauses to be
o'ercome;* and by opposing deception to de-
ception, where to deceive was to remain true to
virtue, she has defeated my scheme, driven me
to desperation, and left me no alternative but
that of throwing myself upon her mercy, and
leaving her to pronounce upon my fate — either
life devoted to her and her happiness alone —
200 STURMER.
or death at her feet in expiation of my guilty
passion !
" And now, beloved friend, you will under-
stand the motives of this long confession, and
that it has been made in order to account to
you for the solemn farewell of which it is the
preliminary —a farewell for years at least —
perchance for ever in this world — to prepare
you for all that may happen, and to break the
shock that would be the inevitable result of
your friend Sturmer's name suddenly reaching
you coupled with the epithets of seducer or
suicide, and his memory blackened by the thou-
sand false statements which public rumour
never fails to bestow gratuitously upon private
calamity.
" I have arranged all my worldly affairs ; the
copy of my will, here subjoined, will shew you
in what manner ; —I make you the steward of
all my possessions in case of a long absence
from my country — my heir, in case of my
STURMER. SOI
death. There is no injustice in this disposition
of my worldly goods, as I have no near relations
surviving, and the few distant ones that remain
are richer than I am. My poor mother ! thank
God she has not lived till now !
" Farewell, Anton, my friend, my companion,
my more than brother ! While I trace these
words the memory of past years, rendered so
inexpressibly happy by your friendship, rises up
before my mental vision with a clearness which
brings to light many a word and deed of de-
voted affection, not obliterated (for ingratitude
has never been the vice of my heart) but ob-
scured in the whirl of succeeding events; and
now as they appear before me in bright array,
my heart smites me that in return for so much
love I should inflict upon you the pang I am
now doing. But I was born to bring sorrow
upon all who ever loved me !
" Still do I linger over these lines as I have
often lingered over the last conversations that
K 5
202 STURMER.
have preceded our temporary separations, with
a weak shrinking from the pang of parting — a
fond wish still to delay the last painful moment
—the last ! there is something solemn and start-
ling in that word as I trace it — something pro-
phetic of the eternal separation to which per-
chance it now applies — it rings upon my heart
like the knell of departed joys ! — Oh, my
Anton ! until this moment I never knew how
dear you were to me —until this moment I
believed that love for her had deadened every
other feeling in my bosom — but of that no
more
*' The clock is striking five — the stars have
disappeared from the cold grey sky — the last
feeble flickerings of my expiring lamp warn
me to conclude — darkness and indistinctness
shroud the earth as with a pall; but in two
hours hence the bright sun will rise in glory to
chase away the shadows of night. — Will it be
so with me? and shall the darkness of the
STURMER. 203
Grave into which I am about to plunge be suc-
ceeded by the brightness of that Day which
knows neither morning nor evening, but is
Eternal ?
" Esperons ! Farewell — farewell
^04 STURMER.
CHAPTER VI.
Gent. Lo you, here she comes ! This is her very
guise ; and upon my life, fast asleep. Observe her ; stand
close.
Doctor. You see her eyes are open.
Gent. Ay, but their sense is shut.
Macbeth.
The Count and Countess de Kcenneritz left
Prague at eight o'clock in the morning. Stur-
mer, who had thrown himself on the bed and
slept soundly for two hours after the termina-
tion of his night's occupation, accompanied them
to the door of his dwelling, and amidst the
affectionate adieus of Bertha, and the cordial
invitations of her husband to visit them at
STURMER. 205
Dresden, placed them in their carriage, and saw
them drive off. No sooner were they out of
sight than his own carriage drove up to the
door, and Gottfried appeared at the same time
to receive his master's last directions. They
were soon given.
" Are my pistols and my sac de nuit in the
carriage ?
"
« Yes, sir."
" Very well. Gottfried, I have already told
you that I am obliged to make a journey ; it
may be a very long one. I shall be absent for
an indefinite period; but while I am away I
have lent my house to the Baron Von Preinl,
who will be here certainly in a few days, and
will keep up everything as if I were still at
home. You will retain the same confidential
situation under him that you have filled under
me, my good Gottfried."
" Yes, sir," replied the old servant ;
" but I
had hoped, that during such an absence from
home as you contemplate, I might have accom-
206 STURMER.
panied you; for surely you will require my
services in a long journey ?
"
" No, Gottfried," replied his master gravely ;
" in the journey which I meditate I shall re-
quire no attendance, and your services will
be much more available to me here, where I
intrust everything to your care until my friend
arrives."
" Well, sir, you know best ; but I could
have wished to have gone with you."
" No more of that," said Sturmer. " God
bless you, my good Gottfried ! Mein lieher
kind;'' and he stretched out his hand affec-
tionately to him.
The faithful creature grasped it eagerly, and
carried it to his lips. Sturmer felt a tear drop
upon it ; — that tear fell upon his heart. He
could not speak, but, with a strong effort con-
quering his emotion, he forced a smile upon his
countenance — a bright smile of other days ;
and the old servant deceived by it, dried his
eyes, and let down the steps of the carriage.
STURMER. 207
" Ah ! sir, that smile tells me that you will
soon be back again. God bless you, sir ! God
bless you, my dear master !
And in another moment Sturmer was whirled
from his home, and on the road, not to Dresden,
but (in order to avoid the De Kcenneritzs) by
a circuitous route to the foot of the mountains
which form the barrier between Bohemia and
Saxony.
His intention was to go to the Ottowalder-
grund without appearing at Dresden.
Bertha and the Count divided their journey
from Prague to Dresden into two days, by
sleeping at Lobositz. The inn where they
alighted contained only one sitting-room; and
they were told that the best sleeping-chamber
contiguous to it was already occupied by a
lady, who was very ill ; so ill that she had
been forced to quit the eil-icagen in which
she was journeying to Dresden, and remain
there.
" Poor thing !
" said Bertha compassionately ;
208 STURMER.
" we will make no noise to disturb her. Let
supper be served immediately."
And while it was preparing, she withdrew to
the sleeping-room that was destined for her, and
disencumbered herself of her fur wrappings.
They were in the midst of their repast ; and
the Count, who had arrived at that time of life
—which we will not specify, that we may not
offend —when the presence of even a beautiful
bride is not sufficient to render a man indif-
ferent to the evils of a mauvaise cuisine, was
railing in no measured terms against the thin-
ness of the Brod suppe,* the toughness of the
Rind Jleisch mit Kartqflen, the freshness of the
Huhn gehacknes, the staleness of the Gemiise, and
the sourness of the compote, which formed the
* Bread-soup ; bouilli beef served Avitli potatoes ; roast
fowl, vegetables, stewed prunes, or cherries. These
dishes, occasionally varied by a very sour salad, or a very
sweet pudding (melch speisen)^ form the inevitable menu of
the mittag and abend speisen (dinner and supper), to be
found in the inns throughout Germany, from the Rhenish
provinces to the Banat of Hungary.
STURMER. 209
bourgeois supper, the triumph of the culinary art
of Lobositz, that had been placed before them,
when a door, exactly opposite to their table,
opened suddenly, and a female figure entered,
closed it after her, and, without appearing to
be conscious that the room was occupied, slowly
crossed it to the further end, where a piano-
forte was placed.
" Good God ! ''
exclaimed the Count and
Countess in the same breath, and rising to
receive her :
" what a beautiful creature !"
The Count was advancing to salute the un-
expected visitant, but Bertha, hastily laying her
hand upon his arm to restrain him, whispered
in his ear, " Do you not recognise that face ?'*
" Yes — no,'' he answered in the same tone.
" I certainly have seen it somewhere before,
but I cannot now remember where."
" It is Madame Moller," she replied, " Stur-
mer's somnambule, the original of the lovely
picture we saw at his house. It must be her
no one else could be so beautiful."
210 STURIV^ER.
" Aha ! but what can she mean by coming
among us so unceremoniously ? Besides, did not
Sturmer tell us that she was already at
Dresden?"
" Yes ; but she may have been detained upon
the road, as we were at Czaslau. I am sure it
is Madame Moller. I am determined it shall
be no other person. Oh ! I am so glad to have
come across her ! And see, she is in a state of
natural somnambulism ; she does not see us.
We must not disturb or thwart her on any
account, for to awaken a sleep-walker suddenly
is highly dangerous."
At that moment Lolotte (for it was no other
than herself) opened the piano, and seating her-
self before it ran her fingers thoughtfully over
the keys, as though arranging her ideas or
recalling her recollections, previous to com-
mencing her performances. But there was such
brilliancy and pathos in that light touch that
the Count and Countess, both of whom were
fine musicians, listened mth delight to the har-
STURMER. 211
monious combinations which successively sprang
up beneath her fingers ; and followed with the
keen relish of Dilettanti the various movements
of the capricious, yet scientific " voluntary,"" in
which her imagination appeared to be revelling.
At last the performance gradually subsided
into a few low chords, and the voice of the fair
musician took up the last motif she had been
playing, and gushed forth into such a delicious
strain of melody that her listeners, as if irre-
sistibly impelled towards her, silently and
almost breathlessly drew so near to the instru-
ment that they could obtain a full view of her
countenance.
And certainly had Lolotte come forth bent
upon conquest, instead of wandering helplessly
in her sleep into the presence of strangers, she
could not have appeared to greater advantage
than she did at that moment, unstudied and
disordered as her dress was. But it is the
proud privilege of real beauty to defy the
" foreign aid of ornament," and to shine forth
212 STURMER.
triumphantly in the simplest array. The close
black dress, bordered with dark far, in which
she was muffled, rendered more dazzlingly fair
by contrast the alabaster hue of her throat, face,
and hands, the only portions of her skin which
were visible ; her cheeks and brow, even her
lips, were at that moment colourless, but so
exquisitely chiselled, so touching in their " wan
lustre," that no rose-tints could have rendered
them more beautiful ; her luxuriant hair, de-
ranged during her sleep, had half escaped from
the comb that fastened it, and fell in tresses
of wavy gold down her shoulders ; carelessly
pushed back from her forehead, it left unveiled
the whole expanse of brow, and the lovely eyes
that shone beneath. Beautiful indeed were
those eyes, since, although speculation had gone
from them for the time being, they still pos-
sessed a power to charm and to subdue which
few waking ones had ever exercised ; but in
colour, shape, and size they were faultless
and the long dark lashes that shaded them, the
STURMER. 213
dark brows that arched above, imparted to her
countenance an expression and character that
redeemed it from the insipidity which is the
general defect of very fair and delicate-looking
persons.
The words which Lolotte was breathing forth
in such a flow of harmony quickly arrested the
attention of Bertha, and she hung upon them
with almost painful anxiety. They were the
aspirations of a breaking heart invoking the
intercession of those who had been dearest to
her on earth, but who were now saints in
heaven, to procure her pardon for a weak and
guilty love which had led her heart astray.
She described with terrible truth its combats,
its tortures, its vain efforts to banish the loved
image from that sanctuary, as she had banished
it from her eyes — in vain ! Her heart, amid
despair and death, loved on.
Then there was a change in the strain ; from
the agitato vibrato character it subsided into a
low wailing morendo movement.
214 STURMER.
That heart which had glowed with so sinful
a flame had at last grown cold ; its frail chords
had failed amidst the struggle, and in the peace-
ful grave it had found rest. And now she
played the dirge of the departed in such sweet
and solemn strains, that the impressionable
Bertha, overcome by her emotions, leaned upon
her husband's shoulder and wept.
Again there was a change. The dirge died
away, and a song of triumph succeeded,—the
song of angels welcoming the rescued spirit to
realms of joy; and there were the loved and
the lost on earth lifting up their voices with the
heavenly choir, rejoicing that she who had been
almost lost was saved. But the disembodied
spirit, faithful to its earthly love, cast a wistful
glance around, and perceiving not him, without
whom heaven would not be heaven to her,
uttered a cry of despair—" Where is he ?
"
At these words, which broke from her lips in
soul-piercing accents, she suddenly ceased her
STURMER. 215
song, and burying her face in her hands burst
into an agony of tears.
" What shall we do ? " exclaimed the Count,
in the greatest trepidation. " Let us ring to
inquire whether there is any one belonging to
her in the house."
" No, no," said Bertha ;
" call no one ; and
let me first try what I can do for her."
And so saying, she gently approached the
unconscious mourner, and placing one hand
upon Lolotte's head, with the other described a
succession of mesmeric passes from the forehead
downwards. The Count smiled incredulously;
but when at the end of a few seconds the deep
convulsive sighs of Lolotte calmed into silence,
he gave his serious attention to what was going
on. Very soon her hands dropped helplessly
from before her eyes. Those eyes were closed,
and their long lashes, wet with tears, lay like
black fringes upon her cheeks. Bertha drew
a chair behind her, and as Lolotte sank back
216 STURMER.
overcome by the magnetic slumber, she received
her in her arms, laid her head upon her bosom,
and tenderly wiping away the tears that still
bedewed her pale cheeks, looked triumphantly
at her husband.
" Now open that door," said Bertha, pointing
to the one by which Lolotte had entered, " and
between us we will carry her into her own
room, and place her on the bed."
" Yes," murmured Lolotte, replying to the
last words of Bertha, " lay me on the bed."
The Countess cast another glance of triumph
at the Count. The magnetic ' rapporf so quick-
ly established between herself and Lolotte had
far exceeded her own expectations.
" Do you see me ? " she inquired, laying her
hand upon the sleeper's eyes.
" Yes," replied Lolotte, " you are very beau-
tiful !
" And do you see me ?" inquired the Count.
But Lolotte remained silent. She neither
saw nor heard him.
STURMER. 211
Bertha placed her husband's hand in that of
Lolotte, held them together in her own, and
then asked her if she saw any other person
besides herself.
Lolotte accurately described the Count's ap-
pearance. Still a doubt hung upon his mind,
that by almost imperceptibly opening her eye-
lids she might have obtained a sufficient view of
him to bear her out in her description.
" Pardon me, madam," he said, " if I still
remain incredulous upon the subject of your
lucidity ; but it will be in your power to make
a believer of me by replying to one question
which I shall put to you : — Can you tell me
what I have got in this pocket ?
'"*
And he laid
his hand upon the side pocket of his coat.
Lolotte remained silent for a moment. At
last she said —" You have got a small pocket-
book, covered with crimson."
"You are quite right," replied the Count,
astonishment painted in every feature ;
" but
what does that pocket-book contain?"
VOL. I. L
218 STURMER.
Lolotte considered again. " It contains,"
she said, " two miniatures ; one is the picture
of a lady, —stay, it is this lady's likeness ; the
other is that of a gentleman whom I have never
seen. There is writing upon one of the leaves
— a name. It is his writing — his name —
Wolfgang Sturmer"
" Wonderful
!
" exclaimed the Count. " I
am convinced ! There is no contesting such
evidence as this." And putting his hand into
his pocket, he drew from it precisely such
a porte-feuille as Lolotte had described ; and
placing it in Bertha's hand, said : " This, my
love, was given to me by Sturmer this morning,
with more solemnity in his manner than I could
account for. He said it was one of the things
he most prized, as it contained yours and An-
ton's pictures, given to him by your brother,
and for that reason he wished to place it him-
self in my hands. I confess, I cannot under-
stand his parting -with such a souvenir,''^
" He gave it to you as a legacy," said Lo-
lotte solemnly.
STURMER. 219
" A legacy
!
" exclaimed the Count and
Countess together: "why? —how?—for what
reason?"
But Lolotte remained silent.
" Can you tell me where Sturmer is at this
moment?" said Bertha, after a pause.
" He is travelling," was the answer.
" This is very strange," remarked the Count.
" He did not even hint at an idea of travelling
when we parted this morning. Is he going
to make a long journey?"
" A very long one," replied Lolotte, sighing.
"And when will he return home?" inquired
Bertha.
" He will never return home again^^ was the
answer.
After this, she persisted in remaining silent
and, upon a sign of Bertha's, the Count raised
her in his arms, and, carrying her into the
adjoining room, placed her upon the bed.
L 2
220 STURMER.
CHAPTER VII.
I have been patient ; let me be so yet.
Oh ! would it were my lot
To be forgetful.
Lord Byron.
It was not till eight o'clock the next morn-
ing that Lolotte awakened; and she arose so
much refreshed and invigorated as to feel quite
equal to continue her journey homewards in
the course of the day. She had slept so pro-
foundly, that when, on the preceding evening,
her maid (who had been indulging in the de-
light of a long gossip, during her supper, with
the servants of the newly-arrived travellers,)
returned to her mistress's room, and found her
STURMER. 221
plunged in that deep slumber, she had no diffi-
culty in undressing and placing her in her bed
without awakening her.
Since her last interview with Sturmer, Lo-
lotte had taken neither rest or nourishment
sufficient to sustain her bodily strength; and
the agitation of her mind, added to the unusual
exertions she was obliged to make in order
to hasten her departure from Prague, had been
too much for a frame so delicate; but it was
not until she was seated in the carriage that
was to bear her thence, that she became aware
of the utter prostration of her strength. Then,
when the excitement of action was over, came
reflection with its train of tortures and terrors to
subdue her courage ;
—then did her sinking heart
fail her ;-
—then did all that she had yet to en-
dure strike dismay into her soul. To the agony
of a final separation from the being who, for
the last few months, had been all the world to
her, was added the terror of meeting her hus-
band, with the dreadful secret of her newly-
^22 STURMER.
discovered love weighing upon her heart. How-
should she conceal her misery from him? and
how, alas ! could she avow its cause ? " Oh !
that I had been suffered to die eight years
ago !
" thought she, with something like a feel-
ing of bitter repining at her fate ; " for what
accumulated sorrows have I been reserved
And yet, my God, Thou knowest best !
"—the
habitual piety and meekness of her soul sur-
mounting that momentary disposition to mur-
mur — " forgive me for questioning Thy wis-
dom —and if this cup may not pass away from
me, Thy will be done !
Silently absorbed in her feelings, she leaned
from the carriage window with her eyes fixed
upon the regal towers of the Hraschin rising in
proud pre-eminence above the innumerable
spires and palaces of antique and aristocratical
Prague, until a bend in the road shut them
from her view. It was there that Sturmer
dwelt —there she had first known him; and
when she no more beheld them, the last con-
STURMER. 22S
necting link between him and herself appear-
ed to be rudely riven asunder ; she closed
her eyes with a feeling of such deep anguish
that her heart sickened beneath it, and after
an ineffectual struggle to resist the deadly
chill that was creeping over her, she became
insensible.
A succession of fainting fits caused so much
alarm to her fellow travellers in the eil-wagen^
(who feared that she was going to die among
them,) that when the vehicle stopped at Lobo-
sitz, and she was lifted out of it motionless
and senseless, they one and all refused to allow
her to proceed, and advised her servant to let
her remain there until she should be better ; and
one of them, an old military officer, who had
been deeply interested by the appearance and
sufferings of Lolotte, offered to become the
bearer of a letter or message to her friends in
Dresden to account to them for her protracted
absence. But alas ! Lolotte's maid, Gretchen,
did not know how to write, and all that she
224f STURMER.
could do was to inform the kind-hearted stran-
ger, that her mistress was the wife of Mr.
Franz Moller, who was then lodging in the
AU'Markt, at Dresden, No. —, and to beg
that he would send there, and inform him of
what had happened. This he promised to do,
and the eil-wagen proceeded on its way, leav-
ing Lolotte and her maid at Lobositz.
But the nervous irritation of her spirits pre-
vented her benefiting by the repose which such
an arrangement was intended to procure for her,
and it was only on the afternoon of the succeed-
ing day, that from mere exhaustion, she fell
into a sleep which terminated, as has already
been described, by one of those exhibitions of
natural somnambulism which always preceded
or attended some crisis of suffering in Lo-
lotte, and which the timely application of Ani-
mal Magnetism invariably prevented.
That Bertha's experiment upon her had pro-
duced the effect of soothing and calming her
shattered nerves in that particular instance, has
STURMER. 225
already been shewn ; and the many hours of
undisturbed repose which it had procured for
her, recruited her strength to such a degree
that she immediately commenced her prepara-
tions for departure.
She had opened the door of her bedroom and
was just going to cross the Speisen Saal in order
that she might ascertain from the host the hour
when the next eil-wagen for Dresden would
pass, when she perceived that the room was
occupied by a lady and gentleman ; and hastily
drawing back, she would have retreated into
her chamber had she not been prevented by
the lady quickly advancing and taking her
hand.
" Pray, come in," said she ;
'' I am so glad
to see you ! Are you better this morning ? We
have already been inquiring for you, but no one
could tell us how you were."
" Madam," exclaimed Lolotte in the great-
est surprise, " you are surely under some mis-
take ! I have never had the honour of seeing
l5
226 STURMER.
you before, and I dare not flatter myself that
the health of an entire stranger can interest
you."
" Indeed, Madame MoUer, I am under no
mistake," replied Bertha, smiling ;
" it is i/our
health which interests me so much at the pre-
sent moment, and although I never saw you
before last evening, I have heard so much of
you that I do not look upon you in the light
of a stranger. And now give me leave to
present my husband to you, the Count de
Koenneritz."
" Ah, madam," replied Lolotte, after bend-
ing gracefully to the salutation of the Count,
" I understand now ! I have, indeed, often
heard of you before; but I thought that the
Count de Koenneritz had been detained by
severe illness at
—
"Yes, madam," interrupted the Count, lead-
ing her to a chair, " we were detained at Czas-
lau by a slight indisposition of mine ; but our
mutual friend, Sturmer, arrived in good time
STURMER. 227
to save me from dying there of cold and hunger,
and he brought us with him to his charming
house at Prague, where we hoped to have had
the honour of meeting you : but you had flown
before we arrived."
Poor Lolotte felt her heart throb, and the
blood rush to her cheek and brow at the men-
tion of that beloved name. She would have
given the world to have ascertained whether
Sturmer was still with them ; but all her self-
possession had suddenly abandoned her at that
one allusion to him, and, trembling and con-
fused, she sank suddenly into a chair. Emotion
so painful and irrepressible could not escape
the observation of the Count and Countess.
They exchanged glances, and Bertha carelessly
remarked, " That they had very much wished
Sturmer to have accompanied them to Dresden,
but that he was unable to do so: she hoped,
however, that he would visit them before long.
Was Madame Moller aware of any particular
business that detained him at Prague, or did
228 STURMER.
she know of any journey that he intended to
make elsewhere?"
Thus called upon, Lolotte summoned cou-
rage to reply, " That she understood it to be
Mr. Sturmer's intention to remain at Prague,
his usual place of residence, which he had
only left to attend the Count de Koenneritz
in his illness at Czaslau. She had never heard
of any other journey contemplated by him;
and she hoped,—that is to say, she believed,"
—and here she stammered and faltered, —
"she meant, she never had heard of his in-
tention to visit Dresden."
Here the Count and Countess glanced at each
other again, as if mutually to recall the contrary
opinion which Lolotte had so solemnly and decid-
edly pronounced on the preceding ^evening. They
said nothing, and appeared by that one look
tacitly to agree that no further mention should
be made of Sturmer for the present; and then,
with a warmth and cordiality of manner, which
soon restored Lolotte to her natural ease, they
STURMER. 229
led her to speak upon other subjects, and
finally prevailed upon her to breakfast with
them.
It was during that repast that they related to
her the occurrences of the past evening, and
the success with which Bertha had exerted her
magnetical skill in Lolotte's behalf. Her terror
and confusion were inexpressible at the recital
and, had any such evidence been required,
would have fully convinced the Count of her
total unconsciousness of all that had passed
during her somnambulism : but he had already
seen enough to convert him, and he was not
one of those persons who, when once convinced,
retract or qualify their opinions in order to
maintain an appearance of consistency with
previously pronounced views on the same sub-
ject.
The curiosity of the Count de Kcenneritz
was roused, and his interest excited, to inves-
tigate more deeply into the causes of pheno-
mena so extraordinary; and partly from that
S30 STURMER.
motive, but still more from a feeling of kind-
ness to Lolotte, whose strange introduction
of herself to them, added to her beauty and her
sufferings, had established a peculiar interest
for her with him as well as with Bertha, he was
induced to propose that they should give her a
seat in their carriage to Dresden, while Gret-
chen and the trunks should be left to proceed
thither by the eil-wagen. An offer so cordially
made was gratefully accepted by Lolotte; and
before noon she had taken her seat in the
Count's travelling Berline, and was once more
rapidly whirled towards home.
It was night before they reached Dresden,
and the postilions had some difficulty in finding
the number of Moller's lodging in the dimly-
lighted Alt-Markt At last, however, they
stopped before a dark-looking house, and the
Countess's Heidugue, having ascertained that it
was the one inhabited by Mr. Franz Moller,
Lolotte took leave of her new friends, and, with
a beating heart, entered. " Au revoir, dear
STURMER. 231
Madame MoUer," were the parting words of
Bertha; "I shall not fail to call upon you to-
morrow morning."
Slowly she ascended the staircase, and many
times before reaching the third story, she
stopped to take breath, and, pressing her hand
upon her heart, endeavoured to still its throb-
bings. At last she reached a door upon which
was nailed one of her husband's cards, and,
summoning all her courage to her aid, she rang
the bell. "Why should I fear to see him?"
thought she ; " surely my conscience absolves
me from all sinful wishes." But she knew that
her heart was devoted to another, and therefore
did she tremble; for it is only in minds pre-
disposed to vice that the infidelity of the heart is
glossed over as a venial error: but the truly
pure in soul start from it as from the shadow of
sill, instinctively knowing that to excuse and to
foster such wanderings, is to smooth the path
to others more fatal, although scarcely more
reprehensible; since the woman who has once
232 STURMER.
accustomed herself to look upon the unlawful
affections of her heart with indulgence and com-
placency, has not only ceased to be virtuous in
thought, but is more than half won over to
become criminal in deed.
Lolotte was not one of those who weakly
cherish error until it grows into guilt, and,
in the meantime, fondly and falsely persuade
themselves that they are innocent, because
they have conceded nothing hut their heart.
The knowledge of her love for Sturmer weigh-
ed upon her soul like a secret sin, from
which she had vainly struggled to disburthen
it; and she approached her husband with the
feelings of a criminal, conscious that she had,
for the first time, something to conceal from
him,—knowing that she had never loved him,
and feeling that the duties and obligations of a
wife had now become hateful to her.
She rang more than once before any sound
or sign of answering the call could be distin-
guished ; but at last a step was heard within,
STURMER. 23S
and the well-known voice of Babet demanded,
" Who is there ?'*
" It is I, Babet," answered Lolotte ;
" open
quickly." And the door instantly flying back,
discovered Babet in her night-clothes, with a
light in her hand.
" Oh, madam ! oh, my dear mistress ! is it
you ? " she exclaimed as Lolotte entered. " Kilss
die hand mein lieher kind,^ suiting the action
to the word. " But you are alone ! Where is
my master?"
" Your master !
" repeated Lolotte, in amaze-
ment ;
" is he not here ?
"
" No, truly," was the answer ; " he has gone
to bring you home. A gentleman called here
yesterday to tell of your being ill somewhere
between this and Prague, and as he came after
master had gone out for the day, he left a note
to tell him all about it. When Mr. Franz
came home in the evening and read the note,
I never saw him so flurried or so angry; and
what made him worse was, that it was too late
234f STURMER.
for him to set off for you last night, so he was
obhged to wait till this morning."
" He has gone to Lobositz, then !
" exclaimed
Lolotte, " and I must have passed him on the
road. Poor Franz ! how sorry I am that he
should have had such vexation and trouble
on my account." And yet, notwithstanding
her regret, she felt inexpressibly relieved
at the certainty of not meeting him for some
hours.
" Yes, madam, he went this morning," said
Babet ; " and sadly it put him out of his way to
go. But, oh, my dear child, how ill you look
Indeed, indeed, I could be as angry as my
master is with you for not staying quietly at
Prague with that great man. Doctor Sturmer,
who did you so much good, instead of running
back here in spite of master's advice ;
— and he
so pleased with all the Doctor had done for
you; and wanting to be off to Leipzig, and
backwards and forwards about his book, and the
great sale, and all the rest of it. And yet it
STURMER. 2S5
does my old heart good to see your sweet face
again, pale as it is ; — but what we are to do
when master returns I know not, for there is
no comfortable place here for you, only this
one room, littered from one end to the other
with papers, and no corner to stow away a
mouse. When Mr. Franz got your letter, say-
ing you were coming away from Prague, he
was so vexed that he declared he should just
remain as he was, to shew you that you could
not stay here ; and how much better it would
have been for you to have done as he wished.
Indeed, he has never been in a good-humour
since that letter came. Pardon me, dear mis-
tress, for telUng you so, but I think it better
that you should know all."
" Well, Babet," said Lolotte, sighing, " my
husband will find that I have not returned to
derange him in any way ; and as soon as I have
seen him to-morrow I shall go home to the
Ottowalder-grund."
And with the painful impression that no
2S6 STURMER.
welcome awaited her from him whose protection
she had sought as her safeguard in the trials
that assailed her heart, she laid down, not to
sleep, but to meditate through the long watches
of the night, and to endeavour to compose her
mind for the meeting which she so much
dreaded.
Morning at length came, and with it arrived
Franz Mciller. But, although Lolotte had been
in some measure prepared for the dissatisfac-
tion which she was to encounter, it far exceeded
any exhibition of ill-humour that she had ever
before witnessed in her husband. Franz was
by no means a bad-tempered man ; and indeed
he enjoyed the reputation of being quite the
reverse, thanks to a mild and open countenance,
and to a total absence of violence or vindic-
tiveness in his character; but he had other
faults of temper, not less difficult to contend
with ; he was obstinate, and sullen under oppo-
sition, and naturally of a selfish and exacting
disposition. Those faults had been strength-
STURMER. 237
ened by the yielding sweetness of Lolotte's
character, the extreme softness of her temper,
and the total absence of selfishness, which had
ever led her cheerfully to sacrifice her own
tastes and wishes to the slightest whim of her
husband. This was the first time since their
marriage that she had ventured to decide for
herself, or to act in direct opposition to an
implied wish of his ; and an infraction of esta-
blished rules so unexpected, a decision which
involved such a derangement of his darling
plans and occupations, stirred up and threw to
the surface all the least amiable elements of his
character.
" Well, Lolotte,"' said he, entering and throw-
ing aside, in no very gentle mood, his meer-
schaum and tobacco-pouch, " you have led me a
pretty dance for nothing !
" Dear Franz," she answered, taking his
hand, " it was all unknown to me ! I never
should have thought of asking you to come for
me to Lobositz ; and had I been in a state to
23S STURMER.
know what was intended, I should have forbid-
den it ; but I was so very ill as to be uncon-
scious of everything."
" If you had done as I told you, you would
not have been ill," he replied ; " but women
are all alike — tell them to do one thing, and
they will be sure to do another, just for the
sake of contradiction. And now, may I ask
what very pressing motive induced you to come
off to me in such a hurry ?"
" Oh, Franz !" said Lolotte, tears, in spite
of her efforts to repress them, filling her eyes,
" can you ask me such a question ? You wrote
to say, that you would be detained here for an
indefinite period, and I felt it to be my duty to
join you, especially as you left me the option of
doing so."
" Yes, but I also unequivocally expressed to
you my opinion in favour of your remaining
where you were, and it was therefore your para-
mount duty to have acted upon that wish."
Lolotte remained silent. An hysterical sob
STURMER. 289
rose in her throat and choked her utterance.
Her thoughts involuntarily reverted to Stur-
mer ; and as she contrasted the devoted tender-
ness of his character and his idolatrous love for
her, with the cold harshness of her husband's
reception, a deep sigh burst from her heart.
Franz was irritated, as all unreasonable peo-
ple are, at meeting with silence instead of such
rejoinders as are at once a provocative to their
own ill-humour and an excuse for its continu-
ance. " One would think," said he, after a
pause, " that you fancied money and health
were only obtained to be trifled with and thrown
away upon the high roads. See what it cost
me to take you to Prague ; the least you could
have done in return would have been to have
remained there long enough to profit by the
excellent care under which I had placed you.
I left you improved in health and strength
beyond my most sanguine expectations ; my
mind was quite at ease, from knowing you to
be in such good hands, and I confidently looked
240 STURMER.
forward to returning to you in the spring, and
finding you perfectly recovered. But, instead
of continuing a treatment which had done such
wonders for you, you have rashly taken upon
yourself to act in direct opposition to your
physician's advice and your husband's opinion,
and the consequence is, that I find you in a
worse state than when I took you to Prague.
I might just as well have not taken you there
at all!"
" Would to Heaven that you never had !
'*
thought Lolotte ; but she said nothing ; the
fulness of her heart had overflowed at her eyes,
and she wept in silence.
" Besides," continued Franz, " I had fully
explained to you the position of my affairs here
with respect to my book ; every moment of my
time is occupied in finishing and preparing it
for the press ; it is to be published at Leipzig,
and I must be there to superintend proceedings.
All this of course entails an outlay of money,
for which, indeed, I expect to be remunerated
STURMER. 241
hereafter by the extensive sale of my work
but in the meantime I am pressed for means,
and did not require the additional expense of
your journey hither, and losing the rent of the
house at Prague, for which I had paid in ad-
vance, and the prospect of doctor's fees during
the rest of the winter ; for we shall find no
physician in Dresden like that noble-minded
fellow, Sturmer, who never would take a florin
from me. I repeat, I did not require all these
additions to render my position embarrassing
enough ; and you see, Lolotte, it is quite im-
possible that you should remain here ; nor can
I, as matters stand, take another lodging for
you in Dresden."
" If that is all that embarrasses you, dear
Franz," said Lolotte, in her own mild per-
suasive tones, " be assured that I have no wish
to remain in Dresden ; indeed my only desire
is to return immediately home, and I came here
with a view of proposing it to you. Thus you
see, no additional expense will be incurred by
VOL. I. M
24:2 STURMER.
the step I have taken, beyond the trifling one
of my journey hither ; for as the house at the
Ottowalder-grund is shut up, and that at Prague
ah^eady paid for, whether I Uve at the one or
the other can make no difference in our house-
hold expenses ; besides, you know that I am a
good economist, and I shall now redouble my
exertions to make up for the costs I have en-
tailed upon you by this unfortunate journey to
Prague; and in the meantime I shall in no
way interfere with your literary business or
your journeys to Leipzig. Believe me, Franz,
I have done all for the best ; —let me not then
have the pain of witnessing your displeasure,
when I hoped for, perhaps expected, your ap-
probation !
" And endeavouring to smile through
her tears, she again held out her hand to him.
" A soft answer turneth away wrath," and
the ungracious husband felt his irritability va-
nish before the patient sweetness of Lolotte's
manner, and the good sense of her argument.
" You always were the gentlest and best of
STURMER. 243
beings, Lolotte," said Franz, drawing her to-
wards him and kissing her cheek ;
" and that
is the reason why I was so vexed at seeing you
all of a sudden act in such a headstrong, un-
accountable manner —so unlike yourself ! Let
it be the last time that you take any step with-
out my concurrence, and then you will be sure
never to do wrong; and now let us turn our
thoughts to what is to be done with you. There
is Gretchen below stairs with your baggage,
she having come in the same eil-icagen with
me from Lobositz, and you see that there is no
accommodation for her here."
Lolotte proposed that she should in the
course of the morning proceed home to the
Ottowalder-grund with one of the servants, and
that Franz should remain at Dresden with the
other until his business between that place and
Leipzig should be terminated ; and as this
plan exactly corresponded with his own wishes,
MoUer eagerly embraced it, and gradually re-
covered his good-humour.
M 2
S44 STURMER.
Breakfast had been despatched, and Franz,
full of his book and his journey to Leipzig,
was descanting upon both to Lolotte, who,
weary, sad, and suffering, had more than once
reminded him of the flight of time, and that
a carriage must be immediately procured to
take her to the Ottowalder-grund, in order that
she might arrive there before dusk, when the
door-bell rang, and in another moment the
Countess de Kcenneritz stood among them.
Lolotte's eyes were red with weeping — Mol-
ler's cheek flushed with talking; Bertha's quick
glance noted the disorder of their countenances,
and she drew her own inferences from what
she saw. " I see it all," thought she; " he is
grown suspicious of Sturmer — has obliged her
to see him no more —and is now tormenting
her with his jealousy by way of rendering his
home and himself more agreeable to her ! and
such a home for a creature so lovely and so
refined to be brought to ! She will die if she
stays in it !
"
STURMER. 245
" Madame Moller," said the Countess,
quickly advancing to Lolotte and kissing her
" I told you yesterday what an encroaching
person you would find me, and I have lost no
time in verifying my assertion, by coming to
see you before you are settled at home. I
have, however, had the forbearance to leave
Monsieur de Koenneritz out of this unseason-
able visit ; he intends to have the honour of
making Monsieur Moller's acquaintance in a
day or two," graciously turning to Franz ;
" but
I could not wait so long without again seeing
my fair patient, and if I have come mal-a-propos,
you must only blame the force of attraction
which our magnetic " rapport " has established
between us, and which has left me no power
to resist the strong sympathy that draws me
towards you."
However inopportune such a visit might at
that moment have appeared to Lolotte and
Moller, the graceful warmth of Bertha's man-
ner soon placed them completely at their ease
246 STURMER.
with her. She related to the husband the cu-
rious circumstance which had introduced his
wife to those who so ardently desired to know
her, precisely at that interesting moment when
the moral and physical phenomena exhibited
by her in her state of natural somnambulism,
had enabled Bertha so successfully to exert
her magnetic power over her, and to change
the hallucinations and delirium which had cha-
racterized her sleep-walking, into the profound
calm and lucidity of magnetic clairvoyance.
She did not, indeed, particularize the subject
of Lolotte's visions, feeling the ground to be
too delicate and dangerous for her to venture
upon it with either of them ; but she triumphed
unrestrainedly in the conviction which the whole
occurrence had brought to the Count's mind,
hitherto so sceptical upon all that concerned
Magnetism, and she congratulated herself upon
the power she possessed of relieving Lolotte's
sufferings, and offered to replace the efficient
friend and physician she had left at Prague.
STURMER. 24^7
This led to a declaration of Lolotte's pro-
ject of returning to the country on that day.
Bertha's disappointment was at first unbounded
and expressed without restriction; but after a
while, looking round the room, she said, " This
is indeed no place for you to remain in, and
I cannot be so selfish as to regret that you
should leave it; but I had counted upon your
staying in Dresden and giving me a great deal
of your society —I had fixed my heart upon
taking your cure into my own hands —and,
in short, I have done nothing but form plans
about you since we parted last night. Is there
no way of tempting you to remain among us
a little longer ?
"
But Lolotte, whose unhappy state of mind
made her long to be far away and alone, that
she might throw off the constraint which her
husband's presence imposed upon her, and dare
to weep unquestioned and unobserved, firmly
but gratefully assured her that there was none
and Bertha feeling that her recent acquaintance
248 STURMER.
did not authorize her to argue the point further,
and knowing that her husband had not em-
powered her to make any offer that might
tempt her new friends to alter their plans,
gave it up ; and after ascertaining the place
of Lolotte's residence, and assuring her that
she should very soon hear from or see her
there, she took her leave, determined to lose
no time in proposing to the Count that an
invitation should be made to Lolotte to spend
at their house the period of Moller's absence
from Dresden. Interest for the lovely invalid
in a great measure prompted Bertha to such
a determination ; but curiosity also had its
share in the project, for Lolotte had said just
enough of Sturmer during her trance to arouse
the apprehensions of his friend upon his ac-
count, and not sufficient to satisfy her inqui-
sitiveness; and she longed, while she almost
dreaded, to hear more upon that subject, and
to compare the previsional declarations of Lo-
STURMER. 249
lotte with the real state of Sturmer's affairs
and movements.
In an hour after the Countess de Koenneritz
had quitted Holler's apartment in the Alt-
Markt, Lolotte and her maid Gretchen left it
also for the Ottowalder-grund.
M 5
250 STURMER.
CHAPTER VIII.
Dunque vien, Morte ; il tuo venir m'e caro :
E non tardar, cli'egli a ben tempo omai.
Petrarca.
The day was fast closing in when Lolotte
reached her soUtary home, and the last beams
of a wintry sun shed a cold, sickly ray upon its
slanting roof, and the icicles that hung from
it ; a thick covering of snow wrapped the earth
like a winding-sheet ; the leafless trees stirred
not in the still frosty air; the deep waters of
the Elbe lay locked in sullen silence beneath
their prison of ice ; the birds were mute —all
nature appeared hushed into the cold breath-
less calm of death ! Lolotte felt the dreary
STURMER. 251
scene to be in unison with her own desolate
feelings, and without an effort to restrain them,
she gave way to the anguish that oppressed
her soul, and wept until exhaustion succeeded
to emotions so intense. Oh, how sad are those
tears which fall unheeded and unpitied!—how
agonizing those sighs to which no sympathizing
bosom responds ! —how overwhelming that sor-
row which must be endured alone and un-
supported ! Yet even in this extremity of woe
and abandonment, Lolotte suffered no queru-
lous murmurs to escape her lips, or brood in
her heart ; she remembered that many blessings
had once been hers, and she questioned not
the wisdom or the justice of Him who had
one by one withdrawn them from her. But
although the spirit still remained strong within
her to repel the sinful suggestions of despair,
the poor frail flesh failed in the conflict, and
a very few hours produced so visible a change
in her, that she felt the moment of her release
was fast approaching.
252 STURMRR.
It had been decreed, however, that before she
was suffered to depart, her virtuous resolution
should be tested by one more trial — a trial
which conflicting circumstances rendered more
difficult, perhaps, for her to resist than any of
those which she had yet encountered. Whether
principle triumphed over passion in that last
fearful struggle, will be seen hereafter; the
narrator's task is not to forestall events nor to
encumber them with her own reflections, but to
relate them as nearly as possible in the way in
which they were repeated to her.
The day following I.olotte's return home was
the Sabbath, and weak and suffering as she felt,
she determined to make an effort to attend
.church-service that morning; it might be the
last time she should be able to do so, and her
soul yearned to listen once more to the word
of God in the holy edifice where her beloved
grandfather had officiated for so many years,
and where all the most important events of her
life had been solemnized. The dearest affec-
STURMER. 253
tions and the most sacred sentiments of her
heart were identified with its old grey walls —
there she had been christened, confirmed,
married — the last Christian rites had there
been performed over her children, her mother,
and her grandfather —and their mortal remains
reposed beneath the linden trees that shaded its
quiet cemetery.
The unexpected appearance of Lolotte in the
church of Lohraen, occasioned a sensation in its
humble congregation which disturbed the devo-
tions of many among them ; for she was beloved
and respected by the poor inhabitants of that se-
questered valley as a being of a superior order,
and the sight of her brought hope and gladness
to many a bosom that during her absence had
languished for those timely kindnesses which
she had never been known to refuse to the un-
fortunate. Humble as were her fortunes, and
circumscribed as her generous propensities were
by the parsimonious disposition of her husband,
she had nevertheless, by dint of strict self-denial,
254 STURMER.
always managed to reserve to herself the power
of ministering to the wants of many of her
fellow-creatures who were unable to work for
themselves. From her earliest youth she had
been accustomed to abstain from those frivolous
and selfish indulgences which the generality of
her sex, old as well as young, learn by the force
of habit to consider less as luxuries than as
necessaries without which their happiness would
be incomplete ; and restricting herself to the
simplest style of dress—for a few natural flowers
in her beautiful hair were the only ornaments
she had ever worn — she devoted the sums
which so many expend in vanity to clothing the
naked and feeding the hungry. The wretched
never applied to her in vain. When, as was
sometimes the case, she had no money to be-
stow, she would divide her own wardrobe with
them ; kind words and gentle counsels she had
for all —she worked for the old —she taught
the young ; —by the former she was adored, by
the latter revered and looked up to ; — and
STURMER. 255
verily she had her reward even upon earth : for
amidst those cruel bereavements which had
blighted the promise of her youth, and that
absence of all sympathy between her husband
and herself which had made her hopeless for
the future, the conviction that she was of use
to so many of her fellow-creatures who, with-
out her, would be friendless, — that she, whose
individual sorrows had left her heart a desolate
waste, still possessed the power to shed a ray
of brightness upon the dark shadows of human
suffering,—had sustained and consoled her dur-
ing many an hour of solitude and despondency.
For the first quarter of an hour after she had
resumed her old seat in the church, her thoughts
wandered in painful confusion to by-gone times,
and many a vanished scene, many a fond recol-
lection crowded rapidly upon her memory, and
filled it with images of the past, to the utter
exclusion of the present ; but the Pastor's voice
soon recalled her to herself; — it was not, alas !
the beloved voice upon which for so many years
256 STURMER.
she had hung with love and awe as it uttered
" truths divine" from that very same spot.
Where was he? — and where were those who
had listened with her ? She raised her eyes, and
they rested upon the funeral wreaths that were
suspended from the wall over the places once
occupied by her family ; those white chaplets
were the only visible memorials that remained
there of the beings she had so fondly loved and
so bitterly deplored. She was alone — alone
there for the first time ! At that moment the
deep accents of the clergyman fell upon her ear,
pronouncing words which appeared to her like
the cry of her own heart :
" Turn thee unto me
and have mercy upon me, for I am desolate and
in misery. The sorrows of my heart are en-
larged : Oh, bring thou me out of my troubles !"
From that instant Lolotte's attention became
fixed, and she followed with feelings of the
deepest devotion every part of the service.
When it was over, she walked forth into the
churchyard, and was quickly surrounded by a
STURMER. 257
crowd of humble friends, each anxious to be the
first to welcome back the gentle benefactress
whom they had scarcely dared hope that they
should see again, and all pressing forward to
kiss her hands with respectful affection. Much
they had to tell her, and many inquiries to
make about herself; and to all of them she
listened and spoke, with that kindness and in-
terest which are so soothing and flattering, when
they spring from the heart, and are addressed
to an indigent inferior. " My old mother can
walk no longer," said one ;
" and yet when she
hears that you have returned, the good news
will set her on her legs again." " And my
poor blind child whom you taught to knit and
to weave baskets, has put by all her best work
to give to you, dear kind lady — and Konrad
has been every day to feed the robins in your
garden while you were away," said another.
" Oh, how we have missed you !
" exclaimed
several together ; " but thank God you have
returned, and this will, indeed, be a happy day
258 STURMER.
for us all, if we hear that you are to leave us
no more !" And as Lolotte listened to these
simple expressions of good-will from the poor
and infirm beings who had gathered round her,
and gazed upon her with looks of unfeigned
affection, her heart once more expanded to
those gracious emotions which human sympathy
elicits, and a holy calm took possession of her
mind as she reflected that although joyless
herself, she could still bring joy to the hearts
of others. " No, my good friends," said she,
" I shall not leave you while I live." But
she forbore to sadden them by saying that she
had only returned among them to die.
While she yet spoke, she directed her steps
towards that part of the churchyard which con-
tained the graves of her family ; and the crowd,
guessing her intention, fell back in silence, and
remained at a sufficient distance from her not
to disturb her meditations. She knelt by the
snow-covered mounds, and, raising her eyes to
heaven, prayed long and fervently: but she
STURMER. 259
wept not, for she knew that she should soon be
with those who slept beneath; and although
a thought of Sturmer intruded even there, it
was one so holy that angels might have par-
ticipated in it. Her aspirations were for his
eternal welfare, her hope, that " the peace which
passeth all understanding," and which the world
cannot give, might be vouchsafed to him from
above.
When she rose from her knees the good
Pastor Hartmann's successor, Mr. Becker, was
standing by her. He drew her arm under his
own, and tenderly supporting her feeble steps
conducted her in silence from the melancholy
spot beyond the precincts of the churchyard,
where some of her humble friends still lingered
that they might speak to her again. He would
have uttered words of consolation to her, but
something in her countenance forbade it. It
was not grief, —it was not resignation,—but a
solemn abstraction, which shewed that her
thoughts were not with the mouldering relics
260 STURMER.
of mortality over which she had just been
kneehng, but with their immortal spirits which
dwelt beyond the skies ; and he felt that all he
could express would then fall unheeded on her
ears; and so, without breaking in upon her
contemplations, he continued to support her
steps homewards, and it was not until they
were within sight of the house, that Lolotte
became aware of whither she was going or
by whom she was conducted.
The intelligence of her return home had
quickly spread fi'om mouth to mouth among the
poor inhabitants of that wild district, and by
the time she reached the garden gate a large
number had assembled there, just to kiss her
hand, they said, and bid her welcome back.
" Behold, how much you have still to interest
you," said Mr. Becker to Lolotte. " Much has,
indeed, been taken away from you, my dear
young friend; but the Godlike power of dis-
pensing happiness to the poor and lowly still
remains; and if ever pride was justifiable in
STURMER. 261
poor frail humanity,—if ever it could find a
resting-place in a heart so meek as yours, —it
might be at a moment like this, when the joy
which your return has occasioned among these
poor people attests so eloquently to your virtues,
and their grateful voices call down blessings
upon your head for the benefits you have so
unsparingly bestowed upon them. Monarchs
might envy you the tribute of love and grati-
tude that has been spontaneously offered at the
shrine of unpretending goodness this day, by
hearts which know neither flattery nor guile."
These were gratifying words for Lolotte to
hear, and they produced the salutary effect
which Mr. Becker had desired. They recalled
her to the interests of humanity, dispelled the
feeling of isolation which had oppressed her,
and falling like balm upon her bruised heart
soothed her into serenity. Tears, indeed, swam
in her eyes as she replied to them; but they
were the first tears in which, for many a day,
anguish had had no share, and she hailed them
262 •
STURMER.
as the harbingers of a calmer, happier state of
mind. She then addressed a few kind words
to each of her poor pensioners, and, thanking
them for the demonstrations of affection which
they had shewn her that day, desired that they
would resume their old habits of applying to
her for assistance and advice whenever their
necessities required either. " And bear in
mind," said she, " that if I do not go to see
you as formerly, it will be because my bodily
strength has failed me, and not because I have
grown unmindful of you."
" My dear young friend," observed Mr.
Becker, " you have exhausted yourself by the
exertions of this morning. You must talk no
more at present, but go and repose yourself;
and, above all, I enjoin you not to think of
attending church this evening. As soon as the
service is over I will come and read prayers to
you." And so saying, he left her at the garden
gate, and she traversed the little enclosure
alone.
STURMER. 26o
As she approached the house the figure of a
man was dimly distinguished by her through
the parlour casement, seated with his back to-
wards it, and apparently bending in busy occu-
pation over her husband's writing-table. " It
is Franz," thought she ; and a momentary chill
crept over her heart and forced upon her the
unpleasant conviction that his presence there
was not only unlooked-for, but unwished-for by
hen " And yet," she reflected, " his coming to
me so soon is a proof of his kindness. He
wishes to shew me that he is sorry for the cold
reception he gave me yesterday; and I ought
to be grateful for this return to good feeling,
and reward him with an affectionate welcome."
These thoughts passed with the rapidity of
lightning through her mind as she gained the
entrance of the house; and imposing a strong
effort upon her feelings, that she might meet
Moller with unembarrassed cordiality, she
hastily crossed the little vestibule, and throwing
open the door of the sitting-room entered.
264 STURMER.
The noise of the opening door aroused from
his occupation the person who there awaited
her coming. He started to his feet, and rush-
ing towards her, Lolotte beheld not her
husband, but Sturmer !
STURMER. 265
CHAPTER IX.
Nought 's had, all 's spent,
Where our desire is got without content :
'Tis safer to be that Avhich we destroy.
Than, by destruction, dwell in doubtful joy.
Macbeth.
If in the overwhelming surprise which then
assailed Lolotte, her first distinct sensation was
one of joy at thus suddenly finding herself in
the presence of the being dearest to her soul,
and whom she believed she should see no more,
instead of the one from whom it recoiled, and
whom alone she expected to find there, that
glad impulse was so short-lived, that no eye
save the piercing one of love could have de-
tected its fugitive traces upon her countenance,
VOL. I. N
266 STURMER.
SO rapidly were they succeeded by the most
unequivocal signs of terror and distress ; but
they had not been lost upon Sturmer, and they
infused hope and courage into his soul. He
had impetuously advanced to meet her, and
possessing himself of her passive hand had car-
ried it to his heart in speechless emotion ; but
the conflict of her feelings had so bewildered
her that she appeared suddenly to have become
unconscious of his presence, and remained trans-
fixed to the spot where she had first recognised
him, motionless as a statue, and betraying no
signs of life save in the changing hues of her
complexion. The blood which had rushed
tumultuously to her cheeks but a moment be-
fore, lending them a bloom so brilliant as to
cheat the gazer into a belief that health was
there, suddenly receded to her heart and left
them white as alabaster, —her lips grew colour-
less —her eyes closed —her limbs suddenly re-
fused to sustain her ; Sturmer threw his arms
round her, and supported her sinking frame
STURMER. 267
upon his bosom ; he bore her to the window,
and throwing it open bared her temples to the
keen air, and chafed her hands in his ; and
as her head drooped helplessly upon his shoul-
der, and his eyes wandered fondly over that
exquisite countenance, he for the first time
became aware of the fearful changes that had
passed over it since he last beheld it, and tears
of agony burst from his eyes.
He thought of the first time he had ^seen
her;—even thus had she then appeared to him,
wan, breathless, and inanimate ; Death was the
ghastly rival from whose grasp he had then suc-
cessfully struggled to rescue her, —not for him-
self, indeed, but to resign her to another. Was
the dreadful conflict ever to be renewed under
that roof ? — and had the inexorable tyrant
again appeared to dispute her possession, and
to triumph over him, when, after long years of
despair, hope had once more dawned upon his
heart .''
Happy, ah, happy, had it indeed been so !
n2
268 STURMER.
happy, had she then died, the last feeble pulses
of her heart fluttering only with joy ill re-
pressed and love irrepressible ! happy, could
she have escaped that knowledge, which was
to bring with it worse than death ! But it was
not to be ; the chalice was not to pass away
from her lips until she had drained its contents
even to the last bitter dregs !
A gasping sigh soon announced that Lolotte
was reviving from her swoon ; she opened her
eyes and gazed wildly around her for a mo-
ment, then closed them again, and a gush of
tears relieved her oppressed heart ;
—but it was
not until Sturmer spoke that memory and con-
sciousness returned to her. At the sound of
that beloved voice, calling upon her name in
tones of tenderest affection, her whole frame
thrilled, and a smile flitted over her counte-
nance ; she raised her head from his bosom,
and looking wistfully in his face for the space of
a minute, passed her hand over his forehead.
STURMER. 269
" It is no dream," she muttered to herself
" it is Sturmer. God help me !"
Then disengaging herself from his support
she tottered to the nearest chair, and sinking
into it covered her eyes with her hands, and
remained silent.
Sturmer knelt at her feet.
" Rouse yourself, beloved Lolotte," he said,
" and listen to me. I have much to say,
much that you must hear !" and he gently
removed her hands from her face.
Lolotte did rouse herself, and cast upon him
a look full of reproach ;
" You can have no-
thing to say to me to which I ought to listen,"
she replied. '' Why are you here, Mr. Stur-
mer ? Oh, why have you thus cruelly disre-
garded my entreaties—my prohibitions ?"
" You ask me why I am here, Lolotte, and
I answer you by another question. Did you
not promise faithfully to remain at Prague until
I returned thither, and have you not broken
210 STURMER.
faith with me ? I am here, Lolotte, because
you are not there !
"
" Oh !""
said she, wringing her hands, " this
persecution is too unjust, —it is cruel, it is
unmanly ! you well knew that a promise ex-
torted from me under the influence of terror
could not be binding,-^you well knew that.'"'
" It matters not what I knew or thought,"
interrupted Sturmer, " since you would not put
my self-control to the test. Perhaps you were
right not to trust me,—perhaps ? nay, you ivere
right ; for your flight has convinced me that
I could not have fulfilled the promises which
I then made to youj —that I could not volun-
tarily have relinquished you on my return,
that I sought but a respite from the misery
that menaced me, — that nothing but force
should have separated you from me ! It point-
ed out to me the necessity of having no further
concealments from you; —all this I felt when
you had removed yourself far from me. Oh,
Lolotte, I was deceiving you,—perhaps myself,
STURMER. 271
—when I last saw you ; now I have cast deceit
away from me for ever. I have come to speak
the truth to you, the truth only ! Will you
consent to listen to me without interruption
?'"*
" No !" said Lolotte firmly, "for I can guess
what you would say. Spare me the pain and
mortification of hearing- arguments which your
own judgment must condemn, and
—
But Sturmer interrupted her impetuously.
" I will spare you nothing," he exclaimed.
'*
You jnust listen to me, Lolotte. I will be
heard ! and," he continued, speaking through
his closed teeth, and starting to his feet, " try
not my patience beyond its bearing; I have
need of all my coolness, all my reason, at this
moment ; for that which I have to say is, God
knows, as dreadful for me to utter as it will be
painful for you to hear !
He paced the room rapidly for a few mo-
ments in silence and in the greatest perturba-
tion ; then, approaching the place where Lolotte
sat pale and motionless, and perceiving the dis-
57^ STURMER.
may which his words and his manner had oc-
casioned her, he, with a powerful effort, sur-
mounted his own emotion that he might the
more effectually tranquillise hers, and stood be-
fore her with folded arms, calm and self-possessed.
*'
In this room, eight years ago,"' he said, in
accents so sad and so impressive that they vi-
brated to the soul of Lolotte, " the first dawn-
ings of love warmed my heart ; here the ro-
mance of my life commenced ; and here, on the
very same spot, fate has ordained that the crisis
that is to terminate it should take place !
Upon that crisis hangs life or death ;
—my salva-
tion or my perdition; —eternal, I should have
said, could I believe, as you do, that God will
punish his imperfect creatures hereafter for
failing to overcome the passions with which he
has endued them,—for not vanquishing the des-
tinv which he has allotted to them in this
wretched world ! Mine was to love you
—
" This I must not hear," interposed Lolotte,
tremulously.
STURMER. 273
"Yes, Lolotte, this i/ou must hear !'''' he an-
swered. " Let me, once for all, appeal to your
heart in my behalf; or, if you have obdurately
closed it against me, let me entreat you to con-
sult your reason. Ask yourself whether I have
not, by my long, long silence, deserved that you
should for once hear me to an end without inter-
ruption ?
"
Lolotte remained silent, and he proceeded:
" My destiny was to love you ! and could I
put faith in sorcery, I should believe that
through the agency of that lifeless image,''
pointing to Lolotte's picture, *'
a spell had been
cast over me to lead to my undoing ; since, in
looking upon it, my heart acknowledged by
anticipation the mysterious, fatal influence which
you alone were to exercise over it, and devoted
itself, with the constancy of a martyr, to a wor-
ship which was to bring upon me tortures and
sacrifices. Could that picture speak, it would
tell of the vow breathed before it, when, as I
then believed, I looked upon it for the last time.
N 5
274f STURMER.
It was the vow of a madman ; but I have kept
it, Lolotte ! All this you already know, and
I will not repeat what my letter has revealed to
you ; but that which you do not know, and which
you can never understand,—because you are the
creature of sentiment, not of passion, of reflec-
tion, not of impulse,—is the suddenness and
intensity of the host of feelings which then
assailed me, and crowded the sensations of a
long life into the space of twenty-four hours ;
admiration, pity, love, expectation, hope, jea-
lousy, and despair alternately asserted their
sway over me ; but, of those conflicting senti-
ments, two only were doomed to survive, and,
like evil spirits, to haunt the tenement from
which they had driven away every other inmate
Love and despair took possession of my heart
Lolotte, in the name of those enduring feelings,
and all they have cost me, I now supplicate you
!"
And again he knelt at her feet, and clasp-
ing his hands together fixed his eyes in im-
passioned entreaty upon Lolotte's half-averted
STURMER. 275
face, where the confusion and resentment which
had rendered her speechless shewed themselves
in burning blushes.
" If," he continued, " such were the feelings
to which the extraordinary circumstances of
our first meeting gave birth, judge of what they
must have become when, after a lapse of years,
we were suddenly thro^^Ti into such intimate
contact that every sentiment of your soul be-
came as distinctly revealed to me as the linea-
ments of your lovely face. It was a glorious
and exciting contemplation, but one too peri-
lous to be indulged in with impunity ! the beau-
ties I there discovered made me almost forget-
fiil of the beauties of your matchless person,
passion became exalted into adoration ;
—but
this, too, I have already told you ; and if I dwell
upon it again, it is to shew you that the devo-
tion you inspired was no vulgar sentiment,
that it was worthy, as far as human feelings
could be, of its incomparable object
!
*'
Cease, in pity cease !" said Lolotte, faintly
276 STURMER.
" and in the name of that respect which once
taught you to be silent, let me be gone." And
she struggled to rise from her chair, but in vain
her trembling limbs refused to support her ; and
unable to fly the peril of listening to words
which but too eloquently described the exalted
nature of her own sentiments for him who utter-
ed them—softened and gratified, despite her
efforts to be otherwise, by the intensity of the
love she had inspired, yet angry and confounded
at the weakness which was creeping over her
heart, and leading her to contemplate with
complacent tenderness the avowal of that un-
hallowed passion,—the irritation of her spirits
overcame her efforts to appear coldly and re-
provingly calm, and she burst into a passion
of tears.
Long and unrestrainedly she wept ; and as
Sturmer gazed upon her flushed cheeks and
throbbing temples, which were but half conceal-
ed by the small white hands that were spread
STURMER. 277
before them, tears of tender compassion for
the struggHng victim rushed to his own eyes.
" Oh, my beloved !
" he exclaimed, " how
often have I thought of the different lot that
would have awaited us both, here and hereafter,
had God bestowed upon me the blessing of
yom* hand ! How would your gentle influence
have corrected the faults of my character, and
repaired the errors of my education ! How
would my devoted love have filled up the
aching void which the death of those dear
to you had left in your heart ! My pride and
my happiness would have been to have given
up my soul to your guidance. Your God
should have been my God ; your faith my
faith ! Such would have been the past ; and
for the future^ —think you that age could
have the power to quench the fires of a love
so pure and holy ? Oh, no ! immortal as our
souls would be that sacred flame ! and when
the moment should arrive that summoned
278 STURMER.
one of us to precede the other into the un-
known world beyond the grave, the bitter-
ness of death would be softened by the blessed
conviction that the same hereafter awaited us
both !
"
Poor Lolotte ! The picture Sturmer had
drawn of his devoted tenderness, and of the
happiness that might have been theirs had
Heaven destined them for each other, con-
trasted but too painfully with the apathetic
neglect of her husband and the hopeless deso-
lation of heart which had been the conse-
quence of it ; but more especially the avowal
he had made of what her influence might
have effected for his immortal interests, could
she have been his guide and companion during
their earthly pilgrimage, impressed itself upon
her heart with painful intensity, and every
word he uttered sank deeply there, and called
forth regrets which virtue would not have
blushed to avow, so unstainedly free were they
from the alloy of selfish passions.
STURMER. 279
" It was not to be," she thought ;
'*•
it may
not, — must not, — never can be ! Then why
do my thoughts dwell thus vainly upon a
dream ?
"^
And raising her eyes with an appeal-
ing look to Heaven, she clasped her hands
wildly together, and murmured to herself, " O
my God ! give me strength to resist the plead-
ings of my heart in his favour ! Save me from
myself !
'^
Sturmer read the emotions of Lolotte''s soul
in her eloquent countenance, and remorselessly
pursued his advantage over her.
" It is not too late," he said ;
" we may still
be happy ; still may we realise that life of
love which has been my day-dream for so
many years ! and the future, the future pass-
ed together (oh, blessed thought ! ) shall indem-
nify us for the joyless past. Oh, my Lolotte,
does not your heart plead for me —does it
not plead for yourself at this moment ? Con-
sult but its dictates, and they will forbid you
to reject the elements of happiness that are
280 STURMER.
within our grasp — they will forbid you to
inflict despair and death where you might be-
stow light and life. Give yourself to me,
dearest, best beloved ! mine you have long been
in heart and soul,—mine I supplicate you to
become voluntarily and unreservedly — mine
alone, now and to all eternity !
" I wonder at my patience in suffering you
thus to address me !
" said Lolotte, indignation
struggling with, and surmounting, the tender-
ness which but a moment before had assailed
her, and lending fire to her eye and bloom
to her cheek. " You presume too far upon
the indulgence with which I have treated your
request to be heard, and bitterly do you make
me repent of having for a moment weakly
listened to you. Let me go, sir ! I will hear
no more ; your presumption has recalled me
to myself I
"
But Sturmer, grasping her dress as she
attempted to rise, forcibly detained her ; and
while his lips quivered and his eyes flashed
STURMER. 281
with ill-repressed passion, the efforts he made
to master his strong emotion caused his voice
to sink almost to a whisper.
" Lolotte," he said, with that forced calm
which is sometimes more terrible to witness
than a burst of passion, "upon my knees, and
with the desperate energy of one who feels
that more than life depends upon your answer,
I ask for the only boon that can render exist-
ence desirable to me —I supplicate for life
at your hands ! for, mark me, dearest, I have
sworn it, and again I swear it in your presence,
without you I will not live I One word from
those dear lips will seal my doom ; to live with
you^ or to die for j/om, such is the alternative
that hangs upon your breath —speak then,
Lolotte !
''
She pressed her hands upon her throbbing
heart, and sighed convulsively.
"Retract those dreadful words!" she ex-
claimed wildly. " Have mercy upon me !
oh, have mercy upon yourself, Sturmer !" Then
282 STURMER.
sinking upon her knees, and raising her clasped
hands towards him, she continued in broken
accents, " I adjure you by all that is sacred !
by all that you once respected ! —in the name
of God who hears us ! —in the name of honour
and virtue, which once spoke to your heart !
by your hopes of eternal salvation, I adjure
you, Sturmer, not to tax my courage beyond its
bearing ! Think of what you require of me,
think of what you threaten me with, rash, un-
generous man ! and recall the barbarous vow
that would force me to choose between ^our
death or mi/ own dishonour
1'''^
" No, Lolotte !
" he replied, raising her from
her knees, and speaking in the same calm de-
termined tone, which made her blood freeze
with horror, for it sounded like the knell of
hope ; "I will not deceive you by revoking
what I have said. I am weary of a struggle
which has embittered my existence : life, with
you for my companion, would have been to me
heaven upon earth—a foretaste of the joys of
STURMER. 283
Paradise ! without you, it becomes a loath-
some burthen, under which I have not the
courage to toil ; and, therefore, after mature re-
flection, I have determined to cast it from me.
I did not impart this resolution to you as a
threat, but as a warning, to save you from the
remorse which I know will overtake you when
I am no more, and that you vainly remember
how you might have snatched me from death,
but would not !"
" Talk not thus dreadfully of death,'' said
Lolotte, shuddering ;
" or, if a life must be
sacrificed to end this struggle, let it be mine !
Kill my body, Sturmer ; it will be a less cruel
deed than to kill my soul."
'^
You offer me your life, Lolotte ; and yet
you refuse me your /oi/e," replied Sturmer bit-
terly ;
" but it is your love alone that I covet,
and that alone will I accept ! On those terms
only will I live.""
" My love ?" said the unhappy Lolotte,
speaking to herself, and in the overwrought
284 STURMER.
state of her feelings, unconscious that she was
doing so audibly. " Does he not know that I
would not withhold it, could I bestow it upon
him without a crime ? but I must not open my
heart to him —no, not even to save it from
breakinof ! And what does he ask of me ? To
forget my mother's precepts ; — to forfeit my
hopes of heaven, — to change innocence into
guilt,—to become the thing he himself would
despise,—to abandon my husband !
—
" Your husband is incapable of appreciating
the treasure he possesses ; he does not love
you, Lolotte !"
" Sir !" exclaimed Lolotte, starting, and sud-
denly restored to a sense of her situation, and
to all her self-possession by this remark :
" you
calumniate my husband ; he loves me,—at all
events, I am satisfied with his affection, and I
both love and honour him !
'"
" Now God give me patience !
'*'*
cried Stur-
mer, stung to the quick by this unexpected
declaration, which (although by no means con-
STURMER. 285
vinced of its truth,) he could not hear from the
hps of Lolotte without a jealous pang, which
rendered more intolerable the reproof it was
intended to convey, and doubled the disap-
pointment her last words had inflicted ; for he
had watched her previous agonies, her irreso-
lution, and her temporary wandering with a
fast increasing hope that they were the dying
struggles of Principle, and that Passion would
triumph, and lead her to surrender herself to
him a willing victim at last. But this sudden,
proud assertion of her duty confounded his ex-
pectations, and transported him almost to frenzy.
" Now God give me patience ! for you
drive me to desperation ; you force me to dis-
closures which, indeed, I came here determined
to make, but which I would thankfully, oh, how
thankfully ! have receded from, had you al-
lowed me. I wished to owe every concession
to your love alone, Lolotte, and nothing to the
force of circumstances; but now know all
P'^
and drawing close to her, and grasping her
286 STURMER.
hands, to prevent her escaping from him, he, in
a voice almost inarticulate from emotion, breath-
ed a few low words into her ear.
Transfixed with horror, no exclamation es-
caped the blanched lips of Lolotte,—that dread-
ful whisper appeared to have changed her to
stone !
All his anger vanished, all his good feeling
returned during the agonising disclosure ; but
that sudden transition from overbearing passion
to deepest humility, was lost upon the unhappy
Lolotte. A start of dismay had marked her
consciousness of his guilt ; but after that, no
visible sign shewed that she still heard him,
or still saw him near her, until, exhausted by
the tumultuous emotions ofhis desperate avowal,
Sturmer cast himself at her feet, and with pas-
sionate tears and broken supplications for mercy
sought to embrace her knees. That touch ap-
peared to restore Lolotte to herself; she shud-
dered, and recoiled from it as she would have
done from the contact of some noisome reptile,
STURMER. 287
and rising from her chair removed herself be-
yond his reach to the further end of the room,
where a door opened into a small cabinet.
" Approach not !
" she said, in unfaltering
accents, and bending upon him a look beneath
which his soul quailed ; for although pity was
mingled with the indignant sorrow it conveyed,
it was pity such as the Accusing Angel may
be supposed to exhibit when laying before the
Judgment Seat of God the black catalogue of
human offences, which its celestial nature can
neither comprehend nor stoop to excuse. " ""Tis
not that I fear you," she continued, with a
gesture of incomparable dignity; "all danger
from you is vow at an end. You have indeed,
by an act of unequalled treachery, triumphed
over this poor perishing clay, which a very
few days, at the utmost, must restore to
the dust from which it sprang ; but think not
that you shall triumph over my immortal spirit,
too, and send it stained with guilt into the
presence of its Maker ! No ; the avowal of
288 STURMER.
that dark deed has placed an eternal barrier
between us ; it has cured my heart of all its
weak delusions ! Do not interrupt me,'*' she
continued, seeing that Sturmer was about to
speak ;
" these are the last words you will
ever hear me utter, and I enjoin you to listen
to them."
Subjugated by the solemnity and the collect-
edness of her manner, Sturmer mechanically
obeyed her, and without pausing she conti-
nued.
" Yes, Sturmer, those weak delusions shall
now be acknowledged —/ loved you ! how in-
tensely, how exclusively I loved you, God who
read the struggles of my heart alone knows !
You were to me the best, the noblest, the
purest of created beings, the man who wrestled
victoriously with a guilty passion and would
have preferred death to dishonour ! —the man
who sought to vanquish himself, not to vanquish
the woman he loved ! That conviction enno-
STURMER. 289
bled you in my eyes ! — then^ indeed^ you were
dangerous to me, and I fled your presence for
ever — not to forget you, but to cheat my
breaking heart into the belief that its unhal-
lowed devotion might be pardoned, for, that
in loving you, I worshipped Virtue's self.
This was a wicked self-delusion, but it was
my last, my only consolation ; I am punished
for it
—punished through you. You have torn
the veil from my eyes, and shewn me the
worthlessness of my idol. Sturmer, you have
forced me to despise you I may God forgive
you the agony with which I pronounce these
words !
" She looked upwards for a moment,
with clasped hands raised, as if appealing to
Heaven for strength to support her through
that dreadful trial ; then turning upon him a
look of mingled scorn and anguish, " Farewell,
Sturmer,'"* she said, " farewell for ever !
—
we are separated to all eternity !" and
pushing open the door of the cabinet as she
VOL. I. o
290 STURMER.
uttered the last words, she disappeared through
it.
Sturmer, who had sprung to his feet when
he perceived her intention, rushed forward to
arrest her, but only reached the door in time
to hear the key turn twice in the lock.
He called in frantic accents upon the name
of Lolotte, and repeatedly supplicated for ad-
mission — no answer was returned ; he knelt
and listened at the key-hole —not a sound
was heard within ! with one blow he might
have burst open the slight door, but he for-
bore to commit that outrage ; and finding all
his entreaties to be heard ineffectual, he re-
turned to the writing-table from which Lo-
lotte's entrance had disturbed him, took up
the letter he had been writing, and read it
over.
It was the full confession of all that he had
just personally communicated to her,—the more
coherent, because uninterrupted history of his
STURMER. 291
love and his guilt, —the passionate exhibition
of his wishes and his expectations ! There
was not one expression there that could be
construed into triumph over her ; he dwelt
upon her purity with veneration —her spiri-
tualised tenderness for him with adoration
his own madness with remorse and execration !
He did justice to his own purity of intention
up to the moment when, in her sleep, Lolotte
had surprised him writing her an eternal fare-
well, and he joined to his letter the written
evidence of her deep devoted affection for him
in the paper she had then made the depository
of her bosom's secret. But there his self-
justification ended ; and he sought only to
cover himself with shame, that her spotless
virtue might show more bright by the con-
trast —to humble himself in the dust before
her, that he might raise her upon a pinnacle,
alone in her excellence—an object to be knelt
to and worshipped —a being endued with all
292 STURMER.
the tenderness, and none of the frailty of
humanity — she, the innocent, the virtuous,
the betrayed! —the victim of a treachery as
fatal as it had been unpremeditated ! To these
he added a few lines, alluding to the agonizing
interview he had just had with her, and the
severity with which she had thrown him from
her for ever ; and, as a last appeal to her
mercy, he besought her to reflect for two
hours only, before she irrevocably pronounced
upon his doom. He would await her answer at
a particular part of the Ottowaldergrund, which
he designated about half a mile from Lolotte's
abode ; and if at the end of that period no
mitigating reflections offered themselves to her
mind, and induced her to change her stern
resolve, he would no longer persecute her with
his supplications; but he warned her that she
should find upon the threshold of her door
the lifeless body of him upon whose heart
she had coldly trampled, whose repentance she
STURMER. 293
had rejected, and whose devotion she had
spurned ! If he might not devote his Hfe to
atoning for an unpremeditated crime, he would
die to expiate it.
When Sturmer had folded his letter, he left
the parlour to seek for Gretchen, that she
might carry it to her mistress ; but Gretchen
had obtained permission to go and visit her
mother at Lohmen, whom she had not seen
for several months, and thither she had re-
paired as soon as Lolotte had returned from
church ; so that finding no person in the house
that might do his bidding, Sturmer returned to
the locked door ; and, after another vain effort
to obtain an answer from within, he slipped his
letter underneath it, and with a heavy heart
left the house, and walked slowly towards that
part of the Ottowaldergrund which he had
particularised to Lolotte as the spot where he
should await her last decision. In less than
half an hour afterwards Franz Moller arrived
294 STURMER.
in great haste at the garden gate, and without
alighting there drove round to the back of
the premises, put up his sledge and horse in
the coach-house, and walked into the house
by the offices. The motive for his unexpected
appearance will be exj^lained in the succeeding
chapter.
ExVD OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
LONDON:
PRINTED BY SAMUEL BENTLET,
Bangor House, Shoe Lane.
S T U R M E R
;
A TALE OF MESMERISM.
TO WHICH ARE ADDED,
OTHER SKETCHES EROM LIEE.
BY ISABELLA F. ROMER.
" Truth severe by fairy Fiction dressed."
IN THREE VOLUiMES.
VOL. 11.
LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.
184L
/. 2
STURM ER,
A TALE OF MESMERISM.
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
Hamlet.
VOL. II.
Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2010 with funding from
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
http://www.archive.org/details/sturmertaleofmes02rome
CHAPTER X.
This is Fate, be it as you will.
Galt.
It has been seen that the Countess de Koen-
neritz had separated from the MoUers on the
preceding day with the firm intention of obtain-
ing her husband's permission to invite Lolotte to
become their guest during the absence of Franz
at Leipzig. Various motives induced her to
fix her heart upon the realisation of this pro-
ject, but she found it a more difiicult point
to compass than she had previously supposed.
The Count was full of courtier-like gallantry
for his beautiful young wife, devotedly attached
to her, and as indulgent to all her whims as
b2
4- STURMER.
Iiusbands generally are, whose superiority in
years over their fairer halves may be reckoned
in scores. But on some points he had what he
called fixed principles (ergo, rooted prejudices),
and the pride of birth and the claims of eti-
quette were to him subjects of such sacred im-
portance, that no consideration could, in his
opinion, justify any encroachment upon, or
temporary forgetfulness of the privileges of
either. In all the German States, a distinct
line of demarcation is drawn between the aris-
tocracy of the land and the unprivileged classes
;
no fusion takes place between them, either of
intermarriage or of familiar association, for the
purity of their noble descent is far more highly
prized by those magnates than the acqiiisition
of wealth from channels which might dim by
plebeian contact the lustre of their knightly
blazons, or introduce a flaw into the heraldic
economy of their sixteen quarterings of nobi-
litv. Any mingling of casts in the ordinary
course of society is unthought of; the roturier
STUR>rER. 5
does not seek to glide into the magic circle
of the Hoch-gehornen (high-born), nor do the
" High-transparencies" descend to illuminate the
sober moral atmosphere of the rich citizen
;
each keeps his distinct place in the great com-
munity, and thus it is that in the upper classes
of German society, one never meets ^'ith the
aspiringf parvenus and obsequious tuft-hunters,
who beg and buy, push and toady themselves
into notice in London and Paris, and whose
attempts to make the world forget their little
beginnings and obscure ancestry by inordinate
assumptions of exclusivism, their amusing daily
illustrations of ''
how we apples swim," are so
supremely ridiculous to all. and to none more
than to their noble models and patrons, who
seldom fail to avensre the plebeian invasion of
their rights by some occasional mot^ which sud-
denly wings the unlucky soarer when he
least expects it, and brings him do^^Ti from
the seventh heaven of noble associations to
the revolting realities of the sugar-baking or
6 STURMER.
soap-boiling establishment, the manufactory or
the fusty counting-house from which his wealth
sprang.
Monsieur de Koenneritz was a purist in the
strictest sense of the term in these matters, and
any attempt to disturb the equilibrium of society
as established in his own country would have
been looked upon by him as nothing short of
lese-nohlesse ; nobody treated his inferiors in
rank with more polished affability than he did,
but it was an affability which marked their
respective places, which denoted high-bred con-
descension, and never degenerated into fami-
liarity; and thus, when Bertha proposed that
Madame jNIoller should be invited to spend
some days with her in Dresden, he gravely
pointed out to her the impossibility of acceding
to such a request, and explained that although
^ladame Moller was a beautiful and interesting
person, well educated, and highly accomplished,
her birth and station in life did not warrant
STURMER. i
her being produced in the society of the Count-
ess de Koenneritz as her friend ; —as an artist,
a professional musician, or even a professional
somnambulist she might have appeared there,
and have repaid by the exhibition of her talents
the honour of being patronized by the noblest
family in Dresden ; but as she was none of
these,—as she was nothing but Madame Moi-
ler, the wife of a professor of Arabic, the
daughter and grand-daughter of a village pas-
tor, she could not be admitted ; —such an inno-
vation must not be attempted by the young
and noble bride, herself a stranger and a debut-
ante in the courtly circles of the Saxon capital.
It was one thinof to g-ive her a seat in their
carriage for a few miles,—another to take her
by the hand and produce her in their aristo-
cratic saloons ! However, the chagrin visible
in Bertha's countenance at this decision led her
husband to make a compromise with her ; he
proposed that she should invite Lolotte to pass
8 STURMER.
a few days with her in the strictest privacy at
Freudenthal, a beautiful Httle Rietter Schloss
(Gothic castle) which he possessed on the banks
of the Elbe near Pillnitz, and that they should
repair thither for that purpose before they
opened their house to the world and formally
announced their arrival in Dresden. Bertha,
enchanted by this mezzo termine to the affair,
wrote that very evening to Franz to solicit his
acquiescence in it ; she informed him that she
should proceed early on the following morning
to Freudenthal, the Count would join her in
a day or two, and that as it was within a
moderate drive of the Ottowaldergrund she
would present herself there in the course of the
day and bring Lolo.tte home ^^dth her, provided
Monsieur Moller would empower her to use
his authority for such an arrangement. Franz
was too well pleased with this proposal to offer
the shadow of an objection to it ; he therefore
accepted at once the Countess de Koenneritz's
invitation for Lolotte, and fearing that the
STURMER. 9
latter might retreat from it if taken by surprise,
he determined to run over to the Ottowalder-
grund on the following day, and prepare his
wife for Bertha"'s visit. Such was the reason
which brought Franz Mciller so unexpectedly
to his garden gate half an hour after Sturmer
had quitted the house as we have already
stated.
Franz found the house door unfastened, and
entered without knocking ; the kitchen and
the parlour were both empty, but in the latter
he saw Lolotte's hat and muif lying upon the
sofa as if just thrown off ; she was, therefore,
probably above stairs, and there he immedi-
ately sought her ; but, like the lower rooms,
the upper chambers were deserted, and after
repeatedly calling upon Lolotte and Gretchen
and receiving no answer, he again descended
somewhat disturbed in mind, and beofan to ex-
amine the premises below.
The first thing he remarked in the parlour
was a pair of men's gloves on the floor close
B 5
10 STURMER.
to his writing-table, and a little further off a
black velvet ribbon which he remembered to
have seen Lolotte wear round her neck on the
preceding day, lying upon the carpet near the
door of the little book cabinet. Could there
have been a struggle —robbery —murder ? He
tried to open the door, but it was locked inside
and the key was in the lock ; as he knew that
there was no other door to the closet or no
outlet but a window looking into the back
garden, tliis circumstance appeared so extra-
ordinary that it filled him with terror. He
hastened round to the window ; the shutters
were closed, but with a powerful effort he
wrenched them open, and breaking a pane of
glass pushed aside the bolt of the casement
and jumped into the little room. The first
object that met his eyes was Lolotte motionless
and, as he believed, lifeless on the floor ! her
hair was disordered, but there were no marks
of violence upon her person ; she was bent
backwards almost into an arch,, her limbs per-
STURMER. 11
fectly rigid, her teeth set, and her eyes open,
but the whites alone were visible. Franz
kneeling- down ascertained that she was not
dead ; although the pulsations of her heart
were not to be distinguished, she still, almost
imperceptibly, breathed, and he remembered
that once before he had seen her in the same
awful state of tetanus^ on the day when she
had looked upon the dead faces of her two
children for the last time, just before their
coffin-lids were closed upon them and they were
shut from her sight for ever !
Some dreadful mental shock, he felt per-
suaded, must have thrown her into this alarm-
ing state, but nothing in the appearance of the
cabinet could afford him any clue to the mys-
tery of her strange appearance there, until
unlocking the door that he might carry her
into the adjoining room, Franz perceived a
folded paper lying just within the door as if
it had been pushed underneath by some person
on the other side. He took it up, and opening
12 STURMER.
it saw that it was a closely written letter ; the
first few words fixed his attention painfully,
and as he read on his excitement increased
;
cold drops of agony stood upon his brow and
fell upon his livid cheeks, and his whole frame
shook with unrepressed emotion. When he
had finished the fatal letter, he thrust it into
his bosom, raised his clenched hands in fury
to Heaven, and breathing a curse " not loud
but deep " upon the author of his misery, cast
one shuddering look at the motionless form of
Lolotte, and then without waiting to give her
any assistance, rushed like a maniac from the
house.
STURMER. 13
CHAPTER XI.
That woman was liable at times to fall into a S}Ticope,
and when questioned as she lay in that state concerning
things yet in the depths of the future, she was instructed
what response to make by pictures seen in her trance, of
the things that were to be, even as they would visibly come
to pass.
Galt.
It was exactly three o'clock when the Count-
ess de Koenneritz in her elegant traineau a la
Russe, preceded by an outrider on horseback,
drove up to the humble abode of the Mollers
;
she alighted at the garden gate, and proceeded
on foot to the entrance of the house, where
having knocked more than once, she was at last
admitted by Gretchen. The girPs eyes were
swollen with weeping, and consternation was
visible in her countenance ; and when Bertha
14 STURMER.
asked for her mistress, and told her that she
had come to take her away with her to Freu-
denthal for some days, Gretchen with a fresh
burst of tears exclaimed, ''
Ah, madam ! my
dear mistress will never leave this house but in
her coffin ! she is dying, if not dead already
—
for pity's sake, come and see what can be done
for her."
Bertha obeyed the summons, and following
Gretchen up stairs into a sleeping room, beheld
Lolotte stretched upon- her bed, apparently in
the last stage of physical exhaustion, with
closed eyes, collapsed features, and feeble flut-
tering pulse ; the dreadful symptoms of tetanus
had subsided, but had left her without the
power of rallying, for she was quite sense-
less ; and, but for her low, irregular breathing,
might have been pronounced lifeless also.
To Bertha's terrified inquiries as to what
had produced this alarming crisis, the servant
replied, " Noble lady, I know not. Yesterday
afternoon I came here with my mistress from
STURMER. 15
Dresden, after having been absent some months
at Prague. I know not whether it was that
returning without my master to this lonesome
jilace affected her spirits, or that she was still
suffering from her illness at Lobositz, but my
mistress did nothing but weep all last evening,
and this morning when she rose she looked
like a ghost ; she, however, persisted in going
to early service at church, notwithstanding all
my entreaties that she would remain quietly
at home for this one Sunday, but she re-
marked that it was perhaps the last time that
she should be able to go, and that she wanted
to see the old place once more, and so, madam,
she went. She had not been gone long when
whom should I see standing outside of the gar-
den fence, but Dr. Sturmer, of Prague, who I
thought was far away to be sure ! He beck-
oned me to him, and asked me after my master
and mistress, and if they were at home ; I told
him that master was at Dresden, and that my
mistress was gone to church, and described how
16 STURMER.
ill she had been at Lobositz, and how kind you,
madam, had been in bringing her in your own
carriage to Dresden, and how she had come
on immediately here alone with me, and how
poorly she continued, and how glad I was to
see him, for if any one could do her good it
would be himself. He said he would walk in
and wait for my mistress, so I shewed him
into the parlour, and there I left him ; and
when I went in soon after to put wood upon
the stove, T saw that he was very busy writ-
ing. Well, madam, my mistress had told me
before she went out that as soon as she re-
turned from church I might go over to Loh-
men to see my mother, whom I had not seen
since we went to Prague, and that I might
bring her back with me to stay here until
such time as my master can spare Babet back
again : so, as soon as I heard my mistress let
herself in after church, I set off to Lohmen,
quite glad to think that as Doctor Sturmer
was here, she would not be alone while I was
STURMER. 17
away. I made all the haste I could, and was
back again with my mother before two hours
were over ; but, oh, madam ! God only knows
what could have happened during my absence !
I found all the doors of the house wide open,
Doctor Sturmer gone, and my mistress lying
in a fit upon the ground, just inside of the
little book-closet there, the window and shut-
ters of which, looking into the back garden,
(and which I had not unfastened since our
return,) have been broken open as if by force.
It is my firm belief that thieves must have
burst into the house that way, and my mother
thinks so too ; for she says there are some
strange bands of gipsies lurking in the neigh-
bourhood, —and perhaps the Doctor may have
driven them away, and gone in pursuit of them,
and my mistress, I suppose, went into fits from
terror ; but I can only guess at all of this, for
she has never come to herself, although since
my mother and I carried her up stairs and
laid her upon the bed, her teeth are no longer
18 STURMER.
set and her eyes turned upwards as when we
found her. I have sent my mother to the
Bastei to get a man from the inn there to go
to Schandau for Doctor Schramm, —but it is
a long way off, and he will be long in coming.
And, oh ! why does not Mr. Sturmer return
—he who I verily believe can bring the dead
alive —the only person that ever did any good
to my dear mistress.""
At this part of Gretchen's lamentation, Ber-
tha bethought herself of her own powers, and
the magnetic influence she had once so success-
fully exercised over Lolotte in a painful crisis,
and disencumbering herself of her pelisse and
gloves she prepared to put her Mesmeric know-
ledge once more to the test ; but whether it
was that the flutter of her spirits had weakened
her influence, or that the sinking state of Lo-
lotte bafiled the successful application of such
an agency, no visible result was produced by
the exertions of Bertha for a length of time,
and exhausted by her ineffectual efforts, the
STURMER. 19
young Countess was about to relinquish them
in utter discouragement when a gradual change
came over the countenance of Lolotte, her fea-
tures resumed a more living expression, warmth
and colouring were partially restored to them,
and her respiration became regular and more
perceptible. It was evident that the magnetic
slumber had stolen over her, and that her
physical sufferings had }ielded to the action
of Mesmerism, but her mind still seemed to
resist its influence, for as yet nothing like luci-
dity was elicited.
Bertha, however, was satisfied that she had
produced a composing effect upon the sufferer,
and directing all her efforts to prolong that
state of calm, she sat down by the couch and
held her cold hands in her own that she might
communicate to them the vital warmth of her
own healthy frame. In a few minutes Lolotte
drew the clasping hands of Bertha towards her,
and laid one of them upon her heart and the
other upon her forehead; the Countess under-
20 STURMER.
stood by this mute language that Lolotte was
herself pointing out the method that would
detennine her lucidity, and bending her face
close to the sleeper"'s she whispered to her,
'* Do you hear me, — do you see me now,
Lolotte ?"
" Yes,""* replied Lolotte in a low voice, " I
can see you dimly."
" You have been very ill, my poor friend,"
resumed Bertha, " but you are better now,
—
you will soon be well, will you not ?"
" I shall soon cease to suffer," said Lolotte.
" You mean that you will soon recover."
No answer.
" Dear Lolotte, tell me what I can do to
relieve you ?"
" Nothing," replied Lolotte feebly.
" But if Sturmer were here, he would be
able to restore you to yourself.''"
The face of Lolotte became contracted as
with sudden agony; she groaned deeply, and
tears burst through her closed eyelids.
STURMER. 21
*• Why does the mention of Sturmer afflict
you, Lolotte ? He was here hut just now, and
he will presently return, will he not P"*"
" Ask my mistress where Mr. Stunner now
is,'' suggested Gretchen. Bertha repeated the
question to the sleeper, but she made no an-
swer, and continued to weep convulsively.
" Can you see Sturmer ?" asked Bertha.
" No," said Lolotte shudderinor ;
'•
there is
blood before my eyes I"'
" Here are Mr. Sturmer's gloves," said Gret-
chen ;
'"
I have often known him make my
mistress see, in her magnetic sleep, persons who
were a long way off, by putting in her hands
something that had belonged to them ; try her
with the gloves, madam ; she will be sure to
see clearly then.''
Bertha disengaged her hands from those of
Lolotte, and placing Sturmer's gloves* upon her
forehead and heart, held them there for some
* A case similar to this, startling and incredible as it
may appear, came within the author's Mesmeric experience.
22 STURMER.
time. An expression of horror took possession
of the sleeper's countenance and she stniggled
violently for a moment. " What do you see
now ?" inquired Bertha.
" Blood —murder—he dies ! —save him !"
shrieked Lolotte.
" Who dies?" asked her friend, trembling.
" Sturmer ! —He bleeds to death—save him !
—save him !
"
" Madam," said Gretchen, turning deadly pale,
" as sure as there is a God in Heaven, my mis-
tress''s words are true ; and it must have been
as I feared, —robbers and murderers have been
here, and have surely killed Doctor Sturmer !
"
" Hush !
" said Bertha, horror-stricken herself
by the words of Lolotte ; "I will ask her. Do
you see Sturmer, and where is he now, Lolotte ?"
*' Under the oak-trees to the left of the foot-
path, leading to the Bastei."
" Is there any one with him ?
"
" No."
« Who did the deed, Lolotte ?"
STURMER. 23
She made no ansu-er.
"Was it done by robbers who broke into the
house?"
" No robbers have broken into the house/''
" Somebody broke open the window of the
closet —was it done by that person ?"
" Yes."
"Where is he?"
" He has fled."
" Lolotte, do you know the person wlio has
murdered Sturmer?"
A profound silence followed this question ;
Bertha repeated it yet more solemnly, and an
almost inarticulate " Yes," fell from the lips
of Lolotte.
" I charge you to tell me his name," urged
Bertha.
" Ask no questions !
" cried Lolotte wildly ;
"but save Sturmer! He bleeds; —he dies!
Wil] no one succour him ?
"
" When you have answered my question he
shall be succoured, —he shall be brought here.
24> STURMER.
Now then, Lolotte, for Stunner's sake, tell me
who is his murderer ?
'"'
''''Franz Moller r""
she replied, in hollow ac-
cents.
There was a dead silence, during which the
Countess and Gretchen gazed upon each other in
consternation. The latter was the first to speak.
" This must be raving," she said ;
" my
master is not here.—We left him at Dresden
yesterday. He was to go to Leipzig in a day
or two, and had no intention of coming to the
country for some time.''
Bertha made no reply ; she was revolving
in her mind the scene at Lobositz,—the secret
it had betrayed,—the tearful eyes of Lolotte at
Dresden,—her determination to proceed imme-
diately to the country, and Sturmer's sudden
appearance there the following morning. There
was a connecting chain of evidence in these
various circumstances which strengthened her
original suspicions of an unhappy attachment
existing on the part of the wife, and a very na-
STURMER. 25
tural jealousy on that of the husband : nor was
it difficult for her to jump to the conclusion that
the suspicions of the latter having been aroused,
he had followed Lolotte to the Ottowalder-
grund, detected the presence of Sturmer, and
that a duel had ensued. But then again, she
had in her bag a letter from Franz Moller,
written late on the preceding evening, in which
no arriere pensee was to be detected, and where,
after gratefully acceding to her invitation for
Lolotte, and her offer of going in person to
bring her to Freudenthal, he specified that he
should start for Leipzig in the course of the
following day. Would he have written such a
letter, authorising the Countess to go and bring
away his wife at the very moment when he
himself intended to surprise her with her lover ?
Pained and perplexed by these conflicting sup-
positions, Bertha could only come to one decision,
and that was to put no further questions to Lo-
lotte in the presence of her servant. Besides,
much as her curiosity was excited, and anxious
VOL. II. c
26 STURMER.
as she was to read more deeply into the terrible
mystery which had thus been partially develop-
ed to her, the agony that was visible in the
sleeper's countenance and the convulsive strug-
gles which shook her frame alarmed the Coun-
tess to a degree that rendered her distrustful
of her own powers in guiding the lucidity of
Lolotte ; and fearful that their misapplication
might produce some fatal result, she resolved to
terminate the experiment. Therefore, after
having admonished Gretchen to say nothing to
Lolotte of her presence, or of anything that
had passed through her agency, she hastened to
dispel her magnetic slumber, taking care before
she completely recovered her natural percep-
tions, to withdraw herself out of sight, behind
a large folding screen, which stood between the
bed and the door, lest the sudden sight of a
stranger might increase the nervous excitement
of the invalid.
From this place of concealment she could
hear all that passed, and she could also leave
STURMER. ^
the room without being seen ; and from thence
she anxiously watched the progress of Lolotte's
return to a waking state.
" Where am I ? " were the first words she
uttered. " What has happened to me ?"
"Here, in your own room, dear mistress!"
replied Gretchen. " You have had a bad faint-
ing fit ; but, thank God, it is all over."
A long silence ensued, during which Lolotte re-
peatedly passed her hand over her forehead, as if
endeavouring to dispel the confusion of her ideas,
and her eyes wandered fearfully around the
room.
" Is he gone ?" she at last said, in a voice so
faint and tremulous that it could scarcely be
heard.
" Who, madam ?"' inquired her maid.
" Mr. Sturmer," she whispered. '' Did you
not see him ?
"
" Yes, he is gone ; but perhaps he will return.''
"Did he say so.'^'' asked Lolotte, in great
perturbation.
c2
28 STURMER.
" No, madam ; he was gone before I came
home."
" Then," rephed Lolotte, evidently reheved
by this assurance, " he will certainly not return.
He was to go back to Prague immediately."
A struggling sigh followed these words, and
again she was silent, but the agitation of her
countenance betrayed the painful nature of her
thoughts. " Gretchen," she continued, after a
pause, and with an eagerness that appeared
completely to exhaust her, "should any one
come here,
—
no matter who,—remember I make
no exception,—you will say that I am not to
be seen. Let no one come near me,—no one,
—
no one !
" and she actually gasped with emotion.
" But my master, madam," said Gretchen,
hesitatingly.
" Your master is at Dresden," was the reply,
" and therefore is out of the question."
" Are you sure he is there, madam ?"
'•
Of course," replied Lolotte.
"For I was thinking," pursued her maid.
STURMER. 29
" that as you are so unwell, it would be right
that he should be here ; and I wished to know
where you supposed him now to be, that I
might send for him."
" He is of course at Dresden," said Lolotte,
without the least hesitation ;
" but it is unneces-
sary to send for him at present. To-morrow,
if I am not better, it will be quite time enough
to let him know."
" Did any one else besides Mr. Sturmer come
here while I was out ? " inquired the maid.
" No one," replied Lolotte. Then complain-
ing of weariness and exhaustion, she turned
her face towards the wall, and desired Gretchen
to leave her to repose.
The girl obeyed and glided out of the room ;
but Bertha, who had heard enough to be quite
satisfied that the waking impressions of Lolotte
bore no analogy to her magnetic visions, still
lingered in her hiding place.
"To-morrow!" said Lolotte, when she be-
lieved herself to be alone, and clasping her
so STURMER.
hands together; "yes, to-morrow Franz may
come ! All will be over then. I feel the hour
approaching, — and the fatal secret that has
hastened it, will be buried with me."
She said no more ; and the uninterrupted
silence which ensued leading the Countess to
suppose that she was composing herself to rest,
she stole softly out of the room and rejoined
Gretchen on the staircase. But the horrible
vision that Lolotte's former words had conjured
up—the image of Sturmer, her valued friend
(whom she had so lately seen full of life) wound-
ed, and expiring for want of timely assistance,
M'ithin reach of her, yet abandoned to his dread-
ful fate, haunted her imagination, and unable
to rest under the painful idea she descended to
the parlour, determined at once to ascertain the
truth by sending her servants to the spot which
had been particularised by Lolotte as the theatre
of the catastrophe.
While she was giving her orders accordingly,
a new personage appeared on the scene. It
STURMER. 31
was Mr. Becker, the clergyman, who had ac-
companied Lolotte home from church that
morning. Gretchen hastened to repeat to him
the statement she had already made to the
Countess, of the mysterious events which had
passed during the last few hours ; while Bertha,
having in her turn explained the purport of
her visit, testified to the state in which she
had found Lolotte ; the wild words that had
been drawn from her in her magnetic sleep,
and the contradictory tenor of her waking de-
clarations. Mr. Becker, lost in wonder, did
not attempt to offer an opinion upon so bewil-
dering a subject ; but he fully concurred in
the Countess''s suggestion, of sending to verify
the truth of Lolotte's fearful revelation, and
offered himself to accompany one of Bertha's
servants to the place designated, as being more
competent than they could be to find it out, from
his long familiarity with every spot of ground
in the district. Then, in a few touching words
he described the effect which Lolotte's unex-
32 STURMER.
pected appearance at church that morning, had
produced in his lowly congregation ; dwelt upon
her goodness and her piety ; her trials and her
resignation ; and while tears dimmed his eyes,
expressed his conviction that it was the last
time he should hehold her there alive.
" But why should I regret her removal to a
state of being, better befitting her angelic na-
ture ?'**
said he. "If ever human creature
might be pronounced sinless, that creature is
Charlotte Moller : yet, sorrow has been her
portion on earth ! and still, even with this con-
viction of the happiness of the change that' awaits
her, we cannot reconcile ourselves to the idea
of losinor her ; and her translation to immortal
joys will wring tears of selfish sorrow from
many a mourner*'s eyes !"
Bertha felt her own fill as the good man
spoke, and her heart reproached her for having
harboured a momentary suspicion of the purity
of such a being ; but there was not an instant
to be lost in the indulgence or the expression
STURMER. 33
of sentiment, and dismissing Mr. Becker upon
his strange errand, she continued walking up
and down the little room after his departure,
in a state of inquietude not to be controled,
respecting the possible result of his research ;
now breaking off, and softly ascending to Lo-
lotte"'s room, to listen at the door if all within
was still, —now returning to the parlour, and
anxiously peering through the window, to see
whether her messengers were on their way
back.
A wearv hour had thus draofo^ed on its te-
dious length, when Bertha perceived a little
knot of persons in the distance, slovtdy wend-
ing along the wide waste towards the house
;
as they advanced she could distinguish that
they were bending beneath the weight of some-
thing which they supported between them
;
but her impatience could ill brook the delay of
quietly awaiting their coming where she was,
and, throwing on her pelisse, she rushed out
of the house to meet them. At the garden-
G 5
34 STURMER.
gate she was stopped by the arrival of the
little convoy, and there her worst apprehensions
were confirmed. One glimpse revealed to her
the inanimate form of Sturmer, helplessly
stretched upon a sort of hammock, which had
been contrived out of Mr. Becker's ample
cloak, the ends of which were supported by
that gentleman, the Countess's servant, and
Gretchen's mother, whom they had met on
the way : there was blood upon his clothes,
his eyes were closed, and the expression of his
livid countenance was calm and passionless as
that which immediately follows the last struggle
of mortality. Sick and speechless with the
shock, Bertha clung to the gate for support,
while her eyes anxiously interrogated those of
Mr. Becker.
" Wounded, but not dead,*" he whispered,
as he passed her ; "at least, he breathed when
we found him."
She followed the melancholy procession into
the house ; and when Sturmer had been depo-
STURMER. S5
sited upon the sofa in the parlour, where he
had reposed during a part of the memorable
night in which he had been first received be-
neath that roof, Mr. Becker drew her into a
corner, and in a low voice said,
—
" We found him precisely in the place point-
ed out by Madam MoUer : he was stretched
upon the ground, speechless but not insensible,
and two pistols, one discharged and the other
loaded, were lying close to him. It has, appa-
rently been an act of self-destruction, for the
muzzle of the pistol had been applied so close
to the breast as to burn his clothes."
''Those are Sturmer's pistols," said Bertha,
glancing at the fatal instruments which Mr.
Becker drew from his pocket ;
" there are his
crest and initials engraven on them, — poor,
poor Sturmer ! —what could have led him to
commit this rash deed ?
" She turned, weeping,
towards the prostrate form of her friend, and
although faint and heart-sickened at the sight
of the blood with which his dress was satu-
36 STURMER.
rated, she busied herself, in conjunction with
Mr. Becker, in applying the various remedies
which were resorted to in order to restore the
wounded man to animation. In the midst of
these, as yet fruitless efforts. Doctor Schramm
arrived ; and while he proceeded to undress
the patient and examine his wound. Bertha
withdrew alone into the little book-room.
"Madam,—dear madam,— Oh, my God!"
said Gretchen, putting her head through the
window, some time afterwards, and speaking in
the greatest agitation ;
" my master has been
here ! sure all that my mistress said in her
sleep must be true !
*"
" What do you mean ? " inquired Bertha.
" Oh, madam, I mean that just this mi-
nute, when I went to put Doctor Schramm's
mule into the stable, I found my master''s
sledge there, and Hans, the poney, harnessed
to it, poor beast ! and all covered with sweat.
Oh, who could ever have thought that my mas-
STURMER. 37
ter would have lifted his hand against Mr.
Sturmer's life !
—
"
" Hush !
" said Bertha, almost sternly, " keep
these wild suppositions to yourself, and beware
of inculpating an innocent person by repeating
them to any one whatsoever,—not even to your
mother, my good Gretchen."
Here the door was softly opened, and Doc-
tor Schramm and Mr. Becker walked in.
" There is nothing to be done for the wound-
ed man,"'' said the former ;
" the ball has passed
through his lungs, and no human power can
save him !
"
" I will send to Dresden, for the Court sur-
geon !
*'
exclaimed Bertha impetuously.
" As you please, madam," replied the Doc-
tor ;
" but my patient will be dead before he
arrives. I shall not leave the house until all
is over. And, now, if you please, I will go
up- stairs, and see what ails Frau Muller.''
38 STURMER.
CHAPTER XII.
After life's fitful fever, he sleeps well.
Macbeth.
Peace to her broken heart.
Lord Byron.
Nevertheless, Bertha was not disposed to
abide by the opinion of the village practitioner
alone ; nor, despite the sentence so uncompro-
misingly pronounced by him, could she recon-
cile herself to the idea of leaving Sturmer to
die without making an effort to procure for
him all the assistance that human skill and
science could afford. She, therefore, wrote a
few lines to her husband, telling him what had
happened, and desiring that he would send,
STURMER. 39
without delay, the best surgical assistance that
could be procured in Dresden ; and having
ordered her piqueur to proceed express with
her despatch to the Count, and directed that
her traineau and servants should go back to
Freudenthal, and return for her on the fol-
lowing day, she stole softly into the parlour,
and sitting down by the couch which had been
hastily prepared for Sturmer, wept wliile she
watched over her dying friend.
He had recovered from the swoon which had
been the consequence of his painful removal to
the house, but his actual state was much more
distressing to behold than the former one had
been ; the death-like repose of his countenance
had given place to an expression of the most
intense suffering, his struggling breath came
thick and choking, like that dreadful rattle which
is the beginni?ig of the end — the commence-
ment of the last agony,—and, restless with pain
yet unable to turn without assistance, he tossed
the bed-clothes from his chest, as though even
40 STURMER.
that light covering suffocated him. Bertha,
with tenderest care, moistened his parched lips,
and arranged his pillow at every uneasy move,
and while thus employed her hand accident-
ally came in contact with Sturmer's ; he started
at the touch, opened his eyes, and recognized
her, hut unable to speak he feebly grasped
her hand, and raising it to his lips endeavoured
to smile.
" Oh Sturmer, dear Sturmer !
" exclaimed
Bertha unable to check her feelings ; " who
has done this dreadful deed ? Oh, tell me that
it is not you !
"^
Again he endeavoured to speak, and again
was the effort unavailing ; but with an expres-
sive gesture he went through the dumb show
of writing with the fore-finger of one hand
upon the palm of the other, and Bertha com-
prehending that he wished for writing materials,
directed Mr. Becker to bring them to him.
They raised him between them in the bed,
STURMER. 41
and the good Pastor supported him in his arms
while Bertha held the paper and placed a pen
in his hands.
Sturmer looked round him, and for the first
time saw where he was ; his eyes wandered wist-
fully around the room, taking in every well re-
membered object, and at first fixed themselves
upon the portrait of Lolotte, which hung oppo-
site to his bed, smiling upon him in all her fatal
beauty. He gazed upon the fair shade for
some moments with an expression—inexplicable
to those who beheld him—of tenderness, en-
treaty, and reproach, while his lips moved as
though apostrophising it ; then seizing the
pen he scrawled with an unsteady hand these
words :
—
" That no suspicion may fall upon any per-
son for the deed which I alone have done,
I here solemnly declare that I have been my
own destroyer. Weary of life, 1 have thought
i2 STURMER.
fit to lay it down ; my blood be upon my own
head.
" Wolfgang Sturmer.'''
Exhausted by the effort he had made, Stur-
mer sank back fainting upon his pillow, and
when, through the effort of Doctor Schramm,
he was once more restored to animation, it
was evident that his mind had wandered ; he
no longer recognized Bertha, no longer appear-
ed conscious of anything that was passing
around him, and, with no sensations save
those of intolerable agony, he lay gasping and
groaning upon that bed of anguish, his youth
and fine constitution insufficient to save him,
yet conducing to render the death-struggle
more awful and prolonged.
" Where is my friend Moller ? ^ asked
Doctor Schramm ;
" he ought to be sent for."
"He is at Dresden, I fancy," said Bertha,
" for here is a note which I received from him
STURMER. 4?3
here last night ;
" and she produced Franz's
letter to her.
" Careless fellow !
" said the Docter, pettish-
ly ;
" he ought to be here."
" Do you apprehend any danger for Madam
Moller ?
" asked the Countess.
" I have seen her as much reduced phj/si-
cally more than once already,'"* he replied,
" and she has rallied,—but I never saw her
mind in such a state before ; there is a complete
moral prostration, a sort of dumb despair which
makes her turn from every remedy proposed.
She rejects medicine and food with the same
silent pertinacity, and will answer no questions
respecting the seat of her sufferings. This
exhaustion sometimes follows the sort of fit
Gretchen tells me she has had ; but I suspect
there has been some domestic quarrel to pro-
duce the crisis, for the only thing that induced
her to speak to me, was an inquiry from me,
for her husband, and a suggestion that he
44 STURMER.
should be sent for ; she then entreated, nay-
required, that I should refrain from any such
thing ; at all events that I should wait until
to-morrow. Nevertheless, I cannot conscienti-
ously do so, he must be written to immedi-
ately." And sitting down he penned a few
lines to Mciller, and gave them to Mr. Becker
to send off that evening.
''
Doctor,'' said Bertha ;
" Madam Moller
has often derived great benefit from Mesme-
rism ; do you not think that the application
of it now might —
"
" Mesmerism ! mummery you mean !
" in-
terrupted the Doctor bluntly. " Noble lady,
excuse my sincerity, but I always call things
by their right names. I never did and never
will encourage such imposture ; and if any
one attempts to lay a hand upon Frau Moller
to that effect, I will leave the house imme-
diately."
The Doctor, exceedingly ruffled by an allusion
to a subject which he had managed to forbid
STURMER. 45
throughout the range of his practice, spoke
loud and angrily, and the fevered patient
started and tossed at the sound of his voice.
"Hush!" said Bertha softlv, lavino- her
finger upon her lips ;
" nothing more shall be
said upon the subject since you prohibit it, only
pray do not disturb my poor friend Sturmer."
" Sturmer !
" repeated the Doctor, " why
that is the name of the greatest quack in Ger-
many ; the famous Pragi.ie Mesmeriser !
"
" It is he himself," replied Bertha.
" Whew !
" exclaimed the Doctor, " I al-
ways said he was mad, and that, like a mad
dog, he bit every person he approached and
communicated his madness to them. Now my
opinion is verified, for no man in his senses
ever committed suicide."
That night the Countess de Koenneritz and
Mr. Becker remained at the Ottowalder-
grund. During the earlier part of it they
had both remained watching by Sturmer's
46 STURMER.
couch, but, upon an assurance from Doctor
Schramm that if anything required their pre-
sence he would immediately call them, and,
also that they might economize their strength
in order to relieve the Doctor towards morn-
ing, they were persuaded to retire to the
respective rooms that had been prepared for
them, and lie down for a few hours. Lolotte
had at length sunk from exhaustion into sleep,
and Gretchen was to pass the night in a cabinet
opening out of her mistress"'s chamber. Doctor
Schramm, ensconced in a large easy chair,
nodded drowsily, ever and anon opening his
eyes and fixing them upon the countenance of
the dying man, whose fierce agony had at
last subsided into a lethargic calm. The whole
house was hushed into unbroken stillness ; not
a sound was to be heard in that little cham-
ber, save the ticking of the house clock, and
the laboured breathing of Stunner. Doctor
Schramm had placed the night lamp behind
a screen that it might not glare upon the
STURMER. 47
eyes of the sufferer ; and the dim liglit, the
solemn silence, the midnight hour, all con-
spired to overpower the good Doctor with
unconquerable drowsiness, which despite his
efforts to shake it off stole insidiously over his
senses, and at last locked them in heavy sleep.
How long he slept he knew not, but at
last the deep gaspings of Sturmer aroused him ;
he started up, stretched his limbs, rubbed his
eyes, and in that confused dreamy state, be-
tween sleeping and waking, thought he per-
ceived a white figure by the bed side. " It
must be the Countess,'' thought he, all at once
remembering where he was, and hastily draw-
ing near her.
A candle, which had been placed there by
the new comer, was burning upon the table,
and the window curtain having been drawn
back, the cold rays of the moon fell full upon
the bed, and mingling its ghastly light with
that of the flickering taper enabled Doctor
Schramm (now wide awake) to take in the
48 STURMER.
whole scene at a glance. Kneeling by the side
of the couch, with one arm thrown round Stur-
mer, whose head was supported on her bosom,
while her other hand was locked in both of
his, he beheld, not the Countess, but Lolotte
;
so still, so pale, so motionless, her eyes so fixed
and abstracted in their expression that she
looked more like a statue than a breathing
being!—her white night-dress, as well as the
bed-clothes, were deluged in the blood that was
flowing from Sturmer's lips, yet she moved
not !
—she was plunged in that mysterious state
in which the body sleeps while the mind is
awake ; that phenomenon called natural somn-
ambulism which no one has ever yet attempted
to deny, although almost every one denies
that it can be produced by magnetic action
;
and yet why, since one is possible, should
the other be impossible ?
*'
Why, Frau Moller,'' whispered the startled
Doctor, quite unaware of her state, " what in
God's name brought you her^ ? Move away,
STURMER. 49
move away, and let me come near the poor
fellow
!'"*
—Still she answered not, —still she
moved not.—'' Why, woman, what ails you ?
"
he continued in the same tone ; and, at the same
time, leaning over her he felt Stunner's pulse,
and then glided his hand from thence to his heart.
" Dead ! '"
said he, in an under tone. '*
Come,
my dear child, this is no place for you. Go
back to your room, like a reasonable creature ;"
and after gently laying Sturmer's head back
upon his pillow, he seized Lolotte round the
waist, and abruptly raised her to her feet.
His touch aroused the sleeper ; she started
convulsively, and speculation returned to her
eyes. For the first time the Doctor became
aware that she had been sleep-waking * ; but it
was too late to repair the mischief he had done
in violently arousing her from that state. She
* A term adopted by the Rev. Mr. Townshend in his
clever work upon Animal Magnetism, -which better expres-
ses than any word hitherto employed the state of somnam-
bulic lucidity, whether natural or produced by Magnetism.
VOL. II. D
50 STURMER.
trembled in every limb ; and, casting her terri-
fied glances around, they at last fell upon the
ghastly spectacle of Sturmer, dead and welter-
ing in his blood before her. A shriek so wild,
so piercing, and so woe-begone, burst from her
lips, and echoed through the silent house, that
those who heard it never forgot its ominous
sound ; —it was the farewell cry of Reason !
In the next moment Lolotte was stretched upon
the ground, tearing her blood-stained garments
into shreds, grinding her teeth, and struggling
against some unseen phantom with all the
strength and violence of frenzy.
Everybody in the house gathered to the spot
in an instant ; but some time elapsed before
their agitation subsided sufficiently to enable
them to understand what had happened. At
last, Doctor Schramm explained the whole cir-
cumstance to them ; and Bertha, comprehend-
ing the terrible mistake he had made in awak-
ening Lolotte, could not restrain her anger.
"Oh, Doctor Schramm!" she exclaimed,
STURMER. 51
**
you have destroyed her by your folly ! If
ghe had not been thus violently aroused, she
might have been removed without danger from
this terrible scene, and never have knowTi that
she had been here ; "—Bertha remembered how
skilfully she had averted such a crisis at Lobo-
sitz by the timely intervention of Mesmerism,
which had changed the excitement of Somnam-
bulism into the calm of Magnetic slumber;
—
" but it is too late now ; the mischief is done,
and if she lives, it \vill be to become a ma-
niac!"
But she did not live. Towards sunrise the
awful struggle diminished, and Lolotte who
had been overpowered by force in order to be
carried to her room, sank into that helpless,
pulseless, breathless state in which she had been
found in the morning,—hearing notliing, seeing
nothing, and recognizing no one. Bertha, the
Doctor, and the two women servants, were
gathered round the bed, kneeling in solemn
silence, while Mr. Becker recited aloud the
D 2
5£ STURMER.
prayers for the dying. Suddenly a change came
over the countenance of Lolotte ; an expression
of ecstatic rapture, such as had characterised
some of her Magnetic trances, broke, Hke a
light from Heaven, over it, investing her with
more than mortal beauty. It was as though
the earth and its dark stormy sufferings had
faded away before the glories of the cloudless
Day which was dawning on her from on High.
With eyes and arms raised to Heaven, she re-
mained fixed in that sublime contemplation for
some moments ; then gently sinking back upon
her pillow, she passed without a struggle from
Life to Immortality.
STURMER. 53
CHAPTER XIII.
A\Tio can be vrise, amaz'd, temperate, and furious,
Loyal and neutral, in a moment ? No man !
Macbeth.
The remains of Lolotte and Sturmer were
committed to the earth on the same day ; but,
as in life they had been doomed to remain
apart, so even in death they were to be di-
vided. The laws of God had interposed a bar-
rier between their love, and now the laws of
man raised another one between their dust.
The Suicide's Grave was placed outside of the
pahng which enclosed the holy ground where
Lolotte's clay had been gathered to that of her
kindred ; but so near to it, that the summer
wind could scatter over the unconsecrated spot
54 STURMER.
blossoms and leaves from the lime-trees that
shaded the last resting-place of the !Mollers;
and their waving boughs sheltered alike the
graves of the Innocent and the Guilty, even as
God's Mercy is extended to the Erring as well
as to the Just
!
Nothing, however, had been heard of Mciller,
although every effort had been made to find out
where he was. His extraordinary disappear-
ance, coupled with the fact of his sledge and
horse having been found at the Ottowalder-
grund on the day of the catastrophe, and at a
time when he was supposed to be at a distance,
gave rise to some natural suspicions that he
must have been accessory to Sturmer's death
;
but on the other hand, appearances bore out
with the greatest consistency the declaration
which Sturmer himself had made of having been
his own destroyer. The deed had been done
with his own pistol,—there was no trace of any
struggle on the spot where he had been found
;
and perhaps that which was the most couviuc-
STURMER. 55
ing circumstance of all was a sealed packet
found in the pocket of Sturmer's coat after his
death, containing an old faded chaplet of white
roses, and two letters directed to himself in a
woman's hand, which had been resealed with
the signet ring he wore (they were the posses-
sions he most prized upon earth—the bridal
chaplet of Lolotte and the two letters she had
written to him at Prague). Upon the envelope
containing these objects was written in Sturmer's
hand, — " / desire that this packet may he
buried with me ;
—" and then followed the date
of the day on which he was found wounded.
The general belief, therefore, was, that a
disappointment in love had led him to commit
suicide ; and this opinion was strengthened by
the declarations of Baron von Preinl, Bertha's
brother, who, in consequence of Sturmer's last
letter to him had left Vienna and his law-suit
at a moment's notice, and had floTvn to Prague,
and from thence to Dresden, in hopes that he
might reach the latter place in time to prevent
56 STURMER.
the catastrophe which his friend had so un-
equivocally announced. But he arrived too
late ! Whatever might have been his own sur-
mises respecting the extent of his friend's guilt,
(and there were dark, unexplained, expres-
sions in Sturmer'*s letter, which had awakened
the worst suspicions of Anton,) he, out of re-
spect to the memory of the man whom he had
loved so well, suppressed them even from his
brother-in-law, nor suffered himself to give
utterance to a supposition that was but too
well calculated to cast infamy upon the name
of Wolfgang Sturmer. Admitting the fact of
his unlawful passion for Madam Moller, and
the check which it had received from her, as
well as Sturmer's desperate declarations to him
in the event of her sustained severity, Anton
von Preinl, in expressing his conviction that
Sturmer had destroyed himself, said only what
he most conscientiously believed to be the case.
All that had been traced of Moller was, that
on the Sunday in question he had absented him-
STURMER. 57
self from Dresden for some hours during the early
part of the day,—that he had returned thither
in the evening, and had again departed that
night, telling Babet that he was going to Leip-
zig. At Leipzig he had appeared, had touched
the sum that had been offered him for his
manuscript, and had quitted the town on the
same day, announcing that he was going back
to Dresden. But to Dresden he had never
returned ; and from that day all trace of him
was lost.
However, the mystery was not destined to
be buried in doubt for any length of time ;
a full elucidation of it was furnished by the
sole surviving person involved in the tragical
event, and those who perused the solution of
the enigma could not but wonder and admire
how awfully correct had been Lolotte's mag-
netic revelation, when she named Franz Moi-
ler as the murderer of Sturmer.
About a fortniofht after the funeral of Lo-
lotte, a letter, bearing the post-mark of Trieste,
D 5
58 STURMER.
reached Mr. Becker ; it was in Moiler's hand-
writing, and enclosed a closely written letter
in another character, and without any super-
scription. Moiler's letter was as follows :
—
" My dear Sir, —friend, alas ! I dare no
longer call you, for will you not disown me as
such w^hen you know all ? The curse of Cain
is upon me ! I have murdered the man whom
I loved as a brother, and I am a wanderer
upon the face of the earth ! The enclosed
letter will explain the injury which maddened
me to perpetrate that bloody deed, —read it
before you proceed further, and you will then
better understand the fatal circumstances wliich
have made me an outcast and a murderer."
4tc m, 4^ *
Here Mr. Becker turned to the paper al-
luded to ; it was Sturmer's letter to Lolotte,
which Franz had found underneath the door
of the book cabinet, where he had discovered
his wife senseless, and contained, as has al-
STURMER. 59
ready been stated, the full avowal of Sturmer's
guilt,—the expression of his wishes and expec-
tations, —and lastly the few passionate lines
which he had added after Lolotte had quitted
his presence, in which he implored her indul-
gence, and dwelt upon the dreadful alterna-
tive that her rigour would precipitate him
into, if at the expiration of two hours he heard
nothing from her at the place where he should
await her last decision. Having perused that
document, Mr. Becker resumed Franz's letter ;
but as the next part of it related to what has
already been described, we shall omit it, and
take up the narrative further on.
« « 4t «
" When I knew all—when I understood the
base treachery of which my poor Lolotte had
been the innocent victim, I rushed out of the
house with vengeance in my soul ; but, so help
me God ! I did not meditate the crime I have
committed. I had no weapons with me—and
I only meant to cover with confusion the villain
60 STURMER.
who had dishonoured me, and to challenge him
to meet me upon equal terms, and according
to the laws of honour, in the presence of wit-
nesses, to answer for the injury he had done
me. The sight of him, however, transported
me beyond all self-command, —I shewed him
his letter, and reproached him with his crime ;
—he avowed it, — and then like a tiger I
sprang upon him, and would have throttled
him !
'
Stay !
^
said he, '
I will furnish you
with more expeditious means,"* and he drew
two pistols from his pocket, and offered them
to me ; — '
'Twill only be saving me the
trouble of doing it myself.' ' Take your
ground,** said I, snatching one of the pistols ;
'
stand !
'
'
No, ^loller,' he repHed, throwing
the other one upon the ground, '
I will never
fire upon you !
'
'
Coward ! dastardly villain !
'
I cried, *
do not think to disarm my just ven-
geance by this base evasion !
' His face flushed
crimson, and then turned deadly pale, yet he
contained himself. 'Even this, insult I will
STURMER. 61
bear,' said he, ' from the husband of Lolotte.'
That name from his Hps rendered me furious
—I rushed up to him, placed the muzzle of
the pistol to his breast, fired, and he fell !
Then I fled, without daring to look upon the
face of him I had murdered ; and, fearful of
returning to my home, anxious only to escape,
I regained Dresden by the Pirna road, and
set out for Leipzig that very night, meaning
to pass the Saxon frontier without loss of time,
and go to Frankfort where I have relations.
" But at Leipzig I met with an old friend,
whom I had not seen for many years, a man,
who, when I travelled through Germany before
I was married, shewed me the gTeatest kind-
ness in his own country. I thought I might
trust him with my horrible secret, and I did
so. I threw myself upon his generosity for
assistance and advice, and he did not cast me
from him. He is a Wiirtemberger, and has
been a Missionary to the East ; he had re-
turned to Germany for a short time, and was
62 STURMER.
then about to proceed to Alexandria, whither
he proposed I should accompany him, as my
proficiency in Arabic would render me very useful
to hira there. I closed with the offer ; and hav-
ing signified at Leipzig that I should imme-
diately return to Dresden, I left the town on
foot, and was joined at some miles distant from
it by my friend, Albert Stoerckel, with whom
I journeyed hither in the disguise of a servant.
To-morrow we are to embark for Alexandria,
and I shall return to my own country no
more.
" I have not the courage to write my fare-
well to Lolotte ; will you, my dear sir, break
my resolution to her ? Tell her that I acquit
her of all participation in the foul crime that
has desolated our home ; and that I never
knew how well I loved her until I was parted
from her for ever ! But after what has occurred,
it would be impossible that we should ever meet
again,—even if I could forget the stain that
has been cast upon her, she would never forget
STURMER. 63
that his blood is upon my hands, for she loved
him ! — Mr. Becker, she loved him ! — ay,
there is the sting !
*'
You see, sir, that I have not abandoned
my wife from heartless caprice. My heart
bleeds when I think of her ; but God, who
'
tempers the wind to the shorn lamb,' will
have mercy upon her. I commend her to your
care ; remember that she is innocent, undefiled
in soul as the child unborn, and that I, her
injured husband, swear it to you '
Oh, sir,
I feel that you will be kind to the forsaken
Lolotte !
" I enclose a deed, making over to you, for
her use during her lifetime, all the little pro-
perty I possess. In the country to which I
am going I shall be able to make my way by
my own exertions; and I take with me no-
thing but the money which my manuscript pro-
duced, and the Prayer-book which Lolotte gave
me on the day of our marriage. Should you
kindly acknowledge the receipt of this commu-
64 STURMER.
nication, a letter enclosed under cover to Mr.
Albert Stoerckel, Minister of the German Pro-
testant Church at Alexandria, will reach me."'"'
"Franz Moller."
The perusal of this letter occasioned the
greatest anguish of spirit to the good Mr.
Becker ; but in the midst of his grief and
amazement at the dark history it unfolded, he
could not but render justice to the feeling
with which Franz Moller had treated the sub-
ject of his unfortunate wife ; and he saw \Adth
satisfaction that sorrow had purified his heart,
and that the apathy and selfishness which
had hitherto been the governing faults of
his character had vanished before the mag-
nitude of Lolotte's misery. He immediately
proceeded to Dresden with these documents,
and having obtained an interview with Baron
von Preinl, submitted them to him. Anton
then, in his turn, communicated the whole of
STURMER. 65
Stiirmer's correspondence to Mr. Becker, and
the good man shed tears over the history of
that long straggle, in which, alas ! Sturmer's
better self had been at last vanquished.
"You see, my dear sir,'"* said Anton, "that
my poor friend was neither an unprincipled
libertine, nor a calculating seducer ; there was
nothing base or dishonourable in his nature ;
his admiration of the Good and the Beautiful
amounted almost to a worship ; and his loath-
ing of Vice, even in its blandest form, was
equally intense. Even in our wildest days,
when we were at the University together,
and that I and others of our age were con-
stantly getting entangled in one sort of dissi-
pation or another, Sturmer remained pure from
6uch contaminations : —he was a Poet and an
Idealist, and in the exuberance of his imagina-
tion he had created to himself a vision of female
beauty so perfect in its moral as well as phy-
sical attributes, that no reality could bear a
66 STURMER.
comparison with it. Like another Pygmalion
he hecame enamoured of his own creation, and
God only knows how many odes and epistles
he addressed to this Goddess of his brain ! and,
as nothing less ethereal could satisfy his fasti-
dious taste, he turned with indiiference
from all that we then found so charming and
attractive. This was the secret of his infatu-
ated passion for Lolotte Moller, which blazed
out with such violence at first sight, and, unlike
other sudden passions, the meteors of a day,
never afterwards cooled. In her extraordinary
loveliness he beheld the realisation of his
dream, the incarnation of his visionary idol;
that idol was not displaced ; but henceforth it
bore the name of Lolotte, and he loved—nay,
adored—without questioning the possibility of
her moral beauties falling short of her physical
perfections. Afterwards, when he found out
that her loveliness was her least charm, the
fair exterior was only worshiped as the en-
velope of a fairer mind ! Poor fellow I know-
STURMER. 67
ing the utter impossibility of such an attach-
ment ever ending happily for him, I have
often wished that Lolotte had been less admir-
able, less pure in mind than she was ; one evi-
dence of levity or grossness would have dimi-
nished, perhaps destroyed her empire over him ;
for Sturmer was not a man who could have
loved through the senses alone."
" He was an erring, but not a vicious man,"
said Mr. Becker.
" All his impulses, all his intentions were
virtuous and honest
!
" rejoined Anton, impres-
sively.
" Ay, sir," continued Mr. Becker, " his wtues
and his honesty were the instincts of a noble
nature ; but not being based upon the strong
foundations of religious principle, they were not
proof against the tempest of passion that as-
sailed him, and were broken down and swept
away by the whirlwind. He looked not for
strength to resist temptation, where strength
alone can be found, from on High !
—
he was not
6S STURMER.
a Christian, sir,—he was a Philosopher ! —and
behold, to what has his philosophy conducted
him!"
Mr. Becker wrote to Moiler acquainting
him with his wife's death, and returning the
deed of trust which he had enclosed to him
for Lolotte's use ; but he received no further
intelligence of Franz Moller, nor did the self-
exiled wanderer ever return to his own country.
STURMER. 69
CONXLUSION.
In the wilds
Of fiery climes he made himself a home.
And his soul drank their sunbeams ; he was girt
With strange and dusky aspects ; he was not
Himself what he had been ; he was a wanderer.
Lord Byron.
Several years afterwards, when Anton von
Preinl and one of his friends were in Egypt, and
travelling between Cairo and the Fayoom, (that
lovely Oasis whose rose-gardens are celebrated
throughout the land,) they halted one even-
ing to pass the night in a Bedouin camp, upon
the edge of the desert, where their Arab guide,
who belonged to the same tribe, assured them
that they would be very well received. The
70 STURMER.
appearance of this encampment was extremely
agreeable and picturesque ; the camels'-hair
tents pitched in the form of a crescent at re-
gular distances from each other, and having
their entrances turned towards the East, were
clean and airy ; and upon the short grass be-
fore them gamboled a troop of noisy little
Arab children, disputing the territory with the
goats and kids belonging to the wandering
colony.
The chief of the tribe, or, as he was called,
the Scheik Mourad, received them with patri-
archal hospitality, and his wife Hadidje, a hand-
some young Arab woman, prepared with her
own hands the supper that was to be offered
to them ; while her two sons, sturdy urchins
of five and six years old, hung upon her skirts,
eyeing the strangers with that half bashful, half
playful curiosity which only required a little
encouraofement to glide into familiaritv. There
was something in the appearance of the Scheik,
STURMER. 71
however, which struck Anton as being foreign
to the scene ; although he wore the Bedouin
Abbas, there was wanting in him the eye of
fire and the freedom of Hmb which belong
exclusively to the Children of the Desert, and
his fair complexion, clear blue eyes, and honest,
contemplative, but somewhat heavy counte-
nance, appeared to the German traveller better
suited to the characteristics of his own Father-
land than to the rude and primitive encadrement
in which he had found him. This opinion was
justified when, upon finding that the Baron and
his friend were quite ignorant of Arabic, Mou-
rad addressed them in French, but in French
with so obstinate a German accent that Anton
exclaimed, " My friend, I fancy that you and
I come from the same part of the world, and
that we shall get on much better in our native
tong-ue ; pray tell me what induced you to
turn Bedouin ? " — and he immediately pro-
ceeded to speak to him in German.
72 STURMER.
The Scheik coloured, drew up haughtily, and
replied still in French,
" Sir, I do not ask you whence you come,
or what are your motives for being here ; the
laws of hospitality do not exact that we should
open our hearts to one another ; you are wel-
come to all that I can give you —except my
confidence/'
Anton, apologizing for his indiscreet curiosity,
took care that no relapse into it should draw
upon him such another rebuke ; but later in
the evening while his friend and himself were
standing outside the door of the tent in which
they were to sleep, looking at the solemn beauty
of the starlight night, and questioning the host
about the arrangements for their next day''s
journey, Anton in a pause of the dialogue care-
lessly whistled the air of " Konns't du das Land
wo die Citronen hlilhn ?" as his thoughts reverted
to his own distant country. The painful effect
which this simple snatch of an old song pro-
duced upon the Scheik was so powerful that
STURMER. 73
he could neither control it nor conceal it from
the two strangers ; his countenance became
blanched, his lips quivered, tears rose to his
eyes, and his whole frame trembled so that he
was forced to lean against the tent for support ;
in the next moment he quitted the spot without
uttering a word, went into his own tent, and
closed the entrance of it.
Anton and his friend continued where they
were for some time longer, when the latter
having retired to rest, the Baron unwilling to
lose the beauty and freshness of the night,
paced up and down between the green sward
which separated his host's tent from his own,
ruminating upon the strange mystery of finding
a German at the head of an Arab tribe in the
desert, and wondering at the churlishness which
had repelled all his advances to confidence. In
the midst of these meditations he heard sounds
of distress issue from the tent of the Scheik
Mourad. He drew near to the entrance and
paused to hsten ; —then he distinguished the
VOL. II. E
74 STURMER.
voice of a man broken by sobs, repeat in the
pure German which is pecuHar to Saxony, these
verses of the fifty-fifth psalm :
—
" For it is not an open enemy that has done
me this dishonour : for then I could have
borne it.
" Neither was it mine adversary that did
magnify himself against me ; for then, perad-
venture, I would have hid myself.
" But it was even thou, my companion, my
guide, and mine own familiar friend."
Here the voice of the speaker became lost
in deep heart-rending sobs, and Anton unable
to resist the impulse which led him to offer
consolation to the suffering man, suddenly raised
the entrance of the tent and presented himself
before him.
The Scheik was seated upon the ground with
his face buried in his hands ; a lamp was burn-
ing near, and an open book lay at his feet.
Anton took it up, and saw that it was a Ger-
man prayer-book ; the page at which it was
STURMER. 75
open was wet with tears ; he turned to the
front leaf and saw written upon it in a woman's
hand " Lolotte Mollkr. Ottowalder-gi'und,
17th of May 18— !''
An exclamation of sur-
prise escaped his lips, and he repeated the name
aloud. Mourad looked up ; — all traces of
sternness had vanished from his countenance
as he met the scrutinizing gaze of Anton,
—
"And you are —you are — ?"'
inquired the
latter,
—
" Franz Moller r replied the Bedouin Chief,
" the Husband and Avenger of Lolotte !"
Dresden, 1838.
E z
THE GRISETTE;
OR,
AVANT, PENDANT, AND APRES.
" * I thought love had been a joyous thing/ quoth my
uncle Toby. * 'Tis the most serious thing, an' please your
Honour (sometimes) that is in the world.'
"
Tristram Shandy,
N. B.—As I am aware that the frequent introduction of
French expressions into English writing, is consideied
highly objectionable upon the general principle that when
a writer can render his or her meaning in their own lan-
guage they ought not to have recourse tp any other, I
must anticipate the blame that is likely to fall upon
me for having in the course of the following narrative
departed from a rule, the good sense of which I fully sub*
sciibe to, by observing that there are special cases where
such an innovation may be pardoned, and that in writing a
narrative which refers exclusively to a class of Parisians
whose phraseology abounds in popular idioms and vulgar-
isms, it would be as difficult to translate such expressions
into English as it M'ould be to render Cockney eloquence
into French.
I. F.R.
CHAPTER I.
Who ever lov'd, that lovM not at first sight ?
As You Like It.
It was the fete of Pentecost ; the season of
lilacs was drawing to a close ; the glories of
early June had burst upon the Parisians, and
the good city of Paris appeared to have empti-
ed its pleasure-loving population upon the Boule-
vards, that centre of attraction to all classes
of idlers, where they may exhibit to the best
advantage their elegant toilettes, and partake of
the thousand and one gradations of entertain-
ment which that maofnificent line of buildino-s
offers, from the Boulevard des Italiens with its
brilliant and aristocratic Cafes and Glaciers, to
the less pretending, but not less gay and noisy
80 THE GRISETTE.
Boulevard dii Temple with its ambulatory,
Marchands de Coco et de Tisane. The chairs
before the Cafe de Paris exhibited more than
their usual number of fair occupants, dressed
in the latest fashion, and heroically braving,
upon the give-and-take principle of seeing and
being seen, the sun, the dust, and the artillery
of libertine glances (all three, alas ! equally
withering to the freshness of the toilette, of the
face, and of the mind !) levelled at them by
the gants jaunes (or dandies of Paris), who
never fail to congregate at that favourite corner,
and to ^promener leurs loisirs'' between the hours
of two and five from thence to the opposite
corner at Tortoni's, where at an earlier hour,
the elite of the financial world put themselves,
as Robert Macaire says, '
au courant de la
Politique et de la Rente.'' The whole of the
Boulevard des Italiens rang with the confused
strams of Rossini and Bellini, chanted to popular
French words, in the cracked voices of vari-
ous groups of itinerant musicians, to the accom-
THE GRISETTE. 81
paniment of squeaking fiddles and twanging
harps, and producing—not a concord of sweet
sounds—but such admired disorder as can only
be tolerated in the open air, where it is over-
powered by the louder running accompaniment
of every sort of carriage- wheel, from Omnibus
to Citadine inclusive, rolling, rumbling, rattling,
and jingling along in unceasing activity. The
Boulevard Mont-Martre was redolent with the
sweets of a host of Bouquetieres, who displayed
their blooming merchandize at the entrance of
its brilliant Passage des Panoramas, (as though
to counteract the poisonous emanation of the
cigar-smokers who infest and infect that gay
thoroughfare,) and tempted many a sober citi-
zen to the domestic gallantry of presenting his
wife with one of those tastefully-arranged bou-
quets which are the triumph of Parisian flower-
girls, and without which no fair Parisian thinks
her toilet complete. Even the graver Boule-
vard Poissonniere was on that day " frightened
from its propriety" into partaking of the general
E 5
82 THE GRISETTE.
bustle and hilarity, aud exhibited under the
shade of its spreading elms and acacias, (the
only trees, alas ! which the Vandalism of the
July revolutionists has spared to this once mag-
nificently-planted line of buildings,) groups of
bourgeois from the solitudes of the Marais, or
from the wholesale and retail bustle of the Rue
St. Denis, resting midway between their homes
and the yet distant Tuileries and Champs
Elysees, and whiling away their fatigues by
looking at the antics of divers little Savoyards
and Italian boys, armed with hurdy-gurdys
and portable menageries of monkeys, marmo-
sets, Guinea-pigs, white mice, 'e ogni sorte di
bestioline,'' whose tricks are exhibited for the
sum of one sol. But who shall attempt to
describe the continuation of the Boulevards on
such a day ?
—
veritable pai/s de Cocagne, where
the humours of the Parisian badaiids may be
studied in perfection ! where, in the successive
line of Bonne Nouvelle, St. Martin, Temple,
and Filles de Calvaire may be seen booths and
THE GRISETTE. 83
baraques containing every monstrosity of Na-
ture and Art, from the largest giant and
smallest dwarf in flesh and blood, to Prince,
Potentate, Prelate, Democrat, and murderers in
wax-work ; Saltimbanques and Conjurors, Char-
latans and dehiteurs tie nouvelles inventions^
tumbling and prating their hour ; and as each
remove displays a decrease of refinement in
the character of its amusements, so do the dis-
tinct classes of habitues peculiar to each, show
a gradual descent in the social scale, until
at the entrance of the faubourg St. Antoine
on est tout-a-fait en bas de Fechelle, et an
milieu de ce qu''il y a de plus grtvois et de plus
populace au monde.
If I wished to give a stranger a complete
aperpi of the French nation, I would desire
him to traverse the Boulevards from the Made-
leine to the site of the demolished Bastille on a
fine spring day, and to make good use of his
eyes and ears. No other capital in Europe
possesses anything to be compared to it. The
84 THE GRISETTE
Graben of Vienna, the Newski-Perspekt of St.
Petersburg, the Unter-den-Linclen of BerHn,
the Corso of Rome, the Toledo of Naples, and
the Piazza di San Marco of Venice, are all re-
markable in their kind ; but they offer to the
stranger's casual observation one feature only
in the national characteristics of those various
capitals, namely, their aristocracy and wealth
:
whereas the Boulevards of Paris differ from
them all in presenting to the view a many-sided
picture, where every style of colouring, every
variety of grouping may be distinguished, and
every phase of society, and every national peculi-
arity, studied in its turn. It is a chain, the first
links of which are composed of diamonds and the
last of rough iron ; it is—but enough, and too
much of comparison,—and, as I did not sit down
to write an essay upon the Boulevards, but the
history of a very humble individual (with whom
they have nothing in the world to do beyond
being the spot chosen for her first introduction
to my readers), let me resume the thread of my
THE GRISETTE. 85
discourse, and recommence at the commence-
ment.
Well, then, it was the fete of Pentecost, a
general holiday for the working classes in Paris,
and among the innumerable groups of happy
loiterers who were enjoying themselves in the
open nir on that day, (home is the last place
where a Parisian seeks for amusement or even
rest !) two young girls were seen sauntering
from the Rue de Richelieu towards the Boule-
vard du Temple, earnestly engaged in conver-
sation, yet not so much absorbed by it as to
prevent one of them, the eldest of the two,
having remarked that they had been assiduously
followed for some time by two handsome and
well-dressed young men.
The young women in question were of that
class denominated Grisettes, a class peculiar to
Paris, and very little understood elsewhere,
(especially in England, where the morals and
customs of our sempstresses, and milliner's ap-
prentices are established upon a wholly different
86 THE GRISETTE.
footing) —a sort of connecting link between
the virtuous and industrious members of the
social community, and its vicious and idle out-
casts — creatures whose virtue consists, like
that of Italian wives, not in abstaining from
unlawful love but in remaining faithful to one
lover — whose propensities, half sensual, half
sentimental, are divided between gourmandise,
coquetterie, et le hesoin d'inspirer une passion
—who are willing to labour in their comfort-
less garrets, at their respective occupations of
hrodeusSy Jrangere, Jleuriste, lingere, &c. &c. for
six days in the week, provided that on the
seventh they may exhibit their Sunday toilette
in public escorted by the favoured '
bon ami,''
dine with him at a Restaurant dans '
un cabi-
net particulier^ and finish the evening at the
ball of La Chaumiere, or in the Paradis of the
Theatre de la Gaiete ; —sometimes capable
of every refinement of disinterested devotion
for the object of their affection — sometimes
guilty of the extremes of levity and bad
THE GRISETTE. 87
faith towards them —always gentilles, semil-
lantes, hght-hearted, and attractive —such are
the characteristics of the grisettes of Paris
;
and of that class were the two young girls,
whom I have left (while thus again digress-
ing) sauntering quietly towards the Boulevard
du Temple, and sedulously followed by their
two unknown admirers.
They were both remarkably pretty, although
quite dissimilar in their style of beauty ; the
elder one, who might be about one or two and
twenty years of age, was dark complexioned
and black-eyed, with an espiegle and decided
cast of countenance, a low forehead, from
which the dark glossy hair w^as drawn up a la
Chinoise, displaying a pair of strongly marked
eyebrows, a nose slightly retrousse, and a
somewhat large mouth, whose animalalre cha-
racter was however redeemed by the freshness
of her lips and the whiteness of the teeth they
disclosed. Altogether it was a brilliant coun-
tenance, and its possessor evidently knew how
88 THE GRISETTE.
to make the most of it, for her sparlding eyes
were never in repose for two minutes together,
nor were her red Hps ever completely closed
over the pearly treasures within. She was
above the middle size, but by no means sym-
metrically formed, yet her clothes were so well
made and well put on, she had so much air
about her, and the tout ensemble was so agree-
able, that no one would have paused to criti-
cise the faulty of her figure or to wish that
her waist had been smaller, her shoulders less
square, and her limbs more delicate than they
were. Her younger companion was less strik-
ing, but far lovelier. There was an expres-
sion of ingenuous sweetness and modesty in
her youthful face which would have been suf-
ficient to render it attractive even had it pos-
sessed no other charm ; but to beauty of coun-
tenance were added harmony of feature and
softness of colouring; the fresh and delicate
bloom of extreme youth tinged her fair cheeks
with its fluctuating hues; her dove-hke eyes
THE GRISETTE. 89
were of deepest blue, and her smootli white
forehead was shaded with clustering locks of
the most beautiful light brown hair. She ap-
peared to be scarcely seventeen, and her sHght
and well-formed figure, just rounding into wo-
manhood, gave promise of still greater perfec-
tion, when time should have more fully de-
veloped it. Nothing could be more simple
and modest than her dress, and yet the humble
white batiste capote^ lined with pale rose co-
lour, and the unornamented robe of pink in-
dienne a mille rates, of which it was composed,
acquired, from the natural gentility of their
wearer, an absolute air of elegance which the
silk dress, embroidered canezou^ and moire
bonnet of the brunette had failed in producing
;
in short the latter looked like what she was,
a handsome Grisette endimanchee ; while the
fair young girl might have been easily mistaken
for a gentleman's daughter, en neglige de matin
—she was "one of Nature's true gentlewo-
men.
'^
90 THE GRISETTE.
" We need not be in a hurry," observed the
brunette^ looking at her watch, and glancing
backwards to ascertain whether they were still
followed ;
" my aunt does not dine 'till three
o'clock to-day, and it is now only half past one,
so there is no occasion to heat ourselves by
walking so fast ; besides, I told her that we
should amuse ourselves by the way, and that
to-day she must contrive to make the crepes
(pancakes) without me.""
" You are very happy in having so kind
an aunt, Hortense,"" remarked her companion
with a sigh.
^' Ah, ma chere Clotilde /" replied Hortense,
shrugging her shoulders, " there are drawbacks
to everything in this world ! my aunt is, in-
deed, a very good creature, and loves me as
though I were her own child, but she is hor-
ridly vulgar ! cela rCa ni ton ni tournure—cela
manque tout-a-fait d'usage, and every time she
opens her mouth, I am seized with shudderings
lest she should commit herself. In short, I am
THE GRISETTE. 91
half ashamed of introducing you to her, and I
assure you that nothing in the world would
tempt me to walk on the Boulevard in her
company ; elle est toujours si malfi^elee?'*
" I should forget her vulgarity, and think
only of her kindness, were I in your place,"
said Clotilde ; " would that we could change
aunts, Hortense !
'"*
" Tiens !
" exclaimed her companion, " tu
as une tante aussi, et tu ne in en as jamais parte
—c^est drole /"
" I had nothing pleasant to say about her,"
was the answer ;
*'
besides, I have never yet
seen her, and I fancy that I never shall. She
hves at Nevers, and is very old : she was
mamma's aunt, and quarrelled with her for
marrying papa, for which reason she disinherited
her, and never would forgive her even when
poor mamma was dying : so you see I have
no reason to think of her with pleasure."
" No, indeed ; but why did she quarrel with
your mamma for marrying ?
"
92 THE GRISETTE.
" Oh, because my aunt, Mademoiselle de
Vassoigne, is of a very good family, and has
great pride of birth. She never married ; be-
cause, being deformed, and not very rich, she
could not find any man of family who would
accept of her hand, and she was too proud to
bestow it upon any one who was not at least
as well born as herself ; so she remained single,
and turned all her thoughts to devotion. But
I cannot think that hers is the right sort of
devotion, since it has closed her heart to all
natural affection, and taught her to be harsh
and unforgiving to one who never injured her.
Mamma was an orphan, and left to her aunt's
care at a very early age ; her home there was
not a happy one, she was glad to quit it, and
she married in spite of her aunt's disapproba-
tion, a captain of infantry in garrison at Nevers,
whose father had been a peasant, (he was not
ashamed to own it !) and had worn sabots.
Besides his low birth, my father was a repub-
lican in politics ; and as Mademoiselle de Vas-
THE GRISETTE. 93
soigne is a royalist as well as an aristocrat,
she felt herself doubly called upon to mark
her dislike of the connection her niece had
formed. She formally signified to mamma
that the wife of le Capitaine Remy must
henceforward become a stranger to her in every
sense of the word, and after the marriage they
never met. Unfortunately, my father's con-
duct subsequently justified Mademoiselle de
Vassoigne's prejudice against him ; he was im-
prudent, fond of play, and soon dissipated
mamma's little fortune to the last sol ; finally
he involved himself in a conspiracy against
the government, and with many others was
arrested and sent to Paris to be tried for his
life. Mamma, reduced to poverty by his im-
prudence, followed him thither, and contrived
to maintain herself and me by embroidering
and making purses and other sorts of fancy
works for the shops. She lived in one room,
kept no servant, and used to sit up half the
night that she might earn as much as possible,
94 THE GRISETTE.
and not be obliged to apply to strangers for
relief. Once a week only she was admitted
to see my father in prison. At last, after
many months of confinement, he fell ill of a
fever which terminated fatally just one month
before he was to be brought to trial. I was
then only five years old, and too young to be
of any use to poor mamma, who thus found
herself a destitute widow, burthened with a
helpless child, and without a single friend in
Paris to assist or console her. She wrote to
her aunt, setting forth her desolate and mise-
rable position, and beseeching her to compas-
sionate it for the sake of her unoffending child.
That humble and heart-broken letter produced
in reply from Mademoiselle de Vassoigne the
harshest and coldest rejection of her unhappy
niece ; she alluded to mv father's death in the
coarsest terms, recommended that mamma
should apply to some of his family for as-
sistance in her calamity, advised that I should
be brought up to wear sabots as my grand-
THE GRISETTE. 95
father had done, and concluded by desiring
that she might never again be molested by
any communication from one whom she had
long looked upon as an alien to her blood.
"Poor mamma never again appealed to her
hard-hearted relative, either on her own behalf
or upon mine. She continued to labour night
and day to support us, and brought me up, not
to wear sabots, indeed, but to earn my bread as
an ouvriere ; and, as I never had kno^Ti a
better lot, I felt no hardship in adapting myself
to such a destinv. ^lamma tauofht me to em-
broider and to do all sorts of fine works for
sale, and, when I was old enough to turn my
lessons to account, our joint labours enabled us
to live without misery, especially after Madame
Bouvier employed us to supply her magazin de
lingerie with embroidery, for then we never
knew what it was to be out of work. In short,
if mamma could have forgotten what she had
been, we might have been very happy, but re-
collections of the past, together with fearful
96 THE GRISETTE.
anxieties upon my account for the future, em-
bittered her existence, and hastened the close of
it, which she only dreaded because it was to
leave me friendless and unprotected."*'
Here the voice of Clotilde faltered, and she
paused to subdue her emotion, feeling very pro-
perly that the street was not exactly a suitable
place for the indulgence of those natural feel-
ings which her recital had called forth.
" Dam ! ce n'est pas etonnant quelle s'*en-
nuyait a la mort, c'te pauvre femme ! ""
exclaimed
Hortense ;
" in her place I should have thrown
myself into the river. Ah ! my dear, what a
misfortune ! to be born and bred a lady, to be
accustomed to the pleasures of the world, an
elegant toilette, good dinners, balls, fetes, and
spectacles, and then to be forced to give all up,
and work for one's bread like a femme du
peuple ; —Dieu des Dieux ! quel malheur ! I
know of nothing to equal it !
"*'
Clotilde thought that the misfortunes of her
mother could indeed scarcely.be surpassed, but
THE GRISETTE. 97
she thought too that they might have been con-
templated in another light, and have elicited
compassion upon higher grounds.
" Poor, poor mamma !" was her only audible
remark, as she brushed away her tears ;
" she
thought only of her poor friendless Clotilde*'
—
and then in a hurried voice added, " when she
knew that she was dying, she intreated the
Cure de la paroisse to write, as from himself,
to Mademoiselle de Vassoigne, and give her a
simple statement of facts ; representing to her
the destitute state in which I should be left,
and conjuring her to afford her dying niece the
last and only consolation she could know upon
earth, —that of hearing that when her poor
orphan should be motherless, that the protec-
tion of her aunt would not be withheld from
her. ]Mademoiselle de Vassoigne never replied
to that letter, and mamma died in the sad
conviction that there was nothing to be hoped
for in that quarter, and that she left me alone
and unsupported in a world, where her own
VOL. II, ¥
98 THE GRISETTE.
experience had taught her that the poor and
the wretched rarely meet with friends. The
onlv kindness to which she could recommend
me, was that of the porters of the house in
which we lived ; and, although not left to their
care, I have chosen to remain near them ever
since her death (now three years), esteeming
myself fortunate that Madame Bouvier should
have continued me in her employment ; and
still more so, that by taking me into her maga-
zin she should have been the means of pro-
curing me such a kind friend as yourself, dear
Hortense.'"
" Bonne petite Clotilde !'' was the reply, " I
am sure I shall always consider it the luckiest
thing for me that you should have come to our
mngazin just at the moment you did , for if
it had not been for the great friendship with
which you inspired me I should certainly have
made away with myself, I was so furious at the
perfidy of that monstrc de RodoJphe qui m avail
plantee in order to marry his cousin. Ah ! Us
THE GRISETTE. 90
homm.es! les hommes
!
—we t^y fic ims^ Clotilde;
a propos, have you never had an inclination, my
dear ?
"
" Never," said Clotilde, smiling ;
" the only
men I know are Monsieur Le Cure who is
more than sixty, and Pere Benoit the porter,
who is nearly as old, so you see I am in no
fear of losing my heart. Ah, I forgot—there
is Hyacinthe, the porter's son, a good-natured
foolish young man, who fancied himself in love
with me, and asked me to marry him, but I
refused him, wliich I believe has cost me the
ofood-will of his mother, who has never been
the same to me since. She fancies that my
rejection of him is the result of pride instead
of indifference
"
" And very natural and proper that it should
be,"" interrupted Hortense ;
" a porter's son, in-
deed ! you must look higher than that, my
dear."
" Oh," said Clotilde, laughing, " I neither
look high nor low, for the truth is, I never
F 2
100 THE GRISETTE.
think upon the subject at all, and am quite
content to remain as I am, loving no he crea-
ture in the world except Titi, mon gros chat
Angola.''''
" Yes, but I assure you, Clotilde, that a
connaissance — an amitie with some amiable
young man, is very useful as well as agreeable.
Imagine how desirable it is to have a joli
cavalier to offer one his arm, upon such an
occasion as this for instance, when all the
world is abroad, instead of strolling along un-
attended as we are now doing, just as though
we were too old and ugly to be cared for ;
—
then the contrast of a fine dinner at the Cadran
Bleu, of six plats^ a dessert and champagne,
perhaps, (J'adore le vin de champagne !) the
contrast, I say, of such a repast with nn maii-
vais diner de cjuatre sols, such as my aunt will
give us to-day, with dc la picjuette for wine,
and les cjnatre mendians for dessert ! And then
conceive the pleasure of going to the theatre
in a loge grillee, or, at all events, in the balcon,
THE GRISETTE. 101
with a joli gar^on who is aux petits soins for
one, provides one with a magDincent bouquet,
an opera-glass, and all sorts of refreshments
a discretion between the acts, instead of going
to the Paradis avec des billets defaveur as we
must do with my auut to-night, and being
regaled with biere and echaudes when the piece
is over !
" Voila, pourtant, Texistence que j'ai mene
pendant un an avec ce brigand de Rodolphe,
qui a eu Tinfamie de me quitter apres tout?
pour se marier ! The worst part of it is, that
Virginie, and Agathe, and Fifine, and Mimi,
and all the rest of Madame Bouvier's demoi-
selles, who were so jealous of my good fortune
in having such an amitie, so superior to any
of their own, are now exulting over me for
having lost it ; and there is Virginie, gone to-
day with her petit Clerc to Romainville, and
Agathe and her medical student are to pass
the day at St. Cloud ; and Fifine, —would you
believe it ? —is actually to be driven to the Bois
102 THE GRISETTE.
de Boulogne, in a tilbury, by an agent de
change, and dressed too, in a bonnet trimmed
with blonde, and a real Ternaux shawl ; and
Mimi, qui n'est autre chose qu'un paquet de
chiffons, has made the conquest of an English
milord, who is to take her to see the * Muette
de Portici,** to-night, at the Opera ; it is true,
that he is ugly and stupid, and cannot speak
two words of French ; mais c'est egal, c'est
toujours un milord ! Ah ! Je creve de rage,
when I think that to-morrow when they will
all be relating the pleasures and triumphs they
have enjoyed to-day, you and I will have no-
thing in the world to say for ourselves, except
that we dined upon a gibelotte de lapin with a
blanchisseuse de dentelle, upon the Boulevard
du Temple!"
" And are all Madame Bouvier^s demoiselles
going to be so well married ?" inquired Clotilde,
with the greatest simplicity.
" My dear creature, how you talk,'" rejoined
her friend, laughing; "really, Clotilde, for a
THE GRISETTE. 103
person who is not quite a fool, your remarks
are sometimes very silly, and I can only at-
tribute their being so to your having hitherto
lived so completely secluded at home ; when you
have been among us a little longer, you will
get un peu degourdie, and understand that
marriage is not the necessary consequence of
those demoiselles having lovers."
" But were you not engaged to be married
to Monsieur Rodolphe, Hortense ?
"
" Oh, no ; there never was a question of
marriage between us ; and since I have found
out what he is, I am sure I am very glad
that there was not ; for now I know that with
him I should have been malheureuse comme les
pierres ! c''est un fameux ego'iste, et je le deteste
maintenant autant que je V aimais autrefois.
—
Ah ! how I loved him ! I adored him, my dear,
—I would have gone through fire and water
for him ; when he had the grippe^ I spent all
ray money in buying sucre de povimes, et des
petits pots de confiture for him. But that is all
104 THE GRISETTE.
over now ; if I heard that he were dying I
would not shed a tear ; he thinks, perhaps, that
I am hreaking my heart about him ;
—jilus sou-
vent ! il verra si j'ai du caractere ou non.""
" I donH understand all this," said Clotilda
timidly ;
" I think that if I were ever to love
any one as much as you say you loved Mon-
sieur Rodolphe, I could not hate him after-
wards."
''
Wait a little, mon enfant ; you know
nothing of love yet ; but your time will come,
et alors vous ferez comme les autres.'''*
Clotilde thought otherwise, for she felt very
sure in the first place that she never could
listen to love from any man who did not offer
marriage with it ; secondly, that she never
could love a vulgar and uneducated man ; and
lastly, that no other would ever offer himself
to the acceptance of one so poor and obscure
as herself. Whatever she thought or was
about to express was, however, interrupted by
finding herself and her companion jostled among
THE GRISETTE. 105
a crowd of persons who had assembled ronml
an itinerant vender of some new invention,
and had completely intercepted their passage ;
while his manner of showing off his merchan-
dize was such as to induce every idler to linger
and hsten to his voluble vociferations.
" Messieurs et Mesdames !" he cried, holding
in one hand a flat candlestick, and with the
other flourishing in the air a tin extinguisher,
" I claim your attention for the wonderful in-
vention which I have the honour to offer to
your notice—an invention as surprisingly inge-
nious in its conception as it is simple in its ex-
ecution, —an invention which must become a
real benefit to sufi^ering humanity, and a safe-
guard to the lives and properties of our illustri-
ous fellow citizens,—an invention, the offspring
of a great mind, which is destined to do away
with the establishment of fire engines, to enfoncer
la Compagnie d"Assurance contre rincendit^ to
become universally known for its utility and
economy, and to be adopted by general accla-
F O
106 THE GRISETTE.
matiou throughout the whole world, and in many
other places besides ! Ladies and gentlemen,
give yourselves the trouble to examine the me-
chanism of this surprising and admirable extin-
guisher, which is henceforth to enable you to
read in your beds with as much safety as if you
were in your saloons lighted by quinquets^ wax
lights, or even Carcel lamps
!
" (His auditory
was of that class which never has at its disposal
any means of physical enlightenment beyond
that afforded by one tallow candle, and whose
moral attainments were of an order to exclude
the supposition that such a love of literature
as reading in bed appears to intimate, would
be indulged in by them.) *'
Every body knows
that of late years an archbishop of France lost
his life from his curtains having taken fire,
when he had been reading in bed either peti-
tions, letters from his curates, or sermons, and
had fallen asleep without extinguishing his can-
dle, (not that I would infer that the sermons
sent the Reverend Father to sleep f Dieu
THE GRISETTE. 107
m'en garde, Messieurs !) Eh bieu ! look at my
extinguisher, ladies and gentlemen, formed to
prevent such a catastrophe, —behold the sim-
plicity and the profound genius exhibited in
this philanthropic invention, and all for five sols !
— twenty-five centimes for this eteignoir sans
pared, —twenty-five centimes only ! Achetez
en, Messieurs et ^Mesdames, c'est pour un rien !
Si Monseigneur L'Archeveque de Bordeaux eut
su c'te betise-la, il seroit encore de ce monde
;
tandis que, faute de cela, son Eminence a ete'
calcine dans son lit
!"
This eulogium was accompanied by practical
illustrations upon half an inch of tallow candle,
which were so far satisfactory that they left
his auditory in the dark—as to any particular
novelty in the process of putting out a light.
*' Tiens,'' said Hortense, " c'est une fameuse
invention tout de meme ; I must have one of
them ; I who am so fond of literature that I
pass half my nights in reading Paul de Kock's
novels. Ah, ma chere, la belle chose que Pedu-
108 THE GRISETTE.
cation ! here, ClotilJe, hold my handkerchief
while I find my purse ; " and she commenced
undrawing the strings of a little green silk bag,
taking care as she did so to let half of its
contents fall upon the ground ; for her motive
in purchasing an extinguisher was not so much
to possess herself of such an article as to en-
able her to take a full survey of the two young
men who she knew were close behind her, and
to whom she felt willing to accord a better
view than they could yet have obtained of her-
self and of her companion ; and with that
philanthropic intention she allowed several gros
sols, a smelling bottle, and a little box of bo)i-
hons to roll about on the ground. One of the
young men quickly seized the opportunity thus
opened to him to introduce himself, and stoop-
ing down he rescued the scattered property,
wiped the dust from it, and restored it with a
iook of admiration to its fair owner. " Mon
Dieu ! Monsieur," said she with a smile which
displayed to the best advantage her fine teeth,
THE GRISETTE. 109
" I really am ashamed of my awkwardness !
— I am in despair at giving you so mucli
trouble ; —for Heaven's sake, Monsieur, do not
stoop in the dust to look for those sols.*"
" Eh ! Mademoiselle,'' he answered, " who
would not glory in kneeling in the dust to
serve you ? But permit me, Mademoiselle,''
he continued, " to procure for you the article
vou were desirous of purchasing." And dart-
ing through the crowd he approached the
extinguisher seller, and interrupted him in
the midst of a new harangue, to make his pur-
chase.
" Brevete de plusieurs cours etrangeres," said
the man, as he handed one of his extinguishers
to his well-dressed customer. " Allons, Mes-
sieurs et Mesdames, voyez Teteignoir merveil-
leux,—Feteignoir politique adopte par Monseig-
neur Le Prince de Metternich lorsqu'il travaille
la nuit dan son cabinet pour le bonheur du
peuple Autrichien ; car (soit dit en passant,)
son Excellence craint toujours que trop de
110 THE GRISETTE.
lumieres namenassent des iucendies. Voyez
Feteignoir classique, romantique, philosophique,
polvteclinique, et qui deviendra meme histo-
rique ; oiii, Messieurs, mon eteignoir deviendra
historique, car ce que je vais avoir riionneur
de vous dire est un fait avere ; Sa Majeste le
Roi, Louis Philippe, en possede un ; et Tautre
soir, etant occupe avec ses ministres sur une
question d'etat, (n'importe laquelle,) Sa Ma-
jeste, s'appercevant qu'on voyait plus clair qu'il
ne fallait, a daigne bien vite appliquer avec sa
main royale mon eteignoir sur la plus grande
partie des lumieres, ainsi laissant Messieurs les
Ministres dans une obscurite assez satisfai-
sante !''
And whilst the self-created patentee paused
in his harangue to distribute to various appli-
cants the contents of his box of tin ware, the
young man -who had taken upon himself to
fulfil Hortense's behests, rejoined her with liis
purchase, for which he received, as she depo-
sited it in her bag, such smiles and thanks as
THE GRISETTE. Ill
fully encouraged him to continue his conver-
sation with her.
Meanwhile his companion had stationed him-
self near Clotilde, and was evidently transfixed
with admiration at the beautiful countenance
of which he had only then caught a distinct
view, and w^hich was rendered still nYore cap-
tivating by the smiles that flitted over it as
she listened to the grandiloquent discourse of
the indefatigable Charlatan, unconscious of the
effect that she produced upon the gazer. He
was a very handsome youth, apparently not
more than twenty years of age, with 2l figure
meridionale full of vivacity and expression, an
olive complexion, light blue eyes that appeared
to darken when he spoke, shaded with black
eyelashes and dark glossy hair, curling round
a finely developed forehead. His person was
graceful, his dress perfectly gentlemanlike ; and
Clotilde thought that she had never before
beheld so engaging an exterior, and wlicn be
spoke,—albeit, his southern accent was strongly
112 THE GRISETTE.
defined,—she fancied she had never before heard
so musical a voice.
" And you, Mademoiselle," said he to her,
" have you no wish to guard yourself from
the fate of my late respected archbishop, Mon-
seigneur de Bordeaux, by becoming the pos-
sessor of one of these wonderful extinguishers?''
" No, Monsieur,"" replied Clotilde, blushing,
and half offended at being addressed by a stran-
ger ; "for as I do not read in bed, it would
be useless to me.'"*
" You are right,"" he answered ;
" and it
would be a thousand pities to spoil those beau-
tiful eyes by so pernicious a habit."
Clotilde made no answer to this compliment,
but Hortense, who had no intention of allowing
the conversation to languish, immediately re-
marked, " Can any one think of their eyes
when they are interested in an agreeable book ?
for my part, as I have already said, Paul de
Kock has caused me many a sleepless night.
It is true that he is sometimes very common
THE GRISETTE. 113
In his ideas ; and since I have read George
Sand's works, I do not enjoy his so much.
— Ah, parlez moi de George Sand ! voila
du genie —quel homme charmant* 9a doit
etre ! J'en deviendrai folle si jamais je le
voyais
!'*''
The vounof man who had shewn such eager-
ness in her service, significantly pressed his
friend's arm to make him understand that
what he was about to say must be seconded
by him ; and then assuming a conscious look
as he addressed Hortense, he said, " George
Sand has never yet received praise so flattering
as yours. I thank you for him, Mademoiselle."
" What !
" exclaimed Hortense, " do you
know George Sand !
''
* It is evident that tlie Grisette was not aware that
Georffe Sand is the assumed name under which a cele-
brated French female writer has pubhshed her clever
works. Madame Dudevant has rendered public homaire to
that purity which is the most beautiful characteristic of
woman's mind, by thus attributing to a masculine pen sen-
timents and principles which not even the prestige of her
Sfcnius can redeem from the cliarsfe of gross indelicacy.
114 THE GRISETTE.
" Si on se connait soi-mcme, je dois le con-
naitre,*" was the reply.
" Is it possible ?" exclaimed the over-joyed
grisette, " that I have the honour of seeing the
celebrated George Sand ? — Monsieur George
Sand, I mean. Good God, what a happiness !
what an honour !""
and in the excess of her
agitation she opened her bag, and applied the
extinofuisher to her nose instead of her smel-
linof-bottle.
" Himself in person," returned the young
man with imperturbable gravity ; " and this
is my friend, Maxime de Nerac,' lately ar-
rived from Bordeaux, and who is, as you see,
struck dumb with delight by the happy chance
which has procured us so charming an ac-
quaintance."
The soi-disant George Sand was a stout,
good-natured-looking young man, with a
roguish eye, a gaillard cast of features, on
which were plainly written bo?i enfant et mau-
vais sujet^ and a hat ' inis en tapageur.
THE GRISETTE. 115
" If these demoiselles would permit us to
accompany them in their walk ?^' said Maxime
hesitatingly, for there was something in the
countenance and manner of Clotilde which in-
voluntarily inspired him with respect.
''
Mon ami," interrupted George Sand, " tu
as la une excellente idee ! Je t'en fais mon
compliment ; for the first time in your life
you have got the start of me — I was just
going to offer my services —permit me, Ma-
demoiselle ? ''
and suiting the action to the word,
he ranged himself by the side of Hortense,
to whom he presented his arm, which w^as
immediately accepted with a declaration that
" ce n'etait pas de refus ;" while his more
modest friend placed himself by Clotilde, who,
however, with that sense of propriety which
is an instinct in some minds, persisted in hold-
ing fast by the arm of Hortense, and declining
that of her accidental acquaintance.
The young men were speedily informed
by the communicative Hortense of their en-
116 THE GRISETTE.
gageinent to dine with her aunt the lace-
cleaner, (whom she however designated as
une dame qui vivoit de ses rentes^) and after-
wards to go to the theatre of the Ambigu
Comique, with free admissions procured by
her cousin, the above-mentioned lady's son,
one of the gar^on coiffeurs of the theatre, whom
she with the same ready imagination trans-
formed into an " Artiste de PAmbigu.'''' But
to lose sight of the two charming grisettes
without an understanding that they were soon
to meet again was not to be thought of; and
therefore, when Monsieur Victor Giraud, alias
George Sand, and Monsieur Maxime de Nerac,
who had no alias, deposited them in the Rue
du Pas de la Mule, at the door of the house,
of which the lady living on her rentes occu-
pied two small rooms on the fifth story, it
was with a mutual understanding that they
should meet again that evening at the theatre.
I must do Clotilde the justice to say that
if she remained passive during these arrange-
THE GRISETTE. 117
ments, it was because she saw the inutility of
attempting to check Hortense in her career of
imprudence, not because she participated in it ;
something within told her that it was all wrong,
and although she felt attracted towards Maxime
and gratified by his respectful manner to her,
which strongly contrasted with the bold and
flippant tone adopted by the fictitious George
Sand, she felt ashamed of becoming known
to him under such circumstances, and hum-
bled and depressed by the whole transaction.
Not so Hortense ; for althoudi such adven-
tures were not new to her, the idea of having
captivated the author of such delightful immo-
rahties as George Sand has put forth to the
world, gave the zest of novelty to the affair ;
and to prove herself worthy of such a distinc-
tion, she felt ready and willing to put into
practice any or all of the extremely liberal
theories which have rendered that author so
popular with the free-thinking part of the com-
munity.
]18 THE GRISETTE.
In this frame of mind they proceeded after
dinner to the theatre, under the auspices of the
worthy hlanchissense, who, on the road thither,
received so many injunctions from her niece as
to what she was to say, and what she was not
to say, in the presence of a gentleman so dis-
tinguished in every way as Monsieur George
Sand, and who had written more books than
she could enumerate, that by the time they
reached the upper gallery of the theatre the
good lady was so awed by the anticipation of
finding herself, for the first time in her life, in
the society of a genius, (though what a genius
might be, she was not exactly prepared to com-
prehend,) that her spirits fell to zero, and her
conversation and her lazzis subsided together.
She, however, solaced herself by eating pain
(Tepice, of which she had brought a large pro-
vision in her bag, assuring Clotilde, in an under
tone, that whenever the melodrama was very
deep, (and such would be the case that night,)
THE GRISETTE. 119
she found it necessary to fortify herself before-
liaud in order to prevent the vacuum within,
which weeping never failed to occasion her.
In the midst of the sentimental explanation
of the merits of pain (Tepice versus les fortes
emotions, the young men appeared, and Mon-
sieur Victor Giraud, who again took the initia-
tive, after requesting to be presented to "la
respectable tante de Mademoiselle,'' begged
that she and her two young friends would
honour him by repairing to his private box,
where they would see and hear much better
than in their present elevated situation.
Clotilde cast an imploring look at Hortense,
and ventured a whispered remonstrance against
such a measure ; but she was overruled by a
hasty '"''
7^
penses tu^ ma chere ? mais une loge
particuliere ! cest tres bon genre ;
""
and then
aloud, *' nous acceptons. Monsieur, nous accep-
tons. N'est-ce pas ma tante ? Allons, Clo-
tilde !
" And hastily replacing her bonnet upon
120 THE GRISETTE.
her head, she stepped over the benches, and
was soon in the lobby, hanging upon the offered
arm of her admirer; while Maxima after a
momentary hesitation, presented his hand to the
respectable tante, and, with an eloquent glance
at Clotilde, which told her of the sacrifice he
was making of inclination to politeness, he suf-
fered her to retain possession of the lace-clean-
er's arm, (which she had clung to at the first
mention of a move,) and conducted his un-
wieldy charge through the lobby and down the
stairs with as much attention as if she had
been a charming young lady, and the object of
his preference. This manner of proceeding,
so consonant with her own feelings, placed Clo-
tilde much more at her ease with Maxime ;
and when he had seated them in a box in the
second circle, and disappearing for a few mo-
ments, returned with three elegant bouquets,
the most recherche of which he presented to
her, she thanked him with a smile so sweet
and ingenuous, that he felt more than repaid
THE GRISETTE. 121
by it for the reserve he had imposed upon him-
self towards her.
It was the first time Clotilde had ever seen a
dramatic representation ; and her feelings soon
became so entirely absorbed in what was going
on upon the stage, that she forgot the presence
even of the handsome youth, whose tell-tale
eyes had caused her heart to flutter every time
they met hers. The subject of the first piece
given was the loves of Henri Quatre and Fleu-
rette, that tragic tale, whose simple pathos is
so eminently calculated to interest a youthful
imagination and tender heart. Clotilde hung
upon every word with breathless attention, her
varying countenance presenting a speaking
index to her thoughts, where successively ap-
peared curiosity, expectation, alarm, indignation
and sorrow ; and when at last the catastrophe
took place, and that the betrayed and gentle
Fleurette sought for refuge from her despair
beneath the deep waters of the fountain, where
she had so often listened to her royal lover's
VOL. II. G
122 THE GRISETTE.
vows, Clotilde, overpowered with emotion, leant
back in her chair, and covering her eyes with
her hand exclaimed, "Le Malheureux !"
"What!*" said Maxime, who had watched
her during the whole performance with intent in-
terest, " is your pity reserved for the destroyer,
and have you none for his victim ?
"
" In dying, she ceased to suffer,'" replied
Clotilde ;
" but he, unhappy man ! had pre-
pared eternal remorse for himself.
"
" But to die so young," he urged, " so lovely,
and in so sad a manner !
"
" Ah I" said Clotilde, with deep feeling,
"mieux vaut mourir ainsi que de vivre meprisee
et abandonnee !
"
Maxime gazed upon the charming counte-
nance of the youthful speaker with an expres-
sion of passionate admiration, and leaning to-
wards her, murmured in a voice so low that
none but Clotilde could hear him, "heureux
celui qui le premier fera battre ce jeune ccEur
THE GRISETTE. 123
d'amour ! Malheur a celui qui meconnaitra un
si doux privilege—trois fois malheur a celui qui
jamais en arrachera un soupir !
"
There was something in the tone of his voice
that encouraged her to look up at him ; for a
moment their eyes met, and the language which
that mutual glance but too eloquently conveyed,
rendered words superfluous ; Clotilde's heart
beat so tumultuously, that its pulsations might
be counted through her dress. Alas ! had love
already taught it to palpitate ? her innocent
eyes, unconscious of the language they had
spoken, filled with tears, and fell beneath the
dangerous glances they encountered ; and to
conceal her embarrassment she bent over her
bouquet, and appeared lost in the delight of
inhaling its perfume.
" Clotilde,'"* said Maxime, still in the same
low accents, " laissez moi respirer ces fleurs que
vous avez embaumees de votre haleine !
"'*
and
as she held them out to him in silence, he detach-
g2
124 THE GRISETTE.
ed from the bouquet one among them upon
which her tears had fallen, pressed it to his lips,
and then hid it in his bosom.
After this little episode, which had passed
unobserved by the other occupants of the box,
it was in vain that Clotilde endeavoured to
restore her attention to the stage ; she ap-
peared, indeed, to be deeply engrossed by the
extravagant melodrame, which had succeeded
to Fleurette, but everything swam confusedly
before her eyes, and although a variety of
sounds fell upon her ear her understanding
took in the sense of none, save the few low
words which Maxime occasionally addressed
to her. Not even the sensation created amongst
the rest of the party, by the entrance of several
sorts of refreshments, to which all but herself
did ample justice, roused her from her de-
licious stupor : at last the curtain fell, and a
variety of exclamations and preparations for
departure warned Clotilde that her happy even-
ino- had drawn to a close. When the whole
THE GRISETTE. 125
party found themselves at the door of the
theatre, some demur as to how the two young
girls should return home, took place. George
Sand proposed that he and his friend should
set them down in a fiacre^ but the night was
so fine that Hortense, as well as Clotilde, ex-
pressed a preference for walking, at least, part
of the way ; they therefore set forth under
the escort of the two friends ; and this time,
when Maxime offered his arm to Clotilde, it
was no longer rejected by her. Insensibly,
as they sauntered along, her embarrassment sub-
sided, and their conversation assumed a more
confidential tone, for he knew so well how to
draw a line between familiarity and forward-
ness, that her timidity was not once alarmed
by his encroachments towards a better ac-
quaintance with her. The fair young girl learn-
ed from him that he was the son of a gentil-
homme du Pays de Beam, and that he was
studying the law at Paris ; and he, in his
turn, contrived to draw from her all that he
126 THE GRISETTE.
wished to know, namely, her unprotected
orphan state, the address of the magazin in
which she was employed during the day-time,
the allotment of her time, and the hour at
which she was accustomed to return home.
Strange power of sympathy ! by the time they
reached the door of the house inhabited by
Clotilde, in the Rue Neuve Vivienne, they felt
as though they had been long acquainted ; and
as they bid each other adieu, Clotilde knew,
although no appointment to that effect had
been made, that she should surely see Maxime
upon the following day. It was not until she
had regained her little room on the cinquieme
etage, and found herself at last alone, that
she was enabled to think calmly over the oc-
currences of the day ; then they appeared to
her in their true light, pleasant but wrong —
and yet the only fault with which she could
tax herself was in having listened with too
much pleasure to the amiable stranger —and
that fault was an involuntary one ! Well, she
THE GRISETTE. 127
would never willingly repeat it — she would
endeavour to avoid seeing him for the future
—she would forget him if possible! And as
she made these wise resolutions, the bouquet
he had given her was carefully placed in a
glass of water by the bedside ; his words and
looks when he had restored it to her, again
made her heart throb, and when she fell asleep
it was not even then to forget him, for in her
dreams she once more Hstened to the insidious
accents, and once more beheld the dangerous
eyes of the handsome young Gascon.
128 THE GRISETTE.
CHAPTER 11.
Can it be
That modesty may more betray our sense
Than woman's lightness ? Having waste ground enough,
Shall we desire to raze the sanctuary
And pitch our evils there ?
Measure for Measure.
Maxime de Nerac was in reality what he
had represented himself to be to Clotilde, the
son of a gentleman of ancient family in the
Pays de Beam, whose limited revenue ob-
liged him to devote his son to some profession
more lucrative than the noble one of arms.
Maxime had therefore been sent to Paris three
years before, to study the law, technically cal-
led fairt son droit ; but, alas ! it must be
owned that he had apphed himself much more
THE GRISETTE. 129
sedulously to faire des folies. Young, hand-
some, and insinuating, he had the talent of
ingratiating himself with all who knew him,
and was generally well received in society,
where his succes de salon, united to an inherent
love of pleasure and want of application, con-
spired to render the dry study of the Code,
or indeed any other study —intolerable to him.
" His only books
Were woman's looks,
And folly all they taught him !
"
Very much of a young man's general con-
duct in after-life depends upon the society he
is throwTi into on his first introduction into
the world —and much of that particular part
of it which relates to women is influenced by
the character and disposition of the object of
his first attachment. In France especially,
where the state of society unfortunately tole-
rates the indulgence of sentiments which have
no legitimate end in view, it too often happens
that a young man's career in the world com-
G o
130 THE GRISETTE.
mences by having formed a liaison with a mar-
ried woman, older than himself, who, for that
reason, and from her position in society, natu-
rally acquires a great empire over the inexpe-
rienced mind of her boy-lover ; and, if her
errors be redeemed by generous impulses and
noble feelings, may direct his aspirations to
higher aims than those of ministermg to the
wretched vanities of an exigeante and time-worn
coquette.
The opinion formed of the sex in general
by a youth so situated, will be strongly influ-
enced by this his first intimate knowledge of
it in particular. Should the woman he loves
be gifted with a lofty mind, his sentiments
towards all other women will be tinged with
the chivalrous respect with which she has in-
spired him ; if, on the contrary, she is libertine
in thought, word, or deed, he will be tempted
to believe with the poet, that
" Every woman is at heart a rake,"
and will comport himself accordingly.
THE GRISETTE. 131
Maxime had not been fortunate in his first
attachment. The lady was flimsy though
formal, vain and pedantic, and nearly old
enough to be his mother ; and she delighted
so much in telling him that he resembled Fau-
blas in character, that he did not long hesitate
to justify her opinion to the very letter, and by
his numerous infidelities mark his true sense
of the delicacy of mind which, in adopting
such a comparison, could have given it the ap-
proving sanction of her love. With strong
passions and weak principles, he launched into
those ephemeral gallantries which it would
be blaspheming the sentiment of love to attri-
bute to it ; every new face had the power to
charm him, and he conceived that he possessed
a prescriptive right to meet with a correspond-
ing return — nor had he yet been desillih
sionne, for in Paris his life had been passed
among the faple and the frivolous, and in
such a set it was not difficult for his successes
to be numerous. He was, in fact, as often the
132 THE GRISETTE.
seduced as the seducer, yet his vanity led him
to behove the reverse ; and his folly, when
the truth was impressed upon him, to regret
it. Thus fickle and passionnc, he had, until
the age of twenty-two, fluttered from triumph
to triumph, " aimant trop pour le moment, et
pas assez pour le lendemain," when accident
threw in his way the young, lovely, and humble
Clotilde Remy ; and for him to see, was to
covet, and to determine upon the possession
of so much beauty. She was apparently of
a class which offered peculiar facilities to his
designs, and he fancied that no obstacles could
be thrown in the way of their prompt realisa-
tion ; and it was with this persuasion that he
had induced his friend Victor Giraud to join in
his plan of seduction, and delegated to him the
premier role, of active admirer to Horteuse,
while he remained passively observant of Clo-
tilde, and revolving in his mind the means best
adapted to promote his success with her. But
THE GRISETTE. 133
he soon perceived that he had been mistaken in
the estimate he had presumed to form of her
virtue ; the stamp of genuine innocence and
purity was impressed upon her every look
and word, and there is a holy power in in-
nocence which will awe even the libertine into
involuntary respect.
This was not a conquest that could be
achieved by a dinner at Romainville or St.
Cloud, or even the gift of a Cachemire de
Lyons, or any of those moyens de seduction
which are usually employed to advance vulgar
amourettes ; for he who was a deep reader of
countenance and character had watched the
developement of Clotilde's fresh young feelings
during the representation of Fleurette ; he had
marked the involuntary tenderness and irre-
pressible confusion with which she had met the
declaration which his eyes alone had dared to
make to her, and he felt that already her heart
had been touched in his favour, but that if
134 THE GRISETTE.
it succumbed to the seduction of love it must
be love so artfully enveloped in the veil of sen-
timent as not to startle her maiden purity.
But this conviction in no way deterred him
from his intentions ; on the contrary, it lent a
new charm, a fresh impetus to the pursuit ; he
was beginning to be weary of the conventional
smiles, the practised oglings, the feigned coy-
nesses, the minauderies, and the agaceries of
the well-drilled coquettes to whom his ho-
mages had hitherto been addressed, and to sigh
for the devotion of a heart untainted by the con-
tact of the world—that contact which hardens
or breaks whatever is long exposed to it ! and,
lo ! what he had wished for, was found ; youth
and beauty unsophisticated by society — and
simplicity and inexperience unalloyed by vul-
garity. He would stoop to gather this modest
violet, place it in his bosom, intoxicate himself
with its freshness and fragrance, and when it
ceased to charm fling it heartlessly away !
Such were the reflections and such the in-
THE GRISETTE. 135
tentions with which Maxime parted from Clo-
tilde on the night of Pentecost ; and the fol-
lowing day beheld him already commencing
operations, for at noon he strolled down to the
elegant magazin de lingerie of Madame Bou-
vier in the Rue de Richelieu, and having by
a hasty glance ascertained in what part of the
shop Clotilde was seated, he approached the
counter nearest to her and requested to be
shewn some cambric handkerchiefs. Clotilde
who was bending over her work, busily em-
ployed in affixing the last knot of ribbon to a
fanchon^ started at the sound of his voice, and
Maxime could perceive the flush that suddenly
overspread her face, and the tremulous move-
ment of her fingers, which betrayed the sudden
emotion his presence had occasioned ; but she
neither looked up nor attempted to move, nor
did she by any voluntary demonstration appear
to be conscious that he was there ; therefore,
after tossing over the goods that were shewn
him as long as he could, and finding that he
136 THE GRISETTE.
could not attract her notice, he was forced to
make his selection, and was about to depart
when the young person who served him asked
where the parcel should be sent ?
" Chez Monsieur de Nerac, Rue de Chan-
tereine, Numero ," replied Maxime, aloud.
** Mademoiselle Clotilde, voulez vous prendre
Tadresse de Monsieur ? " said the young woman
to Clotilde, whose superior penmanship caused
her to be always applied to on such occasions.
Thus called upon, she was obliged to lay aside
her work and to open the address-book that
lay near her, awaiting with downcast eyes the
direction he should give her ; however, as instead
of speaking he remained silently contemplating
the length of her dark eye-lashes, the distinguish-
ed cast of her features, and the graceful contour
of her head and throat, she was at last com-
pelled to look up and timidly inquire,
" Monsieur demeure ?"
But that look had revealed to her, first, the
eyes of Maxime seeking hers with an expres-
THE GRISETTE. 137
sion of melancholy reproach, and, secondly, the
faded flower he had abstracted from her bou-
quet on the preceding night, affixed to his
button-hole, and a conscious blush again mantled
to her very brow, and caused her quickly to with-
draw her eyes, and fix them upon the open book
before her ; " Monsieur de Nerac, Rue Chan-
tereine,'' he said in a subdued voice ;
" but here
is my card. Mademoiselle," and Clotilde, hav-
ing with trembling fingers written Monsieur de
Chantereine, Rue Nerac, waited until he had
quitted the shop, to slip the card with eager
haste into the little pocket of her green-silk
apron ; and it was not until later in the day,
when the parcel was about to be forwarded to
its destination, that she became aware of the
mistake which her trepidation had caused her
to make, by the commissionnaire protesting that
he knew not where to find the Rue Nerac,
and Madame Bouvier requiring that Mademoi-
selle Clotilde should again refer to the entry
she had made of it in the address-book.
138 THE GRISETTE.
That evening, when Clotilde left the maga-
ziu, to return home, she had scarcely pro-
ceeded a hundred yards ere she was joined by
Maxime, who evidently had been lying in wait
for her.
" Pardon me for detaining you, Mademoi-
selle," he said ;
" but I could not rest until
I had ascertained whether you were displeased
with me for going to Madame Bouvier's to-
day."
" /, Monsieur ?*"
interrupted Clotilde ;
" why
should I be displeased with you for giving your
custom to Madame Bouvier ?
"
" Because," he replied, determined not to
allow her evasion to pass, " because you must
know that it was not to give my practice to
Madame Bouvier that I went there, but that my
sole object was to see you ; and yet you with-
held from me a single look of recognition
!"*'
" Then, sir," said Clotilde firmly, " I must
once for all intreat that you will desist from
returning there for the purpose you have avow-
THE GRISETTE. 139
ed. I v^'ish you a good evening
;
" and curtsey-
ing to him she moved quickly away.
But he followed as quickly, and walking by
her side continued to address her. " Alas !
Mademoiselle, what is the meaning of this
cruel change in your manner ? Have you al-
ready forgotten last evening, and the happiness
you conferred upon me by confiding yourself
to my protection ? Surely, if I know myself,
I did nothing then to forfeit the kindness you
were willing to extend to me,—and what has
since happened to alter your opinion ? How
can I have so soon fallen in your estimation ?
Parlez, Mademoiselle,—ah, parlez, je vous en
conjure, chere Clotilde !"
But it would have been difficult for Clotilde
to have answered the question thus earnestly
put to her ; for had she told the truth, she
must have owned that instead of having forfeit-
ed her good opinion he had rendered himself
only too agreeable to her; and that she dis-
trusted her own new-born, undefined feelings
140 THE GRISETTE.
far more than she distrusted him, of whom in
the plenitude of her guileless admiration there
was not room in her mind for one unworthy
thought ; so she remained silent, and redoubled
her haste to scape from liim until nearly breath-
less.
" Will you not speak to me, Clotilde—Ma-
demoiselle, I mean ?
"
*' Monsieur," she replied, " I am a poor un-
protected girl—without friends—without for-
tune —with nothing but my good conduct to
maintain me in the opinion of my employers,
and nothing but my own esteem to sustain me
in the complete isolation that surrounds me ! I
must not encourage appearances which would
be disadvantageous to my character and lead to
false conclusions respecting my conduct. Yes-
terday, by the imprudence of my friend, I was
drawn into forming an acquaintance and ac-
cepting attentions which my own sense of what
is right disavowed ; I will not deny that I was
gradually led into a temporary forgetfulness of
THE GRISETTE. 141
its being wrong by the—the—charm of your
conversation ; but when we had parted I felt
my fault in its full force, and were I to-day de-
liberately to renew it, I should be worse than
thoughtless, worse than imprudent ! No, Mon-
sieur, we must meet no more ! Our lot has been
cast in different spheres ; there can be nothing
in common between Monsieur de Nerac and the
poor friendless Clotilde Remy. The attentions
of one like you can only be offered in derision,
or worse perhaps, in dishonour ! Cease, then, to
persecute me with a notice which instead of flat-
tering my vanity is only insulting to my pride ;
and think not that because I have no father, no
brother to protect me, that I have no spirit to
assert myself!"
These words, pronounced with a modest dig-
nity and self-possession as far removed from
bravado as they were from weak entreaty,
struck Maxime with astonishment. " By Hea-
ven!'"' he exclaimed, "you wrong me by sus
142 THE GRISETTE.
picions unworthy of the sentiment of respectful
admiration with which you inspired me the first
moment I beheld you
—""
" Prove to me that I have wronged you,
then, by granting my request and leaving me,''
she replied with mild earnestness, " and I will
Hot be too proud to ask your pardon for having
misjudged you, or too wilful to own that I was
mistaken."
" To retrieve your good opinion, what
would I not do ?" he exclaimed ; "and yet to ask
me to leave you thus precipitately is perhaps
exacting too great a sacrifice —too great an
atonement for what after all has been but the
error of a susceptible heart ! If you would thus
punish all who admire you, charming Clotilde,
you would soon be obliged to banish all man-
kind from your presence ; but can you not give
me credit for admiration upon higher grounds
than those you have attributed to me ?—Can you
not believe me capable of loving you without
a wish to injure ? —Can you not fancy me re-
THE GRISETTE. 143
placing the afiection of the father you have lost,
or filliDg the place of a brother to you—watching
over your interests, shielding you from insult,
and becoming your friend, confidant, and moni-
tor? You look incredulous—you believe me
to be incapable of all this because my hair is
not yet grey ! Ah ! Clotilde, grey hairs are
not always the symbol of wisdom ; and when
you have lived a little longer you will find that
the young and beautiftil have as much to dread
from the selfish persecution of the old as from
that of the young."
"Pray leave me!" said Clotilde, perplexed
and bewildered by the sophistries he had so
vehemently uttered. " If you will only grant
this request, I will promise to believe you capa-
ble of all that is great and good ; but indeed
if you persist in disregarding it, you will force
me to think you too selfish to sacrifice the
slightest gratification of your own wishes to the
feelings of another."
**
Suffer me only to accompany you as far
144- THE GRISETTE.
as your own door,'' he urged, "and, if you
exact it, I will not open my lips to you on
the way ; but indeed, you are too young and
too lovely to expose yourself with impunity at
this hour in the streets without protection.
"*"*
" I must accustom myself to it, Monsieur,
for the nature of my employment necessitates
that I should do so, and I hope that I know
how to repel insult ; you however appear bent
upon impressing upon me how much more diffi-
cult it is to repel kindness ; but in this parti-
cular I must not be over-ruled —good evening,
sir!"
" One moment longer, and I am gone ! The
handkerchiefs I chose to-day w^ere only bought
in the hope that you w^ould give them value,
in my estimation, by affixing my cypher to
them, but you would not afford me an oppor-
tunity of asking this of you to-day. Will you,
however, allow me to send them to you for that
purpose ?
"
" Willingly, Monsieur," replied Clotilde,
THE GRISETTE. 145
who felt that to refuse a request which partook
of the nature of a commission in her emj^loyer's
interest would be an unjustifiable stretch of
prudery.
" And may I not call for them when done ?
""
" No sir ; they shall be sent to your house
as soon as finished ; and now once more, and
for the last time, good night, sir."" And she
hurried away, while Maxime crossing to the
opposite side of the street, followed in the same
direction, keeping in view the light form of
Clotilde as it flitted through the crowded tho-
roughfare.
She had not proceeded far, when a tall mili-
tary-looking elderly man, with grizzled mous-
taches, and a red ribbon at his button-hole,
after peering several times under her bonnet,
accosted her. With her head averted from
him she redoubled her speed, hoping thus to
escape further importunity ; but the gallant
veteran was not thus to be repelled, and with
VOL. II. H
146 THE GRISETTE.
sundry expressions of admiration, more energetic
than refined, lie offered his arm to the unpro-
tected girl.
" Pass on, Monsieur," she said, " you are
mistaken ; I do not Imow you !''
" Eh, mille tonnerres ! Mademoiselle," he
returned, " if that is all, and you are willing,
we shall very soon know one another !""
And as they were now at the crossing of the
street, he seized upon her arm to assist her over
it. But at that moment Maxime, who from
the opposite side had seen all that was passing,
rushed between them, with his face flushed
with passion, and wresting the arm of Clotilde
from the stranger's rude gTasp, placed it under
his own, while with his other hand he pushed
him away with such violence as to cause him
to stagger and fall against a shop-window, a
large pane of which was broken by the shock.
While the unlucky author of this accident
was seized upon by the shopkeeper, in order to
compel him to pay for the damage he had
THE GRISETTE, 147
occasioned, and a crowd gathered round to
listen to the contention, Maxime hurried on
with his trembhng charge, and turning round
the corner of the Rue Feydeau, soon lost sight
of the disturbance. Tears of indignation, which
had gathered in the poor girPs eyes at the
insult offered to her, now rolled over her flush-
ed cheeks, and mingled with those which sprang
from softer feelings.
*'
You see,'' said INIaxime, *'
that I was right,
and that my double assertion was verified al-
most as soon as uttered ? —you were insulted,
and by an old man !
'"*
" Yes — yes," she answered in broken ac-
cents ;
" but you were there to save me !
—
thanks—thanks, for having rescued me from
that wretch !
" and she drew her handkerchief
from the pocket of her apron to wipe away the
tears that would not be repelled.
Somethinof which had been dra^^-n forth with
it fell to the ground, and Maxime, stooping
hastily to pick it up, perceived that it was the
fi 2
lis THE GRISETTE.
card he had given to Clotilde that mormng,
to enable her to enter his address into Madame
Boiivier's books. The sudden movement he
made in stooping induced her to look at him,
but when she beheld the card in his hand she
felt as though she would have sunk into the
earth ; it seemed as though her inmost feelings
had been betrayed by this evidence of the
value she had attached to the possession of
that little bit of pasteboard, and a conscious
blush suffusing her face with crimson, left it
the next moment so pale that even her lips
grew white.
•'
Dear Clotilde,'' said he, wishing to restore
her composure by delicately attributing her pre-
sent emotion to the alarm she had experienced
from the mustachioed hero, "this fright has
been too much for you ; lean upon me,"' and
again drawing her arm through his, he could
not this time refrain from pressing it against
his heart. Clotilde made no resistance ; she
felt betrayed and humiliated by what had just
THE GRISETTE. 149
occurred, and in silence she continued to walk
by his side until, when within sight of her own
habitation, she suddenly stopped, and extending
her hand to him said, " In the name of the
good feeling you have just shewTi for me, do
not go farther ! I am safe now,.—safe, thanks
to your kindness !
'"*
" I obey you,'' he answered, raising her hand
to his lips ;
" but we must meet again ; Clo-
tilde, I must see you to-morrow !
"
She returned no answer, but swiftly bounding
forward, was the next moment lost to his sight
within the entrance of her own dwelling.
With a light heart and a tleet steep Maxime
retraced his way to the Rue de Richelieu, and
found, as he had fully anticipated, Clotilde's
military Don Juan where he had left him, still
vociferously protesting against the injustice of
being obHged to pay for what had been broken
through no fault of his own ; while the shop-
keeper, determined not to be argued or bullied
out of his just demand, had sent for the com-
150 THE GRISETTE.
missaire de police, to enforce the settlement
of it.
" Cre milk bombes ! I tell you that I did not
break your window, and I will not pay for it
!
What ! because a little blanc-bec of a fellow
takes the Hberty of smuggling my belle from
me, pushes me against the wall, and then runs
away to get beyond reach of my chastisement,
I am to be made to pay for his tricks ? Norn
de Dieu '
Je 7ie me laisserai pas embeter de la
sorte ; non, non, mille fois non ! and if I could
catch hold of my beau mtiscadin, I would give
him a drubbing that he should remember all
his hfe, to teach him to meddle with my
amours
!
"
"He is here I'"* cried Maxime advancing,
and coolly placing himself in front of the enraged
blusterer, who, struck dumb for a second by
the unexpected appearance of his adversary,
made a violent plunge forward to grapple with
him, but was forcibly withheld by the shop-
keeper.
THE GRISETTE. Ijl
" Sir,'' said Maxime to the latter, " / was the
cause of your window being broken, and I have
returned to pay for the damage occasioned.
This gentleman thought proper to molest a re-
spectable young person of my acquaintance, in
the street, and to insult her with his odious
propositions. I rescued her from his brutal
insolence, and in doing so pushed him against
your shop-window ; whatever expense may be
incurred in repairing the mischief done, I am
here to defray it. As for you, sir," he conti-
nued, turning to the officer, and looking at him
sternly, " here is my card ; if you have any-
thing to say to me, you will know where I
am to be found. " And then handing him his
card, and counting out to the shopkeeper
the amount named for repairing the window,
he turned on his heel and walked leisurely
away.
He was soon overtaken by the mihtaire, who,
still under the dominion of his first anger, and
freshly exasperated by the terms in which
152 THE GRISETTE.
Maxime had just adverted to his behaviour to
Clotilde, felt as if the only reHef his feehngs
could experience would be by insulting the
youth who had treated him with such cool con-
tempt ; therefore, quickly advancipg behind him
he contrived to jostle him so roug'hly as to push
him off the trottoir.
*'Aha!" said Maxime, regaining his posi-
tion, and drawing himself up, " Vous voila,
Monsieur?"
" Oui, Monsieur, me voici !" was the an-
swer.
" Well, sir,'' resumed Maxime, " and what
have you to say to me ? Je vous ecoute/'
''
What have I to say to you ? I have to
tell you that you are an impertinent fellow,
Monsieur ; and that if I had a cane in my
hand. Monsieur, it should very quickly become
acquainted with your shoulders, Monsieur !
''
"As I am not of a class who indulge in
fighting in the street like hackney-coachmen, I
shall not be tempted to chastise your insolence
THE GRISETTE. 153
on the spot,''' returned Maxime ;
" but I shall
be at your service to-morrow morning, on the
terms upon which gentlemen fight, either with
swords or pistols, at the Bois de Boulogne, or the
Bois de Vincennes. Name your weapons, hour,
and place, and I shall not fail you there. Sir,
you have already my card, but I have not yet
the honour of knowing who is to be my ad-
versary/'
"Soit!'' repHed the indignant hero; ''de-
main matin a sept heures, au bois de Vincennes,
a Tepe'e. Je ne vous manquerai pas ; voici mon
adresse ! ""
and fumbling in both pockets he at
last produced the half of an old playing-card, one
side of which exhibited the head and shoulders
of the Knave of Hearts, and the other, in pale
ink, which had been dried with sand, the style
and title of " Grognard, Ancien Chef de Ba-
taillon, Rue Neuve St. Eustache ;" and having
mutually relieved their feelings by determining
to run one another through the body, Maxime
and Monsieur Grognard politely took off their
H 5
154 THE GRISETTE.
hats to each other, and separated to engage the
attendance of their respective seconds, and then
to finish tlie evening, Maxirae in a stalle at
the Opera, and Monsieur Grognard in playing
dominoes at the Cafe Valois, in the Palais
Royal.
THE GRISETTE. 155
CHAPTER III.
Pour confier son bonheur a Tamour, il ne faut pas con-
noitre I'homme et sa destinee.
Labruyere.
It may be imagined that in the fulness of
her heart Clotilde related all that had befallen
her to her friend Hortense on the following
day, and that it was not very difficult for that
more experienced and cunning person to read
through the transparent feelings of the artless
girl, and to enlighten her as to the precise
nature of the predilection which she did not
attempt to deny that she felt for Maxime.
*' Eh ! ma chere, tu Taimes, voila tout
!
" said
she ; "it is quite clear, you are as much in
156 THE GRISETTE.
love with him as he is with you. I knew how
it would he the moment I saw you together/"*
"/ in love with Monsieur de Nerac!" re-
peated Clotilde, aghast at the assertion which
Hortense had enounced with the same easy
carelessness with which she would have spoken
of ' la pluie et le beau terns
,•"* —" in love with a
man whom I scarcely know, whom I had never
seen two days ago ! Oh no, no, Hortense, you
are mistaken, or you are only laughing at me
—
you cannot in reality think me so weak or so
Avicked as to fall in love with one who is so
far removed above me, and who is besides still
a stranger to me/"*
" Nothing more natural than that you should
do so, my dear, and yet nothing more natural
than that you should at this moment not be
able to believe it. It was just the same with
me in my first affaire de cosur ; I believe it is
the same with us all the first time ; love at
first sight takes one by surprise, —cela vous
THE GRISETTE. 1.57
toinbe comme une tuile sur la tete, —cela vous
etourdit !
—mais peu-a-peu on s'y accoutume,
et on s'arrange la-dessus."
" Oh ! I should never accustom nayself to
such an idea, never !" said poor Clotilde, tears
springing into her eyes as these new lights
were forced upon her affrighted mmd ;
" reason,
propriety, good sense —all are against it ! if we
were equals in station, then indeed, perhaps, I
but I must not think of that now," and in
spite of herself she sighed as she uttered the
vain resolve. " The best thing that I can do,"
she continued, "is to avoid seeing him for the
future ; I thought so yesterday when I believed
that —that I only —admired him; but since
you have spoken to me as you have done, I
feel that I never again could look him in the
face ! and yet I fear that he will this evenino-
be seeking to see me, —you must come home
with me, dear Hortense, and should we meet
him on the way, give me courage by your pre-
158 THE GRISETTE.
sence —to —to —What can I say to him, Hor-
tense, if he asks me to give my reasons for
desiring to see him no more ?'"*
" What, indeed ! ""
answered her friend, " I
am sure / cannot tell you, for I never yet found
myself in the same predicament ; nor can I
understand the reason why because a man is
very handsome, very tender, very empressL and
pleases you very much, it should necessarily
follow that you must banish him your pre-
sence !
"
" Because," said Clotilde, " that man cannot
be my husband."
" Your husband ! no, indeed, it is not likely
that he can ; but if you are bent upon marriage,
my dear, why you must be satisfied with your
gros niais de Hyacinthe who could find no
better ^v^ay of declaring his wishes than by
o-iving you a pot of hyacinths with a label in-
scribed, '
Ah que je serais fier de vous en offrir
un qui durera pour la vie V Voila Tetoffe dont
se composent les maris pour nous autres, ma
fc>
THE GRISETTE. 159
chere ! As for myself, I will own to you that
the idea of anything so vulgar is revolting to
me ; and when I compare it with the elegance
of such men as George Sand and your handsome
Maxime, with their white hands, and yellow
gloves, and perfumed handkerchiefs, and var-
nished boots, and soft voices, and distinguished
manners, I more than ever feel how impossible
it would be for me to give up one for the other
—therefore j'ai pris mon parti, —I shall never
marry !''
" Nor I, either," thought Clotilde, as the
image of Maxime rose before her mind's eye
in all its seductive grace, and the homelier form
evoked by Hortense's ridicule appeared there
too, side by side, invested with even more than
its natural coarseness and absurdity by the
force of contrast. The comparison was a dan-
gerous one to dwell upon, —she felt it to be
so, yet she could not banish it from her
thoughts ; the utmost limit to which her cou-
rage extended was to refrain from owning to
160 THE GRISETTE.
Hortense that she felt the full force of her
ridicule ; and this was already obtaining a
mastery over her feelings, for they had arrived
at that point when, vibrating between right
and wrong, a word, —a look opportunely di-
rected will give a fatal preponderance to the
scale of inclination, and that word, —that look
are too often eagerly grasped at by the vaci-
lating mind as an appui which may serve to
excuse its present weakness, and share the
blame of its future misery. But Clotilde who
was no sophist, sought not for an excuse which
was either actually or prospectively to lighten
the load of self-reproach, and, feeling that from
Hortense she would meet with no counsels cal-
culated to fortify her mind against the tempta-
tion that assailed her, she sought refuge in
silence ; and when her friend spoke again it
was to discuss her own affairs and the merits
of George Sand,—subjects so full of interest
to her that they absorbed all her attention
until the moment arrived for the demoiselles
THE GRISETTE. 161
to disperse and return to their respective
homes.
Arm in arm the two yoimg girls left the
magazin together, Hortense still talking, Clo-
tilde silent and distraite, when they were sud-
denly joined by Maxime, who seated in an
adjoining shop had been anxiously watching
for the approach of Clotilde. He appeared
scarcely able to sustain himself; his face was
pale and bore the traces of suffering, and his
right arm was supported in a sling. Clotilde
could not repress an exclamation of terror at
his altered appearance.
" It is a mere trifle,'' said he smiling, " a
scratch which a few days will heal ; if I had
thought that this black silk handkerchief looked
so alarming, I should have left it at home.''
" Nay, then you would have done wrong,"
.said Hortense, " for it is extremely becoming
to you'; and were it not that you really look
very pale, I should fancy that you had put it
on merely in the spirit of coquetry, to give
162 THE GRISETTE.
you the air of a hero of romance.—Qu'en dis
tu, Clotilde?"
" For God's sake, tell me what has happened
to you ?" exclaimed Clotilde, hurried by her
apprehensions into stronger marks of interest
for Maxime than she would have willingly
evinced, and totally regardless of Hortense's
flippancy.
''
Nothing to excite any uneasiness," he an-
swered ; ''I have merely chastised the inso-
lence of a hoary libertinfe who fancied himself
privileged to insult a virtuous young girl in the
streets because she had no ostensible protection !
and in giving him a lesson which he will not
easily forget, I have received a scratch in my
sword-arm which will make me left-handed for
a day or two,—that is all
!'"
" Good God !
" she cried, wholly overcome
by this intelligence, " and was it for me that
you thus exposed your life ? Oh, ]\Ionsieur,
what cruel imprudence ! and did you not
think of the misery that must be entailed
THE GRISETTE. 163
upon me had you fallen in so unworthy a
quarrel ?
"
" I thought only of the happiness of aveng-
ing you,'' he answered with emotion, ''
a happi-
ness which would have been cheaply purchased
with my life's blood."
" Sont-ils betes, les hommes, quand ils se
battent pour les femmes ! ''
remarked Hortense ;
" pourtant 9a nous fait plaisir. Je sens que
j'adorerais un homme qui ferait cette betise
pour moi ! Ah oui, ^a fait bien plaisir !
'*
" Pleasure !
" repeated Clotilde, shuddering
;
"horror, you mean,—grief — and regret
!
"
Poor girl ! in the scattered state of her
spirits she had apparently forgotten the wise
resolutions with which she had left the ma^azin
that evening, or, if they did recur to her,
it was only to make her shrink from the cruelty
and ingi-atitude of inflicting pain, by banishing
from her presence one who had so recently
risked his life to avenofe an insult offered to
her. Instead therefore, of imparting the pru-
164 THE GRISETTE.
dent decision which she had so firmly resolved
upon pronouncing to her dangerous young ad-
mirer, she sutfered him unchecked to continue
walking by her side, and to gather presump-
tuous hopes from the tender emotion but too
visible in her countenance. What he read
there, determined him upon immediately fol-
lowing up the advantage his devotion for her
had gained him, by establishing himself upon
such a footing with Clotilde as would render it
very difiicult for her afterwards to displace him
from ; and unhappily for the poor girFs peace
of mind, Hortense was there to assist in bring-
ing them to bear.
They were within a few paces of Clotilde's
habitation, and Hortense with her usual vo-
lubility had been filling up the deficiencies oc-
casioned in the conversation by the distractions
of her two companions, when, having addressed
some direct question to Maxime, and receiving
no answer, she turned abruptly towards him
to repeat it, and remarked a change in his
THE GRISETTE. 165
countenance, which drew from her the excla-
mation of, " Mon Dieu ! Monsieur ; qu'avez
vous done ? vous allez vous trouver mal !
"
*' I — I feel foint,
— ''
he stammered, and
the paleness of his lips corroborated the asser-
tion. '• A glass of water will revive me/'
" What shall we do ? " said Clotilde, in un-
controllable terror ; "he will faint here !
"
''
Do, my dear ? '''
repeated Hortense; "•
why,
take him chez toi\ to be sure !
'"
" Oh, no, no,'' rejoined Clotilde, " I can-
not —T must not ! What will Pere Benoit, what
will Madame Benoit say ?
"
" If that is all that hinders you," returned
her friend, " leave it to me ; follow me, and
all I ask of you is, not to contradict what
I say." So saying they all entered the house,
and Hortense, stopping before the porter's
lodge, and perceiving Pere Benoit poring over
the Gazette des Tribunaux, addressed him
in the easiest manner possible as follows :
—
" Bon soir, Pere Benoit ; here is a relation
]66 THE GRISETTE.
of Mademoiselle Clotilde's just arrived from
Nevers, who has been very much hurt by the
diligeuce overturning. Will you have the good-
ness to give him a glass of water to revive
him before he attempts getting up stairs ?
Poor ^Mademoiselle Clotilde is, as you see,
quite overcome at seeing a cousin whom she did
not know that she possessed until this even-
ing."
The ready-witted girl could not forbear
directing a triumphant glance of intelligence
towards the cousin improvise, which was re-
turned by him with one of grateful acknow-
ledgment ; while poor Clotilde, abashed by
the necessity of countenancing a falsehood thus
forced upon her, dared not raise her eyes to
Pere Benoit lest he should read there the tacit
deception she was practising upon him.
" Here is a glass of water,'' said the old man,
quite unconscious of fraud, and settling his
spectacles upon his nose to take a look at
the cousin from Nevers : " and here is your
THE GRISETTE. 16*
key, Ma'mselle, and moreover here is Titi, who
is wearying to death after you, although he has
just supped with me, pauvre cheri !
"
And he handed successively through the
window of his loge^ a glass of water, a key,
and an immense white Angola cat, which lat-
ter was eagerly seized upon by Clotilde, and
half smothered with caresses to hide her con-
fusion.
By the time the little party had ascended
the five flights of stairs that led to Clotilde's
solitary chamber, Maxime's strength w^as
wholly exhausted ; and she had scarcely time
to unlock the door, when he staggered forward
and sank into the nearest chair, motionless, and
apparently insensible. The wound he had re-
ceived that morning in his duel with ^lonsieur
Groguard was more serious than he had chosen
to avow, and his surgeon had recommended
absolute repose for a few days, as necessary
to his speedy re-establishment ; but the excite-
ment of a new-born passion rendered it difficult
168 THE GRISETTE.
for Maxime to obey the prudent injunction,
and he was unwillinof to foreofo the advantaofe,
which he knew lie should obtain over Clotilde's
feelings by shewing himself to her with all
the evidences of suffering consequent upon his
chivalrous devoiiement for her, apparent in his
person. Nor had he erred in his calculation.
Pale as himself, trembling with terror, yet
mastering her emotion, that she might be of
use to him, she bathed his temples with
water and chafed his cold hands, and when
he revived, it was to find his head gently sup-
ported upon her shoulder, his hands clasped
within her own, and her eyes fixed upon his
countenance with an expression of the tenderest
solicitude. In the fulness of his joy an avowal
of love trembled on his lips — but Hortense
was there ; and he checked the passionate
impulse, restricting all expression of his feelings
to an eloquent glance, and a fond pressure of
the soft hand in which his own was locked.
This time neither eyes nor hand were withdrawn
THE GRISETTE. 169
from him, and he felt that he had not suffered
in vain.
From that evening might be dated the com-
plete subjugation, not only of Clotilde's feelings,
but of the scruples which had previously led
her to determine upon breaking off her acquain-
tance with Maxime. Gratitude had strength-
ened, and insidiously lent its sanction to pre-
established inclination ; and the deportment
of the too amiable youth towards her was so
irreproachable, his admiration so happily tem-
pered with respect during the whole of that
first visit, that she felt as though it would
be an absurd exercise of prudery to persist
in banishing him from her presence. And
never before had Maxime felt so happy, never
had he appeared so amiable, never had passion
so closely assimilated itself in his nature to
virtuous love ! At that moment he would
not have exchanged the humble garret of Clo-
tilde for the most luxurious boudoir that Paris
VOL. II. I
170 THE GRISETTE.
could have offered ; and as he gazed with
interest upon the scanty furniture which told
a tale of poverty and privation, he sighed for
the happiness of placing her in a temple better
suited to such a divinity. She who had never
known a richer abode, felt no shame in the
wretchedness of her home being revealed to
Maxime ; but he who was accustomed to the
refinements of life, could not forbear wondering
that one naturally so elegant as Clotilde could
preserve her cheerful content of mind in such
a habitation ; for everything there was of the
humblest description ; a little white-curtained
bed, two rush-bottomed chairs, a table, com-
mode, and lavaho of walnut wood, and an old
bergere, which appeared to be the favourite
refuge of Titi, composed the whole of the
furniture ; yet cleanliness, which has been so
happily designated as Felegance des pauvres,
presided over the scanty arrangement, and the
most scrupulous neatness imparted something
THE GRISETTE. 171
of comfort, to what in other hands would have
been a wretched attic.
One or two objects there attested to some
superior position in life having once been held
by the person who possessed them ; ohjcts de
luxe^ not generally to be found in the garret
of a Grisette : there was a guitar lying on the
commode, and a richly-bound livre cTheures
;
and aflBxed to either side of the little glass over
the chimney-piece were two handsomely mount-
ed miniatures, representing a very pretty young
woman, dressed according to the fashion worn
twenty years before, and a remarkably handsome
man, wearing the uniform of a French infantry
officer, whose fair complexion, deep-blue eyes,
and regular features bore a striking resemblance
to those of Clotilde ; they were, in fact, the
portraits of her father and mother, painted in
the first year of their marriage, and over that
of the Capitaine Remy was suspended the
croix de la legion d'honneur, with which the
I 2
172 THE GRISETTE.
Emperor's own hand had decorated him upon
the field of Wagram, and which as long as he
lived had been the object of that religious de-
votion which characterises the feelings of all who
have ever enjoyed the distinguishing approbation
of that extraordinary man. These pictures which
had riveted Maxime''s attention, led to a dis-
closure of Clotilde's birth, and the misfortunes
which had overtaken her family, and left her
alone in the world dependent upon her own
exertions for bread ; and the melancholy parti-
culars were related by her with a simple dignity
which rendered her sublime in the eyes of
Maxime ; her courage and her resignation filled
him with respect as well as admiration, and
for a moment led him to contemplate the pos-
sibility of wooing and winning her honourably,
and thus restoring to her rightful position in
society one so admirably formed to adorn it
;
but that generous impulse was quickly super-
seded by the reflection that whenever he did
marry it must be to better his fortune ; and as
THE GRISETTE. 173
he had never accustomed himself to vanquish
his passions, or to resist temptation when it
came before him in a form so fair as Clotilde's,
he, alas ! quickly relapsed into the orniere of
unholy desires and unprincipled projects, and
again looked upon her as game which he was
licensed to pursue and to possess himself of, upon
whatever terms might be most agreeable to
himself.
Another object calculated to interest his self-
ish feelings, was his own bouquet carefully
placed in a glass of water upon the chimney-
piece, and still blooming,—thanks to the care
with which the stalks had been clipped, and the
water daily renewed by Clotilde,—who, when
she perceived the pleased surprise with which he
contemplated the tell-tale flowers, thought it
necessary to account for their presence by a
generalising declaration of, "I am so fond of
flowers !" Even this maladroit disengenuousness,
betraying as it did the conscious feeling that
suggested it, lent a new charm to the blushing
174 THE GRISETTE.
girl, in the estimation of her lover. Had she
been less reserved, he would have been less
fascinated, for, libertine as he was, that which
he most admired in women, was delicacy of
mind ; and although beauty without modesty
might for a while enthrall his senses, it pos-
sessed no power, even for a moment, to capti-
vate his heart : in a word, he felt the strange
inconsistent desire of respecting that which he
longed to destroy. Had the principles of
Maxime been as sound as his taste was good,
he would have been an admirable character.
They parted mutually enchanted, and they
parted with the understanding that on the next
evening they were to meet again ; but when
on the succeeding day Clotilde returned home,
accompanied by Hortense, no Maxime met them
on the way. His absence was accounted for by
a note and a little packet which Pere Benoit
put into her hands, and which, he said, had
been brought by a commissionaire^ " With
some pots of superb flowers for Ma'mselle
THE GRISETTE. 175
Clotilde, from her cousin the gentleman from
Nevers." The note was hastily torn open
;
Maxime was ill ; he had paid the penalty of
his imprudence, and had been seized in the
night with fever, which rendered it impossible
for him to leave his bed ; but he fully ex-
pected to be well enough on the following day
to go out again, and then he would use the
privilege of a cousin, and present himself at her
door in the evening. In the meantime he en-
closed the handkerchiefs, entreating that she
would mark them for him with her hair, and
he ventured to send her some flowers, remem-
bering the predilection she had expressed for
them the evening before.
Poor Clotilde ! she sat up half that night,
(for anxiety had driven sleep from her pillow)
busily employed in fulfilling his wishes, and
vainly wishing that she too might assume the
privilege of a cousin, and establish herself by
the sick-bed of the wounded Maxime, to watch
over him, wait upon him, and anticipate all his
176 THE GRISETTE.
wishes ; but her native delicacy forbade her to
do more than wish^ and she wept bitterly to
think that more availing proofs of gratitude and
interest for him might not be shewn by her
without \nolating propriety.
But what became of her when another day,
and another succeeded, and still no Maxime
—
not even a line from him ! Was he worse ?
—
could he be dead ? she asked herself, shudder-
ingly, and then she appealed to Hortense for
comfort ; but, for the first time, Hortense
was grave and uncommunicative ; she professed
to know nothing, and, contrary to her usual
custom, abstained from supposing anything. At
last, on the fourth evening after Maxime's visit,
the handkerchiefs being finished, Clotilde an-
nounced to Hortense her intention of leaving
them at Monsieur de Nerac's door, and request-
ed that she would accompany her thither, and
thus give her courage to inquire from the porter
how he was. It was then that Hortense re-
vealed to her that Maxime had been danger-
THE GRISETTE. 177
ously ill, ''
a la mort,''"' as she termed it ; and
that in the ravings of the delirium which ac-
companied his fever, he had called incessantly
upon the name of Clotilde, coupling it with the
tenderest epithets, and stretching out his arms
to her as though she had been near. George
Sand, from whom Hortense had obtained her
information, had been his head nurse, and had
agreed with her that until the danger should
be over, Clotilde was to be kept in ignorance of
it. That was the case now ; the fever had sub-
sided, and the delirium disappeared, but the
patient was so weak that he could not yet leave
his bed, and any emotion might be most inju-
rious to him.
" That man loves you to desperation, my
dear," she concluded ;
" and if you do not re-
turn his passion in the same way I shall think
that you are a perfect tigress, or, indeed, that
you have no heart at all. Es-tu heureuse
d' avoir un amant comme celui-la ; si beau, si
jeune, si passionne ! Tiens, Clotilde, si J'etais a
I 5
178 THE GRISETTE.
ta place Je passerais par le feu pour lui faire
plaisir
!
""
"God knows,'"' responded Clotilde, "that I
would pass through fire and water to do him
good!"
" Well, but as burning or drowning yourself
would do him no good in the world, but quite
the reverse, we must think of what will; and
in the first place, nothing I am sure will be
half so efficient as letting him know how miser-
able you have been about him these last four
days. Ah, this love is a strange sentiment,
Clotilde .'
it leads one to revel in the torments
of the object beloved even more than in their
joys—to delight in making their misery if we
cannot make their happiness ! I remember
when I was ill of the scarlet-fever, and that
Rodolphes told me how his anxiety for me had
destroyed his digestion, I felt as much delighted
as if he had given me a Cachemire ! Pourtant
Je Tadorais dans ce moment,—Fingrat !"
When once Hortense was lancee upon the
THE GRISETTE. 179
chapter of her anciennes amours, there was no
knowing to what lengths it might lead her.
In this instance, however, it led her no further
than Maxime's habitation, at the door of which
stood one whose presence put to flight all ten-
der reminiscences unconnected with himself;
the hero who had succeeded in her pliant af-
fections to that ungrateful Rodolphe, whose
quondam tenderness had so affectingly illus-
trated the well-known axiom about bad hearts
and good stomachs, —Victor Giraud himself,
alias George Sand.
From him they heard that Maxime conti-
nued to mend, — to him were confided the
handkerchiefs, which he promised should be
delivered the next morning,—and by him they
were accompanied back to Clotilde's house, at
the door of which she bid the light-hearted
pair adieu, and left them to their own de-
vices, glad to escape to the solitude of her
chamber ; where, unseen by all save Titi, she
might give unrestrained course to the emotions
180 THE GRISETTE.
which had heen suffocating her for the last
hour—weep for the past danger of Maxime
—rejoice in his recovery—read over and over
the precious note he had written to her —
mingle his name in her prayers—and then lie
down to dream of seeing him again !
And soon was that dream realised. He came
again, and it was to speak of love—how could
she chide ? for it was to speak of marriage,
too,—but of marriage at a distant period, con-
tingent upon some event over which he had
no control. He explained the narrow circum-
stances of his family, which so ill accorded
with their family pride, and which had driven
himself into a profession wholly repugnant to
his tastes ; he spoke of an uncle of his mo-
ther's, the Baron d'Esclignac, an old retired
admiral residing in Paris, who was rich and
unmarried, and had given Maxime to under-
stand that he would make him his heir, pro-
vided he did nothing to forfeit his good-will
;
one of the conditions of which was that he
THE GRISETTE. 181
should form an advantageous marriage con-
nection that should not froisser his family
prejudices. But the admiral was old and in-
firm —he could not live very long —it would
be unwise to offend him at the close of his
career ; and when he should be no more, Max-
ime would then be his own master, free to
declare his choice, to ratify it in the eyes of
the world, to claim the hand of his Clotilde,
and to devote the whole of his life to her and
her alone.
What could the gentle, the guileless, the
loving Clotilde object to sentiments and decla-
rations, which were to all appearance so noble
and honourable ? Then, and then only did her
lips confirm the tender secret which her eyes
had before so unconsciously betrayed ; —then
did she own to her lover the sudden impression
he had produced upon her untried heart at
their first meeting ; — then dwell with naive
sensibility upon the struggles which had ensued
between prudence and inclination ; —then paint
182 THE GRISETTE.
the emotions that had torn her heart during
his ilhiess, emotions so agonising as no longer
to leave her the shadow of a doubt respecting
the nature of her sentiments for him, —and
then with modest joy contrast her actual feel-
ings with her past sufferings. Hope and con-
fidence had succeeded in her mind to doubt
and despondency ; she trusted religiously in
all his protestations—all his promises, because
she loved him, and because she believed him
to be honest and true as herself; and without
a scruple she pledged herself to become his
wife whenever the obstacles to such an event
(which he had already explained to her) should
be removed, because she judged of his heart
by her own ; and felt that had he been poor
and despised, and that she had possessed the
treasures and distinctions of the world, she
would have placed them all joyfully and with-
out restriction at his feet.
Alas ! could not such truth and tenderness
move him from his dishonourable purpose ? and
THE GRISETTE. 183
did he not shrink from misleading candour so
unsuspecting, and sullying purity so confiding ?
No ! they only served to augment his passion,
and to render easy every semblance of good
faith, every fair promise that was more effec-
tually to secure its triumph. Beyond that
moment he looked not—he closed his eyes to
the dreary picture of broken vows, blighted
hopes, and ruined happiness that lurked be-
hind, and which he knew must inevitably
follow the discovery of his falsehood to Clo-
tilde ; he thought only of the selfish joy of
making her his own, unfettered by any legal
tie—of leading her on step by step, blinded
by her confidence in his honour, to the last
irreparable sacrifice ! When, oh when, did
the love of a libertine ever soar above the
indulgence of selfish passion ?
184 THE GRISETTE
CHAPTER IV.
" Quand on n'aime pas trop, on n'aime point assez."
BussY Rabutin.
Summer had passed away—autumn come and
gone ; the mists and mud of winter had given
place to the bright sunshine of closing Feb-
ruary, and a foretaste of spring shed its vivify-
ing balm over the latter days of the Carnival.
Much had happened between that period and
the preceding June to develope the experience
of the youthful Clotilde in the ways of the world,
and of its slave and woman's despot,— man !
much that we must pass over cursorily, because
we love not to dwell upon so dark a picture as
that which the triumph of perfidy and the
/f
THE GRISETTE. 185
defeat of innocence offer to our saddened con-
templation. Suffice it to say that the selfish
calculations of Maxime had been realised, and,
that Clotilde had awakened from a dream of
happy security to find herself a lost and guilty
being. Situated as she was, so young, so deso-
late, so totally left to her own guidance and to
the e"vil counsels of a light-minded and unprin-
cipled friend, so constantly exposed to the
seductions of one who but too well knew how
to shed the halo of sentiment over the wild
pleadings of passion, and but too well knew
also how to turn to his owti account the bound-
less confidence, the unutterable love with which
her heart was overflowing ; nothing but a mi-
racle could have saved her. That miracle was
not forthcoming ; and her very purity, her trust-
ing innocence accelerated her fall.
But although deep remorse followed the first
sense of her degradation, no misgivings accom-
panied that pang ; for the love of Maxime ap-
peared for a wliile to increase daily, and the
186 THE GRISETTE.
tender attentions with which he embeUished
her humble existence were marked by the most
dehcate respect as well as the most thoughtful
consideration. Whenever a shade of sadness
clouded that fair and open brow he knew how
to dissipate it by fond allusions to the marriage
that was hereafter to bind them in holiest ties
to each other, and by fonder protestations that
no empty ceremony could render her dearer to
him or more indissolubly his wife than he now
considered her. Nor did he then exaggerate
in thus expressing himself, for the mind and
person of Clotilde had inspired him with feel-
ings such as he had never before experienced,
and more than once he contemplated the possi-
bility of compensating to her hereafter by a
legal union for the blind devotion and the fatal
confidence which had placed her so completely
at his mercy. But there would always be time
enough to decide upon that at a later period,
he argued to himself,—such a step would at all
times be dependent upon his own will ; and, in
THE GRISETTE. 187
the meantime, his only thought was how to
enjoy his present happiness without any care
for the future deteriorating from its brightness
—^how to enivrer sa victime pour viieux s'eU'
ivrer.
It was his wish to withdraw Clotilde from
her employment at Madame Bouvier's, and to
settle her in a pretty little apartment in the
immediate vicinity of his own lodging, where
she would be mistress of her own time, and
where he would have the facility of seeing her
at all hours of the day ; but to such an arrange-
ment she opposed the firmest though gentlest
resistance ; because there was something in-
tolerable to her honest pride in the idea of
becoming dependent upon a man who was not
yet her husband ; —something repugnant to her
delicacy of mind in placing herself in the posi-
tion of a femme entretenue. No ! until she
could become his wife, she would continue to
support herself by her own industry, was her
unchangeable determination, and the same noble
188 THE GRISETTE.
independence of spirit and delicacy of feeling
led her to reject the gifts he would have lavished
upon her in the plenitude of his love ; and, out
of the multitude of tempting bagatelles which
he had tendered to her, to accept of nothing
but the simple gold alliance^ which he had
placed upon her finger when she had pledged
herself to become his wife, and which was the
symbol of that union upon which she as firm-
ly relied as she relied upon the protection of
Heaven.
" You have bestowed upon me,'" she would
say, " the only treasure that has any value
in my estimation, the only one I ever coveted
—your heart ! Do not think so meanly of
me as to believe that, possessing that, anything
else could add to my happiness !
"
And, true to her resolution, she continued
to lead the same simple and laborious life as
before she had known him ; and the only vi-
sible change in her existence was, that every
evening Maxime was in waiting at Madame
THE GRISETTE. 189
Bouvier's door to conduct her home, and that
every Sunday he accompanied her either to
Montmorency, or Versailles, or St. Germain,
where she might breathe the pure air of the
country after the confinement of the week,
and ramble through the woods the live-long
day with him.
Thus passed the summer ; and Maxime ho-
nestly believed that he should never wish for
any happiness beyond that which he then en-
joyed in his undivided devotion to Clotilde,
and in the intense tenderness which it had
called forth in her young heart. But in the
latter end of autumn other pleasures began
to put in their claims for participation ; the
society he was accustomed to frequent returned
from the country to Paris for the winter
season in the month of November, and balls
and soirees, of which he had hitherto been one
of the favourite guests, recommenced, and his
presence was again eagerly solicited to en-
hance their delights.
190 THE GRISETTE.
Self-denial did not enter into the character
of Maxime, and therefore it never occurred to
him to reject the pleasures of that world from
which the fond being, to whom he was more
than the world, was excluded, merely because
the hours thus devoted by him to frivolous
amusements must necessarily leave her to lonely
meditation, rendered more lonely and sad by the
force of contrast with the happy evenings which
for the last few months had never failed to re-
unite them after the compulsory separation of
the day, and had compensated to Clotilde for all
the other privations that marked her laborious
existence. He, indeed, at first complained
of the necessity that existed for leaving her
occasionally — railed against the convenances
du mojide, which exacted from him the sacrifice
of his own tastes to the claims which society
had upon liim ; contrasted the ineffable hap-
piness, the tender familiarity of their tete-a-
tete evenings with the heartless bustle and
THE GRISETTE. 191
glare of the fetes in which he was compelled
to appear, and seemed really to enjoy so com-
pletely his return to Clotilde after such tempo-
rary absences, that her security in his aifection
and good faith remained for a time unshaken.
But gradually those absences became more
frequent, and gradually too he ceased to express
any regrets about them. He thought perhaps
that because Clotilde abstained from remarking
upon such proceedings, she had become accus-
tomed to them, and acquiesced in their continu-
ance ; but had he not already grown more care-
less and distrait in her presence, he would have
observed traces of inquietude in her counte-
nance —a paler cheek, and eyelids occasionally
heavy with the tears that his neglect had wrung
from them in secret. True, the cheek flushed
with glad emotion, and the eye lighted up
with smiles when he appeared, and tender
and cordial as ever were the words with which
she welcomed him ; but when the shortened
192 THE GRISETTE.
interview was over, and that he was gone,
she would lean her head upon her clasped
hands and weep, for she felt that already had
" A change come o'er tlie spirit of her dream,"
—she felt the disparity of feeling that existed
between herself and Maxime ! He was all
the world to her ; dearer than a thousand
«
worlds ; — without him there was neither hap-
piness nor enjoyment for her — for him, she
would have turned her back upon all that the
world could offer to seduce her heart from
its fond allecfiance ! But alas ! —the world
which he professed to contemn was dearer to
him than she was ; its frivolous pursuits, at
which he laughed, more alluring than her so-
ciety. If both were incompatible, he hesita-
tated not to sacrifice her — its hollow smiles
were more necessary to his happiness than
her peace of mind !
Oh, it is a cruel moment in the history of
woman"'s heart, that in which she is first driven
by startling facts to weigh her lover's affections
THE GRISETTE. 193
in the balance against her own, and find them
wanting !
—many a heart has been broken by
the sad discovery ; some have been only
crushed into temporary insensibility ; others ir-
remediably withered, and hardened into stone !
But whichever of these should be the result,
never, even though she lived to the utmost
limits of human existence, will the woman who
has thus suffered, forget the dreary chill which
gathered like the damps of death round her
heart in that moment when the illusion that
had been its life was torn from it, to return no
more
Clotilde resisted as long as possible this fatal
enlightenment. She clung to her dear delusion
with the tenacity with which the shipwrecked
wretch clings to the slightest spar that will
bear him over the wild billows raging around
to engulph him ; but the moment came when
that frail support escaped from her grasp, and
the deep waters of despair closed over her
soul !
VOL. II. K
194 THE GRISETTE.
CHAPTER V.
To love another, is too often the sad, yet sweet seal, put
Tipon a bond of wretchedness, at least to a woman. How
is her earnest, her self-sacrificing, her devoted attachment
repaid ? By neglect, falsehood, and desertion !
L. E. L.
Foil'd was perversion by that youthful mind.
Lord Byron.
There are never wanting officious people to
direct the attention of their friends to circum-
stances respecting which it would be far better
for their peace of mind that they should re-
main in ignorance, since, in nine cases out of
ten, knowledge brings with it the reverse of
happiness. Nor was Clotilde destined to be
an exception to a rule which would be so much
THE GRISETTE. 195
more honoured in the breach than in the oIh
servance. Isolated as she was from the Avorld
and worldly pleasures, her peculiar position
did not on that account exempt her from shar-
ing the penalties which worldly friendships
privilege and inflict: for Hortense was still
near ; and the dangerous companion who
had been so zealous an advocate for Maxime
during the early part of his acquaintance A\ith
Clotilde, was the first person to point out to
her his altered sentiments. Circumstances had
developed to that wily person at an early period
of the liaison the real nature of the young
man's attachment ; and, truth to say, she never
had given him credit for designs more honour-
able than those she had detected, and she se-
cretly wondered and laughed at the credulity of
her friend in believing that marriage was to
sanctify the adventure.
Her own affair with Victor Giraud, although
it had survived for a short time the discovery
of his assumption of literary celebrity, had gone
K 2
196 THE GRISETTE.
the way of all such light engagements, and
once more left her excitable fancies (for we
cannot exalt them into affections) at liberty
to roam in quest of new objects of interest !
In this interregnum, something occurred to
involve her own selfish calculations in the
rupture that she foresaw was pending between
Clotilde and Maxime, and from that moment
she devoted herself to the affairs of her friend,
with the most indefatigable zeal, and in a spirit
which left it difiicult to determine whether
she were actuated more strongly by the mali-
cious love of tormenting her victim, the dis-
interested wish of opening her eyes to the false-
hood to which she had been sacrificed, in order
to rescue her from it, or the determination
of corrupting her mind by evil counsels until
she should reduce it to the level of her own
heartless and unprincipled levity.
I'here is a love of intrigue inherent in some
female minds which irresistibly leads them,
when they cannot be principals in affairs of
THE GRISETTE. 197
gallantry, to become accessories to those t»f
their acquaintance ; such women are the most
dangerous inflictions upon society that ever
usurped the title of friend, and of that descrip-
tion was Hortense. Had she lived in the world,
the mischief perpetrated by her would have
been incalculable ; but her field for action was
so narrow as to leave her no object whereon
to exercise her talents but the defenceless Clo-
tilde ; and unhappily for the latter, Hortense,
(to use her own expression) " avait epouse ses
interets si chaudement,"" as to leave her no
escape from the sympathies and the counsels
which wounded and irritated far more than
they consoled the heavy heart of the unhappy
girl.
It had happened during the month of Janu-
ary, that Hortense and Clotilde having been
sent one morning by Madame Bouvier to the
house of a certain Madame Prosper, of gallant
notoriety, with a quantity of the latest novel-
ties to be tried on by her, had been seen
198 THE GRISETTE.
there by an old Muscovite prince, who was
one of that lady's most magnificent protectors,
as well as a professed patron of all the fair
and facile of her sex who came within the
reach of his golden temptations. Struck by
the extreme loveliness of Clotilde, so different
from the usual cast of Grisette beauty, the old
amateur had ample opportunity as she tried
caps, pelerines, and canezons upon the some-
what passee coquette, to admire her natural and
modest grace, and the fresh yet delicate bloom
which imparted such a rose-bud-like appearance
to her whole person, and which seemed to ac-
quire additional charms when compared with
the faded countenance and meretricious glances
of Madame Prosper, and the voluble minau-
deries of Hortense. The result of his observa-
tions was a determination to raise the young
lingere from her humble station to the honours
of his harem, nor did he lose any time in
putting into requisition the usual means of
seduction which he had hitherto found to
THE GRISETTE. 199
he all powerful with persons of her class
;
hut his presents were returned, and his am-
hassadresses indignantly dismissed by Clotilde ;
and when the carte blanche which he sent
her, desiring her to name her own terms, had
been rejected with unmitigated scorn, the old
Celadon, irique au jeu by the difficulties thus
opposed to his wishes, betook himself to Hor-
tense, and secured her good offices with Clo-
tilde by the weighty arguments which he ad-
vanced to propitiate her services in his favour.
Affairs were in this state, and Clotilde, whose
pure heart and generous mind would have
shrunk from the bare idea of repeating any
part of the transaction to Maxime, lest lie
should fancy that she made a merit to him
of her disinterested fidelity, had carefully con-
cealed from him the persecutions to which
Prince PugnoseiFsky's passion had exposed her
;
when, in the beginning of February, he an-
nounced to her that his father had written
to require his presence at Pau upon some
200 THE GRISETTE.
family business, aud that he must immediately
obey the summons, and would in all proba-
bility be absent from Paris for the next six
weeks. His departure followed so speedily, that
poor Clotilde had scarcely time to prepare her
mind for it ere he was gone, —and it was not
until she was alone that she became sufficiently
collected to remember that all the grief in
])arting had been upon her side, and that Max-
ime's chief care in that sad moment had been
to terminate his adieus as soon as possible.
" Perhaps to spare my feelings," she thought,
—but she wept bitterly as she remembered
that but a few months before, he would have
felt more keenly and have lingered more fondly
over the last moments of only a single day's
separation from her.
She was sitting alone over the dying embers
of her fire, one evening after her return from
Madame Bouvier's, lost in a whirlwind of
conflicting emotions, half joy, half terror, —
for the belief that she was likely to become
THE GRISETTE. ^01
a mother had, for the first time, impressed
itself upon her, and brought with it a latent
hope that such an event would awaken all
Maxime's best feelings, and induce him to
hasten the performance of his promise to her,
that their child might not come into the world
with the stain of illegitimacy upon it, —and
with her heart and head full of this anxious
subject, she was revolving in her mind how
she should write to Maxime to impart it to
him, when her meditations were broken in upon
by Hortense, who, with a face full of meaning
entered, and deliberately taking off her bonnet
and shawl, laid them upon the bed, and estab-
lished herself in the arm-chair at the opposite
corner of the fireside.
*'
Clotilde,'' said she, " make up the fire ;
I am come to pass the rest of the evening with
you. I have brought you a pate from Lesage's,
and a bottle of wine, for you never have any-
thing fit to eat at home, and we will sup toge-
ther as we gossip over the fire. I have a great
K 5
202 THE GRISETTE.
deal to tell you which I could uot communicate
at the shop, lest the other demoiselles might
overhear us, and your agitation might betray
you into some weakness."
" For God's sake what is the matter P'** said
poor Clotilde, looking at her with terror.
" Have you heard any bad news from Pau
—
is Maxime ill
?^'*
''No, no!" rejoined Hortense, '^ mauvaise
herbe croit toujours ! Maxime is very well.
I have seen him to day."
''Seen him!" repeated Clotilde, "that is
impossible ! You know that he has gone to
his father's near Pau upon business which will
detain him there six weeks ; it is only ten
days since he set out, and on Thursday I
received a letter from him."
" From Pau ?" inquired Hortense.
" No, from Bordeaux," was the reply. " He
wrote me word he was to remain there a few
days with one of his uncles, and then go on to
liis father's."
THE GRISETTE. 20o
" He has never been further than Bordeaux,"
said Hortense, ''
and it is two days since he
returned to Paris."
" I will never believe it !" persisted Clotilde,
*'
why should he thus deceive me ?"
'' Why, my poor child ? because he has de-
ceived you from the beginning, —because this
is only a continuation of the game he has
played with you all along,—because he is now
preparing the last finishing act of his treachery !
Be counselled by me Clotilde ; now is your time
to strike a blow ;
—you may secure for yourself
a brilHant existence, make your own terms
with the old Prince, and plant Monsieur Max-
ime before he abandons you ! Voila ce qui
s'appelle montrer du caractere ! and when he
sees you driving about in a fine equipage with
a chasseur behind, it is ten to one but all his
love for you will return, —and there is no
reason why, after tormenting him until he
nearly loses his senses, that you should not then
restore him to your good graces ; you can pass
204f THE GRISETTE.
liim off to the Prince for le petit cousin de
Nevers,—ces vieux sapajous de Princes sont
toujours fort raisonnables sur le chapitre des
petits cousins, — ^a ne compte pas comme
amant ; ainsi si tu tiens toujours a ton beau
Maxime, tu peux le garder de cette maniere/'
*'
Hush !
" exclaimed Clotilde with more
anger than she had ever before betrayed to
Hortense, " if you would retain my friendship,
never speak to me in that shocking way again !
I should hate myself if I could listen to you
with patience; —nay, Hortense, I should hate
you, could I suppose that you were in earnest
in the advice you give me/'
" Then,'' returned her friend laughing, ''
you
would be making a very ungrateful return for
my friendship. Listen to me, my dear, and
then tell me whose advantage I have in view
in giving you the benefit of my superior expe-
rience ? believe me, Clotilde, I know men bet-
ter than you do, and not one of them was ever
to be retained or regained by weeping, senti-
THE GRISETTE. 205
mental, fidelity. Give them a rival, and that
makes them feel the value of what they possess,
—give them a successor, and they will long to
repossess what they have lost I That is the way
to brinor them back to their senses ; but shut
yourself up alone, and weep till your eyes are
bleared, your nose red, and all your freshness
gone, and do you think your volage will find you
more attractive in that state, and that he will
prefer such a Madeleine to a gay laughing face ?
My poor little Clotilde, I told you from the first
that you never knew how to manage this selfish
lover of yours. Instead of working like a slave
all day, and shutting yourself up alone with him
in the evening to talk sentiment, you ought
to have accepted his first offer of removing you
to an elegant lodging, — you ought to have
shewn yourself at the theatres and in the public
walks with him, mise avec coqiietterie et attirant
les regards de tout le monde ; his amour-propre
would have been flattered at seeing you admired
and followed ; —he would have felt happy in
206 THE GRISETTE.
the possession of what others envied him ; —he
would have feared to lose you, and thus you
would have made him your slave, instead of
becoming his as you have done. And now, see
what is the consequence ! He leaves you
alone to pine in your garret, working your
fingers to the bone, while his love, his time, and
his purse are all devoted to Madame Prosper !
"
Clotilde clasped her hands in silence ; dismay
and anguish were painted on her countenance,
but she struggled to recover her presence of
mind, and in a few moments succeeded.
*' This cannot be,"" she said with forced calm ;
" Hortense, you are deceiving me,—you have
been deceived yourself! This is a calumny in-
vented by some enemy of Maxime's to injure
him. Oh, no ! he would not be a day in Paris
without letting me see him."
''
I tell you that I saw him with my own
eyes to-day when I went to Madame Prosper"'s
with her robe de guipure ; and moreover that
I was directed by her to furnish Monsieur
THE GRISETTE. 207
Maxime de N^rac with the bill for that iden-
tical dress as well as for the scarf of application
de Bruxelles which you are now lining with
rose colour,"" and she pointed to Clotilde's work-
basket.
''
And did you see Maxime —there — to-
day ?" gasped Clotilde.
" There, to-day,'' repeated Hortense delibe-
rately. " When I was announced by the
femme-de-chambre he made an attempt to leave
the room by an opposite door, but Madame
Prosper prevented him, and with her odious
simagrees engaged him to remain whilst she tried
on the dress. He had the grace to look con-
fused when he first saw me, but I have too
much presence of mind to be embarrassed upon
such occasions ; so I let it appear as if I had
never seen him before, and his belle had no
suspicions of our being old acquaintance. ' Mon
ange,' said she to Maxime, (for they are already
aux anges it seems I) '
what coiffure do you ad-
vise me to adopt with this beautiful dress ? '
—
208 THE GRISETTE.
'
Everything becomes you so well,' said he
with that wheedling tone and manner which
you know he can put on, ' that it would be
difficult for me to decide. ** —' And you, petite,"*
said she to me with her insupportable air of
grandeur and protection, '
what do you advise ?'
—' Since Madame asks my opinion,' I replied
with the easiest and most natural manner in
the world, '
1 would recommend her to arrange
her hair a la Clotilde ! Monsieur has too much
taste not to acknowledge the charm and senti-
ment which that style of coiffure imparts to the
countenance of a pretty woman !'
Monsieur Max-
ime looked at me as if he would have stabbed me
to the heart if he dared, but I preserved all my
appearance of unconscious ignorance, and
—
"
Here a deep groan from Clotilde checked
the volubility and the pantomimic gestures with
which Hortense had been personating the dif-
ferent actors in the above conversation ; and,
looking up she stopped in a fright at beholding
the death-like paleness of her friend.
THE GRISETTE. 209
" Go on," said Clotilde impatiently, and
with a ghastly smile ;
—" let me hear all !
"
" Well !
'"*
continued Hortense, " I was no
sooner in the street than Monsieur followed
me ; and, as I reproached him with his perfidy
towards you, and indignantly rejected the
money with which he attempted to bribe me
into silence, he thought it no longer necessary
to keep any measures with me, and boldly de-
clared that he had seen you for the last time,
and that it was your begueulerie that had ori-
ginally driven him into the deception of a pro-
mise of marriage ; that I ought to know that
marriage between a gentleman of noble blood
and a Grisette was too ridiculous a thing to be
contemplated seriously ; that he had taken care
never to commit himself by giving you a writ-
ten promise, and that he was, therefore, quite
beyond the reach of any claims on your part,
'
In short," said he, '
I have been obliged to
devise this pretended absence from Paris, in
order to accustom Clotilde to be separated from
210 THE GRISETTE.
me before I should apprise her of what sooner
or hiter she must know, namely, that my jour-
ney to Bordeaux has been to settle the preli-
minaries of a very advantageous marriage,
which my uncle has arranged for me there ;
and that, in the month of April, I am to return
thither to be married. If Clotilde is only rea-
sonable and willing to shew her disinterested
affection by abstaining from molesting me, I
shall make some little provision for her future
comfort ; but if
"
" Jt suis perdue
!
" said poor Clotilde, in a
hollow voice and with the fixed look of despair ;
" et mon enfant naura pas de pcre /"
" Your child ! '"
cried Hortense, " what, then,
are you,—hahT she pursued, with a joyful
accent, and as if some happy inspiration had sud-
denly come to her aid ; if you will only act
with sense and spirit, your child shall have a
Prince for its father and be sumptuously pro-
vided for ; but you must lose no time in accept-
ing the old gentleman's proposals. He has not
THE GRISETTE. 211
the most distant idea of his having had a prede-
cessor in your good graces ; so I leave you tu
imagine how his alleged paternity will delight
him, and the immense empire it will give you
over him. You really are a very lucky crea-
ture, Clotilde ! By one little yes you revenge
yourself at one and the same time upon that
heartless Maxime, —you deprive the odious
Madame Prosper of her magnificent lover,
—
you secure a rich provision for your child,—and
you suddenly raise yourself from misery and
labour to wealth and luxury ! Here are pens,
ink, and paper just ready for you to write a
pretty little note to Monsieur le Prince, telling
him that you accept his offers.
—"*
" Never ! never !
'"*
exclaimed Clotilde, wring-
ing her hands.
"What is to become of you, then?" in-
quired Hortense, with that cold scrutiny which
pitilessly speculates upon the straw-grasping of
despair, and therefore spares nothing to render
more dreadful the representation of misery,
2\2 THE GRISETTE.
which is to terrify the poor victim deeper into
the abyss of dislionour ;
" what is to become of
you ? Of course, when your situation becomes
apparent, you can no longer go to Madame
Bouvier^s ; and, as you have no means of main-
taining your child, you must put it into UHos-
pice des enfans trouves. If you have the feel-
ings of a mother, my dear, you will do any and
everything to avoid such a horrible destiny for
your poor unborn !
""'
The unfortunate Clotilde listened to the ac-
cents of the temptress with a haggard, vacant
look, as the dreadful picture of misery and de-
stitution, which her words had conjured up,
stood in fearful array before her ; then, draw-
ing the paper abruptly towards her, she snatch-
ed the pen from Hortense's hand with a sort
of desperate resolution, dipped it in the ink,
and paused a moment, as though to collect her
ideas, while she held it suspended over the
paper. But the native rectitude of her heart
triumphed over the wild dictates of despair, and
THE GRISETTE. 213
violently dashing the pen to the ground, she fell
back in her chair in strong convulsions.
" She is a weak-hearted fool, but I cannot
help pitying her, poor little thing !
" said Hor-
tense to herself, as she cut the laces of Clotilde's
stays, sprinkled her face with cold water, and
did all that she could to restore her to her senses.
''
Well," she continued, " I have done the ut-
most to bring her to reason, and to make her
accept the good fortune that has fallen in her
way ; let us hope that I shall at last succeed,
and that one of these days she will acknowledge
that I have been her best friend
!
" And all
that night Hortense remained watchinof bv the
bed-side of the sufferer, partly from a feeling
of compassion, and partly because she wished to
prevent the possibility of Clotilde escaping her
machinations by throwing herself in that hour
of misery and abandonment upon the kind of-
fices of the old porter and his wife.
Before the morning, Clotilde^s sorrows and
anxieties for the future had subsided into the
214 THE GRISETTE.
narrow circle of self; that terrible glimpse of
her situation which had given her a foretaste of
the responsibilities and the agonies that are in-
volved in the prospect of maternity to an un-
wedded mother, had passed away like a fearful
dream,—the germ of a second life within her,
which, by doubling her existence, would have
doubled her sorrows, had perished. She had
now no one to think of but herself; and, while
the sense of her own desolate condition pressed
heavily upon her heart, she thanked God that
it was so ! She blessed his name for having
ordained that she was to be the only victim of
her own weakness and another's treachery.
THE GRISETTE. 215
CHAPTER VI.
Will vou use him kindly ? He will line your apron
with gold.
Mar. What he will do graciously, I will thankfully re-
ceive.
Pericles, Prince of Tyre.
During the ten days confinement to her
own room, which Clotilde's illness and conse-
quent debility rendered imperative, her thoughts
had unceasingly revolved around the last com-
munications of Hortense ; and startling and
defined as they were, she yet permitted a
doubt to creep into her mind that all was
not exactly as she had represented it to be.
It is so difficult for a young and generous nature
to believe in the utter unworthiness of what
216 THE GRISETTE.
has been most dear to it, that she determined
to be convinced of Maxime's falsehood only by
learning it from his own lips. Nor was she
wholly wrong in her conclusions that Hortense
had misrepresented his conduct to her ; for
although his infidelity and perfidy were, alas !
incontestable, there was still a certain varnish
of sentiment about him which served to cover
the rottenness of his principles with the smooth
outward seeming of kind words, and which
would have led him to shrink from the brutality
of expressing himself, as Hortense had describ-
ed him to have done. It was the cowardly feel-
ing of not liking to witness the pain which he
shrank not from injlicting, that had led him
to separate himself from Clotilde in the way
he had adopted. It was some remains of what
nature had intended for a good heart still
asserting itself amidst the corruption which
had deadened the rest, that made him feel
that the tears and the despair of the betrayed
Clotilde would be a spectacle which he had
THE GRISETTE. ^17
not the barbarous courage to behold. It was
quite true that he had involved himself through
vanity alone in an amour with Madame Prosper,
one of the class of professed femmes galantes^
whose talent in turning the heads and emptying
the purses of her admirers had raised her to
a celebrity which left all her compeers in the
shade, and caused her to be more recherchee
than any other woman of that description in
Paris ? It was true that he was spending a
great deal of money (or rather plunging very
deeply into debt) to satisfy her extravagant
caprices ; it was true that Hortense had ob-
tained a glimpse of him at her house ; it was
true that his uncle the old Admiral had pro-
cured a rich marriage for him at Bordeaux,
and that upon the condition of Maxime's ac-
cepting it, he had promised to pay his debts
and make an immediate settlement upon him
of part of his property ; it was true that
Maxime had gone to Bordeaux to throw him-
self at the feet of the wealthy young widow who
VOL. II. L
.^18 THE GRISETTE.
only awaited that personal demand, in order to
accord her hand and her fortune to the hand-
some young roue. But it was not true that
he had confided his projects and prospects
to Hortense ; it was not true that he had
followed her into the street, and bribed her
to be silent ; it was not true that he had
spoken of Clotilde with the harshness and levity
which she had represented ! She had obtained
all her intelligence from Victor Giraud, whom
she had visited for that purpose ; and the cruel
and supposititious conversation with which she
had broken the heart of Clotilde was the off-
spring of her own prolific brain, intended to
work out her projects in favour of the Prince
by raising the indignation of the deserted girl
to the highest possible pitch against her se-
ducer! —to that pitch which in nine cases out of
ten—be the offenders husbands or only lovers
—
drives women to revenge their injuries by re-
taliation^ and forces many a one into that whirl-
pool of guilt from which in a healthier state
THE GIIISETTE. 219
of miud she would have shrunk back with
horror and loathing.
The period of Clotilde's indisposition had
not been lost by Hortense. She had seen Max-
ime more than once during those ten days,
and she had artfully given him to understand
that Clotilde had fully prepared her own mind
to follow his example of infidelity ; that another
lover had presented himself and had not been
rejected, but that he had been condemned by
her to a state of probation until she could
ascertain whether Maxime intended to fulfil his
engagement to her.
" She is all for matrimony," said Hortense
;
" but still if vou do not marrv her, she will
not break her heart about it ; she has taken
a very wise decision, and is determined, should
you fail her, to accept of the other offer ; and
indeed upon the whole it will be a better thing
for her, as she has stipulated for, and obtained
the promise of, a handsome settlement. Elle
est Jine, cetie petite Clotilde ! more artful than
L 'J.
220 THE GRISETTE.
you believed her ; she played the part of dis-
interested love with you because she thought
it the surest way, by exalting your sentiments
for her and attaching you more passionately
to her, to lead to the object of her ambition,
—
marriage ! But I know that she is completely
tired of her humble existence, and has deter-
mined upon a coup to release herself from it
;
I know that she intends to appeal to your
feelings by pretending that she is enceinte, and
she is not so at all ! So be prepared for this
little artifice."
This latter part of Hortense's communica-
tion filled the mind of Maxime with indig-
nation ; and the idea of an ignorant young girl
pretending to dupe him, the duper par excellence,
suddenly appeared to transfer the part of in-
jurer from his own person to that of Clotllde,
and to relieve his conscience from whatever
remaining scruples had weighed upon It with
regard to his conduct towards her. In review-
ing the latter period of their intercouse he
THE GRISETTE. 22l
thought he could now detect faults in her
which had hitherto escaped his observation.
Her uncomplaining gentleness now appeared to
him in the light of apathy ; her occasional de-
jection was houderie ; and her actual silence
under a knowledge of his being at Paris, and
not at Pau as he had represented to her, was
artifice ; deep heartless artifice ! She was pass-
ing her time, not in regrets for him, but in
a double preparation to entrap him or supplant
him ! It is astonishing with what facility the
mind when it is once warped can distort every
circumstance to its own crooked view of things.
Even the virtues and good qualities of an ad-
versary, when contemplated through the dis-
colouring medium of passion or prejudice, are
perverted into grounds of increased dislike,
and I have known persons so far led away by
these unjust animosities as to close their minds
against the evidence of any merit whatsoever
in the object of their obloquy, and to fancy
themselves insulted when an attempt has been
222 THE GRISETTE.
made to clear by a sunbeam of truth the black
and smoky atmosphere of their mental per-
ceptions.
It was in such a frame of mind as this that
Maxime received from Clotilde a letter, which
she had written to him as soon as she had re-
covered from her illness, and which, to prevent
any mistake, she had herself left at his door
;
and, at the same time, had ascertained from
his porter the fact that he had returned to Paris
from Bordeaux at the period Hortense had
stated to her. That letter contained no re-
proach. In a few touching lines she described
the shock which her feelings had received at
learning that he had deceived her with respect
to the purport and duration of his absence, and
that he had actually returned to Paris without
seeking to see her; —at a moment, too, when
she required all the support of his tenderness
and his presence, and when the certainty of her
situation, and the impossibility of long being
able to conceal it, had filled her mind with
THE GRISETTE. 223
anxiety and terror, and made her turn towards
him for counsel and consolation. She told him
that she had at first rejected the beUef that lie
could have thus acted towards her ; and during
many days of illness, produced by the unhappy
state of her mind, she had daily looked for
some proof that was to bear her out in her con-
fidence in his loyal affection for her. —But none
had come ; no letter, no visit ! Yet she had
ascertained that he was in Paris, and she wrote
to ask him, in the name of their past happiness,
what she had done to merit so cruel a change.
" You are too just, too kind, to treat me thus
without a cause, either real or supposed ; let
me know in what I have offended. Tell me
who has misrepresented me to you. Only give
me an opportunity of justifying myself ; that is
all I ask of you, Maxime ! And is it too much
that you should accord to your poor Clotilde
that which is granted to every criminal before
he receives sentence of death—the permission of
making his defence before his judge !
""
224 THE GRISETTE.
The only notice that Maxime took of what
he beheved to be a consummate piece of artifice,
was, first to throw it into the fire, and then to
give orders to his porter that if any more
letters were brought to the house by the same
person, or that any one of the name of Clo-
tilde Remy should inquire for him, that they
were to say he was absent from Paris for an
indefinite period ; and, in order to smother the
little twinges of conscience which occasionally
obtruded when the image of the lovely and
tender Clotilde forced itself upon his recol-
lection, he plunged deeper and deeper into
every excess of gaiety and dissipation which
the carnival season—the Saturnalia of the Pa-
risians—offered ; as though determined that the
last weeks of his bachelor life should comprise
all those selfish and prodigal pleasures upon
which the endless Careme of matrimony would
so soon close the door ; and as though wishing
by a surfeit to deaden his regrets for those
brilliant orgies, which would in so short a
THE GRISETTE. ^25
space be beyond his reach to participate in,
as his marriage was to remove him from Paris
and fix him at Bordeaux.
Clotilde awaited an answer to her letter
during four-and-twenty hours of agonising sus-
pense—but none came ; and then, fearing that
it might not have reached Maxime, she went
to his residence, and inquired of the porter
whether it had been delivered to him. The
man assured her that it had. " Is he at
home ? " asked Clotilde timidly.
"Yes, but he is not up yet; —he was out
all last night at a ball, and gave orders that
nobody was to be admitted before two o'clock
to-day, as he is to be out again all to-night
to finish the carnival at Musard's. This is
Mardi Gras, you know."
Clotilde did not know it, for she had for-
gotten everything but her own misery, and
absorbed in that, had taken no note of time ;
but a thought suddenly flashed upon her that
she would go to Musard's ball too, and under
226 THE GRISETTE.
the disguise of a domino and mask follow the
faithless Maxime, and speak to him once more.
" Do you know at what hour Monsieur de
Nerac will go to Musard's ?" inquired Clotilde
timidly.
" I never trouble myself about his outgoings,'"*
replied the man gruffly ;
" I only know that
he returns home later than any other lodger
in the house, and that I am obliged to get out
of my warm bed to let him in every night, or
rather morning, long after every reasonable
body is in bed and asleep. He was much
more regular all last summer and autumn."'
Clotilde sighed deeply as this remark brought
to mind the short-lived period of Maxime's de-
votion to her, and tears unconsciously filled
her eyes.
" Ah ^a. Mademoiselle,'"* said the man, ob-
serving her emotion, " is your name Remy,
pray ? Clotilde Remy ?""
" Yes,'"* she replied eagerly, for the question
led to a sudden hope that some message or
THE GRISETTE. 227
letter for her had been confided to hun by
Maxime.
" Well, then," returned the j)orter, " if you
are Mademoiselle Clotilde Remy, I have a
piece of advice to give you ; —don't take the
trouble of writing or coming here any more,
for Monsieur de Nerac has given orders that
if you do, you are to be told that he is not
in Paris, nor likely to return soon."
Poor Clotilde turned away with a burning
cheek ; all her pride and her indignation were
aroused by tliis last blow, and without trust-
ing herself to utter a single word, she hurried
out of sight of Maxime's dwelling, and never
stopped until she had reached the house inha-
bited by Hortense. Her mind was in such
a tumult, that the arguments and sophistries
of her dangerous friend were quite lost upon
her ; she could only form one distinct wish,
that of seeing Maxime once more at Musard's
bal masque — afterwards all was a blank —
there was no afterwards for her —that meet-
or28 THE GRISETTE.
iDg would seal her fate ! But she had no
money to procure herself a costume ; her ill-
ness had completely exhausted her slender
purse,—the misery of her mind had rendered
it impossible for her to return to her employ-
ment at Madame Bouvier's, and therefore no
money was coming in to her ; and, besides
this, her last month's rent would become due
in a few days, and she had not wherewithal
to pay it, so that she had not courage to
apply to Pere Benoit to lend her money for
a purpose which she could not conceal from
him, and which must appear to him under
such circumstances both frivolous and unprin-
cipled.
In this total destitution of ways and means
to carry her through a project which had seized
upon her mind with all the tenacity of an idte
Jixe^ Clotilde cast herself upon the friendship
of Hortense for assistance, which that wily
person took care to ^\^thhold until she had
made such conditions, and stipulated for such
THE GRISETTE. 229
concessions from Clotilde, as would draw her
more securely within the toils she had spread
for her.
" You know, my dear,"'' said she, " that I am
a bad manager, and never have any savings by
me, and at this moment I am literally like your-
self, without a sol, and have been obliged to
pawn my watch and chain at the Mont de Piete,
so that I have no means of assisting you myself
;
there is only one way that I can devise of
getting a sufficient sum of money to equip us
both for the bal masque ; (for it will require
more than a hundred francs to procure the
costume of a Debardeur for me, and a hand-
some black satin domino for you at Babin's,
not to mention satin shoes, silk stockings, white
gloves, a bouquet and a mask for you,) but
I cannot have recourse to this method without
your leave."
" Only enable me to go to this ball, dear
Hortense !'"
exclaimed Clotilde, with a wild
earnestness in her manner which convinced PI or-
230 THE GRISETTE.
tense that she was at last in her power, " and
you may do with me as you will."
"Well," replied her friend, "all that 1
shall require you to do will be to offer your
thanks in person to the gentleman who I know
will advance the money as soon as he hears
that it \^ for you.''
" Yes, yes !" said Clotilde hurriedly, and
with a vacant smile, " I will thank him on
my knees, —I will see him, if you wish it,
to-morrow!'''
" Of course, I mean to-morrow," was the
rejoinder. " Wait here until I go and settle
this business at once, and in half an hour I
shall be back again ;" and, putting on her
bonnet and shawl, Hortense quickly disappeared.
Now the poverty which she had pleaded was
a mere pretext to induce Clotilde to sanction
an application in her name, to the Prince, for
money ; and as her belief in the truth of the
old adage, " ce n'est que le premier pas qui
coute," was unrestricted, she felt assured that
THE GRISETTE. 231
the ice once broken, and Clotilde's pride and
rectitude once subjected to the abasing test of
receiving money from a man who sought for her
love, all the rest would follow without difficulty,
and that she should speedily see Clotilde realise
her old admirer's hopes, — hopes which she
had not scrupled to exalt almost into certain-
ties, by setting before him the most encourag-
ing pictures of the poor girPs growing inclina-
tions in his favour, and the consequent dimi-
nution in the struggles of her expiring virtue.
These flattering reports always won for Hor-
tense golden rewards from the Prince, so that
in point of fact, her exchequer had never before
been in so flourishing a condition. But, as we
have already seen, it did not suit her views to
own this, or to allow of any one but the
Prince in propria persona becoming the banker
of Clotilde. And here it may not be inoppor-
tune to remark that the secret of her pertina-
cious endeavours to compass the gratification
of that susceptible old gentleman's wishes, lay
232 THE GRISETTE.
in the promise which he had made to her, that
as soon as Clotilde should place herself under
his protection, that she, Hortense, was to make
one in the establishment, as dame de covipagme,
to attend them in the journey which the Prince
had determined upon making with his new
conquest to Naples ; a step which she believed,
would lead to the making of her own fortune,
as she felt, that with her superior talent for
intrigue, and the influence she could not fail
to exercise over the disinterested, unsuspicious
mind of her friend, she would in reality be the
directress of the whole establishment, without
being condemned to pay so dearly for the pri-
vilege of lavishing the Prince's wealth, as poor
Clotilde would be. Thus when Hortense found
that every other argument had failed in bend-
ing the unhappy girl to her will, she placed her
last trust in the pinching one of poverty, and,
resolved upon starving her into terms, care-
fully concealed from her the resources that she
possessed ; so that when Clotilde unexpectedly
THE GRISETTE. 233
threw herself upon her generosity, that her last
desperate determination of seeing Maxime
might be gratified, Hortense unhesitatingly
pleaded her extreme poverty as a pretext for
having recourse to the liberality of another, and
^vith glad surprise, perceived that no further
objection was offered on the part of Clotilde, to
such a course, or to the stipulations with which
she had proposed it.
The manner in which Hortense executed her
commission, was worthy of the preceding di-
plomacy she had exibited. To have owned
to the Prince that Clotilde was going to a bal
masque that night, would have been to induce
him to go there also, and would have inevi-
tably led to his discovering the motive that
alone took her to such a place ; so, with that
promptitude which characterised all her deci-
sions she determined, as she walked towards the
Pugnoseffsky Hotel, upon a more plausible tale.
" Monsieur le Prince," said she, as she enter-
ed a luxurious boudoir, which, from the cha-
234 THE GRTSETTE.
racter of its costly decorations, and the various
portraits of beautiful women suspended from
its walls, might have rivalled the celebrated
petite maison of the Marechal de Richelieu, " I
bring you good news ; Clotilde consents to see
you at last I There is only one little obstacle
that can interfere with her desire of waiting
upon you to-morrow.''
The Prince, who was reclining upon a cau-
seuse, half buried in its down cushions, raised
his head with unwonted vivacity at this an-
nouncement. " Dieu ! le vilain petit mon-
stre !''
thought Hortense to herself, as her eye
glanced over liis shrivelled form, wrapped in a
gorgeous gold-brocaded robe de chamhre a la
Louis Quatorze, from beneath which peeped a
pair of Kasan boots, and his chimpanzee face,
surmounted by an Indian Cashmere handker-
chief, twisted round his head en Madras^ and
doing duty for the juvenile bay wig, which was
at that moment absent on leave under the
THE GRISETTE. 235
hands of thefriseur! "he certainly ought to
be sent to the Jardin des Plantes !
"
" Sit down by me, mon enfant," said the old
gentleman, drawing Hortense into the vacant
seat on the causeuse, and chucking her familiarly
under the chin ;
" you speak of obstacles inter-
fering with the wishes of this adorable Clotilde,
to grant me an interview to-morrow, and yet
if they are obstacles which money can remove,
you ought to know that they no longer exist.
'^
" I know that Monsieur le Prince is the
most generous of men ; and as it is precisely
from the want of money that the dilemma of
Clotilde arises, I will not scruple to make it
known to you. She has been very ill for the
last fortnight, poor child ! with the influenza
;
and doctors, and medicines, and dainties, have
exhausted the funds with which you so gener-
ously supplied me, and which I have scrupul-
ously devoted to Clotilde's comforts, so that
now that she is recovered, we are both without
^36 THE GRISETTE.
money sufficient to provide her with a proper
toilette, in which she can present herself to you
;
and without which, she declares that she will
not appear in your presence. Voila TafFaire,
mon Prince/'
" Is that all, ma petite chatte ?
"'''
inquired the
old lover ; and, approaching a table which was
covered with costly baubles, he took from it a
bouquet of exotics, and twisting a billet de mille
francs round the stems, placed it in an elegant
Russian porte-bouquet encrusted with turquoises,
and then put it into Hortense's hand. " Carry
this bagatelle from me to my charming Clo-
tilde,'' said he ;
" and tell her that I shall
await her visit to-morrow morning with the
utmost impatience, and that before the evening
the richest trousseau in Paris, shall be at her
disposal. And this for yourself, ma belle en-
fant,''^ putting a ring upon her finger ;
" you
are a treasure of a friend ; you must never
leave Clotilde. I shall take her immediately to
Naples, the climate of which will quite cure
THE GRISETTE. 237
her influenza, poor dear angel," (liere a violent
fit of coughing interrupted him, and lasted until,
breatliless and nearly strangled by it, his eyes
had almost started from their sockets, which
by no means improved the interest of his coun-
tenance ;)
" I myself have a slight cough, as
you may perceive,'' he continued, when he had
recovered the powers of speech ;
" but it is a
mere trifle, that will disappear with change of
air ; so you may prepare to accompany us at
the shortest notice : does that suit you, eh ?
"
'*
My greatest happiness will ever be to obey
your wishes. Monsieur le Prince," replied Hor-
tense, with a demure look.
" Embrasse mot, done, friponne !
^
Hortense cast down her eyes, and turned her
cheek towards the old gallant with an admir-
able expression of modest submission. " Elk
est jolit a croquer .'" said the Prince to himself,
when the kiss had been duly accorded.
" Ae vieux sitisre desroutant
!'''
muttered Hor-
tense, between her teeth, and rubbing her cheek
23S ^ THE GRISETTE.
with the corner of her shawl, as she tripped
down the staircase of the PugnosefFsky Hotel.
And thus ended their interview.
Hortense returned to her lodging, and to
the expectant Clotilde, followed by a porter car-
rying two large, flat band-boxes, and sundry
smaller parcels; and no sooner had she paid
and dismissed him than she proceeded to report
to her friend, her version of the success of her
application, and to spread before her eyes the
various accessories which she had in conse-
quence prepared for the nighfs adventure.
" See what an elegant domino I " she ex-
claimed ;
" how rich the satin is, and the pelerine
and capiichon trimmed with such beautiful lace !
but no wonder that it is handsome, for the hire
of it for one night only, costs fifty francs. It
is the very best one that Babin had ; and as
the Prince told me to spare nothing for your
gratification, I of course chose it ; it is he who
pays for everything; —the moment he heard
of your wish to go to the ball, he gave me ten
THE GRISETTE. 239
Napoleons to equip us both. '
Cette chere
Clotilde !
' said he, '
qu'elle s'amuse ; mon Dieu,
qu'elle s^amuse, pauvre ange !"
Clotilde groaned in spirit ; but Hortense,
heedless of her emotion, went on.
" There is something quite paternal in his
affection for you, and when I told him that you
were desirous of thanking him in person for
his kindness, he suggested with the greatest
delicacy that I should accompany you to his
house, not for that purpose, but to see all the
beautiful pictures and curiosities which it con-
tains ; so I have fixed that to-morrow morning
we are both to go there. Well, but," she con-
tinued, noticing from Clotilde's absent looks
that her thoughts had wandered far away, " I
must now shew you the rest of the accoutre-
ments in which you are to mystify Maxime.
Look at these loves of black satin shoes and
these beautiful black silk has a Jours,—your
little feet will look like those of Cinderella in
them !
—what a happiness to.be always chaussee
^40 THE GRISETTE.
ill that way !
—and here are white gloves from
Boivin's, and a Pompadour fan and perfumes
from Lubin^s ; and here is your bouquet,—the
Prince sent it to you himself exactly as it is,""
(she had unwound the billet de banque from
the stalks and transferred it to her own bag !)
''
for as he very justly remarked
—"*'
*'
I will not touch that bouquet !''
inter-
rupted Clotilde with a look of horror, the re-
membrance of Maxime's first offering at the
theatre on the night of Pentecost recurring to
her thoughts and almost suffocating her.
" Yes you will,"" returned Hortense calmly ;
" your wish is to attract Maxime's notice to-
night, and to intriguer him, is it not ? Now
if you are dressed in a domino like any one
else, and carry a bouquet like every one, he
certainly will not think you worth looking
after ; but such a hijou as this in your hand
will attract and puzzle him ;
—he will think
you are a princess at least, and will follow you
all the evening, and to keep up the illusion
THE GRISETTE. 241
I intend to lend you one of the pocket-hand-
kerchiefs which I have just finished trimming
with lace for the Princess de V 's trousseau,
—a pocket-handkerchief of six hundred francs
value, with her coronet in the corner ! What
a famous mystification for Monsieur Maxime !
"
The last part of the argument was irresistible
to Clotilde. To be followed by Maxime and
to be able to speak with him was the only
distinct wish which she had the power to form
in the chaos of despair that had overwhelmed
her mind, and mechanically grasping at what-
ever was to facilitate the realisation of that
\^ish, she no longer opposed her friend's decrees
respecting the Prince's bouquet and the Prin-
cess's handkerchief, but gave a hurried assent to
everything proposed by her ; and as it had
been settled that Clotilde should dress at Hor-
tense's lodging, and that they should proceed
together from thence to Musard's, they sepa-
rated for a few hours, and Clotilde returned
to her solitary home, there to occupy herself
VOL. II. M
242 THE GRISETTE.
ill a manner which formed an extraordinary
preparation for the scene of folly and disorder
in which at a later hour she was to mingle.
At seven o'clock she left the house to repair
to Hortense's, and contrary to her usual cus-
tom she did not leave the key of her room
with the old porters, who therefore remained
in ignorance of her having again gone out until
about two hours afterwards, when a letter by
the petite poste having come for her, one of
them carried it up stairs and found that her
door was locked, the key taken away, and she
herself absent.
THE GRISETTE. 24-3
CHAPTER VII.
Oh serpent heart, hid with a flow'ring face I
Did ever dragon keep so fair a cave ?
Was ever book, containing such vile matter.
So fairly bound ? that deceit should dwel
In such a gorgeous palace !
Romeo and Juliet.
To those persons who are faraihar with the
humours of Musard's bal masque on the night
of Mardi gras, a description would be super-
fluous ; —to those who have never been there,
(and as a spectacle,—a picture of national man-
ners, —every sojourner in Paris should see it
once,) no description could convey any adequate
idea of that motley scene. There, the Carni-
M 2
244 THE GRISETTE.
val, wrought up by degrees through every stage
of gaiety to its last feverish crisis, expires in
a convulsion of delirious joy which would lead
the sober spectator to question whether the
actors in such a scene were rational beings,
or whether Pandemonium had given up its
host to hold their revels there ! There the
naturally graceful dancing of the French is
abandoned for exhibitions so absurd and in-
decorous, that compared to them the move-
ments of the Egyptian Almas and the Indian
Bayaderes may be pronounced modest and
blameless ; there, the eccentric and indefati-
gable Monsieur Chicard leads on his satelhtes
to deeds of legs as well as arms so monstrous
and incomprehensible that one can only account
for them by supposing the Terpsichorean fugle-
man to be possessed of a legion of St. Vituses ;
there, the contredanse becomes an orgie,
—
the
galop swells into an avalanche, noisy, over-
powering, irresistible, sweeping all before it into
one chaotic tumult, —and the sounds of the
THE GRISETTE. 24^5
magnificent orchestra are drowned in the brou-
haha of scuffling feet, cracking whips, tinkling
bells, and the shrill screams of Pierrots, Poli-
chinelles, and Paillasses.
Into such a scene of mad mirth, with her
feelings previously wound up to the most pain-
ful state of excitement, Clotilde was introduced
at midnight by Hortense (who, truth to say,
with her decouple air, and her natural audacity
as well as her natural advantages, looked ad-
mirably in her male attire as a Debardeur*).
For the first half hour, such was the effect
produced upon Clotilde by the novel and be-
wildering spectacle before her that her head
reeled, her limbs trembled, and unable to sup-
port herself she sought for refuge upon a bench
in an obscure corner of the Salle. Had any
one then accosted her she would certainly have
* The Debardeurs are the watermen of the Seine, whose
picturesque costume has rendered it a very favourite dis-
guise for the frequenters (female as well as male) of the
Carnival masked balls in Paris.
24G THE GRISETTE.
answered them by bursting into tears ; but
as dominos are generally understood to take
the initiative in the mystifications which their
disguise privileges, she fortunately remained un-
molested, and ample time was thus aflforded her
to recover herself before she ventured to mix
in the crowd, or trusted herself to speak with-
out trembling lest her voice might betray her.
But the very confusion which had at first over-
whelmed Clotilde, at last tended not only to
restore her courage but to impart to her a
hardihood very foreign to her nature. The con-
tagion of the scene produced its effect ; —
a
wild recklessness, which was not gaiety of heart,
—a self-possession, which was not ease of mind,
came over her,—she was like the vendangeurs
whom the fumes of the wine-press intoxicate
although the juice it contains has not moistened
their lips ; the spirit of joy was far from her
bosom, but its inebriating semblance floated
upon the atmosphere she breathed, and for a
space she looked and acted as if like those
THE GRISETTE. 247
around her she were under the dominion of the
most unrestrained enjoyment.
It was not until long after midnight that she
caught a first glimpse of Maxime. He had
looked into the Bal de FOpera en passant, but
had found it too decorously dull to induce him
to spend more than an hour there ; and, anxious
for more piquante adventures, with his spirits
wound up to the licence of Musard's, he re-
paired thither with a band of noisy associ-
ates. Clotilde trod upon his footsteps with a
throbbing heart, as he pushed his way round
the crowded room ; and almost immediately
she beheld him accosted by a mask in the
costume of Madame du Barry, whose unveiled
bosom and shoulders, and equally undisguised
manner of expressing herself, were peculiarly
fitted for a representation of the celebrated
courtesan, whose grivois manners had perhaps
contributed even more powerfully than her per-
sonal beauty in establishing her empire over
the worn-out heart and palled mind of the
248 THE GRISETTE.
depraved Louis Quinze. Clotilde had first fan-
cied that it must be Madame Prosper, but a
few moments undeceived her ; the mask in
question was a much shorter person, and be-
sides it was evident from the conversation that
ensued between her and Maxime that he had
recognised her, for he addressed her by the
name of Athenais, and alluded to her theatri-
cal profession. The equivocal hilarity in which
they indulged, although perfectly suited to the
atmosphere of Musard's, would be quite unfit
for the pages of our narrative ; Clotilde, as
she listened to them, blushed with indignation
that such coarse wit could possess a charm for
Maxime, and with shame that expressions so
licentious should fall from the lips of a woman.
But although every word she heard pierced
her to the heart, she still lingered within ear-
shot, as though enamoured of her own misery,
and unable to tear herself away from it. Must
it be owned that the fact of finding herself
once more near the faithless yet ever beloved
THE GRISETTE. 249
Maxime, fascinated her with a strange fearful
delight which she could not shake off, and
would not if she could ? The very sound of
his voice thrilled to her inmost heart, and al-
most subdued her into casting herself at his
feet, and imploring him to restore his tender-
ness to her ; but then the knowledge that
it should be addressed to another than to her-
self, in accents of love and admiration, as she
then heard it, nerved her soul to the deed she
contemplated ; and the tears that had rushed
to her eyes in soft regret, froze there with
indignation, and left no tell-tale stain upon
her cheek to mark her momentary weakness.
The colloquy between Maxime and the gay
Du Barry ended with a proposal from the
former that they should sup together e?i partie
Jine at Very's, in the Palais Royal, when the
ball was over, which engagement was ratified
in these characteristic terms :
" Une douzaine
d'*huitres et mon coeur !
" said the lady.
" Ta parole ?" inquired Maxime.
M 5
^•50 THE GRISETTE.
" D'honneur !" rejoined the joyous mask, (who
certainly mistook the sound for the sense,) pi-
rouetting away from him on one foot, and at
the same moment giving a smart rap with her
fan upon the shoulder of a Louis Quinze, dressed
in all the glories of purple velvet and gold,
a bag-wig and sword, the cordon bleu, and
a paste star. *'
Allons, la France ! ta main
royale pour la contredanse qui se forme ;" and,
suiting the action to the word, she swept her
way into the nearest quadrille; while 'Clotilde
grasping Hortense by the arm, dragged her
after her into the space vis-a-vis to the courtly
couple, which thus enabled her to place herself
exactly opposite to Maxime, who had taken
his station behind the Du Barry.
However Maxime's truant fancies might have
been momentarily fixed by the petulant viva-
city of Mademoiselle Athenais, she had not
succeeded in absorbing him so completely as
to render him unmindful of other attractions
;
his eyes, even while he listened to the sprightly
THE GRISETTE. 251
remarks with which his easy conquest filled up
her pauses in the dance, wandered over the
moving figures before him, and soon rested
upon one wearing a black domino, who formed
the vis-a-vis to Athenais. She was tall and
slender, and the beauty of her feet and ancles,
and the decent grace which characterized her
dancing (so diiferent from every other exhi-
bition then going on) induced him to examine
her with as much curiosity as admiration. Her
domino was of the most elegant description ;
but the capuchon of it was so closely drawn
around her mask, as to leave not even a
stray curl visible, and the orifices for her
eyes were so Chinese in their form, as to baflfle
his curiosity respecting the colour or size of
the orbs beneath. Maxime had never seen
Clotilde dance, neither had he ever beheld her
feet in a more becoming chaussure than white
cotton stockings and black leather shoes ; and
as he would just have soon have expected
to meet his mother at Musard's as to find
252 THE GRISETTE.
Clotilde there, not the most remote suspicion
of her identity with the mask before him
glanced across his mind ; besides he imagined
the incognita to occupy a very different social
position from that of the humble lingere, for he
noticed that she carried a nosegay of the rarest
exotics, fixed to a splendid porte-bouquet, and
that her pocket-handkerchief was one of those
costly chiffons which characterize the toilettes
of the wealthy and the luxurious, and the price
of which would feed and clothe a starving
family for a whole winter. The hands that
held those expensive objects were, by their
delicate symmetry, worthy of the feet that
had first fixed his attention, and he felt as-
sured that they must rival in whiteness and
softness the gloves that fitted them so exqui-
sitely. In short, everything about her bespoke
a refinement which he had not expected to
meet among the dancers there ; and almost
repenting of his hastily-formed engagement
with the Du Barry, he determined to profit by
THE GRISETTE. 2oS
the interval which must elapse before the hour
of their rendezvous arrived, to introduce himself
to the notice of the more attractive stranger.
She seemed to have divined his wishes, and
to have decided upon anticipating his inten-
tions ; for as she glided past him in the last
figure of the contredanse, she dexterously con-
trived that her handkerchief should fall at his
feet. Maxime hastened to pick it up, but
not to restore it ; he held it until the dance
was over, and then before returning it to its
fair owner, he raised it to his lips.
" Eh, bien ! beau Beamais," she said, in
the feigned shrill treble masquerading voice,
which is de rigueur upon such occasions,
—
" tes amours sont-elles toujours prosperes ?^
'*
Oui et non," replied Maxime with a laugh,
as he seized the meaning of her words.
"Mais pas toujours fideles.'*" pursued the
black domino, interrogatively.
" Est-ce que prospere et Jldtle sont syno-
nymes ?""
inquired Maxime.
254 THE GRISETTE.
*'
Pas trop," returned the unknown ;
" du
reste la fidelite est une folie qui mene a
"
" L'ennui, et au degout !" interrupted Max-
ime.
" A rhospice des fous, ou a la Morgue !
''*
concluded the domino, with a bitter laugh.
Then fearing that she might have betrayed her-
self by this remark, she added with a quick
resumption of levity, " After all, of what con-
sequence whither it leads, provided that nei-
ther you nor I are disposed to be led by it ?
Vivent la joie et les caprices ! voila ma devise.'"*
"And mine, too, charming stranger!"" re-
sponded Maxime.
" How long will it remain so .?'"
resumed the
domino ;
" a quand la noce ? and will that be
a proper device for Maxime the married man .'*
"*"*
"You know me, then?" asked Maxime,
eagerly.
* The Morgue is a place where the bodies of unknown
persons who have perished either by suicide or assassina-
tion, are exposed, in order to be claimed by their friends.
THE GRISETTE. 255
" Too well, perhaps — perhaps, not well
enough !
" was the reply ; and just as it was
uttered, with a coquettish movement of the in-
cognita's head, which more than sufficed to
convey to Maxime''s excitable imagination the
most flattering interpretation to this somewhat
ambiguous avowal, an overgrown galIope came
thundering along, as if purposely to break the
thread of their discourse, and the black domino
starting aside to avoid the crash, the long
phalanx interposed between him and her, and
when it had passed by, she was nowhere to
be seen.
More than half an hour was vainly spent in
seeking for her in the crowd ; at last, as he
was about to relinquish the pursuit in despair,
a hght form brushed by him, and raising her
handkerchief to her mask, as she did so, Max-
ime at one and the same moment recognised
his fair unknown, and perceived a Prince's
coronet in the comer of her handkerchief.
" Ah, pour le coup, Je te tiens, ma Sylphide !
**'
256 THE GRISETTE.
he exclaimed, laying his hand upon hers, which
she did not withdraw, " et tu ne m'echapperas
plus."
The mask made no reply, but passed her
arm familiarly through his, and as Maxime
pressed it significantly to his side, he felt her
whole frame tremble, and lean heavily upon
him for support ; little did he deem that it
was with anguish and indignation called forth
by that endearment, at once the proof of
his faithlessness and of his presumptuous
levity !
" And will you not tell me," he continued,
with one of his dangerous glances, " where and
how we have met before ?"
" Not now," she replied ; "let it suffice you
to know that I have long watched you with
interest, and long wished for the happiness of
this moment ;"
—and she returned the pressure
of his arm ;
—" but I must be upon my guard
for fear of discovery
—
he is here !
"
"Ah, he is here!" repeated Maxime;
THE GRISETTE. 257
" well, let him remain ; I hope he will amuse
himself!"
" Oh, there is no doubt but that he will both
remain and amuse himself," she returned; "but
he knows nothing of my being here amusing
myself also : he believes that I am safe at
home, and asleep at this moment ; and if he
found me out he would never pardon my esca-
pade, especially as he has forbidden me to have
any communication whatever with a certain ami-
able mauvais suj'et called Maxime de Nerac."
" Ah ! he has forbidden you
—
"
" Yes ; for which very reason I am here.
There is something pleasant and piquant in the
certitude of thus taking him in under his very
eyes, (for I see him now,) and I can imagine
the rage and dismay that would flash from his
countenance were I to take off my mask, and
he were to behold us together !" And the
same light, ringing, bitter laugh which he had
before heard, again burst forth.
" But shall not this envious mask be for
258 THE GRISETTE.
one moment removed/"* urged Maxime, in his
most persuasive tones, " and reveal to my long-
ing eyes the charming features that it now con-
ceals ? For that they are beautiful and bewitch-
ing, and in harmony with every part of this
graceful form, I am most firmly persuaded."
" On le dit !
*"
replied the mask, with a co-
quettish affirmative movement of her head.
" One glimpse, then !"*'
and Maxime attempt-
ed to raise the fall of satin that covered her
lips; but laying her hand upon it she pre-
vented him, and stamping her little foot, " Not
here I tell you, for he would ine\atably recog-
nise me, and then we must separate imme-
diately."
" Waste not another word upon this unrea-
sonable tyrant," said Maxime, " and tell me
that if not Aere, you will let me behold you
unmasked elsewhere to-night,—after the ball
—
"
" You forget," she replied, " that after the
ball you have a rendezvous at Very's."—Max-
ime bit his lip with vexation.—'' Ah, volage,"
THE GRISETTE. 2j9
she continued, laughing at his impatient gest-
ure, "toujours des bonnes fortunes—toujours
des triomphes ! You ought to be detested ;
nevertheless, I feel that you can only be
loved."
She sighed deeply, and this time her exhi-
bition of feeling was natural. Maxime seized
her hand, and raised it to his lips. '' I will
never release this lovely little hand,'"* he said,
" until you tell me when and where I may
see you unreservedly."
" To-morrow," was the reply ;
" I will write
to tell you when and where ; and you must
promise to come immediately at my bidding."
" But what guarantee have I for the per-
formance of your promise ?
"
" The love which has brought me here."
" Love for we, enchantress .'^"
" Ay, for you^ even to madness !
" was the
vehement reply. " You have long been the
idol of my thoughts —the sole object of my
love and of my jealousy. I have watched your
260 THE GRISETTE.
intrigues with other women in the hope that
such e\4(lences of your inconstancy would bring
me to my senses ; but in vain ! I could not
tear your image from my heart,—and I am
here,—I am here only to look upon you, and to
tell you so ! And now do you doubt the per-
formance of my promise ?
*"
" Pardieu, quel emportement
!
""
thought Max-
ime, when the unknown, having talked herself
out of breath, stopped short. '' She must be
a Spaniard or an ItaUan. Frenchwomen have
less passion and more coquettry. Doubt you,
my dearest angel !" he continued aloud ;
" I
would sooner doubt the love with which you
have so suddenly inspired me, and which I feel
must last
—^'
" As long as that which you felt for Madame
Bergerac, or Madame de Chauvilly ;''
—inter-
rupted the unknown, running over two or three
other names of some of Maxime's former con-
quests which had come to her knowledge,
through the medium of Hortense, who had in
THE GRISETTE. 261
her turn gathered them from Victor Giraud ;
—
" or Lucile, the pretty little Bordelaise dancer
;
how long did yon love her ? or Clotilde, the
poor Itngere, of whom you appeared to be so
fond for a short time—fie upon the bad taste
that could stoop so low !
"
Maxime shrugged his shoulders, and laugh-
ingly replied, " All that you are talking about
is ancient history ; those follies are over, and
have not left a trace behind them here," laying
his hand upon his heart ; "at best, they were
but amourettes—mere idle pastime, and I should
blush for the bad taste you reprobate, could I
ever have contemplated them in any other light."
"Ah, monstre!" interposed a blue domino,
who had been attentively listening to the last
words that had passed between Maxime and
his incognita ;
" do you make no exception
in favour of Clotilde, that beautiful creature
whom you once loved so well, and who still
believes in your promises to her ? What will
become of her if you break them ?""
262 THE GRISETTE.
Provoked by this mal-a-propos interruption,
Maxime turned sharply round upon the in-
truder, and said, " If you are a friend of
Clotilda's, the sooner you advise her to change
her belief the better ; it would be a pity that
she should waste more of her time in such un-
profitable nonsense."
" And her child, if it ever sees the light ?"
persisted the blue domino.
Maxime laughed contemptuously. " If it
ever sees the hght,'' he replied, " she will have
no difficulty in finding a father for it !
**'
The blue domino shook her hand at him
reprovingly, and tripped away ; and in the
same moment, the black one, who during
this short interruption had mournfully hung
down her averted head, perceived beneath the
long blue skirt the Dehardeurs shoes of Hor-
tense. A momentary pause ensued, during
which the incognita raised her eyes, and
steadily perused the ruffled countenance of
Maxime ; anger and vexation were legibly
THE GRISETTE. 263
written there, but not one sign of compunction,
not the shadow of a regret.
" And so," said she at last, " of all these
idols of a day, not one has left a trace upon
your volatile heart ! AVell, I flatter myself that
the countenance you shall behold unmasked
to-morrow will make a more lasting impression
upon you."
" Yet how am I to be convinced that the
promise you now make me is not a mere mock-
ery, a tour de Carnaval ?
''"'
" Ah ! you beheve that I am only playing
off a Carnival trick upon you ? Be assured,
on the contrary, that I never was more se-
riously inclined in my life than in thus arranging
for you un beau commencement de Carerne ; tu
te souvtendras long-temps du Mereredi des Cen-
dres —ce Jour-la fera epoque dans tes amours.
But if my word is insufficient to convince you
of my sincerity, let us exchange pledges which
we will mutually restore when we meet ; here
is my bouquet, give me your handkerchief
—"*
264 THE GRISETTE.
(Maxime had just drawn from his pocket one
of those which Clotilde had marked for him
with her hair; )
" no, I see by that chiffre en
cheveux that it is a love-gift, and perhaps you
would not like to part with it even for a few
hours.""
" I only wish that it were a sentiment that
I might have the happiness of sacrificing it to
you," replied Maxime. "But notwithstanding
the romantic appearance of that cypher in hair,
I can assure vou that the handkercheif has
no extrinsic value in my eyes ; c'est tout
bonnement un mouchoir de poche, et pas un
souvenir d'amour. Let me in preference
offer you these tablets, and to-morrow when
we meet I shall inscribe Ash Wednesday
upon them as the happiest day of my exis-
tence.''
" No, no, the handkerchief
!
''
returned the
mask in a smothered voice, grasping at it as
she spoke and thrusting it into her bosom ;
"to-morrow morning you will receive a note
THE GRISETTE. 265
from me appointing an hour and place of meet-
ing for us ; do not delay a moment in obeying
the summons ; you will be assured of my
identity when you see this handkerchief in
my hand, 'till then farewell !
"
" I should recognize those beautiful little
feet and that graceful form among a thousand,'"*
exclaimed Maxime glancing his admiring eyes
over her figure. " But will you not leave a
kiss upon those flowers to add to their sweet-
ness, and to console me for the tedious lapse
that must intervene between this moment and
to-morrow ?
"
The unknown raised the bouquet silently
to her mask, and as she presented it to Maxime
he perceived that her hand trembled. ''
Ah !
"
said he gallantly pressing the flowers to his
lips, " c'est toi que je retrouve la —tu les
as embaumees de ton haleine !
''
The black domino shuddered and walked
quickly away from him. " The same senti-
ment, the same words !
" she muttered to her-
VOL. II. N
2G6 THE GRISETTE.
self with a convulsive sigh. " Oh heartless,
irreclaimable, and utterly hardened !
"
She had not proceeded more than half way
down the room towards the door, when her
arm was familiarly caught by the blue domino.
" Well, Clotilde,"" said she in her natural
voice, "you see that all 1 have told you of
!Maxime was true. Are you satisfied of his
falsehood now that you have heard it from
his own lips ?
"
*'
I am convinced,'''' replied the unhappy girl.
" Well then, you have I hope made up
your mind to act with spirit, and to shew
this heartless reprobate that you know how
to conduct yourself in such a predicament ?
"
" My mind is made up,'' answered Clotilde
firmly ;
" Mon parti est pris
!''
" That 's right
!
'"
returned Hortense ;
" I
always thought your would shew your good
sense at last. Remember that to-morrow
Prince Pugnoseffsky expects to see you, so
THE GRISETTE. 267
make yourself as handsome as possible for
your first interview ; at what hour shall I call
for you ?"
" Come at twelve,'"' said Clotilde ;
" you
will then be able to judge whether my appear-
ance is likely to please the Prince or to awaken
emotions of love."
" Apropos," said Hortense, who forgot no-
tliing, " give me back the handkerchief I lent
you ; you have now no further occasion for it,
and by this time to-morrow you will have as
many as you please of the same materials at
your own disposal."
Clotilde surrendered the Princess de V 's
property to Hortense, and ^vrung her hand as
she did so. "Adieu, Hortense I" she said in
a voice so sad and thrilling as to startle her
friend.
" Adieu, ma mie," repHed the latter, looking
keenly at her for a moment ;
" a demain, n'est-
ce pas :
" Oui, a demain /" repeated Clotilde in a
N 2
268 THE GRISETTE.
low voice. In another moment she was lost
in the crowd.
In less than half an hour afterwards, Hortense
in her Debardeur's dress, and divested of her
blue domino, accosted Maxime without attempt-
ing to disguise her voice. " What have you done
with Clotilde ?"' said she, in the most natural
manner possible. " I cannot find her ; and I
see she has left her bouquet in your charge."
" Clotilde !'"*
repeated Maxime incredulously ;
" I know nothing about her or her bouquet."
" Tiens, Hens, tiens /" exclaimed the grisette ;
" vou have been talking to her for the last hour,
and there is her bouquet in your hand, —Prince
PugnosefFsky's last present to her ! How
charming she was this evening,—wasn't she ?
Depend upon it, she will make a noise in the
world now that she is lancee. But I must find
her out ; we are engaged to dance together
a^yain. Good night
!
" And away she went,
satisfied that by these few words she had, in
the first place, destroyed any romantic illusion
THE GRISETTE. 269
which Clotilde's mystification might have created
in Maxime's mind ; secondly, prevented any pri-
vate meeting taking place between them ; and,
lastly, by indentifying the costly accessories of
Clotilde's dress with the name of Prince Pug-
noseffsky, had given him to understand that the
circumstance of her being upon the very best
terms with that liberal old gentleman, was an
acknowledged and undisputed fact.
270 THE GRISETTE.
CHAPTER VIII.
Gli occhj tuoi pagheran, se in viia resti,
Di quel sangue ogiii stilla, un mar di pianto.
Tasso.
Meanwhile Clotilde had eiFected her es-
cape from the scene where her last hngering
hopes had perished, and with a bursting heart
and a burning brain she flew rather than walk-
ed along the Rue Neuve Viviennc, until she re-
gained her home. Without stopping even to
ask for a light when she entered, and perfectly
unconscious that the old porter between sleep-
ing and waking had called twice upon her name
as she passed by his lodge, she hurried up stairs,
and never paused until she found herself in her
THE GRISETTE. 271
own room. Her first impulse, when she had
closed the door after her, was to cast herself
upon her knees ; but the wholesome exercise
of prayer had formed no part of the education
of the neglected Clotilde, and nothing hut un-
connected exclamations flowed to her lips ; like
the generality of young persons in France, be-
longing to that class into which she had been
thrown, she had been brought up in complete
negligence of the spirit of rehgion. The utmost
that she knew of religious practices consisted
in an occasional careless observance of its out-
ward forms ; but she had never been taught to
look up to it as a refuge in affliction : and now,
in her hour of need, when she was compassed
round about with evil thoughts, and her soul
darkened by the dictates of despair, although
a natural impulse brought her upon her knees
before her Maker and her Judge, it was not
with that perfect reliance upon his goodness
and his wisdom,—that resignation to his de-
crees, that patient waiting upon His will
272 THE GRISETTE.
which constitute true piety, and enable the
heart-stricken, even in their severest trials, to
say " Though He slay me, yet will I trust in
Him!" It was with the impatient sorrow of
an undisciplined mind bursting forth in tumul-
tuous anguish, not supplicating to be enlight-
ened and sustained, —rushing upon mad con-
clusions, yet in the midst of its blind presump-
tion vaguely feeling that the deed it contem-
plated would be a violation of God''s command-
ments, —and praying, not for strength to resist,
but for pardon for yielding to, the sinful tempt-
ation.
When Clotilde arose from her knees, she
struck a light and busied herself for some time
in writing a letter, which having directed and
sealed, she placed upon the table, together with
a small sealed parcel and an open memorandum.
Then, looking round the wretched little room,
she seemed to take a last farewell of the in-
animate objects which had become endeared to
her by long familiarity, and had been the mute
THE GRISETTE. 273
witnesses of her contented poverty, of her short-
Hved precarious felicity, and of her degradation
and misery ! Her eyes rested, lastly, upon
the miniatures of her father and mother, and,
approaching them with strong emotion she
pressed them convulsively to her hps ; then,
without venturing a second glance, she turned
to the window and threw it open :
" Nous
nous retrouverons la-haut
!
''
she murmured, as
her eyes, cast upwards, rested upon the cloud-
less heavens.
The casement, like the generality of garret
windows in Paris, was at some distance from
the floor ; and, in order to enable her to reach
the sill of it, the assistance of a stool or chair
to step upon was necessary. There was none
near her ; but, as if purposely placed there to
second her desperate resolution, the wooden
cases of flowers, which had formed Maxime's
first gift to her, were ranged conveniently be-
neath. During her illness, the plants they con-
tained had perished from want of air and water,
n5
274 THE GRISETTE.
and now, stripped of their verdure, withered
and leafless, they appeared to her a fit emblem
of her own seared heart ;
—neglect had destroy-
ed them both ! To her morbid imagination it
seemed as though the hand of fate had placed
them there expressly to facilitate her destruc-
tion. " Lui, toujours lui qui m'y pousse ! pour
lui et par lui !^^
she thought, as she stepped
upon the cases. Something at the same mo-
ment sprang from the floor to the window-ledge,
as if to intercept her dreadful design, and inter-
posed its opaque form between her and the
clear cold sky, from which the stars were
slowly fading at the approach of dawn. It was
Titi, her Angola cat, who, aroused from his
slumbers by her entrance, had been vainly en-
deavouring, during the whole time Clotilde had
been absorbed in writing, to attract her atten-
tion by every variety of feline caress, walking
round and round her chair, with tail erect, purr-
ing his recognition, and rubbing himself fondly
against her dress ; but, although finding himself,
THE GRISETTE. 275
for the first time, disregarded by his gentle mis-
tress, Titi had perseveringly followed her move-
ments, so that when she raised herself to the open
window he sprang thither also, and resumed
his claims to notice in a way that could be no
longer overlooked, by placing his fore-paws upon
her shoulder and rubbing his face against hers.
" My poor Titi
!
" exclaimed the unfortunate
girl with a burst of agonized feeling, as she
took her old favourite and play-fellow in her
arms, and covering him with her tears and
kisses thought of the peaceful time when he
had been her only companion ;
—'' my poor pet,
the only living thing that loves me ! the only
one that will miss me ! Ah ! why did I ever
love any thing but you, my poor Titi ? " Then
placing him gently upon the ground, she quick-
ly regained the window-ledge.
At that moment Pere Benoit (the old porter
who, after mature deliberation, having dressed
himself, had decided upon following Clotilde
up stairs, partly to lecture her upon the impro-
276 THE GRISETTE.
priety of her conduct in having for the first
time passed the night from home, and partly
to give her the letter which had arrived for
her the evening before,) knocked at the door.
No answer was returned ;
" Ma'mselle Clotilde,
open the door, I have a letter for you !" Still
no answer. " Tiens ! la cl6 est sur la porte,
—
est-ce qu'on pent entrer sans indiscretion
?"*"*
he continued opening the door. Nobody was
in the room ; a light was on the table, the
window was wide open, and Titi the Angola
cat, seated upon the ledge of it, was diligently
passing his paw over his ears. " That 's
strange !" cried the old man looking around
him, " certainly I heard her voice talking to
the cat when I knocked at the door —can she
have— ? " stopping short, and something like
the truth suddenly flashing upon him;—"Oh,
my God ! my God ! ''
and he hurried down
stairs.
THE GRISETTE. 277
The grey dawn was just beginning to peep
when Maxime, accompanied by the fair Dii
Barry, quitted Musard's ball to fulfil his en-
gagement with her at Very's; not 2i fiacre was
to be procured at that hour, but the weather
was so fine, the pavement so dry, and the
streets so full of masks dispersing in various
directions, that Mademoiselle Athenais wrap-
ping her bournous round her, declared that
she should of all things enjoy walking to the
Palais Royal. They had not proceeded above
half the length to the Rue Neuve Vivienne
when the dead sound of something falling hea-
vily upon the pavement behind them, caused
them both to start and to turn back ; several
persons rushing from different parts of the
street had already gathered to the spot, and
cries of, " It is a woman who has thrown her-
self out of window !"—" Go for a surgeon !''
— "Send for the Commissaire de Police!"
struck upon Maxime''s ear. He pushed through
the crowd and beheld a dark mass lying mo-
278 THE GRISETTE.
tionless in the middle of the trottoi'r, and stoop-
ing down, ascertained by the dim light that it
was a woman dressed in a black domino and
mask, and that she still lived, for her bosom
heaved convulsively and deep groans issued
from her lips.
''
She is not dead—she may be saved—bring
a light—let us carry her into the house, for
God's sake, gentlemen !
" cried Maxime, who
was the only person present that thought of
offering any assistance to the sufferer. At the
same moment lights were brought from several
of the nearest houses, and Maxime kneeling
down upon the pavement, untied the capuchon
of her domino, and removing her mask revealed
to his horror-stricken eyes the lovely counte-
nance of Clotilde discoloured and contracted
with agony !
" Clotilde ! ""
he cried in a voice of anofuish
so piercing that it appeared even to reach the
stunned faculties of the dying girl, and to rouse
her into momentary consciousness. " Oh, God !
THE GRISETTE. 279
my poor Clotilde !
" She opened her eyes, and
their wild gaze rested with an expression of
terrified wonder upon the countenance of Max-
ime bending over her in an agony of emotion,
until, softening into recognition, tears gathered
into them and slowly rolled over her cheeks.
" She lives—she knows me ! help ! a sur-
geon !'"'
exclaimed Maxime with frantic energy
to the by-standers. " Oh, my Clotilde ! "'
he
continued in a burst of repentant tenderness,
and joining to her name all those fond epithets
which in the days of his devotion he had bten
wont to lavish upon her, " it is I that have
driven you to this dreadful act I look at me
once more, and tell me if you can, that vou
forgive, — that you still love your wretched
Maxime !''
It was evident that the passionate appeal
had been understood, for the hps of Clotilde
moved as if in a vain attempt to articulate.
Had she spoken, doubtless her words would
have been full of peace and pardon to the guilty
280 THE GRISETTE.
one who had requited the unbounded devotion
of her heart by a duplicity and abandonment
which had driven her to this fearful act of
despair ; —but although her gentle accents were
silenced for ever, her eyes still spoke, and all
the fleeting energies of her soul seemed to
have taken refuge there as if to testify by
a farewell glance to the truth, and tender-
ness, and fervour of a sentiment which had
resisted the bitter pangs of desertion, and over
which even the agonies of death could not
triumph. There was pity, pardon, and love
in the look which Clotilde bent upon her de-
stroyer, and it sank deep into his soul and
heaped coals of fire upon his head. Oh !
what would he then have given to be able to
cancel the last few weeks of his existence !
how cheap would any sacrifice have appeared
to him which could have recalled Clotilde to
life and love and happiness —to the confidence
which but one short month before she had
placed in his honour—to the union which he
THE GRISETTE. 281
would now have laid down his life to have
ratified ! How did he loathe the levity which
had tempted him to win, how execrate the
worldly considerations which had led him to
betray that fond confiding heart ? but all in
vain ! Speechless with grief, his soul tor-
tured with love too late revived, and remorse
too late awakened, Maxinie bent over Clotilde
and joined his lips to hers ; with a last effort
she returned the kiss of peace which he had
imprinted there, but while its tremulous pres-
sure thrilled to his heart, a deep gasping sigh
followed by breathless silence proclaimed to
him that the last struggle was over, — the
gentle spirit had exhaled itself in that act of
forgiveness, and the lips of her destroyer were
dabbled in her life-blood !
All this had passed in less time than it has
taken us to relate it ; and while Mademoiselle
Athenais enacted a fainting fit in the arms of
one of the by-standers as gracefully as she
could possibly have done upon the stage be-
28^ THE GRISETTE.
fore a more crowded audience, and Maxime
hung in frantic emotion over the Ufeless form
of Clotilde, Pere Benoit reached the street
door and beheld his worst fears confirmed. His
presence of mind, however, did not desert him,
and owing to his prompt exertions a surgeon
and a Commissaire de Pohce were sent for,
the body of Clotilde was laid upon a mattress
and conveyed to her own room, the inquisitive
crowd excluded, and no one but Maxime suf-
fered to follow it thither.
The attendance of the two functionaries was
simultaneous, but nothincr remained for the
surgeon to do but to pronounce that life was
extinct, and that the extensive fractures of
the lower limbs and the spine were sufficient to
have occasioned almost instantaneous death. The
duties of the commissarv were more lenothened ;
he had to take depositions, and to examine
the premises, and, from what he saw there,
it appeared that the dreadful act had not been
one of sudden frenzy, but a premeditated deed.
THE GRISETTE. 28S
for everything in Clotilde's chamber was ar-
ranged in a manner that shewed how delibe-
rately she had taken her measures for self-
destruction. Upon the table were a sealed
paper packet and a letter, both of them ad-
dressed to Monsieur Maxime de Nerac, Rue
Cliantereine, and an unfolded half-sheet of paper,
from which the commissary proceeded to read
the following words :
—
"As I die without possessing a single franc,
I request that my old friend, Pere Benoit,
will sell the furniture of my room, in order
to pay the last month'*s rent of it, and to
defray the expenses of my funeral. I also re-
quest that he will accept the miniature pictures
of my parents which I am sure he will value
for my dear mother's sake, and that he will
present my little wardrobe to Madame Benoit,
in token of their kindness to me. I entreat
that they will take care of poor Titi, in remem-
brance of Clotilde Remy."
" Monsieur," said the old porter, sobbing hke
284 THE GRISETTE.
a child, " she was the sweetest and the gentlest
creature that God ever formed, and, till the
last few days, the steadiest and the most indus-
trious ; —and yet she was born to better things
than to work for her bread ! I have known
her since she was not higher than my knee,
and never had I a fault to find with her till
last night, when, it seems, she went out mas-
querading and stayed out the whole night, with-
out telling us anything about it. My wife,
to be sure, had taken her en grippe^ many
months ago, because she would not marry our
son Hyacinthe, (although she well knew that
Mademoiselle Clotilde had a right to look much
higher than him,—but she never reasons, poor
woman ! and so, instead of looking at the busi-
ness in the proper light, she did nothing but
visit her disapj)ointment and ill-humour upon
Ma'mselle Clotilde,) and that was the reason
that she had ceased to come and pass an hour
with us in our lodge in the evening, when she
came home from the shop, as she used always
THE GRISETTE. 285
to do formerly, and which kept her from making
other acquaintance,—but the fault was all my
wife's and not hers, poor dear lamb ! for in
spite of Mere Benoit's crossness she was always
the same civil, sweet-spoken creature to us all,
and whenever I saw her frolicking up the
stairs with her cat, and heard her sweet merry
voice singing out, ' Bon soir, mon petit pere
Benoit V it used to make my old heart glad
to see her innocent ways, and to think what
a different life she led to the grisettes of Paris.
Well, sir, she had a friend, a Ma'mselle Hor-
tense, and a cousin, a Monsieur Maxime (look-
ing significantly at Maxime, who was kneeling
by the bed on which the remains of Clotilde
had been laid, and contemplating her sweet
foce with the haggard stupor of a maniac,)
and it is my belief that between them they
ruined her ! Tenez, Monsieur, here is a letter
which came last evening by the post for Ma'm-
selle Clotilde ; perhaps it may give some insight
into this sad affair/"'
286 THE GRISETTE.
The commissary of police opened the letter,
and found that it was from a notaire publique
of Nevers, announcing to Clotilde that her
grand-aunt Demoiselle Marie-Clotilde-Louise-
Victoire de Vassoigne having died suddenly
there without a will, the whole of her pro-
perty, consisting of a house at Nevers, a farm
and metairie^ at some distance from the town,
inscriptions for eleven thousand and seventy-
five francs rentes upon the Grand Livre de
France, several actions in the Canal du Midi,
and all her personal property, comprising fur-
niture, plate, wearing apparel, and farming
stock, had legally devolved to her sole sm*-
^d-ving relative, Demoiselle Clotilde-Philippine
Remy, only child of the late Captain Philippe
Remy, of the Regiment, and of Louise-
Victoire-Fran^^oise de Pleville, his deceased
wife niece of the aforesaid Demoiselle de Vas-
soigne.
" Voyez done ce que c'est que le sort I'"* said
Pere Benoit, bursting into tears afresh. *^ I
THE GRISETTE. 287
had gone up, not a quarter of an hour ago>
to Ma'mselle Clotilde's door, with this letter
in my hand, which was to announce such great
news to her, and, although I heard her voice
within, as I knocked at the door, respect forbade
me to open it, until she gave me leave, so I
waited to hear her say entrez, and in that
very moment she must have done the deed
!
Ah ! if it had not been for my chienne de
politesse, I should have juat been in time to
save her, and she would have been alive, and
rich, and happy at this moment.*'
'•
This other letter,"" said the commissary,
without noticing Pere Benoit's self-accusation,
*'
is for Monsieur Maxime de Ne'rac, and this
parcel also. Do you know who that person
is, and where he
—
"
" I am that unhappy man,*" said Maxime,
in a sombre voice, rising from his knees and
receiving the letter of Clotilde from the com-
missary's hands. He tore it open hastily
and ran his eyes over it, but, overpowered
288 THE GRISETTE.
by intense agitation, could distinguish nothing.
" There is a mist before my eyes,—I cannot
see a single word," said he ;
" have the goodr
ness. Monsieur, to read it for me.'"
The commissary complied with his request,
and, while Maxime sank helplessly into a chair,
he read aloud to him as follows :
—
" Although I had heard of your falsehood
to me from others, I would not believe in it
until it had been confirmed to me by your own
lips. I have just seen you—I have just quitted
you—and the accents wdiich convinced me of
your perfidy are still ringing in my ears ! I
trusted in your honour, and you have destroyed
my illusion.—I believed in your love—it was
everything in the world to me; and as long
as I possessed it, all other privations were un-
thought of; but you have withdrawn it from
me, and nothing remains for the unhappy Clo-
tilde but to die. Oh, Maxime ! I write not
these words to reproach you, but to bid you an
THE GRISETTE. 289
eternal farewell ! In a few moments all \^411 be
over ^^^th me, and I shall have escaped from a
world where I have no friends, no money, no
confidence in my fellow-creatures ; —for in whom
could I trust now that you have deceived me
—
you in whom I believed as I did in God ?
Yes, it is time that I should die, and I will not
shrink from the deed. But a few days ago, the
thoughts of destroying your child, Maxime,
would have withheld my hand ; but grief has
done that which / dared not even contemplate,
and God in his goodness has not suffered a
disowned and fatherless being to behold the
light.
" Do you remember the first evening >ve ever
passed together, and how bitterly I then wept
over the wrongs of Fleurette ? Alas ! I little
thought that my own fate would be so closely
assimilated to hers.—I little thought that the
words you then uttered were but the heartless
prelude to a tragedy as dreadful !
' Heureux
celui qui le premier fera palpiter cejeune cceur !
VOL. II. o
'^90 THE GRISETTE.
malheur a celui qui meconnaitra un si doux pri-
vilege—Irois J'ois malheur a celui quijamais en
arrachera un soupir /'
—the happiness of that
triumph—if such you ever thought it —was re-
served for you alone. Oh, may Heaven avert
from you the imprecations which you then in-
voked upon the head of him who could betray
that fond privilege ! For, deeply as you have
wronged me, Maxime, I cannot teach my heart
the stern lesson of hating you ; or tear your
image from thence to replace it by another's
;
or lightly exchange for gold that which was
only conceded to what I believed to be the
unbounded and loyal devotion of your heart
!
If I could have done all these (and goaded on
by despair, and want, and evil counsels, I have
tried to follow your example, but in vain !) I
should now be surrounded by wealth and lux-
ury ; but death was preferable to such dis-
honour, and I have to the last remained true
to you and to myself.
" To-morrow, when this letter reaches you, you
THE GRISETTE. 291
will know tliat the mysterious stranger, whose
favour you have this night so eagerly sought
to obtain, was no other than the deserted Clo-
tilde. Do not, however, fail to keep the ren-
dezvous she promised to give you, and which
these lines are intended purposely to recall to
your recollection ; and, although you will not
find new pleasures or new loves awaiting you
in that meeting, come nevertheless, and look
upon the face you were so desirous to behold,
and gather from its icy lips the farewell kiss
of love and forgiveness, which my heart even
now yearns to impress upon yours !
*'
Farewell, Maxime ! —The wishes of the
dying are sacred bequests, and I feel that you
will not disregard even mine ; in the sealed
packet addressed to you which you will find
upon my table, is enclosed the only earthly trea-
sure I possess—the faded remains of the first
bouquet you ever gave me ; let it be placed
in the coffin with me upon my heart. Upon
my finger you will find the wedding-ring, the
^2 THE GRISETTE.
pledge of our future union, which you placed
there on the day when you asked me to
become your wife, and which I then swore to
you should never be removed while I lived
;
I have kept my vow, Maxime ! and now 1
charge you to take the ring from my lifeless
hand, and to wear it in memory of me ; and
should you ever again be tempted to pursue the
same heartless course with another, then look
upon that silent monitor, and pause while you re-
member the fate of the unfortunate Clotilde !
"
The Commissaire de Police, albeit inured to
scenes of violence and self-destruction, and en-
abled, by long familiarity with their melancholy
consequences, to behold them unmoved, could
not read the above letter without betraying
some emotion ; his voice faltered in the con-
cluding lines, and his eyes glistened as they
glanced from the paper in his hand to the
youthful form that lay cold and inanimate upon
the bed ; the tears, still wet upon her lovely
THE GRISETTE. 29S
face, although the fountain from which they had
flowed was frozen up for ever ; the blood that
had burst from her lips in the death-struofgle,
and stained them with its crimson dyes, alone
tellinir that a violent and dreadful deed had
snapped asunder the thread of her young ex-
istence. " A case of seduction under promise
of marriage ! ''
said he, with a sigh ; " poor
child, she seenfs to have deserved a better fate !
What beauty and softness combined ! —what per-
fect harmonv between the mind and the coun-
tenance of this unfortunate young creature ! I
would not for the wealth of the world have
the crime of her destruction upon my consci-
ence ! You see, sir,'"" he proceeded, turning
sternly to ^laxime, " the effects of your lawless
and selfish passion/'
But Maxime heard him not ! With his face
buried in his hands he had listened to Clotilde's
letter, stifled groans bursting from his bosom
as every sentence plunged a dagger there, and
awakened remorse which could never slumber
0.3
294 THE GRISETTE.
more ! But when it was concluded, he stag-
gered towards the bed, and again sinking upon
his knees, fulfilled in gloomy silence and with
the fixed look of despair, the last request of
his victim : he drew the ring from her finger, and
placed it upon his owii ; he threw his arms
around her cold remains, and wildly joining his
lips once more to hers, clasped her to his heart
with frenzied energy ; but the contact of that
lifeless form shot like an ice-bolt through his
frame, for, uttering a smothered cry of horror,
he relaxed his grasp, and sinking upon the
ground lost all consciousness of his misery in
temporary insensibility.
Little remains for us to add to this melan-
choly history. When Hortense, punctual to
her appointment to Clotilde, arrived at noon
to conduct her into the presence of the hoary
libertine to whose vices she had so obsequiously
pandered, and that she heard of the dreadful
catastrophe which had placed the unfortunate
girl beyond her snares, she wasted no time
THE GRISETTE. ^95
in useless regrets, nor did she pause to con-
sider how far she had herself been accessory
to the horrid deed in aggravating the misery
of Clotilde's mind by every species of misrepre-
sentation addressed to Maxime as well as to
herself; but thinking only of how she could
explain the business to the expectant lover,
(who upon the strength of her assurances had
given orders for the splendid outfit of Clotilde
and their immediate departure for Naples,)
she hurried to the Pugnoseffsky hotel, and
succeeded so well in persuading the Prince
that she, as well as he, had been thorouo-hlv
deceived by Clotilde (who notwithstanding all
her prudery, had turned out to be a Jille perdue
unworthy of his protection,) and expressed
such charming sympathy for the derangement
of his projects, such disinterested offers of ser-
vice, &c. &c., that before they separated it was
decided between them, that Hortense should
take the place which had been originally des-
tined for Clotilde in the Prince's establish-
296 THE GRISETTE.
ment ; and two days afterwards, precisely at
tlie same moment in which the humble funeral
of the ill-fated Clotilde Remy, followed only
by Pere Benoit and his son Hyacinthe as
mourneis, entered the gates of the cemetery
of Montmartre, Hortense, seated in Prince
PugnosefFsky''s chariot-and-four, preceded by
a courier a franc etrier^ and with a chasseur
(the object of all her ambition) seated in the
rumble behind, dashed through the Barriere
de Fontainbleau on her way to Naples, lancee
in the world of gallantry as the mistress of
the " vitux sapajou coiffe en perrucjue,'''' who
had excited her personal disgust but a few
days before as being worthy only of figuring
in the monkey department of the Jardin des
Plantes.
Maxime de Nerac, when removed to his
own abode, was only restored to consciousness
to be attacked by a brain fever which reduced
him to the brink of the grave. But heaven
dealt with him more mercifully than he de-
served ; he was not cut off in the midst of
THE GRISETTE. 297
his wickedness, with all his sins upon his head,
unrepented and unatoned for ; he lived to
loath his former career, to abjure his former
associates, and to turn his thoughts and his
energies to wiser and better things. The
rich widow to whom his uncle had betrothed
him at Bordeaux, having heard from her friends
in Paris of the melancholy adventure in all
its details which had caused the dangerous
illness of Maxime, signified to him -without
loss of time that the engagement between them
was dissolved. This was an inexpressible re-
lief to his mind, for during the slow progress
of his recovery the image of Clotilde, in all
the virgin charm which had first captivated
his imagination, in all the tender devotion
which had for a moment fixed his heart, in all
the silent suiFering, the sublime forgiveness
of injuries which had in the closing scene
for ever sanctified her memory to his soul, took
possession of his thoughts to the utter exclusion
of all others. Her shade appeared to interpose
itself between him and the contemj)lation of
2198 THE GRISETTE.
every worldly love, and her ring which had
never quitted his finger since the awful moment
in which he had fulfilled her dying wish, seemed
to forbid not only the renewal of his former
vices and follies, but even the possibility of
a legitimate union with another woman ; he
felt as though he had by that solemn act wed-
ded himself to the memory of Clotilde, and he
vowed a fidelity to the dead which, alas ! he
had not observed to the living.
His uncle, touched by the sorrow and the
sufferings which had bowed him almost to the
grave, consented at last to see his nephew and
to extricate him from his pecuniary difl[iculties.
But Maxime's only wish was to leave France
that he might not only tear himself at once
and sails retour from his dissipated associates,
but lose in new scenes and in a distant land
that acute and ever present sense of misery
which, as long as he remained in Paris, threat-
ened to terminate in melancholy madness.
The old Admiral therefore procured for him
a legal appointment in the island of Martinique,
STURMER;
A TALE or MESMERISM.
TO WHICH ARE ADDED,
OTHER SKETCHES FROM LIFE.
BY ISABELLA F. ROMER.
" Truth severe by fairy Fiction dressed."
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. IIL
LONDON:
RICHARD BEXTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET
184L
Digitized by the Internet Arcinive
in 2010 with funding from
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
http://www.archive.org/details/sturmertaleofmes03rome
Z2^
HADGEE EYOOB.
" Hark to the hurried accent of despair
—
* Where is my child ?'—an echo answers '
where ? '
"
Bride ofAbydos.
VOL. III.
HADGEE EYOOB.
Perhaps in no capital of the civilised world
are the lights and shadows of national character
so little discernible to a stranger as in Constan-
tinople. The city, in its external appearance
and its internal distribution, presents none of
those startling contrasts of luxmy and squalor,
of the refinements of society and the cynicism
of vice, which exist in other capitals and are
evident to the most superficial observers. No
one can wander from the precincts of St. James's
to the purlieus of St. Giles's without silently
subscribing to the oft-repeated truism, that the
perfection of civilisation brings in its train the
B 2
4 HADGEE EYOOB.
excess of vice and social degradation ; even as
the vivifying power of the sun, while developing
to their fullest luxuriance the flowers and fruits
of the earth, gives vitality to the noxious insects
that prey upon and deface their leaves. But
in Constantinople such disparities are nowhere
visible ; no escutcheoned equipage awakens
the echoes of its silent streets ; nor does the
spectacle of inebriation in rags, and unblushing
depravity, offend the eye and sadden the heart.
The physical wants of the people seem to be
few, and easily satisfied ; sobriety and dignity
mark their external demeanour ; the habita-
tions of all classes of citizens bear the same
simple exterior ; the pride of birth appears to
be unknown or wholly disregarded ; while the
aristocracy of power and place alone asserts its
sway, and capriciously elevates to the highest
grades in the state individuals so obscurely born,
that in other countries they could only be
thrown to the surface by the convulsion of some
political revolution This absence of the ine-
HADGEE EYOOB. O
qualities which mark the outhne of society else-
where, would lead the casual observer to in-
quire whether the followers of Mahomet are
*'
wiser in their generation ''
than their Christian
neighbours ; and whether to superior virtue and
forbearance, or to apathy alone, are to be at-
tributed the absence, among them, of those
evidences of vice and misery which debase the
civiUsed capitals of Christendom. But because
vice and misery are unseen, are we rashly to
argue that they are unknown ? Les extremes
ae touchent ; and the very apathy which ap-
parently opposes an armour of ice to the shafts
of pleasure, when once thawed, degenerates into
the most unbridled excess. Thus the seeming-
ly austere and phlegmatic Turk will not shrink
from exciting his torpid imaghiation by exhi-
bitions of the coarsest buffoonery, —excesses
which, being indulged in within the precincts
of his home (not from hypocrisy, but from the
force of his own unsocial disposition and habits),
are calculated to mislead the casual observer
6 HADGEE EYOOB.
as to the quantum of licentiousness that may
taint the moral atmosphere of Constantinople
;
and although the use as well as the ahust of
wine has been forbidden by Mahomet to his
followers, yet '^
il y a des accommodemens avec
le del ,-" and the pious Moslem will not scruple
to indulge in the intoxicating delights of opiums
until health, strength, and reason fail under the
pernicious excess. The reigning Sultan,* wish-
ing to eradicate the evil, has wisely abolished
the public orgies of the opium-eaters ; but the
scene of their departed joy, the now deserted
Theriakee Tchartchee, still remains to tell of the
past ; and close to it stands the public mad-
house, erected by Solyman the Magnificent, as
though by that hideous hieroglyphic he would
have presented to his subjects the most forcible
illustration of cause and effect, —the brief space
which separates opium-eating from insanity.
Strangers are always taken to visit that spot,
* This sketch was written during the lifetime of tlic late
Sultan Mahmoud.
HADGEE EYOOB. 7
and those who run may read " sermons in
stones," whose mute eloquence may perhaps
have convinced where human exordiums have
failed.
The monotony I have already alluded to,
and the total absence of all public as well as
social amusement in Constantinople, soon weary
the European traveller ; for when once the
Mosques and other public edifices have been
seen, nothing remains to induce a second visit
except the Bazaars,—that epitome of the life
and animation of the East, where, during the
day, the whole city appears de s'etre donne ren-
dezvous.
One morning I had been lounging, as ^^'as
often my custom, in one of its gayest shops,
that of Mustapha, the Sultan's perfumer (one of
the celebrities of Stamboul, whose receptacle of
sweets is occasionally honoured by the presence
of the great Padishah himself, and whom all
strangers wishing to put themselves en bonne
odeur with the Osmanlies make a point of visit-
8 HADGEE EYOOB.
ing), and seated a la Turque upon his cushions,
while his black attendants served round the
usual hospitalities of Chibouques, coffee, and iced
sherbet, and he himself sprinkled my veil and
gloves with the costliest perfumes, I viewed the
moving panorama before me, and for a moment
almost forgot that I was a European. Nothing
was to be seen but turbans and Armenian cone-
like caps circulating through the thickly popu-
lated place ; while here and there a Pasha on
horseback, surrounded by a numerous retinue
on foot, slowly passed along, or a gilt Araba,
filled with veiled women and preceded by a
black eunuch, caused the foot passengers to fall
back and give way to the caged beauties thus
taking the air, like wild beasts in a caravan.
Numerous itinerant venders of fruit, confection-
ary, iced water, ready cooked pilaff, kebabs,
and yaoort, temptingly arranged in porcelain
saucers, hawked about their comestibles upon cir-
cular wooden trays of the most exquisite clean-
liness ; while the diftereut merchants and shop-
HADGEE EYOOB. 9
keepers, in their oriental dresses,—the Turks,
distinguished by their graceful turbans and quiet
dignified demeanour ; the Armenians, by their
high black calpacs and finely chiselled features;
—the Greeks, by their loquacity, slovenly finery,
and long curling hair falling beneath their Fez
caps ; and the Jews, by their dark turbans and
restless eagerness to sell their goods,—curiously
eyed the stranger who had thus fearlessly and
harefacedly ventured among them.
It was proposed to me that from this brilliant
and bustling scene I should adjourn to one as
opposed to it, in every sense of the word, as
darkness is to light—the public madhouse be-
fore alluded to. In all countries the spectacle
presented by a lunatic asylum is of so painful
and humiliating a nature, that the feeling mind
shrinks from witnessing evils which are beyond
the power of sympathy to alleviate ; but as
I knew the Turkish superstition regards, with
pecuhar veneration and tenderness, those un-
happy persons from whom the light of reason
B 5
10 HADGEE EYOOB.
has departed for ever, I imagined that their
physical wants would be ministered to with
an attention proportioned to the respect which
their moral infirmity inspires ; but, to my sur-
prise, I beheld a scene calculated to sadden
the sternest heart, and one which rendered
superfluous the assurance which was made me,
that the wretched inmates of that dreary abode
have never been known to recover their reason.
^^
Lasciate ogni speranza^ voi cKentrate,'''' might
w^ell be written over those gates, since the un-
happy beings who have crossed their threshold,
repass it only to be carried to the grave.
A quadrangular building surrounds the court,
which is a public thoroughfare, and into that
court the cells of the miserable maniacs look.
Each individual occupies the recess of a large
window grated with cross bars of iron, to which
they are fastened by a heavy chain attached
by an iron collar round their necks, like the
most ferocious wild beasts. Religious fanati-
cism and opium-eating have brought the greater
HADGEE EYOOB. 11
part of them to this fearful pass ; and as I pro-
ceeded from cell to cell, I noticed that their
insanity partook more of the character of idiotcy
than of frenzy, for not one of them betrayed
any symptoms of violence.
One of those ill-fated beings arrested my at-
tention, and awakened my interest in a par-
ticular manner, fie was seated on the stone
pavement of his wretched cell, while a cat
occupied his cushion, and seemed to be the
object of his especial tenderness and protection.
He had placed it so that it could enjoy the
only broken sunbeam that straggled through
his dreary prison grate, and its sleek plumpness
attested to the care with which he fed it, and
contrasted with the emaciation of his own at-
tenuated frame. He fixed his haggard and
melancholy eyes upon me, and with kindly
demonstrations beckoned to me to share his seat
on the damp cold stones, while he offered his
chibouque to my companion ; the traces of a
loving and of a courteous nature were every-
12 HADGEE EYOOB.
where discernible through the ruin and desola-
tion of his intellect ; but when I passed my
hand through the grate to caress his favourite,
he suddenly threw his arms around it, hid it
from my sight, and told me to be gone.
" Fear not, oh my eyes
!
" said the Drogue-
man who attended me, to the poor maniac,
" Medjid shall not be taken from you." But
these words fell unheeded on his ear, and he
continued to eye me doubtingly, and to beckon
me to depart.
" Who is this man ?" said I to the inter-
preter; " and what misfortune brought him
here ?
"
" It is Eyoob EfFendi," was the brief reply.
" Fate has always been against him — what
more can I say ? He is here."
But as this was not sufficient to satisfy my
curiosity, I moved away from the window, and
while pacing backwards and forwards in the
quadrangle, I drew from my guide the outline
HADGEE EYOOB. 13
of those fatalities which had produced the mad-
ness of Eyoob Effendi.
He had been the favourite secretary of the
Pasha of Erzeroum, who, in order to give hini
some signal mark of his regard, bestowed upon
him a wife from his own harem, a fair Georgian
slave, whose beauty had rendered her a tem-
porary favourite, but whose violent and per-
verse temper made it advisable for her aged
master to get rid of her. These arrangements
are common in the East, and no inferior can
venture to refuse the questionable honour of
accepting as a wife the cast-oiF favourite of
his patron. Eyoob Effendi was forced to feign
a gratitude that was far from his heart, and
to devote the greater part of his earnings to
the purchase of a present suitable to the Pasha's
dignity, and to his Highness's own sense of it
;
for in Turkey nothing is given gratis, and from
the Sultan down to the meanest subject, every
person who presents a gift expects a backschish
14 HADGEE EYOOB.
in return, equivalent at least to the value re-
ceived, and where the giver is a man of rank,
very much surpassing it.
Eyoob's disappointment began with the day
of his marriage. When the wedding festivi-
ties were over, and he was for the first time
left alone with his bride, and approacliing her
with trembliuQ- eaoferness he unfastened the
long veil which had hitherto closely concealed
her face and person from his view, he beheld
beauty and symmetry indeed, but so clouded by
scorn and ill-humour, that his heart sank within
him ; for it was but too evident from the ex-
pression of her countenance, that the fair Saliha
resented the indignity which had been forced
upon her by this alliance, and had amiably
made up her mind to visit her displeasure upon
the unoffending party, and from that moment
she never relaxed in her endeavours to render
her husband as wretched as she fancied herself
to be.
In woman, the art of tormenting, I am com-
HADGEE EYOOB. 15
pelled to admit, is not so much an art as a natu-
ral gift ; which, I must do them the justice to
say, they cultivate with a perseverance worthy
of a better cause. The excitement of quarrel-
ling appears, to their working minds, preferable
to the stagnation of calm happiness ; and even
this unsophisticated Odailsque, who had been
secluded in a harem all her life, might have
competed with the most worldly-minded mai-
tresse ftmme in Christendom by her ingenuity in
every gTadation of the coup d'epingle warfare.
Beautiful as she was, and willingly as Eyoob
would have loved her had she allowed him, he
soon learned to dread her presence as he would
have done that of the most unsightly hag, and
to look upon the hours he was compelled to
pass in his harem as the most miserable ones of
his existence. But matters grew worse when
the Pasha of Erzeroum was recalled to Con-
stantinople, and that Eyoob, in his official capa-
city, accompanied him thither. Saliha's ambi-
tion had long pointed to the capital, as the
16 HADGEE EYOOB.
only spot where her beauty would be rightly
appreciated ; but she had hoped to go thither as
the ornament of some Pasha's establishment,
and perhaps to be transferred from it to that
of the Sultan himself; all these bright visions,
however, had set in the obscurity of an Ef-
fendi's harem, and she could only revenge her-
self for her disappointment by tormenting her
husband and beating her slaves more than ever.
She would expatiate for hours upon the luxuries
of Yussuf Pasha's harem, its dancing and sing-
ing girls, the costly wardrobe that was at her
disposal, and all the dazzling accessories of per-
sonal embellishment which constitute the chief
enjoyment of eastern women. Then the gilded
arabas in which she used to take the air, the
milk-white oxen that drew them, adorned with
tassels of scarlet silk, and mirrors set in pearls
on their foreheads, preceded by a black eunuch
with his sword drawn, ready to cut down the
rash man whose curious eye dared to pry be-
neath the cashmere canopy of the vehicle, were
HADGEE EYOOB. 17
dwelt upon with querulous regret, until poor
Eyoob would devoutly wish that she was still
under the jurisdiction of the sable functionary,
and subject to the corrections he had so often
inflicted upon her, but which, from an incon-
sistency of memory truly feminine, she ap-
peared all at once entirely to have forgotten.
What a falling otF in her position ! she was
condemned to shuffle about the streets of Con-
stantinople in a coarse fen'gee and old yellow
papooshes, with no attendance save one negro
Qfirl. When she went to the bath, she was
mortified by the superior splendour of the other
women she met there ; and, if she repaired
to the Guiuk Suey (the Asiatic sweet waters),
on a Friday, it was in a hired araba, so shabbily
appointed that she blushed to be seen descend-
ing from it, and dared not mingle with the
Pasha's ladies assembled in that favourite re-
sort ; she was debarred all the enjoyments
of her sex ; —she would go before the Cadi,
turn down her slipper, and ask for a divorce !
18 HADGEE EYOOB.
" In the name of Allah, let it be so !" Eyoob
would reply, when she had wound up her chain
of complaints with this threat ; but, as soon
as she found that the fulfilment of it would
be a relief to him, she magnanimously resolved
to endure her own mortifications, that she might
not forfeit the privilege of prolonging the mi-
series of Eyoob's existence.
They had one child, a boy named Medjid,
on whom Heaven had bestowed his mother's
beauty and his father's gentleness. When
Eyoob held the infant in his arms he forgot
all his sorrows, and could almost have loved
the woman who had given him so fair a child ;
he looked forward with fond hope to the time
when Medjid would become his companion and
his friend ; but, in the meantime, as is the
custom in Turkey, the child was confined to
the harem, and Eyoob never saw him, but
in his mother's presence, and subject to the
jealous caprices with which she resented the
preference he already evinced for his father.
\
\
HADGEE EYOOB. 19
Thus even the source of the gentlest and hoHest
feelhigs was turned into a fountain of bitterness
for Eyoob, and, disgusted with his home, al-
most weary of his life, he learned to wander
from the caff.net to the Theriakee Tchartchee,
and seek for temporary oblivion in the ecstatic
delirium which opium procures to its votaries.
The effects produced by this pernicious drug
are various : some persons are stupified by it,
some are worked up to frenzy under its in-
fluence, while others are thrown into a trance-
like state and, abstracted from the cares and
considerations of this world, are, for the time
being, translated, as it were, to another state
of existence, where they fancy themselves to be
in communion with unseen spirits. Of this
latter class was Eyoob. All his visions were
tinged with devotional feelings, but exaggerated
and distempered like the dreams of a fevered
patient ; he heard a voice which none could
hear, he saw a hand which none could see
—
and they pointed to Mecca, they bade liim
20 HADGEE EYOOB.
drink of the waters of Zem-zem, and the thirst
of his soul shoukl be quenched ; he should return
from his pilgrimage purified from all his errors
and find that peace at home which had hitherto
been denied to him ; Kadun* Saliha would learn
to reverence the Hadgee-|* Eyoob, and Medjid
—oh ! that one sad parting over, they should
meet, never again to be separated.
One day, as he thus sat among the as-
sembled opium-eaters, his eyes fixed on vacancy,
his soul rapt from the things of this earth, and
hanging breathlessly upon the voice that for
ever rang upon his ear, the clatter of steeds
and the clashing of arms was heard approaching
the Theriakee Tchartchee ; there was a rushing
sound, as of a multitude drawing near, and
the discordant cries of human voices filled the
air. It was the Sultan, who, on that me-
morable occasion, had come in person, at the
* Kadun, literally the head of a harem, is applied to
Turkish women, as Mrs., Madame, Signora, or Fraii are
bestowed in courtesy upon married women in Christendom.
t A pil^ira who has visited the Prophet's tomb.
HADGEE EYOOB. 21
head of his troops, to disperse the infatuated
opium-eaters. Right and left the unresisting
victims were cut down and ridden over, and,
among the rest, Eyoob was stunned by a blow
from the Imperial sabre, which laid him ap-
parently lifeless in the dust ; he, however, re-
covered his senses some hours afterwards and
returned to his home, maimed, bleeding, and
exhausted. During the fever which was the
consequence of his wounds, the one fixed idea
which had taken possession of him remained
unchanged, and, as soon as he had sufficiently
recovered his strength, he announced to his
family and friends his intention of ioiniu'? the
next caravan of pilgrims that was to set out
for Mecca ; and as a pilgrimage to the tomb
of the Prophet, either in person or by proxy,
is enjoined to all the followers of Tslamism
once in their lives, no one ventured to dissuade
Eyoob from his undertaking, and his prepara-
tions were made forthwith.
It would take up too much time were I here
22 HADGEE EYOOB.
to describe the departure of the caravan which
annually starts from Scutari for Mecca, cha-
racterized by all " the pomp and circumstance"
of oriental splendour. The Sultan attends in
person to witness the ceremony, and all the
friends and relations of the pilgi-ims swell the
pageant, and accompany it for some miles on
its route. Herds of camels, troops of horse,
the sounds of musical instruments, the accents
of joy, and hope, and laughter mark its out-
set ! Far different is its return. It is like
the pilgrimage of life ; all is sanguine con-
fidence in the beginning, but at every advanc-
ing step an illusion is lost. The sun which
shone so brightly in the morning, scorches the
blood at noon ; the winds, which at first seemed
so refreshing, soon freeze to the bones ; the
barren places of the earth appear in all their
hideousness ; —fainting and dispirited, the wan-
derer in vain seeks for an Oasis in the desert,
but mirage alone mocks his eye and eludes
his grasp ; one by one, the friends who started
HADGEE EYOOB. 23
with him on his pilgrimage have sunk under
the hardships of the way ; still his courage
hears him onwards ; the goal is attained, hut
at the price of health and strength. He turns
to retrace his steps, alone and joyless, worn
in mind and body ; and when he reaches the
term of his wanderings, who among those who
beheld him depart would be able to recognize
the ardent and enthusiastic pilgrim in the weary
and broken-down Hadgee, who appears to have
no other boon to ask, but a grave in which he
may lay down and be at rest ?
And so it fared with Eyoob. The privations
and fatigues he had undergone in his journey to
and from Mecca, had reduced him to the sha-
dow of his former self; and when he reached
Scutari with the spectral-looking remnant of the
joyous band who had left it with him but a
year before, the friend to whose house he re-
paired started back in terror at his altered
mien. But exhausted as Evoob was in bodv,
he would listen to no suggestions of repose
24 HADGEE EYOOB.
previous to returning home ; his feehngs had
gradually risen to the highest pitch of tender
impatience as he approached the place inhabi-
ted by his wife and child ; and when, from
the heights above Scutari, he beheld the swel-
ling domes and slender minarets of Constanti-
nople stretched before him in all their imperial
beauty, the sight appeared to infuse new
strength into his exhausted frame ; and, " like
a giant refreshed," he proceeded on his way,
accompanied, as is the custom in Turkey, by
a troop of friends, who escorted the Hadjee in
triumph to his home ; some of them chanting
to the accompaniment of flutes and drums,
while others carried his praying carpet, Koran,
scimitar, pistols, and wearing apparel with
demonstrations of the greatest exultation and
joy before him.
As Eyoob entered the street in which his
house was situated, a funeral procession was
seen issuing from the mosque near it ; but his
thoughts were so absorbed in the happiness
HADGEE EYOOB. 25
that awaited him in being re-united to his
child, that he was unconscious of all outward
objects, and saw it not. How would Saliha
receive him ? and Medjid, the light of his eyes,
would he recognise the father he loved in the
altered and way-worn Hadgee ? And at the
thought, all the tenderness of his soul gushed
forth at his eyes.
At last he reached the gate of his dwelling,
dismissed his friends, and with a beating heart
knocked at the door. It was opened by Ursi,
the negro girl, who, the moment she beheld
her master, uttered a shrill cry and retreated
into the house, wringing her hands in a passion
of grief. Eyoob rushed past her, and was di-
recting his steps towards the harem, when the
poor girl darting forward cast herself at his
feet, and exclaimed, ''
As you love Allah, oh,
my master, stop !
"
"What is this.^" inquired Eyoob. "Ursi,
my eyes ! where is Kadun Saliha ?
"*
" Ahi ! ahi
!
" she replied, " what can I say ?""
VOL. III. c
26 HADGEE EYOOB.
Then, as if actuated by a sudden thought, she
arose, took the hand of Eyoob, and leading
him to the street door pointed to the funeral
procession which was still in sight, with a
gesture not to be misunderstood.
Eyoob was answered, — he turned silently
into the house, —he would have pronounced
the name of Medjid, but the word stuck in
his throat. Was it thus that Saliha had come
forth to meet him ? and what further disasters
were in store for him ? He strode forward to
the harem with desperate resolution, closed the
door after him, and looked around. All was
silent as the grave. The clothes of Saliha
were lying scattered upon the sofa in the first
room, just as she had last thrown them from
her ; the flowers she had worn were faded and
trampled on the floor ; and the disordered bed
shewed the impress of the lifeless body which
had so lately been removed from it. He en-
tered the inner apartment, and beheld a sight
that froze the current of his blood. On a heap
IIADGEE EYOOB. 27
of cushions in a corner was stretched Medjid —
his beautiful—his beloved—his only one! —fever
in his eye—delirium in the stifled murmurs that
fell from his parched and blackened lips—the
hideous plague-spot spreading in dark festering
wounds upon his once ivory skin. An old
Armenian woman was seated upon the floor
dozing over the fatigue of her last night's
watch. Eyoob staggered forward, fell on his
knees by the bedside, and in tones of the wildest
anguish called upon the name of JMedjid. The
dying boy turned his eyes upon him, —a ray
of returning recollection for a moment flashed
from them,—a smile hovered round his lips.
" Baham /" (my father,) he murmured, stretch-
ing his hands towards him, and clasping them
round his neck ; but it was the last effort of
expiring nature : the fingers gradually relaxed
their hold, the eyes became glazed and fixed,
a convulsive shudder ran through the limbs ;
then came a gasping struggle for breath—a low
rattle —then the silence, still more dreadful,
c2
28 HADGEE EYOOB.
which told tliat all was over—and EyooL held
in his arms the dust of Medjid !
The revulsion of feelings he had so suddenly
experienced, the stunning manner in which he
had been precipitated from the height ofjoyful
expectation and hope to the blackest depths of
despair, was too much for the wretched father
;
and reason staggered under the blow. He
neither spoke nor wept, but sat in silent stupor,
gazing upon the livid corpse of his child ; when
the attendants came to carry it to the Mosque,
(where the last ablutions and laying-out are
performed,) Eyoob mechanically followed them
like a man walking in his sleep, witnessed the
last sad offices with a stony eye, and made one
in the procession to the cemetery where Medjid
was laid by the side of Salilia. The ceremony
was hurried over (for the plague swept away
its victims in such numbers that the living had
scarcely time to bury the dead), and when the
Imaun had mumbled over a few prayers, and
the hired mourners had dispersed, Eyoob was
HADGEE EYOOB. 29
left alone. He sat down by the grave, his
eyes fixed upon the fresh earth that covered
his child, and hours rolled by, and night came,
and found him still there as if transfixed to
stone. There was a rushing noise in his ears
like the hissing of serpents, and tongues of fire
seemed darting into his eyes and scorching his
brain, and an icy hand pressed upon his heart,
and took from him the power of speech. In
this state he was found at nightfall by the
faithful Ursi, who led him unresistingly home
;
but when he reached the threshold of his door
the recollection of all that had passed when he
last crossed it rushed upon him with agonizing
clearness. For a moment he recovered his
memory, darted into the harem, and casting
himself upon the couch of INIedjid the room
echoed to the frenzied accents of his despair
;
until exhausted by all he had undergone, he
sank into a deep and death-like sleep which
lasted for many hours.
While he yet slept, a cat which had been
30 HADGEE EYOOB.
the boy's favourite pet and accustomed to share
his bed, crept into the bosom of Eyoob and
rolled itself up there ; and by one of those un-
accountable fancies that sometimes take pos-
session of the minds of madmen, or perhaps
some link in the chain of distempered dreams
that had visited his slumber, he awoke to the
belief that Medjid had been restored to him
under that form. The transports of his joy
were unbounded, and all the marks of tender-
ness he lavished upon the docile animal were
returned with the engaging playfulness that
characterises its species ; as long as it remained
near him he was perfectly tractable, but if
he lost sight of it for a moment all his frenzy
returned with accumulated violence ; and thus
matters went on for a few days, during which
Ursi continued to keep her unfortunate master'*s
state unknown to the public. At last he deter-
mined to take the supposed Medjid with him
to perform their public devotions together, and
HADGEE EYOOB. 31
presenting himself at the Mosque with his four-
footed companion was refused admittance. A
scene of fury ensued, that left no doubts upon
the minds of all present as to Eyoob's actual
state. He was conveyed to the madhouse,
and mercifully allowed to retain the object of
all his affections near him ; and there he had
remained ever since,—unconscious of the chang-
ing seasons, —unmindful of the irons that fet-
tered him,—absorbed in one fond unbroken
contemplation of the imaginary Medjid.
When the Drogueman had finished his ac-
count of the unfortunate Eyoob, I again ap-
proached his grated cell, and, with a sentiment
of pity and respect for his sufferings, made my
farewell salutations to him. He returned the
courtesy by laying his hand upon his heart, and
touching his forehead, with as much dignity as
though that poor brain had not become a blank.
" And this the world calls frenzy I"
How many people, thought I, have I seen in
32 HADGEE EYOOB.
that vast lunatic asylum, society, whose " fan-
tastic tricks" are far less harmless and less ami-
able than the delusion of this ill-fated being
!
How much further my reflections might then
have carried me, I know not ; for, just as I reach-
ed the entrance of the quadrangle, and mounted
my horse to return to Pera, an old Turkish wo-
man diverted the current of my thoughts by deli-
berately unfastening the lower part of her j/asmaA:
(veil), that she might spit at me. She must
have been an old Mahometan tory, holding in
abomination the liberal principles of Sultan
Mahmoud, and the spirit of reform which had
encouraged the adoption of Christian usages in
Constantinople, and sighing for the good old
times when no Giaour could venture to ride
through the city without being pelted and re-
viled by the followers of the Prophet. There
was an end to my reflections ; therefore, giving
my horse his head, and reining in my own
fancies, I cantered towards Pera, as fast as
HADGEE EYOOB. 3S
the execrable pavement would allow me, and
once more found myself in the cool latticed
saloon of my Armenian habitation.
Pera of Constantinople.
July 1838.
c5
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S
VISION.
Romeo. Peace
;
Thou talk'st of nothing.
Mercutio. True, I talk of dreams ;
Which are the children of an idle brain,
Begot of nothing but vain fantasy.
Romeo and Juliet.
midsum:mer night's vision.
It was Midsummer day. I had been loiter-
ing through the whole of that sultry noon in
the streets and environs of Leipzig, seeing what-
ever is most worthy of observation in that
populous and antique-looking place ; I had stood
upon the banks of the narrow brook-like Elster,
on the very spot where the heroic Poniatowski
rushed into its waves and perished. I had
visited the fatal field where, quenched in oceans
of blood, Napoleon's star had set to rise no
more. I had talked with eye-witnesses, and
listened to anecdotes of those exciting times;
38 A MIDSUMMER NIGHT's VISION.
and with my mind full of souvenirs, and my
head teeming with Idees Napoleoniennes, I set
oiF for Dresden, but was obliged to rest for the
night at Oschatz, a miserable little town, whose
natural dulness and discomfort had apparently
derived no improvement from the gingerbread
fair then being held in the very small Gross
Platz opposite to the inn where I had put up.
This same fair seemed to have frighted from
its propriety the whole place, inn and all. I
ordered abend speisen in vain ; called (for bells
there were none) upon Kellner or Kammerfrau
to do my bidding : Komm gleich was shouted
to me in return, but nobody came ; so, in order
to economise my breath and patience, both of
which were waxing faint, I left my servants,
who did not understand a word of German, to
settle matters for me, and walked forth into
the midst of the fair, where my attention was
very soon attracted and fixed by a German
Farceur^ who was singing to the grinding of his
barrel organ, sundry comic songs, with an effect
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION. 39
which drew forth shouts of laughter and ap-
plause from his numerous auditory.
This man possessed the genuine vis comica.
Nature had sent him into the world a ready-
made buffoon ; and the couplets which he acted
as well as chanted, and wliich were as broad in
their humour as they were long in duration,
were admirably releves by the curl of a gro-
tesque, thirsty-looking red nose, the leer of a
moist roguish eye, and the knowing air with
which a greasy old hat, of indescribable form,
was cocked upon one ear. I have always had a
foiblesse for such exhibitions ; and so strongly
did my sympathies, upon that particular occa-
sion, keep pace with those of the assembled
crowd, that not until it dispersed did I remem-
ber that I was both fasting and fatigued, or
think that it was time for me to " take mine
ease in mine inn," should such at last be vouch-
safed to me.
When I returned thither, I found that the
arrangements for my night's accommodation had
40 A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION.
been completed, and I was shewn into a dark-
looking narrow strip of a bed-room, containing
nothing but the " short commons " of a German
bed, an enormous German stove, a ricketty
old table, and two equally ancient chairs.
" Have you no better room for me ?" I in-
quired, shrinking back from the gloomy com-
fortless-looking couloir which had been digni-
fied into the rank of chamber, and of which
so large a part was filled up by the monu-
mental-looking stove aforesaid, whose form and
proportions struck me as being better adapted
to a churchyard than to a bed-room.
" A better ! ''
was the rejoinder of my land-
lord ;
" 'tis the best in the house ! Why, in
this very room the Emperor Napoleon passed
the night on his way to Leipzig in 1813, after
his temporary success at Dresden."'''
*' Enough!"" said I, "it will suit me very
well !" And I believe that had the best fur-
nished and most comfortable apartment been
at that moment offered me in exchange, I
A MIDSUAIiMER NIGIIT'S VISION. 41
would not have foregone the privilege of pass-
ing the night in that gloomy chamber, haunted
as it was by associations with one of the great
ones of the earth, who had passed through the
extremes of human grandeur and human suf-
fering to a kingdom, compared with which
the kingdoms of this world and the wretched
ambitions that distract them are as nothing.
The temper of mind which my morning's
occupation had induced, rendered this coinci-
dence still more welcome to me, and I has-
tily swallowed my supper that I might shut
myself up alone, and indulge in all my reveries
undisturbed. For it seemed to me that some-
thing of Napoleon must cling to those walls
which had reflected his shadow as he paced
the long room, —something that would now
image forth his reflections to me ; that the
very planks which had creaked beneath his
foot-steps, ought to speak to me eloquently
of his perturbed thoughts ! How looked, how
moved he then, the Warrior and the Despot,
42 A MIDSUMMER NTGHT'S VISION.
from whose brow and whose grasp were so
soon to pass away a crumbling crown and a
broken sword ? Did Hope still animate those
giant energies with visions of Glory ? or had
cold misgivings crept in to paralyse and sub-
due ? Baffled in his ambitious views — for-
saken —betrayed —defeated—yet resolved to
stand at bay and make a last struggle against
his pursuers before he fled from the territory
which had leagued with all the world against
him, did no prophetic voice whisper to him that
the struggle would be in vain ? —and if he slept
that night, what dreams hovered round his
pillow ? —were they, like those of Richard the
Third, appalling visions of final defeat ?—and
did the bloody shade of Enghien arise to me-
nace and to forewarn —'' to sit heavy upon his
sow/," and bid it despair?—did he, like that
usurper, acknowledge,
" 1 have not that ahacrity of spirit,
Or cheer of mind that I was wont to have ;
"
or did he, still like him, feel that a thousand
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT S VISION. 43
hearts were great within his bosom, although
Fortune and Victory no longer sat upon his
helm ?
With these thoughts crowding confusedly
in my mind, I at last threw myself upon the
bed ; and even between sleeping and waking
the same images pursued me, but fantastically
confounded with the objects that were actually
in the room, and those which I had seen during
the evening. The huge stove appeared to di-
late, and spring up into the semblance of a
column surmounted by a warlike figure, crowned
with laurels ; and in the deep shadow which it
threw upon the wall, and which the flickering of
the night-lamp caused to waver tremulously,
I thought I saw the form of the German far-
ceur^ flitting to and fro with his barrel-organ ;
and lo ! his lineaments were those of the pre-
sent ruler of France ; and his greasy inde-
scribable hat pinched up into the heroic form
of that little '
chapeau a trois cornes,'' which will
go down to posterity immortalized by glorious
44 A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION.
associations, was flourished in his hand in a
begging attitude, with the gesticulations of one
by whom " the smallest contributions would be
thankfully received/' Then followed indistinct-
ness, darkness, and oblivion; —I slept —and
in a dream I was borne far away.
I thought that I stood alone in the deep
valley of a rocky island ; the booming of the
ocean billows fell upon my ear softened by
distance, and mingled with the summer breeze
that lightly rustled the foliage of low bending
willows ; and beneath their weeping branches
was a tomb, grand in its simplicity, upon which
was inscribed the mighty name of Napoleon
—
that name which had caused the whole of van-
quished Europe to tremble, save the Ocean
Queen whose captive he had died ! And with
a saddened heart I stood
" In the hush*d presence of the glorious dead,"
marvelling and pondering over the vicissitudes
that had doomed his dust to mingle with the
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION. 45
sands of an insignificant African island over
which he had never held sway.
" Shame to thee, England !" I exclaimed,
" for having hetrayed the fallen enemy who
confided in thy generosity ! —Shame to thee for
having rejected the guest who in his misfor-
tunes threw himself upon thy hospitality! —
Shame, thrice shame, that as the reward of
such trusting belief in thy magnanimity thou
didst doom him, like another Prometheus, to
'
the Vulture and the Rock !
' the Ocean for
his prison walls—this lonely island his dungeon
—thou the gaoler —and Death the liberator !
Oh, bitter in thy enmity ! could not his deso-
lation move thee to nobler sentiments ? Crown-
less —wifeless —childless —abandoned by the
people whom he had so often led to glory, he
turned his eyes towards thy shores—the boasted
land of freedom and of freemen—and claimed
to be received there as a citizen by '
the noblest
and most constant of his enemies ;' even that
poor boon was denied to him, and the hand
46 A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION.
which should have been stretched forth to wel-
come tlie illustrious exile, forged his fetters
!
And thou, injured shade !'**
I continued, bend-
ing my forehead in deep humility over the
sepulchral stone, " what can atone for the long
agonies endured by thee —the moral tortures
which could not bend thy stern spirit albeit the
frail flesh was vanquished by them ? What can
atone for this unhonoured grave, where even
thy ashes remain in captivity far from the land
which once gloried in calling thee master ? what
can atone
—
"
But here a noise as of the rustling of mighty
wings startled me from my soliloquy, and look-
ing up I beheld in the grey light of dawn a
form standing near, clad in imperial robes, like
those of ancient Rome, the Victor's laurel
wreath upon his brow, and eyes piercing and
serene as those of angels bent upon me ; and
I knew that I looked upon the spirit of him
whose mortal coil lay mouldering beneath.
*'
'Tis well !" it said in a clear low voice ;
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION. 47
" I wish for no atonement which I have not
already received, —the enemy who persecuted
me even unto death, hestowed upon me (un-
wittingly, I will allow,) a boon far beyond that
which could have been conferred even had she
conceded to me all that I had asked at her
hands ! In chaining me to this rock, England
exalted me into a Victim. —and, blind in her
persecution like the fanatics of old, what she
intended to dishonour has received through her
means the honours of martyrdom. Think you
that had she welcomed me upon her shores
as I had dared to hope, and that 1 had sub-
sided into a political cypher — an apostate
from my faith (for my religion was Glory !)
—
a sleek country gentleman content to exchange
my noble ambition for the creature comforts
of hfe,—to fatten my beeves and till my own
lands,—to promener mes ennuis from one noble
castle to another, unhonoured by any sentiment
save that of vulgar curiosity, —to herd with
lords and flatter ladies,—to take my seat, when
48 A MIDSUMMER NIGHT's VISION.
bidden, at the board of Royalty, and feel hum-
bly thankful that such notice should be ac-
corded to me ! — think you, I say, had such
been the case, that my name and memory
would have preserved the magic power which
they still exercise over the hearts and imagina-
tions of my ancient followers ?—think you that
France would have recognised in the apathetic
guest of England, content to crawl through
life like other worms, the warlike Napoleon
who led her to a hundred conquests, who threw
the spoils of other nations into her lap, and
would have made her what Rome was of old
—the mistress of the world ! —or that recog-
nisincr, she could have lamented one so self-
debased ? No ! the poetry of this rock, this
captivity, this lonely grave, was necessary to
revive the sympathies of that fickle and exci-
table people whose idol I had been, so long as
I led them from victory to victory, but who
abandoned me to my fate when I could no
lonofer minister to their vain-fflorious ambition.
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION. 49
The vulgar, ignoble life of ease which would
have been purchased by fraternizing with my
conquerors and bitterest foes, would have made
them blush for their former hero. As it was,
they pitied me, they once more identified
themselves with my feelings, and every fresh
outrage heaped upon me by England served
to reanimate their extinguished enthusiasm.
But a life of inglorious freedom passed amongst
the Penates of my conquerors would have cut
me off from the sympathies of that handful of
brave spirits who, in woe as well as in weal,
had never deserted me. I should have lived to
die in their memory and their esteem, whereas
I have died to live there for ever, —not to perish
with the present generation, but to be handed
down from father to son to posterity, an oral
tradition of success, grandeur, and adversity
on the one hand, unparalleled in the annals of
the world, and of enthusiastic devoted fidehty
on the other, unequalled in the history of the
human heart. This distinction and these sen-
VOL. Ill o
50 A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION.
timents have been preserved to me in all their
pristine intensity, thanks to the unmeasured
rigour of England ! —and I feel now how much
better service her distrust and her enmity have
done me than her most loyal friendship and
good fellowship could have conferred. True,
while I still animated the poor tabernacle of
clay that moulders beneath that stone, I thought
otherwise ; for the weaknesses and affections
of the flesh clung to me, and clogged my per-
ceptions ; —the love of life,—the yearning to
be united to what I most loved, blinded me
to the humiliating consequences that must have
ensued had my desires been granted ;
—now I
see all with the eye of the spirit, and I repeat,
'tis well for me that England acted as she has
done ! She did not intend nor foresee the result
in her short-sighted vindictiveness, but she has
been a better friend to my memory than I
should have been myself."
" But this obscure grave,'' said I, " for one
'
whose tomb should pierce the skies,' —does
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION. 51
not your spirit, Sire, resent the disregard whicli
has been observed towards your wishes respect-
ing the destination of these sacred rehcs P^'
" Bah !'"
returned the Imperial shade with
a scornful smile, " where the tree falls there
let it lie ! Those wishes were expressed while
I vet struofcrled under the thraldom of human
feeling,—its wretched affections, and still more
wretched vanities ! TAey prompted me, blind
and deluded as I was, to bequeath my heart
to Marie Louise,—to the cold-hearted woman
who never had appreciated its fond, proud de-
votion, and who abandoned me in my fallen
fortunes,—to the faithless wife who could not
wait until death had dissolved the tie that
bound her to me ere she bestowed her heartless
caresses upon another,—to the degenerate Prin-
cess who scrupled not to give to the son of
Napoleon a spurious brood of brothers and
sisters, the pledges of her wanton love for an
Austrian Chamberlain ! What could such a
woman do with my heart, —and how would
d2
52 A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION.
she greet it ? perhaps with the Italian proverb
which says that '
a Hving dog is better than a
dead Hon !
' Oh, Josephine ! thy wrongs have
been amply avenged by her for whom thou
wert sacrificed !
"
" But France, Sire, to whom you bequeathed
these glorious ashes —
"
" Yes, in the same blind belief that influ-
enced me in the other particular, in the per-
suasion of her undying, disinterested devotion,
France has repudiated my cause ; she has
forsaken my family ; my name is still dear
to her as a rallying point around which all
her national vanity gathers, but that is all.
France loved me for herself not for me ; she
too deserted me ; and twice, in my adversity.
With her les vaincus ont toujours tort ! she
turned from the dim rays of my setting star
to bask in the beams of my adversaries' rising
sun ; to fawn upon them with the same rank
breath with which she reviled me. No !
France loved me not ; she was vain of me ; a
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION. 53
few, a very few of her sons loved me, and some
of them died to prove it, while others lived
to prove it too ; in exile and sorrow, and
disease and death, they forsook me not ;
and they have had their reward. But they
were only an exception to the rule by which
that fickle and ungrateful nation marked her
indifference for my cause. And shall I still
wish my ashes to lie in the land which rejected
me while living, and which has consigned to
eternal banishment all who bear my name ? —As
though power dwelt in a ?iame and not in deeds !
—As though danger could accrue to the state
from the presence of two or three aged money-
loving American citizens, or the senseless
projects of an inexperienced youth who, in his
fond belief that France still loved the race
from which he sprang, closed his eyes to this
convincing fact : — that when, exasperated by
the headstrong incapacity of her legitimate
Princes, she drove them from the throne, and
purchased with her people's blood the right
54 A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION.
to choose another ruler, no thought of recaUing
the Imperial boy who was born to become
their Emperor, occurred to her ; the claims of
my son were overlooked upon an occasion which
offered so fair an opportunity for the restoration
of the Napoleon dynasty, and our most san-
guine adherents must have felt that the silence
of the nation at that juncture was conclusive,
and that the popularity of our cause had sunk
into a tradition.
" The day will come, however, and it is not
far distant, when my ashes will be recalled,
and Princes will be sent to pilot them
across the seas, and deputations formed to
greet their solemn entry into France, and
monuments will be raised, and orations pro-
nounced over them ; and wherefore ? —to honour
my memory ? to appease my angry manes
by a tardy fulfilment of my last wishes ? Will
a brother's hand be there to support my pall,
or the sanctifying tears of kindred be shed over
it ? No ! the government of the day will
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT's VISION. 55
require some coup de theatre to ensure their
popularity with a nation jealous of her present
inactivity and susceptible to whatever touches
her past glory ; they will find it necessary to
throw dust into her eyes, and they will choose
THE DUST OF Napoleon for that purpose.
But my spirit recoils from the idea of these
poor remains being made subservient to the
claptrap of ministerial intrigue ; still more does
it recoil from the paltry inconsistencies, the
meannesses of party spirit, the jealousies and
the chafferings which will form the programme
to their reception. Better that they should
remain where they are ; and since the living
are banished, let the dead share their fate. I
shall not repose more tranquilly beneath the
Dome of the Invalides than upon this sea-girt
rock ; and long after that Dome shall have
crumbled into dust, and the very site on
which it stood shall have become a problem
which the pilgrims of future ages will vainly
seek to resolve, this rock shall rear its head
56 A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION.
unchanged in the midst of the wild Atlantic
waves, imperishable as my fame, —stern and
gloomy as my fate,—fit mausoleum for one who
stood alone in his greatness and his adversity
like me. The wanderers of the deep shall hail
it in the distance as a landmark consecrated
to immortal recollections ; and when the very
name which it now bears shall be forgotten, the
proud distinction of holding my ashes will
rescue it from oblivion, and History will record,
and posterity recognize the lonely island as
the Emperor's grave,—the tomb of the Great
Napoleon !
"
As I turned towards the shadowy speaker, to
reply to these last observations, I perceived that
its form had grown more transparent and indis-
tinct as the grey light of morning brightened
into the approach of sunrise, and while I strain-
ed my eyes to catch a glimpse of the fading
features, the cock crew, and they vanished into
*'thin air.'' I started forward as though I
would have retained the impalpable shade in
A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S VISION. 57
my grasp ; but at that moment the sun rose
In all its splendour above the horizon, and,
dazzled into momentary blindness by the in-
tense brightness of its beams, I stumbled over
the grave, and fell prostrate to the ground.
The shock awoke me ; the morning sun was
streamino- throuorh the uncurtained windows of
my room full upon my equally uncurtained bed
and unprotected eyes ; the Chanticleer of the
inn was straining his throat to the utmost to
arouse the lazy sleepers within its walls ; for a
moment the sound prolonged my illusion, and
starting from my pillow I looked around for
my visionary interlocutor, when the truth burst
upon my awakened senses, and, lo ! I found
that it was all a Dream I
Paris, June, 1840.
Several months after the above Dream had
been committed to paper, the writer witnessed
the imposing spectacle, (for such it was rather
than a religious ceremony,) of the translation of
D 5
58 A MIDSUMMER NTGHT'S VISION.
Napoleon's remains to the Church of the In-
valides. Everything had been done through
the medium of the pubHc press, for many
weeks previously, to excite the people to some
public demonstration of enthusiasm for the
Imperial dynasty, and revolt against the exist-
ing order of things. But all in vain ; perhaps
the intense cold of the weather on that occasion
may have contributed to the maintenance of
public order ; but so it was, that the atmosphere
and the temper of men'^s minds were both at
many degrees below freezing point ; and the
whole thing went off with the most frigid calm,
thus bearing out the Spiritual Protest that has
been embodied in the above Dream, and im-
parting to it the character of a Prophecy.
Paris, March, 1841.
THE MOTHER AND SON
A SKETCH FROM REAL LIFE.
No joyful tongue gave him his welcome home.
King Richard II.
THE MOTHER AND SON.
Herman Christiern, was the eldest son of
parents whom misfortune and improvidence had
reduced from a respectable position in society
to a state of poverty and dependence upon such
of their relatives as were able and willing to
assist them. His father, Major Christiern, a
Swiss by birth, had been originally in the ser-
vice of the unfortunate Louis XVI, and was
one of the few Swiss guards who survived the
dreadful massacre of the Tenth of August.
After seeing his father and elder brother perish
by his side, upon the staircase of the Tuileries,
he contrived to eflfect liis escape from the san-
62 THE MOTHER AND SON.
giiinary mob ; and concealing himself in Paris
for a few days, he quitted it in disguise, and
passed over into England, where he entered
into the British Service, and obtained a com-
mission in a regiment which was chiefly of-
ficered by emigrants and foreigners. Young,
handsome, and well-born, his misfortunes in-
vested him with more than common interest in
the eyes of the romantic and the tender-heart-
ed ; nor was it long ere his manifold attrac-
tions beguiled the affections of a young and
lovely girl, who, regardless of prudence and of
the counsels of her family, and listening only to
" the voice of the charmer," who, in that in-
stance, charmed " not wisely but too well,"'
bestowed her hand and her little fortune upon
the portionless refugee ; and cheerfully left the
comforts and luxuries of her father's house to
rough it through the world as the wife of a
subaltern in a marching regiment. Promotion
came slowly, and children came fast : Christiern
was the very incarnation of thoughtless impru-
THE MOTHER AND SON. 6S
dence ; he knew not how to restrict his expen-
diture to his means : he was one of those who,
if they possessed twenty thousand a-year, think
it necessary to spend thirty. What wonder
then, that with his slender income debts soon
accumulated, and that the fortune of his wife
was sacrificed to defray them ? She indeed
was a model of prudence and self-denial ; all
her exertions were directed towards stem-
ming the torrent of her husband's prodigality
;
she gave up society and quietly resigned herself
into becoming a household drudge—but all in
vain : her unceasing efforts could only retard,
not ward off, utter ruin ; and after nineteen
years of perpetual struggle, during which period
the patience and the pecuniary resources of her
family had been more than once exhausted by
the perpetual demands of Christiern for assist-
ance, she found herself a beggar, burthened
with six sons, and a husband who was too
proud *' to dig," although " to beg he was not
asliamed !
'^
64 THE MOTHER AND SON.
Christlern had sold his commission to save
himself from a prison, and the whole family
were dependent for bread upon the generosity
of a widowed sister of Mrs. Christiern's, the last
of her family who adhered to her in her mis-
fortunes.
At that period of their history Herman,
their eldest son, who had been educated at
Sandhurst, was fortunately provided for by re-
ceiving a commission in a distinguished corps,
then servinof in the Peninsula : and thither he
proceeded, as soon as his outfit had been com-
pleted, in all the happy exultation of eighteen,
dreaming of nothing but glory, honourable scars,
laurels, and promotion.
He was his mother's favourite : of all her
children, dear as they were to her, Herman was
the most precious ; he had wound himself
round the very fibres of her heart by his ador-
able disposition, and from his earliest infancy
she could remember no single instance in which
he had voluntarily caused her pain. Gentle,
THE MOTHER AND SON. 65
tliough high-spirited, dutiful and thoughtful
beyond his years, he seemed early to have un-
derstood the struggles and trials to which she
was exposed, and to have resolved upon com-
pensating as much as possible for her other
privations by his unlimited devotion and obedi-
ence to her wishes. His affection for her had
endued him with a precocity of judgment and
feehng, rare as it was beautiful in one of his
years and sex ; the rudeness of the schoolboy
was laid aside for the rational bearing of the
matured friend and companion ; and at an age
when other youths are bent only upon boister-
ous pursuits and selfish indulgences, Herman
Christiern had learned to place his greatest
happiness in the society of his mother, and to
feel that he was more than repaid for the sacri-
fice of his boyish tastes, when he had called
forth an approving smile in her meek, fair
face.
That gentle mother ! she was one of those
patient enduring beings, who never give ex-
66 THE MOTHER AND SON.
pression to their grief, but courageously strug-
gle to avert its dominion as long as possible ;
and when they find the effort unavailing, silent-
ly resign themselves to become its victim, and
die, as they have lived, without uttering a
complaint. Calm and undemonstrative, she
was by many pronounced to be apathetic ; but
even while that judgment was recorded against
her by superficial observers, the canker of care
was corroding the \dtal principle within her.
Her step was gradually becoming less firm, her
smile less frequent ; her eye more sunken ; her
cheek more transparent ! The utter hopeless-
ness of her prospects, the misery of feeling her-
self a burthen upon the generosity of a beloved
sister, ill able to sustain such a charge, the
altered disposition of her husband, to whom
misfortune had imparted asperity and not pru-
dence ; all had combined to sap the founda-
tions of a constitution which had never been
very robust : she was dying of a chronic heart-
THE MOTHER AND SON, 67
break, and nobody believed that she was suf-
fering.
I remember, about that time, hearing her
one evening, sing that beautiful song in the
" Stranger," the music of which is said to have
been composed by the all-accomplished Duchess
of Devonshire ; and, child as I then was, being
aifected to tears by the deep pathos of her
unrivalled voice, as she gave utterance to words,
which I was afterwards aware bore so strong
an analogy to her own sad feelings :
—
" I have a silent sorrow here,
A grief I '11 ne'er impart
;
It breathes no sigh—it sheds no tear—
But it consumes my heart
!"
I have often since remembered it with a sigh,
and thought how touchingly she then illus-
trated the poet's idea of the nightingale singing
with a thorn in her breast.
Still there was one drop of sweetness left to
temper the bitter cup which fate had prepared
68 THE MOTHER AND SON.
for her ; Herman was provided for ; he de-
lighted in his profession, he had borne himself
gallantly in his first campaign, (which was the
closing one of the Peninsular war,) he was be-
loved by his brother officers, and had won
golden opinions from those under whose com-
mand he had served ; a slight wound in his
arm, and advancement to a lieutenancy, had
put the finishing stroke to his contentment ; and
when, after the affair of Toulouse, he embarked
with his regiment from Bordeaux to proceed
to Cork, it was with the promise of soon obtain-
ing leave of absence to visit his family, and
also with an assurance from the General of
Division under whom he served, that he should
be appointed to the first vacancy that occurred
in his staff.
How did the tender mother exult when she
heard all this ! How did her quiet eye brighten,
and her sinking heart throb at the thought of
once more beholding her gallant boy, dearer
than ever to her from the dangers he had passed
THE MOTHER AND SON. U9
through ! Forgetful for a while of her many
sorrows and her daily increasing weakness, she
dwelt only upon the prosperous future that
was dawning upon him : handsome and amiable,
and beloved as her Herman was, he must suc-
ceed in the world ; he would marry well, —
perhaps Heaven would reward her past suffer-
ings by permitting her to live to witness that
happy event ; and then how thankfully would
she close her eyes for ever, knowing that he
at least was rescued from the destitution which
had fallen upon her other children ; that when
she was gone he would be to them all that he
had ever been to her in affection—friend, com-
forter, counsellor ; and besides all these, yet
another tie would be added—he would become
their benefactor
!
Yet these fond speculations, although they
beguiled her sorrows, could not arrest the fatal
progress of disease ; her decline had been so
gradual, her courage in abstaining from all ex-
pression of complaint so unshaken, that it was
70 THE MOTHER AND SON.
not until the churchyard cough struck like a
knell upon the ears of her affrighted husband,
and that frequent faintings testified to the ex-
haustion of her frame, that Christiem was
aroused to a sense of her danofer. Then medi-
cal aid was resorted to, but too late : for after
a careful examination of her case, the physician
pronounced that repose of mind and a warmer
climate might prolong her life for a few months,
but that ultimate recovery would be little less
than miraculous. Under these circumstances, it
was thought expedient to spare her the fatigue
of a long journey, which must eventually ter-
minate in a foreign grave ; and she w^as re-
moved to a quiet lodging at Brompton, there
to await the slow fulfilment of her doom.
Meanwhile Herman was enjo}4ng as much
popularity in Ireland as he had done in the
more trying scenes of his short but glorious
campaign in the Peninsula, and all his letters
were filled with pleasant details of the charming
life he was leading among the hospitable, warm-
THE MOTHER AND SON. 71
hearted Irish, who seemed bent upon making
him forofet that he was ''
a strano-er in the land.'"
He had been sent with a detachment from
head-quarters into a wild part of the county of
Cork, where the society was widely dispersed
;
but it so happened, that one family—the most
deliorhtful in the world—resided near ; and thev
had called upon him, and insisted upon his
taking up his quarters at their house. There
were seven daughters, all of them angels ; an
amiable mother ; a father who was the best of
good-fellows ; two brothers, the best riders in
the whole county ; and "with these loveable
people he was domesticating as enfant de J'a-
mi'lle. A few weeks after this communication,
Herman wrote to solicit his parents' consent to
his union with one of the fair daughters of his
hospitable host, whose consent had been cheer-
fully given to an arrangement which was to
secure the happiness of his child ; and all that
was wanting to complete the general satisfac-
tion was the approval of Major and Mrs.
12 THE MOTHER AND SON.
Christiern, without which Herman felt that his
marriage would not be blessed. Then followed
a lover"'s description of the fair object of his
preference ; and when every flattering epithet
which the glowing imagination of a youth of
twenty could lavish upon his first passion, had
been exhausted, Herman acknowledged that his
beloved had no dower but her beauty, and no
expectation of ever receiving any marriage
portion from her father except her wedding
clothes.
The Christierns lost not a moment in writing
to forbid this most imprudent connexion. The
father made an immediate application to Her-
man"'s Colonel that he might be recalled to head-
quarters; while the poor mother, trusting that
her influence with her son would not be exerted
In vain, wrote to conjure him to listen to the
voice of reason, and to be guided by the ex-
perience of those who had learned wisdom
under the severe discipline of adversity. Then,
for the first time, she unlocked the sorrows of
THE MOTHER AND SON. /o
her heart to him ; and oh, what sad eloquence
was there in that transcript of misery so long
borne and never before told ! What truth iu
her description of the bitterness of dependence
to a proud spirit, of the anguish of bringing
innocent beings into the world predestined to
beggary, or dependent for bread upon the pre-
carious and unwilling charity of cold-hearted
relatives ! With what force did she paint the
power of misfortune to sour even the kindest
nature, and to substitute querulous reproach
and vain recriminations for the endearments of
affection ! how feelingly dwell upon the ro-
mance of love vanquished by the vulgar cares of
life ! All this she had experienced ; these fatal
consequences of an imprudent marriage she noA\'
avowed to him were leading her to the grave ;
and she adjured her son, by all his past affection
for her, by all his future hopes of happiness for
himself, to take warning from her example,
and to forbear giving the last blow to her
VOL. III. :^
74 THE MOTHER AND SON.
breaking heart by wildly persisting in a step
which must end in his utter ruin.
But when did Love ever hsten to Reason ?
And what youth of twenty but thinks the world
well lost for the bright eyes of a beautiful girl,
who smiles like an angel while she assures him
that poverty with him would be preferable to
the most brilliant worldly position with another ?
Herman was staggered, but not convinced, by
his moth6r''s letter; he, however, felt it to be
his duty to avow to the young lady and her
family, his parents' objections to his marriage,
and the motives on which they were grounded
;
but, to his glad surprise, he found that they car-
ried no weight with them : the father was too
anxious to marry his daughters, and too hopeless
of marrying them well, to hesitate in giving
them to any one with the name and profession
of a gentleman. And as for the young lady,
she bade him choose between his mother and
herself, at the same time vowing that if she
did not marry Herman Christiern, she would
THE MOTHER AND SON. 7o
consign her sorrows to the pond behind the
house, and die hke poor OpheHa, of " too much
water."" For my part, I have always thought
it a pity that he did not suffer her to make the
experiment, as I have no doubt that she would
have passed through the chilling ordeal \\ith
infinite advanta^re to all parties, and have left,
(if not her life^ like Sappho,) her /oie, at least,
at the bottom of the muddy receptacle for
fishes ; but fate had ordained otherwise, and
her sentiments and declarations but too well
accorded with the feelings of Herman, for him
to hesitate in acting upon them. He married
the beautiful Honoria, and then wrote to inform
his parents of the event, and to implore their
blessing upon it. No answer was returned to
that letter ; and the young bridegroom, al-
though grieved by this first proof of stern un-
relentingness, was too much in love to be long
depressed by it, and. in the fulness of his joy,
soon forgot that his own gratification had been
purchased at the expense of his mother's, peace
e2
76 THE MOTHER AND SON.
—that this first solemn act of his life had also
been his first violation of filial duty and obedi-
ence.
About a fortnight after Herman''s marriage,
his regiment was ordered to England, and, pre-
cisely at the same time, a vacancy occurred in
General B ""s staiF, who, remembering his
promise to the gallant young soldier, wrote to
him to express his deep regret that, by his
recent marriage, Herman should have precluded
the possibility of its fulfilment, as he, the
General, made it a rule never to appoint married
men to be his aides-de-camp. And thus early
was the first consequence of his ill-advised con-
nection visited upon the unfortunate young man.
Still, despite the wounding silence of his
mother towards him, Herman's heart yearned
fondly for her forgiveness and blessing; and
when he heard that his regiment was to march
through London, e?i route for its new destin-
ation, he determined upon presenting himself to
his parents without any previous apprisal, trust-
THE MOTHER AND SOX. 77
ing that the sudden emotion of such a meeting
would, by taking their feehngs by surprise, do
more towards effecting a reconcihation than
volumes of letters could do written a tete
reposee.
Accordingly, when in the course of a long
march of many days, the detachment of the
regiment to which Herman belonged, reached
Kensington at an early hour one morning, he
had no sooner seen his men billeted for their
few hours'* repose, than, without allowing him-
self a momenfs rest—without even waiting to
brush his dusty uniform, he flew, rather than
walked, towards Brompton, where he knew
that his family then resided. The quiet little
street in which they lodged was still wrapped
in deep repose ; the shutters of all the houses
were closed, not a housemaid had yet risen to
her daily labours, and the uncertain glories of
an April day were still unclouded by any
vestige of smoke curling upwards from the
chimneys. Herman knocked at the door with
78 THE MOTHER AND SON.
a trembling hand, and in the silence that pre-
vailed, the beating of his heart became dis-
tinctly audible to him ; at last, a half dressed,
half awake, slip-shod maid-servant opened the
door.
"Does Major Christiern live here?" he in-
quired.
" Yes, sir,^' was the answer ;
" but nobody
is up yet.'"*
'*
I know,"" replied Herman ;
" it does not
signify disturbing any one to announce me."
And rushing by the astonished girl he ran up
stairs, opened the door that presented itself
on the landing-place of the first floor, and
found himself in a chamber dimly lighted by
an expiring candle.
There was a bed in the room, the curtains
of which were unclosed, and the noise he had
made in opening the door startled from slum-
ber the form that was stretched upon it, out-
side of the coverlet.
THE MOTHER AND SON. 79
"Who is there?" inquired a well-known
voice, —the voice of his father.
'•
It is I, —Herman, your son,"* he replied.
" Where is mv mother?"*
Where, indeed 1
No answer was returned to this qnesfcion;
but Ckristiem slowly rose from the bed, and
goinsr to the window threw open the abutters.
The bright morning light streamed into the
apartment, and revealed to Herman an object
which had hitherto been buried in deep sha-
dow, and had escaped his observation. —a cof-
fin, placed upon trestles, stood at the foot of
the bed, and a white sheet was thrown over it.
Ghristiern pointed to it.
" Your mother is there ! "'
he said, in a voice
htLsky and inarticulate from emotion. " Your
disobedience killed her I Have you come here
to triumph in the barbarous deed ?
"*
And, as he spoke, he raised the white cover-
ing from the coffin, and displayed to Herman's
80 THE MOTHER AND SON.
bewildered gaze the marble features of his
mother, rigidly fixed in death, and colourless
as the ghastly trappings of the grave, in which
the shrunk form was enshrouded.
" She was much better; she might, perhaps,
have been saved,'** continued the unhappy man,
his haggard eyes almost fiercely scanning the
countenance of his son, to watch the effect
that his words produced, " when your letter
arrived ;
—and she never held up her head after-
wards. She scarcely ever spoke again, and
never mentioned your name until her last mo-
ment had arrived. Then she prayed to God
to forgive you, and to avert from you the agony
of mind she was then suffering !
''
Motionless with horror, Herman listened to
the reproaches of his unhappy father, his eyes
fixed wildly upon the lifeless form before him :
and, oh ! how much more dreadful than any that
words could frame, were the reproaches con-
veyed to his heart by the aspect of that im-
movable countenance ! How awfully elo-
THE MOTHER AND SON. 81
quent the silence of those icy lips, which never
more could unclose, either to reprove or to for-
give !
" Mercy ! pardon !
" he would have exclaim-
ed ; but his tongue clove to the roof of his
mouth, and no sound issued from his lips.
He would have knelt and humbled himself in
the dust, before the unconscious remains of the
beloved mother whose last moments had been
so cruelly embittered by his disobedience ; but
his trembling limbs refused to obey the holy
impulse, and he fell prostrate and senseless upon
the coffin.
When he recovered, he found himself in
another room, and one of his uncles was stand-
ing near, watching him with a pitying coun-
tenance. There was a lumbering noise upon
the narrow staircase, as if some unwieldy ob-
ject were being carried down it ; and at the
same moment, an undertaker's assistant entered
to announce that all was ready for the depar-
ture of the funeral procession. Scarcely con-
£ 5
82 THE MOTHER AND SON.
scious of what was passing, sick and giddy,
Herman was supported by his uncle into a
mourning coach, and in a few minutes more he
was standing in the churchyard, by the open
grave of his mother. He saw the coffin lower-
ed into it, —heard the first shovel-full of earth
rattle upon its lid, and the awful words that
accompanied that rendering of " dust to dust
;
"
and still no tear had moistened his burning
eyes,—still no word or look of kindness had
been directed to him by his father ! He felt
like one spell-bound under the dominion of a
dreadful dream, from which he would have
given worlds to awaken, but could not.
Just as the solemn rite had concluded, and
the mourners were leaving the churchyard to
return home, the sounds of military music
swelled upon the air, and filled it with delicious
harmony. Herman recognised the band of his
regiment, and knew that it was again upon its
march, and that he must rejoin it without a
moment's delay. The air they were playing had
THE MOTHER AND SON. 83
been a favourite of his mother's, one with which,
in his infant years, she had often lulled him
to sleep ; and now, what a host of heart-break-
ing recollections were suddenly evoked by those
joyous notes ! All the cares, all the tenderness
of that gentle being passed in review before
his mental vision, with desolating distinctness
;
—and how had he requited them ? He cast
a look of agony upon her grave, and then turn-
ed his implorir^ eyes towards his father.
That mute appeal was irresistible ; the wretch-
ed widower silentlv stretched forth his arms
to his repentant son, and Herman, falling upon
his neck, for the first time found relief to his
overcharged feelings in a flood of tears.
In another moment he was gone, and the
father and son never met again.
And did the marriage formed under such
melancholy auspices turn out happily ^ Xo !
the sad predictions of Herman's mother were
fulfilled to the very letter. Poverty, ob-
scurity, and ruin, came upon him, one by one, to
84 THE MOTHER AND SON.
paralyse the energies of his mind; —family
disunion, a discontented, useless wife, and un-
dutiful children, have chilled the affections of
his heart ;
—more than the misery which he en-
tailed upon his mother, has been his portion ;
—
and within the very last year, at a moment
when sickness and discouragement had laid
their heavy hands upon him, and bowed him
to the earth, he has been made to feel, by the
abandonment of his first-born, the daughter
upon whom he had placed all his fondest hopes,
" How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is
To have a thankless child !
"
Paris, July, 1840.
THE
MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
Yet though dull hate as duty should be taught,
I know that thou wilt love me ; though my name
Should he shut from thee, as a spell still fraught
With desolation,—and a broken claim :
Though the grave closed between us, 'twere the same
—
I know that thou wilt love me ; though to drain
My blood from out thy being, were an aim.
And an attainment,—all would be in vain,
—
Still thou would'st love me, still that more than life retain.
Cliilde Harold.
CHAPTER I.
" For Heaven's sake, papa, let us vary our
ride to-day ! I am weary of the eternal Cam-
.pagna, and the equally eternal Sir Allan Beau-
foy and General Po^-ntz, who never fail to ac-
crocher us there, to the utter extinction of all
enjoyment ! I believe they have taken a lease
of the Campagna, and mean to establish them-
selves there as permanent scarecrows to frighten
away all other flutterers from the premises. I
really wonder what such men do out of Eng-
land ; they are only fit for the high-bred twad-
dle of Hyde Park."
" Alice, your remarks are very unbecoming
and very uncalled for," returned her father ; " Sir
88 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
Allan Beaufoy and General Poyntz are both
men of high fashion and large fortune, whose
society is courted and coveted by the elite of
the English now here ; —you ought to feel
highly flattered by their notice. They give
the best dinners in Rome, and, at their house,
one might almost fancy oneself in London
again.*'
" That is what I detest them for I
''
returned
the lively girl ;
" their conversation is of a sort
that makes me fancy I could smell the *'frousf
of London while listening to them, if conversa-
tion that can be called, which consists in cri-
ticisms upon Lady C
—""s last dinner, antici-
pation of Lady W—'s next ball, disquisitions
upon the Princess D—'s diamonds, surmises of
whether Lord R. will embrace '
tea-totalism,' sly
allusions to the flirtations of Lords X., Y., Z.,
with their neighbours'* wives, and the other
thousand and one fadaises springing from that
spirit of exclusivism which condemns the ideas
of a certain set for ever to tread the same dull
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. S9
round with the same busy inanity, like a squir-
rel in its wheel, toujours remnant sans jamais
avancer^ and to confine themselves to the same
narrow views of the world in general, and to
the same bounded circle of their own particular
coterie, whether it be in London, Paris, Rome,
or Naples !
"
" Alice, Alice I
*'
interrupted her father, re-
provingly.
" It is all very true, papa, and '
pity 'tis,
'tis true !
'
^ was the rejoinder. " It is astonish-
ing with how little profit to themselves some
persons travel ; they carry their cherished pre-
judices with them everywhere, and return to
their own country just as they left it, most
fully illustrating the censure which was passed
upon a certain restored dynasty, by the wittiest
and most time-serving of statesmen, '
ils n'ont
rien appris, et rien oublie !
' Now, when I am
at Rome, I should like to see more of the
Romans, and less of such people as those two
ci'devant jeunes hommes, whose whole eneraies
VOL. III. E 9
90 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
are, at present, directed towards keeping poor
Lady Araminta Fitzblarney out of their set,
because she is Irish and vulgar
—
"
" And a woman of ruined reputation, —a
divorcee
!
" interrupted her father.
" Well, I don't know how that may be,
as Sir Allan never censures her morals, but
only dwells upon her manners^ which, it ap-
pears, do not bear the conventional stamp which
alone can fix her value in the opinion of the
fastidious old gentleman."
" AHce, you seem to have imbibed a strange
prejudice against elderly gentlemen !"
" Quite the contrary, papa, I assure you,
for, yesterday, while at vespers with the Berties,
at St. Peter's, I almost lost my heart to an
elderly gentleman, (at least, one nearly as old
as yourself,) who stood near us ! There was
a great deal of silver sprinkled through his
clustering hair, but he had the finest counte-
nance and the most distinguished air I ever
saw, and I assure you he never turned his
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 91
eyes away from me, so I may flatter myself
^nth having made a most respectable conquest !
Not but that I must confess there was less
of admiration than of grave interest in his
countenance as he looked at me, something
that seemed to say my aspect caused him as
much pain as pleasure. We could not find
out who he was, although he followed us to
our carriage, and we inquired his name of two
or three friends in the crowd."
" And no great consequence, I should think,''
was the reply. " Come, Alice, finish your lun-
cheon and your romance ; the horses have
been waiting half-an-hour.*" And a few minutes
afterwards Colonel Wilbraham and his daugh-
ter, followed by their English groom, were
seen turning out of the Piazza di Spagna and
directing their horses towards the Ponte Molle.
It was a beautiful day in the middle of
February ; Rome, at all other seasons of the
year so dull and desolate in appearance, was
fast filling with strangers for the holy week '
92 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
English equipages, with their well-appointed
servants and thorough-bred horses, formed a
brilliant contrast in the streets to the lumber-
ing coaches, the heavy, long-tailed horses, and
the ill-dressed lacqueys of the Catholic, but
not Apostolical Roman prelates ; and groups of
fair English equestrians, with their gay and
gallant escorts, were seen issuing from the vari-
ous outlets of the city, to invigorate themselves
before dinner with a canter over the Campagna,
under the bluest and serenest of skies, and
" coelum non animum mutant," to awaken its
echoes with accents better adapted to the dusty
delights of Grosvenor Gate, than to the lonely
grandeur of that plain which may well be deno-
minated the sepulchre of empires.
But among the bevies of fair horsewomen
thus sunning themselves under a Roman sky
on that bright day, none was more conspicuous
for youth, beauty of form and face, and la grace
plus belle que la heaute encore, than Alice Wil-
braham. Her large dark eyes, " now boldly
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 93
bright, now beautifully shy," mirrored every
thought and sentiment of her frank uncom-
promising mind ; there was truth and talent
as well as beauty in the smooth expanse of her
noble forehead ; sensibility spoke in the chang-
ing hues of her delicately rounded cheeks, and
fascination lurked in the dimples round her
mouth. Add to these personal advantages,
that she was the only child and heiress of a
man of ancient family and large fortune, and
it v^-ill not be wondered at that she should
have become the fashion among the English
congregated during that winter at Rome.
Besides she had not yet been " brought out
'"'
in England, and her manners were totally free
from the conventional jargon, and her mind
quite unshackled by the diplomacy of any
particular coterie^ elect or select ; there was
much originality about her, and perhaps a
little too much decision of character for so
young a person ; but the latter defect was
owing to the mistaken system of education
94 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
which had been adopted for her under the
superintendence of two persons wholly unfitted
for such a charge, and whom at a very early
period of her life she discovered to be immeasur-
ably inferior to herself in intellect ; namely,
a father with a capricious temper, an unculti-
vated mind, and an unfeeling heart ; and a
mother-in-law equally destitute of abilities,
whom nature had intended for a good-natured
person, and circumstances had reduced to
merely a harmless one ; one of those women
who in common parlance and by common
accord are designated as '' a very good sort
of person," by which term I always infer that
they are very good for nothing in a rational
point of view. To such persons, a girl of
Alice Wilbraham's sense and penetration could
not look up with any great deference or respect,
and although her manner towards them never
betrayed any oifensive absence of either of
those sentiments, it was characterized by an
independence of opinion and reliance upon self
alone, which, while they were looked upon by
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 95
Colonel and Mrs. Wilbraham as indications
of genius, by strangers were pronounced to be
evidences of the self-willedness of a spoiled child.
Nevertheless she was a charming creature,
high-spirited, warm-hearted, generous-minded,
and with a love of justice so inherent in her
nature, that quick and impressionable as all
her feelings were, she never adopted prejudices
upon hearsay, and never suffered herself to be
biassed unkindly towards any one until by
their own faults they had forced her to judge
them as they were ; not as she Tvished them to
be.
She had lost her mother at a very early age,
and retained no recollection whatever of that
parent ; and one of her greatest sorrows had
been that she was never allowed to allude to
her ; never permitted to satisfy that tender
curiosity so natural in a child to know what
a lost mother was like in mind and person.
There was no trace of the first Mrs. Wilbraham
in Alice's home ; not a picture, not even a
book bearing her name ; no monument in the
96 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
church —no grave in the church-yard to point
out the place where she slept her last sleep !
it was as though such a person had never been.
And when Alice one day ventured to remark
to her step-mother upon the unusual obscurity
which appeared to involve the memory of her
departed parent, she was warned by her never
to allude to the subject before her father, as
it was a most painful one to him. Her mother
had. died abroad, and the many faults of her
character which had disturbed the harmony of
their domestic life, had been buried in the grave
with her.
But to return to our equestrians. Colonel
Wilbraham, under the guidance of his daughter,
having arrived near the Ponte !Molle, was
following a narrow pathway along the banks
of the yellow Tiber, and the latter was again
congratulating herself upon having escaped from
the seccatura of her inevitable Cavalieri of the
Campagna, and expatiating upon the delights
of exploring a new ride, when a horseman was
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER 97
seen approaching them at a rapid pace from
the opposite direction ; Alice^s quick eye was
immediately caught by his appearance, and
directing her Father's attention to him, she
exlaimed, " See, papa ! here comes my elderly
admirer of St. Peter'*s ; is he not a noble looking
creature ?
"
Colonel Wilbraham's eye followed his daugh-
ter's as she spoke, and rested upon the counte-
nance of the stranger who was now almost close
to them. Had a basilisk met his view instead
of the elegant and interesting looking person
before him, the change produced in his coun-
tenance could not have been more appalling ;
his face flushed to deepest crimson, and then
became of an ashy lividness, while his features
were convulsively contracted as though by some
dreadful inward struggle.
"Turn round, Alice," he exclaimed in a
voice tremulous with passion ;
" you shall not
meet that man!" and as she looked with
surprise upon her father, and hesitated to obey,
VOL. m. F
98 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
he seized upon the reins of her horse so intem-
perately in order to enforce his commands, that
the highly-managed animal backing suddenly
towards the river, slipped his hind feet over
the bank, and losing his balance was precipitated
with his fair burthen into the turbid waves.
The smothered shriek, the heavy plunge, and
the splashing of waters that followed it,
frightened Colonel Wilbraham's horse beyond
his powers of management, and starting off in a
contrary direction at the top of its speed bore
its rider out of sight of the dreadful catastrophe
which had occurred ; while the stranger whose
unexpected appearance had apparently occasion-
ed all the mischief, flung himself from his
horse and without waiting to throw off his
coat plunged info the river, and swam towards
the spot where Alice had disappeared.
In a few moments she rose to the surface
disengaged from her horse, which was now
seen rapidly swimming down the stream, and
the stranger cutting through the waves with
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 99
a powerfiil stroke, succeeded in reaching her
before she again sank ; and while with one
arm he grasped and sustained her insensible
form, with the other he made almost incre-
dible efforts to regain the bank, an achiev-
ment which was rendered doubly difficult by
the embarrassment of his own wet garments,
and the long heavy habit of Alice, the weight
of which every moment threatened to drag
them both beneath the waves.
' At length, however, he touched the bank,
and a few persons, whom the rumour of the
accident had quickly drawn to the spot, -uith
difficulty succeeded in extricating him and his
unconscious burthen from their perilous situa-
tion : it was just time —his tasked strength
was fast failing him, and another moment's
delay would have been fatal to both ; for no
sooner had he beheld Alice stretched upon the
dry land, and that kneehng down by her he
laid his hand upon her heart, and ascertained
that it still beat, than uttering a fervent " Thank
f2
100 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
God she lives !" he sank down by her side, be-
reft of all sense, cold, motionless, and death-
like as herself
It was at that identical moment that Colonel
Wilbraham, having at length mastered his
startled steed, regained, in a state of mind
not to be described, the spot where the acci-
dent had occurred. The first object that met
his eyes was his daughter''s insensible form
stretched upon the ground, her head supported
by some poor Trasteverine, who were wringing
the water from her beautiful long dark hair,
and chafing her colourless temples. The first
accents that fell upon his ear were those of
his groom, who exultingly exclaimed,
" Oh, sir ! Miss Wilbraham is safe, and only
in a faint, praise be to God ! and this is the
good gentleman that saved her, God bless him !'"
and he pointed to the stranger prostrate by her
side ; but the moment Colonel Wilbraham's
eye rested upon him, the same deadly ex-
pression of hatred and rage that had been
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 101
called forth but a few minutes before by the
sudden appearance of that person in his patli,
again overspread his countenance.
" Damnation !" he muttered, grinding his
teeth as he cast a withering look upon him,
" I would rather Alice had perished than that
she should have been saved by that fellow V
and, snatching his daughter up in his arms, he
bore her as rapidly as he could from so ab-
horred a vicinity, and the moment a carriage
could be procured, conveyed her home, without
uttering an inquiry concerning the being who
had generously perilled his own life to rescue
Alice from death, and whom he had abandoned
apparently lifeless to the mercy of a few low-
lived and ignorant persons.
102 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
CHAPTER II.
" Kate," said Colonel Wilbraham to his
wife, after Alice had been placed in a warm
bed at home, restored to her senses, and pro-
nounced by the physician who had been sent
for, to be more frightened than hurt by her
immersion in the Tiber, — " Kate, can you
guess who it was that saved the life of Alice
to-day?"
" Dear me, no ! how should I be able to
guess ?" replied Mrs. Wilbraham ;
" Sir Allan
Beaufoy perhaps, —everybody says he is very
much in love with Alice, and I begin to think
so myself, and that he would be a most de-
sirable husband for her ; and I am sure it is
time to think of marrying her, for as Mrs.
Bertie was saying yesterday
—
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 103
*'
D—n Mrs. Bertie !" exclaimed the Colonel,
cutting short the discursive nothings of his wife ;
" no, Kate, it was not Sir Allan,—would to
God it had been him, or any other human being
in the world but the man who rescued her !
''
" Goodness gracious ! who could it be !
""
ex-
claimed Mrs. Wilbraham, half frightened by
the singular expression of her husband's coun-
tenance.
" Cavendish !
" was the answer, uttered in
a voice of suppressed rage.
A long pause ensued ; at length Mrs. Wil-
braham broke the silence, " Well, who could
have dreamed of such a thing ? what is to be
done ?
"
" We must leave Rome immediately—I will
not remain here another day."
" But Alice cannot be moved immediately ;
Doctor Maxwell says that she must be kept
in absolute quiet for a few days, her nerves
have been so jarred by the fright."
" I care not for what Dr. Maxwell says !
104 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
Even should Alice die on the road, she must
be removed from this to-morrow ; worlds should
not induce me to let her remain another day in
the same place >^'ith those people."
" What, is she here too ?"
" I suppose so. Infernal audacity to dare to
shew their faces here at the same time with
ourselves !
" Perhaps, my dear, they did not know of
our being here ?"
" Not know of it, indeed ! that is not likely ;
—besides, he, I find, has been watching Alice
already, although she has no suspicion in the
world of who he is. There is some plot in
the wind, depend upon it ; but I will counter-
act it—I have sworn that they never shall meet,
and they never shall —no, not even if she were
dying, and that nothing else could soothe her
last moments !"
" What, Alice do you mean ?"
'*
No, Mrs, Cavendish /" and there was a
withering sneer on his lip, as he pronounced
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 105
that name, that spoke of deadly inextinguish-
able hatred. " And now, mark me, Kate,'' he
resumed, " Alice does not know who saved her
life to-day, she never must know it never ! We
can easily tell her that it was some one else
either myself, or even Thomas ; and to-morrow
morning we will leave Rome, and there will
be an end of the confounded affair."
What more they said, need not here be re-
capitulated, as it was irrelevant to the subject
to which I \\ish to confine myself, and indeed,
chiefly consisted in Mrs. Wilbraham''s puerile
lamentations at being obliged to leave Rome
so suddenly, and her husband's equally puerile
but far more intemperate imprecations against
the persons and the circumstance which had
rendered such a step necessary.
While they were still discussing it, Thomas
the groom was giving his version of the affair
to Parker the lady's-maid.
*' Depend upon it, Mrs. Parker," said he,
" that gentleman, whosomever he be, is a lover of
F 5
106 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
Miss Alice'*s that won't be let to have her any-
how, for it was all along of our meeting him
that the Colonel jerked my young lady''s bridle
in that violent manner as was the instigation of
her horse backing into the river with her, be-
cause, I take it, he didn't choose them to meet
face to face. I never see'd anything more savage
in all my born-days than master's conduct from
beginning to end ! Why, when I shewed him the
gentleman lying like dead by Miss Alice, after
they were dragged out of the water, instead of
falling down upon his knees before him to
thank him for what he had done, he gave him
such a look as a body would give to a toad
before they ups with their foot to crush it to
death, muttering something about wishing he
and Miss was at the bottom of the river to-
gether ; and then, whipping her up in his
arms, runs off with her out of sight, and goes
clean away home, without ever asking or caring
whether t'other was dead or alive. Why, dang
it, my blood riz against the Colonel, and I saw
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 107
that all the people round cried shame upon
him ! So, on pretence of looking after Miss
Alice's horse, which to be sure was got in the
most awkwardest way out of the water, I just
ran back to see whether I could do anything
for the poor gentleman ; and there he was in
a dead faint, and the people round fumbling
in his pockets to rob him, I suppose ; so I
just took a search myself, to see if he had a
card about him with his name and address,
but no such thing forthcoming ; and what do
you think I found instead in his pocket-book ?
—Why a sealed letter, directed to Miss Wil-
braham, which makes good my guess of his being
sweethearting after her ; to be sure, he is rayther
too old for such a young 'un as she be ; but
he is a fine, handsome gentleman as ever I saw,
and worth a cartload of the old barrowmght
that ""s so sweet upon her ! So I popped the
letter into my own pocket, thinking Miss Alice
would like to have it after all ; and when 1
had helped to carry the gentleman into the
108 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
nearest house, I ran off for a doctor for
him."
"Give me the letter, Thomas, that I may
carry it to my mistress,'*'' said Parker.
" No, no, Mrs. Parker ! fair play is a jewel
the letter is not for mistress, but for miss, and
nobody else sha'n''t have it with my leave !
" Well, I didn''t say anyone else should,'"
was the answer ;
" Miss Alice is my mistress
as well as Mrs. Wilbraham, and what is more,
I like her the best of the two, for she is twice
as generous as the other ; so you may be sure
that I would be the last person in the world
to do anything that would bring her into trou-
ble ; give me the letter, Thomas, and she shall
be sure to have it."
" Honour bright, Mrs. Parker?"
" Honour bright, Thomas," and the latter
delivering up the letter, perceived that Mrs.
Parker'^s ideas of honour did not prevent her
peeping into each end of it, and holding it up
to the hght, in order to make herself mistress
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 109
of its contents ; but in vain did she pry : the
envelope was of such thick paper that not a
line was to be distinguished through it ; and
with a sigh of disappointment she dropped it
into her bag, consoling herself, however, with
the hope, that sooner or later, she must be let
into the secret of her young lady's love affairs.
110 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
CHAPTER III.
The month of October, of the same year,
found Colonel Wilbraham's family established
at Pisa, for the winter. The intervening
months had been passed by them at Florence
and Lucca, and Genoa, in search of health for
Alice, whose life had almost paid the forfeit of
her father's intemperate rashness, in carrying
her away from Rome before she had recovered
from the effects of her alarming accident. She
had been seized with fever on the road to
Florence, and had with difficulty been convey-
ed to the latter place, where her malady as-
sumed the most distressing character, and ulti-
mately fell upon her nerves; but youth, and
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. Ill
the strength of her fine constitution triumphed
over the dangerous symptoms which had as-
sailed her, and change of air and scene had
been successfully resorted to in completing her
recovery when her returning strength permitted
her to travel.
Colonel Wilbraham had not scrupled to ar-
rogate to himself (when he first spoke with his
daughter upon the subject of her accident in
the Tiber,) the merit of having snatched her
from a dreadful death, at the risk of his o\vn
life ; and such a circumstance could not fail to
operate most powerfully upon a girl of Alice's
quick and generous feelings ; it established in
her heart a sentiment of enthusiastic tender-
ness and gratitude for her father, which she
had never before experienced, and it gave him
an influence over her mind which he had never
before possessed. " Dear, dear papa,'' she
would often exclaim, kissing his hand, and
smiling through tears in which grief had no
share, *'how can I ever repay you for all you
112 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
have done for me ?" And so difficult had it
become for her to resist his wishes in any way,
that even when Sir Allan Beaufoy followed
them to the Baths of Lucca, and became their
daily guest and companion there, she so far
overcome her distaste for his society, when she
found how agreeable it was to her father, as
to receive him with an amenity which she had
never before shewn him, and which misled the
matured Adonis into a belief that his well
made-up person had produced the desired im-
pression upon the virgin heart of Alice Wil-
braham, and that her youth and beauty and
fortune would be willingly bestowed upon him
in exchange for the title of Lady Beaufoy
whenever he chose to place that honour at her
disposal.
Once and once only had Alice ventured to
allude in conversation with her father to the
stranger whose sudden appearance had awaken-
ed in him such fierce emotions ; but Colonel
Wilbraham had prepared himself for his daugh-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. II
o
ter''s question, and met it with apparent indif-
ference.
" He was a person," he said, " whom he had
known many years ago, but his infamous cha-
racter having rendered it necessary for him
subsequently to drop the acquaintance, it was
upon that account embarrassing for them to
meet.'''
" What had he done ?^^ Ahce inquired.
" Everything that was bad !
" Was be married
?'"'
" Yes.''
"His name .^"
" Cavendish."
Ahce thouorht that never before were cha-
racter and countenance so ill suited to each
other, never so completely did the latter belie
the former as in the case of this stranger
there was nothing to be perused in that noble
countenance that was not true to man's best
attributes,—lofty intellect, deep thought, be-
nignant feeling, sweetness of disposition and
114 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
penetration of mind were there combined, but
not a shade, not a hne that could mar their
harmony ; such a physiognomy could not be
the index of a vicious or a debased mind ! and,
remembering her father's capricious disposition
and the unreasonable prejudices in which he
too often delighted to indulge, she more than
half absolved Mr. Cavendish, in her own mind,
from the sweeping censure which Colonel Wil-
braham had passed upon him, and, having done
so, would, probably, soon have forgotten that
such a person existed, but for a circumstance
which riveted his image, with a strange, myste-
rious interest upon her memory.
It is not to be supposed that Mrs. Parker,
the trusty depositary of what she believed to
be a love-letter for her young mistress, should
have allowed such a fact to either escape her
recollection, or to dwindle (literally speaking)
into " a dead letter" in her hands. No ; like
other able diplomatists, she " bided her time,'**
and, patiently waiting until the illness of Miss
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 115
Wilbraham had disappeared, together with the
train of nervous symptoms which had followed
it, she never brought the subject upon the tapis
until the family had moved to the baths of
Lucca, and that Alice had, in some measure,
resumed her ordinary habits. TAen, shortly
after their arrival there, as she was one evening
undressing her young lady, she artfully contrived
to introduce the subject a propos to something
else, and, commencing with admiration of Ahce's
magnificent dark hair, which she was preparing
for the night, she congratulated her upon its
having escaped the usual effects of fever, and
being still, what it had always been pronounced
to be, " the beautifullest thing in the whole
world [""
" Why, ma'am,'' said she, *'
Thomas himself,
that doesn't think much of anything but the
manes and tails of his horses, says he never
saw nothing like it, and declares that, when
you was brought out of the river in the gentle-
man's arms that saved you, it fell all over liis
116 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
shoulders, just like a black veil, and half covered
him!"
" What gentleman are you speaking about,
Parker ? It was papa, you know, who brought
me out of the Tiber."
" Oh, dear no, ma'am, indeed it was not !
The Colonel never had his foot wet in the
whole affair, and never saw anythink of it,
till it was over, and you were safe on dry
land ! 'Twas the gentleman as you met out
riding by the river side that day that saved
you, and Thomas says nobody that hadn''t seen
it could have believed all he did and the little
thanks he got for it."
Alice was petrified. Her father had so often
repeated the history of his having rescued his
daughter from the waves, that, as is often the
case with intrepid liars, he had finished by per-
suading himself of the truth of what he ad-
vanced ; and, as for Alice, the shadow of a
doubt had never before crossed her mind upon
the subject, nor could she now suppose other-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 117
wise than that Parker was grossly mistaken
in the statement she was making, and, with her
usual vivacity, she told her so.
''
No, ma'am," she replied, to the indignant
contradiction of her young lady, ^'
what I am
telling you is all true, and no mistake ; Thomas
has repeated it to me so often, that I could al-
most fancy I had seen it all myself. Of course
the Colonel had his reasons for not letting you
know that it was Mr. ""
and she stopped,
expecting that Alice would till up the pause,
and furnish her with the name she was dying
to hear ; but, as the latter did not gratify
her curiosity by so doing, she proceeded, " Mr.
Thingummy that saved your life, and making
you believe it was himself; and, of course, he
had his reasons for looking so savage at him
as he did ; but, as Thomas says, says he, '
Why,
if it had been my greatest enemy, Mrs. Parker,
1 couldn't have demeaned myself to behave as
master behaved to that gentleman !
' And then,
says he, '
Why he took to the water like a New-
118 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
foundland dog, and swam so gallant-like, 'twas
quite a sight to look at ! and, when he had
laid my young lady on the bank, it would have
melted a heart of stone,"* says he, 'to see how
he took on for fear she was dead, and knelt
doTVTi and kissed her hand, and cried, and said
that if she died he would die single for her sake,
for never would he think of any other woman
for a wife hut her, and then he fell down in
a dead faint by her side f and, says he, '
'twas
then the Colonel came up and saw all as had
happened, and give him such a look as would
have killed him outright if his eyes had been
knives !
' and then whips you up, ma'am, and
scj'wunages off with you home, leaving the gen-
tleman for dead and never even sending any as-
sistance to him."
" I will never believe such a history," ex-
claimed Alice vehemently ;
" Thomas must
have been either drunk or dreaming when he
told it to you, and I am surprised that you,
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 119
Parker, should venture to repeat his absurdities
to me.
" Well, to be sure, did I ever hear the
like !
" rejoined Parker. " Why, ma'am, Thomas
is the truest man and the most soberest, I will
say, that ever I knew, and would scorn to tell
a lie upon any account, which is more than
can be said of some of his betters, ma'am !""
And then, with the same volubility, and a little
of the embellishment, (for Mrs. Parker was
both imaginative and a reader of romances,)
which had characterised certain parts of her
preceding narrative, and with which she had
improved upon Thomas's strictly veracious ver-
sion of it, she proceeded to detail all the cir-
cumstances attending the finding by him of a
letter addressed to Miss Wilbraham in the
stranger's pocket-book, and the fact of that
document being then in her own safe custody
" and, as seeing is believing, all the world over,
why, ma'am, you shall see the letter, which
120 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
I only waited till you were quite well to give
to you, fearing the sight of it might agitate
you, when you was in such a poor nervous
way/' Saying which, Mrs. Parker drew from
her own pocket a letter carefully enveloped in
several folds of brown paper to keep it from
being soiled, and, ha'vdng disencumbered it of
its covering, placed it in the hands of her
young lady.
To describe the surprise and bewilderment
of Alice would be impossible ; her indignation
and her incredulity had kept pace with each
other during the first part of Parker's recital,
causing her to lend an unwilling ear to what she
looked upon merely as one of Thomas's inven-
tions ; but as the garrulous soubrette proceeded,
the description she gave of Colonel Wilbraham's
intemperate emotions, and of the strange con-
duct that had accompanied them, corresponded
so exactlv with what she had herself observed
in his manner, but a moment previous to her
accident, that her doubts were shaken to their
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 121
foundation, by this similar evidence of deep-
seated hatred having again been betrayed by
him, in a manner to strike upon the vulgar
mind of a servant as it had done upon her own.
There could be no imagination in such a co-
incidence, and the letter was there to vouch
for the reality of what had followed. Then
crowded upon her mind the vivid recollection
of the stranger's marked observation of her
at St. Peter'^s, his evident wish to approach
her in the crowd, and his having followed her
with his eyes until she reached her carriage
and was borne out of his sight. What was
she to him, or he to her, that he should thus
watch her ? and by what right had he pre-
sumed to address a letter to her ? and then she
remembered her father's assertion of the *'
in-
famy'' of his character having rendered a cessa-
tion of all intercourse between them compulsory
on his part. Was he, indeed, so infamous as,
in defiance of all the decencies of life, to make
her not only the object of an unprincipled pur-
VOL. III. G
122 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
suit, but to believe that she would listen to such
an insult,—he, a married man, and nearly old
enough to be her father ! All the pride of
Alice revolted at the degrading thought ; she
snatched the letter from Parker's hand, cast
a hasty glance upon the unknown handwriting
in which it was superscribed, and the seal,
bearing the mysterious impress of " Tace,'"* and
then, tearing it in pieces, threw the fragments
into the vacant fire-place.
" Thomas and you have both been very much
to blame in this business," she said, with a
severity which, as it was unusual in her, made
a deep impression upon Parker ;
" he for pos-
sessing himself of this letter, you for supposing
that I would receive one coming to me in such
a questionable way. The length of time that
has elapsed since the occurrence, and my igno-
rance of all that concerns the person from whose
possession it was taken, unfortunately render
it impossible for me to return this paper un-
opened to him ; but, for your future govern-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 123
ment, bear in mind, Parker, that thus do I
treat all clandestine correspondence whicli can-
not be so restored, and that a second attempt
to convey to me any such, would not only deprive
you for ever of my good opinion, but oblige
me to lay the whole aifair before my father,
who would certainly punish the offence by dis-
missing you from his service."
But, if the truth must be told, the lofty
feeling which had impelled Alice to destroy
her unknown correspondent's " rejected address*"
unperused, did not survive the exit of her mor-
tified attendant from the scene ; for, scarcely
had Parker closed the door, when her young
mistress cast a wistful, inquisitive glance at the
fire-place, where the fragments of the myste-
rious letter were scattered in tantalising con-
fusion ; then, approaching, she took up one piece
of paper to examine the handwriting,—then
another,—and, finally, overcome by an irre-
sistible sentiment of curiosity to ascertain upon
what grounds Mr. Cavendish had ventured to
g2
124 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
address her, she rescued the whole of the torn
letter from the ashes, over which it was scat-
tered, and, setting herself seriously to work
to put the fragments together, she at last suc-
ceeded, and then, with a beating heart, read
the following words, to which neither name
nor date were affixed :
" Whenever this paper reaches you, (and to
ensure its doing so, the person to whom it is
confided must bear it daily about with him,
and trust to the chance of some fortunate oppor-
tunity favouring his intention of placing it in
your own hands,) you are solemnly adjured
to attend to the request that it contains. All
that is asked of you is to repair, the day after
receiving it, to the studio of Thorwalden, the
sculptor ; whether you are alone or accompanied
is immaterial, therefore you must perceive that
nothing derogatory to your dignity is medi-
tated. The artist will, (as of his own accord,)
propose moulding a mask upon your face ; you
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 125
are implored to acquiesce in his request. ; it is
the only possible means of obtaining a copy
of your features for one who would sacrifice
every worldly possession to behold you but
once ! and if inviolable secresy is enjoined you
upon the subject of this communication, it is
not because the supplication it contains would
not stand the test of the most rigid scrutiny,
but because the unhappy circumstances, the
fierce passions, and the deadly prejudices whicli
have for ever separated your living form from
the writer of these lines, would, in like manner,
be interposed to exclude your inanimate image
from one whose life, for years, has been one
long thought of one long regret ^br you !"
126 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
CHAPTER IV.
Something like stupefaction assailed Alice
after the perusal of this strange document.
Could it be a mystification ; a bait laid by
a wary and practised roue to entrap her vanity?
The allusion to "deadly prejudices" existing
in the bosoms of those in authority over her
but too well agreed with the language which
Colonel Wilbraham had adopted in speaking
of Cavendish, and the sinister looks he had
directed towards him which still haunted her
memory ; deadly indeed must be those preju-
dices, since they could have led her father
deliberately to advance a falsehood, and un-
blushingly to appropriate to himself the grati-
tude that was due from her to another, rather
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 127
than allow her to suppose that to that other
she was indebted for her life ; he for his only
child. This moral dishonesty in one whom
she would fain have respected and loved to
the utmost extent of filial tenderness and de-
votion, was so revolting to her generous nature,
so at variance with her uncompromising sense
of justice (which never could be warped so as
to withhold even from an enemy the meed of
well-earned gratitude and praise), that it
awakened in her bosom feelings of indignation
so bitter as to overpower for the moment
all other thoughts ; in proportion as she had
before been elated by sentiments of the most
unbounded gratitude and enthusiasm for her
father, she was now depressed by a chilling
sense of contemptuous disapprobation ; he had
fallen in her esteem because " the truth was
not in him," because he had evinced a meanness
of soul which she could neither tolerate or
understand ; in her first burst of scornful dis-
pleasure she would have rushed into his pre-
128 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
sence and fearlessly have taxed him with his
fault, but a momeiifs reflection subdued the
angry impulse. " He is my father," said she ;
" I must not make him blush before his child."
It was not in the nature of Alice, however, to
forget or to forgive this dereliction from truth
and manly feeling in her father ; hatred she
could comprehend, for she was herself capa-
ble of hating keenly, — but honestly ; but
mean vindictiveness she spurned as she would
have spurned the lowest vice ; it was the
evidence of a cowardly mind, and long did it
rankle in her soul that the parent whom she
wished to honour should have shewn liimself
to be the slave of so ungenerous a feeling
On the other hand, sometliing like strong
sympathy for her unkno^vn deliverer was the
result of this painful discovery, and uniting
to the deep debt of gratitude she felt that
she owed to him, caused her to dwell much,
too much perhaps, upon his image. The tone
of deep and melancholy feeling which pervaded
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 129
the letter she believed to have been addressed
by him to her ; the strange request it contained,
the recollection of all he had risked for her,
and the belief that he was the victim of some
inexplicable injustice on the part of her father ;
all combined to invest him with an interest
in her imagination, which, had her mind been
as weak as her heart was warm and generous,
might have degenerated into the love-sick
fancy of a romantic girl. As it was, the
feeling which she did foster was perhaps not
the less dangerous because it was more exalted
—had she been thrown in the way of Mr.
Cavendish, it might in time have assumed
the character of love ; but in the meanwhile
it went not beyond a sentiment of strong
gratitude, and the generous wish of atoning
in her own thoughts, and by her own im-
pressions in his favour, for the injustice which
had been betrayed, and the ingratitude marked
towards him by Colonel Wilbraham,
The necessity of keeping her thoughts to her-
G o
130 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
self and the sad conviction that her father had
sunk in her esteem, influenced painfully upon
the fine spirits of Alice. She evinced an in-
equality of humour as unusual as it was unac-
countable to those around her, and an occasional
irritability when questioned as to the cause of
her temporary depressions which at last com-
pelled them to leave her to herself; but various
were the reasons assigned by the different
persons most interested in her state of mind,
for the capricious humours in which she of late
had indulged. Sir Allan Beaufoy believed that
his own manifold attractions had taken captive
her young affections, that hope deferred was
making her heart sick, and that it was time
for him to declare himself in form ; Mrs.
Wilbraham, whose imaginings in such cases
never rose above atmospherical influences and
their physical results, fancied that Lucca dis-
agreed with her step-daughter, and that she
would be better elsewhere ; while Colonel
Wilbraham, whose distaste for literature dated
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 131
from the days of his schoolboy disgraces at
Eton, fancied that Alice was destroying her
health by too intense application to the Italian
classics, and threatened to throw her books
out of the window. Finally it was determined
that she must be nervous, and that sea-
bathing would restore her to her wonted state ;
and accordingly to Genoa they went ; but
there no improvement was perceptible until
Sir Allan, having made his proposals, was
unceremoniously rejected by Alice, and took
his departure for Baden, to the unutterable
mortification of Colonel and Mrs. Wilbraham,
and the infinite satisfaction of their daughter,
whose spirits experienced a favourable reaction
from the consciousness of havinor for ever
put herself beyond the reach of his attentions
by her unconditional refusal of his hand.
As the improvement, however, was only tem-
porary, and as sea-batliing had failed in pro-
ducing the results that had been anticipated
for Alice, Genoa was in its turn abandoned
132 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
for Pisa ; and a noble apartment in one of
the finest palaces on the Lung' Arno was hired
by Colonel Wilbraham for the winter months,
at the close of which it was his intention to
return to England in order that his daughter
might take her place among the fair debut-
antes of the ensuing London season with all
the polish of her last year's *'
finishing on the
Continent" fresh upon her.
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 133
CHAPTER V.
To those sojourners in Italy who have been
accustomed to the busy gaiety of Naples or
Florence, which unite all the empty flutter
of English watering-places to the solid advan-
tages of foreign capitals and royal residences,
Pisa, with its languid aspect and silent streets
can offer but few attractions ; but it has its
merits as a residence, and for the stranger
whose aim is to " Italianize," it is preferable to
the Anglo-Italian colonies above mentioned.
Colonel Wilbraham liked it for the little reason
of a little mind ; he felt himself to be a greater
man there than he had been at Rome or Naples,
where himself and his belongings had been cast
into comparative obscurity by the overshadow-
134 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
ing pre-eminence of so many of his aristocratic
and wealthy compatriots ; but in the quiet
routine of Pisan society, where " one day tell-
eth another,*" and magnificoes are rare as cu-
cumbers at Christmas, the sohd hospitahties
of the Wilbraham family —the ColoneFs ex-
cellent dinners —his lady's weekly evening re-
ceptions—and the charm which Alice's grace-
ful gaiety and beauty imparted to them, formed
a combination of advantages calculated to create
a sensation ; and their residence at Pisa was ac-
cordingly looked upon as a circumstance for
congratulation by its inhabitants, native and
foreign.
Shortlv after their advent and settlement in
the Piano Nohile of the Palace, the suite of
rooms upon the ground-floor was engaged for a
family from Bologna, —a lady, whose noble
name and retinue of servants appeared to the
judgment of Colonel and Mrs. Wilbraham, a
sufficient guarantee of her respectability to au-
thorize advances on their part towards an ac-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 135
quaintance with their new neighbour. The
cards they sent to her were, however, never
returned ; and a civil verbal message, conveyed
by her old Maggior-domo, signified to them
that the Marchesa Sampieri, having visited
Pisa merely for her health, declined entering
into any society during her stay there.
Now this was a misdemeanour, in the opinion
of Colonel Wilbraham, which merited the visit-
ation of his most uncompromising dislike ; and
therefore, although he had not yet beheld the
Marchesa Sampieri, he never failed to speak
disparagingly of her whenever any mention of
her name happened to be made in his presence ;
which, indeed, was seldom, as no part of the
society at Pisa appeared to know anything
about her except Mr. Egerton, a young English
clergjTnan, who was passing the winter there
in attendance upon a younger brother threat-
ened with all the worst symptoms of decline.
That gentleman professed to have known Ma-
dame Sampieri most intimately during a resi-
13G THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
dence he had made at Bologna, and spoke
of the quahties of her heart and mind in terms
of such unquahfied respect and admiration that
AHce could not forhear regretting that she
should be excluded from the society of so
amiable a person by a rigid system of seclu-
sion, which admitted of no exception, save in
the person of Mr. Egerton, who never failed
to pass an hour with her every evening.
" I suppose the Marchesa has good reasons
for keeping so much to herself, eh, Egerton?""
said Colonel Wilbraham one day to that gen-
tleman, with that indescribable look and ac-
cent with which some people know how to
imply a tale of scandal.
" Most melancholy ones she certainly has,"'
replied Mr. Egerton gravely ;
" having lost,
only a few months ago, a husband whom she
adored."*'
" Oh, really ! well, she has certainly shewn
her good taste in selecting you to dry her
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 137
tears/' rejoined the Colonel :
" I made a run
to see her get into her carriage this morning,
but was just too late to catch a glimpse of
anything but her hand as she drew up the
glass. Egad, my dear fellow, they say all
over Pisa that you have got to the soft side
of the widow's heart, eh ?
"
" Colonel Wilbraham,*" returned the young
man in a tone of the coldest displeasure, and
looking steadily and indignantly in his face,
" I have ever looked upon those anonymous
defamers, who shield themselves under the
vague and untangible designation of ' thei^ say^''
as the most despicable class of poltroons and
liars, and as such utterly unworthy that an
honourable man should stoop to justify himself
from their aspersions. In the present instance
I have only to beg that, whoever may have
been your informers, you will tell them so
from me t
" And as this conversation had taken
place after dinner over their wme, when the
138 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
ladies had retired to the drawinor-room, Mr.
Egerton having thus expressed himself, imme-
diately followed them thither, leaving the Colo-
nel to digest the reproof with what appetite
he could ; and, after passing half an hour with
them, listening to Alice's music, he took his
leave, pointedly specifying that he was going
to visit their neighbour, the Marchesa Sampieri.
" D—d close-mouthed, formal prig, that
Egerton !" said Colonel Wilbraham, as soon
as the door had closed upon him ;
" there is
no getting anything out of him."
" Nay, papa, not formal or priggish," inter-
posed Alice, '' although, perhaps, a little cold
and reserved in manner, and strict and severe
in conduct ;
—but that is all as it should be
for a pious clergyman. I should hate to see
one of his cloth (let him be ever so young
and handsome,) either dancing, or flirting, or
gossiping like any empty-headed trifler whose
wit lies in his heels, and who, having no ideas
of his own, is fain to retail the tattle of his
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 139
neighbours instead. Mr. Egerton appears to
understand the dignity of his profession too
well for anything of that sort.""
" I don't know how you will reconcile the
dignity of his profession with his daily dang-
ling after a smart widow, Alice," said her
father.
*'
Simply, papa, by presuming that there is
no dangling in the case ; and that his visits
are authorized by the friendship and intimacy
which he so openly declares to have long sub-
sisted between the Marchesa, her late husband,
and himself. Why should we travel out of
the way for suspicious motives when reasona-
ble ones are not withheld from us ?
""
" When a woman takes the line adopted by
the lady in question," said her father, '*
and
shuts herself up from general society to admit
into a particular intimacy a good-looking young
man and no one else, she must expect that such
a deviation from propriety will draw suspicion
upon her conduct."
140 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
" To be sure she must," chimed in Mrs.
Wilbraham, who generally echoed her hus-
band's opinions because she had no fixed ones
of her own—" such conduct is neither reputa-
ble nor natural."
" To me it appears quite natural," said
Alice, " that a woman who has recently lost her
husband, should decline the visits of total stran-
gers, and yet gladly receive those of an old
friend without any violation of propriety."
" Dear me, Alice, you are so fond of an
argument ! I do believe that you always take
the part of the absent for the sake of arguing !
" Give me credit for better motives," replied
her step-daughter ; "I only do as I would
be done by !
" Then turning to her father, she
added, " Pray papa, open the doors and win-
dows ; Mr. Egerton told me this evening that
the Marchesa delights in listening to my sing-
ing, and always throws open all her doors
that she may hear me more distinctly. Now
upon the principle of returning good for evil,
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 141
I am willing to gratify this unsociable lady to
the best of my abilities, although she will not
vouchsafe to let the light of her countenance
shine upon us !"
And seating herself at the piano, Alice sang
with exquisite taste and feeling the sublime
finale to the Norma, " Quel cor tradisti^'''' while
Colonel and Mrs. Wilbraham, seated at each
side of the fire-place, slumbered comfortably
in their arm-chairs through the charming per-
formance, and never awoke until the barkinor
of their little dog announced the arrival of a
visitor.
142 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
CHAPTER VI.
Since her immersion in the Tiber, Ahee had
acquired a sort of nervous horror of riding,
which she had vainly endeavoured to surmount
and therefore, during their residence at Pisa,
instead of accompanying her father in his morn-
ing rides as had heretofore been her custom,
she gave up her horse to Mrs. Wilbraham, and
under the charge of Parker was in the habit of
taking an early walk everyday in the environs.
During one of these morning rambles, she un-
expectedly encountered Mr. Egerton under the
arcades of the Campo Santo, with a lady dress-
ed in the deepest mourning leaning upon one
arm, and on the other his sick young brother
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 143
an elderly female attendant followed with a
camp-stool, and Alice immediately conjectured
that the lady must be Madame Sampieri. Al-
though anxious to obtain a glimpse of her,
she felt uncertain how she ought to act with
respect to !Mr. Egerton, and whether it would
not be better for her merely to bow en passant
than to stop and accost him while thus accom-
panied by a person who had rejected in so un-
qualified a manner all intercourse with her
and her family ; but her dilemma was put an end
to by that gentleman of his own accord stopping
her and cordially extending his hand while
mutual inquiries passed between them as to
the extent of their respective rambles. Alice
could not restrain her eyes from glancing for
a moment towards the Marchesa during this short
colloquy ; but the close bonnet and thick black
crape veil worn by that lady baffled all her
curiosity respecting her countenance, and the
large black cashmere shawl that enveloped her
figure prevented her from ascertaining more
144 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
than that she was tall and slender, and ap-
peared to be suffering from a distressing short-
ness of breath.
This transient survey over, Alice resumed
her walk without a second glance ; but Parker
who was endowed with all the curiosity of her
class, and had turned round to satisfy it more
completely by a view of the group as they
moved away, arrested her progress by an ex-
clamation of, " La ! ma''am, something must be
the matter with that lady ! she has been oblig-
ed to sit down and looks as if she was going
off* in a faint." Alice turned round too, and
seeing what had happened immediately return-
ed to offer her assistance. The Marchesa was
seated on the camp-stool, with her head sup-
ported upon the bosom of her attendant, who
had drawn her veil aside to allow the fresh
air to blow over her features ; she had not
fainted, but her face was pale as ashes, and
large tears were forcing themselves through
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 145
her closed eyelids and rolling slowly over her
faded cheeks. Even in that discomposed state
her countenance was remarkable for beauty,
and, although the freshness of youth had pass-
ed away from it, Alice thought that she had
seen few younger faces more calculated to
strike the beholder with admiration, such har-
mony reigned in the softly moulded features,
the clear colourless complexion, and the dark
hair and still darker brows and eye-lashes that
rendered more dazzlingly white the pensive
forehead of that lady.
" Madame Sampieri has walked too much,
and over-fatigued herself,"*' said Mr. Egerton,
in reply to Alice's anxious inquiries and offers
of assistance ;
" it is nothing more than an
hysterical affection to which she is subject. But
since you are so kind as to offer your services, I
should feel much obliged, if you are on your
way home, by your telling the Marchesa's
servant, (who was desired to follow her here
VOL. III. H
146 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
with the carriage,) to lose no time in coming
to the gate, as it is desirable that we should
get her home with as little delay as possible."*"
Alice lost no time in executing Mr. Eger-
ton''s commission, and as she found the carriage
in waiting at the entrance of the Campo Santo,
she despatched the servant to his lady forth-
with, and had the satisfaction of seeing the
equipage drive into the court-yard of their
mutual residence, and Madame Sampieri alight
from it with very little assistance, a few mi-
nutes after she herself had reached home.
After this occurrence, AUce noticed that each
day when she descended the great staircase to
take her morning walk with Parker, the doors
of the Marchesa"'s apartment were standing wide
open, and she could perceive the lady herself
seated in an arm-chair in the first saloon of
the suite adjoining the antichamber, and so
placed that she commanded a full view of
whoever passed by on the staircase ; yet, when-
ever at a later hour of the day she descended
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 147
with Colonel or Mrs. Wilbraham, the doors
were invariably closed. Beyond these casual
glimpses, she saw nothing more of Madame
Sampieri ; thev never again met out of doors ;
and Alice, after the first inquiries she addressed
to Egerton respecting the health of his friend,
the day after their rencontre in the Campo
Santo, did not again allude to her, feeling that
she had no right to make a person wholly
unknown to her, the subject of investigation,
and not choosing that the approach to interest
which she really felt for her should be con-
founded in his estimation with the idle and
impertinent curiosity which had been already
exhibited on the same subject by her father.
n '1
148 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
CHAPTER VII.
Alice was to complete her eighteenth year
on the 1st of January, and it was the intention
of Colonel Wilbraham to celebrate the anni-
versary of his daughter's birth by the most
splendid fete that had been given in Pisa
for many years. Cards of invitation had been
issued a month previously to all the beauty
and fashion of the place, both native and fo-
reign, for that night ; friends were bidden,
even from Florence, to swell the pageant
tableaux vivans^ a hal costume, historical quad-
rilles, and national dances, formed the pro-
gramme of the fete ; and during the last fort-
night of December, Alice was completely ab-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 149
sorbed in the various preparations it involved,
consulting different prints of costumes, pre-
siding over the arrangement of her own dress,
rehearsing tableaux^ and practising mazurkas.
The only drawback to the keen delight with
which she anticipated this gay anniversary was,
that Mr. Egerton had excused himself from
attending it, and, notwithstanding his gravity,
Mr. Egerton was decidedly too great a favourite
with Alice for her not to regret his decision
but she respected the scruples upon which liis
refusal was founded, and when he told her
that since he had taken orders he had never
once been into a ball-room, because he felt that
such frivolities were incompatible with the
sacred calling to which he had devoted himself,
she acquiesced in the propriety of his decision
with charming candour, and even refused to
support Mrs. Wilbraham in the arguments, and
Colonel Wilbraham in the ridicule, with which
they severally endeavoured to combat his reso-
lution.
150 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
" No,'' said she, " I will not throw such
discredit upon your consistency as to suppose
that you could allow our foolish wishes to weigh
against your own conscientious feelings in such
a question. I will own that at first I felt much
vexed with you for your refusal, because I
fancied it was meant to convey a covert cen-
sure upon us for indulging in such frivolities;
but my selfishness rendered me unjust, and
now that I understand your motives, I am free
to own that I would not wish you to retract
them ; you are right Mr. Egerton, and wt are
wrong.""
" Your good opinion is necessary to sustain
my courage,"" he replied ; " for I assure you,
Miss Wilbraham, that I never before felt so
strongly the difficulty of keeping my resolution
inviolate as in the present instance, where
there is so much to tempt me to forego it
but I shall claim a reward for my self-denial,
and request the permission of Mrs. Wilbraham
to pass the eve of your fHt — the last mo-
ment of the expiring year, with you."*'
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 151
" Remember,"'' said Mrs. Wilbraham, " that
on that evening we shall be very busy with
the last finishing touches of our preparations
for the morrow, and you will inevitably be
obliged to see and hear a great deal of what
is going on, for the ball-room is to be lighted
up, that we may judge of the effect it will
produce ; and as you disapprove of all that
sort of thing, I only think it fair to warn you
beforehand of what will come to pass."
" Pardon me, my dear madam," he an-
swered, " vou have mistaken me if vou ima-
gine that I have expressed any general dis-
approbation of the gaieties you are meditating ;
and although I feel that my sombre black coat
would be quite out of place in your brilliant
ball-room, I am far from wishing to extend
the prohibition to any but those of my own
cloth. If you will allow me to pass the evening
with you, you will see that I can enter into all
the pleasurable anxieties entailed upon you by
the preparations for your fete^ with as much
152 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
relish as if I were to be one of the assistants,
and if I am good for nothing else, I can at
least play audience and critic for your rehearsal.
Mr. Egerton was punctual to his engagement,
and late in the evening of the thirty-first of
December presented himself at Colonel Wil-
braham's just at the moment when the whole
family had assembled to witness the effect
produced by the decorations of the ball-room
when lighted up ; and so judicious was the
admiration expressed by him at the taste and
magnificence exhibited in the whole arrange-
ment, so unfeigned the good-humoured patience
with which he listened to Mrs. Wilbraham's
oft-repeated details of all the difficulties she
had had to compete with in the progress of
her preparations, from the opinionated deco-
rator of the theatre, who had planned the
various embellishments, down to the lazy
mechanics who had executed them,— for the
good lady imagined that to admit that anything
could be effected with ease was to take away
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 153
half its merit, and in all her little undertakings
invariably surrounded herself with a chevaux de
frise of self-created obstacles, that she might
have the satisfaction of cutting them down
single-handed, and thereby impress upon her
friends the fact of her being a woman of un-
questionable talent, tact, and management,
that, charmed with his politeness, she more
than once remarked half audibly to Alice that
she never before had seen Mr. Egerton so
agreeable, and that he certainly was the most
sensible young man of her acquaintance. She
even went so far as to suggest that he might
at last be persuaded to relent from his stern
resolve, and shielding his scruples and his black
coat under a dark silk domino, be tempted
to mix in the gay scene ; but as Alice was
aware that Mr. Egerton was not one of those
soft yielding spirits whose principles hang so
loosely upon them that they can be laid aside
with their garments, she discountenanced the
proposal, and made her mother-in-law feel
H 5
154 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
that to press the question would be less com-
plimentary than it would be indelicate.
Having thus won the golden opinions of
Mrs. Wilbraham by the practice of that most
difficult acquirement —the art of listening —
the test and triumph of good breeding, which,
springing from benevolence of mind and pa-
tience, enables very clever and sensible persons
to listen to the egotisms and trivialities of
those with whom they have no thought or feel-
ing in common, without evincing any s^Tuptoms
of ennui, Mr. Egerton was released from the
labyrinth of grievances and difficulties through
which he had for the last hour been wandering
under the guidance of IVlrs. Wilbraham ; and
when at last suffered to seat himself quietly
in the only sitting room which remained un-
disturbed by preparations for the morrow, he
petitioned Alice to indulge him with his favour-
ite song, the " Ave Maria " of Schubert. She
complied with that graceful readiness and ab-
sence of affectation which was one of her most
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 155
amiable characteristics ; and as her rich and
flexible voice gave to the touching composition
all the passionate pathos of which it is suscep-
tible, the usually undemonstrative and grave
Egerton leaned back in his chair with folded
arms and closed eyes, lost in the emotions
which those sweet sounds had called forth,
and quite unconscious that the tears with which
his cheeks were wet had betrayed them to
others.
Alice was more flattered by this mute tribute
to her powers from one who had never address-
ed to her any of the adulations of which others
were so lavish, than if he had given utterance
to the most high-flown compliments that lie
within the scope of human hyperbole ; but
no leaven of coquetry or vanity mingled with
the gratification she experienced ; she sincerely
esteemed and admired Mr. Egerton, but the
idea of achieving his conquest had never once
crossed her mind, and she would just as soon
have contemplated a flirtation with her father
156 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
as with him, young and handsome as he un-
questionably v\'as. From the commencement
of their acquaintance he had adopted a tone
with her which no other person of his sex
had ever assumed. He had permitted him-
self to speak to her unreservedly of the little
faults he had discovered in her character : her
proneness to satire ; her occasional absence
of deference to the opinion of her elders ; and
an avowed love of admiration, which he feared
might eventually degenerate into coquetry
;
all had been unscrupulously adverted to by
him ; and while the impression produced upon
Alice's mind by his severe judgment was
that Egerton was alive only to her faults,
and that only from that feeling of benevolence
which extended to all his kind, he was anxious
to correct them, the fact is that, amidst her
little travers, he had discovered so much to
approve, such rectitude of mind, such warmth
of heart, such generosity of soul, so much
forbearance in listening to the mention of her
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 157
faults, and so much candour in acknowledging
them, that before he was aware of the extent
to which his admiration of her excellence had
led him, his heart —never before touched,—was
irrevocably hers.
Other considerations also rendered Alice an
object of peculiar interest to Egerton ; he saw
that her home was ill-suited to one of her
character and pursuits ; he had noticed and
sympathised in the blank weariness that would
occasionally overspread her speaking counten-
ance when Mrs. Wilbraham, meaning to be
particularly agreeable, had been particularly
tiresome and prosing ; he had detected still
more alarming indications of impatience in the
angry sparkle of her eye and the almost im-
perceptible smile of scorn that would curl her
lip whenever Colonel Wilbraham indulged in
any of those deviations from truth with which
he was accustomed so unscrupulously to garnish
his conversation, and which were always called
into requisition when a malicious perversion of
158 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
facts could be advanced ; he saw that she was
painfully alive to the littlenesses of her natural
protectors —that all the best feelings of her
heart were thrown back upon themselves for
want of proper sympathy and development
;
he fdt as well as saw how beautiful she was,
how good, how excellent, how bountifully en-
dowed by Nature with all those qualities which
were calculated to render her the ornament and
blessing of a congenial home — the first as well
as the fairest of created beings, if she fell into
good hands. He knew that, with her worldly
prospects she would become the object of specu-
lation to many a heartless calculator, who would
woo her for her wealth and not for her worth ;
and he feared that the moral discomforts of her
home would lead her rashly to form some such
connection —to plunge headlong into some ill-
assorted marriage from which there could be
no escape for her but through the portals of
guilt or of death.
One whom he had known, as fair, as good.
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 1.59
and as gifted as herself, with the same high
spirit, the same warm heart, the same abstract
love of virtue, the same bitter scorn of vice
and meanness, had thus been wedded and thus
fallen, because when she knew the man to whom
she was bound, her soul loathed him ; because
where she would have honoured she was con-
strained to despise ; because, when too late,
the knowledge came of one whom nature had
formed to command her respect and love,—and
then she was fated to prove how
" Dangerous
Is that temptation, that doth goad us on
To sin, in loving virtue."
And she fell, and the world proclaimed her
vicious ; the world which fawns upon successful
vice ! and those were most clamorous against
her who themselves had been the most deeply
steeped in its depravities ; and thus it ever is.
Something of all this was crowding upon the
thoughts of Egerton as he listened with closed
and humid eyes to the singing of Alice, for
160 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
certain strains of music have secret sympathies
with certain ideas, and all the beauty and har-
mony of her soul seemed, to him, to be typified
in those sweet sounds, and something, too, of
the melancholy fate which he apprehended
for her. But while he still mused, and the
last morendo bars of the accompaniment died
away beneath the light fingers of Alice, the
chimes of the pendule, on the chimneypiece,
told the hour of midnight, and in the next
moment a burst of harmony was heard pro-
ceeding from a full orchestra, in the open air,
opposite to the palace.
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 161
CHAPTER VIII.
Every one in the room rushed forward, and,
throwing the windows open, gazed out to dis-
cover the serenaders. It was a clear moonlight
night —an Italian moonlight —and the azure
gloom of the sky was unhroken by a single
fleeting cloud ; the river lay deep and still
beneath that glorious canopy, reflecting, upon
its broad bosom, the silvery track of the bright
moonbeams ; the princely palaces that border
the quays of the Arno were already wrapped
in silence and repose, and threw their broad
shadows on the ground ; no evidences of living
beings were to be seen, save the occupants of
a large gondola-shaped boat, which was moored
162 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
opposite to the palace, from Avhence pro-
ceeded the concord of sweet sounds which had
thus suddenly " awakened the dull ear of
night;'
" A serenade !" exclaimed Alice, her eyes
sparkling with pleasure, " how delightful ! who-
ever has devised this piece of gallantry merits
our warmest thanks for ushering in the new
year thus harmoniously to us.'" And she looked
towards Egerton, more than half inclined to
attribute to him the charming surprise which
had been prepared for her, but he most serious-
ly disclaimed the merit of having imagined it.
" It must be some of your Italian admirers,
Alice,''' said her father ;
" I should not wonder
if it were Count Lanneci ; he has all the opera
people at his command, you know, and is just
the sort of effeminate fellow that would think
fiddling in the streets at night a pretty way
of turning a lady's head. For my part, I think
Egerton too sensible a man, and too thoroughly
English to give in to such foreign fid-fad."
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 163
''
And for my part," remarked Mrs. Wil-
braham, " I am pretty sure it must be one
of the TemoereseiFs — those Russians are so
magnificent ! and you may remember what a
fine serenade Prince Alexis gave to his mother
on herye^e day.""*
" Which is no reason why he should give
me one upon my birthday/"* interrupted Alice ;
" however, pray let us reserve our wonderings
and conjectures until the music has ceased
;
it is too delicious for a single note of it to
be lost." And she leaned entranced from the
window as the floating orchestra executed, with
a perfection which attested to the superior
talent of the musicians, selections from her
favourite operas of II Don Giovanni, La Semi-
ramide, La Norma, and II Pirata.
Long before the serenade had terminated,
however, Colonel Wilbraham and his lady had
retired from the window to the fireside, and
the more congenial amusement of their own
conversation, leaving Alice and Egerton to the
164 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
undisturbed enjoyment of that which they were
both so eminently calculated to appreciate—the
one rapt from the earth and all that it con-
tained in the intensity of her delight—the other
feeling that of all the gratifications to which
the senses merely are the channel, none is com-
parable to that of listening to delicious music by
the side of the being one best loves.
And never had Alice appeared so beautiful
in the eyes of Egerton as at that moment
;
all her usual brilliancy and animation had given
place to an expression of pensive abstraction
so sweet yet so sad, that it was evident the
sounds which her ear drank in had caused some
master chord of her soul to vibrate deeply and
powerfully to that mysterious influence, awaken-
ing thoughts which he felt as though it would
be little less than profanation for him to dis-
turb. In a pause of the music, however, Alice
herself spoke, and alluded to her feelings. " It
is strange,"" said she, in a low voice ; — "no
it is not strange —after all, it is but natural
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 165
that my first thoughts on the return of my
birthday should always be devoted to my
mother, although I have no recollection of her
—although I may be said never to have known
her, she died when I was so young ; and
yet this anniversary — this 1st of January,
apparently so joyous a day for us all, is al-
ways ushered in with tears shed in secret by
me for that dear unknown parent. Mother !
there is something sweet and holy in the name.
Oh, Mr. Egerton, how I should have loved
my mother, had God spared her to me ; so
well should I have loved her, so unceasingly
do I deplore her loss, that I have never been
able to bestow upon her successor the fond
appellation which belonged, of right, to her
alone."
The eyes of Alice gushed forth, and those
of Egerton grew dim too, as he gazed upon
the youthful speaker, for the whole history of
her feelings had escaped her in those few
words ; that unceasing yearning, that irrepressi-
16G THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
ble regret for her departed parent, told not
more truly of the treasure of filial love and
duty of which her nature was capable, than
of the dreary fact, that the persons among
whom her lot had been cast had failed to in-
spire her with the sentiments of devoted aiFec-
tion and respect, which alone could have deve-
loped those feelings in all their intensity.
" And have you,*" said Egerton, looking at
Alice, as though he would have read through
her soul, " no recollection of your mother what-
ever ? no confused glimpses of the period when
you lost her ? ""
" None,'' she replied, steadily returning his
gaze, and in an accent so sorrowful that its
sincerity touched him to the heart. " I was
not quite three years old when she was taken
from me. I do not even remember to have
remembered her^ and a system of silence has
ever been observed upon everything relating
to her, but too well calculated to have oblite-
rated every childish recollection from my mind.
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 167
The most distant allusion to her name, in my
father's presence, has, from my earliest years,
heen prohihited to me, on pain of causing him
the utmost suffering ; and, as the suhject has
ever appeared more than painful, evidently dis-
tasteful to Mrs. Wilbraham, I have been able
to gather no information from her, beyond the
fact of my mother's maiden name having been
Edith Stanley; that her family is, at least,
as good a one as our own, but that my father
having had some serious differences with them,
at the period of my mother's death, a rupture
between the two families ensued, which has
never been made up, and thus, all intercourse
having been broken off between them, I have
remained, to this day, a complete stranger to
my nearest relations. I know not to which
side of the question the most blame is to be
attached, but, should I ever become my own
mistress, my first care will be to communicate
with my mother's family, wherever they mav
be, for my heart disclaims this unnatural isola-
168 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
tiou from such near ties, and longs to exchange
the ridits of kindred with them !
''
" And would you, indeed, Miss Wilbraham,"
said Egerton, so eagerly, that Alice felt sur-
prised by the strangeness of his manner, " would
you, indeed, despite all obstacles, take upon
yourself to make this step towards a recon-
ciliation with your mother''s family ?
'*
" Do not doubt it,'' she answered, *'
and
even should they extend to me the enmity
which, I am led to believe, exists between
them and my father^ and reject my advances,
I shall, at least have the consolation of knowing
that I have fulfilled a duty, in having endea-
voured to establish a better understanding with
them, and a still more sacred duty in striving
to bring myself in contact with those who
would speak to me of my mother, who would
tell me wdiere she died, and, perhaps, lead
me to her grave, that I might cast myself
upon it, and breathe over her dust the ex-
pressions of love and of sorrow, which have
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 169
SO long and unnaturally been pent up here /"
And she laid her hand upon her heart, with
a gesture of indignant grief.
Then, without pausing to enable Egerton
to reply, and in the same low, rapid voice,
and with the same excited manner, she con-
tinued,
" If, from their immortal home, the spirits
of the dead are permitted to be cognizant of
that wliich passes upon earth, and sometimes
to hover near those whom, while living, they
loved, and whose feelings are all unveiled to
their spiritual gaze, I would fain believe that,
in this way, a knowledge has been accorded
to my mother of her child's sentiments ! Nay,
there are moments when I feel as though she
were so near to me that the influence of her un-
seen presence pervades my whole being. On
my birthdays this persuasion always comes more
strongly upon me, and but just now, while
listening to those divine strains, at this calm
hour, beneath yon dark, pure sky, it seemed
VOL. III. I
170 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
to me that she too was listening to them with
me ! Don't laugh at me, don't blame me,
Mr. Egerton, for what will, doubtless, appear
to your judgment the fond superstition of a
weak mind ; but, if it be a weakness, I am free
to admit that I wish not to be cured of it,
for it has afforded me a strange visionary enjoy-
ment, which the brightest occurrences of real
life never yet imparted to me, and a consolation
which the exercise of cold reasoning could but
ill replace."
"It is not given to us to know whether
such things are permitted," replied Egerton
;
" but there is something so beautiful and holy
in the idea of a mother''s spirit hovering watch-
fully near her spotless child, that even although
it should be an error authorized by nothing but
the superstition of the heart, an error so pure
in its nature,—so harmless in its consequences,
—could not merit censure,—no, not even from
the sternest reasoner."
Here the conversation was interrupted by
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 171
the renewed sounds of the orchestra performing
the symphony of Schubert's Ave Maria ; and
before Alice could express her surprise at the
odd coincidence of the French air which she
had scarcely an hour before been singing to
Egerton having found its way into an Italian
serenade, a female voice of exquisite sweetness
and power sang in accents so clear and distinct
that not a syllable was lost upon the listeners,
an Italian version of the French words, so far
altered from the original text, that instead of
being the supplication of a mother to the Virgin
for her dying child, it was the prayer of a dying
mother for the welfare of a beloved child, which
had been adapted to the beautiful air.
" How strange !
" whispered Alice, almost
solemnly, "it is as though some mysterious
revelation of my feelings had been made to
the directors of this serenade, and that they
were in league to encourage my illusions
!
""
Egerton smiled, but made no reply.
" It is —it must be you, Mr. Egerton, who
I 2
172 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
have arranged all this !" exclaimed Alice ;
" I
suspected you from the beginning, and now this
Ave Maria has changed my suspicions into
certainty ! All that now puzzles me is how you
could have divined that the alteration of the
words would have assimilated them so much
more closely with my feelings as to give almost
a supernatural colouring to the whole circum-
stance."
" I assure you, Miss Wilbraham," replied
Egerton earnestly, " that I am neither the
originator nor the director of this serenade ;
but I respect truth too much to conceal from
you that I am a party concerned, so far as
that I have been employed as the agent be-
tween the director of it and the performers ;
and to convince you of what I advance I will
shew you the rough draft of the programme
written by the person who has given you this
serenade, and who sent it to me that I might
transmit a copy of it to the artists engaged,
and thus prevent the necessity of their coming
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 173
in contact with the individual who employed
them, and who wishes to remain uukno"WTi.""
Saying which, Egerton took from his pocket-
book the envelope of a letter, and placed it in
Alice's hand.
She cast her eye upon the seal which bore
the inscription of " Tace," and started ; then,
hastily turning to the folded paper within,
opened it and the first sight of the hand-writing
caused the blood to rush violently to her cheeks
and brow, and then, receding, to leave them
white as marble.
" In the name of Heaven," said she, with
an impetuosity in her voice and manner which
startled Egerton, *' tell me, is the person whose
writing and seal this paper bears, well known
to you ?"
" Most surely," replied Egerton ;
" but how
come they to be familiar to you ?"
" I have seen them once before," she an-
swered tremulously ;
" tell me, is he here—in
Pisa r
174 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
" He /" repeated Egerton in irrepressible
amazement.
''
Alice, shut the windows !" cried Colonel
Wilbraham from the fireside ;
" the music is
over, it is to be hoped ; and if not, we have
had enough of it, and the air is getting sharp
and cold,—do come and warm yourself, child !"
And seeing that his injunctions were not at-
tended to with that alacrity which he invari-
ably exacted, he forthwith joined his daughter
and Mr. Egerton at the casement, and closing
it himself, would have led Alice towards the
fire, but she resisted, and made an effort to
remain where she was. She would at that
moment have given worlds for a few words
more of uninterrupted conversation with Egerton.
*'
Good God ! what is the matter with you,
AUce.'^" inquired her father; "you are as
cold as death, and pale and trembling. Kate,
come and see what is the matter with Alice."
*'
Miss Wilbraham has become chilled with
the night air," said Egerton, who had hastily
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 175
returned the mysterious envelope to his pocket
at the first approach of the Colonel.
" Ahce has taken cold !" cried Mrs. Wil-
braham, ''
she will be ill for to-morrow night
if we do not take care ; she must go to bed
immediately, and drink some warm lemon
whey, and be wrapped up in hot flannels,
and perhaps it will turn out to be nothing
of consequence, after all. But indeed she has
been terribly deHcate ever since her dip in the
Tiber !^'
''
Indeed I am quite well," said poor Alice,
completely overset by this last remark, '^
no-
thing at all is the matter with me !" and she
endeavoured to laugh in corroboration of her
assertion ; but the effort was too much for
the excited state of her spirits, —the laugh
died away into a low sob, and sinking upon
a chair, she covered her face with her hands,
and fell back in a hysterical passion of tears.
Parker and camphor julep were immediately
sent for ; and Alice was borne off to her own
176 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
room between her step-mother and her maid,
while Egerton, bewildered by the emotion
which had been so unexpectedly betrayed by
her, took his departure with all his anxieties
aroused for the lovely young creature who had
awakened so strong an interest in his bosom ;
and deeply lamenting that the sudden manner
in which their conversation had been inter-
rupted should have left no possibility of a mu-
tual explanation being made relating to the
handwriting the sight of which had so power-
fully affected Alice.
Miss Wilbraham slept but little that night,
and arose in the morning with the firm resolu-
tion of obtaining an interview with Mr. Eger-
ton in the course of the day, and demanding
from him an explanation of the motives which
had induced him to involve himself as he had
avowed to her, with a person who had never
ventured to approach her but under the sha-
dow of mystery and concealment.
Her intentions were, however, frustrated
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 177
for she was only able to see him during the
performance of divine service : and as he had
undertaken, by particular desire of the resi-
dent English, to officiate in his clerical capa-
city upon the occasion of the new year, she
was unable to exchange a word or even a look
with him. Neither did he call, as was gene-
rally his custom, after church, upon the Wil-
brahams ; for he had remained to administer
the sacrament, and returned to his own home
immediately afterwards. Not till dinner-time,
however, did Alice relinquish all expectation
of seeing Egerton ; but when that repast was
announced, and that he had not appeared, she
was obliged to postpone until the next day
the hope of an eclaircissement^ and turn her
thoughts towards the festivities of the evening.
Alice could not divest herself of the idea
that the person who secretly manifested so
strange an interest in her welfare, —who had
followed and watched her at Rome,—addressed
to her that inexplicable letter, the fragments
I 5
178 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
of which she had carefully preserved, —saved
her life at the peril of his own, —and, finally
who was in Pisa, still watching over her, and oflfer-
ing her the romantic homage which had usher-
ed in the earliest moments of her birthday,
that Cavendish, so reprobated by her father,
Cavendish, whose image was dwelt upon with
such deep gratitude and mysterious interest
by herself, would be present at the fete !
Under some disguise, she felt persuaded he
would be there ! and with this idea foremost
in her thoughts, she began her toilette for the
ball.
She had unequivocally declined taking any
active part in the tableaux vivans ; but she
was to appear in the historical quadrilles, and
had named all the persons who were to form
the one to which she belonged, and which re-
presented the court of Louis the Fourteenth in
the youthful and most brilliant days of that
magnificent voluptuary. Alice herself person-
ated the beautiful and unfortunate Henriette
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 179
d' Angleterre, Duchesse d' Orleans ; and her
costume, which was critically correct and of
the most costly simplicity, was peculiarly suited
to the noble cast of her beauty, and shewed to
the utmost advantage the graceful S}Tnmetry of
her form. Excitement and expectation had
lent a heightened bloom to her cheek, and
added brilliancy to her eyes ; her rich dark
hair, parted from her forehead, and falling in
spiral curls round her face, rendered more daz-
zling by contrast the transparent beauty of her
complexion ; and the oriental pearls that en-
circled her swan-like throat were not more
purely white than was that fair neck itself,
and the graceful shoulders and bosom which
developed their harmonious contours beneath.
In short she looked hke one of Vandyke's
portraits just stepped out of its frame ; and
when the folding-doors of the ball-room were
thrown open, and she appeared at the head of
her courtly band, led by the handsome young
Prince Alexis Temoereseff (who, splendidly
180 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
attired as the Grand Monarqne, looked " every
inch a king";) and followed by the other his-
torical quadrilles, twelve in number, slowly
paced round the room previous to taking their
places in the dance, a murmur of applause
greeted the fair vision, and every eye followed
her light footsteps with wondering admiration.
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 181
CHAPTER IX.
A VERY different scene was passing in another
part of the same house at the same moment.
While the noble saloons of Colonel Wilbra-
ham resounded to the accents of mirth and
revelry, and a blaze of light, and strains of
music poured from every window, sadness
and silence prevailed in those immediately be-
neath them, save when the occasional opening
of a door permitted the confused murmur of
the festivities above stairs to penetrate into
the dimly lighted rooms. The light-hearted
and the light-footed were thoughtlessly pur-
suing their career of vanity above, while below,
one who had known many sorrows was draw-
ing to the close of her earthly pilgrimage, far
18^ THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
from her nearest ties, and surrounded only by
her weeping servants. The darkness of the
grave was closing round her ; but her soul
was not troubled, —she knew that the bright-
ness of eternity was beyond, as surely as she
knew that the light of day will succeed to the
shadows of night ! Steadfast faith and humble
hope were hers. She had sinned, but her soul
had not become hardened in guilt ; and she
believed in the promises of Him who has said
that " there shall be joy in Heaven over the
repentant sinner
;
" for one fault she had for-
feited the world's opinion and its countenance
—but she trusted that her errors would meet
with that mercy from her God which had been
denied to them by man.
If years of irreproachable conduct, if the
practice of every Christian virtue, if piety the
most exalted, humility the most unaffected,
and charity in its most enlarged and Aposto-
lical sense,—if these could atone in the eyes of
a just and merciful God for a fault which
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 183
she had never sought to extenuate and never
ceased to deplore, let us hope that her trust
was not in vain, and that the resignation with
which she awaited her last moments under
circumstances peculiarly calculated to embit-
ter them and to disturb her mind, was the fore-
runner of her translation to a higher, purer
state of being, —the dawning of that glorious
beatitude which has been promised to the con-
trite in spirit, as well as to the pure in heart,
in the presence of their God ! In such an hour
and with such an expectation, while the soul
tremblingly expands her wings over that dark
gulph which must be passed ere the blessed
hereafter can be attained, how must the joys
and the sorrows, the pains and the passions
which make up the miserable sum of our
existence in this vain world, shrink into in-
significance before the contemplation of the
bright futurity which awaits it ! How hollow
must the fleeting affections of the flesh appear
when compared to the Divine Love which is
184 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
to unite the spirits of the just in one endless
act of adoration around the footstool of our
Father which is in Heaven ! and, oh, how worse
than vain —how utterly ^vicked must human
resentments then appear ! The dying woman
felt all this ; she had forgiven her enemies, and
was preparing to depart in peace and good-
will towards all mankind : hut one human
affection still dragged her thoughts down to
the earth, and when she struggled to detach
them from it, and the task proved unavail-
ing, (for the natural yearnings of the flesh
would not be stilled !) she meekly offered up
those bitter throes of a broken heart as a
last sacrifice, and resigned herself to die, as
she had lived, with her dearest wish still un-
fulfilled.
Who this lonely lady was, and what were
the sorrows that had weighed so heavily upon
her, remains to be told ; and when it is known
that the Marchesa Sampieri and the mother
of Alice Wilbraham were one and the same per-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 185
son, the aggravated character of her sufferiogs
will no longer remain an enigma to the reader.
Edith Stanley was an only child, and she
had been married when little more than a
child, and before her judgment could have been
formed, to a man several years older than
herself, and every way unsuited to her. She
had first received his attentions from the child-
ish vanity of liking to be treated like a woman,
and afterwards accepted his hand because she
had been assured that having encouraged his
addresses she would be acting dishonourably
were she to refuse to become his wife. But
long before they were married she discovered
the fatal mistake she had made in pledging
herself to such an irremediable step as marriage
with so uncongenial a being as Colonel Wilbra-
ham ; for the more she saw of him the less did
liis character, disposition, and pursuits tend to
conciliate her affections. Had she been a few
years older she would have paused ere she allow-
ed the whole happiness of her future life to be
186 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
sacrificed to a mistaken sense of honour ; she
would have revoked her word at the very steps
of the altar, rather than have delivered herself
up to such certain misery as this ill-assorted
union was calculated to produce ; as it was, the
world''s dread laugh terrified her inexperienced
mind, the disgraceful epithet ofJilt rang harshly
on her imagination —no judicious friend was
near to win her confidence and strengthen her
judgment in this the most important act of her
life ; and thus abandoned to her own guidance,
she, in an evil hour and with a heavy heart,
ratified her engagement, and became the wife
of Colonel Wilbraham.
Having solemnly promised at the altar to
love, honour, and obey her husband, Edith con-
scientiously endeavoured to fulfil her vow, but
it was only in part that she found it possible
to do so ; she could o6ey, but she could neither
love nor honour the man to whom she had bound
herself for life ; indeed it is difficult to imagine
a person not precisely vicious so utterly um-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 187
amiable and contemptible as was Colonel Wil-
braliam ; he did not possess one redeeming
quality to counterbalance the preponderating
weight of his faults ; his head and his heart
were alike deficient in everything that could
render him tolerable as a companion or a friend.
Both were equally hard and impracticable ; and
Edith, after vain endeavours to ehcit from
either some trait that might fix her respect
or esteem, gave up the task in hopeless de-
spondency, her heart withered by the chilling
consciousness of feeling nothing but contempt-
uous dislike for her husband.
Then she looked to society for rehef from the
miseries of her home, and rushed into the plea-
sures of the world that she miofht lose for a
time in its vortex the sense of her own lone-
liness ; but every success that she met with in
society served only to increase the harsh and
jealous caprices which were reserved for her at
home ; the world, too, to which she had turn-
ed for consolation, pronounced her to be vain,
188 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
frivolous, and heartless ; the women could not
pardon her for her superior attractions, and the
men could not forget her cold disdain of their
unlawful homages. Could they have penetrat-
ed the profound contempt with which its hol-
lowness had inspired her, or have beheld her
cheeks still flushed with the triumphs which its
adulations had prepared for her, covered with
tears of pity for herself that she could descend
to mingle in its futile pursuits, their enmity
would have been still more bitter ;
— for the
world pardons not those who have discovered
the secret of its worthlessness ; —it wages '' war
to the knife" against those who have been with
it, and are not of it.
Edith was a mother, but her child was still
an infant, and although she adored it with all
the tenderness of her nature, it was an object
more of prospective than of actual consolation
to her ; the infant Alice was the one bright
speck upon the horizon towards which all her
hopes of future happiness pointed,—" the friend,
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 189
to whom the shadow of far years extended,"
but in the mean time she was only a precious
plaything, whose smiles brought joy to her
heart, and whose cries wrung tears from her
eyes ; there was no companionship in her —
only food for speculation —the fond specula-
tion of a mother's heart, which exultingly ap-
propriates to her beloved oflfspring every good
gift with which Nature, our common mother,
and Fortune, that capricious step-dame, can
enrich poor humanity ! It was at this period
of her life that she first became acquainted with
the person who was destined to exercise so fatal
an influence over her whole future existence,
and a suitableness of age and character, a simi-
larity of tastes and talent rendered them pecu-
liarly calculated to appreciate each other's so-
ciety. We shall not attempt to follow, step by
step, the progress of an attachment, of the
nature of which Edith herself for a length of
time remained in ignorance, mistaking the sen-
timents with which Mr. Cavendish had inspired
190 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
her for the admissible ones of friendship and
admiration of his talents ; and believing, until
he dared to avow the contrary to her, that his
own feelings were equally blameless. When
she at last became aware of the truth, she
would have sought for safety in flight, and
strenuously did she urge her husband to re-
move her from a place which had become so
fatal to her peace of mind ; she proposed that
they should travel on the Continent for some
time—she would have gone anywhere to fly
from the danger that menaced her ; — Colonel
Wilbraham, however, influenced by one of
those unfathomable inconsistencies which direct-
ed all his actions, chose to remain where he
was, although his jealous fears had from the
first taken alarm at the visible pleasure which
Edith and Cavendish evinced for each other''s
society, and a system of petty tyranny and
degrading espionage, calculated to alienate her
mind more completely and to encourage her
error, was the consequence. He had even fore-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 191
seen the results of such a perversity of con-
duct on his own part, for he was known to have
said to a friend, in allusion to his wife, ''
that
if he gave her rope enough, she would soon
hang herself !
" Delicate and feeling allocution,
which forcibly paints the calculating baseness
of the mind from which it emanated !
The consequences of such a system may be
anticipated, and those who can distinguish
between vice and error will pity even while they
condemn its ill-fated victim. Forced to remain
in a place where she was exposed not only to
the untiring persecution of a husband who,
(even when her efforts to keep herself true to
virtue and to her allegiance to him entitled her
to all his sympathy and respect,) scrupled not
to heap insult upon insult on her in the presence
of her sers^ants,—but the equally untiring and
far more dangerous persecutions of a lover in
whom passion triumphed over generosity, and
who thought the world would have been well
lost for Edith's love, —for more than a year
192 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
she struggled to sustain herself with dignity in
this most perilous position ; but, worn out by
the unequal combat, she at last yielded to the
solicitations of Cavendish, and abandoned her
home, her name, and her fame, to give herself
unreservedly to him : circumstances of peculiar
indignity on the part of Colonel Wilbraham,
and a threatened expulsion from her home,
while she was still innocent, had brought on
this fatal crisis. The execrations of the world
fell upon the erring wife, while all its sympa-
thies were reserved for her husband, who had
the satisfaction of wreaking upon the unhappy
Edith all the vulgar vengeance of a little mind ;
—the vengeance of wounded vanity, not of
wounded affection ! He might have heaped coals
of fire upon her head by another course ; for,
such was the noble nature of Edith, notwith-
standing her unfortunate lapse from virtue, that
had he at that moment betrayed one spark of
generous feeling—one glimmering of humanity
for her, her heart would have broken with re-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 193
morse for the step she had taken ; but the in-
genuity with which he devised every species of
mortification which he imagined could add to
her misery, while it convinced her how very
little grief had to do with his feelings, checked
the wholesome current of regret for her fault,
and in its place her soul overflowed with the
coldest disdain.
The law took the course usual in such cases,
and Edith was divorced, and remarried imme-
diately to Mr. Cavendish. They left England,
and after travelling for some years throughout
Europe, finally settled in Italy, having alto-
Qfether abandoned a residence in their own
country. Truth compels us to avow that the
predictions of their many soi-disant friends as
to their subsequent conduct to each other
were not fulfilled ; —that poetic justice did
not overtake them in the shape of mutual
abandonment or ill-treatment ;
— and, that a-
part the one sad reflection which, in minds
finely organised, is inseparable from the conr
VOL. III. K
194' THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
viction of having done wrong, and with the ex-
ception of the one irreparable sorrow which had
been inflicted upon Edith in a separation from
her child, they were so entirely devoted to each
other, so happy, and so independent of all other
society, in their dignified retirement, as to for-
get the world which still busily occupied itself
with their affairs.
All this, of course, will sound very immoral
in the ears of many persons ; for the world
abounds with rigid sticklers for morality, calling
and believing themselves to be Christians, to
whom the fact of a woman in Edith's peculiar
position, recognising the justice of the punish-
ment that has overtaken her, not struggling
to emancipate herself from its consequences, yet
redeeming her error by a life the most exem-
plary,—not for the applause of the world, of
which she has for ever taken leave, but for
the approval of her own conscience,—is so un-
intelligible to them, so utterly at variance with
their preconceived notions of virtue and vice,
that, far from being a subject of approbation
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 195
or of sympathy, it becomes one of the deepest
and, we must say, most uncharitable lamenta-
tions, because it interferes with the narrow
axiom they have eked out for themselves, that
it is impossible for a woman who has made one
false step, ever afterwards to recover a steady
footing, and conduct herself with propriety, and
that every effort to that effect, instead of being
encouraged, should be coldly overlooked, or
frowTied down by them. As society is con-
stituted, this system has been received as a
law ; but it is not Gospel^ for our blessed
Saviour did not thus harshly judge, or close
the door of mercy upon the fallen ; neither
is it virtue^ for that cannot be called real
virtue which, reserving all its indignation for
the weaker, and often less guilty party, dis-
penses its smiles and its patronage upon the
seducer, and bestows blame upon him, only
when sentiments of honour and affection lead
him to adhere unshrinkingly to the person who
has sacrificed all for him.
K 2
196 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
Cavendish, to whom these inconsistencies in
the moral code of society were well-known,
wisely resolved not to embitter his existence
by vainly struggling against them ; the world,
which would have held out its arms to him,
while it rejected Edith, would have been into-
lerable to liim, and he, therefore, retired from
it altogether, and devoted himself to pursuits
of literature and science, in which his wife,
by her talents and acquirements, was fully com-
petent to participate.
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 197
CHAPTER X.
Mr. Cavendish's grandmother, Lady Mar-
garet Cavendish, had been left early a widow,
with an only son, and had remarried, a few
years afterwards, the Marchese Sampieri of
Bologna, one of the wealthiest noblemen of
Italy, by whom she had also an only child.
The son by her first marriage was the father
of Mr. Cavendish ; but the one by her second,
who became eventually the sole representative
of the Sampieri family, never married, and
devoted the whole of his noble fortune to the
encouragement of the arts. He was half-uncle
to Cavendish, but never had become personally
known to him, until the circumstances which
198 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
have already been related induced the latter
to settle in Italy ; then, during a stay which
they made at Bologna, the uncle and nephew
accidentally met, and so favourable was the
impression produced upon the Marchese by
Cavendish, so strong the sympathy with which
the fate of his wife inspired him, that he in-
duced them to settle at Bologna, in order that
he might have within his reach relations in
whose favour he felt so strong a preposses-
sion. Years of daily intercourse served only
to strengthen this kindly feeling ; the scientific
pursuits to which Cavendish devoted himself,
exactly assimilated with the tastes of his uncle ;
the refinements of Edith's mind, and her many
accomplishments, were sources of recreation, as
well as of unceasing interest to him ; finally, he
adopted them as his children, and when, a few
years afterwards, he died of a lingering and
torturing disease, through the progress of which
they had nursed him with all the tenderness
of filial love and gratitude, it was found, upon
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 199
opening his will, that he had left the whole
of his noble fortune and estates to Cavendish,
on condition of his assuming the name and
title which were inalienable from them.
Thus Mr. and Mrs. Cavendish became Mar-
chese and ^larchesa Sampieri ; but this ac-
cession of wealth and rank made no alteration
in their mode of life, except by enlarging the
sphere of their charities, and enabling their
patronage of the arts to become more exten-
sive. The Marchesa Sampieri adhered to the
same retirement which, as Edith Cavendish,
she had imposed upon herself, without ever
suffering it to degenerate into a churlish sau-
vagerie, which would have rendered it painfnl
for her husband's friends to frequent the house
to these she did the honours of her home with
dignified courtesy, but she never accepted the
advances which were made to her to mix in
society, never paid visits, and never appeared
anywhere but in the Sampieri Palace.
The reputation which both her husband and
200 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
herself enjoyed so deservedly throughout Bo-
logna for charity, generosity, and humanity,
made their house a refuge to which the suffer-
ing always appealed, and it was in this way
that they had first become acquainted with
Mr. Egerton ; eight years before the period at
which this tale commences, and when Horace
Egerton, then just twenty years of age, had
quitted Cambridge to make the tour of Europe,
previous to going into the church, he was seized,
during his stay at Bologna, with a brain fever,
which soon reduced him to the brink of the
grave. The host of the Albergo San Marco,
pitying the fate of the young stranger, thus
abandoned to the care of an ignorant servant,
and whose imperfect knowledge of Italian ren-
dered it difficult for him to explain himself
to the physician who had been called in, took
upon himself to inform Cavendish, (for so we
shall continue to call him,) that a countr\Tnan
of his was dying at his inn, unattended by a
single friend ; this call was sufficient to insure
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 201
his active sympathies, and he caused the sufferer
to be removed from the noisy inn to his own
house, where Edith nursed him through his
dangerous malady, with the tenderness of a
mother, and the devotedness of a Sister of
Charity. That he recovered, was entirely owing
to the care which had been bestowed upon
him by them, and he felt that, under Heaven,
he was solely indebted for his life to the two
charitable beings who had so generously step-
ped forward to succour him in his extremity.
An acquaintance commenced under such pe-
culiar circumstances soon ripened into the
warmest friendship ; the Sampieris concealed
no part of their former life from their invalid
guest, nor did this confidence deteriorate from
the grateful affection and respect with which
they had previously inspired him. Horace
Egerton"'s connections were amongst the first
of the landed commoners in England ; his mo-
ther was the daughter of a noble house, and
what is more, she was a woman of unexception-
202 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
able character and rigid principles ; when she
heard from her son an account of the kindness
he had met with from the Sampieri family,
and when to that account was joined a sketch
of their history, and a dispassionate statement
of the virtues and conduct which had invested
their position with so much dignity, she lost
not a moment in TVTiting to the Marchesa
Sampieri to thank her, with the effusion of a
raother^s heart, for all that she had done for
her son. She did more ; in the following year
Lady Catherine Egerton and her daughters
visited Italy, and repaired to Bologna pur-
posely that she might personally express her
gratitude to the friends of her son ; she re-
mained two months there, and when she left
Bologna it was as the firm friend of Edith.
That lady possessed real virtue, and an in-
flexible cast of character which never suffered
itself to be biassed by mawkish sentiment or
to be talked over by hypocritical demonstra-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 203
tions ; but in proportion as she was free from
weakness^ so was she divested of prejudice
she was gifted with much penetration, and
always chose to judge for herself, and from
her own inductions, of the conduct she observed
towards others. The self-directed question of
" What will the world say ?''"'
never presented
itself to her mind or interfered with her actions,
upon occasions where she felt that her conscience
bore her out in doing good ; and yet her mind
was too femininely organised for her to brave the
opinion of the world, and too completely under
the guidance of good sense for her to defy it,
she reserved to herself the privilege of despising
many of its edicts, of emancipating herself from
slavish adherence to them, of setting no value
upon its applause, and even dared to discard
from her society many persons who, by a
strange anomaly, still contrived to enjoy the
countenance and support of the world, and to
tyrannise in its exclusive coteries even while
204 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
their vices and depravities were a secret to
none. Witli all this, she dared to associate
with a divorcee
To a woman of Lady Catherine's discrimi-
nating character, the study of Edith Sarapieri
was a subject of deep interest ; and when she
had won her confidence so fully as to induce
her to speak of herself and of her owti feelings,
she found that seldom before had she met with
a mind so unperverted, a heart so pure, and
a soul so generous as in this fallen being. Her
early removal from the frivolities of the gay
world, and her constant companionship with
a man of Cavendish's superior mind, had im-
parted a lofty stamp to all her thoughts, and
weeded her conversation from the puerilities
which are so often the characteristics of fine
lady chit-chat ; she was habitually silent, but
when she spoke she was deferentially listened
to, and the sweet seriousness of her manner
and the soft melancholy expression of her fine
dark eyes caused all that she said to sink into
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 205
the minds of her hearers. These however were
not the considerations which had principally
influenced Lady Catherine in her favour ; it
was her unfeigned penitence for her fault —
the severity with which she judged herself—the
generosity with which she abstained from all
bitter reflections upon the husband whose con-
duct had driven her to the fatal step she had
taken ; —it was the deep and incurable anguish
which she betrayed in alluding to her child
—an anguish that never degenerated into com-
plaint, for she admitted, while tears of agony
burst from her eyes, that the privation which
had embittered her life was a just visitation upon
her for her fault,—yet, admitting it, she could
not be resigned !
—it was all this that had in-
sured her the deep sympathy of Lady Cathe-
rine Egerton, and had spoken so forcibly to
her maternal heart ; nor was her sympathy
shewn in sterile words alone, nor did it abate
when distance had separated them ; she had
near connections living in the immediate neigh-
206 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
bourhood of Vale Royal, Colonel Wilbraham's
seat in Leicestershire ; these connections were
the Bertie family already alluded to as having
been at St. Peter''s with Alice on the day she
had first seen Cavendish, and as they were in
habits of the greatest intimacy with the Wil-
brahams. Lady Catherine was enabled to ob-
tain from them all those details of the welfare
and progress of the young Alice which had
hitherto been denied to her anxious mother,
and by a constant correspondence with Edith,
to transmit regularly to her information of
everything relating to her child ; it was through
this channel that she had learned the fact of
Alice's belief in her death, and it was through
the same medium that she afterwards heard
of her being at Rome. This latter circum-
stance was calculated to throw her mind into
the most distressing state of agitation ; as long
as kingdoms and seas had divided her child
from her, Edith had disciplined herself into
the belief that a meeting was impossible,—but
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 207
now that she was so near yet so wholly se-
parated from her, all the irritation of her first
bereavement returned upon her with accumu-
lated intensity ; the fever of her mind was not
to be allayed, —she spoke not, it is true, of
what she suffered, but she drooped in silent
agony, and would have sunk irremediably, had
there not been near her one who had made
it the study of his life to watch her looks and
anticipate her wishes. The subject of her
child was one upon which Edith and her
husband rarely spoke, but upon which they
understood each other's sentiments perfectly
delicacy forbade the mother to dilate upon her
sufferings to him who had been the cause of
her separation from lier child,—tenderness for
her led him to avoid recurring to a topic which
always awakened in her emotions too violent
for a frame so delicate ; Cavendish knew that
the one absorbing wish of his wife's heart was
to behold her lost treasure once more before
she died,—Edith knew that her husband would
208 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
have laid down his life to procure the realisa-
tion of that fond desire ! and thus when they
heard that Alice was at Rome, he was the
first to propose taking her mother thither.
It was the first time for many years that
Edith had quitted her home, and paramount
as was the interest that was leading her from
it, a feeling of dread and distrust chilled her
heart as she left the Sampieri Palace ; she
douhted the wisdom of the step she was taking
she doubted that her own strength of mind
would bear her through the trial that awaited
her, and feared that she never could restrict
herself to merely beholding her child without
discovering herself to her ; but then the hu-
miliating explanation that must ensue, —and
should Alice coldly reject her guilty mother,
how would she bear such an infliction ? Ca-
vendish sustained her drooping courage with
all the powers of his sanguine mind, and by
the time they reached Rome Edith had re-
covered her equanimity sufficiently to enter
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 209
into the plans which her husband had devised
for the reahsation of her wishes.
Their change of name, and the complete
obscurity with which they had surrounded
themselves at Rome, (only allowing their
presence there to be known to one or two
of its most distinguished artists, with whom
they had long been in habits of communication,
and whom they had admitted to their confi-
dence,) placed them beyond the reach of dis-
covery by the travelling English who were
there at that time. Edith only went out late
in the evening, and then she was so closely
veiled that an intimate friend would have had
some diflficulty in recognising her ; and Caven-
dish, when once he had ascertained the resi-
dence of Colonel Wilbraham, confined himself
to watching the movements of that family, ac-
quainting himself with their habits, and follow-
ing them at a distance wherever they went.
We have shewn, upon the only occasion when
he had ever beheld Alice unaccompanied by
210 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
her father or her step-mother, how he had strug-
gled to approach her more nearly, and how
his marked observation of her had attracted
her attention ; and had not the crowd at that
time leaving St. Peter's intervened so densely
between him and her, he would then have
slipped into her hand the letter which Edith
had prepared for that purpose, and which after-
wards passed so strangely into the possession
of Alice. We have shewn also how on the
succeeding day they had met on the banks
of the Tiber, but, on that occasion, the ren-
contre was unintentional on the part of Caven-
dish, who, knowing that Alice always rode
out accompanied by her father, avoided, on
that account, following her on horseback, and
was just returning from taking what he be-
lieved to be the most solitary and unfrequented
ride about Rome, when he accidentally encoun-
tered Colonel Wilbraham and his daughter in
his path. It now, therefore, only remains for
us to relate the conclusion of the adventure,
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 211
which had commenced bj Cavendish so gal-
lantly rescuing the child of his beloved Edith
from a watery grave ; and, taking up the narra-
tive at that part of it which left him insensible
and abandoned to the care of some poor fisher-
men, and to the precarious assistance which
Thomas had taken upon himself to send to
him, we shall proceed to give the sequel in
as few words as possible.
Cavendish had ridden so far and so fast on
that day as to have been much over-heated
when he threw himself into the water ; the
check of perspiration which ensued, added to
the moral excitement produced by the strange
meeting, and by his fears for Alice, and the
extraordinary physical efforts which he had
made to save her, tended to inflame the mass
of his blood, and would have induced fever,
even had he immediately been attended to, as
common humanity would have dictated ; but,
left as he had been by Colonel Wilbraham, in
his helpless state, and without assistance, to
212 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
remain for an indefinite period in his wet
clothes, the consequences were fatal. When
he recovered from his long fainting fit, it was
to feel shooting pains in his left side, a frightful
difficulty in breathing, death-like chills in every
limb, and a heaviness in his head, which al-
most took from him the consciousness of where
he was, and of what had happened to him ;
having, however, caused himself to be conveyed
home, the sight of Edith restored the powers
of memory to him : he related to her with the
utmost precaution all that had passed, and as
she wildly cast herself upon his bosom, and
with deep convulsive sobs wept forth the
thanks she could not utter, he pressed her
tenderly to that noble heart whose pulsations
were already numbered, and whispered, " At
last, dearest, I have done something to com-
pensate for the many evils I have brought upon
you—I have saved the life of your beloved
child, Edith,—and you know that I would have
laid down mine to spare a hair of her head !
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 213
Alas ! those were the last coherent words
that fell from his lips. Before the arrival of the
physicians whom Edith had sent for, pleurisy
declared itself in its most alarming form ; stu-
pour and delirium succeeded each other, and
copious bleedings brought with them no relief.
Edith, that evening, despatched a courier to
Bologna, for the celebrated Doctor T , but
when he reached Rome all was over—the Mar-
chese Sampieri was no more ! and he found
that the Marchesa, in the paroxysm of her
despair, had burst a blood-vessel in her chest,
and was herself in imminent danger.
Thus cruelly were frustrated the projects
which Edith had dared to form, of ao-ain be-
holding her child ; and with her mind pro-
strated, and her heart broken by this new suf-
fering, she looked upon her irreparable bereave-
ment as a signal chastisement from Heaven for
her presumption in attempting to circumvent
those laws of society which had decided that
she was unworthy to enjoy the tender preroga-
214 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
tives of a mother. She was conveyed to Bo-
logna, (whither the body of her beloved hus-
band had preceded her for interment,) and
there, absorbed in the magnitude of her grief,
and surrounded by objects which spoke to her
only of his past love and care, she remained
lost to all other recollections, and dead to every
hope save that of soon rejoining in that better
world, where parting and tears are unknown,
him who had been the whole world to her on
earth.
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 215
CHAPTER XI.
It was not for some time after her retmm to
Bologna that the poor mourner could summon
courage to write to Lady Catherine Egerton ;
and not until more than one letter had reached
her from that faithful friend, full of anxious
wonder at her unwonted silence, that she at
last imposed upon herself the painful task of
apprising her of what had happened. Then
the friendship of that excellent woman shewed
itself to Edith in all its strength and purity
advancing years and infirm health had latterly
rendered lady Catherine almost a prisoner to
her own house, otherwise—such was the grati-
tude which had never slumhered in her heart
during eight years, for all that Edith and her
216 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
husband had done for her son—she would have
gone herself to Bologna, to have manifested it
in person to the unfortunate widow on this try-
ing occasion. She, however, lost no time in
doing the next most feasible thing, and wrote
to entreat that Edith would make an effort to
return to England, and give her the happiness
of receiving her in her own house, where she
should remain as independently mistress of her
own time and actions as in the Sampieri Palace.
" Do not refuse me this gratification, my
dearest friend," she wrote ;
" the shattered
state of my health, and my increasing years
(now approaching to sixty) forbid the hope
that I shall ever again be able to quit England.
I must not, therefore, look forward to visiting
you in Italy; for, had such an undertaking
been possible, I should now be on my way
there to shew you, that not by words alone
would I mark my deep sympathy in your just
sorrows ; but, my dear Edith, if the mountain
cannot come to Mahomet, Mahomet can go
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 217
to the mountain. You are young in compar-
ison to me, and the first stunning effects of this
cruel blow once over, your own exalted sense
of rehgion will give you strength to bear
up against it ; and your total absence of sel-
fishness (and who was ever so unselfish as
you ?) will lead you to remember the many to
whom your existence is an actual blessing, and
the few to whom your friendship is one of the
greatest gratifications of their lives. Among
these few I must be permitted to place all the
members of my family who are already per-
sonally known to you ; and I assure you, that
those who only know you from our report
and from your own letters, are anxious to be
included in the same list. I must especially
particularise my eldest daughter, Mrs. Gran-
dison, who, with her worthy husband, is now
staying with me, and whom you have often
heard me remark was the very prototype of
your friend Horace in mind and person,—the
same good, exalted being, with the same quiet
VOL. III. L
^18 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
reserved manners,—shunning the gay world, yet
dispensing happiness and cheerfulness through-
out her domestic circle. I am sure you will
love her, and she is prepared to love you ! My
two other married daughters, Lady Stanmore
and Mrs Clayton, whom you remember as
girls, are settled in my immediate neighbour-
hood, and are most anxious to renew their
acquaintance with you; and your quondam
favourite, little Elizabeth, now a fine tall young
woman of twenty, will not listen to the possi-
bility of your not coming among us. I shall
leave Horace to speak for himself, as in the
course of a few days he will leave this for
Bologna, to place himself at your disposal, and
to claim the privilege of escorting you to our
Westmoreland retirement. Come to us, then,
my dear friend, and give us the sad satisfaction
of sharing in your sorrows, if we cannot solace
them and restore peace to your heart ! We
will speak together of the beloved being who
is gone, and your tears shall fall upon my
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 219
bosom, even as if you were my own afflicted
daughter. Come, then, and fear not that in
the zeal of our friendship we shall overstep
the bounds of propriety, or intrude ourselves
upon you except at such periods as you may
choose to admit us ; Ravenscrag is very spacious,
and I have set apart a suite of rooms for your
own especial use. We even hope that you will
like our lakes and mountains well enough to
be tempted into fixing yourself as a permanent
resident among us ; and, as a last inducement,
I will observe to you, that I think such a
measure would be judicious and beneficial in
ultimately bringing about that event which I
know lies so near your heart, and which I
would spare no exertions on my own part to
accomplish,—I mean an intercourse with your
beloved child ! All that report says of her
is so favourable to her heart and character,
that I am persuaded when she knows that
her mother still lives, and when she is made
acquainted with the conduct which for the
l2
220 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
last sixteen years has rendered her an object
of respect and interest to all who approach-
ed her, that her heart will assert itself, and
spring forward to a reunion with her long lost
parent
!
To this friendly appeal, Edith returned the
following reply
" Thanks, dearest and best of friends, for
your more than maternal kindness. I did not
think that my desolate heart was still capable
of experiencing any emotion allied to glad-
ness, —I did not believe that my eyes could
ever again shed any tears but those of misery,
but your letter has come to convince me of
my error, to shed a momentary gleam of bright-
ness over my soul, and to reproach me for
the selfishness which has hitherto caused me
in the extremity of my sorrow to overlook
the blessing which God has yet spared to me
in your invaluable friendship. Yet, entering
into all the noble feeling which has dictated
your letter, and appreciating as I do every
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 2)21
sentiment that has flowed from your heart
to your pen, I cannot yield to your arguments
—no, not even to the last one ! Think not,
however, that this uncompromising refusal
springs from that unchristian moroseness of
grief, which leads us sometimes ungraciously
to turn our backs upon every kind of happi-
ness, because the greatest of all has been
taken from us. No ! —were you within my
reach, I would eagerly turn to your maternal
bosom to shed there the tears which now flow
unheeded and unseen. I would speak to you
of him whose name has never passed my lips,
save in prayer, since he was taken from me
— I would listen to the wisdom that dic-
tated your consolations ; —but these sad in-
dulgences are now beyond my reach, for the
hand of God has been laid so heavily upon
me, that my heart is broken by the stroke !
My days are numbered,—a very few months
at the utmost will terminate my sufferings, and
I will own to you that to this conviction alone
am I indebted for the calm which has taken
2i22 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
possession of my mind. I daily read over these
words in the book of Samuel :
' I shall go to
him, but he shall not return to me/ and each
day I peruse them with renewed consolation,
because another twenty-four hours have been
taken from our temporary separation ! I
scarcely dare ask myself if this be resignation,
or if it be despair,—yet let me hope that it is
the former ; for, weak and sinful as I am,
I do not mourn as one without hope,—' my
flesh and my heart faileth ; but God is the
strength of my heart, and my portion for ever.'
" Yet, oh ! my dear friend, there are mo-
ments when the impatience of selfish sorrow
wholly overcomes me, — for everything here
recalls my lost happiness only to make me
feel my present desolation more keenly. I
live in an atmosphere of recollections which
daily revives my first agonies. I read his
adorable goodness in the tears of the poor,
who have lost their best friend! —I see his
tender care of me in every inanimate object
THE MOTriER AND DAUGHTER. 22S
that surrounds me —he is everywhere and yet
he is not ! When I cast my eyes upon the
earth, he is there^—but when I raise them to
Heaven he is there also !—and upon that blessed
conviction do I anchor my hopes of an eternal
reunion—and soon,—yes, soon !
"Forgive this egotism, —I have been led
into it by the strong desire I fetl to impart
to you the motives that influence me in re-
jecting the noble proofs of friendship which
you, my best friend, and your beloved family
have so generously evinced for me in my
hour of trial ; assure yourself and them of my
deep gratitude and affection : when I would
express all that I feel for you individually
and collectively, I find how cold and power-
less are mere words in convepng sentiments
such as those with which you have inspired
me. Believe, too, that I fully concur in the
opinion that you have expressed as to the
favourable results which a visit to England
as your guest might effect in bringing me in
224 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
contact with my child, and I know too well
the weight which your name and character so
justly carry with them to doubt that even
Colonel Wilbraham would for ever persist in
resisting a cause advocated by you. But it
is too late ! — the desire to behold my child
is as strong within my bosom as ever,—it will
outlive all other desires there ; —the tie which
yet binds me to earth is one which no human
tribunal can dissolve, and my breaking heart
will assert and cling to it as long as it beats.
—But the fiat has gone forth which condemns
me to die, as I have lived,—unknown to her ;
and while I feel the inutility of struggling
longer with my fate, I feel also that upon
the threshold of the grave, all selfish wishes
ought to be abandoned, — that if this frail
heart cannot be purified from them, they ought
to be offered up to the throne of mercy as a
last expiation for sins which have been visited
less heavily upon the offender than they me-
rited. My daughter believes me to be dead
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 225
long since ; she is ignorant of the story of
sin, and shame, and sorrow which placed nie
beyond the pale of those holy affections, those
sacred sjTiipathies which bind mother to child
when virtue is the bond which unites them.
Should I, therefore, be justified in now dis-
turbing her young mind by revelations which
would only bring a blush to her cheek and
a pang to her heart ? or ought I, for the
sake of a momentary gratification to myself,
to entail upon her the misery of knowing that
her mother Uves, at a moment when, even if
Nature should triumph over Prejudice in her
heart, and lead her to pronounce herself in
my favour, the joy of such a conviction could
not prolong my existence a single day ? Have
I, who forfeited the proud privilege of fostering
her infancy, the right of inflicting upon her
the anguish of beholding me die ! I have
thought over all this in my solitude, and the
conclusion to which I have arrived is, that
I ought still to leave my Alice undisturbed
L 5
226 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
in the peaceful ignorance she has been brought
up in with regard to me,—at least, until all
is over ; then I should wish the truth to be
broken to her, lest it should burst rudely upon
her in her intercourse with the world ; and
to you, my dear friend, w ould I delegate this
difficult and delicate task, for you have pro-
mised me that you would seek the acquaintance
of the father for the sake of the daughter.
Withhold from her nothing of the sad story
except the harshness which drove me to the
irretrievable step that separated me from my
child ! I must not, even to justify myself in
her eyes, turn the heart of my Alice against
her father ; —and yet, let her not believe that
her mother was a heartless wanton, who Hghtly
abandoned the holiest ties of nature for the
allurements of vice ; —let her not suppose that
callous indifference to ray fault, or that total
oblivion of the duties I had violated, were the
necessary consequences of my error ; —let her
not spurn the memory of her mother as one
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 227
utterly lost to the feelings which ought to be
inseparable from that sacred title ! Tell her
of the unceasing remorse which embittered the
best years of my life, —tell her that in the
bosom of that unparalleled affection and de-
votion which sought to compensate to me during
years of domestic harmony for all other priva-
tions, my heart sickened and pined for her^
—tell her, that in the midst of wealth and
luxury / felt poor and destitute, because she
had been taken from me,—tell her of the effort
with which I now relinquish all intention of
appealing to her feelings, lest in doing so I
should unavailingly disturb the tranquillity of
her mind, —tell her that my last thoughts will
be of her—my last regrets for her !
—And oh !
if such a communication be admissible, tell her
that he who had been identified with my worst
actions, had identified himself with my best
feelings also, —let her know that he shared
in all my regrets,—tell her of the many vir-
tues with which he had redeemed one single
22S THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
fault,—and tell her, too, that not only would
he have shed his hlood to have accomplished
the dearest wish of my heart in re-uniting me
to my child, but that in furtherance of that
wish he laid down his life to save hers, and
regretted not the sacrifice !
" Alas ! I fear that in this uncontrollable
desire to propitiate the good feelings of my
child, I am grasping at too much, and asking
impossibilities of you, —yet the wish is so na-
tural, that your heart will plead in its favour
and to that and to your judgment do I leave
the execution of it.
" How can I express my gratitude for the
new proof of his untiring goodness which my
dear friend Horace is giving me in coming to
Bologna at this trying moment ! His own
reflections hereafter will be his best reward
for this sacrifice of time and comfort to an
unfortunate friend, and the great God whose
precepts he so faithfully follows will bless his
endeavours to bind up the wounds of a broken
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 229
heart. Already have the good effects of his
truly Christian mission shewn themselves, for
the anticipation of his presence here has aroused
me from the selfish stupour into which I had
sunk, and imparted an interest to the short
period I may yet count upon in this world, of
which I scarcely thought it susceptible. I
have much to tell him, much to consult him
about ; for I would '
set my house in order
before I go hence and am seen no more ! and
in this I comprise not only preparing my soul
for the great change that is approaching, but
putting such order into my worldly affairs as
shall prevent the possibility of disputes or dis-
pleasure arising to those who "will succeed me
in their management. If Horace does not
object to such an arrangement, I should wish
to name him as my executor, an appointment
which will hereafter bring him into communica-
tion with my daughter ; and should his duties
not interfere with a further sacrifice of his time
to me, I will hope that he may be near me
230 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER
at the last moment. What a support would his
presence be to me in that hour which even
the blameless cannot contemplate without awe,
and with what fervent hope should I rely upon
the efficacy of his intercessions to Heaven on
my behalf ! There is still another wish which
I cannot silence ;
—if he does not condemn it,
and should my wasted strength bear me out
in the undertaking, I will yet make an effort
to see (not to be seen by) my Alice, —for it
seems to me that my dying eyes would close
with greater tranquility could they but once
have rested upon her countenance, and that
the sick yearnings which still distract my
thoughts from higher contemplations, and place
her image between me and Heaven, would
be appeased by that one look ! But in this I
will be guided by him.
" And now, dear and excellent friend, fare-
well ! I ask you not to forgive the selfish
garrulity of this letter ; you bade me open
my heart to you, and I have done so fearlessly,
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 231
knowing the inexhaustible goodness of yours,
which ever leads you to lend a patient ear
to the unfortunate, and to make their sorrows
your own. Say to your dear daughters all that
you know I feel for them ; I shall often in
imagination be in the midst of you all. Fare-
well once more, and believe in the eternal gra-
titude of your aiFectionate friend
" Edith Sampieri."
232 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
CHAPTER XII.
The arrival of Horace Egerton at Bologna
produced, after the first shock of beholding
him was over, all the favourable results to
Edith's mind which she had anticipated ; and
such was the serenity that pervaded her dis-
course and manner in her subsequent inter-
course with him, that Egerton was deceived
by it into a belief that the principle of life
still lay deep within her, and that she might
yet be spared for many years to the affection
of his family. This delusive amendment, how-
ever, was chiefly owing to the consolation which
she derived from speaking to him of Alice, (of
whom until his arrival she had lost all traces
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 233
since the catastrophe which had been so fatal
to Cavendish) ; and the assurance which Eger-
ton gave her that not only would he find out
the actual residence of the Wilbraham family,
but personally co-operate in any plan which
should tend to realise the first, last wish of her
heart, appeared to infuse temporary strength
into her exhausted frame, and awakened in
her mind an energetic desire to live until that
object could be accomplished.
The hope of ultimate recovery was, however,
uncompromisingly negatived by Doctor Tom-
masini, in a conversation which Egerton had
with him on the subject ; but as he foresaw
the probability of her life being prolonged for
a few months, by a removal to Pisa early in
the autumn, it was settled that Horace (whose
arrangements, when he left home, had only
been made for a short absence), should go back
in the interim to England, and that before the
period when Edith's journey to Pisa would
be advisable, he should return to Italy with
23\^ THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
his only brother, Frederick, the youngest of
Lady Catherine Egerton's children, a beautiful
youth of seventeen, who had so completely
outgrown his strength as to make his family
tremble for the consequences.
Yet when he again reached Bologna, such
was Edith's repugnance to leave the spot which
contained her beloved husband's ashes, that she
would have resisted a removal from home had
not Horace ascertained, from his relations the
Berties, the fact of Alice then being at Pisa ; this
unlooked-for coincidence caused every other ob-
jection to vanish from Madame Sampieri's mind,
and it has been already seen that her wishes
were immediately acted upon, and how, through
the intervention of Egerton, the mother and
daughter became inhabitants of the same palace.
But who shall venture to describe the moral
sufterings of Edith when she found herself
under the same roof with her only child, yet
debarred from all communion with her ? We
shrink from the painful task, for we know,
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 235
from experience, that no language, however
powerful, could do justice to the intensity of
such feelings. A French ^Titer has justly ob-
served, that " il est plus facile d'abstenir que de
se contenir," and the truth of this axiom was
experienced by the unhappy mother during
every moment of the day. The punishment of
Tantalus had fallen upon her, but she had
sought it herself; and with the heroism of a
martyr she suppressed, in the presence of her
anxious friend, all expression of her sufferings,
and it was only in the solitude of her own
chamber, and in the stillness of night, that the
agonies of her soul burst forth in bitter tears.
There was, however, one drop of sweetness
infused in the cup of sorrow which she had
drunk to the dregs, that mitigated its bitterness
— the knowledge, through Egerton, of the
generous and noble qualities which rendered
her daughter's heart and mind so eminently
worthy of the lovely form that enshrined them,
and upon which her eyes daily rested with all
2S6 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
a mother's pride ; —and her penetration soon
discovered that this rare union of intellectual
and personal beauty had taken captive the
aflfections as well as the admiration of the grave
Egerton, and that his heart, although he knew
it not, was no longer in his own keeping.
Of all the contingencies which could have
offered themselves to Edith's imagination as
carrying with them the strongest probabilities
of happiness for her child both here and here-
after, an union with Horace Egerton was the
one upon which her judgment as well as her
heart would have rested with unmixed satis-
faction, and perhaps the latent hope that such
a result would become the consequence of their
being thrown together, had influenced her when
she named him as executor to her will.
And now an interest, hitherto unknowTi, was
imparted to her waning existence, and with
a trembling fervour of supplication which be-
trayed her apprehension of its inutility, she
prayed to Heaven that she might be per-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 237
mitted to live long enough to behold the reali-
sation of her hopes. Alas ! the very intensity
of her feelings defeated the object at which
they aimed ; and the fever of her mind, the
wear and tear of her spirits, the perpetual
transitions she experienced from suppressed
hope to suppressed agony, —for to Horace she
could not express her wishes, and would not
express all the misery of her position, — in
fine, the conflict of feelings that assailed her,
reduced her strength so rapidly, that before
Christmas arrived she was unable to leave her
apartment.
At last Edith was forced to relinquish the
indulgence upon which she had lived for the
last few weeks — that transient glimpse of
Alice which she dailv cauolit as, seated at the
open door of her saloon, she every morning
watched for the light form of her daughter
flitting unconsciously by in all the gaiety of
youth, and little deeming that the echo of
her footsteps caused her mother's heart to throb
238 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
with a violence that was precipitating it into
eternal stillness. Edith had grown so feeble
that the exertion of dragging herself thither,
or of hurrying away when (as had more than
once been the case) Colonel ^Vilbraham had un-
expectedly appeared in sight, produced swoon-
ings which daily became more exhausting in
their consequences ; but the solace of listening
to her child singing in the evening, was still
left to her, and as the dressing-room, which
she now seldom left, was immediately under
the drawdng-room usually occupied by the Wil-
brahams, the moment the first notes of the
piano above stairs were heard, Edith would
cause all her doors and windows to be thrown
open, that she might not lose a particle of
the rich and flexible tones of her daugh-
ter's voice, and stretched upon a sofa near
the open casement, with her eyes closed, that
every external object might be excluded, she
would conjure up the fair form of Alice to
her imagination, and cheat herself into the
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 239
momentary belief that she was actually iu her
presence. It was at that hour that Egerton
always paid her his evening visit, nor was
the recueiUement of the young lover on those
occasions less profound than that of the un-
happy mother ; for insensibly all his ideas of
earthly enjoyment had associated themselves
with Alice Wilbraham, and to hang upon her
voice when he could not behold her form
was a gratification which he sought for with
an intensity second only to that which Edith
herself felt.
At last the anniversary of Alice'*s birth ap-
proached ; and unable to resist the fond im-
pulse which prompted her to be the first to
offer the homage of congratulation to her child
upon that occasion, Madame Sampieri organised
the serenade which had so completely puzzled
the whole family, and intrusted the direction
of it to Egerton. We have seen how power-
fully it had acted upon the sensibilities of Alice,
the associations it had awakened and the tone
240 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
of confidence with which she appeared to have
been impelled to impart her feelings to Egerton.
We have seen, too, the error which the sight
of Edith's handwriting and seal had produced
in the mind of her daughter, and the manner
in which Colonel Wilbraham had interrupted
the explanation which Horace meant to have
given to her, by stating that the Marchesa
Sampieri, having heard from him of the anniver-
sary that was about to be celebrated, and
wishing to return the gratification which she
had so long derived from listening to Miss Wil-
braham's music, had directed the serenade
which had ushered in the first hour of her natal
day. But this explanation was frustrated,
and they parted mutually mystified, and mutu-
ally anxious to be enlightened ; although un-
looked-for events precluded the possibility of any
eclaircissement taking place during the whole of
the following day.
Nor was it until late on the morrow that
Egerton was enabled to go to ^ladame Sam-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 241
pieri's. The sacred duties he had engaged to
perform in public on that day liad interfered
with his hitherto unbroken custom of reading
the Church service to her every Sunday morn-
ing ; and when at hist he found himself at
liberty to attend to his unfortunate friend, she
was no longer in a state of mind to listen to
him.
Edith had passed the morning in an exasper-
ation of suffering not to be described, for per-
haps the most intolerable trial that had yet
assailed her was that of passing the birthday
of her only child as she was doomed to do ;
—
so near her, yet separated as if the grave had
closed between them, —she, her mother, the
only being that was debarred from approach-
ing and congratulating her ! Oh ! how did
she wish that she could change places with
the lowest menial who on that day would
be permitted to kiss the hand of Alice ; and
what would she not have given to ascertain
whether a thought would be consecrated by
VOL. III. M
242 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
her to the memory of her unknown parent
She had caused herself to be carried to the
saloon from which her increasing weakness had
for some time banished her, that she might
at least catch a passing glimpse of Alice on
that day ; but the voice of Colonel Wilbraham,
as he descended the staircase with his wife
and daughter on their way to Church, prevent-
ed even that imperfect gratification ; and as
she closed the door between herself and the
beloved object of so much solicitude, her heart
seemed to be crushed under its heavy hinges.
Then Edith sought for consolation in prayer ;
but, for the first time, she found it impossible
to form a coherent supplication. Recollections of
how other anniversaries had been passed, brought
with them the image of Cavendish, and added
bitterness to her sorrow ; they had indeed
always been days of trial ; but the sympathy of
a devoted heart, and the reasoning powers of
a feeling mind, had ever been exerted to assuage
their misery. Where was he, the tender com-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 2i3
panion, the judicious friend, upon whose bosom
the tears of the bereaved mother had been wont
to fall—and who would wipe them away now ?
" Gone—gone !
" exclaimed Edith, with a burst
of passionate grief, " and I am alone and deso-
late !
— I am abandoned by God — I cannot
pray!"
Violent sorrow, by subduing the energies of
even the strongest mind, often leaves it open to
the influence of superstitious fancies which in a
healthier state would be rejected as incompa-
tible with its reasoning powers ; and Edith was
doomed to prove the truth of this. Terrified
by her inability to form a prayer, she had open-
ed the Bible that lay before her, to ascertain
whether she was still capable of comprehending
its contents, and the first words upon which her
eyes fell were these :
" This day shalt thou be
with me in Paradise^ The chance which had
directed that she should open the volume at
that page, appeared to her, not the efi'ect of
hazard, but a revelation from on High, a warn-
M 2
244 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
inor to prepare for immediate dissolution ; and
the gracious promise of our Lord to the dying
malefactor was aj)plied by her to her owti par-
ticular case with trembling eagerness, " Oh my
Saviour!" she said, '" Thou that hast opened
the Kingdom of Heaven to all believers^'' inter-
cede for me that my sins may be pardoned, and
my soul be received into life eternal !''
A mysterious awe crept over her, and mis-
taking the temporary exhaustion to which the
violence of her excited feelings had reduced
her, for the approach of death, she remained
motionless and almost senseless, AAith her arms
crossed upon the open Bible, and her head resting
upon them, while the tears that flowed uncon-
sciously from her eyes blistered the holy page
upon which they fell. And hours glided by,
and she moved not.
Thus had she passed the morning in all the
abandonment of grief, and in this state was she
found by Egerton, who, in his own gentle and
impressive way, roused her from her lethargy
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 245
and engaged her to listen to him. With the
utmost precaution he introduced the subject of
the last niofht, for he knew that what he had
to tell was unexpected by her, and that joy-
ful surprise is sometimes as fatal as that pro-
duced by grief; yet, although he had prepared
his communication in such a manner as that it
should not suddenly overpower her, he had not
foreseen the terrible effect which the words o*
Alice would produce upon her mother, and his
voice trembled, and his eyes were suffused with
tears as he repeated them to her.
But Edith had neither tears nor words for
such a communication ; it had recalled her
thoughts from their vague dreamy state back
to earth—to its joys and its sorrows, its loves
and its vain regrets ; and the revulsion of feel-
ing which it produced was too violent to find
either expression or relief through those me-
diums which are accorded to ordinary emotions.
She listened to his recital with breathless eager-
ness, her hands pressed convulsively upon her
heart as though she would forcibly have con.
246 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
trolled its tumults, lier head bent forward in an
attitude of the most intense attention, and all
the agitation of her soul depicted in her colour-
less face ; but when he had finished, a smile
of rajjture suddenly lighted it up, and throw-
ing herself upon her knees she raised her
clasped hands to Heaven in silent thanksgiving
there was a visible effort to give utterance to
her overcharged feelings, for her quivering lips
moved as though they were foi-ming words, but
the struggle was ineffectual ; in the next moment
her head sank upon her bosom with a heavy
groan, and when Egerton raised her from the
ground the blood that bubbled through her parted
lips, and fell in warm streams over his hands,
told that she had again burst the bloodvessel
that had been ruptured when Cavendish died ;
and Egerton knew that dissolution must follow
in a very few hours.
The physician who attended her, was im-
mediately called in, and by a prompt applica-
tion of styptics the effusion of blood was stop-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 2i7
ped, while to prevent the possibiHty of the suf-
ferer attempting to speak or to move, a com-
posing draught was administered which very
soon threw her into a profound slumber.
It was now past seven o'clock in the even-
ing, and Egerton took advantage of the interval
of repose to write a note to Colonel Wilbra-
ham, apprising him that the Marchesa Sampieri
had suddenly become so ill that it was feared
she could not pass through the night, and
submitting to his good feelings whether it would
not be advisable to postpone his fete, lest the
noise inseparable from it should disturb the last
moments of the dying woman. Egerton hoped
that this intimation would be sufficient, even
where the feelings of a mere stranger were
concerned, and that sentiments of common de-
cency and humanity w^ould have influenced
Colonel Wilbraham in meeting his suggestion
by such measures as should prevent the possi-
bility of that unnatural concurrence from which
his soul recoiled, namely, that Alice should be
248 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
dancing above stairs while her mother was
expiring below !
But that gentleman was by no means in-
clined to adopt so humane a suggestion, or to
forego the festivities which had cost him such
expenditure of time, trouble, and money, and
which were to ensure so much applause to
himself, while they caused the rest of the
society to hide their diminished heads, and
confess themselves vanquished by him in taste
and magnificence, merely because a moping
Marchesa whom nobody knew, and who had
thought proper to reject his acquaintance, was
taken ill on that particular day.
The note had been put into his hand by
his own man, as he was sitting alone over
his wine after dinner, and having read it
through he crushed it in his hand, and threw
it into the fire with a fretful apostrophe :
" This is expecting a little too much, Master
Egerton ! — to put off my friends, and waste
my supper, and disappoint the whole world
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. ^49
because your fair widow chooses to fall sick
in the same house,—a pretty joke, indeed ! Be-
sides it is now too late for anything of the
sort to be done ; and, after all, if anything
should happen to her, or that he speaks to
me on the subject to-morrow, I can easily
make it appear that I never got his note, and
so, knew nothing at all of the matter !" And
gulping down his incipient scruples with his
last bumper of claret, he continued to mumble
sundry witticisms about '
prigs," and *
puritans,"
and then, ringing the bell, gave orders that
if Mr. Egerton either called or sent any mes-
sage that evening, he should be told that
Colonel Wilbraham was particularly engage<l,
and could not see him until the morrow
and then he dismissed the subject from liis
mind.
And the preparations went on, — and the
festivities commenced, — and Egerton's worst
apprehensions were realised ; for Alice, ra-
diant with youth, beauty, and animation, was
M 6
250 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
flying round the ball-room to the measure of
one of Strauss''s most seductive waltzes, and
dividing the admiration of all present with her
partner, the handsome representative of the
gayest and most voluptuous of monarchs, at the
very moment that Edith, pale, gasping, and ex-
hausted, stretched upon that bed from which
she was to rise no more, was receiving the
last Sacrament from the hands of Egerton,
and with meek resignation preparing to ap-
pear in the presence of the King of kings.
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. i^51
CHAPTER XIII.
We must now return to Alice. During
the whole evening she had been haunted by
the idea that Cavendish, under some disguise,
would contrive to introduce himself into the
fete and approach her, and that at last the
mystery of who he was and why he pursued
her, would be cleared up ; at last, too, she
should have it in her power to express to him
all the gratitude she owed him for having saved
her life,—and, as was always the case when
she thought of Cavendish, she argued to her-
self the impossibility of his being that which
her father had represented him to be.
The delusive expectation of beholding him
252 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
was kept up long after midnight by the succes-
sive entrance of several groups of masks who
performed various mythological interludes, all
of which had some complimentary reference to
herself; bouquets and sonnets were showered
upon her,—madrigals sung in her praise,—and
all the poets and the parterres about Pisa
seemed to have been laid under contribution
to do honour to the beautiful stranger. But
he whom alone she eagerly looked for in that
brilliant crowd came not ; her restless eyes
sought him in vain ; every tall figure that
approached her caused her heart to flutter,
but a moment sufficed to undeceive her, for
nobody there resembled Cavendish.
At last, at the termination of the waltz al-
ready alluded to, as Prince TemoeresefF was
leading Alice from the ball-room into a cooler
atmosphere, a servant approaching put a twisted
note into her hand ;
—" The gentleman who
gave it to me,"*' said he, " is waiting to speak
to Miss Wilbraham in the antechamber.'' It
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 253
must be Cavendish ! tliought Alice with a flush-
ing cheek, and she prepared to obey the summons.
" Another sonnet, beautiful Alice,'' said the
Prince ;
" will }ou not permit me to read it
to you?"
" No," she replied hastily, " I must read
it alone. I will return to you in a moment !"
And releasinof her arm from his, she retired
to a room immediately preceding the ante-
chamber, and untwisting the note found that
it contained these words scrawled almost ille-
gibly in pencil, and without any signature :
" I entreat that you will let me speak "^ith
you immediatelj/, and alone. —I shall await your
answer in person."
Alice turned precipitately towards the ante-
chamber, and opening the door, beheld, not
Cavendish, but Egerton.
" You here, Mr. Egerton !
" she exclaimed
in irrepressible amazement. " I did not expect
this pleasure to-night ; why did you not come
in at once ? But I suppose you required me
254- THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
to act as mistress of the ceremonies in intro-
ducing you to so new a scene ?""
She talked
fast and flippantly to hide her disappointment.
" No, -Miss Wilbraham," replied Egerton,
gravely and almost sternly ;
" I have no in-
tention of calling upon your services in such
a way. My presence is required in a very
different scene," and he sighed deeply as he
spoke ;
" but will you not grant the request
I have ventured to implore of you, and give
me a few minutes conversation in private ?
There is not a moment to be lost."
*' Good God ! what is the matter ? " said
Alice, now for the first time remarking the
exceeding paleness of his countenance and the
agitation of his manner.
"Are you not aware," he inquired reproach-
fully, " that !Madame Sampieri is at the point
of death ?
"
" Madame Sampieri !
" repeated Alice in
a tone of such unfeigned surprise that Egerton
felt at once convinced that she knew nothinof
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. ^55
of what was passing below. " Oh, Mr. Eger-
ton, why did you not tell us this before .^"
Egerton's countenance relaxed from its stern-
ness, for the words of Alice had removed a
weight from his heart and an irrepressible
" Thank God ! you did not know it
!
" burst
from his lips ; then in a softened voice he re-
plied, " I took the liberty of writing to Colonel
Wilbraham early in the evening to apprise
him of Madame Sampieri's situation."
'' He could not have received your note,
be assured," said Alice, her own generous
nature prompting her to attribute to her father
those feelings which would have influenced
herself; "or he would certainly have counter-
manded all these gay doings. Do you think
that we could have been such barbarians as
to be dancing here, while we knew that your
friend, that anyone indeed, was ill and dying
under the same roof ? Oh no, Papa knows
nothing of this sad affair ; he will never forgive
himself when he does !
\
^56 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
Egerton knew the contrary, for when he
found that his note to Colonel Wilbraham had
been disregarded, he had sought an interview
with him and had been refused admittance ; but
delicacy for the feelings of the daughter pre-
vented him from remarking to her upon the
conduct of her father, and he merely replied,
" I am now persuaded that i/oii were quite
ignorant of the melancholy situation of my
friend ; and that conviction has given me in-
expressible relief
—""
" We can still make tardy reparation," in-
terrupted Alice eagerly ;
*' come with me to
my father, Mr. Egerton, and tell him what
you have just told me, and we will immediately
dismiss our guests/'
'' No," said Egerton, "it is now too late !
the painful circumstances of the case could not
be compensated by such a measure ; but,'''' he
added in a hurried voice, " in the name of
Heaven let me speak with you in some more
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 2ot
private place. You know not all that depends
upon what I have to say ! not here, not among
these lights and flowers, —will you trust your-
self down-stairs with me, Miss Wilbraham?"
and he held out his hand to her.
There was something in the grave entreaty
of his voice and manner, that Alice dared not
resist. She silently took his arm and accom-
panied him down the staircase ; the echoes
of the music, the glare of the lamps, and the
perfume of the flowers grew fainter and more
indistinct at every step as she descended, until
at last, when the doors of Madame Sampieri's
apartment closed upon her, all traces of the
gay fete were completely shut out, and she
found herself in a dimly lighted antechamber,
where the Italian servants of the dying lady
had assembled, and upon their knees were
imploring the Madonna to restore their be-
loved mistress to them.
" See how she is beloved !
" said Egerton,
258 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
pointing to the prostrate supplicants. Then
leading Alice into an inner chamber, he closed
the door after him, and they remained alone.
" Mr. Egerton,'' exclaimed Alice, in the great-
est pertuhation, "you will perhaps think that
at such a time —in such a scene —under such
circumstances as these in which you have
sought me, that the curiosity which I am about
to express is not only unseasonable and frivo-
lous, but insulting to your feelings ; yet I will
candidly o%vn that until my mind is relieved
from it I cannot listen to any other subject.
Will you tell me then, without reserve, whose
handwriting and seal were upon the enve-
lope which you put into my hand last night ?
""
" Certainly,*' he replied ; "it was my in-
tention to have told you at that time, had we
not been interrupted ; they were the WTiting
and seal of Madame Sampieri."
Alice started. " I would have ventured to
have staked my life upon their being the
writing and seal of Mr. Cavendish !
*"
she said,
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 2j9
looking keenly and almost incredulously at
Eoferton.
It was now Egerton's turn to start as he
repeated the name of Cavendish. " And what
do you know of Mr. Cavendish ? " he inquired
in a hurried tone, for the fear that Alice had
been deceivins" him, and that she knew more
than she had avowed the preceding night,
flashed across his mind, and he could have
pardoned anything rather than duplicity.
But in a few words, and with all the con-
vincing simplicity of truth, Alice related to
him the memorable occurrence which had even-
tually occasioned the letter, written as she be-
lieved by !Mr. Cavendish, to fall into her pos-
session ; nor did she conceal from Egerton
that she had made herself mistress of its con-
tents.
" And you may imagine," she continued
" that putting together the mysterious tenour
of that letter, the strange request it contained,
my father's evident hatred of the writer,
260 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
implied in a few words of bitter allusion to
him followed by the most rigorous silence —
even by a determination," and she blushed in-
dignantly as she spoke, " to withhold from me
the knowledge that it was to that persoifs
exertions alone that I was indebted for my
life — you may imagine, I repeat, that these
facts have been sufficient to harass my mind
for months past with the deepest anxiety and
curiosity ; and there was nothing to lead me
out of the chaos of conjecture into which I
have been thrown, until that paper which I
saw in your posssession last night convinced
me that you not only know its writer but
that you are aware of the motives that lead
him to take an interest in me ; that you in
short can explain the whole enigma/'
" I can, indeed,''"' replied Egerton ;
" and
it was with that intention that I sought you
to-night
—
"
" Tell me, then,'** interrupted Alice, *'
for
God's sake tell me who is this Mr. Cavendish,
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 2G1
and how comes Madame Sampieri to be In-
volved in this business, for I am bewildered
by your declaration of the writing and seal
bein^f hers.'"'
''
Mr. Cavendish," said Egerton, " was the
husband of the Marchesa Sampieri."
" Her husband !
" repeated Alice, " I thought
you told us that she was a widow."
" She is," was the reply ;
" Mr. Cavendish
is no more ! He died in consequence of his
exertions to save your life, a few hours after
he had extricated you from the Tiber."
Awe-struck by this unexpected intelligence,
Alice sat pale and motionless, the tears coursing
each other down her cheeks. " Dead !
" she
muttered to herself, shuddering —" and to save
me ! and I who was expecting to see him to-
niofht ! I who fancied—oh ! dreadful, dreadful
!
"
Then her thoughts reverting to the widowed
Marchesa, she added, in tones of the deepest
commiseration, " Poor thing ! no wonder that
the sight of us was hateful to her."
262 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
Egerton gazed upon her for a moment with
tender compassion, and taking her passive hands
in his besought her to be calm. " I have still
much to tell you," he said, " much that will be
so painful for you to hear, and so embarrassing
for me to impart, that I shall require the aid
of all your composure to enable me to make
the communication as I ought to do ; but the
confidence which you reposed in me last night,
has given me courage to be explicit upon a
subject which I now know bears upon the
most sacred feelings of your heart ; Alice,—my
dear Miss AVilbraham,—I must speak to you
of your mother !
"
There was a magic in the mere mention of
her mother which had the power to draw the
thoughts of Alice away from every other sub-
ject, and to concentrate them in that one alone.
" My mother
!
" she exclaimed, grasping his
arm with an energy which betrayed the intensity
of her emotion ;
" you knew her then ? Oh !
speak to me of her, Mr. Egerton, speak to me
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 263
of my mother !" and her voice sank Into a
hollow whisper as she pronounced the last words.
At that moment a door at the further end
of the room slowly opened, and somebody from
without beckoned to Egerton ; he immediately
rose to obey the summons, and, telling Ahce
that he would return to her in an instant, dis-
engaged liimself from her hold and disappeared.
264- THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
CHAPTER XIV.
When she found herself alone, she endea-
voured to collect her scattered thoughts, but
in vain ; the little that had been said by
Egertou, had onl}'' tended to bewilder her head
and pain her heart, for as yet he had told her
nothing except the death of Cavendish, and
his connection with Madame Sampieri. And
here the remembrance of the dying lady na-
turally occurred to her, and perceiving that
there were writing implements upon the table,
she drew them towards her, and addressed a
hurried line to her father. " Dearest papa,'"*
she wrote, " you will be shocked to hear that
there is death in the house ; the Marchesa
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 265
Sampieri cannot live through the night. I am
certain that under these circumstances you will
immediately dismiss our guests, explaining to
them your motives for doing so. Do not let
my absence render you uneasy. I have been
sent for here, and shall return home as soon
as my presence is no longer required." And
twisting the paper into the form of a billet,
she directed one of the servants in the ante-
chamber to carry it immediately to Colonel
Wilbraham.
In the abstraction of her mind her fingers
mechanically turned over the leaves of a large
book that lay open upon the table, while her
eyes wandered over its pages without taking in
their sense (it was the Bible upon which her
mother's head had rested that morning) until
some written characters upon the fly-leaf sud-
denly arrested her attention ; "Edith Stanley,"'''
the maiden name of her mother, was written
there in the beautiful and well-remembered
hand that had twice before met her eyes, but
VOL. III. N
266 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
the ink had grown pale with time ; and un-
derneath, in another character, and evidently
more recently written, were these words, —
" Henry Cavendish and Edith Stanley were
married at Berne in Switzerland on the 12th
of June 18—." And again at the bottom of
the page, in the first handwriting,—" Henry
Cavendish Sampieri died at Rome on the 24th
of February 18—, in his forty-second year.
He was taken from this life unexpectedly, al-
most suddenly, but not unprepared, a few hours
after he had rescued my beloved child from
a dreadful death, and in consequence of his
efforts to save her. He died in faith and hope,
and humble reliance on His Word who sent
His Only Son upon earth to redeem the chil-
dren of sin from everlasting death, — beloved
and mourned by all who knew him. May
my end be like his, and when the hour of
my release shall arrive, may I be judged not
unworthy of an eternal re-union with him.
" Edith Cavendish Sampieri.'*'*
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 261
And now the mystery was solved ! For
the first time the truth flashed upon Alice.
With a rapidity that caused her brain to
rock, the events of past years, and those of the
present moment burst upon her ; the silence
which had involved the memory of her mo-
ther in mystery, was accounted for — her
father's hatred of Cavendish — the letter that
had fallen into her hands —the presence of
Edith at Pisa — her emotion at beholding
Alice in the Campo Santo—her daily appear-
ance at the open door of that very room in
which she herself was then seated —the sere-
nade of the past night —all were explained;
and as these circumstances rushed rapidly upon
her startled comprehension, dreadful doubts
and dreadful certainties crowded there in deso-
lating confusion ; a flush of shame mounted to
her brow, and veilinof her eves with her hand
although there was none there to behold her,
she groaned aloud in the anguish of her spirit.
The sound of an opening door roused her
n2
268 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
from the helpless agony of that moment, and
the reappearance of Egerton seemed suddenly
to infiise into her an energy and self-possession
which, alas ! were far from being the reality
of either, but were merely the result of feelings
wound up to that dreadful state of tension
which precludes all outward demonstration of
grief, and invests the sufferer with a momentary
calm so unnatural, so over-wrought, that it is
more painful to behold than the most clamorous
outburst of sorrow.
" Mr. Egerton,"" said she, in a low, rapid
voice, standing up and pointing to the writing
upon the open Bible, ••'
I know all ! Madame
Sampieri is my mother."
Egerton''s eye followed the direction of her
finger, and he saw that the truth had been thus
strangely revealed to her during his short ab-
sence from the room. He would have spoken,
but Alice, placing her hand upon his lips, pre-
vented him.
" Not now, not now !
" she exclaimed ;
" you
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 269
can tell me nothing that I cannot guess, nothing
that I could now bear to hear ! I must see my
mother I" and she was rushing past him to-
wards the door by which he had just entered,
but he detained her.
''
Be patient, I implore you," he urged ;
" you
cannot see your mother now."
"What!" interrupted Alice, turning almost
fiercely upon him, " does she exclude me from
her presence ?"
" No," replied Egerton, mildly yet firmly ;
" but at this moment she sleeps, and if you
would see her alive she must not now be dis-
turbed."
" True," said Alice, relapsing for a moment
into the same terrible calmness ;
" she is dying,
I know. My mother !
" she repeated to her-
self, " was it thus that I was to hear of you ?
is it thus that we are to meet ? have I found
you only to lose you ? Oh ! why did we not
both die this day eighteen years ago i" and
clasping her hands together, with an expression
270 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
of grief so passionate and heart-rending that
the eyes of Egerton overflowed as he gazed
upon her, she burst into an agony of tears.
Egerton sought not to check those salutary
tears, for he knew that the exasperation of
her spirits would be calmed by them, and that,
when the first nervous paroxysm had exhausted
itself, she would be able to listen to him with
something like composure. Nor was he mis-
taken ; long and bitterly did she weep, but
when, at last, her deep sobs had subsided into
silence, he seized upon that moment to speak
to her of her mother ; he placed all the events
of Edith's life in review before her, and soon
absorbed the attention of Alice by the melan-
choly interest of his recital.
No person was so well calculated to place
such a history in its true light as Horace Eger-
ton. His religious principles forbade him to
extenuate the fault which had separated Edith
from her family and from the world, but his
sense of justice equally forbade him to allow
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 271
the whole weight of blame to rest upon her
;
and, "without seeking to turn the heart of Alice
against her father, he scrupled not to impress
upon her that a course of conduct, very differ-
ent from that which he had pursued, would
have saved from ruin and disgrace one whose
aspirations had ever been pure and virtuous.
Nor did he conceive that the cause of morality
could be advanced, by withholding the tribute
of his approval from the exemplary conduct
which had redeemed one fault, (fatal, indeed,
in its consequences, and never to be oblite-
rated,) by so many virtues ; and therefore he
dwelt, with the eloquence that springs from
conviction, upon the irreproachable tenour of
Edith's subsequent life, upon the noble qualities
of Cavendish, and upon the mutual affection
which had united them up to the last moment
of his existence, and which, in minds like theirs,
could only have resulted from the conviction of
mutual worth and mutual good conduct. Last-
ly, he spoke of her maternal feelings, which
272 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
neither time nor absence, nor more recent ties
had possessed the power to weaken ; which had
enabled her to live on, broken-hearted as she
was, that she might again behold her child ; and
which in the moment when she had ascertain-
ed the tender sentiments of that child for her,
had manifested their violence by causing the
accident that had precipitated her last mo-
ments.
" Yes, Alice," he continued, ''
the joy of
hearing me repeat those sentiments which you
expressed to me last night, was too much for
your mother''s heart, so long enured to sorrow,
and she has sunk under it ; but she will die
happy, because she now knows how you love
her ! How she loved you, can never be known
by you ; nor can those understand it who have
not, like me, watched her day by day, and
beheld her sinking spirits revived by a casual
glimpse of you, her exhausted strength rally
at the distant sound of your voice, her very
existence hang upon my words because they
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 273
spoke of you ! And yet, with that sublime
abnegation of self which belongs only to a
mother's love, she has resigned herself to see
and hear you only thus, that she might not
destroy the happy state of ignorance in which
you remained concerning her. Read this letter,
and you will see her sentiments under her
own hand, expressed, when she knew that her
doom was sealed, to the friend in whom she
has the most confidence on earth, to my mother,
who loves her as though she were her own
daughter, and who, with my whole family,
most anxiously desired that she should pass
the remainder of her days among them.''
These words, attesting to the worth of Edith,
were listened to in religious silence by Alice ;
they fell like balm upon her wounded heart,
and calmed the frenzy of feeling to which she
had been excited by the sudden discovery of
her mother's existence, added to an imperfect
knowledge of her position and a total ignorance
of her sentiments towards herself. She re-
N 6
274 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
ceived the letter* from the hands of Egerton,
pressed it to her hps and heart with reverential
tenderness, and then, with many an interrup-
tion caused by the bhnding tears that streamed
from her eyes, she perused the sad document
from beginning to end.
When she had finished it, she turned to-
wards Egerton and held out her hand to
him.
" Best and kindest of friends," she said, in
a tone of the deepest feeling, " may God reward
you for all that you have done for my mother !
never, never, can I
—
"
" The Signor Colonello requires that the
Signorina sua Jiglia will immediately return
home,*" said one of the Marchesa's servants,
entering from the antechamber, and unable to
master the English name with which he had
been intrusted.
* The letter to Lady Catherine Egerton, which has
already appeared, and which her son had procured from
her, for the purpose of shewing to Alice.
8k
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 27o
" Impossible !
'"'
replied Alice quickly. " Tell
mv father that I cannot return now."
" £cco la di lei Signora madre^ Eccellenza^
che resta servita nelT a?iticamera, hramando
parlare con lei un momentino ; comanda ch'io
la faccia entrare f*"*"*
"No, no!" and Ahce, rushing out, found
her mother-in-law walking about the anteroom
with a disturbed air, and a vinaigrette held
to her nose. The sound of the music above
stairs came faintly through the half-open door.
" My dear Alice," said Mrs. Wilbraham,
" what is the meaning of all this ? what in the
world can you have to do here with a perfect
stranger, neglecting your own friends in such
an extraordinary manner, and perhaps rmining
the risk of taking some shocking infection .-'
Everybody is wondering where you are ; you
must return home with me immediately."
* " Your Excellency's mamma is waiting in the ante-
room, and wishes to speak with you for a moment ; shall I
bring her in?"
276 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
" Not for the world I
" interrupted Alice
wildly ;
" my duty is to remain here ; do not
detain me, or you will see me lose my senses
on the spot
!
" and she was leaving the room,
but Mrs. Wilbraham caught her arm.
" Alice, your father is already extremely
angry with you for your strange conduct ; it
is with great difficulty that I have prevented
him from cominof down stairs and makinof a
scene. What can I say if I go back without
you ? what can I tell him ?"
" Tell him," said AHce sternly, " to cause
that music to cease, if he would not plunge
his soul in eternal remorse ! tell him that my
mother lies dying there
/"''*
pointing to the inner
apartment ; and, with frantic haste disengag-
ing herself from Mrs. Wilbraham's grasp, she
rushed back to Egerton and closed the door
after her.
"Come!'" said she, gasping for breath in
her struggle to appear calm, *'
let us go to my
mother ; there is not a moment to be lost !
Trust me, Mr. Egerton, I will shew as much
self-command as she has done. I will not
disturb her, and when she wakens, the first
object that her eyes rest upon shall be her
child."
Egerton no longer resisted this appeal, nor
would the excited state of Alice's mind have
permitted her to listen to him had he done
so ; she trembled so violently, that he drew her
arm through his own to support her tottering
steps, and leading her across another saloon
to a room at the further end of the suite, drew
aside the drapery that fell before the door,
and they both entered the chamber of Edith.
A physician and a female attendant were seated
near the bed, both of whom arose at the ap-
pearance of the new comers, and placing their
fingers upon their lips, to enjoin silence, with-
drew noiselessly to the adjoining room ; while
Alice, breathless and almost powerless with
218 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
agitation, leaned, for a moment, against tlie
wall to recover herself, and then with a sort
of desperate courage advancing, in another mo-
ment she stood by the bed upon which her
dying mother lay stretched.
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 279
CHAPTER XV.
The curtains had been thrown back to admit
as much air as possible, and Edith lay hushed
in a repose so profound that almost might it
have been doubted that a li\'ing form was there,
so little of mortality appeared to cling to the
lovely wreck ; the very character of her coun-
tenance had changed since Egerton last looked
upon it ; all traces of sorrow and suffering had
vanished from thence, to give place to a se-
renity almost ecstatic ; and its calm, mysterious
beauty presented to his imagination a type of
that ineffable peace which belongs to the world
beyond the grave, and of which, perhaps, her
spirit, almost emancipated from its vesture of
280 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
clay, had already obtained a foretaste in some
glorious vision.
Awed by this touching spectacle, Alice for
a moment stood transfixed by the bed-side,
gazing in solemn silence upon the saint-like
features of her mother ; then, sinking upon her
knees, she bent her face over the wan, trans-
parent hand that lay motionless upon the cover-
let, and approached her lips to it, with the
reverence with which she would have touched
some sacred thing.
The warm tears that gushed over it awakened
the sleeper, and as Edith slowly unclosed her
eyes, they rested upon the bright form of Alice
kneeling by her couch,—her gorgeous robes
sweeping the ground, her floating tresses glitter-
ing with jewels, and the whole of her splendid
attire forming a strange contrast with that
death-bed scene, and with the abandonment
of grief that characterised her attitude.
Perhaps the wandering of Edith's mind, in
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 2S\
the confusion of that first waking moment, was
tinged with the bright visions that had visited
her slumber, and, under their influence, she
mistook the prostrate form of her daughter
for some celestial visitant, ''
on holy mission
bent," for, rapt and motionless, she continued
to gaze upon her in silent wonder, until, her
perceptions gradually returning, the truth slowly
broke upon her, and she recognised her child.
" Alice !
" she whispered, almost fearing that
it was still a dream.
Alice raised her streaming eyes, and her
heart thrilled, as, for the first time, she heard
the voice —for the first time met the gaze
of her mother ; those dark orbs wistfully fixed
upon her, with an expression of tender inquiry,
seemed to question the feelings that would be
exhibited towards her by her child, but the
answering glance of Alice dissipated that pass-
ing doubt, and changed the fear of Edith into
glad certainty.
282 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
" It is—it is my Alice —my child —my trea-
sure !
" burst from her lips in a transport of
joy, all her sinking energies rallying into mo-
mentary strength under the magic influence of
that long wished-for look—"Speak to me, my
own Alice I let me hear your dear voice—tell
me that you do not reject me—tell me that
you forgive your dying mother !^'
and raising
herself from her pillow she clasped her hands
together in earnest supplication.
" Mother, blessed mother,'*'' said Alice in
broken accents, as she flung herself upon the
bosom of Edith, " live to prove that all my
love, all my duty are yours ! Oh, mother !
why did you not call me to you sooner ? —but
we will never part again —never, never! and
the whole life of your Alice shall be devoted
to restoring you to happiness I
"
" It is too late !
'"*
murmured the dying Edith,
struggling to repress a sigh, the last which
vain regret ^\Tung from resignation in that
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 283
chastened heart ; then raising her eyes to
Heaven, the submission of the Christian tri-
*imphed over the fond desire of the mother,
and with an expression of pious gratitude, she
exclaimed, " Oh, my God ! I thank Thee for
this last blessing—the greatest of all—and thou
hast vouchsafed me many. Give me strength
now, even fiow, when life once more appears
desirable to me, to say, '
not m^ will but Thine
be done!'"
There was a silence of some moments, which
was only broken by the stifled sobs of Alice
as she covered the pale face of her mother
with passionate kisses, and the low murmurs
of Edith whispering words of consolation to
her. Even then she thought not of herself.
*' Speak to her, Horace !" she at length said
turning towards Egerton who, moved to tears,
had remained a silent spectator of the scene,
not daring to break in upon the sacred sorrow
of that moment ; '' comfort my child as you
284 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
have comforted me in my hours of agony—she
is unused to suffering—console her when I am
gone !" Her breath came short and gaspingly,
and cold drops stood upon her brow, for the
agitation of that meeting had exhausted the
last remnant of her strength, and she could
no longer raise her voice above a broken whisper.
Egerton, kneeling down by Alice, bent for-
ward to catch the last words of his dying
friend. " Teach her,'' she continued, " to be
resigned —tell her that I die happy—oh, hov:
happy ! since the blessing of her affection has
been granted to my last moments — tell her
that this hour compensates for all my past
sufferings —that all is for the best ! Had I
lived, we must again have been separated
—
tell her all this, Horace,—be to her all that
you have been to me—friend, guide, and com-
forter ! —And you, Alice, my good, my beauti-
ful, my spotless child ! look upon this best of
beings as your friend—follow his counsels, and
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 285
you will never err ! —be guided by him, and
you will escape the guilt and misery that have
been my portion ! And, oh ! Alice, forget not
all that he has been to your mother —more
than afriejid—he has been a son to me."
Alice raising her head from her mother's
bosom placed her hand in that of Egerton
;
their hearts were too full for speech, but the
expression of her countenance as she thus
tacitly adopted the wishes and feelings of
her mother, and the deep emotion with which
he received that beloved hand, and for the first
time carried it to his heart, rendered words
superfluous. No thoughts of love, however,
profaned that solemn moment ; but boundless
gratitude on one side, and devotion as bound-
less on the other, knit their souls together
with ties more indissolubly binding than those
of passion.
The fleeting spirit of Edith accepted the
augury which that simple action conveyed, and
286 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
a smile, a bright smile of other days, lighted
up her countenance with a parting ray of joy,
as she drew their hands towards her, and laid
them upon her heart. " My children ! ""
she
murmured, " bless you, — bless " but the
words died away upon her lips. And now
the grasp which held their hands, tightened
convulsively for a moment, and then relaxed
its hold : the heart to which they were clasped,
fluttered feebly and then became still ! Oh
!
how awful was that stillness ! They under-
stood its dreadful import, yet they dared not
confirm it to each other by a word, and still
they continued to gaze upon those marble
features until the lingering smile that had
irradiated them with such brit^ht intelli-
gence slowly faded away, and left them fixed
in the rigid repose of death.
Then, silently and with filial reverence, Eger-
tou passed his hand over the eyes of Edith,
and closed them for ever ; a black mist spread
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 287
before those of Alice as she beheld him per-
form this last melancholy clutv for her mother.
She saw, —she felt no more ! and Egerton,
raising- her inanimate form in his arms, bore
her away from the chamber of death.
288 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
CHAPTER XVI.
When Alice re-entered her home the dawn
was breaking, and its cold wan light shed an
air of indescribable cheerlessness over the de-
serted rooms, which everywhere presented ves-
tiges of the last night's orgies. Drooping gar-
lands, tinsel draperies, and expiring lamps
hung from the walls ; faded and trampled flow-
ers strewed the floors ; and here a broken fan,
and there a black mask or a stray glove littered
the divans,—relics of vanity in which the fete
had originated, and which, triumphant for a
moment, had left nothing for the recollection
to dwell upon with satisfaction ! and this was
all that remained of the sumptuous entertain-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 289
ment from which so much had been expected —
for which so much had been sacrificed ! In the
midst was Colonel Wilbraham, pacing up and
down, like the Genius of Disorder, his face
contracted with rage, and every gesture expres-
sive of the most intemperate irritation. Alice
clung to Egerton for support, and shuddered as
she looked around. The comfortless scene was
in unison with her own dreary feelings ; a few
hours had changed it from a bright enchantment
to a cheerless desert, and she sighed convul-
sively as she made the comparison.
The emotions of the last night had pressed
too rapidly upon a heart so new to affliction
as was that of Alice, and she had been pro-
strated by their violence. Her mind, undis-
ciplined by trial, had revolted against this first
heavy visitation ; and, " like sweet bells jan-
gled out of tune,'' gave forth nothing but dis-
sonance, rendered still harsher by the con-
trast with its natural harmony. Her whole
frame seemed instinct with suffering ; a sombre
VOL. III. O
290 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
fire flashed from her tearless eyes, and their
burning Hds drooped heavily over them, while
cold tremors crept through her shivering limbs
;
her cheeks, even her lips, were of a deathlike
paleness ; and her beautiful dark hair, wet and
uncurled by the remedies which had been ap-
plied to restore her to animation when she
had fainted, hung in damp disordered masses
round her face, rendering its whiteness more
ghastly. Egerton placed her on a sofa, and,
advancing quickly towards Colonel Wilbraham,
intercepted him in his approach to his daughter.
''
Miss Wilbraham is not in a state to listen
to you at present,'' he said, reading in his
countenance the reception that awaited Alice
;
" the melancholy events of the night have over-
powered her. She requires immediate repose,
and if it be withheld the consequences may
be fatal. In the name of humanity, I entreat
that you will allow her to retire to her own
room.'"*
But Colonel "Wilbraham, wholly regardless
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 291
of Egerton's entreaty, pushed rudely by him,
and placing himself before Alice gave unre-
strained vent to his angry passions. " Miss
Wilbraham," he said, in a voice almost inar-
ticulate with rage, *'
you have thought proper
openly to defy my authority, and to set at
nought my feelings in a circumstance where
delicacy and propriety should have taught
you a very ditferent line of conduct ! Go to
your room, and prepare to leave Pisa to-morrow.
By this you will understand that all intercourse
between yourself and the person below stairs
must immediately cease ! and upon your cheer-
ful compliance with this order, and your future
obedience to my wishes will alone depend my
forgiveness of
''
** Your forgiveness !" interrupted Alice, look-
ing up at him with flashing eyes, " it is / who
have oiFences to forgive ! —it is / who am the
injured person ! —I, who have been brought
up in ignorance of all that most nearly touched
me! —I, who was the only person to whom
o 2
292 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
my mother's existence remained a secret ! Have
you treated me like a friend or a daughter by
resorting to these unworthy concealments ? and
into what fatal errors, oh, God ! might they not
have betrayed me !" (She thought of the strange
interest which her mistake concerning Caven-
dish's sentiments for her had awakened, and
a thrill of horror crept over her as she felt
how nearly she had been hurried into con-
templating her mother's husband in the light
of her own lover !)
" Into what horrors have
they not already plunged me ? 1 have trampled
unconsciously upon my mother's broken heart,
I have danced while she was expiring ! Had
you told me the truth, all this would have
been avoided,—and you talk of forgiving me !
May God forgive you, sir, the misery you
have inflicted upon me !
"
The vehemence with which these passionate
reproaches burst from the lips of Alice, com-
pletely exhausted her ; for when she attempted
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 29o
to rise and leave the room, her trembling limbs
refused to sustain her, and she sank helplessly
back upon the sofa, suffocated with hysterical
sobs.
Mrs. Wilbraham, who had been attracted
to the spot by this clamour of angry voices,
here entered ; and her husband, thunderstruck
at the spirit in which Alice had met his dis-
pleasure, and speechless with anger at the
violence with which she had hurled his re-
proaches back upon himself, made a sign to
her to remove his daughter from the room.
"Poor thing!" said Mrs. Wilbraham, her
natural kindness asserting itself as she took
the burning hand of Alice in her own, " she
is really very ill, and no wonder ! she is in
a high fever, —quite unable to move. How
shall I ever get her to her room, Mr. Egerton ?
I don't like to ring for any one just at present,''
and she cast a significant glance towards Colonel
Wilbraham, who was again pacing the room
294 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
In the utmost disorder ;
" family secrets, you
know, ought not to be exposed to one''s ser-
vants ! But if you will assist me, I
—
"
Egerton did not allow her to finish the sen-
tence before the wishes she had implied were
acted upon by him ; for the second time that
morning he raised the unconscious Alice in
his arms, and, guided by jNIrs. Wilbraham,
bore his precious burthen beyond the reach
of her father's anger into her own room, where,
having deposited her upon the bed, he left her
to the care of her stepmother, and quickly
returned to Colonel Wilbraham.
That gentleman was still striding backwards
and forwards, gesticulating with all the violence
of impotent passion ; but at the sight of Egerton
he suddenly stopped, and assuming what he
believed to be a dignified position, awaited his
approach in the middle of the room.
" Colonel Wilbraham," said the latter, " I
am the person who required ]\Iiss Wilbraliam''s
attendance below last night,—1 am the person
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 295
who brought her into her mother''s presence,
—I am the only person to blame in this trans-
action, and I am here to answer for what 1
have done."
" Sir," replied Colonel AVilbraham with a
sardonic smile, " I am aware of the obliofation
you have laid me under ; but as I have not
yet given up the guardianship of my daughter
to you or to any other person, the least that
you could have done would have been to con-
sult me before you took the responsibility of
such a step upon yourself."
*'
Had you read the second note which I
wrote to you last night," returned Egerton,
" you would have seen that / did so. Early
in the evening I wrote to you to state that
Madame Sampieri had suddenly become so ill
as to leave no hope that she could pass through
the night ; and I supposed that the knowledge
of a fellow-creature being in the agonies of
death under the same roof with you would
have been in itself a sufficient motive to in-
S96 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
duce you to suspend your gaieties. Later in
tlie evening, finding that my communication
had produced no result, I again addressed you,
telling you who the dying person was, and en-
treating that you would permit her to behold
her daughter before she expired. Still no an-
swer was returned to me, and, supposing that
you could not have received either of my notes,
I then made a personal application to see you,
but I was told that you had given such orders
as precluded the possibility of either myself or
my letters being admitted into your presence
until the morrow. I knew that there would be
no morrow for the dying woman ! I felt im-
peratively bound to stop the horrible sacrilege
into which Miss Wilbraham was so uncon-
sciously betrayed ; and, finding that I could ob-
tain no hearing from you, I applied to her for
an interview, which was immediately granted.""
Colonel Wilbraham bit his lip until the blood
started from it at thus discovering that he had
himself been accessory to bringing about an event
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 297
which for years it had been the mlinor wish of
his mind to avert, and to insure the impossi-
bility of which he had not hesitated to sacrifice
truth upon every occasion ; he felt that had he
listened to the dictates of common humanity,
nothing of the sort would have taken place
;
as is commonly the case with the shallow cun-
ning of selfish minds, he had overreached him-
self, and that humiliating conviction irritated
him beyond the power of self-command.
" Much as I love my daughter,'' he exclaim-
ed, almost inarticulate with passion, " I would
rather have seen her dead at my feet than have
known that she had for a single moment been
within reach of her mother's contamination !
I had sworn that nothing of the kind should
take place either while I lived or afterwards ;
but there has been an infamous plot carrying on
for months, by that worthless woman and her
worthless paramour, to deprive me of my child's
affections ; and you, Mr. Egerton, have been
made their dupe, or their —
"
o 5
298 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
"Hold, sir!" interrupted Egerton sternly,
" moderate your expressions ! The mother of
your daughter, the wife of your youth, lies
dead in the room beneath you ! Her husband
lost his life in saving that of your child ; he
died a few hours after he had snatched her from
death, because the common care that his ex-
hausted state required was denied to him ; and
you best know by whom. They had both
deeply injured you, it is true, but they paid the
penalty of their fault in this world, and they
have gone to answer for their transgressions at
a higher tribunal, whose Divine Judge has said,
'
/ will not he angri/ for ever !
**
Death ought
to destroy all enmities — the remembrance of
injuries should be buried in the grave of the
injurer ! Whatever may have been your ani-
mosity towards those two persons while living,
let it not be said that you wilfully insulted
their lifeless ashes."
Colonel Wilbraham was silent ; the know-
ledge, now, for the first time, imparted to him,
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 299
that the two objects of his vindictive hate had
ceased to exist, produced a visible change in his
countenance and manner. He was not, indeed,
capable of the generous sentiment which Eger-
ton had advocated, for the spirit of forgiveness
was not in him, but he felt relieved by the
announcement of their death ; his asperities
were subdued by it—he had nothing more to
fear from them with respect to Alice—a weight
seemed taken from his breast, and he breathed
more freely ; for as long as they hved, the
world had appeared to him too small to contain
them all.
The selfish satisfaction Avhich lighted up
Colonel Wilbraham's countenance upon hearing
that Edith and her husband were both dead,
did not escape the penetration of Egerton, and
he felt profoundly disgusted by it ; but anxious
only to rescue the memory of his departed
friend from the stigma of having engaged in
unworthy machinations against him, and deter-
mined to absolve Alice from all blame in the
300 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
last night's occurrence, he suppressed his indig-
nation, and when the question was put to him
of,
—*' What else am I to suppose when I find
that Mr. Cavendish watched and followed Miss
Wilbraham constantly at Rome, and that Mrs.
Cavendish introduced herself as an inmate into
the same house with me, here in Pisa, under a
feigned name ?" —he replied by calmly explain-
ing the legitimate cause of Edith^s change of
name, and then continued :
" The supposition that a plot had been
laid to tamper with your daughter's affection
for you, is at once contradicted by the fact
that her mother has lived under the same roof
with her for more than two months, and has
abstained from any attempt to make herself
known to her. No ! the soul of Edith Sampieri
was incapable of stooping to plot or subterfuge,
even where the realisation of her dearest wishes
depended upon such means ; and her heart was
too generous to seek for its owti gratification
at the expense of her daughter''s tranquillity.
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 301
She was aware of the determination you had
adopted to separate her for ever from her child
;
she was also aware of the deception you had
practised towards Miss Wilbraham by bringing
her up in the belief that her mother had died
during her infancy ; and although she disap-
proved of such a course, and bitterly deplored
it ; although her heart and her conscience pro-
tested against such a violation of truth, she
recognised the right which you possessed, and
which ^he had forfeited, to direct the mind and
actions of your daughter, and she never attempted
to contravene it. True it is, that she came to Pisa
with the sole view of seeing her child. Aware that
her end was approaching, she wished to procure
for herself that sad and imperfect gratification
—
the last which earth afforded to her ; but faith-
ful to the system of self-denial which she had
imposed upon herself, she had the courage to
live near her, yet remain unknoi£n —she had
the heroism to behold death approach, yet
not to break through her silence. The thought.
302 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
the wish, the hope, that for sixteen years had
clung to her heart with all the tenacity of a
mother's love, were sacrificed that her daughter's
peace might be preserved — that your family
harmony might not be endangered. I ask you,
sir, could you have expected or exacted more
from her ? And do not imagine that the sacri-
fice was an easy one, or that time had either
blunted her feelings or worn out her affections
;
for I, who beheld her daily struggles, know
what it cost her to obtain this victory over her-
self Yet she believed that she had concealed
her sufferings from me, and in truth I knew
not all until the last few hours of her existence
when the agony of death was upon her ; then
the stronger agony of her soul burst forth in
supplications for resignation, in self-accusation
that the stubborn affections of the flesh still
rebelled against the completion of her sacrifice,
in prayers for peace, for grace to yield up her
spirit into the hands of her Creator without a
murmur ! Those prayers were listened to, and
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 303
the '
peace which passeth all understanding' de-
scended upon her, and shed a halo over her
last moments. It was then that I took upon
myself to procure for her that boon which
she had resiofned with so meek and Christian
a grace ; it was then that I sought you. You
know the rest ; let me hope that, had we
met, my prayer would have been granted —
let me believe that I only anticipated your
own wishes in bringing peace and joy to the
dying hour of your once loved Edith, the
mother of your still loved Alice."*''
The emotion with which Egerton had spoken
communicated itself, in a slight degree, to
Colonel Wilbraham, but ashamed of shewing
it he turned away his head ; perhaps, too,
the allusion to Edith by a name which had
not been pronounced in his hearing for years,
had touched some gentler chord of his heart
by reviving the memory of his early days of
happiness with the beautiful and ill-fated being
who had successively been the object of his
304 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
passionate love, pride, vanity, jealousy, and vin-
dictive hate. If so, the softening influence of that
recollection was transitory, for almost immedi-
ately resuming his former manner, he remarked,
" She deserved no concessions, no forgiveness
from me ; her fault was the greatest that can
be committed by woman towards man, or to-
wards society."
" True,'' replied Egerton, " and she never
forgot that it was so. But can you absolve
yourself from all blame in your conduct towards
her ? Did you remove her from the temptations
that assailed her youth and inexperience ? Did
you seek to reclaim her wandering aftections
by gentleness and kindness, or endeavour to
fix her in the path of duty by that appearance
of confidence in her virtuous resolutions which
is all-powerful with a generous and high-prin-
cipled nature ? for, believe me, it is only the
vicious-minded and heartless of her sex who
can bring themselves to deceive an indulgent
and confiding husband ; believe me, too, that
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 305
the duties which married men owe to society
consist as much in preventing^ as in punishing,
guilt."
Colonel Wilbraham quailed silently beneath
the searching look that was bent upon him, and
Egerton continued ;
" Society, as well as your-
self, visited with its utmost rigour upon your
fallen wife the penalties which are awarded
to such delinquencies, and she accepted the
punishment as a just retribution for her fault,
nor ever sought to evade its severity ; in this,
how different from almost all other women in
her position who, unable to resign themselves to
their exclusion from society, either endeavour
by meannesses to propitiate the indulgence of
the world, or avenge its frowns in the reckless
spirit of bitter defiance. But hers was a better
and a nobler course : go to Bologna, and you
will learn how her life was passed ; there, in
a country where the fault for which she had
suffered is looked upon as a venial one—where
her beauty and her talents, and her hus-
306 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
band's name, station, and fortune, caused her
society to be coveted and soug-lit for bv the
most briUiant circles in Italy, you will not
hear of her as having appeared in those gay
scenes ; she was a stranger to them ; but in
the abode of the miserable her presence was
never sought for in vain ; her name was in
the hearts and upon the lips of all who suf-
fered ; she was the friend of the friendless
—
the mother of the orphan —the consoler of
the wretched. While all who approached her
forgot her fault in the contemj^latiou of her
virtues, she alone remembered it —she alone
judged herself with severity ; and are sixteen
years passed thus to count for nothing ! is
the practice of
—
"
" Enough !
'"
interrupted Colonel Wilbraham
impatiently, and eager to put an end to this
vindication of Edith's memory which, strange
to say, irritated more than it rejoiced him
;
" what is done, is done, and cannot be recalled
;
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 307
but I have no doubt that in acting as you did
you meant all for the best. Give me your
hand, Mr. Egerton, and let nothing more be
said upon the subject. Forgiveness of injuries
is not so easy as you appear to imagine, and
to forget them is impossible ; all that I can
promise is never to renew the subject to Alice,
and I hope that she will have the good sense
to imitate my forbearance, and abstain from
offending me by any future allusion to — to
her mother. Of course I shall depend upon
your prudence to prevent any part of this awk-
ward business from transpiring in the town ?
"
Egertou knew perfectly well that this con-
ciliatory tone was only adopted to secure his
secresv, and that if he had not been feared
he would have been defied ; but as he expected
nothing better from a spirit so selfish and vin-
dictive, and as, for the sake of Alice, he wished
to avoid a rupture with her father, he suppressed
the repugnance which would have led him to
308 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
decline all farther intercourse with Colonel
Wilbraham. " Be assured," said he, with em-
phasis, as he received his proffered hand, " that
I respect the memory of Madame Sampieri
too sincerely, to make her the subject of idle
conversation here or elsewhere.''''
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 309
CHAPTER XVII.
Alice, a prey to fever and delirium, vibrated
between life and death for many days, but
at last youth triumphed over the aggravated
character of her malady, and she was restored
to the prayers of her almost despairing friends ;
but her recovery was tedious and painful, for
all the distressing symptoms of her last year's
illness had returned with accumulated force.
She arose from her sick bed, disenchanted with
life ; upon its very threshold a terrible revela-
tion had suddenly exposed to her the worst
evils with which society abounds, and stript
her heart of its most innocent illusions. She
was like a traveller newly arrived in a strange
310 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
land, who eagerly casts his eyes around in
expectation of beholding a smiling prospect,
and sees before him a landscape devastated by
the thunderbolt and the volcano ; streams of
lava, where he had looked for green fields;
riven and uprooted trees, where he had sought
for the shade of waving forests. The desolating
influence of the passions, known only to her
through their fatal effects upon her family,
had equally embittered for her the sources
of memory and of hope. Every thought of
her mother was tinged with anguish, shame
and regret ; yet fih'al piety and tenderness
were so inseparably entwined with those sad-
dening reminiscences, that she felt as though
it would have been sacrilege for her to have
cast a reflection upon the memory of Edith
— the all-atoning power of the grave had
sanctified it in her heart ; and the thoughts
of Alice dwelt only upon her virtues, her suffer-
ings, and her expiation.
But her father ! From the moment in which
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. oil
she had discovered the system of falsehood
that he had observed towards her for so many
years, (less out of tenderness to herself than
to work out his vengeance against her mother,
and to insure its continued operation even after
his death,) all her confidence in him vanished
to return no more. And thus, as is invari-
ably the case with persons who blindly sacri-
fice truth and principle that some unworthy
passion of their souls may be gratified, his
machinations finally recoiled upon himself.
Had he been true with his daughter, and
placed that confidence in her which she so well
merited — had he shewn himself to her in
the light of a generous and noble adversary of
the woman by whom he had been so deeply
injured, the respect and adherence of Alice
would have been for ever insured to him ; but
by a contrary course of conduct he had not
only forfeited that fair position, but he had
forced all the sympathies of his child to take
refuge with her erring parent. And thus
312 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
the happiness of Alice, as a daughter, was at
an end ; for the recollection of her mother
was accompained with bitter heart-burnings,
that of her father with cold distrust.
Such, alas ! are the withering effects which
the misconduct of parents entail upon their
children.
Faithful to the last in his filial devotion
to Edith, Egerton had accompanied her re-
mains to Bologna, and pronounced over the
tomb which had reunited her to Cavendish,
the last solemn rites of the Protestant Church.
When he returned to Pisa, Alice was pro-
gressing towards recovery ; but a deep gloom
had fallen upon her spirits, and as the only cir-
cumstance which appeared to dispel it was the
presence of Egerton, his visits at Colonel Wilbra-
ham's were eagerly sought for by the family, and
soon became a daily occurrence. She felt that
he alone understood her feelings ; that to him
alone could she ever bring herself to speak
of the fatal events which had suddenly over-
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. Slo
clouded the joyous atmosphere of her youth ;
— her heart leaned upon him for consolation —
her mind recovered some portion of its confi-
dence in the inteorritv of human nature while
contemplating the loyalty of his. He, on his
side, found her presence far more dangerous
to his heart, while thus subdued by suffering,
than he had ever done, when in the full ra-
diance of her matchless beauty she had dazzled
and captivated him ^^th her gaiety and her
talents ; and thus the sentiment which they
had mutually inspired, took deep root in their
hearts before they were aware of its precise
nature, and it was only when the approaching
departure of the Wilbraham family for Eng-
land menaced them with a speedy separation,
that they suddenly found in the blank dismay
with which that announcement had overwhelmed
them, how necessary they had become to
each other's happiness.
On the day that Colonel Wilbraham had an-
nounced his intention of leaving Pisa, Alice,
VOL. III. p
314 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
for the first time since her illness, went down
stairs, and, accompanied by Egerton, visited the
deserted apartment of her mother, that she
might fix upon her memory a spot consecrated
by such sad and solemn associations. When
there, she knelt by the bed upon which Edith
had expired, and covering it with her tears
and kisses, prayed with all that passionate
fervour which is more the characteristic of
strongly excited feelings than of healthful de-
votion.
"Alas!" said she, as she arose from her
knees, " how miserably far am I removed from
that blessed state of mind which enabled my
dear mother to resign herself to the Will of
Heaven without a murmur ! how difficult, how
impossible it is for me to think that all is
for the best, when I am to see her no more !
Ah, she is happier far than her child ; her
sorrows are over, but mine are only begin-
nmg
!
*'
Her hopes,"' replied Egerton, " were placed
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 315
upon the infinite mercies of God, and this gave
her strength to suffer like a Christian, and not
to grieve like an unbeliever. She was per-
suaded of this great truth, that our Heavenh/
Father alone knows what is best for us ; and
heavily as she was stricken, she never disputed
His wisdom or His goodness."
" Would that I could imitate her
!
" ex-
claimed Alice earnestly. " Oh ! Mr. Egerton,
how am I to commence this great work of self-
discipline? Teach me — counsel me —support
me, and then, perhaps, I shall not fail in the
task ; and yet," she added, suddenly recollecting
herself, and tears rushing to her eyes, "in a
few days we are to leave Pisa, and I must lose
you, my best friend, too !
"
The tears of Alice, and the melancholy in-
flexion of her voice, as she alluded to their
approaching separation caused the heart oi
Egerton to thrill with the delicious cer-
tainty that his attachment was reciprocated by
her.
316 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
" Alice,'' he said, trembling as he spoke, " one
word from those dear lips will authorize me
to follow you, never again to be separated from
you ; one word will decide upon the happiness
or the misery of my future life ! Do you re-
member the last words of your mother, Alice ?
She called us her children ! Tell me, tell me,
my beloved, that your heart does not reject the
interpretation which mine has dared to give to
those words ?
"
*' I will not affect to misunderstand you,"
rephed Alice, a deep blush suffusing the pale
cheeks which recent illness had robbed of all their
bloom ;
" nor will I withhold from you that my
feelings—my wishes—that—that—. Speak to
my father, Horace I'"* she continued, suddenly
breaking aw^ay from the confusion of a first
avowal; "I will do nothing without his con-
sent; but should he withhold it, believe that
I will never give myself to another !
''
She held out her hand as she pronounced
these words; but Egerton, in a transport of
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 317
gratitude drew her towards him, and folded her
to his heart.
"Mother!""' said Ahce, raising her modest
eyes to Heaven, " look down upon your chil-
dren, and bless them once more !
"
p3
318 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
CONCLUSION.
About a year after the death of Edith Sam-
pieri, as Sir Allan Beaufoy and General Poyntz
were one day seated in the bay-window at
White's, the latter, suddenly raising liis eyes
from the newspaper he was reading, exclaimed,
" Here is the announcement of the marriage
of a friend of yours, Beaufoy !
"
"Indeed!'" replied Sir Allan, with that in-
describable 7iil admirari tone and countenance
which in England are considered to be the
evidences of supremely liigh breeding, " pray
who may it be ?
"
The General replied by reading aloud the fol-
lowing paragraph :
—
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 319
" On Thursday the 3rd inst. by special li-
cence, at Vale Royal, Leicestershire, the Rev.
Horace Egerton, of Raven'*s-crag Court, West-
moreland, nephew of the Marquis of Coniston,
to Alice, only child of Colonel Wilbraham, of
Vale Royal, late of the Royal Horse Guards
Blue."
" Aha ! pretty Alice Wilbraham," said the
antiquated Adonis, passing his fingers through
his well-arranged toupet, with an air of fatuity ;
" she was a monstrous fine creature, and the
pleasantest flirt in the world ; but not at all
fit for a parsonage."
" We all thought that you would have been
induced to perpetrate matrimony in that quar-
ter," remarked his friend, " for it was evident
that you were colpito."
" My dear fellow," rejoined Sir Allan, with
the same ineffable drawl, which would have in-
ferred indifference had not an irrepressible flush
betokening angry feelings been visible through
the delicate tint of rouge which scandalous
320 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
tongues averred that he appUed to his withered
cheeks, *'
I am not such a fool as to take a wife
out of a wild duck's nest ; the girl was devilish
handsome and entertaining, and Wilbraham's
house very agreeable on that account ; but
when I found that she was growing too tender,
and her mauvais ton father foolishly encourag-
ing her expectations, I thought it high time to
withdraw from the scene. On those occasions I
have always found that the best way of making
one''s intentions intelligible, is to order post-
horses."
" Yet, after all,'* said the General, " sup-
posing a man makes up his mind to marry, he
might do worse than take a fine girl with a fine
fortune and a good name."
" Eh, cest selon ! I however will confess that
I should strongly object to an alliance with a
girl whose mother had behaved as Wilbraham's
first wife did ; one always fears that the frailty
may be hereditary.""
" True ; pray what became of the first
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 3^1
Mrs. Wilbraham ? I have heard that she was
remarkably beautiful."'"'
" The most beautiful creature I ever beheld !
—handsomer even than her daughter. She was
my first love ; I was desperately in love with
her when I was a boy !""
(Sir Allan was at that
time sixty-three, and Edith, had she lived,
would have been thirty-nine !) " but she was
all for a bolt from her husband, and it did not
suit me to commence my career with an action
for damages. When she found that out, she
turned her thoughts to Harry Cavendish, and
he, poor fellow ! donna dans le piege, and car-
ried her off. It was a great pity ; for, as he
thought it necessary to bury himself alive with
her somewhere abroad, he became lost to ws."*"*
" And where are they now ? " asked the
General.
" Oh ! as for Cavendish, she put him to bed
with a spade at Timbuctoo, or some other out-
of-the-way place, (for they took to travelling,)
and then she married an Itahan Marquis, and
322 THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER.
determining not to be behindhand in the noble
corps into which she had been enrolled, took
unto herself a cavaliere servente ; and now
comes the best part of the history, for who do
you think was the favoured individual ?—this
very young Egerton who has just married her
daughter ! Arthur Bertie told me that he
went to Italy every year to pass some time
with her.*
" God bless my soul, you don't say so !" eja-
culated the General.
"-E vero /""
responded his friend. " You
see, my dear fellow, the antecedens are bad ;
—
this marriage is quite a pasticcio. I wish the
Reverend bridegroom all manner of joy of it
;
but I congratulate myself at the same time,
upon having managed my aifairs so much better
than he has done, and not having become, like
him, the victim of the Mother and Daughter V
A gentleman who had overheard the whole
of the foregoing conversation, and who, happen-
ing to have been an intimate friend of Edith
THE MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 323
and Cavendish, as well as of Lady Catherine
Egerton, knew how much of it was entitled to
belief, took up his hat as it ended, and saun-
tering down the steps into St. James's Street
muttered to himself
:
" Voild comme on ecrit Phistoire r
Florence, September, 1840.
THE END.
LONDON :
PRINTED BY SAMUEL BENTLEY,
Bangor House, Shoe Lane.
