{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__maitre_l_inconnu___the_rosicrucians_leaflet_no_1.pdf","mytitle":"The Rosicrucians Leaflet No 1","mylang":"de"}
1C. S.S.
M.P.
ROSICRUCIAN ORDER
CROTONA FELLOWSHIP.
T H E R O S IC R U C IA N S .
LEA FLET NO. 4
By MAITRE LTNCONNU.
LIVERPOOL:
BOHEMIAN PRESS.
digitised by the University of Southampton Library Digitisation Unit
f. 6F iws. m
I
:y of Southami ton Library Di.jitisation Unit
TH E ROSSCRUCIASMS.
By MAITRE L’lNCONNU.
Suddenly and unexpectedly they appeared from out of the
mists of time with a message for the world, and secretly their
message interwove itself into the philosophies, religions and
sciences.
The Freemason, the Druid, the Buffalo, all found it in their
ceremonies and religious rites and through them all the
Rosicrucian himself remained unknown.
Laden with priceless treasures from the East they swept
across Europe and stimulated Chemistry and presented a system
of medicine which is effective and beneficial to man. The
message gave a mighty filip to Philosophy, for God was centred
in that Philosophy.
It found the flaws in the religious teachings and pointed out
the Esoteric truths of Christianity, for the Rosicrucians were,
and are, what they claim, the Successors of a long line of Mystic
ancestiy, which comes from the Semitic Brothers of Light of
the Antient West, and from the Great Master Christ who brought
the Light of the Logos to his earth.
The Rosicrucian Fraternity is a secret one, but the why
and the wherefore of that secrecy may not be apparent to the
layman. Nevertheless, they work always for the good of
mankind.
Solemn vows and pledges are taken by those who may be
classed as Fratres of the Fraternity. Silently and secretly they
work among man and spread their message from country to
country, race to race, ever keeping in mind their great axiom—
" Know all but keep thyself unknown.”
Many are the investigators who seek for the origin of the
Fraternity of Rosicrucians, and many are the disappointments,
for they do not reveal themselves as Rosicrucians to the laymen.
2
Unparalleled in history is the influence .these great men
have held over mankind, for it is by silent working that they
accomplish their objective, and in a secret manner are they
known to each other.
All that is learned outside the Fraternity concerning its
origin is misleading, for the Fratres are experts in the use of
ciphers, codes and mystical symbolic writing. Ingenious are the
codes, ciphers and symbols and they are changed from time to
time in accordance with circumstances and environments when
there is a necessity to change them and for special reasons.
The one who seeks the Rosicrucian must seek him in mind
and Consciousness, for they are called in the thought of the
earnest student, for there is another axiom which says: “ When
the disciple is ready the Master shall be there.” Many will scoff
at this statement, but the truth of it is well known to those who
have sought and found.
We must approach the Mysteries as we would approach
the Altar of God.
A Fellowship of Occult Students does not make a
Rosicrucian Fraternity, but in its midst there may be a Frater,
and as a Frater he will be unknown until he is found on his
own level of Consciousness.
After such knowing, recognition on the physical plane is an
easy matter, for the Disciple will attract his Teacher. This
may happen outside of any Occult Order, but it is only on rare
occasions it does so happen.
The glorious symbol of the Fraternity—the Rose Cross,
is shown in a variety of forms, but that in nowise alters its
meaning, for it can be read in a seven-fold manner.
When we gaze upon the Cross with the seven roses floating,
as it were, around it, we see the symbol of a great mystery and
the mystery becomes deeper when we seek to unfold its meaning
when it is shown resting on a Pentagram.
In one interpretation the Pentagram represents the Logos
and man, and the Cross the burden of life or the Universe.
I
The seven roses represent the seven pathways to the interpreta
tion of life in varying stages and on finer planes of matter.
The antient symbol is ever-present in the minds of all
Rosicrucians for to them it is a beacon of light and that light
ever illuminates the darkness of despair. In that symbol may
be found the symbolism of Kosmos and Man, for its interpreta
tion gives the key to destiny. In this symbol alone may be
known something of the value of the secrecy of the Rosicrucian
ciphers, for it had helped to convey the message for centuries
to the peoples of Europe.
Science, religion and philosophy are concealed within the
petals of the roses, and history may be read in the cross and
star. In the whole of the symbal may be found the great secret
of the Rosicrucians, the reading is simple but very cleverly
concealed.
It is, then, through the interpretation of the symbolism that
We may find the antient landmarks of the Rosicrucians and thus
take one step towards the Great Fraternity, for indeed the
Rosicrucians have left, and still do leave, landmarks to prove
that they have been active in various countries of Europe.
All that the Manichees and the Egyptian magicians possessed
the Rosicrucians are heir to. From the Great West, ages ago
the knowledge was taken to the East, and back to the West
must those teachings go. Already this is well marked, for the
Rosicrucian message has extended from the Far East, through
European countries, to Britain. It will soon return to the Far
West, plus the realised experiences which the message gives.
It is during the return that great changes take place among
nations and peoples.
Verily the mystery of the Antient Egyptian Sphinx and
Great Pyramid will cease to be lone witnesses to the enigma
of all this and its solution. Fourfold was the unfoldment during
the travel Eastward and threefold shall it be during the return.
But a short cycle shall pass and then man will know more
of his destiny than he ever dreamed of. Life is an Initiation,
a struggle for the mastery of the elements. The Rosicrucians have
spoken of a Great Initiation, that, too, is a fight for the mastery
4
of the elements, though in a more capable and effective manner.
Mankind has but poorly mastered the earth, air and water;
■they have not even subdued a little fire, but the trial is coming.
America shall know this trial, all Europe shall know this trial,
every religion, philosophy and science shall know this trial, for
truth must be made manifest and not witheld from those who
desire to know things.
We seek for the Elixirs of Eife and the Philosopher’s Stone
and yet we do not know how to separate the wheat from the
chaff of life’s secrets. These truths are already at our command
but we see them not. Such things are known only when the
elements are mastered, for each element gives its own elixir,
its own stone and we become the wiser for knowledg of same.
It is not in vain that the Rosicrucians have laboured, for their’s
is a Divine message and their knowledge is practicable and
adaptable to all ages and all races; it is the Alpha and Omega
of destiny and a glorious sun radiates its light across the path
way, and darkness is unknown, for the light is ever seen in the
darkness.
When the cycle moves Westward let us be prepared for
the Masters shall arise from the most obscure place and their
light will shine through and into the darkest comers of the
E arth; it is then we shall realise who and what the Rosicrucians
are.
Bohemian Press, Printers & Publishers, 22, Norwood Grove, Liverpool.
I
digitised by the University of Southampton Library Digitisation Unit
