{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__lewis___mansions_of_the_soul.pdf","mytitle":"Mansions Of The Soul","mylang":"de"}
A NEW BOOK
Mansions of the Soul
The Cosmic Conception
By Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. C.
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE $2.50 net
FORD MOTOR COMPANY
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
V V V
Mansion* of tfje ^oul
Qtfje Cosmic Conception
By H. Spencer Lewis, Ph. D., F. R. C.
Imperator of the Rosicnician
Brotherhood of North America
ROSICRUCIAN LIBRARY
VOLUME NO. 11
SAN JOSE. CALIFORNIA
ROSICRUCIAN PRESS
Printing and Publishing Department
AMORG COLLEGE
FIRST EDITION, NOVEMBER 19J0
COPYRIGHT. 1930
By AMORC
Printed in the U. S. A.
Rosicrucian Press, San Jose, California
Dedication
V
To the Fearlessness and Frankness
or
H. F.
Who has so often and convincingly expressed
his faith in the Doctrines of Reincarna'
tion, and who has demonstrated his conv
plete trust in these principles by his
broad vision, human sympathy, and
unlimited plans for the future,
This Book is Dedicated
with the wish that his marvelous
industrial achievements may con'
tinue to have the well deserved
Cosmic Benediction and Blessing.
The Rosicrucian Library
V V V
Volume
I. Rosicrucian Questions and Answers with
Complete History of the Order.
II. Rosicrucian Principles For the Home and
Business.
III. The Mystical Life of Jesus.
IV. The Secret Doctrines of Jesus.
V. "Unto Thee I Grant..."
(Secret Teachings of Tibet.)
VI. A Thousand Years of Yesterdays.
(A Story of Reincarnation.)
VII. Self Mastery and Fate with the Cycles of
Life.
VIII. Rosicrucian Manual.
IX. Rosicrucian Prayers.
X. Rosicrucian Healing.
XI. Mansions of the Soul. The Cosmic Con'
ception.
( A complete outline of the Doctrines of
Reincarnation.)
(Other volumes will be added from time to time.
Write for complete catalogue.)
Contents
V V V
Introduction 9
Chapter I. "I Go to Prepare a Place for You" . . 13
Chapter II. Why Are We Here? 23
Chapter III. The Ancient Beliefs 3 J
Chapter IV. The Quest 47
Chapter V. The Cosmic Conception of the Soul . J3
Chapter VI. The Personality of the Soul .... 73
Chapter VII. Does Personality Survive Transition? 83
Chapter VIII. Heredity and Inheritance 97
Chapter IX. Karma and Personal Evolution . . 109
Chapter X. The Aggregation of Personalities . . . 127
Chapter XI. The Religious and Biblical Viewpoint . 143
Chapter XII. Christian References 161
Chapter XIII. The Over.Soul and Cycles of Incarna
tions 181
Chapter XIV. Between Incarnations 211
Chapter XV. Multiple and Secondary Personalities . 233
Chapter XVI. Souls of Animals and "The Unborn" . 249
Chapter XVII. Recollections of the Past 263
Chapter XVIII. The Fear of Death 285
Chapter XIX. Questions and Answers 293
INTRODUCTION
The continued interest in the Western world
regarding the religions and religious wisdom and
philosophies of other lands has led many thinking
persons to give serious consideration to the very
old and very logical doctrines of reincarnation.
The demand for some understandable and ra'
tional explanation of the doctrines of reincarnation
is responsible for the publication of this book.
There are many small books or pamphlets in the
libraries of the Western world today dealing with
the subject of reincarnation, but in nearly each
instance these books have been written and issued
in conjunction with the outline of some ancient,
mystical religion. For this reason most of them
are filled with strange philosophical terms or mys'
tical principles which make the fundamentals of
reincarnation difficult to understand and difficult
to accept.
Perhaps this is why so many of those who are
devout students of the modern Christian or the
[9}
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
modern Jewish religions hesitate to accept any of
the principles of reincarnation. I have yet to find
an intelligent man or woman who, after hearing
the true doctrines of reincarnation properly pre'
sented, refuses to admit that they are reasonable,
logical, and acceptable.
With this in mind, therefore, the chapters of
this book were prepared at various times as in'
spiration moved me to write.
This much can be said in closing any argument
regarding the truthfulness or soundness of the doc
trines of reincarnation. We are here on this earth
plane living a life of trials, experiences, lessons, and
constructive instruction. Whether we accept the
doctrines of reincarnation or not we will continue
to live in accordance with some law, some prin'
ciple, some scheme of things; and when the end
comes this period of life on earth will be consu'
mated and through transition we will learn of
what there is in the future. What we may believe,
or think, in regard to reincarnation will not change
one principle of the doctrine nor affect the laws
involved one iota. The great effect of such belief
or disbelief, or the acceptance or non'acceptance
[10]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
of these doctrines, will be in our lives as we are
Living them here, and in our readiness and prepara'
tion to meet transition when we come face to face
with it.
Knowing, therefore, that the acceptance of these
doctrines will bring to the reader, as it has brought
to millions of others, greater happiness in life
through a greater understanding of the trials, and
problems involved, and an absolute fearlessness of
so'called death, I close my manuscripts and pass
them on to the mechanical masters who will pre
pare them for the public, and rest in the hope that
thousands may find Light, Life, and Love through
what I have written.
The Temple of Alden,
San Jose, California.
September 15, 1930.
H. Spencer Lewis.
[ii]
Chapter I.
I GO TO PREPARE A PLACE FOR YOU"
HE stone was struck and there issued a
spark! Again the striking of the stone,
and another spark! And a third time!
Now a little flame grew in the dry grass
and feathers; and the flame gave forth light and
burned the little twigs, producing a fire. The fire
was kindled and nourished until it enlarged its size
and intensity. Burning on flat stones and crudely
protected by others, there was soon a small furnace
of heat and light which radiated its vibrations into
the gloom of the small wood'and'mud cabin.
Rejoicing in this new and marvelous addition
to their roughly constructed home, primitve man
and primitive woman, for the first time, seated
themselves on the bark'covered floor and gazed
into the dimly lighted recesses of the enclosure
which now became an enjoyable place at night.
Not long ago, this man and woman had ven
tured from the protected place in the branches of
[13]
MAHSIOTiS OF THE SOUL
a tree, where they had lived in safety, to construct
and occupy the dream place of their evolving
minds. Contemplating the possibility of a larger
environment than the tree afforded for safe relaxa'
tion and protecton from animals of prey, they had
built the first home, the first cottage, the first
castle man ever knew.
With the setting of the sun each day came
darkness and the coldness of the night. The long
hours of silence, accompanied by the inability to
see or employ the time, added to the despondency
and discouragement of the monotonous life from
sunset to sunrise. True, the more perfect enclosure
and protection from winds and storms made this
crude home so superior to the dwelling place in
the trees that a sense of kingship and mastership
over the elements and the creatures of the earth
brought many new inspirations to the minds and
hearts of these beings, who were looked upon as
more fortunate and blessed than their companions.
The night had afforded but one pleasure, one
rich reward, for the labors of the day; this was
to sleep and dream. But, the idleness of the early
evening hours, when the mind was keenly active
[14]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
and speculation unlimited, became the dread of
each day. Surely life held something better than
this, even though the light of the sun and the
shadows of the night painted no picture of an
answer to the mystery.
Then came the discovery of the spark, the light,
the flame, the fire, the heat! In an instant, the life
of primitive man and woman was changed. The .
darkness of the night could be dispelled, the cold'
ness of the evening air and morning breeze could
be modified, metals could be reduced to malleable
forms, and food could be prepared more tastefully
than in the past.
The greatest change of all, however, was that
which came with the coming of light. Light at
night. Light in the darkest hours and in the dark'
est home. Light and warmth at the fireside. A
hearth place of comfort. A place where the long
and silent hours of the night might be profitably
spent. Pleasure, comfort, discourse, learning!
The coming of the night was anticipated with
joy throughout the day. When the setting sun
brought an end to the hunt and to the plowing
of the fields, and when the tired body could no
cm
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
longer carry on, there were still the hours of the
evening to refresh man and afford him the luxur
ious pleasure of warmth while he rested in enjoy
able companionship before the fire.
Sitting in the glowing lights of the blessed fire,
the mind was tricked into concentration upon the
fantastic forms and weird actions of the flames.
The marvels of nature's powers and possibilities
intrigued the imagination and tempted the specu'
lative faculties of primitive m|an's receptive con'
sciousness.
Here, meditation was the school, and the nays'
teries of life the teacher who questioned and drew
forth the answers from the inspired impressions
of each mind.
To this fiery shrine came others with their ques'
tions, their dreams, their problems, and their de'
sires for light and more light. The fire'place be'
came the center of the temple of mystery, and
the hearthstone became the altar of the worship
of primitive man, when his thoughts were turned
towjard nature and its marvels.
It was here that men first directed their thoughts
toward the possibility of an omnipotent power
[16]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
which ruled the forces of the universe and created
the bounties of life; it was here that primitive men
first lifted their thoughts beyond themselves to that
which must be greater than the greatest among
them. It was here that men first sought the castles
of the Soul, more grand than the castles of the
body or the castles they built with mud and wood.
Heathens, they were called, because they wor
shipped at the hearthstone. Castles they sought,
for in castles there was protection, warmth, com'
fort, and the time to think and dream. Mansions
of the Souls they looked for and found at last in
the uplift of their thoughts and the uniting of their
minds in one perfect conception of a Heavenly
Realm.
Still, there was always the quest for knowledge
and the desire for answers to problems unsolved.
"Why are we here? who are we? whence came
we? and whither do we go?" These were the
questions that were asked at the first hearthstone,
and are asked today at every hearthstone, with
the same sincerity and an increasing desire for
explicit and understandable explanations.
[17)
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
Have we, as individuals, a definite mission in
life? Is each human being an entity, an individ'
uality, known to and considered by the Infinite
Intelligence as an important element in the uni
versal scheme of things? Is the earth, after all,
merely a stage, presenting a passing drama into
which we have cast ourselves by our own volun
tary preference? And when our part is played, is
our work on earth truly done?
The sacred scriptures of all religions speak of
only one earth, one globe, one place in the whole
of the universe where man was created and exists
as an image of some Divine Creator. Science, on
the other hand, busily occupies itself on the border
line of discovery, anticipating that it may reveal
to us at any moment the actual existence of other
planets than this one, filled with human life or
living creatures not unlike ourselves. The gospels
of the ages and of all nations speak of great Ava'
tars and messengers of the Holy Messiah and the
God of Gods, who have come to earth to save all
living beings. Is there no redemption, no saving
grace, for the beings on other planets, or have they
[18]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
no souls, no personalities that are Divine and
worthy of Infinite consideration?
Is this personality of ours, this individuality
which we strive to build up through idealism and
the elimination of undesirable traits, merely a tern'
porary or imaginary creation of our minds?
Down through the ages has come the cry for
Light and more Light. About us, everything is
changing and nothing seems permanent and fixed.
The mountains crumble away, the rivers dry up
and cease to flow, islands sink, and new seas are
formed. The great oaks, in all their majesty, must
succumb to transition, to change, or death. Man
goes on his way and crosses the borderline into
the unknown and seems to end his existence in
the twinkling of an eye. Is there any part of man,
therefore, or any part of nature, that is immortal,
unchanging, permanent, and continuous?
Is there a survival beyond man's mere memory
of the personalities that now exist in human form?
Will the death of the body or the change of its
form release an intangible and invisible something
that will rise to greater heights than the monu'
[19]
MAH.SIOHS OF THE SOUL
ments of memory characters, or surmount the limi'
tations of Time and Space, and thereby attain
incorruptibility and immortality?
If the present physical body is a Mansion of
the Soul and the Great Messenger of God went
forward to prepare other places for this Soul, are
there other Mansions then to be attained, and
how?
It has been the hope of the world and the in'
spiring power that has enabled man to carry on in
the face of mighty obstacles that some day he
would be freed of the mortal cloak that enslaves
him on this earth and rise to a life of eternal bliss
and goodness. If the religions that have inspired
man are true and the culminating joy of his life is
to be found only in the spiritual existence of his
Soul in a realm beyond the earth, why have the
Souls of millions been imprisoned here to suffer
and to know torment, sorrow, strife, and conflict?
What end is served, what mission fulfilled, by the
incarnation of the Soul here? If out of the sublime,
spiritual consciousness of a blissful kingdom comes
each Soul, and to this same high state must it re'
turn to enjoy its Divine heritage, why is it sent
[20]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
forth for such a transcendental place to dwell in
association with corruption, sin, evil, and the
dross?
These are the questions which millions are ask'
ing today and which must be answered more com'
pletely, more satisfyingly, and more constructively
than they have been answered in the past. Direc
ting our attention to the worship of a God and
enthusing us with the belief that this God is loving,
merciful, tender, and just, will not answer these
questions but merely add to the mystery of our
existence. Granted that an omnipotent, all'wise
merciful, and loving God created us in His image
and directed into these physical bodies a part of
His Soul Consciousness to suffer and to endure
the trials and tribulations of unknown and unex'
pected experiences here on earth, still the question
remains, "Why are we here?" and "How are
mercy, love, and justice made manifest in such
a plan?"
[21]
Chapter II.
WHY ARE WE HERE?
O THOSE who say, "I do not believe in
the doctrine of rebirth or immortality,"
I would like to reply by saying, "Do you
really know what the doctrine actually
means?"
In twenty years of public lecturing and writing
on subjects dealing with spiritual and Cosmic
principles I have found thousands who were ready
to strongly express their disbelief in certain doc
trines, and yet had to admit that they neither un'
derstood them nor had ever attempted to investi'
gate them. It is truly difficult for one to accept a
doctrine that is not understood, and it is especially
difficult to accept a doctrine or principle that has
been popularly misrepresented. This tendency on
the part of human nature is nothing new, for in
the time of Jesus and for centuries preceding His
introduction of new principles, the races of man
[23]
UAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
rejected many doctrines which they did not prop'
erly comprehend.
No one compliments himself by saying that he
has discarded or rejected a statement, a principle,
or a law, that he neither understands nor gives
sufficient consideration to comprehend. Such an
attitude is one of intolerence, bigotry, or ignorance.
One may appear to be with the majority or with
the popular mind in smiling at new ideas or new
principles, but, after all, the smile may have to be
changed tomorrow by the sudden discovery on
the part of the populace that the rejected or ridi'
culed idea has been found true and acceptable.
After all, what is there about the real doctrine
of human rebirth that any strictly orthodox religi'
ous person or any rigidly scientific mind cannot
accept? I will grant you that there are certain
things about the popular notions of reincarnation
that are absurd and so greatly misrepresented that
the logical mind or thinking mind feels that it is a
presumption upon his intelligence to even con'
aider the statements made. When, however, we
find that threcfourths of the world's thinking and
analyzing minds have accepted a certain principle
[24]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
or doctrine for many ages, and when we find that
the best informed persons and the keenest intellects
in the business, scientific, and religious world have
given their approval and credence to such a doc
trine or principle, then we should feel inclined to
give a few minutes' thought to the doctrine and
discover whether there is in it the essence of truth
or probability. This is only fair to ourselves and
fair to the doctrine.
We have learned through experience in the past
century that the popular impression of a doctrine,
principle, or idea may be very wrong. We have
learned through many important examples that
even the learned persons and the commenters in
encyclopedias may be misinformed in regard to
certain principles, and thereby influence or pre
judice our understanding. Certainly, we in the
Western world, have learned that popular criti'
cism is not always a standard by which we may
safely gage our own convictions.
All of this is particularly true regarding the
subject of human rebirth. When we read in the
Question and Answer Columns of the largest
newspapers in America that a clergyman, who is
[2J]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
nationally known and devoting his time principally
to the answering of religious questions, states that
his understanding of this doctrine is that man
may be reborn again as a cat or a dog, or some
other animal lower in the scale than the human
being, we keenly realize what an injustice is being
done to a very beautiful and important law of na'
ture through gross ignorance or wilful misunder'
standing. And, if such a learned man has no better
understanding of the real principles of reincar'
nation than this, we should not be surprised that
lesser lights or those millions who have not the
access to sources of information should have other
distorted ideas regarding reincarnation.
Perhaps the most important point to be kept
in mind by each investigator on this subject is
that the doctrine or law of reincarnation is not
a religious creed, a religious doctrine, or a religious
law. It is a natural law and has to do with the
evolution of nature and the carrying out of na'
ture's principles aside from any connection these
principles may have with the revelation of God
and God's omnipotent intelligence. In other words,
the laws pertaining to reincarnation are no more
[26]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
religious than are the laws pertaining to concern
tion, the growth of the embryo, and the birth of
the body. God's Divine laws as natural laws are
unquestionably operating in this marvelous process
of the reproduction of the human race, but no one
would classify the study of embryology as a religi'
ous doctrine or a religious creed. The facts per'
taining to embryology are strictly within the do
main of science. Likewise, no one would think of
classifying the study of disease, the breaking down
of the human body, and its ultimate transition as
a religious or theological study, even though Divine
principles are involved.
Furthermore, a careful and truly conscientious
study of the doctrine of reincarnation reveals that
there is nothing in the true principles that may
be considered contradictory to any of the religious
principles found in any of the recognized or old
established religions. Reincarnation in its truthful
presentation is not antagonistic toward the prin
ciples of sound theology, and I know that Chris
tians will be astonished when I say that there is
nothing in the truthful presentation of the doc
trine of reincarnation that is contrary to, or incon'
[27]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
sistent with, the fundamental Christian principles,
as revealed and taught by Jesus. A reading of the
other chapters of this book will prove that this
is so, and it is a notable fact that in the Western
world today, Christians find more joy in the true
understanding of the doctrine of reincarnation
than do persons of other denominations. The rea'
son for this will become apparent as this book is
read. Again I say, however, that some of the
popular notions regarding reincarnation and some
of the wilfully misrepresented fancies connected
therewith are not only inconsistent with the Chris'
tian theology and doctrine, but with all true
religions.
One of the most often repeated criticisms of
the doctrine of reincarnation, generally expressed
by those who have had only a casual understanding
of
it,
is
to the effect that
it
seems strange that God
should require the Soul of man to have many and
varied experiences here on earth. Persons expres'
sing this idea generally say that they cannot see
why the Soul of man could not continue to exist
without requiring incarnation in
a
physical body
on this earth plane. This argument
is
generally
[28]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
presented as a conclusive and final closing of the
entire discussion. However, such an argument is
fundamentally unsound. It is not based upon any
rational premise. The fact of the matter is that
the doctrine of reincarnation does not start with
the assumption, or the theory, that man must be
incarnated in a physical body and have earthly
experiences. Reincarnation starts with the fact
that man is incarnated in a physical body and is
here having earthly experiences. Since these two
wonderful facts are established by our actual exis'
tence here, and are, therefore, removed from the
field of speculation and are not mere assumptions
used in the doctrine of reincarnation, we must be'
gin with the fact that man is here and is livingj
in a physical body, and confine ourselves to
answering the question of "Why?"
Since the dawn of civilization, when man began
to think of his vicissitudes, trials, and tribulations,
and to seek for some reward for all that he suf'
fered, he has asked the same question over and
over, "Why are we here?" Theology has its an'
swer to this question and the answer has become
evolved and involved until it is no longer a brief,
[29}
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
definite statement, but a group of statements con'
stituting a creed; and there are many creeds ac
cording to the various viewpoints and beliefs.
Science, on the other hand, has its answer also.
But the scientific answer does not cover all of the
elements, all of the principles which concern man
more deeply than do the problems of Cosmology
and Biology.
If one eliminates the religious elements of the
question, "Why are we here?" and confines the
discussion to either the materialistic or the atheis'
tic viewpoint, there is still a great need for more
light and more information on the complex prob'
lems included in the question.
It is not sufficient, either, to say that we are here
because of some Divine principle known only to
God and incomprehensible to man. There is no
thing in the whole history of civilization and in the
cultural development of man to indicate that any
of the laws of nature or any of the laws of God
were ever intended to be concealed and kept from
man's understanding. The very inner nature of
man seems to be inspired with an unquenchable
thirst for knowledge about himself and his rela'
[30]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
tionship to the universe, and nothing short of the
truth in these matters will suffice. Our encyclo'
pedias and text books of knowledge are filled to
day with free and exhaustive explanations of laws
and principles which were at one time or another
proclaimed to be God's secret knowledge, and be'
yond the comprehension of man's finite mind.
Those very questions, which at one time were
condemned by church and state as heretical and
beyond the right or privilege of man to ask, are
now freely asked and answered with precise knowl'
edge by both church and state institutions. In
fact, religious, educational foundations are active
today in the promulgation of knowledge pertain'
ing to those very things which were condemned
by the church at one time as nobody's business
and God's secret prerogatives.
Since we are here, and since the church, through
its theologies, claims that we are here because God
created us to five on this earth plane, we have a
right to ask the why and the wherefore. And,
since science also claims that our existence here
is in accordance with a definite law of evolution
which is a logical consequence of the Divine, ere'
[31]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
ative principle, we have a right to ask science
to investigate still further and tell us what pur'
pose is served by our existence.
This book, then, is an attempt to explain in
nontechnical language and without religious bias
or predjudice the reason for the incarnation of a
Divine Soul in a physical body, and the purpose or
mission of that Soul in a physical body on this
earth plane. The explanation does not involve any
propaganda for a new religion, a new creed, or a
new form of worship. It does not attempt to
soothe the weariness and struggles of life, nor
blunt our mind to the obligations of life. That the
doctrine of reincarnation does bring, in its under'
standing, a newer and different viewpoint of life
resulting in more contentment and more harmoni'
ous cooperation with nature's laws is simply in
the nature of the laws revealed. But that newer
viewpoint and that contentment that comes with
the understanding of the doctrine of reincarnation
in no way lessens the seriousness of life or makes
man immune to the sufferings and tribulations
which he must endure.
[12]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
Finally, I may add without seeming to be face
tious, that whether one believes in or accepts the
doctrine of reincarnation or rejects
it,
the truth of
its principles will continue to manifest itself and
the law will continue to operate. We neither oh.
literate nor modify a law or principle
by
denying
it
or refusing to accept it. Therefore,
it
behooves
everyone to became acquainted with the facts, and
at least to know something of the laws under4
which we are living, and by which we are directed
and controlled in our existence.
We may continue to live without knowing these
things, and we may find some degree of satisfaction
in life without understanding any of the principles
involved. The whole culture and advancement
of man's civilization, however, has proved that
man has become more happy, more contented, and
more masterful through understanding every natu'
ral and Divine law involved in his existence. The
constant quest for more knowledge along these
lines indicates the restlessness of man's nature be'
cause of his determination to gain greater success
and joy in life through the knowledge that
is
neces'
[33]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
sary for him to possess. For this reason, the knowl'
edge of the doctrine of reincarnation will consti'
tute one of the most beneficial aids to his education.
[34]
Chapter III.
THE ANCIENT BELIEFS
HE one incontestable fact which is the
foundation of our whole study of man's
existence is that man is here on earth and
that his life consists of a series of experi'
ences which at various periods bring joy and sor
row, happiness and sadness, contentment and wv
rest, love and hatred, peace and suffering.
The second important fact revealed through the
experiences of life is that man's nature is dual, or
at least it is dual in manifestation. He is a physi'
cal, mortal body, with humanly conceived ideas
and ideals, desires, ambitions, and conceptions. He
is also an emotional or spiritual body, having a
subjective self or consciousness, which urges sub'
mission to its desires, inspirations, tendencies, and
inclinations. Between these two sides of man's
nature there is a constant contest for supremacy
and domination. Hence, man has come to think
of himself as being more than a mere physical
[3J]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
body like a mass of matter united by a chemical
formula, and more than a mere mechanical con'
trivance like an automaton. He is likewise con'
vinced by the sufferings and ordeals of the flesh
that he is more than a purely spiritual being.
In attempting to find an answer to the question:
"Why are we here?" man cannot subdue or cast
out of his consciousness the idea that if he could
determine what he
is,
he would know why he is.
Therefore, along with man's quest for knowledge
concerning the purpose of his existence in an earth'
ly
life
is
the desire for knowledge concerning him'
self and his relation to the universe.
Theology has always attempted to explain what
man
is
and why he was created. Science begins
its explanation of man's nature at
a
point where
man
is
already
a
living, thinking entity.
It
does not
deal with those phases of his creation that precede
the chemical, the biological, or the mechanical con'
stitution of his nature and being. This pre'entity
period of man's creation has been left to theology
to explain. The theological answers have been
varied and unique in accordance with the periods
of time through which man has passed in the pre
[36]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
cess of civilization, and in accordance with the
light of knowledge possessed by the nations in all
ages from antiquity to the present moment.
There is one point of agreement to be found,
however, in all of the theological explanations of'
fered in regard to the nature of man's being. In
all times and among all races, and in all degrees of
cultural education, the inspired or logically evolved
answer has been that man is a physical body with
its accompanying physical consciousness, in which
resides a soul, or a Divine self, or a segment of
some Divine consciousness constituting an inner
self. The duality of man's existence
is,
therefore,
a
universally accepted idea. That idea
is
challenged
by science since
it
cannot accept as
a
fact any
premise or any principle beyond its ken. In all
religions, however, the idea of an inner'man or
inner'self
is
a
fundamental which
is
stated as
neither theory nor speculative conclusion.
If
one denies the existence of an inner con
sciousness or soul as an entity distinct and apart
from the physical body, then the whole subject
of birth and rebirth reduces itself to
a
considera
tion of chemical action and reaction, and its purely
[37]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
physical principles. Such a belief would preclude
any consideration of the subject of reincarnation
just as it would preclude any consideration of the
immortality of any part of man or the existence
of any Divine element in man. Therefore, since
we are dealing not with the materialistic and non'
Divine idea of man's being, we must set aside this
phase of speculation and adopt the more universal
idea that man is a physical body clothing a soul or
form of spiritual consciousness.
Looking upon man, therefore, as a dual being,
body and soul, we are forced to turn to theology
and the religious doctrines of the past and present
to find any illumination regarding the immaterial
part of man. The scientist says that we may look
to him for any and every explanation pertaining to
the chemical, biological, pathological, and physic*'
logical nature of man's existence. We must turn
to ontology and theology for our knowledge re
garding this spiritual part of man. Whether the
present day scientist is right in thus limiting his
field of investigation, or is wrong in this regard,
we may determine after we have studied the ques'
tion in the future chapters of this book. We may
[38]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
say in passing, however, that it was not always so.
Theology was not always a subject of study apart
from the general philosophical sciences. Nor was
there always a distinct study known as the sciences
as we have it today. Nor was there always a time
when man, in his search for truth about himself,
found two opposed schools dealing with distinct
dual parts of his nature.
However, the tendency in modern times has
been to leave all questions pertaining to the spirit'
ual or infinite consciousness of man to the schools
of theology, and if we are to accept any of then-
explanations in regard to the nature of man and his
relation to the universe we must enter into a simple
summary of them, for they are too diverse, contra'
dictory, and inconsistent to serve any purpose
through elaborate examination of their minute
details.
In brief, we find theology in general throughout
the ages admitting one fact or claiming one point
with consistency. It is to the effect that the real
part of man is the infinite, Divine, or intangible
consciousness and essence which constitutes the
inner'self. For this inner'self many names have
[39]
MAH.SIOHS OF THE SOUL
been invented and universally adopted at various
times. The most general of these names is that of
soul, and we find it associated with another word,
which means the breath, and for many ages, the
inner'self of man was associated with the idea of
breathing an invisible essence which constituted
the spiritual nature of man. A second general prin'
ciple most universally and consistently adopted
was the idea that this soul of man was a distinct
entity, or a spiritual something, that is immortal,
and at times separated from the physical body.
Thus we have two important points coming
down to us from antiquity as fundamental prin'
ciples involved in the explanation of man's spirit'
ual existence. These, we find beautifully incor'
porated in an attempt to explain the creation of
man in the translated book of Genesis in the mod'
ern Christian Bible. Therein, we read that God
made man out of the dust of the earth which rep'
resented the physical, chemical, mechanical, and
material part of his being, and into this God
breathed as a second part of man the breath, or
essence, or consciousness, of life, and the physical
body became a living, or animated, visible soul.
[40]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
Two important secondary principles are inti
mated by this symbolical or allegorical process of
man's creation. First, that the physical body, made
of the material elements of the earth, was com'
pleted and perfected as a purely material form be'
fore any consideration was given to the process of
animating it with consciousness or life. Secondly,
that with the physical body completed and yet
lifeless, it was necessary for something more to be
done to make it a living being, and that to do this
there was added a second and a distinctly different
and separate element called "the breath of life."
After this entered the physical body, the physical
part became insignificant, for man was then not
merely an animated body, or a physical body that
was filled with life, but a soul that could live on
earth and manifest itself and was, therefore, a
living soul. When the original version of this pas'
sage in the Bible is read and analyzed in its origi'
nal tongue, one is more deeply impressed with the
significance of the second point. We are impressed
with the fact that the physical body did not take
life but that the invisible, infinite soul took on a
physical form by the uniting of the breath with
[41]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
the body. Even the ancients were impressed with
this significance and in their philosophies, which
gradually evolved into theological principles, we
are constantly reminded of the fact that man is
essentially a soul clothed with a body, and not a
body animated with a soul.
A further survey of the theological and philo'
sophical explanations of the past to the present
reveals some other points consistently adhered to
in the explanations, though often modified in ac
cordance with sectarian creeds. These are to the
effect that the breath of life, or soul of man, was
originally a part of the Creator, or God'essence
and consciousness. We are reminded in many ways
and by many words that whereas the physical
part of man is an accumulation of unorganized
elements gathered together from the products of
the earth, the soul of man is something that was
drawn out of space and made into a form to be
placed in man. We are reminded also that where
as the physical part of man was made out of no
thing that had any form or nature of man in
it,
the soul of man already existed in the soul and
consciousness of the Creator when He made the
[42]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
body of man. We are reminded also by other
points of the explanations that the soul in man
existed from the beginning of all time and would
continue to exist until the end of time, if there
be such an end. In most of the philosophical ex'
planations we are impressed with the belief that
the soul's immortality distinctly implied that since
it was not mortal and could have no end, it never
had any beginning, whereas man's physical body
had a distinct beginning when it was created out
of the lesser and unorganized elements of the
earth, and would have an ending when these mor'
tal elements lost their organization and became
disassociated.
Finally, our survey of the theological and philc
sophical explanations of the spiritual part of man
reveals a universal belief in the principle that the
soul or consciousness of man was always a part
of the soul of the Creator, or God, and that it
would live, or exist, or continue to function, as
long as God or the Creator existed.
In these principles and ideas, therefore, we have
a very definite picture of the nature of man's being.
We have man as a physical being represented by
[43]
MAH.SIOHS OF THE SOUL
his physical body composed of the material ele'
ments of the earth. Within this physical body we
have the spiritual body or soul. Man
is,
therefore,
dual, body and soul. His body
is
mortal, being
composed of mortal elements or of corruption, to
use
a
theological term. Its mortality makes
it
cor'
ruptible. The spiritual part of man, or the soul,
is
a
part of the God consciousness, and
is
infinite,
Divine, and immortal.
It
was originally, and
is
essentially in its nature of the immortal and incor'
ruptible.
It
resides in the body of man and, there
fore, takes on
a
cloak of corruption, for the body
of man cannot always continue, but must decay
and corrupt. The soul
is,
therefore, only tempo'
rarily resident within
a
physical body and cannot
remain eternally in one body, since in that case
the body would have to be immortal, as
is
the soul.
Man
is
born with
a
new body recently composed
of the chemical elements of the earth, and into
this enters
a
pure and immortal soul that has al'
ways existed and will continue to exist for allf
eternity. The mortality and corruptibility of the
body cannot affect the immortality and incorrup'
tibility of the soul. Therefore, there must come
a
[44]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
time when the physical body in its corruption be'
comes disorganized and can no longer contain the
soul. A change takes place which is incorrectly
called death, but which is merely a transition.
Body and soul are separated and the corruptible
goes into corruption, and the immortal and incor'
ruptible retains its infinite state.
Science has proved the correctness of the belief
in the mortality and corruption of the physical
body. The experiences of the flesh in our individ'
ual lives demonstrate that from hour to hour, and
from day to day, we rebuild our physical bodies
with the material elements of the earth in order
to replace the corruptible and worn'out elements
which previously composed it. Our other experi'
ences have shown that the physical body can com'
pletely wear out and become so incapable of re
taining life and vitality that the so'called breath
of life, or souWonsciousness, leaves it.
By these experiences of science and our in'f
dividual lives, we become convinced that it is a
part of the economy of the Creator's laws, and of
the economy of life itself, for the soul to separate
itself from the corrupting and corruptible physical
[45]
MAHSIOXS OF THE SOUL
body and leave the body to continue its transition
into primary elements again, by which it returns
to the dust of the earth, while the soul remains
immortal.
If this broad and general explanation of the
nature of man's being is acceptable to you, my
reader, then you are face to face with the next
important question: "Why is the soul of God,
or the Creator's consciousness, placed temporarily
in a physical body, and what becomes of it after
its release?"
That double question has been the most insistent
and most important query in the consciousness of
man since the dawn of thinking and believing. It
is to answer that question with more facts and
less theory that this book was written and dedi'
cated to thinking men and women.
[46]
Chapter IV.
THE QUEST
HAVE intimated that one of the objec
tions on the part of those who are funda'
mentalists of the modern type in their
religious viewpoints is that the doctrine
of rebirth seems to place the Soul of man in the posi'
tion of being a spiritual entity, continuously bound
to earthly conditions. Such persons say that it is
disturbing to the peace of their minds and their
spirits to think of the Soul as requiring earthly ex'
periences, trials, and tribulations in order to evolve
or perfect itself. They also argue that it should
not be necessary for the Soul to have earthly ex'
perience or to require any process or system of
earthly development. Their contention is that the
Soul of man is a Divine, infinite, spiritual some
thing, having its origin in God and maintaining
eternally its transcendental nature, and that it can
be neither added to nor subtracted from, nor in
any way made more Divine than it is when it
[47]
MXHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
leaves God and enters the body of man. A final
contention is that it is horrifying to think that the
Soul must have more than one contact with the
quagmire of earthly contamination instead of re'
turning to the eternal spiritual world and remain'
ing there in its sublime spiritual state.
All of these arguments are based upon certain
assumptions which are faulty, or at least misunder'
stood. In the first place, attention is called to the
fact that the Soul of man is here in a physical body
and is in contact with the earthly experiences, and
this fact is neither an assumption nor a simple mat'
ter of doctrinal faith. All of our reasoning and
arguing about the why and wherefore of the Soul's
incarnation in a physical body here on this plane
cannot alter the fact that it is here and is passing
through a process of experiences.
Granting that the Soul in its spiritual essence is
absolutely perfect and sublime and that no earthly
experiences can improve this high degree of per'
fection, and granting that the Soul has its origin
in the consciousness of God but is nevertheless
infused in a physical body to live for a time on this
earth plane, we come face to face with the question
[48]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
as to why a Soul in its perfection should require
earthly experiences for even a day or an hour.
Orthodox theology of the Western world briefly
and simply says that there is a Divine reason and
purpose for the Soul's contact with earthly condi'
tions, and its incarnation for a time in a physical
body on this earth plane. That is really saying
something that common sense would admit. It
is not a theological conclusion but a rational con'
elusion. We cannot possibly conceive of there
being no reason, no purpose, and no great end to
be served by the incarnation of the Soul in a
physical body. To think of such an important
element in the scheme of things as being purpose'
less would be to tear away the very foundation of
our faith in the belief that the whole universe and
everything in it exists and operates in accordance
with law and reason, and that God has established
nothing or instituted nothing that did not have
some definite purpose or plan back of its motive and
existence.
It is my purpose in this book to show that
there is a good reason, a logical reason, and an
acceptable reason for the Soul's incarnation in the
[49]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
physical body. This reason is not contrary to any
of the sound, theological principles, and fortunately
it is consistent with the understanding held by
all of the religious movements of the world. By
understanding these reasons and analyzing them,
even casually, one is better prepared to under'
stand the real purpose of our existence here on
earth and to see why the true doctrines of reincar
nation —freed from all of the unsound idiosyn'
cracies that personal opinion has attached to them
are plausible and acceptable to the thinking mind.
Starting then, with the fact that the Soul in its
essence and vital nature is a spiritual substance
originating in the consciousness of God and eminat'
ing from the spiritual realm, we proceed to study
the attributes of this Soul and learn what it really
is,
and why
it
may benefit by contact with earthly
experiences.
Perhaps only in the Western world and among
Western religions
is
the nature of the Soul so little
understood. The rapid advance and propagation
of the claims of modern spiritualism represents
a
form of speculation possible only because of the lack
of knowledge on the part of persons in the West'
[50]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
ern world regarding the Soul, its nature, and its
attributes. To the Orientals and to almost three
fourths of the world's religious population the
many preposterous claims of spiritualism as a re
ligion, a philosophy, or a popular belief originated
in the Western world solely because of popular
misconception regarding the Soul. It was claimed
recently by one eminent clergyman, who regretted
the increasing interest in spiritualistic seances in
America, that the World War with the attendant
loss of millions of lives was responsible for the
great increase of numbers of persons who turned
to spiritualism to find some consolation and per'
haps some illumination in regard to the unknown
or sudden passing of beloved ones. But in many
foreign nations there was also a tremendous loss
of life, and among these peoples there was not
the frantic turning to spiritualism for understand'
ing because most of these foreign persons were too
well acquainted with certain fundamental facts
which enabled them to understand what the West'
ern minds had not yet learned. The clergymen
in the Western world are as responsible as any
others for the progress of spiritualism, for if the
C 513
MAHSIOHS OP THE SOUL
churches of the Western world and the religions
of the Occident had not eliminated from their early
doctrines and creeds the principles which revealed
the true nature and attributes of the Soul, there
would not be the present day misunderstanding
and misconception in this regard, and the many
mystical movements now found in America and
England would have no actual necessity for then-
existence.
In most of Europe and in all of America the
great fundamental truths of man's spiritual nature
and existence have been modified or entirely elimi'
nated from modern creeds and dogmas. If these
were understood as well today as they were in the
days when Jesus the Christ talked to His Disciples
and with the multitudes, and when the founda
tion for the Christian church was laid, there would
be no need for any such book as the present one
or the hundreds of others which have been pub'
lished within the last ten years casting new light
on the teachings of Jesus, and the pristine prin'
ciples of Christianity.
[52]
Chapter V.
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION OF THE SOUL
N the Occidental or Western world there
is a general or popular idea of the Soul
which pictures it as an invisible, intangible,
spiritual substance of an immortal nature.
This substance is believed to be the "breath of
life," or, in other words, an etheric vitality emanat'
ing from the Source of all Sources and carrying
with it the creative power or energy of the Creator
of all things that exist. In brief, it is believed
to be a spiritual essence, the nature of which is to
give animation and life to all conscious things.
This is all that can be definitely stated by the
most orthodox and enthusiastic followers of the re
ligions of the Western world.
We may divide the principle religious denomi'
nations of the Western world into two broad
classifications under the headings of Jewish and
Christian. Therefore, let us pause just a moment
to see what the leading authorities in those two
[Ti]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
fields of religious thought have to say regarding
the Soul. Turning first to the Jewish encyclopedia,
we find that the nature of the Soul, as taught in
the Talmud, is that which was conceived by Philo,
the philosopher. This conception —which is a
human conception —is that the Soul is dual in na'
ture. One part is called the active Soul, which is
the consciousness breathed by God into man, and
the other part is the vital spirit with which He
inspired man. Here we have the foundation for
a distinction between spirit and Soul, as two parts
of the same thing, and a reason for the confusion
in regard to spirit and Soul, which leads many
modern religious writers and preachers to use the
two terms synonymously as though they were iden'
tical. It is this confusion which is responsible for
the spiritualistic movement and similar movements
using the term spirit for the term Soul. We note
in the Jewish Encyclopedia also that in some
prayers the phrase is used, "My God give spirit
and Soul to the embryo." In other Jewish writ'
ings, quoted in the encyclopedia, it appears that
the Jews believed that all Souls are pre'existent
and that there are Souls of different quality. The
[54]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
Rabbis, according to the encyclopedia, do not
agree in the belief of the pre'existence of the Soul.
According to them "each and every Soul which
shall be from Adam until the end of the world,
was formed during the six days of creation and
was in Paradise."
For the Christian viewpoint, we may turn to
the original Christian doctrines, as presented in
the Roman Catholic Encyclopedia: Here, we read
that the Soul "may be defined as the ultimate, in'
ternal principles by which we think, feel, and will,
and by which our bodies are animated." In this
expression we find the Christian idea that in addi'
tion to the vitality which animates the physical
body through the coming of the Soul, there is a
form of consciousness or mind that accompanies
the Soul and which enables this physical body to
see, to think, and feel, and act with understanding.
Much more is said in both of these encyclope'
dias about the Soul. Many peculiar ideas are ex'
pressed therein which will probably surprise and
astonish the average devoted Jew and Christian.
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
Further presentation and discussions of these
unusual ideas regarding the Soul will be re
ferred to in other parts of this book in connee
tion with the points raised by them. At the pres'
ent moment we are concerned solely with the na'
ture of the Soul and not its origin or the means of
its entrance into the body or its purpose after it
has become incarnated.
We note, therefore, that the Jewish and Christ'
ian religions adopted the almost universal idea of
all other religions in claiming that the Soul of man
was not only a vitalizing essence of a Divine nature
but the see of consciousness or mind. We may
safely say, therefore, that the universal, human
conception of the Soul today is that it is the vitality
and consciousness in man. This must be the view
of every orthodox Christian and every orthodox
Jew of the Western world, as well as the convic
tion of every orthodox person of the various re
ligions throughout the Oriental world. With such
a general foundation for an analysis of the Soul and
its nature, let us turn to the viewpoint as expressed
[56]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
by mystical revelation and see what is the Cosmic
conception of the Soul.
First, we discover that there is a very definite
distinction between spirit and Soul. Spirit is the
animating vitality or energy that permeates all liv
ing matter in the universe. We must remind the
reader right here that it is unnecessary to use the
term "living matter," since all matter is living.
There is a difference between living matter and
conscious matter. Rocks are living in the sense
that there is a vitality, or force, or energy which
infuses every crystal and every atom of their stoic
ture, and which holds the mass together in the
proper atomic and molecular form to express the
specific nature of matter. All matter is vibrant
with this universal energy or essence which is uni'
versally called spirit. It is in every cell of the ele'
ments composing the body of man, the body of
every plant and vegetable, and of every material
thing in definite expression in the universe. Spirit
is,
therefore, the universal essence that creates and
maintains the expression of matter. Chemically
speaking, or from the viewpoint of physics, we may
say that the essence which composes the electron
["]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
is the universal spirit. Therefore, we will put the
subject of spirit aside for a moment and consider
Soul as something apart from spirit.
Our Cosmic conception shows us that the Soul
of man and all conscious creatures is a form of
Divine Consciousness, which has certain attributes
or functions. It may, therefore, be called Infinite
Mind. This infinite mind has certain faculties
which we may term seeing, feeling, hearing, smell'
ing, and tasting. These faculties are not separate
and distinct functioning, as they are in the
physical body, but a grouped or amalgamated fac
ulty of apprehension and comprehension which in
any one of its five forms of impression or receptiv'
ity is interpreted by us as either seeing, feeling,
tasting, hearing, or smelling. In other words, the
mind of the Soul is capable of receiving and com'
prehending knowledge through a faculty of per'
ception, which is a combination of seeing, hearing,
feeling, tasting, and smelling. The reception and
interpretation of an impression by the Soul is trans'
lated to our outer physical consciousness in the
terms of either seeing, feeling, hearing, tasting, or
smelling. Judging the Soul impressions, then, from
[58]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
our objective or physical form of consciousness,
we would feel at times as though the Soul had seen
something, or heard something, or felt something,
whereas, as a matter of fact, the Soul impression
was not through any limited channel of one means
of consciousness.
The perception or reception of knowledge or
impression by the Soul through its one complex
channel constitutes what modern mystics term
the "psychic sense." When this sense receives an
impression which is prophetic, it is called intuition.
By others the psychic sense is called the channel
for inspiration. Many other terms are used to de'
scribe this perceptive and comprehending faculty
of the Soul and among the Oriental religions and
philosophies, we find many strange words indicat'
ing the rather indefinite idea I have attempted to
express in the foregoing sentences.
Thus, the Soul has the attribute of comprehen'
sion, as a faculty of its consciousness. It has like
wise the faculty of communicating, through a simi'
lar channel of psychic impressions, the thoughts
within its consciousness. These thoughts impress
themselves on the consciousness of the Soul in other
[59]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
physical bodies by a simple process. The Soul in
man being a part of the God consciousness or
Over'soul of the universe is never separated from
the Soul that is resident in every physical body,
and a thought in the consciousness of the Soul in
one physical body can be immediately in contact
with the consciousness in the Soul of any other, or
every other, physical body on the earth plane or in
the spiritual realm.
Right here we have a Cosmic truth which, if
developed to its full explanation and understanding,
would make plain the misconceptions of the mod'
ern spiritualistic doctrines. Nothing said in the
foregoing paragraphs is consistent with nor in
support of any of the claims made by the spiritual'
istic doctrines of the present day. In fact, an
understanding of these Cosmic truths will reveal the
error of the present day spiritualistic beliefs and
practices, and will make plain why many incom'
prehensible experiences and revelations have come
spontaneously and unexpectedly through what has
seemed to be an application of the spiritualistic
principles.
[60]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
This mind of the consciousness in the Soul, being
a part of the Infinite Mind, is wise in all universal
Cosmic wisdom. This does not mean, however,
that the essential wisdom of the Soul, which it pes'
sessed before it ever became incarnated in a physi'
cal body, includes a knowledge of all of man's
artificially established and arbitrarily created be
liefs and practices. It is often argued by the young
student of mysticism and metaphysics that since
the Soul is infinite in its wisdom, there can be no
reason for the statement that through its experi'
ences here on earth it adds to its knowledge, and
if it possesses all knowledge, it cannot possibly add
to that wisdom. Such students overlook the fact
that the Infinite Mind of the Soul previous to any
incarnation on this earth plane would not be fami'
liar with such mundane knowledge as the Sanskrit
alphabet, the Morse code, the invented laws of
man's form of chemistry, the driving of an auto'
mobile, the best methods to use in buying and sell'
ing in the stock market, or the ethical codes and
legal statutes arbitrarily established by man in vari'
ous countries, communities, and localities. The
universal wisdom possessed by the Soul before in'
[61]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
carnation and ever afterwards retained as its funda'
mental knowledge pertains strictly to Cosmic laws
and principles —Divine decrees and rulings.
When we stop to consider that the essential
knowledge of one nation in one part of the world
today is not the essential knowledge of another na'
tion in another part of the world, or of the same
nation in that part of the world centuries ago,
we will realize that human knowledge, or earthly
knowledge of human origin and application, is a
transient, mortal something that changes rapidly
and is not fixed for all times. The Soul would not
be aided in its earthly purposes during its incarna'
tion in a body by being conscious of all the human
knowledge accumulated by it through all ages.
The essential knowledge possessed by the infinite
mind of the Soul is that transcendental knowledge
which man cannot obtain through any of the
human channels or through any of the physical or'
gans of perception and which he must, therefore,
obtain through a spiritual means.
The coming of the Soul into the body, therefore,
is not for a single purpose, and we realize at once
that we now have two good reasons for the incar'
[62]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
nation of a spiritual Soul in a human body. First,
that for a reason which we will explain shortly,
the Soul is to have certain earthly experiences, and
secondly, the physical human body is to have the
advantage of spiritual knowledge and illumination
in addition to its mundane knowledge.
The next point for our consideration is that after
the Soul is incarnated in the physical body and
brings to the physical body the Divine Conscious'
ness and wisdom, plus the transcendental faculty
of perception and communications with the Soul
Consciousness of the universe, we have a combina'
tion which in the human form expresses the closest
approximation to the Image of God.
Even a cursory examination of the principles of
biology, ontology, and pathology indicate to us that
the physical body of man, independent of the Soul
and its consciousness, has a form of consciousness
and intelligence of its own. The most minute
biological cell under examination through the
microscope reveals reactions to light, color, and
heat, and other external conditions, which prove
that it has a primitive form of consciousness of
its own. This physical, mundane consciousness is
r 63 1
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
limited and mortal. The smallest living organisms,
such as the smallest living in water, are an aggre'
gate of the primitive cells, and their bodies contain,
therefore, the aggregate consciousness of the cells
that compose the bodies. The physical conscious'
ness in each living body on the face of the earth
is no more than the aggregate consciousness of the
cells composing the body.
Limiting our discussion to man's physical body,
we note from scientific experiments that the con'
sciousness in the cells which composes the roots
of our hair is a different consciousness from that
which is in the cells composing the fingernails, the
bones, the outer tissues, the muscles, the blood, or
the other parts of our bodies. Each cell carries on
its functioning and adjusts itself to its environ'
ment with similar cells and maintains its personal'
ity and integrity, its individuality, and its useful'
ness in accordance with the distinct consciousness
within it. The cells which produce hair would not
produce bone or tissue, or any other form of mat'
ter. No matter where they may congregate or
with what other cells they may associate, they will
strive against great odds and under very adverse
[64]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
conditions to maintain and perpetuate, establish
and reproduce, their individual nature in accord'
ance with their individual consciousness. There
are forms of physical disorders in the human body
where hair cells, teeth cells, bone cells and others,
accumulate in an unnatural position or relationship
and continue to manifest their natures and repro
duce that which they were intended to reproduce,
despite the obstacle of wrong environment and
abnormal situation.
The consciousness of the physical body
is,
there'
fore, an aggregation of the consciousness in every
physical cell of the human body, and
is
likewise
a
combination of the different natures of conscious'
ness of the many kinds of cells.
The mystic knows, therefore, that the difference
between the most highly evolved ape and even the
primitive man
is
not
a
question of Soul evolution
but
a
question of the difference between the natures
of consciousness in the cells composing the physical
body and the dwelling of
a
human Soul in that
body instead of the Soul of an ape. In other words,
the difference between the ape and the human man
is
not only
a
difference of the Soul in each of them
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
but a difference also of the aggregate and com'
bined consciousness of the cells which compose the
physical bodies of each. An ape, therefore, could
not evolve into a man by suddenly having the Soul
of man enter its physical body in place of the soul
of an ape. A great change would have to be made
in the physical consciousness of its body as well.
Nor could the ape become a man by any process
of evolution whereby the physical consciousness
in the cells of the body of the ape became like
unto the consciousness in the physical body of
man, unless at the same time a human Soul en'
tered the body of the ape. The idea of seeking,
therefore, for a single missing link in the evolution'
ary stage of cell life composing the physical body
of the ape is a foolish one. The greater missing
link in such an imaginary chain would be the single
link representing the stage of change from the Soul
of an ape to the Soul of man. And no one can
seriously consider making a search for such a link.
Man's physical body, therefore, has a conscious'
ness distinctly its own, limited and adjusted
through attunement of its faculties to perceive and
comprehend things of its own nature. The con'
[66]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
sciousness of physical man is keenly attuned to
the consciousness of all physical nature. But it
cannot be attuned to the consciousness of the Cos'
mic or Divine Mind, for this is of a transcendental
nature and of a higher vibratory rate than the
vibrations of the physical consciousness. All of the
perceptive faculties of the physical body and all
of its impressionistic channels are limited to the
grossly mundane things of the physical world. The
eyes can only see to a limited extent and within a
limited portion of the universal scale of vibrations.
There are colors and tones too high and too low
for the physical eyes to see. The physical ear can'
not hear all of the sounds that exist in the uni'
verse, for its consciousness and its mechanical
means of translation of impressions are limited to
a certain low portion of the scale of vibrations.
The same is true of tasting, smelling, and feeling.
In other words, the human, physical consciousness
is a consciousness of itself and of its like through'
out nature. It was created and placed in the cells
of matter in order that matter might be conscious
of itself in all physical forms; beyond that it has
[67]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
no consciousness and cannot perceive or compre'
hend.
Truly, man, in a physical sense, is a finite, mor
tal, limited creature, and without the breath of
life, the Soul, and the Divine Consciousness, is not
"a living soul," but a mere aggregation of earthly
substances with their limited form of earthly con'
sciousness.
A violet growing in the green fields is an entity
with a personality and character easily dis'
tinguished. Its characteristics of form, color, odor,
cycle of birth and rebirth, and other distinguish'
ing features constitute its personality. Its person'
ality is the result of all of the consciousness within
its body. A rose is distinguishable from all other
flowers by its character or its personality. These
are a result of the consciousness within it. Bur'
bank learned that by modifying the consciousness
of a flower or a piece of fruit through the introduc
tion of a few cells of different consciousness, the
outer and inner character and personality of flow
ers and fruit might be changed. Primitive man
learned long ago that he could graft the personality
of one tree into another by grafting some part of
[68]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
the physical consciousness or cell life of one into
the other.
Returning to man again as our principal study,
we find that the character and personality of man
are the result of the thought consciousness within
his being. And just as the character or personality
of a flower, a tree, or a piece of mineral, or a piece
of fruit are not exclusively manifested by the outer
shape or form of the thing, so man's character and
personality do not rest in the form of his body nor
its size or weight, but in other subtle expressions
of form, size, and color.
Realizing then, that the consciousness within a
man's body like unto the consciousness within all
things is responsible for the distinct character or
personality of man, we need think only of one
other important point in order to have a perfect
picture of man as a marvelous creation. That point
is this: The Soul'consciousness added to the
physical consciousness in the body of man during
incarnation here on earth gives man his character
or personality. Differing from those things which
have no Soul or Divine Consciousness, man's char'
acter or personality is not solely a result of the
[69]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
physical consciousness in his body, but the result
of a blending or uniting, or cooperative action and
reaction of the Soul consciousness with, and upon,
the physical consciousness. Thus, the dual con'
sciousness of man constitutes his personality or
character.
One final point in connection with this Cosmic
conception of the Soul. As the physical conscious'
ness in man changes through its physical evolution
tending toward perfection, the physical character'
istics of man change. As the Soul'consciousness
in man is given more and more opportunity to ex'
press itself and to guide or dominate the thinking
and the acting of man, so his character and per'
sonality will change. In other words, as the Soul'
consciousness and the physical consciousness in
man change through experience, through greater
opportunites to express, through more complete un'
derstanding and comprehension, through more
perfect attunement with the higher principles of
life, so the character and personality of man
change and evolve.
We now find that we have three reasons for
the incarnation of the Soul in the body. First, that
[70]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
for a reason which we will explain shortly, the Soul
is to have certain earthly experiences and, secondly,
the physical, human body is to have the advantage
of spiritual knowledge and illumination in addi'
tion to its mundane knowledge; thirdly, that the
character and personality of man may be perfected.
[71]
Chapter VI.
THE PERSONALITY OF THE SOUL
|N THE previous chapter we learned that
one of the purposes of the Soul's incarna1
tion in the physical body is to assist in the
building up of character and personality.
This brings us to a consideration of what is char'
acter and what constitutes personality.
We have shown that all of the ancient and mod'
ern religions and philosophies conceded that the
joining of the Soul to the physical body results in
"a living Soul" on this earth. But we are not
known as living Souls but as certain characters and
personalities, each distinctly different in many
ways and classified only in certain broad generali'
ties.
Our consideration, therefore, should be of what
constitutes the personality of a living being. Char'
acter is generally considered as the ethical and
moral principles which become the guide in life for
[73]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
each individual. Character, like individuality, is
something that is not only constantly changing in
many respects but is such a combination of ele'
ments of the physical self that it may be changed
or modified at will. We mold our character, build
our character, and establish our character by the
things that we think, principles we hold fast to and
adopt, and the acts we perform. A banker as
an individual is a banker only because that is his
occupation or profession. The classification of
a man as a banker refers more to his individuality
and perhaps to his character than it does to his
personality. The plumber likewise is classified as
such because of his occupation or his trade. Some
elements of character may enter into the de'
termination of that classification, but his personal'
ity may be absolutely unknown to even those who
have employed him the most often as a plumber.
An actor is classified as such because of his profes'
sion but not likely because of his character. There
may be traits or elements of nature in his character
that would enable us to identify him as an actor
or capable of playing the part of an actor, even
though we knew nothing of his real personality.
[74]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
The artist may have nothing about him which
would identify him as an artist, but there may
be traits in his character which reveal the artistic
tendencies and abilities which he possesses. He
may be occupied in his art and he may not be.
Nevertheless, he may be classified as an artist re
gardless of our lack of knowledge of his personality.
Individuality and character may be so instantly
altered as to mislead us in our judgment. We may
know a certain man as a banker through our daily
business transactions. He may be employed in a
bank where we have met him for many years and
the mere mention of his name brings to our minds
the immediate classification of "banker." In his
outer habits, manners of dress, and manner of busi'
ness conversation he may reveal himself as a char'
acter properly classified as a "banker." But we
may accidentally meet him some evening in his
home and find him playing a violin and piano so
proficiently that we instantly discover that in char'
acter he is also a musician. His individuality, so
far as clothes and mannerism are concerned, may
continue to show us that he is essentially a banker
by profession, but we notice that he can cast aside
[75]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
this individuality or character of the daytime and
become the musician in the evening. Still, we may
know nothing of his true personality. We may
meet him in the summer time in the grounds of his
country home and find that he is also a very
proficient and enthusiastic agriculturist. His long
study of the subject of gardening, for instance, as
a hobby may make him very expert in this classi'
fication and as we see him in his overalls with rake
and hoe we see a different individual or character
than the one of banker; and yet—we may know
nothing of his personality.
The dignified business man who has held a re
sponsible position and earned the popular faith in
him as an efficient business executive may be
tempted to commit some crime and we may find
him later on in a penitentiary serving some period
of time. Having been found in his crime and dis'
covered in his false characterization of an honest,
worthy, sincere business man, he has now thrown
off his cloak and reveals his individuality and char'
acter as on a level with the other prisoners around
him; and we may be surprised through his language
and actions to learn that the mannerisms of speech
[76]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOK
and habit which he exhibited for so many years
in his business office were merely superficial quali'
ties worn as a cloak. We may now classify him
not as a business man but as a criminal. Still,
we may know nothing whatever about his real
personality.
I trust that I have enabled you to appreciate
the difference between character and personality.
Personality appears to be, therefore, that inner,
private nature of our real selves which has little
to do with all of our outer physical or mental char'
acterizations. It is unquestionably true that the
real personality of every individual will consciously
and unconsciously affect the outer habits and man'
nerisms of the physical self. It is also true, how
ever, that all of the outer characterizations do not
constitute a perfect index to the real personality
within.
The personality within us constitutes, in a mental
phase, that which we actually believe, that which
we actually know, and that which has become a
positive conviction with us through our thinking
and our experiences. In a spiritual sense the Inner
Self is that which is closely associated with our
[77]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
deep emotions and with our silent, private, Cosmic
and spiritual experiences. In a moral sense our
personality consists of those things which we have
secretly and privately established as our immutable
principles or code of life. In our actions our real
personality influences us by the habits, customs,
and mannerisms which we have adopted gradually,
and so profoundly, that we are almost unaware of
their existence and find it almost impossible to
change them or modify them.
Briefly, we may say, therefore, that personality
is the Inner Self, or the self that is being built up
by the inner consciousness and the inner man.
Whereas character and individuality constitute the
outer self, or that which is of the physical, mental
consciousness. K
A study of the human personality through
psychology and psychiatry has revealed in the past
several hundred years that it is gradually formed
in each individual by external influence and in'
ternal influences. Some specialists in psychology
call this inner personality the Subliminal Self or
the Self'conscious Self. In a true classification,
however, it should be called the true personality.
[78]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
It is undoubtedly true that through heredity we
inherit some elements of our personality and it is
unquestionably true that we also acquire most of
the elements of our personality through internal
and external influences.
By internal influences I mean those urges, in'
spirations, ideas, and impulses that rise within our
emotions as a result of spiritual or Cosmic contact,
or through the transmission of ideas and principles
to the inner consciousness from the outer con'
sciousness. Certain courses of study, certain pic
tures, selections of music, and experiences in life
will establish ideas, principles, and convictions in
the outer consciousness which, because of their
agreeableness to our understanding or to our other
elements of personality, are adopted by the person'
ality as further points of modifications. Experi'
ences in life which teach invaluable lessons and
bring to our outer consciousness a conviction of the
truth of some great law or principle which we ac
cept as being universal in nature and helpful in
our progress through life, become adopted by the
inner personality as rules and laws unto itself. Sor'
row, pain, and suffering, and the sympathetic un'
[79]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
derstanding of the sorrows and sufferings of others
will soften some of the harsh elements in our own
outer nature and carry some points of characteri'
zation into the inner personality and there become
fixed as additional elements of the inner self.
Meditation, prayer, spiritual visions, and similar
experiences of the inner self constantly add elements
to the evolving personality. In this way the per'
sonality of the self within is being gradually dc
veloped toward a degree of perfection which it did
not have when it entered the physical body.
Because of the very intimate nature of the les'
sons learned by this inner self and because of the
confidential principles and ideals held by this inner
self, the real personality of an individual being is
known only to those most intimately associated
with him and discovered only through long in'
timate contact.
It has been found also through a long study of
the personality of man that the tendency of the
inner self is to build up a personality progressively
toward a higher degree of perfection rather than
toward a lower one. Regardless of how the outer
man may live and even pervert the morals and
[80]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
ethical principles, it is a continuously lower stand'
ard as with the habitual criminal who is brazen and
bold to the utmost degree, the real personality
within is usually molding itself along lines that
tend toward a higher standard and a greater degree
of perfection. It is a positive fact revealed by even
the actions of confirmed criminals that the higher
ideals and more perfect standards of the inner self
constantly challenge and question the actions of the
outer self. Thus, most criminals sooner or later
find themselves horribly annoyed and persecuted
by a form of remorse actuated by what is some
times called their conscience, but which is really
the voice of the inner self or personality challeng'
ing the conduct of the outer self. Psychology in
recent years has found a way to reach and arouse
from its temporary imprisonment the inner per'
sonality of many persons to such an extent that
a correct picture of the real self is revealed and the
better tendencies of this inner self given an op'
portunity to control the outer being.
The reason for the general upward tendency
of the development of the inner personality is due
first of all to the fact that it is closely associated
[81)
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
with the Divine Consciousness in man and with
those channels or means of securing knowledge
which constantly inform the self of what is right,
what is just, and what is merciful. Secondly, the
outer self of man may deceive others through tern'
porary modifications or colorings of its true nature,
but the inner self of man cannot be deceived by its
outer self nor can the outer self be deceived by
the inner self. And, therefore, man in his own pri'
vate periods of meditation and thoughtfulness
knows what is right and what is wrong and is not
deceived by any fictitious claim on the part of the
physical consciousness. Therefore, man tends to'
ward higher thinking and self'improvement in'
wardly through his own private understanding of
the real facts of life, while outwardly he may
not be conforming to the standards thus being
established.
[82]
Chapter VII.
DOES PERSONALITY SURVIVE
TRANSITION ?
N ANY analysis of this question we are
confronted by two distinct and opposed
claims. One is a theological doctrine; the
other is called a scientific conclusion. Both
of them are accepted by a large number of persons
on faith. Both of them are sustained by the same
kind of evidence when presented by the average
representative of the school supporting them.
To proceed properly, let us place, in a few
words, the two opposing claims in regard to man's
destiny:
1. The theory of theology that man possesses
an immortal Soul or personality which survives
the death of his body.
2. The theory of materialistic science that man's
individualism or personality begins at the birth
of his body and ends with the death of his body.
[83]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
Let us note that the words used in these two
brief contentions are carefully chosen. In number
two the word Soul is not used. Materialism does
not recognize the existence of a Soul, but does
admit the very positive existence of that "some
thing" labeled "personality" or "individuality."
And, the term "materialistic science" is used to
distinguish one form of "science" from the many.
Likewise, in number one the words "Soul" and
"personality" are joined as synonymous only be
cause theology assumes such to be representative
of a fact.
The question of man's destiny, or the fate of
his "personality" after the death of the body, is
so old that its origin is lost in antiquity. The
earliest records of man's thinking indicate that
the discussion was a common and familiar one,
with but three conclusions as passible answers. In
fact, we find that the materialistic conclusion was
held by the minority of ancient civilization as
today; and the majority sincerely held to the other.
In all ages this conclusion or doctrine was philo'
sophical, and not purely theological, as man has
tried to make it in recent centuries.
[84]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
We should not be considered presumptuous
when we compare these various conclusions and
beliefs, if it is our desire to find which of them is
most in harmony with justice and which does the
least violence to our natural feelings.
The materialistic doctrine is born of and based
upon the assumption that man is born a helpless,
ignorant infant as a product of an unknown
principle called "heredity," operating through or
with forces and impulses of which he knows
nothing and cannot combat; that, therefore, he
possesses as advantages and handicaps, certain
abilities, tendencies, fortitudes, and weaknesses,
for the possession of which he is in no way
responsible.
Why he was born at all, why he is what he
is,
and to what end, he does not know and cannot
know.
He tries to reconcile conditions, as he finds them,
with the doctrine of materialistic heredity —regard'
less of the many manifest contradictions; for his
doctrine says that the thief, the murderer, the fool,
the liar, and the depraved have but inherited the
endowment of their forbears; while the good, the
[85]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
noble, the rich, the happy, and the prosperous
have unconsciously, mechanically, or simply, re
ceived the blessings passed by preceding genera'
tions.
Such a doctrine does not account for the birth
of a thief or a murderer in a long line of honor'
able ancestors, nor the birth of a noble, fortunate
one in a family tree "rotten to the roots."
The believers of such a doctrine contend that
they should not be condemned for their frailties,
tendencies, or commissions. Even man'made laws
excuse conditions thrust upon one by another with'
out contributory responsibility or warrant, and
even the most savage races would not tolerate—
let alone create —a law which justified the pun'
ishment of one man for the sins—or ommissions —
of another.
Such beliefs as this preclude the possibility of
a Divine Intelligence concerned in the birth and
existence of man, individually and even collec
tively, and eliminate the existence of Divine Con'
sciousness or Soul in man of a nature distinct from
the material essence of chemical life in his body.
[86]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
Therefore, says material science, man is a chemi'
cal product —the result of mechanical or system'
atic laws which automatically carry on their pro
cesses of reproduction without conscious intelli'
gence. Man is just born as he
is,
what he
is,
struggles to modify the blind, indifferent laws of
nature, and eventually succumbs to the inevitable
breaking'down processes of the material elements
—and dies. And that
is
the end of man —again,
individually and collectively.
A doctrine of fatalism
is
the religious creed of
the materialistic believers. That we are born men—
certain type of chemical product —instead of mon'
keys, rats, or cattle,
is
due to chance. Our place
in the animal kingdom
is
due to lottery. We have
come from nowhere, by no real law that would
prove itself by and through justice, mercy, for'
giveness, consideration, or love—and pass on to
nowhere again.
The good men and the just in the world are de'
serving of no more credit for their qualities than are
the evil deserving of condemnation or punishment.
[87]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
Just as our tendencies, abilities, weaknesses, and
prowesses are inherited without our sanction— or
conscious warrant—so our experiences, fortunes,
sorrows, joys, successes, and failures throughout
life are acquired by us without deserving them and
without moral or personal responsibility.
If we can cheat the system by beating the game
of life in any move, if we can frustrate blind pruv
ciples by our own developed sight, or build where
tearing down seems imminent, we prove our indi'
vidual strength and fitness to survive the decree
of fate.
The belief in eternal justice, law, order, good'
ness, and love is but a delusion. The law of right
overpowering might and character determining
destiny is but a childish illusion.
So! declares the doctrine of materialism.
The theological doctrine —like unto the mate'
rialistic one—includes an assumption, viz: That
the Soul or personality of each individual being is
uniquely created for each existence by God through
immutable laws and principles known only to Him.
[88]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
While this doctrine seems to be a great and
inspiring relief from the depressing viewpoint of
the materialist—and for that reason has become
the hope of many—it is found upon analysis and
experience, unsatisfying to progressive, thinking
minds.
We discover, first, that although it transfers
the authorship of our creation from blind, uncon'
scious chemical action to God, man remains a crea'
ture made and born from the nowhere, and the
credit or responsibility for his existence rests with
a personal maker and not with the process. Man
is still a creature of circumstance and free from
the responsibility of his creation, his existence or
his equipment, mentally, spiritually, or physically.
By attributing to the personalized creative power
—God—that which we could not attribute to
the impersonal creative, chemical processes, we
have our responsibility for our existence endowed
with conscious understanding, omnipotent power,
infinite wisdom, and universal purpose.
The very first of these endowments—conscious
understanding —warrants our belief in universal
law, order, system, and purpose. To knowingly
[89]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
create, to consciously cause and understandingly
permit, God must have a purpose, a plan, a scheme
of things. There can be no element of chance, no
lottery, no accident. All must be by decree.
Hence man
is,
again, and after all,
a
creature
of Fate—Divine, spiritual, Infinite though
it
may
be.
Likewise,
if
man
is
the creature of such
a
Cre'
ator, he, the creature, must be in possession of
some of the attributes of his Creator; he must have
the wisdom, power, and understanding, to some
degree, of the essence from which he emanated. He
must inherit —through his ancestral heredity —that
Infinite equipment which theology calls Soul and
which
it
intimates
is
synonymous with "person'
ality."
Theology proceeds
a
step further in its expla'
nation of man's inherited possessions and states
dogmatically or logically —however you may view
the point —that since the consciousness, wisdom,
and power in God and man are of
a
universal —
and eternal—nature, the Soul of man
is
therefore
eternal, immortal.
[90]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
As we have said, the theological doctrine is
different from the materialistic one in only a few
elements.
It still leaves man the creature of Fate. It re
lieves him of all responsibility for his birth, his
existence, his endowments, and his heritage.
A theological problem is involved in such a doc
trine and requires explanation; and theology meets
the issue quite conveniently.
The creator of man, possessing understanding,
omnipotent power, and Infinite wisdom, working
through a universal purpose, must wilfully permit,
at least, the sufferings, sins, and errors of his off'
spring. Hence, God must either be indifferent to'
ward his creatures or positively approving of these
things. And, since there is a universal purpose in
God's consciousness, He must approve of man's
sufferings as well as man's joys.
At once we find ourselves face to face with in'
volved theological doctrines, creeds, and dogmas
which include Predestination and Revenge.
Predestination, as set forth in the Westminster
Confession of Faith, is the doctrine which reveals
that:
[91]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
"By the decree of God, for the manifestation
of His Glory, some men and angels are predestined
into everlasting life and others forordained to ever'
lasting death . . . whereby He extendeth or with'
holdeth mercy, as He pleaseth, for the Glory of
His Soverign Power over His creatures."
The principle of Revenge or Retribution is
set forth in the Second Commandment (Exodus
XX: 5) : "For I, the Lord Thy God, am a jealous
God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the
children of the third and fourth generation of them
that hate me."
Practically all of the theological controversies of
the past have arisen through attempts to reconcile
the theological principle of fatalism with Infinite
or even mundane justice. One of the results has
been a tendency to shift the responsibility for the
evil in men's lives to a Satanic character. But even
this leaves open the contentions regarding Pre
destination, freewill, the original sin of Adam and
the atonement for it.
For, according to the theological principles
quoted above, man is created arbitrarily and with'
out his desire, and at the moment of creation is
[92]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
either blessed or damned eternally. Hence, man
is either good or evil, fortunate or unfortunate,
noble or depraved, from the first step in the pn>
cess of his physical creation to the moment of his
last breath, regardless of his individual desires,
hopes, ambitions, struggles, or devoted prayers.
Such is Theological Fatalism! Does it offer any
consolation when compared to the principle of
Materialistic Fatalism? Only our deeper and truly
mystical conception of God's real laws and pur'
poses enables us to see behind these theological
creeds and dogmas and find the truth.
Is it any wonder that progressive, searching,
sincere men and women in all lands object to the
narrowness of the theological creeds which permit
such conclusions to be reached as we have in the
foregoing paragraphs?
The principle of justice in all things—especially
in the course of life—demands that man shall earn
what he gets, deserve what he requires, and merit
what he seeks; likewise it assures man that he
shall not get what he has not earned or deserved.
The law of reaping what we sow is not a theo'
logical, religious, or ethical decree, but a scientific,
[93}
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
philosophical, and moral principle, the basis of
justice.
The idea that man must suffer the sins of an'
other, solely because the other was sinful through
the fatalistic decree of his Maker at the time of
his making, is certainly contrary to the principles
of human justice, let alone Divine justice.
That one creature is good because the Maker
planted good in him and another is bad because
the Maker planted evil in him—forever and eter
nally, unalterably and irremediably —is most surely
unfair to all mankind. But that the evil men should
have their unearned or undeserved sins transmitted
to their offspring "into the third and fourth genera'
tion" is the utmost of injustice.
Thus the doctrine that all men are sinners and
have the essential sin of Adam is a challenge to
justice, mercy, love, and omnipotent fairness. Of
course, if it is necessary to assume that fatalistic
man can sin against the Omnipotent and Infinite
WILL or decree of his Maker, then the sin of
Adam was strictly his own by permission or tol'
erance of God, and he alone could compensate
for his sin. On the other hand, if mankind —
[94]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
forever and forever —sinned through Adam, then
man alone should compensate through personal,
individual suffering. Therefore, the doctrine of
atonement, whereby man's responsibility for his
essential sin was shifted to another to be paid by
crucifixion, is also opposed to justice.
Salvation through right living is impossible, ac
cording to these doctrines, for man cannot be
saved through personal merit, since he has none —
for all that is good in him, of him, and through
him belongs to his Maker who decreed and for'
ordained it.
Man so loves justice, and has through the ages
developed a so much better and more noble idea
of justice, regardless of its seeming absence in the
theological scheme of things, that he has refused
to countenance, let alone support or encourage,
the doctrines of either materialistic or theological
fatalism.
No successful scheme of conduct in life, either
moral or ethical, least of all religious, can be built
upon the theory that we are, from the primary
phase of our creation, and for no merit or demerit
of our own, either the favorites of God's arbitrary
[95]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
blessings or the blind victims of His vengeance
and wrath.
Therefore man seeks the truth—and his essen'
tial desire is to see justice done to the wisdom and
power of God as well as to the interests of God's
creatures. This is what the true modernist seeks;
it is what the mystic of all ages demanded.
[96]
Chapter VIII.
HEREDITY AND INHERITANCE
W5M
HE body of a child is not created but re
organized from preexisting elements.
Every element entering into its physical
make'up has always existed since "the be'
ginning" and always will exist —even after the
"death" of the body. Chemically these elements
are either pure or impure, according to the nature
of the environment in which they are assembled
or the contamination by impure "seeds sown to
be reaped."
Heredity is the process of modifying the pure
stream and straight line of ascent of physical evo
lution of the body. It relates exclusively to the
material elements of the body as transmitted or
contributed by the preceding period of evolution,
the preceding generation of existence.
A period of reincarnation for the physical body
begins at the moment when preexisting elements
are drawn together to reform an organized body,
[97]
MAN.SIOHS OF THE SOUL
and ends when the magnetic influence —life—
ceases to hold the elements together; and these ele'
ments separate and return "unto the dust of the
earth" again.
From conception, or unification, unto "death"
is one'half the cycle of physical evolution of each
body. From dissolution or "death" unto unifica'
tion again is the other half of the cycle
The second half of the cycle is as essential to
the process of evolution as the first half. Through
dissolution or decomposition of the elements of the
body they are freed from any abnormal or un'
natural associations they may have been forced
into by man's wilful violation of nature's laws.
Disease is the result of abnormal, subnormal, or
inharmonious relation or association of elements
in a part or parts of the body. Perfect health is pure
harmonium of elemental relationship.
"Death" —or dissolution —is nature's economi
cal method of ending the stress and struggle be
tween the inharmonious elements for dominion and
power, and the first step in the process of the re'
turn to a pure, normal, natural state and environ'
ment of each element.
[98]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
Thus, dissolution is the phase of physical evolu'
tion which is cleansing, purging and rehabilitating.
From the rehabilitation state each element is at'
tracted again by the magnetic influence of recon'
structing life, and finds its way to association,
organization, and group manifestation.
In the procedure from rehabilitated primary
state to recomposition in a new group form, these
elements may become contaminated, or have
forced into their general assembly, some ad'
vantageous or impure elements. In this manner
the very first and later stages of physical evolution,
prior to birth, may prove to be qualifying stages
of normalcy. This, and this alone, is Heredity—
what the larger, parent body has sown. The off'
spring will harvest what its parent has planted.
The lesser part experiences the effects of the acts
of the larger part, while the larger bears the re
sponsibility and must compensate.
It is the law of justice in magnificent demon'
stration.
When the Soul enters the physical body it takes
residence within a physical form, prepared, in
purity or contamination, to receive it.
[99]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
The physical form has no choice in the selec
tion of the Soul to be its companion through the
forthcoming cycle of existence. The Soul, on the
other hand, has no free choice in the selection of
the body into which it is to be imprisoned or
glorified for another period of incarnation.
Both are drawn together, attracted to each
other, and united by the Law of Compensation —
the law of justice.
The Soul comes forth from its eternal abode
with its consciousness and personality unimpaired
by the changes in the mortal body from which
it was freed at "death" or transition. It is not
composed of dissimilar elements or temporary as'
sociates. It is one entity, uncomposed, uncreated
and undivided. It is the very antithesis of the
physical body in every characteristic. Whatever
may distinguish the physical body is a negative ex'
pression of the Soul's positive character.
The Soul possesses, as a heritage from the
Infinite Consciousness and mind "in the begin'
ning," a Mind and Memory, constituting a con'
tinuity of experience which is eternal.
[100]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
It is this consciousness of self, this Mind and
Memory, which we characterize as Personality,
then, which grows and moulds into greater
comprehension and power through the various
cycles of evolution.
Into the physical body comes the Soul with its
Personality, its perfect memory of all past experi'
ences and its acquired penalties and rewards earned
through the Law of Compensation.
It is still free to choose, free to decide, free to
submit to or rebuke the urges which come from its
memory of past experiences or the whisperings of
the world without. But it has debits and credits
to its record from the past and these it cannot
avoid.
Whatever it may decide to do, it must contend
with the Law of Compensation in attempting to
carry out its decisions. The debt to be paid will be
demanded by the Law of Karma at that moment
which is most propitious. Ever and anon the silent
adjustor of the Law stands by and with the nod
of his head permits the decisions of man to come
to an issue, or fail.
[ion
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
Karma is not revengeful. It would be self'
annihilating if revenge or retribution were its mo
tives. It can only be recreative and constructive.
The progressive evolution and advancement of the
Personality is its sole purpose.
It demands not "an eye for an eye and a tooth
for a tooth," as does the law which man invented
as his imitation of the Law of Compensation. It
demands only justice—justice to all, the sinner and
the one sinned against, the benefactor and the one
benefitted. And it has the power to carry out its
principles. It leaves nothing to the judgment of
man, for he had his choice and decided; it retains
the sole responsibility for its operation, for man
agreed to this when he decided.
Its aim is guidance; its methods are instructive;
its functions are redeeming. Such is the Law of
Karma.
It elects for its propitious time to exact compen.
sation or bestow blessings that moment in the
period of the Soul's residence within the physical
body when the Soul will profit most by the lesson
to be learned, the experience to be realized, or
[ioj]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
the reward to be utilized to the betterment of all
concerned.
It selects for its place of manifestation that
localization of events which is most favorable for
an impressive demonstration to all who may dis'
cern and profit thereby.
It elects for its means of action or medium of
performance those channels which will afford the
utmost of efficiency and direction in compensative
adjustment, with consideration for every living
creature.
Since Karma seeks neither revenge nor retribu'
tion, but exacts only an adequate adjustment of
conditions, a balancing of realization, that man
may become more perfect in conduct, it may elect
to suspend an objective compensation in favor of
a subjective penitence.
If the Personality of man is brought face to face
with a situation in life which clearly reveals itself
as a Karmic debt to be cancelled by a trying expe'
rience, it may find the experience modified, the test
lightened, or the suffering eased, by acknowledging
the justice of the debt, and discovering the lesson
contained therein. With appreciation for the
r 103 ]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
knowledge, and with penitent heart for the error
previously committed, the Personality may find
that the ends of justice and Karma have been saris'
fied.
Thus the principles of salvation by grace, and
redemption by atonement, have their real origin
in the just working of a great Law.
We discover in reincarnation and Karma the
only rational and acceptable explanation and cause
for the seeming injustice of the inequalities of life.
Some are born in wealth, some in abject pov
erty; some are born with every advantage for
education and advancement, some with no oppor'
tunity at all.
One is born crippled, handicapped, physically
and mentally; another is born ideally.
In a given family of four children, one is strong
and healthy of body but mentally defective; an'
other is born sickly and with a weak body, but
brilliant in mind; one is born with cruel, mean,
sordid tendencies, bringing shame to all the others;
and the fourth is serious and noble, with religious
ideals.
[104]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
Heredity alone cannot account for all the physi'
cal defects endowed at birth; it cannot always ac
count for the physical differences in the various
children in one family.
Materialistic or theological fatalism cannot ex'
plain —with satisfaction and justice—the inequali'
ties found in each race, each nation, or even each
group of men.
The Laws of Reincarnation alone make
understandable and acceptable the conditions and
experiences of our lives.
I am tomorrow, or some future day, what I
establish today. I am today what I established
yesterday —or some previous day.
I may be as unmindful of things I do to estaly
lish my Karma as I am unmindful of many of the
results of Karma.
I may be enjoying good health in this incarna'
tion without appreciating the fact that I earned
it,
deserved
it,
or established
it,
by some acts or
attitude of mine in the past. And
I
may show
too little appreciation for this blessing of health,
and neglect its possession, that some day
I
shall
[ion
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
suffer poor health—either in this incarnation or
another.
I may possess those desirable endowments
which others do not have, and simply take them
for granted. I may elaborate upon the things I
do not possess and consider my lot peculiar, ac
cursed, and damned.
Each of us from our personal point of view is
prone to measure the inequalities of life by the
yard stick of our deeds, and overlook our blessings.
If,
however, we consider the good things we
possess as natural birthrights, deserved or earned in
some way, we should be consistent enough to look
upon our afflictions as similarly deserved or earned.
As soon as man looks upon his whole station
in life as his birthright, rather than just the half
that
is
acceptable, he will be ready to meet his
Karma and work
it
out.
How careful man
is
to guard his fortunes lest
he lose them by some act that would justify the
loss! How concerned he
is
that he may commit
some act or fail to do something that will auto.
matically, logically, and fairly, turn the blessings
of
his life to other channels. Yet he fails to realize
C
106
3
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
that the afflictions, adversities, weaknesses and
crosses in his life may be transformed, transmuted
and transcended in the same manner.
Thus we see that the inequalities in life are Kar'
mic, and, in accordance with the Law of Karma,
are adjustable. Thus man's fate is ever in the
moulding, and man alone bears the responsibility.
The full course of man's life is not one incarna'
tion on earth in one physical body. To assume
or believe it
is,
is
to say that matter—the elements
of the physical body—never cease to exist, never
die, or become annihilated, but man's soul and per'
sonality come into existence, manifest for
a
time,
and then cease to function.
We see, plainly, that the existence of matter is
one continuous cycle of periodic reformations, of
expression, never ceasing to manifest, retaining its
essential nature always, but reborn in new forms
in accordance with the immutable laws of the
universe.
The personality of man has its course of exist
ence, eternal and continuous. Each personality came
into existence "in the beginning of all creation,"
and has always existed and will exist into eternity.
[107]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
The course of such existence for each personality
is marked by definite periods of rebirth in a
physical body—a new medium of expression.
We call each period of existence in the body
an incarnation, for the personality or Soul is in'
carnated in the flesh. The successive incarnations
are reincarnations or rebirths in physical bodies.
From birth to birth, or rebirth to rebirth, is a
period of evolution for the Soul or Personality.
This period may be divided into two phases.
(a) The Mundane Phase—from rebirth to
transition;
(b) The Cosmic Phase—from transition to re
birth.
We may consider the entire line of the course
of existence of the Personality as eternally moving
forward in undulating phases.
The very terminology used in this schematic
il'
lustration
is
suggestive of laws and principles.
It
is
borrowed from the teachings of the Rosicni'
cians, the most highly evolved group of mystics
living in all ages, whose knowledge of God's laws
and nature's ways
is
most profound.
[108]
Chapter IX.
KARMA AND PERSONAL EVOLUTION
AN is not discouraged nor disheartened in
his quest for perfection by learning from
experience that there are certain immu'
table laws universally established. Nor is
he checked, in his determination to attain the
heights of his ambition, by discovering that these
immutable laws are impersonal and impartial. That
these laws affect all of God's children, and even
every specie of living things, regardless of parental
heritage, social standing, financial power, or Divine
attunements, makes man see in and through them
a principle of real justice.
The mystic claims that it is the continued
demonstration of the immutable laws of nature
which prove the existence of an Infinite Mind and
Omnipotent Power, inspired by Love, Mercy, and
Justice.
Unquestionably it is the evidence of the work'
ings of these immutable laws that has maintained
[109]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
and sustained the faith of millions of men, in all
ages, in the existence of some fair, just, and In'
finite Intelligence ruling the universe. It has
been this faith—aye, even conviction —that has
saved the world from self'damnation and self'de'
struction; and it is this same conviction, growing
more and more convincing through test and de'
monstration in science and every phase of common
experience, that is responsible for the world'wide
challenge of the truth of certain theological doc
trines.
Man is truly becoming more and more religious
in his thinking and living, and less theological.
This is detrimental to some of the churches, but
joyous for the Kingdom of God.
What are the fundamental immutable laws?
First, that matter and energy are indestructible.
Fire, decay, the will of man, the decree of God,
may change, modify, or redirect the manifestation
and nature of matter, but nothing can destroy its
essential existence. Energy —the fundamental, uni'
versal essence of all power —may be directed and
redirected in its course of action and demonstra
tion, but it cannot be destroyed any more than it
Clio]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
can be created. It has always existed and always
will exist.
Man has come to understand the principle of
immutability so well that he realizes that even the
Master who originally conceived and decreed these
immutable laws and set them into action with the
"Word" (Logos) cannot now suspend, modify,
or abrogate them. One incident of suspension, one
demonstration of modification, would rob those
laws of their universal justice. But neither history
nor tradition record a single, authentic instance
of the change of even the least important laws
of nature.
What a marvelous conception in the beginning!
What wonderful system, order, and law of equity!
How our hopes rise and our fears fade away in
the knowledge of sublime justice for all—every
created and living thing. Truly, God was just
and fair—in the beginning! Why should we doubt
that God is still just?
Another immutable law is that we shall reap
as we sow; the tendency on the part of every living
cell to reproduce its own nature plus some degree
of progression in its evolution. Against varying
[in]
MXHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
odds, wilful interference on the part of man, and
the influence of environment and unrelated forces
of nature, the tendency of every living thing is to
be true to type, even reverting to type when forced
for a while to accept unwarranted modifications.
And, as a companion principle, we have what
is generally known as the Law of Compensation,
or "Karma," as the mystics of many ages have
called it.
The work of the late Luther Burbank was pos'
sible only because of nature's immutable laws. By
continually blending the elements of nature in ac
cordance with the laws of synthesis, man has
reaped a harvest of testimonies to the law. "If but
once man in any part of the world should reap
an orange from planted watermelon seeds, our
faith in the whole scheme of life would be shat
tered!" said an eminent clergyman in England
some forty years ago.
And if man should ever discover a single in'
stance when the Law of Compensation or auto'
matic adjustment did not operate in nature's nor'
mal processes he would be justified in losing all
faith in the Infinite wisdom of the Universal Mind.
[112]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
An ancient philosopher, who was truly a Mys'
tic, expressed the greatest principle of creation by
saying that all things "are becoming." Each hour
of the day every material thing is becoming some
thing else. It is the law of change, of motion,
of life.
In the whole universe there is nothing today
that is new in existence. Nothing has been created
since the beginning when the "Word" established
all created things; and, as we have said, nothing
has been destroyed or ever will be destroyed.
All is unceasing, progressive change. This is the
true law of evolution. The Mystic knows that man
as a species has been and is evolving —not from a
lower specie, but from a lesser to a greater degree
of perfection. In the beginning was the Word
and the Word was made flesh; and man as a
specie was conceived and created simultaneously
with all living creatures resembling him in some
characteristics. But primitive man was as far ad'
vanced beyond the ape as modern man is advanced
beyond the primitive progenitors of his type. He
has evolved more rapidly than all other species of
[ill]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
the animal kingdom because of endowments not
possessed by other creatures.
All that which seems like "creating" is "re'
creating" —evolution, change. All that which
seems destructive is but a phase in the process of
constructive change. It is also evolution. There
fore, all that which is loosely called "creation" and
"annihilation" is really transformation. That
which seems new is but old matter, old thought,
old spirit, old life, old hate, old evil, old errors, in
new forms, new births of manifestation.
There are no contradictions in nature's laws.
Harmony is the element that binds them all into
one Law—the Law of Evolution.
And, since there is no destruction of matter,
energy, force, or principle, and no creation of this
from what has not always existed "from the be'
ginning," all is eternal, immortal. Hence even the
body of man in its elements, the spirit of life in
its essence, the soul of man in its consciousness, are
eternal and immortal.
And, there must be a law of evolution —change
—new form —for the mind, character, personality,
[114]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
and Soul of man, as there is for the physical body
of man.
Coincident with the gradual, progressive, evo.
lution of man's physical body in the ages of the
past, has been the progressive evolution of the Soul
of man.
The Soul in man—or call it mind, personality,
or character—is the flower of God's creation, the
acme of nature's products. It is inconceivable that
nature should give immortality, and the accom'
panying opportunity to evolve, to the least speck
of unconscious dust and deny it to the Soul of
man.
We have intimated that the Soul in man is as'
sociated with personality, and that it has a con.
scious mind.
There is hardly any basis for argument in the
statement that man is a dual being. Without the
least consideration of any of the ancient or modern
philosophies we can say in simple words that man,
as a sentient entity, is a physical being through
which expresses a personality, individuality, or
distinct character. Essentially man is partly physi'
C n*3
MANSIONS OP THE SOUL
cal, and partly noivphysical; partly material and
partly immaterial.
In this duality we sense a unity of different
beings. That we are warranted in looking upon
the personality or Soul of man as a spiritual being
within the physical body, is indicated by the many
common experiences of life quite independent of
the principles expounded by psychology.
The experiences commonly designated as dreams
reveal at least that man may be conscious of his
existence and conscious of the world, without any
functioning on the part of his waking conscious'
ness. Whatever way we analyze dreams and con'
elude that they are the result of restlessness on the
part of the brain or mind, the fact remains that
the consciousness of the self during dreams is not
the same as the self'consciousness during our nor'
mal waking conditions, in either degree or nature.
On the other hand, there are those occasions
when this consciousness of self is asleep or dormant
while the physical body is active and more than
normally functioning; as, for instance, when chlo.
roform or ether is used to dull the consciousness
[116]
THE COSMIC COHCBPTIOH
while the body is kept active through handling,
abuse, and trial.
And, there is that very large class of frequent
phenomena typified by the experience in which
the consciousness of one in profound meditation
seems to leave the physical body and as a sentient
being goes out into space and revels in environ'
ments far removed from the locality of the physi'
cal body. At such times there is always a distinct
sense of the separateness of the material and im'
material selves.
What is this inner self? Theology answers and
says "the Soul." Philosophy answers and says it
is "consciousness of self." The mystic—ever more
guarded and precise than the theologian or philos'
opher—says: "It is the personality or Ego!"
Personality or Ego is the consciousness of the
Spiritual Body—the Soul. It is that part of dual
man that has been progressively evolving along
with the evolution of the physical body. Just as
the physical body has gradually acquired a more
upright position, a more tranquil expression and
a more refined form, so the personality —or con'
sciousness of the Soul—has evolved a more uni'
[117]
MAXSIOHS OF THE SOUL
versal knowledge, a more intimate acquaintance
with itself and a more idealistic realization of its
purpose in life.
This development of the consciousness of Per'
sonality in man is conveniently called Personal
Evolution. The purpose of such evolution is to
build character.
Every ethical and moral system of the past and
present has had for its aim the building or perfect'
ing of character. Even the primary stages of ele'
mentary education contribute greatly—for good
or bad—in the moulding of character. The Greeks
adopted a system, now being revived, of character
moulding before birth, through the prenatal in'
fluences of the mother.
Unquestionably education has the most formid'
able influence upon character, while religion, eth'
ics, and morals —as codes and creeds —contribute
a refining element.
It is the desire of every progressive thinking
being to develop the character to a degree of nc
bility and perfection where it is not only a personal
asset —assuring very definite dividends—but an
asset to the family, the city, and the nation.
[ITS]
THE COSMIC COXpEPTIOH
We are told that Character is Salvation.
Through the development of character man dis'
covers himself and rounds out his dormant abili'
ties while rounding off the rough corners of his
nature. Truly, in this sense, the evolution of char
acter is the approach to salvation from failure, sin
and ignominy.
Character is Fate! Certainly, as we build our
character in the now we decree our fate in the
future. The forcefulness of the truth of this
statement needs no amplification.
Every experience in life, every incident con'
sciously realized, and many of which we are iuv
conscious, form a part of our moulding personality.
We are not only now what we thin\, but we
will become that which results from our thinking.
We are reaping daily and hourly as we have
sown. Each day we become, mentally, spiritually,
and physically what we have made ourselves.
Hence, we are forever working out our own salva'
tion or damnation, independent of the subtle in'
fluences of heredity, and independent of any pre'
destined course in life.
[119]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
Man possesses the power to choose. Freewill
is a fundamental factor of his highly developed —
evolved—consciousness. But as he chooses, so
must he abide. The responsibility rests with him.
As he sows, so must he reap; as he obligates, so
must he compensate; as he demands, so must he
pay.
Man's life is an endless battle between urge and
decision. Cosmic, divine inspirations from the con'
sciousness within vie with worldly, material, gross
temptations, from without. Man is motivated by
urge; he is free to decide and he becomes what he
thereby decrees.
Such is the principle, the true law of Fatalism.
The responsibility rests not in some blind law of
chemical action and reaction, nor with a jealous,
revengeful God.
Man may be blind to the consequences of his
decisions, and may often be blind to the true na'
ture of the urge which brings the need for de'
cision. But the immutable laws provide one di'
rect benefit as a result of every decision, every
act. As man chooses —sows—so shall he reap and
pay. That is the Law of Compensation.
[120]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
According to this law, nature in every depart'
ment of manifestation demands justice, equaliza'
tion, and compensation.
It is so old in the understanding of man that
most of his self'made laws, even among primitive
tribes and races, are based upon observations of
its working.
The manifestation of the Law of Compensation
constitutes the great school of experience. Through
this school man has come to learn of his powers
and limitations, his weaknesses and strength, his
advantage over all other living creatures.
From childhood unto old age, man learns that
his evil acts are essentially a sin against his own
career for which he must suffer or pay. He learns,
too, that his noble deeds, unselfish acts and idealis'
tic thoughts bring their balanced rewards.
Each experience with the Law of Compensation
adds to the moulding of his creed in life, his guide
of conduct, his code of thinking. The memory of
each experience —each lesson —remains as a stone
in the structure of the character that he is build'
ing.
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
Personality —or character—is thereby evolving
from childhood onward through every hour of con'
scions existence.
Thus the Soul in man, the immaterial part of
his dual being, the consciousness of the self, is an
evolving entity which the mystics call Personality
or Ego. And because of its very nature, because
of its association with the immaterial part of his
being, personality is a spiritual, eternal, immortal
entity.
The following statements are not presented as
the component elements of a mere doctrine, but
as the essential parts or related phases of a Law.
That Reincarnation, as a doctrine, affords a
more satisfactory explanation of life and its trials,
tribulations, and compensations, is apparent from
the fact that it does not require a basic assumption
other than that already adopted by all Christian
and nearly all other forms of religious beliefs—
the immortality of the Soul.
On the other hand it does not require the ac
ceptance, upon faith, of any principle of fatalism,
predestination, or retribution, operating through
blind, material action or a revengeful, jealous God.
{122}
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
Neither does it shift the responsibility of our
fate from earthly atom to heavenly deity, but
leaves it resting surely upon the individual.
Let us see, therefore, what the fundamental
assumption, referred to above, means.
The Soul, with its consciousness or personality,
is immortal. This is the assumption and contention
of all Christian doctrines and practically all other
religions.
The mystic claims that if the Soul of man is
something which is created anew and given exist'
ence for the first time when it enters a physical
body, then it would cease to exist at that change of
dual existence called death or transition —for if
the Soul of man is immortal after death, it must
have been immortal before birth.
The immutable laws of nature prove to us that
it is inconsistent with the whole scheme of nature
to suppose, assume, or believe that the Soul
which enters each new body is an eternal, immortal
entity created for the first time for each body, but
living eternally thereafter.
The idea that the Soul is immortal only after
it leaves the physical body is but half of the truth,
[123)
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
if true at all. That which is immortal is and was
forever immortal. Immortality is not an element or
quality that can be called into sudden existence
and added to a thing to serve for an indefinite)
period of time. If it is at all, it must have been
eternally.
Furthermore, if the Soul in man is a gift, or an
endowment from the Cosmic or the Infinite Con'
sciousness, or God, it must be of the essence or
nature of the Infinite God—eternally immortal.
It must have existed "in the beginning" and will
exist unto eternity. There can be no periodic cre'
ation of new parts or segments of the Divine Con'
sciousness. Such a thought is so inconsistent with
all other laws of nature that its belief is abhorrent
to the real thinker.
Our only conclusion must be that the Soul of
man, with its consciousness of Self, or Personality,
is pre'existent, immortal, and eternal. It has al
ways existed, but passes through the universal pro.
cess of change.
The physical body of man, as we have seen, has
attained its present degree of high perfection in
appearance, form, nature, and functioning through
C 124 ]
THE COSMIC COHCEFTIOH
progressive cycles of evolution. Certain races of
men—having the advantage of environment and
experience —have profited more through the cycles
of physical evolution than others.
In all direct family lines of ascent we find that
each generation of the blood, each cycle of the
physical rebirth of the body, shows the effect of
physical evolution, if no evil seeds have been sown
to be reaped.
And coincident with these cycles of evolution
—periods of rebirth along one line of ascent — the
Soul also evolves in cycles of existence along one
line of ascent.
Likewise the Soul of man in each existence, in
each reincarnation in a physical body, shows the
effect of mental and spiritual evolution, if no evil
seeds have been sown to be reaped.
[«»]
Chapter X.
THE AGGREGATION OF PERSONALITIES
T WOULD appear from what has been
said in the foregoing pages that since
man evolves a distinctly different or
modified personality in each earthly
incarnation, these personalities, being an attribute
of the soul, would give to each individual on earth
an aggregation of the personalities previously
evolved.
In other words, if the soul upon entrance into
the physical body at birth carries with it any rem'
nant of the personality or personalities possessed
by it through previous incarnations, each one of
us would possess at the present time in the present
incarnation an aggregation of personalities rather
than a single one.
The truth of the matter is that each one of us
manifests primarily in each incarnation only one
personality, and that one is that which is being
evolved at the time; but this evolving personality
[127]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
is unquestionably an aggregation of the essential
elements of the previous personalities possessed by
the soul. Herein lies the only logical explanation
for the commonplace manifestation of those com'
plexes which psycho'analysis and psychiatry at'
tempt to distinguish and separate into distinct
traits or elements of character.
Merely as an hypothetical example, let us as'
sume that we have before us for critical study a
business man, 45 years of age, who has risen to
his position from a family living in moderate
circumstances and of average intellect. Let us
assume that his schooling was derived exclusively
in the public schools, with no college or special
academic training, and that after entering the busi'
ness world and contacting various occupations he
finally entered the employ of a firm wherein dili
gent application, some special abilities, loyalty, and
sincerity, enabled him to become promoted until
at the age of 45 he reached the position of general
manager, and is now a married man with two
children, a fine home, a good income, a well'trained
mind, with the advantages of some travel and
much reading, and the benefits of culture and good
[128]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
social position to make the remainder of his life
one of assured happiness and peace. And let us
assume, in our study of him, that while he is not
an extremist in religious thought he is a supporter
of the church and of every humanitarian, religious
activity, is fond of healthy out'door sports, is con'
servative and dignified in his personal habits and
language, steady and logical in his thinking, rea'
soning, and general activities, and given to one or
two hobbies for relaxation. In general, he is
neither a special study for the psycho'analyst nor
one to be cast aside as having no complexes of any
kind. In other words he is just the average suc
cessful business man whose personality and char'
acter seem to have been softened by many experi'
ences and whose life is not affected by any of the
passing thrills or momentary excitements of the
day; yet he has shown unique ability in a number
of directions and holds a number of convictions in
his mind which nothing can reverse or modify. To
his intimate friends he has a personality that is dis'
tinct enough to be recognized and distinguished
from others, yet there are a few elements of this
[129]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
personality which appear to be foreign to it or at
least unexpected variations.
From the viewpoint of those who do not be
lieve in reincarnation this man's character and per'
sonality would be the result of his education, train'
ing, and experiences in the past 45 years of this
one incarnation exclusively. In other words, his
present personality would be solely that which has
evolved during this one incarnation.
From one point of view this personality is a
blending and an aggregation of the essential and
outstanding elements of his character and person'
ality in all of his previous incarnations. In other
words, we will assume that this man in his last
incarnation was essentially a soldier, for most of
his life was devoted to army training and to mili'
tary experiences plus a few lessons of life learned
through separation from his family, through a lack
of sufficient income to give him in the latter part
of his life the luxuries that he would have enjoyed,
and similar experiences. And we will assume that
in the incarnation preceding that of a soldier he
was essentially a physician, or one devoted to the
study of diseases and the practice of any methods
[130]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
that would relieve diseases and physical suffering,
and that through this training and experience he
learned many serious lessons of life, which, before
the close of his incarnation, left indelible convic
tions upon his memory as elements of his person'
ality. And we will assume that in the incarnation
preceding that of the physician he was a farmer
in a provincial sense in some foreign country bor'
dering the Mediterranean, and that, as such, he
learned through experience many other lessons of
life, especially those relating to agriculture, the
conservation, of small funds, the benefits of diligent
effort and watchfulness, the value of sacrifice, and
the benefits of saving, as well as the detriments of
the lack of education and the lack of opportunity
to improve the mind and hand in practical applica'
tion.
Without going back any further in possible in'
carnations preceding these, we will see now that
upon each transition this man carried in his soul
and personality certain keenly learned lessons, or
extremely well'learned experiences, which consti'
tute at the present time the foundation stones or
principal elements of his character and personality.
[1313
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
If we look upon these outstanding lessons of each
incarnation as rules and guides of life, written
down in a ledger as the immutable laws by which
he would govern himself, he will find that as he
passed through each incarnation and added to the
character ledger of his life, he also added new
rules, new laws, new convictions, new elements of
personality.
When he passed from the life of a farmer, and
through reincarnation became the physician, he
entered into a new life with some of the outstand'
ing lessons he had learned as a farmer written
secretly but indelibly in the inner nature of his
being; and as he passed through childhood and
studied to become a physician these deeply buried
elements of his previous personality subtly mani'
fested themselves by acting as controls or guides,
or modifying tendencies, in the situations which
confronted him in his daily life. Perhaps as a
physician he may often have wondered at his inner
liking for agriculture. Perhaps he wondered, also,
about his deep'seated tendency to be saving, eco
nomical, and conservative in his expenditures. Un'
doubtedly he would have no recollection of hav
[132]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
ing acquired these principles through experiences
in a previous life. As he learned more lessons
through his profession as a physician, new rules
were established and new elements of personality
were adopted and the rough and uncouth elements
of his life as a farmer were eliminated, and at the
close of his incarnation as a physician his person'
ality was that of a blending of the principal ele
ments of both the farmer and the physician.
When he came into life again in another incar'
nation as the soldier, he probably found early in
his youth that he had a liking for the study of
the human body and desired to know more about
the Organs and functionings of parts of the body,
while at the same time upon occasion there may
have been an uprising in his consciousness of
of knowledge as to what to do in emergencies or
in accidents, or when his body or the body of
someone else was in great suffering. All the while
there may also have been a tendency to want to be
out in the open country close to orchards, or to
fields of wheat, or among grape vines, or where
the farmers were at work. There may have been
in his consciousness a desire to know something of
[133]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
herbal extracts and of chemistry, and it would
have been said of him probably that he was a
youth of strange nature or temperament and tastes
in his lines of study. But after being entered into
the army as a young man, and after developing
an appreciation of military training and regula'
tion, new features were added to his character and
personality so that when the time came for transi
tion again, many new and valuable lessons of life
had become established in his personality as guides
and laws.
Therefore, we would find that when this man
came into life this time in his present incarnation
his undeveloped personality consisted only of the
deeplyseated and unawakened elements of person'
ality in the past. Had there been any way of
analyzing his past or scrutinizing the undeveloped
personality residing within him as a boy of twelve
or less we would have found that in the soul of his
being his personality was like an unfinished book
upon the pages of which were written certain laws
and principles to become the fundamentals of his
present personality. We would have found the
love for the country, the admiration of nature's
[134]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
processes, the instinct to save, and to economize,
the ability to plant and make things grow, the de'
sire for greater knowledge and more modern ad'
vantages, the liking for chemistry and botany, the
sympathetic feeling toward those who suffer, with
a natural ability to know what to do to relieve
such suffering, the instinct to live properly so as to
guard against disease, and, with all, an inherent
love of country and a highly developed degree of
patriotism, and an instinctive dread of ammuni'
tion, fire arms, or physical conflicts. Out of this
group of character elements, which the expert
would call complexes, there developed gradually
in the youth the natural desire to be engaged in
some constructive, peaceful, conservative, modern,
practical activity, which would entail no destruc
tion of life, no sacrifice of personal needs, no lack
of opportunity for education, and at the same time
permit of the expression of sympathy and the de'
sire to help those who suffer.
Understanding, then, what were the essential
elements of his evolved personality and what were
the fundamental laws of his character, we should
not be surprised to find that as he passed from one
[M»]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
occupation to another in his present incarnation
he finally found satisfaction and contentment in
the service of a company devoted to the making of
proprietary remedies from herbal extracts for the
alleviation of physical conditions. In other words,
we find him now as general manager of a com'
pany manufacturing and selling bottled extracts
which are used by physicians and chemists in the
preparation of remedies for physical suffering. In
this business he found opportunity to be in sym'
pathy with all of the instincts of his nature and to
express all of the complexities of his personality.
He not only found happiness in his work but an
unusual degree of efficiency and expertness in his
activity.
We would also understand from our study of
his past why it is that in his present incarnation
he had some "peculiar" whims or fancies, as his
friends called them, and why he used to love to get
away from the busy city life, with all of its tinsel
and noise and rapid activities, and go out into the
country and go among the orchards and the fields
of growing things to ponder over the wonders of
nature. We would also know why he loved to
[1$6]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
hear military music, loved to see the soldiers on
parade, but had an inherent and well'fixed convic
tion that war was a brutal and unnecessary thing.
And we would understand why, in his wealth and
assured position of steady financial income he still
gave expression to some strange instinct of hus'
bandry and insisted upon buying large supplies of
essential foods and storing them in store rooms
of his home, regardless of the fact that in these
modern days all these supplies could be quickly
purchased at near'by stores. These and many other
traits of personality which seem to be inconsistent
to that of a modern, conservative, business man
would be called complexes by the student of char'
acter, and would be classified as peculiarities by
relatives and friends.
Thus, this hypothetical man would be, today,
the aggregation of his previoius personalities. In
his normal convictions he would exemplify those
principles which had become convictions in char'
acter through bitter lessons of the past. In his
ethical standards he would practice those things
which he had learned were the best of policies and
principles. The weaknesses which this man might
tl»7]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
evince would represent tendencies which had not
been modified by previous experience, and were,
therefore, unaffected by lessons which had brought
convictions and established principles. These
weaknesses he would indulge in until by experience
he had learned of their value or of their detriment
in his life. In this way he would learn either to
modify them or eliminate them so that by the close
of his life these weaknesses would be overcome,
or, if found pleasureable and non'injurious, would
be continued as desirable elements of character for
the future.
Each one of us
is,
in the same manner, an aggre'
gation of our past personalities. In this life we
draw upon the great lessons and experiences of the
past and express them as the fundamental elements
of our present character, while at the same time,
learning through lessons and experiences, new
principles and new elements out of which we dec
orate and modify, shade, blemish or improve, the
beauty
of
our character. This
is
the purpose of re
incarnation. By its principles we are enabled to
taste all of the cup
of
life and to learn all of its
lessons. By our own will we overcome those
[138)
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
things which are evil, eliminate those things which
are detrimental, strengthen those things which are
good, and thus perfect our ego and bring us close
to the Divine consciousness and the image of God.
In no other way can the human personality de
velop and evolve in one span of life on earth, even
though it be of a hundred years. One span of life
would be insufficient and inadequate in the time
element alone to permit of the development, evolu'
tion, and perfection of a personality; and aside
from the time element there are also the elements
of human contact, environment, geographical loca'
tion, varied occupation and the progressiveness
of civilization. Those born this year and living
only a hundred years in the present time and never
having lived before, and never to live hereafter,
could not possibly evolve and develop a perfect per'
sonality of universal knowledge, experience, and
understanding, for they would have no apprecia'
tion of the past through which man has developed
and they would have no appreciation of the mag'
nificent developments of the future. To claim,
therefore, that each soul has but one short span of
life on earth, and that this span, separate from all
[139]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
the experiences of the past with their very valuable
lessons, and separated from the magnificent les'
sons to be learned in the future, and in contact with
only one phase of humanity in one country in one
age of time, constitutes all that is necessary for
a man or woman to develop and perfect a human
character is absurb and unsound, as well as unfair
and unjust.
If we, as human beings, are to be judged later
on by the development and attained perfection of
our characters, and by that judgment condemned
eternally to peace or unhappiness, joy or sorrow,
rich reward or eternal condemnation, then it is
manifestly unfair that we should be born but once,
handicapped and blighted by the original sins of
our forebearers and the great sin of Adam, and
given but a few years under predestined condi'
tions to accomplish those changes in our lives and
characters which would eliminate all of the in'
herited sins and make us competent to overcome
the sins of today and be ready for eternal judg'
ment.
In fact, there would be no purpose served by
the Soul's entrance into a physical body for just
[140]
THE COSMIC COKCEPTIOH
one incarnation of a few short years. To be
judged, therefore, because of the unattained per'
fection which is not possible in one incarnation, is
an injustice of such a nature that it is incompatible
with our beliefs in Divine goodness, love, and
mercy.
[Ml]
Chapter XI.
THE RELIGIOUS AND BIBLICAL
VIEW'POINT
HOSE who hesitate to accept the doc
trines of reincarnation generally claim that
no support for such doctrines can be
found in any of the Western world re
ligions. Those who are of the Christian denomina'
tion are especially positive in their statements that
the Christian Bible, and the Christian doctrines as
propounded by Jesus, contain no references to re
incarnation and no statements which even tolerate,
let alone support, the idea of reincarnation.
These persons argue that because some of the
modern religions in the Western world represent'
ing only a minority of the religious thought of the
entire world, contain no support of the doctrine of
reincarnation, that it should be rejected. In their
minds the modern religions are the standard by
which all others are to be gaged, and the beliefs
of the minority are to supplant the beliefs of the
[143 3
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
majority. Such an attitude is a continuation of
the ancient attitude of intolerance toward the
truths held by others, and we are happy to find
that in recent years the average person of the
Western world is no longer inclined to be bound
by the doctrines and beliefs of his forebears, but
seeks knowledge and truth, regardless of its
antiquity, its origin, or the fact that it may be in'
compatible with the creeds and dogmas of a minor'
ity of the Western civilization.
Fortunately, however, the belief that the re'
ligions of the Western world, and the Christian
Bible, give no support to the doctrines of reincar'
nation is disproved by a careful analysis of avail'
able sources of indisputable information. Those
who have heretofore held to the belief that the Oc'
cidental religions and those which constitute the
religions of Western civilization contain no refer'
ence to reincarnation will be surprised by the facts
I am about to give.
Before proceeding to quote from the standard
versions of the Christian Bible, I feel that it is
proper to explain why the doctrine of reincarna'
tion is not generally recognized in the Western
C 144 ]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
world as an almost universal religious belief. The
two great religions of the Western world today
are the Jewish and the Christian. The latter is
fundamentally an outgrowth of the former. There
are many eminent scriptural and religious author'
ities who claim that many of the theological prin'
ciples of Christianity are founded upon mystical
principles contained in the Oriental religious
philosophies. We are safe in saying, however, that
except for those new and unique doctrines taught
by Jesus, the greater part of the Christian religion
is similar to the Jewish religion, and in the Jewish
religion one may trace very easily many principles
of Oriental philosophies, which were found to be
sound and useful, and which were retained by the
Christian church during the processes of evolving
the present day Christian religion.
Before one can thoroughly understand all of
the passages in the Christian Bible, as we find
them in the standard versions, one must have some
understanding of the religious beliefs which were
universally accepted by the Jewish people at the
time of the public preachings of Jesus. Many of
the passages in the New Testament, and many of
[14»]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
the references by Jesus to conditions existing
around Him, are not understandable unless one
is familiar with the customs, habits, beliefs, and
general philosophy of the people of His time. The
passage in the New Testament referring to mar'
riage and to the separation of the classes of pec
pie, and to the methods of praying, or the giving
away of worldly things in order to become humble,
are not fully appreciated by the Bible student, un'
less he is familiar with the customs, habits, and be
liefs of the Jewish race at the time these allegorical
or moral and ethical statements were made.
The moment the student of the Jewish religion
and Jewish history becomes acquainted with the
customs and habits of the people at the time of
Christ's mission, he realizes that there are many
interesting facts connected with the life of the
people and their benefits and general practices not
elaborated upon in either the Old or New Testa'
ments of the Bible, because they were so com'
monplace and so generally accepted and ac
knowledged that the writers of the Bible did not
feel that it was necessary to comment upon them.
In many places in the Bible reference is made to
[146]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
stoning a person to death. No explanation is of'
fered by any of the writers of the Bible as to why
this method of punishment was universal in Pales'
tine, for the writers probably believed that in their
day when these facts were written, everyone was
familiar with the history and universal nature of
such a process. When one comes to study the
history of Palestine and is fortunate enough to
visit the country and live among the people for a
while, one comes to realize that because of the
abundance of small stones or rocks everywhere and
the ease with which a multitude or a mob assenv
bled at almost any place could reach down and
quickly seize many rocks to throw at a person,
that it was only natural for the mob practice of
throwing stones to become a popular method.
There are other references in the Bible to times of
the day, periods of the year, seasons, climatic con'
ditions, social practices, personal customs about the
home, and other intimate facts which are not elab'
orated upon or explained in detail for the same
reason.
Many of the important details about the cruci'
fixion of Jesus the Christ, are not given in the
[147 3
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
various accounts found in the New Testament
simply because at the time that these accounts were
written, the authors knew that the populace was
familiar with such details and there was no reason
for elaborating upon them in their accounts and,
therefore, they dealt in detail with those points
which were unique in connection with this histori'
cal event. For instance, the precise shape of the
cross, the manner in which it was made, the man'
ner in which the body was attached, and the man'
ner in which the cross was erected, are points
which were so familiar to everyone that comment
upon them seemed unnecessary. There are
thousands of similar voids of detail throughout the
Bible which today are of great importance.
Because certain facts are not elaborated upon in
the Bible is no reason for the student to believe that
they did not exist or were not known to the mass
of people. It may be safe to argue that since we
find no reference in the Bible anywhere to ice, that
this form of frozen water was unknown to the
people of Palestine or elsewhere. Historical re
search and scientific knowledge support our con'
elusion that ice may not have been known to the
[148]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
mass of people at that time. But to argue that the
art of dentistry was unknown because there is no
reference in the Bible to artificial or false teeth is
to make a serious mistake, inasmuch as research has
proved that among the early Egyptians the art of
dentistry was known, and many mummies have
been found with artificial teeth. Likewise, no one
should argue that no scientific or hygienic attention
was given to childbirth simply because there is no
reference to it to be found in the Bible, and because
the most important birth recorded therein lacks
any details regarding the attention given to the
mother and child. We now know that there were
hospices for the care of mothers at delivery and
that even the poor had attention voluntarily given
by midwives or those who were capable of assist'
ing at such a time. And, because the details in
this regard are lacking in connection with the birth
of Jesus, it is not right to assume that Mary and
Jesus had no hygienic or other professional atten'
tion. The authors of the story of the birth were
not concerned with the facts that were commonly
recognized as prevalent and general, but with
[149]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
'
those facts that were unique and of distinct inv
portance.
The doctrine of reincarnation was generally ac
cepted and universally established among the
philosophers and mystics of the Jewish people at
the time of the birth of Jesus and throughout His
entire life, as we shall see in passages to be quoted.
But this doctrine was not purely a religious one
any more than the doctrines or principles asso.
ciated with the conception of human life, and the
birth of the human body, or the principles con'
nected with the preparation of food, the curing of
disease, or the preparation of the body for burial.
Such commonly accepted and generally known
principles were looked upon by the writers of the
Bible as universal knowledge and had no more
place in the scriptural writings than had the de'
tails of the planting of seeds in the ground for
crops or the weaving of cotton into cloth, the
sewing of costumes, the making of shoes, or the
thousand and one other things that were part of
the general knowledge, practice, and customs of
the day.
[HO]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
There are many references, however, in the
Christian Bible to the doctrine of reincarnation,
which are positive, definite, and unquestionable,
but they are associated with other statements in
such a casual way that the average reader of the
Bible overlooks them. This I will show later on
where such passages are quoted. To prove, how
ever, how universal was the belief in reincarnation
among the Jewish people and among the Disciples
of Jesus, and even with Jesus Himself, I am going
to outline here some of the principal points in con'
nection with reincarnation as held by the Jewish
people during the Christian era. The same beliefs
were also held by the peoples in the Oriental lands,
but since the Christian and other present'day
Western religions evolved out of the Jewish re'
ligion, we will limit ourselves to the presentation
of the doctrines of reincarnation as known to and
taught by the Jewish teachers. It is probably the
first time that this information has been completely
revealed in the Western world in connection with
the subject of reincarnation.
I believe that I can do no better than quote from
the precise words written within recent years by
[1*1]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
Moses Gaster, Ph. D., chief Rabbi of the Jewish
Congregation of London, and Vice'President of the
Royal Asiatic Society, who is a widely recognized
author on various subjects of Jewish religion, belief,
and practice. The following paragraphs are con'
densations of his writings without comment. Re'
member that this eminent authority is referring
wholly to Jewish beliefs and religious practices,
and that he is quoting from such standard Jewish
sacred books as "The Zohar," "The Manasseh ben
Israel," and others.
"The belief in the migration (or reincarnation)
of the Soul presupposes the existence of the Soul;
and a whole Esoteric system about the creation of
the Soul, and the conception of sin and redemption,
are the fundamental principles upon which such a
doctrine must rest. God is the creator of every
thing; therefore, Souls are His creation. His crea'
tion came to an end with the close of the sixth
day. At the beginning, the Souls were created.
The power of God is thus limited to what He had
done on that occasion. The Souls created, then,
are of a limited number, as the creation was only
a limited act, and had to come to an end at a
[f«]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
definite period of time. These Souls are God's
creation, not any emanation from God. They are
conceived as having an individual existence; they
live separately and fully conscious of their individ'
uality; they dwell in the heavenly halls or in para'
dise in rapt contemplation of the Divine glory;
thither they are allowed to return at the end of
their peregrination through the lower world. The
Souls of the born and the unborn, of those who
have already been in the earth world and of those
who have not yet been in that world, are dwelling
together in the heavenly halls or in the treasury
of God (see Deuteronomy 3 2' 34). Moses in his
ascent to heaven saw the Souls of the great and
pious and of those who have lived upon earth and
of those who are to come to life hereafter—among
others David and Aqiba. No new Souls are created
for each child that is born, the number of souls
being limited. Man must by his actions approach
the Divine, and his whole life must be a long sus'
tained hymn of praise to God. But man, made of
the dust of the earth, cannot rise to such perfec
tion unless the Divine Soul lifts him up, and un
less the Divine law guides him steadily upward
[1*3]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
towards heaven. His life is a constant struggle
between the grossly material inclinations inherent
in his earthly nature and the high spiritual prompt'
ings of his Divine Soul. According to the way in
which he inclines, his Soul will become more or less
contaminated by the contact with matter; it will
lose more and more of its spiritual luster and
purity. For man has absolute free will; he is mas'
ter over his own actions.
"The Souls have been created for a specific use;
they must enter human bodies; but the choice is
not left to them, either of the bodies to be selected
or of the time of entry, and the time and manner
of exit. Although the Soul forgets most of its
spiritual existence when it enters into a body in the
earth world, yet a dim recollection remains, a sub'
conscious image, which is the guiding principle
in elementary recognition of good and evil. Thus
every man has within himself a standard of right
and wrong given to his Soul in its premundane ex'
istence. In the Zohar the incarnation of the Soul
is described in the following manner: All souls
were created at the beginning of all creation; when
not incarnated in bodies they dwell in heavenly
[154]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
bliss and Divine illumination. When a body is be'
ing prepared to receive a Soul, a Soul requiring
special earthly experience is directed or attracted
to such a body as will provide such experience and
knowledge. The law says unto the Soul: 'Ye shall
see how the Lord has mercy on you. He has given
you His precious pearl, the law, to help you in this
world, so that ye may return pure.' Thus the
Soul is given an opportunity through incarnation
to compensate for its sins and purify itself, and
thus rise one degree higher toward the ultimate
perfection.
"Now the Soul begins its course upon earth.
It must endeavor to obtain the absolute mastery
over the body and not to become its slave. In the
first entry, the Soul is absolutely pure and without
blemish. It is not met by the obstacle of original
sin. The principle upheld always is that 'Each
man dieth by his own sin\ (Ez^kias 18:26), but
the weakness inherent in matter soon makes itself
felt, and there are temptations placed in its way
through the envy and spite of evil minds, which
are anxious to drag it down to their own level.
Through trial and trouble, man must win the
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
crown of eternal bliss. A term is set for man's
redemption. When all Souls have thus become
purified through successive reincarnations and have
attained the ultimate goal of perfection, the king'
dom of heaven upon earth will then be established.
The evil in the world strives in vain to impede the
steady development and unfolding of the evolving
and purifying souls. The evil may delay the de'
velopment of Souls, but cannot indefinitely Iras'
trate it. The Soul, which has been contaminated
through earthly experiences can be purified again;
the sins committed can be atoned for through
compensation, and even here the means is given
to the Soul to achieve its own purification. The
Soul retains its own consciousness and is sensible
to its own failings; it realizes the bitterness of pun'
ishment and the tragedy of not being allowed to
ascend on high and stand before God in its Pristine
purity. After transition, it remains in an inter'
mediate state of the spiritual world waiting an
opportunity to purify itself and compensate for
its sins. This comes to it by being reembodied or
reborn, and thus the Soul migrates from one body
to another. It may or may not remember in each
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
incarnation its former existence. Such migration
continues until all the blemish has been eliminated.
Such migration of souls is made to serve another
and still higher and more direct purpose—the Jus'
tice of God. The great problem which has haunted
every form of religious belief has been: how to
reconcile the happiness of the sinner and trials and
sufferings of the pious and good with the justice
of God. Every religion has endeavored to estab'
lish a doctrine which would answer this question.
Some of them have relegated the solution of this
problem to a continued life after death, whereby
the Soul remains in combination with a physical
body in order that the latter may suffer the tor'
ment of hell. Such an explanation was after all a
subtle way out of a difficulty and it is not quite
free from a possible reproach of selfishness. Not
so with the belief in the reincarnation of the Soul.
Here, upon earth, in the sight of all, the sinner—
whosoever he might me—has to expiate his sins.
Here he has to suffer for the wrongs committed,
and here obtain, as it were, a pass for the heavenly
regions. By this slow process of purification in
successive reincarnations the whole world would
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
benefit and the general progress and welfare of
mankind would be hastened.
"There are, as it were, successive incarnations
for each pre'existing Soul, and for their sakes the
world was created. Simon Magus put forth the
claim of former existence, his Soul passing through
many bodies before it reached that known as
Simon. The Saramitan doctrine of the Taheb
teaches the same doctrine of a preexisting Soul,
one of which was given to Adama, but which
through successive incarnations in Seth, Noah, and
Abraham, reached Moses. The doctrines further
taught that not only is the world perfected by the
rebirths of Souls but each sinner gradually expiates
his sin in this world in the new existences in which
his Soul reappears. The sinner's Soul may enter
the body of a pious man, and by his good deeds,
he will cleanse the dross, still adhering to the Soul,
and facilitate its ascent on high. If a truly pious
person suffers, it is only and solely because of sins
committed in a previous incarnation and his suffer'
ingisnot a punishment for sins now committed but
a form of purgatory for evil deeds in a former life.
Likewise the sinner benefits from the good deeds
C i« ]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
that he has performed in a previous existence
whereby he may prosper now for a while, but if
he continues to sin, he will absorb all of the good
benefits from his past life and bring upon him suf
fering and punishment here or in his next incarna
tion.
"There is a difference of opinion as to how many
times a Soul will reincarnate before it has attained
perfection. It is generally believed that the full
cycle of reincarnations is that in which the Soul has
performed the whole of the 613 commandments
of the Law, by which alone perfection is attained.
By means of reincarnation the Soul fulfills the ob'
ject of its creation—to pass through human exist'
ences on earth and to lift man higher and to bring
him nearer the Divine. This doctrine, being a
justification of God's ways with men,
is,
at the
same time,
a
source of comfort to the pious, and
a
source of terror to the sinner.
It
reconciles man
to suffering and trial, and at the same time explains
the hidden meaning of many
a
law and ceremony
which seems obscure."
The foregoing gives us an excellent idea of the
general beliefs regarding the Soul and its purpose
C
1»
1
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
in the world as popularly held by the mass of
people in all of the Oriental countries. These
beliefs were firmly fixed in the minds of the ma'
jority of men and women during the lifetime of
Jesus and this being the case, we can understand
better the many references made to this doctrine
in the Christian Bible. In a later chapter I will
refer to some of the specific points outlined in the
foregoing picture of Jewish beliefs.
r i6oi
Chapter XII.
CHRISTIAN REFERENCES
O THOSE who are devoted to the Chris'
tian religion and who judge any moral,
ethical, or religious doctrine by its com'
patibility with the writings in the Holy
Bible, I now direct my attention.
In fairness to the subject, I plead with these
devout Christians to be tolerant and liberal in
their attitude for the time being, and consider the
following remarks with the same degree of fair
and just interpretation as they expect of others
when they argue their beliefs and their principles
of faith.
As stated in the previous chapter, there are
many passages in the Christian Bible which
directly and indirectly refer to reincarnation, and
even Jesus the Christ referred to the doctrine of
reincarnation in a manner which leaves no doubt
as to His familiarity with the doctrine and His
belief in it. The fact that the doctrine is not
[161]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
elaborated upon nor explained in detail in the Bible
is not a reason for concluding that it was not a
popular doctrine, or one that was not acceptable
to Jesus and His disciples.
The doctrine of reincarnation had no important
place in the great message which Jesus brought to
the world, and there was no more need for the
presentation of the details of the doctrine in the
writings of the Apostles or the great Prophets than
there was for the presentation of the details of
many other universally accepted scientific convic
tions and philosophical beliefs.
There is nothing in the doctrine of reincarna'
tion that is not compatible with the doctrines ex'
pounded by Jesus, nor with the life He lived. I
have shown in the previous chapters that the doc
trines of reincarnation were universally known and
accepted among the Jewish people and this fact
was known also to Jesus. The belief in reincarna'
tion, however, could not possibly prevent anyone
from accepting the new messages expounded by
Jesus, and there was no reason, therefore, for Him
to either criticize, modify, or comment upon the
[ 162 ]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
doctrine of reincarnation during his missionary
work.
What Jesus said of the Soul of man and of its
redemption and salvation, in no wise conflicts with
the fundamental principles and great truths of
reincarnation.
The average Christian believes that somewhere
in the Bible, and somewhere in the sayings at.<
tributed to Jesus by His Disciples, there is some
statement regarding the Soul to the effect that at
transition the Soul of man separates itself from
the physical body and rises to a Spiritual Kingdom
and there dwells in unconscious bliss or peace
awaiting the ultimate Judgment day. These per'
sons also believe that Jesus, or His Disciples,
definitely stated that the soul of man after trans'
ition remains eternally in a spiritual kingdom, and
that the Judgment day will come when all have
passed through transition and all are ready to be
judged at one time. If these statements of Jesus
were actually expressed in the Bible they would
certainly appear to be incompatible with the doc
trines of reincarnation. But the fact of the matter
is that no such statements were made by Jesus.
[163]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
The idea that the Soul of man leaves the physical
body at transition to live eternally in a spiritual
\ingdom, awaiting Judgment day, is a doctrine
that was added to the Christian faith long after
the life of Jesus, and is not based upon anything
said by Him. Truly, there is reference to Judg'
ment, and to the dwelling of the Soul in a Spiritual
Kingdom, and of the ultimate and final weighing
of our sins, but there is no statement to the effect
that each individual may not have many incarna/
tions before the time of the ultimate Judgment.
The doctrine of reincarnation includes the coming
of a final Judgment, and explains how and why
we are given opportunities to prepare for that
Judgment; but there is no reason to be found in
the original teachings of Jesus to warrant the be'
lief that at transition each Soul of each individual
passes to a Spiritual Kingdom, or any kingdom,
where it must reside for the end of time awaiting
the ultimate Judgment day.
If the Christian or the student of Christian
theology can honestly and bravely eliminate from
his consciousness and from his catagorical beliefs
the idea that the Soul of man at transition enters
[164]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
into a place or condition where it is to remain unto
the end of time, then there will be no difficulty in
accepting the true doctrines of reincarnation.
It will be seen that I am making a distinction
between the Christian doctrines as taught by Jesus
and propounded by His Disciples, and the Chris'
tian doctrines which were invented or agreed upon
by church conclaves in later centuries. I frankly
admit that the present'day Christian doctrines
as taught in the average Christian church do not
permit of an acceptance of the doctrine of reincar'
nation. But these doctrines are not the original
doctrines of Jesus the Christ. I am not attempting
to criticize the goodness, or soundness, of the doc
trines thus invented or adopted, except to state
that they have included certain beliefs that are
now contrary to reincarnation; but they are also
contrary to the other passages in the Bible, as I
will show by quotations. In other words, it is
possible for a person to be a devout Christian and
a sincere follower of the Lord Jesus Christ as man's
Saviour, and as one of the Holy Trinity, and at
the same time accept the doctrines of reincarna'
tion. There are hundreds of prominent Christian
C 16*]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
clergymen and Christian advocates in America to
day who are firm believers in the doctrine of rein'
carnation and who do not find this ancient doc
trine incompatible with anything taught by Jesus
or anything demonstrated in His life.
To start our Bible research and investigation,
let us turn back into the Old Testament for just
one of the many passages which clearly indicate
the popular belief in man's continued rebirth. We
will turn to the thirtythird chapter of the book
of Job and proceed to read the last part of this
chapter. Beginning at the twenty'seventh verse
we find the belief of repentance and redemption
expressed in clear language. We find the idea
conveyed that if a sinful person confesses his sin
at the time of transition or when he feels that his
earthly life is about to end, he will save himself
from future punishment and redeem his Soul from
the pit of darkness. In the twentyeighth verse we
read that such a repentant sinner "will deliver his
Soul from going into the pit, and his life shall see
the light." In the next verse we find the principles
of reincarnation or re-birth expressed in these
words, "Lo, all these things worketh God often'
[166]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
timies with man." In the thirtieth verse there is
a further explanation of what is meant by the
twenty 'ninth verse. It reads: "To bring back his
Soul from the pit, to be enlightened with the light
of the living."
Taking these three verses together there is no
possibility of mistranslation or misunderstanding.
Bringing the soul back from the pit into the light
of the living can only mean one thing. The use of
the word "pit," to mean the ancient burial places,
is quite a common expression in the Old Testa'
ment. It is often used to refer to the underworld
or to Hades. The use of the word to indicate a
grave or the place of the dead is shown in Ezekiel
32:23, Isaiah 38:18, Isaiah 14:15, and even in
the same chapter, the thirtythird of Job, in the
eighteenth verse, we read of the pit as associated
with death. To be redeemed from the pit, therefore,
and brought back into the "light of the living,"
and to have this thing occur "oftentimes with
man" can mean nothing else than being reborn
after death and given life again among the living.
The thoughts expressed in these verses are re
fleeted in many verses throughout the Old Testa'
1 167]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
ment. When we start to analyze the New Testa'
ment we find that the same thoughts were held
by the populace, and we find no correction of
these thoughts stated by Jesus, and no condemna'
tion of the idea of reincarnation or rebirth stated
anywhere.
That Jesus was thoroughly familiar with the
doctrine of reincarnation and of the law of com'
pensation is made manifest in many of His state'
ments. I am not going to take the time to quote
every one of the statements made by Jesus to His
Disciples which would indicate this, but I will take
one that is typical. In the Gospel of St. John, in
the ninth chapter, from the second to fourth verses,
we find a very interesting incident that deals exclu'
sively with reincarnation and the law of Karma.
In this instance Jesus passed along the highway
with His Disciples and met a man who was blind
and who was known to have been born blind. The
disciples considered this an opportunity to learn
more about the law of Karma and the cause of
human suffering, and so they called the attention
of Jesus to the blind man and asked:
[168 J
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
"Master, who did sin, this man, or his parents,
that he was born blind?" Jesus answered, "Neither
has this man sinned nor his parents, but that the
works of God should be made manifest in him."
You will notice that the Disciples distinctly
stated that the man was born blind, and, therefore,
they were puzzled as to the cause of the blindness.
If his blindness had come about later in life through
accident, injury, disease, mistreatment of the eyes,
or through any of the many causes of blindness,
there would have been no problem about his case.
And, please note, that the question of the Disciples
was whether the blind man himself had sinned or
his parents. If the parents had sinned, disease or
accident might have been responsible for the man
being born blind, but in what manner could the
man himself have sinned to have brought about
blindness before birth? Only by having sinned in
a previous life, and by bringing the blindness upon
himself as a Karmic condition. No other inter'
pretation can be given to this question on the part
of the Disciples. Please note, also, that the Dis'
ciples asked this question without hesitation and
without apparent timidity. The question is stated
[169]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
as though it were a common question and a most
natural one, and the very nature of the question
itself indicates that the Disciples were thoroughly
familiar with the law of Karma and re'birth, and
that they knew that Jesus was familiar with re
birth and Karma as universal laws.
Note also that the answer given by Jesus is not
a rebuke to their question, and is not a criticism
of the beliefs held by the Disciples, nor does it
ignore the thoughts in the minds of the Disciples
which prompted the question. Jesus accepted the
implication in their question and answered that
neither the man nor his parents had sinned, but that
the condition had come upon the man in order
that God might teach a lesson and manifest a
principle. Certainly this one incident should be
sufficient to show that Jesus and His Disciples were
thoroughly familiar with the doctrines of reincar'
nation or re'birth and Karma, and there was no'
thing repugnant, repulsive, or incompatible with
the teachings of Jesus in the doctrine of rein'
carnation or Karma, otherwise Jesus immediately
would have corrected His Disciples for expressing
[170]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
ideas along such lines and would have rebuked
them for such erroneous thoughts.
Throughout the New Testament we find that
Jesus never missed an opportunity to correct His
Disciples or rebuke any one when they wrongly
expressed a universal law or expressed a false
principle.
In the third chapter of St. John, in the verses
three to nine, we find another incident which clearly
refers to the rebirth of the Soul. Here Jesus is tell'
ing how important it is for a man to be born again
in order that he may enter the Kingdom of God.
Nothing is said as to how many times or how often
a person must be reborn in order to purge the be
ing of its sins and attain that purification which
would admit one to the Spiritual Kingdom. But
we find in the eighth verse of this chapter that the
spirit, or Soul, of man will come and go as the
wind, and no one can tell how often or in what
direction or in what manner it will come and go.
This is an allegorical statement of the birth and
re'birth of the soul, and the entire process of puri'
fication and redemption.
[171]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
Another very pointed reference to reincarnation
is found in the ninth chapter of St. Mark. Begin'
ning at the eleventh verse we find Jesus again dis'
cussing, confidentially, the important doctrines of
lif e with His Disciples. The Disciples were asking
their usual questions and Jesus was answering in
His typical manner. They asked Him why the
scribes were saying that Elias must first come.
Jesus answered them and said that truly enough
Elias would come first and restore all things, but,
he added, Elias indeed has come. The question as
to the coming of Elias referred to his re'birth and
to his coming again. In the twelfth verse of the
seventeenth chapter of St. Matthew the answer
given by Jesus is amended slightly to include the
fact that although Elias did come again as had
been expected, the public knew him not and
therefore disbelieved in him and mistreated him.
In all of the references to Elias throughout the
four gospels we find that the re'birth of Elias was
expected. Nowhere did Jesus correct His Disciples
for expressing such an idea, but on the contrary,
answered their questions and remarks with perfect
[172}
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOli
compliance to the intimated principles of reincar'
nation.
We find this reference to the rebirth of Elias
in one other very remarkable verification of the
doctrine of reincarnation in the Holy Bible. I re
fer to that outstanding event recorded by Mat'
thew, Mark, and Luke. Turning to the sixteenth
chapter of Matthew we find that when the Dis'
ciples were alone with Jesus again He wondered
regarding the attitude of the public toward His
life and His mission. He knew that they had ex'
pected the rebirth of Elias, and that every great
avatar or son of God was considered a rchorn son
of Divine appointment. Therefore, He wondered
which of the expected re'born Holy Men the
populace thought He was. So, He turned to His
Disciples and said, "Whom do men say that I,
the son of man, am?" In other words He said to
them, "Now that I am being discussed and talked
about as the Messiah, who do they say that I am,
since I am a son of man and am performing these
so'called miracles and proclaiming these new teach'
ings? In their conversations and in their private
conferences, who do they say I really am?'" This
[173]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
question can refer to nothing else than the com'
monly discussed subject of rebirth and reincarna'
tions. The public believed that He was a son of
man, and that Joseph was His father or had ac
cepted Jesus as his son, and there was no question
in the minds of the populace as to who Jesus was
in his physical form or hereditary lineage. Further'
more, Jesus would not have been concerned with
such matters, and would never have asked such an
inane question as, "Who do the people think I
am the son of?"
Notice the answer as given in the fourteenth
verse. The Disciples replied and said, "Some say
that thou art John the Baptist; some, Elias; and
others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets." Observe
that the answers of these Disciples referred to per'
sons who had been anticipated by re'birth and who
were expected to be re'born again, and who were
being looked for by the populace as reborn pre
phets and leaders. Their whole reply is an expres'
sion of their belief in re'birth, and a reflection of
the common belief in reincarnation.
Jesus had an opportunity here to rebuke or cor'
rect His Disciples for their expression of reincar'
[174]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
nation principles, but He did not do so. He seemed
to agree with their beliefs, as He did in every
other instance where the principles of reincarna'
tion were stated in His presence. His very answer
to them is an acceptance of their statements, and
an acceptance of the principles implied. For He
turned to His Disciples and said, "But who say
ye that I am?" In other words, He said to them
that, after having been associated with Him and
hearing His doctrines, and having been taught the
secret of His mission, and place in life, whom did
they understand that He was. It was here that
Simon Peter made his famous reply and said,
"Thou art the Christ, the son of the living God."
Jesus accepted this statement and charged His
Disciples with keeping His Divine identity a sec
ret, and allowing the multitude to look upon Him
as any one of the former great characters as they
pleased to do. The same incident is reported in
practically the same words in the eighth chapter of
the book of Mark, and in the ninth chapter of the
book of Luke. The fact that the incident is re'
lated in the same terminology with the same ideas
by three of the gospel writers proves that it is not
[175}
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
an incident of little importance, or that the acci'
dental wording of the thoughts is responsible for
the principles implied.
As a further illustration of the general popular
belief in the re'birth of individuals, we find in the
ninth chapter of Luke, beginning at the seventh
verse, another interesting incident. In this story,
Herod heard of the wonderful work being done by
Jesus and he was perplexed, because it was com'
monly reported that this new great teacher was
none other than John reborn, while others claimed
it was Elias, or one of the other prophets, come to
life again on earth to live through another incar'
nation of activity. Surely, when the rulers of the
country, and the public generally, hold such be'
liefs and they are discussed with Jesus and He
does not correct them, but answers their ques'
tions with a sympathetic understanding of their
beliefs in reincarnation, we cannot claim that these
doctrines were unknown, or new, in His time.
Taking the foregoing quotations as typical ex'
amples, we find that whereas nowhere in the state'
ments of Jesus, as contained in the Bible, is there
any remark on His part that is incompatible with
[176}
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
the belief in the dextrine of reincarnation, or any
statement that man is born but once, or that after
transition he never returns to earth again; but, on
the other hand, many quotations to show that
Jesus and His Disciples believed in the re'birth
on earth, we are forced to realize that those who
object to the doctrine of reincarnation on the basis
of its incompatibility with Christian beliefs are
misled by the statements made by modern Chris'
tian leaders who cannot find authority for their
statements in anything that Jesus said.
Going back again to the one example of where
the Disciples asked Jesus, "Who sinned, this man,
or his parents, that he was born blind?" we want
to call attention to the fact that it was thoroughly
understood among the Jewish people that the sins
commited in a previous incarnation would bring
about some form of punishment in this life. Let
me quote again a paragraph from the Jewish doc
trine of the time:
"If a truly pious person suffers it is only and
solely because of sins committed in a previous in'
carnation —a form of purgatory for evil deeds in
a former life." This passage is from the writings
£ 177]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
of the eminent Jewish Rabbi who I have already
quoted in this book. It was this point that aroused
the inquiry on the part of the Disciples.
Certainly there is no reason for devout Chris'
tians to feel that the doctrines of reincarnation, as
presented in this book, are inconsistent with the
fundamental principles of true Christianity, nor
contrary to anything that Jesus taught or His Dis<
ciples believed. We find in the foregoing few que
tations sufficient proof of the acceptance of the
doctrine of reincarnation on the part of Jesus and
His Disciples.
If the later Christian churches, or the modern
Christian religion, have modified the pristine teach'
ings of Jesus, or introduced new doctrines that are
contradictory to those held by Jesus, no true Gins'
tian should feel that he is bound to accept them
simply because they have the approval of modern
religious authorities. For that matter, many of
the modern Christian lights and leaders of Chris'
tian thought have accepted the doctrines of rein'
carnation and have publicly stated that these doc
trines are the only just and fair explanation of
the universal laws of life.
[178]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
The doctrines of reincarnation, as set forth in
this book, do not do away with Redemption, Sal'
vation, and the ultimate judgment of our sins, nor
do they set aside any of the fundamental prin'
ciples that Jesus taught or which constitute the
foundation stones of the Christian religion. De'
vout Christians who are sincere and tolerant in
their examination of the Christian principles, and
sincerely striving to understand their religion bet'
ter, will find in these doctrines a valuable aid in
understanding life. The bigoted and prejudiced will
simply close their eyes to the statements in this
chapter of my book, and will attempt to explain
away the quotations I have given in the belief that
they conceal other thoughts or other ideas which
we do not understand. Therefore, I will make no
further attempt to prove that the doctrines of rein'
carnation are compatible with the beliefs and teach'
ings of Jesus. The wise and fair'minded persons
will be quite satisfied; the others can never become
convinced by any rational argument.
[ 179]
Chapter XIII.
THE OVER'SOUL AND CYCLES
OF INCARNATIONS
1
|T HAS been intimated in the preceding
pages of this book that there is but one
Soul existing throughout the entire uni'
verse and this Soul is the consciousness and
Divine essence of God. It has also been intimated
that the so'called individual Souls of each human
being are not separate and independent Souls, but
unseparated segments of the universal Soul, never
losing their association or contact with this con'
sciousness of God and the Divine essence which
constitutes the vital life force. Because these facts
may be new to a great many Western minds it
seems appropriate at this moment to augment
these statements with the use of schematic dia'
grams and symbols, and make plain the beautiful,
fundamental laws which are involved in the prin'
ciples set forth in this book.
[181]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
That there is one Soul in the universe, and that
this Soul is the consciousness and vital essence of
God should not be surprising to any devoted stU'
dent of sacred literature; nor will it be surprising
to those who have made a careful study of the fun'
damental laws of biology and ontology.
If God is the creator of all things, and from His
consciousness and Divine essence emanates all con'
sciousness and all vitality, then all consciousness
throughout the universe and all vital energy of a
living, creative nature must have one central, Di'
vine source, and must be continuous and uniform
throughout the universe.
Even a moment's reflection will reveal that it is
far more difficult to think of God having created
out of His consciousness and essence millions upon
millions of individual Souls, each retaining their
distinct individuality and separateness, than it is
to think of one universal essence and one universal
Soul. To conceive of any means of maintaining
individual entities of the same Soul essence, and
same Divine consciousness, without a tendency
on their part to unite and blend into one essence
and one consciousness, is a difficult thing indeed.
[182]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
God, the creator of all things, is the Father of
all images created by Him in His likeness. We
cannot conceive of the human children of one
earthly father as being of a vital essence or blood
energy so separated that the same essence is not
in each of them. With the Soul essence, however,
we are dealing with a subtle and transcendental
energy that pervades all space and which cannot
be isolated or confined in any inclosure, and we
cannot conceive of this essence as being in a human
form without at the same time extending beyond
that form and contacting the same essence resident
in all other human forms.
When the sacred writings of the Orientals and
even of the Christians, speak of the Soul in man,
they do not necessarily imply an individualized
and separated Soul, but the SouVessence and Soul'
consciousness of God that is resident in man. Each
of us has Soul, but not a Soul in the sense that it is
a thing apart from every other Soul in human
beings.
To illustrate the principle, or law involved, I
have resorted to the homely illustration of the
[183]
MAHSIOH.S OF THE SOUL
electricity that is utilized in the lighting of modern
electric lamps.
In Figure 1, I have shown the electric wires in
the upper part of the drawing passing along from
lamp to lamp without any break in their connec
tions. The lamps Nos. A, C, D, E, F, G, H, and I,
are various types of electric bulbs common in use
today. Some of them are colored with various
tints; some are very small and give only a small
amount of light; others are large and very hi'
minous; some are long, and some are short.
The electricity that flows into each one of these
lamps and causes the lamp bulb to be alive with
light, is not broken in its continuity or in its flow
through all of the lamps. The electricity that il'
luminates these bulbs and gives them life or light
flows through each lamp and out again to enter
into the next lamp, and so on. The electric cur
rent, therefore, in each lamp may be likened to
the SouVessence of the lamp, and while we would
say that each lamp has its own electricity, which
it
is
utilizing, we cannot look upon that electricity
in each lamp as being separated from, or distinct
from, the electricty that
is
in all
of
the other lamps.
[184]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
[1ST]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
Merely a segment of the electric circuit is resident
in each lamp, and all of these segments are united
in one continuous circuit. Even if we separate one
of the lamps from the circuit, as shown at B in
the diagram, the electricity that was once resident
in the bulb comes to the point or place of its
former entrance into the lamp bulb, and then
passes on into the next one. The lamp that no
longer has the electric current passing through it
is now lifeless and without light.
In the lower part of Figure No. 1, 1 have com'
pared the universal Soul'essence and conscious'
ness with the electric current. The dotted circles
Nos. A, B, C, D, E, F, G, and H at the bottom
of this diagram represent human physical bodies
and the upper dark line represents the Soul'essence
and consciousness of the universe, with segments
of it coming down and passing through each of the
physical bodies. You will see at once that this
Divine consciousness and essence, called Soul, is
not broken into individual and separate segments
in each one of the physical bodies, but passes into
each body and manifests there, giving the body
life, and passes on to the next physical body.
[186]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
While the segment of Soul is in one of these
physical bodies it manifests consciousness, life, and
intelligence in the physical body, and without this
SouVessence the physical body would be lifeless
and without intelligence or consciousness. The
dotted circle B represents a physical body after
transition when the Soul'essence and consciousness
have withdrawn from the body, and left it lifeless
and unconscious.
The electric lamp bulbs are not electric lights
until electricity manifests in them and through
them. When you buy an electric bulb at a store
and carry it home with you, you have nothing
mlore or less in your hands than some of the min'
erals of the earth, gathered together by a
scientific process and formed into a body by the
master creators of electrical devices. You cannot
call it a light, since it manifests no light, and it is
therefore lifeless, useless, and without any value,
so long as it is unassociated with the electric cur'
rent. The moment you place this bulb in a socket,
or in a position where the electric current can flow
into
it,
you immediately transform the lifeless,
lightness, physical body of the bulb into
a
vibrat'
[187]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
ing, illuminating, living thing of light, and the
moment the electric current or electric essence is
withdrawn from the bulb it is again lifeless and
useless and cannot fulfill the purpose for which
it was made.
Man's physical body is precisely like unto the
electric bulb. Every bit of its physical and ma'
terial form and nature has been extracted from
the earthly elements and drawn together by a
marvelous process and formed by a Master Crea'
tor, but until the Divine essence of life and con'
sciousness enter that physical body it is lifeless and
truly lightless. This recalls to our minds the prin'
ciple that is so well worded in the Christian Bible,
in the book of Genesis, wherein we are told that
God formed man out of the dust or elements of
the earth, and then breathed into his nostrils, or
into his physical body, the Breath of Life or the
Divine essence, and man became a living Soul.
Until such essence was breathed into his body
man was lifeless and incapable of fulfilling the
purpose for which he was created, and he was of
no more use than an electric light bulb before the
electric essence gives its light and life. The
[188]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
physical body of man is without Divine intelli'
gence, or consciousness, and without vitality or
purpose, until the Soul enters it and makes it a
living Soul rather than a mere existing body.
We can see by these two illustrations that the
Soul'essence and consciousness resident in each
physical body is not separated from the essence
and consciousness that is in every other living
body. If we were to think of the Soul in each
individual body being a separate and distinct Soul,
independent of all the others, and not in actual
contact with all others, we would have a condition
similar to that shown by the letter J in the upper
part of Figure No. 1 . Here the electric lamp bulb
has the electric wires within it but these are not
connected with the electric circuit. We see at
once that a lamp in this condition is no different
from that shown by the letter B, for there is no
contact between the electric wires in the bulb and
those which contain the real energy. Such a lamp
could not manifest light of any kind. By looking
at body No. 1 at the end of the lower diagram, we
see that same point illustrated by breaking the con'
nection between the Soul in the body and the
[189]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
universal Soul'essence. We see at once that such
a condition is an impossibility, for the Soul'essence
and consciousness in a physical body must remain
in contact with the source of essence and the
source of consciousness in order to maintain its
manifestation of essence and consciousness. Mat'
ter itself is not intelligent, for it is composed of
the gross elements of the earth, and these elements
have neither mind nor consciousness until they are
organized and prepared to receive some form of
consciousness.
Long ago the ancient philosophers and mystics
gave a name to the universal Soul and conscious'
ness that pervades all space. This name we have
modernized into the term "Over'soul." Some have
called it the Cosmic Soul; some have called it the
Divine Soul; and others the Soul of God. Such
other termjs, however, imply that there are various
kinds of Souls in the universe, and that one of
these is Divine, or the Soul of God, or of the CJos'
mic, whereas the others are not. But, since there
is but one Soul in the universe the term Over'soul
is preferred, because it does not attempt to dis'
tinguish this Soul from any other, except to inti'
[190]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
mate that it is the Soul that exists everywhere
without being separated from its various manifes'
tations in physical bodies.
Therefore, we will use the term Over'soul to
mean the universal Soul of God, or, in other words,
the Divine consciousness and essence of God,
which pervades all space, and segments of which
are manifested in each human body. This means
that in the body of each human being there is the
Soul'essence, the power, the energy, the conscious'
ness of God, that God is within us rather than
without. This brings us to a clearer understanding
of many of the sacred writings of the past and
especially those which are found in the Christian
doctrines.
In thinking of the Over'soul extending a part
of itself downward and into the body of each
human being, we must give some thought to
the relationship of the Soul to the Ego and the
personality of each hurrian being, as touched upon
in preceding chapters. In order to impress these
relationships upon the mind of my reader I have
resorted to another schematic illustration which
is given here as Figure No. 2.
[191}
[ 192]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
Here we have two heavy dark lines descending
from above and coming down into a circular in'
closure. Let us consider the two dotted circular
lines in the center of the diagram as representing
the physical body of man. Inside of these two
dotted lines we see the heavy black lines reprc
senting the Soul'essence and consciousness descend'
ing from the Cosmic into the physical body. In
the center of this Soul we find another body, often
referred to as the psychic body, which is the Ego
or personality, and this Ego is composed of the
mind and memory that is associated with each
segment of the Over'soul.
In other words, if we look upon the Over'soul
in the universe as being divided into unbroken
segments, and each segment representing a part of
the Over'soul that resides in a human body, we
will find that each one of these segments of the
Over'soul possesses an Ego or personality com'
posed of mind or intelligence, and consciousness
with memory. The Soul itself is composed of the
Divine essence, or vital life force—creative energy
which emanates from God, the source of all life.
But in addition to this creative and vitalizing
[193]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
energy of the Soul each segment possesses as an
attribute, an Ego or personality, with its mind,
memory, and consciousness. As I have stated
above, this Ego or personality, with its Divine
mind and Divine consciousness, has often been re'
ferred to as the psychic body of man, resident
within the physical body.
In Figure No. 2 you will also see the aura
radiating from the physical body. This aura is
like the radiations of the light that comes from an
electric bulb when the wires within are connected
with the source of electricity. The aura of the
human body is the result of the Soul'essence and
vitality resident within the physical body. I have
illustrated this aura in the form of an egg, or oval,
inasmuch as the aura within a human body is often
seen in this form, and in many ancient manuscripts
the aura of man is referred to as an egg, and
therefore symbolical of the reproductive energy of
the animal kingdom. When the Soul with its es'
sence and consciousness is withdrawn from the
physical body the aura follows the Soul and no
longer manifests around the physical body. As
[194]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
I have stated elsewhere in this book, thousands of
observations have been made at the time of transi'
tion when the aura of the physical body has been
seen to rise above the body and to remain in space
as the Soul withdrew and left the body lifeless.
It is very important that the elements of Figure
No. 2 should be carefully studied. Keep in mind
that the two black lines represent the descending
Divine essence of the Over'soul into the physical
body. The physical body is represented by the
two large dotted circular lines. But, the Soul in
the body has also other attributes besides its Divine
essence and vitality. These attributes constitute
the Ego or personality, with mind and memory.
This Ego, or personality, always remains with each
segment of the Over'soul, for the Ego is immortal
like the Soul itself, and cannot be destroyed and
never ceases to exist. Whether the segment of the
Soul is in the physical body or out of it, the Ego,
with its mind, memory, and consciousness remains
with
it,
and so we see that we can have an intelli'
gent, conscious, segment of the Soul either in
a
body or out
of
a
body. When
it
is
in
a
body we
have the union of the spiritual with the material,
[191]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
making a perfect manifestation of a living Soul on
earth. When it is out of a body we have a physi'
cal body that is lifeless, unintelligent, and uncon'
scious, and a segment of Soul still retaining its
vitality and consciousness, Ego, and intellect.
With these points well fixed in your mind we
will look, now, at diagram Figure No. 3. Here
I have shown a number of physical bodies with the
Soul segment and personality, or Ego, in them.
A, B, C, and F represent living bodies with the
Soul'essence and Ego resident in them, and the
aura of life extending around the physical body.
At D, I have shown what occurs at the time of
transition. Here the Soul with its Ego and aura
is withdrawn from the physical body, leaving the
body without any aura or life. At F, I have shown
the complete separation, and you will notice that
I have illustrated this by showing the segment of
the Soul still maintaining its aura and personality
or Ego, although having ascended into the Cosmic
and no longer in contact with the physical body
which is now lying in the dust of the earth, dis'
integrating and returning to its primary elements.
[196]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
[197]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
You will notice by studying Figure 3, that all
of the Egos in each segment of the Over'soul are
connected and associated through the contact with
the Divine Soul'essence, and that even in the case
where the Soul has completely withdrawn from
the body, the Ego of that segment is in contact
with all of the other Egos through its universal
contact with the Over'soul.
So much for the illustration of the principle of
the universal association and contact of all Egos
in all living beings. This should impress us with
the principle that the personality which each of
us possesses throughout life, or the Ego which we
manifest throughout life, is not a mortal thing but
an immortal thing, and a part of the Over'soul
existing eternally.
We should also be impressed with the fact that
the Ego, or personality, which each of us manifests
during our lifetime, continues to exist and retain
its identity even after transition. Therefore, there
are Egos, or personalities, existing in physical
bodies on the earth, and existing outside our
physical bodies in the Cosmic. And all of these
Egos, or personalities, incarnated in bodies or ex'
[ 198 ]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
isting outside of bodies in the Cosmic, are in con'
tact and constant communion with each other
through having the same Soul'essence continuously
passing through them.
Incidentally, it may be mentioned that this
ancient understanding of the association of all Egos
with each other, and the uniting of all Souls into
one Soul was the foundation for the belief in the
universal brotherhood of man through the univer'
sal fatherhood of all beings, and establishes the
fact that all human beings are brothers and sisters
under one creator and of the same essence, same
vitality, and same consciousness, regardless of
race, creed, color, or other distinctive elements of
the Ego.
The next important consideration is in regard to
the cycles of incarnations. The question is often
asked as to how many times man incarnates on
earth, and when this process of development will
discontinue. Mysticism, and the scientific study
of this subject, discloses only one known incident
of perfect development of any Ego, whereby the
need for further incarnations on earth was
brought to an end. This is in the case of Jesus
I 199]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
the Christ, who, having had many previous in'
carnations as intimated in the Christian gospels,
was finally born pure and with a personality or
Ego requiring only one more group of experiences.
At the end of these experiences, which were to
demonstrate the highest principles of Cosmic law
and God's will and power, Jesus the Christ having
attained Christhood through the highest perfec
tion and pureness of consciousness, ascended into
heaven and was there absorbed into the conscious'
ness of God, and the Ego of Jesus became one
of the Divine elements of the God'head. O, P,
Until such perfection is attained by each human
being, there will be need for each personality and
each Ego to reincarnate again and again, and
through the experiences of life, through personal
effort, and attainment, through devotion and sacri'
fice, purge the Ego of all evil in thought or action,
and finally become pure in every point and ready
for the ultimate judgment, when it will be accepted
unto God again and become a part of the Divine
God'head.
Jesus, himself, promised that this would be the
ultimated and highest reward for all devotion and
[ 200]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
effort toward Godliness. What He stated in this
regard was well understood by the Prophets who
preceded Him, but none of which had attained the
degree of perfection attained by Him.
Therefore, we see that it is impossible to tell
how many times each Ego, or personality, must be
reincarnated in physical form on the earth plane.
One point, however, in regard to the cycles of re'
incarnation, has been determined by observation.
It has been found that each Ego, or personality,
reincarnates again on earth approximately every
144th year. In other words, 144 years has been
found to be the average length of time between re
births. This does not mean, however, that there
can be no exception to that average. Just as there
is an average length of time for human gestations,
although this may vary at times, so there is an
average length of time between each re'birth on
earth, although this, too, may vary according to
circumstances.
It has been found, however, that although there
is a variation in these periods of 144 years, after
ten or twelve reincarnations the number of years
[201]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
involved in them show that the average time is
about 144 years between rebirths in infant bodies.
Nominally, man should live in his physical body
144 years, and then the Soul would withdraw
from that body, ascend to the Cosmic, and in a
few days, or few hours, descend again into a new
body. But, man by his manner of living, and his
continued violation of natural laws, has gradually
shortened his length of time on earth so that the
average physical body reaches transition long be'
fore 144 years have passed. But since he will not
be reborn again until the 144th year, there will
be a period of Cosmic residence for his Ego, during
which the Ego will await the coming of the 144th
year for re'birth.
In other words, if a person lived to be 100 years
of age on earth, and then passed through transi'
tion, the Ego would have a period of waiting in
the Cosmic for 44 years until the normal time for
rebirth. If a person lived to be 1 24 years of age
on the earth the Ego would wait in the Cosmic
twenty years. And a person who lived 80 years
of earthly life would reside in the Cosmic for
sixtyfour years.
[ 202 ]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
[ 203 ]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
By referring to Figure 4, we will see these pe'
riods of re'births plainly illustrated. The top line
of Figure 4 shows the cycles of re'birth divided by
periods of 144 years. In this top line the double
circles, Nos. E. E. E., etc., represent the cycles of
life on earth, or, in other words, the cycle of the
Soul incarnated in a physical body. The small
dotted circle above the line, marked with the letter
S, represents the spiritual residence of the Ego in the
Cosmic. The entire top line shows an imaginary
life line of an Ego that lived on earth one hundred
years in each period, and 44 years in the Cosmic
in each period. Starting with the first birth on
earth we find that the next rebirth occurred at
the 144th year, the second at the 288th year, the
third at the 432nd year, etc. In other words, in
1152 years this personality would have passed
through eight incarnations on earth, and would be
ready for the ninth.
Such an equal division of births and re'births
is purely imaginary, however, and probably impos'
sible to find in actual experience. Therefore, let
us consider the lower line of Figure No. 4. Here
we have an imaginery life line of a person as we
[ 204 ]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
may find it in any part of the world. In this life
line we soon notice that the periods of life on earth
are of various lengths. Beginning at the start of
the line we find that the first period on earth, in'
dicated by the letter A, was about 90 years, leav
ing a period of 54 years for the personality to re'
side in the Cosmic, as shown by the dotted line B.
At the 144th year, however, the personality was
re'born on earth again, and this rebirth is shown
by the double line marked C. This period on
earth, however, was for only 50 years, and after
transition the personality resided on the Cosmic
plane 94 years, as shown by the dotted line D.
Then, in the 288th year, the personality was re'
born again, as shown by the double line E. The
earthly existence this time was for 135 years and
the personality then ascended to the Cosmic and
resided there for nine years, as indicated by the
dotted line F. At the end of this Cosmic period
the personality was re'born again, as shown by
the double line marked G, but this time the earthly
life was only for 10 years, and after transition
the personality ascended into the Cosmic; but be
cause its previous period on earth had been so
[ion
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
short the personality resided in the Cosmic for only
35 years, and was then re'born again, as shown
by the double circle marked I. Thus we see there
were short and long periods on both the earth and
Cosmic planes, and the re'births would not always
occur at precisely the 144th year period. How'
ever, we notice that at the end of 1152 years this
personality had passed through approximately
eight incarnations on earth, just as had the
imaginery one on the upper line of the diagram.
Therefore, although one of these lives was not
strictly according to the 144'year periods, it did
average about eight incarnations to 1152 years.
So it has been found with the average person
whose incarnations have been traced through past
history. Although they have not always been re'
born at precisely the 144th year period of the
cycle, nevertheless taking ten, twelve, or fourteen
of the past incarnations and dividing the number
of years involved by the number of earthly in'
carnations, we find that they did average about
144 years between re'births.
A child born today and living but a few hours,
and then passing through transition, may have its
[ 206]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
Ego reside in the Cosmic for the balance of 144
years or it may be re'born in ten, twenty, or fifty
years. But, after a number of reincarnations the
average period will be found to be 144 years.
This means that the average person living today
can roughly estimate that he or she was re'born
approximately each 144th year period backward
through history. The rule is not exact, for there
are exceptions as shown in the lines of Figure 4.
Why some personalities are re'born sooner than
others, can only be judged by a consideration of
the law of Karma. Since the purpose of the Ego's
residence in the Cosmic awaiting re'birth is to be
purified and instructed, and prepared for the next
incarnation, we may safely judge that those who
have lived a pure and nearly perfect life here on
earth up to the time of transition, will require a
very short time of Cosmic preparation before be'
ing reborn. On the other hand, those who have
fallen out of grace and who have yielded to
temptation, and who have sinned much, will prob'
ably find that they must spend the full and allotted
time upon the Cosmic plane in being purged and
prepared for rebirth again.
[ 207 ]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
We see in all of this the marvelous and beautiful
justice of God's ways, and of the uniformity
of Cosmic laws and principles manifested even
in the cycles of life, as they are in the formation
of crystals, the movement of planets, and the com'
position of the elements of matter.
Even man's life on earth is divided into periods
and cycles of seven years each, during which cer'
tain definite things occur in the life of everyone.
By a study of these earthly cycles any man or
woman can easily foresee and foretell what definite
events will occur in their earthly lives, and pre'
pare for them, and take advantage of those which
are propitious or fortunate. In my book dealing
with the cycles of life* on earth, all of these
periods have been explained and worked out
in the tables, so that each and every person
can easily determine the fortunate and unfortunate
periods of his earthly life and be prepared for
emergencies of all kinds. Even the cycles of pre
vious incarnations can be determined in this way,
and it is possible to learn what our previous per'
* Self Mastery and Fate, With Cycles of Life, published by the
Rosicrucian press.
[ 208 ]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
sonalities and Egos manifested in our last incarna'
tion. Since all of this has been dealt with ex'
haustively in my other book, I will not deal with
it here, for it has no definite place in the discussion
of the present subject.
[ 209 1
Chapter XIV.
BETWEEN INCARNATIONS
WO questions arise as to the activities of
the Soul during its periods of re'births and
temporary existence in the spiritual realm.
The first of these
is,
Why should the Soul
have
a
long or
a
short existence in the spiritual
world between incarnations? The Second
is,
What
is
known of the Soul's activities in these periods
between earthly incarnations?
The first question
is
generally associated with
the thought that
if
it
is
advisable for the Soul of
man to have
a
number of successive re'births on
earth in order to develop and perfect the ideal Ego,
why does not the Soul pass from one body at
transition immediately to another without more
than
a
few minutes or few hours elapse between
the two great events? In other words, why should
there by any delay at all in the Soul passing from
one body which
it
is
vacating to the new body
it
is
to occupy.
C
2"
}
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
Considering that throughout the world there
are births occurring every minute of the day and
night it would seem that no matter when transi
tion occurred with anyone, the Soul could escape
from the old physical body it occupied and pass
immediately into another body just being born.
There are many thousands of persons, having only
a slight acquaintance with the doctrines of rein'
carnation, who believe that this often occurs.
There are those who believe that when a mother
passes through transition at the time of childbirth
her Soul passes right into the new born body, not
only because the body was close at hand and ready
to receive a Soul, but because of the relationship
that exists. There are a great many who also be'
lieve that when an elderly person passes away in
any community, the Soul of that person will imme'
diately enter the body of any child being born
in that community.
These ideas are the result of a lack of knowledge
of the principles involved, as outlined in the pre'
ceding chapter. Each personality or Ego of the
Oversoul has a definite cycle of re'birth with pe'
riods of spiritual existence between them. We
[212]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
have seen in the preceding chapter how the earthly
incarnations of the Soul, with its Ego and per'
sonality, may vary in length from one hour to one
hundred years or more, and how the periods in
between incarnations will vary in length; but only
occasionally would there be a very brief or small
period of existence in the spiritual realm between
incarnations.
The purpose of these intervals between incar'
nations is to permit the Ego to further purify itself
and become illuminated by the Divine Mind and
Cosmic wisdom. It is like a period of rest and
relaxation between hours of daily labor. It is re'
freshment for the Soul and personality, and is
strength to the spiritual powers of the Divine
faculties of the Soul.
We may compare the intervals between incar'
nations to the hours of sleep that occur between
the day time periods of activity in our daily af'
fairs. We may labor sixteen or eighteen hours
of the day in waking consciousness and then spend
from six to eight hours in sleep, wholly uncon'
scious of our earthly objective affairs. These hours
of sleep and rest afford an opportunity for the
[213]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
gathering of strength and recreation of the tired,
worn'out and exhausted faculties and functionings
of the physical body. Sleep permits of stronger
exercise of the faculties and a more vitalized degree
of power in the body and mind in the morning
when the body awakens.
The same can be said regarding the intervals
between incarnations.
Immediately upon transition the Soul and Ego
of the individual separate gradually from the body.
This separation is not so sudden that the entire
Soul essence and Ego are withdrawn from the body
and rise instantly to the spiritual or Cosmic realm.
The withdrawal of the Soul essence and Ego from
the body requires from ten minutes to a half hour
and sometimes more time. This has been observed
in thousands of cases where in homes, hospitals,
and sanitariums persons have been gathered about
the bedside of a person passing through transi
tion, or where very observant nurses or doctors
have made the notations. Generally, when there
is a soft light in a room, or other vibratory or mag'
netic conditions which are favorable, the aura of
the human body will be seen to gradually extend it'
[214]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
self as transition begins, and this aura of a very
faint color or combinaton of colors, will gradually
rise out of and above the body until, in from five
to twenty minutes it is almost wholly out and
above the body and separated from it. But it does
not continue to rise and does not leave the presence
of the body for some little time. In some cases the
aura has been observed to remain in the same room,
hovering over the body or near it for many hours;
and in cases where the light of the room and other
conditions were favorable for observation, this
aura has been seen to continue in the presence of
the body for several days.
In many cases perfect observation of the aura
near the body after transition has been interfered
with by the sudden lighting of many lights and the
presence of persons who had to perform their
proper duties in caring for the body. In cases
where there was no such interference for hours
the observation of the aura has been perfect, and
many interesting details have been noted.
In many ancient writings this phenomenon has
been commented upon. In those cases where the
aura or Ego of the body was seen to linger and
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
remain in the presence of the body for several days
(or in the room where the transition had occurred)
it was claimed that the Soul or Ego was "earth'
bound."
The belief is quite common in foreign lands
among Oriental peoples who have observed and
studied the action of the Soul after transition, that
the Soul and Ego remains after the separation from
the body to perform certain definite things before
rising above the earth plane to exist in the spiritual
realm. Among the purposes thus referred to are
the soothing and strengthening of the principal
mourners or those Who have been suddenly and
seriously affected by the transition, the inspiring
of certain actions or thoughts in the minds of in'
timate associates and the untanglement of many
mjysteries that might be connected with the transi'
tion.
It has been claimed, for instance, that hundreds
of carefully studied cases show that where transi'
tion has occurred suddenly without giving the in'
dividual an opportunity to look after a serious
problem and to properly advise those who would
be left in a quandary, the Soul or Ego has re
[216]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
mained in the immediate environment of the reh'
tives or companions of the deceased and aided
them by inspiration or intuition to locate certain
papers, hidden valuables, or other matters of ex'
treme importance. It is also claimed by these
authorities that the Ego often remains in contact
with the mourners to point out to them through
intuition, or otherwise, the cause of transition when
this has occurred through murder or accident in'
volving a serious mystery.
In many other ways the Ego can have a very
soothing and comforting effect upon those who
were closest to the deceased. It is this record
of carefully observed facts regarding the Ego's con'
tact with the earth plane after transition that gave
rise to the superstitious belief in the existence of
ghosts.
When the uneducated and uninformed minds
heard of the instances of Egos remaining for a
while to point out how a crime had been com'
mitted, or where an accident occurred, or where
certain papers and documents were concealed,
they believed that the Ego was a highly luminous
figure of the deceased's body, and that it re
[217]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
mained for an indefinite time in the environment
of the transition and made itself visible to every
person that came near the place where transition
occurred. As I have said, this sort of belief was
responsible for the development of the ghost idea
which is so prevalent among the uncultured and
illiterate races of men.
The truth of the matter is that only those whose
psychic development or spiritual development has
reached a high state can see the faint aura of the
released Soul and Ego. Those who were closest
to the deceased and who would be the most likely
to receive any impressions from the Ego very often
do not see the lights of the aura, but feel the mag'
netic or vibratory radiations of the Ego for many
hours, or several days after transition, and they
visually have a strong impression that the person'
ality of the deceased is still in their midst trying to
comfort and sympathize with them, and still
lives.
The more sympathetic and complete the attune
ment that existed between the deceased and those
who are left here on earth, the more perfect will
be this impression of the Ego's presence after
[218]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
transition, and this impression is unmistakably
definite in the minds of mothers when a son or
daughter, of a loving and companionable nature,
has passed through transition.
It has been claimed by some students of this
phase of universal principles that a man or woman
who was given in earthly life to an exaggerated
faith in material things was sure to be "earth'
bound" for some days or weeks after transition,
and that the material things which enslaved him
during his earthly life would continue to hold him
to the earth plane for some little time. Thus they
believed that a man who was a miser, or who
gave his whole heart and mind to money or mate
rial wealth, or to some earthly thing which he
made his God, would be bound and enslaved to
this thing for many days or weeks after transition.
In this wise came the expression that certain per'
sons were doomed to be "earth.bound."
Many fantastic stories have been written with
this idea as its principal theme, and there are many
astute and successful criminologists in various
lands who claim that their experience in solving
murder mysteries and some other crimes has
[219]
MAHSIOHS OP THE SOUL
proved to them that a person who committed mur
der or some very serious crime against an innocent
person is "earth'bound" by this crime and for days
and weeks after transition will linger in the vicinity
of the crime in an attempt to aid in the solution
of the mystery. These persons claim that the Ego
finds no peace, no happiness, and no opportunity
to rise and free itself from the earth, until it does
assist in solving the m|ystery of the crime it com'
mitted and in seeing that no innocent person suf'
fers for the crime that it committed. These
criminologists claim that by waiting patiently and
observing the actions of other persons and analyz'
ing the impressions that come to the minds of
those formerly closely associated with the deceased,
many clues will be found that will aid in solving
the mystery.
This is a very wonderful field for exploration
and study on the part of those who are interested
in criminology, and in the possibilities of "earth'
bound' Egos inspiring in the minds of others the
correct solution of the crimes they have committed.
Such a subject has no place in this work, even
though many Rosicrucians in various lands have
[ 220 ]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
been delving deeply into this subject with eminent
success.
Shortly after transition, however, the Soul and
Ego are drawn upward into the spiritual or Cosmic
realm, and there remain until the time comes to
descend again toward the earth plane to enter into
a new born body. As stated in the previous chap'
ter, the personality or Ego remains with the seg'
ment of the Soul as a part of
it,
and the Ego
never loses its identity nor does the segment of
the "Over'soul" associated with this Ego ever
lose its identity. Whether the Ego is to remain
in the spiritual realm for
a
week,
a
month or many
years, depends upon various laws and principles
with which we are not as familiar as we are with
those laws and principles pertaining to the Soul
and Ego's existence on this earth plane.
Inuring its period of spiritual existence the Soul
with its Ego and personality are in immediate con'
tact with all of the minds and Egos, not only in
the spiritual realm, but throughout the universe.
I
have shown in the preceding chapter that at all
times every Soul expression and every Ego in the
universe, whether incarnated in
a
physical body or
[221]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
existing on the spiritual plane, are united and in
continuous contact with each other because of the
continuous contact of the Over'soul. This permits
of the Divine Mind or psychic body of each Ego
communicating with every other psychic mind
without difficulty.
The only manner in which the mind of the
physical, outer self can know of such universal
communications is by having the knowledge trans'
ferred from the inner self, or Ego, to the outer
self. In this very important point lies the one
problem which makes universal communication
seem either impossible or uncontrollable.
The untrained and the undeveloped experi'
menter in telepathy or in Cosmic communications
is apt to judge his ability to communicate with
others by the degree of knowledge that is thus
transferred from the inner self to the outer self.
The outer self has no other way of knowing
whether the inner self is ever in contact with other
Egos or not except through the occasional trans'
ference of some impression from the inner self to
the outer consciousness. If such transference of
impressions is only occasional, or incomplete and
[ 222]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
indefinite, the outer self will misjudge the true
functioning of the Ego in this regard.
Experiments made by those who understand the
laws and principles reveal that it is as easy for one
Ego to communicate with another as for one
outer self to speak to another in a room. It has
also been found that our inner selves are con'
6tantly receiving impressions from the Cosmic
which have been released by other Egos and that
this sort of exchange of communication and im'
pressions is more or less constant. Very often the
transfer of these impressions is made from the Ego
to the outer self during dreams or visions, while
the outer self is partially asleep or on the so.called
borderline of consciousness. At other times the
transfer of impressions is made through the facul'
ties of intuition, or a sort of urge within.
The important point to keep in mind is that we
should not judge the degree or amount of contact
communication thus being carried on by the degree
or amount of knowledge which is transferred to
the outer self; for only a small amount of such
knowledge ever crosses the borderline and becomes
known to the objective consciousness.
[ 223 ]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
Of course, processes of development, concert'
tration, meditation, and experiments will enable a
man or woman to utilize the faculties that have
been given him to bring about such transference
of thought from the inner self to the outer self
at will. This is one of the phases of mystical de'
velopment known to the Orientals and to the
members of the Rosicrucian Brotherhood and
similar bodies of mystics and metaphysicians
throughout the world.
When the Soul and Ego are freed from the
physical body, however, and return to the Cosmic
realm, the personality with its mind and memory
remains as part of the Soul; and direct communi'
cation with other Egos, both on the Cosmic plane
and the earth plane is maintained with the same
degree of accuracy and intimacy as before transi'
tion. This is true to such an extent that very
often persons living on the earth plane, and who
are mystically developed, or who know the process
of attuning the outer and inner selves for the pur'
pose of transferring impressions , often receive
knowledge or impulses of thought which are diffi'
cult to classify, inasmuch as it is often impossible
[ 224 ]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
to tell whether the inner self has received these
impressions or impulses from the Ego of a person
living on earth, or an Ego that is in the spiritual
realm awaiting reincarnation.
In other words, messages or impressions may
come to our inner selves, or to our psychic minds
and Egos, not only from the persons living around
us on this earth plane, but from Egos that are
now dwelling on the Cosmic plane in the interval
between incarnations.
Nothing said in the foregoing paragraphs should
be taken as an implied verification of the claims
of the modern spiritualistic movement which con'
tends that the Soul or "spirit" of those who have
passed on, returns to earth and delivers messages
to those who are still living here. Nothing in this
chapter can be interpreted in that sense, for it is
a fact that neither the Soul nor the so'called
"spirit" of a departed persons, returns to earth
again except to reincarnate in a physical body and
remain here for a certain period of time. You will
understand, therefore, that I am intimating that
there is a different process and method whereby
the Divine Mind or Ego within us can communi'
[225]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
cate with the Ego of those who have passed on,
without manifesting any of the conventions and
claims of the spiritualistic movement.
While these Egos of departed personalities are
existing on the Cosmic plane they maintain the
dominant nature of the last personality expressed
on earth. I have shown in previous chapters that
each personality is an aggregation of personalities,
or, in other words, an accumulation of the essential
elements of preceding personalities. And, after
transition the Ego of each individual maintains the
same dominant personality that it had during its
last incarnation in a physical body on earth. It
is,
however, always conscious of its preceding char'
acterizations, although these are in the background,
so to speak, and are like memories of our childhood.
Therefore, the man who was successively the
farmer, the physician, the soldier, and then the
banker, and who passed into the spiritual realm as
a
banker, would retain the dominant personality
of
a
banker while awaiting reincarnation, although
he would be conscious of the fact that in the past
he had also been farmer, physician, soldier and
perhaps many other characters in earthly lives.
[
226]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
Even the name by which this personality was
known in its last incarnation on earth is maintained
as an identification symbol during the period of
Cosmic existence.
It is not until the Soul and Ego enters into a
new body for another incarnation on earth that
the name of the last personality is laid aside and
the dominant characteristics are placed in the back'
ground and new ones formed.
Thus we find in the spiritual realm, millions of
Egos or personalities awaiting reincarnation.
Some have been there for many years; some for
only a few days, or a few hours. Some will rein'
carnate tomorrow or the next day or years from
now, all according to the cycles of life as explained
in the preceding chapter. Some of these Egos in
the Cosmic at the present time have the personality
of an infant, for their transition occurred early
after birth or in childhood; others are the Egos of
youths; and others of old age. But all are equal
in Soul essence, in Divine power, and wisdom,
although unequal in world'experience and worldly
attainments.
[ 227 ]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
It is in this Cosmic realm that we find these
Egos dwelling in the Mansions of the Soul. These
Mansions are mentioned in many places of
the Bible, and from what we can understand
through these references, and by the impressions
transmitted to us by the Egos dwelling there, it
would appear that the Egos of all human beings
are privileged to dwelling twelve divisions of the
Cosmic realm like unto twelve chambers in a great
temple, and that each Ego awaiting reincarnation
enjoys the privilege of dwelling in one of these
twelve Mansions until it is time for reincarnation.
These twelve Mansions are mentioned or described
in the nineteenth chapter of the book of Matthew
in the twentyseventh to thirtieth verses, as twelve
Thrones, and elsewhere in the Holy Bible and the
sacred writings of many peoples, these Mansions
are given various names and allegorical represen'
tations. Even Jesus mentioned them by saying
that in His Fathers house were many Mansions,
and He told His Disciples that He was going to
leave them to ascend to the Heavenly realm to
prepare a place for them.
[ 228 ]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
In these Mansions of the Soul the personalities
dwell in preparation for reincarnation and receive
knowledge and Divine benedictions which purge
them of their errors for which they have made
repentance, and which they have freely confessed.
This bathes them with new effulgence so that
they are more evolved and more highly developed
for their new mission in life.
The sins committed by these personalities in
their previous life on earth and which constitute
their Karmic debts are known to them while in
the spiritual realm and while they are forgiven for
these sins, and they are purged of the blot upon
their characters, they realize that they must return
to earth and make compensation for each sin and
each error and that only in this wise can such sins
and errors be adjusted. Therefore, while these
Egos or personalities dwell in these Mansions and
are prepared to live more noble lives in the future,
they are also prepared to return to earth and work
out their salvation by compensatirg for their sins
and living a life of adjustment.
During their regeneration in the Mansions of
the Soul these Egos become keenly aware of their
[ 229 ]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
previous mistakes, and the repentance and regret
in their hearts and their burning desires to undo
the wrongs they have done and make compensa'
tion, constitute the factors and conditions which
men have been pleased to call Hell and Purgatory.
But the real suffering which each individual must
endure for the suffering he has caused or the evil
he has committed is not suffering on the part of
the Soul, but a suffering of the flesh, for it is the
flesh that has committed the sin, and it is the flesh
that must compensate through suffering. There
fore, the Soul and Ego must become incarnated
again on earth in order to take on a body and be
possessed of flesh which can suffer, and can com'
pensate, and thereby make proper adjustment.
The real Hell of the flesh is therefore on earth, for
the flesh cannot suffer after transition, and in the
spiritual world there is no flesh to suffer.
These are the facts regarding the conditions and
circumstances of the Egos or personalities awaiting
reincarnation as learned through Cosmic contact,
Divine revelation, and the recollection of the Ego's
memory. Again the student of sacred literature
and the Holy Bible will find in these principles a
[ 230 ]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
further understanding of the allegorical statements
made in such writings and an explanatoin of many
of the parables and stories told by Jesus Christ
to His Disciples.
[231]
Chapter XV.
MULTIPLE AND SECONDARY
PERSONALITIES
FEW years ago the public became ac
quainted with many new theories regard'
ing the Self, the Ego, or the personality
of human beings through the unique
arguments introduced in public trials or in
the newspaper discussions of the criminal acts
of prominent persons. Such terms as dementia
Americana and exaggerated Ego were the first to
be made public and these were followed by a
unique description of the little "black man" who
took possession of a sane and sensible person and
caused him to commit murder. Later on more
conservative psychologists or learned students of
the human Ego introduced the terms multiple
personalities and secondary personalities.
All of these terms were used to imply that the
average human being was a mixture of two or
more personalities, one of which was the outer or
[233]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
general personality and the others deeply rooted in
the inner'self or inner consciousness.
The scientific experiments conducted by the
eminent leaders of psychical research in England
and America further developed the idea that when'
ever the outer or general personality of the average
human being could be inhibited or made inactive,
as in a trance or through deep concentration and
relaxation, one or more of the secondary person'
alities or inner'selves would take possession of the
body and supplant the outer personality. The ex'
pression of the belief on the part of recognized
scientists opened wide the doors to the unscientific
minds in the spiritualistic field and they imme'
diately seized upon these beliefs and the scientific
terminology, and we heard much for many years
about the secondary personalities of so'called
mediums.
Fortunately, the continued research of the
scientists brought to light certain facts regarding
human personalities and especially regarding
the so'called secondary personalities, and these
facts gradually robbed the whole subject of
its mystery and prevented any further development
[234]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
of the superstitious or spiritualistic beliefs regard'
ing such personalities in connection with showy
demonstrations in questionable seance rooms.
The subject of secondary personalities has at
last been taken out of the speculative, superstitious,
and magical fields of demonstration, and kept into
the truly scientific field of psychical research.
Many of the most wonderful examples of auto.
matic writing or automatic dictation are unques'
tionably beautiful examples of the existence and
functioning of a secondary personality and allow a
secondary personality to control the functioning
of the mind and of the hand in writing or speak'
ing.
In such circumstances the secondary personality
assumes a name for itself, presumably the name
which it once legitimately possessed, and expresses
itself with all of the characteristics with which
that personality was presumably once very familiar
and well known. It is not unusual, therefore, to
find this secondary personality very different in
many important essentials from the present general
outer personality. In some cases there is a differ'
ence in sex, a difference in nationality or tongue
[23*3
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
and a considerable difference in education, tastes,
abilities, and desires.
In the case of those demonstrations where the
secondary personality has been of value because
of its unusual writings or dictations, it was
found that the secondary personality had an edu'
cation far superior to that of the outer personality.
In some cases the secondary personality was
learned in the arts and philosophy, and with a
high degree of literary and ethical culture, and ex'
pressed itself in beautiful thoughts truly worthy
of publication. In some other cases, however, the
secondary personality has been found to be illit
erate and uncouth in its expressions and almost
wholly the opposite of the outer personality.
The measure of genuineness of the secondary
personality lies in its continued and consistent ex'
pression of a definite nature. With tests made
over a long period of time it has been found that
the writings of some of these secondary personali'
ties are consistently of the same literary style, with
no slips that revealed any forced or artificial ten'
dency, and with an excellent recollection or mem'
[ 236 ]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
ory of events and conditions, persons and things,
associated with its life as an entity.
In other words, continued study of some of
these secondary personalities has conclusively
shown that so far as distinctiveness of character,
distinctiveness of educaton and worldly experiences
are concerned, the secondary personality is like
unto a separate entity having lived at some time,
somewhere, separated from the present outer per'
sonality.
To make this a little more understandable to
those who have not been inclined to study the sub.
ject of secondary personalities we will use one
illustration. For nearly fourteen years I was presi'
dent of the New York Institute for Psychical
Research. During that time the organization held
monthly and semi'monthly meetings of a regular
nature with many special sessions in between
these, when unique investigations were necessary.
I think that in those fourteen years our members
investigated over one hundred cases of so'called
secondary personalities or cases of automatic writ'
ing, automatic dictation, or automatic expression
through the ouija board. Many of these cases
[237]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
were not worthy of more than one evening of
test, for there was either evidence or wilful de'
ception on the part of the outer personality or
such a blending of the outer and the secondary
personality that the two could not be separated
in the writings and dictations. On the other hand,
there were many genuine and intensely interesting
cases which we watched for many years. I will
take one of these as an illustration.
Mrs. J. B. was the wife of a prominent attorney
in New York City. She had received an ordinary
school education with one year at high school. She
was of a fairly well educated family of moderate
circumstances and had received the usual instruc
tions in the ordinary principles of ethics and cul
ture. Her husband was a graduate of a university,
but interested, however, in no other intellectual
pursuit than his law studies. He prospered well
during the first two years of his practice and then
married, and during the two following years he
accumulated sufficient funds to occupy a very fine
home in New York and to provide his wife with
many luxuries. Mrs. J. B. was a very kind, loving,
and sympathetic woman of about forty years of
[ 238 ]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
age, with a magnetic personality and a charming
manner which made her an excellent hostess.
During the course of their many social affairs at
home it was discovered that Mrs. J. B. had de'
veloped a sympathetic attunement with her hus'
band to such an extent that she was conscious of
many of his strongest thoughts or emotions even
when he was many miles absent from her. One
incident of this will indicate what I mean.
On one occasion when the members of the sc
ciety were all assembled at this lady's home pre'
paring for a test of her automatic writing, two of
us suddenly and spontaneously thought of a test of
her attunement with her husband. Mrs. J. B.
at that moment was in the large reception room
of her home with a group of the women members
about her and was animatedly engaged in a discus'
sion of frocks, and dresses, and other feminine mat'
ters, while three or four of the men were with
Mr. J. B. at the front door of his home under an
awning, smoking and waiting for the meeting to
be called to order. Without any preparation or
any long consideration of the test, my companion
took a pin and suddenly jabbed it into the arm of
[ 239 ]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
Mr. J. B. as though by accident. Mr. J. B. jumped,
and an expression of pain came upon his face, but
there was no out'cry, for he was the type of man
that would immediately control himself in any
condition of pain or suffering of any kind. How
ever, less than a fraction of a second after Mr.
J. B. felt the pain there was a loud and uncanny
out'cry from Mrs. J. B. in the other part of the
house, fully seventyfive feet distant from him and
separated by several rooms filled with fifty or more
persons talking and moving about. The moment
Mrs. J. B. cried out we rushed to her side, as did
others, joining the group that was standing about
her. She immediately said, "John has just had a
pain in his arm, right here, and I felt
it,
and
I
want
to see what happened to him." She indicated cor'
rectly where the pain was caused by the pin, and
in joining him she stated that she felt the pain the
same time that he did. She said
it
was
a
common
thing for her to feel any sharp pain which he felt.
It
was not her attunement with Mr.
J.
B. that
interested us, however, but her automatic writing.
For hours she would sit at
a
table with pencil and
sheets of paper before her and write thousands of
[
240
J
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
words of philosophy, advice, comments on inci'
dents of the past, descriptions of persons and
principles, etc. , without hesitancy or without
seeming to become tired. Before beginning her
writing she would sit in a relaxed position with
pencil in her hand resting on the sheets of paper
and wait for some gradual change that came over
her inwardly or outwardly, and when this change
was completed the hand holding the pencil would
suddenly began to write extremely rapidly, and Mrs.
J. B. would often close her eyes and keep them
closed for a half hour at a time while sheet after
sheet of paper was filled more rapidly than the
average human can write coherently and pro.
foundry.
In answer to questions, which were always re
luctantly answered, this personality that expressed
itself in the automatic writing claimed to be the
"inner" self of Mrs. J. B., and claimed that the
personality of Mrs. J. B. with which we were
familiar was only an infant personality that was
trying to usurp the position of the real self within.
This "real self" gave us the name Clara W. It
refused, however, to tell where it had ever lived
[241]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
or when. Its writings, however, revealed much in
this regard. It showed very intimate acquaintance
with many sections of the New England states and
with towns and rivers in certain sections which
were very old. It referred to buildings and
especially to several churches which had existed in
those towns a hundred years previous, but were
now either in ruins or completely gone. It also
referred to persons living in those cities who were
no longer living. It was thoroughly familiar with
music and the harmonics of music, although Mrs.
J. B. herself could play no musical instrument and
had never been known, even among most intimate
friends, of having anything more than a casual
interest in music. This secondary personality was
also well read in certain lines of literature of a
profoundly Puritanical nature and likewise familiar
with the Bible, and with certain religious beliefs
that clearly classified its religious denomination.
In the philosophical writings the expressions
were always Puritanical, somewhat narrow, but
nevertheless kind and sympathetic. In all of the
years that Mrs. J. B. wrote there was never an
expression or even a word that was not absolutely
[ 242 ]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
consistent with all that had been written and ex'
pressed by this personality in previous writings,
and even though the same questions were asked
m&ny years apart, the answers were always the
same as proved by comparison of the writings.
Mrs. J. B. never had any copies pf the writings
to retain and, therefore, could not have prepared
herself for the future questions.
This separate personality of hers was unques'
tionably a distinct entity at some previous time,
and today it was an imprisoned secondary person'
ality striving at times to regain its control of her
physical body. I mentioned her close attunement
with her husband only because it was this unusual
fact that first made both the man and his wife
realize that her mentality or spirituality was of a
slightly different nature than the average human
being and it led them into investigating the laws
and principles of human personality. Whether
Mrs. J. B. had any other unusual psychic develop'
ment or not I cannot say at this time, for our re
search work was limited to a study of her sec
ondary personality.
[ 243 ]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
Now, Mrs. J. B. is no different than millions
of other men and women. Back of this secondary
personality in Mrs. J. B. was another personality,
and back of that one still another, etc. Many tests
conducted in Europe and America have revealed
the existence of three and four personalities of a
distinct nature. These multiple personalities are
unquestionably the result of previous incarnations,
as explained in previous chapters of this book. The
interesting point, however, is that the study of
secondary personalities has become quite sys'
tematized and has been reduced to a very definite
field.
The investigators of secondary personalities are
not interested in any doctrines or principles in'
volving the reason for the existence of such per'
sonalities, or how or when they came into the
human being. They are interested only in the
present manifestation of such personalities. Such
research and study has brought to light many in'
teresting facts. Primarily, it has revealed that
each one of us is at times influenced by the rising
demands, desires, urges or inclinations of a sec
ondary personality that seems to be just across the
[ 244]
THE COSMIC C0HCEPTIOH
border from our outer personality. In other words,
so far as personalities are concerned, there seems
to be two in each human body trying to have
dominance over the objective faculties and func
tionings. When the secondary personality is in'
clined to differ in taste, desires, and ways of living
with those of the present outer personality, there
is sure to be some conflict, and this conflict will
express itself in the form of contrary or strange
complexities, which beset the even tenor of our
lives.
Often the desire to travel or to visit certain
foreign lands, or to indulge in certain habits or
practices, or to taste of certain foods, is the result
of an uprising in consciousness of the submerged
personality. A pious and good person may be
tempted to evil deeds in this way, and an evil per'
son may be tempted to good deeds through the in'
clinations or urges of a secondary personality. This
secondary personality may also manifest itself in
periods of dreams or meditation, when the outer
self is partially dormant and relaxed. Certain dis'
eased conditions or injuries may bring on pro'
longed periods of dormancy to the outer'self and
[24*}
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
permit the secondary personality to take entire
control of the mind and faculties of the body. In
such cases the person would manifest different
traits, habits, customs of living and mannerisms
of speech, and would seem to be an entirely dif'
ferent person.
There are only two possible explanations for the
existence of secondary or multiple personalities.
One is the belief that an outside, or externality
of a person now living, or who has passed into the
Beyond, has temporarily possessed our bodies and
submerged our outer personality and supplanted
it with its own. In other words, being "possessed"
is one explanation. Such an explanation, however,
resorted to what may be called supernatural laws
and principles, or super'natural beliefs, and it re
sembles too greatly the ancient superstitions and
beliefs in the existence of evil entities which can
take possession of us and control us. The only
other explanation for secondary, or multiple, per'
sonalities is that they are the remnants of our own
previous existences on earth. Such an explanation
does not resort to super'natural principles or to
any unique or irrational principle in life.
[ 246 ]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
Of the two explanations you have your choice.
If you discard the doctrine of reincarnation and
refuse to believe that we have ever lived before
on this earth plane, or ever had any other per'
sonality of our own than the one that is generally
known as our present outer personality, then you
must believe that the great mass of scientific evi'
dence showing the existence of multiple person'
alties and the easy manifestation of a secondary
personality is proof that the human consciousness
can be possessed or submerged by another person'
ality and enslaved by it for a short or long period.
Certainly it is more difficult for the sane and ra'
tional mind to believe that God in creating us and
in putting His own Divine consciousness within
us also permitted of our enslavement by other per'
sonalities, than it is to believe in the rational doc
trines of reincarnation.
[ 247 ]
Chapter XVI.
SOULS OF ANIMALS AND
'THE UNBORN"
HE question often arises as to whether
animals lower in specie than the human
being have Souls and what becomes
of these Souls after transition. Again
this question occasionally implies that each ani'
mal has a distinct and separate Soul which is
in no wise connected with any other Soul of the
universe.
We cannot know of the so.called animal Soul
what we have been able to learn regarding the
human Soul for obvious reasons, but we do know
that there is an Over'soul essence for all of the
animal kingdom as there is for the human beings
of the universe. This universal Soul'essence per
vades the bodies of every living thing in the animal
kingdom. Incidentally we may add that there is
also a universal Soul'essence for every living thing
in the vegetable and mineral kingdoms.
[249 ]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
Unquestionably, the personality or character
element of the animal Soul passes through stages of
evolution and development like unto that of the
human. I mean by this that the Soul character
of a dog, for instance, will evolve and progress
through various incarnations until it becomes a
well trained, well educated, and highly intel'
lectual character or personality. In other words,
the Soul personality of a fox terrier will reincar
nate in the bodies of fox terriers from time to
time and in this way evolve to a very intellectual
character. The Soul character of a fox terrier
will continue to incarnate in the bodies of fox ter'
riers until it has attained a certain degree of per
fection and then will start a new cycle of incarna'
tions in a larger or more highly developed animal
body.
Judging the cycle from this point of view we
would say that the Soul personalities and charac
ters of the animal kingdom pass through various
incarnations in each specie and then start a new
cycle in the next higher or next progressive stage
of animal development. A study of the intellect
of animals on the part of specialists has revealed
[ 250]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
that there is a progressive stage of intellect in the
animal kingdom. By some of these experts the
horse is considered the most highly developed from
an intellectual point of view; by others the dog
is considered the most highly developed. The ele'
phant also runs high in this line of progression.
No attempt has ever been made to properly
classify the various species of animals from such a
point of view and the subject has not attracted
the attention and serious study that it really war'
rants.
Theoretically it may be true that the animal Soul
begins its first cycle of earthly incarnations in the
lowest or smallest or most inconsequential species.
The size of the animal cannot be one of the factors
in determining the intellectual progress, for it is
known, for instance, that the bee and ant show
almost the same degree of evolved intelligence, al'
though there is a great difference in the size of
their bodies. There are many animals much
smaller than the largest snakes which show an
intelligence superior to the snake, and an ability
to outwit them in any contest of intellect. The
[2H]
MAXSIOH.S OF THE SOUL
rhinoceros with its huge body does not begin to
have the intellect of many small animals.
Association with human beings is unquestion'
ably one of the factors that enters into the pre
gressive development of the character and per'
sonality of the Soul of animals. Whether this
special development of intellect on the part of such
animals is due to special objective training which
they have received at the hands of humans or
whether Nature has especially decreed that certain
animals shall be more highly developed intel'
lectually in order to serve man more efficiently, is
a matter that remains to be determined through
careful study. For instance, those who have been
devoting their time to this study for some years
have not yet reached a conclusion as to whether
the association of the elephant in India and other
lands with humans who have trained him to do
very efficient work and render unusual service, has
resulted in the development of a high degree of
intellect in the elephant or whether the Cosmic
conception of the Soul personality in the elephant
was originally decreed to be of a high stage in
order that the elephant might serve man in many
[252]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
ways. The latter assumption seems to be the most
universal opinion and it will not minimize the ef'
feet that man's training has had upon the ele'
phant's intelligence. It may truly be that the ele'
phant was preordained to serve man as he does
and is born with a high degree of intelligence in
order to fulfill his special services and this higher
intelligence has been added to and strengthened by
training and association with human beings.
We know that in regard to the structural
anatomy and special physiological characteristics of
certain animals that they have been Cosmically
prepared and uniquely evolved to fill certain
places in the scheme of things and to contend with
certain things. The camel, for instance, is most
uniquely qualified to contend with life upon
desert land where water is scarce, and to battle
against sand storms and other conditions of life
in the desert. Whether the animal has gradually
evolved to such qualifications in a physiological
sense or was originally created with them is outside
of our present scope of study. Undoubtedly the
continued struggle with certain conditions in
desert life has tended to evolve in each successive
[213]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
generation of the camel a more efficiently
equipped creature better prepared to meet such
conditions. If this is true in the physiological
sense it most certainly would be true in the in'
tellectual, mental, or character sense.
The idea, however, that the Soul of any animal
less in development than the human being, can
eventually evolve into a degree of perfection
where it is prepared to enter the body of a human
being, as a sort of primitive human Soul, is an idea
that had its origin in ancient beliefs and is not
supported by any actual facts found by those who
have spent their life'times in investigating the
subject.
It is probably true that the physical body of
man in its anatomical and physiological sense has
passed through many stages of material evolution.
There is no question about the fact that the ear'
liest forms of primitive man were crude and far
more homely and lacking in certain refinements
than the human form of today. There is every
possible evidence to prove that man's physical form
has grown in gradual stages from a more beast'like
appearance to the present refined appearance. De'
[254]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
spite the fact, however, that we can take the
physical form of man and trace its development
backwards to periods when the human arms were
longer, or the feet larger, or the head and brain
capacity less developed, with nostrils larger, the
ears bigger, and the muscles stronger, there is no
reason for the belief that we can ever continue
this line of development backward to a point where
the human form was no longer human, but entirely
beastly. In other words, the fact that man in his
primitive form was more or less animaMike, does
not warrant the belief that there were stages of
development before this in which man was either
of the monkey, gorilla, or any other animal species.
Man as a distinct specie was created at the same
time that all the other animal species were created.
Regardless of the fact that in some period of man's
development his body was far more beastly than
it is now, he was at that time so far superior to
any other specie of the animal kingdom that he
was unquestionably the highest type of animal
creation, and had certain faculties and physiologi'
cal attributes as well as Soul character that made
[2»]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
him the essential image of God, and far above any
other creature.
Man's environment and his mode of living have
had some effect upon the physiological changes that
have taken place in his body, but his evolving
mentality and Soul character, from one incarna'
tion to another, are responsible for the changes in
his environment and for the improvements that
he has made. The Soul of man has ever strug'
gled to reach greater heights of development and
perfection, and has always held before it the ideal
of Cosmic attunement and eventual oneness with
God. This in itself would lift man gradually into
a better environment which he would create for
himself, and while these improved environments
have had their reacton upon his physical condi'
tion, it is a fact that man has made his environment
rather than the environment has made man. The
wearing of shoes has had a considerable effect upon
the formation of human feet and is bound to have
a still greater effect in future centuries, for the
physical body will gradually adjust itself to en'
forced physical conditions; but after all it is man
who created the shoes and who is responsible,
[256]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOX
therefore, for the effect that shoes have had upon
him. The same can be said of many other things
in the life of man. The greatest effect upon man's
physical being, however, has been the result of in'
tellectual and Soul development within.
What becomes of the Soul character in the most
highly developed animals is something that we
cannot answer. Eliminating the belief that a
highly developed animal Soul can some day enter
into the body of a savage man and begin its career
as a human Soul leaves us without any explana'
tion or understanding of the future or ultimate
purpose of the animal Soul's development.
Sentiment, of course, has tended to make many
believe that the Soul of a pet animal, especially a
highly intelligent dog, which has manifested many
traits of character in understanding human
thought, may some day become the primitive Soul
of a human being. It is not an unkind or irre'
verential idea but wholly one that is unsupported
by any evidence. Let us take, for instance, that
highly intelligent dog which accompanied Com'
mander Byrd on his expediton to the South Pole.
This dog, who had always been the leader of the.
[257]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
group of other dogs that led the first sleigh into
all of the unknown regions of his previous expe'
ditions, revealed a high degree of intellect, human
understanding, and intuition. When it became in'
jured and yet insisted upon facing the storms of the
South Pole and appeared broken'hearted when it
could not lead the expedition sleigh, it was found
necessary to shoot this dog and bury his body in
the ice of that barren part of the world in order
that he would not starve or freeze to death, causing
suffering which none of the men could bear to
think about. What is to become of this highly
evolved dog Soul, or dog character, and person'
ality? The men who love that dog would like to
think or believe that some day it will be born again
and reach a higher state of development. This is
possible, but nothing can warrant our belief that
the development of this Soul character will take
place in the body of a human being, of even a
most primitive form of development.
Everything that we know of the human Soul
indicates that it is a part of the Divine Over'soul
of the universe, which is the consciousness and
Divine essence of God; and that this conscious'
[2*8]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
ness and creative essence was established in the
universe by God who resides in the image of His
own likeness as a definite specie of the animal
kingdom, called Man. This Divine Over'soul
which provides the human Soul characters and
personalities throughout the universe, must always
exist intact, since God created mankind and has
never added to or subtracted from it through any
of the evolved processes that are taking place in
the lower manifestations of Nature.
The next interesting point in connection with
the human Soul is in regard to those Soul char'
acters or personalities which were destined to
enter human bodies at birth, but were unable to
do so because of an interference with the life of
the body. The question is often asked as to what
takes place when a human body is born lifeless
or it fails to reach its full degree of embryonic
development.
It must be noted that a human Soul characcer,
or personality, does not begin to function in a
human body until the first breath of life is breathed
into the nostrils. The Soul that is to enter an un'
born body is known to hover over the expectant
[2J9]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
mother and to envelop both the mother and un'
born child for some time preceding birth; and un'
questionably some of the Soul essence permeates
every part of the mother and unborn child; but
there is no functioning of this Soul in the body
of the little child until the child begins to breathe
and is a distinct entity in a physiological and
psychological sense. Throughout all of the mysti'
cal sacred writings of the past we find the thought
that is expressed in the book of Genesis stated
plainly and positively. The body of man is
formed out of dust or elements of the earth, but
does not become a living Soul until the breath of
life is breathed into its nostrils or taken into its
body and it becomes living in consciousness and
all of its functionings.
A Soul, therefore, drawn from the Cosmic to
ward an unborn child envelops both the mother
and body of the child awaiting birth. If the little
body is born lifeless or fails to breathe, if it is pre'
maturely born lifeless, or is destroyed or injured
in the early stages of its embryonic development,
the Soul fails to enter the body in a functional
sense. As soon as the little body is separated from
[ 260 ]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
the body and is no longer vitalized but wholly
lifeless, the waiting Soul personality with its vital
essence returns to the Cosmic from whence it
came and there is no incarnation or earthly exist'
ence in the little body.
What effect this may have upon the Soul char'
acter is not known and it is mere speculation to
even express an opinion. If the little new born
body takes but a few breaths, or the organs are
conscious of the body functions for a short time,
even though that be but an hour or two, the Soul
has entered the little body and has started its
earthly career. If transition follows thereafter it
is similar to the transition that occurs at any time
during the earthly life of any individual. This is
all that can be said on this subject with positive
knowledge.
The belief that any destruction or injury to the
embryonic body of the unborn child is an injury
to the Soul is merely a sentimental thought with
a rightful reverential attitude of mind. Unques'
tionably the destruction of the human body or
embryo in any stage of its existence from concep'
tion to maturity is a sin, since it is a sin against
[261}
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
the process of nature and, therefore, a sin against
the plans of God. But it is a mistaken idea to be'
lieve that any destruction or injury can have any
effect upon the Soul of the child, for even after
birth no accident or injury to the body of a human
being can injure or harm the Divine, immortal
essence and consciousness of the Soul.
[ 262 1
Chapter XVII.
RECOLLECTIONS OF THE PAST
|NE of the arguments most often used in an
attempt to deny the possibility of reincar'
nation is this: If we have lived once be
fore and our memory retains any knowl'
edge of that existence, why is it that we do not
recall any event of our previous lives?
You will note that this question, no matter how
it may be worded, always includes the positive
statement or the positive intimation that no one
ever recalls anything of his previous incarna'
tions. The question is really not a question but
a statement and precludes any argument, since it
assumes right from the very start that no one does
recall anything of the past.
Such an attitude is absolutely unfair for two
reasons. In the first place, no one has a right to
assume because he or she has no distinct recollec
tion of a previous existence that no one else has;
and, secondly, it is not right to assume that the
[ 263 ]
MAH.SIOHS OP THE SOUL
mind does not occasionally reveal to us real pic
tures of the past which we do not understand or
appreciate as having any connecton with the
past.
To illustrate my point, I will refer to just one
very recent and fortunate conversation. A busi
ness man of conservative and orthodox religious
viewpoints, wholly out of sympathy with the doc
trine of reincarnation, called upon me in regard to
my plans for a trip with a number of my cc
workers to Egypt and Palestine. He frankly ad'
mitted that while he was not interested in the
researches we intended to make or any of the cere'
monies that we would attend while in Egypt, he
nevertheless had a deep'rooted desire to go to
these foreign lands but had never wanted to go
alone. Now that a few persons, whom he knew
fairly well in his city, were going with us, he would
like to go along with them and enjoy their com'
panionship on such a trip. Knowing from previous i
remarks made by him that he was out of sym'
pathy with many of the thoughts expressed in this
book, I asked him bluntly why he wanted to go
[ 264]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
to Egypt and Palestine rather than on any other
tour. His first answer was this: "Because I have
always felt a strange fascination or a peculiar at'
traction toward some part of Egypt or the Holy
Land."
I tried to analyze his statement and find out what
part of Egypt, or what things in Egypt and the
Holy Land, were responsible for the attraction he
felt. His answers were always indefinite and
vague until I finally drew from him the following:
"Well, ever since I was a young man, I have
felt that certain pictures I have seen of Egypt or
Palestine were interesting to me more than pic
tures of any other part of the world. I do not
mean pictures of the busy streets of Cairo, but
of some of the outlying, native villages. I have
always felt that I would find something there or
discover something in such a locality that would
be of intense interest and perhaps personal profit
to me in some way."
Upon further investigation, he reluctantly ad'
mitted that some of the scenes he had seen of na'
tive villages and people with native costumes,
seemed "somewhat" familiar to him, and he fur'
[265]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
ther admitted that this fact had led him to read
many different books on the history and customs
of Egypt and the Holy Land. And, that in some
passages describing incidents of a few centuries
ago, he seemed to feel a familiarity, or a sympathetic
understanding, as he put
it,
which only increased
his attraction toward those countries.
I
could not
help smiling when he made these admissions with
such reluctance, for
I
knew at once precisely what
he was experiencing, and
I
also knew that
it
was
useless at the present time to point out to him why
certain incidents in history relating to certain kr
calities and peoples and certain scenes and places
connected therewith were "somewhat" familiar to
him.
I
know that
if
I
had pressed my questioning
far enough, he would have admitted that some of
these scenes are as familiar to him as though they
had been seen by him sometime in
a
dream. This
would have aroused his suspicion, however, and
caused him to feel that
I
was trapping him into
admissions which he did not care to make, and
so
I
dropped the argument.
[
266
]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
This experience on the part of this man is typi
cal of that which can be found in the lives of
the average human being. I believe that in my
lifetime I have questioned perhaps ten thousand
people in regard to so'called recollections of the
past. I have not called these things by that term,
but have asked them frankly this question: "Do
you ever find in your moments of meditation, con'
templation, or revery, certain scenes of places,
people, buildings, or homes, rising in your mind
like pictures or scenes that were familiar to you?"
If this question is asked before anything is said
about the subject of reincarnation, the average per'
son one meets in the average walks of life will
frankly admit that such is true in their case and
that they have often wondered about
it,
and have
really been puzzled about it.
If
the person to
whom the question
is
put
is
one who has traveled
much, especially in foreign lands, he will generally
add that "When
I
was traveling here or there,
I
was surprised to suddenly come upon
a
scene in
front of
a
building, park, public square, bridge, or
other picturesque setting that
I
found to be pre
cisely
a
duplicate of what
I
had seen in my mind
[267]
UAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
many times, but which I had never before seen in
real life."
When these persons say that they have come
upon scenes which they had never seen before in
real life, they always mean that they had never
seen them in this life or in this incarnation, and
they will frankly tell you that it was the first time
that they had ever traveled or had been anywhere
near the familiar scenes in their present earthly ex'
istence.
If,
then, you open the subject of rein'
carnation and ask them
if
it
is
not possible that
the familiarity with such scenes may be due to
having lived near them in
a
previous incarnation,
you find some who are broad enough in their
thinking to realize the possibility of this and ad'
mit that
it
may be true, whereas others will in'
stantly tell you that since they do not believe in
reincarnation, they cannot look upon these things
as any indicaton of having lived once before.
This means that we must allow such persons to
offer another theoretical explanation of why and
how they have scenes coming before their con'
sciousness with
a
certain degree of familiarity but
which they have never seen in actuality. The ex'
1
268
]
THE COSMIC COTiCEPTIOH
planations thus offered are often amusing and, of
course, associated with extreme supernatural prin'
ciples or impossible mental laws. In other words,
the explanations do not explain at all. And yet
these persons will frankly say to you that they
do not have any recollections of a previous exist'
ence and, therefore, they certainly could not have
lived at some other time.
On the other hand, nearly every person who has
read of the historical events in other lands at other
times than at present has found himself strangely
attuned with the history of certain periods or of
certain places, and is attracted more to the history
of these places than to other places. Sometimes
this interest is in relation to places in America or
even in the same state where the person now lives,
or often the places are located a few hundred, a
few thousand, or many thousands of miles away.
Then there are many human beings who in
moments of reflection, relaxation, or revery find
themselves slipping backward, so to speak, to a
rapid panorama of scenes and incidents which
seem to struggle to come up out of the fog and
[269]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
mist of past recollections, but cannot quite reveal
themselves in all of the clearness and distinction
that makes for perfect recognition. Persons who
have experienced this are often puzzled, not only
by the peculiar pictures that do come close to the
borderline of clear perception, but by the multi'
plicity of scenes that seem to flash so rapidly in
the background of the consciousness. There are
also many who have had certain definite impres'
sions come to them from the depths of their con'
sciousness, which seem to be related to their own
lives in a time and period long past. These per'
sons, too, are puzzled over these things, but seldom
associate them with anything like a past existence.
Now, just what should one expect in regard to
the recollection of events in a past life? Is it
logical for the average human being to expect that
the events of a past life should be registered in a
memory so close to the borderline of our present
consciousness that we can easily reach across or
pierce through the veil that separates the past from
the present and bring these pictures into living
reality? Assuming that the memory we have now
is the same memory that we have had in a previous
[270]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOX
life, and assuming that in its storehouse vaults, it
retains all of the pictures and impressions regis'
tered upon it throughout all of our lives, is it
logical to suppose that it should be an easy and
simple thing to reach into those vaults and unlock
the records at will and withdraw clear and distinct
pictures relating to any period of time? If you
believe that this is logical, then it is reasonable for
me to ask why it is not possible for you to reach
right into your storehouse of memory now, and
withdraw all the scenes, all the pictures, relating
to the events of your life in the present incarna'
tion during your second, third, and fourth years of
childhood? Can you do this?
You may answer and tell me that you do recall
certain incidents of your childhood and youth very
distinctly. At best, you may tell me of ten in'
cidents clearly registered in your mind and easily
recalled, which relate to your earliest years. But,
think of the millions of other impressions and pic
tures that are locked in that memory and which
you cannot recall. The few that you speak of
constitute such a small fraction, and such a small
[271]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
fragment, that it is hardly worth speaking about
as an illustration of recollection.
Let us examine the few that you do recall, and
let us see how clear and distinct they are. Do you
remember the first time you were allowed to play
on the street or to play with your neighborhood
companions? You may answer by picking out
one incident connected with this important event
in your life. But, if we analyze that incident, we
find, first of all, that there is some unusual feature
connected with
it,
which not only impressed you
very profoundly at the time, but impressed your
parents or your relatives, or your companions, and
caused them to speak about
it
often. The event
may have occurred in your second year, or your
fourth year, but you will find that
it
was an event
that was probably discussed and spoken about in
your household for several years thereafter, and
was not only registered in your mind and memory
a
number of times, but through repetition of de'
scription and the telling about
it,
it
was carried
along into your fifth or sixth year of life. Then
perhaps many times during your eighth or ninth
year, you easily recalled that event and spoke about
[
272
]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
it,
and heard others speak about
it,
and so
it
was
once again brought up out of the musty old rec
ords of the past into the present and was again
registered in your eighth or nine year, even though
it
had originally occurred in the second, third, or
fourth year. Now, perhaps during your twelfth
year,
it
was recalled again by some similar event
or some family discussion, and once more, the pic
ture and incident that was becoming slightly vague
and preparing to fade into the indefiniteness
of
the
past, was revived and recolored, and strengthened
in its details and registered once more in your
twelfth year.
This may have happened so many times in your
life that this particular incident out of millions
of others has been refreshed from time to time and
brought from the past into the now until, when
you want to recall
it,
now, you only have to reach
back to the last time that you registered the in'
cident to revive
it,
and bring
it
into close examina'
tion.
You will admit that such an incident
is
not typi
cal of all the incidents of your past. To prove this,
you can take any one of the incidents of your
[
273
]
MAJiSIOHS OF THE SOUL
childhood, which you easily recall, and after
having described it and painted it in all of its full'
ness of reality, ask yourself this question: What
did I do the next day after this incident, or what
did I do that same afternoon or evening? Cer'
tainly, if you can reach into your past easily and
quickly and get in contact with a certain day or
hour of your past life as a child, you should be
able to move the finger of recollection along the
unwritten records to the next few lines and recall
what happened a few hours after the incident you
relate. Can you do that?
Usually, the few incidents of childhood that are
easily recalled are not only those which have been
revived from time to time, as stated above, but
they are widely separated from each other in na'
ture and in period of time, and the great gaps in
between these events remain absolutely unrecalled.
Does this not tend to prove that although a per'
feet record of all events in the past is retained in
the mind, the matter of recollection is not so easy,
and it is not given to man to have free access to all
of these impressions.
[ 274]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
If you ask why it is that it is not as easy to re',
call all of the events of a certain day or month
twentyfive years ago as it is to recall the events
of yesterday or last week, let me point out to you
the psychological fact that our present conscious'
ness of ourselves is always in the nature of a cen'
tral point in a large picture, and this picture con'
tains the events of the last few days. As we go
backward, past the few recent days, the picture
extends itself into vagueness and indefiniteness.
Today we are conscious not only of ourselves and
our immediate surroundings, but we are conscious
of the things we did this morning and of the plans
we made for this afternoon, tonight, and tomor'
row. We are right now in the center of a whirl'
ing mass of impressions and this gives us conscious'
ness of ourselves and our relationship to persons
and places. But man would soon lose saneness
and soundness of mind and become a hopeless
maniac if there was in the borderline of his present
consciousness the living, vibrating impressions of
all the things that had occurred in his past life or
since childhood.
[275 1
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
As each day passes, the pictures and impressions
that were alive and active in the consciousness for
a while are slowly taken from it and placed away
in the records of the memory. It is like the
li'
brarian in
a
large library who makes
it
his business
each morning when he finds new copies of new
issues of magazines and periodicals on his desk to
go into the reading room of the library and deposit
these new issues and collect those which are be'
coming old and place them away in the reference
files to be called for on demand.
If
the old ones
were allowed to accumulate while the new ones
were constantly added, there would soon be such
a
litter of publications on the reading table as to
make
it
impossible to be aware of which were new
and which were old.
So we find that while the records of the past
are stored away, indelibly, they can only be re'
called by association of ideas or by some special
process which enables us to pick one impression
or one scene at
a
time from the past records and
bring
it
into the now. Sometimes, through the
association of ideas or the similarity of scenes and
events,
a
picture or impression of the past
is
[
276]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
brought into present realization. The older that
impression
is,
or the more ancient the picture, the
more vague and indefinite
it
is,
until some of these
are like fantastic sketches on
a
transparent surface
through which we can see so clearly as to make the
picture almost invisible.
If
this
is
true regarding
events which have occurred within our present
lives and which are not more than thirty, forty,
or fifty years of age, think of how indefinite must
be the impressions stored away in the memory and
which are one hundred or two hundred years old.
According to the cycles of reincarnation, the
average man or woman of today would have ended
the last previous incarnation on earth about one
hundred to one hundred and thirty years ago.
That means that one would have to reach back
at least one hundred and thirty years in order to
have impressions of the last years of that previous
existence.
If
thirty or forty years will soften pic
tures and impressions and cover them with
a
mys'
tic veil of indefiniteness,
a
hundred years would
surely make them very vague and very faint, in'
deed. Only the most impressive, the most psycho.
logical, and important of such ancient pictures and
[
277
]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
impressions, perhaps written and printed in blood
or pain, suffering, trial, and anxiety, would be so
indelibly impressed as to retard brilliancy at the
present time. Is it any wonder, then, that in our
reveries and meditation, we have but faint pictures
and impressions coming to us like familiar scenes
and which are never frivolous things or connected
with mere transitory conditions. Impressions of
a city or of a building, or of a race of people, of
a park, or a bridge, or something of this kind may
be the registered pictures that accumulated in the
memory through years of serious contact with
them and are, therefore, more indelibly impressed
than the mere passing events of one day or one
hour.
But there are those human beings who have at
times found many definite recollections in connec
tion with certain events that were of more than
ordinary importance in their past life. On one
of my trips through Europe a companion traveler
seeking for a certain castle that he had seen in pic
tures and which seemed familiar, suddenly came
upon it when he did not expect to do so. It was
late in the evening and by artificial light he saw
[ 278 ]
THE COSMIC COXLCEPTIOH
only the remnants of an old iron gateway in a huge
wall. This had been no part of the picture he had
in his mind. But, as he stood before it with me,
wondering where the gateway led to, he suddenly
recalled or felt a degree of familiarity with that
opening in the wall. Turning to me, he said: "If
there is another small doorway inside of the en'
closure of this wall whereby a person can walk
down a few steps and pass under the wall, then I
know where I am."
With our flashlights and lantern, we went in'
side of the old and abandoned enclosure and found,
fifty feet away, another opening in the wall closed
with remnants of wood and much shrubbery, and
which led down twelve steps to a tunnel under
the wall. And, this in turn led to an underground
chamber which my companion perfectly described
to me before we entered it. Returning again to
the highway and our hotel, we waited until day
break and then found in the center of this walled
enclosure the old building that he had described to
me so often in our interviews in America, and for
which he had been searching in Europe. The in'
terior of this great building was precisely as he had
[ 279]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
described
it,
and in fact, he had some trouble in
having
a
doorway opened to another underground
passageway and chamber, which my companion de'
scribed accurately before we entered
it,
and which
the guide and authorities of the village claimed had
not been opened for
a
hundred years or more be'
cause of its dangerous condition and difficulty in
reaching.
My companion claimed that he had either lived
or labored in and around this place, and that his
duties took him especially into these underground
places, which were probably wine cellars in his
time.
I
site this illustration to show that one pic
ture, one impression, one thought, may associate
itself with another and serve as
a
key to unlock
a
number of related pictures and impressions. The
sight of that old gate in the wall recalled to this
man's mind the fact that there was another arch'
way in the wall leading to an underground room.
This, he had never recalled in all of his other talks
about
a
castle and its many rooms. Very often,
the sight of one part of
a
building or part of
a
city
will instantly recall from memory other related
pictures and impressions which seem so familiar
[
280]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
to us that we feel we could write about them, paint
them, and reach out and touch them.
Whence come these impressions, these pictures?
Not from our present lifetime experience, surely,
for most of these things relate to distant and far
away places which we have not contacted in our
present life.
Then, we have the cases that are quite fre'
quent where a child or an adult suffering under
some unusual mental or psychological condition
is placed in a state where the storehouse of the/
memory suddenly unlocks itself and reveals a mass
of its impressions and pictures in living brilliancy
and without restraint.
One case of this kind was that of a young girl
in a hospital in Montreal, who could speak only
French and knew nothing of any foreign languages,
and was not well educated. This child was in
the hospital for an operation against which she
protested and fought with all the strength in her
little body. Finally, as the last moments ap'
proached and the doctors were ready to take her
into the operating room, she made one more
struggle to battle with them. In her wild fury and
[281]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
frenzy, she threw herself into an hysterical state
in which she screamed and laughed and weeped.
Unable to control her, they were about to strap her
to a chair, when her fury again burst forth in the
wildest talk that the doctors and nurses had ever
heard. This time she talked perfect English and
told them that she had once had this operation
performed, when she was thirtyfive years of age,
in a previous life, and had suffered so much from
it that she refused to have it done again. She gave
her name, her family name, the name of the town
in which she had lived, and many other incidents
of her life, and then suddenly relapsed again into
quietness and could not remember later what she
had said, or that she had expressed such ideas. The
use of perfect English and the strangeness of the
facts she related induced the authorities to make
an investigation and this was continued by sev
eral organizations and newspaper men. It was
found in the town where she claimed to have lived
and passed away that a woman of her age and
name had lived there some eighty years previously
and had passed away, and even the grave and
[ 282 ]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
tombstone were located, verifying the name and the
date.
Only recently, in India, a young girl through ill'
ness entered into a peculiar psychic state in which
she claimed that she recalled her previous life and
knew where her previous relatives could be k>
cated. Eminent investigators accompanied the
young child to the city she mentioned and which
she had never seen in her present life. She led
the investigators along a certain road previously
described, to a certain building which she had pre
viously described, and there, beneath the flooring
of one of the rooms in a condition and position1
as she had predicted, they found an old box con'
taining records which were identical with those
that she had mentioned to them. These records
proved the identity of the girl and verified her
story.
Hundreds of such incidents as these have been
recorded in the past and verified by every investi'
gator who has looked into the matter. A com'
plete list of these cases would make interesting
reading, but would make a book of this kind too
[ 283 ]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
cumbersome. A denial of these facts is merely a
denial of published knowledge beyond dispute.
Each one of us has in his memory, in the closed
and sealed books of the past, a complete record of
his previous experiences, impressions, and activi'
ties. These serve us at times as lessons learned
and experiences to be used as standards to guide
us in our present living. But because we cannot
easily recall them and cannot drag them out into
the open as we would bring forth the things of
yesterday, is no proof that they are not there; for
when the occasion requires, or when they will
serve the purpose, they are available and every per'
son who has had considerable experience in the
practices of certain psychological, metaphysical,
and mystical laws, has brought forth sufficient im'
pressions from the past to prove at least one or two
of his many past incarnations.
[284]
Chapter XVIII.
THE FEAR OF DEATH
m
1ERHAPS one of the most beautiful and
satisfying results of the understanding of
the doctrines of reincarnation is the comr
plete removal from our consciousness of
any fear of so'called death.
I have known in my lifetime very intimately
and among my closest kin, those who have suf'
fered intensely in the latter part of their lives
through this unexpressed though potent fear of in'
evitable transition. Among these were several
who were unquestionably sincere and devoted
Christians, and who found their only happiness
in the contemplation of transition through believ
ing that living the Christian life would save them
from the torments of Hell. But they found no
happiness nor joy in the prospect of a long period
of unconscious existence in an unknown ethereal
realm awaiting an ultimate Judgment Day.
[28J]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
The average Christian believes that at the time
of transition his Soul enters unknown realms to
pass through unknown experiences, and then
dwells in oblivion for an eternal length of time
awaiting a Judgment Day before the rewards of
goodness or right living can be enjoyed. They
shudder, however, at the thought of this eternal
sleep and loss of consciousness. You may say
what you please, and sing the songs of your
church rejoicing in the fact that after you have
been found good and worthy you will dwell in
the Spirit of God; but the fact remains that in
the privacy of your own thoughts you are like mil
lions of others who do not find the prospect of any
happiness or pleasure in waiting for some Judgment
Day so far distant that a seemingly endless period
of time must be spent in total unconsciousness
and oblivion.
Two factors enter into the cause of the usual
fear of transition, as found in the hearts and minds
of the average persons of the Western world. The
first is the belief that so'called death may come
upon them suddenly and cut short their careers,
ambitions, and desires for achievement, and de'
[ 286 ]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
prive them of their success in life. The business
man who has just entered into the working out of
his life's ambitions, and is now venturing upon
the realization of all of his hopes and plans, real'
izing that time is required to see the fulfillment of
all that he has created, is always depressed and
made unhappy by the thought of the grim figure
of death stepping up to him and ending it all for
all time. The young man or young woman just
entering into the fulness of life and beginning to
sense some happiness as a reward for all of the
past waiting, hoping, praying, and suffering, fears
death may come at any time and end it all.
Is there anything of a hopeful nature which these
persons can find in the Western world orthodoxy?
All that they can learn is that after the sudden
closing of this life, they will be plunged into a
place of purging for the cleansing of their sinful
bodies and minds, or, if this does not happen they
will go into an eternal, unconscious sleep that is
more dark and more void than anything known in
this life, and that they will remain in this state for
an endless length of time, perhaps millions and
billions of years, and then, suddenly, be brought
[ 287 ]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
before the Great Judge and either given eternal
rewards or condemned to a place of punishment
and purging. Is there anything cheerful about
this aspect, or this picture, of the future?
Is there anything cheerful in the idea that at
the end of this life, when transition comes, we are
going to be held accountable for the sins we have
inherited from Adam and Eve and our forbears,
and for the sins that we have committed in ignor'
ance and through lack of understanding, and that
we shall suffer for these things without being given
any opportunity to undo the wrongs, wipe away
the sins, and live a life of goodness? If our tran'
sition means the end of all of our earthly existence
and that what we are at the time of that transition
constitutes the picture or the record by which we
are to be eternally judged, then, transition is the
beginning of a period of suffering, sorrow, and re'
gret. Our inner nature cries aloud at the injust'
ice of this. Even man's poorly invented and mv
perfectly conceived laws are more fair than this,
for no man is held accountable for the sins of
others, and his inability to know the laws and re'
deem himself is given consideration.
[ 288 ]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
An understanding of the doctrines of reincar'
nation changes the entire viewpoint of life. First
of all, it enables us to realize that the greatest sins
which we have inherited are those which we have
committed ourselves and for which we alone are
responsible. Furthermore, it enables us to under'
stand that the sins which we commit here and now
through ignorance and lack of understanding may
be compensated for and the slate wiped clean and
a new start given, whereby we may live a joyful
life and try once more to make the goal with a
clean record. It helps us to understand the pur'
poses of life and to find the benefits that lie in all
of our trials and tribulations. We can understand
why there may be a profitable lesson in the suf'
fering we bring upon ourselves, if we are to have
another opportunity to live again and through con'
scious memory of the present mistakes avoid them
in the future. We can look forward to the time
of inevitable transition without fear and even with
hope if we know that it is not the end of all of our
experiences but merely the stopping of one jour'
ney and the beginning of another.
[ 289 ]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
Through an understanding of the doctrines of
reincarnation we are prepared to go ahead and
create and build and evolve our plans and start
them into action, realizing that if whatever we
are doing is the real mission of our life we should
put all of our effort into it and do it well without
any fear that our mission may be cut short and our
desires unfulfilled. If transition comes before we
have completed the great work we have started
here, we know that if it is truly our great mission
in life we will come back and take it up again and
carry it on to a grand fulfillment.
The doctrines of reincarnation teach us that sc
called death is not the beginning of self'annihila'
tion, or of a long and endless sleep, or of an eternal
period of oblivion, but merely a change of earthly
consciousness which will in no wise affect the in'
ner consciousness or the consciousness of self, and
that instead of a long dark sleep we shall be alive
and among the living in the Cosmic realm improv
ing ourselves, consciously, and being prepared for
a new opportunity, a new period, of earthly exist'
ence and effort. Such a knowledge of the true
laws enables us to be prepared for the future re'
[290]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
gardless of transition, and it makes us realize that
there is nothing in transition to be feared and noth'
ing to be regretted if we live in accordance with
the highest ideals of the Cosmic.
The doctrines of reincarnation assure us that
if we follow the Great Master, living the true
Christian spirit, or follow the highest teachings
of our religion, whatever it may be, we will earn
certain rewards that will strengthen us and pre
pare us for another life in which we can earn ad'
ditional rewards and reach a higher state of de'
velopment.
Through these continued existences on earth
we can gradually attain that perfection and that
degree of Christian spirit in our consciousness that
will make us ready to stand before the Great Judge
and receive the Highest Benediction.
The person who has accepted the doctrines of
reincarnation knows truly that there is no death.
He is not one who sings the songs and proclaims
"there is no death" and yet fears it in his hearty
fighting against the decrees of nature when the
time comes for the casting off of the old and worn'
out body and the taking on of a new life. He is
[291]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
cheerful and happy in the knowledge that as he
sows today, so shall he reap; that he will suffer
for the evil he has done, but is given every oppor'
tunity to compensate and to redeem himself and
live again in accordance with the highest ideals.
Wherever we find one who understands these doc
trines, there we will find one who is cheerful,
happy, successful, God'like, kind, tolerant, and
considerate. But more than anything else you
will find that such a person has no fear of the fu
ture, nor fear of transition, and no dread or so'
called death.
[ 292]
Chapter XIX.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED
|T may be more interesting to cover the
usual objections and questions relating to
the doctrines of reincarnation by selecting
the principal ones from a mass of Carres'
pondence and putting the answers with them.
Question: Why is it that we do not hear more
about reincarnation from eminent or well'known
scientists and clergymen? Does this not indicate
that such persons do not approve of the doctrines?
Answer: Clergymen or others who are the ac
cepted representatives of religious creeds or move'
ments which do not include the doctrines of re'
incarnation, can hardly be expected to promote
such doctrines or endorse them, regardless of what
their personal opinions may be. On the other
hand, many eminent clergymen and scientists have
endorsed the principles of the doctrines of rein'
carnation. Scientists, especially, have often made
public statements in this regard, and so have many
[ 293 ]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
prominent and successful business men. Typical
of both of these classes are the late Sir Conan
Doyle and Mr. Henry Ford. We must rem em'
ber, however, that few people wear their religion
on their sleeve and very few, indeed, desire to prce
claim their personal religious or philosophical be'
liefs; the mere silence on the part of any person
in regard to such beliefs in no wise indicates the
true thoughts that may be in their minds. If
you can succeed in having prominent persons tell
you in confidence their personal opinions and be'
liefs you may be surprised at their comments.
Question: Why do you not publish a list of
all of the prominent people or well'known thinkers
who have endorsed the doctrines of reincarnation?
Answer: Simply because such a list would be
unfair unless it was nearly complete, and a com'
plete list would make an entire volume of a large
size and which few would care to read. Secondly,
the dodtjpnes of reincarnation are not offered or
presented to any one as something which should
be accepted because of eminent endorsement.
Many of the most notable fallacies and unsound
theories which have had popular acceptance were
[294]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
at one time offered to the public solely through
eminent scientific or ecclesiastical endorsement.
Thousands have been burned at the stake or
slaughtered in their homes because they refused to
accept doctrines or dogmas, which were eminently
endorsed and promoted by the representatives of
those who endorsed them. Yet, these very prin'
ciples and dogmas were later found to be untrue.
Millions of persons in the past have accepted on
faith the ideas and beliefs of others only to find
that they were just as truly misled by such eminent
endorsement as by their own judgment. The doc
trines of reincarnation have not spread through'
out the world to become important guides in the
lives of millions through endorsement, but through
the common'sense, logical reasoning on the part
of the men and women who have given their own
thoughts to the mysteries of life and to the analyv
ing of the doctrines. If your own good judgment
cannot convince you of the soundness of the doc
trines of reincarnation, you should not accept them
on the strength of someone else's faith in them or
someone else's endorsement of them.
[29T]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
Question: What becomes of the idea, or belief
in the resurrection of the body, if the doctrines of
reincarnation are true?
Answer: If it is true that there will come a
day when all of the physical bodies in dissolution
in all parts of the world will have their elements!
drawn together and the dust of their bones re
stored and the cells of the flesh reestablished into
physical forms again and arise from the graves to
ascend into the Heavens, there is nothing in the
doctrines of reincarnation to refute it. The per'
sonality or Soul of a person may reincarnate a
thousand times and still dwell eventually in
Heaven and await the resurrection of the last phy
sical body possessed by it. Whatever is true will
be made manifest, and if the doctrines of rein'
carnation are true they cannot be contrary to any
other doctrines that are true.
Question: What about twins? If two bodies
are born at practically the same minute are there
two segments of the Soul or two personalities in
the bodies, or just one?
Answer: Physiologically and biologically the
two bodies of twins are identical, and had their
[296]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
origin in one concept. The same Soul or per
sonality that was intended for one body would be
divided between the two, and would reside in the
two bodies, and manifest through them through'
out life. This is why twins always have the same
inner natures, the same tendencies, talents, and
emotional characteristics even when the outer,
physical, countenance is slightly different or con'
siderably different. When transition comes the
Soul in the bodies of twins returns to the Cosmic
as one personality, and may or may not enter the
bodies of twins again. There are records of many
persons who have found in the peculiar complex
nature of their personalities, and in the psychic
functioning of their Soul, that in a previous in'
carnation their Soul and personality had been di'
vided between two bodies of twins and had ac
cumulated many strange experiences in life. When
one of the twins passes through transition ahead
of the other, the Soul and personality of the one
that has passed on unites with the one still living.
The continued contact between the two inner
selves of the twins, whereby each is constantly
conscious of the thoughts and emotions of the
[ 297 ]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
other, and often senses even injuries to the physi'
cal body of the other, or suffers similar disorders
and annoyances, proves how closely related the
Soul in each of them actually is.
Question: What effect has suicide on the evo
lution of the Soul?
Answer: The willful interference with any of
nature's laws creates a Karmic condition which the
personality of the individual must adjust through
compensation. The willful and sudden ending of
human life with the arbitrary separation of the
Soul from the body plunges the Soul and person
ality into an abyss of darkness for many days and
weeks, in which condition the personality suffers
intensely and the Soul is "earth bound" for a long
period. The regret for the act is keenly realized
and felt by the personality throughout its entire
Cosmic existence, and its reincarnation is always
in a body which will have to suffer certain trials*
and tribulations of life until it learns the error of
what it has done and makes proper compensa
tion. The idea that suicide will bring an end to
any of our earthly sufferings, trials, and tribula'
[298 ]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
tions, is the most absurd idea that man has ever
held. No matter how intense may be our earthly
suffering, or how despondent we may be, all of this
is nothing as compared with the suffering that is
immediately realized after transition through sui'
cide.
Question: Since Jesus did not definitely pn>
claim His belief in reincarnation, and my church
does not preach
it,
I
cannot believe that the doc
trines are true.
Is
not the old religion of the
Christian church good enough for me?
Answer: What do you mean by the old re
ligion? The Christian religion has been evolving,
and passing through stages of modification, ever
since Jesus first proclaimed
it
to His disciples.
Many of the things which you hear preached in
your church today and which you have accepted
during your lifetime, were unheard of and un'
known in the Christian religion some centuries
ago. The Christian religion
is
a
living, evolving,
guide in men's lives and
it
evolves and keeps alive,
through man's continued elaboration of his inter'
pretation, an understanding of that which Jesus
taught. There are many things which Jesus
[
299
]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
taught His disciples which are not preached in the
Christian religion because they would not apply
and could not apply to our modern ways of hV
ing; and there are many things in the Christian
doctrines of today which were not expounded by
Jesus, nor contained in the Christian teachings,
until many centuries after the ascension of Jesus.
There are, undoubtedly, many principles and doc
trines of your religion acceptable to you today
which your great grandparents would have criti'
cized and would have said were modernistic, man'
made, and unwarranted. You are mistaken when
you think that Jesus did not show any belief or*
acceptance of the doctrines of reincarnation. Your
minister, or someone else, may tell you that He
did not, but if you will read certain chapters of
this book again and read your Bible carefully you
will find that Jesus did admit the soundness of
the doctrines of reincarnation. However, if your
present religion is perfectly satisfactory to you,
and you can find joy and peace in knowing and!
accepting only some of the laws of life while you
ignore and turn your back upon others which are
equally important, then this is your privilege and
[ 300 ]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
you should not attempt to force yourself to change
your attitude.
Question: I think it is horrifying to believe
that the Soul must go through all of these periods
of earthly experiences, suffering, and trials. Since
the Soul is Divine and a part of the God'essence,
why should it require earthly experiences to help
it reach perfection?
Answer: The fact of the matter is that the
Soul is here in the physical body in contact with
earthly trials and tribulations, suffering an earthly
existence, through the decree of God. We can'
not get around the fact that God has ordained
this. It may be horrifying for you to think that
a part of God's consciousness is here on the earth,
associated with sordid things, but as a matter of
course this fact is true, and God alone is re
sponsible for it. That being so, why should it
appear horrifying that the Soul and personality
should have more than one opportunity to exist
on earth, and perhaps have several opportunities
to exist here in better circumstances and under bet'
ter conditions, with more happiness and joy than
may be found in just one lifetime? You seem to
[301]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
assume that the doctrines of reincarnation are re
sponsible for the Soul of man being imprisoned in
a physical body here on earth. This is not true.
The doctrines of reincarnation simply attempt to
explain why this Divine fact was decreed by God.
If you take the doctrines of reincarnation and de'
stroy them, and wipe them out of existence, you
still have to explain why the consciousness or Soul
of God was extended into a physical body to reside
here on earth, and go through trials and tribula'
tions which the Soul of God would not require.
If you can answer that question with a more logi'
cal doctrine than that of reincarnation you will
solve the greatest problem that has confronted
thinking men and women since the dawn of civili'
zation. But, remember, the answer given by the
average clergyman that "it is the will of God and
not for us to understand," is not an answer but
an evasion. We may not be able to understand
all about it but we certainly understand enough
to know that the Divine consciousness of God was
purposely projected into the physical body here
on earth, and while here this Divine Soul of God
is in contact with sorrowful and perplexing condi'
[ 302 ]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
tions. To say that we cannot understand does not
wipe out of our minds the question, and does not
answer your own question. A better answer must
be found, and the only better one that has ever
been found is in the doctrines presented in thia
book.
Question: Do you not realize that your doc
trines of reincarnation do away with Hell and
purgatory as established in the Christian religion?
Answer: I know this one fact, that the Chris'
tian religion did not originally contain any dog'
mas about Hell and purgatory. I challenge you
to find any place in the New Testament where
Jesus has spoken about purgatory or described Hell
in the manner in which it is presented today in the
Christian religion. Therefore, please do not try
to attribute Hell and purgatory to Jesus, regard'
less of what your clergyman may say. Both of
these conditions or places are additions to the
Christian doctrines made long after the life of Je'
sus. But, again, I say if they are true, then no
other truth can destroy them. If there is a Hell
or purgatory into which the Soul or personalities
of man must pass or dwell after transition, it
[ 303 ]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
would not in any way interfere with the re'birth
of the Soul and personality after these had been!
purged or cleansed in Hell or purgatory.
Question: Why should we bother about the
subject of reincarnation at all? Is not life just as
happy without knowing about all this?
Answer: Very likely life is just as happy for
some without any knowledge as it is for those who
have a great amount of knowledge. Why do you
read the Bible, or go to church, or study anything
about God's laws? You will probably live just
as long without such knowledge but you certainly
will not be as happy. While you are in perfect
health and seemingly far from the day of transi'
tion you may safely say that you have no interest
in what happens after your transition, but there
may come a day when you will become profoundly
interested in knowing something about the future
and when you will find great consolation and
peace in any knowledge regarding the hereafter.
Fortunately, the larger part of the world finds its
joy and happiness in knowledge, and the more
knowledge and the greater understanding of life
and its principles, the more happiness and content'
[ 304 ]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
ment. The more that anyone knows about the
real principles of his existence here and hereafter
the more happy and successful and perfect the life
of that person will be.
Question: I do not like the thought of coming
back again in some unknown body and having to
live again through all the suffering of this life,
I would rather dwell in eternal peace when this
life is over.
Answer: It is not a matter of what we would
like, but of what is the law. When you are born
again you will come into this earthly life just as
you did in your present incarnation, knowing noth'
ing about your past existence and filled with the
joy and happiness of being alive and among the
living. If you are one of the unusual persons who
find no joy at all in life, and find nothing in life^
to make it worth while, you are of the type that
has failed to bring joy and happiness into the lives
of others and you are reaping only what you have
sown. You will live again whether you want to
or not, and you will continue to be reborn on!
this earth until you make the utmost of your life
and find real joy and happiness in being among
[ion
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
the living and in accomplishing much for others.
Do not think that by ignoring the laws of rein'
carnation and claiming that you do not believe
in them that you will prevent their operation or
manifestation in your life. Therefore, so long as
you will be born again, and will live again, is
it)
not better that you should know something about
it
and prepare yourself for it?
Question: What determines the nature of the
Soul for any specific body that
is
to be born?
Answer: The determining factor
is
Karma. A
personality awaiting re'birth which has certain
Karmic compensations to make or certain Karmic
adjustments to make will be Cosmically directed
toward an unborn body, which, by the nature of
its environment, family associations, locality, na'
tionality, etc., will provide the opportunities for
the Soul'personality to carry on with its Karma.
A Soul'personality that
is
awaiting re'birth and
which has in its makeup the talents and abilities
for music or art because of previous experience in
these lines, will be directed toward an unborn
body that will provide the opportunities for the
expression of these talents and abilities. Let us
[
306
]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
6ay, for instance, that if there is a Soul'person'
ality in the Cosmic awaiting re'birth which should
continue its musical career and become more fa'
mous or more perfect in music, it will be directed
toward an unborn body, the parents of which will
be inclined by their own desires and tastes to give
the child further musical education and provide
the opportunities for its development along this
line.
If,
for instance, an expectant mother de'
sires to have
a
child who will be famous as
a
mu'
sician and talented, and throughout the prenatal
period concentrates her mind upon attracting to
her unborn child the Soul of
a
musician, and the
father likewise agrees with the wife that the child
that comes to them will be given every opportunity
to have
a
musical career, the Cosmic will direct
toward the unborn body the Soul'personality of
one inclined toward or partially perfected in mu'
sic. The same would be true of any other special
talent or abilities. In determining into which
body
a
Soul should enter, the Cosmic takes into
consideration what the Soul'personality will ac
complish in its next incarnation, and also what
certain unborn bodies may provide in the way of
[
307
]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
opportunities for these Karmic conditions to mani'
fest. An unborn body about to be born in an en'
vironment of poverty, ignorance, and physical as
well as material handicaps, will have directed to'
ward it the Soul'personality that requires these
earthly conditions, in order to learn certain lessons
and to overcome and master certain conditions.
The pre'natal influences of the parents and espe'
daily of the mother have a very definite effect
with the Cosmic in determining which personality
or Soul'essence shall enter the body of the unborn.
Question: Has the Soul any free choice in the
selection of the physical vehicle for its next earthly
expression?
Answer: The Soul'personality dwelling in the
Cosmic awaiting re'birth does not have any free
choice in the selection of the body into which it
is to be incarnated. It may be attracted toward
certain unborn bodies by a previous relationship,
a sympathetic understanding, or some other senti'
mental or psychic condition, but unless this attrac
tion fits in with the Cosmic scheme such an attrac
tion will not decide the matter at all. The greatest
influence outside of the Cosmic mind is the in'
[ 308 ]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTIOH
fluence of parents and especially that of the
mother. Parents who purposely conceive of a
child with the intention of providing a vehicle for
a beautiful, spiritual Soul, in order that a great
character and personality may be incarnated on
earth and accomplish great things, will undoubted'
ly attract to the unborn body the very kind of a
Soul'personality they have in mind. The more
holy and sacred is the relationship of human con'
ception and the higher the ideals held by the par'
ents for the future of the unborn body, and the!
more definite their visualization of the type of
character they desire in the child, the more sure
will the Cosmic attend to the fulfillment of their
wishes. Considering that the Cosmic at all times
possesses in its Over'soul thousands upon thou
sands of personalities awaiting re'birth, each of a
distinctly different type with a distinctly different
Karmic future and distinctly different tendencies
and abilities, it is easy to understand how the Cos'
mic can direct toward any unborn body the type
and character of personality that the parents may
desire.
t»09]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
Question: What effect upon the future child
has the destructive thoughts of a mother or father
who does not want a child and tries to prevent
its birth?
Answer: In such a case we would have a sit'
uation the very reverse of that stated above. When
a mother is determined not to have a child, and7
from the moment of cenception attempts to de'
stroy the embryo or prevent the development and
birth of the body, her mind is filled with two
strong emotions. First, that of hatred and enmity
toward the body that is being created and the
body that is coming, and, secondly, the thought
of murder and destruction. She will attract to
the unborn body the Soul'personality that must
fulfill certain Karmic conditions of its own and at
the same time assist in teaching the parents the|
error of their thoughts. Therefore, a personality
that is of an unsympathetic and unkindly type,
given to destructive acts, will be directed toward
this unborn body, and during the youth and young
manhood of this child the parents will realize the
error of their thinking and will appreciate the fact
that they have reaped as they have sown, while
[310]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
the child itself will grow into manhood and have
an opportunity of purging itself of the evil tenden
cies it has and be prepared for a better and more
noble birth in the next incarnation.
Question: What effect does the education and
social position of parents have upon the selection
of a Soul'personality for their unborn child?
Answer: Parents who are in good social posi'
tion and well educated will have directed toward;
them, or may attract to them, the personality of
a Soul that requires the opportunities for Karmic
adjustment which social position and education
will provide; or such a Soul'personality as must
learn the lessons of life through being born into a
family of affluence and suddenly find these things
taken away and a life of poverty remaining. A
Soul'personality that, in a previous incarnation,
had bitterly hated all persons of wealth and social
position would be Cosmically directed to be born
in a family of wealth and influence in order that;
it might learn that all such persons are not evil'
minded and unworthy of esteem. A Soul'person'
ality that in a previous incarnation had freely and
[311]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
happily given away everything of its small earthly
wealth to help in every possible humanitarian ac
tivity and gladly suffered in want in order to help
others, might be Cosmically directed in the next
incarnation to a body born in an environment of
wealth so that it could continue to do its humani'
tarian work without limitation. If, in this new
incarnation, it failed to continue to do the good it
had done when living in want, it would not bei
born again in wealth, but after having had an op'
portunity to distribute wealth to the needy and
applying it selfishly, it would be born in its next
incarnation in an environment of poverty or want
in order to be impressed once again with certain
values and conditions of life.
Question: Is it possible for an expectant
mother to attract to her unborn child the Soul'
personality of a child she had earlier in her life?
and which was taken away through transition?
Answer: This is possible, although the mother
might not know for many years that she had sue
ceeded in attracting the same Soul'personality for
a second time. There are instances on record
where a mother has finally recognized in her see
[312]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
ond child the character and personality of a child
that she had many years before, and which passed
through transition at the age of twelve or fifteen.
Such instances, of course, require a short period
on the Cosmic plane between births and are an ex'
ception to the general cycle of rebirth, but for
some Cosmic reason the exception is made.
Question: Do the thoughts of the mother dur'
ing prenatal period have any effect upon not
only the personality of the Soul that is to come to
the child, but upon the child's physical body and
sex?
Answer: If the prenatal influences of the
mother begin soon enough after conception, or
really start at the time of conception, it is possible
for these thoughts of the mother and father to de'
termine the sex, and the general physiological char'
acteristics of the future child as well as the spiritual
characteristics. The Greeks were famous for their
knowledge and efficiency in the application of such
knowledge along this line, but the art of pre
natalism has almost become lost. There are some
organizations in the world, including the Rosicni'
cians, who retain and promulgate private instruc
[313]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
tions and knowledge regarding this subject. The
degree of success attained through prenatal wishes
depends upon the efficiency of the methods used
by the parents and the use of the proper degree of
concentration.
Question: Is there any tendency upon the part
of the Cosmic to continue the incarnation of cer'
tain Soul'personalities in the same family lines of
generation?
Answer: Nothing has been found in any of
the tests and revelations connected with research
on this subject indicating that this is so. After
a Soul'personality enters the Cosmic through
transition it loses all of its association and connec
tion with its physiological or material earthly re
lations. Family blood and family trees are matters
of the physical body and not of the Soul'person'
ality, and in the Cosmic there are no such things
as physical, earthly, relationships.
Question: What is meant by "carrying over"
something from a previous incarnation?
Answer: Usually it is said that when a person
manifests early in this life some very distinct tastes
[314]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
or tendencies or dislikes and repulsions, that they
have carried these things over from a previous ex'
istence. It is also said that persons who have a
fear of the water, or of fire, or sharp instruments,
or of certain locations or positions, have also car'
ried these things over from the past. It has been
found that many of the strongest likes and dislikes
in our present personality, and especially those
which manifest themselves in our childhood or
youth, are the outstanding points of our personal'
ity in its last incarnation, and that these things
had such a dominant place in our life that they
easily rise now from the memory of the secondary
personality and have become parts of our present
character.
Question: Is it true that the things which we
are most concerned about during the last hours of
our life in a previous existence become dominat'1
ing factors in our thinking and acting in the presr
ent existence?
Answer: From very careful investigations
which have been made it has been quite conclu"
sively proved that those thoughts which occupy
our minds most strongly, and with profound con'
[315]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
cern, during the last conscious moments before
transition in a previous existence, will become
guide'posts to our thinking in the present incar'
nation. A man or woman whose last conscious
thoughts were centered around regrets for having
performed or committed some sin or act of injury
to another, and whose last conscious thinking was
concerned with a desire to be able to undo or
make recompense and compensation for these acts,
will undoubtedly carry into the next incarnation
the unquenchable desire to do something for those
who are found in similar predicaments. As a hy
pothetical example let us say that a person in his.
last hours regretted the fact that he had some time
in his life performed an injustice against a widow
with two children by robbing them of their right'
ful inheritance, and desired above all things that
he might live a few hours longer and make recom'
pense and undo the wrong he did. If this all'arr
sorbing desire was still in his mind when transition
came it would be so registered in the conscious'
ness of his personality that in the next incarnation
it would be uppermost in all of his inward reflect
tions or passive meditations. It would seem then
[316]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
as a strange and unquenchable desire to locate
widows with children or persons in similar condi'
tions who were in great want, or who were in seri'
ous predicaments through the wrongs of another,
and try to alleviate their suffering or do something
to help them in adjusting their affairs. This desire
might manifest early in childhood or youth in the
form of a sympathetic emotion which would rise)
uncontrollably whenever the story or facts of such
a situation were brought before him, and even
though this person later on attained only moder'
ate circumstances in life he would be found aC
various times attempting in some way to helpj
those of this class who were in such situations t
This explains why many persons, even those who
are living a life of evil or crime, often have deep,
seated emotional tendencies of a charitable or hu.
manitarian nature. Very often these persons look
upon such tendencies in their nature as weakness'
es, and frankly admit that there is a "baby" nature
within them that cries and is moved by certain
forms of sorrows or wrongs in life and which they
cannot restrict and correct. Many of our strong'
est emotions or impulses toward human conditions
[317]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
and relationships, which were discovered in our
nature early in life, are unquestionably carried
over from the past.
Question: Is it possible that a person who
lived a life of crime and who always sought an
opportunity to injure others and who passed
through transition suddenly in the height of his
ambitions for crime, would "carry over" into the
next incarnation these tendencies and desires to do
wrong and injury?
Answer: The purpose of the Soul's temporary
residence in the Cosmic realm between incarna'
tions is for the cleansing and purification of the
evil tendencies in the personality. A person
whose transition occurred in the very height of
crime activity with the personality held in the
ambition of crime, would not come into life again
with these same tendencies. Before his re*birth his
personality would not only have been purged of
these evil desires and tendencies, but the suffering
through regret, and the lessons learned while in
the Cosmic realm, would have taught the person'
ality the error of such thinking and would have
substituted the desire to live properly. There
[318]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
would still remain, however, the Karmic debt to
make compensation for the crimes previously com
mitted. Therefore, such a person would be born
again with no desires to do evil but rather with
strong desires to live properly, but nevertheless
with a Karmic debt to be paid which would force
this person to pass through many forms of suffer'
ing, injury, and sorrow at the hands of others simi'
lar to that caused in the lives of other persons in
his previous existence. This person now attempt'
ing to live correctly and being free entirely from
any evil thoughts or evil desires and ambitions,
always doing what was right, would, nevertheless,
find himself suffering and in sorrow as though he
had actually committed many crimes and many
evil acts in his present life. This is why so many
persons who are truly trying to live a good life,
and who are really idealistic in their desires and
plans for living, wonder why they are often
plunged into sorrow, want, and misery like unto
those who are now living a life of evil and crime.
They say, "I am trying to do my best, living the
best I know how, doing no injury to anyone, and
yet every now and then I am reduced to want,
r 319 3
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
denied those things I desire the most, and made to
suffer like those who do evil. Does it pay, there'
fore, to live rightly and think rightly when one
has to suffer like those who live wrongly?"
If these persons understood that the sorrow and
misery in their lives is the adjustment that they are
making for the past, and thereby cleansing the
spirit and making it wholesome for a future life of
happiness, and by their present attempts to live
correctly they are guaranteeing a life of joy and
abundance in the future, they would not become
so discouraged and would not be puzaled by the
seeming paradoxes of life.
Question: Why is it that so many persons
who are living in evil ways and actually doing
wrong unto others seem to be so happy and enjoy
not only all the necessities and many of the lux
uries of life, but apparently escape all punishment
here and all detection in their evil ways?
Answer: First, let me say that in most cases
we make serious errors in our judgment of the
success, happiness, and prosperity of persons who
are engaged in crime or evil living. From our dis'
tant or external point of view it may seem that
[ 320]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
these persons are happy, or prospering in their
crimes and avoiding detection and punishment.
The fact that the Cosmic is conscious of our
wrongs, however, and that they are not escaping
Cosmic detection and inevitable punishment,
shows how we may be mistaken in thinking that
human detection has been evaded. Most certainly
we may be greatly mistaken in believing that these
persons are prospering either in financial, social, or
other ways through their crimes, for it is a fact
that very few criminals, even those who have in
the height of their careers obtained enormous for'
tunes of worldly possessions, have ever passed
away in even moderate, worldly circumstances,
and usually the close of their lives finds them in
abject poverty and want; along with social rejec
tion and the scorn of their companions. The aver'
age criminal who has eventually found redemption
through his own thinking or through religion or
personal help and guidance has admitted that in
dollars and cents paid to avoid detection and cover
the crimes or secure legal advice, and to escape the
revenge of his blackmailing associates, and in hours
of worry, hiding, mental torment, and inner'con'
[321]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
demnation, it has cost him more than he ever se'
cured through his crime. The criminal's prosper'
ity of today, or of this month, or year, may be his
Karmic load of tomorrow or the following year.
His outward appearance of enjoying the things of
life may be the coating of veneer which he must
assume in order to escape public detection. Neither
you nor I can ever tell what such a person suffers
in the privacy of his own life. But, even though
the person who lives in evil should prosper in the)
material things of life, there is no question about
the inevitable price that he must pay and suffer in
the purging process during the Cosmic period, and
in the Karmic compensation process in his next
life among other mortals. It is only our man'made
processes of punishing a criminal or evil doer here
and now, and in like manner unto his crime, that
makes us think that those who are continuing in
evil without immediate punishment are escaping
punishment altogether. As stated elsewhere in
this book, the Cosmic laws of Compensation do
not seek to punish a man on the basis of "an eye
for an eye and tooth for a tooth" nor to make man
suffer revengefully for his evil doing, but seeks to
[ 322 ]
THE COSMIC COHCEFTIOH
bring about such reactions for his crime as will
sometime, in some mlanner, most propitiously and
efficiently cause him to realize the error of his ways
and aid him to correct them, and give him an op'
portunity to compensate for them and otherwise
find redemption and salvation. The keynote to
the Cosmic law of Karma is regeneration rather
than punishment.
Question: Is it true that when a person is
under the influence of a powerful drug and is in
a deep unconscious state the Soul leaves the body
and wanders about in space and may not return?
Is it also true that in such circumstances the Soul
of some person also wandering in space may come
back into the wrong body?
Answer: Both of these questions can be easily
and quickly cast aside with the explanation that
the Soul never leaves the physical body and breaks
its contact with the body except at "death" or
transition. That being true, the other fanciful be
liefs regarding the Soul wandering in space and
getting lost are seen to be absurdities. The only
difference between the state called "death," and
the deep sleep or a trance condition, is the separa'
[ 323 ]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
tion of Soul and body. When this separation
takes place and the Soul is no longer in contact
with its body, we have the unique condition called
transition or death. There is no condition pre'
cisely like it. A person, therefore, must be either
living or non'living so far as the Soul in the body
is concerned. What occurs during the period of
sleep or unconsciousness through drugs of any kind
is of a purely psychological nature and has very lit'
tie to do with the Soul. The state is primarily
physiological with its related effect upon the
psychic conditions. The Soul does not wander
in space at such times but remains in the body.
The ego may extend itself and its consciousness
may appear to wander in space by making wide
and various contacts through its extension, but it
never becomes separated from the body. Further'
more, there are no Souls wandering in space to be
come lost, and there is no such thing as a lost Soul
slipping back into a body to which it has not been
Cosmically assigned. These sort of ideas are ex'
amples of the strange teachings issued by some
mystical schools and are limited only by the day
-f 324}
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
dreams and imagination of the author of such
teachings.
Question: Are there any reports on record of
persons who have been on the borderline of tran'
sition and returned to life to explain any strange
experiences?
Answer: Yes, there are many such reports and
the only evidential value that lies in these reports
is the similarity of statements made by persons in
various parts of the world who had no way of
knowing what others had reported in similar cir'
cumstances. A typical case of this kind is that of
a young man of twentyfour who suffered a relapse
after an operation in a hospital, and for several
days continued to sink in vitality and conscious'
ness until the doctor and nurses were waiting the
ultimate transition. One afternoon, at a little after
two o'clock, when two nurses, a physician, and
four friends were seated around the bedside of the
semi'conscious patient, he suddenly relaxed and
gave every indication of having passed into the
so'called "death" state. As the nurses proceeded
to cover the body and arrange the hands and arms
in a proper position, all in the semi'lighted room
[ 325 ]
MAHSIOHS OF THE SOUL
were surprised to see a white haze float upward
from the body for a few feet, and then assume a
vertical position and descend, to remain over in
one of the corners of the bedroom. Everyone rose
to his feet and stood spellbound, silent, and rev
erential. Not a word was spoken for a full long
minute. Then the physicians recommended that
the body be removed from the room for the usual
care given to the dead. As the nurses again at'
tempted to touch the physical body, the misty
ha2£ in the corner of the room trembled or shook
violently so that its light waves seemed to undulate
in a peculiar manner. This action was so definite
that everyone in the room except the physician
suggested that the body be left on the bed for a
while and that tests be made to see whether
"death" had actually occurred. Every scientific
test was made during the next fifteen minutes and
the nurses agreed with the physicians that there
was no possibility of life in the body. Again,
however, the strange misty haze in the corner of
the room, which was almost six feet in height
and about the width of a human body, trem'
bled and seemed agitated by the attempt to re
[ 326 }
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
move the body from the bed. One of the friends
present—who was a student of the Rosicrucian
teachings and well'versed in these matters —sug'
gested that the room be darkened by drawing down
the shades at the windows and closing the door for
a few minutes in order to see if the misty light
or haze in the corner of the room had any real
significance. The physicians agreed with some
reluctance and all the persons in the room stood
in a corner opposite to the misty haze, so as to have
a better view of it. As the eyes became accus
tomed to the darkness of the room, it was noticed
that a very thin and hovering cord or beam of hazy
light seemed to stretch across the bed and unite
the misty haze in the corner with the physical
body on the bed. This was even definitely seen
by the physicians and the nurses, who agreed that
it was an unusual sight. It was suggested then
that this might indicate that consciousness had not
entirely left the body and that there was still some
life in it. The idea was proposed then that all
remain seated for a while and see if there was any
development of a significant nature. The physi'
cians explained that if the body was lifeless, min'
[ 327]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
utes should not be lost in performing the usual
preparations upon the body in making it ready for
burial. Of course, this meant the draining of the
fluids from the body and the injection of the em'
balming fluids. At each suggestion that this be
done, the misty haze in the corner became agitated
as though protesting against the suggestion. It
was this possibility that gradually dawned upon
the consciousness of those assembled, for it did
appear that each time the approach was made to
the body to remove
it,
there was a reaction as of
protest on the part of the misty haze. After about
twenty more minutes had passed, those assembled
in the room became conscious of the fact that the
thin beam of light that united the body with the
haze in the corner was widening or becoming
thicker or more brilliant. At first, this was at
tributed to the adjustment of the eyes to the dark'
ness of the room, but soon
it
was noticed that the
misty haze in the corner was being absorbed into
the beam and that in this manner the whole hazy
figure in the corner of the room was being drawn
toward the physical body on the bed. In what
was considered to be about four minutes, the en'
[
328
]
THE COSMIC COHCEPTIOH
tire hazy mist in the corner had disappeared and
was hovering over the physical body and was grad'
ually beginning to lower itself into the physical
form. In another two or three minutes, there was
no indication of the misty haze in any part of
the room. The shades at the windows were lifted
and in the soft light of the room further tests were
made of the physical body and indications of life
or vitality were discovered. Immediately, methods
were used to restore or strengthen the vitality to
its greatest degree and in a little less than an hour,
breathing started and there was a return of tem'
perature to parts of the body. By seven o'clock
that evening, with the same nurses and visiting
friends still in attendance and with only an ab'
sence of one hour on the part of the physician, the
young man regained consciousness sufficiently to
open his eyes and to announce that he was "all
right." Three other physicians and several nurses
of the staff were invited to the room to watch the
procedure. The young man regained conscious'
ness sufficiently to sit up in bed before ten o'clock
in the evening, and to make a few comments. His
only statement at that time was that he had been
[ 329 ]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
outside of his body and had watched the whole
procedure in the room, but knew that he was still
connected in a strange way with the physical body
on the bed and that he had done his utmost to
prevent them from doing anything that would have
severed that connection. The next day, he told
his story of how he had passed through a strange
change whereby his consciousness or his real self
with which he did his thinking and realizing had
floated out of his body and remained in the corner
of the room, being pushed to that corner by some
peculiar emanations of the physical bodies of those
present and yet held fast to his own physical body
by an extension of consciousness, or something that
enabled him to feel every touch made on the physi'
cal body that was lying on the bed. He said that
his first desire was to keep on going off into space,
for he heard beautiful music, saw endless space of
clouds with brilliant lights, and saw many forms
like his own with emanations of peace and happi'
ness. He said that this temptation to go off into
space and not return to the physical body was
checked only by the strange pull toward the
physical form and that every time the nurses laid
[ 330 ]
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
their hands on his physical body or attempted to
move it in its position, it gave him a shock like an
electric shock. The hundreds of other things that
he described later on coincided with similar state
ments made by others who had passed through the
same experience in various parts of the world.
These experiences have no place in this book, since
they deal with purely personal impressions and can'
not be verified except by those who have passed
through similar experiences. The only positive
evidence that can be extracted from such experi'
ences is that which the nurses, physician, and
friends saw with their own eyes, and for the fact
that the body had been found to be so lifeless that
no life would register on the most delicate instru'
ments, and yet in less than eight hours after'
wards, the man was alive again and able to sit up
and talk.
Question: Is it true that in the so'called spirit'
ualistic seances held in darkened rooms, that the
Souls of departed persons return to earth and
clothe themselves with a material form of such a
nature that no physiological difference can be
[331]
MANSIONS OP THE SOUL
found between these materialized Souls and an
actual, earthly, physical body?
Answer: It is an absolute fact that the Soul
of an individual does not return to earth except to
reincarnate again, and therefore, does not float
around in space and visit seance rooms, or psychic
laboratories or research circles at any time. It is
also an absolute fact that the Soul cannot take on
mortality, or a physical body, except through in'
carnation in a physical body in the form of an
infant. To explain what apparently takes place
in a seance room and what actually takes place
would require a large volume. It is possible for
the consciousness of a departed Soul to project
its mentality into a distant place on earth, just as
the consciousness or mentality of a person living on
earth can project itself to a distant point and make
itself sensed by those who may be properly attuned
to receive such impressions. But this is not a
projection of the Soul, nor is it a materialization
of the Soul, as the students of spiritualistic phe'
nomena claim through their misunderstanding of
the real principles involved. I do not mean to say
that certain things do not occur in a seance room,
[ 332 }
THE COSMIC CONCEPTION
which will give the impression of a materialized
Soul, but I do mean to say that it is not what they
believe it to be and, therefore, not what they claim
it to be. The Soul does not materialize itself, and
it does not become clothed with a physical form
except through incarnation.
Question: Is it true that the most intimate con'
tacts made with departed Souls are those which
are made in the privacy of one's own home, or in
private circumstances, rather than in general
seances or research assemblies?
Answer: This is absolutely true and it explains
why groups of scientists, proceeding to investigate
psychic phenomena in a materialistic, cold,
scientific manner, do not have the experiences and
the convincing results that have been experienced
by millions of persons in the privacy of their own
homes, or when alone, and in proper mental,
spiritual, and psychic circumstances. We may
well understand that if it is possible for a loved
one, who has departed, to project his or her mental
consciousness to the earth plane in order to com'
municate some consoling thoughts or spiritual
knowledge of a personal nature, it would be done
[ 333 ]
MANSIONS OF THE SOUL
more preferably in circumstances that are rever'
ential and personal than in circumstances of a pub
lic or scientific nature. It is also true that the one
most concerned here on earth in such an experi'
ence and who desires such a spiritual contact must,
through reverential sacredness and spiritual attune
merit, lift up the consciousness part way to meet
the consciousness that is being projected toward
the earth. It is this mutual attunement of a truly
sacred nature that makes possible the many thou.
sands of personal, private, intimate contacts never
duplicated in public, or scientific laboratories, or
seances. The Rosicrucians, and others well'versed
in the true spiritual and Cosmic laws of the uni'
verse and knowing man's spiritual and Cosmic
qualifications, attune themselves through study
and experiment to make such contacts easily and
efficiently.
[ 334 ]
Volume I.
ROSICRUCIAN QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS WITH
COMPLETE HISTORY OF THE ORDER
This volume contains the first complete, authentic history of
the Rosicrucian Order from ancient times to the present day.
The history is divided into two sections, dealing with the tradi
tional facts and the established historical facts, and is replete
with interesting stories of romance, mystery, and fascinating
incidents.
This book is a valuable one since it is a constant reference and
guide book. Questions that arise in your mind regarding many
mystical and occult subjects are answered in this volume.
For many centuries the strange, mysterious records of the Rosi.
crucians were closed against any eyes but the high initiates.
Even editors of great encyclopedias were unable to secure the
weird, fascinating facts of the Rosicrucian activities in all parts
of the world. Now the whole story is outlined and it reads like
The book also outlines answers to hundreds of questions deal
ing with the history, work, teachings, benefits, and purposes of
the Rosicrucian fraternity. It is printed on fine paper, bound in
silk cloth, and stamped in gold. Price, postage prepaid, $2.50.
This volume contains such principles of practical Rosicrucian
teachings as are applicable to the solution of the everyday prob
lems of life in business and in the affairs of the home. It deals
exhaustively with the prevention of ill health, the curing of
many of the common ailments, and the attainment of peace and
happiness as well as the building up of the affairs of life that
deal with financial conditions. The book is filled with hundreds
of practical points dealing especially with the problems of the
average business man or person in business employ. It points
out the wrong and right way for the use of metaphysical and
mystical principles in attracting business, increasing one's income,
V
Volume II.
ROSICRUCIAN PRINCIPLES FOR THE
HOME AND BUSINESS
[33J]
promoting business propositions, starting and bringing into reali
zation new plans and ideas, and the attainment of the higher
ambitions in life.
"Rosicrucian Principles for the Home and Business" is not
theoretical but strictly practical, and is in its third edition, having
had a wide circulation and universal endorsement not only among
members of the organization, who have voluntarily stated that
they have greatly improved their lives through the application of
its suggestions, but among thousands of persons outside of the
organization. It has also been endorsed by business organiza
tions and business authorities.
The book is of standard size, well printed, bound in silk cloth,
and stamped in gold. Price, Postage prepaid, $2.2?.
V
Volume III.
MYSTICAL LIFE OF JESUS
This is the book that thousands have been waiting for—the
real Jesus revealed at last! It has been in preparation for a
number of years and required a visit to Palestine and Egypt to
secure a verification of the strange facts contained in the ancient
Rosicrucian and Essene Records.
It is a full account of the birth, youth, early manhood, and
later periods of Jesus' life, containing the story of His activities
in the times not mentioned in the Gospel accounts. The facts
relating to the immaculate conception, the birth, crucifixion,
resurrection and ascension will astound and inspire you. The
book contains many mystical symbols, fully explained, original
photographs, and a new portrait of Jesus.
There are over three hundred pages with seventeen large
chapters, beautifully printed, bound in purple silk and stamped
in gold.
Here is a book that will inspire, instruct, and guide every
student of mysticism and religion. It is one of the most talked.
about books ever written on the subject. Read it and be pre
pared for the discussions of it that you will hear among men
and women of learning.
Sent by mail, postpaid, for $2.90.
[ 336 J
Volume V.
"UNTO THEE I GRANT . . .
This is one of the rarest. Oriental, mystery books known. It
is translated by special permission of the Grand Lama and Dis
ciples of the Sacred College in the Grand Temple in Tibet.
Here is a book that was written two thousand years ago, and
was hidden in the manuscript form from the eyes of the world
and given only to the initiates of the temples in Tibet to study
privately.
Out of the mystery of the past comes this antique book con
taining the rarest writings and teachings known to man with the
exception of the Bible. Hundreds of books have been written
about the teachings and practices of the Masters of the Far East
and the Adepts of Tibet, but none of them has ever contained
the secret teachings found in this book. This book is divided
into many parts, each part containing a large number of sec
tions or divisions and chapters.
The book deals with man's passions, loves, desires, weaknesses,
sins, strengths, fortitudes, ambitions, and hopes. All are treated
in detail with illuminating implicity. The book is beautifully
printed and bound in leatherette, and contains also the strange
mystery story of the expedition into Tibet to secure this mar
velous manuscript.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, $1.?0.
V
Volume VI.
A THOUSAND YEARS OF YESTERDAYS
Here is a book that will tell you about the real facts of reincar
nation. It is a story of the Soul, and explains in detail how the
Soul enters the body and how it leaves, where it goes to and
when it comes back to earth again, and why.
The story is not just a piece of fiction, but a revelation of the
mystic laws and principles known to the Masters of the Far East
and Orient for many centuries, and never put into book form
as a story before this book was printed. That is why the book
has been translated into so many foreign languages and endorsed
by the mystics and adepts of India, Persia, Egypt, and Tibet.
Fascinating —Alluring —Instructive
Each who has read the book says that he was unable to leave
it without finishing it at one sitting. The story reveals the mystic
tail
principles taught by the Rosicrucians in regard to reincarnation
as well as the spiritual laws of the Soul and the incarnation of
the Soul.
It is well printed, neatly bound, and worthy of a place in
anyone's library.
Price, per copy, postage prepaid, only 87 cents.
V
Volume VII.
SELF MASTERY AND FATE WITH THE
CYCLES OF LIFE
This book is entirely different from any ever issued in America
dealing with the secret periods in the life of each man and woman
wherein the Cosmic forces affect our daily affairs.
The book reveals how we may take advantage of certain periods
to bring success, happiness, health and prosperity into our lives,
and it likewise points out those psriods which are not favorable
for many of the things we try to accomplish. It does not deal
with astrology or any system of fortune telling, but presents a
system long used by the Master Mystics in Oriental lands and
which is strictly scientific and demonstrable. One reading of
the book with its charts and tables will enable the reader to
see the course of his life at a glance. It helps everyone to elimi
nate "chance" and "luck," to cast aside "fate" and replace these
with Self Mastery.
Here is a book you will use weekly to guide your affairs
throughout the years. There is no magic in its system, but it
opens a vista of the cycle of the life of each being in a remark'
able manner.
Well printed, bound in silk cloth, and stamped in gold to
match other volumes of the Rosicrucian Library. Price, postage
paid, $2.70.
V
Volume VIII.
ROSICRUCIAN MANUAL
Fourth Edition
This practical book contains not only extracts from the Con.
stitution of the Order of Rosicrucians, but a complete outline and
explanation of all of the customs, habits, and terminology of
[ 338 ]
the Rosicrucians, with diagrams and explanations of the symbols
used in the teachings, an outline of the subjects taught, a dic
tionary of the terms, a complete presentation of the principles
of the Cosmic Consciousness, and biographical sketches of im
portant characters connected with the work. There are also
special articles on the Great White Lodge and its existence, how
to attain psychic illumination, the Rosicrucian Code of Life with
thirty laws and regulations, and a number of portraits of promi
nent mystics including Master K. H., the Illustrious.
The technical matter contained in the text and in the hun
dred or more diagrams makes this book a real encyclopedia of
Rosicrucian explanations, aside from the complete dictionary
it contains.
The "Rosicrucian Manual" is of large sixe, well printed,
beautifully bound in red silk cloth, and stamped in gold. The
fourth edition has been enlarged and improved in many way*.
Price, postage prepaid, $2.30.
V
HOW TO ORDER BOOKS
If your regular book dealer does not have these books in
6tock, and you do not care to wait until he secures them for you,
you may save time by sending your order direct, with remittance
or C. O. D., postage prepaid by us.
AMORC SUPPLY BUREAU
Rosicrucian Park. San Jose, California
[ 339 ]
