{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__lodge___phantom_walls.pdf","mytitle":"Phantom Walls","mylang":"de"}
PHANTOM WALLS
13)
SIR OLIVER LODGE
F.R.S., D.So. (Lond.); Hon. D.Sc. (Oxon.),Hon. Sc.D.
(Cantab.); Hon. LL.D. (St. Andrews, Aberdeen, Glas-
gow, Edinburgh); Hon. D.Sc. (Liverpool, Manchester,
Leeds, Shefiield,A delaide, Toronto); Hon. M.A . Birming-
ham); Hon. Mem. Inst. Elec. Engineers; Hon. em. Lit.
Phil.Soc. (Marwh.) ; Corr. Mem. Amer. Phil.Soc. (Phila-
delphia); Corr. Mem. Atoad. Sci. dell’ Istituto (Bo-
logna); Corr. Mem. Balaafsch Genoots (Rotterdam);
Ex-President ofthe Rontgen Society; Rumford Medallist
of the Royal Society; Albert Medallist of the Royal
Society of Arts, as Pioneer in Wireless Telegraphy; Ex-
President of the Physical Society; Ex—President of the
British Association; Ex Professor of Physics in the
University College of Liverpool; Ex-Principal of the
University of Birmingham.
HODDER AND STOUGHTON
LIMITED LONDON
ST. PAUL’S HOUSE
WARWICK SQUARE
Firsi published . . October 1929
Second Edition . November1929
. Third Edition . january 1930
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN FOR HODDER AND STOUGHTON, LIMITED.
BY RICHARD CLAY & Sons, LIMITED, BUNGAY, SUFFOLK.
TO
MY FRIENDS AND HELPERS
KNOWN AND UNKNOWN
PREFACE
MODERN physics is insisting that most of
our mundane experience is illusory, that
even space and time if taken separatelyare
abstractframes dependenton our limitations,
and that we are surrounded by phantasmal
appearances through which our senses can-
not penetrate. Matter is what we primarily
apprehend through the senses; but the
nature of matter is mysterious. The unit
of matter has been conceived or at least
expressed in various ways. Einstein and
Eddington formulate it as a curvature of
hypergeometrical space, and say that the
curvature broadcasts its effect as gravitation.
They contend, not that matter is something
producing that curvature, but that it is that
curvature, and thatthelaws of motion which
it follows are appropriate to space-time of
vn
‘.Prefare
many dimensions. (W. K. Clifford antici-
pated some such possibilityby a stroke of
genius some half century ago. See for
instance an Article of his in Tbe Forfrzzggbt/j
Review for 1875.) Expressed in tensor
language, matter is defined as G,w—;;—g,,,, G;
and this abstraction appears to be endowed
withconservation and withobedienceto the
laws of dynamics so far as necessary. (See
Professor Eddington’s Article in Mind for
April 1920.) Thus matter is thought of as
a configuration or warp in a reformed and
unspecified ether of space.
On the other hand, De Broglie and
Schrodinger try to think of the unit of
matter, less geometricallyand more physic-
ally, as akin to a small localised area of
group Waves, such as can be formed by
an assemblageof constituent high-frequency
periodicities in a super-dispersive medium
wherein wave velocity is a function of Wave-
length. The supposed constituent waves
have at present no more than a hypothetical
existence,—they make no appeal to our
V111
‘Preface
senses or instruments——but the group waves
composed of them appear capable of
satisfying dynamical requirements. They
can travel at any desired speed according
to their wave-length; their frequency of
vibration determines their energy; and they
have also a potential frequency or potential
energy dependent on the reaction of other
bodies in their neighbourhood. In fact the
equationsof motion of such group Waves can
be the same as the equations of motion of a
material particle. Thus matter may be re-
garded as something like “a ripple on the
boundless deep.”
I do not say that these diverse modes of
expression are contradictoryor inconsistent;
they probably both contain an element of
truth. The work is very brilliant and
quantitativeand well deserving of study, but
clearly neither of these theories is the last
word on the subject; though I must say,
parenthetically,that the Wave theory seems
to me specially hopeful and likely to be
physically justified, however remote it be
IX
Trefare
from ordinary perception. Other abstract
modes of presentation have been suggested,
still more formidable and still less conceiv-
able than these. The attempt to visualise
reality, to express fundamental things in
terms of anything apprehensible by the
senses, has been largely given up. It seems
to be generally agreed that our physical
perception of existence is but a shadowy
phantomof reality.
Yet the mind of man tries to penetrate
through the illusion and get to the reality
behind. It refuses to be limited by sensory
experience: it seeks to break through the
phantom walls. Instinctively the mind
feels that it must have some affinity with
those basic realities lying behind appear-
ance, whatever their ultimate nature may
be. Mind animates matter; its incarnate
function is to interact and interfere with
physical processes. We know at first hand
that our individual self can guide and
dominate events in the material World. We
are not -depressed therefore, but rather are
X
‘Preface
exhilarated to find how effective are our
mental operations, how vital our inferences
and intuitions, how secure and vivid our
spiritual apprehensions, compared with the
meagre information received and submitted
to mental interpretation throughour animal
senses.
Even throughthem however We perceive
that the World is full of beautyand orderly
arrangement; so We take heart and are
content to wait tillwe can apprehend reality
more clearly. We need not be perturbed
by the diificulty of understandingthe nature
of our sensory surroundings, nor by the
brevity of our inherited association with a
material body. We feel that We are greater
and more enduring thanany self—constructed
instrument of manifestation here and now.
We recognise the beautyand adaptation of
nature as so far revealed to us; and We have
faith that the glory and grandeur of the
universe, when at lengthwe are more fully
able to appreciate it, willeclipse theimagina-
tion ofpoets and exceed all thatWe can desire.
X1
‘_Prefaae
Those who are old enough to have
ascended the Pisgah-heights of experience,
and studious enough to be able to survey the
ocean of eternity from Darien-like peaks,
may at moments attain a larger sense of
vision; and thus, like Tennyson’s Ancient
Sage, may recall to a more reasonable sanity
those harassed and distressed ones who
complain that the outlook is dark, and are
tempted to cry out against the heavens in
futile despair :—
“
For Wert thouborn or blind or deaf, and then
Suddenly heal’d, how would’st thou glory in all
The splendours and the voices of the world I
And we, thepoor earth’s dying race, and yet
No phantoms, watching from a phantom shore,
Await the last and largest sense to make
The phantomwalls of this illusionfade,
And show us thatthe World is Whollyfair.”
It is because a beneficent spiritual World
has to me become the ultimate reality that I
have composed this book.
OLIVER LODGE.
1929.
xii
IO
II
12
CONTENTS
PREFACE . . . . . .
TI-IE INTEREST OF THE PLAIN MAN IN
RELIGION . . .
THE POSSIBILITY OF SURVIVAL FROM A
SCIENTIFIC POINT OF VIEW . .
MATERIALISTIC OBJECTIONS AND DIFFI-
CULTIES . . . . .
THE MECHANISM OF SURVIVAL . .
PROBLEMS RAISED BY THE IDEA OF SUR-
VIVAL . . . . . .
PRACTICAL PROBLEMS FOLLOWING ON THE
GROWING PROOF OF SURVIVAL .
THE MEANING OF EXISTENCE . . .
THE NEW OUTLOOK IN PHYSICS . .
A SURVEY OF OBSCURE PSYCHIC PHENO-
MENA NEEDING INVESTIGATION .
DISCUSSION OF THE POSSIBILITY OF PRE-
MONITIONS . . . . .
TI-D3 ASSERTED DIFFICULTY OF THE
SPIRITUALISTIC HYPOTHESIS FROM A
SCIENTIFIC POINT OF VIEW . .
ON
THE INFLUENCE OF DEMONSTRATED SUR-
VIVAL ON SCIENCE, PHILOSOPHY, AND
RELIGION . . . . .
~ xiii
PAGE
vii
I5
25
I10
I28
144
190
207
220
1 TbeIfztere.rt_ofthe Plain
Man In Re/zgzan
IT is sometimes said that the Churches are
losingtheirinfluence;but neverthelesspeople
in generalare keenlyinterestedin all problems
connected with the reality of a spiritual
world. They feel that information on this
topic is now attainable, and instinctively
they desire to hear more and to realise the
bearing which an extended knowledge of
facts might have on the problems of life
and conduct and the mystery of existence
generally. If a spiritual world exists, and if
humanity can by any means get into touch
with it and thereby gradually learn to
answer questions about the true nature of
existence and the destiny of man, informa-
tion on these topics must be of value, and
must beofspecial valuetothebereaved. The
only question is whether such information
is attainable, and whether the major beliefs
15
The Irzterert of flu: Plain Man in Re/zgion
of religious people are Well founded or
not.
Religious belief even on this planet has
taken a great variety of forms, and differ-
ences betweenthesects are often emphasised.
They cannot all be right; but then on the
other hand it is possible that none of them
need be whollywrong. Truthis very large
and many sided; and when we remember
the multitude of worlds, and the many dis-
pensations there must be throughout the
universe, we remember also the universal
instinct of humanity to grope after higher
things, to feel that this short material life
cannot be all, and to hope thatit is a prelude
to some great end. For althougheverybody
is very busy, in the pursuit of business or of
pleasure,no one can feel quite satisfiedunless
theyhave some faithin theultimate meaning
ofexistence,and some hope which willenable
them to bear the troubles and losses of this
present life with equanimity and something
more than resignation. It cannot be that
the instinct which has led to the erection of
16
T/ye Interest of tbe Plain Man in Re/zgion
cathedrals, and of churches in every village,
is wholly mistaken and misleading. There
must be some great truth underlying the
instinct for worship: and that truth, if it
could be grasped, must be more important
to humanity in general than all the con-
veniencesand applicationswhichtheprogress
of scientific knowledge has put into our
hands. Systems of religious belief may be
faulty as well as incomplete; but there is a
keen desire to make use of them, to learn
more about thefacts thatunderlie them,and
so gradually to rise above the diversities of
sectarian controversy,and to see life steadily
and see it whole.
A
Perhaps thefirst and fundamentalquestion
which arises in people’s minds is whether
this life is all, or whether, when personality
and character have once been developed in
association with a material body, they shall
continue under other conditions and in
fresh surroundings, apart from the material
body in whichtheyweredeveloped; whether
in fact man possesses a soul which can
P.W. 17 B
T/ye Interest of tbe Plain Man in Re/zgion
survive the loss of the material body, which
can carry withit its memory, experience,and
affection, and can go on and on, perhaps
without limit.
This is a comparatively simple question,
the answer to which might in due time
become, not an article of faith,but a matter
of knowledge; the problem is one which
might be attacked by science and some
definite answer attained. It is known by
most people now that the evidences for
survival are numerous, and by some it is
thought that they already constitute proof.
Others, who feel that scientific proof is a
peculiarly stringent and formidable thing,
are of opinion that the evidence, though
striking and sometimes compelling, is not
finally convincing. Like all other raw
material it admittedlyrequires careful study
and 1ong—continued investigation.
But assuming that a scientific answer is
possible, the effort to examine the evidence
is worth while; and if ever it is found that
verified occurrences point unmistakably in
18
Tbe Irzterarz‘ of tbe Plain Mam in Re/z'gz'oI2
that direction,—ifin fact theyalready carry
Convictionto trained tninds,—thenthewhole
outlook on life is changed, and the elfective
existence of a spiritual world begins to be
demonstrated. For if man survives death,
then all those who have lived on this planet,
the saints and the great men, the helpers of
humanity,those who have died and suffered
for it, those who have lived and worked for
it, are still in existence, and are likely to
continue their efforts for the continued
progress and elevation of the race. If
moreover they tell us (as they do) that they
are all the subjects of a HigherPower, which
they and we alike worship, a Power that
has brought humanity into existence and is
continually guiding it in some far seen and
hopeful direction, then that one fact, when
thoroughly apprehended, would put heart
into our endeavours and make us realise
that we too are among the agents for the
accomplishmentand fruition of the will of
thatHigher Power.
For it appears to be an undoubted fact
19
Tbe Irzterm‘ 0]’ fine Plain flan in Re/zgion
that the Higher Power only acts through
agents, and does not exercise coercion. If it
did, the world could be more perfect in
appearance, as the inorganic or mechanical
world is already perfect, but it would be a
machine,not a spiritual entityat all. We are
evidently not machines: we have free will
and the power of choice. To this great
possession our diificulties and failures are
attributable. The aim is higher than we can
readilyimagine. The divine effort is not to
make things perfect by compulsion, but to
secure willingco-operation, to create a race
of intelligent beings who shall realise some-
thing of their possible destiny, and shall
do what little each of them can towards the
furtherance and fulfilmentof the scheme.
The beautyof the material world is one
of the revelations to which all are more or
less accessible. The law and order ruling
throughout the universe,—the same laws
holding on its remotest star, showing thatit
is all dominated by one supreme Mind,——is
another of those revelations. And the
20
Tbe Infarct! of the Plain Man in R1/zgion
Christian religion insists thatthisdominating
Power, though so vastly superior to any-
thingthathumanitycan imagine,is not aloof
from it, but enters into thestorm and stress, is
continually influencingthough not compel-
ling the free agents of many grades,—some
of them incarnate in material bodies, others
emancipated from the flesh but still con-
tinuing,—helping them in their difficulties,
sympathisingwith their temptations, suffer-
ing in their pains, and imbuing them with a
hope that, in spite of the puzzles and
complications, there is an ultimate outlook
beyondtheirpresent imaginings,thatin fact
the universe is dominated and controlled,
not merely by a mighty Power, but by what
is authoritativelyrepresented as the loving
heart of a Father.
A truth like this has been apprehended by
the Saints of all time, though occasionally
confused by perplexity and doubt. It has
been perceived most clearlyby the childlike
spirit. It has beenrevealedto babes and has
been sometimes hidden from the wise and
21
Tbe Izzterm‘ of the Plain Man in Re/z'gz'o7z
prudent. It is hidden from those who limit
their attention to the changes and chances
of this mortal life without trying to look
beyondit into Eternity.
Even theUniverse is eternal: it has existed
for untold ages, and is evidently going to
exist. It seems to have no beginning and
no end. Everlastingexistence is beyondus :
nevertheless we are immersed in it, and are
privileged to take part and to understand
something,though as yet very little, of its
scope and meaning. The Churches are
presumably doing their best to cultivate an
atmosphere of faith. They may resent the
incursion of attempted knowledge on these
subjects, but knowledge is nevertheless
growing; theplain man is beginningto feel
that some knowledge on these topics is
attainable,andis eager to learnmore. How-
ever much knowledge is attained, there is
always plenty of room for faith. As the
area of knowledge increases, the frontier
of ignorance enlarges too; and those who
know most are most impressed with the
22
Tbe Interm‘ of the Plain Man in Re/zgion
immensity of the unknown prospect. In
every direction as we advance we are con-
scious of limitation; but, as in every
exploration, the only plan is to make sure
of our ground as far as we have gone and to
proceed further. This is the begirming of
wisdom. Wisdom is more to be desired
than anything else, and what the end of
wisdom may be we cannot tell. Probably
there is no end.
“
Shall any gazer see with mortal eyes,
Or any searcher know by mortal mind;
Veilafter veil will lift—but there must be
Veilupon veil behind.”
Knowledge can continue to grow to all
eternity and yet not exhaust reality. Our
direct awareness is onlyof such aspects of it
as are accessible to our animal senses. We
see only material things, and they are not
ultimately satisfying, we are conscious of
a yearning to go beyondthem; we feel that
we are dwellers in an unseen reality of which
we catch only occasional glimpses. A great
poet has told us of the momentary glimpse
23
Tbe Interext of tbe Plain Man in Relzgion
vouchsafed to him amid beautifulsurround-
ings, when the phantom walls beganto fade
and let reality shine through:—
“
I have felt
A presence thatdisturbs me withthe joy
Of elevated thoughts; a sense sublime
Of somethingfar more deeply interfused,
Whose dwelling is the light of setting suns,
And the round ocean and the living air,
And theblue sky,and in the mind of man :
A motion and a spirit, thatimpels
All thinkingthings,all objects of all thought,
And rolls throughall things.”
So let us take heart, We are beginning to
penetrate into the unseen, the unexplored;
alreadyWe are infused witha great hope, and
in thathope and growing certainty we press
forward towards the mark of our high
calling.
24
T/Je Porribilizjlof Sur-
2 vim] from :1 Srienti 5
Point of View
I SHOULD not have known the truth about
the friendlyco-operationof a spiritual world
—existing under conditions beyond our
normal perception—had I not received
indubitable proof of the persistent con-
tinuityofindividualpersonalexistence. The
survival of personality is therefore a theme
which is bound to run as a guiding thread
throughmost of these chapters, thoughI do
not thinkit necessaryinthisvolumeto discuss
the available evidence; nor need I assume
'
thatmy readers are similarlyacquaintedwith
the facts and equally convinced.
The hesitating attraction which some
people feel for the subject of What is often
called spirit communication, and the in-
stinctive dislike or repulsion which others
feel for the same subject, is due partly to the
influence of surroundings, and partly to the
25
Tbe Possibiligjlof Survival
general attitude of the community in which
theylive. If ever thefacts becamegenerally
acceptedby scientificmen, theattitude of the
public would be gradually changed; reli-
gious peoplealso Would without insuperable
diflicultyadjusttheir views to acceptance of
phenomena generally agreed upon, as they
have already done in connexion with the at
first heterodox discoveries of astronomers,
geologists, and biologists. But as long as
scientific acceptance is limited to a com-
parativelyfew individuals here and there, the
general public if uninstructed do Well to be
cautious, and to wait for a clearer consensus
of opinion among those presumably best
qualified to judge of reality. For science is
or ought to be a study of realitywherever it
is to be found, independent of any con-
clusions or consequences that may be drawn
from it, and irrespective of any influencethat
the spread of knowledge may exert upon
human life and conduct.
Assertions about supernormal or unusual
phenomena are plentiful enough; but at
26
from a Scientzfic Point of View
present there is an element of uncertainty
about them which rnilitates against their
general acceptance as fact. Trustworthy
and crucial evidenceis difficultto obtain, and
there is a natural disinclinationto enter upon
a course of research without some a priori
probability that the quest would lead to
somethingreal, and not into a quagmire of
popular superstition and folk-lore. Testi—
mony about obscure mental phenomenaand
psycho-physical happenings has been pre-
valentthroughouthuman history,andamong
all races of men; but the phenomenatesti-
fied to are at first sight so contrary to the
general trend of human experience thatthey
are naturallylooked at askance, and are not
examined with the same keenness and per-
spicacity as have been devoted during the
last century or two to what seemed to be
more natural phenomena,—that is to say
phenomena which can be repeated in the
laboratoryat will,about which some guiding
theory can be formulated, and which are
more harmonious with the general trend of
27
Tbs Pouibi/ix‘) of Survival
scientific progress. It can hardly be merely
because the asserted facts are extraordinary,
or because theydo not appeal to the senses
in theordinaryway,thattheyare disregarded
and suspected: for many of the facts in
orthodox science are of this character. The
constitution of an atom, and theorbits of an
electron, make no direct appeal to thesenses;
they have to be explored by recondite
methods; yet the difficulty of a complete
comprehension of them does not deter
competent explorers from giving them
minute and sustained attention, or from
elaborating theories, which, however im-
perfect, are susceptible of gradual irnprove-
ment, and seem to open the way to a wider
truth. The supersensual phenomena dealt
with by mathematiciansare just as dilficult
of direct apprehension, and involve just as
much speculation and hypothesis, as any of
thebarely credible mental phenomenawhich
come under discussion.
The aloofness of science is not really
becausethe phenomenaare elusive and difli-
28
from a Scientzfit Point of View
cult of observation; ratherit is becausethey
appear to run counter to preconceptions or
prejudgments,or what may be called rational
prejudices, based upon a long course of
study of natural phenomena, with which
these asserted occurrences appear to be
inconsistent; so thatany favouringtestimony
has to be criticised, continually suspected,
and frequently discarded, because it appears
to be testimony in favour of What is a priori
impossible or absurd. The aim of science
has been for the most part a study of
materialistic phenomena, a study of
mechanism, the mechanism whereby results
are achieved, an investigation into the
physical processes which go on, and which
appear to be coextensive with nature. Any
theory which seems to involve the action of
Higher Beings, or of any unknown entity
controlling and working the mechanism, is
apt to be extruded or discountenanced as a
relic of primitivesuperstition, coming down
from times when such infantileexplanations
were prevalent. Such ideas seem to belong
29
T/ye Po.r5z'l7z'/1'91 of Survival
to a time when thereWas no adequate notion
of the coherent scheme of physical process
which must underlie all the baflling and
inscrutable operations of nature.
There was a time, for instance, when the
movements of the planets were attributed to
psychic guidance, the action of angels or
some other beings; when thunder and
lightning were the direct manifestations of
the wrath of Zeus; when plague pestilence
and famine were a commentary on human
sinfulness,and were stemmed,not by medical
and sanitary eflort, but by the erection of
altars and the humble submission of sacri-
ficial atonements. The triumph of Newton
and Laplace consisted in showing that the
regular though puzzling phenomena occur-
ring in the heavens were to be accounted
for mechanicallyby the force of gravitation.
Thus it was that modern science was born;
and on those lines it has continued its
successful career. Portents were thus re-
duced to order. Lightning became one of
the inanimate manifestations of electricity:
50
from a Srientzfir Poim‘ of View
volcanoes were due to the spontaneous
radioactivityof complexatoms : disease was
due to the secretions of microbes and
bacteria, which were visible under the
microscope. And the ambition of science
was to find a physicalcause, on the same sort
of lines, for every occurrence of whatever
nature it might be. This ambition, which
was formulated by Newton himselfas a hope
and aspiration, has been justified by long-_
continued experience. A physical process
underlies every class of phenomenon. The
evolution of living things, the evolution of
the stars and planets, the birthand death of
worlds, are going on beforeour eyes. Even
the evolution of matter itself is under con-
sideration. The stars have yielded up their
secrets, theatoms also. The laws of physics
and chemistry reign supreme throughoutthe
cosmos.
What wonder then,in face of this magni-
ficent achievement,’if spiritualistic views
and hypotheses are looked at askance as a
backward step, a reversion to barbarism, a
31
T/Je Poxsibi/£9!of Survival
giving up of the clue which human genius
has found so successful; or even as treachery
to the pioneers and architects who have
erected the splendid structure of modern
science. What Wonder if the attempt is
made to explain every mental process as a
chemical action in the cells of the brain, to
explain every action of live things as the
activityof physiological mechanism, and to
hold that when the physiologicalprocess is
interrupted, or the machinery destroyed, all
vitality necessarily ceases; in other words
that life and mind are the working of an
organism,and thatwhen theorganismceases
to function, theycompletelyperish.
And yet many biologistshave themselves,
when theybeganto philosophise,encountered
a real difficulty. The mechanism was com-
pleteas far as it went : thephysicalprocesses
of every action could be traced, either in
fact or in imagination: but there was an
outstanding difficulty about consciousness,
which could not be explainedby mechanism.
Their own awareness of the processes going
52.
from a Sa'cmfz_'/it Point of Viezzz
on was itself something more than the
mere processes. Therewere thingsin human
nature which escaped their physiological
ken, which seemed to be of a different order,
somethingwhich made use of mechanism, '
but which transcended it, somethingtowards
which mechanical science gave no clue. The
sense of beauty,for instance. What piece
of mechanism could contemplate its own
beauty? What mechanical device could
understand its own working? How could
human beings plan and contrive and design,
and form theories, and seek to apprehend
theuniverse, iftheywere nothingmore than
mechanical structures ? The only way con-
sistent with philosophicmaterialism was to
suppose that consciousness was a kind of
illusion,and thatthese mysterious functions
could probably be themselves reduced to
mechanism if only we had suflicient know-
ledge. But the formation of such a hypo-
thesisas thatis conspicuouslyirrational. It
is leaving the safe ground of science, the
exploration of reality, and denying some
P.W.
T/ac Porribi/it} of Survival
parts of reality itself. Such denials are
illegitimate,and are themselvessuperstitious.
It has become pretty obvious that human
nature is more than mechanism, that it
utilises the physical energy and the physical
and chemical processes of its organism, but
that in every important aspect it transcends
those processes. Even the mere sensation
of colour and tone are more than belongto
the physical world: physically there is
nothing except vibrations of different fre-
quency. Emotion again, the emotion
raised by poetry, drama, music, far tran-
scends the admittedlyphysicalbasis of these
things. Man plans and contrives and directs
the forces of nature to higher ends : he uses
and dominates the material universe: he
has some understanding of it: he feels
sympathy and affection: he has faith and
hope and love. These elements in his
nature are far more thanmolecular processes
going on in the brain. These higher
attributes are displayed and manifested by
chemical processes, but in themselves they
34
from a Scierzfzfic Point of View
transcend and outlast them; they belongto
another order of existence, interpenetrating
and utilisingthe material,but not limited by
or coextensive withit.
Well, thatis theview to which some of us
have been led: that is the view which I
thinkmost philosophersnow take. Hence
the a priori prejudgments and prejudices are
now altered. If there is testimony bearing
upon the perennial existence and survival of
these higher things,we need no longer look
at it askance, or consider it as foreign to our
perception of reality. Reality is a much
bigger thing than the mechanicians had
thought. Their perceptions are true as far
as they go, but we can go much further.
Testimony to survival need no longer be
unacceptable. Indeed we should expect
something of the kind. What survival
means, and what its implications are, may
still remain to be ascertained, but there is
a prima facie case for investigation. We
are not traitors to science when we explore
mental processes, however unusual and
35
T/ye Porsibi/2'!)of Survival
surprising they may be. There is a large
amount of evidence that personality per-
sists, that individuals continue after the
destruction of their bodilyorganism. They
may find it difficult to manifest their con-
tinued existence; but, according to the
evidence,theyhave managedto do so. The
evidencemust be scrutinised withgreat care;
but there is no reason to disbelieve it on a
priori grounds. The body of evidence has
grown of late years, and is growing. So
that many now have no doubt that their
loved ones continue, that they are still
watchingand helping and guiding,as of old;
thatrealities do not go out of existence, that
these higher attributes of man are just as
real as any others, more real because more
persistent. We feel assured that there will
come a time of reunion,that intelligence and
character and tastes and aptitudes persist,
and thatlove is thedominating power in the
universe,—a universe far greater and higher
thanits merely material manifestations.
In its own field the revelations of science
36
from a Scientzfic Point of View
are magnificent; and, if We exclude the
element of Personality,which science hardly
deals with,it may betrue, as Lord Moynihan
has recentlydeclared, thatthe God of science
is a greater and more gloriousBeing thanthe
God of the Theologians.
“
God of the star-swarm and the soul,
The conscious Will thatmade the World
From ether-driftand cosmic dust,
Such is the God we know and trust.”
37
3 Maferialiriit Objec-
tion: and Dgficu/tie:
IN their oflicial pronouncements scientific
men are chary of touching on Theological
ground, and are not much concerned with
philosophyor with spiritual apprehensions :
they usually limit themselves to more
sensory and tangible entities, in the cultiva-
tion of their proper field of work; but
sometimes theythinkit necessary to issue a
caveat. Sir Arthur Keith, for instance,
has been expressing himself of late in
opposition to ideas of survival such as those
that I advocate, and it is a pleasure to refer
to his pronouncement; for he has a most
delightful personality, and is regarded by
myself,in common withmost otherscientific
men, with real affection. As everyone
knows, he is a great anatomist, and is
familiarwith the structure and the Workings
of the human body, and indeed of animal
38
I
Materia/zlrfzk Objen‘z'om‘ and Dzfim/tie:
bodies generally,to an extent which is quite
beyondany of us. All that he says on that
subject thereforewe should accept with due
respect. But the universe is a very big
thing, and an animated structure is a very
complicated thing,so that no one pretends
to know ever‘)/tbingabout it, and no one living
is able to answer all the questions that can
be asked. Philosophers know a very great
deal, much more than children and ordinary
people can apprehend; but the greatest
philosopher, from Socrates downwards, is
keenlyaware of his own ignorance, thatis to
say of the region beyondthe confines of his
clear and accurate knowledge. The uni-
verse has so many aspects that it is seldom
possible for any one individual to study
more than a few of them. This is what Sir
ArthurKeithand other scientific men mean
by their limitations. They are immersed in
the contemplation of the aspects that they
have studied, and for the most part ignore
otheraspects or leaveithemto otherstudents.
NaturallyI also can onlyspeak for myself;
39
Materialism OI7jectz'or2.r and Dggfim/tier
I have to look at the subject from the point
of View to which I myself have been led by
my own studies. It is true thatI see things
somewhat differentlyfrom an anatomist,but
thatis a natural result of a different point of
view. The same landscape appears different
when looked at from an aeroplaneor from a
mountain-top, and from a valley or a plain.
Both may be describingtruly what they see,
but neither is describing the whole truth.
One may bemore aware of theclouds and of
atmosphericconditions, while the other has
a better opportunity of studying the details
of the plant and animal life among which he
lives. The differenceis not one about which
there need be any quarrel or controversy;
it is a naturalresult of our concentrationsand
limitations.
Sir Arthur speaks of himself as concerned
chiefly with concrete things which can be
seen, handled, and measured. His mind, he
says, works on objective things, things
that appeal to the senses; but even he
admits theexistence of many thingswhich he
40
Materia/z'.rz‘z'c Objection: and Dzfim/z‘z'e:
cannot see or handle; for instance he speaks
of atoms and their structure, and what he
calls “
the planetaryorganisationof even the
smallest atoms.” But he has never dealt
with single atoms, and neither he nor any-
one else has ever seen inside them: their
constitution is only known, so far as it is
known,bymentalinference,not byweighing
and measuring in any ordinary sense, and
certainly not by the microscope. In the
science of physicswe are continuallydealing
with things which we never hope to see or
handle. We deal withspace as well as with
matter; and we find in space mysterious
properties which we think may ultimately
explain some of the properties of matter.
As physicists, we have learnt not to deny
the existence of realities far beyond our
senses. In fact it is mainlyin a supersensual
world thatour most interesting work lies.
Still every scientific man obeys the same
general rules of enquiry; and we all infer
a multitude of occurrences of whichwe have
littleor no direct experience. The difference
41
Materia/z'.rtz'a' Olajettions and Dzfim/tie:
is one ofdegree ratherthanof kind. Never-
theless there is a tendency for one side to
ignore anythingout of contact or connexion
withmatter, whiletheother side thenchiefly
begins to attend to it. When an atom
radiates, or emits some of its energy into
space, one group of scientificmen, which we
may call the anatomists or more generally
the biologists,cease to attend to that which
has gone away from matter; whereas
radiationis one ofthemain subjects to which
a physicist does attend. We are in fact
beginning to attend far more to what goes
on in space, and to the linkages and inter-
stices between the atoms and between the
worlds thanwe are to any Visibleand tangible
objects. It is the material objects which
show us what is happening, those are what
we all have to observe, but we use themmore
as indicators or instruments for exploring
the less familiar and more unknown region
which lies betweenthem.
Atoms and matter are quite incompetent
to changetheirstate ofmotion ofthemselves.
42
Materia/z'n‘z'a‘ Ol9jm‘z'om and Dzfiau/tie:
When any change of motion occurs it is
because somethinghas reached them out of
space. Atoms are said to attract each other,
and to cling together by What We call
cohesion; this is due to What We may call a
residual electric field, and that is a property
of space. The behaviour of the atoms
teaches us something of what is going on
outside them. Every ultimate particle is
in a vacuum; it never really touches
another particle; it feels and is moved by
the condition of space around it. This is
true also in astronomy. The deflected
movements and revolutions of the heavenly
bodies are due to the state of space around
them; and by studying their deflected paths
We have learnt something about the con-
dition Which causes them. In that case the
agent is not an electric or a magnetic field,
but something of fairly similar character-
istics which We call a gravitational field.
And Einstein and others are trying to teach
us, and gradually to learn themselves, What
sort of thing a gravitational field is. We
43
Maferia/zlrtir Objmiom and Dzfim/ties,
cannot hope to observe it directly; for space
makes no appeal to our senses, but We can
infer What is going on there, or we hope to
do so, by using visible portions of matter
as an index or demonstration or manifesta-
tion ofsomethingsupersensuous, z'.e. beyond
the range of our senses.
Our senses truly are very limited, and it is
a wonder that we are able to make all the
inferences that we do make. When we see
a piece of iron jumping to a magnet, we do
not thinkthat either the iron or the magnet
is responsible, except indirectly. We take it
as a sign or indication or manifestation that
thespacenear themis modifiedin such a way
as to exert force upon the pieces of matter,
and drive the two things together. When
we see a weight propped up or suspended
precariously, like a heavy block of stone
supported by a crane, We do not thinkofany-
thing peculiar about the stone; it is like
any otherblock of stone, except as regards its
positionin space abovetheearth. We know
that its lofty position makes it dangerous,
44
Materia/z'.rz‘ic Objmiom‘ and Dgficuities
and that it is the sign or index of a great
store of energy which might at any moment
be liberatedwith a crash. But theenergy is
not in the stone or in the earth, it is in the
space around, which tends to drive the stone
and the earth together. The fierce energy
of an explosive, like cordite or T.N.T., is
in the space between the particles, until the
moment arrives for liberation. Till then
the material both looks and is quiescent.
So when we see what We may call animated
particles, the material of a living body, be-
having in a peculiar Way, as an animal
behaves for instance, We do not thinkof it
as something peculiar to those particles,—
something which we might investigate by
examining them more closely; we feel sure
they are obeying physical laws like any
other particles; but the spontaneity and
purposiveness of their behaviour—the
animal’s begging or its response to a call,
for instance—makesus suspect thatanimated
matter is influenced by something outside
or beyonditself, somethingthat we do not
45
Materia/z':z‘z't Objm‘z'om and Dgfim/ties
really understand as yet, but which we call
life or mind. We regard this unknown
entityas real, just as real as a gravitationalor
electric or magnetic field, though we know
far less about it thanwe know about them.
So littledo we know about lifeand mind,that
these things have not yet come within the
scope of physics. They remain in the
mysterious region outside that scope, and as
needing much further study before we can
even beginto elucidate them. There is still
plenty of mystery about even a gravitational
field; in fact the whole universe is full of
mystery. We are not living in an era when
we can safely deny the existence of things
because we do not understand them. We
must continue to make observations and
experiments upon matter of all kinds, using
the matter as an index or manifestation of
something that lies behind and employs
matter for purposes of demonstration.
Hence when we are told thatthe particles
of a brain initiate movements which generate
thought,for instance; when we are told that
46
Maferia/ixtir Objectiom and Dzjjfm/z‘z'e.r
a brain plans and designs, let us say, a bridge
or acathedralor a work ofart,—indeedweare
sometimes told not only that a brain plans
and contrives and executes, but that it
remembers the past, anticipates the future,
and hopes andfears and admires andloves,—
when We are told all that we should be
stultifying ourselves, and running counter to
all analogies, if We agreed. We must not
agree I We need not regard the brain cells
as anything more than instruments utilised
for the demonstration or manifestation of
the activity of some unknown mysterious
purposeful entity, which is thus enabled to
appealindirectlyto our observation; through
them we are able both to experience and
to produce results in the material world.
Life andmind do not alter thelaws of physics
and chemistry,as at one time thosewho were
called Vitalists thought they did; they do
not add to energy; the laws of mechanics,
so far as matter is concerned,accuratelyhold.
But those laws are supplemented, and
animated bodies are guided or controlled
47
Materialism Objm‘z'0m and Dgfim/tie:
towards some purpose or object, by some-
thing apparently outside or beyond them-
selves.
We ourselves possess animated bodies
and can do things. When we lift a fallen
book on to thetable, or when WC light a fire,
or whenwe playa pieceofmusic,—weare not
running counter to the laws of physics; we
are merelyutilisingthem. We utilisethelaws
ofphysicsin speech, in Writing,in telegraphy,
in all manner of customary Ways ; and we do
it with reason. So far as matter is con-
cerned, we do nothingbut move it, by means
of the muscles with which our body is pro-
vided. Withoutthosemuscles We could not
demonstrate our own existence; in fact We
could do nothing but think,——andperhaps
not much of that. But We need not move
matter at random. A poet or an artist uses
matter to display somethingwhich already
existed in his mind, to convey an idea which
no physics or chemistry can explain, some-
thingfar superior to the movements or the
rearrangements of material particles, or
48
Materia/zlrtit Olajertiom aria’ Dzfitzi/tie:
anythingthatwe can directlyobserve. And
those who come after him can appreciate
and interpret the meaning of his rearrange-
ments of matter, the coloured pigments
cunningly spread on canvas, or the black
marks on a piece of paper, that he has left
behind. They can understand his meaning
because they have minds of their own not
altogether dissimilar from the mind of the
artist or poet, and because they have sense-
organs which, using the material particles
as an index, can interpret the beauty and
significanceof the arrangement.
The point of view here indicated is prob-
ably different from thatof Sir Arthur Keith,
and I presume from that of many other
biologists—though I do not see why it
should be. But it is not out of accord With
general observation and general experience;
it is in factderivedfrom such experience. It
may seem rather abstract, vague, and intan-
gible, but thatis inevitable, since We cannot
expect to solve great problems in a simple
and easy manner. I will try however to be
P.W.
Materialism Ol7jecz‘z'o7z.r and Dzfirultie:
a little more definite, and attack those few
utterances of Sir Arthur Keith’s with which
I can perhaps usefullypartly disagree.
First of all, however, with what he says
about thebrain I entirelyagree. Our brain-
nerve-muscle system is primarily adapted
to the needs of animal life on the earth,
what he calls “
bread-and-butter purposes.”
When we use the organ for philosophising,
it is, as he says, naturallyratherinadequate.
But in anotherplacehe says “we know of
mind only as a manifestation of a complex
material organ called the brain.” There I
join issue. We can “
think”—we are each
of us
“
conscious,”—quite apart from any
knowledge about our brain. It is mind
which has enabled us to discover the brain.
We could not examine or study brains unless
we had minds. Mind is not a manifestation
of brain; but brain is an instrument for
manifesting mind. Sir Arthur puts the
cart before the horse. The Ancients didn’t
even know that the brain was a mental
organ. They seem to have thought that
50
Materizz/z'5z‘z'cOkjecfiom and Dzfim/tier
our emotionswere connectedWiththeviscera;
they seem to have thoughtthat compassion
was located in the bowels, depression or
anger in the bile secretion of the liver,
jealousy in the spleen, love in the heart,
and such like. That the brain was the
organ of mind, was a thingthat had to be
discovered. But surely the Ancients were
familiar with “
mind,” and every child is
familiar with mind, though it may know
nothing whatever about brain. Mind is a
primaryapprehension,braina very secondary
one, theresult ofanatomicalinvestigationand
discovery. Anatomists’ enthusiasmfor the
organ has led them to exaggerate, and think
that they discovered, not the imtrummz‘ of
mind, but themind itself. ThatI venture to
say is an illusion. Thought is no more in
the brain than music is in the violin. An
instrument has to be played upon: it
originates nothing. No musical instrument
ever composed a piece of music! The
particles in Newton’s brain never composed
the Primzjbia. No assemblage of material
51
Materialixtir Ol7jeatz'07z.r and Dzflicultiex
particles is responsible for the play of
Hamlet or The Fzftb S}/72p/70791. Speaking
With all due respect, the idea is absurd; it
is literallyprae-posterous.
And now, in concludingthis chapter, let
me deal with one parable or analogy or
illustrationgiven by Sir ArthurKeitha year
or two ago, When he Was President of the
British Association. He likened the mind
or soul to theflameof a candle, which,being
lit, displayed itself by certain visible
behaviour, and then went out and ceased
to be. So—he would suggest—does the
soul expire into nothingnessat death. The
image or illustration is quite a good one;
but Sir Arthur did not follow it up, as a
physicistWould. He limited himself to the
material particles of the candle, and to the
perceptibleflame, just as an anatomistWould.
He did not bethink himself of What was
happening in space. That candle was not
lighted Withoutan object. Its object was to
illuminatesomething,that is to say to emit
light. And what is light ? Not something
52
Materialism Objerfiom and Dzfim/2‘z'e.r
in the candle, but somethingwhich emanates
from the candle, and goes away into space :
something different from matter, though
associated with it. The real function of a
candle depends on the properties of space;
it is emitting something into space Which,
if space is free and empty of matter, will go
on for ever. Thereis a line in TbeMerv/mm‘
of Verme-
“
How far thatlittle candle throws his beams I ”
Well, that radiation is the real “
soul ”
of
the candle, its whole object and meaning.
When the Beacon fires were lighted all
»
over England, in the reign of Elizabeth,to
give notice of the approach of the Armada,
those fires in due time Went out and left
nothingbut dust and ashes, to all appearance.
But they had done their Work, they had
stimulated the enthusiasm of the people of
England, and the Armada was defeated.
They were lighted to send a message across
space. The fuel itself was nothing of any
consequence; nor was the residue left
53
Materialism Olrjecflom and Dzfim/tie:
behind. The illuminationor radiation then
produced, the whole object for which they
were lighted, was theimportant thing. And
that illumination is going on still! An
astronomer could reckon how far those
beams have now travelled. They have not
been obliterated, they are coursing through
space still. Just as We see the light of a
distant star or a nebulous cloud which has
been travelling for 8oo,ooo years before it
reaches our eye—for that is how We see for
instance the great nebula in Andromeda,
quite visible to the naked eye on a dark
night, We see it as it was 8oo,ooo years ago—
so an observer with a suflicientlysensitive
instrument could detect the light of the
Armada beacons still. Therefore I say the
illustration is a good one; and suggests,
ratherthan negatives, the immortality of the
soul.
An analogy proves nothing, of course;
but this candle illustration of Sir Arthur’s
representingdeathas a completeextinguisher,
has perturbed many good people quite
54
Materia/istic Objecfiom and Dgficultie:
unnecessarily. Perhaps, in his kindness of
heart, he may welcome thepoint of View of a
friendlyscientificcolleague, and be gladthat
bereaved persons can be relieved of their
distress; even thoughhe feels compelled, in
the interests of orthodoxy,to disagree with
some of my other contentions.
To sum up :—Mechanism is a reality,but
it is not all : it needs guidance. And there
is far more than mechanism in the Universe.
Evolutionis a genuineprocess, but thereare
things which no physical evolution can
rationally account for. A poet is able to
express these things better than I can. In
reviewing Sir Arthur Keith’s Presidential
Address to the British Association in 1927,
Mr. Alfred Noyes Writes thus in T/ye Sunday
Times for the 11th September 1927 :—
“
There was a time when the solar
system was in a gaseous condition. Time,
stretched into millions of tons, is not an
explanation of the evolution of West-
minster Abbeyfrom a gas. We must not
be blinded by the multiplicity of inter-
mediate details. Suppose that Sir Arthur
55
Mzzterialirtir Olyectianx and Dzfim/tie:
had seen the process of evolutionpassing
before him as quicklyas a moving-picture,
from an hour when theplanetwas lifeless,
up to the hour when he saw three crosses
on a hill,and heard a voice crying, ‘
E/oi,
E/oz’, lama sabatf/Jaml’ . . .
Would not
that Weird and terrible vision demand,
even from a savant, more explanationthan
chemistry can give us 9 Was this, too,
due to a
‘
merely quantitative’
develop-
ment P We are intellectuallyand imagina-
tivelyasleepto the overwhelming mystery
thatsurrounds us on every side.”
4‘ The Me:/Janimz of Survival
IN the last two chapters I have attempted
incidentally to show the combined strength
and weakness of the materialistic position.
Its strength lies in the fact that apparently
every psychic or mental happening has a
physical concomitant; or, in other Words,
that life and mind have to be embedded in
some physicalvehicle,andthatall operations,
not physical only, but every kind, are con-
ducted in accordance witha regular system
of law and order, which can be explored
and gradually understood by science. The
mind of man is not something outside
nature, but is a part of the whole, and har-
rnonious with all the rest. The physical
vehicle of mind may not as yet be fully
apprehended by us, but experience tends to
show thatthereis a physicalvehicle in every
case; or in other words, the psychical and
57
T123 Merbarzzlm of Survival
the physical are interlocked, so that each
is a portion of an all-embracingWhole.
Hithertothe only physical vehicle known
to us in the service of life and mind has been
some form of matter; but it would be a
mistake to assume without proof that
organised matter, such as brain, is the sole
and necessary instrument without which
mental operations cannot go on. Matter is
that part of the physical universe which
makes direct appeal to our senses; it is that
which displays the activityof the animal and
vegetable kingdoms. The processes which
go on in the complicated structure of
organisms can be followed into singular
detail as knowledge increases, so that these
processes repay a lifetime of study, and are
sometimes thoughtto be, not only coherent,
but complete and satisfactory and final in
themselves. The strength of materialism
lies in therationalcharacter of thesematerial
processes. The weakness lies in theassump-
tion, the gratuitous and unfounded assump-
tion, that those material processes are
58
Tbe Merbamlrm of Survival
all-inclusive, and demand that nothing else
shall be taken into account.
But already experience has shown that
there are many other things, even in the
physicaluniverse, besides matter; thingsfor
which we happen to have no sense-organ,
and which thereforeare apt to elude observa-
tion, so that careful enquiry and discovery
have been necessary to bring them to light.
To this category belong such now familiar
agents as electricity and magnetism, which
for all practical purposes were unknown to
the human race even a few centuries ago.
Electricity and magnetism belong to the
physical universe, but they are not
primarilyapprehensible; their activities are
only indirectly displayed by matter, and
therefore they have to be indirectly appre-
hended by us. They can only be explored
by means of material instruments : we have
not grown accustomedto them throughour
senses, as we have to the different forms of
matter, and consequently we often .feel
puzzled as to their nature. Such forces as
59
Tbe Mecbamlrm of Suroiml
gravitationand cohesion belongto the same
category. We know that material bodies
fall together as if theyattracted each other;
but we have very little notion of why they
do so. The tendencyto fall togetheris only
conspicuous when one at least of the pieces
of matter is huge. The factof gravitationis
forced on our attention by the behaviour of
bodies near the earth; but had it not been
for the generalisationsof science, we should
never have discovered that there is the same
kind of gravitative attraction between two
pebbles, two bits of wood, two books, two
objects of any kind. The force is too small
to be appreciated, but it certainly exists;
and thefactofthiswhat we call “
attraction”
across empty space, has led us to postulate
the existence of something in between the
particles of matter, somethingtenuous which
fills all space, something which is essential
to the activity of the material world, but
which in itself eludes our senses, so that its
very existence can be doubted, althoughit is
probably the most real and substantial
6o
T/9e Mechanism of Survival
thingin the physicaluniverse. This, which
we call empty space or ether, is what inter-
penetrates all matter; it extends to the
furthest star, there is no break in its infinite
continuity,and it is now suspected of being
the raw material out of which matter has
been made.
To carry on and substantiate the strength
of the materialistic position, while at the
same time admitting that matter alone is
insufficientfor an explanation,it is natural to
framethehypothesisthatthisethericmedium
may constitute the physical vehicle for life
and mind when they are dissociated from
matter. If there is a real entity which fills
all space, it is unlikelythatit is not made use
of for vital purposes; and if it be true thata
physical instrument or vehicle, some kind
of mechanism involving rational processes,
must accompany every thought and every
mental operation, then the space-filling
entity suggests itself as competent to do all
that is wanted. To suppose that mind can-
not exist withoutmatter, is weak, gratuitous,
61
Tbe Mecbamlr/72 of Survival
and inconclusive: but to suppose thatmind
requires for its activityJame physicalvehicle,
thoughit may be of an entirely supersensual
kind, is in analogy and accordance with all
the rest of our experience. Mind may
always require a body or mode of manifesta-
tion, but that “
body ”
need not be formed
of matter, and need not appeal to our present
senses.
Now this View of existence has a bearing
on the problem of survival. Instinctively
scientific men feel that in connexion with
every kind of activity there must be some
physical process which can be investigated;
theyare not content withtheidea of a totally
disembodied spirit. Instinctively they seek
for somethingphysical; but hitherto some
of them have made the mistake of assum-
ing that the adjectives “
physical”
and
“
material” are interchangeable terms, and
that when the brain and nerve systems are
left behind there is nothing to take their
place. That however is going beyond the
facts. Indeed there are many operations
62
The Mecltamlrm of Survival
going on in the nerves and brain cells which
are not yet fullyunderstood, and will not be
fully understood until the etheric connexion
between the particles is taken into account.
And when that connexion is better under-
stood, it will be perceived that the matter
particles are after all a secondary considera-
tion; theyhave been extracted from animal
food and are constantly changing: no sort
of identity can be associated with them.
The motions of the particles cannot be the
primary activity,thoughtheyare the means
by which our senses are affected, and there-
fore the means throughwhich we study the
more recondite operations of which their
movements are the outward and visible
sign.
When this idea is fully grasped,—and
admittedly it takes some time to grasp it,_—-
many of thearguments and analogiesagainst
survival break down; for as a matter of
fact we never find things going out of
existence, thoughwe do find themgoing out
of our ken. Anything which enters the
65
Tbe Metlmtzimz of Survival
ether goes out of our ken; but in that new
vehicle it continues, whether its subsequent
history can be traced or not.
Pan‘ and Future
It is possiblethat theethercan automatic-
ally retain a record of the past capable of
being deciphered and interpreted by intelli-
gence. By suitable devices records may
indeedbeincorporatedin matter, as in photo-
graphic plates and gramophone disks, but,
like all materialaggregates, such records fade
or Wear out, Whereas the clarityof an etheric
record continues undiminished for ever.
When we look through a telescope at a
nebula or star cluster we are gazing on the
distant past—thousandsor even millions of
years ago—and extractinginformationfrom
it. Thus is the past brought to our present
apprehension. Not by such aid can we
directly apprehend the future. Yet we can
anticipate,plan, and to some extent predict:
and whatwe can thusdo consciouslywe may
be able perhaps to do more mysticallyby in-
64
T/Je Meclzarzzlw/2 of Survival
tuition or inspiration. It becomesa question
well worthyofattention,how far thefuture is
accessible,whetherit is decipherableto beings
of any kind, whether it in any sense already
exists, and what power our faculties have of
catching glimpses of the future as well as of
the past. Unfortunately this enquiry is at
present hampered by obsolete legislation;
the common sense of mankind has decided
that the future is hopelessly inaccessible.
But the common sense of mankind has
beforenow decided many otherthingswhich
have turned out wrong. A spherical and
revolving earth, flying annually round the
sun, was repugnant to common sense at
one time. The intuitions of genius may bea
guide worth following up and submitting
to verification: the presumptions of unin-
structed ignorance are apt to lead us astray
into positions whence extrication is trouble-
some. Security in a false position devoid of
any real foundation can only be sustained or
bolstered up by the abominable resources of
persecution : a brutal buttress of blundering
P.W_. 65 E
T/ye Meibavimz of Survival
bigotry which Ecclesiastics and Legislators
have not scrupled to employin thepast.
Dirm‘ Evidence: of Survival
Survival however is not to be established
on grounds of analogy or by arguments of
probability: it must be proven by direct
experience. Individualswho have diedmust
demonstrate their continued existence by
trustworthy evidence. That may not be
easy, it might not be possible. Experience
must be the judge : we cannot decide what
is possible or impossible, except by trial.
Those who have studied the matter consider
that the evidence is good, and that some
individuals have proved their survival : that
is to say, they have demonstrated that their
individual mind and character has survived
the death of the material organism in which
they were at one time incorporated. We
need not suppose that they are divorced
from the physical universe as disembodied
ghosts. Their physical existence may be
just as real and substantial as ever, only they
66
Tbe Mac/mm'mz of Survival
are no longer associated with matter; but
then matter is not the only entity: there
is another more universal, more continuous,
far more perfect mechanism,which it may be
presumed theystill inhabitand utilise. The
strength of materialism remains, but in a
glorified form. The theory takes a more
comprehensive view of theuniverse thanthe
narrowmaterialistthoughtpossible. Whilst
the essential and rational claims of the
materialistare satisfied,hisillegitimatedenials
are contradicted, and shown to be incom-
patible with the progress of scientific know-
ledge. The facts, the new and as yet
unorthodox facts, range themselves on the
side of a larger truth, and discountenance
any narrow views based upon too limited
experienceor over-hastyprejudice. A study
of those facts of psychic experience is just
as important as a study of the behaviour of
materialorganisms,and in due time theywill
attract some of the concentrated attention
now devoted to other branches of know-
ledge. So a workinghypothesis,capable of
67
The Merbarzzlr//2 of Survival
assimilatingthem with natural knowledgein
general, may be helpful, however much it
may have to be modified, extended, and
replaced by somethingbetter.
A reverent utterance of Thomas Henry
Huxley, though often quoted, may here
once more find a place:—
“
Science seems to me to teach in the
highest and strongest manner the great
truth which is embodied in the Christian
conception of entire surrender to the will
of God. Sit down before fact as a little
child, be prepared to give up every pre-
conceivednotion,followhumblywherever
and to Whatever abysses nature leads, or
you shall learn nothing. I have only
begun to learn content and peace of
mind since I have resolved at all risks to
do this.”
68
5 Problem; raired 12} Me Idea ofSurvival
SUPPOSE we let it be granted that accumu-
lated evidence shows that human beings
survive, a number of problems clamour for
solution. What does survival mean in
general? Why should it be limited to
human beings? What line can be drawn
diiferentiating one part of existence from
anotherP It seems likely that all existence
is perpetual. We certainly find that energy,
for instance, continues without loss, chang-
ing form but always constant in amount;
that death is not the characteristic and
fundamental thingin the universe, but con-
tinued life. Energy need not always be
associated withmatter; it may pass into the
ether, and indeed is constantly so doing.
Not only from every star and every fire, but
from all objects without exception, there is
a constant interchange of
'
energy between
69
Prob/er/23 raised by tbe Idea of Survival
ether and matter. Sometimes matter gains
more than it loses, sometimes it loses more
than it gains. This interchange constitutes
the whole activity of what we observe;
and the energy is never destroyed.
Is it the same with life 3’ Not human
life alone, but all life, animal and vegetable
togetherP We do not know for certain,
but it is a natural working hypothesis that
the interaction between life and matter is
temporary, while the interaction of life with
the greater physical universe is permanent.
In that sense survival is the law to which
there need be no exception. But when we
talk of human survival we mean more than
that. We mean individual survival, the
survival of personality and character.
Now survival onlyapplies to thingswhich
reallyexist. If thereis no individuality,then
there is nothing to persist. Whether all
human beings have suflicient personality to
make their individual persistence likely,
is a question that may be argued. Whether
some of the higher animals have acquired a
70
Prob/elm razkea’ by the Idea of Survival
kind of individuality,a character and wealth
of affection which seem Worthyof continued
existence, may also be argued. There may
be many grades of existence, many grades of
personality, and accordingly there may be
many grades of survival.
To illustrate this, and to get into closer
touch with the subject, we may take some
examples. The human body is composed of
cells, and some of those cells have a life or
vitalityof their own. Some indeed, such as
the white corpuscles in the blood, have an
independent motivity, analogous to that of
the amoeba. They move with apparent
spontaneity, they assimilate and digest and
excrete; theysubdivide and therebyincrease
in number: in otherWords, theyhave many
of the attributes of independent existence.
Yet they are essentially parts of a com-
munity : the communal life is the important
thing, and by their activity they serve that
communal life. They help to keep the
Whole body in health, and their individual
life is often sacrificed to that end. In so
71
Prob/em: razlred by t/ye Idea of Saroival
far as theyare individuals,theirindividuality
seems unimportant; it cannot be supposed
to persist.
Many examples of communal life may be
adduced. For instance in a hive of bees
it would seem to be the communal life that
is the important thing. The individuals
go about their business in an instinctive
manner, and willingly sacrifice themselves
for the good of the community. Their
individual existence is short and strenuous :
they speedily succumb to overwork or to
the dangers encountered, but thecommunity
goes on. Moreover it is instructive to
realise that their specific activity depends
not only on themselves but on their sur-
roundings. Theycarry on whateverworkis
necessary in the particular place they find
themselves. If wax is needed, theyproceed
to make it : if wax is provided, theyproceed
to shape it: if they find it already shaped,
they fill it with honey. Any one bee does
what is wanted at that particular place,
adding to the labours of his predecessors the
72
Prob/em‘ raixea’ by the Idea of Survival
quota demanded. The guiding influence
seems represented by a communal instinct
which does not belongto the individual but
to the whole community.
It appears to be much the same with the
cells of the body. Where a hair is required,
thereit isbuiltup bythecells whichfindthem-
selves in thatposition : where a nerve needs
renewal it is renewed. And so the parts of
the body are constructed and maintained;
and the waste products are cleared away
automaticallyand instinctively,without any
attention from consciousness, so long as the
body is in a state of health. The cells can
be diverted from their proper work by
abnormal secretions and poisons, and then
abnormal structures are produced, with
resulting pain and perhaps death to the
organism as a whole. The organism may
have an individual identity, but the cells
composing it apparently have not. The
ingredientsin food are sorted out and planted
automaticallyin the place required by the
whole organism, the identity of which does
73
Prob/em: raised by the Idea of Survival
not depend on the identity of the particles,
for theyare in a constant state of flux.
At a lower grade We find somethingof the
same sort even in inorganic nature. What
constitutes for instance the identity of a
river, the Tiber, or the Ganges, or the NileP
We recognise that the river has a sort of
identity, but it cannot depend on the
particles of Water which constitute it. It
may be said that the identity of a river is
determined by the shape and locality of the
channel along which the particles move;
but even that is liable to change from time
to time; yet we recognise it as the same
river. The river therefore has a certain
individuality, displayed by the stream of
particles, and occasionally it has been
personified as FatherTiber, Mother Ganges,
and thelike. But thisis obviouslya fanciful
personification. There is no real soul or
personality, or anything which calls for
persistence beyond its terrestrial and
temporary manifestation.
An identity of this general kind seems to
74
Prob/em: raised by the Idea of Survival
belong to all vegetables and to the lower
animals. There is no need to postulate
permanent personal existence in their case.
The question only arises when the life of an
organism has reached a stage at which the
elements of mind and consciousness appear,
when the action becomes more than
mechanical, when it shows signs, not only
of accumulated memory, but of incipient
reasoning power, leading to purposive
action, based on accumulated or inherited
experience. Purposiveactionis indeed often
based not upon the laws of heredity alone,
but upon experience acquired by the
individual, so that in some sense it knows
what it is doing, and spontaneously and
individuallytries for some end, or acts with
some apprehension of the future. An
intelligent creature is guided, not merely
by the present, but by anticipation and
hope.
It is not easy to say where this element
of consciousness, conscious striving for an
as yet unrealised end, first began to enter
75
Prob/em: razlrea’ lyl 2‘/ye Idea of Survival
into the animal kingdom; but We see signs
of it in the higher animals, at any rate in
those that have become domesticated; and
We are Well aware of these faculties in our-
selves. At some stage or other, conscious
planning, or what Aristotle called “ente-
lechy,” entered into the scheme; and this
element We may well call the germ of the
soul. As a Working hypothesis We may
conjecture that where a soul exists it means
the emergent evolution of somethinghigher
than ordinary life, of something which has
a personal aspect, and of somethingwhich,
if real, is likely to persist. If it is a very
minute fragment of personality, then its
survival willalso beminute and fragmentary.
Only when it becomes considerable and
dominant will it l1ave a considerable and
dominant survival. In so far as a thing is
real, it’ will not go out of existence; it will
survive for whatever it may be worth.
Clearly there are grades of existence or
grades of value; so in a sense there may be
grades of survival. Surely not, it may be
76
Prob/arm razlred by 1‘/Je Idea of Survival
objected, there is either survival or there is
not; there cannot be partial survival. No,
but a small and trivial thingmay survive in a
smalland trivial way. A great love endures;
but a little bit of affection may still survive.
The problem is one of reality. Only
reality persists. But then, on the other
hand,all realitypersists. A cloud or a crowd
is dispersed and scattered and ceases to be.
But that was not a reality, it was a mere
aggregate of atoms or of people: when it
was dispersed the individual components
continue. The reality belonged, not to
the assemblage, but to that which gathered
themtogether. The emotion,or theguiding
principle, which convened a League, a
Parliament ‘or an army, may continue and
may alter the course of history. A written
document may have an effect long after the
document has been destroyed. The soul
of a poem, or of a Treaty,is not in the black
marks on a scrap of paper; nor is its reality
dependent on the physical vehicle by which
it was conveyed to others. It is the soul of
77
Prob/my razlred 19} the Idea of Survival
such thingsthat is real, and it is that which
persists.
So it may be with our bodily organism.
Each organism is an assemblage of particles
in a state of flux and change. The cells
have a communal existence, but the per-
manent thingwhich put them together, and
which by their aid has accumulated experi-
ence and developed a personal character, is
not dependent on themfor its identity; and
it can endure long after they have been
dispersed and scattered.
These being the possibilities,the remain-
ing question is one of fact. The evidence
for human survival does not depend on
argument but on experience. There is a
growing amount of evidence that human
personalitydoes reallypersist, thatindividual
people have not gone out of existence.
That evidence must be critically examined
and subjected to scientific enquiry, and if it
stands the test, it must be admitted: it
must be accepted as one of the facts ascer-
tained in the process of scientific discovery,
78
Prob/my raised by tbe Idea of Szzrmwzl
whether we understand it or not. All that
the argument has done is to show thatthere
is nothingirrationalin theidea, thatwe need
not turn our backs on the evidence because
it appears to be demonstrating something
impossible. The thingis possible enough :
no one has a right to say thatit is impossible.
Our business is to find out what is true. If
thereis trustworthyevidencetendingto show
that humanity has attained a grade at which
a real and permanent personality has de-
veloped, then thatevidence can be accepted.
If the evidence goes further, and shows that
some of the higher animals have reached
such a grade, then that evidence can be
accepted too. We have no right to draw
an artificial line and say, Thus far and no
further. Nor have we any right to turn
down actual evidence because of our
irrational and perhaps superstitious pre-
conceptions. We have no more right to do
that than we have to accept or invent faulty
evidence and imaginaryfacts, on the ground
of our preconceptions or superstitions or
79
Prob/arm raised by the Idea of Survival
human longings. The emotions must be
kept in their place. Things are not true
because we want them to be true; but
neither are they false because we feel they
ought to be false. Human instincts and
intuitions are not to be despised. The
intuitions of genius are part of the facts, and
have a weight and value of their own.
Fortunately in this vital matter we are
not left to inspirationsand intuitions. Cold-
blooded direct evidence is vouched for, and
this it is which must be examined without
prejudice either way. And this it is which
will ultimately convince all humanity of the
truth of survival, and incidentallywill in the
long run enable us to realise more clearly
what survival means, what physical mechan-
ism is associated with it, what is its scope
and how far it extends, and what bearingit
has on the ultimate problems of reality.
Meanwhile Teachers and Clerics are faced
with practical problems, and the next
chapter is intended as an interim help.
8o
6 PracticalProblem:followingon
the GrowingProofof Survival*
I SYMPATHISE. with the difliculties which
people in authority feel in presenting to
the laity details relating to survival, or
in answering questions about exceptional
phenomenaand psychical research. I have
felt the difficulty myself in a small way, and
I often advise peoplenot to touch thesubject
unless theyare serious; for, unless theyare
competent and level-headed and sane in
every way, it may be better to leave it alone.
But there is a growing interest in the sub-
ject; we cannot shut our eyes to it; and I
gatherthatmany oftheclergywant gradually
to determine what their attitude shall be,
and, meanwhile, to hear the impression
which has been produced upon those who
* From an Address to Clergy, stenographically
reported.
P.W. 8 1 F
PracticalProb/myfollowing on
have studied the subject, and to what
tentative theory theyhave been led.
A few enthusiasts tend to regard this
subject as almost a religion in itself.
Although I do not agree, I think it has
confirmed and made real some special facts
which are concordant withreligion, and has
even strengthened religious belief. For I
take it thatthepreambleof all religions is the
existence of a spiritual world; and we who
have gone into thematter believethatwe are
in touch with the spiritual world. That is
to say, that this world is only a small part
of the Universe, and thatlife is by no means
limited to the material embodiment we see
around us now. There is somethingmuch
more real and far-reachingthanthat,and we
can get into touch with some other mani-
festations of reality.
Of course, that has been the subject of
religion in all ages; and now some of those
whose training has been mainly scientific
are beginningto feel thatby careful enquiry
and examination they are arriving at the
82
the Growing Proof of Survival
same conclusion. Some of the facts, some
of the traditional ordinary facts, in con-
nection with it, seem frivolous or trivial.
But that is not uncommon. Facts have so
many different aspects. Any great subject
may be regarded from the serious point of
view, or from the frivolous point of view.
The world is not limited to the serious. If a
thing is big enough it can afford to have
a humorous or a trivial side. Providence
is not aboveattendingto thefall ofa sparrow.
The standard scientific example is Galvani
with his frogs’ legs. He was jeered at in
the early days of electricity because it only
made frogs’ legs kick. But it could make
lightning flash too. So also withNewton’s
gravitation; it can pull down apples and toy
bricks, as well as the moon and planets.
Mother—love is as sacred as anything on
earth, yet baby talk is trivial enough. So
also characteristic humour and personality
need not be, and are not, changed by
the passage through death. We remain
essentially ourselves. I mean that calling a
85
PracticalProb/myfollowing on
thingtrivial is not damning. Some triviality
is onlyto beexpected in familyconversation.
Sometimes it is said that people who have
gone into this subject are foolish people,
sentimental and crcdulous. Well, many are
not; but even if theyare, is it not true that
important things have before now been
hidden from the wise and prudent? We
cannot alwaysjudge facts by thepeople who
get hold of them. The whole interrelation
betweenreligionand scienceis to some extent
involved. We are living in the midst of a
sort of revolutionin thatdirection.
All through the last half of last century
the mechanistic view of science, the
materialistic View of the Universe, held the
field. Attention was concentrated upon
Matter, and in terms of matter everything
was to be explained.
The problem before philosophy has
always been the interaction of life and mind
withmatter; and, on the mechanistic view,
life is a sort of epiphenomenon resulting
from a complexityof organisation. Science
84
z‘/ye Growing Proof of Survival
has been objected to from the religious
point of view because it seems to exclude
finalcauses,andalwaysattendsto mechanism.
But that is the basis of science: it has to
look for the mechanism in everythingthat
occurs. An idea displaysitself,and can only
display itself, in an act; the brain and
nervous system and muscular action are
involved in all our operations.
Henceppurely physical causes and effects
are one partof truth; and, ifwe were always
appealingto finalcauses——as used to be done
in astronomy (it used to be almost irreverent
to ask why the planets moved as they do 1)
———it would be equivalentto throwingup the
sponge so far as science is concerned. Final
causes may be the business of philosophy
and religion, but not of science; there we
are seeking, as far as we can, the physical,
the chemical, the mechanical explanation.
Those aspects are truly part of the whole:
the only mistake is for those who so suc-
cessfully and *
devotedly study material
thingsto thinkthattheyare all, thattheyare
85
PracticalProb/mm following an
final, and to exclude or deny all the others.
Nevertheless, it is true that in orthodox
science spiritual causes have no footing.
The term “
science ”
can be used in more
than one sense. It may be used to include
a careful study of all existence, a sort of
general ontology; so that theology, for
instance, as well as psychology,are sciences;
but it is often used in a narrower sense, as
meaning the detailed description and work-
ing theoryof thingsthatcan beweighed and
measured and timed. In that sense astro-
nomy and physics and chemistry are the
sciences which have approached nearest to
perfection. Geology has only recently
attempted an exact estimate of the ages of
the rocks and of the earth; biologyis only
beginning to submit itself to mathematical
calculation. So there are many grades or
stages in scientific evolution,and We cannot
expect a new or nascent science to attain full
dignity all at once. Neither should we
demandofa scientificenquirerthathe should
necessarilyattend to every aspect of being:
86
tbe Growing Proqf of Survival
the material or mechanical aspect may be
quite enough to occupy his attention; the
Workingout of vital and other mac/Janirm is
his particular job. There is rather an
interesting article in the Hibbertfozmzal for
January, 1927, by Joseph Needham, of
Caius College, Cambridge, wherein he pro-
fesses himself a neo-mechanist. He claims
that the ordinary mechanistic philosophy
has broken down, become almost extinct,
and that there is a vitalism which is taking
the field instead; but he points out that
technical “
vitalism”
is too vague, and not
science. In a series of Gifford Lectures
trending in the same direction, called “
The
Sciences and Philosophy,” the eminent
physiologistDr. John Scott Haldane adopts
the principles of energy and of molecular
behaviour appropriate to physics and
chemistry, While strongly insisting on the
utter inadequacy of Newtonian mechanism
or materialism as a philosophy. He is
anxious to treat everythingon scientificlines,
and to admit nothingthatwillclash withthe
87
PracticalProb/myfollowing on
supremacyofthescience ofbiology; accord-
ingly he repudiates technical Vitalism, as
taught say by Liebig,and is thus led to an
intermediateposition somewhat awkward to
define. It is difficultat present for biologists
and psychologists and physicists to co—
operate, as they doubtless will in the future
when the boundaries of organised know-
ledge have expanded. One may note a
tendency now to try to exclude, from what
is called “
science ”
in the narrow sense,
everything that is not metrical and exact
and repeatable at will under laws that can
be formulated. That is one reason why
the subject we are thinking of to-day is
not accepted; it is not metrical and exact;
we cannot always repeat things; we do not
know the laws yet; there is a great deal to
befoundout still. The knowledgeis not yet
properly organised. My positionis thatwe
must be guided by facts, must gradually be
led towardsa theory,and never giveup truths
merelybecausewe do not understandor only
partiallyunderstand them. I shall give you
88
tbe Growing Proof of Survival
a few of the implications which have been
produced upon my mind, without asking
you to accept them. We must gradually
improve these implicationsby further study.
There are many cases where science and
philosophyseem to clash, just as science and
religionhave seemed to clash,and it is always
becausetheyare looking at different aspects
of the same thing. We find that the
physical world proceeds in a sort of cycle,
going round and round, not exactly pro-
gressing,but changing,revolvinground and
round in a cycle; its object being, like the
periodic motions of a loom, to evolve
material of a different order—a progressive
Woven fabric of beauty and design,—the
mental and spiritual emanating or emerging
throughand by aid of thephysical.
Now there is a great tendency—and,
indeed, all the difl-iculties about this subject
are due to thetendency—toassociatelife and
mind directly with matter, and so closely
to associate themwithmatter as to be unable
to conceive theirexistence apart from matter.
89
PracticalProblem:following on
That is how materialistic or mechanistic
objections to survival arise. If the brain
is the mind, then, of course, when the brain
is burnt or destroyed, the mind has ceased
to be; people cannot see how existence can
go on apart from a material mechanism.
Is there any life or mind beyond what we
recognise as displayed by matter on this
earth, or on similarearths elsewhere P
Incidentally,we are confronted with the
question, how many other worlds are
inhabited besides this. It seems an im-
portant question, especially if it is thought
that unless the matter in the Universe is
inhabitatedit is serving no useful function,
a thingthat might be true if there were no
other possibility for life and mind to
exist. Now that great physicist,Dr. Jeans,
who is also ex-President of the Royal
Astronomical Society, has come to the
conclusion that a solar system is a rare
thingin the Universe. At one time he was
even inclinedto thinkit unique. There is a
great deal of matter in the Universe, but the
90
z‘/ye Growing Proof of Survival
birth of a solar system—the bringing of
planets out of the sun, or out of any other
star like it—seems to be an exceptional
occurrence. It has beentracedto thepassage,
theso-to-speakaccidentalpassage, ofanother
sun not faraway.* Thetheoryis thatthesun
at one time was perturbed by another star
moving somewhere in its neighbourhood, in
a way that made our sun shoot out a long
spindle of gaseous material towards the
disturbing star, thick in the middle and
tapering at each end. That being left
behind,slowlycongealed and broke up into
planets, small planets at each end and big
ones in the middle. But an occurrence like
that must" be rare; very seldom do stars
get near enough to each other to do that.
Alfred Russel Wallace also had an idea,
based on less adequate grounds, that this
earth might be the only inhabited planet.
* A tidal theory of this general kind was mooted
by Professors Chamberlinand Moulton of Chicago;
but it has attained greater definiteness and precision
throughthe Work of Sir James Jeans.
91
PracticalProb/em:following on
Probably that is an extreme view, and
unlikely; but We are bound to admit, as the
result of scientific investigation, that the
occurrence of habitable Worlds is less fre-
quentthanwe mighthaveimagined. Besides,
the earth itself has only become what we
call “inhabited” in quite recent times,—
a minute fractionof its Whole history.
Now look at the question from another
point of view. Most of the matter in the
Universe——thousands and millions of times
more in amount than the earth, more than
the sun—-is far too hot to be inhabited. All
the stars that We see are blazing hot; and,
in addition to the stars, We see the spiral
nebulaemuch fartherawayinspace. Do you
realise that these are enormously distant,
fresh milkyways, fresh cosmoses P
The Universe is the most extraordinary
thing; you need not be surprised at any-
thingthat happens in the Universe. There
are those spiral nebula, the birthplaceof
constellations of stars; and all those
gaseous stars some of them a million times
92
z‘/ye Growing Proof of Survival
as large as the sun, cannot be what we
call inhabited. Yet that is where most of
the matter is. You cannot imagine the
conditions there. Even the atoms that we
know can hardly exist there; Eddington
considers that most of our atoms would be a
broken up into electrons. Only here and
there will you find a body like the earth,
comparatively cold, not far from absolute
zero. The earth, relatively speaking, is
quite cold. Instead of being millions of
degrees from absolute zero, it is only 300
degrees. So 92 varieties of atom have
become fairly stable here; molecules also
have been able to form and aggregate into
protoplasmic compounds which can be
inhabited by life. That is what we find—
however astonishing—to be true. But
where did that life come from P Where
was that life before there was any matter
{it for it to inhabit?
The psychical and the physical always
seem to be related to each other. There
is an interaction between the psychical and
93
PracticalProblem:following on
thephysical; whetherit is necessary always,
I don’t know,and we are not likelyto know.
But bythephysicalwe mean somethingmore
than merelymatter. Matter is physical,but
the ether is physical too. Many physical
things are not material. Magnetism, light,
and electricity, all belong to the ether. I
have graduallycome to theview,which was
thrownout as a speculation in the middle of
last century by Professors Tait and Balfour
Stewart, in their rather famous book, The
Umem Univerxe, that the main realities of
the universe are not in matter at all, but in
the ether of space. If there is any sense in
locationat all,appliedto non-materialthings,
therein is the whole of the spiritual world;
and onlyhere and -there has it had any inter-
action withmatter. I go further,and hold
that in so far as we act on matter at all, we
really act on it in a secondary way. Our
relation with the ether is primary; our
relation with matter is secondary. We act
on matter indirectlythroughthe ether. The
ether is responsible not onlyfor gravitation,
94
the Growing Proof of Survival
and for electricity and magnetismand light,
for elasticity also, and all strain; it is also
responsiblefor cohesion,for linkingtogether
all the particles which would otherwise be
disconnected. It is through the ether that
we ourselves really act upon matter, and I
suggest that it is there, in that connecting
and all-permeating medium, that we must
look for the permanent basis of life.
AHere and there, however, it has been
found possiblefor individuallife to associate
itself with certain molecules of matter; that
is what has happened here, and that is what
we have grown so accustomed to that we
cannot think of it as existing in any other
way. And thenwe ask—Shall we survive ?
Survive what—our temporary and indirect
and secondary connection with matter P
You see that this question of survival,
regarded from my present point of view, is
what we used to call a bzirteron proz‘ero7z—
“
the cart beforethehorse.” The marvel is
that we are associated with matter at all.
That is the peculiar thing. I used to say
95
PracticalProb/em:following on
that death was an adventure to which we
might look forward. So it is; but I
believe that really and truly it is earth-life
that is the adventure. It is this earth-life
that has been the strange and exceptional
thing. The wonder is that we ever suc-
ceeded in entering a matter body at all.
Many fail.
Our associationwithmatter is foreign and
difficult and puzzling. It
i
is evidently a
very important episode. We are regarded, it
seems to me, by the higher powers, as in a
difficult position, worthy of help, and need-
ing it! Our association with matter is
temporary; that we can go on without
matter must seem to them comparatively
obvious. Life is, as it were, something
that condenses upon this planet, and then
evaporates whence it came. The attempt
to explain life in terms of matter has failed.
Mechanism has its uses, and the material
body is a temporary instrument. It is a
familiar experience that matter has to be
coerced to do what we want. A great many
96
tbe Growing Proof of Survival
of our difficulties are due to the refractory
nature of matter. Our material bodies
are troublesome: troublesome to put on;
troublesome to shake off; troublesome to
deal with in many ways. They are not
really ourselves : they are an instrument
to be used for a time—a short time.
But it may be said of thatview, If thatis
so, it seems to requirea kindofpre—existence,
an admission thatwe existed in the invisible
World, in the ether or in space, and then
condensed on to matter and moved about
here for a time, and then went back whence
we came P \Well, in a sense thatis my view;
but we must discriminate betweenmere life,
on the one hand, and individual life, per-
sonality,on theother. I do not say thatthe
individualhas pre-existed. What I have said
about life in general would apply to every
kind of life—animaland plant life also. No
kind of life has been explained in terms of
matter; I do not believeit can be explained
in terms of matter. But most living things
have no personality. When the question
P.W.
PracticalProb/em:following on
of pre-existence arises I should say that the
individual as we know him is a fresh appari-
tion, a new individualisation of something
pre-existing. Our life came into relation
withmatter as thematter was fitted to receive
it; our initial state in that sense was micro-
scopic, and graduallygrew, more and more,
until it becamewhat we call a grown person.
All that time a character, an individuality,
was growing—a new personality, a new
contribution to existence. The localised
discontinuity of matter may well have been
a help in the process of individualisation.
New things are constantly being formed
out of old material, and about the process
there is much more to be discovered.
My view thus is that this individual self
did not pre-exist,but has formed its character
while in association withmatter during this
present epoch, this particular episode, of
earth—life; and that then it rejoins its larger
self,its pristinepermanentreality,takingwith
it its developed character,but having shaken
off the dust of the earth.
98
the Growing Proof of Suroioal
Now you may say that that is a specula-
tion. Of course it is. But my object is
to try and show the meaning of things as
they have gradually appealed to me from_
the study of physics and psychics; and
if it is not true something better is true.
But I would point out to you that it has
the support of the poets; that is to say,
the support of genius and intuition. There
are many ways ofarrivingat truth. Scientific
investigation is one of them, a slow and
laborious Way, a hard Way, thoughit makes
a solid road if we Wait long enough. But
geniusmay have inspiration. The intuitions
of men of genius are not by any means to
be despised, and the outlook of poets is
instructive. When\X/ordsworthsays,
“
Our
birthis but a sleep and a forgetting,” he is
saying somethinglike What I beginto think
true. Again there is the phrase, “
Descent
into generation.” And again, “
the spirit
yearns to mix itself with clay.” We can
imaginethat,every now and then an oppor-
tunity arises for spirit to enter into relation
99
PractzkalProb/msfollowing on
with matter, and to become gradually an
individual, and develop a character and
personalitywhich will persist; so that there
is almost a kind of “
choice ”
whether we
enter into life or What sort of life we enter
into. In that sense we may be said—with
apparent absurdity, but possibly with some
kind of truth—to select our parentage;
and thus may some facts of heredity be
accounted for.
Now, I repeat, that earth-life is really
the adventure, the puzzling thing, the
exceptional thing. We are incarnations:
We have entered into matter; and yet we
retain some connectionwiththespirit world,
with the real World, where We are more at
home thanwe are here. Thus occur visions,
intuitions, even the “
direct voice,” all
manner of phenomena such as we are
gradually becoming acquainted With, as the
Ancients were. (Cf. 1 Samuel iii. 8;
Matthew iii. 17; John xii. 29; Acts ix. 7.)
[See Numbers xxiv. 16 and Acts x. for
lucidity in a state of trance.]
IOO
the Growing Proof of Survival
Wealso experience—whetherwe recognise
it or not—the guidance and help which are
vouchsafed duringour incarnation. Indeed,
this view thatI have been trying to put for-
ward of theincarnationof spirit withmatter
for thepurpose of development,or for some
high purpose,—either developing character
or performingsome sort ofservice,—is surely
consistent with the essence of the Christian
faith. That Incarnation was much more
than our ordinary association with matter
but was otherwise of the same kind.
But then we are up against the scientific
side of things. It is contended that we
cannot admit interference from another
world: that we cannot allow for assistance
by higher beings. The conservation of
energy has been supposed to prevent that.
I reply, No, for it doesn’t prevent us from
helping each other, or from helping the
lower animals. The argument from the
lower animals is very helpful, I think,when
you have to deal with such thingsas prayer
and miracle, and ask if intervention is
101
PracticalProb/armfollowing an
scientifically possible. To the lower
animals we are higher beings, and we per-
form what to them are miracles,and we can
answer prayer. Ifa cat asks to have thedoor
opened, we can open it. If a bird or a bee
is trapped in a room we can liberate it,
without being asked. That is to say, the
ordinary diflicultiesabout prayer and miracle
evaporatewhen you thinkof us as thehigher
beings and them as the lower. The real
doubt of those who oppose the religious
view is as to whether there are any higher
beings in existence. If there are, we are
not likelyto know theextent oftheirpowers.
Anyone who can suppose that man is the
highest beingin the Universe is in a peculiar
position. If you are familiar with the
extent of the Universe, its marvellous
potentialities and wealth of existence, and
can thinkthat there is no mind that under-
stands it better than we do, you must be
either strangely credulous or else—I would
not like to say stupid, but can think of no
politer term.
102
tbo Growing Proof of Survival
But now we must go on to say,
“
Wefl,
thatis all very well as a speculation,but what
about the facts? What facts are there
capable of establishing survival after the
discarding of the material body P ”
Relevant factsare thoseexceptionaloccur-
rences which to some have seemed frivolous
or trivial, but which in reality demonstrate
L
a power of communication between those
who are normallynot associatedwithmatter
and those who are.
I, and many others, are growinglyaware
that communication between intelligent
beingsis not limited to thefamiliarmethods,
by voice and writing, telegraphy,and those
other methods that we have invented and
commonlyuse. We occasionallyhave tele-
pathiccommunication with each other, and
we can have communicationwiththosewho
have lost those material pieces of mechan-
ism that we commonly employ. People
have grown so accustomed to a material
intermediary that they cannot imagine any
other kind ; but we find thatthereare other
I03
PracticalProb/myfollowing on
kinds. The facts proving this have to be
studied and gradually absorbed. By such
study we gradually become convinced that
those who have departed are not really iso-
lated from us. We are not so isolated in the
Universe as We think. It is true that the
body, this vesture of clay, shuts us off from
a great deal; but material limitations are
consistent with common experience. In
every Art We have to use instruments made
of matter, and the results achieved do not
come up to the ideal of the artificer or
composer. Our reproduction of music is
not the way in which the composer hears
it. Beethoven, when he Was deaf, could
hear the music that he was composing;
he heard it in his soul. As Shakespeare
says :—
“ Such harmony is in immortal souls;
But Whilst this muddy vesture of decay
Dothgrosslyclose it in, We cannot hear it.”
We are here limited by our mechanism,
limited by our senses, the animal senses that
we have inherited from the animals. We
I04
t/Je Growing Proof of Survival
have got an animal body, and have many
diflicultiesassociated with it, but we have a
divine spark which is somethingfrom the
other region, the unseen, brought into this
transitory field of existence. Here, indeed,
we are hampered continually. Our vision
is limited. We have no real outlook,
except in moments. The vision does come
sometimes; but for the majority, we are
shut up in this present transitory body, and
we wonderifWe shall survive theexperience!
Surely, as I said before, we are putting the
cart before the horse, when discussing the
question of survival.
But still we can face the problem. Can
we prove that memory and character do
survive? We have to prove it by psychic
experience. By employingproper means of
communication—someWhatas you do when
you want to telegraph to a distant friend——
you find that the person you knew is
still there, that he remembers the things
that happened, that his character is un-
changed. Memory and character,therefore,
I05
Praatiml Problem:following on
are not in the brain. The brain is material,
the instrument for recording speech, for
enabling you to speak. People say when
the brain is damaged you damage the
mind. HOW do theyknow you damage the
mind? Can you damage the mind with a
brick-bat? The brain can be damagedwith
a brick—bat; that is injury to the machine.
The mechanism is interfered with; the
machinedoesn’t work; the instrument can-
not play; but the music, the character,
the reality, is not destroyed. Merely the
manifestationof it is stopped.
The same With death. It prevents the
manifestation; it prevents at least the easy
manifestation. But, fortunately,it has been
found that under certain conditions occa-
sional communication can still continue, so
that those who have lost their own instru-
ment can use another; and thus we can
prove that survival is a fact. We find that
personality and character and memory do
survive.
If to any of your disciples this is news, it
I06
the Growing Proof of Survival
surelyis thekind of news
“
powerful enough
to change the Whole mental and spiritual
outlook ”; which is what the Archbishop’s
Committee reported as the right kind of
news, if the preachingof the Church was to
“
grip.”
You see, I have been arriving at this
familiar though controversial conclusion
about human survival in rather hind—before
fashion. I have done it purposely. I am
trying to give you a theory,to which I am
beingled and on which I am Working,ofthe
unseen. My thesisis thatthespiritualworld
is the reality,and this life only a temporary
episode. I have given you that as the
conclusion that is to be drawn from certain
facts, and also as the intuition thathas been
more or less in the higher human mind all
thetime. If you willlook into thefacts you
will find they demonstrate the reality of a
spiritual world; and that higher mode of
existence dominates the Whole aspect, the
Whole religious outlook.
And have you realised that this View
107
PracticalProb/er/2:fa//owing on
is consistent, not only with the psychic
phenomenawhich We gropinglyinvestigate,
but also withthe highest thoughtsto which
man has attained? You can thus realise
that psychic facts are Wholesome and good
for humanity, and that they cannot but be
helpful when theyare rightlyused.
I shall try, beforeI have to go
“
upstairs,”
to put these thingsin a more satisfactory,a
fullermanner,for I have studied them all my
life, and the Ether is to me a reality far
beyond what I expect it is to you. You
thinkit fanciful, but it is not. It dominates
the Working of the Whole of life, and if the
spiritual and the physical are always associ-
ated, then it is there that We must look for
the reality and the methodand the meaning
of how these apparently diverse things can
interact. We shall gradually find that
matter, to which We are apt to give such
exclusive attention, only looms so large in
our View because of our animal senses.
Poets deal with Reality, not illusion.
Ultimate realities are in the unseen, and are
108
tbo Growing Proof of Suroiool
thingsof which our ordinary daily life may
leave us quite unconscious. Mind inhabits
and primarily acts upon the ether. Only
with difficulty and in secondary and sub-
ordinate fashion does it act upon matter.
Our senses only respond to, and give us in-
formationabout, matter; thatis whywe have
developed a lop-sided idea of the Universe,
and often fail to recognise that all ultimate
realities,all our highest conceptions——poetic,
artistic, yes, and scientific—liein theunseen,
the immaterial, the ideal. There in that
etherial region We shall be freer from
limitations, and there our spirits will be at
home.
109
7 Tbs [Weaning qf Existence
IT may seem presumptuous to sit down and
consider what the Universe is for. What
is the object of all the masses of matter that
We see in space, and especially what is the
use of this planet Earth, with all the com-
plications and innumerable details which
have been gradually deciphered or brought
to light by scientific explorers? And yet,
though our ignorance is still great, human
knowledge has increased to such an extent
during the last and present centuries, that a
survey of that kind" is not irrational, and
indeed in a sense is inevitable.
We find ourselves on one of theinnumer-
able globes of matter distributed in space,
at distances apart such that they do not
interfere with each other, except in a help-
ing manner. Not scattered about at ran-
dom, as are the atoms in our air which
.110
Tile Meaning of Existence
continually collide With each other, but
distributed according to a system of law
and order, so that theypursue their regular
orbits in peace and harmony for a tremen-
dously long period of time. During that
time many things have happened. The
primevalgas has separatedinto great masses;
and these have split up into smaller ones,
which certainly in the case of the Solar _
System revolve round one of the bigger
masses. These bigger masses are blazing
hot, owing, as we now strongly suspect, to
the clashing together of the electrical con-
stituents vvhich compose the atoms of
matter. But the smaller masses are com-
paratively cool, and would indeed be quite
cold were it not that they are in the neigh-
bourhood of one of the bigger ones, round
which they revolve as a sort of family;
therebybeing preserved at a reasonable and
convenient temperature for chemical pro-
cesses to go on, and complicated molecules
to form.
Under those conditions we find that it
III
Tbe Meaning of Existence
has been possible for some of the more
complicated forms of matter to become
“
animated,” as if a mysterious something
that we call “life ”
had entered into rela-
tion with them, inhabiting or utilising the
assemblage of complex molecules which it
is able to build up in definite shapes for its
own manifestation and development. In
that way, by partially known but mainly
obscure processes, a great variety of vege-
table and animal life has made its appearance
—at least on this planet: we do not know
at present what has happened on the others.
Biological study is entirely limited to this
one; about all the others we are in doubt.
Limiting ourselves to this planet, as in
our present ignorance we must so far as
the study of life is concerned, we perceive
that the animal and vegetable organisms are
auxiliaryand reciprocal to each other; so
that the chemical processes which go on
in theone are helpful and make continuously
possible the other. The vegetable organ-
isms have the power of directlyutilisingthe
112
The Meaning of Exixterzce
rays of the sun, and are thereby enabled to
extract nutriment from inorganic materials;
theyabsorb both from the air and from the
soil certain ingredients which they incor-
porate into their own structure, and build
up molecular assemblages of extraordinary
beauty and complexity. Upon these the
animal organisms are able to feed, and
thereby in their turn build up still more
wonderful structures, endowed with the
power of locomotion, provided with sense-
organs, through which they can appreciate
and ultimately reason about the operations
which they see around them, and of which
they form a part. We realise in fact that
animal life has developed far beyond what
is possible to the vegetables, and that, at
least in the higher forms, life has blossomed
into mind.
Of the first beginnings of life we know
little or nothing, and where to note the
first beginning of mind we cannot draw
the line. We know however that, at least
in some specimens of the human race, mind
P.W. 113 H
|
Tire Meaning of Existence
has already reached a marvellous develop-
ment; so that We are accustomed to a dis-
play, not only of intelligence, but also of
emotion, aspiration, and will, far beyond
anything that could have been expected
from its early beginnings. It seems in-
credible thatman’s achievements can be the
outcome of any material aggregation, and
people have been led to suppose that they
can be due to nothing less than an influx
of a spirit akin to the Divine, associating
itself with and manifesting itself by the
material organisms that under its influence
have been constructed.
Philosophic attempts have been made,
and are still beingmade, to
The Meaning of Exixteme
ultimate nature may be we have hardly yet
in science begun to consider. We have to
leave thosehigh gropings to philosophyand
to religion. Such information as we can
get on those topics is mainlylimited to the
intuitions of philosophers,poets, and saints.
As men of science we have to take a prosaic
View of existence, and study things one at a
time by the method of abstraction; some
attending mainly or solely to the material
side, others attending to the mental and
spiritual side; the two groups sometimes
disputing among themselves as to the best
way of expressing that mutual interaction
betweenthemwhichis a common experience
of mankind.
Let us then see whether by contemplating
separately the two aspects of the Universe,
without dogmatism but merely with open
minds, we can formulate any fundamental
difference between the two aspects, in such
a way as possiblyto give us some faint idea
of the meaning and purpose of the Whole.
Looking first at the material, or rather
115
Tbe Meaning of Existence
the physical, side of the world, we find not
matter alone, but energy. The organisms
that we see on the earth are composed of
matter; but they have been built up by
means of energy derived from the sun.
All the parts of the physicalaspect of things
are mutually dependent, after the same sort
of fashion as the animal and the vegetable
are mutually dependent. The energy which
has builtup the organismshas been received
in radiantform, thatis to say by a process of
radiation reaching the earth through empty
space, that is through space devoid of
matter; for between the sun and the earth
there is nothingbut what we call vacuum.
We have learnt, however, that radiation
consists of waves or periodic disturbances,
which travel at a definite and measurable
pace. We have learnt also that they are
not conveyed by matter; and hence we feel
bound to suppose that they are conveyed
by something else,—something which is
coextensive withspace, extendingfar beyond
the sun, away without breach of continuity
I16
Tbe Meaning of Exiyterzce
to the most distant visible star. For it is
only through the revelation thus brought
to us that we are aware of the enormous
extent of the universe, an extent thatto our
ancestors would have seemed utterly in-
credible, and that excites the astonishment
and veneration even of astronomers.
The substance, whatever it is, that con-
veys light, also transmits gravitation; and
we experiment upon its other properties in
the sciences of Electricity and Magnetism.
What name we give to it is of no import-
ance; some prefer to call it space, thoughit
,is certainly space endowed with physical
properties; and some therefore prefer to
call it ether. But whatever it be, it is some-
thingin which all the masses of matter are
immersed, which, moreover, is continually
reacting with them, and giving them their
energy. Energy received by matter takes
the form of locomotion: available energy
in the ether takes the form of strain. And
all the activities that we see around us are
due to theinterchange of thesetwo forms of
I17
Tbe Meaning of Existence
energy. There need beno Waste or dissipa-
tion of energy, it is constant in quantity,
but continually changing its form, passing
from ether to matter, and back again. This
may not be obvious, and I do not suppose
it is obvious; but it is what a study of
physics leads to, and may be accepted for
the present as a statement of fact. Such a
process, if conducted With perfect efficiency,
that is without any waste, is called a rever-
sible process; and a word must be said
about this principleof reversibility.
We are acquaintedwithmanypartlyrevers-
ible processes, though most are imperfect
ones, accompanied with some waste. An
engine is a reversible machine: if driven
backwards, it acts as a pump. The engine
of a motor-car, which can drive the car
uphill,if left in gear while going downhill,
is Working as a pump, and might be made
to store the energy of the descent. A
wound-up weight need not beiusedto drive
the hands of a clock, it might be made to
raise another weight, either a big one
118
T/ye Meaning of Exirteme
through a smaller height, or a smaller one
througha greater height. Similarlya water-
fall might be used to pump all the water to
somethingless than the height from which
it came. Or it might be used, as it some-
times is, for pumping a small quantity of
water to a much greater height. It is true
thatwithour imperfect machinerythe work
got out of a machineis always less, though
it need not be much less, than what is put
into it. It cannot be greater; even if
friction were avoided.
A train running downhillon smoothrails
accumulates momentum, which could be
utilised for running the same train uphill;
and if there were no friction, such an opera-
tion might be reversible, so that the train
could rise to the height from which it
descended. In a pendulum, friction is re-
duced to a minimum, and accordinglythe
bob of the pendulum, raised and let go on
one side, swings down and rises an equal
height on the other, or very nearlyan equal
height, and then swings back and continues
I19
Tbe Meaning of Existence
swinging for a long time. If it were com-
pletely efficient, that is if there were no
waste of energy, a pendulum once started
would go on for ever. As it is, a very
heavy long pendulum can continue to swing
for the best part of a day, the energy at the
top of each swing being in the form of
gravitational strain in the ether, and at the
bottom of each swing being in the form of
locomotionof matter. This simple example
is typicalof a reversible process, and though
not perfectly reversible, is about the nearest
mechanical approach we can get under
present conditions.
Another example, not so unfamiliarnow
as it would have been last century, is a
dynamo charging a battery. The dynamo
can work equally well as a motor. The
energy put into it is stored in the battery,
and the battery can then drive the dynamo
at a somewhat lower speed. The process
is used on a large scale in factories for the
transmissionofpower. And iftwo dynamos
were coupled together—coupled by both
120
Tbe Meaning of Existence
belt and wires—they would very nearly
drive each other, the balance of energy that
would have to be put into the system being
quite small, and only needed to overcome
the inevitable friction and resistance losses.
It is in this way indeed that the late John
Hopkinson devised a method for testing
the efficiency of dynamos. If they were
perfectly efficient they would, once started,
continueto drive eachotherwithoutexternal
propulsion. And some crankypersons have
thought that perpetual motion could thus
be achieved. It cannot, for there is always
some waste. When dealing with matter,
friction cannot be avoided. You cannot
get quite so much out of a machine as you
put into it, but in so far as it is nearly
perfect you need not get much less. The
test of a perfect machine is reversibility.
Now,thoughnone of our machinesis per-
fect, the universe, considered as a machine,
is. There is a constant passage of energy
from one form to another, from ether to
matter, and back again, and there is no loss
121
The Meaning of Exzlrteizce
by the way. So the physical universe is a
reversibleengine : its operationsare cyclical;
thatis, theygo round and round in a cycle,
with no advance, no progression, but with
constant and eternal repetition.
Parenthetically,I ought to say that there
is some doubt at present whether this last
statement is finally and absolutely true;
some doubt whether matter is not gradually
passing into the energy of radiation, and
not getting back again. There is, how-
ever, a possibility that, under certain un-
known conditions,the energy does get back
again; so that matter may be reconstituted
out of radiation. That question for the
present remains open. I am going to
assume that some day it will be answered
in the affirmative, and, if so, then thewhole
physical universe is a permanent perfect
reversible machine.
Conlrast
Now attend to the other side of the
picture, and consider the operations of life
122
The Meamrzg of Eximme
and mind. In them we detect no kind of
reversibility. What we see in them is real
progress, development, evolution. The
living organisms that we see to—day are a
vast improvement on their initial stages.
Life beganin very lowlyforms : that seems
undoubted. But in the lapse of time it
has risen in the scale, both in the vegetable
and the animal kingdom, until we see such
highly developed forms as the oak, the
eagle, and the horse. Nor need we stop
there. At present man is the crown of the
process: and to go no higher, man has
already shown what he can become by such
examples as Plato and Newton and Shake-
speare. There is nothing cyclical or re-
versible about the evolution of man, unless
indeed in a fit of lunacy he devises instru-
ments to secure his own destruction. But
there is nothing in the nature of things to
necessitate that. If he continues a rational
being, he can rise to heights beyond our
present contemplation,and doubtless in due
time he will. He has begun to look round
12;
Tlze Meaning of Exixteme
and take stock of his surroundings, to take
control of the energies of nature, and to
utilise them for his own convenience, and
ultimately for his own advancement. He
can waste energy if he likes, but there is
no compulsion. There is indeed no com-
pulsion either Way. A man can drive his
motor into a ditch or over a precipice if he
chooses ; but he need not choose. He has
got to a point now Where, Within certain
limits, he can decide his own destination.
The physical universe goes round and
round, and repeats itself in regular orbits.
Man need do nothingof the kind: history
need not repeat itself. Ups and downs
there may be. Progress and retrogression
in certain localities there have been, and .
stillmay be; but on theWhole man is rising
in the scale, and apparently may rise with-
out limit. This is real evolution. It was
to make this possible that the physical
universe existed. The cyclicaloperations of
matter may be made to conduce to one great
end, a growthin mental and spiritualvalues.
124
Tbe Meaning of Exirfeme
And this I take it is the meaning and
object of the universe. What we see going
on now is the spiritual utilisationof physical
processes, towards a constant and unending
progression, both for the individual and for
the race. Evolution is an unfolding of
latent possibilities; and the mechanism of
the universe is subordinate to that great
end. Evolution is more than the unfolding
of a flower. The plant develops from a
seed, it flowers and fruits, it brings forth
seeds, and so begins again. But this is
hardly a representation of true evolution.
Even in plants and animals there has been
slow true evolution; for the species now
are higher than they were. Living organ-
isms do not belong only to the material
‘world: they exhibit the interaction of a
progressive life.
But man exhibits more than that. His
history shows the development of a pro-
gressive mind; and in true evolution there
need be no going back. Perfection in his
case is not tested by reversibility: he is not
125
Tbe Meaning of Existerzre
a reversible machine. His body truly only
lasts for a time, and then falls into decay;
but the individuality,the personality, con-
tinues. The individual is more permanent
than the race. I know for a fact that as
individuals we survive the death of the
body: the race cannot be expected to
survive the death of the planet. But it
has a long time ahead. We used to think
that the sun might become extinct, or at
any rate dimmer, in the course of some
million years. There is no reason to think
so now. There is an infinitude of time
before the individual; there is presumably
not an infinitude of time before the race,
but everythingpoints to a time which must
be estimated in millions of centuries.
So thatif man takes thereins in his hands,
and with the help of Higher Powers aims
at concentrating upon things of real value,
no one can imagine what he may become.
And our remote posterity, looking back
upon the struggle, the constant effort that
has brought man to his present position
126
The Meaning of Existence
and must surely continue to raise him in
the scale, will realise that the trouble has
been Worth while. They will perceive,
more clearly than We do, that in no other
way could a perfect humanity have been
developedfrom lowlybeginnings; theywill
admit that immense tracts of time were
necessary, and that all the reversible pro-
cesses of physical or material nature have
been devised and utilised for this great
object—the evolving and perfecting of
man as an immortal being of surpassing
intelligence and beauty. Thus gradually
they will recognise with awe and devotion,
what we are only beginning to recognise
now, the Meaning of Existence.
I27
8 Tlye New Outlook in Plyrlar
IT is often said that science is becoming
more idealistic than it used to be, and there
does seem to be a tendency to unite a study
of physics with a study of some of the
peculiarphenomenaof Life. Let us see how
We stand in relation to thePhysics of to—day.
In a recent address on
“
Literary Bio-
graphy,” Mr. Philip Guedalla has jocularly
said that “
Biography is a thing with per-
fectly definite limits; it is a region that is
bounded on the north by history, on the
south by fiction, on the east by obituary
notices, and on the West by tedium.” We
may parody this by saying that the science
of physics is bounded on the north by
mathematics, on the south by experiment,
on the west by accumulated experience of
the past, and on the east by intuition and
speculation.
I28
Tbe New Outlook in Pbyriw
The northern region is cold and arid,
but exceedingly bracing and stimulating to
those who have sufficient clothingto enable
them to feel at home in those icy fastnesses,
whence descend fertilising streams to the
plains below. The southern region is more
habitable, and very fertile in all manner of
practicalcontrivances which have modified,
complicated, and to some extent amelior-
ated, the lot of mankind: so that it leads
into a region of tropical fruitfulness in
which the engineer and the capitalist are
more at home thanthe pure physicist. The
western boundary is one towards which our
luminariesappear to be continuallydescend-
inginto comparativeoblivion,leavingbehind
their fructifying influence, and becoming
themselves more or less superseded and
out of date.
It is to the eastern horizon now that all
eyes are turned, watching the luminaries
that are ascending through the mists of the
morning, only dimly seen as yet, but bring-
ing withthema great promise for thefuture
P.W. I 29 I
The New Outlook in P}Jy.rz'c.r
and hopes of a clearer sky when the clouds
have cleared away.
The electron was one of the objects on
which our scientific observer feasted his
eyes, at the beginning of this century, as a
definite speck of brightness. But now it is
drawing itself out, and seems more like a
comet thana fixed star. Its boundarieshave
become blurred, and its locality indefinite.
From one point of view the definite points
of light seem merging into a sort of con-
tinuum; while, from another, a continuous
luminosity gathers itself together into dis-
continuous points. The gain of definite-
ness on the one hand is mingled with a
loss of definiteness on the other. A con-
tinuum seems breaking up into discon-
tinuities, and yet discontinuities show signs
of merging into a continuum. It is im-
possible to say what the outcome will be,
and it would be rash to make the attempt.
Suffice it to say that a greater unity is
beginning to be discerned throughout the
material cosmos; and that the initial stages
15o
T/.2e New Outlook in Plyisiar
of some comprehensive unification are of
great interest for the present and of good
augury for the future.
Let us now trace these unifying resem-
blances rather more in detail.
The atom has yielded up some of its
secrets; and so have the stars. The two
things, so diflerent in scale, are more alike
than had been expected, and investigation
of the one helps our knowledge of the
other. It is probably true that more is
known about the interior of a star than
about the interior of the earth. Some of
the stars are disintegrating into radiation,
and so are some of the atoms. Nothing
material is permanent, everything is in a
state of flux. This indeed was said long ago
by I-Ieracleitus as a brilliant intuition, but
it is turning out more literally true than
could have been anticipated. Old-estab-
lished laws are modified and half discarded,
new laws take their place, and we are sur-
rounded by uncertainty. The conservation
of matter has had to be discarded, and there
151
The New Outlook in P/Jjsiu
are signs that even the conservation of
energy begins incrediblyto be suspect.
Meanwhile, matter and energy have
merged into one another; both are treated
geometrically,as if theywere properties of
space, or ratherof the greater generalisation
called space-time; and there is beginning a
great unification which, in spite of present
complexity, seems likely to lead to an
ultimate simplification. Electricity and
magnetism, whatever they may be ulti-
mately resolved into, seem likely for the
present to reign supreme. Already they
have dominated and annexed the domain of
optics and light; they are depended on for
cohesion; and now they seem likely to
absorb gravitationlikewise. Matter already
is largely electrical, some think wholly
electrical. It has been discovered to be one
of the forms which energy may take.
The whole of activity consists in the
transmutationof forms of energy; although
what energy is in itself remains an open
question. Space is discovered to have
132
Tbe New Outlook in Pb}.rz'c.r
physical properties: and just as Faraday
recalled our attention from the conductors
supporting electric charge to the space sur-
rounding them, and showed that all the
observed phenomenareally went on in that
apparently empty space, so it would appear
to be with our Wider outlook in the near
future. Matter is turning out to be an
insignificant portion of the whole physical
universe, a rare and occasional perturbation
of its vast extent. Probably the more
important, although certainly the more
elusive, activities occur in the inter-atornic,
inter-planetary, and inter-stellar space.*
Hitherto our attention has been concen-
* The stars are not at all close together; thegreat
bulk of space is empty. Only at long intervals do
We encounter a star. If we reduce their scale till
each star is a speck of dust, Sir James Jeans tells us
that on the average those dust particles would be 80
milesapart; and thateven in our own fairlycrowded
region of the galaxy,where the intervals are in yards
rather than miles, a space like Waterloo Station
emptied of everythingexcept six or seven grains of
dust will represent theabundant room allotted to the
sun and its nearest stellar neighbours.
153
Tbe New Outlook in Péyxirx
trated and almost entirely limited by our
senses to the particles and aggregates of
matter. But now our minds are ascending
beyond the scope of sensation into the
fundamental region in which matter exists.
All the heavenly bodies move in a vacuum;
and so does every atom. It is in the inter-
space thattheenergy reallylies. Something
in space it is which welds particles together
by cohesion into a tangiblebody, and welds
bodies together by gravitation into a cos-
mos; so that the properties of that inter-
stitial space are likely to form the greater
part of the physics of the future.
We know something about empty space
already; we know that it can transmit
radiation, and we know the rate at which
radiation travels. There seems no doubt
about that,althoughtheintimate or ultimate
nature of radiation we do not yet know.
We realise thatit is a modification of space,
and we can follow the modificationin time.
But what unmodified space is like, and what
time is like, we do not know. We can,
134
The New Outlook in P/Jyxiar
however, experiment on radiation by aid
of its interaction with matter.
Another modification of vacuous space
we call an electric charge, and WC can make
experiments on that too. Surprisingly it
has inertia, and is amenable to mechanical
force. It almost certainly has Weight.
Another variety of obscure energy we call
a magnetic field. These are all modifica-
tions of space; and probably the very in-
gredients of the atom of matter are modifi-
cations too, for the atom is composed of
positive and negative electric charges, far
apart from each other in proportion to
their size. Herein enters the possibilityof
experiment. We can apprehend and deal
with matter; for it is an immediate infer-
ence from our tactilesensations, and We are
provided with muscles which enable us to
move it—to move it in accordance with
plan. We might define matter as that
which can be moved; although What
“
motion ”
really means we should find it
difficult to explain. Matter and motion are
135
Tbe New Outlook in P/gysiar
things we have senses for, so that we have
grown accustomed to them, and are apt to
forget their mysterious nature. The prob-
lem of modern physics is to try to under-
stand these over-familiar things and to
resolve them into somethingmore ultimate,
although at the moment less intelligible.
Not unnaturally our early attempts at for-
mulationinvolveunfamiliarand even contra-
dictory modes of expression.
Whenever we encounter or seem to
encounter an insoluble discrepancy between
reality and reason, or rather between What
we apprehend as reality and our particular
brand of reasoning, We may assume that
not the Universe but either our apprehen-
sion or our reasoning is at fault. It is an
act of faith so to assume; but it is a faith
thathas been justifiedin particular instances
time and again. The uniformity of nature,
the sequence of cause and effect, rests on no
surer foundation. Such faith is essential to
the pursuit of science; and I presume that
faith of that kind is acceptable to theo-
I36
Tbe New Outlook in P/J}.rz'c.r
logians. In that faith we shall be wise if
we continue, whatever else we may feel
constrained to discard. If we could solve
all our difliculties while we tramp along,
existencewould beduller andless stimulating
than it is.
Other things interact with matter besides
light and gravitation, and thus also have
come within our sensory ken. “
Life ”
interacts with matter; so that we are
accustomed to observe living things, both
animal and Vegetable. But what life really
is, and how it interacts with matter, we do
not know. A department called bio-physics
is growing up, which seeks to investigate
the interaction of life and matter. Perhaps
life is a modification of space too ?
Animatedmatter obeysthelaws of physics
and chemistry, just as ordinary matter does :
yes, we may grant that to be true ; and yet,
when animated, it has something super-
added. It has properties not possessed by
the inanimate,—a kind of spontaneity, a
sort of self-determination. Or at the least
137
T123 New Outlook in Pl}.rz'c.r
it is formed into a characteristic shape not
dependent on the kind of food supplied.
And when in its higher stages life blossoms
into consciousness——our own consciousness
—We have first-handwknowledge that it is
able to form strange conceptions; it has
not only memory of the past, but antici-
pation of the future also; it can determine
and can act accordingly. No mechanism
can do that, so We are more than mechan-
ism. We can form plans and carry them
out. We can brood and meditate and
partly understand. Occasionally We can
even predict. We are guided by the future
as Well as by the past.
If, indeed, life is a manifestation of one
of the properties of space—time, it is one of
extraordinary interest, for it suggests scope
for investigation far beyond anything pre-
viously contemplated by science. Mind—-
Whatever it be—leads us into a region of
the infinite and the incomprehensible. It
seeks to understand. And where it fails to
understand it can admire. It can admire
I38
Tbe New Outlook in P/ayriar
the beauty of structure and processes; it
can marvel at the adaptation and splendour
of nature, the interlocked intricacies of its
laws. And when these too pass beyondits
scope, so that they are no longer apprehen-
sible but merge into the unfamiliar and
the eternal, it is overwhelmed by a feeling
of awe, and takes refuge in the human
faculty of worship.
A somewhat modified View of mechan-
ism still holds the field; but it is mechanism
of a glorifiedkind. No longer do we expect
to explain all even purely physical realities
in terms of matter. The old mechanical
models of ether will not work. Now that
we realise what a comparativelyexceptional
peculiarity matter is, and how dependent it
is on the properties of the medium in which
it exists and out of which it is presumably
formed, it is in no way surprising that the
aim now is rather to explain the behaviour
of matter in terms of a more fundamental
reality, than to seek to model reality under
the guise of a material assemblage. Even
139
The New Outlook in P/J}.rz'r.r
the physical universe is far greater than the
limited material aspect which appeals to the
senses. The true nature of physicalpheno-
mena is to be sought in space and its proper-
ties. The. attempt to find a mechanical
ether, and to define it in terms of material
machinery, has been perforce given up.
Yet the name
“
ether”
may survive, for
there is certainly a physical reality filling
space. Can it be a substance? It is sub-
stantial in that it stands under everything-
a truly fundamental sub-stance, although
unlike any substance with which We are
acquainted.
Herein lies the immediate problem of the
future. This may be regarded as the next
extensive step or aim in physics—to Weld
togetherthe newer and the older discoveries
into an all-embracing system which shall
include them all—althoughprobably it may
do so in Ways which at present We can
barely guess. To make revolutionary pro-
gress we must transcend matter and its
relative motions, and must formulate the
140
The New Outlook in Pb}/sic:
properties of the fundamental entity which
fills space and endures in time. There
must be somethingin it of a periodic char—
acter Which justifies our sense of duration,
and accounts for all theproperties of matter.
The mind is stretched to the utmost, but
we do not despair. Rational the universe
has always been, and rational it assuredly
is. In other words, it is in harmony With
the human mind, when that is sui-Iiciently
informed and enlightened to perceive the
grandeur of truth.
Experience has consistently shown that
there is a rational process behind every-
thing, and it is possible for us by patient
investigation to ascertain the Working of
the process and to study the laws of its
operation. Theologianswould surely admit
thatnothingis accomplishedsave by rational
methods; nor is there any intervention by
other than accredited agencies or agents-
however transcendent some of them may
be. As was said of old about the Logos——
the Personification of Reason, of Law and
141
The New Outlook in P/Jjrim
Order—“ Without him was not anything
made that was made.”
It is the privilege of science to contem-
plate creation and to work it out; to realise
What is happening and to dive down as far
as We can to the innermost core of the
mystery. We have, indeed, far to go : We
have as yet but scratched the surface of
things. Onlylatelyhave we begunto probe
the constitution of the atom; only recently
have the stars and nebula begun to display
their hereditary connection. The birthand
death of Worlds is now being contemplated
by science. We are witnessing something
of the process of creation actuallygoing on.
Humanityis in its infancy. What Wonder
if we stumble and halt by the way. YetWe
are making progress. \Ve that were walk-
ing in darkness have caught a glimpse of a
great light. Naturally we are dazzled, and
it may be perturbed. But We live in a
privileged age. Men of genius as great as
any in the past are Working among us.
Some great generalisation is approaching;
I42
The New Outlook in P/mic:
and mathematical physicists all over the
world are contributing to its arrival. The
workmay have to go on for a century before
the sun rises, but through the haze and
mists of the twilightwe catch the glimmer
of a rosy and hopeful dawn.
143
9 A .S'ur1/gy of Ohrmre Pycbic
Pberzomenaneeding Im/e.rtz;gation
MEANWHILE, quite apart from Biology,
assertions are made about a number of
obscure facultiespossessed by human beings
which need investigation, since abnormal
and exceptional occurrences often tend to
illuminate the customary and the normal.
I propose to summarise the kind of pheno-
mena which are receiving and which need
investigation; though this chapter is one
that may be skipped by students of the
subject already familiarwith its literature.
The primary question is one of fact. If
there is no fact underlying the subject the
Whole question falls into a mere discussion
as to how such beliefs arose—a question on
which folklorists would have plenty to say
satisfactory to themselves. The question
for us is, What are the facts ?
The asserted facts are such as these 2
I44
P/Jenonzena needing Investigation
I. Unconscious reception of information
in dreams, Whether of past, present, or
future events.
Dream—activity sometimes results in:
(a) Solution of problems, or construction
of poems.
(b) The devising of plots for stories and
other intuitions.
(5) The reproduction or perception of
somethingoccurring at a distance.
(d) The anticipation or premonition of
somethinglikely to occur.
It is fairly Well known that R. L. Steven-
son used to get some of his plots contributed
to him either in his sleep or in some dreamy
waking condition. He has described his
feeling of the process; and, among other
things, it is understood that the Jekyll and
Hyde plot came in that Way.
OtherWriters, especiallypoets, have attri-
buted their best Work to some kind of
intuition or inspiration, appearing to come
from outside themselves; the most notable
instanceperhaps beingColeridge’sKala/aK/Jan.
1>.w. _
145 K
A Survey of Obscure Pym/air
Unconscious mental action in other fields
can beillustratedby thecase of Lord Kelvin,
who used to take one of his abstruse mathe-
matical notebooks to bed and read it last
thing,hoping, and sometimes finding, that
the diflicultieswould be lightened by morn-
ing. Indeed, this sort of procedure is
sometimes followed by schoolboys as a help
to learning their lessons—or used to be
when extensive learning by heart was in
fashion.
Actual information obtained in dreams
is rarer, but there are a great many legends
of it, some of which appear well—evidenced;
and a few recorded dreams seem to anticipate
the future.
Dream-activityis sometimes accompanied
by unconscious bodily movements such as
speaking, Writing, or Walking. If the sub-
ject matter of the dream rises into conscious-
ness at all, it usually evaporates quicklyand
is readily forgotten. Occasionally, how.-
ever, a dream makes a deep impression and
gets itself permanently recorded. Only in
146
Phenomena neediflg Invertzgation
such cases can they be seriously attended to
for scientific purposes.
Are all dreams veridicalP Are many
Worthy of attention P The answer is : No,
certainlynot. But occasionallyreal informa-
tion is received in dreams.
Waking Activitie:
II. A similar receptive faculty can exist
in the waking state. This is rarer, and on
the whole less likely to be mixed with
rubbish, but, like everything else, is liable
to confusion and error. This percipient or
receptive facultymay manifest itself through
What seems like hearing or seeing, or a
vague impression like a premonition. It
is sometimes called sensory automatism.
Sometimes it is accompanied by motor
automatism,and takes the form of speaking
or writing. Automatic writing is a very
frequent form. A more elementary aid is
a planchette, a moving-pencildevice where-
with to make the letters; and the most
elementary is automaticspelling by a ouija-
147
A Survey of Obxcure Pxyc/J1":
board, where printed letters are already pro-
vided and are merely pointed to by some
object on which the hand of the automatist
rests. Another variety is when letters of
the alphabetare called over, and theright set
selected by table tilts. Occasionallya Morse
alphabetis used, by a process analogous to
theuse of a telegraphickey. The particular
instrument does not matter: any piece of
wood serves.
These waking activities are usually semi-
conscious, and soon forgotten unless a
record is preserved. The things obtained
are of very different value. Much of it
represents merelythe subconscious or dream
stratum emerginginto activityWithoutsleep,
and yet giving nothingbetter than a sort of
dream. But occasionallythe subconscious-
ness appears to be in touch with another
order of existence, and thereby gains in-
formation that otherwise would be inac-
cessible, so thattheprocess may be regarded
as the lowest type of inspiration. For in
true inspiration, though ideas also well up
148
Plmzomemz needing Invextzgation
through the subconsciousness from an un-
known source, they are received into the
consciousness and can there be utilised and
elaborated into a work of art or literature
or music. Inspiration which hardly rises
above the subconsciousness and is received
automatically,may be of value, but must
be considered as a lower type.
A curious lucidity or perceptive faculty
can be stimulated by objects, or even sealed
documents, when it is called psychometry;
or, when the object is buried, dowsing.
Another variety is stimulated by staring at
a bright object, or into a clear depth, when
it is called crystal-vision. These curious
faculties have been treated as superstitions,
but whatever their explanation they have
established themselvesas facts. Water—find-
ing by experts has indeed become almost a
commercial proposition. Some peopleseem
born with this faculty, and they usually
employ some sort of twig as indicator;
though it is difficult to see how the twig
helps them, or what causes it to move in
I49
A Szmxgi of Obw/re“,_P.9/r/92:
their hands involuntarily. Presumably the
findingofwater was of such vitalimportance
to animals and to primitive man that some
trace of an instinct has survived.
The subject of crystal-vision greatlyinter-
ested Andrew Lang, who studied it a good
deal, and considered it a reality; that is to
say, he considered that the state of mind
brought about by looking into a clear
depth, for some time, facilitatedthe rise of
pictures or images in the mind, and that
these pictures or images sometimes corre-
sponded to either historical or current
events. So far as I know he did not sup-
pose that the crystal or glass sphere had
any influence other than a stimulating one;
he did not imagine that the pictures were
really “ there”.
It is, however, sometimes asserted by
responsible people that these pictures can
occasionally be seen simultaneously by
others; which might perhaps be attribut-
able to the influence of telepathy from the
original scrier. It has even been said—I
15o
‘ll
,..
Pbenomazza needing Invextzgation
know not on what authority—thatoccasion-
ally these visions can be photographed,
which would point to objectivity. But I
by no means vouch for that; since, before
assuming anything of that kind, great pre-
cautions would have to be taken againstthe
surreptitious placing of pictures below the
transparentbody. Ofcourse thatprecaution
must be taken anyhow; but when figures
in the vision are seen to move about and act
dramatically,it renders that sort of normal
explanationunlikely. A photographicrecord
would not have thatadvantage.
Instances of the use of the so-called
psychometric faculty are too numerous to
mention. Whatever may be the explana-
tion, it is certain that an object with a
history attached to it does seem to enable
a sensitive person to decipher some of that
history. Robert Browning narrated an epi-
sode of that kind in connexion with a ring
which had belonged to a murdered man.
And many other instances, some of them
observed by myself, have been published.
I51
Pberzomma needing Inverfzgation
thecontents. Theywere foundto beexactly
What was described by M. Ossowiecki
(Revue Métapy/rbigue, Nov.—Dec., I921).
The comparativelyWell-known faculty of
dowsing, or finding objects hidden in the
ground, has been specially studied by Sir
William Barrett, who has written an elabor-
ate book on the subject, and has framed
theories; though a full and satisfactory
explanation of‘the faculty is still lacking.
Trance Lucidizy
III. Trance. Deeper receptivity can be
manifested in thetrance state, and is demon-
strated by automatic or quite unconscious
movements, resulting in eithertrance-speech
or trance-writing. The utilisation of this
kind of lucidity requires a note—taker or an
experimenter in charge, either to record the
trance-speech, or to see that pencils and
paper are properly available.
A classical example.of this kind of thing
is the case of Mrs. Piper, with whom the
S.P.R. had twenty-five years’ experience.
153
I
A Sunny! of Obscure Pym/22':
It is also a fairly common form among the
best professional mediums to-day. The
element of sophistication, from the know-
ledge or mental deposit of the medium, is
here reduced to a minimum, at least when
the trance is strong and the conditions
good; that is, quiet, peaceful, and unper-
turbed. But even so the brain of the
medium has to be employed; thelimitations
of its capacity are therefore apparent; its
habits or usual channels, or brain deposits,
have to be utilised or selected from; and
only by special effort can intelligence be got
throughof a kind quite beyondthemedium’s
normal brain capacity.
An educated medium, therefore,furnishes
a better channel for, let us say, foreign
languages, or scientific facts, or mathe-
matical calculations. But although an edu-
cated medium can give higher results, there
is alwaysthe difficultyof beingsure whether
the normal powers of the medium are not
suflicientto account for those results. And
this difficulty is almost greater with an
154
P/ymoweim needing Im2m‘z’gaz‘z'on
educated medium than with an average
person withno education worth speaking of.
At the same time it is only fair to record
that occasionally things are got through
from what appear to be distinguished
scholars on the other side, which are beyond
the capacity of even an educated medium;
the most striking instance of which is the
problem apparently set by Professors Ver-
rall and Butcher, published by Mr. Gerald
Balfour, under the title “
The Ear of
Dionysius.”
It would take too long to refer to this
paper in detail, but brieflyit may be said
that the problem set was to find an obscure
classical authorwhose writings would unite
“
The One Ear of Dionysius ”
with “
The
One Eye of the Cyclops ”
in unmistakable
fashion, and at the same time would bring
in otherthemes,such as Music and Jealousy,
and Acis and Galatea, and Balaustion, and
Horace, and Satire—and incidentallyseveral
other things. Clues or hints towards solu-
tion were not all given at once by the
155
S
v-ski
P/aezzomna needing Inveyfzgation
Again there was another case of interest
in connexion with a question about Lethe,
which was put to the supposed Myers
through the mediumship of Mrs. Piper,
Whose classical knowledge is nil. The
answer given to this question was not of
the simple and obvious kind, but was an
elaborate reference to a story in Ovid,
which at first sight appeared to have nothing
to do with the River of Lethe; though,
on examination, it was found to be quite
appropriate.
Many other things connected with this
Lethe subject are narrated in the Proreeding:
of the S.P.R. And a cross-correspond-
ence, on this same subject, with another
medium not connected with Mrs. Piper is
also there recorded by myself; the refer-
ences, this time, being to the Sixth Book of
the _/Erzeid,' and the name of the man who
had asked the same question previously,in
America, was also given supernormally.
(Proc. S.P.R. vol. xxv. p. xi. 126).
157
A Survgl of Obscure Pyrcbic
Cross-correspondence
This whole subject of cross—correspond—
ence is of interest and importance. It was
discovered by finding hidden references to
the same subject coming through two or
three different and disconnected mediums
(one in England, another in America, and
another in India), the references all being
made independently and approximately
simultaneously,presumably for the purpose
of showing that one intelligence was at
work in concocting the fragmentary but
ultimately coherent message. The inten-
tion of the communicator, clearly, was to
get somethingdefinite throughseveral differ-
ent channels, calling attention ultimately to
the fact that it had been got through, but
wrapping it up at the time so that none of
the mediums should understand what was
being written, so as to avoid unconscious
telepathybetween them.
This ingenious plan has been carried out
very successfully; and several volumes of
158
Pbenonzena needing Innertigation
the Proceedings of the S.P.R., subsequent to
Mr. Myers’s death in 1901, are full of this
kind of almost incontrovertible evidence.
Dz'mmz'on and Prowkional Attenzptx at
Explanation of ma}; Plzenornena
Reverting to lucidity in general, how-
ever it be manifested, and apart from any
specific form, the proof has occasionally
beenfairlyconclusivethattheresults obtained
were certainly beyond the power of the
medium, especially when that medium is a
young child—ofwhich I suppose the infant
Samuel is the ancient classical case. It is
noteworthythat child-lucidityis still known
in various forms of infantprodigy,especially
in music and the easier kinds of mathe-
matics. In some cases it has even been
asserted that the brain and muscle mechan-
ism, even of an animal, has been used to do
exceedingly simple arithmetical or spelling
operations.
As regards supernormal animal intelli-
gence, M. Maeterlinck has called public
159
A Survey of Obscure Pysrbic
attention to the case of the Elberfeld horses,
and the Bavarian dog Rolf, and has shown
how diflicult any normal explanation is.
An investigator of the S.P.R. also saw
something of these animals, and he could
detect no fraud on the part of those who
attended to them.
Child prodigies seem less bizarre, but are
really equally mysterious. The calculating
faculty and the musical faculty both seem
to develop at a preternaturally early age in
exceptional cases. One of the most re-
markablewas the Spanish child Pepito, who
at the age of two could play the piano, and
at the age of three gave public perform-
ances; not, of course, reading the music,
but being able to play anything he had
heard, and also occasionallyto compose.
I do not say that this precocious faculty
always lasts in later life, though occasion-
ally we know that a fairly precocious child
has developed into a great musician, like
Handel or Mozart; or into a great mathe-
matician like Gauss. Though in other
160
Phenomena needing Izwextzgation
cases the facultyhas either evaporated alto-
gether, or has survived to some extent in a
fairly ordinary individual; or sometimes,
strange to say, in an individual below the
normal intelligence. All these questions
are interesting enough, but the important
thing for our present purpose is, how the
faculty can exist at all in a very young and
untrained child.
Po.r.rz'b/e Source: of Lzm'a’z'g‘y
The sources of lucidity in all these cases
(I, II, III) must be sought. And most of
the controversy, at least the more reason-
able kind of controversy connected with
this subject, concerns the nature of the
intelligence concerned. Admittedlythe in-
telligenceshown is not thenormal customary
intelligence of theoperatingperson, Whether
they be in the dream stage, or the Waking
state, or in trance. At least, Whenever the
things said can by any stretching be attri-
buted to the normal intelligence no serious
problem arises; but as to the nature of the
P.W. 161 L
A Survgr of Obscure Pglcbir
ultra-normal intelligence in more difficult
cases, there are several schools of thought.
‘One explanation has been sought in a
stimulated activity of the subconsciousness
or subliminal self of the medium. All may
agree that it operates through that stratum,
but all do not agree that it originates there.
That, however, is the view of some, though
it is a view deficient in clarity. Some have
tried to attribute the extra lucidity and
special acquisition of knowledge to uncon-
scious cerebration. But how a sleeping
brain can perform diflicult operations, or
evolve knowledge, demands more explana-
tion than can ever be forthcoming. “
Con-
sciousness ”
is a psychological term, not an
anatomical or physiologicalone.
Anotherview is thatit is due to telepathy
from other living minds, and that the
medium is merely receptive of this tele-
pathicimpact; thatin factthepercipient has
the faculty of tapping the minds even of
people at a distance, and thereby gaining
access to their information. The discovery
I62
Pbmozrzma needing Iimyfzgafion
of experimental telepathy makes this a vera
azma not to be lightly passed over. But
there are difficulties about it, and one is
the anticipation of the future; Which, in-
deed, is difficulton any hypothesis. Another
is the extraordinary distance which would
have to be admitted for action of the sup-
posed telepathic agent, for instance, in a
distant country or even at the Antipodes.
This seems fatal to the invention of any
such imaginary and purely hypothetical
entities as
“
brain waves.” On the Whole
it appears likelythattelepathyis a psychical,
not a physical process.
Oz‘/yer Poxsib/e Agemier
Another school of thought holds that an
explanation must be sought in telepathy
from the departed—a willing communica-
tion of their thoughts to the subliminal of
the medium——so that messages from them
may emerge and be comforting to surviving
friends and relatives, as a sign that the
departed friend is still active and helpful
16;
A Survgy of Olarture Pym/J2":
and by no means extinct. How the de-
parted can anticipate the future is not clear,
but it is assumed that they are in touch
with some wider knowledge and deeper
insight than our own, so that things sealed
to us may be open to them.
We know that anticipation of the future
is to a certain extent possible, and, indeed,
possible to a very considerable extent so
far as inorganicnature is concerned. We all
anticipate that the sun will rise to—morrow,
and astronomers can predict a few years,
or even a few centuries, ahead. Moreover,
of late there has been a certain amount of
success in predicting even the weather,
thoughfor not more than a few days.
Tides also can be predictedwithaccuracy;
indeed there is a tide—predicting machine
devised by Lord Kelvin and others. All
these predictions are subject to a certain
amount of contingency; that is to say, the
prediction assumes that no catastrophe will
occur, or that no fresh cause will intervene
which might upset them. No prediction
I64
Phenomena needing Im/ertzgation
is absolutely infallible. Something might
conceivably interfere with the rising of the
sun, thoughit is diificult to imagine what.
Our powers of anticipationare not limited
to inorganic nature. Subject to a certain
amount of uncertainty, it is possible to pre-
dict What an animal will do under given
conditions; and the same power exists
about the actions of reasonable and re-
sponsible human beings. When a railway
time-table predicts that a train will start
at a certain time, it assumes that the engine
driver will not go on strike. If it were not
for some dependence on character it would
be impossible to make plans for the future,
as We all do. And although a statesman
may find it difficult to predict what other
politicians and foreign nations will do, yet,
in so far as they possess stability of char-
acter, it only requires a Wide knowledge of
the circumstances to be able to infer with
moderate correctness how they are likely
to act.
Hence, although the element of contin-
I65
A Survgy of Olmure P5}:/7:’;
gency is greater, and the margin of un-
certainty wider, in dealing with creatures
possessing free will, yet some sort of fore-
knowledge is possible, withoutthe slightest
admixture of coercion or predestination.
And if we are able to predict a few weeks
ahead, or even a few minutes, it is only a
question of degree whether a Higher Being,
with wider knowledge and greater insight,
shall not be able to predict withfair correct-
ness for years or even centuries. There is
therefore nothing inconceivable in antici-
pation of the future, thoughit is true there
are some puzzling circumstances connected
with it, even if we assume that the sub-
liminal of the medium is occasionally in
touch with Higher Powers.
Cantral
A modification of the telepathicexplana-
tion is to assume the possibilityof actual
or telergical control—that is to say, that
some part of the medium’s organism is
actuated and moved by a controlling intelli-
I66
P/mzowemz needing Investzgation
gence not his own; that his physiological
mechanism is utilised for the purpose, while
he himself is either wholly or partially un-
conscious. In other words, that the con-
trolling intelligence, not having a mechan-
ism of its own, utilises such mechanism as is
available, during the temporary absence or
by permission of its owner.
Those who hold this view of theexistence
of a real “
control” think it probable that
the controlling intelligence may be one of
several different kinds of entity. It may
sometimes belong to a departed relative;
but it may also belong to some perhaps
incompletely developed individual, who is
permitted in this way to be of service, and
who devotes his energy to this occupation
until he has acquired considerable facility.
It is through such a comparatively lowly
but experienced and painstaking “
control”
thatmany of the messages from thedeparted
are found to come, since they themselves
seldom have the skill to operate an alien
mechanism.
167
A Survey of Ohm/re Pylrlzic
The best known of .
such controls are
Mrs. Piper’s old control, Phinuit, and Mrs.
Leonard’s control, Feda. They are some-
times called “
secondary personalities,” but
that phrase is no explanation. What they
really are I am not sure. But I see no
reason compelling us to deny that they are
What theyclaim to be—real thoughperhaps
partiallydeveloped personalitiesindependent
of the medium, able to use her organism,
at given times and under proper conditions,
with a facilityacquired by long practice.
Porreuian
But this possibilityof control opens the
way to What is more specifically known as
possession—that is, control by an intelli-
gence not of a helpful kind at all, but harm-
ful and perhaps seriously evil. The Biblical
cases of this are Well known; and if posses-
sion is a fact it may account for some cases
of madness,which may be amenableto some
kind of exorcism as in the old days. The
existence of this kind of evil control is one
168
Pbenomena needing Irwextzgation
of the dangers which attend the subject;
and vicarious or mediumisticactivityshould
not be entered upon lightly,not without a
prayerful determination to guard it rigidly
and to use it only for serious kinds of
service.
P.g/cl2o-Pl2}.rz'm/Pbmorrzemz
Besides the intelligent kind of medium-
istic activity hitherto spoken of, there is a
whole class of what are called Physical
Phenomena, some of them of a very extra-
ordinary kind, which suggest a tapping
of the resources of powers and intelli-
gences outside ordinary humanity. The
powers responsible for the physical pheno-
mena of spiritualism do not appear to be
specially good or specially bad, nor do they
always appear to be specially human. It
seems unlikelythatonlyhuman intelligences
should exist. But then it may also seem
unlikelythat,if others exist, we should ever
get into touch with them or be aware of
their existence. But that is just a question
169
A Survey of Ohm/re Pjrclzia‘
of fact. The facts seem to indicate thatwe
do, throughtheagency of certain individuals
(who, by the way, seem rather pitiable than
otherwise), get into touch with agencies
which are able to perform things beyond
present human powers, even though they
may be things of trivial or insignificant
importance.
The simplest phenomenon of this kind
is what are called raps, percussive noises
produced withoutapparentlyadequate cause.
Next come movements of untouched objects,
the tilts of an untouched table and actual
levitationor risingfrom theground. These
various movements show intelligence of a
kind, not of a high kind, but they are able
to respond to simple questions and obey
orders, such as to keep a thing supported
for several seconds and then drop it, or to
lift up one end rather than another, and so
on. The intelligent part of the pheno-
menon, however, is overshadowed by the
physical strangeness, which seems miracul-
ous simplybecausewe have not got theclue.
17o
Phenomena needing Imextzgation
There have been many physicalmediums,
of whom Home—investigated closely by
Lord Dunraven and by Sir WilliamCrookes
—-seems to have been the most powerful.
Some of them unfortunately have been
tempted to eke out their failing powers by
normal methods of producing phenomena,
in a way which under the circumstances
must be stigmatised as fraudulent; though
it is permissible to thinkthat in some cases
the normal control is in abeyance and the
deception partly unconscious. The case
of Eusapia Palladino is an instance of that
kind.
Recently, at Munich, Dr. Von Schrenk
Notzing discovered a boy, W/illy S., who
has an undoubted power of moving objects
withoutcontact, and of producing levitation
of objects completely screened from him,
and while he himself was thoroughly held
by experienced investigators.
However these phenomenamay hereafter
be accounted for, their occurrence is in-
dubitable; by which term it is meant that
171
A Surwy of Obscure Pyrbic
it can only be doubted by those who have
not had thenecessary experience. By them,
of course, it can bedoubted very thoroughly,
and thedoubt is in no way surprising. That
legitimate doubt should result in wholesale
ignorantdenial,however,is not so creditable.
These things only take place in the pres-
ence of a certain kind or type of person,
who still is usually called a medium, though
the mediumship is of a different and rather
unusual and presumably lower class. Con-
tinental physiological observers have de-
tected a kind of material emanation from
such persons, which theycall Ectoplasm,or
Teleplasm,or Bioplasm. This is extruded
from the medium, and seems to be directly
responsible for the observed supernormal
movements of objects. It is naturally sup-
posed that these movements do not occur
beyondthe reach of the ectoplasm, though
they often occur beyond the normal reach
of the medium.
Not onlymovements, however, but lights
and scents and sounds are also, on good
172
Pbezzommz needing Izwestzgation
authority,said to be produced. Scents as
of flowers in a room where there are none.
Lights floating about in a completely dark
room.
Stranger still, voices (What are called
Direct Voices), sometimes quite loud, are
heard in theair, soundingas iftheyoriginated
at a considerable distance from themedium’s
larynx. Direct writing is also one of the
phenomenaasserted—that is to say, writing
on a slate or on paper by a pencil which is
not normally touched. And further, the
luminous appearances sometimes cease to
be merelyVague or misty,and take the form
of some part of a human organism, looking
like a hand or a face. And it is asserted
thatthese appearances can be photographed,
showing that they have some kind of
objective reality.
Temporary Materia/z'mz‘z'om
Occasionallythe process goes farther still,
and a materialised phantasm—thatis to say,
a portion of an apparently complete human
173
A Survey of Obscure Pglcbic
being—is seen and can be felt; this pheno-
menon is known as Materialisation, and
is perhaps the most extraordinary and
incredible of all the asserted phenomena.
Of the many asserted phenomena con-
nected with Materialisation, say, of hands
and faces, some recent investigations by
Dr. Geley and Professor Richet in Warsaw
are very striking. The hands, when they
appear in the dim light, are asked to dip
themselves into a bowl of melted paraffin
wax and then withdraw themselves; which
leaves a crust or gloveof solid parafl-“Inupon
the hand. The hand is then asked to
dematerialise,leavingthegloveempty. The
abandoned coating or glove is very fragile,
but it can be filled with plaster of Paris,
and in that way a solid cast taken of the
markings"on ‘the hand.
The casts thus obtained—many of which
are now at the Institut Métapsychique in
Paris—are of different sizes and character.
Some have the fingers flexed; some have
two hands clasped together. The wrinkles
174
Pbmowemz needing Investigation
of the skin are quite visible, and the hands
do not correspondwiththoseof themedium
in size or in any other particular. More-
over, in some instances, it has to be admitted
that no normal hand could withdraw itself
from the paraffin glove Without tearing it.
Hence, in the opinion of many skilled
persons who have examined these objects,
they are themselves evidence of something
supernormal.
For a description of the various precau-
tions taken and tests made, and for illustra-
tions of the phenomenaobtained, the reader
must refer to various numbers of the Revue
Métalzbcgir/Jig;/e, from May and June, 1921,
onwards.
Anothervarietyof the same phenomenon
is the obtaining of apparently identifying
thumb-prints by getting an ectoplasmic
formation to impress itself on warm dental
wax or other plastic material. Such repre-
sentations have been published in a Journal
of the American S.P.R. and have- been
vouched for in Nature, Vol. 122, p. 246,
175
A Survgl of Obmzre Pgrrbic
by the well-known biologist and entomo-
logist, Professor R. J. Tillyard,F.R.S.
In these physical phenomena—Direct
Voice, Direct Writing, and, still more,
actual Materialisation—we seem to be in
the region of the incredible. But it is
beyond our power to make up our minds
beforehand what is possible and what is
impossible. We have to be guided by the
facts; and if the facts seem incredible—as
they do—we have first of all to assure our-
selves that theyare facts, and then conclude
that there is a department of knowledge to
which we have as yet not got the key.
The key is being sought for; and when
we find it we may be thoroughlyconvinced,
by past experience of scientific phenomena
generally, that all these things have a law
and order of their own, and only need a
more complete understanding to fall into
the system of organised scientific know-
ledge. Till then they remain outside; and
some scientific men think that the easiest
plan is to deny them wholesale. But that
176
Pbenomna needing Investzgatzbrz
is not a truly scientific attitude, and does
not conduce to the widening of our know-
ledge or the broadening of our outlook.
Moreover, so far as religious people are
concerned—and they are perhaps among
those most tempted to deny—it may be a
comfort to themto realise thatmany pheno-
mena are akin to those which have been
narrated as occurring long ago, and have a
certain amount of Biblical authority,show-
ing that they were believed to occur in
ancient times. Similar occurrences are said
to be believed in by savage races all over
the world—a fact which does not really
militate against their truth, though it may
be used to excite prejudice—it only shows
thatwhat occurs now has been always more
or less liable to occur. For real proof,
however, we can only appeal to the present.
Pbam‘zz.r/72:
The appearance of phantasms—thatis to
say, a sort of hallucinatory figure conveying
tidings, it may be of death or disaster—is
P.W. 177 M
A Survey of Obmlre Pglcbic
fairly common, and most families have
something of that kind in their records.
The evidence for veridical phantasms,agree-
ing more or less closely with the instant of
death,is very extensive; it has been care-
fully and conscientiously sifted, and by
students of the subject the fact is regarded
as proven.
But concerning the explanation of those
phantasms people may differ. Indeed it is
possible for the phantasms themselves to
differ in kind. Some may be due to a
mere telepathicimpression, nothingphysical
being really there. Another may be due
to personificationby some intelligence, able,
as it were, to construct a likeness, as in
Ovid’s Metamorp/Joye: (Book XI, where
Morpheus is supposed to construct a vision
of Ceyx for the sad information of the
bereaved Alcyone). While another class
may be conceivablya real objectivematerial-
isation of the person represented.
The controversy usually turns upon
whether the appearance is subjective or
178
P/Jena/nenn needing Innextzgation
objective, mental or physical. But it must
be admitted that to discriminate between
subjective and objective is not always easy.
For instance, when you look at the image
in a looking-glass, is that image objective
or subjectiveP It is objective in the sense
that everybody in the right position can
see it. It is subjective in the sense that
there is nothing really there, nothing that
can be felt or handled. The looking—glass
is opaque, no light pierces it, and yet the
image appears to be behind the glass. It
is the xzgn of somethingreally existing, but
that something is not existing where it
appears. I am inclined to think that this
is so with some phantasms. They may
have a meaning and correspond to some
reality, but they are not really tbere.
Another example of a thing which it is
difficult to say is subjective or objective
(though less familiar than the image in a
looking-glass) is a rainbow. The rainbow
appears to be on the clouds, and different
people thinktheysee the same rainbow,and
179
A Survgi of Obmtre P._\')I6[7i€
that therefore it must be objective. As a
matter of facttheydo not see the same rain-
bow. The actual rainbow is on the retina
of each person’s eye, and it has no other
objective existence. But—I hasten to say
-—-—thatmakes no differenceto its poetictreat-
ment and msthetic appreciation; a physical
explanation of beautifulappearances surely
still leaves them fully open to mental and
imaginativeinterpretation.
Unreality in the physical sense may be
reasonably postulated for many phantasms.
Photography is no test of objectivity in the
material sense. The image in a mirror can
be photographed, so can a rainbow. All
that a photograph shows is that there is
some physical cause for the impression;
that it is not mere illusion or hallucination.
The interpretation and moral bearingof any
extraordinary incident rests with ourselves.
Interpretation
And so it is with many parts of this great
subject. People shy at the phenomena,but
I 80
P/Jmomemz needing Investzgation
the phenomena are the one certain thing
about it. The real question turns upon the
interpretation, and that is not a point on
which anybody should be dogmatic. There
is room for difference of opinion, in the
present state of our knowledge. It is
possible to treat the subject in several
alternative ways. It may be made repellent,
or humorous or serious. It is possible to
discuss it as a question of fact, or of con-
duct, or of philosophy. One person may
say it is all untrue, illusoryand superstitious.
Another may say it is dangerous, forbidden
and diabolical. Another may hold that it
is useless, making appeal mainly to the
unbalanced and semi-insane.
It is likewise possible to regard it with
over-enthusiasm as the highest revelation
vouchsafed to humanity, superseding all
recognisedreligious systems and constituting
a new hope for the world.
Lastly,it is possible to regard the subject
as a continuation or resuscitation of very
ancient doctrines and practices, capable of
I81
A Survzgi of Obscure P5};/92':
both use and abuse. The phenomenarecall
attention to facts hitherto eschewed by
science, some of them apparently rather
repellent, some of them encouraging and
helpful, but all of them requiring to be
studied carefully, critically, and conscien-
tiously. In this way we hope to discrimin-
ate between fact and falsehood, to eliminate
deception both conscious and unconscious,
to suppress exaggeration, and to record
things accurately and completely, so as
gradually to open up a region hitherto
closed to orthodox science, and ultimately
to ascertain what bearing, if any, the facts
may have upon the conduct, the feelings,
the longings, the hopes, of humanity.
The facts are not new. They are to be
found in all countries and in all ages. They
have been mingled with superstition and
priestcraft. They were incipiently known
to the ancients, who utilised mediums as
oracles, and consulted a soothsayer in all
emergencies. Their utilisation is for us
sufficientlyrecorded in the Hebrew legends;
I82
P/mzomma needing Invertzgation
indeed the lives of David and Saul are full
of the use of mediums.
There were of course forbidden enchant-
ments, which is not surprising considering
the state of the nations round about (for
instance, 2 Kings xvii. 17); but so long as ’
theright prophets or mediums were utilised,
the practice was approved and employed
either in warning or in blessing.
PracticalDeduction:
It is not unnatural to ask Whether the
views of students of these subjects have
received any enlightenment through their
studies ; and whethertheyare able to formu-
late any provisionalconclusions or Working
hypotheses concerning existence, on the
strength of them; either by long study of
the phenomena or through communicated
information.
Speaking for myself, I cannot say that I
confidentlytrust the validity of communica-
tions which I am unable to test. I try to
treat them for what they may be worth, as
183
A Survgy of Olmure Pyrrbzk
unverifiable matter, and I have a feeling
that we possess an instinct which tells us
more or less clearly when we are on the
right path. No doubt a consensus of agree-
ment among communications through a
variety of channels contributes to a feeling
of a considerable amount of probable truth
in them; but just as people in different
circumstances in this world would give
different accounts of life here—a stock-
broker would differ from a missionary, for
instance, a hunting man from an artist, an
esquimaufrom a hottentot, a publican from
a Cabinet Minister——so it may be with
people on the other side.
At thesame time, when thecommunicator
is a person we have known, we receive his
messages with a certain amount of respect,
thoughwe alwayshave to allow for possible
or probable sophistication by the channel
through which they come. A landscape
seen through coloured or imperfect glass
may be changed and distorted, and yet it is
somethinglike reality.
184
Phenomena needing Investzgation
Zl/.[y O72/72 Oz/2‘/oak
So if I am asked what is the present out-
come of psychical science in my own mind,
I should say :
In the first place, that the accessible
portion of the universe is turning out larger
than we knew, and that a Whole realm of
hitherto obscure fact is coming Within our
ken: a region which our customary scien-
tificinvestigationshithertohavenot explored,
and which few of the eminent investigators
in orthodox regions have even suspected.
Next, that We are thus introduced to a
region of What might be called supramun-
dane activityand intelligence. We discover
by signs and tokens a group of intelligences
interested in the earth, and probably near
it—if to them space has any meaning—but
existing apart from familiarassociationwith
thatMatter Which so directlyand continually
and exclusivelyappeals to our animal—derived
sense-organs.
Some of these supramundaneintelligences
I85
A Sun/gy of Obscure P91:/Jic
are able occasionallyto influenceour minds,
though never to trespass on our free will.
They are for the most part unable to exert
mechanical force on material objects, for
lackof an animal-descendedmuscular organ-
ism; though exceptionally,through a bor-
rowed organism, theymay sometimes bring
about minor but astonishingphysicalresults.
So I hold that these two worlds——which
I incline tentatively, but definitely and not
figuratively,to call the material and etherial
—interlocl; and interact to such an extent
that to higher vision the worlds probably
appear not two but one, although they are
different enough to affect us here and now,
one constantly,the other usually not at all.
All that we ordinarilyknow of the world,
everythingwhich is so conspicuouslyappar-
ent to us at present, while encased in this
material body and endowed with only our
five or six senses, turns out to be but one
aspect of the whole.
Furthermore, I believe that under certain
only partially understood conditions, inter-
I86
Plzenalzmza needing Investzgation
course or intercornmunion between the two
world-aspects, or states of being,is possible
——indeed, thatit has already begun; so that
not only are the Highest Powers accessible
to our sorrows and hopes and petitions—as
in the eye of religion, thoughnot in the eye
of science, they always have been—but so
that some of the minor personalities, those
whom we have known and loved, are
occasionally accessible to us also, and are
able to show signs of their abidinginterest
and affection. There are doubtless many
kinds of communion—some higher, some
lower—the highest being presumably that
which is called the Communion of Saints.
Short of that,however, when any of these
discarnateintelligencesget into realised com-
municationor conversationwithus, through
a mediumistic channel, they tell us many
things; they tell us that both we and they
are permitted to be subordinate agents of
the Almighty; that they are not necessarily
greatly superior in grade to ourselves; and
that they are ‘conscious of other beings of
I87
A Survey! qf Obscure Pgycbit
all grades from low to very high. All these
are said to be existent in the Universe as
well as ourselves.
So we are privileged to find, first, that
we too are immortal spirits, at present in
process of training amid difficult surround-
ings; and, next, that we are not alone in
theuniverse, althoughapparentlycompletely
isolated in flesh; thattheinfinite intellectual
and moral chasm which separates us from
Deity is not, so to speak, empty, and that
we are surrounded by those whom we are
entitled to call friends. These last seem to
constitute a group, growing and developing
as we are, not far removed from us in
effective space, and not very far beyond us
in knowledge. They claim to have feelings
not wholly unlike our own, and to be cap-
able in minor degrees of foreseeing, plan-
ning, and guiding, and ready to help every-
thinglower than themselves. They show a
keen appreciation of their privileges, and
thoughstillpossessed of free willare always
willinglysubject to Divine control.
188
P/Jmomemz needing Izwertzgation
The concurrent existence of hostile or
evil influences is not denied, and has to be
strenuouslyguarded against by us, especially
when we open our minds to supramundane
power; but thepowers of good are stronger,
and can curb or overpower the evil,unless
somethingin ourselves is traitorous.
Thus, then, looking at existence as a
whole, I have begun to recognise, amid
the multifarious possibilitiesof existence-
some of them too lofty for our ken—a
brotherhoodof human spirits, owningallegi-
ance to one whom they and we call The
Master. A brotherhood of man in the
widest sense, full of a sense of duty and
mutual help, all working and praying and
worshipping, some under conditions a stage
higher than our own, and striving to raise
our minds to a nobler conception of duty,
a keener sense of service, and a firmer con-
viction of the loving Fatherhoodof God.
189
10 Dixmuiotz oftbe Pox-
JibiliglqfPremom'l1'am'
AMONG the stranger phenomena studied in
psychic science, and alreadypartiallyreferred
to, are those which seem to suggest a tran-
scendingby human facultyof the limitations
of space and time. A knowledge of what
is occurringsimultaneouslyin distant regions
of the earth appears to be obtainable by the
faculty known as travelling clairvoyance.
A knowledge of what has not yet occurred
but which is going to occur likewise appears
to be attainable, apart from what may be
considered legitimate inference. Informa-
tion of this supernormal kind is usually
received by means of dreams or visions or
other intuitive modes of perception. It
can be admitted that such experiences are
commonlyof little or no value, but occasion-
ally the impressions are veridical, so that
the result turns out to correspond closely
19o
Dmursion of z‘/ye Possibilityof Premonition:
with what has been predicted, to an extent
beyond chance coincidence. In communi-
cations received through trance mediums
reference to future events is often made;
and thoughthis (strangeto say) is at present
illegal, it is very necessary to run the risk
of studying such assertions and bringing
themto thetest of verification. The subject
of prognostication is too important to be
suppressed; but it is safer for the present
to consider the case of premonitions such
as many people have occasionally experi-
enced without the help of a medium. The
possibilityof such a faculty raises puzzling
questions, and hence in our attempt to
rationalise experience We must discuss this
somewhat more fully.
I repeat that the whole question of fore-
telling the future involves us in difliculties,
and at first sight such foretelling seems
impossible, for it seems like a transcending
of the limitations of time. Yet it has to
be admitted that in some cases predictions
are actually recorded and are duly con-
I91
Dzlwzusion of tlie Po.r.rz'l2z'lz'z‘_y of Premonition:
firmed by events; so that one outstanding
questionis what sort of predictionis possible
and what is not.
The type of predictions which are at
present accepted without surprise are those
made by astronomers. The type of pre-
dictions which seem incredible or absurd
are those made by fortune-tellers. Between
these two extremes there must be many
grades, and it is not easy to draw a hard
and fast line. Some philosophers have
thought that “
Time ”
was but a human
abstraction, that its objective reality was
doubtful, and that everything both present
and future was in some sort prearranged.
So far as the mechanical or inorganic uni-
verse is concerned this might very well be
true. The present is the outcome of the
past, and the future flows as a consequence
from the present. The great mathematical
physicist Laplace used to say that if the
position, the speed, and the acceleration, of
every particle in the universe could at any
one instant be specified, then it was only
192
Dzlrmmion of tbe Posribi/igy of Premonition:
a matter of superhuman calculation to pre-
dictthecourse ofevents, in such a mechanical
universe, ever afterwards. And that other
great mathematician,W. K. Clifford, used
to say that if the motion of ‘every particle
could be instantaneously reversed, with no
other change or disturbance, thenthecourse
of events would retrace themselves; things
would begin to unhappen; the past would
become the future, and everything would
go on in a reverse order, retracingthecourse
of history; the only difference being that
the state of equilibriumin that case would
be unstable, whereas the known and
actuallyexpected course of things is stable.
It seems instructive to rememberthat optic-
ally an image of the past can be retraced in
inverse order, as bya kinematographworked
backwards. But this after all is only an
illustration: there is no reality underlying
it : things do not and never will act in that
way. Whereas in the real world things do
really happen; and events, once they have
occurred, cannot be altered: though it is
P.W. I95 N
Dzlrmmion of tbe Pouibi/if} of Premonition:
claimed that their mental and spiritual
consequences can be mitigated.
To suppose, however, that the course of
events is thus mechanically determined by
a sequence of inevitable cause and effect
involves us in notions of fixed fate and pre-
destination, which are quite alien to the
idea of free will. Laplace did not face the
operations of organic or living structures,
except on the hypothesis that theytoo were
mechanically determined, and were part of
a purely material universe. To most of us
it seems that free will is a direct apprehen-
sion; we are aware by experience of pos-
sessing the power of choice, the power of
determining our own actions; so that in
accordance with our own volition, that is
by planning and designing and executing,
we achieve results which would not other-
Wise have occurred, and which could not
be predicted on mechanical principles.
On the other hand, it has been argued
that we and other animals always act under
the influence of some motive, that these
194
Dzlrmmm of the Possibility!of Premonition:
motives determine our actions, which are
therefore inevitable; that a completely
motiveless action is unthinkable, and that
accordingly really free will is an illusion.
The idea is that We are so controlled by
motives that not only the inorganic World
but the organic World also might be subject
to prediction, given a comprehensive know-
ledge of the existence and nature of the
motives Which operate and coerce our wills.
There seems a certain paradox about
this; and the solution appears to lie in the
direction of deciding Whether we ourselves,
our personalities, are realities which exist
outside and supplementary to the material
scheme, and whether we contain Within
ourselves the power of self-determination;
in other words, whether our motives are
imposed on us from without, or are gener-
ated from Within. It is no use denying that
We are actuated by motives; the question
is how those motives originate. The
mechanical or material universe, like any
other piece of machinery, has no self-
195
Dz'.vm.m'or2 of tbe Possilzi/iify of Premonition;
generated motives; for it has nothingthat
can be called a self. The more natural
and perhaps the truer idea is that life and
mind are something superadded to the
material universe, something which can
make use of the properties of matter and the
other laws of nature, and divert and modify
them to its own ends; that life involves at
least the rudiments of somethingwhich can
look ahead and plan and determine for
itself——something that is actuated, not by
mechanical forces alone, but by its own
impulses, its own determination.
Some philosophers have gone so far as
to suppose that this kind of power, which
we experience in ourselves, can be traced in
its fundamental elements quite low down
in the scheme of things; so that even the
atoms may be imbued with what has been
called a Bios, a power of in some degree and
very slightly choosing between alternative
paths, when such paths open up. But to
most of us thismust seem a fanciful idea, the
result of inflictingour own feelingson things
I96
Dz'.rczmz'o72 of tbe Porribilizjiof Premonition:
which do not possess them, and extending
them into regions where theydo not apply.
Dualism is alwaysratherrepugnant to philo-
sophy, which is bound to seek some more
monistic view; but the progress of science
more and more shows that that ultimate
monism cannot be materialisticin character.
Meanwhile in order to form clear con-
ceptions, some sort of Dualism—therecog-
nition of a clear distinction between mind
and matter—is in our present state of know-
ledge inevitable. Without such a distinc-
tion we cannot form clear ideas, thoughwe
may admit that the ultimate solution of
the universe is still far beyond us. We
have to be guided by the facts of experi-
ence, withoutpretendingthatwe thoroughly
understand them and can probe into their
ultimate and final intricacies. We have
gradually learnt that the physical universe
consists of positive and negative charges in
the form of discontinuous units called pro-
tons and electrons, united and connected
by the all-embracing continuous medium
197
Dz'mt.v.rz'or2 of 2‘/ye Po.m'I7z'/izjz of Premonition:
in which they move and have their being,
which some call Spaceand others stillprefer-
ably call the Ether because they find that
space quite empty of matter is endowed
with physical properties which have still to
be unraVelled—that there is something in
it more thangeometry, somethingessentially
physical thoughnot material.
Whether the complete unravelling of
those physical properties will ultimately
enable us to include Life and Mind in the
physical scheme must remain uncertain. It
appears unlikely, for at present what we
know of life and mind has shown no indica-
tion in that direction; for the present we
have to think of them as separate unex-
_plained but conspicuous entities which are
not yet explicablein terms of anythingelse,
though truly we know by experience that
these entities do affect the motions of matter
and do produce structures and results which
without them would not have occurred.
That life and mind have laws of their
own, and are obedient to some system of
198
Dimmion of tbe Po.m'bz'/izjz of Premonition:
cause and effect outside and beyond those
which are amenable to calculation, is prob-
able enough. But what their relation may
be to Time, and how far it is possible for
some higher being to predict the course of
events, even in those transcendent and ideal
regions, we are surely unable to say. It
may be thatthe course of events of a mental
and spiritual kind could be foreknown with-
out being predestinated, and that even
voluntary actions could be predicted by a
complete knowledge of all the motives;
and that this fore-knowledge could exist
without the exercise of any coercion, and
without any interference with the power of
self-determination. Foreknowledgeandpre-
destination are by no means the same thing.
This is onlya matter of common sense. We
can predict for instance that an eclipse will
happen at a certain time on a certain day,
but we have no power of bringing it about
or of determining whether it shall occur or
not: and many other things we foreknow
withoutthe least power of predetermination.
199
Dixcwxio/2 of tbe Po.v.rz'bz'/2'9! of Prezzzomfiom
On theotherhand thereare certain things
which we can predetermine. We can decide
that we will go to a certain place or do a
certain thing at a" given time, beforehand;
always subject to the condition thatnothing
unforeseen occurs. That condition, how-
ever, is onlya consequence of our imperfect
knowledge. With perfect knowledge there
would be no unforeseen conditions; so that
it is imaginable that a being with a perfect
knowledge of all the conditions would
be able to foresee all the events which,
whether self-determined by other agents
or not, must be already incubating, and
presently after the lapse of time evolve into
reality.
Whether such foreknowledge could ever
filter down to the agents concerned, in such
a way thattheycould dimlyand imperfectly
get occasional glimpses of what was thus
foreseen, whether in fact they could ever,
by aid of higher intelligences, gain some
premonition of what was going to occur,
can hardly be argued except on a basis of
zoo
Discussion of 2‘/2e Possibi/izji of Premonitions
experience. The question becomes one of
fact. Do such premonitions occur, or do
they not? That such a possibilityis con-
ceivable does not prove that it is able to
occur. But if We find by experience that
premonitions do occur, then the fact of
their conceivabilityis a help; for it enables
us to accept the fact in a reasonablemanner,
without undue scepticism and Without any
feeling of irrationality or confusion. We
can submit ourselves to guidance by the
facts, without feeling confounded by their
strange and inexplicablecharacter. We may
not know the explanation, but we can be
sure that there is one, and that throughthe
long-continued process of evolution we
shall one day be able to grasp the totality
of things—ifnot fully—at least more fully
than We do now. We feel instinctively
that we are part of a law-abidinguniverse,
in which there are no ultimate puzzles
and contradictions, that the whole will be
ultimately intelligible, though at present WC
are far from possessing the clue.
201
Dirmuion of tbe Po.r:z'l7z'/igy of Premonition:
The two methods of attaining foreknow-
ledge which we already possess, subject to
unknown contingencies in both cases, are
the power of Inference, and the power of
Planning. We infer that certain thingswill
happen, from what we know of thepresent;
and we plan thatcertain thingsshall happen,
and have thepower of bringingthemabout.
What other powers of prediction there
may be in the universe we do not know;
thosetwo seem all thatwe ourselves possess
at present. But those we are continually
making use of. We can look ahead; our
actions are largely guided by the future,
and we make preparation for it. Our
existence is not limited to the momentary
slice of time we call the present; we learn
from the past, and we plan for the future.
So a certain amount of foreknowledgeis
already within our grasp; and it is an open
question whether this power is always one
of reasoned sequence and conscious activity,
or whether certain individuals are occasion-
allyfavoured withan instinctiveand illogical
202
Dzlwmrion of tbe Pomibi/izjl of Premonition:
apprehension of events which theycould not
reason out or rationallyforesee, but which
yet they or their successors will in process
of time gradually arrive at and experience.
Such instinctive and non-understood im-
pressions are what we call premonitions,
and they may be thought of, tentatively,as
filtering down from some higher region of
knowledge or intelligence into the receptive
faculties of qualified people; even though
such people are not yet in a suflicient state
of development to be able to apprehend or
perceive them by their own powers.
A listener-in at a wireless receiver on
some distant island can become aware of
events which are going on elsewhere, which
he has no power of interfering with, and
could not be expected to have any know-
ledge of. Such a power of transcending
the limitations of space without any visible
means of communicationwould a few years
ago have seemed mysterious or impossible.
Now we are accustomed to it, and know
that there is no mystery about it, except
205
Dimmiorz qf tbe Po.t.rz'l9z'/1'5’ of Premonition:
inso far as all our experience is mysterious.
So it may be with many other things,when
our knowledge has sufficiently increased,
so as to remove thefacts of experiencefrom
the region of superstition into the region of
intelligible law and order; we are justified
in pushing back mystery into the ultimate
fastnesses where it truly resides, but not in
denying any fact of experience on the
ground that it is inconceivable or absurd.
We donot know what is possible or im-
possible; we can onlyascertain what actually
is true, and wait for the time when fuller
knowledge shall enable us to understand
how and why it is true.
A numberofactualrecords ofpremonition
are collected in Mr. Myers’s two—Volume
treatise on Human Persona/z'g‘y,and there are
others in the Proceeding: of tbe Sotiegy for
PywbitalReyearzb. But in this book I am
concernedratherwithattemptingto rational-
ise phenomenathan with adducing evidence
for their occurrence. Many people are
aware of family legends recounting such
204
Dimmion of tbe Pouibi/igjl of Premoniiiom
experiences, even if theyhave not had them
themselves. It must suffice here to say that
according to the evidence, premonitions
—sometimes of a kind diflicult to trace to
unconscious inference—do actually occur,
however hard it may be to reconcile them
with our ideas about time and the in-
accessibilityof the future.
For it must be admitted that any power
of foretelling the future, except by the con-
tingent and uncertain and rather speculative
methods of human inference and planning,
does involve some difficulty, does raise
questions about the nature of time, and has
tended to mislead people into a fatalistic
and passive and rather hopeless attitude.
It is difficult to imagine that the human
future can really be anticipated in any
thorough sense; premonitions do seem
unlikely. The reason why they seem un-
likelyis not merelybecauseof thelimitation
of human faculty: it is difficult to suppose
that any Being, however highly developed,
or even what is called Omniscient, can fully
205
Dzkmrrion of the Pom'l2z'/z'g‘yof Premonition:
foresee all events beforetheyhappen. Such
a complacent Existence, without any possi-
bilityof adventure or risk, or any chance
of surprise and delight, merely watching
the inevitable “
going through the hollow
form of taking place,” would seem dull
and monotonous. And, as far as we can
judge about the Universe as a whole, it
surely is not dull! Admit free will, admit
a power of rebellion, as well as a power
of co—operation, and the dullness disappears.
The element of adventure is restored, how-
ever much it be governedby far anticipation
and fervent hope.
We may be sure of this, that higher
beings can make inferences about the future
denied to us, and can estimate thebehaviour
even of free will agents by their settled and
trustworthy character. In some such way
do I thinkthattheforeshadowingof coming
events may filterdown to us. The difficulty
for science is to postulate the existence of
higher beings and to allow for our touch
with them.
206
On the Arrerted Dg'fimlz_‘y of
1 1 tbs Spiritua/irtir I-Ijjzot/Je.ri.r
from a ScientificPoirztqf View
STUDENTS of orthodox science undoubtedly
feel great difficulty about admitting the
possibilityof spiritual agency or the inter-
action of other Intelligences, even under
exceptional circumstances, in mundane
affairs. The idea seems contrary to the
whole trend of what may be called New-
tonian science, thoughit is true thatNewton
himself did not scruple to write a General
or Theological Scholium as a conclusion to
his great Work.
To illustrate the difficulty often felt by
psychicalinvestigatorsthemselvesabout any-
thing like a spiritual interpretation of the
facts, the truth of which nevertheless they
fully admit on grounds of personal experi-
ence, I might quote from Professor Richet
and other continental explorers; but it will
suffice if I use as a text a paragraph from a
2o7
On tbs Auerted Dzjfmltjof tbe Spiritua/ixtit
recent writer in the Proteeding: of the
S.P.R. for 1929 about the meaning of cer-
tain writings which he himself had uncon-
sciously produced and which to superficial
appearance seemed inspired by people who
were dead. The paragraph runs thus :—
“
. . . Regarded as a scientificworking
hypothesis, spiritism does not seem to
me to be a very hopeful avenue of investi-
gation. The spirit hypothesis has a de-
lusive appearance of simplicity, but so
also had Kepler’s hypothesis of guiding
angels. And how remote this was from
the complex reality of Einstein’s descrip-
tion of gravitation! In fact, if these
supernormal mental phenomena depend
on the whims and caprices of departed
spirits, then I for one despair of ever
being able to discover any law and order
in them.”
Undoubtedly there is some difiiculty, in
our present state of comparative ignorance,
about specifying or formulating the spirit-
istic hypothesis in any precise and so to
speak scientific manner; for it is an appeal
208
I-bpoz‘/mzlrfrom a Scientzfic Point of View
to the activity of unknown agents, acting
by unknown methods, under conditions of
which we have no experience, and by means
of which we are unaware. We get into
touch, or appear to get into touch, with
these agencies only when theyhave affected
material objects, for instance someone’s
brain, thereby stimulating muscles so as to
produce results which appeal to our normal
senses.
But the admission that we cannot under-
stand how agents work does not justify our
denial of the existence of such working. A
good deal of modern mathematicalphysics
is in the same predicament. We do not
really understand how the properties of the
ether, or of what it is now the fashion to
call “
space-time,” act in producing the
material effect we call weight or gravitation.
We know a good deal about it; we can
specify withprecision the law of “
weight ”
in so far as it imitates the resultant of an
independent and unscreened attraction of
every particle for every other. We can
P.W. 209 O
O72 tbe Asserted Dgflru/91qf tbe Spiritua/ixtic
say that the earth acts nearly as if its whole
mass were concentrated at its centre, that
thelaw of force is different inside and out-
side, so that it changes abruptly when the
surface is penetrated, and that the force
attains a peak value at the surface, sloping
down differently on the two sides. We
can speak of the state of strain or
“
poten-
tial ”
to which the force is due, say that it
is continuous across the boundary, we can
give the law of its variation with distance,
and so on. Newton, in fact, correctly
formulated the whole theory of gravitation
considered as action at a distance, but the
true mechanism of what seems like a con-
dition of strain or warp in space brought
about by the very existence of matter, was
beyond him, just as it is still beyond us.
In philosophic mood, Newton was never
satisfied with his mode of specification. It
merely gave the resultant effect of some-
thingthat simulated the direct attraction of
one body for another across apparently
empty space; he had to leave the inner
21o
Hypotberirfrom a Srientzfic Point of View
meaning of such mysterious actionfor future
discovery.
Einstein discarded the attraction or force
exerted by a body at a distance, and replaced
it by a geometry of space which would
account for, or at least express, the observed
behaviourin a more intimateand so to speak
less magical manner. When a registering
thermometer, with a steel index, is “
set ”
by means of a magnet acting through the
glass, the index is really moved by the
analogous but diiferent modification of
space (or ether) that we call a magnetic
field. An inert body can only be perturbed
or guided by somethingin immediate con-
tact with it; even though the particular
modification of that “
something,” which
enables it so to act, may be due to
the neighbourhood of a distant mass of
matter, for reasons which remain to be
explored.
The fact that We sometimes have to
postulate an unknown agency does not
justify our attributing anything capricious
211
On time Auerted Dfifm/gyof tbe Spiritua/ixtia
to that agency. We are ignorant of how
the gravitational agent acts, but we know
that it acts in accordance with law and
order, so that the results can be duly pre-
dicted. Einstein’s view (if we may call it
Einstein’s, though in one form or another
it must have been vaguely held by many)
is after all not so very different from Kepler’s
asserted hypothesis. What Kepler meant
by “
guiding angels controllingtheplanets ”
(assuming that he used that phrase) I do
not know; but I am sure he meant nothing
capricious. He must have meant that an
unknown something guided the planets in
their path; and that is a paraphrase of the
modern view. The somethingis now often
spoken of as a warp in space—actingas a
sort of groove. In so far as Kepler postu-
lated something in immediate touch with
a planet and acting directly on it, he had
what now appears to be truth on his side;
his thesis being perhaps nearer the ultimate
truth,thoughfar less practicallyuseful, than
Newton’s delightfully simple quantitative
212
I-ljlpotbexixfrom a Srz'emtz'fic Poim‘ of View
expressionfor the indirect actionof a distant
body.
In order to illustrate direct guidance by
contact action, we may cite the familiar
example of a gramophone needle, which
automaticallyreproduces a prearrangedtune,
simply by following the pathof least resist-
ance. What else, after all, can an inert
thing do? That is the meaning of inertia.
Animated things are not inert: they need
not take the easiest path. A man may
climb the Matterhorn for fun. But in-
animate unstimulated matter never behaves
With any initiative or spontaneity: it is
strictly inert. Atoms never err nor make
mistakes, they are absolutely law-abiding.
If they make an apparent error, if a loco-
motive engine leaves its track, we call it a
catastrophe. All machinery works on that
principle; every portion takes the easiest
path. It is true thatto get a coherent result
there must have been planning and pre-
arrangement. Certainly! In all cases of
automatic Working, Whether biological or
215
On the Amzrted Dggfim/t} of 1/25 Spiritua/ixtic
other, that must be an inevitable prelimin-
ary. But explorers of the mechanism Will
detect no signs of mental action by their
instruments or their senses. To infer a
determining or controlling cause they must
philosophise. Indeed, We may go a step
further and emerge from the past into the
present :—A Wireless set talks like a gramo-
phone, and to one accustomed only to
gramophones it would seem barbarously
superstitious to urge that in the wireless
case some (possiblyWhimsicaland capricious)
operator was actually in control. State-
ments may be unpalatable, and yet be true.
NOW return to gravitation. Planets be-
have as if they were attracted by the sun.
That is certainly true. But what is attrac-
tion ? A train is not attractedto its destina-
tion; lightningis not attractedto a chimney;
but it gets there none the less, by con-
tinually taking the easiest path. So it is
with a planet. Indeed, one might say that
everything inert takes the only path open
to it, it has no option. The law is a sort of
214
Hypotlrexixfrom a Scz'em‘z'fio‘ Point of View
truism. But the principle, once recognised,
has been formulated into a clue; the
Principle of Least Action can be expressed
mathematically. Once postulate that, and
the behaviour of the inanimate portions of _
the cosmos can be accuratelydeduced.
The modern statement that the planets
move along the line of least resistance, or
the easiest path, makes their motion rather
closely analogous to that of a railwaytrain
guided by the rails. The pathand destina-
tion of a train are determined by the con-
tinual direct influence of the rails, which
make it easier for the train to travel in the
right direction than to jump them and go
astray. We might, if WC chose, admit that
the path was laid down or determined by
the mentality of the surveyors and designers
of the route; but a Martian spectator with
partial information might still wonder at
the apparent intelligence which guided one
part of a train to Manchester, and another
part to Liverpool, in accordance with the
wishes of the passengers or the labels on
215
O12 tbe Arserted Dzfim/yof tbe Spiritua/ixtic
the coaches. If told that an invisible guar-
dian angel switched over the points to
produce this result, he might resent the
suggestion as absurdly unscientific and pre-
posterous ; as on a purely mechanistic view
it would be.
After having studied trains for some
time, our spectator might begin to notice
the novelty of a motor-car. His first
tendency would be to look for the rails in
that case also; and, finding none, he might
superstitiously but correctly surmise that a
guardian spirit was guiding the car to its
destination. In this case, moreover, further
experience would soon persuade him that
he had to allow for an element of caprice.
But even that is not fatal to the truth: he
need not throw up his hands in despair.
As soon as we introduce the activityof life
and mind we get out of mere mechanism
and the results are not easily formulated
or predicted. The activities of an animal
cannot be expressed in mathematicalterms,
and yet animal instincts and behaviour are
216
I-ljzpoz‘/mz'.vfrom a Srientzfic Paim‘ of View
subject-matter for scientific investigation.
It is assumed that they obey laws of some
kind. Science is not limited to the accurate
data and laws of mathematicalphysics: and
to claim that a hypothesis is unscientific
because we cannot formulate it completely,
or becausewe do not understand themethod
of working, or even because there is a
certain amount of capriciousness about it,
is more than we have any right to claim.
Anthropology and sociology are less ad-
vanced sciences than physicsand chemistry:
theyhave to get on as best theycan, with a
profusion of data, and with the inevitable
complications appropriate to live things.
Let us not be put out of our stride by the
fear of retaining, in modified form, some of
the animistic guesses of primitive man.
Experience may lead us, as it led him, to
contemplate stranger modes of existence,
and more whimsical phenomena, than our
long study of mechanism has led us to
expect. We must put aside prejudice, be
guided by the evidence, and strive for truth.
217
On Me Amerted Dgfim/grof tbe Spiritua/istic
The superficial simplicityof materialismhas
served us well, as a comprehensivecovering,
for many centuries, and We have made good
progress under its protection; but it is
beginningto get threadbareand inadequate,
it is not coextensive with reality, and un-
suspected influences are peeping through.
To sum up. A Working hypothesis can
be followed up and developed rationally
Without being metrically exact in its early
stages. The important question about the
spiritistic hypothesis is not Whether it is
simple or complicated, easy or puzzling,
attractive or repellent, but Whether it is
true. Its truth can only be sustained or
demolished by the continued careful critical
and cautious methodof enquiry initiated by
the S.P.R. under the Presidency of a guid-
ing spirit or guardian angel called Henry
Sidgwick, with the active (and I believe
continuing)co-operationof Edmund Gurney
and Frederic Myers.
Let us suppose thenthatsome day human
survival and the continuance of personality
218
Idjpoz‘/Jexzléfrom :1 5cz'em‘z'fi: Poim‘ of View
beyond bodily death will be demonstrated
so clearly that the Whole world will accept
it as naturally and instinctively as it now
accepts that other once controverted theory
of the motion of the earth round the sun
at the incredible pace of nineteen miles a
second. Would not the new conception
have as revolutionary an influence on the
outlook of humanity as ever the Copernican
theoryhad 1 Surelyit would bemomentous
in its consequences in many directions. Let
me try to trace in a concludingchapter some
of the implicationsof a universal acceptance
of survival as a demonstrated fact.
219
Tbe Influence of Detnonrtrated
12 Snrz/i1/alon Scienee, Pbi/oroply,
and Religion
(1) Seienee
WE realise that the evidence for human
survival seems often of an insignificant and
trivial kind. That is what frequently hap-
pens in the early stages of a subject. The
facts adduced seem hardly worthy of atten-
tion, and yet iftheyare acceptedandfollowed
up they lead to immense developments,
unimaginablebeforehand.
The pioneers of electrical science attended
to the levitation of light bodies, the twitch-
ing of muscles, and the production of little
sparks; theycould not have had thefaintest
conception of the development of electrical
engineering, and the use of electricity for
the service of man. Still less could they
remotely imagine the astonishing revelation
of the electrical structure of matter as the
220
T/.212 Influence of Demonstrated Survival
basis of all material existence, which has
been the achievementof our own day.
We have found, or are finding, that the
properties of matter are secondary to the
properties of empty space, that matter is
only the index or sign of what is occurring
elsewhere, and thatthebehaviourof material
bodies is due to somethingwhich acts upon
them from the insensible regions of space,
and forms a link or means of communica-
tion between otherwise isolated particles.
The movements of the planets—that is
theirdeflectedmovements,theircurvature in
orbits round a central body——are produced,
we now learn,by the properties of the space
in which theymove. The lightwhich brings
us information has long been known to
come insensibly through that space, and to
be onlydisplayed by matter when it arrives.
Similarly, every atom is moving in a
vacuum, and all the intricate complexity of
its movements are due to somethingreceived
from space.
We learn of the existence of light by its
221
T/ye Influence of Demonstrated Survival
effect on matter. We learn of the existence
of an electric current by its deflection of a
compass—needle. We study a magneticfield
in empty space by means of the pieces of
iron upon which it acts. And so also it
may be said we study the properties of life
and mind by familiarity with the material
vehicles or animated bodies which come
within our powers of observation.
What the biologists are studying is the
material basis of life. In that study they
are expert, and it may be safely left in their
hands. They can see the cells of the body
or of a live tissue in action, and can tell us
what they are doing. They study the be- _
haviour of tissues ir1 health and disease, and
can map out the whole material scheme, if
not as yet completely—theywould hardly
claim that——yet to a growing extent which
shows theyare on right lines.
But the nature of life is unknown even
to them. They perceive that animated
matter behaves differently from inert or
dead matter. They find that it is consti-
222
on Science, Pbz’/amp/J}, and Re/zgion
tuted of the same atoms and obeys the same
laws of physics and chemistry as the inert
variety, but that there is something super-
added, which causes animated bodies to
move in an apparently purposive manner,
as if their movements were directed towards
some aim or object, as yet unrealised but
dimly foreseen.
Instinctive the action may be, but it is
controlled by an apprehension of the future,
thoughcertainly transmitted to the particles
by a stimulus in the present.
All matter is subject to thelaws of energy,
and the amount of energy appears to be
fixed, but by animated existence it is guided
or controlled so as to produce results that
otherwise would not occur. A bird builds
a nest in instinctive anticipation of future
offspring. Bees instinctively store honey
in preparation for a winter dearth. An
insect about to die selects a spot where food
willbeprovidedfor its larvaewhen presently
hatched from the egg.
The instances of apparent or instinctive
223
Tbe Influence of Demonstrated Survival
foresight in the animal kingdom, down to
the minutest creature, are too numerous to
mention. And the instances told us about
their provident habits are not only instruc-
tive, but surprising.
Inert matter does none of these things.
There is evidentlysomething—someanimat-
ing principle—that co-operates with and
manages matter so as to produce these
strange results.
That “
something,”which for brevity we
may call “
life,” and which onlyafter a long
course of evolution blossoms into conscious
mind, exists we know not how and we know
not where; we only recognise it in associa-
tion with matter.
But then there are so many things in
space which we only thus recognise. We
only recognise light and magnetism in
association with matter. Apart from the
eye, light is nothing but an etheric quiver,
of which apart from a special organ we
should know nothing.
It is through matter that we become
224
on Science, Pbi/asap/3},and Relzgion
aware of all the Various energies of nature.
But matter is not truly responsiblefor them;
the energies are not due to matter, though
they are only known to us when theyinter-
act with it. Material instruments enable us
to detect what is going on in their neigh-
bourhood, as when the swelling of mercury
in the thermometer testifies to rise of tem-
perature, or when a glowing filament or a
deflectedneedletestifiesto an electriccurrent.
Can magnetism exist apart from matter?
Undoubtedlyit can. Onlyit can then make
no sign. We do not know of a magnetic
field by direct observation, througha direct
appeal to our senses; we infer it from the
way matter behaves. All operative or con-
trolling existence is in space. Undirected
matter is quite inert.
Hence to a physicist it seems no strange
thing to think of a guiding and directing
principle,like life, as somethingwhich exists
in space, too, and which may interact with
and utilise matter for a time.
The material basis of life attracts our
P.W. 225 P
Tbe Influence of Dewomtrafed Survival
attention. The animated organism is our
proper field of study. But whether life
itself, when separated from the organism,
continues in any sense to exist, is a problem
about Which We have to use our reasoning
power. We might hardly hope to be
favoured by direct demonstration.
It so happens, however, thatat the higher
levels, when life has blossomed into mind,
and when the living organism has become
an individual, with a character and person-
ality such as we are familiar with in our
own consciousness, the question takes a
different form.
For a personal mind, if it still persists,
may be able to make some conscious demon-
stration. By utilisingsome of the forms of
matterwithwhich it was familiar—thebrain-
nerve—muscle system of another human
being,for instance—it may be able to aifect
our senses; and conceivably it may thus
inform us that that same personality still
survives, though normally in a condition
beyondour ordinary ken.
226
on Science, Plzi/050])/gy,and Relzgion
Needless to say thatthereis a vast amount
of evidence that that kind of demonstration
has already been given; and many of those
who have studied the subject are now ready
to testify thatit is a reality.
They assure us that conscious mind does
not cease with the death of the physical
organ, that mind is not put out of existence
when the brain is damaged, but that only
its manifestation is interfered with, so that
no longer can it furnish the usual sign or
index of its existence. It has lost its own
material vehicle, and has to take other and
less usual methodsofattractingour attention.
Well, the evidence must be scrutinised,
and must be able to stand criticism before
it can be raised to the dignity of proof.
But suppose it attained proof, what thenI’
Some think it has risen to the level of
proof already, and that Where an individual
character has been formed it is able, under
certain conditions and occasionally,to testify
to its persistent nature and continued
existence.
227
Tbe Influence of Demonstrated Survival
I call this not survival, but demonstrated
survival. I admit that the demonstration
is not yet accepted by the majority of scien-
tific men; indeed I see many reasons why
it should be difficult for a biologistto admit
the possibilityof any such proof—the idea
being, to one who has concentrated a life
interest on the material basis of life, mean-
ingless, if not repellent. I sympathisewith
the difficulty; I am often conscious of it
myself.
But We must not shut our eyes to facts
because they do not fit in with our present
theories. If survival is a reality, and if,
by actual demonstration the continued exist-
ence of higher or mental attributes is proved
to be true, then WC may expect that life
itself even of a low grade never really goes
out of existence—though it need not have
an individual or personal existence except
in its higher grades—andthewholeprovince
of biologybecomes revolutionised.
I say then that the demonstration of
survival, when at length it is satisfactory
228
on Science, Pbi/050])/J}, and Religion
and has perforce to be accepted, will have
a potent influence on science.
(2) Pbi/oroply
A demonstrationof thesurvival of human
personality will influence philosophy, or
that branch of philosophy termed meta-
physics, which seeks to probe into the
fundamental nature of things, and under-
stand the connection between mind and
matter.
We shall learn, in all probability,that by
attending to matter alone, and to those
manifestations of mind which are displayed
only through the brain and organs associ-
ated with it, we shall not be able to solve
the riddle of the universe or to trace the
fundamental nature of that interaction.
Philosophers must take a lesson from the
physicist and attend more to the properties
of space. They are already beginning to
do so in many directions. They realise
that physicists and astronomers have some-
thing more to say, and many of them have
2.29
T/ye Inflzzeme of Der/zorzrtrated Survival
striyen with some success to understand the
significanceof the newer utterances.
But they must be impelled to go further
than the physicisthas yet gone, and look in
the same direction for the solution of
problems about life and mind.
Theymay have to admit thatthese entities
alwayshave a physical,thoughnot a material,
basis, and that by a study of that physical
or etheric or spatial basis they may hope to
gain further light upon the interaction
between mind and matter.
If life needs a physical basis, and if life
is perpetual, not dependent upon a specific
material organism and still in existence
apart from matter, then, althoughthe prob-
lems raised are innumerable and difficult,
they are becoming more hopeful of solu-
tion, and more tractable as we follow up
the clue.
If the facts are not so, then we must find
that out. But if they are so—that is if
survival of human being is actuallydemon-
strated—then like any other fact it is vastly
2 3o
on Science, P/92'/amp/J}, and Re/zgion
important, and must be taken into account
by every philosopher who seeks to unify
the universe in its widest and most compre-
hensive aspect.
If life of any kind persists apart from the
body, the whole nature of life needs recon-
sideration. It would seem to be something
transcendental and permanent, like the ether
of space, not transitory and evanescent like
everything afflicted with the imperfections
of matter.
It is turning out to be easier to investigate
life at its higher stages, when it has become
conscious and able to bear testimony; but
the information so acquired can be utilised
and extended, with due limitations, to a
study of life in its more lowly stages of
development.
A philosopheris one who takes all know-
ledge under his supervision, if not as an
individual then as a group, and no fact can
be outside his scope. He must make sure
that it is a fact, and then be thankful that
he has found somethingwhich has hitherto
231
The Influence of Demonstrated Survival
eluded his system, and which may possibly
contain the key to the whole.
Let us see What sort of information or
testimony has so far been given.
The testimony so far obtained, or pur-
porting to be obtained, from departed
human beings is to the effect that memory
continues after bodily death; for reminis-
cences are employedas one means ofproving
identity.
This, if accepted, shows that memory
does not effectively reside in the brain,
although habitual usage of certain nerve
tracts no doubt makes recovery of memory
more easy thanwhen thematerialinstrument
has been lost.
Habits may be weakened by that loss,
but memory need not be impaired. We
find that incidents that have made an im-
pression on the mind of deceased person-
alities are remembered, and can be recalled
under proper stimulus.
Intellect continues also. Literary quota-
tions are often ingeniously applied, so as to
232
on Science, P121’/o.ro_p/2}, and Re/zgion
convey information in a curious character-
istic and evidential manner.
Aptitudesfor learningand for artistic pro-
duction seem also to continue. Innate, and
probably also acquired, faculties and tastes
belongto the individual, and are retained.
Indeed, the evidence is that the whole
personality survives, with a character and
powers similar to those displayed by the
old bodilyorganism.
Above all, family affection continues
strong; the desire to help friends and
relatives is perhaps the most prominent
feature, and indeed often constitutes _
the
motive power that stimulated the efibrt to
communicate.
A wider knowledge, especially a keener
appreciation of the future, is sometimes
shown, though the knowledge in general
remains subject to human limitations, and
only in a few (sometimesunexpected) direc-
tions, does it exceed our own in quality.
Those on theotherside of theveilsay that
they progress in higher knowledge; but
233
Tlze Influence of Demomtrated Survival
apparently that higher knowledge, acquired
out of contact with earth, seems but little
accessible to them when they make the
effort to resume material conditions in order
to have communion with us.
They seem then partially dazed by tem-
porary reincarnation—if their momentary
return to a material body may be so called.
The brain is an inhibiting or screening
organ, and our own habitual use of it may
be rather dazing too. Few can use that
instrument effectively.
Even so they see further than We can,
theypossess what We call clairvoyance, they
are not so subject to the limitations of space
and time as we are.
And so it is that when they again try to
use a brain they feel a strain, and make
lapses from which in theirnormal state they
may be free.
They sometimes make an effort to tell us
about their surroundings, but We have no
means of verifying the information given;
its general tenor is thattheirpower of inter-
234
on Science, P/Ji/010])/J], and Re/zgion
preting theuniverse has remained unaltered,
or but little changed, and that accordingly
their environment appeals to them under
much the same guise, and with the same
general kind of appearance, as they had
been familiarwith here.
Afterall, theyare stillin thesame universe,
and although the universe is most pro-
foundly comprehensive, so that it can be
regarded in a multitude of ways, it is un-
likely that a human being, either here or
there, can as yet apprehend any but the
human aspect, theone withwhich our senses
have made us familiar, and which is real
and true as far as it goes.
So far, then, as their own present con-
ditions are concerned, theytestify thatthere
are many grades of existence; they are not
all in one place or in one state.
The vicious are not with them; nor pre-
sumably are the saints constantly accessible.
There is, so to speak, plenty of room, and
each appears to enter the state or condition
for which he is fitted.
23 5
T/ye Influence of Demonstrated Survival
Diversity of tastes, diversity of interests,
of powers, and of intelligence, still exist,
just as they do down here. And there
is a sorting-out process, probably more
complete than it is here, whereby We
associate mainly With those of our own
kind.
Those who frequently communicate with
us are evidently happy, amid gracious sur-
roundings, surrounded by beautylike that
of terrestrial landscapes, and under con-
ditions Which do not feel strange or un-
natural.
So uniform is this testimony that I have
imagined that perhaps they see the etheric
aspect of the very things of which We see
the material aspect.
Whatever the explanation, they certainly
tell us thattheyare in a state Where theycan
feel at home, can keep in touch for a time
with those they loved on earth, can be of
service in many Ways; and, though they
see opportunities of progress ahead, they
are well satisfied to bide their time, and do
236
on Science, Pbi/oxopby,and Re/zgiorz
their duty in that state of life to which they
have been called.
They are not suddenly transmuted into
beings of another order. They remain
themselves; and changes, like all changes
in the universe, are gradual. Five minutes
after death, as the Bishop of London has
said, they are much the same as they were
five minutes before, except that they are
rid of the burden of the flesh.
It is difficult to realise what it all means,
but they certainly say that they have music,
that they can paint, that they can carry on
their studies.
Literature is somehow not closed to
them, they do not seem deprived of any of
the intellectual pleasureswhich theyenjoyed
here. It seems that we are never too old
to learn, and to enlarge our powers of
appreciation; for that knowledge, those
powers and aptitudes, are a permanent
benefit.
The next world—-a personal and sub-
jective phrase—seemsto be very much what
237
The Influence of Dmomtrated Survival
We make it. We seem to be building our
future surroundings in terms of character
here. We must, as Dr. Rendall expresses it,
win our souls.
Those who attend only to themselves
will have only themselves to attend to.
Those who have cultivated wide sympathies
and have been of service to their brethren
will find their joy and scope in service
enlarged and exalted.
In brief, most of the departed rejoice at
the condition they find Waiting for them,
and are happy and content.
They do indeed occasionally testify that
there are far higher beings in existence, and
that they themselves are in the course of
progressing towards higher states.
They also claim that from time to time
they can inspire those left behind, and help
them to achieve results, to gain ideas, to
make discoveries, and that to this power
We owe much of value that comes through
What We call genius.
Although this kind of service may con-
238
on Science, Phi/050])/2}, and Re/zgion
tinue for a long time, they suggest that
ultimatelytheywill probablylose touch with
the earth, and, save in exceptional circum-
stances, will soar too high for communica-
tion, and graduallyget out of touch withthat
branch of the human familystill on earth.
The exceptions, however, are profoundly
important. For however high the person-
ality progresses, it is always possible to"
descend for a good object, and even to suffer
humiliationfor the sake of those struggling
amid difficulties and temptations below.
They speak with the utmost reverence
of One such Being who actuallytook flesh
and dwelt among us for a time, in order
to give us truer apprehension of the nature
of the Godhead, and to assure us of the
loving—kindness which lies at the heart of
everything.
All this and much more testimony about
conditions on the other side will be avail-
able as soon as the facts of survival of
individual character and personality are
effectively admitted as true.
239
Tbe Irzflueme of Demonstrated Survival
As a matter of fact many bereaved people
already take comfort in the reception of
clear and characteristic messages from their
loved ones.
The veil is wearing thin, and WC are
beginningto realise thatthe separation into
two states or conditions of being is an
artificial separation, due mainly to the limi-
tation of our animal senses, and that a
unity, a continuity, dominates the whole.
We are welded together in the bonds of
love, as the heavenly bodies are welded
togetherby theunitingbonds of gravitation,
and as separate atoms are grouped into solids
and held together by the ether of space.
There need be no isolation, no bewilder-
ment; the universe is more perfect than has
yet been conceived, even by our poets;
and the enlargement of conception gained
by emancipation from the material body
leads to yet keener appreciation of the
grandeur and beautyof existence.
Truly there is much for the philosopher
to learn.
240
on Science, Pbi/amp/2], and Re/zgion
(3) Re/zgion
What will be the effect upon religion of
a demonstrated case of survival—or rather,
not of an individual case, for that would
always be doubtful, but of the demonstra-
tion that human beings, with their full
character and personality, survive the death
of the body, and continue in another, cer-
tainly psychical, perhaps physical, but im-
material order of existence?
It may be said thattheinformationbriefly
summarisedin section No (2),about thecon-
ditions of permanent existence, has already
a bearingon religion. Undoubtedlyit has,
but it is the result of more than a mere
demonstration of survival; it represents
information obtained from those who have
survived; and as long as their survival
itself is in doubt it is not availablefor use.
By religion we willhere mean thereaction
of an intelligent person, not exactlyto the
universe as a whole—for that would be
philosophy—butto the highest conception
P.W. 241 Q
The Influence of Demomtrated Survival
which the person has been able to form
concerning the meaning and cause of
existence.
If he has been touched by religion at all
he has presumablyformed some conception
of a Being who understands and controls
the working of everythingthat he can per-
ceive or imagine, and towards the fulfil-
ment of Whose will, so far as he under-
stands it, he desires to regulate his life.
A person who chose to assume that the
universe was irrational, without aim or
object——merely a random dance of atoms
under the influence of purely chemical and
physical forces—might resent the idea of
religion as having any meaning or signifi-
cance for him.
I think, however, that such people are
extremelyrare, and thatthe most consistent
materialist is willing to admit that there is
an unknown, and possibly unknowable,
mystery surrounding existence, of which he
stands in some awe, without presuming to
formulate any idea of the nature of that
mystery.
242
on Science, PM/0:01)/J}, and Re/zgion
The appreciation of goodness and of law
and order is universal. Hence practically
some form of religion is common to all
mankind.
The question, therefore, is, what bearing
a demonstration of human survival beyond
the material body would have upon religion
in this broad and comprehensive sense P
First, it would show thatlife is not limited
to its material forms of manifestation, that
it is more than a mere function of animated
matter, and that its explanation is to be
sought in a region outside that matter.
That, however, in so far as it is justified
would be primarilya scientific conclusion,
for it would show that the brain and other
organs of the body have not the last word
in the interpretation of mind and conscious-
ness. It would show thatthose entities can
exist and can continue, apart from the
instruments which demonstrate them to the
senses; and this discovery would have a
bearingon any system of philosophywhich
might then be in vogue.
P.W. 243 Q*
The Influence of Derzzomtrafed Survival
Such a system would tend to open the
mind to an enlarged View of the universe,
and would lead to the inclusion of mental
and spiritual realities apart from matter, and
possibly existing in space.
If the animating principle that we are
aware of in ourselves has a permanent exist-
ence, and if that animating principle is
individualised,so thatour personalities con-
tinue, the door is open to the conception of
other intelligences higher than our own,
which may likewise exist. For no reason
can be assigned why we or any other of
theorganismson earth should bethehighest
that can exist anywhere.
Those who have lived on the earth in the
past, if in any sense they continue, need
not surely have been stagnant and unpro-
gressive. The process of evolution that
has brought us thus far may carry us on
much farther.
Time is of the essence of the process of
evolution; and in the lapse of time those
who once made use of the properties of
244
on Science, P112’/050])/J}, and Re/zgion
terrestrial matter for their initial develop-
ment as individuals may have progressed to
heights to us unthinkable, and may have
come into communion with other lofty
spirits whose developmentwas not terrestrial
at all.
In other words, the demonstration of the
survival of the human spirit would, when
accomplished, establish the existence of a
spiritual world; that is to say of an order
of being in the universe, inaccessibleto the
senses, and beyond our present experience
or apprehension.
Our own hopes and aspirations would
then be regarded as a faint indication or
incipient example of something far more
deeply embedded in the nature of things,
“
a presence far more deeply interfused,”
which may lead us in the last resort to sur-
pass our present attainment as far as that
surpasses the attainment of thelowest forms
of life.
Once take the initial step, and there is
no limit. Continuity reigns, and we are
245
Tbe Influence of Demonstrated Survival
quite unlikelyto come to a boundary or to
some ideal condition beyondwhich there is
nothing. The spiritual World, once ad-
mitted, rnay rationally be thought of as
extending to infinity.
There is no limit or boundary to the
material universe. The same system of
law and order holds throughout. And if
spirit and matter are interrelated, so that
all that We can observe is a sign of some-
thingdominatingand interactingand giving
partial indications of a great Reality, then
the whole may be suffused with an intelli-
gence and a meaning beyondanythingthat
we can conceive.
The only limit to conception is imposed
by our finite minds; and the highest con-
ception of reality which at any period we
have been able to form is What we designate
by the term “
God.”
That term, too, has evolved. The
thoughts of men have widened with the
process of thesuns. The attributes assigned
to that term have changed from time to
246
on Science, P/72'/atop/9},and Re/zgion
time in accordance with human develop-
ment. The term, as we use it, means the
highest that we are able to conceive, and
we may rest assured that the reality is far
beyondour utmost imagination.
Humanity in its religious efforts has
striven towards this ideal, with many limi-
tations and imperfections, and has only
gone a little way on the journey. But it
has felt justified in extending its own ideas
of goodness, beauty,and truth, has realised
that after all they are parts of the universe,
and thatraised to a higher power theymust
be attributes of the loftiest Being of and
throughWhom the whole universe exists.
The existence of a spiritual world is the
preamble of all religions, and realisation of
that existence will be a rational consequence
of demonstrated survival.
Of course religion has gone further. It
looks to theinspirationof Saint and Prophet
for help and guidance among. the uncer-
tainties and Cllfl‘lC11ltlCS of earth-life. It
247
T/ye Influence of Demomtrated Survival
seeks to Worship at the shrine of the
Holy. Christianity assumes that a Higher
Being has interacted with matter, and has
demonstrated, by means of a material body,
some of the Divine attributes, so as to bring
them withinhuman cognizance.
Thus it is claimed that in spite of all
appearances love is the dominant feature,
thatthewhole process of evolutionis guided
by a beneficent Fatherlypurpose, that We
are living in the midst of an infinitelycom-
plex and beneficent reality, to which there
is neither beginningnot end.
If we ask what influence demonstrated
survival may have upon conduct, We are
entering the field of ethics, and each must
judge for himself What the effect would be
if he knew for certain that his own person-
ality, his own character, would continue,
thatthere Was no getting away from it, and
that it would be either a blessing or a
bane for vast epochs of time.
On the whole it would seem likely to
increase his feeling of responsibility, and
248
on Science, P/21'/o.rop/J}, and Re/zgion
might stimulate a desire to learn more of
What has been taught by the higher of the
sons of men about deep and apparently
eternal things.
Apart from controversy, the religion of
English—speaking communities is Christi-
anity,and Christianity has been described as
not so much a doctrine as a life. It is both;
but at any rate it is a very human form of
religion, and has a strong practicalbearing.
Will an assured scientific knowledge of
survival, when it comes, have anything to
say about Christianity? Undoubtedly it
Will. It will make its doctrinal acceptance
in many ways much easier. The continued
existence and activity of the Redeemer will
follow almost as a matter of course.
The episode of Incarnation which made
the demonstration possible will be always
historically important; but its contempla-
tion will be illuminated and completed by
the continued action of the Divine Spirit
down the ages.
So much has been written about the
Z49
The Influence of Demomfrafed Survival
resurrection of the Central Figure of Chris-
tianity that it has become almost tiresome.
It is seldom contemplated from the entirely
human point of view. It is treated as
miraculous and exceptional; and the sur-
vival is supposed to be demonstrated by an
empty tomb, as Well as by the Forty Day
appearances.
Clerical authoritiesmay be right in con-
tending for a special and exceptional treat-
ment of that one material body; it may be
a true instinct which impels them to lay
stress on the disappearance of the corpse.
But that kind of resurrection is not
essential to continued existence, and is not
representative of our own immaterial sur-
vival. There Will be no empty tomb in our
case; at least not until we have progressed
immeasurably higher as a race. Even that
may come. Who is to say? The Gospel
occurrence may be an anticipation of some-
thing latent in the relation between mind
and matter, which only an exceptionally
lofty personality can make effective.
2 so
on Scieme, PM/oxopéy, and Religion
If that is so, a rational interpretation—
otherwise lacking—can be accorded to the
phrase “ the first fruits of them that slept.”
But still, even as regards that Central
Figure of the Gospels, surely the continu-
ance of activity,here and now and always,
is more important thantheparticularmethod
by which thatcontinuitywas secured. The
method is of interest, but not so essential.
The more essential truth is that contained
in such sentences as
“
He ever liveth to
make intercession for us ”; and again,
“
My FatherWorkethhitherto,and I Work.”
Even so we shall live and Work also.
Our birthmay be“
a sleep and a forgetting,”
but not our death. Deathreleases us from
the barrier of the flesh, introduces us to the
glorious company of those who have gone
before, and opens out a majestic vista of
love and service.
251
INDEX
ACTION at a distance, 211
Adaptation, xi, 139
Adventure, element of, 206
Aflectionand faith,34, 187,
233, 238
Amoeba, 71
Anatomy,38, 51
Ancients,knowledgeof, 182
Animal bodies, I04, 222
intelligence, 223
lucidity, 160
Soul, question of, 76
survival, 79
Animals and vegetables, I 13
argument from lower,
102
Animated bodies, 48, 243
Animation, 112, I37, 213
Anthropology,217
Anticipation, 47, 75, I65,
I99, 205, 223
and memory, 47
Aristotle's Poetics, I 56
Armada, 53
Art, 104
Atomsand stars, 93, I31, 221
Atonements, sacrificial, 30
Attraction,60, 210, 214
Automaticworking,214
Writing, 147
Automatism, I49
Awarenessof distant events,
145, 161, 203
Balfour, Mr. Gerald, I 55
Barrett, Sir William, I 53
Beacon fires, 53
Beauty,xi, 2o, 33, 49, 139,
236
and mechanism, 33
Bees, 72
Behaviour, animal, 45
Beliefs of savages, I77
Bereavement, 66, 233, 240
Biologists, difficultyof, 222,
228
Biology, 86
Biophysics, I 37
Biosandchoice, I96,206,216
Bodies, animated, 48
Body and instrument, I06
and mind, 62
Book-tests, 152
Brain and mind, 50, 58, go,
162, 209, 227, 229, 243
, damage to, I06
and music, 51
and thought, 46, 50
deposit, I 54
X the organ of mind, 47
,
use of, 232, 234
waves, I63
Brain-nerve-muscle system,
50
Brotherhood, I89
Browning, Robert, 151
Butcher, Professor, I 55
Candle analogy, 52
Caprice, 208, 216
Cathedralsand churches, I7
Caution, I69
255
Index
Cells, activityof, 73
and organism, 78
Ceyx and Alcyone, 178
Chamberlin, Professor, 91
Character, 17
Choice, power of, 194, 196
Christianity, 101, 239, 248,
249, 250, 251
Churches, resentment of
the, 22, 26
Clairvoyance, 234
, travelling, 190
Clerical difficulties, 81
Cliflord, W. K., viii, I93
Cohesion, 134
Coleridge, 145
Common sense, things re-
pugnant to, 65
Communal life, 71
Communication, power of,
103
, spirit, 25
Communications, 184, 191
Communion of Saints, 187
Concrete things, 40
Conditions of future exist-
ence, 238
Consciousness, 32, 76, 138
,
illusion of, 33
Continuance of intelligence
and affection, 233
Continued activity and in-
telligence, 237
progress and eleva-
tion, 19
Control, 167, 214, 234
Copernican theory, 219
Corpuscles, white, 71
Cosmos, unity of, 131
Creation and evolution, I42
Crookes, Sir William, 171
Cross-correspondence, 158
Crowd, dispersion of, 77
Crucifixion, 56
Crystal vision, I 50
Cyclical operations, 122
Darien peaks, xii
Deathof organism, 73
De Broglie, viii
Descent, possible, 239
Design and plan, 47
Direct voice and Writing,
100, 173, I76
Discontinuities, 130
Disease and microbes, 31
Distortion, 184
Divine attributes, 248
Dominatingpower, 21
Dreams, I46
Dualism, 197
Dunraven, Lord, 171
Dynamo, I20, 121
"
Bar of Dionysius," 155
Earth life, temporary ad-
venture of, 96, I07
Ectoplasm, 172, 175
Eddington, vii, viii, 93
Einstein, vii, 43, 208, 211,
212
Electricity and space, 43,
132
Electrons, I30, 197
Emotion and materialism,
34» 51
Empty tomb, 250
Energy and matter, 117,
I 32
conservation of, 70
dissipationof, 118, 124
transformations of, 69
Engines, efficiency of, 118
Entelechy, 76
Epiphenomenon, 84
Ether, 61, 63, 67, 94, 95,
I17, 140, 198, 211
and matter, 94, I08,
I21, 133, 186
and mind, 109
Eusapia, 171
Evidence, 27
Evolution, 86, 124, I25, 201
254
Index
Evolution and creation, 142
and time, 244
as progress, not cycli-
cal, I23
Existence, continuityof, 36,
69, 78, 228, 249, 251
, grades of, 76
, grandeur of, I89, 240
,
limitations of, I05
, meaning and mystery
of, 16, 46, 110, 125, 127
Experience, accumulated,
78, 204
Explanation, 140, 177
Explosive, 45
Faith, 34, 136
Fatalism, 205
Father,heart of a, 21, 248
Feda, 168
FifthSymphony,52
Final causes, 85
Flesh, emancipation from
the, 21
Folk-lore, 27
Foreknowledge,
202
Forty-day appearances, 250
Free will, 20, 21, 165, 186,
194, 195, 206, 216
Future, anticipating the,
64, 65, 200, 202, 205, 227
I99. 200.
Galvani, 83
Gauss, 160
Geley, Dr., 152, 174
Generalisation, approach-
ing, 142
Genius, intuitions of, 65, 99
Geology, 86
Gifiord Lectures, 87
Good and evil, powers of,
189
Grades of being, 168, 185,
188, 235, 244
Gramophone, 64
Gramophoneneedle, 213
Gravitation, vii, 43, 46, 60,
83, 117, I32, 134, 209,
210, 214
Group waves, ix
Guedalla, Philip, 128
Guidance, 19, 36, 55, 75,
188, 201, 202, 212, 215,
216, 238
Gurney, Edmund, 218
Habit and memory, 232
. Habitable worlds, 92
Haldane, Dr. ]. S., 87
Hamlet, 52
Hebrew legends, 183
Helpers of humanity, 19,
96,101, 188, 233, 239, 251
Heracleitus, 131
Heredity, 75, 100
Heterodox discoveries, 26
Higherbeings, 96, 101, 189,
206, 235, 238, 245
Hopkinson, John, 121
Human faculty,limitations
of, 205
personality,204
Humanity,development of,
123, I27, I42, 182
Huxley,Professor, 68
Ignorance, frontier of, 22
Image in looking-glass, 179
Incarnation, 95, 99, I00,
249
Inertia, I35, 213, 214, 225
Infallibility,
absence of, 165
Inference, 202
Inspiration, 65, 99, 149
Instincts and intuitions, 79,
99. I15. 223 _
Institut Métapsychique, I74
Intelligences, other, 101,
168, 185, 189, 208, 217,
235. . ..
Intelligibihty,201
255
Index
Interactionof life and mind
with matter, 114
Intercommunion, 187
Interpretation, 181
Jeans, Sir James, 90, 91, I33
Jekylland Hyde, I45
Keith,Sir Arthur,38, 4o, 52
Kelvin, Lord, 146, I64
Kepler, 208, 212
Kinematograph,I93
Knowledge, growthof, 23
Laboratory phenomena,27
Lang, Andrew, 150
Laplace, 30, 192, 194
Law and order, 20, 3:
Least Action, Principle of,
215
Legends, family,204
Legislation, obsolete, 65
Leonard, Mrs., 168
Lethe, I57
Liebig,88
Life and magnetism, study
of, 222
and matter, 70, 89, 9o,
93. 95. 96. H2. I37. 224.
230
and mind, 32, 46, 47,
84, I06, 196, 198, 226
, physical vehicle
for, 57, 61, 106, 113
as a prelude, 16
—
investigation of, 231
—-— mind and space, I 38
nature of, 222, 224
rise of, 123
Lightning, 30, 214
Lights and other pheno-
mena, I73, 179
Logos, I41
London, Bishop of, 237
Loom analogy, 89
Love, bonds of, 240
Lucidity, I45 149, I53, 161
Luminaries, rising, 129
Machinery,118, 213
Maeterlinck,I 59
Magnetism, 44, 132, r 35,
225
Material and physical, 62
embodiment, 82, 97
——- limitations, 104
organisms, influences
on, 114
Materialisations, I73, 174,
176
Materialism, 29, 33, 58, 67,
218, 242
Matter and energy, 117,
I32. I35
and ether, 94, 108,
121, I33, I86
and life, 70, 89,90,93,
95. 96. H2, I37. 224. 243
—— and mind, x, 58, 250
and radiation, I22
—— as index, 42, 222
at high temperature,
92
inert, 224
nature of, vii, 60
Matterhorn, 213
Mechanics, laws of, 47
Mechanism, 32
and beauty,33
——- and guidance, 55
—— and reality, 35
and thought, 61
, study of, 29
Mediums, I54, I68, 170,
I72, 186, I87, I91
ancient, I83
Mediumship, 226, 234
Memory and anticipation,
47
and habit, 232
Mental inference, 41
interpretation, xi
256
/.52
zoz '66I
‘I61 '99: ‘S91 'uo;;:>;p9.Ic[
661 ‘#61 ‘99I‘txog;eu;:;sepa1c[
Liv;
‘zg 'suo;Sg[e1 [112 }o s[qu1'e91c[
ZOI ‘.I9&'e.Ic1
391 'uo;ssassoc[
of ‘maxegyp ‘mam ;o squgog
giv ‘seep; ogsgre pI1‘e ogsod
zoz ‘g‘£I
‘uogogpsld pu'e Suguuqd
Izz
'61z ‘S17 ';o uogouz 's;au1a[c{
961 ‘L17 'uS}s9p pm: u'e[c[
0E ‘auyure;
:->:>u9[p,ssd ‘enBe[c{
EX 'S4q3?°‘I'1I”t’-351d
391 ‘LEI '5-SS1 "sxw '.I9d_ld
ozz ’[e:>p;oa[e 'S.I99!I0}(f[
617 's:;u9uIS;a
39
‘z€ 'sassaoo1d ['eoySo1o;s&qd
63 ‘1eoy1:)Aoppom
691 ‘69 ‘has
-u9s—nou 'euau1ou9qd
317 ‘go uopesmgn ‘sme[
0%
'66 ‘#6 '1'eo;qoAsd pue
z9 ‘[ep9:;eIn ptre reoysfiqd
179 "C{d'E.I3OI}O'C[c'[
99x 'snu9xo[§qc{
If-Iz '4{I.[dOSO[[L[c‘[
Lg ‘u1s;1'e;.1aa,'euI
69 'aouE.IouB; ogqdosonqg
irz 'flX 's[['em
5: ‘Agnes: ;o u1oJ,u'eq,_.[
3L1 'L/.1 ‘smsmueqd
1!!‘-
‘ssoumeadde femsmueqd
Lfiz ‘z€z ‘gzz ‘ggx ‘£6 ‘S3
‘6L '14 ‘L9 ‘L1 'x{:;[[’eIIOS.I(-)c'[
S9 'uognoas.Iac[
091 ‘ondad
oz: ‘sum[npu9d
zoz ‘a6: ‘#9
‘a.m3,n; ptre masaxd ';s'ec[
pm;
191 "pl, ‘£9‘;o xng ‘s9[:>p,.I'eC‘{
‘HI ‘semolfi IIg_.}‘l2.1'8d
31.1
‘L9I 'saso1(¢.¢ommaj,1[s,p;AQ
531 ‘reuosxad '>{oo[;n0
z§I ’3S[oaynossQ
gzz
'z€ ‘suIs;u'eSJQ
Qoz ‘aoueyosgumo
171': fiauauxouaqda.mosqQ
081 ‘A4IA14o9{<10
59 ‘peJ;1V ‘safiogq
on ‘IS '09 ‘uo:;meN
Lg 'Ins;u1aqo9uI-oaN
L3 ‘qdesof 'IHBqp99N
179 'ep9mo1puV II} 'e[nqeN
'91 I '91.
glz ‘17oz
‘$1 '45: "H ‘M ‘g 's.1a&W
#01 ‘ogsnw
31' 'uop,.Iax9 .I'e[n:>snw
091 ‘zpezow
[9 ‘pm’; ‘u'eq;uAo]/q
16 '.Ioss9;o.I,5[‘uoglnow
Ah ‘u1sp;au1oa,ne
oz: ‘Jozpow
S61 's9A;;ow
‘£3 '9AO[ mqqow
gh ':;9q1aqd1-e asxow
6€I '['e:);u12qo9u1 ‘sppow
6€z 'asg.Id.1eJ,ue Areuogssgw
zox ‘9[oe1;]/q
lzz ‘;o ['eA1A1ns
IS 'e.m;'eu ;o and
0Sz
‘Z6: '39 ‘x ‘.193,:mtIx pma
gzz 'g6I ‘96I
'41’ '91’ 'z£ ‘em pue
601 ‘xaqqa pxre
Sivz '6zz ‘dz: ‘6oz 'z9I
'06 '99 '09 ‘upelq pue
Z9 ‘zfpoq Pu? Purw
IE ‘aseasgp pun saqomgm
‘#31 ‘£91 ‘safiessem
xapzq
Index
Pre-existence, 97, 98
Premonitions, 201, 203
Primitive man, 217
Prodigies, infant, 160
Prognostication, 191
Psychic experience, 67
Psychometiy,I49. I51, 152
Psycho-physical happen-
ings, 27, 169
Purposive action, 75
Radiation, 42, 53, 54, 64,
116, 122, 131, 134
Rainbow, 179, 180
Raps, I70 .
Rational prejudices, 29
Rationalism, 141, 242
Raw material, 18
Realities behind appear-
ance, x, 23, 35, 80
Reality and reason, dis-
crepancy between, 136
and science, 26
, persistence of, 77
Records, careful, 182
Religious beliefs, 16, 17
Repetition and progress,
124
Resurrection, 25o
Reunion, 36
Revelation, 181, 247
Reversibility,119, 121, 193
Reversible processes, 118
Richet, Professor, 152, 174,
207
River identity, 74
Sacrificialatonements, 30
Samuel, 159
Scholarship, 155
Schrenk Notzing, 171
Schrodinger, viii
Science, aloofness of, 28
Science and life, 128
and mechanics, 85
—— and reality, 26
Science, birthof modem, 30
, co-operationin, 89
,
facts of orthodox, 28
—, metrical and other,
217
—, orthodox, 86
, scope of, 217
Scientific aspiration, 31
proof, 18
Scrap of paper, 77
Self-control, 195
Self-determination, 137
Sensations of colour and
tone, 34
Senses, appeal to the, 28
Sidgwick, Henry, 218
Sociology, 217
Socrates, 39
Solar system, origin of, 91,
111
Soul, 76
Space and ether, 117, 140
and radiation, 134
and time, limitations
of, 190
,
curvature of, vii, 211
, emptiness of, I 33
—, properties of, 41, 43,
53, 61, 133, 140, 141, 198
Space-time, 209
, warp in, viii, 210, 212
Spiral nebulae, 92
Spirit communication, 25
Spiritistic hypothesis, 218
Spiritual world, xii, 15, 19,
25, 82, 246, 247
Spiritualism, 208, 217, 238
S.P.R., 204, 218
Starlight, 54
Stars and atoms, 93, 131
and radiation, 54, 117
,
atoms in, 93
,
birthof, 92
Stevenson, R. L., 145
Stewart, Professor Balfour,
94-
258
Index
Subconsciousness, I48, 162
Sufiering, 21
Supernormal information,
190
Supersensual phenomena,
28, 44
Superstition, 27, 29, 181
Survival, 18, I9, 25, 62, 79,
243 _
, arguments against, 63
,
conditions of, 235
—-——, demonstration of, 66
,
evidence for, 18, 36,
66, 78, 80
, grades of, 71, 77
, individual, 70, I06
——, meaning of, 69
of memory and char-
acter, I05
, proof of, 103, 228
,
racial, I26
, testimony to, 35, 236
Sympathy,21
Tait, Professor, 94
Telekinesis,170
Telepathy,103, I62, I63
Temporaryexistence, 77
'l‘ennyson's "
Ancient
Sage," xii
Testimony, 232, 233, 235,
241
Theology, 207, 242, 246
Thermometer, registering,
2:1
Thought and brain, 46, 50,
61
Thunder, 30
Tillyard,Professor, I76
Time, 126, I92, I99
Time and evolution, 244
T.N.T., 45
Trancelucidity,I 53
Trivialities,83, 84, 220
Truth,attitude to, 68
Uncertainty, I 31
Uniformityof nature, I 36
Universe as a machine, I2I
, aspects of, 22, 39,
I 36
Unseen universe, 94
Vacuum,43, 134, 221
Value, growthin, 124
Vegetablesand animals, I I 3
Veil, raising or thinningof
the, 23, 240
Verrall, Professor, I 55, I 56
Vitalism, 88
Volition, I94
Wallace, Alfred Russel, 91
Water-finding,I49
Waves, ix, I16
Wave velocity, viii
Weight, raised, 44
Wireless set, 214
Wordsworth, 24, 99
Worship, I 39
