{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__hardwicke___voices_from_beyond.pdf","mytitle":"Voices From Beyond","mylang":"de"}
VOICES from BEYOND
BY HENRY HARDWICKE, M. D.
VOICES FROM BEYOND COPYRIGHTED 1930
BY HARKELL COMPANY PUBLISHERS
Printed in U. S. A.
PUBLISHER'S NOTE
Questions, Criticisms or Comments which
may arise in the mind of the reader may
be directed to the author in our care.
HARKELL COMPANY PUBLISHERS
NIAGARA FALLS
NEW YORK
DEDICATED
TO
GEORGE ALAN HARDWICKE
To whom life was, and is, a joyous adventure.
FOREWORD
OICES FROM BEYOND is an attempt on the part of its
author to put into readable form certain well-authenti
cated facts concerning psychical phenomena. For many
years scientific research has been carried on in this field
by men whose personal integrity it is impossible to ques
tion. The great mass of people, however, know nothing
about the results of all this labor and tend still to associate
psychic manifestations and spiritual phenomena with fraud
and charlatanry. VOICES FROM BEYOND is an attempt
to dispel this illusion.
The first four chapters of the book contain the story
of Bob Burton's personal experience, and describe his at
tempt to convince his friend that his reasons for believing
in psychical research are valid. The rest of the book is a
presentation of evidence in support of the author's thesis:
namely, that communication with the spirits of the depart
ed is not only possible but demonstrable.
There are three characters in the narrative section of
the book: Ned Huntington, Bob and Ethel Burton. All
three are in the forties, intelligent, well read, cultivated.
Ned is the type of man who has to be shown, but he en
ters good naturedly into the spirit of the argument upon
which his friend, Bob, embarks to convince him. Ethel, who
has shared her husband's experiences and assisted him in
his investigations, is a party to the discussion and makes an
occasional pertinent comment as the subject advances.
Dr. Colin Noel who enters the dialogue in the fourth
chapter is, like Huntington, inclined to be skeptical. His
penetrating questions and sharp criticisms force Bob Bur
ton into a precise statement of facts.
It remains only to be said that the experience described
in the narrative is an actual experience and that the refer
ences made to experiments are all taken from trustworthy
sources.
CHAPTER 1
) T sounds like the purest bunk."
Huntington lolled in his chair before the fire
which sent its crackling cheer into the room,
causing the tall shadows of the clustered groups
to dance in grotesque shapes upon the panelled wall and
high ceiling of the club smoking room.
"Well, it may be bunk, Ned," agreed Burton, "but you
are speaking as I once spoke. Life is full and well-rounded
for you. You have your wife and family. It's a bit differ
ent when one of your own has gone into the Unknown.
Especially, one whose future held great promise. Somehow
it makes you think." The gray-haired man leaned forward,
cupping his chin in his hands, an elbow on either knee.
"I don't want to hurt your feelings," continued Ned
Huntington, "my point is that you get mixed up in this
business only when you're in a more or less morbid state
of mind. If our friends who have died can talk to us, why
don't they speak directly, and not in a back alley through
some questionable character whom they never knew? I
may be in the foolish forties, but I am not foolish enough to
accept this sort of thing. The whole business sounds as
though it might be the result of an adolescent superstition."
He threw his leg over the chair arm, and swung it back
and forth as if to give relief to his irritation. To think of
sane old Bob Burton, a professional man of no mean attain
ment, getting mixed up with spirit voices, table tipping and
all the other rot that goes with it. Why the papers were
forever exposing these traffickers upon the credulity of the
weak-minded and those made morbid by grief.
"You speak as though you've had a lot of experience in
this. Have you ever attended a seance or witnessed any
1
thing upon which to base an opinion?" Bob's voice was
even and low. His eyes were fixed on the fire.
"Of course not," retorted the other querulously. "Do
you think I'm crazy? I don't want to be the laughing stock
of all my friends. Take it from me, you'd better snap out
of it too. The boys around the club are beginning to tap
their foreheads whenever your name is mentioned." He
paused and strummed the chair arm with nervous fingers.
"Don't you understand ? You've got to get out of this non
sense before it has gone too far."
"I've known you a good many years," replied Burton
quietly, "and always when you expressed an opinion it has
been worth hearing, because it has been the result of per
sonal knowledge and experience. This is the first time that
you have expressed a positive conviction admittedly based
upon prejudice. Why should your attitude toward psychics
be different from your attitude toward any other line of
scientific investigation ?"
Huntington fastened his eyes on the profile of his friend.
"Tell me," he said gravely, "have you ever seen anything
worth while come out of this spirit stuff? Doesn't the
whole thing have to be done in the dark because it won't
bear the light of day? I've taken the jokes of the crowd
and stood by you faithfully, but it irritates me to see a man
with your intelligence and your standing jeopardizing your
future as you seem to be doing. Look here, have you any
real reason for this seeming insanity?"
The taut lines about Burton's mouth relaxed. His grey
eyes twinkled. "If you really care to know, I shall be glad
to tell you where you can find the same things that have
interested me, and how I became interested.
"Understand now, I can sympathize with your feelings in
this matter, for only a few years ago I, too, was a confirmed
skeptic. But before I attempt to present this 'proof,' as
you call it, I should like to make one request —that you give
2
me a fair hearing and take the trouble to verify the state
ments I make."
"You sound as though it might take the rest of the
night," smiled Huntington. "All I asked for was one bit of
evidence which any rational person could accept."
The older man sank back into the depths of his chair.
"It is because I know you for the man you are that the
request is made," retorted Burton, grimly. "I should not
expect one of your intelligence to accept any unsupported
statements of mine. For that reason I'm asking you to
verify them. Unless you do that, there is no possible point
in beginning. For in the end you'd only be convinced of
what you now fear—that I, your friend, have become sub
ject to mental decay."
"Yes, I grant that point—but personally I'm not much
interested in spending time on a subject of this sort. How
ever, in order to be fair I'll agree to verify any point which,
in my opinion, is worthy of verification. How's that?"
"Fair enough," returned the other. "Get your pencil
and a piece of paper. From time to time, I shall ask you to
jot down a few names, addresses and perhaps the title of a
book or two."
Burton lit a cigar and blew a few smoke rings toward
the ceiling, as if attempting to marshal his ideas before
beginning his story. He realized that his own impressions
would have little weight—that he must have definite facts
if he were to convince Huntington.
"As you remember," he began, "about six years ago
one very dear to me was sentenced to death. Cancer ! Four
months at the most was the verdict of the medical profes
sion. Nothing unusual or new in that situation, of course.
Hundreds are facing it daily.
"You knew him—nothing very fanciful about his men
tality—rather a keen mind though—one who might be
3
termed a free thinker. He was not bound by religious dog
mas, to any great extent.
"Well, there was the fact and we all faced it. He knew
it was only a matter of weeks, and also knew that we knew
it.
" 'No morphine,' he ordered, 'until the time that my
brain ceases to function normally. While I live I wish to
think clearly.' This was his decision in the face of terrific
pain.
"About a week before death claimed him, he sent for
me —to come with all possible speed.
" 'Am I delirious—tell me?' That was the question with
which I was greeted on arrival at his bedside.
"After asking him about his symptoms and talking of
other matters—some ten or fifteen minutes of conversation
—I said, 'What made you think you were delirious?'
" 'Don't you think I am? Are you sure that I'm normal
mentally?' he asked.
"
'Quite sure, but why ask?'
" 'Well, if you're quite sure, then a most extraordinary
thing has happened,' he paused for a moment and then con
tinued, 'My mother, brother and a close friend, all of whom
I know to be dead, have been here and talked with me. Evi
dently we have this business of death all wrong. They have
been telling me about it, and it doesn't seem possible. Are
you sure that I'm not delirious?'
" 'You do not seem to be,' I replied, 'but to make sure,
we'll have your doctor up.'
"The doctor, after hearing my suspicions, talked with
him for fully twenty minutes, and on returning to the room
where I had waited, expressed the opinion that he was per
fectly normal mentally, but weakening rapidly.
"Said he, 'It's only a matter of days now.'
4
"I returned to the bedside of the sufferer. He seemed
dozing, but made known the fact that he was conscious of
my presence by reaching for my hand. Thus we remained
for a short time —1 sitting on the side of his bed and he
apparently asleep.
"
'If I were a younger man,' he whispered weakly, with
out opening his eyes, 'I'd look into this business of the Un
known. It's strange—but I've the impression that we die
and yet we do not die—strange —now my mother's coming.'
He stopped.
"Naturally, I was impressed. I think I had some vague
idea of humoring him when I said, 'If you get over there, or
wherever it is, and find you're alive, try to let us know.
Will you?'
"
'All right,' he said, and then proceeded to ask ques
tions about various other things in which he was interested.
"The fatal day arrived and my dear friend died.
The funeral had been over about five weeks. In the stress
of every day duties and the settling of his affairs our con
versation regarding communication had slipped my mind.
Then one night, a little past twelve o'clock, the front
doorbell suddenly rang. It rang furiously and continued to
do so. We hastened to the door, but upon opening it found
no one there. Strangely, however, the bell rang on for per
haps five or ten seconds, and then stopped.
"Examination of the push button showed that it was in
perfect order. Thinking a crossed wire might have caused
the disturbance, we called an electrician in the morning
and had him go over the entire circuit from push button to
dry cells and back again. He reported everything in order.
After a certain amount of speculation concerning the inci
dent the subject was dropped.
"Perhaps a week passed after the doorbell incident.
Then one night a guest, our departed friend's wife, was
awakened suddenly by hearing her name called. She not
only insisted that she heard the call again after she had
S
5
awakened, but she was positive that it was the voice of her
husband.
"Discussion naturally followed this occurrence, and the
request and promise regarding communication was recalled.
As to the voice, we concluded that it was an hallucination.
"Nevertheless, everyone agreed that we would feel bet
ter if my end of the agreement concerning communication
were carried out. So I went forth to unearth a medium —
only to find them just about as scarce as the proverbial
hen's teeth."
Burton paused and contemplated his cigar.
"Strange how things work out, isn't it? It was a for
mer skeptic like yourself who gave me the advice and help
I was seeking, a young lawyer, who decided, some twenty-
five years ago, to expose all so-called mediums and spiritists
in Buffalo, N. Y.
"He planned a campaign to save his fellow citizens from
the illusion of survival by removing all persons found guilty
of asserting there was such a thing —all persons, that is,
who were declaring that they had tangible evidence of sur
vival.
"At the very time this young man made his decision,
one could stand on the top of any high building in the city
and count hundreds of church spires piercing the sky, each
a silent symbol of man's hope of immortality. He did not
select the organizations behind these symbols as proper sub
jects for his attack. No indeed, for these were ancient, es
tablished and of the accepted tradition —holding forth the
promise of immortality within conventional limits.
"But this young lawyer chose to help expose the scat
tered few who were defying accepted tradition. He started,
as many a man before him had started, to expose—but he
ended a convert of the very cause he had condemned. Com
ing to scoff he remained to study and learn.
6
"On the advice of a friend, I decided to get in touch
with this gentleman and I finally 'phoned for an appoint
ment. It was granted at once.
"I shall never forget the impressions I gained as he rose
from his desk and advanced to greet me. How was I to
present such a subject to this elderly, well-groomed, and
obviously intelligent gentleman?
"It was my voice that answered his greeting, but it was
not until I was seated that my mind began to function.
Then he asked 'What can I do for you, Mr. Burton?'
"Feeling very ill at ease I came to the point at once. 'I
have heard that you know something about mediums and
could possibly direct me to one upon whom I can rely.'
" 'Just why do you wish to see a medium?'
"That forced the issue, and the whole experience you
have just heard, was related, with an occasional interrup
tion on his part. I tried as best I could to appear casual
about the whole affair which at the time, remember, seemed
to me painfully absurd.
" 'Have you any idea that your effort to communicate
with this person will be successful?' he questioned.
"That settled it. All hope of avoiding the issue was
gone. 'No, I have not,' came my forced answer.
" 'Then it would surprise you to be assured that you
can hear his voice and talk with him just as I am talking
with you?'
" 'It most certainly would,' I admitted quickly, 'and I
confess it seems quite impossible.'
"He smiled and allowed his gaze to travel over the roofs
of the adjoining buildings, toward the western sky.
"It had been overcast all day, with now and then a heavy
squall of rain. As I looked out, however, the sun was
7
breaking through banks of clouds, sending long streamers
of silver light down toward the surface of Lake Erie. Sud
denly the fields and woods along the Canadian shore were
flooded with bright light. The lake itself and the city
around us remained in shadow.
" 'Do you see that?' he asked whimsically, extending his
hand toward the window.
'"It is beautiful, isn't it? How fortunate you are in
having such a splendid view from your office.'
" 'That is like life.' He went on, apparently ignoring
my remark. 'We wander in the shadow. See how the dark
ness of these buildings seems to separate us from the light
over there? That's it—we are groping over the roughness
of the barriers toward light, contentment and understand
ing, which creates peace of soul. That bright spot over
there is like the place where your loved one now is.' Then
he swung about with a suddenness that startled me. 'Were
your wife to call you on this telephone, would you be sur
prised to hear her voice?"
" 'Certainly not.'
" 'That,' he exclaimed, 'is due to the fact that a man
named Bell was able to perfect this same telephone for the
use of man, in spite of ridicule, opposition and prejudice.
And with man's acceptance of it, what progress has result
ed ! It is a step toward elimination of time and space.'
" 'In order to attract your attention, or mine, it would
be necessary for her to ring the phone bell here, and even
after she had had your attention she would still require
your cooperation. It would be necessary for you to lift the
receiver and signify your presence at this end of the line
and your readiness to communicate with her.'
" 'But to get to this business of yours : the nearest
medium who has been tried and proven, is a Mrs. Burling
of Detroit. It will give me pleasure to secure an appoint
ment for you. I'll not mention either your name or the
reason for your visit.'
s
"I told him that I felt it to be rather an imposition and
asked why I couldn't go to Detroit and take my chance on
seeing her.
"He explained that a group of her friends in Detroit sat
with her solely for the benefit of themselves, and as a re
sult, her time was not entirely her own. Outsiders, it seem
ed, were not welcome unless recommended.
" 'Perhaps you have thought me over positive in some
of my statements to you,' said he with a quizzical twinkle.
'The things which seem wildly improbable from your point
of view are to me facts, proven to my satisfaction by twenty
years of study. You may understand better when you re
turn from Detroit.'
"As I rose to go, he told me that he would telephone
when an appointment had been arranged. Then, as an
after-thought he added, 'There is just one request which I
have to make. Before you pronounce final judgment upon
the phenomena which you may witness—remember that
scores of fine minds have devoted whole lifetimes to the
study of this subject. Many of these men have felt that
their results merely indicate the path for more competent
students to follow.'
CHAPTER II
WO days later my friend in Buffalo phoned me.
His voice was crisp and business-like.
" 'I have arranged an appointment for you
with Mrs. Burling, 10 o'clock in the morning, day
after tomorrow, and I advise that you take the boat from
here tomorrow night for the trip is most delightful.'
"It struck me that he was taking a great deal for grant
ed, and seemed to be overlooking the fact that there were
more important things in a man's life than seeing an un
known woman in Detroit. I had rather anticipated being
given an opportunity to select a time which would meet my
convenience. My impression had been that these people
did mediumistic work as a means of livelihood and were
open for business any time. Therefore, I protested slightly
over such short notice.
"He assured me that it was rather unusual to be able to
arrange an appointment and, should I fail to take advantage
of this one it might be some weeks or even months before
another opportunity would present itself.
"The fact that he had taken the trouble to make the
arrangements, backed to no little extent by my curiosity,
prompted me to co-operate. I thanked him and assured
him that I would call to discuss the results of my visit after
my return.
"My wife and I made the trip to Detroit. Upon arriving
we went at once to the address which the lawyer had given
us, where a member of the Detroit group greeted us and
drove us to the house where Mrs. Burling was stopping.
She was engaged at the time of our arrival, and while wait
ing we attempted to gain some information from our host.
I immediately took it upon myself to explain that neither
10
Ethel, 'my wife, nor I had ever attended a seance nor had a
psychic experience.
"He told us of his personal experiences with various
mediums and of conversations with a number of his de
parted friends and relatives.
" 'Do you mean to say that you can talk to your depart
ed friends whenever you wish ?' I asked.
" 'No indeed,' he replied, 'sometimes we get nothing. We
really know very little about the forces at work. But, as is
true of your radio, there are times when conditions are fav
orable and the reception remarkable.'
" 'Then we may not get anything after our trip down
here?' asked my wife.
" 'I certainly hope you do—but there can be no promises
made in this work. It seems to depend on so many and
such varied factors. You are both new at this, so possibly
a word of warning is worth while. The mental attitude has
a great deal to do with the results obtained. Try to reserve
criticism until after the seance.'
" 'We will do anything you suggest, for we should cer
tainly be disappointed if nothing happened,' said I.
" 'Would you like to have me go in with you ? It might
make it easier.'
" 'Indeed we would, if you can spare the time to do it.'
"The answer was an expression of relief, for neither of
us felt quite as light-hearted about the experience as the
time approached.
"A slim, dark-eyed woman of about thirty-five entered.
Our host greeted her as Mrs. Burling, introducing us simply
as friends from out of the city.
"A small room opening off the reception hall of a simply
furnished dwelling was used for seance work, and we were
invited to examine it. The one window was covered by a
ll
dark curtain to exclude the light. That and the door by
which we entered were the only openings. A victrola stood
next to the door and beside it a straight backed chair. The
other furnishings consisted of three more chairs and a sofa
placed under the window. I noticed that the medium wore
a dark dress of a material that rustled when she moved.
" 'This is the trumpet,' said Mrs. Burling, holding up a
very light tin tube, shaped somewhat like a cornucopia,
about three feet in length. 'It enables them to be heard
more easily for it increases the volume of sound.'
"After our examination of this device it was placed in
the center of the room directly in front of the medium. The
smallness of the room, excluding the space occupied by the
sofa and chairs, left only a scant four feet of open floor
after we were seated. Holding hands in so small a circle
we had rather complete control and could note instantly the
slightest movement on the part of any sitter.
"The light was turned off and the victrola music started.
Our host described the procedure for our information, say
ing that Mrs. Burling's guide would come through and open
the seance ; then, if he could possibly do so, he would bring
through our friends, should they care to talk. 'You know,'
he added, 'we are told that a great many people who have
passed on are still so prejudiced that they refuse to com
municate, even when offered an opportunity.'
"This remark I suspected of being an alibi.
"He then related several experiences of his, bearing out
this statement.
"While this conversation was in progress I attempted
to get my bearings and to fix in my mind the relative posi
tions of the different members of the group. I also noted
the timbre and characteristics of the medium's voice.
Where the curtain was hung over the window I observed a
narrow strip of light running the full length of the case
ment.
12
"We had talked perhaps five minutes and the vietrola
had been rewound, when I mildly protested about the con
tinuous music, as it prevented concentration upon any
sound that might come from the direction of the medium.
"The explanation given was that music and general con
versation helped to relax the individuals in the group. Most
people, it seems, have a tendency to become tense; to con
centrate their energy on listening, or to assume a state of
mental expectancy. So we continued with conversation, u
story telling, singing, to free the group from this state of
mind and create the right sort of atmosphere.
"Mrs. Burling related several instances where the men
tal state of the sitters had made it impossible for their de
parted friends to get through to them.
"Then things began to happen, three loud snaps coming
from the general direction of the trumpet.
"Mrs. Burling asked if it was her guide. The question
went unanswered. There was a movement which caught
my attention. It was like the passing of a shadow across
the crack of light, by the side of the window, at my right.
This was directly behind and a little above my wife who was
sitting at the opposite side of the room from the medium.
I was amazed to see that the trumpet was passing slowly
across it.
"Mrs. Burling from her place across the room remarked,
'I believe the trumpet is in the air.'
"I watched, fascinated, while it passed slowly back
across the strip of light so that it gradually became entire
ly visible from one end to the other. This occurrence gave
me food for thought. There were the three other sitters
definitely accounted for, and here was a metal trumpet mov
ing, as a dirigible might, right before my eyes. None of the
others were in a position to see as I had and during the
whole time they had continued their conversation.
"Then came the climax. Because I had been with my de
ceased friend up to and including the moment of his passing,
13
it was to be expected that the timbre and quality of his
voice were familiar to me. Due to a protrusion of his upper
teeth, there were certain words to which he had always
given a slight lisping sound. This characteristic had been
especially pronounced just prior to death, when weakness
forced him to speak one word at a time. Picture my aston
ishment, therefore, when there appeared directly in front
of me a luminous cloud, from the depths of which came, in
this familiar, lisping voice, the question, 'Bob, is it possible
you can hear me?'
"I was too overcome to answer. But Ethel did so at
once. 'Yes, indeed we can hear you.'
"The voice continued: 'That is most remarkable. But
then, it is all so remarkable that one should cease to be sur
prised.'
"By this time I had gathered my startled wits and pro
ceeded to ask a question which no person on earth, or out
of it, could answer except the man whom that voice repre
sented. The answer came, —unhaltingly yet with the char
acteristic lisp. Then, quite abruptly his voice stopped.
"The medium spoke: 'From the way he talks this must
be the first time this particular spirit has ever communicat
ed. Perhaps he will come back later. Do you recognize
him?'
"While Ethel was acknowledging the question my
thoughts were racing on. Here was I, in a strange room,
in a strange city, among strangers. I had just spoken with
one who, according to all accepted beliefs with which I was
familiar, was no longer able to speak. Hypnotism, auto
suggestion, hallucination? Quickly I ran over all these in
my mind, only to discard them at once. Ventriloquism?
No, even if it were possible to perform it in the dark—
which it is not—this explanation would have to be eliminat
ed, for the detail of the voice, enunciation, personal char
acteristics, were too perfect to make such an hypothesis
possible.
14
"My name was called in a muffled whisper from in front
of me.
"I answered and asked, 'Who is it?'
"The answer which came was from a cousin of mine
who had been dead for approximately fifteen years, a young
woman who had not been in my thoughts for many years.
After giving her name she answered questions regarding
various incidents, members of the family, and so forth, with
ease and accuracy.
"Possibly five minutes had elapsed before she remarked,
'Your friend is ready to talk again. He has to be shown
how, and is not strong enough to speak at length. What a
surprise the transition experience was to him, and how
anxious he has been to tell you all about it! Good-bye.'
The trumpet fell to the floor with a clatter.
"Several others talked, —three friends of ours, some
friends of our host. One had a particularly loud, full voice
and when I remarked upon this fact, it was explained that
this individual had been talking with them at least once a
week for nearly three years. Our friends who had just
spoken were doing so for the first time.
"The one whom we had most hoped to hear from spoke
again terminating the seance.
" 'I rang the doorbell to attract your attention, to remind
you of our agreement. I want you to keep on with this, so
that I may tell you as I learn.' These were his parting
words. His speech, though short, started me on a line of
investigation and research which has not only proven
enormously instructive, but has provided a great deal of
real enjoyment as well.
" 'There, Ned old chap, you have the story of the begin
ning of my insanity, as you have termed it.'
Bob threw his cigar into the fire, glanced at his watch,
and rose from the chair.
16
" 'It was my impression that you were to give me some
proof which would be convincing. All you have done
so far is to tell of a personal experience, the reality
and genuineness of which is wholly dependent upon your
unsupported statements. Moreover, the events you narrate
occurred at a time and under conditions which, you will
have to admit, are open to question. Where is the proof of
the reality of any of this ? I am inclined to credit it, know
ing you, but Bob old man, no one else would.' Ned's face
wore a kindly smile as he finished speaking.
" 'Sorry, but I am late for an engagement. I will
continue to build up my case some other time, —that is, if
you care to have me.' Bob returned his watch to his pocket,
extending his hand to bid his skeptical friend good-night.
" 'Let's dine together tomorrow night,' Ned suggested
as they walked toward the checkroom. 'How would seven
suit you?'
" 'If you wish to continue this subject come out to the
house for dinner, so that you can question Ethel, my accom
plice in this crime. Better not depend on my statements
alone. Will you come?'
'Glad to. What time?'
" 'Six-thirty, and good-night.'
16
CHAPTER III
!
RIVING home that night Burton re-enacted in re
trospect his visit to Detroit.
A given sensation, once enjoyed, may be made
to reappear, in some cases faded perhaps, but
none the less recognizable. At other times the recalled im
pressions are most vivid. The mechanism which produces
them is the one which conserves them. No idea can possibly
be evoked without bringing in its train of association a var
iegated collection of recollections, of tendencies and of ac
tions.
The hidden domain in the mind of Burton, where the
mental pictures and ideas of past experiences lay buried,
was tapped by the stimulus of his conversation with Hunt
ington. Memory flashed pictures before his conscious mind
with a clearness and force which made the past appear
vividly in the present.
Again he and Ethel were leaving Buffalo in the evening,
the change from sunset to night had been so measured that
only gradually had they become aware of the ever increas
ing number of stars.
He recalled his wife's remark regarding them.
" 'They are there all the time,' Ethel had said, indicating
the stars. 'They are visible to us only when the bright day
light goes and the darkness comes. The spirit world, too,
may require darkness as the only means through which to
manifest itself to human senses. We think nothing of the
fact that the stars require darkness in order to become visi
ble to us. Yet it bothers us to think that mediums require
it to reveal spirit manif estations ; we think of it then only
as an opportunity for trickery'."
17
As his mind had followed her reasoning, several things
occurred to him which he had always known, but had never
thought of in this connection.
"Well, my dear," he recalled replying, "the germ of us
all had to be nurtured in the dark and all important func
tions of these bodies of ours operate in the darkness."
Her rejoinder flashed back to him from memory's cham
bers.
"Yes. I suppose one would think you quite crazy were
you to ask a photographer to develop a picture in the light.
It is an accepted fact that actinic rays would destroy the
plate."
He smiled at the recollection. How many times since
that memorable night had he seen demonstrations which
the very fact of darkness transformed into veritable mira
cles. The occasion when, at his own request, he had been
touched upon either eyeglass, accurately and lightly, re
gardless of the fact that he had changed position constantly.
Later in that same experience he had endeavored to take
hold of a levitated trumpet which touched head, shoulder,
the back of the very hand with which he sought to capture
it. All his efforts had brought a response of soft laughter,
now on this side, now on that, then in front of him, then be
hind him. How little they had known then of what their
trip would lead to.
"Well tomorrow," his wife had said, "we shall see what
it is all about. It seems wild enough to suit the imagination
of nearly anyone. Here we are, two apparently sane people,
cancelling engagements, and turning things upside down in
general, in order to keep an appointment with a woman we
have never seen, and to talk with a man we know to be dead
and buried. Still I have always believed in survival and
who knows but that this may give objective proof of it."
He recalled her saying: "I have reasoned subjectively
that the intelligence that directs and controls the heavenly
is
bodies, the intelligence behind the great constructive
forces of the universe has something further in view
than ultimate annihiliation, destruction or decomposition
and re-absorption into the earth. Look out through
space. Think of the light years between us and the nearest
of those stars. Try to visualize the size of this earth in
comparison with all that. Surely souls go on to greater
work where the influence of their personalities can be more
widely felt than in this space here. I have always felt that
this thing which we are going to investigate tomorrow is
true—must be true—but I've never had the inclination to
bother with cheap, uncertain mediums. My feeling has been
that communication with those in the life beyond is some
thing that we may develop as a reward for living construc
tively here and now."
Then he broke in ; "Yet there are so many fakirs. These
Indians who make a tree grow under your very nose which
will bear fruit that you can pick, and so forth. We have
all heard of this sort of thing and recognize that it must
be a trick. The people who carry on the medium business
do it for a living, and the temptation to put on a show must
be very great at times."
"Because there are unprofessional doctors who take
people's money without any intent to give value received,
is no reason to believe that all men who have an M. D.
after their names are cheats—is it? Every line of en
deavor has its charlatans," Ethel had replied. "Perhaps we
are too critical about this whole business —it would really
mean such a lot to us were it true. We fear that disappoint
ment will result so we set up all this criticism and ques
tion as a defense. We fear being taken in and then dis
illusioned."
"Man's desire for immortality may be due to his egotism,
but I believe it is equally chargeable to his feeling that the
time alloted to him in this life is too short for his full de
velopment, also to his demand for justice. Little wonder
19
that some ask the question :
" 'Why be decent, or make an
effort to live a constructive life, if this short existence is the
whole story ? The sinner and saint alike, the tramp and the
man who really tries, each end in six feet of earth. It
doesn't seem just. Why not simply go along and be com
fortable, and then —shut the door, so to speak?' "
They had lapsed into silence. In memory he heard
the soft lapping of the waves against the side of the boat
mingled with the steady throb of the engines driving them
through the night and the black water.
He mused: It was not so much that he wished immor
tality as that he could not see how it could be avoided. The
law of compensation works here and it seems logical that it
should continue to work. People who live with utter dis
regard for others surely must be given an opportunity to
learn the joy of unselfish service. On the other hand, those
who spend their whole earthly existence in sacrifice must
somewhere be given a compensating opportunity. He be
lieved in the law of compensation and it must reach out over
more time than we are allowed here. The children he had
seen pass on in early life—the young men hurled into ob
livion during the World War—was nothing ahead of them?
Adjustments must be made during life and life simply must
continue on and on, with its process of trial and error until
individual development is completed. It may not be a case
of afterlife, he thought, but a case of continued life. We
may pass from one phase of it into another.
Again recollection surged up, picturing a large hydro
plane he had seen sweeping up the Detroit river. It had
passed their boat as though the latter were stationary.
There in that mechanism was a product of enquiring
minds, —the steady pursuit of an idea in the face of ridicule
and opposition. History may not repeat itself but it is
replete with duplications in one respect, and that is
20
the uniform opposition on the part of the majority to
new ideas of any sort or description. The steam engine,
Fulton's steamboat, Wright's aeroplane, all have had their
struggle against skepticism and unbelief. All were opposed
as ideas of the devil and each had opponents who foresaw
in these new ideas the possible destruction of the race. Op
position had delayed progress but never destroyed it.
He recalled how, late into the night on that return trip,
he and Ethel had reviewed every detail of their astounding
experience, how they had verified from their own knowl
edge of the persons speaking, the reality of the phenomena,
how they had excluded mental telepathy on the grounds
that although it might account for the substance of the
messages, it could in no way account for the voice peculi
arity that had been so pronounced to both. The parting
words of their host were especially vivid: "Communicate
your experience to other people,' he had said, 'that is the
least any of us can do. The world needs to know. Such
knowledge will alter its entire viewpoint." Memory pictured
with vividness the home-coming and enthusiasm dampened
by doubt and questioning on the part of relatives and
friends alike, the pitying smiles, the humorous and sarcas
tic remarks—the whole picture flashed into his mind.
Ned's attitude was nothing new. Besides, there was no
occasion for attempting to convince anyone. How well
he had come to understand the dogmatic attitude of
mind of the average individual. Evidence was being ac
cumulated on every hand which people would not even take
the trouble to read. No one accepted anything until he was
ready for it, life seemed so vivid—and death so far removed.
He smiled at the recollection of the few, who in spite
of prevailing skepticism and doubt, were determined to
pursue these investigations. The last people in the world
whom one would expect came to ask about the Detroit
experience and to relate similar ones of their own; people
21
who, even now, were interested in receiving the latest in
formation regarding new experiences."
What a stimulus it had been to find others who were
interested and open-minded.
Well, when Ned Huntington came out on the morrow
he would proceed with evidence which should impress him.
22
CHAPTER IV
(HE meal was nearly over before the subject of the
previous night's discussion was mentioned.
"Bob tells me you are interested in our ex
periences with psychical research. Doesn't it ap
peal to you as holding' a great many possibilities which, once
understood, may help us toward getting the most out of life,
both here and hereafter?"
Ethel Burton's query was met by a quiet smile on the
part of her guest.
"It's an interesting subject from many angles," declared
Huntington. "But I must admit that what interests me
most is the fact that apparently sane, substantial people
should bother their heads about this sort of thing. Your
faith in it seems to be an indication of the extremes to
which people go when ruled by emotion rather than by
reason."
He paused, then added: "As a child, I was entertained
and delighted by fairy tales, and I am intrigued by the
way in which this tale of Bob's appeals to my imagina
tion. It's an old childhood association no doubt. So with
this in mind I can honestly answer your question by saying
that it is interesting, but wherein it can possibly be of help
to anyone in getting anything out of life is beyond me."
"There is something refreshing about your frank skepti
cism, Ned," laughed Burton. "If I were expecting to make
a trip, say to India, and knew it were only a matter of time
before the trip must be made regardless of my wishes in
the matter, a preliminary acquaintance with India would
at least help to satisfy my curiosity. Its climate, conditions
of life, types of people—it would be helpful to know about
them, if I am going there some day to remain permanently."
23
"That is quite different," retorted Ned earnestly. "In
dia is known to be a definite place, and to be inhabitated by
real people, with records of existence, from which you may
obtain the information desired. There is nothing about it
that is in direct opposition to natural law."
"The tales of the first explorers returning from India
were no doubt met with doubt and ridicule," interposed
Ethel.
Ned extended his hand on which rested the salad fork.
"Were I to withdraw the support of my hand from this
fork it would fall to the table, being naturally subject to the
law of gravity. On the other hand, were it to remain sta
tionary in space without visible support, I should have every
reason to feel that I were the victim of an illusion. My
next move would be to place myself in the hands of a com
petent physician. Now, Bob here tells me that he saw a
tin trumpet sail through the air unsupported and apparent
ly in direct defiance of the law of gravity. My guess is that
the law of gravity is sound—but Bob's eyesight is not."
He smiled broadly at them both.
"And under the circumstances, a perfectly natural con
clusion," asserted Burton heartily. "However, after we
have retired to the other room and the cigars are lighted,
it will be a great pleasure to show you some of the reasons
why we believe that things can move without visible aid or
support and still be subject to so-called natural laws."
"That sounds as though it held possibilities of real in
terest."
In the living room a fire burned brightly in the grate.
Dinner over, Huntington and the Burtons settled them
selves comfortably before the hearth.
Bob was the first to speak. "Suppose I were to let go
of this cigar, and that instead of dropping to the floor it
floated off into space—under certain conditions. To explain
a phenomenon of this kind it will be necessary to review a
24
series of experiments made in Belfast during 1915-16 by
W. J. Crawford, lecturer in mechanical engineering at the
Municipal Technical Institute of that city, and also one of
the lecturers at Queen's University, Belfast. It seems there
resided in that city a family by the name of Goligher, all of
whom were more or less mediumistic, having the ability to
produce the substance called ectoplasm. This family was
interested in spiritism and held a family circle every week
at which various phases of phenomena in varying degrees
were manifested. These consisted of trance speaking, auto
matic writing, table movements and so forth.
"A younger daughter by the name of Kathleen was soon
discovered to be a medium of outstanding merit. Rumors
of her powers reached Dr. Crawford. He found the entire
Goligher family were willing to co-operate in any experi
ments he wished to make. He, as a result, spent nearly two
years in scientific tests of the reality of psychic phenomena
as demonstrated in that group.
"Several facts were established. First, that levitation
in no way violates the law of gravity, as the lifting is ac
complished by means of force lines or rods extending from
the body of the medium to the object levitated. These rods
are invisible to the eye but subject to demonstration as to
their nature and method of operation."
Burton rose and crossing to a bookcase returned with a
much worn copy of "The Reality of Psychic Phenomena" by
W. J. Crawford. "Let me read you a description of the
results obtained from one or two experiments made by this
scientific investigator."
He was interrupted by Huntington's query: "And what
do you consider scientific?"
Bob closed the book and paused for a moment before re
plying.
"The question of what is scientific and what is not has
always been a source of controversy. Now when Leuwen-
hoek discovered, by means of a ground lens, that there were
tiny animals living in the excretions of his salivary glands,
he had enjoyed no scientific education. It is my impression
that he cared for a public building for a livelihood, more or
less as janitor—but his creations of ground glass and his
observations led to the discovery of the microscope and the
unfolding of a new universe of minute creatures, some the
friends, others the enemies, of mankind. Today Leuwen-
hoek is referred to as scientific because of his discovery—
but his science was due more to curiosity, observation and
persistence, than to education.
"The measure of a true scientist seems to be his ability
to study a given subject, not to prove or disprove it, but
rather to whip his prejudices into submission and follow
facts wherever they may lead. This is what Crawford did.
It is what Crookes* and others before him did, and by fol
lowing that line of procedure, in my opinion, they measured
up to the requirements of a true scientist."
"Of course, the world of minute beings has in all proba
bility existed since the beginning of time," put in Ethel,
thoughtfully. "Man has simply been slow in discovering the
fact. Just as the ability to make vibrations travel through
space has been demonstrated and used by man only in
recent years."
"You know, Ned, this radio here," Ethel Burton inter
jected, nodding her head toward the instrument, "is far
more wonderful to me than many of the things we have met
with in psychic work. When I realize that the music or the
voice I hear is coming to me across miles of space —even
*Sir William Crookes, English Physicist, discoverer of metal thal
lium, invented radiometer, Crookes' vacuum tube. Born in London,
1832. A prominent exponent of psychic research.
26
across continents —it seems unbelievable. Yet there it is,
and I use it without much question, knowing practically
nothing regarding the laws which govern its operation."
"To get back to Crawford," Bob opened the book again,
"as I said, many witnessed the table levitation which
had occurred in the presence of the Golighers ; but his ob
servation went further. He asked himself a very natural
question : Wherein do these phenomena fail to comply with
natural law? What causes the table to rise? So he investi
gated and found that when anything was passed between
the medium and the table during levitation the table drop
ped instantly. He deduced from this that the movement
of the table was in some way connected with the medium's
body. He then placed the medium on a drawing board, fast
ened to a platform scale and proceeded to experiment.
"In red light with visibility such that he could see all
those persons forming the circle clearly, Crawford placed a
stool in the center of the group. The stool weighed two
pounds and some ounces.
"Placing two observers who had come with him at the
other end of the circle, he then requested the forces pur
porting to be present to lift the stool and hold it suspended
in the air until told to lower it. This was done at once, the
stool rising vertically in the air until its height was about
four feet from the floor. Immediately the stool was lifted,
the lever of the weighing machine, which had been balanced
exactly to record the weight of the medium, namely 9
stone*, 10 lbs., 12 oz., rose against the top stop of the ma
chine with a click, plainly audible, indicating that the medi
um's weight had been increased. Readjusting the rider so
that it again balanced, he then asked the invisible opera
tors to move the stool up and down. This was done and the
rider of the weighing machine went up and down in syn
chronism with the up-and-down movement of the stool.
*A stone weighs 14 pounds.
27
"These," Bob went on, "were the readings, 'Weight
of the medium, chair and drawingboard was 9 st., 10 lb., 12
oz. Weight of the medium, chair and drawingboard during
levitation was 9 st., 13 lb., 10 oz. Increased weight of the
medium was 2 lb., 14 oz. Weight of the stool was 2 lb., 12
oz.' Crawford comments, 'I wish to add finally, that I
fully satisfied myself during the experiment, that there
was absolutely no fraud and that the phenomena were due
to the action of psychic force alone'."
Bob closed the book and handed it over to Ned. "There
is one of the most convincing books I know of.* Take it
home with you and read over the other experiments. They
are all worth while. Crawford also made some phonograph
records of raps, proving that the sounds heard in a seance
are ordinary objective sounds, and not the result of collec
tive hallucination.
"Another interesting fact established by this investi
gator was, that not only did the weight of the medium in
crease during levitation, but there was also a slight increase
in the weight of the sitters in the group averaging, as I
recall it, about two ounces each."
"The fact was also established that there is a definite
distance from the medium beyond which levitation does not
occur. His observations explain a perfectly normal means
of raising and carrying objects about the room by means of
unseen extensions or emanations from the medium's body,
called ectoplasm. When this material is being used by the
invisible operators to lift objects, the medium's weight is
increased by the weight of the object lifted. When the
same material is being used by them for the making of so-
called raps or signals —such as we heard at the beginning
of the sitting with Mrs. Burling in Detroit, and the sound
Crawford made phonograph records of—then the medium's
weight decreases according to the loudness of the raps pro
duced.
*The Reality of Psychic Phenomena, W. J. Crawford.
28
"In one of Crawford's experiments a loss of from eight
to twenty pounds was shown. The loss of weight is merely
temporary, the material used being returned to the medi
um's body at the close of the demonstration. The conclu
sion reached from these experiments was that rods or cyl
inders of material extended from the body of the medium
and were used to move objects, to make sounds and also, as
a further experiment showed, to punch impressions into
pieces of putty placed some distance from the medium. The
impressions left in the putty by the impact were oblong
cavities %" long, %" deep.
"On thinking the matter over, Crawford stated that
these markings were very similar to those left by the hu
man thumb or finger."
"Couldn't they have been made by the finger or thumb
of one of the group while Crawford was not watching?"
argued Ned.
"That is a natural suspicion, but one that could easily
be cleared up by comparing the impression found in the
putty with those made on like material by the fingers and
thumbs of the sitters present."
"What are you two smiling at?"
"You anticipated my next statement," replied Bob.
"What if the finger prints of all the sitters were taken be
fore a sitting and then you procured a thumb or finger print
—made by the material taken from the medium —which
was unlike any belonging to the sitters present. That would
seem to imply that the ectoplasm, taken from the medium,
could be used by invisible operators to form fingers, hands
and so forth—just as modeling clay is used to form objects."
"Oh, then you'd have something worth while!" Hunting
ton's eyes were alight with a new eagerness. "If a medium
by means of ectoplasm supplied from his or her own body,
should produce a thumb, the print of which, upon the testi
mony of experts, could be shown to be identical with the
29
thumb print of some one who had died—then you would
have some real evidence."
"Well, that's precisely what has been done! Not once,
but over thirty times in the Boston group sitting with Mrs.
Crandon, better known as 'Margery.' Walter Stinson, her
brother and control, has produced his thumb print and in
doing so, has allowed the group to take flashlight photos
of his ectoplasmic hand with which he produced it. The
thumbprints were made in dental wax and the pictures show
his hand taking the wax out of the warm water in which it
is dipped to soften it, placing it on the table, pressing it with
his thumb and dropping the finished mould in cold water to
harden. Every one of the pictures shows the medium and
the sitters on either side of her, holding her hands in theirs,
while this ectoplasmic hand is on the table in front of her.
In my opinion this is the most interesting piece of evidence
yet produced. Crawford was on the right track but did not
go far enough. In the April 1928 issue of the Journal of the
American Society for Psychical Research, you will find cuts
of 'Walter's' thumb prints, should you care to study them."
"Have they a thumb print made by Walter Stinson
while living, with which to compare these made at the se
ance?" Ned asked.
"Yes. An old razor of his was found, on which was a
thumb print which corresponds to those made by him since
death."
"Have these been checked by experts in the Bertillon
system?" Ned was obviously interested.
"Yes—by one expert at that time and several others
since. The statement of the first was to the effect that he
had enough evidence upon which to hang a man. The others
expressed much the same opinion.
"Why don't they broadcast such an extraordinary fact?"
Ned was showing evidence of real excitement.
"It is my impression that neither Dr. Crandon nor his
wife wish to become the subjects of attacks by a host of
30
people who, under the guise of science, wage war with all
those who depart in their thinking from orthodox scientific
thought. The Crandons have already been subjected to the
most vicious attacks by people whom we might expect to
hold fair unbiased opinions; people in some cases almost
hysterical in their prejudices ; people who have not hesitated
to weave their arguments, literally, out of whole cloth. It
costs a man something to be a pioneer, you know."
"Science has been somewhat given to criticism of re
ligion for opposing what it terms progress," stated Ethel.
"It seems a bit ironic that it too should fall into the same
error ; and yet, if one reviews the history of either, he will
find some in the ranks of both religion and science who op
pose everything in the nature of a change in thought or
action. Unfortunately, the general public does very little
thinking of its own."
"Professor Hans Driesch, distinguished physiologist who
holds the Chair of Philosophy, University of Leipsic, has
made a statement which might interest you," Bob interpos
ed. "His statement is this, 'The actuality of psychical phe
nomena is doubted, today, only by the incorrigible dogma
tist'." Bob continued, "My feeling is that the cry of
'fraud' unsubstantiated is the explanation of a moron."
"Tell me: has anyone discovered how these invisible
people, as you term them, can talk without any vocal cords,
throat or tongue?" Ned inquired.
"They use what has been termed ectoplasm to make
their vocal apparatus." Bob again crossed to the bookcase
and returned with a photograph. "This was taken in Bos
ton and shows what Walter Stinson terms his voice box.
You can see the heavy cord of ectoplasm coming from 'Mar
gery's' nostril, attached to this mass, resting on the table
beside her head. Notice, also, the fine white fibre coming
from her ear and attached to the large mass. This is com
posed of white brain substance and gives the nerve supply
31
to the voice box itself. The interesting characteristic of
this mass is that it is not only composed of dark physical
substance but of nerve substance as well—the latter is not
visible to the eye and shows on the photographic plate
only when a quartz lens is used."
"Can you see and feel this voice-box, as you call it?"
"You can not only see and feel it*—it has a pulse and
respiration of its own, not synchronous with that of the
medium. Structures similar to this are produced by all in
dependent voice mediums and used by those invisibles who
speak at different seances.
"Let me remark, in passing, that the similarity which
ectoplasmic structures bear to embryological structures is
most amazing although creation is very rapid in the first
instance and slow in the latter. A study of the structures
which have been photographed at various seances, with our
knowledge of embryology in mind, will show you that the
similarity is striking.
"The ectoplasm itself has been analyzed and found to
contain the same elements as those in the human body.
These demonstrated facts take away the feeling of super-
normality, held by many, in connection with this whole sub
ject."
"Dr. Gustave Geley** gives a rational explanation as to
why light is detrimental to the development of psychic
manifestations. He cites the histolysis of the insect as an
alogous to phenomena where a substance, (ectoplasm) em
anating from the medium, is the basis of the manifestation.
'The insect,' he says, 'after developing itself in the cocoon,
disintegrates into a plasma which is later reorganized into
quite a new form.' Geley advances the hypothesis that the
*In 19£6 two instructors of the Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology collected a sample at a Crandon sitting. This was divided into
halves, and half sent to both Tufts and Technology. Analysis showed
sodium, potassium, chlorine, water albumen, epithelial cells, and red
blood corpuscles: all body products.
**French physicist and scientist.
32
substance which issues from the medium and which as
sumes various forms before being reabsorbed in his body,
is the result of a process similar to that which occurs in the
insect and in various living creatures. He reminds us that
the processes of biological evolution take place slowly and
in the dark ; that laboratory experiments show them to be
retarded by light.
"It looks as though mediumistic ability were a natural,
but not fully understood, function on the part of certain
individuals, just as playing by ear is natural to some while
others are forced to develop their ability along musical lines
by hard work and hours of practice."
"Did I understand you to say that ectoplasm dissolved
in white light?"
"Yes. White light apparently prevents its being con
densed sufficiently to be used."
"Well then, how do they take flashlight pictures of it?"
"The pictures can be taken only when Walter Stinson,
Mrs. Crandon's control, gives his consent and has, accord
ing to his statement, especially prepared the ectoplasm to
withstand the instantaneous flash and not injure the
medium. You may be interested in knowing that there is
a case on record where a white light was turned on by one
of the sitters unexpectedly during a psychic manifestation.
The ectoplasm being used, apparently issuing from the ab
domen of the medium, returned to his body with such force
that a large haematoma (blood blister) resulted and he was
ill for weeks. Under certain conditions, when the operators
are prepared, it seems to cause no harm."
Ned, whose wonderment was now plain, moved restless
ly in his chair.
"What good does it all do? Our effort in this earthly
existence is to develop our own individuality in order to be
able to stand alone. Placing any dependence upon those
who have gone on would weaken, not strengthen."
83
"The only means one has for developing his personality
and individuality is to force his reach to exceed his grasp,"
ventured Ethel, in reply. "One's personal problems can
only be worked out by a full realization of the fact
that the example and endeavor of those on other planes
of life than ours have a direct influence upon us. We
gladly give time in order to attend lectures, musicales and
the opera, because they stimulate us and open up new men
tal vistas. Thus we can profit from an interchange of ideas
between ourselves and these people who dwell on different
planes than ours. As to whether the influence of people
who have gone on weakens rather than strengthens us, we
are, in all probability, like the little electric light bulb." She
indicated the light at her shoulder by a slight movement of
her head. "In order to fulfill its function it must have, feed
ing it continuously, a great electric system of which it is, so
to speak, merely the final instrument. Its power comes to
it over the wires.
"It would be no more foolish, to my way of thinking, for
that little bulb to flatter itself that, all alone, it was generat
ing sufficient power to function independently of the power
house, than for any individual to feel that he can function
independently of the great constructive universal forces.
Like the radio, the more perfected the individual instru
ment, the more perfect its selectivity, so that the undesired
can be tuned out and that desired come in clearly. Just
so, the highly developed personality can tune in, as it were,
upon the constructive forces of the universe, either here or
in the so-called hereafter. For we go on learning and de
veloping, apparently forever."
"When you say different planes, what do you mean?"
Ned broke in.
"I mean different planes of development on this dear old
earth of ours."
"Oh, I see what you mean—a difference in development,
mentally and spiritually. Well, it seems to me the present
life should be sufficient for anyone."
34
"There is, I admit, a real value to the present life, a
value which every intelligent person is reluctant to give up,
but isn't that enhanced by the thought that it may survive
beyond the limits of this particular sphere?"
"And yet," Ned extended his feet toward the open fire,
"there is so much to be learned right here and now, in this
life, that one has very little time to give to anything of so
purely theoretical a nature as survival."
"True," stated Burton, "yet, if we never took time to
learn anything about any other country, our ignorance
would result in a state of constant confusion. One has only
to consider the effect produced in our country by the
changes that take place, for example, today in Russia. And
yet, conclusions of any value regarding Russia can not be
reached until the entire Asiatic situation is visualized.
"Again, a child cannot become interested in a toy with
out wondering what the name on it means and why it was
manufactured in Japan, Germany, and so on, and by this
very process absorb some small knowledge of other coun
tries and their peoples. National isolation is a thing no
longer possible to maintain. Isolated individuality is equal
ly impossible without introversion and loss of usefulness.
Your job of, what you term, making personal adjustments,
embraces and influences the entire universe to some degree."
"I am not entirely in accord with that idea, because it
seems to imply subservience to some prearranged scheme
of things on the part of every individual. I rather enjoy
thinking of myself as free to do and say just what it pleases
me to do and say without restriction or supervision."
"But, Ned, doesn't individuality seem to be a factor that
cannot be interfered with by God or man?" asked Ethel.
"You may develop yourself, on the one hand, or allow your
self to degenerate, on the other, and there is no way to pre
vent you from carrying out your wishes in the matter
whether you are in the earth life or out of it."
35
Huntington continued his questioning, "Why should
people who have died bother to come back to this earthly
existence, even if only for a short space of time, in order to
talk to us ? Surely they must have worth while things with
which to occupy themselves, if they continue individual ex
istence, without wasting their time talking to people still
on earth."
"It would seem to me," Ethel answered readily, "that the
impulse which animates them is the same as that which
sends people on this earth from comfortable homes and easy
environment into the poorer sections to give of their time
and money in order to help those less fortunate in making
better adjustments to life's demands. Were those who give
their effort to literary pursuits to close their minds to the
results being achieved in other lines of endeavor, they
would merely limit advancement. The interchange of
thought between various planes of development on this
earth results in the development of all. Just as the more
advanced here give gladly of their time and effort, so
do those no longer limited by the restrictions of three di
mensions."
"What might come after death never interested me a
great deal," Ned remarked.
"It will not imperil your individuality to learn from any
one who may have achieved a broader experience. The mat
ter of what comes next is not as important as broadening
your understanding of the universe in its entirety. The
more one knows, the more open-minded and intelligent one
is apt to become."
"That may be—but we are all looking for comfort of
some nature, and what comfort can one derive from this
study?" Huntington queried.
"In my opinion, spiritual enrichment, not material com
fort, is what we are all seeking and, Schopenhauer to the
contrary, notwithstanding, I think increased knowledge will
help to achieve that end," retorted Mrs. Burton.
36
"The grave is the visible terminus of this life and my
ideas have never carried me beyond it," smilingly replied
Huntington. "Our immortality, if we have any, must exist
in our children and the example our living has left for those
who come after us." He rose and started for the hall. "It
is time for me to leave and allow you people to retire. May
we continue this at some later date?"
Ethel had risen also. "Before you go," she said, "I
should like to ask you a question regarding the example we
set for those who follow. Is it sufficient immortality? Is
it not like saying we do not need to attend school after,
say, the eighth grade, and it is sufficient that we leave
the schoolhouse for those who follow? Your other state
ment regarding our children who serve as our immortal part
fails to take into account the fact that this earth is appar
ently cooling so rapidly that scientists are already estimat
ing the time to elapse until it will no longer sustain life.
When that time comes, what about immortality gained
through our descendants?"
Huntington smiled and bowed. "I shall return to the
battle some other evening. Good-night, and thanks for an
interesting time."
The door closed and the guest was gone.
Burton smiled at his wife "It is my belief that we shall
hear from him further on the subject, Ethel."
"Why not arrange a sitting with Elm, the Buffalo me
dium, so that he may enjoy the benefit of first hand in
formation?" inquired Mrs. Burton.
"A good suggestion. There may be others in an inquir
ing state of mind who would like to join us."
37
CHAPTER V
HERE stopped at the Burton's, one night, Dr. Colin
Noel.
"I was passing your way and took the liberty
of calling. You must pardon my intrusion," he
said smilingly, "but I have been hearing rumors of late."
Burton greeted him warmly. "Come in, doctor. Surely
these rumors cannot be so bad when they bring you here."
"I was told that you had seen a medium called 'Margery'
at work, in fact, had sat in her circle several times. The
book 'Margery' interested me greatly, but left my mind in
a somewhat chaotic state. There were questions that oc
curred to me, questions which perhaps you can answer."
While he spoke they had entered the living room. Noel
was a very intense individual, a notable success as a special
ist in medicine. He possessed a keen mind and a charac
teristic directness which, at times, became almost discon
certing.
"A friend of mine, who claimed to know about the 'Mar
gery' experiments, told me something of them," he began.
" 'Margery' is a doctor's wife, is she not?"
"Yes, she is the wife of Dr. L. R. G. Crandon, one of the
leading surgeons in Boston. Dr. Crandon, I believe, was at
one time connected with the Harvard Medical School in the
capacity of lecturer."
"I see," nodded Noel, "And may I ask who pays for all
this work she is doing? It must cost money to carry on
psychic experiments of that kind."
"Mrs. Crandon's control, Walter Stinson, has told her
that, should she accept anything from anyone, directly or
indirectly, for seances, he would cease his communications at
38
once. He believes that a paid medium loses caste with the
public, so Dr. Crandon foots all bills personally."
"Doesn't that strike you as curious ?" asked Noel, eying
the other narrowly. "Why does he do it? It certainly
couldn't help him in a professional way. Quite the opposite,
I should suppose."
"Dr. Crandon is a man of broad vision with the crusader
spirit. Realizing the effect the certainty of survival would
have on our every day lives and actions, he grasps the tre
mendous importance of no longer ignoring the findings in
the field. At a great personal sacrifice, he has enlisted
the aid and cooperation of some of the finest minds in
science and research," opined Burton.
"You know, I went to a seance once," admitted Noel, with
a grin. "A trumpet moved through the room." He swung
his arm in a wide circle. "Voices came from it. Bells rang.
There was an inner and an outer circle of sitters. I was
with the outside group—but close enough to see. The mes
sages were so trivial. In fact, the whole affair struck me
as being particularly childish."
"Suppose, Dr. Noel, that you were to come face to face
with a friend you hadn't seen for years and didn't expect
to meet; an observer would, no doubt, consider the con
versation between such a friend and yourself equally trivial.
On the other hand —people, new at communication, usually
feel that the memory of the person purporting to be speak
ing should function with an accuracy proportionate to the
importance the listener attaches to the material being re
membered. In our own existence we find disconnected
events remaining clearly in our memory, while those leading
up to and following them cannot be recalled. Certain per
sons can remember anniversaries, while others find it im
possible. Events which might seem trivial and unimportant
39
to us may have made a lasting impression upon the memory
of the person communicating.
"Another point worth remembering, is the fact that the
person attempting communication is literally clinging to the
medium's vibrations in order to manifest at all. You would
find yourself in a somewhat similar situation were you forc
ed to talk at the bottom of the sea. First it would be neces
sary for you to become accustomed to the diving suit you
were compelled to use. Then after making that adjustment,
you would have to discover how to make yourself heard.
Under these circumstances, the people listening for your
voice, realizing the difficulties under which you were at
tempting to work, would not expect much from you in the
way of a long discourse. Certainly, they would grant that
a certain amount of practice would be required."
Noel was thoughtful, "Does this Walter Stinson tell you
anything worth knowing?"
"In my opinion, the instruction he gives for living now
and here, as well as his philosophy, is both illuminating and
helpful."
Noel interrupted. "Before you come to that, tell me
this. I have heard it said that the things which 'Mar
gery' does can only happen when Dr. Crandon, her husband,
is present. Is that true?"
"It has been my good fortune to sit with Mrs. Crandon
when Dr. Crandon was present. He sits near her because
he realizes the possible danger to which she is exposed when
in trance, were anyone to interfere and thus injure or bruise
the ectoplasm. That happened on one occasion and 'Mar
gery' was very ill for several weeks, losing some fourteen
or fifteen pounds in weight. I have also sat with Mrs.
Crandon in Buffalo and at Niagara Falls when Dr. Crandon
was in Boston. The phenomena occurs just the same when
he is some 550 miles away. Does that answer your ques
tion?"
40
"Quite. Now tell me how the Crandons became inter
ested in this line of research?" The doctor was searching
his pockets for pipe and tobacco.
"The story in brief is this: Dr. Crandon's interest be
gan through a chance visit to a medium on the part of
Mrs. Crandon and a friend. Many have made such visits —
and yet—that, in a word, describes the beginning of the
'Margery' mediumship.
"The wife of the average surgeon leads a rather prosaic
life. One must recognize, of course, the demands of the
world upon one's husband and rest content with being
known as 'the doctor's wife.' You are familiar with that
situation," smiled Burton. "So, prior to the year 1923, 'Mar
gery' lived the conventional life of a surgeon's wife in an
equally conventional street, called Lime, in the city of Bos
ton.
"Now anything might happen in Boston. The fires of
political revolt were once kindled there, to which fact its
now conservative inhabitants will proudly attest ; and some
thing destined to be of importance to the world happened
that afternoon in 1923 when Mrs. Crandon and her friend,
Mrs. E. W. Brown, sallied forth more in the spirit of a lark
more than anything else, —to visit a medium.
"A cryptic message from the invisible world, a hurried
trip home, a visit to the same medium by the doctor a few
days later, a promise from Walter that he would speak
through his sister, Mrs. Crandon, followed. They began ex
periments, following the lines pursued by Dr. Crawford . . .
table tippings . . . investigators . . . Houdini . . . charges
. . . counter-charges. Very briefly this is the way Dr. and
Mrs. Crandon's interest developed. Incidentally, Dr. Cran
don is a profound student and has read extensively on the
subject of psychical research. He is familiar with the work
of the leading investigators.
"Meantime, life for the surgeon's wife became anything
but prosaic, and Number Ten Lime Street suddenly took on,
41
for the superstitious at least, the atmosphere of a haunted
house
" Bob Burton and Noel exchanged smiles.
"There is no such atmosphere about the doctor and his
charming wife, however. More cultured, intelligent people
one does not often meet. The unselfish, tireless effort they
have contributed to progress in this field will some day be
estimated at its true value.
"In the early days of the mediumship Dr. Crandon and
his wife employed pseudonyms, in the vain hope of avoiding
publicity. Mrs. Crandon became 'Margery' and her hus
band simply 'F. H.' 'Walter,' as you know, is a brother of
Mrs. Crandon and it was some 17 years ago that he met
death in a railroad accident."
"Tell me more about what happened at the time Mrs.
Crandon and her friend visited the medium," Dr. Noel
broke in eagerly.
"The two women, both the wives of doctors, walked to
the medium's house in much the same manner as would a
couple of school girls. It was all more or less of a joke.
"They did not expect an immediate hearing. (As a rule,
you know, if you have ever had experience with a certain
type of medium, you are not given an immediate ap
pointment but put off until a later date. The reasons for
this vary with the medium's popularity or with his or her
degree of genuineness.) But Mrs. Crandon and Mrs. Brown
were ushered into the medium's presence at once.
"If Mrs. Brown received any message on that eventful
afternoon she probably does not recall it, for the medium
immediately went into a trance. Mrs. Crandon was inform
ed that a spirit was present, furthermore, that the spirit
laid claim to relationship with her. He was her brother,
Walter Stinson, killed 17 years before in a railroad accident.
"As evidence of his genuineness, her brother related,
through the medium, familiar incidents of their childhood,
spent together in rural Ontario. He referred to a favorite
42
colt they had broken and to other more intimate things.
Finally, he promised that he would speak through her in
the very near future.
"When Dr. Crandon was told of this experience he did
not laugh. Within a few days he, himself, made a visit to
the home of the same medium, unannounced. His visit re
sulted in evidential messages from Walter Stinson who
made himself known as the doctor's brother-in-law.
"A few evenings later the Crandons, the Browns and
two other friends, gathered in an upper room of the Lime
Street residence to conduct their own experiments. The
stage was set and the 'Margery' mediumship began that
very night. From this the most outstanding mediumship
in America has developed."
"Did they get this 'Walter* voice at once or was it a
gradual process ?" asked Dr. Noel.
"It was really an unusually rapid development —but
many months passed before Walter Stinson could whisper
in an independent voice."
Noel interrupted sharply. "When you say independent,
do you mean a voice not 'Margery's'?"
"Yes."
"How can you know it is not produced by her voice in
some way ?"
"Investigators checked this by having Mrs. Crandon hold
a quantity of colored liquid in her mouth while the voice
was speaking, and eject the same amount following the ex
periment. Later, a more scientific device was invented, by
Dr. Mark Richardson, known as the 'voice-cut-out.' This
was simple, but conclusive. A circular air tight container,
with a number of glass tubes projecting from the top, was
used. A rubber tube, covered with metal conduit, was slip
ped over each opening and every sitter held a glass mouth-
43
piece connected to the outer end of this tube. Each mouth
piece had an opening at the tip, to be covered by the tongue.
An opening on the upper and lower sides, close to a circu
lar glass shield, covered by the lips. A central tube from the
airtight container extended to a U shaped glass and covered
one arm of the U. The other end was left open. In the U
tube was enough water to fill each of the arms half way up
its height. A luminous float rested on the water in both
arms. Each sitter placed a mouthpiece between his teeth,
with his tongue held over the end opening, his upper and
lower lips closing the openings next the mouth shield.
"When all was ready the last person blew on his tube
causing the luminous float, in the arm of the upright glass
U which had the tube connected to its top, to be depressed,
and the float, in the arm with the end open, to rise. All the
mouthpieces being held, no air could escape, and the floats
remained at different levels. If any sitter, including the me
dium, had moved the lips or tongue, the upper float would
have dropped instantly.
"With this complete check the Walter Stinson voice has
said such sentences as, 'Jane is a jazzy jaybird, by jiggers'
—impossible to say without moving lips or tongue.
"At present, as an additional check, Mrs. Crandon is
placed in a glass-sided cabinet like a telephone booth. Her
hands, protruding through openings on either side are wired
to staples, fastened below the openings. Both ankles are
similarly fastened to the floor of the booth and a large leath
er collar is locked around her neck and fastened to the back
wall of the cabinet. Thus, with all possible movement of the
medium's hands, feet and head eliminated, the voice cut
out is placed in her mouth. The balance of the tubes are in
use sealing the lips of the sitters present. Walter Stinson
talks, recites poetry, tells stories, moves luminous objects
about the cabinet. This occurs under absolute mechanical
control of the group, —control that is not subject to the
possibility of human weakness."
44
"Hasn't Mrs. Crandon been exposed by investigators;
some of them at least, well known persons?" asked Noel.
"Two investigating committees disbanded under strain
ed relationship due to this famous mediumship —by reason,
as far as one can judge, of what H. A. Overstreet in his
book, About Ourselves, calls 'the seductive art of wish-
thinking,' — (the projecting of our strong emotions into
situations. Behind the strong emotion is a wish to arrive at
certain conclusions. This leads to a biased interpretation
of the facts—the closing of our minds to ideas we do not
like. Of course this tendency is characteristic; it is an in
evitable limitation of the human mind. Investigators are
also human.)
"Most so-called investigators who made up the person
nel of the committees have, to all appearances, attended the
sittings for the sole purpose of detecting fraud, and not to
study and classify the phenomena produced. These com
mittees were made up of persons of widely differing attain
ments, points of view and sense of honor. To investigate
faked phenomena and report on them is one thing, but to
face real phenomena is quite another. Under these circum
stances wish-thinking served only to produce confusion, as
it was radically contradicted by the facts. That the me
diumship of Mrs. Crandon has survived three investigations
and two so-called exposures would seem a fairly strong ar
gument in favor of its genuineness."
"Are there any records to show that any other investi
gated mediums have survived more than one exposure?"
"None that I know of," replied Burton. "The investiga
tion of the 'Margery' mediumship by the Scientific Ameri
can Committee was a farce as nearly as I can gather. The
records of the proceedings are sufficient to condemn it. One
of the committee declared the phenomena genuine, two
hedged. Mr. Houdini, a stranger to scientific attainment,
yielded himself up completely to his prejudices—wish-think
ing—and condemned the whole thing without qualification.
45
(Obviously it was good advertising for him.) * The attitude
of the remaining member is difficult to understand.
"J. Malcolm Bird, in his book 'Margery,' makes some
statements that explain the failure of this committee to
reach an agreement. He seems to feel that an honest and
competent, serious-minded investigator cannot sit indefi
nitely without arriving at an opinion. Carrington, he points
out, was ready to declare for the validity of the phenomena
occurring in the presence of 'Margery' after 10 sittings.
Comstock, Bird feels, was well aware in his own mind of
their validity, but wished to observe them for a longer
period. McDougall had a repugnance against disturbing
"the philosophy of a lifetime." Prince, as research officer
of the American Society for Psychical Research, should
have shown more interest. Receiving permission to view
this mediumship in the summer of 1923, he failed to ex
amine it until in Boston on other business in May, 1924.
Prince sat three times as a member of the committee and
refused to join in their reports, stating that he kept his
own records, copies of which he would give them ; a promise
which was never fulfilled.
"In the 80 sittings enjoyed by the sub-committee no at
tempt was made to record the pulse, temperature, respira
tion, blood pressure or weight of the medium, either before
or after a sitting.** The temperature of the room was never
recorded. No measurements of the seance room were made.
A strange neglect of essential details. Bird openly charges
Houdini with fraud and describes his statements as plain
lies. Bird's book throws much light on the work of the com
mittee."
"How about the Harvard group of investigators I have
read about?"
*November, 1924 issue of Scientific American.
**True mediumship has a tendency to show marked changes in
pulse, temperature, respiration and so forth during occurrence of
phenomena.
46
"They found their escape in rather an odd type of ex
planation. I have the report these gentlemen made. Let
me read it to you."
Burton walked to his desk and came back with a news
paper clipping.* Noel reached for it, "Let me read it, I can
get it better that way."
Dr. Noel perused the article in silence for some minutes.
Upon reaching the conclusion he said, "I suppose you allude
to this, and read aloud :
The observers do not question the good faith of Dr. or Mrs.
Crandon, or the sincerity of their belief in the genuineness
of the mediumship and the supernormal origin of the phe
nomena. That nothing in these reports shall be interpreted
as a charge of conscious or deliberate fraud. That many of
the facts may be reconciled by supposing the phenomena to
be the product of an automatism built up by direct and auto
suggestion in a way of which Dr. and Mrs. Crandon were un
conscious. That 'Walter's' voice in trance appears to be an
hypnotic impersonation, not, properly speaking, a secondary
or dis-associated personality.
"There you have it, doctor," said Burton, with sarcasm,
as the other finished. "In other words, Dr. Crandon sug
gests to Mrs. Crandon, and the hypnotic effect upon her is
such, that with complete mechanical control, she uncon
sciously, and not of her own volition produces all the phe
nomena at a Crandon sitting."
"That sounds like scientific craw-fishing," was Noel's
only comment.
"I would like to have that same committee explain just
one of a series of experiments made this winter."
"What were they?"
"A group sat in a seance room at number ten Lime
Street. Mrs. Crandon sat, with others, in a group ten miles
from Lime Street. One of the Lime Street group picked an
unknown card, prepared by an unknown sailor at the Boston
*The Boston Herald, dated Wednesday, October 21, 1925.
47
Navy Yard at the request of the captain in charge, from a
box containing some 30 different cards, all prepared in like
manner. He held the card up in the dark room for a few
seconds then handed it to his neighbor who placed it in a
bill-fold and put it in his pocket. 'Walter' had said that he
would rap the number of letters on the card, if it contained
a single word. Five loud raps sounded on the side of the
cabinet.
"Ten miles away, Mrs. Crandon drew a picture of a
package of Camel cigarettes and under it wrote the letters
E and L. Two hundred and fifty miles away, in New York
City, another medium drew a similar picture and under it
wrote the letters C and A. Five hundred miles away, in
Niagara Falls, still a third medium did the same thing and
wrote the letter M.
"This card, just referred to, which was picked at random
in the dark, was found to contain a picture of a package of
Camel cigarettes with the word Camel pasted under it. An
entity at 10 Lime Street, not one of the sitters, was able
to make out what was on the card, rap out the number of
letters contained in the word, sufficiently impress three dif
ferent mediums miles away, so that they recorded the im
pressions, as I have described. The card, produced later,
corresponded in every detail with these recorded impres
sions. Rather silly to attribute this cross correspondence
to a split personality in Mrs. Crandon. Isn't it ?
"On another evening Walter Stinson stated that if those
present would prepare cards and keep them concealed until
requested, he would have another medium 550 miles away
describe the cards and their contents in Chinese. One card
had a peculiar drawing and the word 'Confucius' written
on it. This card was drawn by the distant medium as pro
mised and the word 'Confucius' written in Chinese. A
second card had the proverb on it, 'A rolling stone gathers
no moss.' The distant medium wrote in Chinese, 'A travel
ing teacher gathers no gold.' A third card, in the posses
48
sion of a Judge Hill, was described and under it written in
Chinese characters, 'Little Mountain.' A split personality
that is capable of this accomplishment should be qualified
to remove the word 'split' from the committee's conclusions,
and merely be known as a 'personality.'
"As a final manifestation of the fact that he is a distinct
personality, Walter Stinson arranged to have peices of
marked wax sent to this medium five hundred and
fifty miles from Boston. Each piece was marked and weigh
ed to the fifth decimal point. A section was cut off each
piece and mailed to the Society for Psychical Research in
New York. The balance of each piece was sent to the distant
medium. Sitting in a group, under control, this medium
was used by Walter Stinson to produce two thumb prints.
These were mailed to a finger print expert at the Boston
Navy Yard. Both were perfect 'Walter' thumb prints. The
wax cakes were checked in order to remove all question of
substitution. A finger print means a person!"
"Well, rather. But tell me about Houdini and his dis
coveries."
"As I understand it, the thing which terminated the
Scientific American investigation more speedily than might
have been the case was the exposure by 'Walter' of Harry
Houdini, and the proving of attempted trickery and plant
ing of evidence. The details are covered by J. Malcolm Bird,
in his book 'Margery.' The main facts are that Houdini
tried to discredit the mediumship with the idea of commer
cializing it for his own gain."
There was a meditative silence.
"What the dickens does it all lead to?" questioned Noel
with a frown. "Suppose communication is possible, what
does one get out of it ?"
"To my mind, an extended knowledge and insight into
life in relation to its continuity. At present, as some one
has so aptly put it, 'Science is bankrupt on the edge of the
grave; religion offers only a sleepy comfort.' Psychic re
49
search will not only kill materialism, which is already dy
ing, but knock out agnosticism, which is the prevalent con
dition everywhere among thinking people."
"And what will be the effect on the present religious
beliefs?"
"To know one's self as an outcome and recipient
of an unmeasured vital energy, inherent in all that is,
and confidently to trust and obey its urge toward finer
expressions, is religion. Psychic research will reinforce
that,—not harm it.
"I have a friend, who, like yourself, asks many ques
tions. I am planning to have a medium down from Buffalo
for the purpose of answering them. Would you care to
join us?"
"I'd like to very much. When can it be arranged?"
"We will give you plenty of notice. Then your informa
tion can come direct from one claiming to have a hundred
years advanced experience."
"I'll be here. Let me know." He rose and started
quickly toward the door. In the hall he turned.
"Thank you for the patience you've had with my ques
tions. I appreciate it. One in my profession realizes, per
haps oftener than others, the need of definite, comforting
knowledge in the presence of the process called death.
People are here, and then they are no longer here. Into
oblivion or ."
He shrugged his expressive shoulders, seized Burton's
hand and with a vigorous, 'Good-night,' was gone.
50
CHAPTER VI
EVERAL days passed before the Burtons again
heard from their friend Ned. Then one night he
dropped in for a little chat, and came almost at
once to the subject of psychic research.
"There are some things regarding which I would like to
be put straight. Do you mind a few more questions?" he
smilingly inquired.
"Remember, we do not pose as experts, but shall be very
glad to answer any questions which come within the scope
of our knowledge," responded Bob.
"Then let me state frankly that, although I find myself
far from convinced, the subject intrigues me and stirs my
curiosity. In thinking about it, several things have occur
red to me. First, what other mediums are being investigat
ed and who is conducting the investigations ?"
"The American and English Societies of Psychical Re
search are investigating all cases of mediumship submitted
to them. Independent investigators are also accumulating
accurate records upon which to base judgment.
"In the latter group Baron von Schrenck-Notzing, in
Brannan, has reported the results of investigations with
such mediums as the Schneider brothers, and others well
known in Europe. He carried on the work in a private
laboratory especially equipped for this type of research and
the reports of his results are most interesting. The room
used was furnished with a cabinet, placed behind and to one
side of the medium. The curtains covering the opening of
this cabinet had luminous bands along their edges, thus
making any movement of the curtains visible to the observ
ers at once. As a further check the cabinet was surrounded
by a fence, the top rail of which was luminous. Luminous
51
gloves and shoes were placed upon the medium, who sat in
front and to one side of the cabinet, so that any movement
of his or her extremities would be observed by the sitters.
As a further check, the feet of the medium were placed
upon a contact board so arranged that, were the contact
broken, a luminous number would show up at the top of the
cabinet. The medium wore a jacket, the sleeves of which,
were fastened to gloves by safety pins which were sealed."
"Why are cabinets, apparently, so much a part of a me
dium's equipment?" inquired Ned.
"In our discussion of Crawford's work, we found that
all manifestations occurring in the presence of a medium
seemed to be due to an emanation from the medium's body,
termed ectoplasm. This substance seems to act more quick
ly and intensely when confined within narrower limits
than those afforded by the average room. Hence, the small
space within the cabinet walls would seem an advantage in
confining this ectoplasmic force."
"Is the Baron's work accepted by other investigators
without question?" queried Ned.
"There was one case reported where his results were
questioned. As I recall it, he had reported the mediumship
of a young man named Otto C. This same young medium
was later detected in fraudulent production of psychic phe
nomena with the assistance of one of the sitters. He signed
a confession, maintaining, however, that only since losing
his real mediumistic powers had he resorted to tricks. Loss
of his powers he claimed was due to overwork and the hold
ing of protracted sittings. When investigated by Baron
von Schrenck-Notzing, in the Baron's personal laboratory,
he possessed real psychic ability. The fact that he later
lost his power has no bearing upon the findings of investi
gators preceding that period. A certain Mr. Vinton, how
ever, as a result of this, questioned the Baron's ability to
detect fraud."
52
"Who are the Schneiders you mentioned?" asked Hunt
ington.
"The Schneiders are a family of mediums. The Baron
invited investigators of note to Munich to sit with them
in order that they might discover fraud, should any exist.
They left convinced of the fact that they had witnessed ab
normal manifestations. Willie Schneider has now complet
ed his studies and is practicing dentistry. Rudi, his young
er brother, about twenty-one years of age, has been exam
ined at the National Laboratory for psychical research lo
cated in the building occupied by the British Society of
London, England. Under complete electrical control of not
only the medium, but all those present, phenomena of a high
order were produced," Bob concluded.
"Are you familiar with the arrangement of the control?"
inquired his visitor.
"Every sitter wears cotton gloves across the palms of
which, metal straps are fastened with insulated wire con
necting each pair of gloves. This carries the contact across
the space being occupied by the sitter. Socks, arranged in
like manner, cover the feet of all present. Metal plates
fastened to the floor, between the chairs, allow one foot of
each sitter to cover the half of the plate nearest him. By
means of this arrangement, when all hands and feet are in
their proper position, an indicator light comes on. The
movement of a single hand or foot extinguishes the light.
Four separate contact lights are arranged for the hands
and feet of the medium. With this electrical control in
operation there is practically no possibility of fraudulent
production of phenomena.
"A sensitive transmitting thermograph, placed in the
cabinet, often records a drop in temperature of 2.95 degrees
below that of the room."
"That is interesting. What causes the drop in tempera
ture?" inquired Ned.
53
"It apparently is connected in some way with the eman
ations which come from the medium," explained Burton.
"I have heard the statement made that everything pro
duced in a seance could be produced by a good conjurer,
under like conditions. How about that?" questioned Hunt
ington with a grin.
"Were one to believe their statements, it would seem
that all the leading conjurers in the world have only been
awaiting an opportunity to reproduce the results obtained
by any medium, under like conditions. Yet, when Mr. Harry
Price, of the British College, offered a thousand pounds to
any of them who would produce the Schneider phenomena,
under like control, no takers appeared, although the offer
was given wide publicity. As I recall it, Dennis Bradley
offered Clive Mackelyne one hundred pounds if he could pro
duce the Valiantine voices* under like conditions of control
but the offer was not accepted. Magicians have occasionally
attempted to reproduce phenomena produced by real me
diums but, when under similar conditions, they have always
failed. The baffling fact that, with Rudi Schneider, the phe
nomena take place in the cabinet while he sits outside it,
some four feet away, gives the conjurers pause.
"But to get back to von Schrenck-Notzing, the Baron's
sittings have been attended by over a hundred Germans of
scientific attainment, who have decided against the possi
bility of fraud, and the work has been carried on over a
period of nine years. I should like to read you a description
of the procedure as carried on by Baron von Schrenck-Not
zing in his own laboratory. The article is written by one
Florizel von Reuter** and goes into very minute detail. I
shall merely touch on those sections which describe condi
tions preventing fraudulent production (of phenomena) .
*Valiantine, world famous medium, of New York City, has pro
duced independent voices which have spoken in sixteen different
languages in one evening.
**Psychic Science. —April, 1928.
54
'The sitters take their places in an especially equipped room
fitted up with all manner of appliances for gradual diminu
tion or increase of light.
As many as half a dozen cameras are placed at different
angles of the room to be made use of if required.
Paraffin preparations for the purpose of taking hand im
prints or moulds are also at hand.'
"Von Reuter goes on to describe the materializing cabi
net, located in a corner of the room behind the medium. The
formation of the circle itself he describes as follows:
'The circle is composed of six persons, any extras forming
an outside circle. At the extreme left end of the circle
facing the fence sits Baron Schrenck-Notzing, luminous
bands on his arms, his hands controlled by this right hand
neighbor.
Behind him is a table upon which are laid various objects
such as a tambourine, a music box, a 20 lb. weight, a long-
handled fan, a stick—like a conductor's baton —a zither, a
paper basket of open wicker-work, a tablet about fourteen
inches square, a handkerchief, and so forth, all of them lum
inous and clearly visible in the dark.
The medium sits facing the circle about % of a yard in
front of the right side of the curtain. His right shoulder is
a full yard distant from the edge of the table inside the
screen. He puts on illuminated gloves and shoes, which are
connected by a conducting cord to an electric indicator of
numbers above the curtains and clearly visible to all except
the medium. He places his feet upon a contact board. The
electric indicator shows in red light the numbers 1-2 (right
hand, left hand) and 3-4 (right foot, left foot). Were the
medium to attempt to free either hand or foot a number
would disappear, the number corresponding to the hand or
foot moved.
The controller also wears electrically controlled gloves. He
holds the medium's hands continually and presses the me
dium's legs between his knees. If he, the controlling person,
lets go of the hands an instant, the corresponding number
on the curtain goes out.
It is difficult to see how, under such conditions, it would be
possible for the medium to resort to trickery. In case the
electric control should fail, there remains always the equally
effective hand control and the illuminated arm bands.'
55
"The writer goes on with a statement that seems
to have a great bearing on the entire subject of physical
control of mediums, and everyone will agree that without
proper control, all phenomena that may be produced are
impossible of checking. This is the statement to which I
refer," Burton read:
" 'To some it may seem a great marvel that phenomena ever
take place under these circumstances. That is, in reality, a
most effective proof that the regrettable objection to strict
control, displayed by the majority of mediums, is the result
of their own mental state, a sort of auto-suggestion they
build up, which does indeed hinder the phenomena. That it is,
in such cases, not strict control, but the mentality of the
medium which is responsible, has been clearly proven by
Schrenck-Notzing control method with the Schneider broth
ers and others. Several hundred sittings with them have
been held in Munich laboratory under the conditions just
described, without the slightest suspicion of the genuineness
of their mediumship having been evoked in the minds of
scientific investigators. There have been comparatively few
negative sittings and certainly these few were not caused
by control conditions'."
"That would seem to be a very definite challenge to all
real mediums," suggested Ned. "They should stop object
ing to proper investigation and allow their mediumship to
stand or fall on its own merits when under strict control
conditions. Perhaps some day the point of development
may be reached when only mediums who have been tested
and found genuine will be allowed to continue the practice
of their mediumistic powers. We may even come to the
point of issuing certificates, or some form of license."
"Let me finish what is said here regarding the usual
course these sittings take:
1. 'Examination of the seance room and of the cabinet by
various members of the circle.
2. Bodily examination of the medium, also of the medium's
mouth. He is then clothed in a suit of white pajamas put
on over his under clothing. He wears stockings and his
usual street shoes.
56
3. The guests enter the seance room and are assigned their
seats. The medium puts on illuminated control shoes, which
are carefully tied on, and sits down with his feet on control
board. The medium and the controller of the evening then
each assume their respective control gloves, those of the
medium being fastened to his pajama sleeves by safety pins,
which are securely sealed. The illuminated bands are al
ready sewed on his sleeves.
4. The medium's pulse is now recorded, and the controller
and medium clasp hands, the legs of the latter being firmly
pressed between the knees of the former. The stenographer
takes her place and Baron Schrenck-Notzing dictates the be
ginning of the evening's protocol. The stenographer has
full red light at her desk.
5. The light is then lowered and after a short silence of
the sitters, the first trance symptoms are noticeable, violent
spasmodic jerks of the body and accelerated respiration.
6. The medium's control or 'trance personality' announces
its presence.
(The animistic maintain that the control entity is merely a
divided personality of the medium. However, this is only
a theory and has yet to be proved, and, in the meanwhile,
the sitters are all compelled to accept the spiritualistic theory
if any results are to be expected. There are always plenty
of signs which indicate the presence of an independent intel
ligence. Any doubt in the presence of the medium as to the
authenticity of the controlling personality would have a cat
astrophic effect upon the phenomena.)*'
"
7. Baron Schrenck-Notzing greets the controlling intelli
gence and requests it to express any wishes it may have.
Sometimes a change in the order of the circle is demanded,
so that the most mediumistic person may be near the me
dium. Occasionally, a change in the controlling person is re
quested, while upon rare occasions the removal from the
room of some unsympathetic person is insisted upon. All
requests are scrupulously acceded to, in order to avoid any
disturbing influence upon the vibrations'."
"There you have it again," Ned cut in, "these everlast
ing vibrations ! Of what force are they composed ?"
*One cannot investigate without doubt. Apparently there is a
marked difference in the viewpoint of various disembodied entities,
some do not seem to care whether you acknowledge their identity or
not. A polite courteous attitude seems to help, however.
57
"Perhaps some day they will discover that electricity
and these vibrations are very much the same thing.
"There is only one more item on this seance-room pro
cedure, and do let me finish that, before we start on con
jectures and discussion. But again it deals with vibrations.
8. 'Conversation amongst the sitters is now requested, as
silence, or too constrained expectation are well known to be
disadvantageous for the development of psychic phenomena.
A brisk conversation is always desirable, conversation which
is supported usually by phonograph music*
"Here are some phenomena that occur under these con
ditions.
'Swelling of curtains as figures build up behind them, temp
estuous blowing of curtains, table lifted,—knocked over and
sometimes drawn into the cabinet, tambourine passed
through the air, shaken, beaten on table, —music box started
and stopped upon request,** 20 lb. weight lifted from table
to floor without being dropped. Hands form between cur
tains of cabinet which can be observed in red light.'
"The 'touching phenomena' as he describes it, seems a
trifle extreme to be classed as a 'touch.' He says —
'The writer of these lines is asked to stand before the open
ing in the curtain. A moment later, he is seized and pushed
so violently that he almost loses his balance'."
"Some touch!" ejaculated Ned. "Tell me this. Do a
medium's powers improve with sittings, or is his ability
along that line a given quality and quantity right from the
start?"
"Some seem to improve up to a certain point. On the
other hand, too frequent, long sittings seem to decrease
the medium's power. I am glad you brought up that ques
tion, for the failing powers of a medium have a direct bear
ing upon fraud. Several very famous mediums have been
investigated by men of scientific standing while in their
*Music seems to be a universal requirement in successful seances.
**This is a marked phenomenon with 'Walter' of the Crandon
mediumship often repeated —upon request and otherwise.
58
hey-day of power, so to speak. Later they lost all
the power they ever possessed—but having been more
or less famous, continued to be sought after, and as in the
case of Otto C, unable longer to produce genuine phenome
na, they resorted to tricks. There are records of exposures,
by rather mediocre investigators, of former famous me
diums who have been reported upon by well qualified, ex
perienced investigators. The mediums have since that time
lost their power and are no longer mediums at all. Our
new investigator, discovering their fraudulent methods,
rushes to the press, claiming to have made a discovery miss
ed or overlooked by former observers. He takes great credit
to himself as being more keen than the others. What
really occurred was that he had been observing a person no
longer possessing mediumistic powers. Former investi
gators may have dealt with this person when genuine, phe
nomena-producing ability was present. The fact that he
later lost his power has no bearing upon the findings of the
investigators preceding that period."
"Are there more mediums than there were formerly?
Or, is that impression due to the fact that as soon as one
develops it is known, as a result of the greater interest and
the report of such cases by the various societies for Psychi
cal Research?"
"There seems to be an increasing interest, but very few
tested cases. In America we have, as well known and out
standing examples; Mrs. Crandon ('Margery'), Mrs. John
H. Curran,* George Valiantine, Mrs. Burling, Mrs. Wreidt
and Mrs. Estelle White. In England we have the outstand
ing Lewis Powell and Mrs. Leonard. Then there is Frau
Silbert, the Schneider brothers and hosts of lesser lights.
"In Italy Marquis Carlo Scotto, with a very unusual
group at Genoa, is producing remarkable phenomena. The
Marquis, judging from such reports as have been made, is
. *Mrs. Curran does not produce ectoplasm; but the material origi
nating from her pen stands on its own merit.
59
a remarkable voice medium. A quite unusual thing in con
nection with this group seems to be the production of in
dependent voices almost at once, with practically no develop
ment period."
"You say this medium is a Marquis, a nobleman. How
did such a man become interested?" interrupted Hunting
ton.
"I am not familiar with the details of his mediumship,
but from what I have heard, it seems to have been a direct
result of the death of the eldest son of the 'House of Scot-
to.'* The Marquis, being very sad and depressed, was advis
ed by a friend to read 'Toward the Stars,' by Dennis Brad
ley. He procured the book and became anxious to try com
munication with his son. Through Valiantine he was able
to converse with his son freely in Italian.** After a few
sittings the Marquis was forced to return to Genoa. He
asked some friends to sit with him and try for the direct
voice in his own home. Not only was an independent voice
developed almost at once, but the group combination seemed
to be such that enormous amounts of ectoplasm were pos
sible of production. It is my belief that much will be heard
from this group.
"Another thing of interest in the report of the study of
this group is the large number of rather unusual types of
phenomena produced at an early period in its development.
For example: flex-a-tone,*** moving about the room ac
companying a gramaphone in a wonderful manner. Cur
rents of both hot and cold air were very marked preceding
production of phenomena.
"Pet dogs materialized so that their whine could be dis
tinctly heard. Visitors from the invisible side of life in
scribed their signatures in a large register placed in the
*Reported in Psychic Science —Vol. VII, No. 4.
**Valiantine does not speak the language.
***Musical instrument in which strips of steel are struck at vary
ing tensions.
60
circle for their convenience. Communicators spoke in
Latin, Italian, Spanish.
"Much of their success seems to be due to the unusual
vital force of the medium combined with a most unusual
group, also to a wonderful guiding control 'Cresto D'Angelo.'
When a member of the group violates a rule, he is instantly
there to correct it with such orders as, 'Put your legs
in their proper position,' or 'Unclasp your hands.' Every
thing, even in the total darkness of the sitting, seems to be
under his observation and control. His ability to read the
mind of any sitter and anticipate questions or ideas is said
to be remarkable."*
"Has Valiantine been investigated?" Ned asked.
"Yes. By the British College and also by the Psychic
Headquarters in New York City. As I recall the story, it is
this: In the presence of Valiantine voices were produced
which spoke in English, Italian, French, Portuguese, Span
ish and occasionally a voice which spoke a language which
none present could identify, but which was assumed to be a
foreign language of oriental origin. One of the sitters pres
ent suggested inviting someone familiar with ancient lan
guages. Dr. Whymant, a scholar of much experience in
teaching and studying Chinese, was invited to listen to the
voice. He knew how difficult it was to teach the correct pro
nunciation of the first syllable of the name of Confucius in
Chinese, as the language is divided into many dialects. The
voice present in Valiantine' s sitting spoke in Mandarin. The
owner of it claimed to be Confucius and was able to give the
correct name of that master-philosopher 'K'ung,' its proper
pronunciation. These peculiar characteristics of the voice
caught the doctor's interest. The voice was asked to ex
plain an error which existed in a certain passage. In re
sponse to this the voice not only recited the passage, in full
as it stands in the present standard edition of the works of
*This ability has been noticed in many guides.
61
Confucius, but recited it as it was in the original. Thus,
an error which had existed 2,400 years was corrected, ap
parently to Dr. Whymant's satisfaction. The reading in
question, which had never seemed to convey meaning, was
a phase in 'Shih king' or 'Classic of Poetry,' assembled
and edited by Confucius. It is recorded that the voice gave
these lines meaning and made them intelligible.
"The net result of years of hard work on the part of a
hundred or more scholars had been the determination of
the sounds of twelve Chinese words of the time of Confuc
ius. The medium, in this case, being an American mechanic
makes the episode the more startling."
There was silence for a space.
"Since you have been telling me of your experiences I
have been doing some reading along these lines," Ned stat
ed. "There seems to be a great deal of confusion due ap
parently to the lack of any definite distinction between vari
ous types and degrees of mediumship. It is too late to start
on that tonight, but I should like to discuss that phase of
the subject at the first opportunity offered."
Ned had risen and was preparing to leave.
"You are acquainted with Dr. Noel. I have asked him
over for Tuesday evening. Make notes of questions as they
occur to you and we can discuss them at that time," sug
gested Burton. "Noel is not only interested, but contributes
a new viewpoint to our discussions."
"I'll do that. Good-night."
CHAPTER VII
WO days later Huntington called to return a book.
"There were some questions this suggested to
me. First, as I understand it, all mediums cannot,
or at least do not, lay claim to an ability to see
the departed. Some, however, seem to have that as their
only gift. Is that correct?"
"You refer, of course, to what is called clairvoyance,"
said Burton, "the ability to see people who are no longer
in this phase of life."
"As I understand it, this type of phenomena does not
require an entranced medium. Those who possess the gift
simply see people who are invisible to ordinary mortals, or
else," added Huntington with a grin, "they are remarkably
clever guessers."
Bob Burton continued, "There are frauds who pose as
clairvoyants; sometimes they guess, but more often they
have received the information in advance. In another class
are those who are able to do mind reading. They can tell
you things about your past with astounding accuracy. Yet
these are not genuine clairvoyants. They obtain the infor
mation through contact with your subconscious mind. Many
persons in this class cannot be accused of intentional fraud
for they are quite sincere in their belief that they have me-
diumistic powers. The true clairvoyant, apparently, sees
and hears the disembodied."
"Tell me," asked Ned, sincerely, "do you know of any
instances of this alleged perception of the invisible that you
feel are authentic ?"
"I have heard of one that is most interesting, —an epi
sode that took place in Boston. It was during the period
when our troops were being demobilized following the World
War.
"A young lady, employed in a government office to fill
out records of the men being discharged from service,
was the principal. At the end of the day, the number
of records turned in by this girl exceeded the number
of men who had passed her desk. Questions followed. The
officials showed her records made out for men who were
known to have been killed in action. Her only response to
kindly questions was a burst of tears, and the distraught
reply that the men bothered her so much that she could not
sleep well and was always tired and nervous. She persisted
in the conviction that she had only filled out record sheets
for the men who came up to her desk. The officials decided
that her appearance gave the impression of poor health and
she was advised to take a rest.
"Impressed by the affair, a government official describ
ed it that evening to a group of friends at his club.
Among this group was a man of scientific mind, who secured
the young lady's address, then proceeded with an assistant
to visit her home.
"Persuading her that they had come to help was no
easy task for she was inclined to be hysterical. In the end,
however, she consented to answer their questions.
" 'You can see and hear these men ? They answered
your questions?' asked the investigators.
" 'Yes, they bother me all the time and seem anxious
that I should understand something very important, but I
can't get it,' she told them tearfully.
" 'Are any of them with you now?' inquired her visitors.
" 'Yes, three came up the path from the gate with you.'
"'Where are they? Can you point them out to us?'
The young woman indicated the supposed position of
the unseen companions.
64
"Now this investigator had a theory and had come pre
pared to test it. A camera fitted with a quartz lens had
been brought as part of his equipment. You know, of
course, that ultra-violet rays, or rays having the charac
teristic of ultra-violet, will pass through quartz but are
blocked out when ordinary lead glass —such as the lens in
your eye glass —is used.
"Well," Burton went on, "the camera was directed at
the points indicated as the position of the invisible soldiers.
Several pictures were taken. Then the investigator pro
duced a pair of frames, such as those used by opticians in
testing vision. Next the young woman was requested to
look at the soldiers While two quartz lenses were inserted
in the frames before her eyes.
" 'Can you see them now ?' queried the investigator.
" 'Yes.'
"Lead lenses were substituted for the quartz and the
question repeated.
" 'No,' she replied.
"They exchanged and concealed the various lenses all
to no avail. She could see them only with her naked eyes
and with the quartz lenses. Despite various attempts they
were unable to catch her in any false statements."
"Couldn't she have been a mind reader?" broke in
Huntington. "There was no way of checking her state
ments because none of the others could see the soldiers she
said were there."
"The investigator had forseen just such a contingency
and was prepared to furnish a positive check from his side
of the experiment."
"How?"
"It seems there is a paint which reflects ultra-violet
rays and is ordinarily invisible. A card with this paint on
it was produced and placed at some distance from the girl
and the quartz and lead lenses interchanged. She could
65
read the card when the quartz lenses were in the frames—
she could not even see it when the frames contained lead
glasses."
"How did the pictures come out?"
"I have been told that in each case the pictures showed
the soldiers in recognizable outline. They were taken with
the quartz lens, of course."
"What does this experiment explain regarding clair
voyance?" questioned Ned.
"The investigator contended that clairvoyance was a
matter of super-vision on the part of the medium. Also,
that the image seen clairvoyantly was vibrating at a speed
similar to that of ultra-violet rays. If this is true, then a
clairvoyant is one whose eyes can detect and record light
rays vibrating at a much greater speed than those visible
to the average eye. This is one hypothesis of clairvoyance.
"You said this government employe in Boston could
hear the soldiers speaking to her," remarked Huntington
after a pause. "Have you any explanation for that?"
"The young lady was also clairaudiant. In other
words, her sense of hearing was tuned to register sound
waves beyond the usual range."
"Are clairvoyants born that way or do these qualities
result from a peculiar development on the part of some
people?"
"Some are undoubtedly born with ability to register
higher vibrations. You know, children often play with in
visible playmates, but parents and adults are peculiarly de
void of imaginative appreciation and the gift fades away in
most cases."
"Humph. Have you ever had personal contact with a
good clairvoyant? To me, that would be quite evidential."
"Yes, I have. In fact I had the experience of watching
one develop. A young man of our acquaintance became in
terested in psychical research and asked to sit with our
group. After four or five sittings he reported seeing masses
of luminous material which he described as similar to clouds
of smoke. These, he said, would eddy and move, sometimes
becoming quite large and at other times seeming to con
dense. At about the seventh sitting, he beheld one of these
light masses suddenly condense and outline itself as a face.
The effect upon him was so startling that we had all we
could do to persuade him to continue with the sittings. Al
though frightened, he persisted, and in a very short time
was able to see and describe various people as though they
were present in human form. Many of these were persons
whom he had never seen in his life, but were known to
others of the group."
"These clairvoyants," broke in Huntington impetuous
ly, "seem only to see people under certain conditions. Why
is that? You would expect them to see hosts of the dead
at all times."
"The answer, I believe, is to be found in your friends,
the vibrations," replied Bob.
They sat in silence for some time. Then Ned drew a
small folded paper from his pocket and after glancing at it
said, "Another question I have noted here is this: just what
distinction is there between the various types of mediums ?"
Bob was silent for a space, then settled back in his
chair.
"That is a big order. There are many grades of me-
diumship; but for the purpose of our discussion we may
classify them under two main headings. Under the head
ing of psychic let us group for our purpose all types of sensi
tives including clairvoyants, and contrast them with me
diums. Under this latter heading we shall include the in
dividuals in whose presence ectoplasm is produced and mani
fested.
"I would rather not go into this tonight but I will get
together some data on the subject and go over it with you
and Dr. Noel tomorrow evening.
67
"In the meantime, I will say that according to our eth-
eric friends, everything in this world of ours seems to have
its counterpart in the invisible world. Very likely it exists
there first and is reproduced here later. As we have certain
persons called "mediums" who can give off ectoplasm which
can be used for purposes of materialization, so there is
psychoplasm, produced in some manner in the spirit world
as a counterpart of ectoplasm. By making use of it those
no longer clothed in physical expression can make them
selves visible to a clairvoyant. In fact, I have been told
that mediums on the other side of the veil are as essential
to communication as they are on this side."
"These highly technical terms, such as psychoplasm and
ectoplasm, seem more confusing than explanatory."
"Every line of endeavor develops its own nomenclature,
words framed, by those interested in it, to express phases or
parts of the subject. Psychical research is no exception to
the rule."
"I am glad you brought that up. No, spiritism and
The Society for Psychical Research are quite distinct.
"I am glad you brought that up. No. Spiritism and
The Society for Psychical Research are quite distinct."
"Many of the men and women of science and intellect
who constitute the Society, which was founded in 1882,
have not become entirely convinced of Spiritism. Their aim
has been to create an organization which would sympatheti
cally investigate various types of phenomena such as clair
voyance, materializations, thought-transference and events
that occur in connection with death. Automatic writing,
trance-speaking and other phases have appealed to these
people as worthy of honest, open-minded study. They have
sought to proceed scientifically.
"You must understand that the one aim of the psychi
cal investigator is to accumulate accurate facts on these
68
subjects. The Society has no connection with Spiritualism,
no religious affiliations. Any one may become a member,
and have the benefit of the records and reports. You and I
know that many people have a way of brushing aside the
intangible and the unseen merely because they are hard to
grasp and understand. Others are carried to extremes by
their emotions. A safe ground is the sane, practical, middle
course where patient, methodical, open-minded inquiry re
sults. When knowledge of what we call the soul, or psychic,
shall be finally opened to us, it will come through science.
The very people looked upon by many as the soul's enemies
will prove its friends."
Ned pursed his lips and pondered.
"But look here. Surely the survival of personality does
not solve the problem of life. How much better if we could
get something that would shed light on this business of liv
ing. It is appalling how we underestimate our own potent
ialities in relation to life."
His eyes came to rest upon a corner of the room veiled
in shadow, as though he half expected to find an answer to
his question there.
"Would you like to discuss the question of life, and
what it is all about, with one who claims to have a broader
vision than that vouchsafed to us?"
"Just what do you mean?"
"There is a trance medium, a Mr. Elm, of Buffalo, who
is controlled by a spirit calling himself, 'Samuel,' who claims
to have left this life over a hundred years ago. Possibly he
might enlighten you."
"And you can hear his voice?"
"Mr. Elm is a dependent voice medium. That is, he
goes into trance and while he is quite unconscious 'Samuel'
speaks, using the medium's vocal cords. The sound comes
from Elm's mouth. This to me is the least convincing type
69
of mediumship, as it is difficult to decide whether messages
come through the medium or from the medium."
"And what is the explanation for this type of medium-
ship?"
"Why not let 'Samuel' tell you all about it, himself? Let
me arrange a meeting with him for some time next week.
The idea occurred to me when you called the other evening
and expressed an interest. Meanwhile, perhaps you'd be
interested to know what started psychical research, and
how such an institution as the Spiritualist Church came into
being."
"I want all the facts I can get," smiled Huntington.
"Let's hear it."
"The early history of Spiritualist movement will help
you to make a distinction between the two groups in the
field of psychics, namely, the psychic researchers and the
spiritualists.
"In 1844, Mr. and Mrs. John C. Bell, living in a small
cottage at Hydesville, New York, were instrumental in
creating dissention and controversy within the Empire
State.
"A pedler called on the Bells; he was one of those
early editions of the house-to-house salesmen who carried
a large assortment of articles in a pack. In the course of
events this man was invited to spend the night, which was
not unusual in those times. The next day Mrs. Bell depart
ed on a three day visit, taking with her a maid-of-all work,
leaving her husband to keep house. Meantime the pedler
returned for a second night's lodging. He never was seen
again. Months passed and the cottage was vacated by the
Bells. New tenants arrived. They soon found themselves
disturbed by noises and rappings. These were attributed to
practical jokers among the neighbors or their children. The
nuisance increased and, failing to discover the perpetrators,
the new tenants vacated the premises. Again the 'For
Rent' sign was hung out.
70
"And now the Fox family consisting of John, his wife
and daughters moved into the cottage. Soon their nights
began to be disturbed by sounds of walking. Articles
were hurled about the kitchen. Raps and poundings were
heard all over the place. Efforts to discover the causes
seemed to result only in an increase of the disturbance.
Naturally the matter became the subject of discussion
among the neighbors. Many came to listen and poke around
the 'haunted house.'
"It was in 1848, —just four years after the pedler dis
appeared that Kate Fox made a startling discovery. She
found that the raps could answer questions, by means of a
simple code, one rap for no, three raps for yes, and two for
I do not know.
"In this way, with the addition of one detail at a time,
the story was unfolded. The raps were represented to be
made by one who claimed to be a spirit. He had been a
pedler who accepted hospitality beneath that roof and
Bell, his host, had murdered him for the five hundred dol
lars he carried on his person.
"Naturally, great excitement followed the discovery.
Neighbors gathered, every day, about the cottage gate to
ask questions and have them answered by the rap-
pings. Upon receiving apparently intelligent replies they
went away bewildered and incredulous while the Fox family
was subjected to all sorts of speculation and accusation.
"The rappings continued and from these it was possible
to complete the story, to the effect that the pedler's body
was buried in the cellar of the cottage together with his
rifled pack.
"Here was an opportunity to disprove the entire epi
sode and establish the absurdity of believing, even for a
moment, that the spirits of the dead could rap out on the
walls absurd tales of murder and theft. The cellar bottom
71
was promptly dug up and a few bones were found. Some
insisted they were human, others denied it.
"Both the raps and the Fox family gradually lost the
public interest. The family moved into new quarters, but
to their astonishment the raps followed them. They oc
curred, apparently, wherever the Fox girls were.
"Fifty-six years passed after the story of the pedler
and his murder was revealed through these weird rappings
on the wall, purporting to be produced by his spirit.
"In 1904 a false wall built across the cellar of this
'haunted house,' about one yard from its real east wall,
crumbled and fell. Repairs were begun, and in the space ex
posed during reconstruction, the skeleton of the pedler and
his pack was discovered.
"Naturally excitement followed. The curious, the
thoughtful, the incredulous, the inquiring, —all focused
their attention once more upon the humble cottage in
Hydesville and its strange story. Horace Greeley, editor of
the New York Tribune, and other men of outstanding repu
tation were disposed to accept the story as true. Vigorous
denials followed stormy scenes at public gatherings, abuse
by skeptics . . . ridicule. Thousands rushed to the scene
to appease a burning curiosity.
"Suddenly America gave birth to a veritable host of
so-called mediums. Kate Fox and her sister toured the
country giving demonstrations of the rappings. Kate be
gan accepting money for sittings and eventually became an
alcoholic. All manner of people took up communication be
tween the living and the departed. A horde of imposters
seized this opportunity to fatten their purses upon the pub
lic's credulity. An avalanche of fanaticism, deception and
superstition, some of which persists to this day, swept
across the country.
"The fact remains that the phenomena were apparent
ly true. Reports concerning them spread to England. The
London Dialectical Society, after prolonged experiments and
72
examinations, reported them as having actually occurred.
Howls of derision from the entire press of two continents
followed.
"Next Sir William Crookes, English physicist of out
standing reputation, began to investigate psychic phenome
na. He gave a great deal of time and energy to the study
of phenomena developed in the presence of mediums.
"A great volume of priceless information was gathered
and tabulated by this conscientious investigator, all in the
face of criticism, abuse and ridicule. The records of these
observations were burned by a member of his own family
the day after Sir William's entrance into the realm of the
beyond.
"According to Dr. Alfred R. Wallace* the phenomena
reported by Crookes actually occurred and were genuine
psychic manifestations. The public accepted the contrary
statements of the press and for the vast majority the sub
ject was thus disposed of.
"Small groups however, were formed for private study.
Larger ones embraced what they called spiritualism. Soon
the movement had assumed such dimensions that men of
science undertook to examine it seriously.
"Not being convinced of the reality of the phenomena,
but feeling that their production constituted a challenge to
all true scientists, such men as Sedgwick of Cambridge, Sir
William Barrett, Lord Tennyson, Lord Raleigh and Pro
fessor Adams set up, what might be termed, the investiga
tion group, as distinct from the Spiritualist group.
"M. Jean Meyer, a wealthy French land owner, who had
received what, to him, was satisfactory evidence of sur
vival, created by an endowment, in 1909; The International
Metaphysic Institute, founded 'for the study of dynamic
*English naturalist. His share in establishing the theory of evo
lution was acknowledged by Darwin.
and psychic powers, which seem to go beyond the sensorial
and organic field.' This endowment made possible many
illuminating investigations.
"The vast amount of material recorded in the proceed
ings of the American and English societies for psychical re
search gives tangible evidence of the work accomplished and
the advance made. Today, there are no less than one hun
dred fifty-four journals devoted to the subject. The move
ment has become widespread."
The two friends had been so engrossed in the story of
the origin of spiritualism and the consequent investigations,
which were the initial moves toward psychic research, that
they had lost all track of time. Vouchsafing a continuance
of the discussion Ned made a reluctant departure.
74
CHAPTER VIII
|
HE study of subjective phenomena is open to even
more discussion and controversy than that of the
objective type. A vast field of possible explana
tions presents itself. For this reason Burton
greeted Noel's arrival with obvious relief on the following
night.
"I'm frankly out of my depth," he grinned. "Such notes
as I have been able to gather call for deciphering by a mind
better versed in psychology than my own. Ned, here, is not
much help. I'll read them to you both ; but we look to you,
Noel, for a psychological explanation of them."
"Clairvoyance, means clear-seeing. It is necessary to
distinguish between clairvoyants and those who receive
communications or impressions from the minds of other
people without using the recognized channels of the senses.*
In the latter instance we're not concerned with how the
transfer of thought, sight, or sensory impression takes
place, because we are not sure that an actual transfer is
involved.
"For the moment let us take the 'symptom' of mind-
reading or thought-transference. The popular imagination
has grasped the word 'telepathy' and is inclined to use it to
explain all the more obscure occurrences in the field of
psychic research, very much as it has used the word un
conscious or subconscious** to explain the more unintelligi
ble events in the field of psychology.
"In clairvoyance we have two main types, —'induced,'
and what might be termed 'pure.' The 'induced' type de-
Telepathy.
"■*Definition of subconscious mind attributes would seem to endow
it with all those characteristics essential for survival.
75
pends upon an object such as a crystal to act as a
stimulus. The 'pure' clairvoyant apparently has access to
a broader field of information regarding the past and, to
some extent, the future.
"Investigators seem to have approached this field of
study, each through the channel of his or her own particu
lar hobby. They all seek to reduce the evidence gathered to
some principle or theory, one to telepathy, another to the
idea that all accumulated experiences of the race are held
in what might be termed a 'reservoir* of group experience
into which the clairvoyant is able to dip for the facts re
quired.
"That the 'pure' psychic can assist in recovering lost
property, seems to be established by records. In the 'Am
erican Journal of Psychical Research' June, 1925, for ex
ample, an article by Stanley DeBrath, 'Psycho-Cognition,'
gives excellent examples of this sort of thing. One case is
described, where a psychic was handed part of a letter writ
ten by a young woman to her fiance. The psychic knew
neither the person nor the handwriting. She said, 'This
young woman is imperious, overbearing and devoured by
pride and ambition. It would be well to distrust her gentle
and graceful manners. She constantly twists the truth and
has no scruples in accusing others to clear herself.'
"The man engaged to the lady thus described, refused
to believe a word of this. Later he made cautious
inquiries, and found that she had been divorced after shoot
ing and wounding a former husband and was at the time
engaged to two other men with a view to marrying the
richer.
"In the same article a record of recovery of lost prop
erty is also given. A lady visiting in Paris had missed a
very valuable diamond brooch. The clairvoyant was handed
one of her gloves and was asked to give information about
the matter which was troubling the owner. Said the clair
76
voyant, 'She is distracted about the loss of something —a
large jewel, shining and valuable. It is not lost, it is hidden
and will be restored. I follow this lady as she leaves her
home, in an automobile, with another person. She goes to
a town near here. She visits three houses. The jewel has
fallen near one of them. I see it picked up by a woman,
young, very stout, with light eyes and hair. The jewel has
been locked up; she thought of keeping it but is afraid —
she will restore it before the week is out. No police meas
ures should be taken. She will give it back.'
"The lady to whom the jewel belonged was notified
four days later that the jewel was in the hands of the
Mayor of Versailles; the sister of a workman had picked
it up and turned it over to him."
"That's most amazing," Huntington interrupted.
"It is similar to the work of the French psychic,
Mme. Morel," continued Burton. "There is a description of
some of her work in the 'Journal.' The gentleman work
ing with her happened to hear a Belgian refugee express
fear concerning papers and other valuables he had been
forced to hide when the Germans were advancing. The
refugee was asked to loan something of a personal nature
which could be handed to the psychic with the hope of re
ceiving some information.
"A small knot of ribbon from the inside of the refugee's
hat was handed the psychic. She said she saw him much
disturbed—saw him go down into a cellar by stone stairs.
She gave the number of steps in the stairs. She also stated
that she saw him place a packet containing valuables and
gold in a wall, where he had dug a hole, by the light of a
candle. She saw him close up the wall after placing the
packet therein. When asked about the safety of the articles
thus hidden she stated that she saw other hands searching
but she saw the original owner happy in the possession of
his valuables.
"After the armistice the refugee returned to his home.
A letter received from him later stated that the cellar had
77
most certainly been searched, but not the wall, where he
found all he had hidden."
"The facts you've given in the examples so far, Bob,
were known to one or more living persons and might easily
have been obtained by the clairvoyant through other than
the psychic channels," objected Dr. Noel.
"True, but here is one of more convincing character.
"An old man had disappeared from his French estate.
Some weeks later a scarf belonging to him was placed in
the hands of a psychic. The man Who brought it to her
knew nothing about the case, except that the estate covered
2750 acres of woodland, and the further fact that the miss
ing man was about 82 years old and stooped as he walked.
"The psychic at once described the person who brought
the scarf to her and then the daughter-in-law of the lost
man who had secured it from among his belongings, then
the owner —the lost man himself.
"Now here is the part that impressed me. The psychic
described the man as lying on the ground, dead; the
ground very damp and near the water. She described him
leaving the country home, walking down a path into the
woods, becoming ill, falling to the ground. Then she de
scribed the man, as he was lying on the ground near the
water, —his bald head, long nose, white hair about the
ears, his coat, shirt and tie. She said that he was lying on
his right side, one leg bent under him, near blocks of stone.
The blocks of stone turned out to be stumps of trees which,
covered with moss, looked like boulders."
"And did all that check up, when he was found?" queried
Ned.
"Absolutely. As I recall it, three attempts were made
before the body was discovered. So there is a case where
facts could not have been in anyone's mind."
"Nevertheless," Noel cut in, "there is plenty in that
story which still requires explanation."
78
"Granted." Burton smiled. "But there are many cases
reported by Dr. Eugene Osity, in his 'Supernormal Facul
ties of Man.' Some cases of medical diagnosis are also
given. His method of experimentation is described in the
article with such detail and exactness that you feel
nothing has been overlooked —not a possible loop-hole left."
"In the instances of clairvoyance just cited there was
no claim regarding spirit control. They are apparently
cases of psychic power. No doubt all of us possess it to
some extent, although not all of us are mediums."
"Just what is the distinction between a psychic and a
medium, Bob?" Ned asked. "You spoke of that the other
evening."
"I have an article by E. E. Dudley, in the 'American
Journal for Psychical Research.' He seems to feel there is
a marked distinction between the two."
As Burton moved toward the bookcase Ned directed a
question to Noel.
"Has modern science offered any evidence that the
force which motivates the mind cannot survive the body?"
Noel smiled.
"When we turn to psychology, the question arises as
to whether the mind and soul are dependent upon the body
or relatively distinct from it. We might hold the view,
that, although the subconscious mind may have developed
out of simpler forms of biological processes, it gradually
achieves an increasing degree of independence and is able
to react upon the body with increasing freedom and event
ually survive physical death."
Burton returned to the group.
"Let me summarize for you the main points of differ
entiation made between psychics and mediums. I have
them marked. Dudley points out first, that the current dis
cussion about spirit hypothesis would be clarified if it were
more thoroughly understood and conceded by the spiritistic
79
school that a goodly proportion of the phenomena which
pass as mediumistic are in fact the product of forces resi
dent in the subconscious minds of living men. He feels
these powers to be within the field of research, and properly
called 'psychic,' but that they have no real connection with
any future existence or any world of spirits or survival of
personality; that much of the research in this field indicates
that the powers dealt with are present in the so-called me
dium's mind. They seem to be unidentified and unformu
lated powers, and all beyond our present understanding as
to their normal character. None-the-less they are exclu
sively a part of the operator's mental equipment. He asks
the reader to assume that the energies observed are fourth
dimensional. He expresses his opinion as follows:
" 'As far as we know, no change can take place in our three
dimensional world of matter except by the addition, subtrac
tion, or transformation of energy. Withdraw the fourth
component, energy, and our three-dimensional universe, as
such, would disappear. The mind, in this sense, might be
regarded as the fifth dimension or principle element in our
psychic equation, since we find it infused into and controlling
energy in the various manifestations of objective psychic
phenomena.'
" 'Unless mental action has some effect on psychic matter,
we may be running ahead of our evidence—but it is a con
venient analogy for use in this discussion of the subject.
" 'The energy link seems to be essential to the chain through
which mind controls matters in our normal bodily activities.
The production of psychic photographs, seance room phe
nomena such as the discharge of an electroscope or movement
of a compass needle, the drop in temperature of the seance
room air, seem other examples of the responsiveness of cer
tain energies to mind control. Before this link can be ex
tended to include telepathy, the tracing of lost persons or
objects, and the knowledge of the past or the future when
facts related are unknown to any living person, extensive
study must be completed.'
"The distinction between the medium and the psychic
is made on the basis that ectoplasm, teleplasms or telekin-
etic phenomena are produced in the presence of the first
80
and not in the presence of the second. After remarking
that it is quite generally agreed that certain so-called 'sup
ernormal'* psychic powers are the possession of all people
but in varying degrees of development, he points out the
fact that the psychic's contacts produce reactions which
vary from vague intuitions, or feelings, such as dislike un
accompanied by any obvious reasons, to the ability to see
and describe the past life of an individual as clearly as we
see the episodes in a moving picture play. Such psychics
can often contact our memories of the dead, or absent
friend, and describe them in such detail as to suggest the
actual presence of that person. The range of their ability
may dip into the entire universe of facts.
"Dudley defines a psychometric clairvoyant as one who
uses a physical link of some sort in contacting the person
about whom information is sought.** A telepathic clair
voyant is one who makes a similar contact by some non-
physical link; one who relies upon fears, desires and other
emotional reactions present in the sitters' minds.*** The
idea received is often translated into a visual hallucination.
A case is cited to bear out this contention. He describes
a woman who claimed to have Shakespeare as a guide and a
teacher.
"The wish to have her imaginary guide a reality was so
strong that when she went to one of these psychics he saw
Shakespeare and described the thoughts she had regarding
his position in her life. This is a mistake a telepathic
clairvoyant might easily make; but never the genuine
direct-voice medium who has nothing to do with the voice
or messages which occur in his or her presence.
The word supernormal seems to have caused much confusion.
The future study of this subject will prove that the advanced phases
of psychics are normal, though not yet understood.
**Cards, notes, articles, belonging to or having been handled by
a person act as stimuli.
***About 90% of the so-called messages seem to deal directly
with these emotional states.
81
"Then follows a description of what is termed a 'para
noid personality.' One who is neither medium nor psychic,
but who, apparently, creates such strong mental pictures of
the spirit 'controls' —as a rule historic figures—that when
in the presence of certain sensitives, they see and describe
these spirits as though they were actually present. Some
times they receive messages from them. In a case Dudley
studded personally for five years, the 'medium' had sur
rounded herself with a group of guides such as Abraham
Lincoln, Joan of Arc and many other notables of history.
She organized a developing circle for 'mediums' which
seems to have turned out a number of persons who saw and
heard spirits. These spirits gave lengthy discourses on all
manner of topics. It is significant, however, that the knowl
edge they imparted never exceeded that of the so-called
medium.
"Dudley does not accuse these people of deliberate fraud.
He suggests that they are victims of a system that exalts
the possession of a vivid imagination into the class of 'gifts'
from the spirit. All forms of physical mediumship are
looked down upon by them as unspiritual. This seems to
be the attitude of their imaginary 'controls' who show the
utmost contempt for the 'earthly' or 'low' type of spirit that
descends to physical means of functioning. Here is the way
this development is described by the author:
" 'These psychics have made themselves sensitive to im
pressions and thoughts of others and can contact the sitters'
memory and circumstances of their youth, revive and de
scribe in beautiful language half-remembered thoughts and
long cherished opinions; give the names of, and describe
absent friends with the same degree of accuracy with which
they are defined and represented in the mind and memory of
the sitters'."
"That might explain the experiences of several friends
of mine who have complained that messages received
through alleged mediums were disappointing and often in
accurate," remarked Noel.
82
"It certainly explains many of the cases of 'advertising
psychics.' They become mediums when they discover how
easily a small amount of real ability can be mixed with a
large amount of padding, and the whole passed off as spirit
ual messages."
"I have known that type to probe for facts while they
covered up by repeatedly asking if I understood," said Noel
with a frown. "They are the people who effectually halted
my budding interest in this whole subject."
"I quite understand your reaction," replied Burton. "At
first you are inclined to be amused, but when you realize the
damage this sort of person is doing you are properly out
raged."
"These mental mediums," put in Dr. Noel, "are appar
ently long on piety and short on science."
"In Dudley's opinion this type of pseudo medium has
multiplied rapidly and has gained the advantage in numbers
over the genuine. They have managed to convince their
followers that physical mediumship* is coarse, vulgar and
degrading compared with mental mediumship which refuses
to meet the rigid tests applied to genuine mediums. Such
tests they feel are 'blasphemy.' Their admiring and cred
ulous friends feel the same way. As a result we have, in this
country alone, thousands of persons calling themselves 'me
diums' who are deliberately fraudulent, and thousands more
who are unsuspecting victims of their own imagination.
These, of course, refuse to be tested nor will they cooperate
in any scientific investigation. Incidentally, since many of
the early mediums had Indian 'controls' nearly all these
psychics claim to have them."
Dr. Noel laughed.
"Why the merriment?" asked Huntington.
* Produces physical phenomena —ectoplasm.
83
"I went to a psychic once whose Indian 'control' must
have been born within sight of the Thames, for he was cer
tainly reckless in the use of his 'aitches'."
"Exactly, or you may find that the pretended Indian
knows nothing about his racial customs or history," added
Burton.
"How does the 'medium' get around that?" queried Ned.
"Well, those who will consent to make an explanation
always have an alibi. Usually they claim the 'control' is an
infant who had no knowledge of earth language, or that it
is an ancient who died long ago. It is quite hopeless to
check up on them.
"It is pointed out that all this class of 'controls' seem to
develop a surprising command of the medium's language,
and are strictly limited to his or her vocabulary and general
knowledge.
"There," said Burton, handing the 'Journal' to Dr. Noel,
"is the entire article. It should be read by every intelligent
person who is interested in the subject of psychic research."
"I am convinced that one thing should always be born
in mind." remarked Noel. "Mediumistic and psychic pow
ers cannot be studied apart from the principles of psy
chology."
"Bob told me a story of taking the picture of a spirit in
Boston. I should like to hear more about psychic pho
tography." Ned was obviously intrigued.
"Mr. Elm will be here tomorrow night and, if you two
will come early, I will give you what information I have
on psychic photographs, before his arrival," Burton prom
ised.
84
CHAPTER IX
T was the evening the Buffalo medium was due at
the Burtons.
Huntington and Dr. Noel had arrived early so
that they could explore Burton's material on
psychic photographs.
"There is very little on this subject that seems to have
the proper background," lamented Burton, "but here are
such descriptions as I have gathered, plus the experience of
some people known to me personally.
"To my mind a psychic photograph, made under absolute
test conditions, would go a long way in proving survival,"
ventured Dr. Noel.
"It would seem so," replied Burton. "Yet the only work
I know of that even approaches the requirements you men
tion is carried on in Crewe, England. Dr. and Mrs. Cran-
don were there and returned with pictures showing several
'extras' who were identified."
"Have any other people met with like success ?"
"I know a Mr. Whitney and his wife who sat at the home
of Mrs. Buxton in Crewe. A Mr. Hope, Mrs. Buxton, the
medium, and my friends sat around a small table. The visi
tors had purchased a package containing six photographic
plates and this was placed on the table. Music was
played for a short time. Mrs. Buxton took the package
of plates between her hands, then Mr. Hope placed one
hand on top of hers, above the package, and the other
under her hand which was below the package. Mr. Whitney
and his wife did likewise. Thus there were four right
hands above the package and four left hands below it. My
friends were instructed to think of the departed, whose
image they were anxious to get.
85
"Mr. Whitney now took charge of the package of plates
and accompanied Mr. Hope to the dark room. There, under
red light, the package was opened. Mr. Whitney signed
three of the six plates and they were placed in plate holders.
The remaining three plates were wrapped in the original
package and retained by him. The plate holders were also
in the possession of my friend and taken by him from the
dark room to the studio. A holder was inserted in the cam
era, Mr. Hope, holding one hand on the camera, took one of
Mrs. Buxton's hands with his other hand. An exposure of
ten seconds was made with each plate. My friend carried
them back to the dark room. On the second plate developed
was an 'extra' head. This was positively identified by scores
of friends as the father of Mrs. Whitney. The other two
plates had smoky effects but no clear cut 'extras.'
"Should the theory prove correct, that lead glass will
not allow the impression on the plate of matter having the
same vibratory speed as ultra-violet, then such extras as
were obtained must have been impressed upon the plate
while held between the medium's hands and the only object
served by exposing the plate was to impose the impression
of the Whitneys," concluded Burton.
"When you say 'extra' you mean a spirit face?" inquired
Huntington.
"Exactly—but in some cases it is a whole figure; in
others, a head is enclosed by a mass of ectoplasm, which
forms a hood-like effect around the 'extra' head, or part of
it, as the case may be.
" 'A spirit photographer' by the name of Moss who was
exposed at Birmingham, England, had apparently made a
practice of copying pictures of persons from old news
papers and magazines. Yet, about one out of every three
seems to have been recognized by the various sitters as de
ceased relatives. The desire to believe, on the part of cer
tain types of people whose emotions completely smother
such reason as they might employ, allows the fake mediums
86
to thrive. They have been the curse of psychical research
and a tremendous hindrance to the proper study of real
phenomena.
"Psychic photographs of a different nature have been
obtained by Dr. Hamilton of Winnipeg in studying a group
in that city. His method is quite distinct from that em
ployed at Crewe. Eight 5x7 cameras and two sterescopic
cameras are focused upon the medium. These are equipped
with various lenses: one Seneca portrait, three rapid recti
linear, one wide-angle, one Doppel, two quartz, one Wollen-
sack stereo, and one stereo Goerz.
"After eight years work, in 1928, a new guide appeared
upon the scene, apparently with the consent of those already
working with the circle. The new control requested that a
bell-box, similar to that used in the Margery group, be con
structed. Using this as a means of giving signals, he then
arranged for the pictures, saying that when he rang the
bell they were to take a flashlight of the medium. The
plates showed ectoplasmic masses formed around the me
dium's eyes and mouth. In the center of these masses,
there were as many as five small miniature heads, generally
full face. All of these were identified.
"Such results remove the possibility of the impression
being made upon the plate while held between the hands
of the medium. The plates were handled only in placing
them in holders and removing them. This case seems to be
a recording through the lenses of the cameras only. It in
volves ectoplasmic production, however, and that is a tangi
ble substance."
At this point Burton saw fit to assert, "There are certain
people who seem to feel that the phenomena produced in
the seance room cannot be duplicated by normal means.
Yet, nearly all of them can be simulated, though not under
the same conditions."
"Just what do you mean by that," asked Ned.
87
"The making of 'psychic gloves,' for example, has been
duplicated under normal conditions by R. J. Tillyard, an ex
perienced and competent psychic investigator. In a paper
read at the National Laboratory, November 22, 1927, he
says :
'It is impossible for all supporters of the hypothesis that all
psychic phenomena are produced by fraud, to prove the cate
gorical negative which they are always asserting, namely,
that the production of supernormal phenomena is an impossi
bility. If a normal method of producing a given phenomena
can be shown to exist, then other things being equal, this ex
planation must be accepted in preference to a supernormal
one. The supernormal mode of production can only be given
credence in so far as the conditions of the experiment pre
clude the production of the particular phenomena by normal
means.'
"He also pointed out that it is equally foolish for believ
ers in supernormal production to claim that a given phe
nomena cannot be produced by normal means. He then
gave directions for producing 'psychic gloves'."
"What in the world do you mean by 'psychic gloves' ?"
"Several cases are on record, where, by using the ecto
plasm given off by the medium, the disembodied have pro
duced materialized hands. These they dipped in melted
wax, and then by dematerializing the hands they were able
to remove them from the wax. Some of these 'gloves' have
been rather remarkable, especially where two hands, with
the fingers interlocked, have been produced.
"Tillyard showed that by placing a tourniquet about the
wrist and slowing the return flow of blood from the hand,
the hand would become swollen. Then by covering the
swollen hand with glycerine and dipping it in wax a glove
coating would form over the hand. Removing the tourni
quet —allowing the hand to return to normal size by holding
it high over the head—it would be withdrawn leaving a per
fect mould. The wrist opening was large, but could be
closed before the wax had entirely hardened."
88
"Have they ever used rubber gloves to make these wax
casts?"
"Yes, but the absence of thumb prints and other mark
ings would not fail to be noted by an investigator. Casts
made by the medium's own hand would in all probability
leave some of the hairs from his hand in the cast, and hu
man hairs would be hard to explain. It was the production
of a cast by 'Walter,' Margery's control, that started the
Crandons on the thumb print experiments.
"Another startling type of psychic manifestation de
scribed by a number of investigators is what has been term
ed 'apports.' The mechanism back of their production
seems to be an ability on the part of certain 'controls' to
dematerialize matter, and in the dematerialized state to
pass it through other matter, such as walls, ceilings or
floors and then rematerialize it after the passing-through
process.
"What in the world are you talking about?" demanded
Ned with a laugh.
"It does savor of black magic." Burton smiled. "I can't
blame you for scoffing. It does sound wholly incredible,
but I can assure you that this particular phenomena
is vouched for by many dependable investigators. A
typical 'apport' is the appearance, in a room where you
know there were no flowers, of a flowering plant with the
fresh dirt clinging to the roots. This has been done where
there was no possible means of ingress."
Huntington made a gesture of despair. "It's too deep
for me."
"Do all mediums do this sort of thing?" asked Dr. Noel.
"Apparently not, for I can only find a few reported.
Herr Melzer of Dresden, has a reputation along this line.
Whereas, most 'apport' mediums sit in the dark, he sits
in white or red light and produces many kinds of flowers;
lilies-of-the-valley, roses, violets, which seem to come out of
89
the air. Here is a description given by a reporter for the
London Daily News, October 23, 1926 :
'There is no warning of their coming, except the increasing
excitement of the medium. The object often appears com
ing toward the medium.
The light from a number of shaded electric lamps was strong
enough to permit small type to be read easily—and every
movement of both sitters and medium could be observed.
Suddenly, after jumping violently in his chair, the medium
stooped and lifted a bunch of lilies-of-the-valley complete
with roots and earth in his hand. The medium made no
objection to any precautions taken.'
"In the famous circle at Genoa, Mme. Rossi,* who ap
pears to add greatly to that circle's work, is normal and con
scious during the advent of the 'apports,' but feels great
alarm. Her arms and body are shaken by convulsive vibra
tions. The larger the object the more marked the symp
toms.
"There is a case, reported in psychic history, of a me
dium who was transported several city blocks. Disappearing
from a room while in conversation with a woman friend, she
is reported to have appeared very suddenly in the center of
a group sitting a mile or more away. There is also a recent
report from the Genoa group describing the removal of the
medium from the seance room to a small grain room in the
stable, three locked doors and the space from house to
stable intervening.
"All researchers seem to sidestep reporting the fact of
an 'apport.' To me, it seems only part and parcel of the
wonderful things they do report. 'Apports' have occurred
in the Crandon group repeatedly. In fact, it was my privi
lege to see an ancient and unusual piece of jewelry, an 'ap
port,' which was presented by 'Walter' to a relative. The
entire history of psychic research contains descriptions of
such happenings.
*Member of Marquis Carlo Scotto's group.
90
"It may be difficult for the coming generation to under
stand and explain the passage of matter through matter
but that apparently must be one of their problems, for this
generation is gathering many such facts that call for ex
planation."
"What is the general theory as to the means of trans
porting a solid through another substance of like charac
teristics ?" inquired Ned.
"The theory is that 'solid' is a more or less relative term.
You know that this table, the chairs upon which we are
sitting and these walls which enclose us are made up of
myriads of atoms separated by what we have termed, ether.
Now, ether can pass through spaces occupied by itself. In
other words, theoretically, if we were able to see these walls
through a sufficiently powerful microscope, they would ap
pear as mist or like banks of fog, through which it would
be easy to pass a substance in gaseous form. Once through
the wall it can be returned to its natural state."
"Levitations are wonderful enough. I shall be some
time digesting that idea by itself," Noel remarked.
"Have you ever tried the old trick of lifting a person
while holding your breath ?" inquired Bob. "Carrington re
ports trying this out by placing a man in a chair upon the
platform of a Toledo Scale. The four persons who were to
do the lifting also stood upon the scale platform. A man
who acted as recorder of weights watched the scale lever
during the experiment. The combined weight of the group
read 712 pounds. The four doing the lifting bent over in
unison, letting out their breath, then straightened up in uni
son, taking a deep breath while so doing. On the fifth ris
ing they placed their fingers under the edge of the chair
and lifted the man as he sat in the chair. Old stuff; but
the first time I ever heard of it tried on a scale. The re
corder watching the lever arm reported a loss of weight
of 52 pounds for the group during the first lift.
91
"In a test made with the medium Palladino, in 1892,
she was placed upon a scale and under control showed a loss
of 17 pounds, followed by a return to normal weight of 128
pounds. It is said that she had the ability to increase or
decrease the weight of an object by holding her hand over
it and willing the result desired. These effects carried to a
greater extreme might result in levitation.
"Reviewing the records of such mediumships as Palla
dino, Holmes and Stainton Moses we find instances where
mediums were levitated while under the rigid control of
investigators."
"Church hsitory has records of the levitation of Saints,
such as St. Joseph and St. Teresa, has it not?" queried
Noel.
Bob nodded and continued, "The cause of the levitation
of a person would be an opposing force to that of gravity
or the building of a screen of isolation between the person
and the earth.
"There is an Oriental theory that the levitation of one's
body can be accomplished by proper breathing. These
breathing exercises are supposed to increase the flow
through the body of what is termed 'prana' which neutral
izes the pull of gravity."
Burton paused and Ned remarked, " 'Apports,' levita-
tions and all the rest seem quite trivial, of themselves, —
even foolish. Yet they may be part of the great unexplain
ed forces of life."
Dr. Noel smiled as he rejoined, "They might explain
certain descriptions given in the Bible."
Burton nodded. "You will find a vast amount of new
interest in that book if you read it with the findings of psy
chical research in mind." They were interrupted by the
door bell, and a moment later Burton returned.
"I thought that was the medium but it was not. How
ever, it might be well for me to tell you something about
his type of mediumship and the man himself."
92
"About twelve years ago, as I understand it, Elm, who is
a glove-cutter by trade, joined a spiritualistic developing
class in Buffalo. He knew nothing about the work and was
curious regarding its possibilities. On several occasions he
became unconscious while in the group and, upon regaining
consciousness, was told that he had been in trance and that
during these periods of unconsciousness, invisible people
had apparently taken possession of his body and conversed
with the group. After some time he developed the ability
to take on the condition of trance at his own pleasure.
"There is little more to tell except that 'Samuel,' the me
dium's control, is a self-styled teacher whose specialty
seems to be what he terms 'natural philosophy.' Exactly
what branch of philosophy is natural, you will be able to
determine for yourself this evening."
"What do you know of this 'Samuel' person ? What did
he do while on earth? In what way is he fitted to be a
teacher?" asked Ned with a puzzled expression.
"He claims to have been a Virginian planter, the owner
of slaves, and somewhat of a student. I doubt if it was his
knowledge which fitted him for teaching. As I understand
it,
anyone who
is
willing to allow the more advanced spirits
to transmit their wisdom through him, has the necessary
requirements of
a
teacher such as 'Samuel'."
"Do you know any method by which the dependent voice
medium may be checked, so as to prove his genuineness?"
Noel asked.
"Generally," said Burton frankly, "there
is
no way, but
I
feel fairly certain that the Elm mediumship
is
genuine.
Last year
it
was my privilege to hear 'Walter' Mrs. Cran-
don's control, and 'Samuel' this man's control working in
the same room at the same time.
"Not one of the thousands of the people who have
investigated the 'Margery' mediumship have yet been able
to disprove the genuineness of 'Walter.' 'Walter,' by work
ing with 'Samuel' and conversing with him in my presence,
93
—to all intents and purposes accepts him as genuine —
so I also accept him. You will be able to form your own
judgment, largely upon the knowledge displayed by 'Sam
uel,' and decide whether it would, or would not, be
reasonable to assume that Elm could give the replies and
enter into the type of philosophical discussion that purports
to emanate from the intelligence of 'Samuel' while using
Elm's body."
Burton departed at this point to answer a second sum
mons of the door bell and returned accompanied by a short
stout man of about thirty, whose clothes and general ap
pearance suggested a humble background. Huntington
noted, as he was introduced to Elm, that the man's hands
were calloused as though from hard work. His embarrass
ment was noticeable. He seemed ill at ease during the greet
ings.
Breaking what promised to be an embarrassing situation
for Elm, Burton suggested that they start the seance at
once as Mr. Elm was forced to rise at an early hour on the
morrow. The medium was seated in a comfortable chair
placed in the center of the room and the others sat in a
half circle facing him.
The lights were lowered and a moment of silence follow
ed.
"Is it dark enough?" Ned asked. "It was my impression
that mediums always worked in the dark, I can see all of
you quite distinctly. In fact, now that my eyes are becom
ing accustomed to the light, I can see everything in the
room."
"It is not necessary for Mr. Elm to be in even this
degree of darkness, for his work does not involve the pro
duction of ectoplasm. If you wish it, you may turn on the
lights —but trance will come more quickly with subdued
light and he will have no disagreeable feelings upon emerg
ing."
94
"I see. Then it is only in seances where ectoplasm is
produced that darkness is really essential?"
"Ectoplasm is dissipated by white light. With strong
mediums it can be produced and studied by red light. Mrs.
Crandon has developed to the point where certain phenome
na that involve the use of ectoplasm can be observed in
short periods of white light. For instance, balances with
one of the pans weighted have been made to balance in white
light. The bell-box has been rung in white light. Pictures
taken by flashlight of the hands, rods, and other structures
built by 'Walter Stinson' from the ectoplasm of Mrs. Cran
don also require a flash of tense, white light. As a rule,
only one picture can be taken in an evening, due to the loss
of ectoplasm following the flash."
While this discussion was in progress, Noel, who was
watching the medium, observed that his eyes were closed,
and that he appeared to be trembling slightly. Then with a
deep sigh his head rested against the back of the chair for
a moment. His body leaned forward slowly. Then sitting
bolt upright in his chair he clasped his hands before him.
The doctor was surprised to notice that the face of the me
dium seemed longer and the expression softer. At least,
Noel felt certain afterwards that the appearance of the face
he had been watching had undergone a marked change.
95
CHAPTER X
jOOD evening, my friends."
Noel started. The voice was a deep, strong
bass of unusual timber. Could the vocal cords of
this small man produce this quality of sound ? It
did not seem possible and yet it was, apparently, Elm who
was speaking. His lips moved, and his throat worked—not
loosely as though he were unconscious, but naturally with
no attempt to conceal their movement.
Burton answered the voice.
"Good evening, Samuel."
Dr. Noel seemed not to have heard. He spoke abruptly,
voicing more of a challenge than a question.
"Is that man conscious ?"
He half expected Burton to answer ; but it was the same
deep bass which replied. "No, he is as one asleep, and will
recall nothing which transpires during the trance period."
"If that is the case, how is it possible for two separate
entities to occupy the same physical body at the same
time?" The doctor's voice was still professional and chal
lenging.
"It is not possible," replied the voice. "The astral body
of the medium leaves his physical body slowly, in a way that
permits my own to occupy it. At this moment my astral
body completely fills his physical one. I take possession of
his mind and control the voluntary nerves and muscles."
"Is that all you control ?" snapped Noel.
"Yes," responded the voice softly.
Huntington found the voice most intriguing. It gave an
impression of graoiousness which suggested culture, and be
96
spoke a controlling personality entirely separate from that
of the medium.
"What keeps the man alive?" asked Noel suddenly, in
the tone of one who has won a victory. "The involuntary
nerves and muscles as well as the voluntary must be control
led, or heart and lungs cease functioning."
Burton stirred uneasily. His friend's abruptness was
most disconcerting; but the voice was speaking again, ap
parently not the least disturbed by the doctor's attitude.
"On the contrary, Elm's superconscious —you call it the
subconscious, while we over here know it to be the essence
of consciousness —is at all times in direct control of his
body's involuntary nerves and muscles. Only in the event
of death would he cease to control them. Is that clear?"
"Not entirely," said the doctor quickly. "By what
means does what you term the superconscious of the me
dium maintain control when separated from his body?"
"It is by an invisible cord or stream of energy, that the
control is maintained," was the response.
Huntington had been listening intently to this conversa
tion, and in the pause which followed Samuel's answer,
he addressed the voice. "I wish you would explain just
why you term the subconscious, superconscious."
"Your knowledge of the use and function of the not-yet-
understood portions of your brain which has been gained
through the use of its conscious portion, causes you to feel
that you have discovered something below the level of con
sciousness. It is really above the present reach of your
consciousness and constitutes your means of contact with
the great forces of the universe."
Burton, feeling that the conversation was verging on
rather deep water for his neophyte friends, changed the
subject with the question:
"What is it that makes a table tip when a group sit with
their hands placed on it ?"
97
"In a great many cases it is the involuntary muscular
movement of the group," replied the voice, "but not in all
cases. Flowing from all mankind is a force. This force is
energy which can be concentrated when a number of people
contact, and center their attention upon, a single object.
The energy is used by invisible operators, and table tipping
like many other psychic manifestations is accomplished in
this manner."
"Would the same method apply to automatic writing?"
Burton continued.
"Yes, but there are several phases of automatic writing.
In one, the invisible operator controls the hand of the per
son doing the writing without entrancing him. In another
phase the hand and arm of the writer are entranced. In
the latter type there is always coldness of the hand and arm.
This sensation is subjective in some cases, objective in
others. Then you have the type of writing executed by a
medium in deep trance." The voice paused.
"How about slate writing?" pursued Ned.
"Slate writing is very easy to fake. The handwriting
should be the basis on which to form judgment as to its
genuiness."
This reply seemed to have a great effect upon the doctor
for he burst forth the moment the voice ceased.
"What are you expecting us to believe?" he demanded.
"These minds of ours can mislead us completely and the
very things you are stating as facts are the so-called phe
nomena which tend to mislead many of us."
There was a silence following this outbreak on the doc
tor's part.
Then the voice responded.
"You men of science are positive regarding what you
term knowledge. Is it not possible that there are two sides
to every subject? Having very little understanding regard
ing the higher things of life, in many instances not believing
98
there are any such things, it is natural to feel that your
conclusions are all that could be hoped for. As a matter of
fact, most scientific inventions result from the application
of fairly simple principles to a given set of phenomena.
Take for example, the radio, the telephone or the telegraph ;
how few users really understand their operation and how
simple it would be to deceive people about them."
The doctor interrupted quickly. "But that is different,
these inventions are practical, therefor they are accepted
and commonly used. In fact, each of them fills at least one
of civilization's long felt needs. While your—"
"Quite right," interrupted the voice smoothly, "but your
histories tell you that not one of those inventions were re
ceived wholeheartedly and without ridicule."
"Can communications of a psychic nature be construc
tive?" demanded the doctor.
"Man goes on after death, advancing according to his
ability, which depends entirely upon what he has derived
from earth's experiences. As morals are much a matter of
geography, varying with different races, it will be through
communicating with the planes beyond that man will learn
how best to prepare for the life beyond."
"Does your plane of life govern ours?" inquired the doc
tor.
"In-so-far as the next plane of development must govern
the preceding one in life's evolutionary scheme, but there is
no interference or domination," answered 'Samuel.'
The doctor pondered this answer in silence.
In the meantime Ned asked: "How about age on your
plane of expression?"
"We have no consciousness of lapse of time, so there is
no aging. The very old, upon arriving here, are rejuvenat
ed to, what you would term, their prime. The young ad
vance to the same condition," responded the voice.
99
"One minute!" exclaimed Noel. "To imagine the develop
ed person returning to the condition of greatest efficiency
is not so difficult. On the other hand, small children, with
practically no experience, forced to fight it out in a similar
stage of development, seems unfair."
"Pardon me for giving the impression that the process is
a rapid one, for it is not. The small children are placed
under the guidance of a developed person, as a rule one who
has been denied children while on earth. Thus, does the
law of compensation work," returned the voice.
"How is your time taken up, when you are not talking-
through this man?" inquired Huntington.
"Much as yours is on earth. We have our regular
periods for work and rest. They come in logical order as
required." the voice responded. "My particular work is
teaching."
Huntington seemed to wish to carry this discussion fur
ther.
"You say, 'Samuel,' that your work is teaching? As you
can use this medium only a short time each day, it would
seem that you must have a great deal of spare time on
your hands. Is this the case?"
"When I am not teaching I spend a great deal of time at
centers of learning on higher planes, for it is only by
seeking constantly that one may hope to attain even a small
amount of wisdom. It is impossible to explain the details
of our fourth dimensional plane. Such attempts result as
a rule in misunderstanding. Therefore, I would not attempt
a description of our existence, but I will say that it is much
like yours."
The doctor asked the next question.
"When you died what were your sensations?"
The voice began, "My passing was in part voluntary.
Because of mental anguish I wished to die. It is cowardly
and wrong to feel the way I did, for he who indulges in self
100
pity is running away from life. There is no escape. The
situations which we have to face are necessary for our
development, and must ultimately be faced and adjustments
made before we can progress. I gave up and took to my
bed. The wish to die prevailed slowly. A feeling of numb
ness beginning in the lower extremities spread over my en
tire body. A marked prickling sensation was present at the
top of my head. The life force was leaving my body at that
point. I recall having a detached feeling just prior to losing
consciousness.
"I have no way of knowing how long afterward I awoke
to find myself alive. Seeing many friends around me whom
I knew had died, the realization came that I too had passed
through the experience called death. The valley of the
shadow was behind me. But understand this; I had even
harder situations to face and work out here than those I
had run away from.
"There is a law that none may remain idle for any
length of time. A space was allowed in which necessary
adjustments were made, then the urge within me which had
been unable to find full expression during my earth life, ex
pressed itself. Gravitation to that type of endeavor for
which I was most fitted followed naturally. Does that
answer your question?"
"Yes, in a way." It was plain that what the doctor had
wished for was a more complete description of the physical
sensations. He continued with a smile.
"How about judgment for your sins?"
"Having expected oblivion," continued the voice, "my
first great shock was to find myself living. The next, was
the fact that it was an acute consciousness of right and
wrong within myself which was acting as my judge, and I
reviewed my whole life in my new consciousness. It would
be far easier to be purified by fire than to be forced to face
the demands of this awakened consciousness. No one can
escape its action. Regardless of a person's religious beliefs,
101
or the lack of them, he cannot escape facing and working
out the basic truths."
"Then we are to take it that those who have not accept
ed the Christian religion are also saved?" pursued the doc
tor.
"The act of being born very largely settles the matter
of one's religion. As the parent's, so the child's. Very little
real thought is given the matter. The followers of Moses,
Mahomet, Confucius, Buddha, Zoroaster, Christ and the
countless prophets who preceded them in the evolution of
the races, all have the same picture in a different setting.
Trouble not yourself regarding them. Use the best light
they offer toward living up to the highest that is in you."
The voice answered.
The doctor seemed to be enjoying the turn the conver
sation had taken and persisted.
"The prayers of the Christian and the heathen are of
like value then?"
"It is the desire prompting the prayer which brings help
or makes it impossible for it to be given. The prayer of
both Christian and heathen is to the highest they are capa
ble of conceiving and equally subject to the law," replied
the voice.
"What do you mean by the law ?" inquired Ned.
"Your thoughts are things, actual, tangible. The sel
fish ones turn back upon the sender. The unselfish ones
make contact with the great fount of everlasting love,
bringing soul relief and help to the sender. That is the
law." The voice ceased.
"What is your existence like?" asked Noel. "This is my
first opportunity to ask a dead man what it seems like to
be dead," he laughingly commented.
"I am always amused when people upon the earth plane
refer to those who have gone on as dead. You are the dead
ones, as some day you will realize.
102
"The life here parallels yours to such an extent that it
is quite difficult to persuade some that the veil has been
passed. It is hard for you to grasp the fact that we have
houses, centers of learning, gardens and so forth. Our
bodies are similar to yours, made up of tangible material
differing in vibratory speed from those you inhabit. The
impossibility of describing our existence to you is due to
your inability to grasp our fourth dimensional existence.
You are unable to translate a description of it into three
dimensional understanding. This accounts for the confu
sion resulting from attempted discourse on the subject.
The result is an entirely erroneous impression, as I have
already told your friend." The voice paused.
Ned, who had been thoughtful during this speech, now
sat up in his chair and addressed the unconscious medium.
"What, if anything, can we on earth do to help those of
our loved ones who have gone on?" he inquired.
The voice was deeper when it gave answer to his ques
tion, the words came more slowly and distinctly, like the
strokes of a deep toned bell.
"Stop grieving! Overcome your sorrow,—it is largely
self-pity. Be thankful that those who have gone on are
alive. They are released from all physical pain and suffer
ing. Be patient—you will meet them again.
"Can our grief effect them?" continued Huntington.
"It causes them grief and tends to retard their progress.
The strength given by constructive thoughts and prayers
is helpful. When you allow grief to destroy your ability to
help, you really impair their ability to advance," answered
the voice.
"That is a new point of view and seems at variance with
prevailing custom," Noel remarked.
"And," added the doctor, "prevailing custom is a dan
gerous wind mill to tilt against."
103
"Very," responded the voice. "But time changes every
thing. As the truth of survival is more generally accepted,
and the conditions of the after life more fully understood,
the present customs regarding the socalled dead will like
wise change."
A period of silence followed this last statement. Each
seemed occupied with his own thoughts.
"If there is nothing more I shall bid you good-night,"
stated the voice.
The medium stirred, sighed deeply, and in about two
minutes his own, rather high pitched voice asked, "Well,
here we are. How did it go?" . . . .
It was Burton who opened the discussion after Elm de
parted. "Now you are familiar with one distinct type of
communication."
"What does he charge for his seances?" inquired Dr.
Noel.
"Carfare from Buffalo," replied Burton, "and not even
that if he feels that he can be of help to those who need it.
However, I always pay him for the time and trouble involv
ed, as it seems only fair."
Noel took out his pipe and filled it thoughtfully. "Chris
tianity with its teachings that the oppressed shall be exalted
and that the unhappy shall experience eternal bliss, seems
to offer to the average man the kind of food his starved
spirit needs. How would you say the teachings of Christi
anity fit in with the things we have heard tonight?" He
paused for an instant before adding regretfully, "Wish I
had asked him."
"I've thought of questions I would like to have answered,
also," said Ned, who continued, "If the spirit of truth is
the kernel of religion, then men of science are truly religious
beings. They are convinced, as a rule, that immortality is
material. Believing so, they work for the benefit of the
world and humanity now and here. The one thing that men
104
of science insist upon is that their work must carry the
stamp of verifiable truth. They will not accept the validity
of creeds, which are the products of our human fancy,
wandering about, more or less unhampered by fact.
They seem inclined sometimes to be disagreeably smug in
the self-appointed role of judge. I wonder —Science feels it
knows so much . . but does it ?"
"In that connection, have you ever read any of the
things given by a Mrs. Curran purporting to come from one
'Patience Worth'?"
"Who is she?" queried Ned.
"Mrs. Curran, now Mrs. H. Rogers, is a resident of St.
Louis. Her control is 'Patience Worth.' The outstanding
feature of their work together is an extraordinary ability
to write poetry, medieval English, and Philosophy. Mrs.
Curran started in this work when she was urged by a friend
to use a ouija board. She acquired a marvelous power, and
during the following twelve months she developed a con
trol who called herself 'Patience Worth.' Since that time
'Patience' has written, through Mrs. Curran, 'The Sorry
Tale,'* a story of Christ, which is considered by many stu
dents to be the most remarkable account of His life.
"It is said that a sitter, with a philosophical turn of
mind, once said to 'Patience': 'Modern science holds that
death destroys man, body and soul, and the psychologists
claim that you are nothing but the action of Mrs. Curran's
subconscious mind. What have you to say of man's destiny,
and what about your connection with Mrs. Curran ?'
"
"To which 'Patience' is reported to have answered:
'Man's words may not destroy—they be but strutting little
egots which disport themselves in obeisance before their
lord and creator. Man, measuring His length and breadth.
Man may tear into tatters even the commonest way rose,
he may pluck it petal by petal, thorn by thorn, leaf by leaf,
*Published— 1917.
105
and crush its stem. What then will he do with the perfume
'pon his finger tips ? In its crushed atoms the way rose is
still complete in its being. Man's argument, the cunning
of his hand, hath done what? He is confronted with mat
ters haunted with spirit, and hath found himself like unto
an ass at the end of his tether. Who be these princelings
that play no faith with the King? Who be these lordlings
who would espouse wisdom and bring forth the brat o'
doubt. Egad, no one may learn while his doubt brat
wailes'?"
"As to her relation to Mrs. Curran, her medium, she is
said to have written : 'Who be he who said that I be a dis
torted whit o' the folly's imagination? Who be he that
can present a greater man, as a child of his imagination,
than he himself be ? His be a sma', sma' voice who sayeth
'No' nimbly. Let him lay hands on me and her, and days
to come shall write his name FOOL, for he is not for the
ages. His quill will be short, and I, sirrah, will be a long
quill dipped in old wisdom. I sing not but that the songs
be. As well give babes tomes, skulls, wines, swords, sacra
ments with which to play, as present me as a part of mine
harp,* for behold I am separate —strumming —and she, the
babe, and wonder-eyed, playing with old wisdom.'
"One of the remarkable verses given by 'Patience Worth'
called 'The Potter and The Wheel' was published in 1927.
The general consensus of opinion seems to be that such
works would be hard to imitate and would be difficult to
charge to the subconscious mind of the medium.
"Let me read you 'Patience Worth's creed." Burton
reached for his scrap book. "It has always appealed to me:"
What in this great and gaudy day
Is left undone,
What ministration,
What understanding, what lending.
""Patience' refers to Mrs. Curran as her harp and says, 'I will
use my liarp 'til she be breaken and mute.'
10G
What in this great and gaudy day
Is left undone —this would I do
This ministration
Oh, I would take unto my heart
Such who suffer
Such who yearn
Such who need.
I would not minister unto them
With heavy hand.
I would with a laugh fling me
As a joyous spray
'Gainst the leaden sky of day,
Lend myself in joy
To the task in hand,
For this is my creed.
"Mrs Curran is one of that group of psychics whose
genuineness can only be judged from the nature and quality
of her work. She certainly is a normal individual with a
well rounded life, showing normal reactions to her environ
ment," stated Burton.
"Interesting, but it's growing late," said Ned rising.
"Bob, old man, I should like to listen to an independent voice
medium. Can you get hold of one?"
"I shall try," answered Burton. "Some friends of mine
have a New York man stop here once or twice a year on
his way through from his western trips. I'll get in touch
with them."
107
CHAPTER XI
m
\ED HUNTINGTON was the first to arrive in re
sponse to Burton's telephone call.
"Talk about luck!" he exclaimed as he entered
the living room. "I express a wish to see a direct
voice medium in action, and within two days you call and
say that it is definitely arranged. Do you keep these people
on tap?"
"Hardly," Burton laughingly responded. "You and Noel
have, so far, impressed me with the fair, open-minded way
you have gone after information. It is natural that I should
make every effort to give you that which you seek. I hap
pened to know that a New York medium has been stopping
over here, on his return from the west every fall and being
acquainted with the members of the group with whom he
sits, the rest was easy."
They were interrupted by the arrival of Noel.
"Well, well, am I late?" he demanded. "Thought my
office hours would never end. Where is this event to take
place, and what about it?"
"Both of you are invited to join a local group as my
guests. Hold any questions or criticisms you may have
until we return," requested Burton. "I will drive you both
to Mrs. Walker's, where the seance is to be held."
Upon arrival they were greeted by a smiling, middle-
aged lady and introduced to the visiting medium who was
a rather small man with clear blue eyes and a very pleasing
manner.
A room on the ground floor had been set aside for the
seance. All furniture had been removed and chairs placed
along the walls. Placed on the floor, in a cleared space in
108
the middle of the room, were three tin trumpets, a bowl of
water, a banjo and a vase of cut flowers.
Burton noted that Noel and Ned exchanged significant
glances at the sight of this paraphernalia.
The three guests sat next to each other, Bob between
Ned and the doctor. Lights were extinguished and, with no
attempt at control of either the medium or the sitters, the
seance began. The entire group joined in singing and gen
eral conversation. This lasted about ten minutes when the
doctor leaned toward Burton and in a low whisper, remark
ed, "One of those tin things seems to be sailing about in the
air. It just touched my head."
The response to this statement was a low chuckle, which
caused them both to start.
"This is more in the line of action than our last experi
ence," breathed the doctor.
Just then, all three trumpets rose and seemed to be trav
elling about the room. The banjo, after being twanged
several times, apparently, joined the general flight. First
it was strummed at one point in the circle and then at an
other. Voices issued from the trumpets bringing messages
to various members of the group. All of these seemed to be
accepted without question or comment. Both the doctor
and Huntington were touched upon the head, shoulders and
hands, at their own request. They were accused of being
doubters by distinct whispers. As a sort of grand finale,
the bouquet of flowers was passed among those present by
unseen hands. At Burton's request one of the flowers was
placed behind Noel's right ear. The meeting closed with an
announcement by the invisible master of ceremonies that
it was seven minutes past eleven and time to bring things
to a close. The lights were turned on and the statement
regarding the hour was found to be correct.
No sooner were the good-nights over, and the three
friends back in their car, than conversation literally broke
loose.
109
"What did you make of the performance?" demanded
Noel.
"At first I thought the phenomena easily explained ; but
after the first fifteen minutes or so, my explanations seem
ed more difficult to accept than the amazing things that
were happening," responded Ned. "What do you make of
it, Bob?"
"I should be willing to accept the majority of the phe
nomena as genuine; but owing to the entire lack of control
one is forced to look upon the entire evening as merely en
tertaining," Burton answered.
"Alright; but how were they accomplished?" persisted
the doctor.
"If you are directing your question at me," stated Hunt
ington, "I am unable to answer. The entire show was be
yond me. I'm completely bewildered."
Burton stopped before the house. Noel turned as he was
part way through the door of the sedan.
"The easiest thing to do, when confronted with a series
of happenings such as we have just witnessed, is to throw
aside all reasonable explanations and say the one word
'spirit.' That does not suit my type of mentality. Let us
review our impressions, while they are still fresh in our
minds, and attempt to find a normal method by which most,
if not all, of the things we saw could be accomplished."
"What were the things that impressed you most?" the
doctor directed his question at Huntington as they entered
the house.
"The trumpets. When the first one rose in the air I
felt certain that the medium or one of the sitters had taken
hold of it and was swinging it in the air above our heads.
Then I became conscious of the fact that two or possibly
all three were sailing around. While trying to convince my
self that two or more of the group were helping to pro
duce the show, one of the trumpets slid half way down my
110
back. Then it tapped me on the ear, and a whisper said,
'You are doubting. Stop it.' While this was occuring one
of the other trumpets touched first one and then the other
eyeglass. The possibility of the medium controlling the
trumpets by means of collapsible rods had suggested itself.
But the trumpet down my back would have been impossible
to control by the method I had in mind."
Dr. Noel, who had been listening closely while Hunting
ton was talking, began walking up and down the room. Sud
denly turned to Burton, "Get that medium on the 'phone.
See if he can be persuaded to stay over a day and give us a
private sitting. I will foot the bill. This thing bothers
me."
Without any delay Burton departed in the direction of
the 'phone.
"Your idea, as to the method used, was in my mind also.
There is a simple check. If Bob is able to get our man we
shall try it," Noel continued.
"What have you in mind?" Ned inquired.
"You noticed that the trumpets stayed inside, or just
over, the heads of the group ? Now, a long steel rod would
enable the medium to control a trumpet with ease, unless
someone came between him and the trumpet." Dr. Noel
stated emphatically.
"How do you explain his handling three of them at one
time, not to mention the banjo and flowers?" asked Ned.
"Damn it, I can't," Noel burst out. "That's what both
ers me so about the whole thing." He stopped suddenly
and burst out laughing. "I begin to see how some of the
committee members who have been chosen to report on
mediums must feel. I would seem like a fool, were I to
state now that there is apparently no explanation for the
things I have seen with my own eyes."
Huntington watched him as he continued to pace back
and forth. He stopped and stood gazing into a corner of the
111
room, then walked quickly toward it. Turning he faced
Huntington.
"Should we be able to get 'Mr. Medium,' let's place his
chair here. Now we three will sit thus." He swept his
hands from wall to wall. "That will close him in on all
sides" Noel beamed at Ned.
"All you have done is shut him in so that to escape he
must jump over one of us. What have you gained?" Hunt
ington had a whimsical look.
"I have not finished. Now for the test." The doctor
placed himself in the corner. He took three steps toward
the center of the room and stopped. "Right across here I
shall stretch silk threads from wall to wall, leaving a six
inch space between the threads. Now if a single trumpet
passes between those strands and then up toward the ceil
ing, either the medium does not control them by rods, or we
find a broken thread."
Ned, who had risen, placed three chairs across the cor
ner.
"You would certainly seem to have him cornered by an
arrangement like that. By Jove! It will be interesting to
see what happens. But the mere fact that we are unable to
detect fraud will not remove the possibility of fraud being
present." Ned was interested.
Burton returned to the room.
"Our luck still holds. He will be able to stop over one
evening. Be prepared for a shock, doctor. You said this
party was on you, and he asks fifty dollars a sitting. You
may have as many as you wish present, however," he smiled
at Noel.
"It will be well worth it to me. What time will he be
here?" asked Noel.
"I told him nine sharp."
They described their plan to Burton who gave his ap
proval by a series of nods. He was enjoying the intense
112
way both his friends were taking what to him was an old
situation.
After their departure he stood gazing at the corner
where the chairs were arranged according to his friends'
plan. A slow smile lifted the corners of his mouth. He
thought, "They are people who should be giving some
worthwhile effort to this line of research."
The following evening Bob arranged an extension cord
in such a way that the corner of the room could be illumi
nated by means of a red light. He then suspended a curtain
behind the three chairs, thus cutting the entire corner off
from the balance of the room.
The doctor and Ned arrived early in order to assist with
the arrangements. At the time set the medium put in his
appearance. Burton explained the arrangements and asked
him if he desired to make any changes.
"I never object to reasonable requests regarding one of
my sittings, save when the suggestions show clearly a com
plete lack of knowledge of the essentials which must be
present in order that manifestations may take place. In
which case there is no possible point in allowing them to be
carried through," stated the medium. "The red light must
not be too bright or the guides will have great difficulty in
working. We can make it subdued enough after the other
lights are out."
Dr. Noel arranged the strands of silk from one wall to
the other, in front of the medium, after he was seated, by
fastening the ends to each of the side walls by means of
adhesive tape. In the center of each strand a small piece of
white cloth was fixed so that it would be visible in subdued
light.
"If you wish, you may use your tape to fasten my hands
and feet to the chair," stated the medium.
Noel accepted the offer with alacrity. After giving the
arrangement a final scrutiny, the doctor turned out the
113
bright light in the room and took his seat. A general dis
cussion of the preceding evening's happenings followed.
Both Ned and Noel had many questions. The medium stat
ed that the red light was much too bright. This was cor
rected by covering the shade with several thicknesses of
red paper.
The first indication of action was a whispered voice com
ing from near the medium. "We may show you something,
but it is hard to get started with so few present."
Fully twenty minutes passed. The medium seemed rest
less and shifted his position many times. Every once in a
while a deep sigh escaped him.
A slight rocking motion of one of the trumpets which
had been placed on the floor between the medium and the
rest of the group became noticeable. As they watched, this
motion became more marked and it lifted clear of the floor
to disappear above the area of light. Noel was leaning as
far forward as possible. In a moment the remaining trum
pet joined its companion. Soon they were able to distin
guish both trumpets, apparently stationary above the high
est silk strand marker. Slowly the trumpets dipped, pass
ing below the marker, moved toward the observers, dipped
and passed toward the medium above the next marker.
Thus, they passed back and forth through the silk strands,
over one and under the other, coming to rest at last above
the heads of the group.
"Now watch," said a voice from the nearest trumpet.
With remarkable speed the performance was repeated. The
trumpets went in opposite directions and again came to
rest above the level of their heads.
Lined up side by side, they now approached the doctor.
"Does that answer the questions in your mind?" in
quired a voice.
"Well I should say so," sighed Noel.
114
"Now turn out the red light for we have those here who
wish to speak with you and it is hard in so much light,"
continued the whisper.
Huntington who was directly opposite the suspended
light complied with the request. A few moments of silence
followed. Then a voice claiming to be that of Ned's father
spoke to him. A rather lengthy conversation followed.
"Father, can you give me some proof of your identity ?
Some mark with which we were both familiar?" Ned had
in mind a tatoo mark on his father's forearm.
"Did you ever know anyone who had lost the sight of
one eye?" queried the voice.
"No-o. No one that I can recall," responded Huntington
slowly.
"Well, I am standing right before you, my boy," came
the response. Both noticed a start on the part of Ned. He
afterwards told them that his entire thought had been on
the tatoo mark, and he had quite forgotten the fact that
his father had lost the sight of one eye a short time prior
to his death.
A voice claiming to be that of Noel's grandmother ad
dressed him in Norwegian. Although he made very little
reference to the text of the conversation afterwards, it was
apparent to both Ned and Bob that he was deeply impressed
by the occurrence.
The voice that had taken charge of the sitting from the
start now requested that the red light be turned on.
"Watch for the rod from the medium," the same voice
continued.
A trumpet then sailed under the red light, back and
forth slowly, completely visible to the sitters.
"Goodnight, hope you liked that," said the same voice.
115
The trumpets fell to the floor. In a few moments the
medium moved, sighed, and then sat forward in his chair.
"How was it?" he inquired.
General conversation followed, while the room was being
restored to its normal state. Inviting them to visit him in
New York, at any time, the medium took his leave.
Noel, Huntington and Bob were left standing in the hall.
Observing his friends' expressions a slow smile spread over
Burton's face, causing his eyes to dance.
116
CHAPTER XII
HE evening had been given over to a discussion of
the possible meaning back of the phenomena oc
curring in seance rooms the world over.
"I have a growing conviction" said Noel, "that
the findings in this field are far too important to be ignored
by any intelligent person."
"From the statements made by the departed regarding
life," Bob remarked, "one gathers that we are put here on
this small fragment of the universe to learn from experience
one phase of existence. We must keep an eye upon our
personal development at all times, striving to comprehend,
in-so-far as we are able, the purpose of the whole scheme of
life, and attempting always to enlarge our ability to com
prehend."
"Your thought there is well expressed in one of Sara
Teasdale's poems called 'Lessons'," Ned remarked. "Have
you a copy of her work ?"
The book was produced and he quickly found the poem
in question. "Here," he said, and read:
'Unless I learn to ask no help
From any soul but mine,
To seek no strength in waving reeds
Nor shade beneath a straggling vine;
Unless I learn to look at grief
Unshrinking from her tear-blind eyes
And take from pleasure fearlessly
Whatever gifts will make me wise —
Unless I learn these things on earth,
Why was I ever given birth?'
"Assuming the earth life to be a preparation for a con
tinued existence, one might conceive the soul to be an in
dividual's wireless tower, by means of which, when proper
117
ly attuned, he is enabled to receive impressions from the
forces in the surrounding universe," commented Noel.
"The remarkable experience recorded by Bligh Bond,
in his 'Gates to Remembrance' tends to bear out the con
tention that those in the Beyond carry with them remem
bered experiences.
"Mr. Bond had charge of the excavation work conducted
in the hope of locating the long buried foundations of Glas
tonbury Abby. There were no records by which to be guid
ed. Monks of the distant past, through automatic writing,
described the location of the long buried walls and other
structures. The script was in ancient Latin and quaint old
English. Excavations made on the strength of these re
vealed the fact that these spirits could recall, or knew the
location of the hidden structures. Rough drawings were
also given, to aid the work. This has been an outstanding
incident in the annals of spirit communication.
"My feeling is," stated Burton, "that science will some
day prove to the world that there is vastly more behind this
line of research than any of us even imagine."
"Do you recall the remark of the medium we had here
regarding the effect of our grief upon those who had pass
ed on?" queried Ned abruptly, "I have been thinking that
over. Heaven is held forth as the promised paradise for
those who live the proper sort of life on this earth, and yet
when those we love are called to their promised reward we
seem unable to get beyond our own self pity."
"Let me read you a poem on the subject of bidding fare
well to those who leave us for their trip upon the great un
chartered sea." Bob rose and while procuring the poem in
question, continued:
"Dr. Crandon and his medical friends were not believers
in survival before they became interested in psychical re
search. One of them had left a written request that, in the
event of his death, Dr. Crandon should conduct such funeral
118
services as he saw fit. This particular friend died and Dr.
Crandon, who's ideas upon the subject of death and survival
had undergone a complete reversal, appealed to 'Walter' for
help. 'What shall I say at the funeral service?' he asked.
In a few moments the reply came in 'Walter's' voice : 'Write
this down as I give it.' He then dictated the following :
The Voyageur
'There is a plan far greater than the one you know,
There is a landscape broader than the one you see,
There is a haven where storm-tossed souls may go,
You call it death —we—Immortality.
You call it death, this seeming endless sleep,
We call it birth, the soul at last is free,
'Tis hampered not by time or space; You weep,
Why weep at death —'tis Immortality.
Farewell, dear Voyageur —'twill not be long,
Your work is done—now may peace rest with thee.
Your kindly thoughts and deeds— they will live on.
This is not death —'tis Immortality.
Farewell, dear Voyageur —the river winds and turns,
The cadence of your song wafts near to me,
And now you know the thing that all men learn :
There is no death: there's Immortality.'
There was a period of silence following the reading.
Then Noel said thoughtfully, "It would be most comforting
if one could only be sure. Feeling certain seems, still, only
a matter of faith."
"Fields scarred for certain grain," quoted Bob. "It
would seem that the matter of faith in many things is more
or less substantiated fact. The farmer prepares his fields
each spring with the full knowledge that hail, flood, drought
and all manner of pestilence stand between him and a crop.
Nevertheless the race has planted so long that its faith has
become an accepted fact."
119
Ned who had been sitting with his head between his
hands, suddenly straightened up. "Let's see what we can
establish definitely in the way of proof."
"There is no such thing as proof," stated Noel. "The
legal profession bases its conclusions on a mass of accumu
lated evidence—but there is no proof. When sufficient evi
dence is produced a man, or group of men as the case may
be, say in effect, T am satisfied.' Science is based upon pos
tulates, hypothetical assumptions. Organized religion lays
down a set of doctrines and attempts to explain them in a
reasonable manner. Nowhere do we find absolute proof.
We can list our evidence in order to arrive at some conclu
sion. It will differ with individuals; but it will at least be
a conclusion."
"Why not review such evidence as we have been able to
collect?" suggested Huntington.
"Here is a mass of it," stated Burton, opening his scrap-
book. "This record starts with the findings of the pioneers.
The report of the London Dialectical Society in 1870, fol
lowed by the work of Sir. William Crooks, F. R. S., some
years later. It also covers Dr. A. R. Wallace's thorough
and painstaking studies of forty years, from 1873 to 1913,
and work done by Zoller and Aksakoff, who spent a great
deal of time studying seance room phenomena about 1890.
Then we find W. H. Myers who devoted approximately
eleven years to the same line of research. Coming up to the
year 1905 we have the work of Hyslop, of Professor Boerac,
of Sir William Barrett, Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. Geley, Dr.
Baron von Schrenck-Notzing, and a host of others. This
brings us up to the present period of study with such names
as Richet, Dr. E. Osty, Richardson, Crandon, Dudley, Hamil
ton—" Burton paused to turn some pages.
"That certainly is an imposing group of scientific men.
It would not seem posible to sustain the contention that the
study of this subject had been carried on by the unintelli
gent and unscientific," remarked Huntington.
120
"The similarity of results obtained by these researchers,
with outstanding mediums, would lead one to the conclusion
that they could not all be conniving merely for the purpose
of deceiving themselves," supplemented Noel.
"Another interesting fact is that in reports and descrip
tions of conditions in the life after death tally. It would
not seem probable that all mediums speak a prearranged
monologue, would it?" queried Bob.
"The most outstanding mediumship from the point of
purely scientific investigation, devoid of religious or emo
tional bias, is that of Mrs. L. R. G. Crandon, 'Margery,'
stated Burton.
"The evidence presented by the Crandon group is well
summarized in this little sheet of printed matter sent me
by Dr. Crandon. With your consent, I shall present it as
exhibit 'A.' It is headed 'The Margery Mediumship, Its Re
lationship to the Problem of Survival and Communication'."
Bob went on :
" 'Individual survival has apparently been demonstrated
through this mediumship, without any admixture of faith or
revelation. Five years of experimentation, conducted with
out emotion or bias by a group of wholly scientific observers
has established the following facts:
Walter Stinson can produce under strict mechanical control
of the medium, on a marked piece of wax, in the presence of
one or many expert observers, a constant thumb print not that
of any sitter. One-third of a thumb print on Walter's razor
handle is identical, line for line, with the seance print. This
print also resembles Mrs. Crandon's thumb print 45%, and
that of the mother of Walter Stinson and his sister, Mrs.
Crandon, 70%, which is a proper relationship of prints be
tween brother and sister and son and mother. A thumb print
means an individual.
Walter Stinson in the dark, in the absence of his sister Mrs.
Crandon, can perceive a word or figure on a card selected
haphazard, and later the same night can cause Mrs. Crandon,
eight miles away, another medium two-hundred and fifty
miles away and another medium five hundred and fifty miles
away, each to produce a partial description of the selected
121
card so that the combined descriptions make an accurate
whole —a perfect cross-correspondence.
Thus, Walter Stinson, identified by a thumb print which has
been subjected to world wide police expert criticism, can make
intelligent cognitions in the absence of a medium, and can
convey them to three distant mediums. Therefor, it would
seem certain Walter Stinson is not a subconscious imper
sonation.
Certain telekinetic phenomena have occurred repeatedly in
the house, in the absence of Mrs. Crandon. This is a true
haunt. The other phenomena of this mediumship, first and
last, include every kind recorded in metapsychical history.
This variety and significance are overwhelming.
'It is believed with confidence, that the observations made,
and technique employed are truly scientific and will endure.
The attitude of modern experimental science is the most
open-minded in the world; but that of orthodox science to
ward the spiritual problems of man bears little resemblance
to it. We can no longer afford to take a serious attitude to
ward the latter. It serves only to retard the progress of our
work.
From the identified Walter Stinson one gets a vista of his
present life which suggests the desirable survival. This is
one in which a continuity of experience analogous to that
which we are aware of here is carried on into life after death.
The essence of tha,t life being the continuous unfolding, no
doubt, through stress and conflict, of these potentialities of
good, of which we are aware here as the most significant part
of ourselves'."
Ned and the doctor were silent for some space. Then
Ned announced simply—"I for one believe the study worth
while."
"At any rate one has his choice," Noel added, "he
can withdraw to the shelter of the 'house by the side of the
road' content to question none of the accepted traditions, or
plunge into the moving stream of humanity —there to live,
learn, help and be helped, with a certain confidence that he
is blessed by experiences and that his future is sure, safe
and continuous."
122
"To me it is more than security," Burton stated, "it is
an approach at least, toward peace. Souls might be likened
to people who sit before the fire together watching what
happens in the grate, talking little, satisfied with a sense
of nearness and intimacy. Words, after all, are but vehicles
for ideas, and when once understanding is reached conver
sation may merge into communion. This is the soul's gift
and the result of clear vision, an ardor for life, and an ap
preciation of the little tasks which are made significant
through understanding, giving the heart, hand and brain
their legitimate employment, and bringing one the con
scious feeling of Eternal Life.
"There is apparently an end to all things—but is it the
real end ? See the logs break there," he indicated the grate
fire, "for lack of something to feed upon the embers pale,
and the gray ash increases."
"When the fire and energy of this body of mine are
consumed and the ash of age is gathering, then may I still
hold the thought of those who love me, whom I have loved,
gone but a short space ahead. Entering upon even new ad
ventures the chill will be kept from my heart. The hour
will come as it does to all,—yet, armored for the glorious
tomorrow, what a vast difference it will make!" Burton con
cluded.
"Yes," Ned added, "it revives an old-fashioned impres
sion of mine that still stays from Sunday-school days,
'Know ye the Lord.' But how differently I interpret it now.
To know the Universal Power one must have some definite
starting point from which to carry on his investigation. I
feel it has been shown to me for the first time in a clear and
understandable way, —a way which each can follow and be,
as it were, his own discoverer, gaining, at least, a part of
the Infinite Understanding that 'all things work together
for good'."
"Just review the story of man's progress for your
answer," said Bob. "From the time when man first raised
his blinking eyes to the sun until the last of his kind van
123
ishes from the earth, the riddle of life has been and shall
be the paramount issue of his existence. Ever has he ques
tioned, ever has he continued to search out the answers to
his questioning, and he seems destined to continue thus.
"One can follow the course of man's dramatic struggle
for knowledge through the pages of his record as set down
by historians. Up through the maze of surmise and super
stition the race has struggled. Heavy has been the price
demanded for each forward step, and slow indeed the ac
ceptance of new facts,—but always man has moved toward
an ever broadening understanding of himself in relation to
his environment, in his relation to the universe. It is in
deed a sorry tale of stupidity and cruelty that is spread
upon the pages of history. Yet as the bright stars lend
beauty to the black night, so do the records of those men
and women, rising from the blackness of history's pages to
lead the struggling masses toward light and understanding,
lend beauty to the record.
"Rotting in dungeons they have given their bodies to
feed the roots of progress, that it might grow. Tortured
by the rack and inquisition, their groans have been the ral
lying cry for those who faltered in the advance. Burned at
the stake, they have fed the flames that were a beacon
through the darkness to guide those who followed.
"Always the resistance of the masses—spurred by the
fear of any innovation in the existing scheme of things —
has endeavored to destroy these daring disciples of the
truth. Each advance gained in knowledge and science has
had its price and has left an entry in the great ledger of all
time as to whom and by whom paid.
"Man's greed for possession and power and his fear of
the unknown, his ability to fall into comfortable positions
without reason or question, have helped to deter his pro
gress and to make him resentful of those who might disturb
the order of things as it pleases him to have them.
"Still the daring searchers have struggled against the
entrenched ideas, and slowly—very slowly—man accepts
124
the new, when it has had time to age, to become familiar,
and free from the possible criticism of the herd.
"A lifetime is short indeed, and the average man natur
ally feels that the satisfaction to be gained by achievement
and possession makes the effort put forth to acquire them
well worth while. He becomes absorbed in his particular
line of endeavor, and fear of failure or loss drives him like
a dumb beast along the one line—until he is leveled by
death.
"In the twilight of his earthly days he pauses sometimes
to wonder, to ponder upon a possible tomorrow and what it
may mean. What can it mean ? What information is there
upon which to base judgment?
"I recall standing at the water's edge near old Fort
Niagara one beautiful summer evening. A strong wind
was blowing from the east. The clear notes of a bugle
sounding 'taps' floated over the tumbling, beating waves
of the lake. In the west the first glowing radiance
of the evening star was visible. My thoughts caught at its
symbolism. Nightly had it traversed the heavens since
time was—coming into our limited range of vision on the
western edge of the world. This star, moving in its pre
scribed orbit across the vast void displaying the glory of
God, becomes the star of the morning and disappears amid
the rose and gold hues, which, rolling back the curtain of
darkness, herald the dawn of a new day. I can still see the
scene in memory, the wind subsiding with the sunset, the
troubled waters becoming a tranquil mirror for the reflected
stars to dance upon, and to me 'taps' and 'sunrise' suddenly
took on new meaning and blended into one another. I found
myself asking the question : Why does not science, to which
the way is now open, —science, that traces the life of the
smallest insects through their various stages of existence,
show man the answer to his most persistent question ?
"After the grave —what?"
126
