{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__estep___cosmological_forecast.pdf","mytitle":"Cosmological Forecast","mylang":"de"}
INTRODUCTION
Cosmology means the Science of the World, mystic or unknown
to the average person. It is ancient, since the Magi of old knew
its secret and through it made the greatest prophecies. Under its
ancient name it was known as the Kabala to the Chaldeans, the
Egyptians, and later the Hebrews. It became practically a Bible
of Wisdom.
The author received his information on the subject in his
travels over India. He met many Magi, and finally after much
searching found its secret. Placing it in a modern form, he now
publishes it, that humanity may learn the great value of true
prophecy which is mathematically and logically correct. The read­
er is entitled to test this system and compare it with astrology
or numerology. The writer is confident that this old scicnco will
prove far superior, since it is based on the different degrees of
vibration between the Sun and the Moon.
This system was fitted to the Roman Calendar and is there­
fore scientifically correct. The at stod it over a period
demonstrations. As the accuracy of the system made the demon­
strations seem almost supernatural, the writer asks the reader to
carefully consider the statements herein.
Past users of Cosmology are its greatest boosters, and it
is through the demand of these users that it is again being pub­
lished this year.
of sever years, using it to road ’
’
Mind Problems and Character”
before vast American audiences who verified the accuracy
Yours for Greater Success,
Prof. Wm. Estep,
Founder of Cosmology, Author
and Teacher.
COSMOLOGY
Every person celebrates a certain day each year in com­
memoration of his birth on this earth, or his birth-day. The
number of this day, associated with his life, subconsciously places
him in a cycle. This cycle represents certain conditions in the
universe. These conditions can be determined by the relation of
one’s cycle to that of the year, the month, and the day.
The year 1914 was the 6th cycle, therefore the world was in
great distress, the World’s War. Likewise, 1932 was in the 6th
cycle and the world in general suffered a great depression. The
year 1933 was in the 7th cycle 'end great religous persecutions
manifested in many countries, which was common to this cycle.
All conditions arc represented by a number and a cycle, or
as the Bible says, "Even the hairs of the head are numbered".
Therefore, Cosmology seeks to bring light to the events and con­
ditions common to your birth-date, and through this means desires
to help you out of your difficulties.
Pythagoras, a great Saint of Greece in the middle ages, dis­
covered the first universal mathematical science defining these
cycles and values. The aoithor, after many years of research, offers
you the prophecies of the greatest system of prediction ever dis­
covered. If you like Cosmology, please tell your friends about it
and its great value in one’s everyday life. Help them to learn
of this grea.t science of the world so they may also be benefitted
by it.
The Author.
COSMOLOGICAL FORECAST
The following analysis and interpretation is based -upon the
author’s knowledge according to Cosmology, the Science of the World.
This analysis is based on the mathematical calculations as taught in
thi3 new Science of the Cycles. This system is the result of years
of study and research on the part of the author.
This work differs from astrology, numerology, and other
systems of forecasting, in that it is more in harmony with logic,
science, truth and human understanding.
'In presenting this work to you, Le^r Friend, the "uthor de­
sires to be of the greatest assistance in helping you to attain
health, happiness and success. Therefore, know that he is your
friend and teacher and fool free to write him at the address given
heroin.
The student who learns well is a credit to the teacher,
therefore, you, the reader, must realize that your success is the
chief concern of the writer. The more you devote y urself, the
greater will bo your reward in this pleasant study.
The wisdom contained in thi3 forecast is based on the cycles
of life, °.nd the relation of yo\ir cycle to the cycle of the year,
month, etc. This is an accurate way of forecasting, as has been
proven in the past.
Y^urs for Success,
The Author.
4
Cosmology Forecast for all persons born on the 1st,
10th, 19th, and 28th of any month.
JANUARY
This month opens a very unusual year for your type of
person. The world will experience many sudden shocks which will
affect your business, but you will be successful in all your sin­
cere endeavors, provided you’apply concentration in a constructive
manner.
During this month you can open new projects, change posi­
tions or enter a business, but beware of heavy investment. Do. not
gamble for profit; invest only in those things you are certain will
succeed.
The ruling power for your type functions through the
Infinite Spirit this month, therefore you can evoke divine aid
successfully. Home life and social life should be smooth and you
should meet valuable friends. Spiritual ideas will come to you.
You should carry out these ideas, DS net doubt, your anility, and be­
ware of inferiority complexes. Favorable days are the 1st, 10th,
19th and 28th. Positive success will come to you on these dates
if you make an effort. Unfavorable days are the 4th, loth and 2£nd
of month. On these days, postpone all deals and do hot cl 3- b .r-
V
gains until the next day.
FEBRUARY
This month will find you up and down financially, but
pleasant conditions will prevail in home and social life. An op­
portunity will come to you to make a success of your life. Dc A
<
v
f
c
overlook it. You will hear of sudden happenings in the life of those
dear to you.
1
Be careful this month of forming attachments, as your
emotions are very strong hut do not always act to your advantage.
You should be positive this month and hold constructive ideas in
jour mind, po ncl; he disturbed; avoid arguments. Serious diffi­
culty may arise between yourself and a relative.
You must realize that God is within and you can contact
power a
t
. once. Bo not let low thoughts disturb the plans you
made last month. Unpleasant news should come to you from a distance
this month. Your favorable days are the 2nd, ilth, and 20th..
These are positive success days. Your negative days are the 4th,
13th, 22nd of month. . Be careful of human relations on these days
as some difficulty in this field is predicted for your type.
MAJRCH
This month brings you better business conditions than
last month. Many of your plans of the past will bear fruit this
month and will bring you happiness.
Young people will figure in your social affairs and you
will be in contact with many of your friends. General world condi­
tions will cause much pessimism and trouble.
BC not let any of these radical ideas enter your mind.
Remember that all who fare well have self control. An opportunity
to improve business conditions or employment should come to you be­
tween the 1st and tenth of this month.
All new projects entered into will prosper during this
month, if you keep cool mentally and avoid excitement and over—an-
xiety. Look ahead of today;da .Wit dream about past losses,and all
will go well.
6
1
Your most favorable days are the 3rd, 12th, 21st and 30th. On
thesp days close deals and transact all Important business. Your
negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st. On these days, dc
rush into any deals}or gamble on investment, as the ruling
powers in nature are negative to your type.
APRIL
This month finds the ruling powers of your cycle in the
four elements, earth, air, fire and water. Therefore you should
beware of any sudden decision; keep your mind calm, avoid excite­
ment and do no
.
t worry.
Business education and social contact will find you
favored if you obey these instructions. Morbid thinking is very
dangerous to your type this month.
Marriage is favored, and if married, home life is favor­
ed. If you are where a storm develops, seek a place of safety,
since you are personally affected by the elements this month.
Rumblings of war and great unrest in Europe will affect
business conditions during this month, but will not damage the in­
terest of your type.
You should study Mind Science and improve yourself this
month, as any combination of natural forces is in favor during this
period.
Positive days are the 4th, 13th,. 22nd of month. All of
'■hese days which have been negative in other months are now favor­
able, as your type enters another cycle. Negative days are the 5th,
-
L
‘
±th, and 23rd. On these days beware of carlessness; do. not go out
too much exposed to the elements.
7
1
MAY
This month the ruling power in your life enters the
sense organs of the physical bodyjplanetary influence and power
of suggestion are disturbing factors. Be careful of them.
Markets will lower greatly and great exposures in the
business world will surprise the common people, pc nc'
t let these
things get into your mind. Epidemics will also be reported, but
If you have no fear all will be well.
During this month you can settle difficulties and ad­
just problems. This is the month to prepare for a more peaceful
condition in the future.
You will hear sad news and you will be approached to
help many others. Be careful, as those who seek help are not al­
ways worthy of what they seek.
Your positive days are the 5th, 14th and 23rd of this
month. On these days you will be able to make adjustments, over­
come difficulties and obtain credits easily. You will bo favored
socially^ and educational enterprises will prosper under your guid­
ance .
Your negative days are the 6th, 15th and £4th of the
month. On these days you should be careful about all types of ar­
gument^disagreements, etc. as you are negative in human relation­
ship.
JTJNE
During this month, the ruling power in your life enters
the sixth sense, leaving your physical sense organs void of power of
a positive creative type.
You will feel the need of some sustaining mind in busi­
ness problems,but you should be careful of your selection as to who
advises you, for selfishness may be their motive.
1
This month you arc vory liable to make contacts you may rcgrbt later
Your health will bo good if you listen to tho "Voice
Within" and oat and live in a sensible manner. p0
business transactions; be guided only by concrete
promises.
Hot be hasty in
evidence, not by
Your positive days when the ruling power is most favor­
able are the 6th, 15th and 24th of the month. On these days you
can depend more on your own judgment than on others.
Your negative days when you should be careful are on
the 8th, 17th and 26th of this month. On these days you are sub­
ject to accidents through being forgetful. Therefore look on these
days before you step. Investigate before you invest, and have proof
before you believe.
JULY
This month the ruling power of your cycle enters the
seventh sense^ -Intelligence. It favors education, social and home
life, business should improve, or you should hear aoout, a bettor
position.
You should concentrate on your various problems for suc­
cess,.as, during this month, your mind powers are very great and you
can rule almost any condition through concentration.
This is a month of great inspiration and spiritual power
for you. Luring this time you will demonstrate your highest und r-
standing during the year. You should study Super mind Science and
your demonstrations will please you.
Money will be paid to you this month which you did not
expect and you are favored financially. Employment Is not so
favorable, the ruling power being centered in transactions.
9
1
Positive days arc the 7th, 16th and 25th of the month.
On those days you will succeed very well.
Negative days are those days totalling 8 - the 8th, the
17th and 26th of the month. Be careful of deals on these days as
you are easy to persuade.
AUGUST
During this month the ruling powers enter the sane cycle
of the year. They are favorable to conditions generally. But. you
must bo careful of health, as this influence is in the unexplain­
able mystery of the universe, unfavorable to health and personality;
¿Iso epidemics and contagious diseases.
If you know Super mind Science you need have no worry;
just keep your body filled with life and energy; your mind posi­
tive, and all will be well.
You will hear of much trouble and disturbance in the
world, but this will not affect you if you understand the power of
God as revealed in Super mind Science.
In all studies involving the mystical element in life,
you will do well this month, since the. ruling powers of your cycle
function in the Infinite Quantity of life during .i s period of time.
Positive days arc the 8th, 17th, and 26th of this month.
°n these days you will have sudden turns to success.
Negative days will be on the 4th, 13th, ‘22nd, 31st of the
month. On those days you must keep control of your body and mindf
and guard your health, as possibilities in this field are not promis­
ing of the best conditions.
SEPTEMBER
This month the ruling power of your cycle enters the
Plano of birth and physical manifestation, favoring all new projects,
now position and new plans, it also favors new social contacts.
1
During this month you will experience many new ideas
and you will he favorably influenced in almost every direction. The
unusual period of last month being past, your affairs finish a
cycle under a new impetus of success.
The soul consciousness will urge you to great spiritual
understanding, ho not stifle this urge, but develop it. The sym­
bol for your type during this month is the Christ Child in the
lowly manger who later overcomes the carnal world.
Your positive success days are the 3th, 18th and 27th
of this month. During these days good fortune will be the rule.
Close deals and pay debts.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th and 2L’
nd of this
month. On those days do not start new projects or seek a new posi­
tion; do those things on the positive days. The power of your
cycle centers in birth and all new developments this month.
OCTOBER
Your ruling influence enters the field of growth}develop­
ment and leadership this month. While you also commence a new
cycle, this time is favorable to making new plans, taking trips,
the receiving of guests, the contacting of h. greeted opportunity
to improve yourself.
You are aggressive and have great building powers. This
month is the same in influence as your birth cycle,therefore an
ideal time to bring your fondest dreams into reality. Do. not bo
afraid to try these things out.
You will be discouraged by relatives and friends this
month. They will give you suggestions of failure, but do?net listen
to that type of advice.
1
Your positive days this month are the 1st, 10th, ISth
and 28th. On these days you have ideal mental and spiritual con­
ditions to succeed in any undertaking.
Your negative days are still the 4th, 13th and 22nd of
the month. These days are unfavorable to new projects.
NOVEMBER
During this month your cycles contact the ruling power
centered in the opposites, mother and father, good and bad, like •
and dislike and Cosmology predicts a month of ups and downs. Be
careful of friendship, courtship, home life and social events.
You will experience loneliness but do'iict'be disccuraged;
this is your emotions seeking control of your intellect. Go on
with your plans^ but be careful of sudden decisions, sudden friend­
ship and sudden arguments.
Take time to think things over before you do them and
this month will prove very beneficial to you, especially if you
understand character and Mind science, since it requires you to use
only the best of psychology.
Your positive days are the 2nd, 11th, 20th and 29th of
the month. On these days form contacts, friendshipsfand close deals.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, hud-the•22ndb
oi the month. On these days be careful, as deception in yvur deal­
ings with others is predicted by Cosmology.
DECEMBER
The close of this year finds you at the close of your
business cycle, ^his also closes a 7 s a r of great trouble and it
f
i
i
a
y be said it was the,
Tdarkness before the dawn’
J the travail before
birth, four affairs improve during this month, but your ideas turn
bo spiritual things.
12
# #
•
i
We celebrate the birth of Jesus this month but how many
follow Ris leading. This year has been a year of hardship, but 1935
will be much better.
Business d o ses mt-h -d'slight" improvement 4n all, conditions
,
r a
r
i
d rumord of’
-v/ar persist.-. ■
« '
• *
Now is the time to enjoy a good Christmas, confident
that Cosmology will guide in coming years. The world is on the verge
of the greatest economic change in history and 1936 is written in
the level of the great Pyramid of Egypt. You are advised to have
Cosmology and Super mind Science as your companion during these
times.
Positive days are the 3rd, 12th, 21st and 30th of the
month. These are days to transact business.
Negative days are the 4th, 13th}2£nd,31st«
, On these days
be careful of all business transactions, I now wish you a Merry
Christmas and a Happy New Year.
Yours in jruth, Love and Light,
Professor Wm. Sstep5
Founder of Cosmology.
. *-
- 13 -
IFE’S CHARACTER ANALYSIS
For all persons born on the 1st, 10th, 19th or
28th of any month.
People of this numerical vibration are positive types, and
very attached to possessions. They are creative and executive mental
ly; and can manage and direct employees or the public. They like to
be in responsible positions and are progressive,at all times trying
t; advance in the calling or business of their choice.
They are original and can invent methods in their field of
work. They are constantly trying to improve conditions. They are
also proud, and despise poverty or want. They love to appear well-
dressed and make good impressions on others. They can become speak­
ers, teachers or salesmen with very little training.
In home life they love the best and are not contented in
cheap or poor environment. They love companionship and home life,yet
desire to travel occasionally. They are people who take pride in the
convenience of their homo and environment. They make excellent par­
ents and home-builders. Thoy love to entertain friends and are the
best of hosts. Are very generous in public, and usually if women,
good housekeepers; if men, lavish entertainers and good hosts.
These characters are to be found in positions of great trust,
such as corporation heads, bankers, clerks, speakers and politicians.
They are ever alert, and are hard workers. They should develop the
power of concentration. A study of Mind Science will be of the
greatest assistance to these strong types.
MARRIAGE
A person born on the 1st, 10th, 19th or 23th of any month
will succeed in marriage with one of his own type best. Next to
that, with a person born cn the 2nd, 11th, 20th and 29th of any
month. They are congenial vj$.th types closest to their own vibration,
because they, being representatives of the universal creative power,
harmonize with the nearest vibration to their own.
However, this does not mean that they cannot harmonize with
other numbers. It only means that these are the congenial or most
harmonious marriages as a usual thing. If people would study Mental
Science, these vibrations would not affect them. They only rule
negative minds.
’ N o 2
. * « V
1 9 3 4
Cosmology Forecast for all persons
born on the 2nd, 11th, 20th and 29th of any month.
JANUARY
The ruling influence of your cycle enters the pairs of oppo­
sites this month, affecting home life, social life and human rela­
tionship. However, the effect is neither favorable or unfavorable
from an influence standpoint, for you can be positive and succeed
well in the fields mentioned.
Avoid disputes and any type of bitter feeling, as this month
is unfavorable to it. Yet it favors parenthood, authority and mold­
ing of the character of the young.
You will succeed in educational endeavors and socially,by
applying this advice. Beware of sudden decisions,as the cycle of
the month and cycle of the year clash during this period; be slow
in entering new projects.
Fositive days are the 2nd, 11th, 20th and 29th of this month.
On these days close transactions, pay debts and settle all old ac­
counts possible.
Negative days are on the 4th, 13th, 22nd,1
' 31st of month. On
these days avoid family arguments and various types of disturbances
and all will be well. Apply Super mind Science every negative day
and you can change conditions.
FEBRUARY
This month the ruling influence enters the cycle of production,
favoring business and all new projects. Your type are favored in
making deals, securing new positions and in all now adventures.
Concentrate on success, and. use’your will power, and you can
d° almost anything you desire in the business world. Refuse to listen
to negative suggestions as to your inability to succeed, as these
suggestions ruin many lives.
- 5 -
t
A new condition of prosperity comes in the environment of
your type this month and you are warned to be alert to it. Some­
times opportunity knocks at your door and finds your mind asleep to
it, therefore be careful of this.
General world conditions are somewhat turbulent at this time,
but you must not be discouraged. Do not doubt your ability; per­
severe and you will succeed.
Your positive days of this month are the 3rd, 12th and 21st.
On these days, business, finances and home conditions are favorable
to you.
The negative days of your type this month are the 4th, 13th,
and 22nd. On these days be careful of sudden moves in business, and
of your contacts in the business world.
MARCH
This month the ruling forces of your type enter the four
elements of earth, air, fire and water, causing yon to be capable of
controlling disturbing elements. It also assists you in power to
attain health and to assist others in need.
During this month all of your plans which affect growth will
succeed, as it is a time of combination, expansion, and development
in every branch of Future for your typo, provided you kjop a eelm
mind and are careful in your work.
In the business world you should receive offers of combina­
tions in which you would benefit. It is also a tim<- favorable to
love affairs, marriage, birth and family combinations.
Your negative days are the 5th, 14th and 23rd of the month.
On these days b- careful of final decisions.
6
Your positive days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of the
month. These are days of positive results in all things, therefore,
close deals, make now arrangements, change residence, or travel as
the case may he, for all such activities "re very favorable to your
type. Do not hesitate to put your pi"ns into action.
APRIL
Luring this month, the ruling power in your cycle enters the
five senses of the physical body, favoring health, healing and all
types of occult development. Likewise, it favors any type of
educational, social or r-ligous endeavors for your type, sc you may
go forward in those fields.
In the commercial world, there "re difficulties for yiu to
solve. Thoro arc also adjustment's to be made, but these are favored
very much by the influence ruling your cycle. Fere a kn wledge of
the art of concentration will prove very beneficial to help you to
concentrate on receiving the best in the opportunities ahead of you.
You are supposed to hear of the illness "f a relative at a
distance this month, and to have many problems to solve. Therefore,
keep your mind positive.
Your positive days are the 5th, 14th and 23rd "f this month.
On these days sign important papers and transact important business
matters.
Your negative days are the 6th, 15th and 24th. this month.
On these days keep y ur eye on cmpl yees and on your servants, as
dishonesty is probable on the part of those n^ar y u. Study your
mind and keep self control
» .
MAY
During this month, the ruling powers enter the sixth sense,
Intuition, which favors deep study, research, science, writing and
public speaking for your type, also salesmanship and management.
All activities in this line will prove very beneficial to
y
o
u
,
. You can 'aIscf receive visitors, take part in social programs
and meetings successfully.
Be careful about becoming attached to others, as there is a
danger there in this period. Do not be too sensitive about others.
Avoid rash promises.
Your positive days are the 6th, 15th and 24th of this month.
On these days all affairs are favored. Spiritual powers are strong
and opportunity is manifest.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th and 26th. On these days
do"not close dealsfor if going on a trip be extremely careful as to
contact with others. Avoid accidents by observing constantly what
you are about, donft walk into traffic with your mind dreaming. Cos­
mology predicts that your type will have much to be thankful for
this month.
JUNE
During this period your type are influenced oy their ruling
power centered in the seventh sense, which is intelligence. This
favors education, religion, science and social affairs. In t
i
l se
fields you succeed well.
Business and finance are also favored by good judgment.In these
fields you can see into the most difficult problems, therefore you
should prosper this month.
In Super mind Science, your type can demonstrate Thought
Transmission, Silent healing for others,and health for yourself. All
you need during this period is self-confidence.
As you progress through this cycle you will experience per­
iods of morbid thinking unless you understand the science of mind;
otherwise success is assured*
Your positive days are the 7th, 16th and 2 5 th ,, favoring
wealth, finance, -real estate and insurance, but not a gambling type
of investment.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of this month.
These are negative to human relationship, so be careful of trusting
others, and be careful of promoters and get-rich-quick men during this
period. Then all will go well. Know that "God dwelleth within you
and the kingdom of heaven is at hand", or handy, as the Great Teacher
said,
JULY
This month the ruling pavers of your type pass into infinity,
leaving you somewhat negative and full of doubts of yourself, sus­
picious of others, and unhappy unless you apply Super VLind Science to
overcome it. This is the•"darkness.boforeathe.dawn".
You will feel that your plans for the future are failures, but
do not give up. This is only common to this period. Next month you
will think different about it.
Mystical development is favored, also religious activities
and all spiritual matters are favored. You must therefore not for­
get the spiritual because of uncertain material conditions.
Your positive days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month. On
these days close deals and perform transactions and do all important
• errands or trips.
Your negative days are on the 4th, 13th and 22nd of the month.
°n these days,do not rush into important matters; be careful of dis­
couragement and also be careful of false friends.
9
* ' * 2
A "better month is in store for you next month, so do net te
discouraged^ keep your mind calm, know that nI am that I am" means
that' God is within.
AUGUST
During this month the ruling power of your type enters the
cycle of birth and gives power to all new projects, positions and
business deals, favoring all new plans made by your type involving
health, home life, social life and success.
Children associated with you are favored by opportunities, and
you are favored if a parent or a prospective one. Remember that one
person greatly influences another and children reflect the parent’s
ideas.
A new opportunity should come to you this month to make it
possible for you to overcome past difficultiesj also a new means of
earning money should open before you. Be careful to see your oppor­
tunity.
Your positive days are the 9th, 18th and 27th of this month.
On these days you should close deals and make a success of all pend­
ing issues.
Your negative days are on the 4th, 13th, 22nd’and 31st 'of this
month. On these days be careful of accidents to yourself or to chil­
dren under your care; also someone may try to ruin your plans for
the future on these days. Use Super Mind Science and all will be
well, for you will be positive mentally and no harm comes to those
who are positive mentally and spiritually.
SEPTEMBER
During this month the ruling power of your type enters tho
first part of a new cycle, opening new ideas, opportunities, and con­
ditions for you. provided you are a good observer, you will see them.
All new projects are favored and business opportunities will
come to you. -riot afraid to move ahead with this constructive
influence. Rely upon your best judgment more than on friend fs ad-
vice and all will be well.
This month favors travel and receiving friends and various
social activities, as well as business, Courtship and marriage re­
ceive great influence from this ruling power also.
Your positive days are the 1st, 10th, 19th and 28th of the
month. On these days you can receive callers, transact business and
do important things.
Your negative days are on the 4th, 13th and 22nd of the month
These days are negative to new projects, new ideas^and new friend­
ships, so some care should be used in these fields of human inter­
est and all will be,well. There is a good period ahead of you, so
plan well for the future.
OCTOBER
This month the ruling powers of your cycle enter the pairs
of opposites, therefore you must not let your ambitions go to the
extremes in either direction, but keep your mind under control.
This period favors courtship, partnership and family life; al
so it favors parenthood and educational enterprises.
The month is a climax for good for your type, the period cycl
conforming to your own personal cycle, therefore you can pay debts,
make deals, collect money, have social affairs and do many things
to promote yourself with good success.
Your positive days are the 2nd, 11th and 20th, and 29th of
this month. On these days you will be successful in all types of
ventures, where personality and personal magnetism figure.
Your negative days are on the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of
the month. On these days extreme care should be taken in all per­
sonal affairs> family affairs and social disputes. Since you are
subject to trouble in these fields of human interest and relation­
ship, study this Cosmology and you will see that it is superior to
most systems, is dependabl*, and gives you good advice.
NOVEMBER
The ruling powers of your type enter the field of production
and reproduction this month, and favor business, your children
if you are a parent, and all those endeavors in the process of growth.
During this month, close deals, pay debts and collect bills.
It is the time when a business cycle completes itself and great op­
portunity should come to you to advance your interests.
Finances are better than in past months and improvement in
world conditions affect your type. This year is now passing and it
represents darkness before the dawn. A bettor time is ahead and
constructive powers now affect your affairs and your life.
Your positive days are the 3rd, 12th, 21st and 30th. These
are days when success smiles upon you. Take advantage of these
good days. '
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, and.-the-.22nd - of this
month. On those days be careful of business deals and people in
general, as they are days of danger in that field. Cosmology pre­
dicts success only if you follow this advice.
DECEMBER
The ruling powers of your cycle enter the four elements, earth,
air, fire and water and close a mysterious year, a year of struggle
and hardship.
A New Year, meaning a new chance in life opens before you,
with a wiser civilization and greater under standing.
This month is good for all types of combinations, improve­
ments, and for putting into action plans of the past. You can cash
in on your ability this month.
The world celebrates the birth of Jesus Christ this month,
but very few follow His exalted teachings. For that reason Cosmology
predicts that next year will be a surprising one for all. The date
of September 19, 1936 is found on one of the levels of the Pyramid of
Gizah on the delta of the Nile in Old Egypt, as being significant in
world affairs.
Your positive and successful days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd
and 31st of the month. Cn these days, enter into partnerships and
agreements. People will favor you in business those days and will
give you opportunities for profit in transactions.
Your negative days this month are the 5th, 14th and the 23rd.
On these days you may fe^l depressed and out of sorts, b\it this is
only temporary and you will overcome it and pass on to a better
cycle of vibration.
Cosmology predicts you will hav'- a Merry Christmas and a
Happy N^w Year, but reminds you to go through the cycles of life and
time fortified by wisdom as old as eternity, revealing events to
come. Hero the author thanks you for past opportunities of rendering
service and shall look forward to receiving your order for next
year’s Cosmology, - a vury important year.
Cosmologically yours,
Prof. Wm. Estop,
World’s Foremost Adopt,
Founder of Cosmology, and of
Super Mind Science
No O
i-
LIFE'S CHARACTER ANALYSES
For all persons born on.the End, l&th, .
/
.
2
0
1
j
h
'
-and 29th of'any month.
You are creative, original in ideas; fairly healthy, of robust
appearance, but you are torn between two forces:- postive and nega­
tive good and bad. You must learn self control through Mind Science
if you desire good results in your life.
When positive you are successful; you have managing ability
and are very clever with your hands. People like you and trust you.
You are magnetic and attractive.
You have too many ideas and do not concentrate on one suffic­
iently, for that reason you must learn this art or you will never
be true to your highest nature and talent.
Your emotions are very pronounced, also your likes and dislikes.
Db not make changes while discouraged. You love music and art, and
have some talent in that line. Develop mastership and you will be
versatile because God has indeed favored your type by giving them
power in many ways. As a child you were very hard to teach and learn­
ed slowly, but as you grow older you improve in this ability. Avoid
inferiority complexes; if you have a lack of self confidence you may
fail to attain your desired goal in life. Therefore I urge you to
study Mind Science and make the most of your talents, as life Is
short unless well lived.
To develop your best traits of character you should work whore
positiveness is required, and learn to solve problems quickly. Your
type is usually healthy but unless they control emotions they will
be affected with nervousness and Impatience.
This year you should study your forecast we31 and try to mas­
ter your weak points of character. Life- runs in 'cycles and the
Creative fVcle is the third, fifth,and seven times seven. After that
you should study spiritual laws and philosophy. Man owes one half of
his earthly life to God.
MARRIAGE
Your type harmonizes with those born on the 3rd, 12th, 21st
and 30th of any month better than any other type. Next to that, they
harmonize with those born on the 7th, 16th and 25th of any month.
However, this does not mean you cannot be happy with other types.
Life is what you make it. There is no such thing as fate and pre­
destination, or luck. We "sow as we reap", and reap as we sow.
Self improvement is the purpose of life. Marriage is a divine
institution, provided it exists on a basis of real love and spiritual
concept.
mm PROBLEM
You are probably thinking over the idea of a creative call­
ing where you will be boss or owner. You are also thinking of a
more congenial atmosphere in your environment. Remember, the
solution to all mind problems is in Mind Science, which you should
study,
o . o
Cosmology Forecast for all persons born on the
3rd, 12th, 21st and 30th of any month,
1 9 3 4.
JANUARY
During this month your type experiences the ruling powers
entering the three states of consciousness, the conscious, sub-con­
scious and super conscious, giving you good mental poise and balance.
This is the time to improve your mind, your social standing, and al­
so your business.
When you transact business this month, be careful to con­
sider it well, so that your mind considers every detail of the pro­
blem; then go ahead.
This period favors finances, deals and all types of transac­
tions, but you must be careful to be in a positive state of mind,
in order to get best results.
Your positive days are the 3rd, the 12th, the 21st and 30th
of the month. On these days business conditions will prosper and
STou will be greatly benefitted.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22na and 31st. On these
days be careful of details in signing papers, agreements and bar­
gains, as the influence is adverse in those fields of human endeavor.
FEBRUARY
During this month the ruling power in your cycle enters the
four elements, earth, air, fire and water, favoring combinations,
courtship, marriage, partnership, etc. These periods are also favor­
able to social and business combinations of all kinds.
Studies of mind science, chemistry and various combining
sciences are required in order for one to understand life. During
this month, you can succeed in any of these fields, provided you
have self confidence.
No. 3
Finance will be favored in all types of transaction combina­
tions, but proper analysis is required so you will not make a dc-
cisión which is unwise. Avoid any extreme anxiety or emotional
activity.
Your positive days are the 4th, 13th, and the 22nd of this
month. These days form business in general and on these days your
judgment will be better.
Your negative days are on the 5th, 14th, 23rd of the month.
On these days you are easily influenced, so be careful of important
events and incidents. However, do..not be discouraged, as your typo will
experience an interesting year. Many opportunities are ahead, but
alertness is required in order that you will be'able to observe
them,
MARCH
This month the ruling powers of your type enter the five
physical senses favoring adjustment of difficulties, and the sett­
ling of old disputes. This time is also favorable to self improve­
ment in general, as'well as home conditions and environment. This
is the time to improve your home and buy new furniture, to make a
better personal appearance; also the for spiritual study and
reflection.
You may have colds this month and need to use precautions
about your health, but if you know Super mind Science that will be
easy enough.
Your positive success days are the 5th, 14th and 23rd. On
these days you can sell or buy, get a new posit ion,or improve your
business, if in business for yourself.
3
Your negative days are the 6th, 15th and 24th of the month.
On these days avoid disputes and do not close important deals. Keep
your mind alert and avoid risk in traffic; be careful when crossing
streets. Cosmology also predicts that jealousy may appear in your
home or among friends, therefore be careful in these spheres of
influence,
APRIL
During this month the ruling powers of your type enter the
sixth sense which favors all things concerned with inspiration and
mind influence. Avoid extreme likes and dislikes during this period,
as emotions interfere with your intuition.
Speculation, finance and business contacts are favored, and
you will succeed well in this field if you consult your inner self?
in order to reach correct decisions in these important matters.
Your positive days are the 6th, 15th and 24th, On these days
your judgment will be good. You will be able to see into difficult
problems.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
On these days be careful of emotions causing you to decide important
issues in a wrong manner.
Cosmology suggests that you study Super M-ind Science this
month so as to profit by this influence which gives you an under­
standing of the Infinite qualities in life.
MAY
At this period your ruling powers enter the seventh sense,
favoring all intellectual, educational and spiritual matters. This
is the time to study and meditate.
3
In the business world all types of investment, finance and
dealing is favored; but you must beware of gossip, which may cause
you heavy losses this month.
Home affairs and social engagements are not so favored. This
is a time when you desine to be alone and think your way put of
troubles.
You can adjust any dispute successfully this month, also}you
can overcome obstacles.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
These days are negative in intellectual and business relationship.
Your positive days are on the 7th, 16th and 25th of the
month. On these days you can succeed better in all things^ provided
you think calmly.
A better condition awaits you than you have had in the past
part of this year, so Cosmology says, prepare for events ahead.
.TUNE
This month the ruling power of your type enters the mysterious
and unknown quantity in life, therefore you must be careful that
you do not make sudden unfavorable moves, especially in connection
with your employment, business, etc.
During this month don’t take any unnecessary ehanc.es on your
health, or during travel, as the cycle you are now passing through
represents darkness before dawnfand travail before birth.
Sudden news of someone in distress near you will probably
come to you this month. Be careful not to grieve or get excited
over this.
Your positive days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
On these days you can close deals, get financial assistance, and
change position successfully.
Your negative days are the 4th, the 13th, and the 22nd of this
month. On these days vibrations are negative to health and personal
well-being. Be careful of sudden exposure, and taking of chances of
any type. Next month is a better period for your type.
JULY
The ruling powers of your type enter the end of a cycle and
the element of birth. This is a month of bringing forth new projects
and new plans. It has less sorrow and more joy for your type.
The sooner people learn that Nature moves in cycles and the
sooner they conform to the supreme law of their cycle, the better
they can solve their problems.
This month your typo enters the interesting cycle of new
creations.
If you have been waiting to do something, do it this month.
If you want to travel, take the trip now, as everything that has
boon waiting is favored by the ruling influence.
Your positive days are the 9th, 18th and 27th of this month.
On these days your* plans should bear fruit and you should experience
3UCCOSS.
Your negative days are the 4th, l?th, 22nd and 31st of this
month. On these days avoid entering new projects, changing position,
etc.
Cosmology, the science of the world, sees that you are favor-
Qd bY an improved world condition the r^st of this year, yet dis­
turbances come on many fronts.
This month your typo starts a now cycle and you should "turn
°vor a new leaf" in the book of life. This period favors all types
°f enterprise, marriage, courtship, and partnership.
You can do things now with a new hope and confidence, and if
you understand Super Mind Science you will notice that you succeed
better thi3 month.
Do not let your mind becomo discouraged and give up this
month, for a new cycle is like a new life. One should begin it well
and finish well.
in.
Your positive days this month arc the 1st, 10th, 19th and
28th. Being very fortunate days, you may expect to receive money
from an unexpected source.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd rnd 31st. On
these days he careful of enemies, gossip, and slanderous conversation.
Cosmology looks into the future and says you will he happier now.
SEPTEMBER
During this month the ruling influence of your cycle enters
the pairs of opposites, like and dislike, success and failure, etc.
The only way to overcome this and succeed is to De positive and create
only good and success.
During this period you are favored in home life, dealing
with children, and in all enterprises where you really attain to
authority.
Be careful about high temper, as this is a very emotional
period for your type when passions run wild. However, you can control
this condition if you will seek to.
This month is a good time to plan the education of your
child if you are a parent.
Yvur positive days are tne 2nd, 11th, 20th and 29th. This
month on these days you should undertake any difficult task whore
human relations enter into consideration.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th and 22nd. On these
hays you may have quarrels and disagreements with others. Super
Mind Science will give you the key to control of emotions which will
cause you to be favored when otherwise these vibrations would bring
unhappiness.
OCTOBER
This month your ruling powers center in consciousness and in
hue principle of production and reproduction. This condition favors
-
ny mental endeavor, business condition, or affair where a child is
concerned.
This is the time to promote your business, as it is the apex
a business cycle in which there is the element of completeness.
During this month you should settle debts and find finances
favorable. You should also be able to gain any assistance financially
which you need.
Your positive days are the 3rd, 12th, 21st and 30th of the
month. All of these are excellent business days. On these days you
will find pleasant conditions,and if you use magnetism you can put
over big deal3 easily. . ' •
• ’j f
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of the
month. These are days to beware of false promises and false friends.
Use the power of concentration on any problem which seems difficult
and you will succeed in solving it.
NOVEMBER
This month your ruling powers enter the plane of the elements
and favor combinations, marriage and social engagements. This month
also favors the study of Mind Science for self improvement. As the
year is about to draw to a close, you should prepare for a better
year with proper self-culture.
Divine healing is also favored this month, and if you are
interested in this wonderful art which Jesus taught you can succeed
well this month.
Your positive days are the 4th, 13th and 22nd of the month.
On these days people will favor you in business and will give you
opportunity for profit in deals.
Your negative days are the 5th, 14th and 23rd of the month.
On these days you may feel depressed, but this is only temporary and
you will soon pass on to a better cycle of vibration.
Your birth date is associated with this month in your mind,
therefore you should find harmony and peace during this cycle of
influence,
DECEMBER
And now we come to the end of the year, a year of chaos and
uncertainty, but like the "darkness before the dawn" this year was
b
he doorway to a better era which is just ahead.
11
#0.3.
This month your ruling power enters the senses, favoring
business adjustments, settlements, also beauty and good personal
contact with interesting people. You should make new friends this
month and should find organization events interesting.
Have a Merry Christmas, but remember that few people follow
the teaching of Jesus, while millions celebrate His birth. As you
look into the future, plan to go through the pathway of life
accompanied by the Christ power as revealed in Super Mind Science.
Your positive days are on the 5th, 14th and 23rd of this
month, therefore on the 23rd you should receive very nice Christmas
gifts of value which will please you very much.
Your negative days are the 6th, 15th and 24th of the month.
On these days guard well your temper, as it may be sensitive. Do
not fail to get your Cosmology for 1935, a very interesting year.
Great world events will happen, - be prepared and KNOW. Knowledge
is power.
LIFE’S CHARACTER ANALYSIS
Of all parsons lorn on the 3rd, 12th, 21st and
30th of any month.
This period of influence corresponds Cosmologically to the
ruling planet Jupiter, as taught in Magi Astrology. It is the in­
fluence of the pairs, positive and negative, good and had, etc.
Therefore, your life will be more or less as you see fit to make it.
This influence is romantic and instills love for home life,
family, etc. Your type is good in selling and art work; also in
some mechanical callings, and as business people. You must guard
against restlessness and changeableness, which is common to your type.
Do not let your temper rise, as it is dangerous. Do not act on im­
pulse, act on wisdom. Use your reasoning power to good advantage.
The physique of your typo is usually strong and your health
good. If yours is not, you need but to studyHind Science and all
will be well. "Seek and ye shall find" is anold commandment,
therefore obey it.
MARRIAGE
Your type harmonizes best with those born on the 3rd, 12th,
21st, also on the 1st, 10th and 28th of the months. However,
remember that marriage is a partnership and asacred institution,
therefore only those who consider it as 3uch will be happy.
A month by month general forecast and guide
for all porsons born on the 4th, 13th, 2 2 n d
and 31st of any month.
JANUARY
During this month your railing powers enter the four elements
of Life; Earth, the body; Air, the mind; Fire, the Spirit; and Water,
the soul. In this period you are favored in combinations, partner­
ships, and marriage*
This is the time to get a new partner for your business; to
enter into agreements to improve your living conditions or your homo,
or to beautify your personality.
During this period you will experience monte.1 depression and
morbid thinking. In this you should bo careful as your type is super-
sensitive end easily discouraged. However, you can overcome this neg­
ative condition by trying to be cheerful.
Your positive days in this month are the 4th, loth, 2 2 n d , and
31st. O
i
l these days you can transact business, make new friends, close
contracts, and increase the number of your employees.
Your negative days in this month are the 5th, 14th, and ¿3rd.
On these days your ruling power enters the earth cycle, the lowest of
all cycles. Be careful of enemies and accidents.
FEBRUARY
During this month your ruling powers enter* the cycle of the
physical senses, giving you great power of discrimination and discern­
ment, This influence favors beauty, self-improvement, and general
adjustment in the business world.
You nay find yourself worried over sensations, such as jeal­
ousy and. gossip. In this case keep a calm mind, and do not trust
your feelings; trust only your reasoning power. In this manner- you
•
“
'ill avoid difficulty.
This is a good time to buy new clothes and to improve your
appearance. Finances will be good this month.
Family life is favored by this influence, which belongs to the
nycl© of Venus, goddess of beauty and form. Therefore, any family
iculty can be easily adjusted during this period.
Those days are your success days, and aro good days to make frionds
socially•
Your negative days are the 6th, 15th, and 24th of this month.
These are days on which to watch well what you say, and to be careful
of deals and people.
This month sees your- ruling powers of influence entering the
cycle of Intuition. This gives your Soul great power of cognition,
favoring profit, speculation, and all types of transactions in the
business world.
Be careful during this period not to form intense attachments
to others, sinco they are most often followed by intense sorrow. Bo
careful that your sympathy does not extend too far and cause you
trouble.
During this period you are in an abstract state of mind, there­
fore, you should be careful not to enter into those projects which you
do not thoroughly understand..
Your- positive days are the 6th, 15th, and 24th of the month.
These are days favor-able to various typos of endeavor, provided you
base all your- decisions on concrete facts.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th, and 26th. On those days
you will succeed only if you are careful to consult your inner self.
Listen to the "Voice of the Silence" when it give you impressions and
speaks within you. Remember "that man was made in the image of God",
therefore, he should be ovor ready to do good and manifest God, his
heavenly Father.
This month the ruling powers of your type enter the seventh
sense, intelligence, symbolised by the Soven Golden Candlosticks
found on the religious altars of the world. This cycle being one of
spiritual perfection, tho day on which the Gods rested after all
enterprises related to intelligence.
Your- mind has super-normal powers during this period, therefore
practice Super Mind Science and concentrate on your problems, and you
MARCH
APRIL
Material creation was finished, favors inspiration, education, and all
'
•'ll succeed in all walks of life.
This is the time of mental vision. Make your plans now for
'
~
le future and visualize success, health, and happiness and all wm.
e v
t
f
e
l
l
»
Your positive days are the 7th, 16th and 25th of the month.
On these days close deals, finish transactions, and bring to a close
all plans. These are days of the perfect cycle of development.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
On these days do not do important things unless well advised, as they
are negative to intelligence, judgment and understanding.
MAY
During this period the ruling power of your type axid cycle
enters infinity, leaving your mundane affairs in a difficult position.
This is the "darkness before the dawn", the period of travail and
preparation for the cycle of birth during the next month.
This period represents the world before the birth of the
Messiah, floundering in sin, disease and death, later to be delivered
by the "Illumined One".
This period favors the occult, and you will succeed very well
in any study of this type, provided you are careful to understand
positive principles.
Beware of accidents during this period. Also beware of sudden
changes, in which there is sometimes failure. Do not try to push
large projects. Lay these aside until next month, a more favorable
time.
Your positive days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
On these days you will succeed best.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of the
month. On these days be careful in traveling, crossing streets, and
of your food, to avoid the mis-direction of terrestial forces, which
are short of proper guidance.
JUNE
This is a month for you to push to completion business deals
s
-
f
t
d projects, as strong powers of success operate for you. Your type
being usually domestic, love physical perfection and home life. This
a month that you should bring about this physical perfection.
Your business or work develops best -under your own guidance,
’berefore be ready to accept opportunities that bring to you this
realization.
Wo
Your favorable days are the 9th, 1 8 t h and 27th of this month,
push the business adventures you are interested in to a conclusion on
these days. If you use strong determined will power you will
succeed. They are also the days on which important affairs of life
should be started or brought to a successful ending.
Your adverse days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of the
month. On these days you must beware of business deals of the
sp e c u la tiv e type, as conditions are against you.
During this month you should see more results in business in
general than usual. The results in one's life depend o
r
. good judg­
ment and efforts, and the law of vibration operates only when tIm­
proper amount of physical energy is extended.
JULY
During this period your ruling powers enter the cycle of
birth, growth and development. This brings you new and better oppor­
tunities to succeed in business, health and spiritual unfoldment.
This era favors new projects and all typos of growth and
progress in home life, social life and business.
Symbolically it is a new world, coming forth from its cosmic
matrix, and new powers unfold in living creatures. The troublesome
period is past, and glorious birth crowns the achievement of the
i■
period of travail. This is the time to forge ahead on great
projects. Do not fear failure for the things started this month.
This month your favorable days are the 1st, 10th, 19th and
the 28th. On these days business conditions are very favorable in
ail lines of endeavor.
Your unfavorable or negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd
a*
i
d 31st of the month. On these days you should guard your inter­
ests well, against scandal mongers and dishonest people, who seek
to ruin other's happiness and success through malice, hatred and
envy.
AUGUST
This month your ruling power enters the plane of the
opposites, bringing you in contact with opposite sides of a question;
K-
-
s
o the principle of parenthood and reproduction.
A
This period favors home life, partnership and combinations of
all kinds. You should, therefore, do all things in this sphere of
human activity, as during this period you will succeed well.
Avoid human contention and the accepting of negative ideas,
as during this period one reacts to low extremes as quickly as to
high ideals.
Positive and negative powers which rule this cycle are nec­
essary in order that one goes on toward success, for aLl creations
must come about through this combination. However, the positive
should at all times rule the negative.
Your positive days are the 2nd, 11th, 20th and 29th of this
month. On these days you succeed best.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of the
month. On these days be careful of contention and arguments, as
Cosmology shows difficulty in these planes of human contact.
This period shows your ruling powers entering the cycle of
offspring, favorable to all types of projects where children are con­
cerned, also educational enterprises. Business in general should
prosper in this period, as it aids barter and trade.
This is the time to improve your business or enter new enter­
prises, since it favors all new projects where value is the mental
consideration.
This sycle corresponds to man’s idea of God, reflecting the
three-fold ideas which many call the trinity. Therefore, it is the
cycle of progression and evolution.
Your successful days are the 3rd, 12th, 21st and 30th of this
month. On these days you can transact business, close deals, form
partnerships, etc., successfully.
Cosmology predicts a better time ahead for you, seeing that
m contemplate studying Mind -Science. This will improve your con-
SEPTEMBER
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd of this month. On
these days be careful of business transactions, also duplicity and
triends turning against you.
'■-t'ons in lif3 , giving you confidence in the ’
’
Will of God" which
"'"x ~urms seeming miracles.
OCTOBER
This month your ruling powers enter the four elements, giving
form ation to your plans and shaping your destiny. You are weighed
in the balances of time, but do not be found wanting.
This period favors social conditions, educational conditions,
home and business combinations. Seek therefore, your personal hap­
piness during this month.
When ruling powers are in the cycle of the elements, you can
perform divine healing and reshape your life in accordance with your
high ideals.
Your positive days this month are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and the
31st. On these days the elements of life ohoy you, so concentrate
on health, success and happiness.
Your negative days are on the 5th, 14-th and 23rd of the month.
On these days stormy conditions in your affairs may develop. Ee
careful of accidents and all manner of disturbance.
Keep your mind very calm on these negative days. Remember
that self control is the best demonstration of good character. We
are a3 good as our thoughts, and as had as our thoughts.
NOVEMBER
This month your ruling powers enter the cycle of Venus,
Goddess of beauty and form. This is the realm of the five senses
where we cognize our environment, and learn to solve our problems.
This period favors adjustments of all kinds. It also favors
reaching an under standing of life, truth and being. If you have any
difficulties in human relationship, solve them this month.
This is also an excellent time to improve your home, beautify
jour personality, and improve yourself generally. During this period
your personal magnetism has great power of attraction.
DECEMBER
During this period your ruling powers enter the sixth sense,
Intuition. During this period you are very conscious of the thoughts
of others, therefore he careful not to let your temper rise.
This period favors all forms of occult development and all
forms of spiritual endeavors. It is also an excellent time to per­
form absent treatments and to send good thoughts to others.
This cycle is correspondent to the Christ plane, and during
this time your thoughts will turn to religous and spiritual matters.
A study of Super Mind Science will be most favorable to you at this
time.
Your positive days this month are the 6th, 15th. and 24th.
During these days your vision will be clear on the mental plane, and
your speculative judgment will be good.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
On these days avoid becoming attached to others, and avoid morbid
thinking.
Cosmology says to you, watch your physical affairs and con­
ditions during this cycle of progression, because your ruling powers
are in the invisible.
We are now drawing close to the end of a year of chaos and
turmoil, but yet a year of some progress.
The author wishes you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New
Year, and hopes that you will travel the path into the future 19,75
with Cosmology as your guide.
Cosmologically yours,
Prof. Wm. Estep
*
í
LIFE’S CHARACTER ANALYSIS
For all persons born on the 4th, 13th, 22nd, and
31st of any month.
Your typo are good executives and also good in anatomical or
chemical work. They can also invest in the business world success­
fully. They must, however, guard against being changeable, as they
often give in upon the very verge of success.
Your typo usually have others to care for all their life.
However, many of them orphans and those whom they love pass on, leav­
ing them alone in the world. They are usually popular and well liked,
and succeed socially. In ancient astrology they are known as the Sun
type, illuminating other lives. Creating and uplifting others is
their trait.
Your type should not enter a traveling business as you are
lovers of homo and succeed better where more settled. They also need
a positive person as a companion.
MARRIAGE
The best union for your typo would be with thoso born on the
1st, 10th, 5th, 14th, or 23rd of any month, as they find in those
types good positive companionship, and one who will aid them in their
projects. ’
While these types are most harmonious to you, you must
renorabor that marriage is a partnership, not an ownership and it can
be successfully entered into with other types if one uses good
judgment.
A General Cosm51ogy,Forecast For All Persons *
Born On The 5th, 14th and 23rd of any month.
1934
JANUARY
Daring this period we start a now your and the ruling influence
of your type enters the realm of the physical senses. Therefore,
education, social contacts, and family life are favored.
Financial difficulties arise between the 1st and 10th, but you
will overcome this temporary inconvenience. Your positive days will
favor an adjustment of all of these problems and conditions.
This period favors environment in your personality, home, and
business. Venus, Goddess of beauty is symbolical of this period and
is representative of Utopia or the bettering of conditions in general.
Your positive days are the 5th, 14th and 23rd of the month.
On these days make improvements and settle your obligations*
Your negative days are the 6th, 15th and 24th of the month. On
these days be careful of accidents, arguments and disagreements.
FEBRUARY
During this period your ruling powers enter the intuitive
faculty, favoring investment, speculation, and profit-making. This is
an ideal tine to plan for the future, but be careful about concrete
values, as there may be loss in this field of human endeavor.
Since your ruling powers are in the intuitive center, you
should be careful of attachments, strong likos and dislikes, and mor­
bid thinking.
This is a good time for you to naditate and study, Mind Science,
as your perception is greater now than it is at any other time.
Your positive days are the 6th, 15th and 24th of the month.
On those days decide important issues and do things for your better­
ment.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th and 26th. On those days
--ad books and koep your mind away from trouble and all will go well.
Oo not let your depressed feelings overcome your good juagorient.
Ionember that God 3
.
s Good, and man should be like God, always manx-
-asting Infinite Goodness.
MARCH
During this period you enter an interesting sphere of influ-
v-
°
-
9
r
e your ruling power enters the Cycle of Intelligence, g.vv3mp
--
r
' power over matter. Therefore, during this period you will
me sod -
•n 0
.
3
.
1 work whore you use the power of concentration.
his por
0
f this cycle is
many reli"10ns»
iocl also favors finance and personal gain,
the Seven Goldon Candlesticks found on the
symbolizing porfeetion, Heaven, beauty and
The symbol
altars of
oodnos3
i
n the for-m of spiritual illumination.
Your positive days are the 7th, 16th and 25th of the month,
These are success days and days of achievement financially.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th, and the 26th of the
month. These are days on which to be careful in buying, selling and
contracting.
Cosmology predicts that a new opportunity will come to you the
l
a
t
t
e
r
- part of this month. You should be ready to grasp this opportu­
nity.
APRIL
During this period you will probably experience a disappoint­
ment, but you should remember that our greatest lessons in life cone
from sorrow and disappointment.
The ruling power of your type enters the "Unknown Quantity" of
nature this month, leaving physical affairs unsettled and subject to
sudden unexpected moves. These moves and changes will not all be
detrimental, but some will be.
Your positive days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of tlio month.
On these days you will succeed in all important transactions better
than on other days, therefore, take advantage of them.
Your negative days are the 4th, 15th and 22nd. On tnese days
be csr-fui not to enter into partnership with persons with whom you
are not acquainted.
Cosmology predicts a much better cycle for you next month,
therefore, you may postpone the important events until that tine.
MAY
During this period your ruling powers enter the Cycle of Biith,
growth, and development. It is an excellent time for entering new
fields of work, promotion, and business transactions in general, it
-Iso ideal for forming par-bnerships.
The ruling x^owers being in the cycle of birch, yet1
.
!
- type io
cd by ideal homo conditions. This is the time to £oicm your
Visions regarding the education of any child which may be in your
ca
r
e
.
Your positivo days are the 9th, 18th and 27tli. On theoe d
a
,
.
.
you can succeed well in any line fhvored by the influence of’
this'
cycle, namely new projects, education, and development of ideas.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd, and 31st of the
month. On these days, if you have children in your care, bo careful
of them, as the influence of negation is centered around them. Also
be c a re fu l of all now ideas, projects etc., as these are. days of chaos
in these fields of human endeavor.
JUNE
During this period your ruling powers enter the field and
cycle of creation, and a new cycle begins for your type. Therefore,
turn over a new leaf, be more positive in business transactions, more
determined in your ideas, and all will be well.
This period favors all financial and executive acts which you
will be called upon, to perform, opening a field of development in the
business world.
However-, there is contention in domestic life for- your type
during this period. Be careful of quarrels with your better half, as
this is a time of mental independence, which is unfavorable to
matrimony.
Your positive days are the 1st, 10th, 19th, and 28th. On
these days sign important papers, seek an increase in salary or
collect debts owed to you.
Your- negative days are the 4th, 13th, and 22nd. On those days
be careful of enemies, and do not participate in any type of argument
or dispute.
JULY
During this cyclo your rulin': powers enter the opposites,
favoring creation, family life, marriage, and courtship. It is un­
favorable to emotions, which may keep you mentally upset.
Do not indulge in any outbursts of tamper. Re i
ember th< t mind
control is the most valuable of all human assets, and that condicrons
which are adverse to your- interest often come from uncontrolloo.
©notions.
Your positive days are the 2nd, 11th, 20th, and ¿9th.
(
1
-ays you can do all tyoos of business where bargaining is used,
^ran. on other days this month.
On those
better
~ rth,
Your negative days arc the 4th, 13th, 22nd, and 31st oi the
However, you can transact business on these days provided yn ~
are careful not to enter into ’
contention of any type.
you can succeed better this nonth by practicing concentration
of the mind as taught in Super Mind Science.
AUGUST
During this period your ruling powers enter the cycle of
p ro d u ction . This period favors results in past business ventures and
is an excellent time to collect past debts and to close deals.
This period being a business cycle, you should be more pros­
perous than usual, being ablo to collect money owing to you and having
new opportunities for personal gain.
In the study of Mind Science this influence centers in con­
sciousness, therefore, it favors power of thought, concentration, and
spiritual realisation*
Your positive days are on the 3rd, 12th, 21st unu 30th of the
month. On these days do the most important things connected with your
life, business, and home.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd, and 33.st of the
month. On those days bo careful of all new business enterprises.
You should watch carefully this month to prevent overlooking
good opportunities.
SEPTEMBER
During this period your ruling powers enter the four elements,
earth, air, fire, and water, favoring combinations and all forms of
human relations.
However, this power is negative to storms and elemental
disturbances, therefore, you should not take unnecessary chances of
traveling during stormy weather.
If you are interested in inventions, patents, and improvements,
this is the best time to press forward with promotion and getting
capital.
Your positive days aro the 4th, 13th, and 22nd Oj
. the month.
On these days you can sign agreements, seek a better position, secure
Partners in any enterprise, with success.
0
Your negative days are the 5th, 14th, and 23rd O
a
. tno month.
On these days be careful of jealous enemies ana those who pose as
fmends, but are secretly your enemies.
Remember, Jesus walked on the water and made the elements
n
.
’
p Him, therefore, you can master all troubles this month with
power. * •
OCTOBER
During this period tho ruling power of your type enters the
cycle of the senses, symbolized by Venus, tho Goddess of beauty.
This influence favors all public enterprises, family life, and
finances for your life. It also favors the urge to improve your
personality.
While your ruling power is in this cycle you have good mag­
netic power. Therefore, use it to tho best advantage by seeking new
friends, better business contacts, and also bettor opportunities.
Your positive days are the 5th, 14th, and 83rd of this month,
ideal days for your typo. These days are the most favorable during
this year for business transactions and improvement.
Your negative days arc tho 6th, 15th, and 84th of the month,
/
Do not speculate, as all forms of speculation are negative during
these days.
Cosmology, the Science of the World, predicts much happiness
for you this month if you will sook it. However, one must have a
mind which can forget, in order to be happy,
NOVEMBER
During this period your ruling powers onter the mystic realm
of unseen wisdom, favoring spirituality and all forms of mystic
development. The old systems of religion are failing, so this Cycle
hastens the nev; order.
Your- intuition will be very good in this cycle. You should
study this month the Science of Mind to bo ready for- the bettor year
ahead.
Your positive success days are the 6th, 15th, and 84th of tie
nonth. On theso days you can buy, soil, and seek beuter merges if an
employee, or improve your business if in business for yourself.
This period does not favor courtship and marriage, therefore,
do not be too active in this field. A bettor cycle is ahead for this.
Your negativo days are the 8th, 17th, and ¿.6th oi the month.
On theso days be careful of deals and duplicity on the .arb of others,
ilso examine closely whatever- you buy.
DECEMBER
During this period we see the close of a year which was full
^agedy and all forms of human misery* Father Time mows down many
HI
U ^
AT
a
W
a
'
No. 5
with his s&cfcle and the cur-tain risos on another year in the drama of
Life*
Your rulirg power enters tho realm of intelligence, with
fa v o ra b le influence to all mental problems. You find yourself happy
yet this year has left a longing in your heart, a sadness that the
past is gone; but there is a more glorious future ahead.
The Pounder of Cosmology wishes you a mor-ry Christmas ;
and a
very H&opy New Year, and hopes to illumine your Path of Life with his
predictions for 1935, a very interesting year. Do not forget
Cosmology for 1935, rending tho curtain in twain, revealing your best
days in business, Home Life, and travel.
Your positive da7
fs being your success days arc the 7th, 16th,
and 25th of this month.
The negative days are the 8th, 17th, and 26th, but with a
knowledge of Super Mind Science you may overcome their influence.
Yours for health, happiness and success,
Prof. Wm. Estep,
Pounder of Cosmology.
LIFE *S CHARACTER ANALYSIS
For all parsons born on the 5th,
14th and 23rd of any month.
You are a person with an unusual personality, a real "Venus
Type". You win others easily. You can succeed as manager or execu­
tive in any large business enterprise.
You love beauty, home and the fine things in life. You desire
companionship, and harmonize well with others.
In business, people favor you because they like you, however,
you must treat your friends right if you desire to prosper from this
condition.
You are one who makes a good parent, advisor and helper of
others. In occult work you would be a good speaker, healer and dem­
onstrator of mind power. The feminine type born under the above dates
are good beauty cultur-ists and artists.
MARRIAGE
You harmonise with those born on the 1st, 10th, 4th or 13th of
of any month. You should be very happy in marriage, provided you over­
come poverty. You are one who loves both travel and hone life, there­
fore, you should have wide experience.
1 9 3 4
A General Cosmology forecast for all persons
born on the 6th, 15th, ana 24th of any month.
JANUARY
During this period your type experiences his ruling powers
entering the sixth sense, the plane of intuition. This condition of
influence favors speculation and promotion of every kind, but leaves
you without proper judgment in material affairs. Therefore, in
things which are intangible, you will succeed better than in material
or tangible values.
Your positive days are the 6th, 15th, and 24th. On these days
you will succeed in business transactions and you should be prepared
to accept the opportunity which comes your way at this time.
Your negative days are on the 8th, 17th, and 26th of the
month. On these daysyou can succeed only if you keep your mind alefrt
in the field of human relations. Beware of violent attachments and
intense hatred, as on these negative days you are liable to find
yourself violating the laws of life, truth, and being.
Start the new year right by becoming positive, magnetic, and
successful through a study of Super Mind Science which gives you the
keys to health, happiness, and well-being.
FEBRUARY
During this month your ruling powers enter the reaim of in­
telligence, giving you power to decide important issues, also to bring
your desires into manifestation. This influence brings sxiccess in
pending issues.
The symbol of this poriod is the "Eye that sees all", a
symbol common to Masonry and mystical sciences. This eye is really
symbolical of the mind concentrated and if you understand Mind Science
you can accomplish great things during this period.
Your positive success days are the 7th, 16th, and 25th of the
month* On these days collect debts, settle all types of financial
disputes, and finish all projects which have been awaiting completion.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th, and 26th of the month.
Ou these days you must be careful and not make decisions in great
issues, as your judgment may be poor in the consideration of values.
Til© Science of Cosmology now advices you to develop your- 'will
power, because you are of the invisible plane of life more than the
visible. You can soon do this through understanding Super Mind
Science, which gives you the key to awakening the cells in the will
power center in the brain. This key when practiced gives ono great
mental force and power and ability to manage material affairs.
MARCH
This period is the "darkness bofore the dawn", the tine when
your ruling pov/ers enter the "Unknown quantity" of life, truth, and
being, leaving the visible plane activity without proper’guidance.
During this month use care in travel, finance, and home life.
Keep your mindpositive and will power strong, for this is a time
when you need help and all the mental force you can master.
The influence of this cycle favors mystical practice of all
types, and metaphys <cal science, where the element of mystor is in
manifestation. It also favors education and professional skill
The positive days of this month are the 8th, 17th, and 26th.
On these days you will succeed better than on ordinary days. However,
next month will be more successful for you than this month.
Your negative days are the 4, 15th, ^2nd, and 51st. On these
days accidents in travel are common for your type, so use care in
riding in automobiles, trains, busses, and in crossing streets.
Avoid mental depression. Remember the darkness proceeds tine dawn ana
that the Sun rises in all its glory after the storm.
APRIL
This period is the time when your- ruliig powers enter the
cycle of birth, favoring home life and all enterprises whore develop­
ments manifests, the ideal timo to succeed in now enterprises. This
period giveyou an opportunity to use all your ereat ve faculties in
bringing your fortdost hopns into full realization.
Your positive nays are the 9th, 13th, and 27th of the month.
On uhoso days you can succeed in all forms of aoals and business
transactions. On these days finish all your plans and put tnem into
execution.
Your negative days arc the 4th, loth, and ¿2nd of t.ris month.
On these days be careful of gossip, slander and those things which
**
^ “
\
.V
. . . ...
interfere with your- plans,
Remember that life is just what we make it, and when wo master
ourselves we overcome all our difficulties. The influence of the
cycles obey a Master, but they absolutely rule the uninitiated.
Cosmology predicts a happy ending of this month, with your
affairs in better condition and bettor prospects ahead. So never
prepare for evil, but ever be ready to receive good, and all will be
well with you and yours.
MAY
During this month your ruling powers ontor the plane of mani­
festation and growth, favoring executive ability and the projects
which you desire to promote. You can, therefore, go ahead with ex­
panding your bus.ness, seeking a position, or studying to prepare for
a better calling.
During this tine you can be of great service to humanity,
providing you live an exemplary life, because leadership is easy for
you to assume during this period.
Everyone should bo willing to extend a helping hand to his
brother. You should be ever ready to enter- into a full realization
of the good you can do for others during this cycle.
Your positive days are the 1st, 10th, 19th, and 28th of the
month. On these days you can succeed, woll in all business enterprises.
On these days settle all your difficulties with others, and advance
your interests.
Your negative days this month are the 4th, 13th, 22nd, and
3lst. on these days you will find yourself making mistakes, advising
others wrong, yet unintentionally, for these days are negative to
leadership. Therefore, be care ful of this tendency on these days.
JUNE
During this period your ruling powers enter the plane of
Positive and negative creative force. This influence favors home life,
courtship, and marriage.
In business this cycle favors partnerships, combinations, and
aH forms of co-operation. This is an ideal time to close deals,
^Oa.ieCt debts and form contracts.
Your positive days are on the 2nd, 11th, 20th, and 29th cf the
month* On these days you will succeed best in the field of human
relationship.
Your negative days are on the 4th, 13th, 22nd, and 31st of
the month. On these days avoid arguments and do not participate in
law suits, quarrels or business disputes.
During this month you can brirg forth those things which you
have been planning for some time past. This period favors the growth
and completeness of things planned. Cosmology reveals that you will
have some trouble with a relative this month, but remember that self-
control wins in the long run. Study Mind Science and you can always
have self-control and mental poise.
JULY
This month your ruling powers enter the plane of creative off­
spring. This period favors creative art, designs, and completion of
business agreoments.
This period also favors children, education, music, and
social event. Therefore, you can do things in this field with perfect
confidence of success.
Your positive days are the 3rd, 12th, 21st, and 30th of the
month. On these days complete deals, collect debts and do those tning
which are best for- your interest.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd, and 31st of the
month. On these days you must avoid contention and strife in all its
forms..
The power to create is God's greatest gift to man, symbolized
by this period when the power in this field is greatest. So during
this period your thoughts are creating your destiny more than during
£ny other- period.
For- this reason, guard your thinking well, and do not forget
that Divine Love multiplies and blesses those who exercise its power.
AUGUST
During this period the ruling powers of your type enter the
^ycle op the elements giving you power to combine and draw people
together to assist in your success.
The element of air is symbolical of the mind, therefore, the
Likewise, there is equal power in the element of earth composing your
body, the element of fire your spirit, and the element of water your
soul.
This then is an ideal time to work in many capacities, to find
employment, and to do all types of work relative to success.
Your positive days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd, and 31st of the
month. On these days conclude all busii® ss transactions. During this
period you should uso self-control and mind concentration for the best
results in all business matters.
Your negative days are the 5th, 14th, and 23rd of the month.
During these days be careful of temper, and exercise good judgment in
all things, and you will prosper.
SEPTEMBER
During this period your ruling; pov/ors enter the plane of Venus
goddess of beauty. However, this is symbolical and not literal, for
Cosmology discerns the cycles and is not connected with astrology in
any way.
This period favors Utopia and gives forth an urge for you to
improve your talents and appearance. You are by nature well liked and
impressive, therefore, this period enhances youi' natural advantages,
giving you power to make friends, good business contacts, etc.
Your positive days are the 5th, 14th, and 23rd of the month.
On these days you will be energetic and magnetic, and have groat power;
of discernment, foresight, and mental skill.
Your negative days are the 6th, 15th, and 24th of the month.
On these days be cheerful, meet everyone with a smile, do not argue.
Keep your mind calm, serene, and blissful and all will be well.
You have the quality in your make-up to either make or break
your personality, so beware that you do not use your powers wrong.
OCTOBER
During this period your ruling powers onter the Intuitive
Gyole, symbolized by the planet Mercury. In this cycle you are
favored by good judgment.
You can see values well in this period, therefore, you will
succeed in all commercial transactions, providing you concentrate
you are natur-ally intuitive, have a pleasing personality and
(
r
o
o
d nature* You are naturally a good manager, therefore, during this
cycle success should come to you very easily.
Your positive days are on the 6th, 15th, and 24th of the
month. During this period you will make friends easily, close deals,
and collect debts.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th, and 26th of the month.
On these days you can succeed well, provided you do not get dis­
couraged and give in to the negative influence ruling this cycle. The
trials of negative days permit one to learn life's lessons, for wisdom
is born in adversity and only one who has suffered can aid those who
suffer.
NOVEMBER
During this period your ruling powers enter the cycle of
intelligence, symbolized by the spiritual power of the Moon Cycle.
This period favors study, self-culture, and finances. During this
cycle you can study and improve yourself.
During this period you must take care to have normal rest,
since your mind is very act ..ve and you are ambitious. You are
naturally speculative and may sometime in your life speculate with
fair success.
Your positive days are on the 7th, 16th, and 25th of the
month. On these days you can secure a position, improve business
conditions and collect debts.
Your negative days this month arc on the 8th, 17th, and 26th*
On these days keep your thoughts positive and do not do important
things too quickly. Think thorn over and postpone them until the next
day and you will do better.
Remember that self-oonfidence is necessary to success, so
cultivate this mental attitude and study Super Mind Science during
this month, and. you will be very happy.
DECEMBER
This month ends another year, a year of chaos, disturbance,
and uncertainty. This year was another link in Father Time's endless
chain. Now that it is passed, excepting this month, we look forward
No. 6
Cosmology, which the author hopes you will secure.
This period, is a tine of normal activity, favoring mystic
development. Your ruling powers enter the "Unknown Quantity" of life.
Business is not favored, by this influence, however, you can do well if
vou are a mind scientist.
nd forget your troubles.
Your positive days are the 8th, 17th, and 26th, showing a
good Christmas and good business conditions close to tho holidays.
these days bo careful whilo riding in automobiles, on trains, and
corssing streets etc., as accidents are common to your typo on those
days. However, they can be avoided if you exercise care.
The author wishes you a Merry Christmas and a Happy Nov; Year,
Yours for health, happiness and success,
fch
No. 6
LIFE'S CHARACTER ANALYSIS
For all persons born on the 6th, 15th,
and 24th of any month.
Your are secretive by nature, love quiet contemplative thinking
you have extreme likes and dislikes, which you should try to overcome,
you love companionship and arc fond of those you become attached to.
you are also good in speculation and financos.
You serve others well, love to please them, and do for thorn,
but very often you are not appreciated. You are naturally independent
by nature.
TALENT
You can do any work where calcuation and contacting people is
used. You can sell, buy, and direct employees well. Your spiritual
talent is teaching, and you could succeed in public speaking.
MARRIAGE
You harmonzie best with those born on the 5th, 14th, and 23rd
of any month, because they are neat and have good appearance, which
you admire.
TRAVEL
You love travel, but do not like to travel alone, yet you also
love home life. You will travel, however, and soe foreign lands dur­
ing your life. You suffer financial reverses when you change location
of your residence, but a change of environment is good for you in many
other respects.
A GENERAL COSMOLOGICAL FORECAST AND MONTH TO
MONTH GUIDE
No. 7.
For all persons born on the 7th, 16th and
25th of any month.
1 9 3 4.
JANUARY
During this cycle we open a new year and you are again going
to have the opportunity to do great things in life. This period
favors intelligence, education and financial gains.
This year you should have better health than last year, but
be careful of undue exposure to the elements.
Your positive days this month are the 7th, 16th and the 25th.
On these days you can solve difficult problems, and will get good
ideas on how to become prosperous. So go right ahead with all your
business plans.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
On these days you cannot make as good decisions as on other days;
they are "off days", but you can go smiling through and all will be
well.
your life will confront you this year. Therefore, be mentally pre­
pared to meet the crisis and all will be well. You are very in-
Cosmology predicts that one of the most important issues in
dependent by nature, having your own ideas, but sometimes it is well
to take sound advice.
FEBRUARY
During this month your ruling powers enter the cycle of the
Infinite, leaving mundane affairs rather turbulent. Be careful of
y°ar health this month, as this influence sometimes leaves the body
°pon to the attack of germs and microbes.
Your positive days ahe the 8th, 17th and 26th this month.
°n ^ ese days perform important transactions and close deals. You
succeed in these undertakings.
•
>
• T
-----------—
£
No.'7.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th and 22nd of this month.
On these days do not close important deals and transactions.
You are naturally sympathetic, inspirational, and a good
constructive thinker as a humanitarian, therefore, use these natural
attributes and you will find success comes to you.
Avoid morbid thinking at intervals, and all types of dis­
couragement, as this will soon cause you unhappiness. One should
know that we become what we think we are. Therefore, think your­
self into a high position, happiness and health. Concentrated
thoughts are powerful and productive.
MARCH
During this month your ruling powers enter the cycle of
birth, favoring new projects and new business ventures.
Therefore, if you have any plans for your financial better­
ment, push them forward. Remember that self confidence is the power
behind the throne in human achievement, and if you possess that
mental quality you will succeed during this month very well.
Your positive days are on the 9th, 18th and 27th of the
month. On these days you will be able to collect debts, make
business adjustments, and advance with your plans for more fin­
ancial advantages.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of the
month. On these days do not engage in important deals; postpone
them until the next day.
This month you will succeed better in finances, home life,
and business in general, better than you did last month.
Use your personal magnetic power this month to build your
success, health and happiness, and all will be well. This is the
advice of Cosmology.
APRIL
During this period your ruling powers enter the cycle of
creation on the plane of Saturn, the influence of birth and destiny.
■
f
t this period you can successfully complete all business con­
ations whir.h effect your life and destiny. _______________
This is the time to pay up life insurance, improve your
home, plaii to lay aside a little money for later years, and look into
the future.
Your positive days are the 1st, 10th, 19th and 28th of the
month. On these days close important deals, seek new positions, and
plan your family life, for they are days on which deeds committed
hear on your future life.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th and 22nd of this month.
On these days people may he false to you, show jealousy regarding
your success, and do things which are hard for you to understand,
but have confidence and know that G-od is Good and that no harm can
come to you if you are good or godly.
Keep your mind calm by locking on the best side of every
issue, for you think yourself into the state of mind which creates
the condition thought of, for life is mind and mind is life.
MAY
During this period your ruling powers operate on the plane
cf positive and negative, symbolized by the influence of Jupiter.
You must avoid contention during this period.
This influence favors all types of combinations in the
business world. It favors marriage, courtship and family life in
general on the domestic plane.
During this period you can bring to a close pending issues,
engage in business transactions, make changes in the home, in which
endeavors success is predicted.
Your positive days are on the 2nd, 11th, 20th and 29th of
the month. On these days you will meet friends whom you have not
seen for some time. These are ideal days for social events.
Your negative days this month are on the 4th, 13th, 22nd and
31st. On these days you will experience feelings of depression, but
remember that life is the way we think about it. Avoid morbid
thinking, keep smiling, let your positive nature rule, and all will
be well.
Cosmology can advise you, but you must carry the advice into
action. Your destiny is in your own hands, and Cosmology assists
y°u in understanding the cycles which effect you.
No. 7.
JUNE
During this period your ruling power enters the cycle of
reproduction and off-spring, favoring all affairs where children,
education and social activity are concerned.
This is also the end of a business cycle. This means that
you should complete sales» deals, and partnerships, seek a better
position and advance generally toward success and happiness.
Your positive days are the 3rd, ISth, 21st and 30th of the
month. On these days you can bring all issues to a point favorably,
as this is the time to finish all pending issues.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, and 22nd of the month.
On these days do not argue or strain your relations with ethers, as
the power of this cycle is adverse to human contact on negative days.
You are naturally sympathetic and strive for the best in life.
We find many of your type in spiritual work, such as lecturing and
teaching. They are deep thinkers and love to explore the invisible
as well as the visible world. This is the great redeeming power in
the mind of your type.
JULY
During this period your ruling powers enter the cycle of the
elements of earth, air, fire and water. This period favors all
forms of combinations, changes and journeys.
If you have in mind forming a partnership, this is the ideal
time to consummate all such deals. This is also the time to enter
into new projects, provided you exercise good judgment.
The elements when controlled, can be made to obey your
Divine Will and produce health, happiness and harmony. When not
controlled, these same elements produce disease, and all manner of
disturbance. You should study Super Mind Science in order to under­
stand the scientific way to control these elements.
Your positive days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of the
m-nth. On these days perform important transactions, receive com-
Pany and visit social functions.
No. 7»
Your negative days are the 5th, 14th and 23rd of the month.
On these days beware of turbulent mental conditions, as the elements
are disturbed by a negative but unsettled condition. Remember, these
elements compose your mind, body and soul, therefore on these days do
not let your mind become disturbed.
AUGUST
During this month your ruling powers enter the cycle of the
senses, favoring finances, public enterprises and personal contacts.
You can enter with confidence any field where these activities are
the issue.
The influence of the powers in this cycle are favorable to
creating beauty, and for that reason are symbolized by Venus, Goddess
of beauty, form and grace. This time is a good time to improve your
homo, surroundings, personal appearance, etc.
Your positive days are the 5th, 14th and 23rd of this month.
These days favor business transactions, getting new positions, journey,
and social conditions, therefore are generally good.
Your negative days are on the 6th, 1.5th and the 24th of the
month. On these days you can be successful only if you exercise
extreme care.
Your personality being magnetic, you should make friends this
month and be very successful in many enterprises, provided your con­
centrate on those things which you desire.
SEPTEMBER
During this period your ruling powers enter the sixth sense,
the cycle of Intuition. This influence favors speculation and all
forms of chance taking, provided you exercise good reasoning power.
This time is excellent for spiritual study and mental re­
flection. This is a time when you can accomplish much in the field
°f metaphysics. Your type craves spiritual wisdom and this is a favor-
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
On these days you may feel discouraged, hut he brave and courageous
and all will he well.
This month you should meet someone who will greatly assist
you in the future. You will prohahly hear of the sickness of a
relative this month, hut do not let this disturb you.
This month you will he more serious minded than usual, and
more reluctant to express yourself. However, you can succeed better
of you do express yourself more than you feel like doing, as this
develops self confidence.
OCTOBER
During this cycle your ruling powers enter the plane of
Intelligence, favoring education, finance and social conditions. In
business it favors wealth.
During this month collect debts and conduct all your business
in which there is profit. This time also favors sales and all types
of transactions.
If you desire to ask for an increase in salary, this month is
ideal for that, as these ruling powers favor all such moves to better
one’s self financially.
Your positive days are the 7th, 16th and 25th of the month.
These days are good for financial and business matters.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
On these days be careful in buying, cashing checks, and dealing with
money.
Success is something every one desires, but very few attain,
because so few pay the price of success. Devotion to some work in
which you can enter with mind, body and soul is necessary in order
that your mind may have a goal to attain to, for a mind without a
goal ig like a ship without a rudder.
NOVEMBER
During this month your ruling powers enter the cycle of
Infinity, leaving you without proper guidance physically, but favor­
ing deep spiritual and abstract wisdom. It is an ideal time to give
- V n¡/¡
r
:
1
Your nature craves to solve mysteries and to understand human
existence, therefore this is a time to satisfy that desire.
This period favors inspiration and understanding of the soul
plane, also writing, art and drama. It is a good time to relax from
strenuous business activity and meditate on God and good.
Your positive days are on the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
On these days do your most important business transactions.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th and 22nd of the month.
On these days you may feel despondent and out of sorts. This is the
time to use Super Mind Science and be positive, for next month will
be a better cycle for you.
DECEMBER
During this time your ruling power enters the cycle of birth
and brings forth a favorable time to enter into new projects and to
build up a business to a more profitable condition. However, this
being the last month of the year the incentive to take advantage of
this influence may be lacking.
The author predicts that you will have a Merry Christmas and
a Happy New Year and wishes you many returns of the Season. He hopes
you tread the path of time next year accompanied by Cosmology.
Your positive days are the 9th, 18th and 27th of the month.
On these days you will probably receive and contact friends and hear
of a new business enterprise for the coming year.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of the
month. On these days you will be subject to the influence of others,
therefore be careful of that which you enter into in the business
world. 1935 will be a very interesting year in science, politics,
religion and human affairs. Do not forget to get your 1935 Cos-
mology to guide you through the year.
Yours for Success,
The author.
LIFE’S CHARACTER ANALYSIS
For all persons Lorn on the 7th, 16th and 25th of any month.
You are original in ideas. You are a free thinker, preferring
always to follow the still small voice within, which is your source
of comfort. You are good in executive and financial positions.
In educational fields you have teaching and speaking ability,
but you need a good leader to bring out your talent.
Your psychic and spiritual powers fit you for thought and
character reading, which you should study, as "practice makes per­
fect".
You love travel and companionship. You do well when work­
ing with others. Alone you are likely to feel lonesome and lose
interest in the issues at hand.
The Science of Mind should appeal to you, as most of your
type are very interested in it and many are teachers.
MARRIAGE
You harmonize in marriage best with those born on the 1st,
10th, 19th and 28th of any month. However, this does not mean you
cannot succeed with other typos, for you can agree with others if
you really try to, and use your natural inspirational powers.
t
k* TRAVEL
You love travel and will probably see many countries during
your life time
A GENERAL COSMOLOGICAL FORECAST AND MONTH
TO MONTH GUIDE
For all persona born on the 8th, 17th
and 26th of any month.
1 9 3 4.
JANUARY
During this month your ruling power enters the "Infinite
Quantity" in life, which is also the plane of the emotions. This .
power favors music, drama, and all forms of entertainment, also social
contacts. However, this influence is negative in the business world,
meaning it is unfavorable to business projects and deals.
Your favorable days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
On these days collect debts, close contracts, and do those things most
important.
Concentration of your mind on prosperity will assist you much
this month, therefore you should practice Super Mind Science. With
your natural spiritual powers and the techniques it teaches, you can
overcome much of the negative condition during this month.
Your negative days are on the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of the
month. On these days you will need to use care in all important
business transactions.
You will be inclined to be moody this month, so avoid morbid
thinking and keep your mind calm. A better cycle for your material
affairs will come next month, so do not be discouraged over seeming
reverses. Your type usually wins in the battle of life.
FEBRUARY
During this month your ruling powers enter the earth cycle,
favoring all new projects, and also material prosperity. During this
time you should sell, buy, collect money, or seek deals related to
prosperity. Use your personal magnetism to succeed and this will
prove a prosperous month for you.
Your positive days are the 9th, 18th and 27th of the month.
On these days opportunities will come to you to improve conditions.
Be alert and see them, for they may never come again.
This period also favors all affairs where children are con­
cerned. Motherhood is favored, since the influence of motherhood
Your unfavorable days are the 4th, 13th and 22nd of this
Beware of being cheated in business. Do not sign papers without close •
examination, as you may find later on that you have made a serious
mistake.
During this month plan for the future, as this is the time to
sow mental seeds for prosperity, health and success.
During this month your ruling powers enter the cycle of cre­
ation, God and mind power, the symbol of which is Saturn. This in­
fluence favors all new projects and is constructive, provided you take
advantage of your opportunities.
This is also the time to plan an education for your child if
you are a parent. It is also an ideal time to plan on any subject
which includes self control and powers of the mind effecting one’s
destiny.
Your favorable days are the 1st, 10th, 19th and 28th of the
month. On these days you can succeed better than on any other, there­
fore this is an ideal time to transact your most important business,
and to put into operation your new plans and ideas.
Your unfavorable days are the 4th, ,13th, 22nd and 31st of the
month. On these days you are subject to despondency and mental de­
pression, therefore, be careful to go smiling through.
Remember, that no harm comes to a good person and the hand of
fate rules only those negative mortals who permit it to rule them.
The practice of concentration on God within you will guide you
through this cycle to perfect success. Learn to listen to the "still
small voice within" for advice when in trouble, and all will go well.
MARCH
APRIL
During this month your ruling powers enter the cycle of cre-
ation, which is also the cycle of the opposites in Nature. This in­
fluence favors marriage, business, partnerships and combinations.
However, many people may oppose you, but do not let them discourage
y°u. Be sure you are right, then go ahead.
No. 3
This is an id ea l time to do those things you have been postponing,.
This is also an ideal time to pay debts, as this period is progressive,
favoring all things which are developing, bringing all your new ideas into
maturity.
Your p o sitiv e days are the 2nd, 11th , 20th, and 29th o f the month.
O
n these days close deals and do a l l things favored th is month»
Your negative days are the 4th , 13th, and 22nd o f th is month. On
these days you must be ca refu l o f arguments, and a l l types o f contention,
as they are very negative in human relatio n sh ip .
You are a person who possesses great magnetic power. Through a study
of mind science you can m anifest your hidden powers, and use your power to
overcome any apparent troub le on these negative days.
M
AY
During th is time you can succeed w ell in business, because your rulin g
powers enter the cycle o f reproduction, favoring growth, promotion and expansion
in the business w orld. Therefore, take advantage o f th is influence by improving
your business, or seeking a new or higher p o sitio n , as the case may be.
Your favorab le days are the 3rd, 12th, 21st and 30th o f the month. On
these d$ys you w ill be favored in almost a l l business transacted^
Your negative days are the 4th , 13th , 22nd and 31st of the month. On
these thys you can do a l l types o f minor or regular transactions, but you are
advised to postpone the major or greater a c tiv it ie s .
This month you w ill fe e l lik e dropping everything and going fo r a
trip , but conditions w ill not favo r the journey. Therefore, you w ill in a l l
probability postpone the t r i p u n til a more favorable time.
Your m ystical powers seek expression th is month. During th is period
you w ill fe e l the urge to teach and help mankind. For th is is the urge common
to your type. You should prepare yo u rself to do great work, fo r our li f e re a lly
belongs to the service o f God.
JUNE
This period your ru lin g powers onter the cycle o f the elements which
trings rad ical changes and threatening conditions. Yet i t favors finance,
change and fam ily l i f e . During th is month be ca refu l to guard your temper
well
•
1
No.8.
Your positive days are the 4th, 13th and 2£nd. On these days
re c e iv e callers, conduct social affairs and press forward in business
agreem ents and combinations. All of th e s e are under a progressive in­
flu en ce, since the magnetic body of your type is more vibratory. How­
ever, the disturbing elements of the sub-mundane world also manifest
and you can succeed only through self control.
Your unfavorable days are the 5th, 14th and 23rd of the month.
On these days be careful of sudden impulses. Also be careful of ar­
guments and disputes, as you are subject to lose in these things on
these days.
JULY
The ruling power operating for you enters the cycle governing
the physical senses, art, and beauty. Conditions seem to present
many difficulties to you, but they can be solved if you keep your mind
positive and creative. Due to the lack of stability it is prophesied
that ycur home life will be disturbed and your business unsettled.
This month favors the beautifying of your home, the purchase of
new things and improving all appearances. It is also a good time to
study and improve yourself.
Your favorable days are the 5th, 14th and 23rd of the month.
These days favor deals, investments and human relationship. Make all
necessary changes if possible on these dates. The entire month should
be one of improvements. You should also meet during this month, those
who should contribute to your success.
Your negative days are the 6th, 15th and 24th of the month.
These are days to avoid signing important papers or to enter into new
business.
You should avoid becoming discouraged, morpse and sad. These
morbid states of mind have an ill effect on the body if allowed to
manifest, but you can overcome them if you will to. Be alert to all
good by keeping your mind on truth.
When these states of mental depression come upon you, place
your mind on something cheerful, - get out into the air and sunshine,
0r read a book embodying some powerful, constructive philosophy and
y°u will find you will soon overcome them.
The thought forms of every person are constantly being clothed
in materiality because mind rules matter. Therefore, you should re­
lea se only thoughts of power, health and success, for all thoughts
return to their creator through the fourth dimension of mind, as mind
vibrates in a circle.
AUGUST
This period finds your ruling powers entering the cycle of
Intuition where your perception becomes greater. Therefore, you can
speculate and do those things which improve your future. You can also
pay debts and collect money, as this time favors finances.
This period is a time when you are liable to become attached
to people and become sad when having to separate from them. You
should remember that you have a sensitive nature, which means you suf­
fer easily, therefore, be careful of attachments at this time.
Your positive days are the 6th, 15th and 24th of the month.
On these days you can build for the future, engage in social affairs,
and do educational work in many fields of endeavor.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
These are days on which to avoid despondent ideas, as your thoughts
are powerful to affect your destiny. These are days which will also
be adverse to human relationship. For that reason,avoid arguments and
all forms of contention.
SEPTEMBER
This is a period of enlightenment, and your ruling powers enter
the seventh sense, the cycle of Intelligence. This is also the cycle
of spiritual perfection.
This cycle of spiritual perfection favors all forms of spirit­
ual study and growth. In material affairs it favors the highest
aspirations and wealth. This is an ideal time for you to put forward
your ideas of self improvement and spiritual wisdom. Study, meditate
and improve yourself, as you will get the best results at this time.
Your positive days are the 7th, 16th and 25th of the month.
0n ^ese days you will succeed in all types of business transactions,
therefore, plan to do those things most important to you.
Your negative days are on the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
On these days be careful of contracts, business deals and trouble wher
you work if employed. Keep your mind positive and all will be well.
You can accomplish much this month through the power of con­
centration if you will only try. Study your mind and its unlimited
powers and great will be your unfoldment.
OCTOBER
During this month you enter the mystical cycle of infinity,
which is the cycle preceding the end of a great cycle. During this
period your ruling powers enter the incomprehensible and mysterious
realm of being. Be careful of sudden decisions and sudden ideas, as
this period is adverse to these activities.
Your positive days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of this month,
days when you harmonize with the ruling powers. These days favor all
your interests.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of the
month. As you know, you are a person who has experienced great hard­
ships, therefore on these negative days be especially careful, watch
your movements in traveling on trains, in cars, and in crossing
streets.
You will experience great mental depression this month, but
you should remember that darkness always preceds the dawn. There
are better times ahead and you can look forward with pleasure to the
ending of the great cycle next month.
NOVEMBER
During this month you begin to end the great cycle, and this
period favors birth, growth, development and all forms of progress.
At this time you can do great things, provided you possess self con­
fidence .
Your positive days are the 9th, 18th and 27th of the month.
On these days you should transact all important business, seek a
tetter position, enter partnerships and solve difficulties.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th and 22nd of this month.
On these days mental and physical disturbances are possible, as your
nuling power passes through the cycle of the elements through re­
capitulation, causing disturbing conditions.
No. 8,
You are now doing better in business than you did last month
and you find people more agreeable than last month. Take advantage
of this opportunity and do all things which you have been postponing
for a long time.
You are looking forward to better times, so do not be dis­
couraged. Anyone can give up, but a real person holds on and con­
quers adversity. God loves a conquerer, or as John,the Divine says,
"Blessed are they who overcomoth".
DECEMBER
This month closes a year of chaos and we prepare for the end
of a great universal cycle during the coming year. You must now pre­
pare for the prophecy written in the Great Pyramid "that economic
conditions existing on a selfish basis pass through their last
evolution", and there is but one year more of the present order of
things. Then the entire world is to be shaken by revelations unknown
at this time.
During this month we celebrate the birth of Christ, but how
few follow Him in doing His works. The author wishes you a Merry
Christmas and a Happy New Year and hopes you tread the pathway of
time next year with Cosmology as your faithful guide. Remember,
"coming events cast their shadows before them" and it is well to be
informed.
Your positive days are the 1st, 10th, 19th and 28th of this
month. On these days plan your success and transact important
business.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th and £2nd of the month.
On these days do not be led and influenced by others; read your
character analysis in the last part of this forecast. Now the
author bids you farewell until 1935.
Co snologically yours,
Prof. Wm. Estep
No.
LIFE’S CHARACTER ANALYSIS
For all persons born on the 8th, 17th,
and 26th of any month.
You are an idealist. You love to contemplate the mysterious
and invisible powers of life. You would do well in spiritual work
where devotion would be the keynote of your success.
appreciate it. You are devoted in family life, a great student, and
one of the prophetic types of mind.
educational or religous field. You must be careful of being in­
fluenced by others.
MARRIAGE
You harmonize best with those born on the 2nd, 4th, 11th,
13th, 20th and 22nd of any month, yet you can adapt yourself to other
companionship also, such as those born on the 1st, 10th, 19th and
wait for results and not jump at conclusions. You could be a genius
if you really found your vocation. You must work for an ideal and
not for money.
You often do much for others, only to have them fail to
You could teach, lecture and demonstrate in either an
28th of the month
TRAVEL
Your type are usually very good travelers and see much of
the world.
WEAKNESS
You are tempermental and impatient. You should learn to
A GENERAL MONTH TO MONTH GUIDE AND
COSMOLOGICAL FORECAST
For all persons born on the 9th, 18th
and 27th of any month.
1 9 3 4.
\
4
JANUARY
This month you start to live through a year which will be
unique in history for the sudden epidemics and destructive conditions
throughout the world.
Your ruling powers enter the plane of birth and manifestation,
favoring the promotion of new ideas, securing a new position, build­
ing up your business, etc.
Your positive days are the 9th, 18th and 27th of this month.
On these days you can succeed well in almost any type of business,
but you are favored in new projects, inventions, and promotion.
Your negative days this month are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and
31st. On these days be conservative and do not speculate or make
changes.
Success is a mental condition, therefore, during this year
of universal chaos, it will be well for you to study Super Mind •
Science and be prepared for that which is ahead.
FEBRUARY
During this month your ruling influence enters a new cycle
and you enter the field of growth, development and leadership. You
can succeed well in many endeavors, but are favored in social and
family life. This is a favorable time to make changes in business,
and is exceptionally good for making and putting into operation new
Plans in all walks of life.
Concentrate to know what to do and when to do it and you will
§et along fine. Do not do things while in a mental enthusiastic
state without having given proper consideration and understanding.
Your favorable days on the 1st, 10th, 19th and 28th of the
m°nth. on these days you will be successful and happy, provided you
se your mind in a manner conducive to success.
Your unfavorable days are the 4th, 13th and 22nd of the month
On these days be careful about being easy in your business deals,
¿.void contention, for if you do not some of your plans for the future
will be interrupted.
You should hear good news from a distance this month, and
also learn of a new way to progress financially, as the cycle of the
month favors this condition. "Seek and ye shall find" is a true
maxim, so this month you should seek a way out of your difficulties.
MARCH
This month the ruling power of your cycle enters the sphere
of opposites, such as positive and negative, mother and father, good
and bad, etc. On this plane of mind action you are favored in all
combinations, partnerships, marriage and courtship. You are also
favored in social endeavors and in educational fields.
If you are a parent, this is an ideal time to plan the
education of your child and to improve your family relationship if it
has been strained.
Your positive days are the 2nd, 11th, 20th and 29th of the
month. On these days conclude agreements and do all things necessary
for your progress.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of the
month. On these days you will be subject to having quarrels and
disturbances, therefore hold your peace. Do not argue, keep smiling
and all will be well.
Mind rules matter. This month you should plan well to over­
come troubles through mind power and attain peace. If you study
Mind Science you can overcome many difficulties. Finances will soon
improve for you and you will have a better year than you now think,
so prepare to take advantage of all good opportunities.
APRIL
This month Cosmology locates your ruling powers in the
trinity, and finds your affairs on the plane of production, while
you also enter a favorable business cycle. This cycle favors off­
spring in family life, branching out in the business world, making
Lt favorable to enlarge, increase or expand your business.
No.9
Your patience will be tried in many ways this month, but do
not give up, go on to success. A quitter never succeeds, do not be
a weakling, manifest power and magnetism and you will succeed.
Your positive days are the 3rd, 12th, 21st and 30th of this
month. On these days you will be favored in deals, in the payment of
debts and in collecting money.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th and 22nd of the month.
On these days be careful of children if you have any in year care.
Also be careful of dissatisfaction in the business world.
You should study self control, for it seems the lot of your
type to have to mother someone, having to care for his interest, in
various periods of life, but many times these people whom you have
helped forget your goodness. Keep your mind calm, be careful of
attachments with other people, and in marriage let your mind rather
than your iieart rule your decision, as that is a fault common to
your type.
M Y
This month brings a period of uncertainty for you. Your
ruling powers enter the elements of Nature, which brings a disturbing
influence in all affairs, yet you can control this condition through
your mind power, even as Christ calmed the raging elements.
Your positive days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of the
month. On these days you are favored in business combinations,
partnerships and friendship.
Your negative days are the 5th, 14th and 23rd of the month.
On these days do not let your temper rise, or do not be disturbed by
anY conflicting reports you may receive.
You are a type that sorrows easily, therefore be careful of
morbid thinking. Do not expect difficulties, because your mind
power can produce that which you fear, and sometimes creates that
which you visualize while in a negative mental state or condition.
In other words, as ye think so ye become.
This month you will feel ambitous and will desire to enter
n^w fields to increase your income. Go on and carry out this mental
and you will succeed.
JUNE
This month your ruling powers enter the sphere of the physical
senses and of Venus, Goddess of beauty. This is a favorable time to
improve your home, your surroundings, your personal appoarance and to
do those things which are best for your interest.
Your positive days are the 5th, 14th and 23rd of the month.
On these days you are favored in buying, selling, bargaining, and in
work which conoerns the public. You should make valuable friends on
these positive success days.
Your negative days are the 6th, 15th and 24th of the month.
On these days you will feel depressed and discouraged, but remember
4
this is a mental condition, not a physical reality.
Cosmology sees you favored this month in opportunities and
better working conditions. You must realize these good things are
natural for you to have this month, therefore it is not supernatural
or unnatural that they should come to you. You are urged to be alert
to take advantage of these opportunities, for they may pass you by
quickly.
/
JULY
Your ruling powers enter the sphere of intuition and
mysticism. During this time your ability to see into the hidden
motives of people is increased. Your power to discern the future is
also increased.
This condition of influence is such that it offers you an
opportunity to prepare for the future. It influences you tp per­
ceive your future and thus increase your business, change position,
and generally improve conditions in your life.
Your positive days are the 6th, 15th and 24th of the month.
On these days you should do all those things pertaining to real
estate, life insurance, etc., which have a bearing on your future.
Disturbed conditions in various parts of the world exert an
influence of mental depression. You should keep yourself positive
and avoid being a part of this condition.
Your unfavorable days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
On these days be careful of accidents in traffic and sudden moves of
your body, as there is a bad combination of cycles for your type at
h
* ' AUGUST
t
This period brings you a favorable combination of mind power.
Your ruling powers enter the seventh sense, Intelligence, favoring
wealth, spiritual power and all forms of progress. At this time you
can also succeed well in educational endeavors.
Your positive days are on the 7th, 16th and 25th of the month,
On these days you should profit and do well in all types of business
enterprises.
Your negative days are the 8th, 17th and 26th of the month.
On these days your power of discrimination is affected, so do not
enter important agreements and do those things important concerning
your future.
This is a wonderful month to study spiritual teachings, or to
do educational work of any type. You can also succeed socially. You
should get money this month from an unexpected source. This will
assist you to enter some of the activities outlined in this fore­
cast.
World conditions are still upset, special interests are
struggling to control vatious governments. Your type is not affected
by this condition.
SEPTEMBER
I
•
’
1. C
fr
This month you enter a period of dark uncertainty in bus­
iness and domestic life. This is "the darkness before the dawn".
During this time avoid being despondent, avoid morbid thinking and
negative suggestions.
Your positive days are on the 8th, 17th and 26th of the
month. On these days transact important business for the month. Evil
reports may disturb you and you may fail to take advantage of these
¿ays unless you keep this forecast in mind.
Your unfavorable days are on the 4th, 13th and 22nd of the
month. On these days you are subject to fear, inferiority complexes,
and various types of mental depression. So remember to keep your
bead up and keep smiling.
Next month will be a better time for your type, as during
bhis month your ruling powers are manifesting in Infinity, the un­
known "Quantity" of life. This makes it difficult to succeed on the
Physical plane. Keep your mind very positive and do not let people
■
■
■
0vl
e
i
,
P0wer you and all will be well.
v
T
v*
<
Everyone has an "off month" during a cycle and this month is
the off month for you. Guard your health closely, practice Super Mind
Science, control your life energy and you will overcome all obstacles.
OCTOBER
This month opens a better period for you, when the time of
travail is over and the birth of new influences manifest. The ruling
powers are in the cycle of Uranus or the cycle of physical creation.
This is a month to wind up all old business projects and to complete
all plans that have been started.
During this month, complete your social affairs and visit
those whom you have not seen for a long time, as it is a time of
interesting contact with others.
Your positive dajrs are the 9th, 18th and 27th of the month.
On these days adjust finances, collect money, pay debts and seek any
type of aid you may need.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th, 22nd and 31st of this
month. On these days you can do all things necessary to your daily
routine, but do not start new projects or close old ones. Also be
careful of so-called bargains or offers.
Your mental attitude rules' your destiny. Remember that life
can be just what you make it and if you study your mind and learn the
control of your body you can be happy and successful.
NOVEMBER
This month the positive ruling powers prevail for you. You
should be alert to all new conditions and new ways and means of im­
proving your homo life, business and everything which you are interest
ed in. ' ; ' ;
Your ruling powers enter the cycle of production, and the
astral foirces are controlled by your desires. This favors business
Partnerships, new positions and family life. Keep your mind positive,
start your new plans and success will come to you in these fields.
This is one of the best months you will have for some time to sow
Positive seeds of good so as to reap the fruitage of them in the
future•
I
f
month. On these days you should meet new friends, transact new busi­
ness and do things constructive. They are also good days to buy or
sell, barter or trade and to seek new fields of endeavor.
Your negative days are the 4th, 13th and 22nd of the month.
On these days avoid closing deals, entering into new agreements and
adjusting problems*
You can be what you will to be if you know the secret of the
inner self. That secret is available to all who sincerely study the
laws of mind and life and express Truth, Love and Light.
DECEMBER
,
4
<5
This month sees the close of a turbulent year when mob mile
and vicous fits of the mind of the people have been common. Strife
over worldliness has also been common, but a better year is ahead of
you.
i E t r v
This month ushers in the contending forces of right and wrong,
knowledge and belief, each struggling for supremacy. Your type this
month often finds himself in a mental state of confusion unless the
mind is kept in a positive state. Be ready and take hold of the
opportunities that come to you to better your conditions, but be
careful of hasty decisions and hasty judgments. Avoid arguments of
all kinds, r&ther strive for harmony, which can only be attained by
clear reasoning through a controlled mind.
Your positive days are the 2nd, 11th, 20th and 29th of the
month. On these days bring forth your greatest achievements and
creations. Transact your importand business, sign new agreements and
toy and sell.
Your unfavorable days are the 4th, 13th and 22nd of the month.
On these days avoid arguments, contention, and important business
transactions.
This month we celebrate the birth of Jesus, yet how many fol-
low His exalted teachings of spirituality and power for the world.
The author wishes you a Merry Christmas and a Happy Hew Year and hopes
that you go down the pathway of time next year with Cosmology as your
tuithful guide and friend. Get your forecast for 1935. Remember
’
coming events cast their shadows before them”, and it is well to be
warned.
1 v*
7
CYCLES OF LIFE
From
1 to 7 years
7 " 14 "
14 " 21 "
21 " 28 T
T
28 " 35 ,T
35 ” 42 ’
’
42 ’
’ 49 ’
’
Molding of consciousness.
Molding of animal body and passions.
Molding of spiritual consciousness, responsibility,
and attitude toward life in general.
Getting settled in business, period of learning
one’s vocation and becoming efficient.
Success period, but emotions and animal nature
again influence one’s life. Luring this period
one should marry and have a responsibility to
keep his mind engaged, otherwise he may ruin his
life.
A more settled attitude. One should study health
science, and beware of disease and death. This
age is indeed a trying one.
This is the seven times seven cycle. Cne should
be finished with physical labor, and should re­
tire to meditate and study spiritual things.
He should learn dc?p metaphysical philosophy,
practice body and ni^nd control, and prepare in
earnest tc meet his Creator as an illumined
being, full of the vibration of life and being.
After 49 one’s life belongs to Gcd. Ho should
become a teacher of the young and set high ex­
amples of goodness, if ho desires to fulfill
his immortal destiny.
4
STUDY
The year of 1934 should he a year of study. Never in the his­
tory of the w*rld was it more necessary to he informed on political
economy and the markets of the world. Sociological problems are
arising that must be solved, and a great door of opportunity will be
open to those who understand economic conditions and plan accord­
ingly to meet them.
Study should also be given to metaphysical work, as many seem­
ing difficulties can be easily disposed of by the one who knows and
uses the laws given to Us ln the study of Metaphysics.
1934
This is a year of sudden happenings. The ruling pcwer enters
the "Unknown Quantities" of life, leaving the world in a sad plight.
Curtailment of markets and business is caused by government
interference. Disease strikes suddenly, therefore, reader, be pre­
pared through a knowledge of Super Mind Science for this emergency.
Earthquakes in South America, Japan and Italy are predicted,
suddenly» wiping out many lives,
Germany will exchange shots with a border nation, but war will--
be averted.
The dollar will be steady in the exchanges of the world, but
President Roosevelt will make many enemies in trying to aid in an
economical way. He will be misunderstood. Ho will also be very ill
¡luring this year.
Finances in genera.1 will be undependable. Tno depression still
Persists, but 1935 will about see the end of it. Here the author
urges you to secure your copy of Cosmology for 1935, as many very
interesting events a,re prophesied.
C
'
-smologically yours,
Professor Wm. Estep,
World's Foremost Metaphysician,
Founder of Cosmology.
BOOKS FOR SALE
On
Truth, Life, Metaphysics, Philosophy,
Biblical Interpretations, Fealth,
Yepa Teachings, etc.
By
Profess r 'Vm. Estep,
America’s Foremost Psychologist anl Teacher,
The only American ’
’
Mahatma",
Founder of Cosmology;
Founder of Super Mind Science.
5^ oje >•< >,c ;jc >j< M ^ >fc
"How to Develop Mastership"- - .25
"Key to Biblical Mysteries" - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - .25
"The Path of Light" - --------- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ------ _ _ _ _ .50
"Threads cf Wisdom" - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - .50
"Hysterics of God and Man"- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - .50
"Esoteric Evolution"- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 1.00
"The White Prophecy" or Life after Death- - - - - - - - - - - 2.00
"Eternal Wisdom and Fealth"(800 pages of Science and Truth)- - 6.00
Free literature upon request.
Daily concentrations for y ur success, - write us. Love
Offerings accepted.
SUPER MIND SCIENCE PUBLICATIONS,
1614 K St. MW.,
Washington, D.C.
