{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__frater_of_the_rosy_cross___secrets_of_rosicrucians.pdf","mytitle":"Secrets Of Rosicrucians","mylang":"de"}
ecrets of the
K° 5icruci3,r\s
by
)\ prater oj the T^osy Cross,
^ecrets 0/ the
T^05icruciar\s
by
)\ prater oj the T^osy Cross.
FOREWORD.
As this work is written principally for the students of
the Rosicrucran Order, Crotona Fellowship, much of the
subject matter herein may be unfamiliar to those outside
the Order.
Yet to those unacquainted with the subject of
Occultism this little work will introduce the study of that
which has been known and practised for all ages
_
Should any reader wish to further his search into the
subject of Practical Occultism, application through the
1 ublisher will receive consideration.
1
Many are the vexed questions concerning life and
destiny which man would seek to answer. Have I lived this
life on earth before? Does this Life continue after thl
which is called Death? Is Mind and Thought independen
of the human organism? Does man possess highe, L cult
;
es
than those he is m the habit of using day after d y nd
so, how can those faculties be unfolded?
_
Such questions every man of intelligence asks himself
It is the purpose of this work to answer these questions m
of rtl
1
"
P
glCal manner and hl the USht of the experience
01 the -Kosicrucians.
tW
L
Pn
US &'
St
° £
a11 SU1
"
ye>
r
'
briefl
^ the history of
the Rosicrucian Fraternity. The Fraternity owes
its origin to the archaic teachings of the Atlante-ins
who passed on their knowledge to the early Egyplfans
By tradition and m some instances by writiS the
knowledge has been passed on to the presenf'time
fnlrZ
nteTmt
l
h
v
TillS the name Rosicrucian was
founded as such -in Europe during the Medieval Ages and
us purpose was to teach the esoteric side of Christianity
and in addition to promulgate Eastern Mystery Science and
Philosophy in a form adaptable to the minds of European
people.
During the centuries which have elapsed since the
Medieval Age a vast amount of knowledge has been
accumulated, furthermore, the accumulated knowledge has
proved to be practicable. That which could not be applied
to practice has been archived as " Mystery Teaching " and
treated in a manner more philosophic than scientific.
The Rosicrucian Order, Crotona Fellowship, is divided
into two sections : —The Fraternity and the Order.
The Fraternity consists exclusively of Occultists who
have applied to practice the Teachings of the Fraternity
and have satisfied themselves as to the verity of all
Teachings passed down through the centuries. Members of
the Fraternity constitute the Magistii and Adeptii.
The Order or Fellowship is made up of students
devoted to the studies of the Rosicrucians, students who
hope after application and practice of the studies to enter
the Fraternity.
_
In a short work of this description it is not possible to
give in detail the full history of the Fraternity, much
regarding the history has been written by others, and many
of these have forgotten or do not know that the Order does
not advertise itself and that all writings for the outside
world and for the purposes of tradition are written in
symbolic form.
]
Occasionally the Fraternity sends out a work dealing
with its Philosophy or Science for the purpose of enhancing
discoveries made by the layman during any particular
century, but the bulk of its Teachings are reserved for the
accredited members or given out in the form of novels or
plays.
Usually a cipher or code is concealed in the work and
by means of that cipher or code any member may know
which particular Brother is responsible for the work.
We shall now in a brief manner deal with various sides
of the Conceptions of the Rosicrucians " for the benefit of
all who gam possession of this book.
Like the Freemasons, the Rosicrucians believe in a
Supreme Architect of the Universe, though the term
" Universe," in the Rosicrucian sense, refers only to a Sun
with its attendant planets.
The Rosicrucians use the term " Kosrnos " for the
millions of Universes extant in space, and the Ruler and
Guide of all these is a Supreme Architect or Absolute
Consciousness.
That this Supreme Ruler gives ear unto every
individual being who asks for favours is not the belief of
the Fraternity, realising as it does that the Supreme has
endowed man with faculties and powers (inherent within
himself) by means of which he may overcome the difficulties
which wait upon his ignorance.
To be able to contact the Supreme Architect means that
the being possesses an unfolded consciousness equivalent
to that of Kosmos. Such a being would have no need to
manifest in a physical body or world.
That a physical being may contact in his consciousness
a higher being than himself, though infinitely lower than
the Absolute, is the belief of all Rosicrucians.
I
I
Space is peopled by entities of all degrees of conscious-
ness, some of these have been embodied in physical vehicles
and others have not.
That these entities irrespective of whether they have
been embodied in the flesh or not, can help mankind, is the
knowledge of all true Rosicrucians.
Man possesses a consciousness by means of which he
may know himself and the world about him. As to how
much he may know depends upon the degree to which his
consciousness has unfolded.
In Rosicrucian Philosophy, Mind is considered to
function in three ways, as follows :
—
Mind Objective.
Mind Subjective.
Mind Super-Conscious.
The mind objective is that which rules the voluntary
acts of the organism and works through the cerebro-spinal
nervous system.
The mind subjective is that which rules the involuntary
acts of the organism and works through the sympathetic
nervous system.
The Super-conscious mind is that which manifests as
a result of the working's of the objective and subjective
minds.
The three minds respectively have their location in the
three brains, the Cerebrum, Cerebellum and Medulla
Oblongata.
The Cerebrum concerns itself with the present state of
affairs, the Cerebellum with the past, and the Medulla
Oblongata with the past, present and future.
The Super-conscious mind may be considered the acme
E consciousness. The Objective and Subjective minds
nile the body and soul, the Super-conscious mind is the
avenue for the Spirit's expression. The Rosicrucians know
that man is constituted as body, soul and Spirit.
In the right understanding and unfoldment of the three
minds as one, lies the key to the solving of the problems of
lite and destiny.
Nature is constantly revealing her secrets to man but
man will never know those secrets unless he seeks for them.
I
Before disease manifests in the human body, nature
always gives warning, and if man does not heed the warning
he will suffer. .
In mental diseases there is one which gives the key to
the functions of the three minds mentioned above. I he
disease is known as General Paralysis of the Insane, or to
put it briefly, G.P.I. In this disease the unfortunate
sufferer slowly, but surely, loses his. consciousness, and
passes from a fully conscious man to the state of an infant
incapable of controlling the voluntary function of the body.
In the last stages consciousness withdraws completely from
the cerebrum, cerebellum and medulla oblongata.
The great secret of Practical Occultism is to be able
to function at will in any of the three brains.
The infant, when it comes into the world, manifests
nd
from the Medulla Oblongata. As it grows and takes
experiences of life, it functions through the cerebellum
-
finally the cerebrum. ,
During the latter functioning, its forehead broadens as
well as the crown of the head, and slowly but surely the
infant becomes a conscious thinker,
In practical occultism, as known to the Rosicrucian this
process is reversed, and as the consciousness is centred in
he different brains by an effort of will, the experiences of
the present and the past are reviewed. The result of this is
not only the acquirement of a long memory, but also a
checking of those tendencies which retard unfoldment (in
the occult sense). v
Man thinks to-day because minds have thought in the
past and as a result of that he thinks into his own life and
world for his own specific purposes.
That_ which brings about unfoldment of higher
faculties is new thinking and new grooving of the brain
as a result of efforts of the will to penetrate into the three
brains.
There are in the head and throat three centres or
glands which play an important part in this unfoldment
!f
3
<u
ai
\u
n° W
? ^
S the Pineal Glancl<
the Pituitary Body
and the Thyroid Gland.
y
These glands have a special function of their own but
their functions may be blended and linked up with the
functions of the three brains and states of consciousness.
It is the will which determines all this.
The right use of the will and the method of controlling
the glands, brain and mind is the great secret of the
Rosicrucians.
The reader of this work will have noticed how every-
thing works in a threefold manner, as examples : —three
states of consciousness, three brains, three glands and man
constituted as a threefold being—body, soul and spirit.
The mystery of the Trinity need not be sought any
further than the Physical Organism for the Kingdom of
God is found within the human being.
In the science of Alchemy, three terms are used as
Salt, Sulphur and Mercury. Nature functions in a three-
fold' manner and the work of the Practical Occultist or
Rosicrucian is to link his unfolded powers with those of the
greater nature, by so doing he learns the secret of life, and
to him there comes the knowledge that there is no death in
God's great Kosmos but progress from one state of matter
10
to another.
He learns that mind can exist outside of a physical
organism and that by means of that mind he can link up
with other entities, either in or out of Physical bodies Time
becomes to him only an illusion for he perceives that there
is nought but Duration—infinite life everywhere from the
meanest microbe to the mightiest of worlds.
A world of magic opens up to the Occultist's mind
when he has rightly unfolded the faculties which lie slum-
bering within himself, when he sees how he can consciously
cause changes within himself or outside of himself as he
desires or wills.
The way to this unfoldment is not easy, but it is
possible to those who are willing to undergo the training
necessary. b
There are many unbelievers in the world, but this little
book ha^ been written especially for those who do believe
1 o those who do not we say, " Learn more about your
own brain, there is much in it. Do not imprison that which
seeks for an outer expression."
A Frater of the Rosy Cross.
