{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__doyle___the_edge_of_the_unknown.pdf","mytitle":"The Edge Of The Unknown","mylang":"de"}
. (_
THE EDGE
OF THE UNKNOWN
BY ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
L lNNlPE__§E1B1]_'UALlSTCHURCH mg;
LONDON
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W.
First Edition . . . June 1930
Reprinted . . . . fuly 1930
Reprinted . . . .
October I930
II
III
IV
VI
VII
VIII
IX
-XI
XII
XIII
XIV
XV
CONTENTS
PAGE
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI . . . . I
THE SHADOWS ON THE SCREEN 63
NOTES FROM A STRANGE MAIL BAG 85
THE GHOST OF THE MOAT IO7
THE LAW OF THE GHOST II3
ALLEGED POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS OF KNOWN
AUTHORS I33
SOME CURIOUS PERSONAL EXPERIENCES I 56
DWELLERS ON THE BORDER 167
A STRANGE PROPHET 190
A LONDON GHOST 208
THE HALF-WAY HOUSE OF MATTER 216
'
A REMARKABLE MAN 235
THE RIET IN THE VEIL 259
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 281
SINGULAR RECORDS OF A CIRCLE . 313
vii
PREFACE
THEREis a passage in that charming book
The Bridge of San Luis Rey which runs
as follows :
“
She was one of these persons who
have allowed theirlives to begnawedaway because
they have fallen in love with an idea several cen-
turies before its appointed appearance in the his-
tory of Civilization. She hurled herself against
the obstinacy of her time.” We who believe in
the psychic revelation, and who appreciate that a
perception of these thingsis of the utmost impor-
tance, certainly have hurled ourselves against the
obstinacyof our time. Possibly we have allowed
some of our lives to be gnawed away in what, for
the moment, seemed a vain and thankless quest.
Only the future can show whether the sacrifice
was worth it. Personally I think that it was.
Among the various chords which are struck in A
this little book there may be some to which the
mind of the reader will respond, and which may
entice him also in the search for the Holy Grail.
ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE.
CROWBOROUGH.
1930.
I
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI
HO was the greatest medium-baiter of
modern times? Undoubtedly Houdini.
Who was the greatest physicalmedium of modern
times P There are some who would be inclined
to give the same answer. I do not see how it
can ever now be finally and definitely proved,
but circumstantial evidence may be very strong,
as Thoreau said when he found a trout in the
milk jug. I foresee that the subject will be
debated for many years to come, so perhaps my
opinion, since I knew him well, and always enter-
tained this possibility in my mind, may be of
interest. If others add their experience in order
to support or disprove my own surmises, then
some result may eventually be obtained.
I willfirst give some of my own personalimpres-
sions of Houdini. I will then dwell on some
phases of his career which show his singular
character, and I will then endeavour to give the
argument as to the source of his unique powers.
Let me say, in the first instance, that in a long
life which has touched every side of humanity,
1
2 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
Houdini is far and away the most curious and
intriguing character whom I have ever encoun-
tered. I have met better men, and I have cer-
tainly met very many worse ones, but I have
never met a man who had such strange contrasts
in his nature, and Whose actions and motives it
was more diflicult to foresee or to reconcile.
I will first, as is only proper, dwell upon the
great good which lay in his nature. He had the
essential masculinequalityof courage to a supreme
degree. Nobody has ever done, and nobody in
all human probabilitywill ever do, such reckless
feats of daring. His Whole life was one long
succession of them, and when I say that amongst
them was the leaping from one aeroplane to
another, with handcuffed hands at the height of
three thousand feet, one can form an idea of the
extraordinary lengthsthat he would go. In this,
however, as in much more that concerned him,
there was a certain psychic element which he was
ready to admit freely. He told me that a voice
which was independent of his own reason or
judgment told him what to do and how to do it.
So long as he obeyed the voice he was assured
of safety. “
It all comes as easy as stepping off a
log,” said he to me,
“
but I have to wait for the
voice. You stand there before a jump, swallow-
ing the yellow stuff that every man has in him.
Then at last you hear the voice and you jump.
Once I jumped on my own and I nearly broke
I
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 3
my neck.” This was the nearest admission that
I ever had from him that I was right in thinking
thattherewas a psychicelement which was essen-
tial to every one of his feats.
Apartfrom his amazingcourage, he was remark-
able for his cheery urbanity in every-day life.
One could_not wish a better companion so long
as one was with him, though he might do and
say the most unexpected things when one was
absent. He was, like most Jews, estimable in his '
familyrelationships. Hislove for his dead mother
seemed to be the ruling passion of his life, which
he expressed on all sorts of public occasions in a
way which was, I am sure, sincere, but is strange
to our colder Western blood. There were many
thingsin Houdini which were as Oriental as there
were in our own Disraeli. He was devoted also
to his wife, and with good reason, for she was as
devoted to him, but again his intimacy showed
itself in unconventional ways. When in his
examination before the Senatorial Committee he
was hard-pressedby some defenderof Spiritualism
who impugned his motives in his violent and
vindictive campaign against mediums, his answer
was to turn to his wife and to say,
“
I have always
been a good boy, have I not P ”
Another favourable side of his character was
his charity. I have heard, and am quite prepared
to believe,thathe was the last refuge of the down-
and-outer, especially if he belonged to his own
6 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
medium who would do this or that,knowing well
thateven in the unlikelyevent of the thingbeing
done he could always raise some objection and
get out of it. Sometimes his tactics were too
obvious to be artistic. In Boston he arrived by
prearrangement before a great crowd at the City
Hall and walked solemnly up the steps with ten
thousand dollars’ worth of stock in his hand,
which represented one of his perennial stakes
against phenomena. This was in connectionwith
his engagementon a tour of the music-halls. His
favourite argument,and thatof many of his fellow-
conjurers, was thisflourishingof dollar-wads. It
is obviouslyabsurd, since the money will only be
paid if you satisfy the challenger, and since the
challenger has to pay the money he naturally
never will be satisfied. The classical instance is
that of the Scientific American magazine, which
offered a large sum for ‘any Well-attested psychic
phenomenon, but on being confronted with the
Crandon phenomena,which are perhaps the best
attested in the whole annals of psychical research,
found reasons for Withholding the money. I
remember that when I arrived in New York,
Houdini offered some huge sum that he could
do anything which I had ever seen a medium
do. I at once accepted his challenge, and pro-
posed as a test that he should materializethe face
of my mother in such a way that others besides
myselfwho had known her in life could recognize
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 7
it. I heard no more of the matter after that,
and yet in England a medium had actuallydone
this. I would have brought my witnesses across
the Atlantic had the test been accepted.
I am quite prepared to think that Houdini’s
campaign against mediums did temporary good
so far as false mediums goes, but it was so indis-
criminate and accompanied by so much Which
was intolerant and offensive that it turned away
the sympathyand help which Spiritualists, Who
are anxious for the cleanliness of theirown move-
ment,would gladlyhave givenhim. Theunmask-
ing of false mediums is our urgent duty, but
when We are told that, in spite of our own evi-
dence and that of three generations of mankind,
there are no real ones we lose interest, for we
know that we are speaking to an ignorant man.
At thesame time, the States, and in a lesser degree
our own people, do need stern supervision. I
admit that I underrated the corruption in the
States. What first brought it home to me was
that my friend Mrs. Crandon told me that she
had received price lists from some firm which
manufacturesfraudulentinstruments for perform-
ing tricks. If such a firm can make a living,
there must be some villainy about, and a more
judicious Houdini might Well find a useful field
of activity. It is these hyenas who retard our
progress. I have myself had a hand in exposing
more than one of them.
8 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
There was a particular Hall in Boston which
Houdini used for his tirades against the spirits.
Some weeks after his campaign a curious and
disagreeable phenomenon broke out there.
Showers of gravel or of small pebbles fell con-
tinually among the audience, and several people
suffered minor injuries. A police watch was kept
up for some time, and eventually it was shown
that a staid employee,whose record was an excel-
lent one, was in the habit, without rhyme or
reason, of stealing up to the gallery and throwing
these missiles down into the stalls. When tried
for the offence he could only say that a senseless
ibut overpowering impulse caused him to do it.
Many psychic students would be prepared to
consider that the incident would bear the inter-
pretation of a poltergeist on the one side and an
obsession on the other.
There was another incident at Boston of a very
much more serious kind, and one which bears
out my assertion that where there was an adver-
tisement to be gained Houdini was a dangerous
man. The remarkable psychic powers of Mrs.
Crandon, the famous “
Margery,” were at that
time under examination by the committee of the
Scientific American. Various members of this
committee had sat many times with the Cran-
dons, and some of them had been completely
converted to thepsychicexplanation,whileothers,
though unable to give any rational explanation
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 9
of the phenomena, were in different stages of
dissent. It would obviously be an enormous
feather in Houdini’s cap if he could appear on
the scene and at once solve the mystery. What a
glorious position to be in! Houdini laid his
plans and was so sure of success thatbefore going
to Boston he Wrote a letter, which I saw, to a
mutual friendin London, announcingthathe was
about to expose her. He would have done it,
too, had it not been for an interposition which
was miraculous. I thinkwell enough of Houdini
to hope that he would have held his hand if he
could have realized the ruin and disgrace which
his success would have brought upon his victims.
As it was, the thought of the tremendous adver-
tisement swallowed up his scruples. All America
was watching,and he could not resist the tempta-
tion.
He had become familiar in advance with the
procedure of the Crandon circle, and with the
types of phenomena. It was easy for him to lay
his plans. What he failed to take into account
was that the presiding spirit, Walter, the dead
brother of Mrs. Crandon, was a very real and
live entity, who was by no means inclined to
allow his innocent sister to be made the laughing-
stock of the continent. It Was the unseen Walter
who checkmated the carefully-laid plans of the
magician.
The account of what occurred I take from the
B
10 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
notes which were taken by the circle at the time.
The first phenomenonto be tested was the ring-
ing of an electric bell which could only be done
by pressing down a flap of wood, well out of the
reach of the medium. The room was darkened,
but the bell did not ring. Suddenly the angry
voice of Walter was heard.
“
You have put something to stop the bell
ringing, Houdini, you
”
he cried.
Walter has a wealth of strong language and
makes no pretence at all to be a very elevated
being. They all have their use over there. On
this occasion, at least, the use was evident, for
when the light was turned up, there was the
rubber from the end of a pencil stuck into the
angle of the flap in such a way as to make it
impossible that it could descend and press the
bell. Of course, Houdini professed complete
ignorance as to how it got there, but who else
had the deft touch to do such a thingin the dark,
and why was it only in his presence that such a
thing occurred P It is clear that if he could say
afterwards, when he had quietly removed the
rubber, that his arrival had made all further
trickery impossible, he would have scored the
first trick in the game.
He should have taken warning and realized
that he was up against powers which were too
strong for him, and which might prove dangerous
ifprovokedtoo far. But theletters he had written
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI II
and boasts he had made cut off his retreat. The
second night landed him in a very much worse
mess than the first one. He had brought with
him an absurd box which was secured in front
by no fewer than eight padlocks. One would
have thought that it was a gorilla rather than a
particularlygentle lady who was about to be con-
finedwithin. The forces behindMargery showed
what theythoughtof this contraption by bursting
the whole front open the moment Margery was
fastened into it. This very unexpected develop-
ment Houdini endeavoured to explain away, but
he found it diflicult to give a reason why, if the
box was so vulnerable, it was worth While to
bring it with so much pomp and ceremony, with
eight padlocks and many other gadgets, all the
way from New York to Boston.
However, much worse was to come. The lady
was put into the reconstituted box, her arms pro-
truding throughholes on each side Houdini was
observed without any apparent reason to pass his
hand along the lady’s arm, and so into the box.
Presently,after some experiments,thelady’s arms
were placed inside and the attempt was to be
made to ring the bell—boxwhileonlyher headpro-
jected. Suddenly the terrible Walter intervened.
“
Houdini, you blackguard! ”
he thun-
dered. “
You have put a rule into the cabinet.
You ! Remember,Houdini,you won’t live
for ever. Some day you’ve got to die.”
12 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
The lights were turned on, and, shocking to
relate, a two—foot folding rule was found lying in
the box. It was a most deadly trick, for, of
course, if the bell had rung Houdini would have
demanded a search of the cabinet,the rule would
have been found, it would, if held between the
teeth, have enabled the medium to have reached
and pressed down the flap of the bell-box, and
all America would have resounded next day with
the astuteness of Houdini and the proven villainy
of the Crandons. I do not think that even the
friends of thelatter could have got over thepatent
facts. It was the most dangerous moment of
their career, and only Walter saved them from
ruin.
For the moment Houdini was completely over-
come, and cowered, as well he might, before the
wrathof theunseen. His offence was so obvious
that no better excuse occurred to him, when he
had rallied his senses, than thatthe rule had been
left there by accident by some subordinate.
When one considers, however, that no other tool
upon earth, neither a hammer, a chisel, nor a
wrench, but only a folding two-foot rule, could
have sustained the charge, one realizes how hope-
less was his position. But one of Houdini’s
characteristics was that nothing in this world or
the next could permanently abash him. He
could not suggest thattheywere guilty consider-
ing thatthe Crandons had actuallyasked to have
‘THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 13
the cabinet examined after she had entered, and
Houdini had refused. Yet, incredible as it may
seem, he had his advertisement after all, for he
flooded America with a pamphlet to say that he
had shown that the Crandons were frauds, and
that he had in some unspecified way exposed
them. Since the cabinet had become a delicate
subject his chief accusation was that Mrs. Cran-
don had in some way rung thebell-boxby stretch-
ing out her foot. He must have known, though
his complaisant audiences did not, that the bell-
box was continually rung while some sitter was
permitted to hold it in his hands, and even to
rise and to walk about with it.
Speaking with a full knowledge,I say that this
Boston incident was never an exposure of Mar-
gery, but it was a very real exposure of Houdini,
and is a most serious blot upon his career.
To account for the phenomenahe was prepared
to assert that not only the doctor, but that even
members of the committee were in senseless col-
laboration with the medium. The amazing part
of the business was that other members of the
committee seemed to have been overawed by the
masterful conjurer, and even changed their very
capablesecretary,Mr. MalcolmBird, at his behest.
Mr. Bird, it may be remarked, with a far better
brain than Houdini, and with a record of some
fifty séances, had by this time been entirely con-
vinced of the truth of the phenomena.
14 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
-
It may seem unkind that I should dwell upon
these matters now that Houdini has gone to his
account, but what I am Writing now I also pub-
lished during his lifetime. I deal gentlywiththe
matter, but I have to remember that its impor-
tance far transcends any worldly consideration,
and that the honour of the Crandons is still
impugned in many minds by the false charges
which were not only circulated in print, but were
shouted by Houdini from the platforms of a score
of music-halls with a violence which browbeat
and overbore every protest from the friends of
truth. Houdini did not yet realize the gravity
of his own actions, or the consequences which
theyentailed. The Crandons are themselves the
most patient and forgiving people in the world,
treatingthemost irritatingoppositionwitha good-
humoured and amused tolerance. But there are
other forces which are beyond human control,
and from that day the shadow lay heavy upon
Houdini. His anti-Spiritualist agitation became
more and more unreasoning until it bordered
upon a mania which could only be explained in
some quarters by supposing that he was in the
pay of certain clerical fanatics, an accusation
which I do not believe. It is true that in order
to preserve some show of reason he proclaimed
thathe Wished only to attack dishonest mediums,
but as in the same breath he would assert that
there were no honest ones, his moderation was
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 15
more apparent than real. If he had consulted
the reports of the National Association of Ameri-
can Spiritualists he would have found that this
representative body was far more eflicient in
exposing those swindlers than he had ever been,
for they had the necessary experience by which
the true can be separated from the false.
I suppose that at that time Houdini was, from
an insurance point of view, so far as bodilyhealth
goes, the best life of his age in America. He
was in constant training, and he used neither
alcohol nor tobacco. Yet all over the land warn-
ings of danger arose. He alluded in public to
the matter again and again. In my own home
circle I had the message some months before his
death, “
Houdini is doomed,doomed,doomed! ”
So seriously did I take thiswarning that I would
have written to him had I the least hope thatmy
words could have any effect. I knew, however,
by previous experience, that he always published
my letters, even the most private of them, and
that it would only give him a fresh pretext for
ridiculing that which I regard as a sacred cause.
But as the months passed and fresh warnings
came from independent sources, both I and, as I
believe, the Crandons, became seriously alarmed
for his safety. He was, on one side of his charac-
ter, so fine a fellow that even those who were
attacked in this monstrous way were unwilling
that real harm should befall him.
16 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
But he continued to rave, and the shadow con-
tinued to thicken. I have an American friend
who writes in the press under the name of Samri
Frikell. He is really Fulton Oursler, the distin-
guished novelist, whose Step—chz'ld of the Moon
is, in my judgment, one of the best of recent
romances. Oursler was an intimate friend of
Houdini, and he has allowed me to quote some
of his experiences. "
“
You know him as well as I do,” writes Oursler. “
You
knew the immense vanity of the man. You know that he
loved to be important. My experience with him for the
last three months of his life was most peculiar. He would
call me on the telephone at seven o’clock in the morning
and he would be in a quarrelsome mood. He would talk
for an hour telling me how important he was and what a
great career he was making. In his voice was a hysterical,
almost feminine,note of rebellion,as if his hands were beating
against an immutable destiny.
“
In all these cases Houdini portrayed to me a clear sense
of impending doom. This is not an impression which I
have received subsequent to his death. But I commented
upon it at the time. I believe that Houdini sensed the
coming of his death, but did not know that it meant death.
He didn’t know what it meant, but he hated it and his soul
screamed out in indignation.”
Sometimelater he telephonedto thesame friend
in a way which showed that his surmise had
becomemore definite. “
I am markedfor death,”
said he. “
I mean that they are predicting my
death in spirit circles all over the country.” At
that time he was starting in perfect health upon
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 17
that tour of the Vaudevilleswhich was destined
to be the last of his career. Within a few weeks
he was dead.
The details of that death were in many ways
most singular. On October I 1thhe had a painful
but, as everyone thought, an unimportant acci-
dent, when during his performance his ankle
sustained an injury. The incident was treated
quite lightlyby the Press, but was regarded more
seriously by those who had other sources of
information. On October 13th, two days after
the accident, the gentleman already quoted had
a letter from a medium, Mrs. Wood.
“
Three years ago,” said this ill-omened epistle, “
the
spirit of Dr. Hyslop said, ‘
The waters are blackfor Houdini,
and he foretold that disaster would befallhim while perform-
ing before an audience in a theatre. Dr. Hyslop now says
that the injury is more serious than has been reported, and
that Houdini’s days as a magician are over.”
The sad prophecy proved to be only too true,
though the injured leg was only the prelude of
worse disaster. It seemed indeed to be a sign
thattheprotective mantle which had been around
him had for some reason been withdrawn. The
ankle continued to pain him, though he managed
for some weeks to give his accustomedshow. At
Montreal a member of the audience rose to pro-
test against the violence with which he raved
against Spiritualism,and very particularlyagainst
me. Such personal attacks were not to be taken
18 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
too seriously,for it was part of his perfervidnature
that anyone who had experiences which differed
from his own was either a dupe or a scoundrel.
He bore up with great bravery against the pain
from which he must have continually suffered,
but in less than a fortnight, While on the stage
at Detroit, he completely collapsed, and was
carried to that hospital from which he never
emerged alive.
There were some remarkable points about his
death. It seems thatupon Friday,October22nd,
he was lying in his dressing-room, reading his
_
letters. It was about five in the afternoon. He
A
had lectured at McGill University a few days
before, and with his usual affabilityhe allowed
some of the students to come in and see him.
What followed may be taken verbatim from the
report of one of these young men.
“ ‘
Houdini,’ he says,
‘
was facing us and lying down on
a couch at the time reading some mail, his right side nearest
us.’ This first-year student engaged Houdini more or less
continually in a conversation whilst my friend Mr. Smila-
vitch continued to sketch Houdini. This student was the
first to raise the question of Houdini’s strength. My friend
and I were not so much interested in his strength as we
were in his mental acuteness, his skill, his beliefs and his
personal experiences. Houdini stated that he had extra-
ordinary muscles in his forearms, in his shoulders and in
his back, and he asked all of us present to feel them, which
we did.
“
The first-year McGill student asked Houdini whether
it was true that punches in the stomach did not hurt him.
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 19
Houdini remarked rather unenthusiasticallythat his stomach
could resist much, although he did not speak of it in super-
lativeterms. Thereuponhe gave Houdini some very hammer-
like blows below the belt, first securing Houdini’s permission
to strike him. Houdini was reclining at the time with his
right side nearest Whitehead, and the said student was more
or less bending over him. These blows fell on that part
of the stomach to the right of the navel, and were struck
on the side nearest us, which was in fact Houdini’s right
side; I do not remember exactly how many blows were
struck. I am certain, however, of at least four very hard
and severe body blows, because at the end of the second or
third blow I verbally protested against this sudden onslaught
on the part of this first-year student, using the words, ‘
Hey
there. You must be crazy, what are you doing?’ or words
to that effect, but Whitehead continued striking Houdini
with all his strength.
“
Houdini stopped him suddenly in the midst of a punch,
with a gesture that he had had enough. At the time White-
head was striking Houdini, the latter looked as though he
was in extreme pain and winced as each blow was struck.
“
Houdini immediately after stated that he had had no
opportunity to prepare himself against the blows, as he did
not think that Whitehead would strike him as suddenly as
he did and with such force, and that he would have been
in a better position to prepare for the blows if he had arisen
from his couch for this pgirpose, but the injury to his foot
prevented him from getting about rapidly.”
There is no doubt that the immediate cause of
the death was ruptured appendix, and it was
certified as traumatic appendicitis by all three
doctors who attended him. It is, however, a very
rare complaint, one of the doctors asserting that
he had never seen a case before. When one
considers how often boxers are struck violent
20 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
blows in this region, one can understand that it
is not usually so vulnerable. From the time that
he reached hospital he seems to have known that
he was doomed.
Even after death strange things continued to
happen which seem to be beyond the range of
chance or coincidence. Some little time before
Houdini had ordered a very ornate coffin, which
he proposed to use in some sensational act. He
paid no less than two thousand five hundred
dollars for it. The idea was, I believe, to have
a glassfaceto it and to exhibitthemagicianwithin
it after it was hermetically scaled up, for he had
shown in a previous experiment an inexplicable
capacity for living without air. He carried this
cofiin about withhim in one of thevery numerous
crates in which all his apparatus was packed.
After his death all his goods Were, I am told,
sent on to New York. It was found, however,
that by some blunder one box had been left
behind. On examination this was found to con-
tain the show coflin, which was accordinglyused
for his burial. At that burial some curious and
suggestive words were used by the presiding
rabbi,Barnard Drachman. He said :
“
Houdini
possessed a wondrous power that he never
understood, and which he never revealed to
anyone in life.” Such an expression coming at
so solemn a moment from one who may have
been in a special position to know must show
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 21
that my speculations are not extravagant or fan-
tastic when I deal with the real source of those
powers. The rabbi’s speech is to be taken with
Houdini’s own remark,when he said to my wife :
“
There are some of my feats which my own wife
does not know the secret of.” A famous Chinese
Conjurer who saw him perform said, “
This is
not a trick, it is a gift.” He frequently said that
his work would die with him, and he has left no
legacyof it so far as can be seen, thoughit would
clearlybe a very Valuable asset. What can cover
all these facts, save that there was some element
in his power which was peculiar to himself, and
that could only point to a psychic element—in a
word, that he was a medium?
In the remarkable ceremony performed beside
his coflinby his brother-magicians,thespokesman
broke a symbolic wand and said: “
The wand
is broken. God touched him with a wondrous
gift, and our brother used it. Now the wand is
broken.” It may indeed have been not mere
trickery but a God—given gift which raised Hou-
dini to such a height. And why should he not
use it, if it were indeed the gift of God ? I see
no reason why the medium, like other God-
endowed men—the painter, the poet, or the
romancer——should not earn money and renown
by his gift. Let him hesitate, however, before
he makes rash attacks upon those who are using
the same gift, and for higher ends.
22/ THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
‘Othercurious points, which may possiblycome
_
Within the range of coincidence, are connected
with the death of Houdini. For example, there
was a Mr. Gysel, who had shared in Houdini’s
views as to Spiritualism. He wrote thus to my
friend :
“
MR. FRIKELL,-—
“
Somethinghappened to me in my room on Sundaynight,
October 24th, 1926, 10.58 : Houdini had given me a picture
of himself which I had framed and hung on the wall. At
the above time and date the picture fell to the ground, break-
ing the glass. I now know that Houdini will die. Maybe
there is something in these psychic phenomena after all.”
To this Mr. “
Frikell ”
adds :
“
As I thinkback on my own experience I am inclined to
agree maybe: there is indeed something to the psychic
phenomena after all.”
His admission is the more noteworthy as I
remember the day when he was a strong and
intelligent opponent.
I willnow turn to a consideration of the nature
of Houdini’s powers, and in order to appreciate
the argument one has to consider the nature of
some of the feats which he did actuallyperform.
A list ofthesewould make a considerablepamphlet,
but a fewtypicalones may be selected. -A general
outline of his life, too, may not be out of place.
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 23
Houdini’s real name was Eric Weiss, and he
was born in 1874, in the State of Wisconsin, in
one of those small towns which seem to be the
real centres of American originality. He was the
seventh son of a Jewish rabbi, and he has left
it on record that his mother did not even know
the English language. He has also left it on
record that in his early youth he had some con-
nection with mediumship, though of a most
doubtful variety. He has not scrupled to confess
thathe eked out any powers he may have had by
the expedient of reading the names upon the
graves in the local cemeteries. It was a good
deal later thanthisthathe first met a true medium
in the shape of Ira Davenport, the only survivor
of the famous brothers whose powers amazed all
England in the ’sixties, and who, in spite of all
the interested claims of Maskelyne and other
conjurers, were never exposed, nor even ade-
quately imitated. I have before me as I write a
letter from Houdini himself,in which he tells me :
“I was an intimate friend of Ira Erastus Davenport. I
can make the positive assertion that the Davenport Brothers
never were exposed. I know more about the Davenports
than anyone living.”
He then adds the very curious and notable
sentence:
“
I know -for a fact that it was not necessary for them to
remove their bonds in order to obtain manifestations.”
24 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
When one considers thatthesebonds were often
handcuffs or twisted copper wire, and that the
manifestations occurred in many cases within a
few seconds of the closing of the cabinet, this
admission by one, who claims that he knows,is of
very great importance. We will return to this
later, after we have enumerated a few of his
results.
He could, and continually did, walk straight
out of any prison cell in which he might be con-
fined. They placed him at Washington in the
cell in which Guiteau, the murderer of Garfield,
had been locked, but he readily emerged. In
the letter from which I have already quoted, he
says to me:
“
I pledge my word of honour that I was never given any
assistance, nor was in collusion with anyone.”
This was clearly the case, for he performed
the feat many times in diflerent places, and was
always searched to prove that he had no tools in
his possession. Sometimes the grinning warders
had hardly got out of the passage before their
prisonerwas at their heels. It takes some credu-
lity, I think,to say that this Was, in the ordinary
sense of the word, a trick.
Handcuffs might have ‘been made of jelly, so
easilydid his limbs pass throughthem. He was
heavily manacled at Scotland Yard, and placed
behind a screen from over which a shower of
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 25
manacles began to fall until he stepped out a
free man. These thingshe could do in an instant.
When I was lecturing at the Carnegie Hall in
New York, my wife and Houdini walked down
some side corridor after the lecture in order to
rejoin me. They came to a padlocked door, and
my wife was about to turn back. To her amaze-
ment, her companionput out his hand and picked
off the locked padlock as one picks a plum from
a tree. Was that a trick, or are all these talks
about sleight of hand what Houdini himselfwould
call “
bunk ”
or
“
hokum ”P
When Houdini was in Holland,he got the local
basketmakers to weave a basket round him. Out
of this he emerged. He was shut up later in a
sealed paper bag and came out, leaving it intact.
A block of ice was frozen round his body and he
burst his Way out. One who has attempted to
bring his feats within the range of normal expla-
nations tells us that he did this by “
depressing
his periphery as a prelude to dynamicexpansion ”
—whateVer that may mean. He was also buried
six feet deep in California and emerged unhurt,
thoughwe are not told by what dynamicexpansion
the feat was achieved.
In Leeds he was coopered up in a cask by the
brewers, but he was soon out. At Krupps’ he
defied the whole management,who constructed a
special set of fetters for his behoof. They had
no better luck than the others. He was put into
C
26 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
the Siberian convict van at Moscow, but walked
straight out of it. On December 2nd, 1906, he
leaped from the Old Belle Isle Bridge at Detroit
heavily handcuffed, and released himself under
icy(water, which would paralyseany man’s limbs.
On August 26th, 1907, he was thrown into San
Francisco Bay with his hands tied behind his
back and seventy—five pounds of ball and chain
attached to his body. He was none the worse.
He escaped from a padlocked United States mail-
bag, as many a parcel has done before him.
Finally,he was manacled,tied up in a box, and
dropped into the East River at New York, but
lived to tell the tale.
Whatever may have been the true source of
Houdini’s powers——and I am not prepared to be
dogmatic upon the point—I am very sure that
the explanations of his fellow-conjurers do not
always meet the case. Thus we have Mr. Harry
Kellock, to whose book I am indebted for much
supplementary information,talking persuasively
about the magician’s skill with a pick-lock. He
had told reporters that his methodwas to have
a small instrument which was concealed by sur-
geon’s plaster upon the sole of his foot. This
would certainly seem to be very useful when he
was lowered in a coffin to the bottom of the sea !
Of course, I am aware that Houdini really was
a very skilfulconjurer. All that could be‘known
in thatdirection he knew. Thushe confused the
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 27
public mind by mixing up things which were
dimly within their comprehension with things
which were beyond anyone’s comprehension. I
am aware also that there is a box trick, and that
there is a normal handcuff and bag trick. But
these are not in the same class with Houdini’s
work. I will believe they are when I see one of
these othergentlementhrownin a box off London
Bridge. One poor man in America actually
believed these explanations, and on the strength
of them jumped in a weighted packing-caseinto
a river in the Middle West; and one did so in
Germany. They are there yet! .
To show the difference between Houdini’s
methods and those by which the box trick is
done by other conjurers, I will give a description
of the latter by one who has all normal tricks at
his finger-ends. He says:
“
While the air-holes are there for ventilation they are
there for another purpose, and that is that the man inside
may get a catch or grip of that particular board. The first
thing that is done by the man inside is to put his back up
against the side next the audience and with his feet force
off the board with the air-holes in it. After freeing this
board, with a bit of string he lowers this board to the floor.
If any obstruction comes in the way in the shape of a nail
which he cannot force with his concealed lever and hammer,
he cuts the nail with a fine saw. Thus his escape. The
ropes are only a blind, as quite suflicient room can be got
to get out between ropes. The procedure to close up again
is simple. The iron nails are placed back upon the holes
from which they were forced and squeezed in and knocked
with a leather-covered hammer.”
28 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
Such is the usual technique as described by an
expert. Does anyone believe that all this could
be done as I have seen Houdini do it in a little
over a minute, or could one imagine it being
carried out at the bottom of a river P I contend
that Houdini’s performance was on an utterly
difierent plane, and that it is an outrage against
common sense to think otherwise.
I will now take a single case of Houdini’s
powers, and of the sort of thing that he would
say, in order to show the reader what he is up
against if he means to maintain that these tricks
had no abnormal element. The description is by
my friend, Captain Bartlett, himself a man of
many accomplishments, psychic and otherwise.
In the course of their conversation he said to his
guest :
“
‘How about your box trick?’
“
Instantly his expression changed. The sparkle left his
eyes and his face looked drawn and haggard. ‘
I cannot tell
you,’ he said, in a low, tense voice._ ‘
I don't know myself,
and, what is more, I have always a dread lest I should fail,
and then I would not live. I have promised Mrs. Houdini
to give up the box trick at theend of the season, for she makes
herself ill with anxiety, and for myself I shall be relieved
too.’
i
“
He stooped to stroke our cats, and to our amazement
they fled from the room with their tails in the air, and for
some minutes theydashed wildlyup and down stairs, scattering
the mats in all directions.
“
After this we had an earnest talk on psychic phenomena,
and he told me of strange happenings to himself, especially
at the grave of his mother, to whom he was deeply attached.
THE RIDDLE or HOUDINI 29’
“
The trunk-makers of Bristol had made a challenge box
from which he was billedto escape thatevening. He begged
me to be with him, explaining that he liked the support of
a sensitive, more especially as he was feeling anxious.
“
I willinglyagreed, the more especially as he allowed me
to bring a very observant friend, a civil engineer of repute.
“
The box was made ofinch planking,tonguedand grooved,
withdouble thicknessat theends. It was nailedherring-bone
fashion, three-inch nails, three inches apart. Several auger
holes were made at one end to admit air, and the whole thing
was carefully and solidly finished. It was, as I have said,
a challenge box, yet we thoroughlyoverhauled it and were
satisfied that it contained no tricks.
“Houdini lay down in it, while the challengers climbed
to the platform and nailed down the heavy top again, using
three-inch nails as before. The box was then tightly roped,
three men pulling on the cords. Meanwhile,Houdini inside
the box called out that it was very hot, and, putting a finger
through an air-hole, waggled it furiously.
“
The box was then enclosed by a tent consisting of brass
rods covered by a silken canopy.
“
In ninety-five seconds Houdini was standing before his
audience, breathless, and with his shirt in tatters. The
box-makers, after careful examination, in which we joined,
declared that both box and roping were intact.
“
Now, was Houdini’s statement that he never knew how
he got out of the box a mere blind, or did he employ super-
normal forces and dematerialize? If I put a beetle in a
bottle, hermeticallysealed, and that beetle makes its escape,
I, being only an ordinary human, and not a magician, can
only conclude that either the beetle has broken the laws of
matter, or that it possesses secrets that I should call super-
normal.”
I would also ask the reader to consider the
following account by the late Mr. Hewat Mac-
kenzie, one of the most experienced psychical
30 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
researchers in the world. In his book, Spirit
\Intercourse (p. 86), he says :
“
A small iron tank filled with water was deposited on the
stage, and in it Houdini was placed, the water completely
covering his body. Over this was placed an iron lid with
three hasps and staples, and these were securely locked.
The body was then completely dematerialized within this
tank in one and a half minutes, while the author stood im-
mediately over it. Without disturbing any of the locks
Houdini was transferred from the tank direct to the back
of the stage front,dripping with water and attired in the blue
jersey-suit in which he entered the tank. From the time
that he entered it to the time that he came to the front only
one and a half minutes had elapsed.
“
While the author stood near the tank during the de-
materialization process a great loss of physical energy was
felt by him, such as is usually felt by sitters in materializing
séances who have a good stock of vital energy, as in such
_
phenomenaa large amount of energy is required. . . .
This
startlingmanifestationof one of Nature’s profoundestmiracles
was probably regarded by most of the audience as a very
clever trick.”
In other Words, in Mr. Mackenzie’sopinion the
audience was successfully bluifed by the com-
mercializationof psychicpower.,/ It is remarkable
and most suggestive that in this case, as in the
Bristol one already given, Houdini was anxious
that some psychic from whom he could draw
strength should stand near him.
Can any reasonable man read such an account
as this and then dismiss the possibilitywhich I
suggest as fantastic? It seems to me that the
fantasy lies in refusing its serious consideration.
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 31
A point which is Worth considering is, that
even if we grant that enormous practice and
natural advantages might conceivablygive a man
a facilityin one direction which might appear pre-
ternatural, these feats of Houdini cover a larger
range than could be accounted for by any one
aptitude. This consideration becomes stronger ’
still when one sees that his powers really covered
the whole field of what we usually associate with
physical mediumship in its strongest form, and
can be covered so far as I can see by no other
explanation whatever.
His friend Mr. Bernard Ernst, a well-known
and very level-headed lawyer of New York, told
me that on one occasion upon the veranda of
his own country house at Long Island, Houdini
proposed a séance. When hands were laid upon
the table it beganto rise up in the air. As Mrs.
Houdini was present, Ernst took it for granted at
first that the hands or feet were used to produce
the effect. On examination, however, in good
light he found that this was not so, and that
there were no steel rods up the sleeve, which is
a fraudulentmethodoccasionallyused. The feat
appearedto him—andhe is himselfan experienced
conjurer—to be clearly preternatural. Houdini
himself rebuked a tendency towards levity upon
the part of the company, and treated the matter
with great gravity.
Now let us take the case of the séance which
32 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
he gave to President Roosevelt——a bogus séance
according to Houdini. It was on board the
Imperator in June 1920. It followed the lines
of the usual slate phenomenon as practised by
many mediums, honest and otherwise. The
Written question, folded and sealed, is placed
between the folding slates, and the answer is
found upon one side of the slate when they are
opened. Roosevelt wrote the question, “
Where
was I last Christmas?” folded, sealed in an
envelope, and placed it between the slates with
his own hand. When the slates were opened a
map of the South Americanjourney of Roosevelt
was found to be drawn, with the legend “
Near
theAndes.” The President was naturallygreatly
amazed and Houdini refused to give any explana-
tion, though had it been a mere trick and there
was no reason for secrecy, it would have been
most natural that he should have explained it to
so important a person, in order to show how
easily fraudulent mediums can operate.
Long afterwards he did give an explanation,
which is so incredible that I would take it as an
extreme example of thatcontemptwhich Houdini
had for thepublicintelligence,takingit for granted
that they would swallow without question any-
thing which he might put before them. To
condense a long story which the curious may find
on pages 244-6 of Kellock’s very readable book,
the “
explanation” ran thus:
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 33
He knew that the President would be aboard
and he received advance information about the
South American travels from friends on the Daily
Telegraph, which he made note of in case there
should be a séance on board. So far we are on
understandable ground. He suggested that such
a séance should be held, and had the slates pre-
pared. This also we may pass. He then asked
for written questions from the passengers, and
himself wrote several, “
Where did I spend last
Christmas P ”
which he placed upon the top of
the pile. We are still on more or less solid
ground, presuming that the passengers were so
dense as not to see the change of slates from the
one which they examined to the prepared one.
But now comes the fatal link in the chain. He
claims that,“
no telepathyor thought—transference
being involved,” the President by pure chance
asked the very question for which these elaborate
preparationshad been made. Peoplewill believe
this, and yet accuse Spiritualists of credulity.
Can anyone who has the least conception of what
is probableor possibleacceptsuch an explanationP
It is onlyin psychic and preternatural(not super-
natural)regions thatsuch thingsreallydo become
commonplace.
Again, a friend reports:
“
One day a sceptic called upon him. Houdini read the
man’s hand, prognosticated his future, and pronounced his
past from a mere reading of his face, having only been told
34. THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
the day of his birth. This was done with an accuracy and
vividness which astonished the subject.”
This sounds like possible clairvoyance, but is
hardly in the repertoire of the conjurer.
There were many indications that Houdini
possessed that psychic sensibility which is the
groundwork of mediumship, though it really
indicates, in my opinion, an unusual degree of
soul power in thesubjectitself,withoutnecessarily
implying any outside assistance. All thought-
reading seems to come under this category. On
one occasion Pulitzer, the famous proprietor of
the New York World, had been interested in the
telepathic results obtained by Professor Gilbert
Murray in England. Houdini dashed in, in his
usual impetuous fashion, and claimed that he
could duplicate them. A committee assembled
in his own house, and put him to the test, they
sitting on the ground floor, and he being locked
up in a room at the top of the house, with the
door guarded. Out of four tests he got three
more or less correctly. When asked for an
explanationhe refused to answer, save to say
that it was
“
scientific trickery.” As usual he
took it for granted that the Press and public
would readilyaccept his explanation,and experi-
ence showed that he was right.
If once themind is adjustedto thefalse assump-
tion that psychic powers do not exist, then all
reasoning power seems to become atrophied, as
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 35
is thecase in all bigotedreligions. As an example
it was said, and is said, again and again, “
How
I
absurd for Doyle to attribute possible psychic
powers to a man who himself denies them!”
Is it not perfectly evident that if he did not deny
them his occupation would have been gone for
ever? What would his brother—magicians have
to say to a man who admitted that half his tricks
were done by what they would regard as illicit
powers P It would be “
exit Houdini.”
Now, having considered some of Houdini’s
inexplicable powers, let us turn to his direct
relations with Spiritualism.
PART II
In public, as is notorious, he posed as the
uncompromisingfoe of Spiritualism. It is useless
to pretend that it was only the fake medium that
he was after. We are all out afterthat scoundrel,
and ready to accept any honest help in our- search
for him. Houdini wrote in the Christian Register
of July, 1925:
“
Tell the people that all I am trying to do is to save them —
from beingtricked in their griefand sorrows, and to persuade
them to leave Spiritualism alone and take up some genuine
religion.”
Thus his attackwas a general one upon thewhole
cult.
But this was not in the least his attitude in
private. I suppose that there are few leaders of
36 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
the movement, and few known mediums, who
have not letters of his taking the tone thathe was
a sympathetic inquirer who needed but a little
V
more to be convinced. His curious mentality
caused him to ignore absolutely the experiences
of anyone else, but he seemed to be enormously
impressed if anything from an outside source
came in his own direction. On one occasion he
showed me a photograph which he had taken in
California. “
I believeit to be the only genuine
spirit photograph ever taken!” he cried. To
my mind, it was a Very doubtful one, and one
which no sane Spiritualist would have passed for
a moment. But, in any case, if his was, as he
claimed, genuine, Why should he put down all
others to fraud? He had another which he
showed me with some disgust, but which seemed
to me to be capable of a real psychic explanation,
however unlikely. The sensitive film had been
torn lengthwaysright down the plate, just as a
sharp nail would have done. He assured me
that he had put it into the carrier quite intact.
It might, of course, have been some singular
accident,or it might conceivablyhave been a sign
of the same sort of disapproval, which was a
possible explanationof the gravel-throwingin the
music-hall of Boston.
His experience with decent mediums was
exceedingly limited. He sat several times with
Eva during the abortive investigation by the
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 37
LondonPsychicalResearch Society. He wrote to
me at thetime, saying :
“‘
I found it highly inter-
esting.” Therewas no question of any exposure,
and he admitted that he saw ectoplasm both
come and go without being able to explain it.
I believe that he once——and only once—sat with
that great voice medium, Mrs. Wriedt, on which
occasion nothing at all occurred, as will happen
with all honest mediums, but does not happen
with conjurers. There was certainly no talk of
any exposure. He never sat with Miss Besinnet,
nor with Mrs. Pruden, nor with Jonson of Pasa-
dena, nor with Hope, nor with Mrs. Deane, nor
with Evan Powell, nor Phoenix, nor Sloane. He
claimed to have exposed P. L. O. Keeler, a
mediumwhom I have heard quoted, but of Whom
I have no personal experience. Speaking gener-
ally,it may be said that his practicalexperience,
save witha class of peoplewhom a decent Spiritua-
list would neither use nor recommend, was very
limited. Histheoreticalknowledgeof the subject
was also limited, for though he possessed an
excellent library, it was, when I inspected it,
neither catalogued nor arranged. I am told that
his library was eventuallyput upon a more satis-
factory basis, but I speak of it as I saw it. His
book, A Magician among the Spirits, is full of
errors of fact, and never for a moment did he
show any appreciation of the higher religious
claims of the movement.
,.
,1
38 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
In spite of this very limited basis, he gave the
public the impression that his knowledge was
profound. To one reporter he said that he had
attended ten thousandséances. I pointed out at
the time that this would mean one a day for
thirtyyears. His accusationsagainst Spiritualists
were equally wild. A man, named Frank Mac-
dowell, committed a peculiarlyatrocious murder
at Clearwater in Florida. Houdini broadcast the
fact that it was due to spirit teaching. Fortun-
ately, a resolute Spiritualist, Mr. Elliot Ham-
mond, went into the matter, and showed clearly
that the murderer gave his complete disbelief in
life after death to have been at the root of his
actions. Spiritualismwould have saved him.
I repeat that Houdini’s attitude in private was
quite different to what it was in public. At one
time we had him really converted without the
slightest intention of causing such a result. It
was at Atlantic City,in 1922. He had spoken in
a touching manner of his mother, so my wife,
who has the great gift of inspired writing—that
is, of writing which appears to be quite discon-
nected from her own mentality—triedif she could
get any message for him. It was done at my
suggestion: and I well remember that my wife
needed much persuasion. We had no sooner
assembled in our quiet sitting-room than the
power came, and the medium began to write
withbreathlessand extraordinary speed, covering
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 39
sheet after sheet, which I tore oil"and threwacross
to Houdini at the other side of the table. We
gathered that it was a moving and impassioned
message to her son from the dead mother. He
asked a mental question of his mother without
speech, and the medium’s hand instantly wrote
what he admitted to be an answer. Houdini
was deeply moved, and there is no question that
at the time he entirely accepted_it.
When we met himtwo days later in New York,
he said to us :
“
I have been walking on air ever
since.” I published theincident in my American
Adventure, so that he had to explain it away to
fit it into his anti-Spiritualistic campaign. The
line of criticism which he took was that it could
not have been from his mother,since a cross was
put upon the top of the paper, and she was a
Jewess. If he had cared to inquire we could
have shown him that the medium always puts a
cross on the top of her paper, as being a holy
symbol. We consider that such exercises are, in
the highest degree, religious. That is a complete
answer to the objection.
His second criticism was that the letter was in
English. This was plausible, but shows an
ignorance of psychic methods. If ‘a medium
were in complete trance, it might well be possible
to get an unknown tongue through her. Such
cases are not very rare ; but when the medium
is not in trance, but writing by inspiration, it is
40 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
the flood of thoughtand of emotion which strikes
her, and has to be translated by her in her own
vocabulary as best she can. As an illustration,
I have notes of a case where two mediums in the
same room both got an inspired message at the
same moment. They each wrote down the
same sense, but the wording was quite different.
Thus the second criticism falls to the ground.
In any case, one would imagine that he would
have nothing but respect and gratitude for one
who tried to help him, with no conceivable
advantage to herself. No sign of this‘ appears.
It is the same queer mental twist which caused
him first to take the name of the great French-
man, and then to write a whole book, The
Unmasking of Houdin, to prove that he was a
fraud.
But therewas anothervery curious and sugges-
tive incident in connection with that sitting at
Atlantic City. As Houdini, much moved, rose
from thetable, he took up thepencil,and, bending
to the papers, he said :
“
I Wonder if I could do
anything at this! ”
The pencil moved and he
wrote one word. Then he looked up at me and
I was amazed, for I saw in his eyes that look,
impossibleto imitate, which comes to themedium
who is under influence. The eyes look at you,
and yet you feel that they are not focused upon
you. Then I took up thepaper. He had written
upon it the one word, “
Powell.” My friend,
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI
i
41
Ellis Powell, had just died in England, so the
name had a meaning. “
Why,Houdini,”I cried,
“
Saul is among the prophets ! You are a
medium.” Houdini had a poker-face and gave
nothing away as a rule, but he seemed to me to
be disconcerted by my remark. He muttered
somethingabout knowing a man called “
Powell”
down in Texas, though he failed to invent any
reason why that particular man should come
backat thatparticularmoment. Then, gathering
up the papers, he hurried from the room. It is
probable thatat thatmoment I had surprised the
master secret of his 1ife—a secret which even
those who were nearest to him had never quite
understood. Each fact alone may be capable of
explanation, but when a dozen facts all point in
the same direction, then surely there is a case to
answer.
I have said thatthe Houdini mentality was the
most obscure that I have ever known. Consider
this manifestation of it. My wife and I were, as
I have shown, endeavouringto help him, withno
possible motive save to give him such consolation
as we could, since he was always saying that he
wished to get in touch with his mother. Such
consolationhas often been given to others. Even
if we suppose, for argument’s sake, that we were
mistaken in our views,we were, as he often admits,
in dead earnest. Then, as we rose, he wrote
down the name Powell, which meant much to
D
42 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
me. If it was not written under psychicinfluence,
why should he write anythingat all, since no one
asked him to do so ? He saw the diflicultywhen
he had to explain it away, so in his book he says
that it was a
“
deliberate mystification”
upon
his part, and that he wrote it entirely of his own
volition. Thus by his own showing, while we
were honest with him, he was playingwhat I will
charitably describe as a practical joke upon us.
Is it any Wonder thatwe look back at theincident
with some bitterness? He does not attempt to
explain how it was that out of all his friends the
name thathe wrote was the very one which might
well have wished to come throughto me. There
is a limit to coincidence.
It is a curious fact that neither my wife nor I
knew what was in the mother’s letter until I read
it in his book. It was written so swiftlythatthe
medium, in her half-unconscious state, could at
best only have a very vague idea of its purport,
while I never even glanced at it. Now that I
read it, it seems to me to be a very beautiful
letter, full of love and of longing. As I have
explained, the thoughts are given and are largely
translated by the medium. Therefore, there are
some sentences in which I can recognize my
wife’s style of expression, but the greater part of
it is far more fervid——one might almost say more
Oriental—than anything I have known my wife
do. Here is a short extract:
THE RIDDLE or HOUDINI 43
“
Oh, my darling, my darling, thank God at last I am
through. I’ve tried, oh, so often. Now I am happy. Of
course, I want to talk to my boy, my own beloved boy. . . .
My only shadow has been that my beloved one has not
known how often I have been with him all the while. . . .
I want him only to know that—that—I have bridged the
gu1f—thatis what I wanted—oh, so much. Now I can rest
in peace.”
It was a long and very moving message and
bore every internal sign of beinggenuine. There
is no question at all in my mind that Houdini
was greatly shaken at the time and for some days
afterwards. His objectionswere all afterthoughts
in order to save the situation.
In the account of the matter which Houdini
gave, he lays stress upon the fact that Mrs.
Houdini had spoken to my wife the night before
as to Houdini’s affairs, with many details as to
his habits when with his mother. Now if the
message had really come from my wife’s sub-
conscious self I think it is certain that some of
this information would have come through. I
have known thisto happen in thecase of perfectly
honest mediums and for this reason it is better
never to tell a medium anything at all before a
séance. A blank slate is the best to write upon.
In the long message, however,whichmy wife gave
there was no trace at all of the knowledge which
she had normally gained, and which could have
been used so effectively if anyone had been so
wicked as to play a trick. This is, I think, a
4.4 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
very clear sign that the message was not sub-
conscious but did really come from the source it
claimed. Houdini’s objection that the mother
made no mention of the fact that it was her own
birthdayhas no relevancy. What are birthdays
on the other side ? It is the death day which is
thereal birthday. In her rush ofjoy and emotion
why should she pause to mention such a fact?
The method in which Houdini tried to explain
away, minimize and contort our attempt at con-
solation, which was given entirely at his own
urgent request and against my wife’s desire, has
left a deplorable shadow in my mind Which made
some alteration in my feelings towards him.
Conscious as I was of his many excellent and
Wonderful qualities, such incidents took the edge
off my sympathies, and put a strain upon our
friendship.
When my friend, the late Miss Scatcherd, was
in New York, some years ago, she saw a good deal
of Houdini, and got, I fancy, as nearly into his
completeconfidenceas anyone could do. To her,
as to me, he showed no animosity to psychic
things, but, on the contrary, he was eager to
show her the one and only true medium Whom
he had discovered in America. Miss Scatcherd
was not, I gather, much impressed by his find,
having known many better ones. She did not
fail,however,to point out to him thatin admitting
the one medium he had really given away his
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 45
whole case, and agreed that the Spiritualists had
a solid foundation for their cult. She then
accused him of beinga powerful mediumhimself,
for she was a strong sensitive, and all her psychic
powers told her that he was the same. She also
scolded him in her charming, good-natured Way
for having behaved shamefullyin the“
Margery ”
case, which he did not deny. The climax came,
however, when, far out on the Atlantic, she
received the following wireless message :
“
From a sensitive to a sensitive. Wishing you a pleasant
voyage.—Houdini.
’ ’
A sensitive is a medium, and What is the logic
of denouncing all mediums as frauds from the
public platforms, and at the same time declaring
in a telegram that you are one yourself P
Let us now follow a fresh line of thought.
There can be no question at all, to anyone who
has really weighed the facts, that Ira Davenport
was a true medium. Apart from the evidence of
thousands of witnesses, it is self-evident that he
could at any time, by announcing himself and
his brother as conjurers, and doing his unique
performances as tricks, have won fame and for-
tune. This would seem a dreadful thing to do
from the point of View of a good Spiritualist, and
the Davenports went to the last possible limit by
leavingthe source of theirpowers to the audience
to determine. Houdini has endeavoured to take
46 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
advantage of this and to make out that Ira ad-
mitted in his old age that his feats were tricks.
To clear away such an idea, I append thefollowing
letter, written by Ira in 1868 to The Banner of
Light :
“
It is singular that any individual, sceptic or Spiritualist,
could believe such statements after fourteen years of the
most bitter persecution, culminatingin the riots of Liverpool,
Huddersfield, and Leeds, where our lives were placed in
imminent peril by the fury of brutal mobs, our property
destroyed, all because we would notrenounce Spiritualism
and declare ourselves jugglers when threatened by the mob
and urged to do so. In conclusion, We denounce all such
statements as base falsehoods.”
We happen to be particularly well informed
about the Davenports, for, apart from long state-
ments from many well-known people who ex-
amined them,thereare threebooks by peoplewho
knew themwell, and who could not possiblyhave
been deceived had they been swindlers. The
smaller book, by Orrin Abbott, covers the early
days, and the author tells how he was intimate
withthe brothers when theywere little boys, and
how at that time he had every opportunity of
observing and testing their Wonderful powers.
These seem, as is often the case with mediums,
to have been stronger in childhoodthan in later
life, the power of levitation being one which
Abbott witnessed, but which is not recorded of
them elsewhere. The second and fullest is Dr.
Nicol’s biography, while the third and most
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 47
valuable is found in the Supramundane Facts of
the Rev. ]. B. Ferguson. Ferguson was a man
of very high character, with a notable record
behindhim, and he travelled withtheDavenports
during theirtour in England. He was withthem
at all hours of the day and night, and he has left
it on record thattheirexperienceswhen in private
were quite as wonderfulas anythingthatthepublic
ever saw. It is notable that these well-attested
feats included not only the instant freedom from
ropes, however carefully fastened and sealed by
the spectators, but also, on occasion, the freedom
from handcuffs or twisted wire, and the power
of opening locked doors. In a word, the Daven-
port powers were the Houdini powers, save that
the latter had physicalstrengthand agilitywhich
may have helped him to extend them.
My argument now begins to emerge. If it be
true thatthe Davenports were real mediums (and
let the inquirer really read their record before he
denies it),1 and if Houdini produced exactly
similar results, which have in each case been
inexplicable to their contemporaries, then is it
conceivable that they were produced in entirely
differentways P If Ira Davenportwas a medium,
then there is a strong prima facie case that
Houdini was a mediumtoo. Now we come upon
some explanation of the cryptic saying of the
1
It will be found epitomizedin my History of Spiritualism
(Cassell).
48 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
rabbi by the graveside :
“
He possessed a won-
drous power thathe never understood, and which
he never revealed to anyone in life.” What
could that power be, save what we have called
the power of the medium?
A singularincident is narrated by Mrs. Houdini
‘
and is incorporated in Mr. Kellock’s biography.
Shortly after his marriage, Houdini took his girl
wife and his brotherto a lonelyplace, where he
halted them upon a bridge at midnight. When
the hour came he made them both raise their
hands in the air and said to them, “
Beatrice,
Dash, raise your hands to heaven and swear that
both of you _will be true to me. Never betray
me in any way, so help you God! ”
I would
not put too much stress upon this incident. It
may have been the considered act of one who
already had some strange and secret knowledge
which he foresaw might be used in thefuture and
might be surprised by those around him.
I would not, in probingthis diflicult problem,
pass too lightly over the considered words of the
rabbi,that he had a wondrous power and did not
himself understand it. This phrase fits very
exactlyinto what has been stated to me by those
who were nearest to him in life. “
If it was so,
he did not know it,” theyhave answered when I
hinted at my conclusions. It seems hard to
comprehend, and yet there may be somethingin
this view. He was not a clear thinker, and he
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 49
had no logical process in his mind. That surely
is evident when in the same breath he denies all
mediumship and claims to have discovered the
greatest medium in America ; or when he scoffs
at spirit pictures but brings me a very indifferent
one which he had taken himself. Imagine that
such a man finds himself one minute inside a
box; there is an interval of semietrance during
which his mind is filled with a vague feeling of
confused effort, and thenhe finds himself outside
the box. There is no obvious intervention of
spirits, or of any outside force, but it just happens
so. He has the same power in emerging from
fetters, but he has no sort of philosophyby which
he can explain such things. If we could imagine
such a very strange and unlikely state of things
as that, it would, at least, have the merit that it
would give some sort of honest and rational
explanation of a good deal which at present is
dark. It is no unusual thing for a medium to
fail to understand his own results, but it would
certainly seem almost incrediblethatanyone could
have such results for many years and never corre-
late them with the experience of others. I, as
his formerfriend,would welcomesuch an explana-
tion if it could be sustained.
But how does the good rabbi know that he
did not understand it P Only one man could say
with authority,but he has passed away with
closed lips, leaving, however, many signs behind
50 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
for thosewho have theWit to followthem. There
is one thing certain, and that is that the fate of
the Davenports must have been a perpetual
warningto Houdini. They had been ruined and
hunted off the stage because it was thought that
their claim was psychic. If his powers were to
be drawn from that source, and if he were to
avoid a similarfate, thenhis first and fundamental
law must be that it be camouflagedin every pos-
sible way, and thatno one at all should know his
secret. If this be granted, a great many discon-
nected points become at once a connected whole.
We see what he meant when he said thathis own
wife did not know how he produced his efiects.
We understand thevoice of which he spoke. We
comprehend dimly the unknown power of the
rabbi. We can even imagine that a campaign
against mediums, "fortified by the knowledge that
false mediums do exist, would be an excellent
smoke-screen, though probably he had never
thought out what View the unseen powers might
take of such a transaction, any more than he cal-
culated upon the interposition of Walter in the
case of the conspiracy against the Crandons. I
cannot say thatall this is certain. I can only say
that it covers the facts as I know them.
Of course, I know that he had a trick-box. I
know also who constructed it, and the large
amount that he paid for it. When I know also
that he could do his escapes equally well in any
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI _
51
local box, I am not inclined to attach much
importance to the matter. He was a very astute
man, and what he did he would do thoroughly,
but he became too careless in his methods as he
found he could do them with,impunity.
Houdiniis curiouslycontradictoryin his account
of the methods of Davenport. In his book A
Magician among the Spirits, he says :
“
Their methodof releasingthemselveswas simple. When
one extended his feet the other drew his in, thus securing
slack enough in the wrist rope to permit workingtheir hands
out of the loops. The second brother was released by
reversing the action.”
But, as I have shown, in a letter to me he said :
“
I know for a positive fact that it was not essential for
themto release the bonds in order to obtain manifestations.”
So the previous explanationwould seem to have
been a fake in order to conceal the real one.
In another letter he says:
“
I am afraid I cannot say that all of their work was
accomplished by spirits.”
The “all” is suggestive. I would be the last
to suggest that all of Davenport’s or indeed that
all of Houdini’s work could be due to spirits.
For that matter, we have to remember that We
are ourselves spirits here’ and now, and that a
man may very Well be producing psychic effects
withoutgoing beyondhis own organism. It is in
52 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
this sense that I suspect the Houdini results as
being psychic, and I do not at all insist upon the
interposition of outside forces. The two things
are not far apart, however, and very easily slide
into each other. There is, I hold, the medium’s
use of his own power, thereis a vague borderland,
and there is a wide World beyond where his
’power is used by forces outside himself. I am
convinced, for example, that raps may be pro-
duced voluntarilyby a mediumby a psychiceffort,
and I am equally convinced that at another stage
these same raps may be used for purposes quite
beyond his knowledge or control.
Is it possible for a man to be a very powerful
medium all his life, to use thatpower continually,
and yet never to realize that the gifts he is using
are those which the world calls mediumship P
If thatbe indeed possible, thenWe have a solution
of theHoudini enigma. One who knew him well
and workedwithhim often wrote to me as follows :
“Often he would get a difficult lock. I would stand by
the cabinet and hear him say :
‘
This is beyond me.’ After
many minutes, when the audience became restless, I would
say,
‘
If there is anythingin this beliefin Spiritism why don’t
you call on them to assist you P ’
And before many minutes
had passed Houdini had mastered the lock. He never
attributed this to psychic help. He just knew that that
particular instrument was the one to open that lock, and
so he did all his tricks.”
It is only fair to state, however, that this cor-
respondent, who was in a good position to know,
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 53
would not admit the mediumship. And yet if
“
that particular instrument ”
was, as stated, an
appeal to spirits, it seems diflicult to claim that
the result was natural.
I would not limit my hypothesis to the idea
that it was only when he met the Davenports
thathe first developed these strange powers. He
seems only to have met Ira in 1909, and he had
certainly done many marvellous feats himself
before then. But the history and object-lesson
of the Davenports must have been well known to
him, and have shown him what to avoid.
In putting forward such a view as I have here
expressed it is natural thata critic should demand
thatI should show that similarresults to those of
Houdini have actuallybeen produced by psychic
power. Of this there can be no possible doubt
upon the part of anyone who has studied the
subject. I have already mentioned the case of
the Davenports who were so badlytreatedby the
English mob, and so maligned by Maskelyneand
other English conjurers who produced a feeble
imitation of theirresults and called it an exposure.
Theyfreed themselveswiththegreatest ease from
metal bands as well as from the tightest ligatures.
Such results can only be obtained by the passage
of matter throughmatter——ofthewrist for example
throughthe metal—and thoughsuch a thingmay
seem inconceivable to the prosaic scientist of
to-day, he would have pronounced wireless or
54. THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
flying to be equally impossible a generation or
so in the past. We seem to need no spirit inter-
vention here, but to be within the region of the
latent powers of thehuman organismin peculiarly
constituted individuals. There is, I believe, a
constructive and a destructive power in thought
alone which is akin to that “
faith which moves
mountains.” What sort of a vibration it can be
which is shot out from the human brain and
separates for a moment the molecules of that
solid object towards which it is directed I do not
know, but the results are clear and perhaps in the
near future the cause may become equally so‘.
From personal observation I have assured myself
thatmediumsin sealed bondscan cast thosebonds,
walk about the room, and be found later withthe
sealed bonds as before. If theycould get out by
a trick I see no way in which theycould get back.
I am forced, therefore, to predicate the existence
of such a dematerializingand reconstructingforce,
which would amply cover most of thephenomena
both of the Davenports and of Houdini. Such a
force was demonstrated also in the experiments
which were made with Slade by Ziillnerand three
other German professors, and described by him
in his Transcende‘-ntalPhysics. In thisbook many
instances, closely observed, of the passage of
matter through matter were recorded, accom-
panied by the interesting observation that the
phenomenonwas accompaniedoften by heat and
THE RIDDLE or HOUDINI 55
a strong smell of burning} Bellachini,the Court
Conjurer, deposed that the results he saw were
out of the region of conjuring altogether.” But
suppose that Slade had gone round the world
doing» such thingsand allowing people to believe
that theywere tricks, while confusing the public
bymixing themup with real tricks,would not his
position have been very close to thatof Houdini ?
We come, however, upona more advanced class
of phenomenon when we consider the case of
the passage of a human body through a solid
obstacleand its reassemblyon the other side. If
I can show that such cases have upon most un-
questionable evidence occurred then I shall have
got a possible line upon Houdini’s performance.
In the April number of Psychic Science there is
the report by an American lady, Mrs. Hack, of
the phenomena at a circle sitting in the Castle
Millesimo,which is near Genoa. Mrs. Hackwas
herself present, as were thewell-known Professor
Bozzano, and other first-class witnesses. The
Marquis Centurione Scotto, the owner of the
castle,Was one of the company. Suddenlyin the
midst of the proceedings he vanished from his
chair. Hisfriendswere horrified. Theysearched
theroom and thecastle, but he was gone. Finally,
after hours of agitation he was found in a deep
1 TranscendentalPhysics, by Prof. Zéillner (English trans-
lation), p. 113.
3 Vide appendix of the above book.
56 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
trance in an outhouse, which was separated by
several locked doors from the main building. He
was led back; and had no recollectionhow he had
got'there. Such in a few Words is the gist of a
case whichwas closelyobserved and fullyreported.
In it a human body is passed through several
solid obstaclesand reassembled on the other side.
How does thisdifferfrom thepassage of Houdini’s
body through wooden planks, brick walls, paper
bags, glass tanks, or whatever else was used to
confine him I‘ 1
In Mr. Campbell Holms’ book, The Facts of
Psychic Science, which is, and will be always, a
most exact and valuable book of reference, there
are a number of cases given where people have
beentransported throughsolid objects. Inexperi-'
enced and foolish people may jeer, but they will
find it easier to do so than to refute the evidence.
For example, upon June 3rd, 1871, Mrs. Guppy
was floated from her own house in Highbury,
and appeared upon the table of a room at 61
Lambs Conduit Street, where a séance was being
held behind locked doors. A document was
signed by the eleven sitters to testify to the fact
and theyhad no possibleobjectin perjuringthem-
selves about the matter. Mrs. Guppy said that
the last thing she could remember was sitting
withher friendMiss Neyland. Thatladydeposed
1 These remarkable experiences are more fully described
in Mrs. Hack’s Modem Psychic Mysteries (Rider).
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 57
that Mrs. Guppy had suddenly vanished from
her sight. Four of the sitters accompaniedMrs.
Guppy home and heard What her friend had to
say. It is diflicult to find any flaw in such evi-
dence and it would certainly have beenconclusive
in a court of law had it been a criminal case. But
surely such a transposition is more remarkable
than any of Houdini’s, and had she done similar
things in public her reputation would have been
similar to his own.
In another case, that of Mr. Henderson, a
photographer, quoted by Mr. Campbell Holms
and described in the Spiritual Magazine of 1874
(p. 22),no less than ten persons saw him vanish
from a room, while nine others deposed to his
arrival almost instantaneously at a point more
thana mile distant. The idea thatthesenineteen
witnesses can be disregarded is surely an impos-
sible one, and yet here again we have evidence of
the possibility by psychic means of passing a
human body throughsolid obstacles by a process
of dematerialisationandreassembly. I could quote
a number of other cases, but the sum of it all
is that Houdini’s exploits, which are inexplicable
in any other Way, come into line at once if We
compare them with other well-attested examples
of psychic power. When one adds this evidence
to the various other indications of similar powers
which I have assembled here, the case seems to
me to be greatly strengthened.
58 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
ThatHoudini’s performanceswere on a different
level from those of other magicians is shown by
the fact that men who took a pride in fathoming
such problems, and who were usually successful,
were utterly foiled in their attempts to explain
them in any reasonable way. Thus Mr. H. L.
Adam, an Englishjournalist who is an expert in
such matters, writes to me that he could under-
stand much that was done by Maskelyne and
others, but
“
I have never been able to discover anythingabout Houdini’s
tricks. Why? I have stood quite near him on the stage
during the performances of many of his tricks, but it was
like looking at a brick wall, so impenetrable were they. I
remember on one occasion, while Houdini was waiting at
the side of the stage ready for his ‘
turn,’ he sat in a chair,
threw his head back, closed his eyes, and appeared plunged
in the profoundest meditations. A few moments before he
had been talking confidentially to me. After the lapse of
perhaps ten minutes, he ‘
came to ’
and continued his con-
versation with me as though nothing had intervened.”
“
Houdini once suggested to me that he should, by way
of advertisement, profess to ‘
give away
’
his handcuff trick,
which I was to publish. But it struck me that the volun-
teered so-called explanation, which included a hidden key,
was too feeble to be convincing,and it was never developed.
This was the nearest approach he ever came to discussing
any of his secrets with me.”
Here again in that trance-like condition before
a performance we seem to get a glimpse of some
psychic influence.
Houdini continually admitted that there were
35
THE RIDDLE or HOUDINI 59
psychic things"which he could not understand. I
would say in parenthesis that one may be a
strong medium oneself and yet have very small
understanding of other people’s phenomena.
That was conspicuous in the case of D. D. Home.
Here is a Houdini story told by Don Ryan 1 :
“
Houdini had gone in a spiritualist church in Los Angeles,
taking a camera-man, who carried a camera concealed.’ They
made themselves inconspicuous till the Witching hour at
which the ghost was accustomed to walk. The hour came
and with it the spirit. The leader of the group was holding
conversation with the invisible spirit when the camera was
trained on the spot without the knowledge of anybody save
Houdini and his photographer.
“
The developed plate which Houdini showed me revealed
a well-defined transparent human figure draped in white.
“ ‘
I can’t explain it and I don’t know what to thinkof it,’
said Houdini that day, and I could see that the thing had
made a decided impression on him.
“ ‘
It’s no more astonishing than your staying under water
for an hour and a half in a lead-lined coflin,’ I told him.
“ ‘
Ah,’ replied Houdini, ‘
but I know how thatis done.’ ”
The attempts upon the part‘ of his brother-
magicians to give some sort of explanation of
Houdini’s feats only serve to deepen the mystery.
Mr. Howard Thurston, for whose opinion I have
respect, for he seemed to me to be the only
American Conjurer who had some real accurate
knowledge of psychic matters, says that his feats
all come withinthe power of advanced conjuring.
I know that feats with the same name do so, but
1 New York American, February 11th, 1928.
5'
60 I‘
THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
I venture to express the opinion that such feats
as Houdini did have never been explained and
are in an altogether different class. So too, Mr.
Will Goldston, who is well known and respected
as an authorityon conjuring, has actually des-
cribed in a book how theyare done. Here again
he seems to me to be describing the accepted
method, which by no means covers Houdini’s
results. To show the inadequacy of Mr. Gold-
ston’s “
explanations” 1 he says in talking of
the escape under water, “
Without giving away
his secrets I may say that he was always practi-
cally out of the box before it reached the water.”
Consideringthatthe screwed and corded box was
in full sight of hundreds of spectators as it sank
beneaththe waves, it is diflicult to accept such a
solution as this. I admit that I am at a disad-
vantagewhen opposed to the technical knowledge
of such men as Goldston and Thurston, but on
the other hand I have my own technical and
expert knowledge of psychic possibilities,and I
put up a case for consideration and discussion.
He had, as already stated, a sitting with the
medium Eva, and under the stringent and very
deterrent conditions imposed by the London
Psychical Research Society, which will be found
described in their unsatisfactory and self-contra-
dictoryreport, he did seem to have made acquaint-
ance with ectoplasm in its very humblest form.
1
Sunday Express, November 7th, 1926.
THE RIDDLE OF HOUDINI 61
He says in a letter to me Written the next morning
(June 22nd, 1920) :
“They made Eva drink a cup of coffee and eat some
cake (I presume to fillher up withsome food-stuff),and after
she had been sewn into the tights, and a net over her face,
she manifested.
I. “
Some froth-likesubstance,insideof net, ’twas long,about
five inches, she said it was elevated, but none of us
four watchers saw it ‘
elevate.’
2.
“
A white plaster-looking affair over her right eye.
3. “
Somethingthat looked like a small face, say four inches
in circumference. Was terra—cotta coloured, and Ding-
wall, who held her hands, had the best look at the
‘
object.’
4. “
Some substance, froth-like,exuding from her nose, and
Baggeley and Fielding say it protrudes from her nose,
but Dingwall and} are positive that it was inside of
net and was not extending from her nose, as I had the
best view from two different places I deliberatelytook
advantage to see just what it was.
5. “
Medium asked permission to remove something in her
mouth, show her hands empty, and took out what
appeared to be a rubberish substance, which she dis-
engaged, showed us plainly,We held the electric torch,
all saw it plainly, when presto! it vanished. It was
a surprise effect indeed! The séance started at 7.30
and lasted past midnight.
“
We went over the notes,andno doubt you will get a full
report. I found it highly interesting.”
It will be found from these extracts thatwhen
faced with facts his attitude was very diflerent
from what his public utterances would lead one
to expect.
Be his mystery what it may, Houdini was one
62 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
of the most remarkable men of Whom We have
any record, and he will live in history with such
personalities as Cagliostro, the Chevalier D’Eon,
and other strange characters. He had many out-
standing qualities, and the world is the poorer
for his loss. As matters stand, no one can say
positivelyand finallythathis powers were abnor-
mal, but the reader Will, I hope, agree with me
that there is a case to be answered.
IL
THE SHADOWS ON THE SCREEN
HERE is nothing more wonderful, more
incredible, and»at the same time, as it
seems to me, more certain, than that past events
may leave a record upon our surroundingswhich
is capable of making itself felt, heard, or seen
for a long time afterwards. I have put the
impressions in the order of their frequency, for
it is more common to feel the past than to hear
it and more common to hear it than to see it.
Houses which are haunted by vague noises are
more common than those which possess appari-
tions, and familieshave been persecuted for years
by poltergeists who have never once caught a
glimpse of their tormentors.
A sensitive mind is easilyaffected in any place
where there has been recent trouble. A lady of
my acquaintancecalled recently upon the matron
of a hospital and found that she was not in her
room.
“
Mrs. Dodson has gone out,” said the
nurse.
“
Has she had bad news P ” “
Yes, she
has just had a wire that her husband is very ill.”
How did my friend know that there had been
63.
64 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
bad news P She felt it by a sinking of her own
heart as she entered the room, before the nurse
had arrived. “
TelepathyI ”
says the parrot.
Well, if telepathycan be stretched to mean thata
thought or emotion can not only be flashed from
brain to brain, but that it can remain stationary
for an hour and then impress itself upon any
sensitive who approached it, then I will not
quarrel with the word. But if for an hour why
not for a year, and if for a year why not for a
century P There is a record on the etheric
screen so that it may retain indefinitely some
intimate and lasting change which marks and can
even faintly reproduce the emotion which a
human being has endured within it.
I had a friendwho lived in a century-old house.
His wife, who was sensitive, was continually
aware of a distinct push when she came down the
stairs, always occurring upon the same step."
Afterwards it was discovered that an old lady
who had formerly lived in the house received a
playful push from some frolicsome child, and
lost her balance, falling down the stairs. It is
not necessary to believe that some hobgoblin
lingered upon that stair continually repeating the
fatal action. The probable explanationseems to
be that the startled mind of the old "woman as
she felt herself falling left some permanent effect
behind it which could still be discerned in this
strange fashion.
THE SHADOWS ON THE SCREEN 65
But on what could an impression be left P An
impression of such a nature becomes a material
thing and implies a material nexus, however
subtle. So far as we know there are only two
thingsthere, the air and the ether. The air is a
mobile thing and could not carry a permanent
impression. But is the ether a mobile thing?
It is pictured as a most delicate medium with
vibrating currents flowing in it, but it seems to
me that a most tenuous jelly with quivers and
thrills would be a closer analogy. We could
conceive the whole material universe embedded
in and interpenetrated by this subtle material,
which would not necessarily change its position
since it is too fine for wind or any coarser material
to influenceit. I feel that I am rushing in where
even Lodges fear to tread, but if it should prove
to be as I suggest then we should have that per-
manent screen on which shadows are thrown.
The block of ether upon the stairs is the same
that it always was, and so conveys the impression
from the past.
Invisible air records of this sort would explain
many things which are now inexplicable. Men
of strong nerve have been known to be terrified
in certain localities without being able to give
any reason. Some horror of the past, unseen by
their eyes, may still have impressed their senses.
One does not need to be Very psychic to getthe
same result upon an old battlefield. I am by no
66 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
means psychic myself, and yet I am conscious,
quite apart from imagination,of a curious effect,
almost a darkeningof thelandscape witha marked
sense of heaviness, when I am on an old battle-
field. I have been particularly conscious of it
on the scenes of Hastings and Culloden, two
fights where great causes were finally destroyed
and Where extreme bitternessmay well have filled
the hearts of the conquered. The shadow still
remains. A more familiar example of the same
facultyis the gloom which gathers over the mind
of even an average person upon entering certain
houses. The most rabid agitator need not envy
our nobility’their stately old castles, for it is
happier to spend one’s life in the simplest cot-
tage, uncontaminated by psychic disturbance,
than to live in the grandest mansion which still
preserves the gloomy taints that hang about
rooms once perhaps the scene of cruelty or other
vices.
If a sensitive is able to feel some record of a
past event, then there is evidence that by an
extension of this process one Who is still more
sensitive would actually see the person who left
the impression. That it is the actual person in
spirit is in most cases utterly incredible to me.
That the victim of some century-old villainy
should still in her ancient garments frequent in
person the scene of her former martyrdom is,
indeed, hard to believe. It is more credible, little
THE SHADOWS ON THE SCREEN 67
as we understand the details, that some thought-
form is shed and remains visible, at the spot
where great mental agony has been endured.
“
How ”
and “
why ”
are questions which will
be solved by our descendants. If we could con-
ceive thatwe have form withinform like theskins
of an onion, that the outer skin should peel off
under the influence of emotion and continue a
mechanical existence at that spot While the rest
of the organism passed on and never even missed
it, such a supposition, farcical as it appears, would
match the recorded facts better than anything
else I know. Each fresh discarded skin of the
onion would be a fresh thought-form, and our
track through life would be marked in its more
emotional crises by a long trail of such forms,
Grotesque as the idea may seem, I can confidently
say that the true explanationwhen it arrives will
prove to be not less so.
Let us now take some definite examples where
this thought-form of the past has manifested
itself. I do not know a better case than that
which is recorded by the late Miss Goodrich-
Freer, a lady who combined a steady nerve and
cool judgment with a temperament which was
conservative to the point of incredulity. She
slept in a room in Hampton Court Palace which
had a record of haunting, and she tells us very
clearly what occurred. No unprejudiced person
could possibly read the original narrative without
68 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
being absolutely convinced that the facts were
even as stated.
It was a small bedroom without curtains, with
one door close by the bed. It is characteristicof
the lady that she spent her vigil—she had come
in the hope of seeing the apparition—by reading
Lord Farrer’s article, “
Shall we degrade our
standard of value P ”
In spite of the reading, or
possibly on account of it, she fell asleep, and was
awakened some hours later by sounds of move-
ment. It was quite dark, and some detaining
force seemed to prevent her from reaching for
the matches. A question received no reply.
Suddenly there appeared a soft point of light in
the gloom, which glowed and spread, until it
became the figure of a tall, slight woman, moving
slowlyacross the room. She stopped at the far-
ther side and the observer was able to get a clear
View of her profile. “
Her face was insipidly
pretty, that of a woman from thirty to thirty—five
years of age, her figure slight, her dress of a dark
soft material, having a full skirt and broad sash
or waistband tied high up, a crossed or draped
kerchief over the shoulders, ‘sleeves which I
noticed fitted very tight below the elbow, and
hair which was dressed so as not to lie flat on the
head.” A second question addressed to thisfigure
produced no effect. She raised her thin white
hands, sank upon her knees, buried her face in -
the palms,and appeared to pray. Then the light
THE SHADOWS ON THE SCREEN 69
Went out and thescene was over. The impression
left upon the .observer’s mind by the action and
attitude was that of reproach, and yet of gentle
resignation. Her own nerves were so entirely
unaffected by the incident that she has left it on
record thatshe spent part of the remainder of the
nightin readingMyers’ DriftofPsychicalResearch.
Such an experience, and it is one of a very
numerous class, can hardlybe explainedrationally
upon any spiritual or upon any physical basis.
Granting the fact, and there is no sane alternative
but to grant it, we cannot conceive that this
unfortunate woman has really for a century or
more occupied herself in walking across a room
in which some great trouble may have befallen
her in her earth—life. From her appearance one
would judge that she was more sinned against
than sinning. ‘Why, then, should any just dis-‘
pensationcondemn her to so strange, monotonous,
and useless a fate P If we can conceive, however,
that it is some shadow of herself which was
detached in old days of trouble, and still lingers,
then certainly the matter becomes more clear, if
she herself is happy elsewhere. Such a shadow,
like most psychic phenomena, might well seem
luminous to one who, like Miss Goodrich-Freer,
had herself some clairvoyant gifts. If you ask,
however, why such a thought-form should only
,come at certain hours, I am compelled to answer
that I do not know.
70 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
A. similar first-hand example may be drawn
from Mrs. TWeedale’s book, Ghosts I Have Seen,
which, under its popular title, contains a most
extraordinary record of actual first-hand psychic
experiences. Mrs. Tweedale is an admirable
witness, for she, like Miss Goodrich-Freer,is her-
self clairvoyante, and yet retains a very sane and
critical judgment, while her personal reputation
and position give us every confidence in her
statements. Materialists willnever fairlyface the
obvious alternative that such first-hand accounts
either mean that a person of honour has suddenly
burst into a perfect orgy of objectless lying, or
else that the statements are true. When a clair-
voyante can clearly describe her own experiences
the book becomes of great value, and I would
only name Turvey’sBeginnings of Seership among
the more recent works as equalling Mrs. Twee-
dale’s in personal knowledge.
The writer at one time lived in an old house
in the West End of London. It was a Winter
night, and she was lying half asleep when she
heard a sound as of the crackling"of parchment,
and opening her eyes she saw a ~man seated in a
chair in front of the fire. He was dressed in a
uniform reminiscent of Nelson’s days, with brass
buttons, wore powdered hair with a black bow,
and was staring rigidly into the glow, while he
held crumpled up in his right hand some sort of
document. He was a statelyand handsomefigure.
THE SHADOWS ON THE SCREEN 71
For some hours he sat there, the fire gleaming,
when it spurted up, upon the buckles and buttons
of his dress. Finally,in the small hours of the
morning he vanished gradually away. Several
times later the lady saw the same apparition, and
it might well be argued that it was constantly
there, but that its perception depended upon the
condition of the clairvoyante. Finallysome reli-
gious exorcism was performed in the room and
the vision was not seen again.
This case clearly fits itself into the hypothesis
advanced here, of a form—picture being thrown
out at a time of emotion. The parchment docu-
ment suggests a willor some otherpaper of impor-
tance which the oflicer has prepared or received,
but which in either case may have caused him so
much mental stress as he brooded over it in front
of the fire that he threw this permanent record
upon the screen of time. The accompaniment
of appropriate sound is very general in such
cases. Diflicult as my hypothesismay seem, we
have to rememberthatthe only conceivable other
explanations would be either that the man’s self
was there in front of the fire after a century of
spirit—life,or thathis thoughts in the spirit—world
concerning an episode in his earth—life were so
constant and vivid thattheyconjured up a picture
in the room. The latter explanation might be
accepted for a single episode, but when it is a
constant matter, and when one remembers how
72 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
many otherreminiscences of earth-lifesuch a man
must have had, it is difiicultto consider it seriously.
An experience which comes under the same
heading is narrated by Lady Reay in the same
enthralling volume. She was sleeping in an
ancient dwelling with a somewhat sinister repu-
tation, so we may admit that her mind was pre-
pared to see a ghost. The actual form of the
phantom was so definite, and so exactly similar
to thatseen by independentwitnesses at different
times in the same room, that it could hardly be
a figment of the brain. She was awakened by
moaning. The room was in total darkness, but
at one side was a circle of light, like that thrown
by a magiclantern. This seems to be the psychic
illumination,as seen by Miss Goodrich-Freer in
the case already quoted. Several clairvoyants
who habitually see it describe it as being of a
metallic yellow. In this circle of radiance was
seen a woman dressed as in the Tudor period,
walking round the apartment, throwing herself
occasionallyagainst the wall, like a desperate bird
in a cage, and moaning terribly. There was no
record, so far as I know, as to who this unhappy
lady may have been, but she was seen indepen-
dently before Lady Reay saw her, but without
Lady Reay’s knowledge, by Captain Eric Streat—
field when he was a little boy. I do not under-
stand how one can disregard such testimony as
this. Such incredulitymay be describedas scien-
THE SHADOWS ON THE SCREEN 73
tific caution, but to those who are really aware of
the weight of evidence now existing, it must
appear mere obstinacy and obtuseness. When
one thinksof theimportance ofpsychicknowledge,
and compares it with that of the bending of the
light from the Hyades as it passes the sun, one
can but marvel at the want of proportion which
exalts the physical while it neglects the spiritual.
An adventure which occurred to a friend of
mine seems to come under this heading. His
familyhad rented an old country house in which
Nell Gwynne had been kept when she was the
mistress of Charles II. One evening, as he des-
cended the stairs, he saw cross the hall a figure
which was very like a family nurse, whom we
will call “
Nannie.” He cried out “
Nannie 1 ”
-in surprise and followed her, but could find no
trace. Inquiry proved that the servant was not
in thehouse or in theneighbourhood. My friend
amused himself by fitting up the house with as
many old prints of Nell Gwynne as he could
collect. One day his sister visited him, and after
inspecting these pictures she exclaimed :
“
Have
you ever observed how like Nell Gwynne is to
our Nannie P ”
There is, of course, a chance of
coincidence here, but at least there is a strong
suggestion thatpoor Nell, wearied and miserable,
with her heart achingfor the bustle of town, cast
off some thought-form as a permanent record of
her emotion.
F
74 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
In all these cases there has been only one figure
thrownupon the screen, but the matter becomes
more complexwhen thereis a group. This group
consists in many cases of the wronger and the
wronged, but as each may have been at the same
pitch of emotion at the time of the deed, the
theory of thought-forms being shed at such a
time is not invalidated—and is, at any rate, more
reasonablethanto imaginethattheguiltymurderer
andtheinnocentvictimare involvedin one common
fate, which consists of an endless repetitionof the
tragedy which theyonce enacted. Such an idea
seems to me a monstrous and unthinkable one.
I would choose as a good example of the com-
posite thought-formone which was recorded some
years ago in the Wide World Magazine, which I
have every reason to believe is founded on fact,
thoughthe name given, Grace Dundas, is a pseu-
donym, and the events occurred twenty years ago.
In thisverydramaticcase a lady withher children
occupied a lonely house upon the Cornish coast,
and was much disturbed by a ghostlyvisitor who
passed witha heavy tread up the stairs at a certain
hour of the night, disappearing into a panel in
thelanding. The lady had the courage to lie in
wait for him, and perceived him to be a small,
aged man in a shabby tweed suit, carrying his
boots in his hand. He emitted “
a sort ‘of yellow
luminous light.” This creature ascended at I
a.m., and emerged again at 4.30, descending the
THE SHADOWS ON THE SCREEN 75
stair with the same audibletread. The lady kept
thematter to herself, but a nurse who was brought
to tend one of the children came screaming in
the middle of the night to say that there was
“
a
dreadful old man
”
in the house. She had des-
cended to the dining-room to get some water for
her patient, and had seen him seated in a chair
and taking off his boots. He was seen by his
own light, for she had not had time to strike a
match. The lady’s brotherand her husband both
corroborated the phenomena,and the latter went
Very thoroughlyinto the matter. He found that
under the house was a cellar which opened into a
cave, up which the water came at full tide. It
was an ideal situation for a smuggler. That night
the husband and wife kept watch in the cellar,
where they saw a Very terrible spectacle. In a
light resemblingthatof themoon theywere aware
of two elderly men engaged in a terrific struggle.
One got the other down and killedhim, bundling
the body through the door into the cave beyond.
He thenburied the knife withwhich the deed was
done, though curiously enough this detail was
only observed by the husband, who actually
unearthed a knife afterwards at the spot. Both
witnesses then saw the murderer pass them, and
they followed him into the dining-room, where
he drank some brandy, though this action was
seen by the wife and not the husband. He then
took off his boots, exactlyas thenurse had already
76 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
described. With his boots in his hand he
ascended the stairs and passed throughthe panel
as he had done so often before,theinferencebeing
that on each previous occasion the scene in the
cellar had preceded his advent.
Inquiry now showed that many years ago the
house had been inhabited by two brothers who
amassed considerable wealth by smuggling.
They had hoarded their money in partnership,
but one of them finally announced his intention
of getting married, which involved his drawing
his share of the treasure. Soon afterwards this
brother disappeared, and it was rumoured that
he had gone to,sea upon a long voyage. So far
as I remember,for I write with only notes of the
«episode before me, the other brother went mad,
and the affair was never cleared up in his life-
time. It should be added that the panel into
which the vision disappeared concealed a large
cupboard, which might well have been the trea-
sure—house of the establishment. The graphic
touch of the boots carried in the hand suggests
that there was some housekeeper or other resi-
dent who might be disturbed by the sound of the
murderer’s footsteps.
In this case one can certainly imagine that in
so fratricidal a strife there would be a peculiar
intensity of emotion on the part of both the
actors, which would leaVe,a marked record if
anything could do so. That the record was
THE SHADOWS ON THE SCREEN 77
indeed very marked is shown by the fact thatthe
sight was not reserved for people with psychic
qualities,likethefirst two instances here recorded,
but that everyone, the husband, the wife, and
thenurse all saw theapparition,which must there-
fore have been particularly solid even after the
lapse of so many years. It might, I think, be
put forward as a hypothesis supplementary to
that of thought—forms thrown off in times of
crisis, that the permanency and solidity of the
form depend upon the extremity of the emotion.
A second illustrationmay be drawn from Mrs.
Tweedale’s reminiscences. I am taking my cases
from a limited number of books, for the sake of
convenience in reference, but they are typical of
very many others. The most absurd of the many
absurd charges against Spiritualism is that it has
no literature. It has actually a literature with
which no other religion could attempt to com-
pare, and it may safely be said thatif an assiduous
reader were to devour nothingelse for fifty years
he would be very far from having got to the end
of it. Its quality is not on a par with its quan-
tity, but even there I would undertake to name
fifty books on the scientific and religious sides of
Spiritualism which would outweigh in interest,
_dignity, and brain-power an equal list from any
other philosophy. Yet the public is kept abso-
lutelyignorant of thegreater part of these remark-
able works,many of which willone day be world-
78 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
famous. The people who acted and wrote in the
Apostolic epoch of the Christian Church little
thoughthow theiractionswould appear two thou-
sand years later, and certainly the supercilious
philosophers and scandalized high priests would
have beenmuch astoundedto know of thechanged
values which time has created.
To return, however, to the further illustration,
it concerns the doings in a shooting-lodge in
Argyllshire,inhabited in I901 by Major and Mrs.
Stewart, the latter beingthe sister of Mrs. Twee-
dale. The starting-point of this haunting had
been a situation which would form a grim theme
for a novelist. An elderly farmer, who was a
widower with a grown—up son, married a young
girl. His son soon learnedto love his stepmother,
and thelove may have beenpassionatelyreturned.
The result was a struggle in which the son was
killed by the father. It is not to be wondered
at that so horrible an event should leave a great
psychic disturbance behind it, and the lodge was
found to be a storm—centre of the unknown forces.
The phenomena, which seem to have occurred
every night, took the form of loud thuds and
crashes, especially in a certain room upon the
upper floor,which had probably been a bedroom.
Footsteps resounded down the stairs, and upon
one occasion the whole terrible fight was enacted
in the passage, with all the blows and curses of
the infuriated men. The tragedy may well have
THE SHADOWS ON THE SCREEN 79
commenced upstairs, the guilty son have fled to
the door, and been overtaken by his fatherin the
hall below. The impressions seem to have been
entirely auditory, though a clairvoyant would no
doubt have seen the scene even as it occurred.
This case closely resembles the last, in that the
most furious human passions must have been
aroused, so that every condition existed for a
permanent psychic record. It should be added
that in this latter instance four Pomeranian dogs
in the house were reduced to abject terror, show-
ing thatthere was no hallucinationupon the part
of the human observers.
In discussing reasons for these and similar
phenomena we must not make the mistake of
supposing that one single explanation can cover
all the range of the facts. To do so would be to
court disaster, for someone could at once produce
a case which could not be so covered. These
instances which have been quoted have all sprung
from scenes of emotion, and all represent, as I
venture to suggest, mere shadow-forms detached
from the real personality. There is another class
of case, however, which produces much the same
result, since haunting forms are seen, but which
differs utterly in its nature, in that the forms
appear to be theactual materializedspirits of the
dead held fast by their thoughts and desires to
some spot which they have loved upon earth.
Such a bondage would probably seem by no
80 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
means unpleasant to them, and might only mean
that in the interval of such duties as they might
find awaiting them in a new life they loved to
return to the old happy scene of their earth-
memories. Thus, Brother John, in The Gate of
Remembrance, was an entirely good and happy
spirit, and no doubt had his duties elsewhere, yet
his great love for Glastonbury Abbey brought
him down whenever the interests of the old ruins
demanded it. All accounts of the wandering of
dead misers and others round the scene of their
earthlyambitionswould probablycome in a lower
and less happy degree under thesame head. One
excellent and typical example of what I mean was
the case of the old Kent manor-house as detailed
by Mr. Dale Owen. -
Thenarrativeconcerns Ramhurst Manor House,
near Leigh, in Kent, and was compiled in 1857.
The house was inhabited by the family of a
British general, who were much disturbed by
noises at night and other happenings. A clair-
voyante young lady, who came as a visitor, was
able to give them some information, her experi-
ence bearing out the rule already stated, that
psychic hearing is easier and more common than
psychic sight. She could see where the others
could only hear. The ghosts who presented
themselves were an elderly couple, dressedas in
a bygone age, who actuallystood upon the thres-
hold to welcomeher. Aftermeetingthemseveral
THE SHADOWS ON THE SCREEN 81
times they spoke to her, and this marks a differ-
ence from all theshadow—forms already described,
none of whichshow any sign of individual thought
and speech. These old people explained that
they had once lived in the Manor House, and
that their name on earth was Children. They
declared that they had idolized their property,
that its improvement was the centre of their
thoughts, and that they were now grieved to see
that it had passed away to strangers. It was a
case where total absorption in an earthly thing,
however innocent, had become a fatal bar to
spiritual advancement—a danger against which
we must all earnestly guard. Their voices as
they spoke seemed normal to the young lady,
whilethepoint laceupon thebeautifully-brocaded
dress was imprinted in her memory. The living
lady of the house was able soon afterwards to
confirm the statement of her clairvoyante friend,
for she also saw the female vision with the name,
“
Dame Children,” written above her in letters .
of phosphoricfire, togetherwith a statement that
she was
“
earth-bound.” For some time diligent V
inquiry could not find any trace of a family of
thisunusual name havingever occupiedthehouse,
but finally a very old woman was found who in
her youthhad met an aged man who said that in
his boyhood he had helped in the kennels of the
Children family. Mr. Dale Owen was so inter--
ested in the case that he personally investigated
82 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
it and cross-examined all the witnesses. On ask-
ing the young lady whether the ghost had said
anythingelse of an evidential nature, she remem-
bered that Richard was given as the name of the
man, and that thegdate 1753 was associated with
his death. Following up his researches, Mr.
Dale Owen discovered some account of the
Manor House, which concludedwith the words :
I
“
Richard Children, Esqre., resided here and
died possessed of it in 1753, aged eighty-three
years. He was succeeded in it by . . . George
Children who is the present possessor.”
This narrative must carry conviction with it
to any reasonable mind, though I must refer the
reader to Dale OWen’s Footfalls for the smaller
details which mean‘ so much. It suggests that
thewhole range of hauntingsof thisnature spring
from undue preoccupation and Want of spiritual
effort. One such case seems to carry more warn-
ing than all thesermons that ever were spoken.
At the same time, Providence is not cruel, and,
as I have said, the bondage which is formed by
earth-thoughtsneed not reallybe an unhappy one
to those who are ‘held by it.
When separated into the mere shadows or
thought-forms on one side, and actual earth-
bound spirits on the other, it is not diflicult to
analyseand understand a .large proportion of pre-
ternatural happenings. The division is admit-
tedlya temporary hypothesis,but it serves to keep
THE SHADOWS ON THE SCREEN 83
some sort of order in a subject which has until
recently been a mad chaos of inexplicableefiects
without rational cause. Cases will still obtrude
themselves,howeVer,whichdisturb the tidiness of
themost well-ordered theories,and I do not know
a more bafliing one than that which is treated by
two English school-mistresses, and admirably de-
scribed in their little book called An Adventure.
This adventure, shortly told, consisted in the
fact that during a visit to Paris they entered the
gardens of Versailles in order to see the Grand
Trianon, and that while in those gardens they
had a most extraordinary experience, which in
the case of one of the ladies was repeated with
variations upon the occasion of a second visit.
They suddenly appeared to be in the gardens as
they were a century before, at the time of the
French Revolution, and to see, and in some cases
actually speak with, gardeners, messengers, and
others who were there in the days of Marie
Antoinette. So natural was it all, beginningand
ending with normal life, that the ladies hardly
understoodwhat had happened to themuntil they
began to compare notes, and realized that some
of the buildingsand garden arrangements which
theyhad seen had not existed withinthe memory
of man. Bothladies carried away a clear remem-
branceof dignified oflicialsin grey-greencoats and
smallthree-corneredhats, of an intenselystillland-
scape, of trees that looked liketapestry,ofcloaked,
84 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
large—hatted figures, of a running messenger who
shouted instructions to them, of a long—waisted,
full-skirtedladywitha pale-greenfichu,of a jaunty
young footman, and other quite definite details-
all this at four o’clock of a summer afternoon. A
second visit by one lady alone, some four months
later, produced similar effects, differing in detail
but not in general character from the first.
Such an experience is so very unlike the Vast
majority of psychic cases that.one is inclined to
push it aside. If one cannot get a document
into a pigeon—hole, one is too ready with a waste-
paper basket,and it is thishuman tendencywhich
has retarded our advance in this new science.
Anyonewho carefullyreads the narrative of these
ladies, and notices the points of resemblance and
also the Very interesting points of divergence in
their stories, cannot fail to take them seriously.
It was not imagination or suggestion or, so far
as one can judge, hallucination. But what it was,
and why by some strange psychic refraction this
mirage of the past should be thrown down upon
the present, is an insoluble problem. It must at
least teach us that,however much our tiny brains
may endeavour to comprehend and classify these
extraordinary phenomena, there still remain so
many unknown causes and unexplained condi-
tions that for many a long year to come our best
efiorts can onlyberegarded as Well-meantapproxi-
mations to the truth.
III
NOTES FROM A STRANGE MAIL-BAG
THE DREAMERS
OR many years I have been the recipient of
as strange a shower of letters as one could
imagine. They come from all sorts of folk who
have had all sorts of psychic experiences. They
demand sympathy,advice and explanation. The
former I can give, but the latter are not always
so easy. The handling of this correspondence
has added a burden to my already over-weighted
days, but it is not work which I can hand to a
delegate, since very often fine points of know-
ledge are involved, and the letters are exceedingly
confidential and personal. I am glad to think
that I have left few unanswered, but it has been
at the expense of much energy and time which
might, perhaps, have been better employed in
some more generfihion. And yet some good
end might be attained if I could use them dis-
creetly in order to ventilate in public the various
matters discussed.
If the reader likes to treat the cases as instances
of delusion or of peculiar mental aberration that
85
‘D
4
86 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
is for his own judgment to decide. I only put
forward the letters as being very real facts to
those who wrote them. The rest is a matter of
individual opinion. From my cabinet of tabu-
lated drawers I take down the one which is lab-
elled “
Dreams,” and I pick a few of the contents
almost at haphazard.
Here is a Very vivid letter from a lady who is
herself a musical composer. She dreamed that
she was in the presence of a great celestial choir.
Her account is an arresting one, and none can
doubt that some tremendous impact had been
made upon:-her mind.
“
The orchestra was of vast size——something like the
seating capacity of the Albert Hall. The conductor and
the singers were on my right, but after they started playing
I realized that theywere all round me, and there was a great
bank of strings on my left. They were playing what seemed
like the end of a classical symphony and the speed they took
it at far exceeded any tempo I’ve heard here. It was like a
sea of bows flashing up and down. As I watched them a
curious thinghappened. It seemed as if the senses of sight
and sound merged into one faculty,and that I could see the‘
vibrationsfrom those violins. You rememberthe spray mist
which hangs over Niagara Falls. Just such a shimmering
haze seemed to float above the ers. The other thing
that struck me was the ideal bugthe ensemble. That
mighty host of players were like one thought and action.
It so far exceeded anythingI have heard here as to be almost
overpowering. My own sense of perfection could hardly
stretch to it. It was marvellous. Of course, my thoughts
are continually on music and rehearsals, so that itself would
not convey much, but this idea of seeing sound vibrations
A STRANGE MAIL BAG 87
had never entered my conscious thoughts, and that is the
most vivid impression of the dream.”
Though the lady did not know it, the idea of
the close connexion between colour and sound is
one which has frequentlycome to us in what pur-
ported to be descriptions of life in the Beyond.
I could very readilyfind a dozen illustrations of
thefactamong those posthumous accounts which
profess to describe the experiences which await
us. The general idea of concerted music is also
very familiar. “
I play in an orchestra and I
enjoy it so much.” Such was a message which I
received myself recently from a friend who was
fond of music Lester Coltman the Guardsman,
in what is asserted to be his after-death experi-
ence, says :
“
Orchestration is my great hobby here,” and adds :
“
For
some time after I passed over I was undecided as to whether
music or science should be my work. After much serious
thought, I determined that music should be my hobby and
my more earnest intent should be directed upon science in
every form.”
.«
It may be said generally that the evidence of
psychic research agrees with the vague Christian
traditionthatmusic-afgfiysa large part in thehigher
spheres.
I
The next letter which I pick up deals with a
Very much less elevated impression. This is an
American writing from San Jose, California, who
dreams names.
88 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
“
If I can identify the name with some race-horse, I have
found that the horse has, nine times out of ten, won the race.
I am not interested in horse-racing, and have not been on
a track for twenty years.”
The next letter is also about horse-racing,from
a retired Captain in Ireland. In his case he
claims to get a picture, not a name. He is not a
bettingman and makes no use of his information,
which is just as well for the bookies. Going
over his results, I findthathe seldom got a Winner,
but that his horses were invariably placed. It
was a curious dumb-crambo system of conveying
names, when supplied by Vision, but occasionally
they came in an audible voice at the moment of
Waking from sleep. What are we to make of
such an experience ? Is it imaginationfollowed
by coincidence 3' Or is it of some humblepsychic
origin? VVe have to place on the other side the
many cases where such dreams have betrayedus.
Only last year I had the experience of backing
the dream of a friend for the Derby, and being
five pounds poorer‘ as a consequence.
The next letter takes us back into the black
days of the War. It is from an English lady liv-
ing in Finland. Her youfiir-brotherwas killed
at the front in one of the final battles in a dawn
attack. At that hour the lady went through his
Whole experience,visualized the battlefield,heard
the guns, and saw an elderly and moustached
German who threw something—presumably a
A STRANGE MAIL BAG 89
bomb—Which struck her down. Some nights
later she had a second equally vivid dream in
which a radiant spirit led her along a poplar—lined
French road and halted at last at the spot where
the dead body of her brother was lying. She
declares that she had every reason at the time to
thinkthat her brother was at a depot and not in
the firing-line. It was after the Armistice that
official news was given of his death. This is one
of a class of cases which has been so common
that no reasonable man can deny them. To
explain them is another matter, for even if one
accepts the full faith of Spiritualism there is a
good deal which is inexplicable.
The next item is from the West of America.
The writer has three times during ten years had
an extraordinary and very vivid dream Which has
alwaysbeen the same. He was in each case com-
manding the bodyguard of an Oriental Sultan
and had to defend a palace attacked by rebels.
On each occasion he was killed and found him-
self after death looking down upon a litter of dead
bodies. The country in which these incidents
occurred gradually revealed itself to him as being
Oman upon the east coast of Arabia, and the
dreamer actually opened a correspondence with
the Sultan of Muscat, a letter from whom he
enclosed to me as a proof of good faith. The
Sultan took a livelyinterest in the matter and was
anxious that the dreamer should visit him, but
(3
90 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
thecoming of theWar intervened. TheAmerican
protests that he is still planning to go to Muscat,
though one would have thoughtthatit is the one
place which he would have carefully avoided.
No sequel has yet been reported, though the
letter is two years old.
I pick up a letter now which is of a most in-
teresting type. It is from a lady in Chicago.
She lay at the point of death with a temperature
of 105°. Shewas insensible but dreamingvividly.
She seemed to hear music of unearthlybeauty,
and to be surrounded by the faces of many loved
ones who had passedon. The onlysensationwas
one of delicious languor.
“
It was the most vivid and beautifuldream I ever experi-
enced. When I came to myself I thought that if death was
like that I should not mind going at any time. Is it then
possible for the soul to leave the body for a short while and
then to return again?”
My answer was that I had numerous similar
cases which seemed to show that it was possible,
and that such knowledge did indeed remove all
fear of death.
The next letter is also from an American lady
and is not Very dissimilar in its subject. It was
not theweakness of disease but it was the emotion
produced by music which, in her case, seems to
have effected a temporary dissociation between
soul and body. The opera was
“
Manon Les-
caut ”
and Caruso the singer.
A STRANGE MAIL BAG 91
“
At the grand climax,” she writes, “
I seemed to float
away upward, quite overwhelmed. After the curtain fell I
was still away. The live part of me had separated from my
body and it was Withthegreatest difiicultythatI forced myself
together. With a look of consternation the lady next me
observed my condition.”
Reduced to common speech all this simply
means that the lady was on the point of fainting,
and yet it may make us ask ourselves what We
mean exactlywhen we use the phrase.
The dream which duplicates an actual occur-
rence is hard to explain, but an even tougher
problem is presented by the prophetic dream
which gives a picture of the future. My next
letter is from a man in Liverpool who found
himself in his sleep standing by a railwaystation
and looking up a sloping road with another road
at right angles at the top. There was a bridge
above him, and over the bridge came a tramcar
on which was painted some strange place names
of which he had never heard. Some monthslater
he visited Wrexham for the first time and there
he found the station, the road, the slope, the
bridge and the tram, which had Welsh names on
the outside. Nothing arose from the incident,
and thereseemed no possiblereason Why it should
have been shot into the sleeper’s mind months
beforehand. In the case of this and similarinci-
dents which are both trivial and psychic, one can
only suppose that an attempt is made—We can-
not say .by whom—to awaken the interest of the
92 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
recipient in spiritual matters by showing him
things which are outside the ken of material
science. It certainly has such an effect, for the
man who has had such an experience is far more
open afterwards to psychic knowledge. An alter-
native explanationwould be that in one of those
nocturnal rambles which our souls or etheric
bodies do seem to take, the dreamer had visited
WreXham———possibly drawn by the fact that he
had relatives living there—andthathe chanced to
carry back some memory of its appearance. The
tram might well be running in the early morning.
A second experience by the same gentleman
rather supports the latter explanation. He
dreamed that he saw a lady friend Working at
some pink material. On inquiry she said, “
Yes',.
I stayed up late last night making a crépe de
Chine blouse of pink stuff, which I particularly
wished to finish.” Since she was late it is prob-
able that his dream saw that which was actually
occurring at the moment, and that it was an
instance of what has been called “
travelling clair-
voyance
”
where the etheric body brings back
information—surprisingly trivial information at
times—to the unconscious material brain.
The next item is less complex. It comes from
Battersea. A Mrs. Arbuthnot dreamed that her
life was threatenedby a friend whom we will call
Mrs. Burton. When she told the dream she was
not aware that Mrs. Burton had at that time a
A STRANGE MAIL BAG 93
maniacal attack in which she imagined she had
some deadly grievance against her friend. This
would appear to be a clear case of telepathy. I
may add that telepathy,whichis constantlygiven
as an explanationof other psychic happenings, is,
in my opinion, among the less common pheno-
mena, and is by no means so clearly established
as some of the physical manifestations.
To return to prophetic dreams: they are occa-
sionally of a Very helpful character, as the next
example will show. The writer is a Manchester
man fresh from Cambridge. During a visit to
Switzerland he dreamed that he was in a tropical
land, sandy, with a shimmering heat and an
intensely blue sky. Suddenly, a huge man ap-
peared before him holding a triangular dagger of
peculiar shape, with which he made the motion
of striking. He then vanished. Next day the
youth explored a disused tunnel.
“
I went in and found magnificent icicles hanging from
the roof. All at once I saw one very large one. It was
triangular and came to a sharp point. I thought of my
dream, and recognized the triangular dagger. I stopped,
and at that moment the whole thing fell with a crash. It
must have weighed at least two hundred pounds and would
perhaps have killed me.”
What are we to make of this P Is it not beyond
coincidence P And how are we to explain the
tropical scene P I would only suggest—but with
all reserve—that many of us believethat we have
94. THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
guides or guardian angels. These guides would
appear to be often drawn from the Oriental races.
Supposing that this youth’s guide was an Egyp-
tian he might, in warning his pupil, have brought
back with him some impression of his native
land. The student remarkedthatthe dagger was
of a shape which was once used in Ancient Egypt.
Such an explanationmay stand until a better one
is found.
A number of these dreams are concerned with
objects which have been lost and found again by
revelation. There is always the consideration
thatsuch finds may have been the result of some
subconscious train of thought, as occurs so often
in our everyday experience, when the solution of
some problem wells suddenly up from the un-
known depths of our mentality. But in some
cases this would seem to be impossible. Here,
for example, is a letter from Bath. The writer
was a solicitor in a South Africancity. He had a
client to whose father in early days a grant of
land had been made on the outskirts of the city.
At the time it was of no value, but as the city
spread it became so, but very many years had
passed and the grant was lost. One night the
client dreamed where it was. Next day, accom-
panied by a resident who knew the town well, he
walked to the place of his dream, identified a
certain cottage, had his knock answered by a
lady whom he had seen in his sleep, walked
A STRANGE MAIL BAG 95
through to an outhouse, opened an old box and
plucked out the grant which had been stuffed
into an envelope tacked to the inside of the lid.
It is sad to relate that after all this trouble the
grant was not admitted by the new generation of
officials. But the story told as it is by thesolicitor
concerned, seems to be incontrovertible. What
are we to make of it P Here, again, we seem to
be balanced between the possibilitiesof the Wan-
dering soul and those of external intelligence. In
any case, such incidents deserve our best con-
sideration,and our men of Science may Well turn
their minds from the insects and the stones in
order to unravel problems so intimately related
to our own nature and fate.
The next letter happens to be from the same
quarter and on a similar subject. It tells the tale
of a Muizenberglady who lost her box and had
successive dreams of it for several months during
its Various and devious wanderings, until she at
last saw it in her sleep reposing upon the‘shelf
of the lost property oflice, whence she duly
reclaimed it next morning. When one reads such
an account one feels a certain sense of injury as
we survey our own losses, and we wonder why
We also should not all have such help. Here we
must admit that we are on the edge of the un-
known. The wireless message comes sharp and
clear when we tune in to the exact vibration. A
fraction above or below and it is gone. Here,
u
>
96 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN ‘
too, there may be unconscious tuning-in of the
receiver. But what is the transmitter P That is
the next great problem which faces humanity.
It is clear that to find the right receiver is difli-
cult, otherwise messages would not be sent in so
indirect a fashion. The next example illustrates
what I mean. A London lady gets a message,
or rather a vision, whichassures her that an
unknown woman, who is embracingtwo children,
is about to “go on her last journey—her last,
long, strange journey.” The actual message and
the name, Mrs. Lorimer, came audibly. On
inquiry the dreamer found that there was such a ._
woman, that she had two children, and subse-
quently that she died. We may well deduce that
if the receptive power were a common one the
message would certainly have been given more
directly and not in a way which was so distant
that it might well have miscarried.
I have spoken of the night travels of the etheric
body. I come now to a very remarkableexample
of it—unique, so far as I know, becausethe return
to the material body was slow and clearlyremem-
bered. The gentleman who writes to me—~a
Manchester man—fell asleep before his fire. He
woke up still seated in a chair in the early morn-
ing and glanced at the clock. It marked 12.15
but—it was not his clock.
With amazedeyes he looked along the mantel-
piece. Everythingwas strange. There were two
5 A STRANGE MAIL BAG 97
big bronzes of equestrian figures. The mantel-
piece itself was of heavy red marble. The fire-
irons were of massive brass. He was so petrified
that it was a long time before he could bring
himselfto look round. When at last he cautiously
turned his head he found himself in a very large
room lined With books. There was a ‘reading-
lamp on a long central table, and a man was
seated at it. My correspondent was filled with
theidea thathe had wandered into some stranger’s
house, so with an effort he rose and addressed
the man at the table. Getting no answer he
.
touched him. As the man took no notice and
remained very still the Writer was speculating
whether he was dead, when he suddenly turned
the page and went on reading. At this instant
the walls of the room seemed to whirl round and
my correspondent found himself in his own chair,
facinghis own clock,andWith the time registered
as 12.25. He Winds up his narrative with the
Words, “I give you my most solemn word of
honour that I have told you what I consider to
be the truth.”
Accepting this final statement We have to find a
rational explanation. The most rational surely is
thatthe process of travelling clairvoyance and the
return from the dream journey Were done slowly
and consciously, instead of coming in a flash.
Had the latter been the case the dreamer would
simply have had a vague recollectionof some
98 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
large room with books in it, and it would in no
way have differed from a normal dream impres-
sion. But, for some reason, the process was
carried out slowly and in stages. The etheric
body came to conscious life—a life which could
be registered on the material brain—while mak-
ing itself very comfortable in front of the fire of
what would appear to have been a Club library
with one belated member therein. The insub-
stantial etheric body was unable to impress the
material senses of the reader, but it is possible
that if the latter had looked up from his book he
might have had a wonderful ghost story to tell
for the rest of his life. Then came the belated
return, when, like a homing pigeon, the Wander-
ing soul shoots swiftlyand unerringlyback to its
body. Should _it lose its way, then one more
mortal has died in his sleep.
There is some evidence thatit is more easy for
these dream messages to be conveyed to us by
picturesand symbolsthanby words, thoughsome-
times thepicture comes first and thentheexplana-
tory message. At thetime,earlyin theWar,when
there was alarm about the fate of Maurice Hew-
lett’s son, a lady in Scotland had a clear vision
of a man being rescued from a seaplane, and an
audible message came,
“
That is Maurice Hew-
lett’s son. He is rescued.” This was put on
record at thetime ; a fact which I have tested, for
I have before me a document.
A STRANGE MAIL BAG 99
“We, the undersigned, declare that the account of this
dream was given to us, as written, before the announcement
of the rescue appeared.”
This is signed by two witnesses. One could
hardlywish for a clearer case thanthis,but it may i
have beenthetravellingsoul of thedreamer which
carried back both the picture and the message.
Again, I have an account from a French lady
whose husband managed the household aifairs in
an unsatisfactoryway. She saw her dead father,
who handed her a large key. This key opened a
door which led to a room which was exceedingly
untidy, but became all right again when the lady
entered. She took the dream to mean that she
was to be mistress in her own house, and acted
accordingly, with the best results. Here the
appearance of the fathercertainly gives an other-
world flavour to the transaction.
Such dreams are useful, but occasionallyI read
of one which is so useless that one is hard put to
it when one tries to weave it into any philosophy.
« Thus one correspondent dreamed that a child
was born to him, which was so discoloured in the
body that it would appear to have been scorched.
A policeman was mixed up with the dream.
Next morning a policeman entered his shop with
a summons to a jury for an inquest. The case
proved to be that of a poor tramp who had been
badlyscorched by his straw bed takingfire. Such
an incident is not entirely beyond coincidence,
100 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN -
and in no case does it seem to have served any
purpose.
Sometimes one can see no object in the com-
munication, and yet the psychic evidence is Very
strong and is calculated to turn the mind of the
recipientto spiritual interpretations of life. Thus
in the case of a Mrs. Lofty,she writes to say that
she lost her son, Grantham Lofty, in a flying
mishap.
“
One day I felt like ending everything,when it was sug-
gested to me in the most clear way that I should think of
my dream.”
It seems that two years before the lady and a
friend had both dreamed the same dream on the
same night. The dream included a message that
James Lofty was dying or dead in No. 7 Ward.
“
I wrote out the dream at once and sent it to my sister.”
Immediately after the tragedy occurred, two
years after the dream, the lady visited Haslar
Hospital, and found that the ward in which her
son died was No.—7, and that by some error his
name on the hospital books had been entered as
James. This certainly is a complex and remark-
able case, but it seems to have assured the mother
of his continued existence and consoled her in
the hour of need.
One very common dream impression which
may well be connected with those soul wander-
ings which come, in my opinion, well within the
A STRANGE MAIL BAG 101
category of thingsproven, is the feeling of flying.
It often occurs’to dreamers, but more to some
than to others in proportion as their switch-off is
absolute or partial. Thus a dreamer Writes from
South Carolina.
“
One dream comes to me over and over again. At least
one thousand times I have dreamed that I was exercising
a power of transporting my body through the air in defiance
of gravitation. Usually I just lift my feet from the ground
and will myself to float in the desired direction without any
physical effort. At other times, when I wish to reach a
higher level, I work my arms as if they were wings. I seem
in my dreams to call the attention of ordinary mortals to
what I am doing, but if they possess the power to see it
they never make any comment on it.”
They Would, of course, no more see it than the
man in the Club library saw the etheric body
which touched him on the shoulder.
Several of these letters——and perhaps the most
important——allude to the perceptions which the
dreamers carry back of some wonderful land
which some of us think is actually the etheric
world, suited for etheric life, and which others
may try to explain as a glimpseof our own tropics, g
or as some imaginativescene which has no actual
existence. It is as real to the dreamer, as was
that clock in the Club library upon which the _
sleeper read the time, and equally real seem those
figures with whom they hold converse.
Here is the sort of thingfrom a correspondent :
I02 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
“
I have twice in sleep crossed over into the spirit world.
The radiance and wonderful beautyof the country was what
struck me more than anything. I felt, above all, that this
was a land of extraordinary happiness. On the first occasion
I met and spoke with my brother. On the second I saw no
one, but was deeply impressed by the beautyof the lake and
hills among which I found myself. The colours were indeed
different from those on earth. They had an exceeding
glory.”
This matches very closely a large number of
other descriptions. I am aware of all the difli-
culties connected withsuch a View of the Beyond.
We are facedwith theobvious reflectionthat hills
and valleys are the result of geological action, of
rain and age—long denudation, so that their exist-
ence, from our point of view, Would seem to
imply similar actions in their formation. It is a
legitimate and cogent objection. And yet, the
positive agreement of a great numberof witnesses
cannot be easily set aside. Some have thought
thatthis old earth may have its own ethericbody,
even as its inhabitants have. Certainly,if we are
to cut out all eflects of earthlyelemental action,
heaven would becomea flatand waterless expanse,
which would seem more logical than attractive.
In discussing dream appearances of the other
spheres, I may perhaps be permitted to give an
experience of my own—thoughI may quote with
all reverence,
“
Whether in the body or out of
it, I know not.” I had been told at a séance that
I should visit in my sleep some other sphere,
A STRANGE MAIL BAG I03
upon which I earnestlybegged that I might carry
back the memory. There followed an eventful
night, some of which is quite as clear to me as
any adventure I have had upon theearth’s surface.
My first impression was that of a row of rather
dilapidatedstone villas,such as one would see in
the suburbs of Edinburgh. They looked well in
front but were only half-finished within, though
I observed pictures upon the walls—frescoes
rather, since they seemed to be part of the wall.
There was waste groundaround,untidyand weed-
covered. I saw no dwellers in these uncomfort-
able buildings, but I was aware all through that
I had a companion at my side, whose face I never
saw. This invisibilitydid not seem to worry me
at the time, and I made no attempt to get past it.
Then, with no consciousness of an intervening
journey, I was in another place. It was a large
hall or assembly place. Once again there were
coloured frescoes on the wall, but I carried away
no impression of the subjects. There were pillars
and an ornamental ceiling. Close to me was
standinga man dressed in Elizabethandress. He
had a plum-coloured doublet and trunk hose.
We eyed each other and I was so completely
myself that I smiled and said, “
Well, if you
fellowsare goingto dress likethatwe poor moderns
have no chance.” He made no answer, and his
face was quite unresponsive. I could recognize
the man now if I saw him, ruddy-faced, about
104. THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
thirty-five years of age, short, crisp, black hair
and a black moustache, well-built and vigorous.
He was sullen and sinister in his expression. I
was conscious of someone else approachingwitha
black Spanish cloak. Then it all disappeared.
I was now in a vehicle of some sort——I have no
impression of a horse, but I was more conscious
than before of my companion. There was a
vague feeling of hurry—we had to be at a certain
place’ by a certain time. The road was broad
and curving, with a hill-side upon the left with
some ancient ruins built right into it. At the
top of thehillwe stopped. A wonderful panorama
of a city lay before me. It was built upon low
hills and it undulated away to the horizon. The
sky and atmosphere were grey, but not more so
than London on a winter day. I have never seen
so great a city. High buildings and towers
stretched as far as I could see, but I saw no spires.
Then all faded away, and I awoke.
It was a very intense experience and I give the
explanationwhich I received next dayfrompsychic
sources for What the reader may thinkit is worth.
It came in reply to questions. '
“
It was a probationarycity. Those pictures were instruc-
tive to people in that stage. You did not see your guide
because it would have taken from the power. The power
was running low, so we had to hurry in the end. You were
taken to a grey city becausethat side of spirit life has always
excited your sympathy and curiosity.”
A STRANGE MAIL BAG 105
Such was my most vivid nocturnal experience.
Dreaming true is the only psychicpowerwhich
I have hithertodevelopedoutside healing. Before
we went to Australia I got the name
“
Naldern ”
imprinted on my mind in sleep and wrote it down
on Waking. We sailed in the “
Naldera,” though
we had intended another ship and had never
consciously heard of the former. Again, I have
put it on record before the event how I dreamed
that the Piave would be the turning-point of the
War,manymonths before the Italianswere driven
back sixty miles to that position, where theywon
their decisive victory. In literature I have had
little help from dreams. Once I woke with a
line ringing in my head. It was,
“
She walked
alone on the Hills of Fate.” I wrote a poem
called “
Victrix ”
round it, and it marks my
highest point, perhaps, on the foothills of Par-
nassus.
I may conclude these notes by stating my
opinion as to the exact nature of dreams, as I
have already done in my New Revelation. There
seem to me to be two forms, and only two : one,
the experiences of the released spirit, and the
other, the confused action of the lower faculties
which remain in the body when the spirit is
absent. The former is rare and beautiful,but the
memory of it fails us. The latteris common and
Varied, but usually fantastic or ignoble. By not-
ing what is absent in the lower dreams one can
H
106 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
tell What the missing qualities are, and so judge
what part of us goes to make up thespirit. Thus
in these dreams humour is wanting, since we see
things which strike us afterwards as ludicrous,
and are not amused. The sense of proportion
and of judgment are all gone. In short, the
higher is palpably gone, and the lower, the sense
of fear, of sensual impression, of self-preservation,
are functioningall the more vividly because they
are relieved from the higher control.
IV
THE GHOST OF THE MOAT
F anyone craves for adventure, he will find it
in psychic work. I have myself encountered
many incidents in actualfactwhich I could hardly
beat if I gave free play to my imagination.
Some mention of Dr. and Mrs. Wickland of
Los Angeles have occasionally found their way
into the Press. He is a deep student of psychic
phenomenabelieving,as I do myself, that a great
deal of mania and crime is due to direct obsession,
and that a recognition of the fact would be the
first necessary step for dealing with it.
She is a medium who is very sensitive to
spirit presences, and is ready, with great bravery,
to allow themto control her so long as she thinks
a good purpose can be served. She is, in my
opinion, one of the heroines of the world. Such
were the couple, gentle, elderly folk, who drove
out with us to see somethingof rural Sussex.
I took them to the old moated grange of
Groombridge, which is mentioned by Evelyn in
his Diary. As we stood looking at the lichened
brick walls, a door which gave upon the deep
107
108 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
moat opened and a Woman looked out. Then it
closed again. We passed on, and I thought no
more of the matter.
As we Walked through the meadow which led
to the high road Mrs. Wickland kept glancing
back. Presently she said:
“
There is such a strange old man walking
beside us.”
“
What is he like P ”
“
He is old. His face is sunk forward. His
back is hunched. He is earth-bound.”
“
How is he dressed? ”
“
He has knee-breeches, a striped vest, and
quite a short coat.”
“
Whence did he come P ”
“
He came through that door that opened.”
“
Then how did he cross the moat P ”
“
I don’t know, and I don’t know what he
wants, but he is at our heels.”
I took my guests to the old Crown Inn in the
village, where we had tea. Mrs. Wickland kept
glancing at a chair in the corner beside her.
“
He is there.” Presently she began to
laugh. ‘
“
I did not in the least want that second cup
of tea, and the extra slice,” she said, “
but he was
close to me, and would have taken possession and
helped himself if I had not done so.”
We had driven home, and were seated among
the roses on my veranda, the Wicklands, my
1-
THE GHOST OF THE MOAT I09
wife, and myself. We were talking of other
things when the Seer suddenly gave a start.
“
He’s here.”
Then came the amazing moment. Before our
eyes she changed in an instant into a heavy-
faced, sullen old man, with bent back and loose,
senile lips. The whole expression was utterly
different. She choked and spluttered in an effort
to express the thoughts of the control.
Dr. Wickland,withthe quiet assurance of long
practice, massaged the throat.
“
All right, friend, give yourself time.”
The new-comer shook OH his hand angrily.
“
Leave me alone. What do you want to
touch me for? ”‘ he croaked.
From that time the dialogue was as follows,
sometimes one and sometimes another asking the
questions, and withocasional gaspings and chok-
ings as interruption.
“
Who are you P ”
“
I am from Groombridge. My name P Well,
I don’t feel clear in my mind. Yes,yes, I remem-
ber. It is David. And Fletcher. That is it,
David Fletcher. Yes, I have been in service
there. Horses. Yes, it was the horses I looked
to. What year is it P I don’t know. My mind
ain’t clear. Is it 1808 or is it 1809 ? What d’ye
say, 1927? Well, well, that’s a good ’un.”
“
Dead, why, I am here talkin’ to you. How
can I be dead P I’d be with God if I was dead.”
no THE EDGE’ OF THE UNKNOWN
(Suddenly started.) “
Look at my hand ? Why
there are rings on it. They look like my lady’s
rings. No, I don’t know how they came to be
there.”
“
I don’t understand a lot of things. I don’t
know who them folk are in the house. They
have no call to be there. Me and the others try
to put themout.” (“ The others,”Dr. Wickland
explained, “
were probably other earth-bound
spirits in the old house.”)
“
Yes, master was a good master, but he died,
and the others came in. The house was sold.
We wasn’t well treated after that. What could I
do ? No, I couldn’t go away. Where was I to
go out in the wide world, and me with a hump
on my back? I belonged to the house. I had
to do the best I could.”
“
What have I done? I don’t rightly under-
stand it. I’Ve slept alwaysin thesame old corner.
It seems a long, long time.”
“
Now tell us, David, don’t you remember
being very ill? ”
“
Me ill? No, I was never ill. But I’ll tell
you what happened. He pushed me into the
Water.”
“
Into the moat ? ”
“
Yes, into the water.”
“
Who was he? ”
“It was Sam.” (Many chuckles.) “
But I
held on to him, I did. He came in the water,
THE GHOST OF THE MOAT In
too.” (Dr. Wickland remarkedthatthe man was
probably drowned on that occasion.)
“Is there no one who loved you among the
dead? Was your mother dead? ”
“
Mother was dead. No one ever loved me,
except mother. She loved me, mother did. No
one could love me, becauseI looked queer. They
laughed.” (He burst into noisy sobbing.)
“
Motherloved me. Nobody else. They said it
wasn’t right that I wait upon the ladies, and me
with a hump.”
“
Cheer up, David ; we willsoon get thehump
off you. How came you to follow us P ”
“
I don’t know. I thinkI was told. Then I
got bread and tea. I have not had tea since I
can remember. I would like more. I am always
hungry. But what was that wagon P That was
the devil’s wagon, I think. I got in, but it went
that fast that I was afeared to get out again.”
(This was my motor.)
“
It’s as well for you that you did not, for we
are going to do you good, David. First of all
you have got to realize that you are dead. You
were drowned that time you fell into the moat.”
“
Well I never. That’s a queer idea.”
“
Now understand this.” (It is Dr. Wickland,
who is talking in cool, gentle, assured tones.)
“
You can do anything now by the power of
thought,if you know how to use it. This hump
of yours. Take it ofi. Take it ofi, I say. Your
112 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
back is as straight as mine.” (The bent figure
began to straighten up and to sit erect in the
chair. Suddenly both hands were thrown for-
ward.) e
“
Mother, mother.” (His face had become
younger, more intelligent and was shining with
ecstacy.) “I see her and it’s mother, but she
looks younger than I can remember.”
“
She will take charge of you now. You have
beenbrought here by higher powers for a purpose
—to save you. Do you want to go back to the
old house ? ”
“
No, no, I want to go to mother. Oh you
good kind people ”—the rest was just incoherent
gratitude.
And so it was thattheearth-boundostler found
his mother at last among the rambler roses of my
balcony. Have I not said truly that the actual
experiences of the Spiritualist, of which this is
one in a hundred, are stranger far than what I
should dare to invent?
Is it all a fairy-tale? How about the change
"K in the medium? How about the ostler’s dress
so accurately described? How about the cases
where the actual names and addresses have been
Verified by the Wicklands?
It is not a fairy-tale, but it is a new realm of
knowledge which the human race has now to
explore and to conquer.
V
THE LAW OF THE GHOST
T is safe to say that for some centuries to come
the human race will be Very activelyengaged
in defining the laws which regulate psychic affairs,
and it is fortunately a line of study which has
the peculiar advantage to those who indulge in it
that they can pursue it just as well, and probably
better,from the other side of the veil. At present
there is work lyingto hand for a hundred investi-
gators. The innumerable records which exist in
various forms, and which are scattered through-
out papers, magazines,reports of learned societies,
familytraditions, etc., are like masses of ore which
have been extracted from the ground but are
still lying in dumps waiting to be separated into
precious ingots on the one side and slag-heap on
the other. They have to be examined, collected
into classes, reviewed in the light of our ever-
increasing psychic knowledge, and an endeavour
made to findunderlyingprinciplesrunningthrough
this vague collection of matter, so that at last We
may touch solid ground by getting hold of some
elementarylaws. The first thingis thatwe should
113
114 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
have authenticcases so that the foundation of our
reasoning may be sound. The second is to com-
pare these authenticcases together and see what
common characteristics they possess, shirking
nothing and following the facts wherever they
lead Without any preliminary prejudice. This is,
of course, the true scientific fashion, but it is un-
fortunately one Which has been neglected by most
scientific men in approaching this new subject
which would not fit in with their preconceived
ideas. Let us hunt among thesefascinatingprob-
lems for shards and splinters out of which a noble
mosaic will one day be constructed, and let us
see Whether here and there we may not find two
or three pieces which fit together, and give some
idea of a permanent pattern, even though it be
a fantastic one. I will begin by telling three
stories which seem to be absolutelyauthentic,and
then we shall endeavour to trace some underlying
connection.
For full particulars of the first case the reader
is referred to West Indian Tales, by Algernon
Aspinall, with the explanation that the word
“
Tales ”
is not used in the sense of inventions,
and that the facts are authentic, as is proved
by numerous references in the narrative. These
facts relate to the singular series of events which
happened in connection with the vault at Christ-
church, near the village of Oistin, on the south
coast of Barbados. In the old slave days When
THE LAW OF THE GHOST II5
rum and sugar were the foundations of many a
goodly fortune, thingswere done on a large scale
in the West Indies, and this burial vault was a
very fine one. It was made of great blocks of
coral and cement, partly sunk into the earth, for
the graveyard was on an exposed hill, and terrific
storms sweep over these latitudes. The entrance
was covered by a huge slab of marble. Within,
the dimensions of the vault were twelve feet by
six and a half. So Cyclopean was the masonry
and so remote the site that one would imagine
an inmate was almost as secure as a king of
Egypt in the heart of his pyramid. A contractor
and a gang of skilled workmenwould be needed
to effect an entrance into so solid a construction.
Little did those who erected it imagine that the
whole island would be convulsed by the repeated
proofs of its insecurity.
In July, 1807, a Mrs. Goddard was buried therein, and
her coflin was found undisturbed in February, 1808, when
a child named Mary Chase was laid in a leaden casket beside
her. For four years the vault was closed, but in July, 1812,
it was opened to admit a Miss Dorcas Chase. The horrified
workmen found the coflin of the infant standing on its- head
in a corner. It was supposed that some mischievous and
sacrilegiouswretch had been guilty of a senseless outrage, so
after the coflin was rearranged thegreat marble slab was once
again placed in position, to be opened next month when a
Mr. Chase joined the family group within. During the
month there seems to have been no disturbance.
In September, 1816, four years having again elapsed, the
_
vaultwas opened once more to admit an infant,Samuel Arnes.
a
116 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
Once again all was in horrible confusion, and the coflins
littered across one another. The affair was now becoming
a scandal and the talk of the whole settlement, the whites
putting it down to vandalism and the negroes to ghosts.
Once again the vault was closed, and once again, two months
later, it was opened to admit Samuel Brewster. Crowds
followed the coffin and gathered round the vault when the
great slab was pushed aside. In the short interval every-
thinghad again been disarranged, the coffins being abomin-
ably mishandled. Mrs. Goddard’s coflin, which seems to
have been of wood, was broken, but this may have been
natural decay. The leaden coflins were scattered at all
angles. Once again they were reverently collected, the
wooden coflin was tied up, and the vault secured.
Three years later, on July 7th, 1819, Miss Clarke was to
be buried in the vault. So great was the public excitement
that the governor, Lord Combermere, of Peninsula fame,
attended the ceremony with his staff and aides-de-camp.
Things were as bad as ever. The wooden coffin was intact,
but theotherswere scattered in all directions. Lord Comber-
mere was so interested thathe had thewhole structure searched
and sounded, but there was no hidden approach or under-
ground passage. It was an insoluble mystery. The coflins
were rearranged and the floor carefully sanded so that foot-
steps would be revealed. The door was cemented up, which
seems to have been done on each occasion, but this time
the Governor aflixed his own particular seal. The British
Government had ofliciallyentered the lists against the powers
of darkness. ‘
It is humiliatingto add that the powers of darknessseemed
not in the least abashed either by the Governor or by the
Empire which he represented. Next year, in April 1820, it
was determined that an official inspection should be made
without waiting for a fresh interment. Lord Combermere
with a formidable official party and a strong ally in the Rev.
T. Orderson, rector of the parish, repaired to the vault,
where the seals were found intact and all in apparent order.
THE LAW OF THE GHOST 117
The cement was then broken and the slab removed by the
exertions of ten negroes, who had the utmost difliculty in
forcing an entrance. On exposing the interior it was found
to the horror and amazement of the party that the difficulty
in opening the vault had been caused by the fact that a
leaden coflin within, so heavy that several men could hardly
move it, had been jammed upside down againstthe slab.
There was great confusion within but no marks upon the
sand which covered the floor. So horrified was everyone
by this final test that the bodies were now removed, and
buried elsewhere. The empty vault remains, and is likely
for many centuries to remain, as a refuge for snakes or centi-
pedes, upon the lonelyheadland which overlooks the Atlantic.
What is one to make of such a story as that?
The factsseem to be beyondquestion. Are there
any points which are particularly to be noted
from a psychic point of view,in the hopethatthe
germs of law may lie within? One is that the
antipathy of those unseen forces was aroused
apparently by the leaden‘ coffins. When the
Wooden cofl-in was alone it was not molested. Its
decay seems to have been natural,andwhen it was
tied up it was not again disturbed. If it ever
received any injury it may Well have been from
the weight of the ponderous leaden coffins which
were dashed about around it. That is one
possible point. A second and more important
one is that all psychic phenomena seem to show
thatthe disembodiedhave no power of theirown,
but that it is always derived from the emanations
of the living, which we call animal magnetismor
other names. Now this vault with its absolutely
r18 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
air-tight walls was particularly adapted for hold-
ing in such forces——being an exaggerated form of
that cabinet which is used for that very purpose
by a genuine medium. If the walls of cloth of a
cabinet can contain these emanations and con-
dense them, how much more the solid walls of
this vault. To bring in these weighty leaden
cofiins the space must have been crowded with
over-heated negroes, and when the slab was at
once hermetically sealed, these efiluvia were
enclosed and remained behind, furnishing a pos-
siblesource of thatmaterialpower whichis needful
for material effects. These are two points worth
noting before we pass on to see if any other
such cases may fall into line with this one.
We have not far to seek, for one is quoted in
the very book under discussion, with a reference
*
to the European Magazine for September, 1815,
under theheading“
The Curious vaultat Stanton
in Suffolk.” In the magazine account it says:
On opening the vault some years since, several leaden
coifins with wooden cases that had been fixed on biers, were
found displaced to the great astonishment of many. The
coffins were placed as before, when some time ago, another
of thefamilydying, theywere a second time found displaced.
Two years after they were found not only all off the biers,
but one coflin as heavy as to require eight men to raise it
was found on the fourth step that leads into the vault.
There unhappily the information ends. It
tallies very closely with the West Indian case so
far as it goes, but is far weaker as regards the
THE LAW OF THE GHOST ‘
I19
evidence and the details. I have made inquiry
from thepresent vicar of theparish but have been
unable to improve either the one or the other.
The statement that the phenomenon occurred
twice and the precise informationas to the situa-
tion of the coffin upon the fourth step of the
stairs, seem to remove the story from vague
rumour and to show thatit was based upon some
actual fact.
The next case, however, is fuller and more
circumstantial. It comes from the Livonian
Villageof Ahrensburg in the Baltic, and remote as
the scene is, the evidence is well attested.
There is a considerable cemetery in the village, which is
dotted with small private chapels, each of themwith a family
burial vault beneath it. The finest of these belonged to a
familynamed Buxhoewden which faced the public high road,
and contained certain posts to which the horses of the farmers
used to be haltered when the owners were occupied in the
town. The first signs of anything peculiar lay in the be-
haviour of these creatures, which showed such symptoms of
terror that they attracted the notice of passers-by. They
were covered withsweat, trembled all over, and in three cases
actually died from the violence of their emotion. At the
same time certain loud but vague sounds were heard to come
either from the chapel or from the vault beneathit. These
portents were in the early summer of the year 1844..
In July 21 member of the Buxhoewden family died, and
the hearse horses on approaching the cemetery showed the
same signs of terror as the others. The service in the chapel
was interrupted by hollow groans, which may have been
imagined by a congregation who were already predisposed
to alarm. What was not imagination,however, was the fact
120 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
that those who afterwards descended into the vault found
the coffins there,which had been in rows, cast into a confused
heap upon the wooden floor. These coffins seem to have
been of massive oak, very strongly and heavilymade. This
might have been the work of some enemy to the family,but
the doors of the vault had been secured and the locks were
intact. There was always the possibilityof false keys, how-
ever, so the coflins were replacedin their order, and the place
very carefully secured.
As the agitation of the horses and the general unrest of
the community still continued the chief man of the district,
Baron de Guldenstubbe, took up the matter oflicially,and
so the Russian Government found itself involved in the same
one—sided contention from which the Governor of Barbados
had gained so little satisfaction. With two of his family
he made a preliminary examination, and then finding the
coflins once again in confusion, he formed a committee of
investigation consisting of himself, the local bishop, the
Biirgermeister, a physiciannamed Luce and four representa-
tive citizens.
On entering the vault they again found that the enemy
had been at work and that the contents were scattered in
all directions. Only three coflins, those of a very saintly
grandmother and of two little children, were undisturbed.
Attempted robbery was suggested as an explanation, which
was the more plausible as an adjoining vault had once been
entered, and some gold fringe taken from the coflins. But
nothingwas now missing nor was thereany means of entrance.
The committee pursued its research with great care, even
to the point of opening some coffins to see if rings and trinkets
buried with the owners were still within. It was found that
this was so. Workmen were then called in to examine the
floor and walls, but no secret entrance could be discovered.
Everything was now closed up once more and the dis-
consolate committee withdrew,after placingheavy seals upon
the door. Before leaving the vault fine ashes were scattered
all over the wooden floor, and also over the steps leading
THE LAW OF THE GHOST 12:
down, and the pavement of the chapel. Finallyguards were
set for three days and nights. It must be admitted that they
did things thoroughlyin the village of Ahrensburg. At the
end of that time the Commission returned in full state with
the whole population lining the churchyard rails, eager to
hear the result.
The seals were unbroken, the door unopened, but the
interior of the vault was in the usual state of chaos. No
sign at any point was found upon the ashes and no human
feet had entered, but great forces had none the less been at
work. The secret powers, reinforced rather than abashed
bythe recent visit of the Commission,had wrought far greater
mischief than before. All the coflins were scattered, save
the same three which had been exempt before. Some of
the heaviest had been placed upside-down so that the corpse
was on its head, and in one instance the lid had burst and
the right arm of the inmate, who was a man who had died
by his own hand, was protruding and pointing towards the
ceiling. Such was the fearsome spectacle which greeted the
Commission. They were duly noted in a detailed report
and are still to be consulted among the ofiicial records of the
Island of Oesel, with the names of the witnesses attached.
It is also on record thatthe effect upon the mind of Dr. Luce,
who was a man of considerable attainments and a Voltairian
in religion, was a complete change of mental outlook, and
that revulsion from materialism which any actual Contact
with the spiritual world, even in its crudest forms, must
logically produce.
The result of these gruesome phenomena was that the
coffins were removed from the vault and were buried in
earth, after which complete tranquillity seems to have de-
scended upon the little village. Not only were there no
disturbances to vex the population, but the horses were
observed to occupy their old stance without any symptoms
of terror. Nothing was left of the whole incident save a
memory, but it was a memory which should not be allowed
to die, for the facts are really as well attested as facts could
I
122 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
be. Apart from the oflicial record, Mr. Dale Owen, who
was American minister to Naples and a man of great intelli-
gence, met Miss de Guldenstubbe and her brother in 1859
and took their personal recollections of the whole matter.
It is from his work that I have taken the details.
No doubt many other such cases could be
recorded, but here at least are three which appear
to be authentic and which reproduce the same
characteristics. If relics of some strange animal
were found in three different localities, the first
conclusion among men of science Would be that
such an animal did exist, and was henceforth to
be included among the creatures of earth. The
next proceeding would be to compare the relics
and to endeavour to reconstruct some image of
the new—comer. In the same way these three
cases may be said to fairly establish the fact of
these curious phenomena which involve the
desecration of graves—a factwhich,howevergrue-
some, does at least strike at the very roots of that
material view of life which has been so fashion-
able. When we come to compare the cases, how-
ever, and to deduce the underlying laws, the
psychic student can at best only point to a few
possible indications which may be of value.
It has already been stated that one or more
living people in a confined space which is after-
wards closed up may leave behindthemsomething
human and yet invisible, which is sufficiently
subtle to be used by forces from the other side
\
THE LAW oF THE GHOST :23
as a basis for material phenomena. All move-
ments of solid objects, touched or untouched, in
the presence of a medium are to be explained in
this fashion, and the force may be expected to be
stronger when confined within a limited space.
Inthecase of theCheritondug-out,whichoccupied
public attention a couple of years ago, the worker
and the boy were busy in a narrow excavation.
One or other was mediumistic——that is to say,
emitted to an unusual extent this emanation——
with the result that the phenomena occurred in
the same way, thoughwith less force, when both
of them had left the work for their luncheon, as
Mr. Jaques, the owner of the property, was able
to testify. Let us suppose that in the case of
each of these three vaults there was an accumula-
tion of this mysterious, but very certain, power
left behind by the coffin-bearers, and possibly
reinforcedbythecommittees ofinquiry,whowould
have been very amazed had they been told that
they were, in all probability,themselves contri-
buting to the phenomena. There, I think,you
have the physical basis which is necessary for
every spiritual manifestation, for it cannot too
often or too clearly be insisted upon that spirits
are not omnipotent and irresponsible forces, but
that they are under a rule of law no less strict
thanour own. One of theselaws is thata physical
basis is needed for every physical manifestation.
We may find in the future some non-human
124. THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
basis, for it is conceivable that some subtle
chemical action could be establishedwhichwould
generate this magneticforce just as zinc and acid
generate the kindred mystery of electricity. But
a physical basis there must be. No ghost was
ever self—supporting. He can exist without our
help, but he cannot manifest to human eyes
without drawing his material from human (or
possibly animal) sources. That, as it seems to
me, is one of the basic laws of the new world of
science. ‘
There is some evidence, which could be cited
in full if it did not lead us down a lengthyside
street, that when a life has been cut short before
it has reached its God-appointed term, whether
the cause be murder or suicide (of accident I
speak with less confidence),there remains a store
of unused Vitality which may, where the circum-
stances are favourable,workitself off in capricious
and irregular ways. This is, I admit, a provi-
sional theory, but it has been forced upon my
mind by many considerations. Such a theory
would go some way to explain, or at least to
throw some dim light upon, the disturbances
which from all past time have been associated
with scenes of Violence and murder. If it could
be conceived that the unseen part of a man is
divisible into the higher, which passes on as
spirit, and the lower which represents animal
.
functions and mere unused vitality, then it is
THE LAW OF THE GHOST 125
thislatter which has not beennormallyworked off
in a life prematurely ended, and which may
express itself in strange semi-intelligent fashion
afterwards. In dreams one is conscious of some
such division, Where the higher functions occa-
sionally bring us back touches of the most spiri-
tual; while the lower functions, deprived for the
time of judgment, humour and all the spirit
qualities, evolve a capricious and grotesque life
of their own, which has neither reason nor sense
of proportion and yet seems very real to us in
our slumbers. It is not a subject upon which
one could be dogmatic, but the days are passing
when all such cases can be disposed of by being
brushed aside and ignored as senseless super-
stition. Some sort of frameworkmust be formed
into which they can be fitted, and with fuller
knowledge the fit will be closer.
Finally the question arises: What was the
object of such phenomena? We see that the
result in at least two cases out of three was that
the dead were buried elsewhere. Apparentlyfor
some reason the earth burial may have been
desired instead of the seclusion of the Vault. It
would certainlyhasten theabsolute decomposition
of the body, if thatshould be good from the point
of View of the other world. This seems a far-
fetched supposition and one very much at vari-
ance with the belief of those numerous nations
who have practised the art of embalming and
126 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
corpse-preservation, but if thiswas not the object
of the disturbance it must be admitted that it is
diflicult to see what other result was attained,
save a very compelling proof of unseen intelli-
gences and powers. If a speedy decomposition
was the object aimed at, then the leaden and
heavy oak coflinswould check the process, which
would be swifter in the more fragilewooden ones.
This might conceivably explain the particular
violence which seems to have been used towards
the more permanent materials. Perhaps, how-
ever,we lose time in searchingfor rationalexplana-
tions,since there is ample evidencethat there can
be rowdiness and hooliganism beyond the veil
as well as here.
One remark should be made before passing
on to another form of ghostly manifestation. It
has been said that the basis for physical results
lies in the human organism. It is not meant,
however, that there is any relation between the
small amount often taken from the medium and
the great physical results obtained. It is clear
that the unseen forces can get great power from
a limited supply of this subtle material. In the
case carefully observed and noted by Professor
Zollner of Leipzig, a beam of wood which two
horses could not have dragged apart was shat-
tered into pieces in the presence of Slade. A
friend of mine who was present at a meeting of
the Goligher circle saw a table ascend in the air
THE LAW OF THE GHOST I27
and remain there, although four strong men did
all theycould to drag it down. It is true thatin a
sitting of this sort the medium, Miss Goligher,
frequently registered a loss of weight amounting
to a stone in a séance upon the weighing-dial
which Dr. Crawford had erected, but it is clear
that the force exerted by. the unseen powers was V
very much greater than this and was due to their
own manipulation of the material which her
organism had provided. In some of the sittings
of D. D. Home, the force was so great that the
whole buildingused to shake as if a heavy train
were passing below it.
And here comes one of the mysteries which
bear directly upon that definition of spirit law
which is so desirable. In spite of the possibility
of using vast power there is a clear, and so far as
credible records go, an unbroken ordinance that
a ghost may not for its own personal ends destroy
anything or injure anyone. This may seem in
contradiction to the broken cofiins, but that may
not have been for personal ends, but an accident,‘
due to the falling about of the heavy weights.
Here is an authenticcase in illustration:
A great friend of mine, a Roman Catholic priest, whose
word could not be doubted by anyone who knew him, was
sent for a rest cure to a lonely house upon the coast which
was frequently used by other priests for the same purpose.
Save for an old crone and one or two charitable visitors, he
was absolutely alone. After a few days he became conscious
of strange noises in the house, which at last reached such
128 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
a point that, to quote his own description, “it sounded at
night as if there were a steam-engine snorting and clanking
in the room below.” Nothingwas visible, but the sounds
were incessant and were heard by two visitors as clearly as
by the inmate. The priest is himself open more than most
men to psychic impressions, and upon that night he had a
dream or vision which was so absolutely clear that he deter-
mined to act upon it. He descended in the morning and
asked the old woman whether there was not an unused room
in the basement. She answered that there was. He entered
it and found that he had already seen it in his dream—a
small dusty,cobwebbedplacewith some old books of theology
heaped in the corners. He walked at once to one of these
heaps, picked up a book as in his dream, opened it, took
out a sheet of written paper, glanced at it to make sure that
it was reallyas revealed and then carried it into the kitchen,
where he stufled it betweenthe bars of the grate. The paper
was a written preparation for confession, made out by some
over-conscientious or over-methodicalinmate of the house,
who had noted down a good many more things than were
desirable for public perusal. Presumablyhe had died shortly
afterwards and had been worried by the recollection of this
document, which he then took these means to have destroyed.
There were no further disturbances of any sort within the
house.
Now here is a story which is undoubtedlytrue
and which cannot be met by any of the ingenious
explanationsof thehonestbutscepticalResearcher.
If the subconsciousknowledgeof my friendcould
have told him thatthepaper was there,it certainly
could not have caused the noises which alarmed
him. ,
It has to be examined as a fact, as the
zoologist already quoted would examine the skin
of his rare animal, The unhappy spirit could
THE LAW OF THE GHOST I29
apparentlydraw power either from the old house-
keeper or, as is more likely,from the young and
psychic priest, to shake the very house with
vibrations, and yet with all this power he could
not destroy a frail sheet of paper, but had to
bringits destruction about in thisindirect fashion.
This seems to be a solid and noteworthyconclu-
sion. All authentic tales where spirits linger,
earth-bound because they appear to be worried
over earthlythings,concealed treasure, lost docu-
ments, or other such matters, come into this
category, and the question which one naturally
asks, “
Why can’t they set the matter right for
themselves? ”
is answered by, “
They have not
the power. It is against the law.”
I believethat all these varied experiences have
been sent to us not to amuse us by tales to be
told and then forgotten, but as the essential warp
and woof of a new spiritual garment which is to
be woven for the modern world We live in an
age which has long demanded a sign, yet when
the sign was sent it was blind to it. I cannot
understand the frame of mind of those who view
proofs of survival which appear in the Bible as of
most vital importance, and yet close their mind
to the same thingwhen they reappear before our
very eyes. I believe most of the evidence in the
sacred books, where it is not perverted by mis-
translation, interposition or forgery, to be per-
fectly good evidence, but no honest mind could
I30 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
say thatjudged by human standards of credibility
it could, for an instant, compare in its demonstra-
tion of the fate which awaits the soul, with the
psychic revelations of recent years. In the latter
case the witnesses are thousands in number, are
men of the highest credibility,and have placed
in many cases their personal experiences upon
record so that any objection can be lodged.
Modern Britain does not disprove but confirms
ancient Judea. We are in a more scientific age,
however, and we wish to know the how and the
why. Such inquiries are no longer, with so
great a wealth of material, beyond the scope of
our brains. In this article I have endeavoured
to indicate two well-marked laws : the one that
it is the effluvia of the human organism which
furnish the basis of physical manifestations
from the unseen ; the other, thatthere is a strict
limitation of psychic power which does not
prevent noise and subsequent disturbance, but
does stand in the way of destruction or personal
violence.
This power of producing noise and commotion
may, it is true, cause such great misery to those
who endure it that it may amount to mental
torture. There is the Well—known case of Miss
Clavion, the famous French actress, who refused
the advances of a young Breton suitor. The man
died two years later with menaces against Miss
Clavion upon his lips. He was as good as his
THE LAW OF THE GHOST 13:
word and proved the wisdom of her rejection by
the unmanly persecution to which he subjected
her after his death. This took the form of loud
cries, which frequently broke out when she was
in the company of others, and were so terrible
that some of the hearers fainted. In the later
stages of her persecution these cries gave place
to thesound of a musket going off,which occurred
once a day through a particular window of her
house. On ninetydays runningthisphenomenon
occurred, and was most fully investigated as the
cries had also been, by the Parisian police, who
placed spies in the street and sought constantly
but in vain for any normal explanation. Finally,
after two years the persecution stopped, the time
having been foretold by the dead man, who
declared thathe would upset her life for thesame
period as she had upset his. He had certainly
done so, but like all revenge, it was probably a
two—edged knife which cut him more deeply than
his victim.
A more justifiable persecution, but one which
also amounted to torture, is detailed by Mrs.
Carter Hall, the authoress,as having come within
her personal observation in her youth. In this
case a young officer had inflicted the greatest of
all injuries upon a beautifulyoung woman, who
afterwards died. The resulting persecution may
have come not from her gentle spirit, but from
that of someone who loved her and desired to
132 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
avenge her, but it was of the most atrocious char-
acter. Particulars will be found in Mr. Dale
Owen’s Footfalls——a book so accurate in its cases
and so wise in its deductions that it should be a
classicupon thissubject. The unfortunate officer
was attended Wherever he went by such noises
and disturbances that at last no landlady would
let rooms to him, and he was hunted from house
to house, a miserable and despairing man, alter-
natelypraying for relief and cursing at his unseen
enemy. No dog would stay with him, and even
his relatives were scared at his company, so that
he had to leave his home for fear of driving his
mother and sister into an asylum. “
It is hard
to be so punished,” he said to Mrs. Carter Hall,
“
but perhaps I have deserved it.” Possibly this
admission may have proved to be the dawn of
better days.
VI
THE ALLEGED POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS OF
KNOWN AUTHORS
OSCAR WILDE—]ACK LONDON-—LORD NORTHCLIFFE
—-DICK.ENS—CONRAD-—]EROME
ROM time to time communicationshave come
through mediums which are alleged to
emanate from men who have been famous in
literature. These have been set aside by the
ordinary critic, who starts with the assumption
that the thing is in a general sense absurd, and
therefore applies the same judgmentwithlittle or
no examination to the particular case. Those of
us, however, who have found that many psychic
claims have actually been made good, may be
inclined to look a little more closely into these
compositions, and judge how far, from internal
evidence, the alleged authorship is possible or
absurd. I Venture to say that an impartial critic
who approached the subject from this angle Will
be rather surprised at the result.
Let us predicate on the first instance that if
the Spiritualist hypothesis is true, and if things
133
134. THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
are carried out exactlyas theysay, thenone would
expect the posthumous work to be inferior to
that of the living man. In the first place, he is
filteringit throughanotherbrain which may often
misinterpret or misunderstand. Even a type-
writer under my own control, causes me, I find,
to lose something of my sureness of touch, and
how much more would it be if it were an unstable
human machine which I was endeavouring to
operate. In the second place, the writer has
entered upon a new life with a new set of experi-
ences, and withthetremendousepisodeof physical
dissolution between him and the thoughts of
earth. This also may well show itself in his style
and diction. The most that we can hope for is
something which is strongly reminiscent of the
deceased writer. This, of course, might be pro-
duced by parody, and we have to ask ourselves
how far such a parody is likely or even possible
in the case of the particular medium. If that
medium has never shown signs of the rare power
of parody, if he has had no previous literary
experience, and if there are other internal evi-
dences of the author’s identity, then the case
becomes a stronger one. In no event could the
judgment be absolutely final, but if several in-
stances can be adduced, each of which is cogent,
then the collective effect would tend to greatly
strengthen the psychic proof of identity.
I would first take the alleged messages of Oscar
ALLEGED POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS 135
Wilde,whichare certainlyvery arresting. Wilde’s
stylewas so marked,and at its best so remarkably
beautiful, that I have never seen any admitted
parody which was adequate. Yet there have
been several communications alleged to be from
theotherside which do reproduce thosepeculiari-
ties in a very marked form. One of these was a
playwhich came throughthehand of Mrs. Hester
Dowden, and which exhibited both the strength
and the weakness of Wilde. Another is to be
found in that remarkablenarrative, “
Both Sides-
of the Door,” where Wilde was alleged to have
interfered, in order to save a family who were
suffering from a peculiar psychic persecution.
Wilde had a particularly fine eye for colour, and
a very happy knack of hitting off a tint by an
allusion to some natural object. I thinkthat all
the “
honey-coloured”
moons which have floated
over recent literature had their origin in one of
Wilde’s adjectives. In this particular little book
Wilde spoke of the Arctic seas as»
“
an ocean of
foaming jade.” That struck me as a particularly
.
characteristic phrase.
In the present essay, however, we will concen-
trate our attention upon the volume which has
been published by Werner Laurie under the title
of Psychic Messages from Oscar Wilde. These
also came through the hand of Mrs. Dowden (or
Mrs. Travers Smith)and they are dignified by a
preface from the father of Psychic Research, Sir
136 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
William Barrett, who makes the general assertion
concerningthescript, “
It does afford strong prima
facie evidence of survival after the dissolution of
body and brain.”
The messages, it should be explained, came
partly by automatic writing, while in a normal
state, and partly by the ouija board. Mrs. Dow-
den was associated with Mr. Soal in the experi-
ments, she sometimes working alone, and some-
times withhis hands upon the ouija board. Here
are some of the messages which seem to me to be
most characteristic of Wi1de’s personality and
literary style.
“
In eternal twilight I move, but I know that in the world
there is day and night, seedtime and harvest, and red sunset
must follow apple-green dawn. Every year spring throws
her green veil over the world and anon the red autumn glory
comes to mock the yellow moon. Already the may is creeping
like a white mist over land and hedgerow, and year after
year the hawthorn bears blood-red fruit after the death of
its may.”
This is not merely adequate Wilde. It is
exquisite Wilde. It is so beautifulthat it might
be chosen for special inclusion in any anthology
of his writings. The adjective “
apple-green ”
for dawn, and the picture of the may
“
creeping
like a white mist ”
are two high lights in a brilliant
passage. Again as in the “
foaming jade ”
We
have the quick response to colour. It is. not
too much to say that the posthumous Wilde in
ALLEGED POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS 137
such passages as this is Wilde with an added
sparkle.
In the script we find that after this passage
Wildewas subjected to a long questionnaire,which
he answered with great precision. When asked
why he came, he answered:
“
To let the world know that Oscar Wilde is not dead.
His thoughts live on in the hearts of all those who in a gross
age can hear the flute voice of beauty calling on the hills,
or markwhere her white feet brush the dew from the cowslips
in the morning. Now the mere memory of the beauty of
the world is an exquisite pain. I was always one of those
for whom the visible world existed. I worshipped at the
shrine of things seen. There was not a blood stripe on a
tulip or a curve on a shell, or a tone on the sea, but had for
me its meaning and its mystery, and its appeal to the imagina-
tion. Others might sip the pale lees of the cup of thought,
but for me the red wine of life.” .
This also is beautiful and rare literary work.
If an artist can tell a Rubens by its colouring or
a sculptor can assign an ancient statue to Phidias,
then I claim that a man with an adequate sense
of therhythmof good prose can ascribethese fine
extracts to Wilde and to no one else. His hall-
mark is stamped upon them for all the world to
see, and when it ceases to turn away its head it
will see it clearly enough. Immersed in trivial-
ities,it seems to have no leisure at present for the
great questions of life and of death.
These two beautifulpassages and several others
almost as fine,came in a singlesitting on June 8th,
K
138 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
1923, and were produced by Mr. Soal writing,
while Mrs. Dowden laid her hand upon his. In
many forms of mediumship it is to be observed
that the blending of two human atmospheres
produces finer results than either alone can get.
The cynical humour of Wilde, and a certain
mental arrogance which was characteristic,breaks
out in these passages.
“
Being dead is the most boring experience in
life. That is if one excepts being married, or
dining with a schoolmaster.”
Again being dissatisfied with one of his own
images he writes, “
Stop ! Stop ! This image is
insufferable. You write like a successful grocer
who,from sellingpork,hastakento writingpoetry.”
When someone alluded to an occasion when
Whistler had scored off him, he wrote, “
With
James vulgarity always begins at home.”
Again
“
I do not wish to burden you with details of my life,which
was like a candle that had guttered at the end. I rather
wish to make you believe that I was the medium through
which beautyfiltered, and was distilled like the essence of
a rose.”
His literary criticism was acid and unjust, but
Witty.
“I knew Yeats well—a fantastical mind, but so full of
inflated joy in himself that his little cruse of poetry was
erupted early in his career—a little drop of beauty which
was spread only with infinite pains over the span of many
years.” '~
ALLEGED POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS 139
Now and again there are passages of intense
interest to an instructed Spiritualist which give a
glimpse of the exact sphere upon which Wilde is
moving,and the reasons which retard his progress
and subject him to those limitations which draw
from him the constant exclamation of “
Pity
Oscar Wilde ! ”
His pictures of earth are a
reminiscence, and his witty cynical chatter is a
mere screen. The real bitterness of his experi-
ence, a bitterness which might I thinkhave been
assuaged by some sympathyand instruction from
this side, flashes out in occasional passages which
vibrate with his emotion.
“
I am a wanderer. Over thewhole world I have wandered,
looking for eyes by which I may see. At times it is given
to me to pierce thisstrange veil of darkness,and through eyes
from which my secret must be for ever hidden, gaze once
more on the gracious day.”
This would mean in our language that from
time to time he has been able to take control of
a medium, and so get into touch with physical
things once more. His troubles come from the
desire to struggle down rather than up. He has
found strangely assorted mediums.
“
I have found sight in the most curious places. Through
the eyes out of the dusky face of a Tamil girl I have looked
on thetea fields of Ceylon,and throughtheeyes of a wandering
Kurd I have seen Ararat. . . .
Once on a pleasure steamer
on its way to St. Cloud I saw the green waters of the Seine
and the lights of Paris through the vision of a little girl, who
clung wondering to her mother and wondered why.”
140 ‘THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
What rational explanation can be given for
such messages save the Spiritualisticone ? They
are there. Whence come they? Are they the
unconscious cerebration of Mr. Soal ? But many
of them have come when that gentlemanwas not
present, so this explanation is ruled out. Are
they then an emanation of Mrs. Dowden ? But
theyhave come in full strengthand beautywhen
her hands have not been on the ouija board, but
have simply touched those of Mr. Soal. What
then is the alternative explanation? I confess
that I can see none. Can anyone contend that
both Mr. Soal and Mrs. Dowden have a hidden
strand in their own personality which enables
them on occasion to write like a great deceased
writer, and at the same time a want of conscience
whichpermits that subconsciousstrand to actually
claim that it is the deceased author? Such an
explanation would seem infinitely more unlikely
than any transcendental one can do.
‘
The case might be made fairly convincing on
the question of style alone. But there is much
more in it than that. The actual writing, which
was done at a speed which forbids conscious
imitation, is often the handwriting of Wilde, and
reproduces certain curious little tricks of spacing
which were usual with him in life. He alludes
freely to all sorts of episodes, many of them little
known, which have been shown to be actual facts.
He gives criticisms of authors with a sure, but
ALLEGED POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS I41
ratherunkind touch, where the medium has little
or no acquaintance with the Writings criticized.
He alludes to people whom he has known in life
withtheutmost facility. In the case of one, Mrs.
Chan Toon, the name ‘was so unlikely that it
seemed to me that there must be some mistake.
As if to resolve my doubts a letter reached me
presently from the very lady herself.
To sum up, I do not thinkthatany person who
approached this problem with an open mind can
doubt thatthe case for Wilde’s survival and com-
munication is an overpoweringlystrong one.
We now turn to a second case, that of Jack
London. Here again We are dealing with an
author who had such a marked individuality,
and such a strong explosive method of expression
that any imitation should be readily detected.
The collector of the evidence is Edward Payne,
who died soon after his task was completed. He
was a man of considerable attainments, a close
friend of London’s in his lifetime, and not ’a
Spiritualist, so we have the material for a very
instructed and unprejudiced opinion. The mes-
sages came to him througha ladywho has a public
career, andthereforedesires to remainanonymous.
Mr. Payneanswers for her bona fides, and assures
us she was not a professional medium, that she
was a woman of considerable culture, and that
she was a convinced materialist, so that no strand
of her own nature, so far as can be traced, is
142 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
concerned in producing messages which are in
their very nature the strongest indictment of
materialism that could be framed.
The messages assume two forms, the one quite
unconvincing,the other most powerful. The for-
mer is an attempt at aworkof fictionwhichwas an
utter failure. The fact that London could not
get his story of worldly life across, and yet was
most convincing in discussing his own actual
condition,is to be understood readily. It is’clear
that he was attempting the most diflicult of all
forms of communication,a long,connected narra-
tive with characters and plot, under indirect
conditionsto which no livingauthorcould submit.
If London had relied upon his transmitted
.fiction alone he would have been deservedly set
down as an impostor. But when he comes to
draw not others, but himself, he is much more
convincing. Apparently he was much worried
after deathby findingeverythingentirelydifferent
from anythinghe had expected, thoughif he and
other materialists would deign to listen to the
poor despised Spiritualists theywould save them-
selves all such shocks, the effects of which endure
often for many years.
Instead of loss of personality he found himself,
like Wilde, in a mist or haze——a reflection of his
own perplexed mind—with a body and mind as
before, the perceptions beingmore acute than on
earth. He quickly was forced to realize that all
ALLEGED POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS 143
his teaching had been utterlywrong, that he had
done harm by it, and that his immediate task was
to get back if he could, and set the matter right.
This getting back is no easy task. The right
vibration has to be found, and it is far to seek.
But London was not a man to be repulsed. He
found his vibrationand he delivered his message.
Here are some of the communications which
seem to me to bearthe stamp of theman on every
’
line of them.
“
I am going to try. Trying is the life of me. Ask Aunt
Netta if it is Jack who speaks that.”
“
Here I am alive, feeling myself to be myself, yet nothing
I say or Write can identify me to those who know me best.”
“
Death has taught me what earth held from me. .My ‘-
spirit is plunging forward with more vigour than wisdom, _
as in my earth days. But I know now the way and the life.
Oh, I have much, much, that I must undo.”
144. THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
turned his way. I almost regret this. I believe it made
my transition the harder.
“
I awoke. Dreaming P I was sure of it. I dreamed on
and on. I dreamed myself into eternity. I am vague. I
was vague to myself. My powers returned. I could think.
I hailed my old brain like a returned friend. I fumbled and
groped. My earth blindnesswas on me. It hazed me about.
I fought my way through it. I had no goal. I had passed
the only goal I had ever admitted. I was on the other side
of it. I struggle to seize the correct term. I try vainly to
translate the experience into terms of earth which has no
utterance for it.
“
I died. I am looking at death from the other side——the
tame friendlyside of him. And Life is indestructible. .
I see man face his destiny as I saw him on earth. I see
him fall. I see him rise again and go on. He fights his
way and when his place is ready here he comes. There are
no catastrophes. All is in order.
“I am a stranger to this tongue. I am but learning to
speak. What faculty I possessed on earth is disrupted by
‘
a condition it was never trained to meet. I shall strive to
re-establish it and then I shall speak, and, friends of earth,
you shall recognize my voice.”
These short strong pregnant sentences are Jack
London at his best. As in the case of Wilde, his
posthumous work Will bear comparison with
anything he has done in life.
He has a horror of his old point of view.
“
That which was my truth of yesterday, which I hugged
to me as the quintessence of my distilled thought, becomes
a volatile poison to me here and I must . . .
distil a new
thought out of the fires of my previous experience, and by
this thought shall I rise. Renaissance of soul is a labour
shot with pains of remembrance,held by fetters of past error
which are burst with a sweated toil while the heart strains
ALLEGED POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS 145
with its propulsion . . .
I feel that I have got right with
God—I am no longer worshipping myself.”
When asked what specific work he was doing,
he answered, “
I have to direct those lost or
bewildered,as I was when I came. I labour to
show them the way I would not take.”
These last words seem to me to mark the
beginning of Jack London’s regeneration. He
understands thathis work is impersonal,unselfish
and humble. Before that he had wished to
reassert himself on the old earth terms, and the
realization that he could not do so was a bitter
one. He kicked hard against the pricks.
“
God! I am annihilated ! ”
he cried; “
my earth life
is stamped out, blotted from time by this passage. I can’t
puzzle it out. My hand fumbles. Did Death rob me as
I passed throughhis clutch. Did he steal the face of me that
those who knew me see me strange, feeble, pitiful. Who
or what has cut the tap-root of my power P I am befogged.”
The child still cried for its toys and refused to
understand that it had left the nursery. But it
cries in a voice thatis familiar. The man himself
never spoke in such a vital strain as does his
ghost. He ends at last on the note that he is
not to look back and that the future only should
concern him. “
Themessages ”
he said, “
come
from Jack London, the damned soul, struggling
out of his own hell of materialization.” But there
was light ahead. He had but to persevere.
“
I
am a soldier of the eternal march.” Who but
146 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
Jack London would have written those words?
He Winds up,
“
What is more important than to
let the world know I am busy undoing what
mischief I did.” Alas,]ack,theWorld is too busy
withits games and its pleasures, too immersed in
its wooden cre_eds and its petrified religions, to
give ear to what you have learned. They, like
you, will only realize when it is too late.
It may be gatheredfrom theabove thatI accept
Jack London’s return as being a genuine one. I
can see no other possible conclusion. The mes-
sage is there, and it is easier to account for it by
the return of London’s activities to this sphere,
than to torture the theory of multiple personality
or subconsciousactivity,untilit is twisted to cover
a case which is so much beyondits limits.
There is one other Writer who has claimed that
he has been able to get messages back to us.
This is Lord Northcliffe—orAlfred Harmsworth,
as the alleged spirit prefers to be called. In life
Harmsworth had no distinctive style, but only
the pen of the ready writer, so thatit is far more
diflicult to identify him than in such marked
cases as Wilde or London. But if he had not
stylehe had character, and this of a very forcible
and individual kind. Judged from that angle his
return is convincing, though I would not say
that it is so conclusive as in the case of the two
men of letters.
Thegreatjournalistclaimsto have come through
ALLEGED POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS 14.7
many times, and I have myself had experiences
in that direction which cannot possibly be ex-
plainedaway. Hannen Swaffer has given his own
account of the matter in his forcible narrative
“
Northclilfe’sReturn.” For the purpose of this
essay, however, I will confine myself to a single
long article, said to be dictated by Northcliffe,
and coming through the hand of a lady living in
a small town in New Zealand, and quite ignorant
of her control’s character, or of his methods of
thought and expression.
He also, like the others, most bitterly regrets
the want of true guidance which he had found in
his lifetime, and the absorption in material things
which stunted his spiritual development. At the
same time it is easy to see that the spirit which
is struggling for expression is really, as I should
judge, upon a higher plane than either of those
which have been already discussed. Service is
his one ideal and that is the sign of progression.
He speaks of his powers humbly enough.
“
I would probablynot have risen above the rank of private
yet had it not been for some executive ability. For the will
power and the dynamic force necessary to achieve success
in my old line of endeavour has helped me considerably
here.”
His review of his own earth life is interesting
and instructive:
“
I had a tremendous lot of power in public affairs, and I
now see to how much better use I might have put that power.
14.8 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
But I could only act according to my light at the time, and
as that light was very dim indeed, on matters pertaining to
themore real and lastingthingsof life, I made many mistakes.
We do not suffer for our mistakes, except in witnessing the
results of past actions, which is sufiering enough in many
cases, God knows! What I mean is, that this suflering is
self-inflicted, and the only escape from it is in honest toil
to try and right some of the wrong we have unwittingly
done in the past. In this way only can we Wipe the slate
clean and start life afresh on a higher level.”
Nowand againhe breaksout into thatimpetuous
and loud-spokenanger which was one of his earth
characteristics. Here is an example when he
talks of our present misleaders of public opinion :
“The colossal ignorance and arrogant pride of so many
of those whose privilegeit is to help‘to form public opinion
is my especial bugbear at present. If they would not be so
smug and self-satisfied about it I could bear it better. But,
as thingsare, I often long to prick the highly—inflatedbubble
of their unholy conceit with one of my sharp, old-time,
Vigorous denunciations of humbug.”
And again he has a word to say to those who
imagine that to commune with those who are
gone can in any way be harmful or disagreeable
to those who come to us.
“Poor silly,deluded folks! If they only knew what I,
and millions like me know of the heart-hunger for those left
behind,which exists over here, they would open their minds
and hearts, and make their dear ones as welcome in their
lives and concerns as they were before death overtook them.
They could do it easily,too, if theywould only allow them-
selves to be properly instructed in these matters of great
moment to all concerned, by those who know, instead of
ALLEGED POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS 149
being content to listen to those shrill, oft-repeated, parrot
cries of religious humbugs, who tell of the sin and danger
of tampering with these things, whilst knowing nothing
whatever of the help and consolation such intercourse can
bring to loving, suffering beings on both sides of the veil.”
Can anyone imagine that these forceful words,
which can be matched in unpublished communi-
cations from the same source in England, could
have really come from the mind of the lady in
far New Zealand.
In theoriginalform of thisessay,whichappeared
in the Fortnightly Review, I devoted some space
to considering a continuation of Edwin Drood,
which professed to come from Charles Dickens
throughthe hand of one James who was foreman
in a printing office in Brattleborough, Vermont.
No one who reads it can denythatit is an excellent
imitation of the great author’sstyle, but the most
unconvincingpart was the narrative itself, which
was clumsy and improbable. My conclusion
was “that the actual inspiration of Dickens is
far from being absolutelyestablished.” I added,
however, “
No one withany critical facultywould
say that the result was an entirely unworthy one,
though if Written by the living Dickens it would
certainly not have improved his reputation. It
reads,” I added, “like Dickens gone flat.”
There was an extraordinarilyinteresting sequel
to this. Shortly after I had written as above I
had a sitting with Florizel Von Reuter the cele-
15o THE EDGE or THE UNKNOWN
bratedviolinvirtuoso, and his mother. Their (or
rather her) mediumship is of a most convincing
nature, as its technique is in itself of abnormal
power. She sits with her eyes tightly bandaged,
and her hand upon a small pointer which darts
very rapidly at the letters of the alphabet,while
her son writes down the result. There is no
question at all about the bandage beingadequate,
and she does not turn her face down to theboard.
The letters too, are so close together that she
could not learn to touch them with accuracy.
Yet the messages come through with extreme
speed. Whatever theirvalue thereis no question
thatthey come in preternatural fashion.
Imagineus there,seated,these two at thecentre
table, my wife and I in the corner of our cottage
room. Dickensand Drood had beenin my mind,
but our visitors had no means of knowing that.
FlorizelVon Reuter had never read Edwin Drood.
His mother had read it years ago but had a very
vague memory as to the book. Suddenly the
pointer beginsto dart furiouslyand Florizelreads
off each sentence as he notes it down Some of
them, I may add, came in looking-glasswriting
and had to be read backwards. The first was,
“Boz is buzzing about.” Boz, of course, was
thenom-de-plumeof Dickens,so I asked if it was
he. He eagerly declared that it was. After a
short interchange of dialogue I said,
“
Will you answer some questions P ”
ALLEGED POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS I51
“
I hope I know enough,” was the answer.
“
Was thatAmericanwho finished Edwin Drood
inspired P ”
“
Not by me,” was the instantaneous and
decided answer.
Now von Reuter knew nothing of this matter,
and my own opinion was, at the utmost, neutral,
so thatthis positive answer reflected none of our
own thoughts.
Then came a further message.
“
Wilkie C. did ”
[or would have done]
“
better.”
There was, I believe, some talk after Dickens’
death of Wilkie Collins finishing the book. So
far as I know he did nothingin the matter. The
Von Reuters knew nothingof this.
“
Was Edwin Drood dead P ”
“
No, he was not.”
That was certainly my own opinion so I make a
present of it to the telepathist.
Then after a pause, the message went on:
“
I was sorry to go across before I got him out of his
trouble. The poor chap has had a hard time. I don’t know
which is better, to solve the mystery in your note-book or
let it remain a mystery for ever. If you make good with
Conrad I will put you on to Edwin.”
“
I shall be honoured, Mr. Dickens.”
“
Charles, if you please. We like friends to be
friends.” Thereaderwill smileat this. So did I.
But factsare factsand I am giving them. I asked :
152 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
“
Have you‘ a clear recollection of the plot? ”
“
I have.”
“
Who-was Datchery ? ”
“
What about the fourth dimension ? I prefer
to write it all out through you.”
What the fourth dimension has to do with it I
cannot imagine. I think it was meant as chaff,
since the fourth dimension is what no one can
understand.
Now comes the important sentence :
“
Edwin is alive and Chris is hiding him.”
This seems to me to be exceedinglyimportant,
both from a literary and from a psychic point of
view. Some of the best brains in the world have
occupied themselves over the problem as to
whether Drood was dead, and if not where he
could be. Numerous solutions have been sug-
gested, but though I am fairlywell posted in the
matter this is an entirely new one. Chris is the
Rev. Crisparkle,who in the novel is a kindlyand
energetic, muscular Christian. Certainly if he
played the part indicated it is well concealed.
But then it was the author’s duty to conceal it
well. There are several subtle touches which
might point to the truth of it. On re-readingthe
fragment with this idea in my mind I can say
With certainty that up to a point Crisparkle cer-
tainlyknew nothingabout it. He has a soliloquy
to that effect, and whatever means are legitimate
by which an authormay mislead a reader, a false
ALLEGED POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS I53
soliloquy is not among them. But after that
pointin thestory thereis no reason why Crisparkle
may not have surprised Drood’s secret, and helped
him. There was a huge cupboard in Crisparkle’s
room which is describedwitha detailwhich seems
unnecessary and exaggerated if nothingis to come
from it; There again the artist drew his frontis—
piece under Dickens’ very particular direction,
and it contains small vignettes of various scenes.
There is one which shows Drood standing in a
sort of vault, and someone who has some indica-
tions of clerical garb coming in to him with a
lantern. Is thisnot Crisparkleand is it not some
corroboration of the spirit message?
We got no more messages at thattime. Let us
for a moment, however, consider the case. Is it
not clear evidence of an intelligence outside our-
selves? I do not insist upon Charles Dickens.
If anyone says to me,
“
How can you prove that
it was not an Impersonation?” I would admit
franklythat I cannot prove it. There is none of
that corroboration from style which I get in the
case of Wilde and of London. I put it on the
broader basis, “
Was it not an Intelligence apart
from ourselves?” Whence came an ingenious
solution of a mystery which involved a character
of_ which neither of the von Reuters knew any-
thingwitha solution entirelynew to me. I claim
that it was a most evidential case of Intelligence
outside our own physical bodies.
I.
154 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
I may add that on the same evening we had
a number of messages in Arabic which none of
us could understand. When, however, I sent
themto my friend,Major Marriott,who is a com-
petent Arabic scholar, they proved to be quite
correct. This reinforces the argument that the
Dickens’ messages were quite apart from our-
selves. _
Before I close my comments upon,
“
dead ”
authors I might‘ mention two other points of
contact which had in each case some evidential
value. Both were effected throughthe von Reu-
ters-once in my presence and once in my
absence. In the former case the message, deliv-
ered as before by the blindfolded lady,purported
to be from Joseph Conrad,whom I had not known
in life. He said thathe had left a book unfinished,
that it dealt with the Napoleonic era, and that
he would be glad if I would finish it for him,
since he knew that I had worked on that epoch.
Neither I nor the Von Reuters had any idea that
such a book existed. We found on inquiry,
however, thatit was indeed so, and that the book
had actuallybeen published a year or two before
in its incomplete form. This, of course, lessens
the value of the evidence from a psychic research
point of view, since we might have heard of the
book and forgotten about it, but the fact remains
that none of us had any recollection of it.
On another occasion when I was not present
ALLEGED POSTHUMOUS WRITINGS 155
D
the name “Jerome ’
came through. On being
asked whether it was a Christian or a surname
the characteristic answer came :
“
It is my alpha and omega.”
“
I want to speak to Sir Arthur,” came next.
“
Did you know him in life P ”
“
Yes, yes, yes
”
(very excitedly).
“
Would you liketo write withmy son’shand P ”
He assented eagerly.
Florizel Von Reuter, who had the gift of auto-
matic writing, then took the pencil. A message
came through that Jerome and I had been good
friends, but had disagreed upon the subject of
Occultism. The message concluded, “
Tell him
from me that I know now that he was right and
I was Wrong. We never know our greatest mis-
takes at the time we make them. Make it clear
to him that I am not dead.” ’
In von Reuter’s account of this incident in
his remarkable book, Psychical Experiences of a
Musician, he says:
“
I should like to impress upon the reader that neither my
mother nor I had the least idea whether Doyle and Ierome
had been even superficially acquainted, let alone knowing
anythingof ]erome’s views upon occult matters.”
The latter cases are certainly not so convincing
as the earlier ones, but if you take all the evidence
togetherit adds, I think,a new and little explored
region to psychic research.
VII
SOME CURIOUS PERSONAL EXPERIENCES
Y experienceswithmediums,good, bad and
indifferent, are probably as Wide as those
of any living man. At one time or another I
have experimented yvithJonson of Los Angeles,
whom I lookupon asthebestmaterializingmedium
Whom I have known, with Inez Wagner of the
same city, a Wonderful voice medium, with Mrs.
Wickland and withMiss Besinnet of Toledo, who
is also of the first psychic quality. I have sat
also in America with Mr. John Ticknor, a gifted
amateur ; with Mrs. Chenoweth, the famous
clairvoyante; with Mrs. Wriedt of Detroit and
Valiantine, Wonderful direct voice exponents;
with “
Margery ”
Crandon, the World—famous
amateur ; withMiss Ridleyof Philadelphia; Mrs.
Pruden of Cincinnati ; Mrs. Rose Miller of
Washington; Mrs. Hazel of Winnipeg ; the
Hamilton circle in the same city,and manyothers.
In Australasia I experimented with Bailey,the
apport medium; Mrs. Susanna Harris; Mrs.
Roberts of Dunedin, and several more. In South
Africa with Mrs. Kimpton, and half a dozen
I 56
SOME CURIOUS PERSONAL EXPERIENCES 157
more. In Paris with “
Eva ”
and with Madame
Brilfaud. In Denmark with Einar Nielson. In
Sweden with the remarkable daughter of Judge
Dahl. .
At home there are few mediums of the last
twenty years whom I have not sampled, including
Husk and Craddock of the older generation, and
Evan Powell (at his best at the top of the list),
Mrs. Roberts, Mrs. Garrett, Mrs. Barkel, Mrs.
Brittain (all four splendid clairvoyantes), Mrs.
Roberts Johnson and Mrs. Cooper (bothof them
overworked voice mediums), and a great many
others of lesser note.
I have worked also many times with Hope of
Crewe, who in his own line is the greatest medium
of all time, and with Mrs. Deane, both of them
exponents of psychic photography. These are
some of themediumswhose gifts I have explored,
and in many cases I have sat as often as a dozen
times. Hence, if I have formed conclusionsthey
have been based upon wide experiences. I have
always taken copious notes of my cases. Fraud
I have discovered, and helped to expose in several
cases, but on the whole I should not put it at
more thanten per cent—if as much——of thewhole.
With so much practical work behind me the
reader can imagine my feelings when in a public
debate upon the subject with Dr. Haldane of
Cambridge my distinguished opponent said, “
I
once knew a medium.” In my reply I asked him
r
..'v'v=
158 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
what he would thinkof me if I contradicted him
upon some point of chemistry, and said, “
I have
once been in a laboratory.”
Apart from the ordinary phenomena of the
séance room, my life has not given me much
direct psychic experience. I have, so far as I
know, no spiritual gifts myself and none of that
psychic‘atmospherewhich gives a tinge of romance
to so many lives. There have, however, been
occasions when without the aid of a medium I
have been sensitive to the unknown.
One instance occurred some years ago. It was
in my bedroom at Crowborough. I wakened in
the night with the clear consciousness that there
was someone in the room, and that the presence
was not of thisworld. I was lyingwith my back
to the room, acutelyawake, but utterly unable to
move. It was physically impossible for me to
turn my body and face this visitor. I heard
measured steps across the room. I was conscious
(without seeing it) that someone was bending
over me, and then I heard a voice saying in a
loud whisper, “
Doyle, I come to tell you that I
am sorry.” A minute later my disability dis-
appeared, and I was able to turn, but all was black
darkness and perfectly still. My wife had not
awakened, and knew nothingof what had passed.
It was no dream, I was perfectly conscious all
the time. My visitor gave no name, but I felt
that it was a certain individual to whom I had
SOME CURIOUS PERSONAL EXPERIENCES I59
tried to give psychic consolation when he was
bereaved. He rejected my advances with some
contempt and died himself shortly afterwards.
It may well be that he wished to express regret.
As to my own paralysisit came, I have no doubt,
from the fact thatthe power for the manifestation
had been drawn out of ME. When spirit mani-
fests upon the physical plane it has to draw its
matter from a material source, and I was the
obvious one. It is the one occasion upon which
I have been used as a physicalmedium, and I am
content that it should be the last.
I had a second interesting experience some
years ago. There was a church in the neighbour-
hood which had the reputation of beinghaunted.
There are reasons why it would be wrong for
me to indicate it more precisely. The party con-
sisted of my wife and myself, my two sons, my
daughter,a friend,and a young London lady who
is among our rising poets. It was ten o’clock
when we presented ourselves at the door of the
church, where we were met by an elderly villager.
Swinging a lantern he led the way to the choir
end, where we all seated ourselves in the stalls
whichtheancientmonksonce occupied. My own
very angular throne was that which had been
used by many priors, in far-off days when the
old church was one of the shrines of England.
Opposite me, and dimly lit by the lantern, was
the altar, and behind it a blank wall unbroken
160 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
by any Window, but reflecting strange ghostly
shadows and illuminations through the high
clerestory windows on either side. When the
lantern was extinguished and we sat in the dark-
ness watchingthese strange shiftinglights coming
and going, the impression was quite ghostly
enough, though I have no doubt at all that there
was a physical cause, due to some reflection of
passing lights in the distance. It was, however,
sufiiciently Weird.
For two hours I had sat in the dark upon my
hard seat, and wondered whether cushions were
vouchsafed to the priors of old. The lights still
came and went behind the altar, but they only
flickered over the top of the high expanse which
faced us, and all below was very black. And
then suddenly, quite suddenly, there came that
which no scepticism could explain away. It may
have been forty feet from where I sat to the altar,
and midway between, or roughly twenty feet
from me, there was a dull haze of light, a sort of
phosphorescent cloud, a foot or so across, and
about a man’s height from the ground. We had
been rustling and whispering, but the sudden
utter silence showed me that my companions
were as tense as I was. The light glimmered
down, and hardened into a definite shape——or I
should say shapes——since there were two of them.
Theywere two perfectly clear-cut figures in black
and white, with a dim luminosity of their own.
SOME CURIOUS PERSONAL EXPERIENCES 161
The colouringand arrangementgave me a general
idea of cassocks and surplices. Whether they
were facing the altar or facing each other, was
more than I could say, but they were not misty
figures, but solid objective shapes. For two or
three minutes we all gazed at this amazing
spectacle. Then my wife said loudly,“
Friends,
is there anythingwhich we can do to help you P ”
In an instant theywere gone, and we were peering
into unbroken darkness with the lights still
flickering above.
Personally, I saw no more, but those of our
party who sat upon the right, said thattheycould
afterwards see a similar figure, but somewhat
taller—a man alone——who stood on the left of the
altar. For my own part nothingmore occurred,
andwhen midnight tolledforth above our heads, I
thoughtit was time to make for thewaitingmotor.
Such was our experience. There was no
possible room for error. Unquestionably we all
saw these figures, and equally unquestionablythe
figures were not of this world. I was full of
curiosity to know more of the matter, and pre-
sently my desire was gratified,for there came into
my Psychic Bookshop a gentleman, Mr. Munro,
who had had a similar experience some years
before in the same place. He was possessed,
however, of the great gift of clairvoyance, and his
adventure was by daylight,so thatit was far more
definite. He was going round the old church
162 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
when he was suddenly aware of an ancient monk
who was walkingby his side, and he knew by his
own sensations that it was a clairvoyant vision.
The man was middle sized, with a keen, aristo-
cratic, hawk-like face. So clear was he that Mr.
Munro rememberedhow the sunlight shone upon
the arched bone of his prominent nose. He
walked for some time beside Mr. Munro, and he
then vanished. What is noticeable is that he
was wearing a gown of a peculiar tint of yellow.
Some little time afterwards my informant was
present at Bernard Shaw’s noble play of “
Saint
Joan.” In one act an Englishmonk appears upon
the stage. My friend instantly said to his Wife,
“
That is the dress. That is what the dead man
wore.” Mrs. Munro, who was in the shop at the
time, confirmed this. I may say that they had
broached the subject before I had told them of
our own experience in the old church.
Then again there came yet another light upon
the matter. It was, strange to say, in an Austra-
lian paper which was sent to me. It gave an
account of the old church, and of the ghosts
which haunt it. The chief spirit, the one with
themasterful face,was, accordingto thisnarrative,
the head of the community in the time of Henry
the Eighth. He had hid some of the treasures
of the church to prevent their spoliation, and
his spirit was still earth—bound on account of his
solicitude over these buried relics. Hisname was
SOME CURIOUS ‘PERSONAL EXPERIENCES I63
given, and it was stated thathe had shown himself
to many visitors. If this account be indeed true,
then I should thinkthat the spot in front of the
altar, where we saw first the light, and then the
two draped figures, might very possibly be worth
the attention of the explorer.
I joined the Society for Psychical Research
in 1893 or 1894 and must now be one of the
oldest members. Shortly afterwards I was asked
to form one of a small party to inspect a house
at Charmouth. It was said to be haunted.
Dr. Scott of Norwood and Mr. Podmore, a
determined and Very unreasonable opponent of
spiritualism,were my companions. The evidence
in the case was so voluminous that it took us the
Whole of our railway journey to master it. It
consisted mainly of a record of senseless noises
which made the place hardly habitable for the
unfortunatefamilywho had it on a lease and could
not afford to abandon it.
Theyprovedto becharmingpeople. An elderly
mother,a grown-up son and a married daughter.
The house was a rambling place, a couple of
centuries old. We sat up for two nights. On the
first nothingoccurred. On the second Dr. Scott
left us, and I sat alone with Mr. Podmore and
the young man. We had, of course, taken every
precautionto checkmatefraud,put worsted thread
across the stairs, and so on.
We had just begun to think that the second
164 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
night would be as blank as the first and the ladies
had already gone to bed when a fearsome noise
broke out. It was like someone whackinga table
witha heavy stick. The door of thesitting—room
was open and the noise reverberated down the
passage.
We rushed into the kitchen from which the
sound appeared to come, but there was nothing
to be seen there,and the threads on thestair were
unbroken. The others returned to the sitting-
room, but I remained waiting in the dark in the
hope that the noise would break out once more.
There was, however, no return and we were
never able to cast a light upon the mystery. We
could only say that what We had heard corro-
borated, up to a point, what we had read in the
account of the disturbances.
There was, however, a curious sequel. Within
a year or so the house was burnt down, which
may or may not have had a connection with the
mischievous sprite who appeared to haunt it. A
suggestive thing,however, was that the skeleton
of a child about ten years old was dug up in the
garden. This I- had from relatives of the family
who were so plagued.
Some people thinkthatayounglifecut short in
an unnatural fashion mayleave,as it were, a store
ofunused vitalitywhichmaybeput to strangeuses.
I was never asked by the Society for a report
of this case, but Podmore sent one in, ascribing
SOME CURIOUS PERSONAL EXPERIENCES 165
the noises to the young man, though as a matter
of fact, he was actually sitting with us in the
parlour when the trouble began. Therefore, the
explanation given by Podmore was absolutely
impossible. I think that if we desire truth we
should not onlybe critical of all psychicassertions,
but equally so of all so—called exposures in this
subject. I am sorry‘ to say that in some cases
the exposure means downright fraud upon the
part of the critic.
One other curious experience comes back to
my memory. Shortlyafter the WarI had a letter
from the widow of a distinguished soldier living
at Alton, Hampshire, in which she stated thather
life was made miserable by a noisy haunting of
her house,which frightenedthechildrenand drove
away the servants.
I visited her, however, to see what I could do.
She had taken it as a furnished house witha lease
of some years, and it was impossible for her to
leave it.
I found thatthe lady was, herself,very psychic,
and had thepower of automaticwriting. Through
thisit was thatshe received thename of theentity
which haunted the house and she assured me
that on making inquiries she found, after some
time, that a person of that name had actually
inhabitedthe house some sixty years before. On
asking him Why his spirit should be so restless
she received the answer that some papers about
-166 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
which he was anxious were concealedin therafters
of the box—room.
This message had actuallyjust come through
and thebox-room had not yet beenexplored. It
was a terrible place, thick with dust and piled
withall kinds of lumber,and for an hour or more,
in my shirt and trousers, I crawled about under
the rafters looking for these papers. I observed,
however,thatat some period, a bellwire had been
passed along there, and it was clear to me that
the men who fixed the wire would certainly have
come upon any concealed packet. I therefore,
made my way backto thesitting-‘roomin a shock-
ing state of dust and perspiration and then and
there the lady and I held a table—sitting in which
I addressed the unseen entity and explained to
him that the papers, if they had ever been there,
were certainly gone.
I remonstrated with him for the trouble which
he had given to the household and I begged him
to think no more of his worldly affairs, but to
attune his mind to the higher life. When I asked
him if he would do so the table spelt D.V.
I am conscious thatthisis very vague and open
to criticism, but the direct sequel of it all was
that from that day onwards the trouble entirely
ceased, and the lady was able to write and to
assure me that the atmosphere of her house had
changed to one of deep peace.
Thus my visit to Alton was not entirelyin Vain.
VIII
DWELLERS ON THE BORDER 1
PROPOSE in thisessay to discuss the evidence
for the existence of elemental forms of life,
invisible to the normal eye, which inhabit the
same planet as ourselves. It seems to me that
our knowledge of the ether vibrations which
govern wireless are a great help to us in this
connection, and that we can readilyunderstand
now what would have been incomprehensible,
because there was no existinganalogy,a few years
ago. Let us suppose thatthe London centre was
the only one known, and that we were in touch
with it through our own receiving apparatus.
That represents our reactionto the material world
and normally we know of no other, just as the
wireless recipientwould know onlyLondon. But
we find that by a very small change of vibration
or wave—lengthwe get Paris,Berlin, or Constanti-
nople, and London has vanished. Now if we
applythatto psychic vibrationsthe analogy seems
to me very close. As Paracelsus said, “
Ut infra,
1 An expansion of this general argument is to be found in
The ComingoftheFairies(Psychic Press,2 Victoria Street,
168 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
ita supra
”
(As it is below so it is above). A
uniformity runs through the scheme of creation.
The clairvoyant whose various powers of recep-
tivity enable him to contact difierent types of
extra—corporeal creatures, corresponds to the man
who can switch from one centre to another, and
he has the same difficulty in getting his results
accepted as the owner of a wave-adjustmentset
would have if all the normal world was confined
to one vibration.
To vary the simile, we are accustomed to the
idea of amphibious creatures who may dwell
unseen and unknown in the depths of the waters,
and then some day be spied sunning themselves
upon a sandbank,whence theyslip into theunseen
once more. If such appearances were rare, and
if it should so happen that some saw them more
clearlythan others,thena very pretty controversy
would arise, for the sceptics would say withevery
show of reason,
“
Our experience is that onlyland
creatures live on the land, and we utterly refuse
to believe in thingswhich slip in and out of the
water; if you will demonstrate them to us we
will begin to consider the question.” Facedby
so reasonable an opposition the others could only
mutter that they had seen them with their eyes,
but that they could not command their move-
ments. The sceptics would hold the field.
Somethingof the sort may exist in our psychic
arrangements. One can well imagine that there
DWELLERS ON THE BORDER 169
is a dividing line, like the water edge, this line
depending upon what we vaguely call a higher
rate of vibrations. Taking the vibration theory
as a workinghypothesis, one could conceive that
by raising or loweringthem,creatures could move
from one side to the other of this line of material
visibility,as the tortoise moves from the water to
the land, returning for refuge to invisibilityas
the reptile scuttles back to the surf. This, of
course, is supposition, but intelligent supposition
based on the available evidence is the pioneer of
science, and it may be that the actual solution
will be found in this direction. I am alluding,
now, not to spirit return, where eighty years of
close observation have given us some sort of
certain and definite laws, but ratherof those fairy
and phantom phenomena which have been en-
dorsed by so many ages, and even in thesematerial
days seem to break into some lives in the most
unexpected fashion. Victorian science would
have left the world hard and clean and bare, like
a landscape in the moon, but this science is in
truth but a little light in the darkness, and out-
side that limited circle of definite knowledge we
see the loom and shadow of gigantic and fantastic
possibilitiesaround us, throwingthemselves con-
tinually across our consciousness in such way
that it is diflicult to ignore them. ‘
There is much curious evidence of varying
value concerning these borderland forms, which
M
170 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
come or go either in fact or imagination—the
latter most frequently no doubt. And yet there
remains a residue which by all human standards
should point to occasional facts. I pass in this
essay the age-long tradition which is so universal
and consistent, and come down to some modern
instances which make one feel that this World is
very much more complex than We had imagined,
and thatthere may be upon its surface some very
strange neighbours who will open up inconceiv-
able lines of science for our posterity, especially
if it should be made easier for them, by sym-
pathy or other help, to emerge from the deep
and manifest upon the margin.
Taking a large number of cases of fairy lore
which lie before me, there are two points which
are common to nearly all of them. One is that
children claim to see these creatures far more
frequentlythan adults. This may possibly come
from greater sensitiveness of apprehension, or it
may depend upon these little entities having less
fear of molestationfrom the children. The other
is that more cases are recorded in which they
have been seen in the still shimmeringhours of a
very hot day than at any other time. “
The
action of the sun upon the brain,” the sceptic
says. Possibly—and also possibly not. If it
Were a question of raising the slower vibrations
of our surroundings one could imagine that still
heat would be the very condition which might
DWELLERS ON THE BORDER I71
favour such a change. What is the mirage of
the desert P What is thatscene of hills and lakes
which a whole caravan can see while it faces in a
direction where for a thousand miles of desert
there is neither hill nor lake, nor any cloud or
moisture to produce refraction? I can ask the
question but I do not venture to give an answer.
It is clearly a phenomenon which is not to be
confused with the erect or often inverted image
which is seen in a land of clouds and of moisture.
There are many people who have a recollection
of these experiences of their youth and try after-
wards to explain them away on material grounds
which do not seem adequate or reasonable. Thus
in his excellent book on Folklore the Rev. S.
Baring-Gould gives us‘ a personal experience
which illustrates several of the points already
mentioned.
“
In the year I838,” he says,
“
when I was a small boy,
four years ol<~_', we were drivingto Montpelieron a hot summer
day over the long straight road that traverses a pebble and
rubble~strewn plain on which grows nothing save a few
aromatic herbs. I was sitting on the box with my father
when to my great surprise I saw legions of dwarfs of about
two feet high running along beside the horses—some sat
laughing on the pole, some were scrambling up the harness
to get on the backs of the horses. I remarked to my father
what I saw, when he abruptly stopped the carriage and put
me inside beside my mother, where, the conveyance being
closed, I was out of the sun. The effect was that little by
little the host of imps diminished in numbers till they dis-
appeared altogether.”
172 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
Here certainly the advocates of sunstroke have
a strong though by no means a final case. Mr.
Baring-Gould’snext illustrationis a stronger one.
“
When my wife was a girl of fifteen,” he says,
“
she was
walking down a lane in Yorkshire between green hedges,
when she saw seated in one of the privet hedges a little
green man, perfectly well made, who looked at her with his
beady,blackeyes. He was abouta foot or fifteeninches high.
She was so frightened that she ran home. She remembers
that it was a summer day.”
A girl of fifteen is old enough to be a good
Witness, and her fright and the clear detail of her
memory point to a real experience. Again we
have the suggestion of a hot day.
Baring—Gould has yet a third case.
“
One day a son of mine,” he says,
“
was sent into the
garden to pick pea-pods for the cook to shell for dinner.
Presently he rushed into the house as white as chalk to say
that while he was thus engaged, and standing between the
rows of peas, he saw a little man wearing a red cap, a green
jacket, brown knee-breeches, whose face was old and wan,
and who had a grey beard and eyes as black and hard as
sloes. He stated so intently at the boy that the latter took
to his heels.”
Here again the pea-pods show that it was
summer and probably in the heat of the day.
Once again the detail is Very exact and corres-
ponds closely, as I shall presently show, to some
independent accounts.‘ Mr. Baring—Gould is
inclined to put all these down to the heat con-
juring up the familiar pictures of fairy-books,
DWELLERS ON THE BORDER :73
but some further evidence may cause the reader
to doubt this explanation.
Let us compare with these stories the very
direct evidence of Mrs. Violet Tweedale, whose
courage in making public the result of her own
remarkable psychic faculties should meet with
recognition from every student of the subject.
Our descendants will hardly realize the difiiculty
which now exists of getting first-hand evidence
withnames attached,for theywill have outgrown
the state when the cry of “
fake ”
and “
fraud ”
and “
dupe ”
is raised at once againstany observer,
however honourable and moderate, by people
who know little or nothingof the subject. Mrs.
Tweedale says :
“
I had a wonderful little experience some five years ago
which proved to me the existence of fairies. One summer
afternoon I was walking alone along the avenue of Lupton
House, Devonshire. It was an absolutely still day—not a
leaf moving, and all nature seemed to sleep in the hot sun-
shine. A few yards in front of me my eye was attracted
by the violent movements of a single long, blade-like leaf of
a wildiris. This leafwas swinging and bendingenergetically
while the rest of the plant was motionless. Expecting to
see a fieldmouse astrideit I stepped very softlyup to it. What
was my delight to see a tiny green man. He was about
five inches long and was swinging back downwards. His
tiny green feet which appeared to be green-booted were
crossed over the leaf and his hands, raised behind his head,
also held the blade. I had a vision of a merry little face
and somethingred in the form of a cap on the head. For
a full minute he remained in view, swinging on the leaf.
Then he vanished. Since then I have several times seen a
174 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
singleleafmovingviolentlywhiletherest oftheplantremained
motionless, but I have never again been able to see the cause
of the movement.”
Here the dress of the fairy, green jacket and
red cap, is exactly the same as was described
independentlyby Baring-Gould’s son, and again
we have the elements of heat and stillness. It
may be fairly answered that many artists have
drawn the fairies in such a dress, and that the
colours may in this way have been impressed
upon the minds of both observers. In the bend-
ing iris we have something objective, however,
which cannot easilybe explained away as a cere-
bral hallucination, and the Whole incident seems
to me an impressive piece of evidence.
A lady with whom I have corresponded, who
is engaged in organizingwork of the most respon-
sible kind, has had an experiencewhich resembles
that of Mrs. Tweedale.
“
My only sight of a fairy,” she says,
“
was in a large
wood in West Sussex about nine years ago. He was a little
creature about half a foot high dressed in leaves. The
remarkable thing about his face was that no soul looked
through his eyes. He was playing about in long grass and
flowers in an open space.”
Once again summer is indicated. The length
and colour of the creature correspond with Mrs.
Tweedale’s account, while the lack of soul in the
eyes may be compared with the “hard ”
eyes
described by young Baring—Gould.
DWELLERS ON THE BORDER 175
One of the most gifted clairvoyants in England
was the late Mr. Turvey of Bournemouth,whose
book, The Beginnings ofSeership, should be in the
libraryof every student. Mr. Lonsdaleof Bourne-
mouthis also a well—known sensitive. The latter
has given me the following account of an inci-
dent which he observed some years ago in the
presence of Mr. Turvey.
“
I was sitting,” says Mr. Lonsdale, “in his company in
his garden at Branksome Park. We sat in a hut which had
an open front looking on to the lawn. We had been per-
fectly quiet for some time, neither talking nor moving, as
was often our habit. Suddenly I was conscious of a move-
ment on the edge of the lawn, which on that side went up
to a grove of pine trees. Looking closely I saw several little
figures dressed in brown peering through the bushes. They
remained quiet for a few minutes, and then disappeared.
In a few seconds a dozen or more small people about two
feet in height, in bright clothes and with radiant faces, ran
on to the lawn, dancing hither and thither. I glanced at
Turvey to see if he saw anythingand whispered, ‘
Do you
see them?’ He nodded. These fairies played about,
gradually approaching the hut. One little fellow, bolder
than the others, came to a croquet hoop close to the hut,
and using the hoop as a horizontal bar, turned round and
round it, much to our amusement. Some of the others
watched him, while others danced about, not in any set
dance, but seemingly moving in sheer joy. This continued
for four or five minutes, when suddenly,evidentlyin response
to some signal or warning from those dressed in brown, who
had remained at the edge of the wood, they all ran into the
wood. Just then a maid appeared coming from the house
with tea. Never was tea so unwelcome, as evidently its
appearance was the cause of the disappearance of our little
visitors.”
176 THE EDCirE OF THE UNKNOWN
Mr. Lonsdale adds, “
I have seen fairies several
times in the New Forest, but never so clearly as
this.” Here also the scene is laid in the heat of a
summer day, and the division of the fairies into
two different sorts is remarkably borne out by
the general descriptions.
Knowing Mr. Lonsdale as I do to be a respon-
sible, well-balanced, and honourable man, I find
such evidence as this very hard to put to one
side. Here, at least, the sun—stroke hypothesisis
negatived since both men sat in the shade of the
hut and each corroborated the observation of the
other. On the other hand, each of the men, like
Mrs. Tweedale, was supernormal in psychic
development, so that it might well happen that
the maid, for example, would not have seen the
fairies even if she had arrived earlier upon the
scene.
V
I know a gentleman. belonging.to one of the
learned professions whose career would not be
helped if this article were to connect him with
fairy lore. As a matter of fact, in spite of his
solemn avocations and his practical and virile
character, he seems to be endowed with that
faculty—let us call it the appreciation of higher
vibrations, which opens up so wonderful a door
to its possessor. He claims, or rather he admits
—for_ he is reticent upon the subject—thathe has
carried this power of perception on from child-
hood, and his surprise is not so much at what he
DWELLERS ON THE BORDER I77
sees, as at the failure of others to see the same
thing. To show that it is not subjective he tells
the story that on one occasion while traversing a
field he saw a little creature which beckoned
eagerly that he should follow. He did so, and
presently saw his guide pointing with an air of
importance to the ground. There, between the
furrows lay a flint arrowhead, which he carried
home with him as a souvenir of the adventure.
This gentleman is further distinguished by
havingthatpower of attractinganimals, even wild
animals, which some people have, and it may be
that this sympathy is the same quality which
helps him in getting into touch with fairies. His
account of the latter is extraordinarilyinteresting.
“
I should describe them as being between two and three
feet in height,” says he, “
and dressed in brown clothes. The
nearest approach I can get to them is to say that theyare
‘
spiritual inonkeys.’ Their general instinct is to avoid
mankind, but they are capable individually of becoming
extremely fond of humans—or of a human. They are just
Peter Pans, children who have never grown up. Speaking
generally I should imagine that anyone who has had any
truck with the fairies must have obeyedthe scriptural injunc-
tion to ‘
becomeas a little child ’—i.e. he or she must beeither
a Buddha or simple.” ‘
Another friend of mine who claimed to have
thepower of seeing fairies is thelate Tom Tyrrell,
the famous medium, whose clairvoyance and
'
general psychic gifts were of the strongest charac-
tter. I cannot easilyforget how one evening in a
178 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
Yorkshire hotel a storm of raps, sounding very
much as if someone was crackingtheir finger and
thumb,broke out around his head, and how with
his cofi’ee—cup in one hand, he flapped vigorously
withtheotherto warn off his inopportunevisitors.
In answer to my question about fairies, he says:
“
Yes, I do see these little pixies or fairies. I have seen
them scores of times. But only in the woods and when I
do a little fasting. They are a very real presence to me.
What are they? I cannot say. I can never get nearer to
the beggars than fo r or five yards. They seem afraid of
me, and theyscamp r- off up the trees like squirrels. I dare
say if I were to go in the woods oftener I would perhaps
gain their confidence more. They are certainly like human
beingsonlyvery small,say about twelve or fifteen inches high.
I have noticed they are brown in colour, with fairly large
heads and standing up ears, out of proportion to the size of
their bodies, and bandy legs. I am speaking of what I see.
I have never come across any other clairvoyant who has seen
them, though I have read that many do so. Probably they
have something to do with Nature processes. The males
have very short hair, and the females rather long, straight
hair.”
The idea thatthese little creatures are occupied
in consciously furtheringNature’s projects——very
much, I suppose, as the bee carries pol1en—is
repeated by the learned Dr. gVanstone, who com-
bines great knowledge of theory with some con-
siderable experience, though a high development
of intellect, is, in spite of Swedenborg’s example,
a bar to psychic perception. This would show,
if it is correct, thatwe may have to return to the
DWELLERS ON THE BORDER :79
classical conceptions of something in the nature
of naiads and fauns and spirits of the trees and
groves. Dr. Vanstone, whose experiences are on
the borderland betweenwhat is objectiveand what
is sensed Without beingactuallyseen, writesto me :
“I have been distinctly aware of minute intelligent beings
in connection with the evolution of plant forces, particularly
in certain localities, for instance in Ecclesbourne Glen. Pond
life yields to me the largest and best sense of fairy life, and
not the floral world. I may be only clothingmy subjective
consciousness with unreal objective imaginations, but they
are real to me as sentient intelligent beings, able to com-
municate With us in varying distinctness. I am inclined to
think that elemental beings are engaged, like factory hands,
in facilitatingthe operation of Nature’s laws.”
Another gentleman who claims to have this
most remarkable gift is Mr. Tom Charman, in
the New Forest,who hunts for fairies as an ento-
mologist would for butterflies. In answer to my
inquiries he tells me that the power of vision
came to him in childhood,but left him for many
years, varying in proportion with his own near-
ness to nature. According to this seer the crea-
tures are of many sizes, varyingfrom a few inches
to several feet. They are male, female, and
children. He has not heard them utter sounds
but believes that they do so of finer quality than
we can hear. They are visible by night as well
as by day, and show small lights about the same
size as glowworms. They dress in all sorts of
ways. Such is Mr. Charman’s account.
180 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
It is easy, of course, for us who only respond
to the more material vibrations, to declare that
all these seers are self-deluded or are the victims
of some mental twist. It is difficult for them to
defend themselves from such a charge. It is,
however, to be urged upon the other side that
these numerous testimonies come from people
who are very solid, practical and successful in
the affairs of life. One is a distinguished writer,
anotheran ophthalmicauthority,a thirda success-
ful professional man, a fourth a lady engaged on
public service, and so on. To wave aside the
evidence of such people on the ground that it
does not correspond with our own experience, is
an act of mental arrogance which no wise man
will commit.
It is interesting to compare these various con-
temporary first-hand accounts of the impressions
which all these witnesses have received. I have
already pointed out that the higher vibration
which we associate with hot sunshine, and which
we actuallyseem to see in the shimmer of noon-
tide, is associated with many of the episodes.
Apart from this is must be admitted that the
evidence is on the whole irregular. We have
creatures described which range from five inches
to two and a half feet An advocate of thefairies
might say that since the tradition has alwaysbeen
that they procreate as human beings do, we are
dealingwiththemin every stage of growth,which
A
DWELLERS ON THE BORDER 181
accounts for the varying size. It seems to me,
however, that a better case could be made out if
it were pleaded thatthere have always been many
different races of fairyland, and that samples of
these races may greatly differ from each other,
and may inhabitvaryingspots, so thatan observer
like Mr. Tyrrell for example, may always have
seen woodland elves which bear no resemblance
to gnomes or goblins. The monkey-likebrown-
clad creatures of my professional friend, which
were over two feet high, compare very closely
with the creatures which little Baring-Gould saw
climbing on to the horses. In both cases these
taller fairies were reported from flat plain-like
locations, While the little old man type varies
completelyfrom the dancing little feminine elf so
beloved by Shakespeare. In the experience of
Mr. Turveyand Mr. Lonsdale two different types
engaged in different tasks were actually seen at
the same moment, the one being bright-coloured
dancing elves, while the other were the brown-
coloured attendants who guarded over them.
The claim that the fairy rings so often seen in
meadow or marshland are caused by the beat of
fairy feet is certainly untenable, as theyunques-
tionably come from fungi such as agaricus gam-
bosus or-\marasmius oveades which grow from a
centre, continuallydesertingthe exhaustedground
and spreading to that which is fresh. In this
way a complete circle is formed which may be
182 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
quite small or may be of twelve-foot diameter.
These circles appear just as often in woods from
- the same cause but are smothered over by the
decayed leaves among which thefungigrow. But
though the fairies most certainly do not produce
the rings it might be asserted, and could not be
denied, thatthe rings once formed, whatever their
cause, would offer a very charming course for a
circular ring-a-ring dance. Certainly from all
time these circles have been associated with the
gambols of the little people.
After these modern instances one is inclined
to read with a little more gravity the accounts
which our ancestors gave of these creatures, for
however fanciful in parts it still may have had
some core of truth. I say
“
our ancestors,” but
as a matter of fact there are shepherds on the
South Downs to this day who will throwa bit of
their bread and cheese over their shoulders at
dinner~time for the little folk to consume. All
over the United Kingdom,and especiallyin Wales
and in Ireland, the belief is largely held among
those folk who are nearest to nature. First of
all it was always supposed that they lived within
the earth. This was natural enough since a sud-
den disappearance of a solid body could only be
understood in thatway. On the whole their des-
cription was not grotesque, and fits easilyinto its
place amid the examples already given.
One of the best of the ancient accounts is that
DWELLERS ON THE BORDER 183
of the Rev. R. Kirk who occupied a parish at
Monteithon the edge of the Highlands,and wrote
a pamphletcalled The Secret Commonwealthabout
the year 1680. He had very clear and definite
ideas about these little creatures, and he was by
no means a visionary but a man of considerable
parts, who was chosen afterwards to translate the
Bible into Erse. His information about fairies
tallies very well with that already quoted. He
slips up in imagining that flint arrowheads are
indeed “
fairy—bolts,” but otherwise his conten-
tions agree very well with our modern instances.
They have tribes and orders, according to this
Scotch clergyman. They eat. They converse in
a thin whistling sort of language. They have
children, deaths and burials. They are fond of
frolic-dancing. They have a regular state and
polity withrulers, laws, quarrels and even battles.
They are irresponsible creatures, not hostile to
the human race unless they have reason to be
angry, but even inclined to be helpful, since some
of them,the Brownies, are by universal tradition,
ready to aid in the household work if the family
has known how to engage their affection.
An exactlysimilaraccount comes from Ireland,
though the little folk seem to have imbibedthe
spirit of the island to the extent of being more
mercurial and irascible. There are many cases
on record where they are claimed to have shown
their power and to have taken revenge for some
184. THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
slight. In theLame Reporter of March 31, 1866,
as quoted in True Irish Ghost Stories, there is an
account of how a stone which the fairies claimed
having been built into a house, the inhabitants
were bombarded withstones by invisibleassailants
by day and night, the missiles hurting no one but
causinggreat annoyance. These stories of stone-
throwingare so common, and present such similar
well—attested features in cases coming from every
part of the world, thattheymay be accepted as a
recognized preternatural phenomenon,whether it
be the fairies or some other form of mischievous
psychic force which cause the bombardment.
The volume already quoted gives anotherremark-
able case where a farmer having built a house
upon what was really a fairy right of way between
two “
raths”
or fairy mounds, was exposed to
such persecution by noises and other disturbances
that his familywas at last driven out and had to
take refuge in the smaller house which they had
previously occupied. This story is narrated by
a correspondent from Wexford, who says that he
examined thefacts himself,examined the deserted
house, cross-examinedtheowner and satisfiedhim-
self that there were two raths in the vicinity and
thatthe house was in a dead-line betweenthem.
I have particulars of a case in West Sussex
which is analogous, and which I have been able
to trace to the very lady to whom it happened.
This lady desired to make a rock garden, and for
DWELLERS ON THE BORDER 185
this purpose got some large boulders from a field
hard by, which had always been- known as the
pixie stones and built them into her new rockery.
One summer evening this lady saw a tiny grey
woman sitting on one of the boulders. The little
creature slipped away when she knew that she
had been observed. Several times she appeared
upon thestones. Later the people in the village
asked if the stones might be moved back to the
field, “
as,” they said, “
theyare the pixie stones
and if theyare moved from theirplacemisfortune
will happen in the village.” The stones were
restored.
But supposing that they actuallydo ‘exist what
are these creatures P That is a subject upon
which We can only speculate with more or less
plausibility. Mr. David Gow, Editor of Light
and a considerable authorityupon psychic mat-
ters, had first formed the opinion that they were
simply ordinary human spirits seen, as it Were, at
the wrong end of a clairvoyant telescope, and
therefore very minute. A study of the detailed
accounts of their varied experience caused him to
alter his View and to conclude thattheyare really
life forms which have developed along some
separate line of evolution, and which for some
morphologicalreason have assumed human shape
in the strange way in which Nature reproduces
her types like the figures on the mandrake root,
or the frost ferns upon the window.
N
186 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
In a remarkablebook, A Wanderer in the Spirit
Lcmds,publishedin I896,theauthor,Mr. Farnese,
under inspiration, gives an account of many mys-
teries includingthatoffairies. What he says fits
in very clearly with the facts that have been put
forward, and goes beyondthem. He says, speak-
ing of elementals,
“
Some are in appearance like the gnomes and elves who
are said to inhabit mountain caverns. Such, too, are the
fairies Whom men have seen in lonely and secluded places.
Some of these beings are of a very low order of life, almost
like the higher order of plants, save that they possess in-
dependent motion. Others are very lively and full of
grotesque unmeaning tricks. . . .
As nations advance these
lower forms of life die out from the astral plane of that
earth’s sphere and succeeding generations beign at first to
doubt and then to deny that they ever had any existence.”
This is one plausibleway of explainingthe dis-
appearance of the faun,the dryad, the naiad, and
all the creatures which are alluded to with such
familiarityin the classics of Greece and Rome.
All these evidences as to fairies sink into insig-
nificance compared with the actual photographs
which I have published in my Coming of the
Fairies. These, in the enlarged edition, cover
cases from Yorkshire, Devonshire, Canada and
Germany,andshow varying sizes as already des-
cribed. Since its publicationI have had an excel-
lent one from Sweden. They are not all sup-
ported by the same degree of evidence, but each
case is strong and all thecases takentogetherseem
DWELLERS ON THE BORDER 187
to me to be final, unless we are to reconsider
altogether our views as to the nature and power
of thought-forms. No criticismhas for a moment
shaken the truth of the original Cottingley pic-
tures. All fresh evidence has tended to confirm
it. I refer readers to the book for the full detail,
and for the pictures themselves.
Some final paragraphsmay be devoted to other
forms of elemental life for which there is some
evidence, though I admit that it is on a very
different level from thatwhich sustains thefairies.
In Mrs. Tweedale’s Ghosts I have seen, a book
which is far more thrillingthan any sensational
novel, and which can only be matched by the
companion volume,Phantoms of theDawn,willbe
found several descriptions of fauns, satyrs, and
even in one case of a troop of centaurs, which
are picturesque and arresting, if not entirely con-
vincing. I know Mrs. Tweedale personally—~she
is the daughter of one of the famous Chambers
brothers of Edinburgh, and I am aware that she
is the last woman in the world to exaggerate or
trifle with truth. The more remarkable of these
elemental stories,however,are givensecond—hand,
so that she cannot be responsible.
There is one curious case which fits into the
idea of a satyr-like creature who had by some
mischance wandered out of his own vibrationand
got entangledin matter. I do not venture to say
that thisis the actual explanation,but I do main-
188 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
tain that the facts appear to be Well-attested and
that I know no other solution which would fully
cover them. They are to be found in a book
called Oddities published some years ago. It is
there shown that on a certain year in the middle
of last century, after a slight snow—shoWer, foot-
prints of cleft goat-like feet which were most
carefully observed, measured, and even photo-
graphed, Were found over a hundred miles of
ground in Devonshire. These footsteps had
apparently all been made in the one night, and
extended right across country over all obstacles,
including the Teignmouth estuary, Where the
marksvanished at one side and re-appeared at the
other. They were—I quote from memory——
about two inches by one in size. If the facts are
correctly given, then an elaborate practicaljoke
carried out by a number of people acting in
collusion would be the only alternative to the pre-
ternatural one, which I have ventured not to
maintain but to suggest as a remote possibility.
The case attractedmuch attention at the time and
tracings of the prints are to be found in an old
number of the IllustratedLondon News.
One may Well ask What connection have fairies
and elementals With the essays upon the fate of
the human soul which have formed most of this
series? The connection is slight and indirect,
consisting only in the fact that anything which
Widens our conceptionsof thepossible,and shakes
DWELLERS ON THE BORDER I89
us out of our time-rutted lines of thought, helps
us to regain our elasticity of mind and thus to be
more open to new philosophies. The fairy ques-
tion is infinitelysmall and unimportant compared
to the question of our own fate and that of the
whole human race. The evidence also is very
much less impressive though, as I trust I have
shown, it is not entirely negligible. These crea-
tures are in any case remote from us and their
existence is of little more real importance than
that of strange animals or plants. At the same
time theperennialmystery,whyso many“flowers
are born to blush unseen
”
and why Nature should
be so lavish with gifts which human beings can-
not use, would be solved if we understood that
there were other orders of being which used the
same earth and shared its blessings. It is at the
lowest an interesting speculation which gives an
added charm to the silence of the woods and the
wildness of the moorland.
IX
A STRANGE PROPHET
HEN one finds that a philsophyis obscure,
and when one fails after an earnest effort
to get it clear, one may usually conclude thatthe
teacher is also obscure and that the subject has
not been clearly thought out. For some time I
have endeavoured to get an understanding of
Thomas Lake Harris, a mystic about whom there
has been the utmost difference of opinion ranging
from the Messianic to the diabolical. In my
search for truth I have read much that he has
written and I have carefully perused his Life and
World Work, by a devoted follower, Mr. Arthur
Cuthbert,who claims to have shared some of the
same psychic experiences. I have also studied
Sympneumata,written by Mrs. LaurenceOliphant
and edited by her famous husband. Instead of
clearing up obscurities this leaves them more
obscure than ever. One earnestly wishes that
the husband had expounded the matter, since he
could write English, instead of the wife with her
interminable and involved sentences which aver-
age about two to a page. FinallyI read the pic-
190
A STRANGE PROPHET 191
ture of Harristakenbythenovelist,Mrs. Oliphant,
who was Laurence’s aunt, and who takes a very
severe view of the American prophet. At the
end of it all I find myself in the same perplexity
as ever, and have no sure idea whether I am deal-
ing with a megalomaniac ranter endowed with
considerable worldly cunning, or with one who
reallyhad a-breathof thedivine afHatus—whether
in fact his philosophywas a cloud of words or
whether he had an authenticmessage.
I am consoled in my indecision, and reassured
as to my own judgment when I clearly see that
the astute Laurence Oliphant, after twelve years
of most intimate association, cannot answer for
the real character of his associate. His famous
pen-drawing of him in Masollam pictures a dual
personality with two voices and two ranges of
vision, and it ends with the words, “
He might
bethebest or theWorst of men.” A short sketch
of my impressions of this curious man and of his
doctrines may be of interest to readers.
Harris was born in Fenny Stratford in Bucking-
hamshire in 1823, and was five years old when his
parents emigrated to the United States, settling
in Utica in the north of the State of New York.
This region seems to have been to an extraordin-
ary degree the centre of new religions or pseudo-
religious impulses from that time onwards.
Spiritualism,Mormonism,and,as I believe,Chris-
tian Science all had their original springs in this
192 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
geographical centre. Harris, who was indepen-
dent of ‘each of these movements, was destined
to make a very definite contribution of his own
to the general spiritual urge and outreach which
was characteristic of the time and place.
His people were narrow Calvinistic Baptists,
and at an early age Harris rebelled against their
sour doctrines and accepted the wider and more
charitable teaching of the Universalists. An
officer has told me how upon his inquiring into
the religion of a recruit the Sergeant answered,
“
’E calls ’imself a Christadelphian, but to my
mind ’e’s little better than a ’eathen.” Probably
this was the view taken of the Universalists in
those days of dogma. It was thenature of Harris
to reject all dogmas,untilhe came to put forward
some of his own. He was twenty years of age
when he changed his religion, and he has left it
on record that his dead mother appeared to him
at that time and said, “
My dear child, my poor.
child, you must all remember that God is the
father of all men and that all mankind are your
brothers.”
He seems to have beena most eloquent preacher
and soon won a considerable name, but the rather
vague tenets of his new creed made him crave
for something in the nature of concrete proof.
Some chance of this was offered at this period
by the use of Spiritualism, and in order to get
clearer views upon the subject Harris paid a visit
A STRANGE PROPHET 193
to Andrew JacksonDavis, who after some experi-
ences as a hypnoticsubject had finallybecome an
inspired medium. The meeting and intercourse
of these two men was certainly a notable event,
for in their difierentways theywere bothremark-
able characters, and each has a niche of his own
in religious history. Harris was twenty-four at
the time and Davis twenty, two most singular
youths. Davis converted Harris to the idea of
spirit intercourse and for some years Harris was
an enthusiasticpreacherand leader. Davis,how-
ever, had some peculiar amatory adventures,
depicted in his Magic Stafi‘,and Harris, who pro-
fessed a deeper regard for the marriage vow, was
disillusioned and turned as violent an opponent
as he had been a friend of the Spiritualisticmove-
ment. Hisattitude seems to have beensupremely
illogical, for the ill—doings, granting that they
exist, of any memberof a philosophycannot alter
the facts upon which the philosophyis founded.
It would be as reasonable for an inquirer to dis-
card Christianity in order to show disapproval of
Judas. The fact remains, however, that Harris
was seen no more on Spiritualistic platforms and
that his voice was raised against all that he had
supported. To anyone who is acquainted with
the true tenets of this cult it must be obvious
that he had never grasped their meaning and
seemed to consider that an artificial hypnotism
was essential to mediumship. His objections are
194 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
mostly founded upon the supposition that one
comes in Contact with evilspirits. One may find
plenty of evil spirits in the flesh, but one chooses
one’s company and one finds that it is not diffi-
cult to come into contact withthe higher ones as
well. This great fact Harris ignored and from
that moment his life took a turn of its own, and
he lost touch with any philosophywhich is cap-
able of clear expression, though it influenced
strongly a small circle of followers.
He still ministered to a considerable church in
New York, the congregation of which, including
Horace Greeley,must have been sorely exercised
in endeavouring to keep pace with, or to under-
stand, the spiritual gyrations of their pastor. It
was called the Independent Christian Church and
was still on universalist lines. He narrates that
addresses which he delivered there came to him
by what Spiritualists now call automaticwriting,
and that the purpose and ultimate effect of them
was the redemption of destitute children——an
admission which one would have supposed must
modify his condemnation of spirit intercourse.
At thisperiod he was one of thosewho founded a
colony called the Mountain Cave Association,
which was dissolved after a short and not too
honourable existence. It was this first experi-
ment in communal life which no doubt suggested
the larger developments to come.
It was at this time, about 1850, that Harris
A STRANGE PROPHET 195
received according to his own account a direct
revelation from a majestic angel man who turned
his thoughts into a special channel. This tale of
the direct apparition occurs in SWedenborg’s first
vision, in Smith’s revelation of Mormonism, and
in Davis’s account of his experience in the hills
near Poughkeepsie. Consideringthe recent close
association with the latter seer, it is not entirely
impossiblethatHarris’s vision mayhave beensub-
consciously suggested by what he had heard of
the apparition seen by Davis. The firstfruits of
the newdeparture were a long poem of 6,000
lines which was completed in the extraordinary
time of twenty-seven working hours, scattered
over fourteen days. It may be said once for all
that Harris in this and many subsequent poems,
which were so copious that it is doubtful if any
writer has ever composed so much, showed him-
self to be a true poet of a high order. Lawrence
Oliphant put him at the very top, and Without
being able to go so far as that, I should say that
he stood very high. There are times when in his
strong simplicity of phrase he reminds one of
Blake, and there are times when his high spiritu-
ality touches the edge of Shelley. As an example
of the former I would take:
“Nine months I lay in a Lady’s womb,
She folded me all in her laughing bloom,
She hallowed me while I filled and fed
From the nectar-Wells of her mother-head.”
I96 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
As to the latter almost any page from his longer
poems would illustrate my meaning.
Lyrical speech seems to have been his natural
expression, which accounts for a certain rhythm
and majesty in his addresses. A lady who knew
him at that period wrote of him :
“
When in Utica he would come to my sitting-room of
an evening and sitting down on a rather high chair-one
which allowed him to swing his feet rhythmically,he would
compose poetry by the mile—exquisite thoughts, exquisitely
worded. My memoriesof thosequiet hours are very beautiful.
There was nothing impressive about his person then; he
was too thin,reallylank, but his eyes were very full of thought
and his voice had a rare charm. His poetic utterances were
to me like views of sunset and sunrise, whichwe enjoy inter-
nally but which we cannot remember.”
This last sentence seems to me to be Véry good
criticism, well ‘observed and clearly expressed.
The reason seems to be that it is all too trans-
cendental and ethereal. When Tennyson dis-
cusses the deeper thingsof life there are constant
touches whichbringone backto humanexperience.
Harris is off the ground all the time. Thereis no
anchor bywhichone mayattach himto thecurrent
life of man. Hence one reads, as the lady says,
withadmirationfor thelimpid verse and the lofty
thought,and yet at theend thereis littlewhich has
remained as part of one’s own mental storehouse_
And now the time had come when Harris had
to strike out a pathof his own into the unknown,
and a very vague and difficult pathit is for anyone
A STRANGE FROPHET 197
else to indicate—far less to follow. There is an
objective side to it and there is a theoretical or
dogmaticside. The objective side of this system
lay in the assertion thatby some system of breath-
ing certain psychic results may be obtained, and
the mind elucidated as to things divine. It is to
be presupposed that such exercises of the dia-
phragm or solar plexus——for those are indicated
as being physically involved—are concomitant
with mental and spiritual efforts, otherwise the
matter would be no more a sign of progress than
results to be obtained by standing upon one’s
head. On the other hand, one would suppose
that if the mental and spiritual effort had been
made the advance would be automaticand inde-
pendent of physical exertions. However, the
theory is as I have stated, and there are found
otherwitnesses, such as Mr. Cuthbert,who assert
thattheyhave themselves gone throughthe early
stages of illuminationas produced in thisfashion.
There are said to be seven stages in this advance
by breath, each of them to be obtained by long
and apparentlypainfuleffort. No one save Harris
himself had ever attained the seventh,though all
his followers, includinghis successive wives, three
in number, were on various rungs of the ladder.
The fact that Harris himself was supposed to
have passed throughthe Whole seven degrees was
the basis for claims which must startle if not
convince the general public, since it was seriously
I98 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
stated that the Christ was the only person who
had ever done so much. The process, however,
seems-to have escaped the notice of the apostles,
since it is mentioned in no gospel,and Paul,who
gave so full a list of the spiritual gifts, has said
nothing on the subject.
At the same time it is not to be denied that
there is a considerable body of evidence that by a
certain control of the breathsome exalted mental
conditioncan beobtained. In Swedenborg’scase
the_moreshallow his breathingthe more spiritual
his frame of mind. Cataleptics appear not to
breathe at all, and are from time to time buried
alive in consequence, but the condition seems to
go with remarkableenfranchisementof the spirit.
The Hindoos have reduced it to a system and
claim similarresults. I can rememberin Canter-
bury, New Zealand, meeting some people who
practised it, and who assured me that it was not
withoutdanger, as theexcursion of thesoul leaves
an empty house behind, which may attract a
parasitictenant. However that may be, Harris’s
general claim meets with some support, though I
know no proof that any high spiritualityis neces-
sarilyassociated with what would rather seem to
be a curious physiological experiment. This
breathing phenomenon is, so far as I know, the
only objective part of Harris’s philosophy.
We come, therefore,to its dogmaticside, which
consists in the assertion of the dual sex in every-
A STRANGE PROPHET :99
one, including the Creator. Bi-une is the word
which covers the philosophy. So far is it pushed
that even a name is given to this second person-
ality,so thatthe Lady Jessa is associated withthe
Lord Jesus, and Harris himself is closely inter-
twined with the Lady Lilyto the not unnatural
confusion of his earthly wives. So high is the
Lady Lily that the whole celestial region after
death is named Lilistan. This dual internal
mating is supposed to do away with the coarser
processes of nature and to free mankindfrom the
lustful morass in which he is accused of wallow-
ing, but as Harris had not only wives but also
children, it would appear that the higher path
was not all-sufficing.
In thatmost incomprehensible book Sympneu-
mata, which might well betranslated into English,
there is a disquisition upon the bi-une gods of
old, in which Isis and Osiris, Hathorand Ra, Bel
and Bilit,withmany othersare dulypaired. Con-
sidering the practicalresults of these old systems
one would think that their teachings are rather
to be avoided than followed. What is to be
gained, or how would human life be elevated by
our following hermaphroditicdivinities P So far
as the case is applicable to human beings it has,
of course, that amount of obvious truth that a
man does reproduce many of the qualities of his
mother,and a girl may do thesame by the father,
and so each sex may manifest its presence in the
zoo THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
composite result. There are also anatomicalfacts
which correspond with the psychological unison.
But when this is said one cannot see that much
remains. The discussion of sex in connection
with the Deity seems incongruous and repulsive,
nor does Harris ever give any clear reason why
such strange dogmas should be given to a World
which is already sick of unp-roved assertions and
struggling hard to escape from Wild faiths into a
region of concrete proof. Had Harris ever really
understood Spiritualism he would have realized
that this concrete proof for which the whole
intellect of the human race is yearning, may well
be found in that direction.
There were some other peculiar beliefs in the
Harris cosmogony. One was thattheplanetswere
inhabited by spirits, some superior and some
inferior to those upon earth. There was a reac-
tion betweenthesebeingsand ourselves. Another
was that fairies, or as he preferred to call them,
fays, played a very important part in the develop-
ment of man’s spirit. That such creatures exist
and that they play some lowly part in nature is
held by many and is supported by evidencewhich
will bear examination, but for the ambitious
spiritual role here assigned to them there is no
evidence at all, unless we extend the term “
fay ”
to include those higher entities or angels Who may
reasonably be supposed to have some guiding
influence in our lives.
A STRANGE PROPHET 201
Apart from obscure doctrines there was one
side of the Harris system with which many of us
would cordially agree. It was that we would do
well to get back to the simple life. He founded
successive communities for this alleged purpose,
and the system adopted was called “
The Use.”
The first colony was assembled in a farm—house
at Wassiacin 1861. In 1863 it moved to America,
where it centred round a mill and a bank. In
the latter institution Mr. Harris, the president, is
depicted as spending much of his time. “
Here
the people come on business together and others
would sit down and smoke and talk over their
affairs and general politics, while the President
himself would be frequentlyoccupying one of the
chairs in the midst of them and entering into full
sympathywiththem in a perfectly natural, ordin-
ary, neighbourly fashion.” It is a pleasant pic-
ture which Mr. Cuthbert draws, but somehow
one wishes it was not a bank.
Just about thistime a most amazingthinghap-
pened. The prophet had gone with his wife to
England for the purpose of securing the publica-
tion of some of his Works. While there he gave
some lectures or sermons at the Steinway Hall.
His ornate and rather inflated style of eloquence,
which like his poetry is limpid and vaguely beau-
tiful, attracted audiences,among whorn Was Lady
Oliphant, the mother of the famous writer and
diplomatist,one of themost risingmen in England.
0
202 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
She brought her son to hear the further lectures,
and the views of the prophet struck some sym-
patheticmystic chord in their own bosoms. The
idea of the simple communitylife withits dreamy
religious backgroundappealed stronglyto natures
which were weary of the empty ways of fashion
and unsatisfied by the unreasonable dogmas of
the churches. They liquidated their business
affairs, left theirhomesand threwin their lot with
the American community. This access of fresh
strength and money enabled the colonists to
move to Brocton near Buffalo, where some large
farms were taken and the whole project took on a
more ambitious aspect.
Those who wish to see a critical and adverse
view of the matter will find it in Mrs. Oliphant’s
life of her famous nephew. One can well under-
stand that it was galling to the pride of a grand
old Scottish familythattheirfinest product should
come under the complete sway of what seemed
to them to be a very dubious American adven-
turer. How complete that sway was may be
judged from the fact that the next ten or twelve
years of Laurence Oliphant’s life were spent in
menial agricultural tasks, which included the
selling of strawberriesat the railwaystation to the
passengers in the trains. There is, we must
admit, somethingof beautyand of sanctityin this
utilitarianage,thata man should humble himself
for spiritual ends, and yet when one considers
A STRANGE PROPHET 203
the exceptional gifts with which this particular
man had been endowed, one doubts whetherany-
thing could excuse the diversion of his energies
into a channel so useless to theworld. Such was
the complete subservience of the young Scot that
he had withdifficultyto get leave of absence from
Brocton in order to act as war correspondent in
the Franco-German war. Even more incredible,
he had to ask leave to marry, and after the mar-
riage was separated for a long time from his wife
by orders of the autocraticprophet. "It is amaz-
ing how any man of spirit could submit to such a
position, and no adequate explanation of it has
ever been given. It would seem thatHarris held
a fairly substantial hostage for Oliphant’s beha-
viour in the fact that a large part of the latter’s
fortune was locked up in the Brocton property,
which, however, was not held in the name of
Harris but in that of the community at large.
Oliphant was not the only person of distinction
in the little company, for there were several
Japanesewho had come presumablyon his recom-
\
mendation, as he had made many friends in that
nation during his diplomatic visit to their coun-
try. One of these Japanese afterwards became
Ambassadorat London and a second Ambassador
at Paris, so that either the personality or the
teaching of Harris must have had some very real
attraction for intelligent followers.
The prophet, in spite of his seven stages of
204. THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
breathing and the agonies of spirit or of body
which those stages represented, seems to have
had a very human side in his complexpersonality.
He enjoyed the good things of life, including a
cigar and a glass of wine, while the heartiness of
his laughterwas proverbial. He had an excellent
head for commercial affairs and he built a second
bank,an hotel, a generalstore, a railwayrestaurant,
and many other amenities in connection with his
colony. Finally,findinga larger and more profit-
able field available,he started a considerablevine-
yard at Fountain Grove in the extreme south of
California, which no doubt still produces the
raisins by which so many private stills mitigate
theausterities of Prohibition. One would have a
fuller sympathywith these activities if they were
not mixed up with strange religious jargon, so
that it was actually claimed that the wine from
the vineyards contained within it “
a divine-
natural vital substance.”
In the midst of his worldly Work Harris found
time to write a great deal both of verse and of
prose. Of the former I have already given my
opinion. I cannot speak so favourably of the
prose. Mr. Cuthbert in his Lzfe and Work de-
votes some seventy pages to quotationsfrom what
he calls “
this great book,” which was after-
wards published as The New Republic and God’s
Breathin Man. There may be an esoteric mean-
ing to it all which gives it a special value to his
A STRANGE PROPHET 205
followers, but on the face of it to an ordinary
critic it would appear to be turgid stuff with no
trace of greatness, and with a considerable ten-
dency to both blasphemy and obscenity. I will
confess that I am influenced in my judgment of
Harris by this work, and that after reading it I
cannot doubt that the man who wrote it had at
that time an utterly unbalanced mind, and that
as a guide he could only lead one to disaster.
The man’s life was many-sided,however,and, as I
have tried to show, there were other aspects of it
and other literary productions which were less
open to criticism.
The LaurenceOliphantepisode came to an end
after some twelve years of subjection. There is
no record how the rift began,but boththe writer
and his motherhad graduallybecomedisillusioned.
It can hardly be imagined that such writings as
those alluded to above could failto repel educated
and sensitive minds. They may have found the
worldly and successful prophet a very different
person to the spiritual enthusiastwho had origin-
ally led them into the wilderness. The parting
was by no means friendly. Oliphant took legal
processes in order to recover some portion of his
property, while Harris in return tried to put
Oliphantinto a lunaticasylum. Eventuallysome
part of the money was recovered, and Oliphant
moved away on his curious orbit, winding up at
El Harjain Syria, where he spent his latter years.
206 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
The fact that he allowed his wife to publish
Sympneumata and that the book is adorned by
many scraps of verse which, though unacknow-
ledged by the authoress,are clearlyfrom the pen
of Harris, show that in some respects his views
about the prophet had not been changed.
There is little more to record of Harris, who
dwelt for the most part on his Californian estate,
save that in his seventieth year he announced
that he had passed his final stage of breathing,
and had thus reached what was claimed to be a
unique position among mankind. He announced
the event in the Sonoma Democrat, and his state-
ment is more definite than most of the cloud of
words which obscure the subject. He wrote :
“
For thelast two or three years I have been secluded most
of the time in my mountain retreat, working to the final
solutions of the problems that opened in my discoveries of
forty years ago. The final problem that faced me during
these years was . . . how, without passing through physical
disease, shall man practicallyembody and realize the resur-
rection. . . .
The alternative was success or dissolution.
Success came as suddenly and pleasantly as when a deep-
laden, storm-tossed ship glides over the harbour-bar from
the raging outside sea and swings at ease in a landlocked
haven. I have passed through December. I am in May-
time. . . .
No more an old man of over seventy but now
renewed in more than the physical and mental powers of
the early prime, my retirement is at an end. . . .
I leave
the disposition of my honour to the slow but finally just
unveilings of coming time. Each hour of my days must
be devoted to labour of necessity and beneficence.”
A STRANGE PROPHET 207
These brave words should have been the cry
of the centenarian. It was not destined to be.
It was not, however, until he had reached the
ripe but not extraordinary age of eighty-three
that Thomas Lake Harris took leave of his Cali-
fornian Vineyard and journeyed on to Lilistan or
Whatever other sphere of the coming world he
had earned by his strange mixed career. He has
certainly left behind him one of the most curious
personal and religious problems withwhich I am
acquainted.
X
A LONDON GHOST
FOR some days the papers had contained
accounts of a haunted house within a few
hundred yards of Piccadilly Circus, which had
aroused the interest of the public.
The allegations, founded on the actual experi-
ences of residents, were, that in the lower room
of this buildingthere was a perceptible and evil
psychic atmosphere, that raps were heard, that a
luminous ray was seen on the stair, and that a
figure of an elderly man with an evil face had
several times been seen by a young woman who
was employed professionallyon the premises.
It was to test this matter that a few of us
assembled on thenight of May 28th, 1924, reach-
ing the house at eleven o’clock. It was in the
theatre neighbourhood, and it was a curious
change from the streets, which were crowded
with the returning pleasure-seekers, to the abso-
lute silenceof the sinister old house which stands
in a by-street.
Our party consisted of the young woman
already quoted, whom I will call the clairvoyante,
208
A LONDON GHOST 209
thesecretary of thebusiness, a young Dutch artist
who claimed also to‘ have psychic vision, Mr.
Horace Leaf, who is a strong medium,a Wimpole
Street physician,the Rev. Vale Owen, and myself.
As I had organized the expedition I took it on
myself to guard the party against practicaljokers.
All doors were locked and a piece of twine was
tied’ across the only staircase which led down to
the lower room.
In this lower room we assembled,and at I I .30,
having grouped ourselves round a table so that
we might bein a positionto obtain table messages,
we turned out thelights. No sound at all reached
us from the street, and we sat quietly awaiting
events, chatting occasionallyamong ourselves, as
experience has shown that sound vibrations are
helpful in psychic phenomena.
At first the darkness had seemed absolute.
Gradually,however,we were ableto discern a dim
light on the stair. It had a spectral eifect, but
we were all in agreement that it was caused by a
reflectionfrom the glass roof of the building,and
that it was our own vision, growing gradually
used to the conditions, which had caused it to
develop.
We were not aware of any particular psychic
atmosphere. There were a few distant taps, or
cracks,but not more thanis usual in an old house
in the silence of the night—time.
Our hands were all on the table, which occa-
210 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
sionallythrilledand shook,but gaveno pronounced
movement. We had begun to think that our
results might be entirely negative when the clair-
voyante on my left whisperedin an agitatedvoice :
“
I see him. He is there. He is standing on
the stair looking down at us.”
“
An elderlyman, bearded, withratherslit eyes
and a cunning expression,” was her descriptionof
the apparition. It was corroborated bytheDutch-
man. I could see the faint luminosity which
marked the line of the stairs, but nothing more.
I do not, however, possess any psychic percep-
tions. The two seers reported that the man had
descended a little, and the clairvoyante showed
signs of considerable emotion.
We spoke,beggingtheunseen figureto approach
us and to tell us how we could assist it. A moment
later thetwo seers agreed that it was no longer on
the stair.
_In a minute the table began to move. It rose
and fell in a steady rhythm. My experience of
table-sittings,which is a large one, has shown me
that undeveloped spirits always make violent and
irregular——often circular—movements, and that
steady movement is a sign of a deliberate,
thoughtful control.
We were reassured, therefore, as regards the
nature of our invisiblevisitant. Havingexplained
the code, the dialogue between us ran thus, the
answers coming clear-cut and swift.
A LONDON GHOST 211
“
Are you a spirit P ”—“ Yes.”
“
A man P ”—“ Yes.”
“Are you the spirit who has haunted this
room P ”—“ Yes.”
“
Have youareasonfor hauntingit P ”—“ Yes.”
“
Is it money that troubles you P ”——“ No.”
“
Papers P ”———“ No.”
“
Remorse for deeds done P ”——“ Yes.”
I then explained to the spirit the conditions
under which he lived, and the need to turn his
thoughts away from worldly matters, which re-
tarded spiritual progress. I begged him to cease
to annoy innocent people, and I told him that
he could only work out his own salvation by
adapting his mind to the new conditions, by
beingunselfish, and by striving for higher things.
I said that we would pray for him, and Mr.
Vale Owen, there and then, offered up a beauti-
ful prayer that this, our unhappy brother, might
be eased and helped. I then asked if he had
heard and understood.
“
Yes,” was the reply.
Had it affected his attitude of mind? Some
hesitation, and then “
No.” Clearly he was a
man of resolute character, not easily to be
influenced.
I then said that we would take any message
from him, and would like first of all to know his
earth name. With that object I gave him the
alphabet slowly, asking him to move the table
212 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
sharply on the right letter. The followingletters
came out: L-E’-N-A-N. ,
“Is that right?” I asked.——“ No,” was the
reply.
“
Is L E N right P ”—“ Yes.”
“
Should thenext letter be I P ”——“ Yes.”
“
Is Lenin the name P ”—“ Yes.”
“
Areyou LenintheRussian leader P ”—“ Yes.”
All our company protested that this man’s
name was not in the minds of anyone. Certainly
it was, up to thelast moment, unexpected by me.
“
Could you spell something in Russian P ”
was the next question.—“ Yes,” was the answer.
Some lingual tests were then given, but I
found it hard to follow them, for spelling out
withthe alphabetis hard work even in one’s own
tongue. The Dutch artist addressed the Intelli-
gence in several languages, and received correct
“
Yes ”
or
“
No ”
answers, which showed com-
prehension.
“
Have you a message for us P ”
I then asked.
“
Yes,” was the reply.
“Then I will give you the alphabet.”
It was slow work, but this was the queer sen-
tence which finallywas hammered out :
“Artists must rouse selfish nations.”
I thought that by “
artists ”
he was using a
short cut to express the idea of all men of intelli-
gence and imagination.
We asked if this was the whole message, and
A LONDON GHOST 213
were told that it was not. As the alphabet pro-
cedure was so slow and clumsy,Mr. Horace Leaf
suggested that We should put the table aside, sit
in a circle, and invite the spirit to control one or
other of us.
Both Mr. Leaf and the artist volunteered to
bethesubjects of theexperiment. We rearranged
ourselves, therefore, and sang
“
Lead, kindly
light,” for the sake of harmony and vibration.
Suddenly,in thepitch darkness,a strange Voice
broke in on a low, level, clear tone. It was Mr.
Leaf’s own personal guide.
“
There is a spirit here who Wishes to speak.
He is a strong spirit. No, I would not say that
he is an evil spirit. His aura is not evil. Yes,
he is foreign. I could not say more than that.”
The voice died away once more.
Presentlywe heard gasps and short cries of pain.
,
The spirit was endeavouringto possess Mr. Leaf.
It was clearlyignorant of psychic things,and did
not know how to set about it. What it really did
was to produce violent muscular contractions.
Mr. Owen on one side and the doctor on the
other had all they could do to hold his twisting,
convulsed arms. Then, with a long sigh, he
came back to consciousness. The attempt had
been a failure—and a painful one.
We were at a loss now how to proceed, and
the table was reintroduced while the Dutchman
took my place as questioner.
214. THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
“
The spirit is laughing,”said the clairvoyante.
She had on otheroccasions observed thissneering
laugh.
There is somethingslightlyevidential here, for
she had no recollection of Lenin’s face as it was
in life, but it may be recalled that he had a per-
petual set contraction of his lips which gave the
impression of a broad smile, which was belied
by his serious eyes.
From our new attempts we gathered that the
rest of themessage was an expression of thedesire
that Russia and Britain should be friends, With
thewarningthatunless theycould come to terms
theywould drift into War, in which Russia Would
be very strong.
Such was the whole message. Immediately
it was given the table turned dead, and We could
obtain no furthersign of intelligence. The clair-
voyante reported the figure as sitting on thestairs
for a time and then passing on.
So ended our curious experience in the old
house in mid-London. It cannot be said that
there Was anythingobjective to which the senses
of all of us could testify. On the other hand, it
is certain that We were all in earnest, that there
was no pressure on the table, that the messages
were clear, and that the Whole course of events
was consistent.
In answer to a question the Intelligence said
that he had lived in London and that he had
A LONDON GHOST 215
known these premises, though he had never
actually lodged there. It may be added that it
is a place frequented by foreign artists, with
Russians among them,and that Lenin during his
stay in London might well have been there.
Mr. Vale Ovven’s feeling was that the visitor
took it for granted that we were artists also, and
that in his message
“
artists ”
is in the vocative.
If he Were mistaken about our vocation it would
prove that he Was indeed external to ourselves.
It was an appeal to us to rouse nations out of
their selfishness—an appeal which could hardly
come from an evil spirit.
I am not sure of the doctor’s conclusions, but
I am convincedthateveryone else in the company
was convinced that We were in touch with a real
entity, with a real message, and it is our hope
that, the message being delivered, the ghost of
mid-London will be heard of no more.
Deception from the other side is an alternative
and possiblehypothesis,but we were all impressed
by the extreme earnestness of this intelligence,
and equally earnest were our own invocations to
his honesty.
XI
THE HALF-WAY HOUSE OF MATTER
IN his recent work, Lz_'fe After Death, the late
Professor Hyslop, who was formerly Pro-
fessor of Logicat ColumbiaUniversityand became
thechiefAmericanauthorityupon matters psychic,
has a sentence which sounds rather intolerant.
It runs:
“
Any man who does not accept the
existence of discarnate spirits and the proof of it
is either ignorant or a moral coward.” The
words are literallytrue, and yet what removes the
sting is that there is really no great reproach up
to now in beingignorant. Much of the informa-
tion is very recent and is contained in works
which have not been translated and which are
expensive and diflicult to get. It is true that we
have Crawford’s splendid work at Belfast and
Crookes’s researches of fifty years ago, but both
of these needed the corroborationand elucidation
of the continental observers to bring out theirfull
meaning. I will try in this article to show any
man who is capable of adapting his mind to fresh
facts that this tremendous issue is no longer a
fair subject for debate, but has been definitely
216
THE HALF-WAY HOUSE OF MATTER 217
settled up to a certain point—a point which
gives us a solid basis for the researches of the
future. All recent discoveries, whether they be
of aviation, wireless telegraphy,or other material
novelties, are insignificant beside a development
which shows us a new form of matter, with
unheard-off properties, lying latent in all proba-
bilitywithin each of us. By a strange paradox
the searchers after spirit have come to know
more about matter, and its extraordinary possi-
bilities,than any materialist has learned.
It should first be stated that the development
of psychic phenomena was a gradual one, and
that it was some years after the Hydesville out-
break before actual materializationsof spirit were
reported. During the ’sixties and ’seventies they
becamemore common, lendingthemselvesgreatly
to fraud, as people had little critical knowledge
as yet and darkness was a physical necessity for
their production. Apart from the frauds, how-
ever, discriminating observers were aware that
there was a large residuum of cases which were
undoubtedlygenuine. In examining and report-
ing these cases the witnesses averred that cer-
tain people, whom they called “
materializing_
mediums,” had the strange physicalgift thatthey
could put forth from their bodies a viscous,
gelatinous substance which appeared to differ
from every known form of matter in thatit could
solidify and be used for material purposes, and
P
218 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
yet could be re-absorbed, leaving absolutely no
trace even upon the clotheswhich it had traversed
in leavingthe body. This substance was actually
touched by some enterprising investigators, who
reported that it was elastic and appeared to be
sensitive, as though it was really an organic
extrusion from the medium’s body. These views
were naturally much ridiculedibyscientific men,
who disposed of them easily upon anatomical
and also on general physical grounds. Later
investigation has, however, shown, as I hope to
demonstrate in thisarticle, thatin thisas in others
matters the early Spiritualists were the pioneers
of truth, and that they had come upon the most
singular manifestation of matter with which we
have any acquaintance—a form which might
almost be called a half—way house to Spirit.
Mme. Alexandre-Bisson, a French lady with a
scientific bent, set herself in the year 1909 to
study this phenomenon, having as her subject a
woman named Eva, who had the power of form-
ing this substance, which Charles Richet, the
great French physiologist, has named ectoplasm.
She had as i
collaborator a German doctor,
Schrenck-Notzing,who afterwards collected the
notes of the sittings and had them published in
French with Mme. Bisson’s name appended,
under the title Les Phénoménes dits de Materiali-
zation. A singlesentence from the preface gives
the gist of the book. He says :
THE HALF-WAY HOUSE OF MATTER 219
“We have very often been able to establish that, by an
unknown biological process, there comes from the body of
the medium a material, at first semi-fluid, which possesses
some of the properties of a living substance, notably that of
the power of change, of movement, and of the assumption
of definite forms.”
He adds :
“
One might doubt thetruthof these
facts if they had not been verified hundreds of
times in the course of laborious tests under
varied and very strict conditions.” Could there
be a more complete vindication of those early
Spiritualists who for two generations bore with
patience the ridicule of the World? Schrenck-
Notzing ends his dignified preface by exhorting
his fellow-worker to take heart.
“
Do not allow yourself to be discouraged in your efforts
to open a new domain for science, either by foolish attacks,
by cowardly calumnies, by the misrepresentation of facts,
by the violence of the malevolent, or by any other sort of
intimidation. Advance always along the path that you have
opened, thinkingof the words of Faraday, ‘
Nothing is too
)7)
amazing to be true .
The methods of these wonderful experiments
Were as follows : All conceivableprecautionswere
taken against fraud. Eva, the medium, seems, so
far as one can trace her career, to have been no
worse if she was no better than her fellows. A
fierce controversy had raged round a previous
series of experiments with her conducted in 1906
in Algiers, but Charles Richet and otherobservers
who were present had found no flaw in them.
220 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
However, nothingwas left to chance. The key
of the séance room was kept in Mme. Bisson’s
own pocket. Eva was compelled to change into
a special dress when in that room, undressing
again when she emerged. She submitted to
physical examinations at the hands of doctors.
The illumination of the room was gradually
increased until six strong, red, electric lamps
were at work—~red being,as in photography,the
one bearable colour. Most important of all, a
number of cameras, eight in the last period, were
directed upon the medium from all angles, and
thesewere operated by flashlightwithoutwarning,
so that no motion upon her part could be un-
observed. Altogether two hundred and one
photographs were taken and reprinted in the
book. The sittings lasted with intervals for four
years, and were witnessed not only by Mme.
Bisson and the German doctor, but by a number
of scientific observers whose names are given.
The results are, in my opinion, amongthemost
notable of any investigation which has ever been
recorded. It was testified by witnesses, and
shown by the photographs,thatthere oozed from
the medium’s mucous membranes,and occasion-
ally from her skin, this extraordinary gelatinous
material. The pictures are strange and repulsive,
but many of Nature’s processes seem so in our
eyes. You can see this streaky, viscous stuff
hanging like icicles from the chin, dripping down
THE HALF-WAY HOUSE OF MATTER 221
on to the body and forming a white apron, or
projecting in shapeless lumps from the orifices
of theface. When touched, or when undue light
came upon it, it writhed back into the body as
swiftlyand stealthilyas the tentacles of a hidden
octopus. If seized and pinched, the medium
cried ,aloud. It would protrude through clothes
and vanish again, leaving hardly any trace upon
them. With the assent of the medium, a small
piece was amputated. It dissolved in the box
in which it was placedas snow would have done,
‘leaving moisture and some large cells which
might have come from a fungus. The microscope
also disclosed epithelial cells from the mucous
membranein which the stuff seemed to originate.
It should be explained that theusual Spiritual-
istic habit of putting the medium into a confined
space formed by curtains was followed. This is
called the cabinet. She sat thereinupon a chair,
but her hands always protruded, as an additional
safeguard against fraud. The object of the
cabinet is that some condensation of material,
which we can best describe perhaps as a heavy
Vapour, is necessary beforeyou get theectoplasm.
The methods call for clearer scientific definition,
but in practice it is found that anything which
will make an enclosed space and conserve force
is of great importance. Those curious, curving
draperieswhich are seen round spirit photographs
are the means which the control upon the other
222 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
side adopts for thisend, and I have often observed
that the spirit lights at a séance are hooded and
flanked by some fine, filmymaterial for the same
reason.
The production of this strange ectoplasm is
enough in itself to make such experiments revolu-
tionary and epoch-making, but what follows is
far stranger, and willanswer the question in every
»reader’s mind, “
What has all this to do with
spirits P ”
You must know, then, utterly incre-
dible as it may appear, that this substance, after
forming, begins in the case of some mediums,
Eva beingone, to curdle into definite shapes, and
those shapes are human limbs and human faces,
seen at first in two dimensions upon the flat, and
then moulding themselves at the edges until they
become detached and complete. Very many of
the photographs exhibit these strange phantoms,
which are often much smaller than life. Some
of these faces may represent thought—formsfrom
the brain of Eva taking visible form, and some
rough resemblance has beentraced betweensome
of them and pictures which she may have seen
and stored in the memory. One, for example,
looks like an extremely rakish President Wilson
iwith a moustache, while another resembles a
ferocious rendering of M. Poincaré. One of
them shows the Word “
Miroir ”
printed over the
head of the medium, which some critics have
claimed as showing thatshe had smuggledin the
THE HALF-WAY HOUSE OF MATTER 223
journal of that name, though what the object of
such a proceedingcould behas not beenexplained.
Her own explanation was that the controlling
forces had in some Way, possibly by apport,
brought in the word in order to convey the idea
that these faces and figures are not their real
selves, but their selves as seen in a mirror.
Even now the reader may see no obvious con-
nection withSpiritualism,but the next stage takes
us all the way. When Eva is at her best,»and it
occurs only at long intervals and at some cost to
her own health, there forms a complete figure ;
this figure is moulded to resemble some deceased
person, the cord which binds it to the medium is
loosened, a personalitywhich eitheris or pretends
to be that of the dead takes possession of it, and
the breath of life is breathed into the image so
thatit moves and talks and expresses the emotions
of the spirit within. The last word of the Bisson
record is :
“
Since theseséances and on numerous
occasions the entire phantom hasashown itself,
it has come out of the cabinet,has begunto speak,
and has reached Mme. Bisson, whom it has
embraced on the cheek. The sound of the»kiss
was audible.” Was there ever a stranger finale
of a scientific investigationP It may serve to
illustratehow impossible it is for even the clever-
est of materialists to find any explanationof such
I
facts which are consistent with his theories,that
the only one which Mr. Joseph MacCabe,in his
224 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
public debate with me, could put forward was
that it was a case of the regurgitation of food !
He seemed to me unaware that a close-meshed
veil was worn over the medium’s face in some of
the experiments without in the least hampering
the flow of the ectoplasm.
These results, though checked in all possible
ways, were none the less so amazing that the
inquirer had a right to suspend judgment until
they are confirmed. But this has been fully
done. Dr. Schrenck-Notzingreturnedto Munich
and therehe was fortunate enough to find another
medium,a Polish lady,who possessed the faculty
of materialization. With her he conducted a
series of experiments which he has recorded in
his book, Materialization-phénoméne. W0/rking
withStanislawa,the Polish medium,and adopting
the same strict methodsas withEva,he produced
exactlythe same results. His book overlaps that
of Mme. Bisson, since he gives an account of the
Paris experiments, but the most important part
is thecorroborationfurnished by his check experi-
ments in the summer of 1912 in Munich. The
various photographs of the ectoplasm so far as
theygo are hardly to be distinguished from those
already taken, so that any theory of elaborate
fraud upon the part of Eva postulates the same
fraud on the part of Stanislavva. Many German
observers checked the sittings. In his thorough
Teutonic fashion Schrenck-Notzinggoes deeper
THE HALF-WAY HOUSE OF MATTER 225
into the matter than Mme. Bisson. He obtained
hair from one of the materializedforms and com-
pared it microscopicallywith hair from Eva (this
incident occurred in the French series), showing
by several tests that it could not be from the
same person. He gave also the chemical result
of an examinationof a smallportion of ectoplasm,
which burned to an ash, leaving a smell as of
horn. Chloride of soda (commonsalt) and phos-
phate of calcium were amongst the constituents.
Finally, he actually obtained a cinematograph
record of the ectoplasm pouring from the mouth
of the medium. Part of this is reproduced in his
book.
It should be explainedthatthoughthemedium
was in a trance during these experiments she was
by no means inanimate. A separate personality
seemed to possess her, which might be explained
as one of her own secondary individualities,or as
an actual obsession from outside. This persona-
litywas in thehabitof alludingwithsome severity
to the medium, telling Mme. Bisson that she
needed discipline and had to be kept up to her
work. Occasionallythis person showed signs of
clairvoyance, explaining correctly, for example,
what was amiss with an electric fitting when it
failed to work. A running accompaniment of
groans and protests from Eva’s body seems to
have been a mere animal outcry apart from intelli-
gence.
226 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
One observation of the German scientist is
worth noting, as it suggests that great injustice
may have beendone in thepast. He is comment-
ing upon a case where Eva was entirely covered
by a fantastichelmeted garment of ectoplasmand
stood up from her chair. He says:
“
This case is interesting becauseit throws a lightupon the
state of so-called transfiguration, which in the sense used
by the Spiritualists means that a medium plays the part of
the spirit, since he is clad with materialized stuff and seeks
to imitate the character of the person concerned. This
transition stage is to be found in the career of nearly all
materialization mediums. Literature records a number of
exposures of such mediums acting the part of spirits, like
themedium Bastian before Crown Prince Rudolph, Crookes’s
medium Miss Cook, Mme. Esperance, and others. In all
these cases people seized the medium, but the stuff used for
the disguise vanished instantly and could not afterwards be
traced.”
Spiritualists have been slow in advancing this
plea, lest it seem to exonerate real fraud, but this
conclusion from a man of science in an inde-
pendent position should be set on record lest in-
discriminate disgraceshould fall upon the human
hyena with his material muslin and the true
medium in trance clad in ectoplasmicdrapery.
These separate results of the German and the
French investigators would seem final to any
reasonable mind, but they are corroborated once
again by the shorter research of the late Dr.
Geley, of Paris, who held a series of sittings with
THE HALF-WAY HOUSE OF MATTER 227
Eva, summoning a hundred men of science to
witness one or other of them. So strict were his
tests that he winds up his account in Physiologie
Supemormalewiththewords :
“
I willnot merely
say thatthere is no fraud,I willsay thattherehas
not been the possibility of fraud.” Again he
walked the old pathand found the same results,
save that the phantasms in his experiments took
the form of female faces, sometimes beautiful
and, as he assures me, unknown to him. They
may be thought-forms from Eva, for in none of
his recorded results did he get an absolute living
entity. There was enough, however,to cause Dr.
Geley to say :
“
What we have seen kills materi-
alism. There is no longer any room for it in the
world.”. By this he means, of course, the old-
fashionedmaterialismof Victorian days, by which
thought was a result of matter. All the new
evidence points to matter being the result of
thought.‘ It is only when you ask, “
Whose
thoughtP ”
that you get upon debatable ground.
“
Theyhad great beautyand a remarkableappear-
ance of life,” says Dr. Geley, though they came
as miniatures as well as full size.
Once again, then,Mme. Bisson is corroborated,
and we have three separate investigators and two
separate mediums giving identical results. Is it
not a perfect insanity of incredulity to wave these
things aside because they will not fit into our
present*philosophiesP Surely it is evident that
228 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
thetime has come when thephilosophiesmust be
expanded to receive them.
Now, having thoroughlygot it into our heads
that it is possible for a person to evolve very
singular stuff with a tendency to form human
frames which seem for a time to be tenanted by
independent intelligence, let us hark back and
apply the knowledge to cases which were proved
but not understood beforethesewonderful experi-
ments. At once the instance of Crookes and
Florrie Cook in 1873 springs to thefront. In this
classic case, as is well known, the celebrated
chemist for three years experimented with this
young medium, who put herself at his disposal
in order to clear herself of a charge of personation
made against her. It may well have been an
example of transfiguration, as may some other
alleged cases which were said to have occurred
in lateryears when she was Mrs. Corner. Crookes
exonerated her completely as the result of his
research. She was shut up in the dark time and
again in his smallstudy. Then, after an hour or
so, therewould emerge into the adjoininglabora-
tory an entirely different woman, who moved,
spoke, and gave her name as Katie King, saying
thatshe was a spirit who had lived in the reign of
Charles II, and was now permitted for a brief
visit to inhabit the body moulded from Miss
Cook, who could be heard, and on certain occa-
sions seen, in the adjoiningroom. Naturallythe
THE HALF-WAY HOUSE OF MATTER 229
obvious criticism Was made that this -was Miss
Cook masquerading as a phantom, but the first
objection to such a theory was that it makes Pro-
fessor Crookes out to be either a lunatic or a
deliberateliar. No one but a lunaticcould be so
deceived, and no one but a liar could declare that
the new-comer was four and a half inches taller
than the medium, had beautiful brown hair, a
long tress of which Was traced up to the scalp
and then severed (Miss Cook was a brunette),
and finallythat the pulse rate of the two women
was entirely different. The whole course of
Crookes’s life proved that he was neither liar
nor lunatic,and so a reasonable man could only
believe that this prodigy corroborated by forty
photographswas true, but totallyunrelated to any
other facts of the universe.
But now the matter appears otherwise.
Thanks to the recent researchers, we are in a
positionto enter thatdarkenedroom and to recon-
struct what is happening to Florrie Cook. She
lies with an occasional animal moan upon the
sofa. From her there drains the vital ectoplasm,
forming a cloud of Viscous substance, a pattern,
and finally a form. The form disengages, the
cord breaks, and Katie King, infusing her spirit
into this reconstruction of What was probably a
simulacrum of her earthly body, walks forth to
spend her strange briefhour upon earth,convers-
ing with Professor Crookes, playing With his
230 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
children, telling them stories of older days, and
finally,withthewords, “
My mission is finished,”
leavingthemfor ever. Her mission was to prove
thesurvival of thespirit to an incredulous genera-
tion, and it would indeed have been accomplished
had it depended upon the bravery of her witness,
and not upon the dense stupidity, prejudice and
materialism of the scientific, religious, and jour-
nalisticworldin which he lived. Now after many
days we are slowlyunderstanding the message.
So much for the Crookes episode, and the light
which has now been thrown upon it. But there
is another famous series of investigations which
are also confirmed and illuminated by this new
knowledge. These are the very remarkable ex-
periments made by Dr. Crawford, of Belfast,
upon the medium Miss Goligher, and described
in two successive books, The Reality of Psychic
Phenomena and Experiments in Psychic Science.
Miss Goligher,as her portrait indicates,is_'ayoung
lady of character and education, sprung from a
decent Belfast family—afact which has not pre-
vented our opponents, in their desperate plight
for an explanation,from endeavouring without a
shred of evidence to depict her as a systematic
fraud. It is a deplorable thingthat people with
thisrare power,who submit themselvesunpaid for
the research of scientific men, should be assailed
in this fashion, for it frightens others away, and
makes the whole investigationmore diflicult.
THE HALF-WAY HOUSE OF MATTER 231
The main lesson, as it seems to me, to be drawn
from the Crawford experiments’ is that the ecto-
plasmis a substance which can be used for many
purposes by the force which lies behind it. In.
the former cases it was used to build up moulds
of the human figure. In the Belfast experiments
this same ectoplasm was used for the making of
rods or columns of power, which protruded from
the body of the unconscious girl, and produced
results such as raps, or the movement of objects,
at a distance from her. Such a rod of power
might beapplied,witha sucker attachment,under
a table and lift it up, causing the weight of the
table to be added to that of the medium, exactly
as if she had produced the effect by a steel bar
workingas a cantileverand attached to her body.
Or it might be placed above the table and hold
it down, a loss of weight of thirty,forty, or even
fiftypounds being registered upon the weighing
chair on which Miss Goligher sat. The medium
became a mere residuum, with a third and more
of her own substance outside herself,thedifference
showing itself rather in a refining of the whole
body than in a visible loss of substance. One
can well believe that under such abnormal cir-
cumstances any rough disturbance of the condi-
tions which caused the external third to fly back
with unnatural speed to the body would cause
physicalsuffering. I have known a medium have
a broad weal from breast to armpit through the
232 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
sudden elastic recoil of the ectoplasm. Is it a
wonder, then,that Spiritualists object to the type
of researcher who suddenly flashes a powerful
electric torch in the middle of a séance? When
this matter is more clearly understood our de-
scendants will, I think, be appalled as Well as
amused by some of theincidents which have been
the outcome of our ignorance.
Dr. Crawford’s experiments have been an
explanation and a justification of the ordinary
phenomenaof thedarkséance. No philosophical
unprejudiced mind could have failed to see that
results which are alwaysof thesame type, whether
the conditions be produced in Iceland or in Java,
must have fixed laws underlying them. Our
critics have continually bemused themselves by
considering individual cases and failingto take a
broad view of the cumulative evidence. Dr.
Crawford makes every detail plain. He has even,
by staining with moist carmine a cloth in front
of the medium, got crimson marks at a distance
showing that the column of force as it pushed
forward was solid enough to carry some of the
staining agent withit. This is a particularlyfine
and convincing experiment.
This is but a very briefindicationof thegeneral
line taken by this remarkable research: Once
again a sceptic may say,
“
But this is physical
power of some unknown type and not an intelli-
gence apart fromthesitters.” A fullerknowledge,
THE HALF-WAY HOUSE or MATTER 233
however, shows that at every stage there was a
controlling intelligence, advising, directing, and
showing its wishes by a codeeof signals. Whose
intelligence was it P “
I am quite satisfied in my
own mind that the operators are discarnate
human beings,” says Dr. Crawford in his very
latest work,with all the results before him. I do
not see how anyone else is in a position to go
behind his own interpretation of the facts which
he has himself made clear. He appears to have
begun his investigation in the agnostic attitude,
which is the ideal starting—point for the truly
scientific mind, but he had the courage and
adaptabilitywhich made him gain positive results
instead of that endless round of experiments
leading to no conclusion which is typical of so
many psychical researchers.
Such, then, is the story of Mme. Bisson, of
Dr. Schrenck—Notzing,of Dr. Geley,of Professor
Crookes, and of Dr. Crawford. Can it be
laughedaway .7‘ Is it not time, after seventyyears
of ever-varying proof, that such an attitude be
abandoned? But when it is abandoned, and
when the conclusions have been accepted, what
an eternity of ridicule is waiting for those solemn
Panjandrums of Science who have for so long
held up theirwarninghands lest thepublicshould
believe the truth!
The story of the Italian Cardinals and Galileo
will seem reasonable when compared with the
Q
"234 THE EDGE or THE UNKNOWN
attitude of Victorian science to this invasion of
the beyond. Of the theologians I say nothing,
for that is another aspect of the matter, and they
have only lived up to their own record; but
materialscience, which made mock of mesmerism
until for very shame it had to change its name to
hypnotism before acknowledging it, has a sad
reckoning before it in the case of Spiritualism.
The fear is lest the reaction go too far, and in
contemplatingits colossal blunder we may forget
or underrate the thousand additions which it has
made to the comfort of the human race.
Be this as it may, who can read the facts here
quoted and doubt thatin thosemists and shadows
which hang round this uncharted coast we have
at least one solid, clear—cut cape which juts out
into the sunshine P Behind, however, lies a
hinterland of mystery which successive genera-
tions of pioneers will be called upon to explore.
Since this essay was written fresh demonstra-
tions and photographs of ectoplasm have been
taken from Mrs. Crandon (Margery) in Boston,
from the medium of Dr. Hamilton in Winnipeg,
and from Mrs. Henderson of London. If any
'
person can examine all these photographs, taken
from such varied subjects, can observe their
similarity,and can then doubt that a new field
for study has opened up for Science, such a
person seems to me to be incapable of receiving a
new idea or of forming a sane judgment.
XII
A REMARKABLE MAN
N the early morning of April 9, I855, the
steam packet Africa, from Boston, was
drawing into Liverpool Docks. Captain Harri-
son, his responsibility lifted from him, was
standing on the bridge, the pilot beside him,
while below the passengers had assembled, some
bustling about with their smaller articles of
luggage, while others lined the decks and peered
curiously at the shores of Old England. Most
of themshowed naturalexultationat thesuccessful
end of their voyage, but among them was one
who seemed to have no pleasant prospects in
view. Indeed, his appearance showed that his
most probable destiny would make him inde-
pendent of any earthly career. This was a
youth some two and twenty years of age, tall,
slim, with a marked elegance of bearing and
a fastidious neatness of dress, but with a worn,
hectic look upon his very expressive face, which
told of the ravages of some wasting disease.
Blue-eyed, and with hair of a light auburn tint,
he was of the type which is peculiarly open to
235
236 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
the attack of tubercle, and the extreme emacia-
tion of his frame showed how little power re-
mained with him by which he might resist it.
An acute physician watching him closely would
probably have given him six months of life
in our humid island. Yet this young man
was destined, as many of us think, to be the
instrument in making a greater change in English
thoughtthanany traveller for centuries——-a change
only now slowly developing and destined, as I
think,to revolutionize for ever our views on
the most vital of all subjects. For this Was
Daniel Dunglas Home, a youth of Scottish birth
and extraction,sprung, it is said,,from the noble
Border familyof that name, and the possessor of
strange personalpowers which make him,withthe
possible exception of Swedenborg, the most re-
markableindividual of whom we have any record
since the age of the Apostles, some of whose
gifts he appeared to inherit. A deep melancholy
lay upon his sensitive features as he viewed
the land which contained no one whom he
could call friend. Tears welled from his eyes,
for he was a man of swift emotions and feminine
susceptibilities. Then, witha sudden resolution,
he disengaged himself from the crowd, rushed
down to the cabin, and fell upon his knees in
prayer. He has recorded how a spring of hope
and comfort bubbled uptin his heaft, so that
no more joyous man set his foot that day upon
A REMARKABLE MAN 237
the Mersey quay, or one more ready to meet
the fate which lay before him.
But how strange a fate, and what a singular
equipment with which to face this new world
of strangers! He had hardly a relation in the
world. His left lung was partly gone. His
income was modest, though sufficient. He had
no trade or profession, his education having
been interrupted by his illness. In character
he was shy, gentle, sentimental, artistic, affec-
tionate, and deeply religious. He had a strong
tendency both to art and the drama, so that his
powers of sculpture were considerable, and as a
reciter he proved in later life that he had few
living equals. But on top of all this, and of
an unflinching honesty which was so uncom-
promising that he often offended his own allies,
there was one gift so remarkable that it threw
everythingelse into insignificance. This lay in
certain powers, quite independent of his own
volition, coming and going with disconcerting
suddenness, but provingto all who would examine
the proof that there was somethingin this man’s
atmosphere which enabled forces outside himself
and outside our ordinary apprehension to mani-
fest themselves upon this plane of matter. In
other words, he was a medium—the greatest
on the physical side that the modern World has
ever seen.
A lesser man might have used his extraordinary
238 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
powers to found some special sect of which he
would have been the undisputed high priest,
or to surround himself with a glamour of power
and mystery. Certainly most people in his
position would have been tempted to use them
for the making of money. As to this latter
point, let it be said at once that never in the
course of the thirty years of his strange ministry
did he touch one shilling as payment for his
gifts. It is on sure record that as much as
two thousand pounds was ofiered to him by
the Union Circle in Paris in the year 1857 for
"I
a single séance, and that he, a poor man and
an invalid, utterly refused. “
I have been sent
on a mission,” he said; “that mission is to
demonstrate immortality. I have never taken
money for it, and I never will.” There were
certain presents from Royalty which cannot
be refused without boorishness—rings, scarf
pins, and the like, tokens of friendship rather
than recompense, for before his premature death
there were few monarchs in Europe with Whom
this shy youth from the Liverpool landing-stage
was not upon terms of affectionate intimacy.
Napoleon the Third provided for his only sister ;
the Emperor of Russia sponsored his marriage.
What novelist would dare to invent such a
career P -
But there are more subtle temptations than
those of Wealth. Home’s uncompromising hon-
A REMARKABLE MAN 239
esty was the best safeguard against those. Never
for a moment did he lose his humility and his
sense of proportion. “
I have these powers,”
he would say:
“
I shall be happy up to the
limit of my strength to demonstrate them to
you if you approach me as one gentlemanshould
approach another. I shall be glad if you can
throw any further light upon them. I will lend
myself to any reasonable experiment. I have
no control over them——they use me but I do
not use them. They desert me for months
and then come back in redoubled force. I
am a passive instrument——no more.” Such was
his unvarying attitude. He was always the easy,
amiable man of the World, with nothing either
of the mantle of the prophet or of the skull-
cap of the magician. Like most truly great
men, there was no touch of pose in his nature.
An index of his fine feeling is that when con-
firmation was needed for his results he would
never quote any names unless he was perfectly
certain that the owners would not sufl’er in
any way through being associated with an un-
popular cult. Sometimes, even after they had
freely given leave, he still withheld the names,
lest he should unwittinglyinjure a friend. When
he published his first series of Incidents in My
Life the Saturday Review waxed very sarcastic
over theanonymous evidence of Countess O ,
Count B——-—, Count de K——, Princess de
240 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
B ,
and Mrs. S ,
who were quoted as
having witnessed manifestations. In his second
volume Home, having assured himself of the
concurrence of his friends, filled the blanks
with the names of the Countess Orsini, Count
de Beaumont, Count de Komar, Princess de
Beaurean, and the well-known American hostess,
Mrs. Henry Senior. His Royal friends he never
quoted at all, and yet it is notorious that the
Emperor Napoleon III, the Empress Eugénie,
the Czar, the Emperor William I of Germany,
and the Kings of Bavaria and Wurtemberg
were all equally convinced by his extraordinary
powers. Never once was Home convicted of
any deception either in word or in deed.
In these days, when thefacts of psychic pheno-
mena are familiar to all save those who are
wilfully ignorant, we can hardly realize the
moral courage which was needed by Home in
putting forward his powers and upholdingthem
in public. To the average educated-~‘Briton in
the material Victorian era, a man who claimed
to beableto produce results which upset Newton’s
law of gravity, and which showed invisible
mind acting upon visible matter, was prima
facie a scoundrel and an impostor. The view
of Spiritualism pronounced by Vice-Chancellor
Gifford at the conclusion of the Home—Lyon
trial was that of the class to which he belonged.
A REMARKABLE MAN 24I
He knew nothing of the matter, but took it
for granted that anything with such claims
must be false. No doubt similar things were
reported in far-off lands and ancient books,
but that they could occur in prosaic, steady
old England, the England of bank rates and
free imports, was too absurd for serious thought.
It has been recorded that at this trial Lord
Gifford turned to Home’s counsel and said,
“
Do I understand you to state that your client
claims that he has been levitated into the air P ”
The counsel assented, on which thejudge turned
to the jury and made such a movement as the
high—priest may have made in ancient days
when he rent his garments as a protest against
blasphemy. In 1867 there were few of the
jury who were sufficiently educated to check
the judge’s remarksjaandit is just in that parti-
cular that we have made some progress in the
fifty years between. Slow work; but Christi-
anity took’~'__more than three hundred years to
come into its own.
Take this question of levitation as a test of
Home’s powers. It is claimed that more than
a hundred times in good light, beforereputable
witnesses, he floated in the air. Consider the
evidence. In 1857, in a chateau near Bordeaux,
he was lifted to the ceiling of a lofty room in
the presence of Mme. Ducos, widow of the
Minister of Marine, and of the Count and
242 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
Countess de Beaumont. In 1860 Robert Bell
wrote an article, “
Stranger than Fiction,” in
the Cornhill. “
He rose from his chair,” says
Bell, “four or five feet from the ground. . . .
We saw his figure pass from one side of the
window to the other, feet foremost, lying hori-
zontally in the air.” Dr. Gully, of Malvern,
a well-knownmedicalman, and Robert Chambers,
theauthorand publisher,were theotherwitnesses.
Is it to be supposed that these men were lying
Confederates, or that they could not tell if a
man were floating in the air or pretending to
do so? In the same year Home was raised
at Mrs. Milner Gibson’s house in the presence
of Lord and Lady Clarence Paget—the former
passing his hands underneath him to assure
himself of the fact. A few months later, Mr.
Wason, a Liverpool solicitor, with seven others
saw the same phenomenon. “Mr. Home,” he
says,
“‘
crossed the table over the heads of the
persons sitting around it.” He added: “
I
reached his hand seven feet from the floor,
and moved along five or six paces as he floated
above me in the air.” In 1861 Mrs. Parkes,
of Cornwall Terrace, Regent’s Park, tells how
she was present with Bulwer Lytton and Mr.
Hall when Home, in her own drawing-room,
was raised till his hand was on the top of the
door, and then floated horizontally forward.
In 1866 Mr. and Mrs. Hall, Lady Dunsany
A REMARKABLE MAN 243
and Mrs. Senior, in Mr. Hall’s house, saw
Home, his face transfigured and shining, twice
rise to the ceiling, leaving a cross marked in
pencil upon the second occasion, so as to assure
the witnesses that they were not victims of
imagination. In 1868 Lord Adare, Lord Lind-
say, Captain Wynne, and Mr. Smith Barry
saw Home levitate upon many occasions. A
very minute account has been left by the first
threewitnesses of theoccurrence of December 16
of this year, when, at Ashley House, Home,
in a state of trance, floated out of the bedroom
and into thesitting—roomwindow,passingseventy
feet above the street. After his arrival in the
sitting-room he went back into the bedroom
with Lord Adare, and upon the latter remark-
ing that he could not understand how Home
could have floated through the window, which
was only partially raised, “
he told me to stand
a little distance off. He then Went through
the open space head first quite rapidly, his
body being nearly horizontal and apparently
rigid. He came in again feet foremost.” Such
was the account given by Lords Adare and
Lindsay. Upon its publication, Dr. Carpenter,
who earned an unenviable reputation by a per-
verse opposition to every fact which bore upon
this question, wrote exultantly to point out
that there had been a third witness who had
not been heard from, assuming, without the
244. THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
least justification, that Captain Wynne’s evi-
dence would be contradictory. He went the
lengthof saying,“
A singlehonest sceptic declares
that Mr. Home was sitting in his chair all the
time,” a statement which can only be described
as false. Captain Wynne at once wrote corro-
borating the others, and adding, “If you are
not to believe the corroborative evidence of
three unimpeached witnesses, there would be
an end to all justice and courts of law.” So
many are the other instances of Home’s levita-
tions that a long article might easily be written
upon this single phase of his mediumship.
Professor Crookes was again and again a witness
to the phenomenon, and refers to fifty instances
which had come within his knowledge. But
is there any fair-minded person, who has read
the little that I have recorded above, who will
not say with Professor Challis, “Either the
facts must be admitted or the possibility of
certifying facts by human testimony must be
given up
”
P
But now a word of explanation. “Are we
then back in the age of miracles?” cries the
reader. There is no miracle—nothingon this
plane is supernatural. What we see now and
what we have read of in ages past are but the
operation of law which has not yet been studied
and defined. Already we realize something of
A REMARKABLE MAN 245
its possibilities and of its limitations, which
are as exact in their way as those of any purely
physical power. We must hold the balance
between those who would believe nothing and
those who would believe too much. Gradually
the mists will clear and we will chart theshadowy
coast. When the needle first sprang up at the
magnet it was not an infraction of the laws of
gravity. It was that there had been the local
intervention of another, stronger force. Such
is the case, also, when psychic powers act upon
the plane of matter. Had Home’s faith in this
power faltered, or had his circle been unduly
disturbed, he would have fallen. When Peter
lost faith he sank into the waves. Across the
centuries the same cause still produced the
same effect. Spiritual power is ever with us
if we do not avert our faces, and nothing has
been vouchsafed to Judea which is withheld
from England.
It is in this respect, as a confirmation of the
power of the unseen, and as a final answer to
materialismas we now understand it, thatHome’s
public career is of such supreme importance.
He was an aflirmative witness of the truth of
those so—called “
miracles,” which have been
the stumbling-block for so many earnest minds,
and are now destined to be the strong, solid
proof of the accuracy of the original narrative.
Millions of doubting souls in the agony of
24.6 ,
THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
spiritual conflict had cried out for definite proof
that all was not empty space around us, that
there were powers beyond our grasp, that the
ego was not a mere secretion of nervous tissue,
and that the dead did really carry on this per-
sonal, unbroken existence. All this was proved
by this greatest of modern missionaries to anyone
who could observe and reason. It is easy to
poke superficial fun at rising tables and quiver-
ing walls, butsthey were the nearest and most
natural objects which could record in material
terms that power which was beyond our human
ken. A mind which would be unmoved by
an inspired sentence was struck into humility
and into new paths of research in the presence
of even the most homely of these inexplicable
phenomena. It is easy to call them puerile,
but they effected the purpose for which they
were sent by shaking to its foundations the
complaisance of those material men of science
who were brought into actual contact with them.
They are to be regarded not as ends in them-
selves, but as the elementary means by which
the mind should be diverted into new channels
of thought. And those channels of thought
led straight to the recognition of the survival
of the spirit. “
You have conveyed incalculable
joy and comfort to the hearts of many people,”
said Bishop Clark of Rhode Island. “
You
have made dwelling-places light that were dark
A REMARKABLE MAN 247
before.” “Mademoiselle,” said Home to the
lady who was to be his Wife, “
I have a mission
entrusted to me ; it is a great and a holy one.”
The famous Dr. Elliotson, immortalized by
Thackerayunder the name of Dr. Goodenough,
was one of the leaders of British materialism.
He met Home, saw his powers, and was able
soon to say that he had lived all his life in dark-
ness and had thought there was nothing in
existence but the material; but he now had
a firm hope which he trusted he would hold
while on earth. Innumerable instances could
be quoted of the spiritual value of his work,
but it has never been better summed up than
in a paragraph from Mrs. Webster, of Florence,
who saw much of his ministry. “He is the
most marvellous missionary of modern times,
in the greatest of all causes, and the good that
he has done cannot be reckoned. Where Mr.
Home passes he bestows around him the greatest
of all blessings—the certainty of a future life.”
Now that the details of his career can be read
it is to the whole wide world that he brings this
most vital of all messages.
It is curious to see how his message affected
thoseof his own generation. Readingtheaccount
of his life written by his widow—a most con-
vincingdocument, since she, of all livingmortals,
must have known the real man-—it would appear
that his most utterly whole—hearted support
"248 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
and appreciation came from those aristocrats
of France and Russia with whom he was brought
into contact. The warm glowof personaladmira-
tion and even reverence in their letters is such
as can hardly be matched in any biography.
In England he had a close circle of ardent
supporters, a few of the upper classes, with
the Halls, the Howitts, Robert Chambers, Mrs.
Milner Gibson, Professor Crookes, and others.
But there was a sad lack of courage among
those who admitted the facts in private and
stood aloof in public. Lord Brougham and
Bulwer Lytton were of the type of Nicodemus,
the novelist being the Worst offender. The
“
Intelligentsia ”
on the whole came badly out
of the matter, and many an honoured name
suffers in the story. Faraday and Tyndallwere
fantastically unscientific in their methods of
prejudging a question first, and offering to
examine it afterwards on the condition that
their prejudgment was accepted. Sir David
Brewster said some honest things, and then,
in a panic, denied that he had said them, for-
getting that the evidence was on actual record.
Browning wrote a long poem—if such doggerel
can be called poetry—to describe an exposure
which had never taken place. Carpenter earned
an unenviable notoriety as an unscrupulous
opponent, while proclaiming some strange spiri-
tualistic thesis of his own. The secretaries of
A REMARKABLE MAN 249
the Royal Society refused to take a cab drive
in order to see Crookes’ demonstration of the
physical phenomena, while they pronounced
roundly against them. Lord Gifford inveighed
from theBench against a subject thefirst elements
of which he did not understand. As to the
clergy, such an order might not have existed
during the thirty years that this, the most mar-
vellous spiritual outpouring of many centuries,
was before the public. I cannot recall the
name of one British clergyman who showed
any intelligent interest, and when in 1872 a
full account of the St. Petersburg séances began
to appear in The Times, it was cut short, accord-
ing to Mr. H. T. Humphreys, “
on account
of strong remonstrances to Mr. Delane, the
editor, by certain of the higher clergy of the
Church of England.” Such was the contribu-
tion of our official spiritual guides. Dr. Elliot-
son, the Rationalist, was far more alive than
they. The rather bitter comment of Mrs. Home
is: “The verdict of his own generation was
that of the blind and deaf upon the man who
could hear and see.”
Home’s charity was among his more beautiful
characteristics. Like all true charity, it was
secret, and only comes out indirectly and by
chance. One of his numerous traducers declared
that he had allowed a bill for fifty pounds to
be sent in to his friend, Mr. Rhymer. In self-
R
250 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
defence it came out that it was not a bill,
but a cheque most generously sent by Home
to help this friend in a crisis. Considering
his constant poverty, fiftypounds probablyrepre-
sented a good part of his bank balance. His
widow dwells with pardonable pride upon the
many evidences found in his letters after his
death. “
Now it is an unknown artist for whose
brush Home’s generous efforts had found em-
ployment; now a distressed worker writes of
his sick wife’s life saved by comforts that Home
provided; now a mother thanks him for a
start in life for her son. How much time and
thought he devoted to helping others when the
circumstances of his own life would have led
most men to think only of their own needs and
cares.” “Send me a word from the heart
thathas known so often how to cheer a friend ! ”
cries one of his protégés. “
Shall I ever prove
worthy of all the good you have done me P ”
says another letter. We find him roaming the
battlefields round Paris, often under fire, with
his pockets full of cigars for the wounded. A
German oflicer writes affectionately to remind
him how‘ he saved him from bleeding to death,
and carried him on his own weak back out
of the ‘place of danger. Truly Mrs. Brown-
ing was a better judge of character than her
spouse, and Sir Galahad a better name than
Sludge.
A REMARKABLE MAN 251
There are few of the varied gifts which We
call “
mediumistic,”and St. Paul “
of the spirit,”
which Home did not possess—indeed, the char-
acteristic of his psychic power was its unusual
versatility. We speak usually of a direct voice
medium, of a trance speaker, of a clairvoyant,
or of a physical medium, but Home was all
four. To take St. Paul’s gifts in their order
he had “the Word of Wisdom and the Word
of knowledge ”
when in his trance utterances
he described the life beyond. “
The gift of
healing” was with him, and the account of
his curing young De Cardonne of total deafness
or of Mme. de Lakine of paralysis is historical.
“
The operation of great works ”
was shown
in his phenomena when the very buildingwould
shake from an unknown power. “Discerning
of spirits ”
was continually with him. There
is no note, however, of prophecy or of the gift
of tongues. So far as can be traced, he had
little experience of the powers of other mediums,
and was not immune from that psychic jealousy
which is a common trait of these sensitives.
Mrs. Jencken, formerly Miss Kate Fox, was
the only other medium with whom he was
upon terms of friendship. He bitterly resented
any form of deception, and carried this excellent
trait rather too far by looking with eyes of sus-
picion upon all forms of manifestation which
did not exactly correspond with his own. This
252 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
opinion, expressed in an uncompromisingmanner
in his last book, Lights and Shadows of Spiri-
tualism, gave natural offence to other mediums
Who claimed to be as honest as himself. A
wider acquaintance with phenomena would have
made him more charitable. Thus he protested
strongly against any séance being held in the
dark, but this is certainly a counsel of perfec-
tion, for experiments upon the ectoplasm, which
is the physical basis of all materializations,show
that it is fatally affected by light unless it is
tinted red. Home had no large experience of
complete materializations, such as those ob-
tained in those days by Miss Florrie Cook or
Mme. d’Esperance or in our own time by Mme.
Bisson’s medium, and thereforehe could dispense
with complete darkness in his own ministry.
Thus his opinion was unjust to others. Again,
Home declared roundly that matter could not
pass throughmatter, becausehis own phenomena
did not take that form, and yet the evidence
thatmatter can in certain cases be passed through
matter seems to be overwhelming. Even birds
of rare varieties have been brought into séance
rooms under circumstances which seem to pre-
clude fraud, and the experiments of passing
Wood through wood as shown before Zollner
and the other Leipzig professors were quite
final, as set forth in the famous physicist’s
account, in TranscendentalPhysics of his experi-
A REMARKABLE MAN 253
ences with Slade. Thus it may count as a
small flaw in Home’s character that he decried
and doubted the powers which he did not himself
happen to possess.
Some also might count it as a failing that
he carried his message rather to the leaders
of society and of life than to the vast toiling
masses. It is probable that Home had, in fact,
the weakness as Well as the graces of the artistic
nature, and thathe was most at ease and happiest
in an atmosphere of elegance and refinement,
with a personal repulsion from all that was
sordid and ill-favoured. If there were no other
reason, the precarious state of his health unfitted
him for any sterner mission, and he was driven
by repeated haemorrhages to seek the pleasant
and refined life of Italy, Switzerland, and the
Riviera. But for the prosecution of his mission,
as apart from personal self—sacrifice, there can
be no doubt that his message carried to the
laboratory of a Crookes or to the court of a
Napoleon was more useful than if it were laid
before the crowd. The assent of science and
of character was needed before the public could
gain assurance that such things were true. If
it was not fully gained, the fault lies assuredly
withthe hide bound men of science and thinkers
of the day, and by no means with Home, who
played his part of actual demonstration to per-
fection, leaving it to other and less gifted men
254 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
to analyse and to make public that which he
had shown them. He did not profess to be a
man of science, but he was the raw material
of science, willingand anxious that others should
learn from him all that he could convey to the
world, so that science should itself testify to
religion, while religion should be buttressed
upon science. When Home’s message has been
fully learned, an unbelievingman will not stand
convicted of impiety, but of ignorance.
There was something pathetic in Home’s
efforts to find some creed in which he could
satisfy his own gregarious instinct—for he had
no claims to be a strong-minded individualist
—and at the same time find a niche into which
he could fit his own precious packet of assured
truth. His pilgrimage vindicates the assertion
of some Spiritualists that a man may belong
to any creed and carry with him the spiritual
knowledge, but it also bears out those who reply
that perfect harmony with that spiritual know-
ledge can only be found, as matters now stand,
in a special Spiritualist community. Alas, that
n
it should be so! For it is too big a thing to
sink into a sect, however great that sect might
become. Home began in his youth as a Wes-
leyan, but soon left them for the more liberal
atmosphere of Congregationalism. In Italy the
artisticatmosphereoftheRoman CatholicChurch,
and possibly its record of so many phenomena,
A REMARKABLE MAN 255
akin to his own, caused him to become a con-
vert with an intention of joining a monastic
order—an intention which his common sense
caused him to abandon. The change of religion
was at a period when his psychic powers had
deserted him for a year, and his confessor assured
him that as they were of evil origin they would
certainly never be heard of again now that he
was a son of the true Church. None the less,
on the very day that the year expired they came
back in renewed strength. From that time
Home seems to have been only nominally a
Catholic,if at all, and after his second marriage
—both his marriages Were to Russian ladies——-
he was stronglydrawn towards the Greek Church,
and it was under their ritual that he was at last
laid to rest at St. Germain in 1886. “
To
another discerning of spirits ”
( I Cor. xii. I0)
is the short inscription upon that grave, of
which the world has not yet heard the last.
If proof were needed of the blamelessness
of Home’s life, it could not be better shown
than by the fact that his numerous enemies,
spying ever for some opening to attack, could
get nothing in his whole career upon which
to comment save the wholly innocent affair
which is known as the Home-Lyon case. Any
impartial judge, reading the depositions in this
case—they are to be found Verbatim in the
256 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
second series of Incidents from My Lzfe—would
agree that it is not blame but commiseration
which was owing to Home. One could desire
no higher proof of the nobilityof his character
than his dealings with this unpleasant, freakish
woman, who first insisted upon settling a large
sum of money upon him, and then, her whim
having changed, and her expectations of an
immediate introduction into high society being
disappointed, stuck at nothing in order to get
it back again.
Had she merely asked for it back, there is
little doubt that Home’s delicate feelings would
have led him to return it, even though he had
been put to much trouble and expense over
the matter, which had entailed a change of his
name to Home-Lyon, to meet the woman’s
desire that he should be her adopted son. Her
request, however, was so framed that he could
not honourably agree to it, as it would have
implied an admission that he had done Wrong
in acceptingthe gift. If one consults the original
letters—which few of those who comment upon
the case seem to have done——you find that
Home, S. C. Hall as his representative, and
Mr. Wilkinson as his solicitor, implored-the
woman to moderate the unreasonablebenevolence
which was to change so rapidly into even more
unreasonable malevolence. She was absolutely
determined that Home should have the money
A REMARKABLE MAN 257
and be her heir. A less mercenary man never
lived, and he begged her again and again _to
think of her relatives, to which she answered
that the money was her own to do what she
pleasedwith,and thatno relatives were dependent
upon it. From the time that he accepted the
new situation he acted and wrote as a dutiful
son, and it is not uncharitable to suppose that
this entirely filial attitude may not have been
that which this elderly lady had planned out
in her scheming brain. At any rate, she soon
tired of her fad and reclaimed her money upon
the excuse—a monstrous one to anyone who
will read the letters and consider the dates—-
that spirit messages received through Home
had caused her to take the action she had done.
The case was tried in the Court of Chancery,
and thejudge alluded to Mrs. Lyon’s “
innumer-
able misstatements on many important parti-
culars—misstatements upon oath so perversely
untrue that they have embarrassed the Court
to a great degree and quite discredited the
plaintiff’s testimony.” In spite of this caustic
comment, and in spite also of elementaryjustice,
the verdict was against Home on the general
ground that British law put the burden of dis-
proof upon the defendant in such a case, and
complete disproof is impossible when assertion
is met by counter-assertion. Even Home’s worst
enemies were forced to admit that the fact that
258 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
he had retained the money in England and
had not lodged it where it would have been
beyond recovery, proved his honest intentions
in this the most unfortunate episode of his life.
Such, within the compass of a short sketch,
was the strange fate of the young man whom
we saw land upon the Liverpool pier. He was
at that time twenty-two. He died in his fifty-
third year. In those thirty years he threw out
seed with eitherhand. Much fell among stones ;
much was lost on the wayside ; but much found
a true resting-place, and has put forth a harvest
the end of which no living man can see.
XIII
THE RIFT IN THE VEIL
HETHER the reader belongs to that
majority who are incredulous upon the
subject, or to that increasingminority who accept
the evidence, he can hardly fail to be interested
in the circumstances in which the whole strange
psychic movement arose. The student is aware
that there was a long preparatory stage which
began with Swedenborg and Mesmer, and ended
with Andrew Jackson Davis, called the Pough-
keepsie seer, who at an early age, without educa-
tion, wrote or dictated one of the deepest, most
comprehensive explanationsof the universe, ever
framed. Passing these we will begin the narra-
tive with the happenings of Hydesville,and give
some account of these less-known developments
which followed the new movement, sometimes to
its great glory and sometimes to its temporary
degradation.
The hamlet of Hydesville, near Rochester, in
the State of New York, consisted of a cluster of
wooden houses of a very humble type. In one
of these, a residence which would hardly pass
259
aa
-9‘
_‘~
id
'
260 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
the requirements of a British district councilsur-
veyor, there began this development which will,
in my opinion, prove to be far the most impor-
tant thingwhich America has given to the com-
mon weal of the world. It was inhabited by a
decent farmer familyof thename of Fox—-a name
which, by a curious coincidence, has been already
registered in religious history as thatof theevangel
of the Quakers. Beside the father and mother,
who were Methodists in religion, there were two
children resident in the house at the time when
the manifestations reached such a point of inten-
sity that they attracted general attention. These
children were the daughters, Margaret, aged fif-
teen, and Kate, aged twelve.
About the beginningof 1848 many loud noises
___.
like sudden blows had been heard both by day
“and by night in the house, accompanied by a
vibration of the furniture. Rats, mice and the
.
hammering of a neighbouring cobbler were all
put forward as explanations and each proved
equallyinadequate. As thespringadvancedthese
sounds became more insistent and more varied
in character, and occasionally were accompanied
by actual motions of the furniture. It was soon
observed that daylightwas inimical to the pheno-
mena, and the idea of trickery was thereby sug-
gested, but careful watch by Mr. Fox failed to
detect anythingof the kind. Finally,on March
. 31st, there was a very loud and continued out-
THE RIFT IN THE VEIL 261
break of inexplicable sounds. It was upon this
eveningthatone of the great points in the history
of psychic evolution was reached, for it was then
thatyoung Kate Fox, having lost all sense of fear
in the presence of that which use had made
familiar, challenged the unseen power to repeat
the snaps of her fingers. This challenge, though
given in flippant words, was instantly accepted.
Each snap was answered by a knock. However
humble the operator at either end, the spiritual
telegraph was at last working,and it was left to
the patience and moral earnestness of the human
race to determine how high might be the uses to
which it was put in the future. Unexplained
forces were many in the world, but here was a
force claiming to have independent intelligence
at the back of it. That was the supreme sign of
a new departure. “
Fancy a new spiritual depar-
ture in a frame-house in an American hamlet ! ”
Yes, and fancy a previous one in a camel-driver’s
tent in Arabia,and before that the greatest of all
in a carpenter’sshop in Judea ! Exaltavithumiles!
Mrs. Fox was amazed at this development, and
at the further discovery that the force could
apparently see as well as hear, for when Kate
snapped her fingers Without sound the rap still
responded. The mother asked a series of ques-
tions, the answers to which, given in numerals,
showed a greater knowledge of her own affairs
than she herself possessed, for the raps insisted
262 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
that she had had seven children, whereas she
protested that she had six, until one who had
died early came back to her mind. A neighbour,
Mrs. Redfield, was called in, and her amusement
was changed to wonder, and finallyto awe, as she
also listened to the correct answers to intimate
questions.
The neighbours came flocking in as some
rumours of these wonders got about, and the two
children were carried off by one of them, while
Mrs. Fox went to spend the night at Mrs. Red-
field’s. In their absence the phenomenawent on
exactlythe same as before, which disposes once
for all of those theories of crackingtoes and dis-
locating knees which have been so frequentlyput
forward by people unaware of the true facts.
The happenings of thenight were at once recorded
and were printed in pamphlet form within three
weeks of the event, so that it would be difficult
to get more prompt and direct testimony, which
was subscribed to by a number of disinterested
witnesses.
Having formed a sort of informal committee of
investigation,thecrowd,in shrewd Yankeefashion,
spent a large part of the night of March 31st in
playing question and answer with the unseen
intelligence. According to its own account he
was a spirit, he had been injured in that house,
he rapped out the name of a former occupant
who had injured him, he was thirty-one years
THE RIFT IN THE VEIL 263
old at the time of death, which was five years
before, he had been murdered for money, he had
been buried in the cellar ten feet deep. On des-
cending to the cellar dull, heavy thumps, coming
apparentlyfrom under the earth, broke out when
the investigator stood at the centre. There was
no sound at other times. That, then, was the
place of burial ! It Was a neighbour named
Duesler Who, first of all modern men, called over
the alphabet and got answers by raps on the
letters. In this way the name of the dead man
was obtained—Charles B. Rosma. The idea of
connected messages was not developed until four
monthslater,when IsaacPost, a Quaker of Roches-
ter, was the first pioneer. Such, in very brief
outline, were the events of March 31st, which
were continued and confirmed upon the succeed-
ing night, when not less thana couple of hundred
people had assembled round the house. Upon
April 2nd, it was observed that the raps came in
the day as well as at night.
Excavations were begun in the cellar, but the
spring thaw and a swollen river had flooded the
land, and water was struck a foot or so below the
surface. When the summer came, a hole was
dug by David Fox, the young son, who had come
from a distant farm after the disturbances broke
out. He Was aided by Henry Bush, Lyman
Granger of Rochester, and others. His account
of What occurred was published in Capron’s
264 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
Modem Spiritualism, 1855, and was confirmed
personally in conversation with the Hon. Dale
Owen, so that the evidence is very clear and
direct. They passed a plank five feet down, and
below it came on some crockery, charcoal, and
quicklime, under which was some human hair,
several bones, and part of a human skull. Clearer
evidence of murder and its concealment could
hardly be asked for. These were corroborative
details, for a young girl, Lucretia Pulver, came
forward with an account of how a pedlar had
called there while she was acting as
“
help ”
to
Mr. and Mrs. B He had remained for the
night, while she, the girl, had been sent away,
and was kept away three days. The pedlar had
promised to call at her father’s house, but he
never came. On her return she had heard for
thefirst time therappings and noises in thehouse.
She observed that the centre of the cellar was
soft,whichwas explained by Mrs. B———— as being
due to rat-holes. Afterwards, Mr. B———— carried
down some earth and was at work for some time.
Shortly afterwards the B——s left the house and
the neighbourhood, but their successors, the
Weekmans, were conscious of the same noises
which finallyculminated under the Fox tenancy.
As might beexpected,B——,who was a black-
smithby trade, vigorously denied this accusation
and produced many certificates as a proof that
he was a man of good character. The spiritual
THE RIFT IN THE VEIL 265
story was also weakened by the fact thatthe man
Rosma could not be traced in Orange Country,
New York, whence he professed to have come,
and a search for five alleged children was equally
fruitless. We know now how diflicult it is to
get a name throughcorrectly,and I thinkit very
likely that “
Ross ”
may have been the real sur-
name. His non—recognition is less remarkableas
he was by profession a wanderer. It must be
admitted thatthecase against B—— neededfurther
corroborationbeforeit could be called substantial.
Two great undoubted results did emerge, how-
ever, which have never been shaken, that the
origin of theraps could by no means be explained,
and thattheydid convey the unknown fact that a
human body had been buried in the cellar. This
is thevital core of thewhole matter, for it touched
thatwhich is of eternal interest to all of us, while
the question of individual guilt is temporary and
incidental.
The danger of blindly following alleged spirit
guidance was clearlyshown some months later in
theneighbouringtown of Rochester, where a man
disappeared under suspicious circumstances. An
enthusiastic Spiritualist had messages by raps
which announced a murder. The canal was
dragged, and the wife of the missing man was
actuallyordered to enter the canal, which nearly
cost her her life. Some monthslater theabsentee
returned, having fled to Canada to avoid a Writ
S
266 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
for debt. This, as may Well be imagined, was a
a
blow to theyoung cult. The public did not then
understand what even now is so little understood,
that death causes no change in the human spirit,
that mischievous and humorous entities abound,
and that the inquirer must use his own instincts
and his own common sense at every turn. “
Try
the spirits that ye may know them.” In the
same year, in the same district, the truth of this
new philosophyupon the one side, and its limita-
tions and dangers on the other,were most clearly
set forth. These dangers are with us still. The
silly man, the arrogant inflated man, the cock-
sure man, is always a safe butt. Every observer
has had some trick played upon him. I have
myself had my faith sorely shaken by deception
until some compensating proof has come along to
assure me that it was only a lesson which I had
received, and thatit was no more fiendish or even
remarkablethat disembodied intelligences should
be hoaxers,thanthat the same intelligence inside
a human body should find amusement in the
same foolish way.
The first effect of the new dispensation was
to bring utter misery and ruin to the Fox family.
Within their house there were constant disturb-
ances from the insistent manifestations, while
from withouttheywere plagued by sightseers and
wonder-mongers,manyof whom looked upon the
unfortunate people as being concerned in some-
I
THE RIFT IN THE VEIL 267
thingdiabolical. Kate was sent awayto Rochester
to join her married sister, Mrs. Fish, but her
absence appears to have had no effect upon the
sounds which continued to disturb the family,
who at last abandoned Hydesville altogether,
hoping that the manifestations would remain
behind. It speedily became evident, however,
that the unseen powers were no longer attached
to the place, but that they specially associated
themselves with the two girls, for they were as
insistent in the town as in the hamlet. In Vain
the family prayed with their Methodist friends
that relief should come. In vain also were the
exorcisms of the ministers of various creeds.
Beyond joining with loud raps in the “
Amens,”
the unseen presences took no notice of these
religious exercises.
The whole course of the movement had now
widened and taken a more important turn. It
was no longer a murdered man calling for justice.
The pedlarseemed to have beenused as a pioneer,
and now that he had found the opening and the
method,a myriad of Intelligences were swarming
at his back. Isaac Post had instituted themethod
of spelling by raps, and messages were pouring
through. According to these the whole system
had been devised by the contrivance of a band of
thinkers and inventors upon the spirit plane,
foremost among whom was Benjamin Franklin,
whose eager mind and electrical knowledge in
268 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
earth life might well qualify him for such a ven-
ture. Whether this claim was true or not, it is a
fact that Rosma dropped out of the picture at
this stage, and thatthe intelligent knockings pur-
ported to be from the deceased friends of those
inquirers who were prepared to take a serious
interest in the matter, and to gather in reverent
mood to receive the messages. That they still
lived and still loved was the constant message
from the beyond,accompaniedby many material
tests, which confirmed the wavering faith of the
new adherents of the movement. When asked
for their methods of workingand the laws which
governed them,the answers were from the begin-
ning exactly what they are now—that it was a
matter concerned with human and spirit mag-
netism, that some who were richlyendowed with
this physical property were mediums, that this
endowment was not necessarilyallied to morality
or intelligence, and thatthe condition of harmony
was especially necessary to secure good results.
In eighty years we have learned very little more
—and after all these years the primary law of
harmony is invariably broken at the so-called
test séances, the members of which imagine that
they have disproved the philosophy when they
obtain no results, whereas they have actually
confirmed it.
In one of the early communications the Fox
sisters were assured that “these manifestations
THE RIFT IN THE VEIL 269
would go all over the world.” This prophecy
was soon in a fair way to be fulfilled, for these
new powers, and further developments of them
which included the discerning and hearing of
spirits and the movement of objects without con-
tact, appeared in many circles which were inde-
pendent of the Fox family. In an incredibly
short space of time the movement, with many
eccentricities and phases of fanaticism,had swept
over the Northern and Eastern States of the
Union, always retaining that solid core of actual
tangible fact, which might be occasionally simu-
lated by impostors but always reasserted itself to
the serious investigator who could shake himself
free from preconceived prejudice. Disregarding
for the moment these wider developments, let
us continue the story of the original circles at
Rochester.
The spirit messages had urged upon the small
band of pioneers a public demonstration of their
powers in an open meeting at Rochester—a pro-
position which was naturallyappalling to two shy
‘country girls and to their friends. So incensed
were the discarnate Guides by the opposition of
their earthlyagents, that they threatened to sus-
pend the whole movement for a generation, and
did actually desert them completely for some
weeks. At the end of that timeicommunication
was restored,and the believers,chastened by this
interval of thought, put themselves unreservedly
270 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
into the hands of the outside forces, promising
that theywould dare all in the cause. It was no
light matter. A few of the clergy, notably a
Methodist named the Rev. A. H. Jervis, rallied
to their aid, but the majority thundered from
their pulpits against them, and the mob eagerly
joined in the cowardly sport of heretic-baiting.
On November 14., 1849, the Spiritualists held
their first meeting at the Corinthian Hall, the
largest available in Rochester. The audience, to
its credit, listened withattention to the exposition
of facts from Mr. Capron of Auburn, the prin-
cipal speaker. A committee of five representative
citizens was then selected to examine into the
matter and to report upon the following evening,
when the meeting would reassemble. So certain
was it thatthis report would be unfavourablethat
the Rochester Democrat is stated to have had its
leadingarticleprepared,withtheheading : “Entire
Exposure of the Rapping Humbug.” The result
however, caused the"’edi_tor to hold his hand.
The committee reported that the raps were
undoubted facts, though the informationwas not
invariably correct. They added that these raps
came on walls and doors some distance from the
girls, causing a sensible vibration. “They en-
tirely failedto find any means by which it could
be done.”
This report was received with disapproval by
theaudienceand a second committee from among
THE RIFT IN THE VEIL 271
the dissentients was formed. This investigation
was conducted in the oflice of a lawyer. Kate,
for some reason, was away, and only Mrs. Fish
and Margaret present. None theless, thesounds
continued as before, though a Dr. Langworthy
was introduced to test the possibilityof Ventrilo-
quism. The final report was that “the sounds
were heard, and their thoroughinvestigation had
conclusively shown them to be produced neither
by machinerynor Ventriloquism,thoughWhat the
agent is theywere unable to determine.”
Again the audienceturned down the report of
their own committee, and again a deputation Was
chosen from among the most extreme opponents,
one of whom vowed that if he could not find out
the trick he would throw himself over the Falls
of the Genessee River. Their examination was
thorough to the length of brutality, and a com-
mittee of ladies were associated with it. The
latter stripped the frightened girls, who wept
bitterly under their afflictions. Their dresses
were then tied tightly round their ankles, and
theywere placed upon glass and other insulators.
The committee was forced to report “
when they
were standing on pillowswitha handkerchieftied
round the bottom of their dresses, tight to the
ankles, we all heard the rapping on the wall and
floor distinctly.” The committee furthertestified
that their questions, some of them mental, had
been answered correctly.
272 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
So long as the public looked upon the move-
ment as a sort of joke it was prepared to be toler-
antly amused, but when these successiv!‘.' reports
put the matter in a more serious light, a wave
of blackguardism swept over the town, Which
reached such a pitch that Mr. Willetts, a gallant
Quaker, was compelled at thefourth public meet-
ing to declare that “the mob of ruffians who
designed to lynch the girls should do so, if they
attempted it, over his dead body.” There was a
disgracefulriot, the young women were smuggled
out by a back door, and reason and justice were
for the moment clouded over by force and folly.
Then, as now, the minds of the average men of
the world were so crammed with the thingsthat
do not matter that they had no space for the
things that do matter. But Fate is never in a
hurry and themovementwent on. Manyaccepted
the findingsof the successive committees as being
final, and indeed it is diflicult to see how the
allegedfactscould have beenmore severelytested.
At the same time thisstrong new fermentingwine
beganto burst some of the old bottles into which
it was poured, to the excusable disgust of the
public. '
The many discreet, serious, and religious circles
were for a season almost obscured by swollen-
headed ranters, who imagined themselves to be
in touch with every high entityfrom theApostles
downwards, some even claimingthedirect afflatus
THE RIFT IN THE VEIL 273
of the Holy Ghost and emitting messages which
were onlysaved from beingblasphemousby their
crudity and absurdity. One community of these
fanatics, who called themselves the Apostolic
Circle of Mountain Cove, particularly distin-
guished themselves by their extreme claims and
furnished good material for the enemies of the
new dispensation. The great body of Spiritual-
ists turned away in disapproval from such exag-
gerations, but were unable to prevent them.
Many well-attested supernormalphenomenacame
to support the failing spirits of those who were
distressed by the excesses of the fanatics. On
one occasion, which is particularlyconvincingand
well-reported, two bodies of investigators in
separate rooms received the same messages simul-
taneously from some central force which called
itself Benjamin Franklin. This double message
was :
“
There will be great changes in the nine-
teenth century. Things that now look dark will
be made plain. The world will be enlightened.”
It must be admitted that the prophecy has up to
now been only partially fulfilled—andit may at
the same time be conceded that,with some start-
ling exceptions, the forecasts of the Spirit people
have not been remarkablefor accuracy,especially
where the element of time is concerned.
The question has often been asked: “
What
was the purpose of so strange a movement at this
particular time,grantingthatit is all thatit claims
274 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
to be P ”
Governor Tallmadge, a United States.
Senator of repute, was one of the early converts;
to the new cult, and he has left it upon record.
that he asked this question upon two separate
occasions in two different years from different:
mediums. The answer in each case was almost
identical. The first said :
“
It is to draw man--
kind togetherin harmony and to convince sceptics
of the immortality of the soul.” The second
said :
“
To unite mankind and to convince scep--
tics of the immortality of the soul.” Surely this
is no ignoble ambitionand does not justify those
narrow and bitter attacks from ministers and the
less progressive of theirflocksfrom which Spiritu-
alists have up to the present day had to suffer.
The first half of the definition is, I think,particu-
larlyimportant, for I believethat one of the ulti-
mate results of this movement will be to unite
Christianity upon a common basis so strong and,
indeed, self-sufficient that the quibbles which
separate the Churches of to-day will be seen in
their true proportion and will be swept away or
disregarded. One could even hope that such a
movement might spread beyond the bounds of
Christianity and throw down some of the barriers
which stand between great sections of the human
‘I’ace.
Withintwo years from the crisis at Hydesville,
the Fox sisters, still little more than children,
were in New York, in the centre of the huge
THE RIFT IN THE VEIL 275
public discussion which raged round the subject.
They stayed as guests for a short time in the
house of Horace Greeley, the famous editor of
theNew York Tribune,one of the clearest thinkers
in America,and whilsttheregave constant exhibi-
tions of their strange powers. Greeley had the
courage to imperilthe fortunes of his great news-
paper by publicly stating that the phenomena
which he had tested were undoubtedly genuine.
“
We devoted What time we could spare from our
duties, out of three days,‘to this subject,” he
wrote :
“
It would be the basest cowardice not to say that We are
convinced beyond a doubt of the ladies’ perfect integrity
and good faith. Whatever may be the origin or cause of the
rappings, the ladies in whose presence they occur do not
make them. We tested this thoroughly and to our entire
satisfaction. Their conduct: and bearing are as unlike that
of deceivers as possible.”
So said Horace Greeley, cute Yankee and man
oftheworld,after personalinvestigation. Against
this, what is the Worth of the opinion of people
who even now talk nonsense about crackingjoints
and ventriloquism?
What impressed the New Yorkers as much as
the actual sounds was the extreme accuracy of
the answers and the fact thatunspoken questions
were replied to as readily as those which were
audible. We have records of one particular
séance at which there were more famous men
276 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
assembled than have ever perhaps been present
at one demonstration. Among them were Feni-
more Cooper,thenovelist; Bancroft,thehistorian ;
Cullen Bryant and N. P. Willis, poets; Bigelow,
Dr. Griswold, with several doctors and clergy-
men. As befitted such a company the pheno-
mena were mental ratherthan material, but abso-
lutelyconvincing. Mrs. Fox and thethreedaugh-
ters were the mediums. It is interesting to note
thathalf an hour elapsed before any sounds were
heard. Strong brains charged with prejudice
were.present and time wasfieeded,even by those
remarkablemediums,to harmonizetheconditions.
Then atlastcameslight sounds,increasinggradu-
ally in volume until they were Very clear. Each
memberof the company in turn asked questions,
some mentally,some aloud, and all attested that
the correct answers were given by the knockings.
The record is too long to give in detail, but some
of the information was so exact and so unusual
that it was absolutely convincing. It is said that
nearly all the guests were converted by this
remarkable experience, and that this knowledge
comingwhen theirfeet were, as thefuture proved,
on thevery thresholdof death,was of inestimable
comfort to Cooper and to Willis.
In the presence of these extraordinary happen-
ings it may be imagined that American science
was not silent. It was loud in its mockery and
disapproval. At last the flood rising from that
0
THE RIFT IN THE VEIL 277
small spring at Hydesville had become so great
that it would no longer be ignored. The reli-
gious exorcism: had failed. Could not science
put a stop once for all to thisdisturbingintrusion P
There were two scientists in the United States at
that time who had a European reputation. One
was Agassiz,thenaturalist,theother Robert Hare,
the chemist,who invented amongother thingsthe
oyx-hydrogen blow—pipe. It was Robert Hare
who went forth to slay the new delusion. He
started in that thoroughly unscientific frame of
mind in which science has always approachedthe
question. He felt called upon, he said, “
to bring
whatever influencehe possessed to the attempt to
stem the tide of popular madness which, in defi-
ance of reason and science, was fast setting in
favour of the gross delusion called Spiritualism.”
This can hardly be called an impartial method of
approaching an inquiry, and can only be com-
pared with Faraday’s contemporary assertion that
in investigating such a matter one should make
up one’s mind beforehand what is possible and
What is not. Here was a brave and honest man,
however. The huge tome which recorded his
investigation lies upon my table as I write. It is
adorned with pictures of the spring balances,
double tables, and other appliances with which
he endeavoured to confound these heretics, and
was himself confounded. So searching was his
investigation that every possible source of error
278 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
was eliminated. As a result Professor Hare
declared after a year thathe had been entirely
mistaken, and that the claims of the new philo-
sophy not only as to the phenomena, but as to
their source and meaning, were absolutely justi-
fied. For this he was boycotted and bullied by
the American Scientific Association, which seems-
to have behaved as unwisely as all of our own
scientific bodies in its unreasoning opposition to
what it did not comprehend. Whilst the report
of this eminent scientific man was ignored, great
stress was laid upon the absurd report of three
unknown medical men of Buffalo, who declared
thatin their opinion the sounds made by the Fox
sisters were caused by the repeated partial dis-
locations of their knee-joints. How these dis-
locations answered unspoken questions was not
explained.
The persecution endured by Professor Hare was
repeated in the case of Judge Edmonds, head of
the High Court of New York, who had also
approachedthemovement witha view to exposing
it, but who found himself confounded by the
appearance of phenomena within his own family
circle, and by the development of his own daugh-
ter into a medium, possessing in some directions
greater powers than the Fox sisters. Like Pro-
fessor Hare, he proclaimed his conversion in a
book, and had to leave the Bench in consequence.
Such intolerance was deplorable, and yet there is
THE RIFT "IN THE VEIL 279
this excuse for it, that numerous cranks had burst
into all sorts of wild theories, and also that the
vile race of spurious mediums, or of mediums
who eked out real powers by faked phenomena,
were beginning to appear and to cause those
scandals withwhich we are too familiar. Unable
to distinguish the true from the counterfeit, the
public, busy With its own affairs and impatient
with the claims of another World, was glad to
dismiss the whole subject as one vast delusion.
A word must be said as to the tragic fate of the
two younger Fox sisters, 3. subject which is painful
to Spiritualists and yet must be faced. Both
fell victims to that dipsomania which was here-
ditary in the family. Each had made a remark-
ably good marriage, Margaret becomingthe wife
of Dr. Kane, the famous Arctic explorer, while
Kate married Mr. Jencken, a member of the
English Bar. The latter was very thoroughly
tested by Professor Crookes, who was a most
severe critic of psychic powers, thoughopponents
of the movement represent him as credulous.
Margaret became a Roman Catholic, and high
influences:wereused,accordingto her own account,
to place her in a convent. What with religious
excitement and her hereditary weakness she fell
in her later years into a pitiable state, in which
she alternatelydenounced Spiritualism,proclaim-
ing herself an impostor, and recanted her state-
ment with the most solemn vows. Personally,I
280 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
am of opinion that she was by no means free
from the suspicion that when psychic power was
wantingshe supplementedit by fraud. As to her
final assertions and denials, I think that Father
Thurston may be right when he says that both
were in a sense true. Mr. Isaac Funk,thefamous
lexicographer,says of her in her later years,
“
For
five dollars she would have denied her mother
and sworn to anything.”
I have said that such a fate befallingthe early
mediums is painful to their friends, but it has
small bearingupon their faith. A medium is in
no sense a teacher or an example, but is a passive
instrument for forces outside herself. There
have been, and are, many mediums who have
been of saintly mould. There have been others
who have yielded to some human weakness, very
especiallyto drink. Their powers and theirmes-
sage are to be held distinct from themselves,as a
Catholicwould hold that a bad priest may cele-
brate a true sacrament, or a materialist that a
foolish operator may transmit a wise telegram.
There weaknesses delay the acceptance of the
new knowledge. It stillstands upon thethreshold
——but the door is slowly opening.
XIV
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES
SYCHICscience, though still in its infancy,
has already reached a point Where We can
dissect many of those occurrences which were
regarded as inexplicable in past ages, and can
classify and even explain them—'—so far as any
ultimate explanation of anything is possible.
So long as gravity, electricity, magnetism, and
so many other great natural forces are inexplic-
able one must not ask too much of the youngest
—though it is also the oldest—of the sciences.
But the progress made has been surprising—
the more surprising since it has been done
by a limited circle of students Whose results
have hardly reached the World at large, and
have been greeted rather with incredulous con-
tempt than with the appreciation which they
deserve. So far have We advanced that of
the eighty or ninety cases carefully detailed
in Dale OWen’s Footfalls, published in 1859,
we find now, seventy years later, that there is
hardly one which cannot be classified and under-
stood. It would be interesting, therefore, to
281 T
282 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
survey some of those cases which stand on
record in our law courts, and have been variously
explained in the past as being either extra-
ordinary coincidences or as interpositions of
Providence. The latter phrase may well repre-
sent a fact, but people must learn that no such
thing has ever been known as an interposition
of Providence save through natural’ law, and
that when it has seemed inexplicable and mira-
culous it is only because the law has not yet
been understood. All miracles come under exact
law, but the law, like all natural laws, is itself
divine and miraculous.
We will endeavour in recounting these cases,
which can only be done in the briefest fashion,
to work from the simpler to the more complex
—-from that which may have depended upon
‘the natural but undefined powers of the sub-
conscious self, through all the range of clairvoy-
ance and telepathy,until we come to that which
seems beyond all question to be influenced by
the spirit of the dead. There is one case,that
of Owen Parfitt, of Shepton Mallet, in Somerset-
shire, which may form a starting-point, since
it is really impossible to say Whether it was
psychic or not; but if it were not, it forms
one of the most piquant mysteries which ever
came before the British public.
This old fellow was a seaman, a kind of John
Silver, who lived in the piratical days of the
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 283
eighteenth century and finally settled down,
upon what were usually considered to have
been ill-gottengains,about theyear 1760,occupy-
ing a comfortable cottage on the edge of the
little Somerset town. His sister kept house
for him, but she was herself too infirm to look
after the rheumatic old mariner, so a neighbour
named Susanna Snook used to come in by the
day and help to care for him. It was observed
that Parfitt went periodically to Bristol, and
that he returned with money, but how he gained
it was his secret. He appears to have been a
secretive and wicked old creature, with many
strange tales of wild doings, some of which
related to the West Coast of Africa,and possibly
to the slave trade. Eventually his infirmity
increased;upon him. He could no longer get
farther than his garden, and seldom left the
great chair in which he was placed every day
by the ministering Susanna Snook, just outside
the porch of the cottage.
Then one summer morning, June 6, 1768,
an extraordinary thinghappened. He had been
deposited as usual, with a shawl round his
shoulders, while the hard—working Susanna
darted back to her own cottage near-by. She
was away for half an hour. When she returned
she found, to her amazement, that the old sea-
man had disappeared. His sister was wringing
her hands in great bewildermentover the shawl,
284 ‘
THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
which still remained upon the chair, but as to
what became of the old reprobate nothing has
ever been learned from thatday to this. It should
be emphasized that he was practicallyunable to
Walk and was far too heavy to be easilycarried.
The alarm was at once given, and as the
haymaking was in full swing the countryside
was full of workers, who were ready to declare
that even if he could have walked he could not
have escaped their observation upon the roads.
A search was started, but it was interrupted
by a sudden and severe storm, with thunder
and heavy rain. In spite of the weather, there
was a general alarm for twenty-four hours,
which failed to discover the least trace of the
missing man. His unsavoury character, some
reminiscences of the Obi men and Voodoo
cult of Africa, and the sudden thunderstorm,
all combined to assure the people of Somerset
that the devil had laid his claws upon the old
seaman; nor has any natural explanation since
those days set the matter in a more normal
light. There were hopes once that this had
been attained when, in the year 1813, some
human bones were discovered in the garden
of a certain Widow Lockyer, who lived within
two hundred yards of the old man’s cottage.
Susanna Snook was still alive, and gave evidence
at the inquiry, but just as it began to appear
that perhaps the old man had been coaxed away
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 285
and murdered, a surgeon from Bristol shut
down the Whole matter by a positive declaration
thatthe bones were those of a woman. So the
affair rests till to—day.
No psychic explanation can be accepted in
any case until all reasonable normal solutions
have been exhausted. It is possible that those
visits to Bristol were connected with blackmail,
and that some deeper villain in the background
found means to silence that dangerous tongue.
But how was it done P It is a freakish, insoluble
borderland case, and there we must leave it.
The natural question arises: If you have spirit
communications why are you unable to get an
explanationP The answer is thatspiritcommuni-
cation is also governed by inexorable laws, and
that you might as Well expect an electric current
along a broken wire as to get a communication
when the conditions have become impossible.
Passing on to a more definite example, let
us take the case of the murder of Maria Marten,
which was for a long time a favourite subject
when treated at village fairs under the name
of “The Mystery of the Red Barn.” Maria
Marten was murdered in the year I827 by a
young farmer named Corder, who should have
married her but failed to do so, preferring to
murder her in order to conceal the result of
their illicit union. His ingenious method was
to announce that he was about to marry the
286 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
girl, and then at the last hour shot her dead
and buried her body. He then disappeared
from the neighbourhood,‘ and gave out that
he and she were secretly wedded and were
living together at some unknown address.
The murder was on May 18, 1827, and for
some time the plan was completely successful,
the crime being more effectually concealed
because Corder had left behind him instructions
that the barn should be filled up with stock.
The rascal sent home a few letters purporting
to be from the Isle of Wight, explaining that
Maria and he were living together in great
contentment. Some suspicion was aroused by
the fact that the postmarks of these letters were
all from London, but none the less the matter
might have been overlooked had it not been
for the unusual action of an obscure natural
law which had certainly never been allowed for
in Mr. Corder’s calculations.
Mrs. Marten, the girl’s mother, dreamed upon
three nights running that her daughter had
been murdered. This in itself might count
for little, since it may have only reflected her
vague fears and distrust. The dreams, how-
ever, were absolutely definite. She saw in them
the red barn, and even the very spot in which
the remains had been deposited. The latter
detail is. of great importance, since it disposes
of the idea that the incident could have arisen
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 287
from the girl having told her mother that she
had an assignation there. The dreams occurred
in March, 1828, ten months after the crime,
but it was the middle of April before the wife
was able to persuade her husband to act upon
such evidence. At last she broke down his
very natural scruples, and permission was given
to examine the barn, now cleared of its contents.
The woman pointed to the spot and the man
dug. A piece of shawl was immediatelyexposed,
and eighteen inches below it the body itself
was discovered, the horrified searcher staggering
in a frenzy out of the ill-omened barn. The
dress, the teeth, and some small details were
enough to establish the identification.
The villainwas arrested in London, Where he
had become, by marriage, the proprietor of a
girls’ school, and was engaged, at the moment
of capture, in ticking off the minutes for the
correct boiling of the breakfast eggs. He set
up an ingenious defence, by which he tried
to prove that the girl had committed suicide,
but therewas no doubt thatit was a cold-blooded
crime, for he had taken not only pistols, but
also a pickaxe into the barn. This was the
View which the jury took, and he was duly
hanged, confessing his guilt in a half-hearted
way before his execution. It is an interesting
fact that the London schoolmistress, Whom he
had trapped into marriage by means of a specious
288 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
advertisement in which he described himself as
a
“
private gentleman, whose disposition is not
to be exceeded,” remained devotedly attached
to him to the end.
Now here is a case about which there is no
possible doubt. The murder was unquestion-
ably discovered by means of the triple dream,
for which there could have been no natural
explanation. There remain two psychic explana-
tions. The one depends upon telepathy or
thought-reading,a phenomenonwhich,of course,
exists, as anyone can prove who experiments
with it, but which has been stretched to most
unreasonable lengths by those who would prefer
any explanationto thatwhich entails disembodied
intelligence. It is, of course, Within the bounds
of remote possibilitythat the murderer thought
of the girl’s mother upon three successive nights
and also upon the scene of the crime, thus con-
necting up the vision of one with the brain
of the other. If any student thinks this the
more probable explanationhe is certainlyentitled
to accept it. On the other hand, there is a
good deal of evidence that dreams, and especially
early-in-the-morningdreams just before the final
Waking, do at times convey information which
seems to come from other intelligences than
our own. Taking all the facts, I am of opinion
that the spirit of the dead woman did actually
get in touch with the mind of the mother, and
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 289
impressed upon her the true facts of her unhappy
fate. It is to be remembered, however, that
even thosewho advanced telepathyas an explana-
tion of such a case are postulating a power which
was utterly unknown to science until this genera-
tion, and which itself represents a great extension
of our psychic knowledge. We must not allow
it, however, to block our way to the further and
more important advances which lie beyond it.
For purposes of comparison we will now take
another dream case which is perfectly authentic.
Upon February 8th, 1840, Edmund Norway,
the chief oflicer of the ship Orient, at that time
near St. Helena, dreamed a dream between
the hours of IO p.m. and 4 a.m. in which he
saw his brother Nevell, a Cornish gentleman,
murdered by two men. His brother was seen
to be mounted. One of the assailants caught
the horse’s bridle and snapped a pistol twice,
but no report was heard. He and his comrade
then struck him several blows, and dragged
him to the side of the road, where they left
him. The road appeared to be a familiar one
in Cornwall, but the house, which should have
been on the right, came out upon the left in
the visual picture. The .dream was recorded
in writing at the time, and was told to the other
oflicers of the ship.
»The murder had actually occurred, and the
assassins, two brothers named Lightfoot, were
290 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
executed on April 13th of that year, at Bodmin.
In his confession the elder brother said: “I
went to Bodmin on February 8th and met my
brother . . . my brother knocked Mr. Norway
down. He snapped a pistol at him twice, but
it did not go off. He then knocked him down
with the"pistol. It was on the road to Wade-
bridge” (the road which had been seen in
the dream). “
We left the body in the water
on the left side of the road coming to Wade-
bridge. My brother drew the body across the
road to the watering.” The evidence made it
clear that the murder was committed between
the hours of ten and eleven at night. As St.
Helena is, roughly, in the same longitude as
England, the time of the dream might exactly
correspond with that of the crime.
These are the actual facts, and, though they
may be explained, they cannot be explained
away. It appears that Norway, the sailor, had
been thinking of and writing to his landsman
brother just before going to his bunk. This
might possibly have made the subsequent vision
more easy by bringing the two men into rapport.
There is a considerable body of evidence to
prove that during sleep there is some part of
us, call it the etheric body, the subconscious
self, or what you will, which can detach itself
and visit distant scenes, though the cut—off
between sleeping and waking is so complete
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 291
that it is very rarely that the memory of the
night’s experience is carried through. I could
quote many examples within my own experience
of this “travelling clairvoyance,” as it is called,
but one which attracted a good deal of attention
at the time, as it was fully described in The
Times, was that of Sir Rider Haggard’s dog,
the dead body of which was found through a
vision of the night. The same occurs in the
stupor of high fever, and I have heard my little
son, with a temperature of one hundred and
four degrees, make a remark in delirium which
showed that he saw clearly what had occurred
in the next room.
“
Naughty Denis, breaking
my soldiers 1” were the words, and they were
absolutely correct. Thus it can easily be con-
ceived that the consciousness of the sailor,
drawn to his brother by recent loving thoughts,
went swiftly to him in his sleep, and was so
shocked to witness his murder that it was able
to carry the record through into his normal
memory. The case would resolve itself, then,
into one which depended upon the normal
but unexplored powers of the human organism,
and not upon any interposition from the spirit
of the murdered man. Had the vision of the
latter appeared alone, without the accompanying
scene, it would have seemed more probable
that it was indeed a post-mortem apparition.
For the next illustration we will turn to the
292 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
records of American crime. In this case, which
is absolutely authentic,a man named Mortensen
owed a considerable sum of money, three thou-
sand eight hundred dollars, to a company, which
was represented by the secretary, Mr. Hay.
The transaction occurred in Utah in the year
1901. Mortensen beguiled Hay to his private
house late in the evening, and nothing more
was heard of the unfortunate man. Mortensen’s
story was that he paid the money in gold, and
that Hay had given him a receipt and had
started home with the money, carried in glass
jars. When the police visited Mortensen’s house
in the morning theywere accompaniedby Hay’s
father-in-law,an agedMormon named Sharp,who
said: “
Where did you last see my son-in-law? ”
“
Here,” answered Mortensen, indicating a
spot outside his door.
“
If that is the last place you saw him,” said
Sharp, “then that is where you killed him.”
“
How do you know he is dead?” asked
Mortensen.
“I have had a vision,” said Sharp, “and
the proof is that within one mile of the spot
where you are standing, his dead body will be
dug up from the field.”
There was snow on the ground at the time,
and next morning, December 18th, a neighbour
observed some blood-stains upon it not very far
from Mortensen’s house. They led to a mound
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 293
shaped like a grave. The neighbour procured
a spade, borrowing it from Mortensen himself,
and speedilyunearthed the body of Hay. There
was a bullet Wound at the back of his head.
His valuables had been untouched, but the
receipt which he was known to have carried
to Mortensen’s house afforded suflicient reason
for the murder.
The whole crime seems to have been a very
crude and elementary affair, and it is diflicult
to see how Mortensen could have hoped to
save himself, unless, indeed, an immediate flight
was in his mind. There could be no adequate
defence, and the man was convicted and shot
—the law of Utah giving the criminal the choice
as to the fashion of his own death. The only
interest in the affair is the psychic one, for again
old Sharp repeated at the trial that in a vision
he had learned the facts. It is not a very clear
case, however, and may conceivably have been
a bluff upon the part of the old man, who had
formed his own opinion as to the character of
his son—in-law, and his probable actions. Such
a solution would, however, involve a very extra-
ordinary coincidence.
The next case which I would cite is very
much more conVincing—in fact, it is final in
its clear proof of psychic action, though the
exact degree may be open to discussion. The
facts seem to have been established beyond
294 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
all possible doubt, though there is some slight
confusion about the date. According to the
account of Mr. Williams, of Cornwall, the chief
actor, it was in the early days of May, 1812,
that he thrice in the same night had a remark-
able dream. Mr. Williams was a man of affairs,
and the superintendent of some great Cornish
mines. He was familiar with the lobby of the
House of Commons, into which his interests
had occasionally led him. It was this lobby-
which he perceived clearly in his dream. His
attention was arrested by a man in a snuff-
coloured coat, with metal buttons, who loitered
there. Presently there entered a small, brisk
man in a blue coat and white waistcoat. As
he passed, the first man whipped out a pistol
and shot the other through the breast. In his
dream Mr. Williams was made aware that the
murdered man was Mr. Perceval, the Chancellor
of the Exchequer. Mr. Williams was greatly
impressed, and alarmed, by this dream, and
he recounted it not only to his wife but also
to several friends whom he met at the Godolphin
mine next day, asking their advice whether he
should go up to London and report the matter.
To this they answered very naturally, but un-
fortunately as the event proved, that it was
useless, and would only expose him to derision.
On thethirteenth,about ten days after thedream,
Mr. Williams narrates how his son, returning,
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 295
from Truro, rushed into the room crying, “
Oh,
father, your dream has come true! Mr. Per-
ceval has been shot in the House of Commons.”
The deed, as is well known, was committed
by a man named Bellingham, who had some
imaginary grievance. The dress of the two chief
actors, and all the other details, proved to be
exactly as foretold.
In an account in The Times sixteen years
later it was stated that the vision was upon
the actual night of the murder, which would
reduce the case to ordinary clairvoyance, but
the evidence is very strong that it was prophetic
as Well. Mr. Williams, Writing in 1832, four
years after The Times account, repeated the
story once more as it is set forth here. His
wife, his friends at the mine, his projected
journey to London, and his recollection of his
son’s arrival with the news all corroborate his
version of the aflair. What comment can we
make upon such an incident? Explain it we
cannot, but at least we can get some light upon
it by examining the statements of others who
have had both the clairvoyant and the prophetic
faculty. One of these was Swedenborg, who
exhibited it again and again, but We have no
exact account from him as to how his visions
came. More to the point are the notes of Mr.
Turvey, of Bournemouth, a most remarkable
psychic, whose Beginnings of Seership is one of
296 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
themost illuminatingbooks I know. Our ordin-
ary comments must always be explanations
from outside, but this gentleman, with his great
powers and analytical brain, is able to give us
more precious information which comes from
within. Mr. Turvey was not only an extra-
ordinary clairvoyant, capable of throwing out
his own etheric body at will, and communicating
at once to others theinformationwhich it brought
back, but he again and again saw scenes of the
future, which he put upon record and which
frequently,if not invariably,were fulfilled. His
description of his own sensation is very helpful
and destined, I think,to be classical. He says :
“
At certain times I see a sort of ribbon moving like the
endless belt of a cinema film. In colour it is very palehelio-
trope, and seems to vibrate very rapidly. On it are numerous
little pictures, some of which appear to be engraved upon
the film itself, while others are like pale-blue photographs
stuck upon the film. The former refer to past, the latter
to future events. The locality is judged by the scenery and
climatic heat ”
(felt by the observer). “
The dates are
judged by the clearness of the pictures.”
Now, applying this analysis of Mr. Turvey
to the far less complete experience of Mr.
Williams, we get some glimmer of light. Mr.
Williams was of Welsh or Cornish stock, and
predisposed to the psychic. In his busy life he
could not develop it as Mr. Turvey had done,
for the latter, though he was once a famous
athlete,had broken in health to an extent which
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 297
confined him to his chair.’ Yet at times his
true innate powers could assert themselves, and
thus he received or perceived one of those cinema
visions of which Mr. Turvey speaks. Why it
should have been sent him is beyond our ken.
Was it to prompt him to go to London, as he
so nearly did, and try to turn the stream of
fate? Or was it as impersonal as were many
of the prophetic visions of Mr. Turvey? One
cannot say, but there is a big fact standing up
as clear as the Nelson Column, and to turn
away one’s eyes, pretend not to see it, and make
no attempt to fit it into the general scheme
of the universe, is neither science nor common
sense. Mr. Turvey has left it upon record
that he saw more unpleasant than pleasant
things, and Mr. Williams’ experience was in
accordance. This might be taken as supporting
the idea that the visions are for the purpose
of warning and prevention. When one con-
siders that in this instance the picture of the
lobby of the House of Commons was presented
to one of the very few men in Cornwall who
would recognize the place when they saw it,
it certainly suggests that the vision did not
merely happen, but came for a definite purpose.
It is not to be denied that this and many other
prophetic cases strengthen the argument of the
fatalist, who holds thatour Life’s pathis marked
out for us. On the other hand, the student
'
U
298 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
will find a certain number of cases which give
a comforting assurance, that, though the general
path may be indicated, there is still a certain
play of events which gives room for changes
in the issue. I have notes, for example, of
one dream or vision in which the subject had
a most clear impression of a long series of events,
which ended in his going down a coal-mine,
the latter experience being particularly vivid.
Some months afterwards the whole long episode
occurred exactly as depicted, but when they
came to the coal—mine the guide said :
“
I had
hoped to take you down the coal-mine, but it
is a holiday, and the cage is not working.” In
another case a young oflicer of my acquaintance
was warned by a dead comrade that they would
meet again upon a certain date. The young
man spent the day in his dug-out, and late in
the evening was congratulating himself upon
having got through, when about 10 p.m. his
Company Commander came round and said:
“I fear I must ask you to do a rather dirty
job. We have to find if there are any of our
dead near the German wire. Take a few men
and make an examination.” He gave himself
up as lost, and his batman, who had heard the
story, burst into tears. The young fellow was
so convinced of his own impending fate that
he left his party safe in No Man’s Land, thinking
that there was no use in their being sacrificed
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 299
also. He went forward alone, made a perfectly
successful search, returned in safety, and had
no misfortune at all. Such a case must hearten
up those who are overburdened by any prophecy
or presentiment. It may be that some force
—prayer, perhaps—can divert the stream of fate.
We shall now turn to some cases which were
more clearly ultramundane in their nature, and
I would express my obligation to Mr. Harold
Furniss, whose care has restored many details
in his collection of criminal records. The first
which I would choose is the murder of Sergeant
Davies in theHighlandsin theyear 1749. Davies
was part of the English garrison left in the
north after the suppression of Prince Charlie’s
rising, and, like many of his comrades, he alle‘-”“ .
viated his exile by the excellent sport which
the barren country afforded. Upon Septem-
ber 28th in that year he went shooting near
Braemar without any attendant. The rancour
of the recent war had to some extent died down,
and in any case the sergeant, who was a powerful
and determined man, feared no opponent. The
result showed, however, that he was overbold,
as he never returned from his expedition. Search
parties were sent out, but months passed and
there were still no signs of the missing soldier.
Five years passed, and the mystery was still
unsolved. At the end of that time, two High-
landers, Duncan Terig and Alex. Bain Mac-
300 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
donald, were arrested because the fowling-piece
and some of the property of the lost man were
found in their possession. The case rested
mainly,however, upon some evidence which was
as strange as any ever heard in a court of law.
A farm labourer named Alex. Macpherson,
aged twenty—six, deposed that one night in the
summer of 175o—that is, some nine months
after the sergeant’s disappearance—he was lying
awake in the barn where all the servants slept,
when he saw enter a man dressed in blue, who
came to his bedside and beckoned him to follow.
Outsidethedoorthefigureturnedand said :
“
I am
SergeantDavies.” Theapparitionthenpointedto
a distant moss or swamp, and said: “You will
find my bones there. Go and bury themat once,
for I can have no peace, nor will I give you any,
untilmy bones are buried,andyou mayget Donald
Farquharson to help you.” It then vanished.
Early next day Macpherson, according to his
own account, went to the place indicated and,
obeyingthe exact instructions received, he came
straight upon the body, still wearing the blue
regimental coat of Guise’s Horse. Macpherson
laid it upon the surface, dragging it out from
the slime, but did not bury it. A few nights
later the vision appeared to him once more as
he lay in the barn, and reproached him with
having failed to carry out the instructions given.
Macpherson asked: “Who murdered you? ”
A NEW'LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 301
To this the apparition answered :
“
Duncan
Terig and Alex. Macdonald,”and vanished once
more. Macpherson next day went to Farqu-
harson and asked him to come and help bury
the body, to which the latter agreed. It was
accordingly done. No one else was told of
the incident save only one friend, John Grewar,
who was informed within two days of the burial.
This story was certainly open to criticism,
as the arrest was in 1754, and the alleged appari-
tion and subsequent burial in 1750, so that one
would naturally ask why no information had
been given during four years. On the other
hand, one could imagine that these Celtic High-
landers were somewhat in the position of Irish
peasants in an agrarian outrage. They were
bound together against a common enemy, and
would not act save under pressure. This pres-
sure arrived when the two suspects were actually
arrested, the murdered man’s gear was found
upon them, and direct inquiry was made from
the folk in the neighbourhood. No ill-willwas
shown to exist between Macpherson and the
accused men, nor was any motive alleged for
so extraordinary a concoction. On the psychic
side there are also some objections. One would
have conceived that the sergeant might return,
as others seem to have done, in order to identify
his murderers, but in this case that was a secon-
dary result, and the main one appears to have
302 THE EDGE OF'THE UNKNOWN
been the burial of his own remains. Spirits
are not much concerned about their own bodies.
In a communication which I saw recently, the
deceased alluded to his body as “that thing
that I used to go about in.” Still, earthly pre-
judices die hard, and if Davies, sprung from
a decent stock, yearned for a decent burial, it
would surely not be an unnatural thing.
Therewas some corroborationfor Macpherson’s
weird story. There were female quarters in
this barn, and a woman Worker, named Isabel
Machardie, deposed that on the second occasion
of the apparition she saw
“
something naked
come in at the door and go straight to Mac-
pherson’s bed, which frightened her so much
that she drew the clothes over her head.” She
added that when it appeared it came in a bowing
posture, but she could not tell what it was.
The next morning she asked Macpherson what
it was that had troubled them the night before,
and he answered that she might be easy, for
it would trouble them no more.
There is a discrepancy here between the
blue-coated figure of the first vision and the
“
something naked” of the second, but the
fact remained that the woman claimed to have
seem something alarming, and to have alluded
to it next day. Macpherson, however, could
speak nothing but Gaelic, his evidence being
interpreted to the Court. Lockhart, the defend-
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 303
ing barrister, naturally asked in What tongue
thevision spoke, to which Macphersonanswered :
“
In as good Gaelicas ever I heard in Lochaber.”
“Pretty good for the ghost of an English ser-
geant,” said Lockhart, and this facile retort
made the Court laugh, and finally brought
about the acquittal of the prisoners, in spite
of the more material proofs which could not
be explained away. Later, both Lockhart and
the advocate engaged with him, admitted their
belief in the guilt of their clients.
As a matter of fact, Davies had fought at
Culloden in April, 1746, and met his end in
September, 1749, so that he had been nearly
three and a half years in the Highlands, mixing
in sport with the gillies, and it is difficult to
suppose that he could not muster a few simple
sentences of their language.
But apart from that,although our information
shows that knowledge has to be acquired by
personal effort, and not by miracle,in the after
life, still it is to be so acquired, and if Sergeant
Davies saw that it was only in a Gael that he
would find those rare psychic gifts which would
enable him to appear and to communicate (for
every spirit manifestation must have a material
basis), then it is not inconceivablethat he would
master the means during the ten months or
so which elapsed before his reappearance. Pre-
suming that Macpherson’s story is true, it by
304. THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
no means follows that he was the medium,
since any one of the sleepers in the barn might
have furnished that nameless atmosphere which
provides the correct conditions. In all such
cases it is to be rememberedthatthis atmosphere’
is rare, and that a spirit comes back not as it
would or when it would, but as it can. Law,
inexorable law, still governs every fresh annexe
which We add to our knowledge, and only by
defining and recognizing its limitations will we
gain some dim perception of the conditions of
the further life and its relation to thepresent one.
We now pass to a case where the spirit inter-
position seems to have been as clearly proved
as anything could be. It was, it is true, some
time ago, but full records are still available.
In the year 1632 a yeoman named John Walker
lived at the village of Great Lumley, some
miles north of Durham. A cousin named Anne
Walker kept house for him, and intimacyensued,
with the prospect of the usual results. John
Walker greatly feared the scandal, and took
diabolical steps to prevent it. He sent the young
Woman over to the town of Chester-le-Street
to the care of one Dame Carr. To this matron
Anne Walker confessed everything, adding that
Walker had used the ominous phrase “
that
he would take care both of her and of her
child.” One night at Dame Carr’s door there
appeared the sinister visage of Mark Sharp, a
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 305
Blackburncollier, with a specious message which
induced the girl to go with him into the dusk.
She was never seen again. Walker, upon being
appealed to by Dame Carr, said that it was
all right, and that it was better in her condition
that she should be among strangers. The old
lady had her suspicions, but nothing could be
done, and the days passed on.
A fortnight later a miller, named James
Graham, was grinding corn in his mill at night
some miles away. It was after midnight when
he descended to the floor of the mill after put-
ting a fresh fill of corn in the hopper. His
exact experience, as preserved in the Bodleian
Library at Oxford, was as follows :
“
The mill door being shut, there stood a woman in the
midst of the floor, with her hair hanging down all bloody,
with five large wounds on her head. He beingmuch amazed
began to bless himself, and at last asked her who she was
and what she wanted. She answered, ‘
I am the spirit of
Anne Walker, who lived with John Walker. . . .
He
promised to send me to where I should be well looked to
.
and then I should come again and keep his house. I
was one night sent away with Mark Sharp, who, upon a
certain moor
’
(naming the place) ‘
slew me with a pick such
as men dig coal with and gave me these five wounds, and
after threw my body into a coalpit hard by, and hid the pick
under a bank, and his shoes and stockings being bloody he
endeavoured to wash them, but seeing the blood would not
part he hid them there.’”
The spirit ended by ordering the miller to
reveal the truth on pain of being haunted.
306 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
In this case, as in the last, the message was
not delivered. The horrified miller was so
impressed that he would by no means be alone,
but he shirked the delicate task which had
been confided to him. In spite of all his pre-
cautions, however, he found himself alone one
evening, with the result that the vision instantly
reappeared, “
very fierce and cruel,” to use his
description, and insisted that he should do as
commanded. More obdurate than the Celtic
Macpherson,themillerawaited a thirdsummons,
which came in so terrific a form in his own
garden that his resistance was completely broken
down, and so, four days before Christmas, he
went to the nearest magistrate and lodged his
deposition. Search was at once made, and the
vision was justified in all particulars, which,
it must be admitted, has not always been the
case where informationhas seemed to come from
beyond. The girl’s body, the five wounds in the
head,thepick,thebloodstainedshoes andstockings
were all found,andas thebody was in a deep coal-
pit there seemed no normal means by which the
miller could possibly have known the nature of
the wounds unless he had himself inflictedthem,
which is hardly consistent either with the known
facts, with his appearance as informer, or with
the girl’s admissions to Dame Carr.
John Walker and Mark Sharp were both
arrested and were tried for murder at theDurham
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 307
Assizes before Judge Davenport. It was shown
that the miller was unknown, save by sight,
to either prisoner, so that it could not be sug-
gested that he had any personal reason for
swearing away their lives by a concocted tale.
The trial was an extraordinary one, for there
seems to have been a psychic atmosphere such
as has never been recorded in a prosaic British
court of law. The foreman of the jury, a Mr.
Fairbairn, declared in an affidavit that he saw
during the trial the “likeness of a child stand-
ing upon Walker’s shoulder.” This might be
discounted as beingthe effect upon an emotional
nature of the weird evidence to which he had
listened, but it received a singular corroboration
from the judge, who wrote afterwards to a
fellow-lawyer, Mr. Serjeant Hutton, of Golds-
borough, that he himself was aware of a figure
such as Fairbairn described, and that during
the whole proceedings he was aware of a most
uncanny and unusual sensation for which he
could by no means account. The verdict was
guilty,and the two men were duly executed.
The array of responsible witnesses in this
case was remarkable. There was the judge
himself, Mr. Fairbairn, with his aflidavit, Mr.
James Smart, Mr. William Lumley, of Great
Lumley, and others. Altogether, it is diflicult
to see how any case could be better authenti-
cated, and I have no doubt myself that the facts
3o8 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
were as stated, and that this singlecase is enough
to convince an unprejudiced mind of the continu-
ance of individualityand of the penetrabilityof
that screen which separates us from the dead.
What comment can psychic science make
upon such an episode? In the first place, I
would judge that the miller was a powerful
medium—thatis, he exuded thatrare atmosphere
which enables a spirit to become visible as the
meteorite becomes visible when it passes through
the atmosphere of earth. It is, I repeat, a rare
quality, and in this case seems to have been
unknown to its possessor, though I should
expect to find, that the miller had many other
psychic experiences which took a less public
form. This is the reason why the apparition
did not appear before the magistrate himself,
but could only approach him by messenger.
The spirit may have searched some time before
she found her medium, just as Sergeant Davies
was ten months before he found the Highlander
who had those physical qualities which enabled
him to communicate. Law and obedience to
law run through the whole subject. It is also
abundantly evident that the confiding woman
Who had been treated with such cold-blooded
ingratitude and treachery carried over to the
other world her natural feelings of indignation
and her desire for justice. As a curious detail
it is also evident thatshe recovered her conscious-
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 309
ness instantly after death, and was enabled to
observe the movements of her assassin. With
what organs, one may ask? With what organs
do We see clear details in a dream? There is
somethingthere besides our material eyes.
A most reasonable objection may be urged as
to Why many innocent people have sulfered
death and yet have experienced no super-normal
help which might have saved them. Anycrimin-
ologist could name ofilhand a dozen cases
where innocent men have gone to the scaffold.
Why were they not saved? I have Written
in vain if I have not by now enabled the reader
to answer the question himself. If the physical
means are not there, then it is impossible. It
may seem unjust, but not more so than the
fact that a ship provided with wireless may
save its passengers while another is heard of
no more. The problem of unmerited suffering
is part of that larger problem of the functions
of pain and evil, which can only be explained
on the supposition that spiritual chastening and
elevation come in this fashion, and that this
end is so important that the means are trivial
in comparison. We must accept this provisional
explanation, or We are faced With chaos.
Can these dim forces which we see looming
above and around us be turned to the use of
man? It would be a degradation to use them
for purely material ends, and it Would, in my
l3IO THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
opinion, bring some retribution with it; but,
where the interests of Justice are concerned,
I am convinced that they could indeed be used
to good effect. Here is a case in point.
Two brothers, Eugene and Paul Dupont, lived
some fifty years ago in the Rue St. Honoré of
Paris. Eugene was a banker, Paul a man of
letters. Eugenedisappeared. Every conceivable
effort was made to trace him, but the police
finally gave it up as hopeless. Paul was per-
severing,however,and in company with a friend,
Laporte, he visited Mme. Huerta, a well-known
clairvoyante, and asked for her assistance.
We have no record as to how far articles
of the missing man were given to the medium,
as a bloodhound was started on a trail, but
whether it was by psychometry or not, Mme.
Huerta, in the mesmerized state, very quickly
got in touch with the past of the two brothers,
from the dinner where they had last met. She
described Eugene, and followed his movements
from the hour that he left the restaurant until
he vanished into a house which was identified
without diflicultybyher audience,thoughshe was
unable to give the name of the street. She then
described how inside the house Eugene Dupont
had held a conference with two men whom she
described,how he had signedsome paper and had
received a bundle of bank notes. She then saw
him leave the house, she saw the two men follow
A NEW LIGHT ON OLD CRIMES 311
him, she saw two other men join in the pursuit,
and finally she saw the four assault the banker,
murder him, and throwthe body into the Seine.
Paul was convinced by the narrative, but
his comrade, Laporte, regarded it as a fabrica-
tion. They had no sooner reached home, how-
ever, than they learned that the missing man
had been picked out of the river and was exposed
at the Morgue. The police, however, were
inclined to take the View of suicide, as a good
deal of money was in the pockets. Paul Dupont
knew better,however. He hunted out thehouse,
he discovered that the occupants did business
with his brother’s firm, he found that they held
a receipt for two thousand pounds in exchange
for notes paid to his brother on the night of the
crime, and yet those notes were missing. A letter
making an appointment was also discovered.
The two men, a father and son, named
Dubuchet, were then arrested, and the missing
links were at once discovered. The pocket-
book which Eugene Dupont had in his possession
on the night of the murder was found in Du-
buchet’s bureau. Other evidence was forthcom-
ing, and finallythe two villainswere foundguilty
and were condemned to penal servitude for life.
The medium was not summoned as a witness, on
the ground thatshe was not conscious at the time
of her vision, but her revelations undoubtedly
brought about the discovery of the crime.
312 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
Now it is clear in this authentic case that
the police would have saved themselves much
trouble, and come to a swifter conclusion, had
they themselves consulted Mme. Huerta in the
first instance. And if it is obviously true in
this case, why might it not be so in many other
cases? It should be possible at every great
police—centre to have the call upon the best
clairvoyant or other medium that can be got,
and to use them freely,for what they are worth.
None are infallible. They have their off—days
and their failures. No man should ever be
convicted upon their evidence. But when it
comes to suggesting clues and links, then it
might be invaluable. In the case of Mr. Fox-
Well, the London stockbroker who fell into the
Thames some years ago, it is well known that
the mode of his death, and the place where
his body would be found, were described by
Von Bourg, the crystal-gazer, and that it was
even as he had said. I venture to say that
the mere knowledge that the police had an ally
against whom every cunning precaution might
prove unavailing would in itself be a strong
deterrent to premeditated crime. This is so
obvious, thatif it had not been for vague scientific
and religious prejudices, itiwould surely have
been done long ago. g
Its adoption may be one
of the first practical and material benefits given
by psychic science to humanity.
XV
SINGULAR RECORDS OF A CIRCLE
IHAVErecently received a considerable bundle
of records from a circle sitting in Uruguay.
The sitters consisted of two Englishmen of the
best class, Whom I will call “Hudson.” They
have given me permission to use their real names,
but perhaps they hardly realize how considerable
the backwash might be from such a publication.
A lady friend, Miss Reader, is the medium, and
the procedure is by means of a glass and the
alphabet in the usual fashion.
The number of real or alleged spirits that came
to this circle and their communicationshave been
so clear and direct and present such extraordinary
variety that they invite comment. After reading
their record, which has been very well taken, I
guarded myself by getting each member of the
circle to sign a document putting themupon their
word of honour that no hoax was intended. The
elder Mr. Hudson adds :
“
The way in whichspirits
of diflerent character came through, one after the
other, and the unexpectedness and spontaneity of
the answers With the different styles and phrases
313 x
314 THE EDGE or THE UNKNOWN
would have taxed better imaginationsthan those
possessed by any of the three of us.”
I particularly inquired whether they had any
special acquaintance with the English public
schools and whether theyhad done any particular
reading as to seventeenth or eighteenth—century
life. The answer to the first question was that
theyhad both been Eton boys, but thattheyknew
nothing of any other school, and the answer to
the second was that none of them had any par-
ticular knowledgeof the centuries named.
When I say that among the visitants were two‘
very exuberant public-school boys, four ladies of
easy virtue, one old sea captain, one Austrian
adventurer who had been murdered, and a num-
ber of bucks from the Regency and earlier years,
it will be realized that the communications really
seemed of unusual nature. They were full of
points which might be evidential and I have taken
some trouble to follow these up, sometimes with
striking success and sometimes with complete
failure.
The first visitant who came on December 18th,
1928, and on several subsequent occasions, was
one Nicholas, who refused to give his surname.
He said he had just died, having been shot in
Vienna. He was forty-one years of age, had lived
an evillife and was intenselyunhappy in the other
world. He was born in Baku, had gone to Ger-
many afterwards, as an Austrian he had served
SINGULAR RECORDS OF A CIRCLE 315
in the war, against the Russians, had been taken
prisoner and sent to Siberia, had been liberated
by the Communists, but had been arrested by
the Bolshevists as a spy, not making his escape
until 1926. Then he went to Vienna, where he
had an intrigue with an English girl who had
gone there to study art. In the course of this
intrigue he had been shot, presumably by some
jealous rival. The story seems to me to hang
together fairly well, though there is no means of
verifying the statements. It is Worth noting that
the sitters had some little difliculty as to Where
Baku might be, and were corrected at once by
the visitor.
The next comer was an exceedingly flighty
youthwho gave the name of Lionel Vereker, but
admitted thatthesurname had not been disclosed.
He was a practical joker, and his answers to
questions are so full of levity, sometimes witty
and sometimes foolish, thatit is diflicult to know
when one is to take him seriously. When his
jokes were not appreciated he seems to have got
sulky. When pressed as to his surname he said,
“I think, in the excitement of dying, I forgot
it.” In his more sober moments he said that he
had been educated at Dulwich and that he left
school in theyear 1920. When asked What house
he was at there, he replied, “
Alleyne’s.” I find
on inquiring, that “
Alleyne ”
was actually the
founder of Dulwich College, so that this reply
X14
316 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
was evidential if we accept the assurance of the
sitters thattheyhad no knowledge of the matter,
which I may say I unreservedly do. Iudging by
his high spirits he seemed perfectly happy. He
gave the impression of being an irresponsible
fribble with no great harm in him and no great
good. I can well believe that there are imper-
sonations at séances if Lionel was around. I
inquired at Dulwich, but the name could not be
traced.
The next visitor, December 29th, 1928, was a
very interesting personage. This was Harriette
Wilson, the famous courtesan of the beginning of
lastcentury,who numberedamong her lovers both
the Duke of Wellington and the Duke of Argyll.
She Wrote a volume of Memoirs which show that
in spite of her profession she was in many ways
a woman of fine character. The circle seems to
have known that such a person existed and also
that she wrote Memoirs, so to that extent the
evidence is weakened. She gives, however, some
details which have been found on examination to
be approximatelycorrect and which could hardly
have been known by them. She says, for ex-
ample, that she died a hundred years ago. She
actuallyleft London in 1826, lived in Paris for a
short time and then seems to have disappeared.
I have often wondered whether she had been
poisoned. She had promised to write a second
book of “Memoirs,” mentioning the names of
SINGULAR RECORDS OF A CIRCLE 3:7
quite a string of people whom she would incul-
pate. The spirit says she was thirty-nine when
she died. She was, I thinkthirty—six When she
left London. The monologue with her concludes
thus:
Q. “
Are you happy P ”—A. “
No.”
Q. “Have you others to Whom you can
talk? ”—A. “Yes”
(glass moves violently).
Q. “
Don’t you like them P ”—A. “
No ”
(furiously).
Q. “
Why P ”—A. “
I don’t find themto my
taste.”
Q. “Do you know usP”—A. “No, who
are you P Interesting P ”
Q. “
Have you talkedto otherson thisearth P ”
—A. “
Yes. Many.” .
Q. “
Can you materialise P ”—A. “
No, I
Wish I could.”
Q. “
Have you got any particular message P ”
—A. “
No.”
So appeared Harriette after a hundred years.
She does not seem to have found the peace which
some of her kindlyactions upon earth deserved.
The message seems to be evidential unless I
could suppose that members of the circle in
Uruguay had hunted up details which I have had
some difficulty in getting in London.
The next visitor was one CatherineWimpole,
who claimed that she had died at the age of
twelve, one hundred and sixteen. years before-
318 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
or in 1812. She had lived in Clarges Street. It
is remarkablethat in nearly every case the com-
municator, readily and without hesitation gave
the names of streets which did exist at that time,
and never made any mistake as to the monarch
who reigned then. There was nothing of a
really evidential character from Catherine Wim-
pole, and a Spiritualist must feel surprise that
one who died as an innocent girl of twelve so
long ago had not progressed beyond the some-
what mediocre crowd who assembled round this
circle.
The next was a James Kirk, who claimed to
have been a gentleman who died of an unknown
pest in the year 1749 in London. It would be
interesting to know if the City had any such
visitation in that year. When asked who was
King he at once replied, “
George the Second.”
He said that he lived in a grey twilight and was
not happy, having none of the luxury to which
he was used. It was his first return to earth and
it gave him pleasure. He said that he had been
in several spheres, and he asked what London
was likenow. He said thathe had been a theatre—
goer, that his favourite actress was Mrs. Oldfield
and that he had liked her best in “
The Country
Wife.” He died in Duke Street, which is or was
out of the Strand. He went often to Court. He
named Louis Quatorze as Kingof France, which
of course would not be correct at the time of
SINGULAR RECORDS OF A CIRCLE 319
Kirk’s death, but that great monarch would have
filled the years of his youth and have left the
strongest impression upon his mind, so that the
error should not be judged too harshly. He was
then asked for a statement as to his own life and
he wrote as follows :
“
I had a full life. More than my share of entertainment ;
balls, theatres, and such diversions. I became enamoured
many times to no purpose. I was too much like the famous
Captain Macheath. (We exclaim at this.) So you also
know? I was a friend of the Lady Mary Montague. Per-
haps you have not heard her name? (No.) She was a
beautiful woman, brilliant in her own circle. I saw the
execution of the notorious Jack Sheppard on Tyburn Hill.
Did you ever hear of Mrs. Cornelys? (No.) She was the
owner of a kind of public ball-room or rooms. She and her
daughter became involved in diflicultiesand eventuallydisap-
peared from London, which caused endless idle speculation
and gossip. I fought two duels; was, I feared, wounded
fatally in the second; but as you perceive, I did not fare
too bad. I frequentlytravelled to Harrogate, Tonbridge and
Bath; general-ly I confess, in quest of the newest aspirant
to my name. I enjoyed existence; there was much to
occupy one’s mind. '
I was fond, inordinatelyfond,of dress.
Most of every pleasure I doted upon the theatre. I went
without fail to the new plays presented.”
Now this reads extraordinarily true. The"
“
Beggar’s Opera ”
was all the Vogue at the time
and Captain Macheathwould be a most natural
allusion. Mary Montague was, of course, as
stated and comes within the dates. Jack Shep-
pard was executed at Tyburn in 1724. Finally,
Madame Cornelys is excellent. How many are
320 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
there who have heard of her P By a chance note
in an old book I found thatshe was theproprietor
at that time of a very popular dancing-place at
the corner of Soho Square, and that she went
bankrupt. I think that this sequence of correct
references is beyond all guess or coincidence and
that We may take James Kirk at his face value.
He was fifty-three when he died, so that he
was bornin 1698. When asked if he would come
again he replied that he would be “
full glad.”
His health, he said, was excellent. “
The Cocoa
Tree ”
was his favourite resort upon earth, and
Mr. Oliver Penberthy of St. James’ his best
friend. He was at his best among the fair sex.
The next actor upon this curious stage was one
David Overmanwho claimed to be an Uppingham
boy, but whose name is not upon the School lists.
There is a mystery in names and possibly some
prohibitionupon their use in a way which would
hurt surviving relations. The evidence of the
last comer shows that even when the name of the
communicator may be wrong his allusions are
quite correct. David Overman was an irrespon-
sible person, very much like Lionel Vereker, for
whom he professed great contempt. “
A perfect
fool ”
was his description. Overman left school,
according to his account, in 1917, did not go to
the war, and died at the age of twenty-seven.
He seems to have been in a cheerful, frivolous
sphere. The dialogue runs:
SINGULAR RECORDS OF A CIRCLE 321
Q. “
Where is Lionel? ”—A. “
OH on the
gay, I expect.”
Q. “
AnyladiesthereP”—A. “Plenty. Too
many.”
Q. “Are you restricted? ”—A. “
Not un-
reasonably. We can even dance.”
Q. “
What clothes? ”—A. “
Any. I wear
a very handsome suit of plus-fours.” .
Q. “
Did you die in them? ”—A. “
Yes.”
Q. “
Of what? ”—A. “
Motor accident.
Nasty man. Quick car.”
Q. “
Instantly killedP ’’—-A. “
Yes.”
Q. “
Where? ”—A. “
On the Portsmouth
Road between Esher and Kingston.”
It would be interesting to know whether in
1927 or 1928 a youth of twenty-seven answering
to this description was killed in the manner
indicated. His only other information was that
he was attached to “
a very natty young woman,”
Betty Matthews,on his side of life. Also thathe
did not go to the University. There is nothing
evidential in all this, but the details are plausible
and possibly some of them may be corroborated.
The nextvisitant was Edward Keithof Lincoln,
who died in 1870 of small—poX, being sixty-four
years of age. He said that he found diflicultyin
communicatingand he soon stopped. There was
no means of checking this witness.
We now come to a very gay young lady with
the curious name of Norah Sallast. Norah died
322 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
at the age of nineteen, seventy-eight years ago,
which takes her back to themiddle of last century.
Q. “
Are you happy? ”—A. “
No.”
Q. “
Why ? ”—A. “
Life is so monotonous.
I hate it ”
(violently).
Q. “
Is it dark? ”——A. “
No, light.”
Q. “
Have you anyone to talk to P ”—A.
“
Yes. I hate it all. You can do little to help
me. I was wrong in my life.”
Q. “
And you suffer for it? ”——A. “
Quite
enough.” -
Q. “
Any prospect of happiness? ”—A. “
I
doubt it.” '
Q. “
In what way were you wrong P ”~—A.
“
Bad (violently). Rotten all through. I could
not be thoughtimmoral,as I knewnot themeaning
of the Word.”
She then proceeded to give a sketch of her life
which was certainly rather hectic considering that
she died at nineteen. She ran away from school
witha mysteriousman.
“
He gave me a hell upon
earth. I left him and life was a series of meetings
and separations—Budapest, Berlin, eVerywhere—
I had no money of my own. -
I was stranded in
Sicilyand found my way home. I lived in London
for five years. I was only thirteen when I ran
from school. I spent two days in Bristol and
died there.”
This pitia e story hangs together and yet is
incapable of oof. Takingit as true it seems a
SINGULAR RECORDS OF A CIRCLE 323
long purgatory for so young a sinner. One could
imagine that she, like Harriette Wilson, is held
until she has realized that the seeking of excite-
ment is not the object of life. Had the sitters
been experienced Spiritualists this would, of
course, have been pointed out to her, and a new
era have, perhaps, been started.
The next comer was curious, though hard to
verify. The name given was Niel Hamilton. He
was twelve years old when he was drowned at
Cuckfield in Sussex, more than a century ago.
He had been pushed into a duck pond, when
playing. He said thathe was happy, but he gave
no reason why he had not progressed further in
so long a time.
We now make a big leap backwards and come
upon Charles Amor, who died in 1658, at the age
of eighty—one. He had lived at Fleet in Hamp-
shire. When asked who was King he answered
promptly, “
No one. Cromwell.” Which, of
course, is correct but might have stumped some
of us. He had gone to Germany, his wife had
eloped with a German and he had stabbed the
man. Possibly this hasty temper may have kept
him so long in the purgatorial regions. There
was nothing really evidential.
The next comer took us further back still. His
name was John Castle, who died in 1613, at the
age of ninety—two. He gave James as the name
of the King, at which the circle remonstrated, but
324 THE EDGE or THE UNKNOWN
John Castle proved to be correct. This seems an
important evidentialpoint, for pleasedo not forget
that I have the signed word of honour of all
concerned that there was no deception. I have
always found that a British word of honour is
Worth more thanan oath. He was a learned man,
but was asked frivolous questions by the circle,
who certainly played down to their visitors and
had no idea of the limits of spirit power.
The next was so definite that I had high hopes,
but, alas, theycame to nothing. The name was
Laura Yelverton. She died early in 1928 at
Torquay. The Register, however, in that town
H
failed to trace her. She was thirty-one at the
time of her death. She claimed thatshe was born
at Chester, went to school in Switzerland, lived
for years at Arcachon in the South of France, lost
money,returned to Englandin 1918,was a married
Woman. In reference to her surroundings she
said that, “
it is all grey and almost sticky in the
atmosphere.” There were many to whom to
talk. She, like the last, seems to be in some sort
of purgatory. Possibly this account may meet
the eye of someone who can corroborate. A note
to Crowborough would always find me.
She was immediatelysucceeded by a man, Mark
Lamb, who died in I725. He, at once, said that
George the First was on the throne, which is, of
course, correct but might not be answered by
everyone. He was seventy-eight when he died
SINGULAR RECORDS OF A CIRCLE 325
and he put his death down to excess in living.
He lived in Charles Street, London, and was a
man of fashion, going to Court. He disliked the
King. “
His character I hated vastly.” So I
should think—the coarse little boor. Here we
have nothing evidential but everythingplausible.
He was at once succeeded by Peter Lamb,
a carpenter, who died of a poisoned arm at
Chatham at the age of fifty in the year 1924.
He had nothing to say save that he was unfit
to go to the war.
The next spirit seems to have been more intel-
ligent and of a higher grade thanany of theothers.
He gave some prophecies which seem to have
been fairly accurate. Then comes the following:
Q. “Is it pleasant where you are? ”—A.
“
Very. I am happy. I have interesting corn-
panionship.”
Q. “
Do you hope to rise higher P ”—A. “
I
do earnestly.”
Q. “
Is there reincarnationP ”—A. “
Yes ”
(violently).
Q. “
Have you risen higher since you died P ”
~—A. “
Yes, twice.”
This is the kind of Vital informationwhich we
Want. As to reincarnation, it is clear at any rate
that it is at only long intervals, since in three
centuries he had not himself experienced it.
The next visitor gave the name of Iohn. He
was a half Spaniard who interlarded his remarks
326 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
with Spanish words which were, of course, intel-
ligible to the audience. He had been killed some
fifty years ago, that would mean about 1879, on
some steps in Madrid. It was in a fight with a
rival over a woman. He was very unhappy, “
I
hate my surroundings.” He was English on his
mother’s side. Nothing could be done to help
him. His case seemed to be a bad one. There
was nothing evidential.
There followed‘ a very sprightly young lady
named Willette, who claimed to be the girl of
that “
will of the wisp ”
Lionel Vereker. She
did not like proper people. “~ Life is quite
good here.” She had died in 1928 in England.
“
What a hole!” she added. She came from
Dresden, had red hair and was fond of laughing.
She had talked to other people at séances,
mentioning two names, Kenneth Gardner and
Ruth Cameron. She was bored With Lionel—a
cheerful irresponsible person-—non-evidential.
The next called himself Peter Morrison, almost
certainly using a false name if he exists at all.
He had died in 1924 in Birmingham, aged forty-
one. He had been in the war as a Lieut.-
Commander in the R.N.V.R. He was on the
Warspite. Educated at Bradfield, born in Not-
tingham. V
This was very disappointing, as inquiry both at
Bradfield and at the Admiralty failed to find any
Peter Morrison. Always we seemed to break
SINGULAR RECORDS OF A CIRCLE 327
down upon the individual name even when other
names were convincinglycorrect.
It is noticeable how often they use Christian
names only,as if theydid not desire identification.
Thus the next called himself “
Robin.” He had
been over two hundred years
“
a gentleman of
much leisure and pleasure. I lived in London
and Worcester.” Asked if he knew James Kirk,
who seemed a kindred soul, he answered, “
No, is
he a well-known man? ”
Robin soon departed.
The next was also very short. Rose Lonsdale
was the name. She had died in early Victorian
days, aged sixty-four. Her life was uninteresting.
She was always tired. She could speak a little
German becauseshe had a German music master.
Nothing evidential or instructive.
The next gave the name of James Welby and
he made the comprehensive remark, “
we live as
mortals do.” He had died two centuries before
at the age of fifty-two. Died from a severe cold.
When asked who was king he said that George
the First was on the throne. George I died in
1727, so that would be fairly correct. He lived
at Salisbury and was a man of leisure. He was
born in Hampshire. His parents bought him a
large house in London or he added, “
on the out-
skirts of that noble city. It was just outside of
Piccadilly.” Afterwards he travelled in France
and married an Irish lady, named Cecilia Abby.
When asked the name of his London home he
328 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
replied, “
It had simply the name of Dunton
House.” This place I have been unable to
identify. He continued, “
We went to all enter-
tainments, routs and such frivolous amusements.
We were blessed with two daughters, one alas,
died of small—pox. The other married George
.Fountain. My wife died and I then lived in
Salisbury, contracted a severe chill and died.”
The dialogue then ran:
Q. “
Are you happy ? ”——A. “
Extremely.”
Q. “
Are your wife and daughter withyou P ”
——A. “
Yes.”
Q. “
And your other daughter? ”——A. “I
wish I knew.” (This is interesting.)
He was then asked if he knew Robin and he
answered he knew Robert Castle who often called
himself Robin. They suggested that Robin lived
in London and Worcester, and he replied, “
N0,
this one lived in Cheshire.” He then added that
he was happy and that his surroundings were
more or less like the earth he knew, but more
happy and less troubled.
There is nothing evidential here, but it is
very reassuring to us mortals who follow on the
trail.
We now come on Richard Merriman who died
in 1560 and is, therefore, the oldest spirit of all.
Asked who was king at that time, he replied
instantly,“
Queen.” “
Which one P ”
theyasked.
“What other, but our Elizabeth?” He died
SINGULAR RECORDS OF A CIRCLE 329
at sea at the age of thirty-five. He caught “
the
feared disease. Was not able to obtain help of —
any competence. We had no surgeon aboard.”
Nothing further of importance was gathered.
Thencame Katie,who refused to give a second
name. She died in 1764. When asked who was
king, she replied, “George the Second While I
lived.” This was quite correct, as George the
Third came on in 1760.
The accuracy of these historical dates is really
a strong point for the proof of the reality of these
visitors. _
.
Q. “
How old were you? ”———A. “
Thirty.
A great age for a woman of my kind.”
Q. “
Were you a woman of easy virtue P ”——
A. “
If you care to word it thus.”
Q. “
Could you tell us the names of some
of your lovers.”——-A. “Arthur Grenville, Will
Roberts, Laurence Annaly. There are none
Worth my attention.”
The conversation abruptly broke off. The
next witness gave me more trouble than any of
the others and some disappointment, since I
seemed to be continually on the edge of what
would be evidential and yet never could attain it.
I was greatlyhelped by the courtesy of the Secre-
tary of Lloyds’ Shipping Register. The name
given was John Coke. He said that he was a
sailor and had been drowned eighty years ago in
a shipwreck off the Virgin Islands. He asked
330 THE EDGE OF THE UNKNOWN
them to pronounce his name as Cook. When
asked if he was happy he said, “
Not Very. I
miss the sea. It meant a lot to a man like me.”
Asked if any of his old shipmates were with him,
he said, “
Yes, two, but not my friends.” “
It is
very black,”he added. “
I like light, I like wind
and sea and salt and sun and sails. I thinkyou
do not have many sails now.” Buenos Aires was
a bleak town in his time. He seemed surprised
to learn that it was now a great city. He was
English by birth. Born at a village, Bolderstone
in Norfolk. (Thenearest I could get to that,after
long inquiry, was Blunderstone.) Hewas a mate.
His ship sailed from Hull to the West Indies.
They were carrying back a cargo of sugar and
fruit. The name of the captain was
“
Mo1leson.”
The name of the ship, The Mary of Kimfyre,
about two thousand tons. He was forty and
unmarried. ' E
By search we found thatthere was a vessel, The
Marion Macintyre, but the name
“
Mollesonf’
was not connected with it. There was, however,
a vessel named Mary with “
Morrison ”
as the
master’s name, in 1846. Her subsequent move-
ments could not be traced. The tonnage seemed
to be excessive for those days. It has been sug-
gested that“
Gorleston ”
which is a seaside village
from which a sailor might well originate, is the
right name and Bolderstone a mistake. This,
however, seems a little far-fetched. On thewhole
SINGULAR RECORDS OF A CIRCLE 331
we must admit that my search has not been
successful in identifying John Coke.
Only one other case remains to be examined.
It was that of Zoe, a lady of light virtue who
claims to have met her death two years ago at
Tours. She was stabbed or shot by her lover.
I made some inquiries from a friend at Tours, but
here again I was unable to verify the facts. Zoe,
judgingbyher dialogue,was an amusingand rather
impertinent person. Her remarks took the form
of rather broad chaff of the people in the circle.
Once again we have to admit there is nothing
evidential.
One very curious thing about this series of
cases is thenumberof themwho died by violence.
Zoe was murdered, John was murdered, Nicholas
was executed, Overman died‘ in a motor smash,
Coke was drowned. The death of Harriette
Wilson, is in my opinion, extremely doubtful.
Therefore quite a large proportion of the cases
came to their end in an untimely Way. Whether
this determined their presence in the particular
stratum which this circle seems to have tapped is
more thanWe can say. Apparentlyit was not one
stratum alone, since about half of the communi-
cants said thattheywere happy and the other half
miserable, half being in light and the other half
in gloom. Though, of course, in this world we
do find happy and unhappy people living in close
proximity.
."
<9!
