{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__bosman___amen_the_key_of_the_universe.pdf","mytitle":"Amen The Key Of The Universe","mylang":"de"}
AMEN,
THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
IN WHICH
the Fundamental Principles of the
Universe
are expressed.
B
7
LEONARD BOSMAN
THE DHARMA PRESS,
16, O a k fie ld R oad, C la p to n , L ondon, E.5
4
tl
i
I
(jfre&bt+AaA. Cls+xLvr'
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE
UNIVERSE
CONTENTS
PAGE
T he fundamental principles of
THE U N IV E R S E ........................... 3 I
T he Virgin-M other of the
Universe ............................... 41
Letters and their meaning .. 61
T he Sacred Word of East and
We s t ....................................... 87
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE
UNIVERSE
THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
OF THE UNIVERSE
O understand the fundamental mean
ing of the word Amen or Aum in the
Sanskrit, Egyptian and Hebrew, it is
necessary to have, at least, an intellectual
comprehension, if not an absolute realisa­
tion, of the basic principles on which the
Universe is founded.
It is reasonable to believe with modern
science and the teachings of Eastern and
Western philosophies, that, beyond all
matter, even beyond the gaseous state,
there exists a root-substance, a Mother-
Nature, a Pater-Aether, or Akasha, as the
Hindu philosophers term it, from which, as
a primordial substance, all matter is pro­
duced. The word substance is used in this
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
connection to express the idea of an unseen
but persisting root-cause of all matter,
literally, that which sub-stands - i.e.>stands
under - matter.
Matter may be resolved, then, into finer
states or conditions. As there are grades
upon grades of matter extending from the
densest solids to the finest and rarest gases,
and beyond to electrical matter, so it may
be accepted that the universe, as regards its
exterior is built up from this root-sub-
stance. It may also be accepted that matter,
in its essence, is ultimately indestructible.
For when all matter has been resolved into
its atoms it cannot be said that it has ceased
to exist, even though it has ceased to be
apparent.
Modern theories, ideas and experiments of
a scientific kind relating to the internal
structure of the atom and the terrific power
stored up in its electrons, suggest that this
inner force may be released and made
effective. Experiments have proved that
the energy stored up within the atom maybe
freed by a kind of rupturing of its wall or
14
THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
outer covering. This discovery, which was
made comparatively recently by scientists,
was known very many years ago and shown
to exist by means of the researches and
experiments of W. J. Keeley, of Phila­
delphia, who was able to liberate some of
this marvellous power. He did not succeed
in demonstrating it scientifically, for it only
flowed under his own hands. The reader
who is interested in such matters is invited
to read the results of his experiments, which
were, practically, a failure as far as the
scientific world was concerned, though
it is quite likely that the force will be
demonstrated in a scientific manner at no
very distant date. The results were em­
bodied in Keeley andHis Discoveries, written
by Mrs. Bloomfield Moore about twenty-
five years ago.
There is a fear in the minds of some that
the possibility of the destruction of the atom
might eventually lead to the further possi­
bility of the destruction of the world itself.
Such a fear need not be considered too
seriously, for it is beyond doubt that the
*5
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
secret of cosmic cohesion will not be per­
mitted to become known to man in the
present stage of evolution. It is, however,
probable that the disruption of certain
atoms will soon be a scientific fact, but even
in such a case it would only serve to set
free the many electrons within the atom,
and not all of these could be captured by
science. Assume, however, that all these
atoms and electrons were destroyed, that
the power holding them together was with­
drawn, that the Great Creative “Breath”
had “returned to God.” What, may it be
imagined, would be the result? There
would no longer be any atomised portions
of matter, no individual and separated
forms, no bubbles in the great Cosmic Cup.
The whole might then be considered as in a
state of flux, a flowing mass of substance.
Yet the power that was proved to subsist in
the atom cannot have been lost, for it could
not depart from space even when its matter
had been resolved into its primordial one­
ness. It is, moreover, not to be considered
that all matter would flow in one part of
16
THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
space and that the power departing from it
would remain distinctly separate and flow
elsewhere. Spirit is as much an aspect of
matter as matter is an aspect of spirit. The
two are really one, although apparently
opposite when in manifestation, as will be
shown.
This is a conception that, rightly under­
stood, may serve to reconcile the opposing
schools of thought, which take such dif­
ferent views because each sees but a part
of the whole. The so-called materialists
declare that there is only matter, and
the deeper thinkers amongst them, being
called upon to explain the presence of power
in matter, state merely that “in matter is the
promise and potency of all life.” On the
other hand, the so-called Christian-Scien-
tist - whose science is no more “Christian5
5
than Hindu or Hebrew, but rather a facet
of Spiritual Science which is common to all
religions - declares that there is no matter,
but all is Divine Mind, or Spirit. Others,
again, declare that there is a polarity, actual
opposites in the Universe, that Spirit and
17 B
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
Matter are distinct and different. All these
views may be resolved and seen from the
centre as One, rather than as radii, if only a
true conception of the Universe be realised.
The idea here submitted is that Spirit and
Matter, Life and Form, are opposite poles
of one and the same substance. This is the
assertion metaphysically stated, though it
may also be theologically explained. In
this sense Spirit and Matter are aspects of
God, who, in creating a universe, must (as
Jar as the human mind can understand the
idea) pdarise Himself, or, as it were, send
out two aspects of Himself.1 It may be
presented in two ways, to suit the taste of
the exotericist or esotericist. Theologi­
cally expressed, it may be said, that, if God
creates the universe “out of nothing,” as
some still maintain, merely by an exercise
of the Will, it is not, therejore, to be imagined
that God actually makes something which did
notpreviously exist, or rather subsist, in God's
nature. A tree does not grow save from a
*It is difficult to avoid the conventional “ He,” though God
is neither male nor female.
I8
THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
seed, or cutting, even though its growth is
encouraged by the gardener. Hence, even
if it be accepted, for the sake of argument,
that God did create the universe out of
nothing, then that “nothing” is God’s own
S e l f , God’s own Nature. For “out of
nothing nothing can be made.” If this word
“nothing” be derogatory to the theological
ideas of God, then the word may be changed
though the idea remains essentially the
same. God, being All in All, has, in God’s
S e l f , all potentialities, a Power, or life, that
is causative, but equally a Substance, cap­
able of being produced and moulded into
form. The idea of creation involves a
Deity who is in Himself both formative and
causative. From another point of view,
God may be said to produce the opposites,
Spirit and Matter, from Himself, for there
is none but God, He being All in All. In
this sense He remains supreme, or beyond
these opposites, and thus arises the I d e a of
a primordial Trinity.1
*Even during the so-called “Dark Ages” these ideas were
never lost, though promulgated mysteriously only to the few,
J9
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
However the subject be viewed, this
apparent duality of Spirit and Matter
cannot be avoided, for it is obvious to all,
either (a) that Life and Form exist as in­
dependent realities, or (b) that matter is
essentially living containing in itself “the
promise and potentiality of Life,” or (c) that
life contains the promise and potentiality of
densification (matter).
Matter, then, may be considered as vary­
ing in density from solid to gaseous, and
from the latter to the finest ethers, and then
in alchemical works and in other ways. It is these teachings
which some believe the Rosicrucians disseminated. Robert
Fludd, “an English Rosicrucian,” as he is called in Hargrave
Jennings’ The Rosicrucians, expressed these ideas during the
reign of James I. a little more clearly than most writers of the
period. He states that the Bible story of creation is not to be
taken literally, but metaphorically, and declared that in the
Beginning two original Principles proceeded from the Father.
These he calls “Light and Darkness” or Form and Idea, and
Matter or Plasticity. Matter, “downwards,” becomes graded
as fivefold and the worlds are subject to the operation of the
original Type or Idea. They become, then, “In their imita­
tion of this invisible idea, first intelligible and then endowed
with reciprocal meaning outwards from themselves.” This
produced the Being or thought to whom creation was dis­
closed, which, he says, is properly the “Son” or Second In­
effable Person of the Trinity. - (Chapter XXIV).
20
THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
again to states of such infinite tenuity as to
transcend all ideas of materiality and thus
touch what may be called the lowest rung
of the ladder of Spirit. The latter in turn
modifies itself and gradually becomes less
fine or, if the word may be used, denser,
and not only “descends” into matter, but in
its lowest state actually becomes, or even is.
Matter.
In other words, there is one Eternal and
Illimitable Reality - God. The Reality,
seeing that it either causes the appearance of
Matter with Life as its ensouling Power, or
actually is these opposites Itself, must have
within it a Power of producing opposites, of
dividing a one-ness, and yet bringing into
relation the opposites produced.
It may, then, be said in considering that
state which is prior to the appearance of
things, that God is Absolute, the All, and, as
the All, includes every idea and every pos­
sibility, holding them, as it were, in solu­
tion, or in potentia. God is, therefore, both
Life and Substance, and likewise the
Power which polarises them and makes
21
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
them appear opposites, whereas they are
truly one in essence, aspects or modes of
unfolding the Divine Unity.
Here, then, jor purposes of human com­
prehension only, and not as actual separated
realitiesyis manifested a triune unity, three
which yet are one, no one being greater nor
less than the other.
There are different ways of describing this
“Trinity,” metaphysically and philosophi­
cally, or theologically. Considering the
Trinity in this light, from a more human
point of view, it is seen as a mysterious and
apparently never - to - be-perfectly-under-
stood idea, over which for ages the heads of
the Churches have argued without result.
It is true that the mystic, who does not
argue, sees the reality behind the orthodox
teaching, but the orthodox teaching itself
is difficult to follow if the brain only, apart
from the meditational Self within, is called
upon to comprehend such a deep and truly
metaphysical problem. The follower who
accepts the views of his teachers, is satisfied
to take the idea of the Trinity as an article
22
THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
of faith. The “logician” amongst the
orthodox, he who sometimes becomes the
“higher critic” and enters into discussion
after discussion, often rejecting the more
narrow of the Trinity, the anthropomor­
phical view, does not always give to the
world anything better in its place. The
metaphysician, on the other hand, neither
accepts nor rejects a dogma, but endeavours
to see the truth behind it.
The orthodox view, then, is the first to be
stated, and to prevent prejudice it will be
set forth in the words of the accepted
authorities.
It is well known, of course, that the idea of
a triune god is in no way peculiar to Chris­
tianity, for it is common to religious
thought in all ages, and even existed before
Christianity was given to the world. It is
said, however, by a certain type of orthodox
and perhaps sectarian, Christian, that the
doctrine of the Trinity takes on a very
different character in Christianity. This is
true, in a certain sense, for there is the
personal Christ to be considered, for His
23
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
great teaching of love and wisdom should
enlighten the too rigid formalism of some
of His followers.
The early Fathers of the Church did not,
and of course could not, deny the truth
that other religions and philosophies pos­
sessed the same teachings before Chris­
tianity, though they endeavoured to ex­
plain the fact away by various subterfuges,
and said that the true Christian idea was
far different to that of the ‘‘heathen” or
platonic philosophers, as witness St. Augus­
tine. He, quoted by W. Fulton, D.D.,
Professor of Systematic Theology in Aber­
deen University (article, “Trinity” in
Clark’s Encyclopedia oj Religion andEthics)
states that, even if it was to be found in the
books of the platonists that “in the be­
ginning was the word,” it was not found that
the “Word became flesh and dwelt amongst
us.”
Professor Fulton, in this connection, gives
a brief account of the Trinity, part of which
follows.
“What lends a special character to the
24
THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
Christian doctrine of the Trinity is its close
association with the distinctive Christian
view of the divine incarnation. In other
religions and religious philosophies we meet
with the idea of divine incarnation, but it
may be claimed that no where is the union of
God and Man so concrete and definite . . .
as in the Christian religion. . . . It is the
very central truth of Christianity that God
was historically manifest in Christ and that
He is still revealed in the world as the in­
dwelling spirit of the Church. . . . This
Christian faith in the incarnation of the
Divine Word in the man Christ Jesus, with
whom the believer is united through the
fellowship of the Holy Spirit, constitutes the
distinctive basis of the Christian doctrine of
the Trinity.”
The words italicised show the ideas to
which attention is drawn, being supposed
to show the difference between Christianity
and the older religions. The article further
states that in the Old Testament there is
little on which to base the Trinity idea, and
that in the New Testament “we do not find
25
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
the doctrine of the Trinity in anything like
its developed jorm> not even in the Pauline
and Johannine theology, although ample
witness is borne to the religious experience
from which the doctrine springs.”1
“None the less Christ is acknowledged as
the eternal Son of God and the supreme
revelation of the Father and the quickening
Spirit of Life is acknowledged to be derived
from on High. And so when the early
Christians would describe their conception
of God, all the three elements- God, Christ,
and Spirit - enter into the description and
the One God is found to be revealed in a
threefold way.”
After giving instances and illustrations of
this idea, he concludes a paragraph by
stating, “truly, if the doctrine of the Trinity
appeared somewhat late in theology it must
have lived very early in devotion. The
ecclesiastical doctrine states,” he continues,
showing it as a gradual development, that
1It might well be said that it springs rather from religious
debate than experience, for the history of the Christian
churches and chapels shows the former rather than the latter.
2 6
THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
“there are three Persons (Hypostases), or
real distinctions, in the unity of the divine
Nature and Substance which is Love. The
Persons are Co-equal as in each of them the
Divine Nature is one and undivided and by
each collective divine attributes are shared.
As a “Person” in Trinitarian usage is more
than a mere aspect of being, being a real
ground of experience and function, each
divine person, whilst less than a separate
individuality, possesses His own hypostatic
character or characteristic property . . .
that of the Father being ingeneration, of the
Son, filiation, of the Spirit, procession ;
wherefore the Father is of none, neither
begotten nor proceeding; the Son is eter­
nally begotten of the Father; the Holy
Ghost eternally proceeding from the
Father and the Son . . . yet . . . there is no
separation in the unity of the Godhead.
So the one God is manifested in the three­
fold work of creation, redemption, and
sanctification. Moreover, each of the
Persons, as sharing the divine attributes, is
active in the threefold work, if with varying
27
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
stress of function. Verily the doctrine of
the Trinity exit in mysterium.”
All alike, orthodox, heterodox, or mystic,
will agree to this last statement. Yet,
although he confesses to the exit in myster-
tum> he is none the less sure of the idea that
the Trinity is not a Trinity of three distinct
Gods.
“It should,” he says, “be emphasised that
the Trinitarian statement is never trithe-
istic in the sense of affirming three separate
self-conscious and self-determining indivi­
dualities in one God. The word “Person”
is used archaically and not in the modern
sense of a centre or core of personality . . .
to say that these are three eternal principles
of distinction or modes of subsistence in the
Godhead is not polytheism, although in
these speculative constructions of the
Trinity it might lead, and has sometimes
led, to a theoretical pluralism or poly­
theism.”
Such a statement from an orthodox auth­
ority removes much of the stigma thrown
upon ecclesiastical Christianity by the
28
THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
ignorant and saves much argument, for it
is indeed a confession of a belief in a Unity
acting as Trinity and not actually as three
Beings or even three Persons. This comes
very near to the mystical idea of the Chris­
tian doctrines.
It is interesting to note, considering the
idea sometimes expressed that Christianity
has only teachings which may be under­
stood even by the most simple or ignorant,
that this same writer further states that “the
accusation of being tritheistic which has so
often been made against Christianity is, in
a sense, justified. For, undoubtedly, the
doctrine of the Trinity has been, and is stilly
conceived among simple, uneducated Chris­
tians in a naively tritheistic way. But the
Christian religion, like other historical
religions, must be judged by the affir-
mation of its best and most representative
minds and not by the crudities of the
uninstructed nor the aridities of theological
pedantry.”1
This article, although avowedly written
^Tiiis, logically, must apply to all religions.
29
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
by a conforming, and apparently orthodox,
Christian, is nevertheless one that should
do more to bring the religions of Judaism
and its daughter Christianity together than
all the proselytism of the ages, for the
deeper mystical Christian idea of the
Trinity, if properly understood, needs only
a clear explanation to make it acceptable
to a broad-minded Hebrew. Indeed, it
would be accepted even by the philosopher
and other religionists if only it were made
clear as a concept rather than a dogma.
Not only is the article useful in this re­
spect, but it shows further (a) the transition
from the mystical Hebrew and Zoharistic
(Qabalistic) idea of God and His three
powers, of God acting as atrinity of power,
\b) to the dogmatic assertions, or what he
terms the “ crudities of the uninstructed,”
and (c) a gradual return, via mystically
revealed religion, to the point of departure.
For he states finally that “the Trinity is
declared to be, at bottom, an assertion of the
divine unity,” and that if in the light ofthe
Christian revelation we are led to affirm
3°
THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
three eternal distinctions in the Godhead,
we must still hold fast to the old faith of
Israel’s prophets and say “these three are
one.”
The metaphysical or philosophical idea of
God as Trinity is not so far removed from
the above statement as might be imagined.
Philosophically viewed, in order to create,
there must be in God’s self that which the
human mind terms the Will, or Desire to
produce, or a similar attribute beyond
human description called by some the
“Father” aspect, inasmuch as it is causa­
tive. In God also, “very God of very
God,” there must be a certain cohesive
power to contrive and bring together the
creative parts. This second aspect may
well be termed Love, Eros, Wisdom. In
addition to this second aspect of God it is
obvious that there is a further power, a
creative mental activity, which sends
forth and causes to appear that which is
produced by the Will and sustained by
Wisdom.
Thus is seen again the Trinity as a unified
3i
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
triad of power in its aspects of Will, Wis­
dom, and Activity: the Wisdom, Strength,
and Beauty of Freemasonry: the Point, the
Line and Surface of the Pythagoreans.
The erudite compiler of the Dictionary oj
the Sacred Languages oj all Scriptures and
Myths, G. A. Gaskell, under the heading
“Trinity, Holy,” gives much food for
thought. The Trinity, he declares, is “a
symbol of the Godhead in three aspects:
Father—Absolute, Unconditioned, Poten­
tial and Unmanifest Power; 2nd, Son -
Conditioned, Actual, Active, Manifest,
Love ; and Spirit - means of creation and
sustentation. Wisdom.”
The Rev. A. J. Campbell, somewhile
famous as an exponent of what was termed
the “New Theology,” or “Higher Criti­
cism,” in his many references to this sub­
ject asks: “Does physical science imply the
doctrine of the Trinity?” “Yes,” he replies,
“unquestionably it does . . . when we start
thinking about existence as a whole and
ourselves in particular, we are compelled
to assume the infinite, the finite, and the
32
THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
activity of the former within the latter. In
other words, we have to postulate God,
the Universe, and God’s operations within
the universe. Look at these three concep­
tions for a moment and it will be seen that
everyone of them implies the rest; they are
a Trinity in Unity. The primordial Being
must be infinite,1 for there cannot be a
finite without something still beyond it.
We know, too, that the universe, to our
experience, is finite; we can measure, weigh
and analyse it. And yet, if we think of in­
finite and finite as two entirely distinct and
unrelated modes of existence, we find our­
selves in an impossible position.” (New
Theology, p. 86).
He further states (A Faith for To-day,
p. 283) that “the terms Father, Son, and
Spirit, are but symbols which stand for
three manifestations of God, three con­
stituents of the Divine Nature, three
relationships essential to the perfect life
of deity.”
xOr be one with the Infinite, for, strictly speaking, a Being is
not T he Infinite.
33 c
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
opposites, the Holy Ghost of the orthodox,
the Fohat of the Buddhist, which brings all
things together. The Three are One, a
Unity manifesting itself as if it were a
Trinity.
As all manifestation implies this Trinitising
process, it may be interesting to offer a
more concrete illustration to those interested
in Electricity and Magnetism.
In order to make a little clearer this
idea of a Unity manifesting as a Trinity,
the circular magnet becoming a horse-
shoe magnet may perhaps serve as an
example.
A circular piece of steel which has been
magnetised will not produce any effect
when iron filings are brought near to it,
that is, it will not show forth any power of
attraction. It is certain that this power is
in the circular unity, but it is unknown in
the sense that it is unmanifest. If, however,
the circle is broken so that two parts or
poles appear in the unity, then the
magnet exercises its attractive power when
iron filings are brought near. It is this
36
THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES
polarisation1which really explains the mys­
tery of the trinity in unity. It is manifest in
this broken circle or horseshoe magnet. As
a circle it is a unit but when manifesting its
power it is necessary to have two sides or
poles, one of which is called positive and
the other negative. Through both pours
the same force yet it is broken up, as it
were, and appears as opposites. There is
thus the positive magnetism, or electricity
as the case may be, and the negative mag­
netism and also that which holds both in
solution. Thus we have two opposites
emanating from a unity common to both
and yet the three are one.
*By polarisation is here meant a breaking up of an element,
so that one part acts upon another to produce a result, such as
a spark of electricity, for example, which is a manifestation of
electric power. When the two poles of the horseshoe magnet
are free, then there is an attractive force coming forth and
showing its power or existing, but when a bar of steel is placed
across the two poles so as to reform the circle, then the power
is checked. So that the unbroken circle is here a symbol of an
unconditioned state which is before creation, whilst the
polarised circle with its two poles is a symbol -of what takes
place at the period called “in the beginning.”
37
THE VIRGIN-MOTHER OF
THE UNIVERSE
THE VIRGIN-MOTHER OF THE
UNIVERSE
An ancient homily on Trinity Sunday,
quoted by Hargrave Jennings in his famous
work, The Rosicrucians, has the following
quaint order. “At the deth of a manne
three bells should be ronge as his knylle in
worship of the Trinitie, and for a woman,
who was the second person of the Trinitie,
two bells should be ronge.”
This shows the vagueness which exists
regarding the various ideas of the Trinity,
especially when made anthropomorphical.
It. is not, moreover, an isolated statement,
for the conception that the original Trinity
included a Female Principle is voiced even
in Funk and Wagnall’s Jewish Encyclo­
paedia (article, “Trinity”), where it is
stated that the Holy Spirit was considered
by the Mandseans as the Mother of the
Messiah, and also that the word Spirit in
4 i
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
Hebrew called Rucha, has a feminine
ending.
This same article is a reminder of the
eternal debates between Hebrews and
Christians, as to the meaning of the Trinity
which the following extract from Nach-
manides, quoted in this Encyclopedia^ is a
good example.
“Fra Paola asked me in Gerona whether
I believed in the Trinity. I said to him:
“What is the Trinity; do three great human
bodies constitute the Divinity?” “No!”
“Or are there three ethereal bodies, such as
the souls, or are there three Angels?” “No!’
“Or is an object composed of three kinds of
matter as bodies are composed of the four
elements?” “No!” “What, then, is the
Trinity?” He said: “Wisdom, Will, and
Power.” Then I said: “I also acknowledge
that God is wise and not foolish, that He has
a will unchangeable, and that He is mighty
and not weak, but the term Trinity is
erroneous. For Wisdom is not accidental
in the Creator since He and His Wisdom
are one, He and His Will are one, He and
42 . .
VIRGIN-MOTHER OF THE UNIVERSE
His Power are one, so that Will, Wisdom
and Power are one. Moreover, even were
these things accidental in Him, that which
is called God would not be three Beings but
one Being with these three accidental attri­
butes. . . . ”
The interminable argument continues so
that Nachmanides suggests that if analogies
are to be fixed then God would be Four
Gods - i.e.y God, His Wisdom, Will and
Power. He continues, further, in an ex­
aggerated manner and states that God may
even be said to be fivefold, for His life is
another aspect.
It seems that neither Fra Pablo nor Nach­
manides realised the true meaning behind
all the words, and that they were, therefore,
splitting straws whilst truth fled from their
presence.
It has, however, been shown in the pre­
vious chapter how the Universe, or God, in
the deepest sense, is a Trinity of Life, Sub­
stance, and the R elation between them.
This is, however, not an exact parallel to
the Protestant idea of Father, Son and Holy
. 4 3
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
Ghost, but relates rather to the more
ancient doctrine of Father, Holy Ghost,
Mother and Son, the latter being, in this
sense, the result of the interaction between
Life - God - Father and Substance - God -
Mother, which result is the comingforth of
God (His own emanation, or Son) in the
Universe thus produced. This is what may
be termed the Cosmic Christ, the Son, or
Logos, a reflection, or emanation of the
'‘Father/’ the “Word” incarnate, not only
in Christ the Man, but equally in that body
which is the universe itself.
This does not eliminate the idea that God
does actually incarnate in man, and more
definitely in the perfected Man Jesus, but it
is intended to show that both ideas need
much consideration before either can
be rejected, and indeed, both may be
reconciled.
To sum up, then: There is One Illim it­
able R eality , both active and receptive,
causative and formative. The One, in a
manner not to be described, save symboli­
cally, or by analogy, polarises Itself, draws
44
VIRGIN-MOTHER OF THE UNIVERSE
Itself, as it were, away from Its own Sub­
stance in order to act definitely within it,
of upon it. In each of these polarised
opposites there is, naturally, the same power,
and this it is which, having polarised the
One, draws together the dual aspects
for purposes of action and interaction.
Hence this power is here described as the
Relation, that which before creation is a
separating power and after creation be­
comes a synthesising force. The One in its
positive aspect may be termed Father, and
its opposite, the formative and receptive
Substance, Mother; whilst the Relation, the
Synthesising Power, the Holy Ghost, is the
vivifying Breath, the mental energy of God,
the Ruach Hakodesh of the Hebrews.
Such, then, is the birth of a universe. It
is as if God poured His own life into His
emanation - His only begotten Son, who is
in the truest sense Himself, the Universe
and the Life sustaining it.
These things, as Thomas Vaughan said
so long ago, “need not so much our dis-
cusse as our reverence” and further are not
45
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
to be understood “geographically, but
ouranographically” as relating not so much
to historical happenings on this little globe,
as to cosmic happenings in the heavens.
The conception above outlined leads to
the consideration of a fourfold rather than
a triune manifestation, Father-Spirit,
Mother-Substance, the relation between
them, and their emanation, the Son.
It is this Mother-aspect which needs to be
considered, this root-substance or Matrix of
all things, in which all things are formed,
and from which all things come forth. As it
is really part of the Absolute, it is, therefore.
Perfect and Pure, or, in other words, it is a
true “Virgin” Substance, untouched and
undefiled, or unpolluted, if such words may
be used in this connection. It may be con­
ceived as extended everywhere in space, for
purposes of creation, and as it is plastic and
formative, capable of being moulded into
shapes and designs, it is, and has ever been,
symbolised by water, as witness the word
used in the Book of Genesis in the original
Hebrew, the word usually translated “The
46
VIRGIN-MOTHER OF THE UNIVERSE
Heavens,” in Hebrew Hashamayim, liter­
ally the “Uplifted Waters.” If this idea be
rightly understood it may well be termed a
Plastic Ocean of Cosmic Substance in
Space, a Virgin sea of unseen, but none the
less real, root-of-all-matter.
The same idea is found in the most ancient
of Hindu Scriptures, notably in the Laws
of Manu, the “Manuva-Dharma Shastra,”
translated by G. Buhler in the Sacred
Books of the East, edited by Max
Muller.
It is there stated that Svayamhhu, the Self-
existent, or Brahma, came forth to produce
the Universe, which was then “without
form, and void” as the Hebrew Scripture
has it. “This (Universe) existed in the
shape of darkness,1 unperceived, destitute”
of qualities, “unattainable by reasoning,
unknowable, wholly immersed, as it
were, in deep sleep. Then the divine,
self-existent, indiscernible (but) making
(all) this, the great elements and the rest,
discernible, appeared with irresistible
x“And darkness was on the face of the deep.”
47
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
(creative) power, dispelling the darkness.
. . . He, desiring to produce beings of
many kinds from his own body, first with a
thought created the waters, and placed his
seed in them. That seed became a Golden
Egg in brilliancy equal to the sun; in that
egg he himself was born as Brahma, the
progenitor of the whole world. The waters
are called Narah, for they are, indeed, the
offspring of Nara, as they were His first
residence. He thence is named Narayana”
(Laws of Manu, I., 5-10). The reader will
note that the same idea of “The Spirit of
God moved on the face of the waters” is
here conveyed, and the word Narayana
means literally, “the mover on the waters.”
All this is curiously similar to the Hebrew
version of Creation as shown in the “Book
of Genesis.” As, however, the Laws of
Manu, or the earliest scriptures of the Hin­
doos, long antedate the Hebrew writing, it
is hardly conceivable that the former copied
from the latter. Whether in Hindoo or
Hebrew thought the idea is the same, viz.,
that God brooded over, or within, this
48
f
I
T'
V.
I
v
:/
i:>
‘
S
?
VIRGIN-MOTHER OF THE UNIVERSE
“Virgin Ocean” of plastic substance, or
“Mary,” to bring forth the worlds with
Himself as Cosmic Christ in them. He is
thus, if the idea be realised symbolically,
His own Father, Son and Mother, which is
nonsense to the “Cowan,” the profane, but
truth to the discerning, to the philosopher
or mystic.
The Laws of Manu, continuing the
description of creation, describe how the
Divine One polarised the “Golden Egg”
of Substance and formed out of the halves
the heaven and the earth, mind and matter,
“minute particles” and all things (I., 12-
20). All this is similar to the story of the
“Book of Genesis.” Moreover, it suggests
that the idea of atoms is a very ancient one,
for it is obvious that these “minute par­
ticles” are nothing but atoms.
Another ancient Hindoo view of the be­
ginning of things found in the Khandogya
Upanishad and elsewhere, is that the whole
universe is derived from a primordial sub­
stance, or A kasha. This word has been
subject to many curious translations, some
49 d
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
calling it even “Sky” and others “ether,”
the latter being used by Max Muller,
though he says: “We might translate it by
space, both being intended, however, as
names of the Highest Brahman.” It is
perhaps more correct to say that this akasha
is the Substance of Brahman. The idea is
that the “Highest Brahman” (Parabrah-
man) shows forth as Akasha or root-sub­
stance on the one hand and as Purusha or
spirit, the Being, on the other.
The Celtic Cosmogony as described by
George Russell (A.E.) in his Candle of
Vision, is well worthy of comparison with
other stories of creation. He says that in
the beginning was the Boundless Lir, an
infinite and invisible divinity in which were
all things past and present and to come.
All things were blended in the Great
Father and Mother, and heaven and earth
were lost, being one in the infinite Lir.
“As the mystic night trembles into dawn
its leaves and its blossoms and its starry
fruit burgeon simultaneously and are shed
over the waters of space.” This expression
5°
VIRGIN-MOTHER OF THE UNIVERSE
is common to many ancient cosmogonies.
His words are, however, so beautiful that it
is well to have a further extract in extenso:
“We have first of all Lir, an infinite being,
neither spirit nor energy nor substance, but
rather the spiritual form of these, in which
all the divine powers, raised above them­
selves, exist in a mystic union or trance.
This is the night of the gods from which
Mananan first awakes, the most spiritual
divinity known to the ancient Gael, being
the Gaelic equivalent of that spirit which
breathed on the face of the waters. He is
the root of existence from which springs
the Sacred Hazel, the symbol of life rami­
fying everywhere: and the forms of this life
are conceived first by Mananan, the divine
imagination. It throws itself into seven
forms or divinities, the branches of the
Hazel: and these again break out endlessly
into leaves and blossoms and fruit, into
myriads of divine beings, the arch-types
and ancestral begetters of those spirits who
are the Children of Lir. All these are first
in the Divine Darkness, and are unrevealed,
51..
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE §
and Mananan is still the unuttered word,
and is in that state the Chaldaic oracle of
Proclus saith of the Divine Mind: ‘ It had
not yet gone forth, but abode in the Pater­
nal Depth, and in the adytum of god-
nourished Silence.5 But Mananan, while
one in essence with the Paternal Lir, is yet,
as the divine imagination, a separate being
to whom, thus brooding, Lir seems apart,
or covered with a veil, and this aspect of Lir
a mirage which begins to cover over true
being, is Dana, the Hibernian Mother of
the Gods, or Sinan in the antique Dinn-
shencus, deity first viewed externally, and
therefore seeming to partake of the nature
of substance, and as the primal form of
matter, the Spirit of Nature. Mananan
alone of all the Gods exists in the inner side
of this spirit, and therefore it is called his
mantle, which, flung over man or god,
wraps them from the gaze of embodied
beings. His mantle, the Faed Fia, has
many equivalents in other mythologies. It
is the Aether within which Zeus runs in­
visibly, and the Akasa through which
52
VIRGIN-MOTHER OF THE UNIVERSE
Brahm sings his eternal utterance of joy.
The mantle of Mananan, the Aether, the
Akasa, were all associated with sound as a
creative power, for to the mystic imagina­
tion of the past, the world was sung into
being; and what other thought inspired the
apostle who wrote, ‘ In the beginning was
the Word.’
“Out of the Divine Darkness Mananan
has arisen, a brooding twilight before dawn,
in which the cloud images of the gods are
thronging. But there is still in Lir an
immense deep of being, an emotional life
too vast, too spiritual, too remote to speak
of, for the words we use to-day cannot tell
its story. It is the love yet unbreathed, and
yet not love, but rather a hidden unutter­
able tenderness, or joy, or the potency of
these, which awakens as the image of the
divine imagination is reflected in the being
of the Mother, and then it rushes forth to
embrace it. The Fountain beneath the
Hazel is broken. Creation is astir. The
many are proceeding from the One. An
energy of love or eternal desire has gone
53
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
forth which seeks through a myriad forms
of illusion for the infinite being it has left.
It is Angus the Young, the eternal joy be­
coming love, a love changing into desire,
and leading on to earthly passion and for­
getfulness of its own divinity. The eternal
joy becomes love when it has first merged in
form, and images of a divine beauty dance
before it and lure it afar. This is the first
manifested world, the Tiranoge or World of
Immortal Youth. The love is changed into
desire as it is drawn deeper into Nature, and
this desire builds up the Mid-world or
World of the Waters. And, lastly, as it lays
hold of the earthly symbol of its desire, it
becomes on Earth that passion which is
spiritual death. In another sense Angus
may be described as the passing into acti­
vity of a power latent in Lir, working
through the divine imagination, impressing
its ideations on nature in its spiritual state,
and thereby causing its myriad transforma­
tions. It is the fountain in which every
energy has its birth, from the power which
lays the foundations of the world, down
54
VIRGIN-MOTHER OF THE UNIVERSE
through love and every form of desire to
chemical affinity just as Mananan is the
root of all conscious life, from the imperial
being of the gods down to the conscious­
ness in the ant or amoeba. So is Dana also
the basis of every material form from the
imperishable body of the immortals to the
transitory body of the gnat. As this
divinity emerges from its primordial state
of ecstatic tenderness or joy in Lir, its
divided rays, incarnate in form, enter upon
a threefold life of spiritual love, of desire,
and the dark shadow of love; and these
three states have for themselves three
worlds into which they have transformed
the primal nature of Dana: a World of
Immortal Youth: a mid-world where every­
thing changes with desire: and which is
called from its fluctuations the World of
the Waters, and lastly, the Earth-world
where matter has assumed that solid form
when it appears inanimate or dead. The
force of the fountain which whirled Sinan
away has been spent and Sinan has met
death.
55
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
“Of Dana, the Hibernian Mother of the
gods, I have already said she is the first
spiritual form of matter, and therefore
Beauty. As every being emerges out of her
womb clothed with form, she is the mighty
Mother, and as mother of all, she is that
divine compassion which exists beyond, and
is the final arbiter of the justice of the gods.
Her heart will be in ours when ours for­
give.”
Now if it be accepted that there is such a
“Virgin” or Primordial Substance, and
that it was symbolised as “Water” by the
ancients, it is not difficult to understand the
idea even in its application to the “Mother
of Jesus.” She, as is well known, is called
Mary (Maria or Mariam) which is not a
Hebrew but a Greek word, the Hebrew
word nearest to it being Miriam (Mrim).
It is written in Greek and Latin as Mare
and Marta, and means, literally, “Sea.”
Curiously enough, seeing that it is here
suggested that this “Virgin Mare” is the
Ocean of Cosmic Substance in Space, it is
to be noted that the Latin Mare besides
56
VIRGIN-MOTHER OF THE UNIVERSE
meaning “Sea” also means “The vast ex­
panse, Mare Injernum or Mare Supernum'1
either the heavenly Mother or the earthly
Mother, matrix of worlds or man.2
Such, then, are the “Waters” over the face
of which the Spirit of God brooded, as that
same spirit, the “Holy Ghost,” brooded
over Mary.
It is necessary to understand all these ideas
if the sacred words, Amen and Aum, are to
be fully comprehended. There are thus
two Trinities to be considered, one of
Father, Mother and Son, and the other of
Father, Mother and Holy Ghost, the
quaternary being seen only when Father,
Mother, Son and Holy Ghost are con­
sidered together. All these things are also
symbolised by the Hebrew Sacred Word
I h v h , the so-called Jehovah.
1
Ainsworth’s Latin Dictionary, Mare.
aIt is well known, as quoted in Jennings’ Rosicrucians, that
the Virgin Mary, the Star of the Sea, or Stella Maris, the
patroness of sailors, rules and governs the ocean and her
colours are the ultramarine of the “Deep.” Hence, says this
writer, it is the figure Brittania who is shown ruling the sea
and not Neptune.
57
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
Indeed, it is fitting to state that Judaism, as
regards its inner and more mystical side
shown in the different Oabalistic works ex-
fV
presses the idea of both Trinity and quater­
nary, but these things are not to be under­
stood as they have been by the later monk-
taught masses, nor is the dogma fixed by
the Council of Nice to be accepted as
relating merely to earthly things, but to
spiritual and metaphysical verities.
58
LETTERS AND T H E IR
M EANING
LETTERS AND THEIR MEANING
BEFORE explaining the meaning of the
word Amen, there isa further step to be
taken. For, unless the basic meaning of the
very letters of a word be understood, there
can be no sure idea of the meaning of the
root itself. This applies more especially
to such a word as Amen for, as will be
shown, it is used more as a ‘‘word of power”
than as a grammatical word. The mere
translation of this word in its grammatical
sense as “that which stands, that which is
established, that which is firm,” etc., will
not convey much to the reader, who knows
how sacred it has become in use as a sound
of power and affirmation.
It is, however, difficult to express ideas
which are apparently new or which have
not hitherto been clearly explained. In
this instance, when it is sought to explain
61
Am e n , t h e k ey o f t h e u n iv e r se
the very meaning of letters themselves, the
difficulty is greater because of the conven­
tional thought which stands in the way.
It is, of course, not difficult to understand
the meaning of words, generally, but when
it is a question of tracing back the original
roots, it is more of a problem. Yet even
when, after much research, the actual roots
are discovered and the original language
known, the ‘‘authority” eludes the seeker.
For - and here is the problem - why should
a root of two or three letters, a simple, single
syllable, convey the accepted idea, why, in
fact, should words mean exactly what they
do mean and nothing else?
It is at once easy and yet difficult to
answer. Easy, because to the intuition the
idea is simple, but difficult because the
idea has to be presented to the mind in a
logical and definite manner.
Letters, obviously, are symbols, literally
“writings” “thrown together,” as the word
implies, to express an idea, to picture cer­
tain sounds. The letter, generally, is
named with a name also expressing the
62
LETTERS AND THEIR MEANING
same idea. In modern languages, however,
this has been overlooked with very disas­
trous results to those who allow the imagina­
tion to run riot when tracing the original
meaning of words. Thus it is a well-known
rule that because a word sounds like another
word it is not necessarily from the same root
and does by no means convey the same
meaning nor show a derivation from the
same source.
In modern languages the idea that letters
have names which express the meaning of
the sounds they represent has seldom been
considered save by two or three writers such
as the famous Fabre D’Olivet, the great
French grammarian, who, during the
French Revolution, wrote La Langue He-
braique Restitute and other works; his pre­
decessor, Court De Gebelin, the Rev. E.
Davies in his Celtic Researches, and the
very slight consideration also given to
the subject by “A.E.” (George Russell),
now famous as one of the leaders of the Irish
Dominion. Little else is known of the sub­
ject except that Plato guardedly hints at the
63
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
idea as regards the names of things and
gives a few suggestions as to the meaning of
letters.
The modern name of letters such as a
eigh (eh), bee, see, etc., convey no meaning.
Indeed, if one were asked “what does ‘a’
mean?” the answer would probably be: “It
doesn’t mean anything; it is the first letter
of the “alphabet.” If, again, the query were
put: “What is the alphabet?”, the reply
would be: “Why, the ABC, of course.”
The ABC, however, is not the alphabet, for
this word is only made up from the first
two Greek letters Alpha and Beta, which
are letters or writings, expressing certain
meanings. That which is termed the
“alphabet” is the series of “writings,” the
letters, by which language is expressed as
symbols.
The reason why modern names of letters,
such as “eigh,” “bee,” “see,” etc., convey
no meaning, is because they are mere de­
rived and incomplete names, whereas the
Greek and Hebrew letters were named
with complete names, these names being
64
LETTERS AND THEIR MEANING
given according to the power of sound ex­
pressed by the letter. Thus in Greek the
sound-power symbolised by A or alpha was
so named because the letter expressed a
sound of dominance, of leading, of power or
direction, the word “alpha” meaning leader
that which takes precedence, etc. In the
Hebrew this same letter was named Aleph,
meaning powerful, great, bull, etc., or even
a great number, a thousand.
If, therefore, letters are named with names
expressing their sounds it is reasonable to
ask the purpose of such names and their
true meaning, an understanding of which
will provide a key to the meaning of the
majority of roots in many different lan­
guages.
The letters in many languages such as
Hebrew, Chinese, etc., were originally,
pictures representing certain ideas and
sounds. These pictures were used as sym­
bols to express the meaning of the sounds
they represented. Thus the picture which
has now become the modern A was the
symbol of the powerful vowel sound ahhh>
65 E
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
or a, the most important of all sounds, and
was written or carved as a Bull’s head, the
symbol of causative power. Moreover, in
order to retain the idea even if the picture
should be altered, as it has been in the course
of ages, the name Aleph, meaning also Bull,
was given to it so that the idea would never
be lost, even though the picture were
altered.
It is not known whether the Greek Alpha,
or A, is directly derived from the Hebrew,
but it is certain that the same Hebrew idea
is conveyed by the name, viz., Alpha, for
this word especially expresses the idea of
power, leadership, the A sound filling the
whole mouth or going forth as a dominating
sound. Thus it may well be deduced that
A is the sound of power, of active forth-
going, the first in letters as it is the first in
creation, God’s causative, creative Power.
In like manner, then, it is the sound and
symbol of anything causative, active, dom­
inating, the inner reality of anything or
anybody, the true Self, Man in his body or
God in His Universe.
66
LETTERS AND THEIR MEANING
The letter B is likewise the sound-symbol
of that which is internally developed, not
expressed or sent forth, unless a vowel
sound is added to it, as Be, Ba, Bu, ete.
It is a sound of internal activity, a develop­
ment within an enclosed space, the mouth
generally. Hence it was well symbolised
by the picture of a house, the letter B, in
Hebrew, being written or carved as the
picture of a house, and actually named Beth,
which means, literally, “house,” that in
which there is some kind of internal acti­
vity, and from which something or some­
body is expected to come forth.
The letter G (the modern C) was named
Camel, or Gimel, and is the symbol of
hollowness, a guttural sound made in the
hollow of the throat, the camel being sup­
posed to have a hollow hump. It is, also,
as a sound, an expression of that which
links and binds, or anything appertaining
to bodily organism, things which are linked
or joined together, according to the autho­
rity of Fabre D’Olivet, and hence the idea
of it being called “camel” was perhaps that
67
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
the camel was such a link between town and
town across the great deserts.
The letter M was named “waters” which,
as the reader will remember, is a symbol of
plasticity or extraction, that from which all
things come forth, matter, substance. All,
however, that remains of the Hebrew word
Mem is the sound of the letter M, as in
English.
U or V, the Hebrew' Vauv, was also ex­
pressive of a link but a link which joins
separated or polarised opposites, bringing
them into relation by sympathy rather than
by actually binding them, as with organ­
isms. The word Vauv means literally hook
or link, and so it is not difficult to realise
the implied meaning.
All other letters were named in this
manner, the h being named “window” and
other letters “eye,” “nail,” “tooth,” “head,
“door,” etc.
These, after all, are mere statements, but
the reader is invited to sound the different
modern letters as was done by George
Russell and the writer, and it will be found,
68
LETTERS AND THEIR MEANING
by meditating on the sounds, that the letters
were well named according to the sounds
they expressed.
It is not only the Hebrew and Greek
letters which were thus named. In other
tongues the same method has prevailed,
though there are few who have deeply
studied this side of language. Davies, how­
ever, in his Celtic Researches, shows this
clearly of even modern letters, in Irish and
English. In these pages, however, the idea
is shown primarily through the Hebrew,
though it may well be traced in the Sans­
krit and other and more modern tongues.
Lest the reader should think it strange that
such ideas are accepted as facts, it is well
to collect other evidence, and thus the afore­
mentioned writer may interest.
“As the Hebrews were careful to dis­
tinguish this (Aleph) and other letters by
names of known and definite import, it
may be presumed that they were aware of
some adequate reason for such an accurate
distinction. The most obvious reason must
be that, in the structure of language, the
69
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
power of each letter was perceived to have
a force, analogous to the meaning of the
name assigned to it. We might, therefore,
expect that Aleph had something of a posi­
tive, demonstrative, or intensive quality -
that it tended and directed forwards, or en­
hanced the meaning of the powers with
which it stood connected.”
This is a very important confirmation of
the views set down here and may be wel­
come to those who seek authorities. Davies
traces the meaning of the names of
letters in modern languages which is very
difficult unless the ancient roots of modern
words be known.
Isaac Taylor, in his work, The Alphabet,
traces all alphabets to their originals as
regards only the material form, but he says
nothing of a helpful nature respecting the
primary intention in the minds of the in­
ventors. Most probably, as a scientist, he
would not consider such speculation rele­
vant. He agrees that in these pictures of
birds, beasts, etc., the letters were named
by the names of the creatures, but he does
70
LETTERS AND THEIR MEANING
not seem to realise the true reason which
has already been stated. The original
names gradually fell into disuse and,
through carelessness probably, only the
original syllable of the name remained.
This Taylor points out, showing that our
modern M is directly derived from the
Egyptian hieroglyph, the owl, whose name
was Mulak. All that is left of this name, he
says, is M. It would be more correct to say
that all that is left of the name is the sound
expressed by the letter M, viz., Emm or
Me. The origin of the letters from the
Egyptian, via the Hebrew, has been traced
by the present writer in The Music of
Spheres, Part II. Taylor has not men­
tioned this Hebrew origin, which would
have helped him to prove that the more
modern letters are also derived, in most
cases, from the Egyptian.
Others, notably the Chinese, had a similar
origin, according to Taylor and others, who
show that the original characters were pic­
tures of trees, animals, men and women,
etc. (p. 21). The Chinese method was,
7i
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
however, different to the Hebrew, for the
Hebrew letters express certain ideas and
are named by names which symbolise these
ideas. It may have been the same, orig­
inally, with the Chinese, though Taylor
shows a different method. Thus he points
out that “safe” was originally depicted
by the picture of a hand stretching down
to help a woman. This is a crude idea, if
true, and quite a different method to that
of the Hebrews or Egyptians. Tie states,
further, that the Chinese had two methods
(p. 30) or forms, of writing. One was by
setting down what he calls a phonogram,
which is, of course, a character, or measure
of a sound, a writing expressing a sound, as
in the Hebrew. To this phonogram was
added an ideogram, the measure of an idea,
in order to explain the meaning of the
previous word, as a determinative. This
may be traced also in the Egyptian hiero­
glyphics on the stones, as well as in the
Cuneiform wedge-carvings, but is not
found in the Hebrew. There is, obviously,
a great difference between picture writings,
72
LETTERS AND THEIR MEANING
or ideographs, and sound writings or
phonographs.
It may well be asked if these sounds are
universal, and if they are expressed in the
names of letters, how is it that there is no
universal language. The answer is simple.
Though the universal vibration may be one
and the same in its essence in the ether of
space, yet it has to be transmitted through
organs. Now all men are more or less
perfect organically, but the development
and refinement of the organs is very differ­
ent in every case, likewise the development
of the mind which first receives the vibra­
tion before it is translated into speech.
Each mind is different, and each country
has its special setting, as it were, which
affects the vibration which causes speech
and thus makes it typical of its surround­
ings. If, then, the vibration passes through
an imperfectly developed mind and is
transmitted through a still less perfectly
evolved organism, then, obviously, accord­
ing to the mind and organism, so will be
the result in the spoken word. This gives
73
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
rise to different languages and dialects.
Yet, although languages are many and
varied, the root-sounds behind them are
apparent in them all.
Isaac Taylor notes with surprise in The
Alphabet (p. 167) that the Hebrew letters,
or rather the names of these letters, all
begin with the very letters themselves.
Thus the first letter, Aleph, begins with A,
the next, Beth, begins with B, etc. He did
not, evidently, realise how and why these
letters were named. It is necessary to add
a few words more of explanation. It has
been already mentioned that there is a cer­
tain power in nature which is symbolised
by the letter Aleph. There is a further idea
which has to be translated into human
speech which may be well symbolised by
the letter B 2nd its name Beth, literally
“house.” This is the idea of innerness, to
coin a word, or internal development, that
which goes on within something as if pre­
paring to come forth. The sound of B even
in modern tongues well expresses a sound
of internal development, a sound made
74
LETTERS AND THEIR MEANING
within the lips, within the mouth, with just
a suspicion of gently coming forth. It is a
sound more internal than the sound ex­
pressed in the letter P which is ejected as a
bolt and not retained whilst the former is
more held back. The K sound is even
more deeply held and is seen as a sound of
inward assimilation, a centralising force.
It is not, then, so strange that the names of
letters should commence with the very
letters themselves. The word Beth, mean­
ing house, is used to name the symbol or
character B which originally was drawn as
a house and was named by the word which
expressed this idea. Naturally the symbol
B, when named, if it is the symbol of a
house, would have the same name, and
therefore the name would start with the
very letter itself. This letter is the sign of
interior activity, something enclosed and
active, etc. It is, in fact, used as a preposi­
tion meaning literally “in.” Therefore
everything which expresses this idea will
have this character to represent it, and thus,
naturally, the word house (Beth) will begin
75
AMEN, TEIE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
with the letter called Beth, for both repre­
sent that which is heard in the sound B
or Bk
Certain sounds, then, made naturally and
spontaneously by man are expressed by
letters and their names. As Davies puts it,
“Certain actions will bejound, oj course, to
generate spontaneously their corresponding
articulationsHe explains that when we
push heavy bodies before us, make our way
or thrust ourselves forward, we naturally
collect the air into the lungs as an internal
support, and we unconsciously endeavour
to derive all possible aid from its elasticity
by giving it the full range of the mouth.
The cheeks are inflated and the lips pressed
together with intense compression of breath
adapted with force, to express the articula­
tion of P. And, as often as breath escapes,
during the violence of exertion, it will
burst forth with no articulation but this.
The Hebrew letter P is called Pye, or Pei,
and means, literally, Mouth. This is in­
teresting in view of Davies’ idea, which is
obviously true and correct. Even in
LETTERS AND THEIR MEANING
modern language the letter P gives a picture
of I (the Ego, or Individual) goingforth,
projecting itself as P, and thus becoming a
symbol of the Ego, the I acting as Parent,
Pater, or Father. It is often found in
original languages that the first letter of the
root is, as it were, the governing letter, and
shows the main idea of the word. The
reader will notice, of course, that this letter
P, symbol of effort going forth, or giving
forth, of Paternity, etc., is at the head of
many words expressing these ideas, such
as Pater, Parent, Produce (to lead forward)
Protrude, Push, Plump. In many languages
the P, pronounced hard, or soft (as F, or
Ph), is the governing letter of various
words all expressing the idea of going forth,
springing forth, projecting, etc.1
Davies gives many other explanations
of the origin of the sounds which are
expressed by letters and proves that arti­
culate sounds of a human being are
not, as some have thought, mere imita­
tions of that which is heard. “There are
1Sauskrit, Pra=forth, i.g., Pra-na, forth-breathing.
V
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
sounds naturally descriptive. They are
produced unconsciously by the various
impressions that are felt, and are calculated
for communicating the same impressions to
those who hear them. As they un­
doubtedly entered into the root of thefirst
language, they retain their places, more or
less, in the various dialects which have
branched from this original stem” (p. 368).
“I have no doubt,” says ‘A.E.,’ that in a
remoter antiquity the roots of language
were regarded as sacred, and when chanted
every letter was supposed to stir into motion
or evoke some subtle force in the body.
Tone and word combined, we know, will
thrill the nervous system, and this is especi­
ally so with lovers of music and persons
whose virgin sensitiveness of feeling has
never been blunted by excess. A word
chanted or sung will start the wild fires
leaping in the body, like hounds which
hear their master calling them by name, and
to those whose aspiration heavenward has
purified their being there comes at last
a moment when, at the calling of the
78
LETTERS AND THEIR MEANING
Ineffable Name, the Holy Breath rises as a
flame and the shadow man goes forth to
become one with the ancestral self.
“What is obvious in that ancient (Hindu)
literature,” he continues, “is the belief in
a complete circle of correspondences be­
tween every root sound in the human voice
and elements, forms and colours, and that
the alphabet was sacred in character. In­
tuitions which modern psychologists regard
as evidence of decadence are found present
in the literature of antiquity. The attri­
butions sometimes are the same as mine;
sometimes they differ, but they suggest the
same theory of a harmony of microcosm
with macrocosm, and it is carried out so
that every centre in the body is named
by the name of a divine power. It is only
by a spiritual science we can recover iden­
tity, renew and make conscious these
affinities” (Candle of Vision, p. 133).
Says Agrippa, guardedly, in his Philo­
sophy of Natural Magic (Chap. LXXIV):
“Now if there be any language whose
words have a natural signification, it is
79
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
manifest that this is the Hebrew, the order
of which he that shall profoundly and radi­
cally observe and shall know to resolve
proportionably the letters thereof, shall
have a rule exactly to find any idiom.
There are, therefore, two-and-twenty
letters 'which are thefoundation of the worlds
and of creatures that are in it and are named
in it, and every saying and every creature
are of them, and by their revolutions re­
ceive their name, being and virtue.”
An illustration of this idea may be given.
When blended, certain vibrations make, as
it were, the picture of an idea in the “mind’s
eye,” or better, in the atmosphere. This
picture is visualised by the Seer who is
helping to form letters to represent sounds
and he names the vibratory picture accord­
ing to its effect on the mind. This name is
then used to describe the object or idea
which it truly represents. Thus the
Hebrew word for pig, chozzar, represents
certain powers of nature blended in the
individual animal. The word used to de­
scribe the animal follows the same principle
80
LETTERS AND THEIR MEANING
that is to say, the letters of the word repre­
sent these powers.
There is, for instance, in Nature, a power
of effort, the elementary “rooting” desire
which keeps even the lowest being alive
and existent, a power which, as it were, de­
termines to get what can be gotten by the
lowest type of elementary effort. This is
expressed by a sound which represents such
an idea and symbolised by a letter which
represents in turn the sound itself, the letter
ch, pronounced in Hebrew as the ch sound
in the Scotch word loch, a guttural, the
same as the Greek X or Spanish X, the pro­
nunciation of which is a guttural ch as in
in the famous work, Don Quixote. This
guttural, then, is used to express the low
elementary nature of anything and the
proof that it really does represent such
effort can only be gained absolutely by
sounding the word which names the letter,
viz., chess or cheth, as a guttural sound,
until the idea dawns upon the person who
thus pronounces it. It is thus he “visua­
lises” the idea behind the letter.
81 F
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
Another power in nature is symbolised
by the letter z, called, in Hebrew,
zawyin, or zahyin, which is written as
a twisted nail, or implement, and called
by the name “zawyin,” which means
“nail” or weapon. The sound of this
letter, for those who care to experiment
by repeatedly pronouncing it and con­
sidering the effect on the mind, is repre­
sentative of a twisting rooting force. The
Hebrew letter R, called by the name
Reisch, which means “head” or seat of
intelligence, is thus the symbol of mind,
but the sound of the letter represents also
determined and directed motion or activity,
the energy which is mind.
If, now, these three letters are joined
together, they form the word ckozzar, thus
representing a low elementary effort (ch),
rooting and twisting and delving (z),
crushing out or governing mind ( r ) or pre­
venting the full development of mind. The
letters which rule a word are generally those
which commence rhe root and hence the
letter which represents minds is last in this
82
LETTERS AND THEIR MEANING
word chozzar, which means literally “pig”.
The reader will notice that these three
letters are, therefore, admirably and aptly
chosen and well define the nature of the
pig-
Another illustration of the wonderful
manner in which roots are built up is seen
in the word ChD which, in Hebrew, means
“one” or “apex,” sometimes written as
AChD, making the meaning more forceful
by the addition of the symbol of power, A.
The reader knows already that the letter
Ch is the symbol of effort. This being
added to the symbol of division D, called,
in Hebrew, daleth, forms the word ChD,
the result of the combination of the letters
representing two sounds, those of effort
and division. In this word the symbol of
effort is governor of division, effort holding
back division. Hence the word “one” is
used to translate this word and the idea of
“one” is obviously division checked, divi­
sion held back by effort. Such, then, is the
idea of unity as seen in this root.
Now if these letters be reversed so that
83
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
effort is conquered or governed by division,
if, that is, the D precedes the Ch, the word
DCh arises, pronounced dag or tag as in
the German. This word DCh means,
according to the orthodox lexicons, to go
forth. Hence, on the authority of reason,
it is to be said that the German tag and the
English day are both derived from this root,
which means “to go forth,’*for the day is
the going forth of the sun, or was so con­
sidered in ancient times. It is curious to
see how the position of the letters affects
the meaning for when the word is written
ChD then it represents effort holding back
division, but when it is written DCh, then
it is division governing effort, and so the
idea of “day” arises, that power which
holds back opposites, being now dominated
by the idea of division.1
lA full description of each letter will be given in a later
work.
84
THE SACRED WORD OF
EAST AND WEST
i
THE SACRED WORD OF EAST
AND WEST
THE reader, being now acquainted with
the idea that root-sounds and their
meanings are expressed in the Hebrew and
other letters, may now be interested in the
study of the word Amen considered in this
manner.
This well-known Amen or Amn (pro­
nounced as O-mein by Hebrews) the sup­
posedly Latin word, is, of course, as every
student must know, a Hebrew word. Used
in modern times it is, presumably, a sound
of acquiescence, of completion, of “let it be
so,” “so mote it be,” etc. Though it is
accepted by all in this way, yet the reason
has never been given, and the word itself
remains a mystery. It is, however, a word
which has survived the ruins of the greatest
empires, philosophies and religions the
world has ever seen. Its antiquity is
87
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
beyond question, and its age probably as
great as that of the Aryan race itself.
Hence its origin is not Hebrew but
Sanskrit.
The sound of the word, as used even now
in India and elsewhere, is Om, or as written,
A-U-M, the M sometimes remaining a
“closed” sound, and sometimes a forth-
going sound as Me. This sacred word has
been used since time immemorial by Hindu
and Buddhist alike in a similar way to that
of modern times, as a sound of affirmation
and completion.
Why, however, should this word repre­
sent completion, acquiescence, etc.? The
answer is found in an examination of the
letters composing the word, as will be
shown. It is not a word in the strict sense
of the term, inasmuch as it does not enter
into combination with other words and
has practically no grammatical purpose
whatever. It is what is called a Mantra -
i.e.y a word of power, its blended sounds
having certain stimulating effects on a
person or congregation according to the
88
SACRED W ORD OF EAST AND W EST
manner in which it is pronounced, and the
knowledge of its power held by the priest
or other officiant. Moreover, the intention
in the mind of the priest as to the required
effect has also a very great influence when
this word is properly pronounced. It is
supposed to bring those who chant it
together into closer touch with each other
and with That which it represents - the
A ll, G o d . It is intended to bring about an
at-one-ment in a congregation or a realisa­
tion by man of his essential nature as one
with the Illimitable All. Such is the mean­
ing, or rather, a small part of the meaning,
of this famous word and its power of sound
which can change the hearts and minds of
men. The reader, however, may not be
satisfied with this mystical side of the matter
real though it may be, true though it cer­
tainly is. Other explanations will follow
and may be found more interesting.
In the Khandogya ZJfianishad, one of the
sacred scriptures of the Hindoos, the syl­
lable Om or Aum is considered from many
points of view, mystical to the unsym-
89 . . .
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
pathetic reader, but conveying a deep
meaning to the student of the Ancient
Wisdom.
This word Aum was, and is, usually pro­
nounced at the beginning of each scrip­
ture or sacred hymn, and often also at the
end of the different writings and exhorta­
tions. It is sometimes called the “Pranava,”
from “prana,” meaning to breathe, or
breath, and the “Science of Breath” is still
taught to the Brahman, who is shown how
to pronounce this famous word by three
distinct breathings, or, inbreathing, holding
the breath, and outbreathing. In this way
it is supposed that the devotee eventually
becomes one with all things, becomes one
with T h a t on which he meditates, for the
Aum not only represents God but, by medi-
tational chanting and good works, actually
leads to God.
In the first verse of this XJpanishad it is
stated: “Let a man meditate on the syllable
(the imperishable) OM,” which is the
Essence of all essences, the syllable of
affirmation or acquiescence.
90
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
The translation of this scripture by the
well-known Professor Max Muller is a very
fine example, but, as he seemed to lack the
deeper real knowledge of the East though
a very deep and erudite student of lan­
guages, he suggested that to meditate on a
syllable is perplexing. Yet he is apparently
only pretending not to understand, for he
explains the matter perfectly clearly, as the
following passage (The Sacred Books of the
East, Vol. I., xxiii. and xxiv.) will show.
“What can be more perplexing,” he says,
“than the beginning of the Khandogya
Upanishad ? ‘Let a man meditate,’we read,
or, as others translate it, ‘Let a man worship
the syllable Om.’ It may seem impossible
at first sight to elicit any definite meaning
from these words and from much that
follows after. It would be a mistake, never­
theless, to consider that we have here vox et
praeterea nihil. Meditation on the syllable
Om consisted in a long-continued repetition
of that syllable with a view of drawing the
thoughts away from all other subjects and
thus concentrating them on some higher
9i
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
object of which that syllable was made to
be the symbol. This concentration of
thought, ekagrata, or one-pointedness, as
the Hindus called it, is something to us
almost unknown. Our minds are like
kaleidoscopes of thought in constant
motion; and to shut our mental eyes to
everything else while dwelling on one
thought only, has become to most of us
almost as impossible as to apprehend one
musical note without harmonies. With the
life we lead now, with telegrams, letters,
newspapers, reviews, pamphlets and books
ever breaking in upon us, it has become im­
possible, or almost impossible, even to
arrive at that intensity of thought which
the Hindus meant by ekagrata, and the
attainment of which was to them the indis­
pensable condition of all philosophical and
religious speculation. The loss may not
altogether be on our side, yet a loss it is, and
if we see the Hindus, even in their com­
paratively monotonous life, adopting all
kinds of contrivances in order to assist them
in drawing away their thoughts from all
92
SACRED W ORD OF EAST AND W EST
disturbing impressions and to fix them on
one subject only, we must not be satisfied
in smiling at their simplicity, but try to
appreciate the object they had in view.”
This is certainly a very pessimistic out­
look, especially on the part of such a scholar
as Max Muller. Though these lines were
written as far back as 1879, yet they may
well apply to the present time
Though these statements may be true
as regards the man in the street, yet the
attainment of a certain amount of definite­
ness of thought is clearly possible for the
real student of life. The idea of one-
pointedness is certainly known now to
many, even in the western world of to-day,
and though it may be used merely for
material ends, yet, nevertheless, it is a power
to be gained by the soul during its sojourn
in the bodily frame.
When Max Muller compares our way of
living with what he wrongly terms “the
comparatively monotonous life” of the
Hindus, who, he says, adopt all kinds of
contrivances in order to assist them in
93
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
drawing away their thoughts from all dis­
turbing impressions, he is really making a
a false comparison, a generalisation which
leads to looseness of thought. In one sense
it is difficult in the life of the West, yet man
may still develop within it a definiteness and
one-pointedness of thought more thor­
oughly perhaps than in the forest or dolce-
jar-niente existence of the monastery or
“simple life.”
Not only can this be done, but it has
been done, and continues to be done, by
many in the Western World, the many
books on thought-power. Toga, and the
general meditational literature, being suffi­
cient proof in themselves. Since 1875,
or thereabouts, a new world has been
born and a new age is already in being,
despite the darkness and the difficulty,
despite the turmoil as nations, castes,
creeds and colours settle their differ­
ences. “Patience and patience, we shall
win at last.” There is no room for pessi­
mism in the hearts and minds of those who
see a plan behind all things, a Plan moving
94
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
to a destined and perfect consummation in
spite of those who use their puny attempts
to keep back the great tide of God’s evolu­
tionary ocean.
To return, however, to the description of
the word Om as given in the translation of
the TJpanishads by Max Muller.
“When,” he says, “by means of repeating
the syllable Om, which originally seems to
have meant ‘that’ or ‘yes,’ they had arrived
at a certain degree of mental tranquillity,
the question arose what was meant by this
Om, and to this question the most various
answers were given, according as the mind
was to be led up to higher and higher
objects. Thus, in one passage we are told
at first that Omis the beginning of the Veda,
or, as we have to deal with the an XJpanishad
of the Sama-veda, the beginning of the
Sama-veda, so that he who meditates on
Om may be supposed to be meditating on
the whole of the Sama-veda. But that is not
enough. Om is said to be the essence of the
Sama-veda which, being almost entirely
taken from the Rig-veda, may itself be
95
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
called the essence of the Rig-veda. And
more than that. The Rig-veda stands for
all speech, the Sama-veda for all breath or
life, so that Om may be conceived again as
the symbol of all speech and all life . . .
Sacred works, performed according to the
rules of the Vedas, are of no avail in the end,
but meditation on Om alone, or that know­
ledge of what is meant by Om alone, can
procure true salvation or true immortality.
Thus the pupil is led on step by step of
what is the higher object of the TJpanishads,
viz., the recognition of the self in man as
identical with the Higher Self or Brahman
It is not well to overlook a very beautiful
paragraph by this writer in considering the
sacred writings of other nations. “We
cannot separate ourselves,” he says, “from
those who believed in these sacred books.
There is no specific difference between our­
selves and the Brahmans, the Buddhists, the
Zoroastrians, or the Taoze. Some of our
powers of perceiving, or reasoning, and of
believing may be more highly developed,
but we cannot claim the possession of any
96
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
verifying power or of any power of belief
which they did not possess as well. Shall
we say, then, that they were forsaken of
God, while we are His chosen people? God
forbid! There is much, no doubt, in their
sacred books which we should tolerate no
longer, though we must not forget that
there are portions in our own sacred books,
too, which many of us would wish to be
absent, which, from the earliest ages of
Christianity, have been regretted by theo­
logians of undoubted piety, and which
often prove a stumbling-block to those
who have been won over by our mission­
aries to the simple faith of Christ. But
that is not the question. The question is
whether there is or whether there is not,
hidden in every one of the sacred books,
something that could lift up the human
heart from this earth to a higher world,
something that could make him shrink from
evil and incline to good, something to sus­
tain him in the short journey through life,
with its bright moments of happiness, and
its long hours of terrible distress.”
-97 g
i v
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
It is not, however, intended to quote in
these pages all that has been written on the
word Aum, nor to go deeper into this aspect
of the question. It is the meaning of the
word itself, as seen in its letters, which will
now be considered.
There are many ways of explaining the
meaning according to the letters, for each
letter has &
fundamental meaning, but also
grades of meaning according to its use in
a word and also to its application, whether to
earthly or cosmic things, whether to things
human or to things divine. Thus the letter
A of the AUM represents the Reality
behind anything or any being. It repre­
sents the Inner Self of man or the Reality
behind the universe, God as Causative,
Essential and Potential Power, that which
some call Spirit. M, on the other hand,
represents the opposite, the formative
side of things, Matter, or rather its root-
cause, which is Substance, that which
‘‘stands under” matter, as the word itself
implies.
Whereas, then, A represents God as God’s
98
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
S e l f , active and potential, M represents
God as God’s Substance, the “image” or
“shadow” of God. In other words, and in
a lower sense, these two letters represent
the fundamentals of the Universe, the two
opposite sides of all manifested things, the
active and the receptive (or passive), spirit
and matter, life and form, and even in the
lowest terrestrial sense, male and female,
father and mother.1 These two opposites,
especially when regarded as God, are only
opposites when manifested in the Universe,
though they are actually one in essence.
God is as much “spirit” as “matter”, for all
is God. For “creation,” however, there is
required a polarisation, an apparent divid­
ing of a one-ness into a duality in order that
appearances may ensue. Hence, it may be
suggested, that although God is A l l and
Unity, yet in order to “create” and make
worlds and bodies appear, God, in some
way unknown to man, draws Himself, as it
were, apart from Himself, and acts as if He
xIn Hebrew AB* and AM a, englished as Pa and Ma, the
B changing into P.
99
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
were a duality, God as God’s S elf (Spirit)
and God as God’s Substance (matter) the
two being O n e in reality, but appearing as
a duality for purposes of manifestation.
This explanation, however, has been given
here, and will have its place in a later work
in greater detail.
It is seen, then, that the A and the M re­
present opposites in the Universe, those
opposites which include everything mani­
fested and created, for all things can be
summed up under these two heads. These
letters form the sacred word AUM and are
joined by the letter U, the symbol of that
which links even whilst separating, that
which in the Hebrew changes a thing from
one state to another, as D’Olivet points out,
which brings non-being into being, or, it
might be called, a centre of solution in
which duality blends to unity.
Now if a one-ness is polarised, broken up
into a duality, and one side works with and
through the other, as is the case with Spirit,
and Matter (or God working in and through
that Substance which He has produced
ioo
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
from out of His own Nature), it follows
that there will be a relation between the
opposites thus produced, else they would
never come together. Though they are
polarised and separated, yet, as they are
really parts of one another, they, as it
were, yearn for each other, the power
which is in them both drawing them
together. Polarisation thus becomes affinity.
The power which separates, that which
is in the complete one-ness, is the same
power which draws together the opposites
it has produced, for in both there is the
same Reality, both are parts of the One,
actually the ONE itself, though apparently
separated. This is the idea of polarisation,
a breaking up of a one-ness into a duality
and a bringing together by affinity of the
polarised parts, even though the parts re­
tain their independence. Thus polarisa­
tion becomes “affinitisation” and a Trinity
is seen in every manifested thing, the Causa­
tive working in the Formative, and that
Power which is in both drawing them
together and making possible the relation
IOI
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
between them. Whether this Power be
called the “Holy Ghost” or the polarising,
synthesing, sympathy of Nature and God,
makes little real difference to the actuali­
ties themselves.
It is, then, this letter U which is used to
express the relation between the opposites,
the “Holy Ghost” in the deepest meta­
physical sense, as the opposites may also
be termed, “Father” and “Mother.” These
terms, however, need not be personified.
The U, in Hebrew, means literally “link”
or “hook” and is the sound-symbol which
represents that which separates, as V, and
also that which attracts and links up the
separated parts, as U,1that which breaks up
a one-ness and makes of it a duality only
to unite the separated parts as a trinity, a
separating polarising and yet affinitising
Power, the Fohat of the Buddhist.
This Power, called Fohat, may be thought
of as the Beam of the Scales of Life, the
xThe sound of the V is a separating sound whilst that of
the U or Oo is a linking sound. The Hebrew letter is used
in both ways.
102
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
central point which unites the Opposites
and forms the balance. Fohat personified,
is the Polariser, separating all things into
Positive and Negative, as in Electricity
and other powers in Nature, which but for
the action of the Fohatic impulse, would
ever remain unmanifested and therefore of
no use to mankind. Fohat may be con­
sidered as the One Guiding Force of the
Universe which, acting under the direction
of God’s “Mind,” cannot be ostracised
from any description, or idea, of manifesta­
tion or “creation,” where “pairs of oppo­
sites” are concerned. For, without the
Fohatic impulse, all things would remain as
O n e and never become differentiated.
Fohat is immanent in every atom as the
binding force which holds the atom
together, but for which there would be no
possibility of atoms existing and hence no
worlds in space. Fohat is the link between
all opposites, between life and form or
spirit and matter, which, but for this mighty
Power would remain in solution as O ne
U n d i f f e r e n t i a t e d I n c o m p r e h e n s i b l e
103
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
U n k n o w n called T h a t in the deeper me- t
taphysics of the East. He is the link which
joins and yet at the same time the point
which separates in order to give indivi­
duality to persons or things. Yet He
divides only that He may bring together
the separated individuals, the Polariser who
separates only that He may establish a
relation between the polarised parts; in
fact, Fohat is this Relation itself. He is
more than affinity, He is both affinity and
repulsion, separation and attraction, the
cause of the love that attracts the man and
the maid and which holds the whole Uni­
verse together.
Having thus considered all these ideas,
the reader will realise that the word AUM
simply represents the A l l , the A b s o lu te ,
T h a t which includes and embraces every­
thing within itself, the O n e I l l i m i t a b l e
R e a l i t y , the one-syllabled OM. This,
however, whilst manifestation is the law,
whilst worlds and beings exist, shows itself
forth not as a one-ness, but as if it were
many, as the opposites called spirit and
104
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
matter, life and form, God - Father and
God - Mother, etc. The word A-U-M,
then, is a symbol of the manifested uni­
verse and all its content, the A representing
God as spirit or Life subsistent, and the M
being a symbol of God as form, or sub­
stance, life existent. The U is the link
which, having made them twain, yet links
and binds them as a manifested unity.
If, however, the sounds of AUM are
blended as OM and no longer separated as
A-U-M, they then become a sound-symbol
of the A ll as it is, whether a Universe exists
or not, the O n e which ever ts, the truly
Partless and really Indivisible, the un­
manifest as well as the manifest, T h a t
which it is the purpose of life to realise.
The regular sounding of this word is,
therefore, supposed to help towards this
realisation, and actually does do so as has
already been stated. In another sense the
A-U-M represents the Absolute (A) or the
non-being brought into being (U) and
appearing or existing (M).
This is the origin of the sacred word of
i° 5
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
the East. It represents the whole Universe,
all that is, was and ever will be. By the use
of the word there gradually grows up in the
mind of man a realisation of a conscious-
ness beyond that of the ordinary man, a
consciousness which is termed “cosmic/’ a
Christ-consciousness, in fact. Such is the
meaning of this word AUM, or OM, as
understood from a reflective study of its
letters, or phonograms, and their universal
sound-meaning.
In ancient symbolism, however, several
symbols or letters, have been placed
together as if to form a grammatical word,
to appear as a word, which word has never
been translated and in some cases the pro­
nunciation is said to have been lost. Such
is the word AUM, which has no meaning
used grammatically, though its symbols or
letters when separately considered, express
more than mere words can express.
This word, passing through Egypt, or
having been evolved there independently,
was, however, little changed in its meaning,
though slightly different in spelling. The
106
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
Hindu word is AUM, but the Egyptian
word is spelt A-M-N and is the name of the
Egyptian God, Amen, the “hidden” God,
as He was termed. It is from this word that
the Hebrew word Amen, pronounced
Omein, is directly taken, and it has been
borrowed by the Latin and other Churches,
and is still everywhere in use.
Probably the most important of all the
gods of ancient Egypt were Amen and
the Sun-God Ra, after whom many of the
Pharoahs were named. Amen was from
the most ancient times the greatest of all
the Gods, but in later and degenerate
times, when knowledge faded and the great
civilisation which existed drew to its close
to give way to other and different civilisa­
tions developing in different lands. Amen
was relegated to the position of a mere per­
sonal God. In ancient times, if the voice
of intuition be correct, the sound of that
mighty Name was all-potent, filling the
etheric spaces with power and linking up
the smaller self of man with the great Self
of Nature and God, helping towards a
107
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
realisation in man of the immanence of
Amen the all-pervading, whose life was
everywhere and in everything, and in
whom man lived and moved and had
his being. He was, to the people, the
“hidden God,” as the name implies, but
to the philosophical among the priests,
Amen was the root and cause of all things,
even all things Himself, the Reason of
all, the Noumenon behind all phenomena.
He was the “ hidden God” whose symbol
was the Sun; and its Ruler, called Ra,
served to make known this “hidden Father
whom no man hath seen at any time,” as
the Christian teaching puts it. Jesus, it
must be remembered, sojourned in Egypt,
and no doubt was, like his predecessor
Moses, learned in the lore of the Egyptians,
which he was able to clarify by means of
His wondrous attainments.
Sometimes Ra was worshipped and at
others Amen was worshipped, and occa­
sionally the two were joined as Amen-Ra
and known as one. For Ra represents the
appearance, or manifestation, of God in
108
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
space, the Cosmic Christ, the Logos, who
makes known the “hidden Father.” It is
not the actual Sun itself that is worshipped,
but the Great Individual Life which rules
it, and with it the whole System, God mani­
fest, or the “reason” of God, the “Logos”
shining forth and making God known in
God’s works.
What has been said here with reference to
the God Amen is in no way a mere arbi­
trary statement, and it is well confirmed by
the great authority of Wallace Budge, the
well-known Egyptologist, who says: “Of
the attributes ascribed to Amen in the
ancient empire nothing is known, if we
accept the meaning “hidden” which is
usually given to his name. We must con­
clude that he was the personification which
was associated with the primeval gods in
the creation of the world. The word or
root. Amen, certainly means “what is
hidden,” “what is not seen,” “what cannot
be seen,” and the like, and this fact is
proved by scores of examples which may be
collected from texts of all periods. In
109
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
hymns to Amen we often read that he is
“hidden to His children,” and “hidden to
gods and men,” and it has been stated that
these expressions only refer to the “hiding,”
i.e.y the setting of the sun each evening, and
that they are only to be understood in a
physical sense and to mean nothing more
than the disappearance of the God Amen
from the sight of men at the close of day.”
This, obviously, can refer only to Ra, the
Sun-god, and not to the abstract reality
behind all phenomena who is ever in abscon-
dito. Budge goes on to give a true and
most beautiful explanation of the epithet
“hidden.”
“Now, not only is the God Himself said
to be hidden and His form or similitude is
said to be unknown. These statements
show that ‘hidden,’when applied to Amen,
the great God, has rejerence to something
more than the Sun . . . that it indicates the
G o d who cannot be seen with mortal eyes
and is invisible as well as inscrutable, to
gods as well as to men. In the times
approaching the Ptolemaic period, the
n o
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
name Amen appears to be connected with
the root ‘men,’ ‘to abide, to be perma­
nent’1and one of the attributes which were
applied to Him was that of Eternal ” {The
Gods oj the Egyptians, Budge, VI. 2, Part
i2-)
Amen, moreover, is shown to be immanent
in all things. He is depicted sometimes
with the head of a man and at others with
that of a frog, whilst His divine power, or
female counterpart, has a snake’s head.
He is also shown as a snake, a goose, a hawk,
an ape, a ram, and a lion, whilst his consort
is seen as a cat. Sometimes He holds, as a
man, the symbol of Life, the ankh circle
and cross, whilst at others he holds the war-
knife, symbol of His destroying power.
All these things obviously tend to show that
the Life or Power of Amen is in all things.
He is indeed the “King of the gods,” as he
was known in ancient Egypt. The priests
declared, according to Budge (;ibid), that
not only was He King of the gods of Egypt,
1Hence, via the Latin Maneo to abide or remain in, the
Christian idea of the Divine Immanence, an Egyptian teaching.
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
but that there was no other god like unto
Him, that He was the greatest of all gods.
This is perhaps one of the brightest jewels of
which the Hebrews spoiled the Egyptians.
They incorporated the idea into their
religion, which then was in process of being
moulded into proper form, and hence it has
been handed down to Christianity. It is
none the less true though it was taken from
the Egyptians, for Amen, as will be shown,
represents God as A ll in A ll, the Absolute,
Illimitable, All-inclusive Reality, the “One
without a second,” the same term used by
the Egyptians, Hindus, Hebrews and
Christians.
To return, however, to the question of the
meaning of the root of the word Amen. It
is not difficult to decide the question or
even to decipher the meaning of the very
letters of the name Amen. Whichever
method be adopted it will not be difficult
to show that the meaning “hidden” given
by Budge does not convey the deepest
meaning to be found in this word. That
Amen is, in a sense, the “hidden God” is
112
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
beyond dispute, but that either the words
Men or Amen actually mean “hidden” is
not literally correct. Amen is called the
“hidden,” but the root of the word, if
indeed “men” is the root, does not itself
mean “hidden.”
In this root. Men, is seen the letter M,
symbol of plasticity, the Substance from
which all things are made or extracted,
the letter M prefixed to a word in Hebrew
actually meaning “out of” or “from.”
This letter, symbol of extraction, being
added to N, the symbol of coming forth
or actual B ir t h (the French nee) and
having centred between them the symbol
of Life and being, the E or H, helps
towards an understanding of the meaning
of the word. It refers to God’s Life (E)
streaming forth everywhere (N) from out
of (M) God’s Substantive Reality. It is
God’s Self Immanent in all things sus­
taining all things, and therefore the epithet
“hidden” may well be applied to this idea
of God. The Christian teaching of the
Divine Immanence is, of course, the same;
ii 3 H
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
the Hindu religion also centralising around
this great idea. Men therefore does signify
to abide, or to dwell, to be immanent, this
latter word being derived from the very
same root, via the Latin Maneo, to remain,
to dwell, to abide, etc. This doctrine of
the Divine Immanence, far from being
Pantheistic in any non-religious sense, is
according to Hodge, in his Pop. Theology
Themes, Lee. i, p. 29, “the very essence of
all religion.”
So much, then, for the meaning of the
root M e n . If the word AMN itself be
examined letter by letter the meaning will
be varied but little. It still relates to the
One Illimitable All, but shows in its letters
all that the One really is potentially. The
word is written AMN, a feather or wand
of power representing A, growing reeds
the M, and the water line N. The
Hebrew names and meanings attached to
the letters are different and yet convey the
same ideas. Whether the A is seen as Aleph,
Bull, or Potential Power, or as a Feather or
Eagle (as sometimes written in Egyptian),
114
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
the same idea of Essential and Potential
Power is there as has already been ex­
plained with regard to the Eagle.1 The
feather (or reed) is also a symbol of this
hidden power, insubstantial, and light as a
feather, but none the less real and potent.
M, whether viewed as a Hebrew or Egyp­
tian symbol, is the sign of extraction or
passivity that out of which all things come
forth. The N, whether as the Hebrew “fish”
or Egyptian stream of water, is obviously a
symbol of a prolific production, that which
is born or comes forth from a source, the M
referring to the Source and the N to the
stream, the M, the Mother, and the N, the
Son. Thus AMN represents Causative and
Potential Power (A) linked to Formative
and Plastic Substance (M), and these two
are the Progenitors of the emanation (N)
which is called the Universe, that which
comes forth after the interaction between
Spirit (A) and Substance (M). A thus may
be termed metaphysically, Father, M,
Mother, and N Son; or the S e l f , the
1See the writer’s “ Music of the Spheres.”
” 5
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
Shadow or Not-SelJ, and the Result; Spirit,
Matter, and the Manifested Universe.
Hence, again, it is seen that Amen repre­
sents all that is, was, and will be, the Grand
Totality of all things which, summed up
in one word, is G o d , the Absolute.
Now the M is sometimes written in Egyp­
tian as an Owl, the bird of wisdom, who is
active in the darkness. In this sense AMN
shows forth the Three Powers which can­
not be omitted from any description of a
created or emanated Universe. These
three are the Will or Power symbolised by
A, the Wisdom represented by M, and the
Activity symbolised by the N, the sound of
going forth, being born (Ne), etc. To
create implies, obviously, a Will (A) (or
desire) to create, and needs also a Wisdom,
(Love), (M) or affinitising power, to con­
trive, arrange and hold together, and an
energising force to cause to appear, or come
forth (N), that which is to be created; and
these three Powers are One in God.
It is doubtless correct that these Three
represent Father, Mother and Son in a
116
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
symbolical sense, but it does not follow that
Amen represents merely the three human
ideas of Parentage, Birth and Produced
Being, but three cosmic aspects of God.
God is not to be considered as a great Man
nor a great Mother, nor even as His own
Son. Yet, metaphysically and philoso­
phically, the idea, as symbol, is true. For
A represents that which is Causative, which
goes forth, the first of all things, the be­
ginning of all things. M represents that
which is formative, co-eternal, and equal
with Causation, that which is plastic and
receptive. These two, as God, are One,
and it is only for purposes of explanation
and description that they are spoken of as
opposite “qualities” of God, God and God’s
“shadow,” God and God’s substance. Now
the effect of God (A) working in God’s
Substance (M) is obviously the production
(N) of the Universe, the result, or Son, of
the interaction. So, therefore, AMN re­
presents the All, God Unmanifest, God
Manifest, and the Existing Universe of
form, or Father, Mother and Son.
” 7
AMEN, THE KEY OF THE UNIVERSE
It is interesting to note that, with the
Hebrews, the Amen is used as a sound of
affirmation and establishment, though the
true reason has not heretofore been given.
All that has been set down in these pages
should tend to show the real reason for the
use of the word in this manner.1 Not only
is it used as an ending to a sentence or a
prayer, but it is sometimes used as a prefix
before the Prayer of Unity (The Shemang)
and sounded before every portion of scrip­
ture. Moreover, it is curious to note that
when invoking God in that same famous
prayer, the letters of the word AMN are
seen in the initials of the first three words
A\ Maloch iVamon (Oh, God, the Faithful
King), apparently suggesting that God is
All and in All.
It isalsowell known that Hebrew letters are
used as numerals, and much wisdom is to
be obtained by finding the numerical value
of the letters of a word. Thus AMN
equals 91 for A= i, M=4o, and N=5o,
and 91 is the numerical value of Jehovah-
1See Appendix.
I l 8
SACRED WORD OF EAST AND WEST
Acini (Y H Y H -A D N I). Y =io, H = S,
V=6, H = j (26), A=i, D=4, N=5o,
I = io (65), Jehovah representing the Im-
manent and All-Inclusive Absolute God,
whilst Adni is the Manifested Logos.
Thus it is obvious that to pronounce this
name either in Sanskrit, Egyptian, Latin or
Hebrew, is to attempt to reach the idea
which lies behind the name, the idea of the
great One-ness which persists even though
appearing as if it were many. Hence Aum,
Om or Amen are sounds tending to At-
one-ment, that which is complete or whole,
that which is affirmative rather than nega­
tive, that which, being named, includes all
things in itself.
The rest is for meditation rather than dis­
cussion, which meditation may lead the
reader to a realisation of himself as one
with the Greater Self, as one with man
and one with God.
119
i
I
i
s
APPENDIX
r n tto t jJ if '.’c'..1
’
H TO
■•.s.^ C
l
f * I I
«
{*
APPENDIX.
If the voice of intuition be correct, an
explanation of the use of Amen by Hebrews
and Christians as a word expressing affir­
mation or truth may be given. Amongst
the Egyptians in ancient times Amen was
held so sacred that His name was a symbol
of Truth. To swear by Amen was the
usual thing and thus expressions came into
being, “by Amen, it is true,” “I swear it
by Amen,” “As true as Amen,” etc., until
at last the simple word Amen only was
used. The Hebrews, copying Egyptian
customs, took this word as an expression of
truth and hence even the Jew uses the
word Amen in the sense of verily, “Amen,
I say unto you.” Thus it became the
symbol of affirmation, truth and reality,
and was incorporated, as a grammatical
word, into the Hebrew language, meaning,
“so be it,” “it is established,” etc.
