{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1930__dequer___arrows_of_light.pdf","mytitle":"Arrows Of Light","mylang":"de"}
I
ARROWS of LIGHT
FROM
THE EGYPTIAN TAROT
A practical application of the
Hermetic System of Names and
Numbers, based upon the teach-
ing of the Brotherhood of Light
By
JOHN H. DEQUER
PUBLISHED BY THE AUTHOR
NEW YORK, N. Y.
t\ srro corrrspondt'n,-r.~ in colors fo r t he twc\\·c sig11s t)f rbc Zodiac. Also .
the \'ario us rans (1 f 1hc hum,111 body rukd lw IhL· signs. Thl'fe is a cor-
rcsponde n c ~ bet ·wcrn lhc different pans of the h ~ad and the corresponding
parts of the body .ind th(' sign innucnccs of rh.: Zodiac. The wheel must
be studied in co njunction with 1
\scru-f\.1bh.1\listic d-ian fo und on p;ige 2 1 2.
I
{
I,
-
'
t
(
.Jc.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The Author takes this opportunity to
acknowledge his indebtedness to his many
students and friends whose persistent prod-
ding and generous encouragement made this
work inevitable.
New York City, Feb. 1, 1930.
"Ignes natura renooatura integra,,
Published by
JOHN H. DEQUER
Permanent address: P. 0. Box 1525, Los Angeles, Calif.,
care of the Brotherhood of Light.
I
I.
.I
I
I
{
/
'
I
(
!
/
r
I
'-
\
CONTENTS
FOREWORD .................................•......•.•.
CHAPTER I. THE HERMETIC SYSTEM OF NAMES AND NUMBERS ..
Involution of the Soul Monad, 13; Physiologic Correspondence,
16; Point of Contact, 20; The Three Alphabets, 23.
CHAPTER II. MODUS OPERANDI, SOUND VALUES ............ .
Definitions, 25; Addition of Factors, 29; Prospective Analysis,
30; Divinatory Key Words, 31; Keys, When and How to Use
Them, 33.
CHAPTER Ill. THE TAROT NOT NUMEROLOGY ...•............
Involution of Numbers, 40; Evolution of Numbers, 40: Positive
and Negative, 41 ; The Law of Similars and Opposites, 42;
Mental Alchemy, 45; Musical Tones and Spectrum Colors, 46:
The Theosophic Power, 48: Astro-Kabballistic Correspondences,
52.
CHAPTER IV. NUMBER I. LETTER A ...................... .
Life Analysis, 56.
CHAPTER V. NUMBER 2. LETTER B ....................... .
Abraham Lincoln, 63; Benjamin Disraeli, 65; George Washing-
ton, 67; Theodore Roosevelt, 68; Woodrow Wilson, 70; Wil-
liam H. Taft, 71.
CHAPTER VI. NUMBER 3. LETTER G ..................... .
The United States of America, 75.
CHAPTER VII. NUMBER 4. LETTER D ..................... .
The Cross, 84; Roald Amundsen, 86.
CHAPTER VIII. NUMBER 5. LETTER E ..................... .
Some Important Name Values, 92; Emmanuel, 93: Melchize-
dek, 94; Michael, 95 ; Gabriel, 96; Jesus Christ, 96.
CHAPTER IX. NUMBER 6. LETTERS U-V-W ................ .
Mary Garden, 101.
CHAPTER X. NUMBER 7. LETTER Z ....................... .
Solomon, 106.
CHAPTER XI. NUMBER 8. LETTERS H AND CH .............. .
CHAPTER XII. NUMBER 9. LETTER TH ................... .
Abstract Analysis, 115.
CHAPTER XIII. NUMBER 10. LETTERS 1-J-Y ................ .
Philosophy of the Second Cycle, 121.
CHAPTER XIV. NUMBER 11. LETTERS C AND K ............. .
Philosophy of Illusion and Delusion, 128.
CHAPTER XV. NUMBER 12. LETTER L .................... .
Philosophy of Sacrifice, 133.
CHAPTER XVI. NUMBER 13. LETTER M ................... .
Philosophy of Superstition, 140.
CHAPTER XVII. NUMBER 14. LETTER N ................... .
Philosophy of Polarity or Sex, 145.
CHAPTER XVIII. NUMBER 15. LETTER X .................. .
Philosophy of Evil, 15 2.
CHAPTER XIX. NUMBER 16. LETTER 0 ................... .
Philosophy of Force, 156.
5
Page
7
11
24
38
54
60
72
79
88
98
103
108
112
118
12;
130
13;
142
149
154
6 CONTENTS
Page
CHAPTER XX. NUMBER 17. LEITERS F-P-PH . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 159
Philosophy of Faith, 162.
CHAPTER XXI. NUMBER 18. LEITERS SH-TS-TZ ............ 165
Philosophy of Deception, 169.
CHAPTER XXll. NUMBER 19. LEITER Q . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 172
Philosophy of Joy, 175.
CHAPTER XXlll. NUMBER 20. LEITER R ................... 178
Cosmology of Periodicity, 181.
CHAPTER XXIV. NUMBER 21. LEITER S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 183
Cosmology of Light, Power and Vitality, 188.
CHAPTER XXV. NUMBER 22. LEITER T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193
Cosmology of Negation, 194; The Numbers in Verse, 195:
Tower of Babel. I 96.
CHAPTER XXVI. RULES DETAILED ........................ 201
Tarot Analytical Chart, 203.
CHAPTER XXVII. THE SCIENCE OF CYCLES .................. 206
CHAPTER XXVIII. THE TAROT WHEEL ..................... 213
Center Ring, The Ego, 213; Second Ring. The Divine Soul, 215:
Third Ring, The Spiritual Body, 216: Fourth Ring, The Animal
Soul, 218: Fifth Ring, The Astral Body, 220: Sixth Ring, The
Etheric Body, 221; Seventh Ring, The Physical Body, 222:
Eighth Ring, The Environment. 224; Ninth Ring. Astral En-
vironment, 224.
CHAPTER XXIX. THE SPOKES OF THE WHEEL ............... .
The Three Pillars, 229; The Great Pyramid of Egypt, 231;
The Emerald Tablet, 236.
APPENDIX, ASTROLOGY AND THE HOROSCOPE ................ .
REFERENCES .......................................... .
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
Frontispiece.
1. Diagram of Mind and Body . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. The Great Pyramid of Gizeh as it Looks Today ............ .
3. Mental Type ....................................... .
4. Washington's Monument .............................. .
5. The Cosmic Cross ................................... .
6. The Forty-seventh Problem of Euclid .................... .
7. Temple of Solomon, The Holy of Holies ................ .
8. Model of Solomon's Temple ........................... .
9. The Sphinx in Egypt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... .
I 0. The Logo,.........Somma Heliakon .......................... .
11. The Constellation Aquarius ............................ .
12. The Tarot Wheel ................................... .
13. Combination Chart .................................. .
14. The Three Pillars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I 5. Pyramid Passages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
226
239
262
Page
13
20
60
67
83
88
97
106
147
183
210
212
227
229
232
'
/
.
!'
I
FOREWORD
A. E. Waite, in his introduction to ''The General
Book of the Tarot," by Dr. A. E. Thierens, says:
"If ever a book should be written on the romance of
symbolism, its hypothesis of interpretation, its tradi-
tional and imputed history, a considerable space would
be allotted assuredly to Tarot cards." Why? Surely
these cards are not different from other devices by
which from time immemorial, man has propitiated the
God, Chance. Yet, the truth remains, they challenge
the attention of some of the foremost sages. To the
casual observer, they are rather commonplace pictures;
probably a little exotic, not unlike cartoons. But to
those who possess intuitive insight and more or less
natural gift of divination, they have an almost magi-
cal appeal. They are guide posts along the Tar Ro,
or Royal Road that leads through this wilderness of
doubts and fears to the golden temple of eternal truth.
There is considerable dispute among the various
authors, as to the origin of these cards. They are 78
in number, and divided into two sections. The most
important being the 22 Tarot trumps, also called the
Major Arcana. They correspond to the 22 letters of
the Egyptian and Hebrew alphabets. Each of the
Major cards is also associated with a number, ranging
from 1 to 22. It is with the numerical values of the
Tarot, that we are concerned. We ignore the second
section which consists of 56 cards. From them were
derived our modern playing cards, also rich in sym-
bolism. But as the second section elaborates the first,
and is used in the ordinary practice of cartomancy, we
7
8 FOREWORD
reserve them for a later work on symbolism. Those
who are interested primarily in the pictures and their
symbolic meaning, can find much information, dis-
torted, however, by blinds and subterfuges, in the
works of Court de Gebelin, Eliphas Levi, A. E. Waite,
S. L. MacGregor Mathers, Oswald Wirth, Dr. Papus,
and P. Christian. He can find Tarot cards ascribed
to Court de Gebelin, Eliphas Levi, Pamela Coleman
Smith, but none of them are perfect. The authors too
often tried to reveil rather than to reveal the truth. As
far as we know, C. C. Zain of the Brotherhood of
Light, is the one outstanding exception. In his work
on ''The Sacred Tarot,'' on the second page of the First
Lesson, he tells us that the Tarot is a pictured repre-
sentation of the spiritual science which the Ancients
evolved from their astrological observations. He dif-
ferentiates between esoteric and exoteric astrology, con-
tending that the soul of Man as well as his body is
influenced by the movement of the Sun and Planets
among the constellations. He argues that mathematical
precision in mundane affairs, must have a counterpart
in matters spiritual. He places before his students, a
complete science of the spiritual life. The instruments
of that science are the Major Arcana of the Tarot, accu-
rately matched with their corresponding astrological,
numerical and sound values. He affirms that this sci-
ence originated in Egypt. He tells us how the number
and sound values were engraved on plates, enabling
the student to combine them according to the require-
ments of his problems, or to meditate upon them
singly.
Zain further calls attention to the fact that Ray-
mond Lully in the 13th Century, found the Magic
FOREWORD 9
Wheel of the Tarot. And that in the 16th Century,
William Postel called this Wheel the ''Genesis of
Enoch," in his book entitled "The Key of Things
Kept Secret from the Beginning of the World."
The most accurate Tarot cards available are found
in a book miscalled "Practical Astrology," by Saint
Germain. They are apparently perfect in symbolism,
but faulty in their astrological rulership, and hence in
letters and sound values. This, Zain has corrected so
that the 22 Major Arcana as published by the Broth-
erhood of Light, correspond accurately and definitely
with Cosmic influences and forces. It is upon his in-
terpretation of the Tarot, that we have based the con-
struction of the Wheel of Life, and arranged the Key
Words for the interpretation of character and circum-
stance. This book frankly aims at the mathematical
interpretation of Life's symbolic values, and we hope
that it may do its part in the work of awakening an
interest not only in the science of the Ancients, but in
the spiritual necessities of the present, as well.
CHAPTER I
THE HERMETIC SYSTEM OF NAMES AND NUMBERS
Hermes T rismagistus, the demigod Philosopher of
Egypt, is the embodiment of that rare occult wisdom
which the Ancient World salvaged from the Atlan-
tean civilization. He is the outstanding landmark
along the Royal Path that connects Atlantis with the
Stars, the Stars with the Pyramid, and the Pyramid
with the origin and destiny of the Sun type races of
the West.
Like other prominent characters of Antiquity,
Hermes is historically obscure. We consider him as a
type of the Higher Initiates from whom we derive
our Spiritual Knowledge. Symbolically he is the
Planet Mercury, or God's messenger. His Philosophy
is the Key to the Sanctum Sanctorum where abides
the glory of the Shekinah. Man has lost contact with
his first estate; he is in darkness of spirit. Hermetic
philosophy is the Light on the Path. It is secret. Not
because God intended to keep us in darkness, but be-
cause the Physical requirements of life make it impos-
sible for the Conscious or Carnal Mind to have direct
contact with its source of origin. This separation of
the Outer from the Inner life, constitutes what the
Bible calls the Fall of Man, and their Reunion his
Redemption.
Dormant within us lies the memory of Eden. St.
John tells us that the Book of Life is sealed with seven
seals. The Upanishads speak of seven Chakras. These
seals or Chakras are Ganglia bridging the two chains
11
12 ARROWS OF LIGHT
of the Sympathetic Nervous System. The Sympa-
thetic Nervous System consists of two cords, one on
each side of the Spine. The Ganglia, Seals, or Chakras
are nerve plexi suggesting a hub with spokes (chakra
means wheel). They are composed of groups of liv-
ing cells, for that reason St. John in his Apocalypse
calls them churches or societies, Rev. 1: 20. They
veil the wisdom of the Ages, the Mystic powers of
the Soul lost from the objective, or conscious mind.
He also refers to them as lamps, that when activated
illuminate our outer consciousness with the inner, or
higher wisdom.
The teaching of Hermes underlies the Philosophy
of Plato as well as the Visions of St. John the Divine
and the Christian Mysteries. We trace its influence
in the Scriptures of India and China and in the My-
thology of the Northland, and in the legends of the
American Indians.
Two Keys are necessary to open the Sanctuary.
They are the oral and the written law. The oral law
is traditional knowledge such as the Tarot of Egypt,
the Kabballa and the Bible. The written law is As-
trology. Together they constitute the ClaviculCE
Solomonis.
The Tarot is a spiritual arsenal for the conquest
of human problems, from those of the gravest Spir-
itual or Cosmic import, down to the smallest details
of Life. It is based upon the Philosophy of Corre-
spondences and as such embraces all human endeavor.
It rests upon the axiom "As above, so below." It
matches the concrete with the abstract, the practical
with the ideal, the temporal with the eternal, and ex-
presses their values in numerical equations. Arithmetic
ARROWS OF LIGHT 13
shows us the relation of things to quantity; the Tarot,
the relation of principles to circumstances.
Beginners in this work naturally endeavor to apply
the principles to themselves. The great questions con-
fronting every human soul are "Who, whence, why,
and what am I?" The Tarot helps us to answer these
questions as no other system.
Beginners will find it to be a most fascinating and
efficient method of character analysis, shedding much
light on the basic nature of persons. Practise will
enable them to work out their :findings with surpris-
ing accuracy and clearness. In time, such practice will
train their intuition, thus helping them to rend the
Veil between Outward Intellect and Inward Reality,
and travel the Royal Road to the Arcane secrets of
Nature.
INVOLUTION OF THE SOUL MONAD
ELECTRICITV
~feoovl3
SOLID
The Device illustrated in this cut is not a classical symbol.
It is more nearly an illustrative diagram. It is essentially the
14 ARROWS OF LIGHT
Square and Compass wherein the Square has been completed
and the four elements of which all solid manifestation is com-
posed, inserted. The human body, physically speaking, is
composed of flesh and bone as solids, blood, lymph and secre-
tions as liquid, breath as gas, and nerve action as electricity.
But these four do not compose the sum total called Man. They
are surmounted by the Compass or triangle commonly called
Mind. Mind has three aspects: I. Conscious thought which
expresses as Will or Volition, and Volition is expressed in nerve
action or electricity, and this in turn is expressed as motion in
the gas, liquid and solid portions.
The second phase is the subconscious or emotional life, and
the third is the superconscious or intuitional. They may in-
fluence the body without the use of the Will or conscious
thought. The three descend from the Ultimate Self or Spirit
Ego typified by the Star at the top of the diagram.
In the study of the Tarot, we must at all times
keep clearly in mind the Sevenfold Nature of the
Human Entity, beginning with the innermost Self
called the Ego, and moving outward to the Physical
Body. It is shown in the Chart on page 112 and
is here briefly epitomized.
1. The Ego
2. Divine Soul
3. Spiritual Body
4. Animal Soul
5. Astral Body
6. Etheric Body
7. Physical Body
Pure Spirit
Higher Mind
Consciousness
Instincts and Urges
Memory and Feeling
Sensation
Flesh
Gold
Silver
Mercury
Iron
Copper
Tin
Lead
The Human Ego starts with Differentiation. He
buds forth from the Divine Matrix; the Universal
Spirit; the Father-Mother Soul of the Universe. Po-
tentially Human, innocent of experience, he evolves
I
ARROWS OF LIGHT 15
a positive and a negative Monad which descend from
the Spiritual, through the Astral, ultimately to be
clothed in bodies on the Physical Plane.
The first lesson is in the formation of Crystals.
Here the Monad acquires knowledge of Crystal chem-
istry, later to be used in bone formation for more
complex organisms. After a period of gestation in the
Subjective Spheres, the Monad, as the Life Unit is
called, returns to gain experience with the Vital Col-
loids (jelly-like masses) called Protoplasm. When it
has sufficient education in this form of substance it is
impelled from within to graduate to the Vegetable
Kingdom where it learns to build the various plant
structures. The work with vegetation completed and
the experience digested, it next enters into active ani-
mal life. Here the Animal Soul grows rapidly in
consciousness, giving rise to the propensities which war
against the Higher Nature when Human Incarnation
is finally attained. Behind the Seven Seals of Human
Incarnation lie the Crystal, Vegetable, Fish and Ani-
mal memories of all the ages. These memories are not
lost, they constitute the Inner Wisdom of Man and
to bring them back into consciousness is the object of
Tarot practice. In the Human, self-consciousness is
attained, Man thinks of himself by name. In that he
differs from the Animal World. The Animal is con-
scious but not self-conscious; he thinks but does not
meditate; reflects but does not systematically experi-
ment. Man, as he comes into the World in Physical
Form is essentially an animal prepared for the con-
scious expressions of the Higher Self.
16 ARROWS OF LIGHT
PHYSIOLOGIC CORRESPONDENCE
In his booklet, "Melchizedek And The Mystery of
Fire," Manly P. Hall gives us a very lucid statement
of the correspondences between the human body and
Cosmic principles. He draws his information from
the ritual of Masonry. He says: "In Masonry the
three sunbursts represent the gates of the temple, at
which Hiram is struck, there being no gate in the north
because the Sun never shines from the northern angle
of the heavens. The north is the symbol of the phys-
ical, because of its relation to ice-crystallized water-
and to the body-crystallized spirit. In Man, the
light shines towards the north but never from it, be-
cause the body has no light of its own; it shines with
the re.fleeted glory of the Divine Light particles con-
cealed within the physical substances. For this reason
the Moon is accepted as the symbol of Man's physical
nature. Hiram, or Chiram, as he should more prop-
erly be called-inasmuch as his name consists of the
letters which in Hebrew stand for Fire, Air, and Water
-represents the mysterious fiery, airy water which
must be raised through the three grand centers sym-
bolized by the ladder with three rungs, and the sun-
burst of :flowers mentioned in the description of the
Indian paintings.* It must also pass upward by
means of a ladder of 7 rungs, the 7 lotus blossoms
first described. These blossoms need not be consid-
*In the same work. Hall tells us: "One Oriental painting shows three
sunbursts, one covering the head, in the midst of which sits Brahma with
four heads, his body a dark and mysterious color. The second sunburst,
which covers the heart, solar plexus, and upper abdominal region, shows
ARROWS OF LIGHT 17
ered entirely from an Oriental angle. Christians could
properly call them the Stations of the Cross, for they
are sacred places where the redeeming Fire stops for a
moment on its way up Calvary to liberation.
"The spinal column is a chain of 33 segments, di-
vided into 5 groups: ( 1) the cervical or neck vertebrz,
seven in number, (2) the dorsal or thoracic vertebrz
of which there are 12 (one for each rib) , (3) the
lumbar vertebrz, 5 in number, (4) the sacral (5 seg-
ments fused into 1 bone) , and (5) the coccyx (four
segments considered as one) .
''The nine segments of the sacrum and coccyx are
pierced by the ten foramina, through which pass the
roots of the Tree of Life. Nine is the sacred number
of Man, and there is a great mystery concealed in the
sacrum and coccyx. That part of the body from the
kidneys downward was called by the early Kabbal-
lists 'the Land of Egypt into which the Children of
Israel were taken during captivity.' t Out of Egypt,
Moses (the Illuminated Mind, as his name signifies)
led the tribes of Israel, the 12 faculties, by raising the
brazen serpent in the wilderness, upon the symbol of
the Tau, Cross. At the base of the spine, there is a
tiny nerve center concerning which nothing is known,
but the occultist realizes that the symbolism of the
Vishnu sitting in the blossom of the lotus on a couch formed of the coils of
the serpent of cosmic motion, its seven-hooded head forming a canopy over
the god. Over the generative system is a third sunburst, in the midst of
which sits Shiva, his body a grayish white, and the Ganges River ftowing out
of the crown of his head. This painting was the work of an Indian mystic
who spent many years on the figures. subtly concealing therein great truths."
t Here Hall is not quite clear. Jacob with his sons and their families went
into Egypt at the invitation of Joseph. They were subsequently enslaved by
the ruler of a later dynasty. This is not captivity.
2
18 ARROWS OF LIGHT
second Crucifixion which is supposed to have taken
place in Egypt, has reference to the crossing of certain
nerves at the base of the spine."
We wish to call special attention to the numerical
symbolism here indicated, for we consider the body to
be the product of the wisdom accumulated by the soul
in her pre-Human experience under the tutelage of
Deity. We are, physically considered, the product of
an organizing power. Organizing power is the result
of experience. We had to acquire this power some-
where, for without experience, there can be no intelli-
gent action. Therefore, we must predicate a prior
existence for what we are pleased to term our subjec-
tive Self-psychic or spiritual existence. That the
accumulation of such knowledge is under the direction
of the same powers that have brought the universe into
existence, is evident from the correspondences between
Cosmic and Human functions. To illustrate: We
find the Head and Body united by 7 bones called ver-
tebrCE. The Head is the governing and directing cen-
ter of the Body. They are related to each other as
Sun and Earth. The Sun connects with the Earth,
by seven visible colors of the spectrum; the Head with
the Body, by seven vertebrCE of the neck. 7 is the
number of Completion in form. It is also the num-
ber of Bodies composing the Human entity.
The Earth moves around the Sun through 12 Signs
of the Zodiac, corresponding roughly to our 12
months of the year. Head and Body are united through
the central nervous system, two chains of the pneumo-
gastric, two chains of the phrenic, two chains of the
sympathetic, the two jugular veins, the two carotid
ARROWS OF LIGHT 19
arteries, and the larynx, 12 in all. There are 24 hours
in the day, and 12 sets of cranial nerves from each side
of the head. Or, if we prefer a less forced illustration,
we may say that the 12 vertebre£ of the thorac~c spine
correspond to the 12 months in the year, and the 24
ribs to the hours in the day. Again, the 4 seasons of
the year correspond to the 4 divisions of the human
body, commonly referred to as Head, Chest, ·Abdomen
and Pelvis. Or, we may say that generation typifies
Water, the abdomen Earth, the chest Air, and the
head Fire.
The small of the back, or lumbar region, is also
called "the reins." It has 5 vertebre£. 5, as we will
learn later, is the number of Law, and the lumbar
region is under the Sign of Balance. Life functions on
the Balance between Intake and Output. This is the
crux of the Law. Man is the only creature who is
conscious of law as such-who is tempted to violate
that which he knows to be just. He must guide him-
self through the wilderness of Temptation, when he
leaves Egypt of Desire, for the Holy Land of Attain-
ment.
The last 9 bones of the spine correspond with the
9 levels of condensation set forth on page 14. Their
10 openings or foramina suggest the 10 emanations
of the Sephirotic Tree, see page 17, or the 10 digits in
which all calculation of quantity is expressed. They
are the 10 roots on the Tree of Life. It is more than
a coincidence that these numbers and natural principles
so closely correspond. Truly the Soul Monad had
long training in the Cosmic work before it was given
the privilege to build this temple not made with hands.
20 ARROWS OF LIGHT
POINT OF CONTACT
There is a point of contact between Ancient Wis-
dom and Modern Thought. In fact, there are several
points· radiating from a central stem. This central
stem is the Cosmic structure as seen from the Earth.
It is Astronomy, the science of the stars.
No well informed person at the present day, dis-
putes the vast antiquity of the pictured constella-
tions. They were named and marked substantially
as they are today, at the very dawn of history. We
find them inscribed on the most ancient monu-
ments. We find them referred to in the earliest
texts. They are not, as some would have us believe,
the result of primitive and undisciplined fancy. The,
Zodiac as a whole is a scripture dealing with the re-
quirements of men, nations and races. The constella-
tions are the Face on the Clock of Destiny. Sun,
Moon and Planets are the Hands that mark the Years,
Months, Weeks, Days, Hours, Minutes, and Seconds
in the Cosmic scheme. The Sages who devised the
pictures that mark the constellations, knew the natural
divisions of the Human entity; understood the origin
of the Soul Monads; comprehended the Cycle of In- 1
volution to the Human, and of Evolution to the God.
They realized how the fate of Man would ebb and
flow between Light and Darkness, between Civiliza-
tion and Savagery. They pictured it all in the Signs
of the Zodiac, and their parnatellons. Astronomy
through its Astrological expression, became their
golden key. It constituted the written Law. See E.W.
© Underwood 8 UnderuJood
T l IE P YfL\M ID OF G l'.lEH AS IT Is TODAY
!
i
l
I
l
t
!,
I
{
I
ARROWS OF LIGHT 21
Bullin·ger's book, "The Witness of the Stars." Also
read Psalm 147, Verse 4.
In the Bible we read, ''Thy Law, 0 Lord, is forever
written in Heaven." The ancients literally hid their
wisdom among the stars, knowing that the stars them-
selves were Light and would attract the human eye
and reveal their secrets to those who had patience to
study them diligently, even as did the astrologers of
Chaldea, when they followed the Star of Bethlehem
to the crib of the Savior.
But this was not enough. They also built it into
an imperishable monument known as the Great Pyra-
mid of Gizeh, of which we shall have more to say in
our concluding chapter. It is God's great stone wit-
ness, as we may learn from Isaiah 19: 18-19, and
from Davidson's monumental work, "The Great
Pyramid: Its Divine Message." In ancient times, the
building was known as "The Lights," its slightly
disked triangular surfaces being covered with highly
polished casing stones which concentrated the sunlight
into beams. In its angles, passages, chambers, galleries
and distances, it is a Masonic epitome of the word
"Truth." Its triangular surfaces suggest the compass.
Its square base, the square. Its accurate orientation,
the plumb. It, more than Solomon's Temple, is the
source of the mystic ritualism so well preserved in
modern Masonry, and to a less degree, in the ritua1s
of the great religions of the world.
But stars and stone were not to be trusted to carry
the message athwart the ages. It was therefore em-
bodied in the legends and folklore of all the races, and
found its way into the Scriptures of all peoples. As
the Pyramid is a monument on Earth, symbolic of
eternal Truth, so the Bible stories become a pillar in
22 ARROWS OF LIGHT
the heart to the verity of God's promises to the chil-
dren of men. And, lest all these should fail, the whole
story was embodied in a series of tablets or cards to be
used for gambling and other forms of vice to which
the carnal mind is deeply attached, and as such, it is
with us at the present time, and last but not least, these
ancient Sages took the 12 Signs of the Zodiac and the
10 Planets of the solar system, and gave to each its
appropriate numerical and sound value. From these
were evolved the 22 Major Arcana of the Tarot. These
Arcana became the Alphabet. With them, all human
thought may be expressed, and if properly understood,
divine secrets may become known. The 12 single let-
ters are considered as Signs or consonants and the seven
double letters as Planets or vowels. Each Sign and
Planet has its own Glyph or contraction of its pic-
tured representation. These Glyphs are as follows:
PLANETS OF THE SOLAR
SYSTEM
SUN
MOON
MERCURY
VENUS
MARS
JUPIT~R
SATURN
URANUS
NEPTUNE...
SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC
TRAft1.ARl!S
~ BULLTAUl\US
nTWl.NS GEMINI
U Cl\A8·CANCE.R
S2 LION..1.EO
1IP VIRGIN-VIRGO
.:!:SCALES - l.IBRA
·111..scoRPIO·N·SCORPI
i' ARCHEf'·SAGlnARIUS
VIGOAT·CAPRICO~N
ll#WATERMAN MUMIUS
X flSHES.PISCES
I
ARROWS OF LIGHT 23
ALPHABETS
ENGLISH HEBREW EGYPTIAN
Esoteric Exoteric
A 1 Aleph 1 Athoim
B 2 Beth 2 Beinthin
G 3 Gimel 3 Gomer
D 4 Daleth 4 Denain
E 5 He 5 Eni
u. v. w 6 Vau 6 Ur
z 7 Zayin 7 Zain
H, CH 8 Cheth 8 Helitha
TH 9 Teth 9 Thela
I, Y, J 10 Jod 10 loithi
C,K,CK 11 Caph 20 Caitha
L 12 Lamed 30 Luzain
M 13 Mem 40 Mataloth
N 14 Nun 50 Nain
x 15 Samek 60 Xiron
0 16 Ayin 70 Olelath
F, P, PH 17 Pe 80 Pilon
SH, TS, TZ 18 Tzaddi 90 Tsaidi
Q 19 Quoph 100 Quitolath
R 20 Resh 200 Rasith
s 21 Schin 300 Sieben
T 22 Tau 400 Toth
CHAPTER II
MODUS OPERANDI
SOUND VALUES
The Hermetic System of Names and Numbers is
based upon the Astrological correspondence between
the sounds representative of names, dates and events
and those of the twenty-two letters of the Ezyptian
and Hebrew alphabets, or rather, their equivalents in
the English alphabet.
The English alphabet, like those of the Ancients,
has twenty-two distinct sound values. C and K are
used interchangeably. I, J and Y have much the same
sound and so have U, V and W. In presenting the
Tarot, therefore, the order of the Ancient Hebrew
alphabet is preserved for it corresponds perfectly to the
subjective influences as operative in Man and in the
Universe.
Any word spoken in a familiar tongue calls up a
series of mental images associated with its sounds, and
as words exist by the common consent of the people
who speak them, they become audible ideograms of
what the race calls the thing to which the word refers.
This is its language value. In this work, however, we
are chiefly concerned with its Subjective value, the na-
ture of which may be determined from the numerical
equivalents of its component sounds.
To use the Tarot for the purpose of Character Anal-
ysis, take the letters in a name and give each its ai:pro-
priate number. These numbers added together give
'1S the Gross Root of the word or phrase. This num-
2.1
ARROWS OF LIGHT 25
her is again involved by adding its digits crosswise
until we get a number below 22. This number is
called the Super Root, and the process by which it is
found is called Theosophical Involution. See page 28.
The first use the student makes of the Tarot, is the
reading of character, and as character is Destiny, such
reading may be carried into great detail. With prac-
tice, he will master the inner meaning of the sound
values as expressed in the letters of the name and Birth
Path, and as his intuition develops he will find ever
wider opportunity to apply them accurately to the
problems of life.
Example:
John L. Smith, born February 12, 1892, comes to
us for consultation. Naturally, our first question is:
"What is the background of this man? What are his
antecedents? For without these we might read a
janitor as if he were a prince and vice versa. We must
know the background if we are to interpret the inner
quality of this particular John L. Smith." If he is a
Congressman we read him as such, and if he is a la-
borer we use the keywords for that station in life.
We now proceed to find the Theosophic Gross Root
of his name and Birth Path (B.P.)
Definition:
J 0 H N L. S M I T H.
10+16+8+14+12+21+13+10+9=113.
February 12, 1892.
2 + 3 + 20=25.
The Gross Root (G.R.) of the name equals 113.
Add these together crosswise and we have a Super
26 ARROWS OF LIGHT
Root of 5. This is true of any John L. Smith. We
now find the G.R. of the Birth Path (B.P.) by add-
ing all the numbers crosswise as in the illustration
above. A month is counted by the number of its
place in the year, and not by the value of the letters
in its name. Thus February, being the second month,
is counted as 2. Dates are always added crosswise.
Example: 1892=20.
We add this G.R. to the G.R. of the name. 113+
25==138, which constitutes the Theosophic G.R. of
this particular John L. Smith. 138 being more than
22, must be involved. Involution is effected by re-
peatedly adding the digits of the number together
crosswise until a number less than 22 is found. Thus,
138 becomes 1+3+8=12. 12 constitutes the Super
Root (S.R.) of this individual at birth. The Sign
Pisces has a strong influence on his character, as Pisces
vibrates to No. 12. He is mystic, credulous, religious,
emotional, and foot-afflicted. This final product is
called the Super Root (S.R.), and represents the in-
nate qualities of the person, thing or problem under
consideration. The "Isness" of it. The student
should now ma~ter the Key Words listed on page 31.
The next step is to find the Power or outward ex-
pression of John L. Smith, in the following manner:
The Gross Root of the name and Birth Path is 138.
The Super Root is 12. To find the Power, we sub-
tract 12 from 138 and divide the product by 9. We
always divide by 9 when dealing with human prob-
lems. This gives us the inner or spiritual quality for
9 is the number of Perfection-the number of steps
from God to Clod or from Spirit to Matter. When
we subtract the Super Root (S.R.) from the G.R., the
ARROWS OF LIGHT 27
product is always exactly divisible by 9, and the quo~
tient of such a division constitutes the Power of the
G.R.
Example:
G.R.
S.R.
138
-12
9 I 126
14+1=15
15 is the Power of John L. Smith. The reason 1
is added to the final product is to indicate that we have
gone one step further than the Root. The Universe
is 1, and 9 are the number of its gradations. For that
reason Unity is always added to the Power, for the
Power associated with any given person or thing, is
his or its portion of the Universal Power. "The Real
. ,,
ts one.
Definitions:
The GROSS ROOT of a name is found by adding
together the numbers associated with the letters.
The SUPER ROOT is found by involving the
Gross Root.
By INVOLVING we mean adding the numbers
constituting the Gross Root crosswise repeatedly until
a number less than 22 is obtained.
The GROSS ROOT of the BIRTH PATH is found
by adding all the numbers of the Birth date crosswise.
NUMBERS LESS THAN 22 are not involved
because the Tarot deals with 22 creative wave lengths.
The POWER of a name is found by subtracting
the Super Root from the Gross Root, dividing the
product by 9, and adding 1 to the quotient.
28 ARROWS OF LIGHT
The ROOT of a name indicates what Life does to
the individual, the POWER of the name expresses
what the individual does to Life.
The major KEY NUMBER by which we unlock
the Inner meaning of a name is 9. 9 is the number
of God's perfect action.
The THEOSOPHIC GROSS ROOT of a name
and Birth Path is the sum total of the sound and
number values contained therein.
In "Paradise Lost," we read that it is 9 days' fall
from Heaven to the utmost pole.
There are 9 characteristics distinguishing living
from dead Matter. There are 9 months in the period
of Human gestation, and the Father-Mother principle
added to the Seven days of Creation also make 9.
Lars Porsena swore by the 9 Gods of Rome. All
these have reference to the following steps from Spirit
to Matter:
( 1) Universal Spirit or God.
(2) Mental Substance.
(3) Astral Substance.
(4) Etheric Substance.
(5) Magnetic Substance.
(6) Electrical Substance.
(7) Gaseous Substance.
(8) Liquid Substance.
(9) Solid Substance.
Let us now give the 22 numbers and their corre-
spondences in Letters, Planets and Signs, as well as
their most prominent Key \Vords or divinatory mean-
ings. These should be thoroughly memorized before
the student attempts to apply the rules.
ARROWS OF LIGHT
ADDITION OF FACTORS
29
We now call the attention of the student to a still
wider use of the Tarot numbers. It is known as the
Addition of Factors. To illustrate, let us take the
Gross Root of a name and Birth Path amounting to
168. This number belongs to a patient suffering
from gall stones. Gall stones are crystallized sub-
stances and come under the rule of Saturn, or No. 15.
They result from faulty liver action, and the liver
also vibrates to Saturn, 15. The patient asks at a
given date whether a certain treatment would be effec-
tive to remove this condition.
We now take the B.P. plus the Root and add the
date. The day sums up to 22. 168+22=190. To
this we add 15, the number signifying the nature of
the disease. We now have 205. This indicates that
the disease is Victorious, as 205 involves to 7. The
remedy under consideration is an oil treatment. Oil
vibrates to 11, so we add 11 to 205. 205+11=216
involving to 9. The next step is 216-9=207+9=
23+1=24. As we are still above the limiting num-
ber 22, we must involve again. 24 involves to 6.
6 from 24=18+1=19.
19 happens to be the number of the patient's birth
sign. Its Keyword is Joy. This indicates that the
treatment is based on Wisdom and has the power to
produce Happiness-which it did. The ruling factor
in this case is 8 and a subsequent examination has
shown that the work was incomplete and must be
repeated. This is characteristically 8, while the num-
ber indicating the object is 10 indicating the occult
development for which the patient strives.
30 ARROWS OF LIGHT
PROSPECTIVE ANALYSIS
The student should memorize his own Theosophic
Gross Root. It will save him much calculation, for
to it he can add the Gross Root of any day on which
he may wish to use the Tarot. To illustrate:
The writer's Theosophic G.R. is 144. If he
wishes to know the inner significance of a proposed
journey to be taken on April 4, 1932, all he has to
do is to take the G.R. of that day, 23, and add it
to 144 which gives him 167, his G.R. for that day.
The journey is to be taken for business reasons. Busi-
ness is ruled by the Sign Capricorn, No. 8. He there-
fore adds 8 to 167 producing a G.R. of 175 for the
problem. 175 involves to a S.R. 13 with a Power
of 19. The journey will bring a Transformation of
a Happy or Harmonious nature as far as the inner-
most meaning is concerned. If, however, he is inter-
ested in the purely physical results he subtracts 13
from 175, finding 162. He now unlocks 162 by 7
giving 23 and a remainder of 1 as a Sub Power.
23 involves to 5. Subtract 5 from 23 and we have
18. He now bas a S.R. of 9 for the question and a
S.P. of 18 with a Sub R. of 5 and a Sub P. of 1.
On ·the purely physical side he finds that it is "Wis-
dom (9) to be on the watch ( 1) for Legal (5) De-
ception ( 18) ."
The terms Theosophic Involution, Evolution, Su-
per Root and Gross Root are the correct technical state-
ment of these factors. For brevity's sake, how.ever,
we have dropped the term "Theosophic" and in many
places we have also discontinued the term "Super"
when referring to Root and Power. It is understood
that in all such cases, Theosophic Root or Power is
expressed.
J
ARROWS OF LIGHT 31
DIVINATORY KEYWORDS
Note: The student should familiarize himself thor-
oughly with this table before he begins to apply the
rules. He should also read the description of influ-
ences ascribed to the signs and planets, as given in the
Appendix to this work.
A 1 Mercury
B 2 Virgo
G 3 Libra
D 4 Scorpio
E 5 Jupiter
U-V-W 6 Venus
z 7 Sagittarius
H-CH 8 Capricorn
TH 9 Aquarius
I-J-Y 10 Uranus
C-K 11 Neptune
L 12 Pisces
M 13 Aries
N 14 Taurus
x 15 Saturn
0 16 Mars
F-P-PH 17 Gemini
SH-TS-TZ 18 Cancer
Q 19 Leo
R 20 Moon
Intelligence, Dexterity, Will.
Science, Experience, Analysis.
Union, Marriage, Action.
Realization, Generation, Death.
Religion, Law, Benevolence.
Temptation, Comfort, Beauty,
Affection.
Victory, Comprehension, Phi-
losophy.
Relative Justice, Selfishness, Im-
perfection, Stagnation.
Wisdom, Prudence, Altruism.
Change for Good or Evil.
The Principle of Force, Mys-
tery.
Sacrifice and Expiation. Loss.
Transformation to another
Condition.
Temperance, Regeneration.
Fatality, Evil, Black Magic,
Chronicity, Coldness.
Accident, Ruin, Catastrophe,
Energy.
Truth, Faith, Hope.
Deception, False Friends, Home,
Feeling.
Joy, Happiness, Harmony,
Children, Love.
A wakening, Resurrection,
Womanhood.
32
s
T
ARROWS OF LIGHT
21 Sun
22 Earth*
Success, Attainment, Power,
Manhood.
Failure, Folly, Mistake, Nega-
tion.
It must be understood that these Key Words are
used in divination. They are a brief reading of the
numbers, but if the student is familiar with Astrology
and the natural influences of the Signs and Planets,
he is not bound to the interpretations given in the Key
Words, and will soon learn to draw correct conclu-
sions from the combinations presented by the problem
before him. What is necessary, is to master both
involution and evolution and the Key Words thor-
oughly. Then familiarize oneself with all the corre-
spondences for each Letter and Number listed. That
will give an insight into the universal meaning of the
sound symbolized by the Letter and Number in ques-
tion; its Numerical relation; its Astrological corre-
spondence; its influence on the Conscious Mind; its
power over the Subconscious Mind; its effect in Phys-
iology; its influence upon the Endocrine Hormones;
its probable morbid action; the indicated remedy; its
correspondence in Scripture; its correspondence in
Symbolism; and its relation to Modern Science. For
more. detailed rules of application see Chapter XXVI.
When all these are fully mastered, the student is
well on the way to a speaking acquaintance with his
own Subconscious Self, and to the ability to read and
interpret the symbols of Nature, as well as those of
the poets, philosophers, prophets and sages, who have
*This infiuence is probably that of the new found planet. It is the natu-
ral Octave of the Earth, as Uranus is of Mercury and Neptune of Venus. I
incline strongly to this view.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 33
adorned the pathway of our race from the Pyramid
to Calvary, and from Calvary to the present day.
He is warned, however, not to look upon the Num-
bers as being powerful in themselves, nor upon the
letters as having Talismanic potency. The Tarot does
not deal with man as flesh and blood. It deals with
him as Spiritual Substance moving outward under the
direction of the Intelligence and meeting resistance,
causing it to vibrate in definite wave lengths and fre-
quencies. Everything in the Universe is the product
of Spiritual condensation. All vibrates to the Intel-
ligence of God. Creation results from HIS word.
HE is called the Logos, that is, THE WORD which
speaks Creation into existence. The Tarot interprets
GOD'S WORD to our Objective Intellect. It aids us
in making a rational interpretation of the faith that
is in us, be it what it may.
KEYS
WHEN AND HOW TO USE THEM
The number always used for unlocking Gross Roots
and Super Roots in order to find their innermost and
deepest meaning, is 9, the number of God's perfect
action. It is called the MAJOR KEY.
When we wish to determine purely physical rela-
tions and possibilities, number 7 must be used to un-
lock the Gross and Super Roots. No. 7 is known as
the MINOR KEY. It reveals Completeness rather
than Perfection.
In special questions of Affection, Art, Music, Rest,
the Gross Root is unlocked by No. 6. 6 is the Key
of Venus.
J
34 ARROWS OF LIGHT
To unlock a number always subtract the Super
Root from the Gross Root and divide the New Root
by the Key which you desire to use. To illustrate:
If the G.R. of a name is 168 and we desire to know
the physical condition of the individual without refer-
ence to his spiritual background, we involve the G.R.
1+6+8 and get the Super Root of 15. Subtract the
S.R. 15 from the G.R. 168 and we have the new Root
of 153. We unlock (divide) this number by the
MINOR KEY, No. 7 to get the purely physical con-
dition. 153+7=21 with a remainder of 6. 21 is
the Power, its keyword Success, and the 6 is a Sub
Power with the keyword of Art. This person is an
artistic success, held back by the evil Super Root of 15.
It must at all times be remembered that all cross
products are Roots and all products of division are
Powers. Remainders are Sub Powers and the cross
products of numbers above 22 are Sub Roots. Num-
bers below 22 are not involved.
In using any Key except the Major Key No. 9, do
not add 1 to the Super Power.
To unlock the nature of the Affectional life we use
the KEY OF VENUS, No. 6. The technique is the
same as under the Minor Key, No. 7. To illustrate:
The same person bearing the Gross Root of name and
Birth Path equal to 168 wishes to know about his
affectional power. Proceed as before by :finding the
Super Root, subtracting it from the G.R. and divid-
ing the product or New Root by 6. 168=S.R. 15.
168-15=153. 153+6=25 and 3 over. 3 is a Sub
Power as it is the product of division, being its re-
mainder. 25 being more than 22 is involved again,
2+5=7. 7 is a Sub Root, a product of addition.
!
!
'\
'\
ARROWS OF LIGHT 35
Subtract 7 from 25 and we have 18. Roots are al...
ways subtracted before new divisions are made. The
analysis is that this person having a S.R. of 15, when
thinking of marriage (Sub Power of 3) finds false
friends and deception.
The question naturally arises, "What would mar...
riage bring him?" No. 3 is the KEY OF MAR...
RIAGE. G.R. 168. S.R. 15.
168
15
3 153
51
6
3 45
15
Sub Root 6
Sub Root 9
Marriage for this person begins and ends in fatality
althou1
gh it is associated with affection and wisdom.
Suppose this individual now wishes to find solace
in religion. The KEY OF RELIGION is No. 5.
G.R. 168
S.R. 15
5 I 153
30
3
5 27
5
3 Sub Power
9 Sub Root
2 Sub Power
The religious life of this person brings the Power
of 5, modified by the criticism of 2 to bear upon the
Super Root of 15 with the Humanitarian qualities of
9 and the balancing action of 3. As the Super Root
is composed of 15 or 3X5, we judge that the Ac...
tion (3) , of Religion (5) , enlightened by Science (2) ,
36 ARROWS OF LIGHT
and expressed in Altruism (9) will break the power
of evil ( 15) , which besets the Life.
Every number from 2 to 10 may be used as a Key.
No. 2. Key of Analysis.
No. 3. Key of Synthesis, Marriage and Action.
No. 4. Key of Realization. Sex Life and Physical
Death.
No. 5. Key of Religion, Law-Human and Divine.
No. 6. Key of Affection, Art and Comfort.
No. 7. Key of Completion.
No. 8. Key of Judgment.
No. 9. Key of Perfection.
No. 10. Key of Cycles.
When unlocking any question by any key add the
number of the question to the G.R. of the individual
or problem UNLESS the question number is the same
as the key used, in which case the question number
need not be added. Hence in the examples given ·on
page 35, the question number is not added because
it coincides with the key used.
RELIABILITY
We have found in our work with the Tarot that
its conclusions are absolutely reliable if the premises
from which we start are completely accurate. If we
have the name by which the individual habitually
thinks of himself, and the day and year of his birth,
the combined numbers will reveal his character and
destiny. In this there is no failure providing the reader
is familiar with the background of the subject and
knows the Keywords for all the factors involved. He
will get perfect results as far as the numbers are con-
ARROWS OF LIGHT 37
cerned. The detail he may derive from them depends
upon three factors which must be developed. They
are: 1. A knowledge of the background. 2. Knowl-
edge of the Keywords and the principles they express.
3. An intuitive sense for the fitness of things whereby
he can make accurate deductions from the Roots and
Powers as they appear. Tarot reading is a profession
and like other professions must be thoroughly studied
and intelligently applied. It must become a subjec-
tive process. When the Philosophic groundwork of
this Science becomes thoroughly imbedded in the sub-
conscious, the student will be able to contact the Inner
Plane and receive information not apparent to the
beginner. The Tarot in itself is perfect, the reader
is Human. His duty is to attain perfection and this
comes only by diligent practice, earnest prayer, and
deep meditation upon all the problems of Life and
Being.
CHAPTER III
THE TAROT NOT NUMEROLOGY
Before we enter upon a detailed study of the Tarot
it is necessary to inform the student that it is not
Numerology. Court de Gebelin and Eliphas Levi tell
us that the Tarot is the Spiritual Science of Ancient
Egypt and is the foundation of all religions and the
Great Secret Orders of the World. C. C. Zain does
not challenge them, but we feel that they take too
much for granted, as far as its Kabballistic form is con-
cerned. There can be no doubt that it sprang from
astrology, the Science of Cosmic Action. It, and its
daughter the Tarot, are the Royal Path to the secrets
of the Universe.
Before we can rightly understand the Tarot, we
must have a definite conception of the mechanism of
the Solar System. The Earth on which we live is one
of the nine children of the Solar Father, a daughter of
the Sun. She circles about him in her yearly cycle,
passing through the Twelve Great Constellations of
the Zodiac which act as differently shaped and colored
reflectors of the Astral Light. They stain, so to speak,
the influence of the Sun and Planets with their own
nature. The Tarot reveals the quality and quantity
of this combined energy of Signs and Planets with
mathematical precision. As the Ten Planets pass
through the Twelve Signs of the Zodiac in their jour-
ney around the Sun we have in all twenty-one influ-
ences, to which a twenty-second corresponding to zero
or nonaction, is added.* The Tarot is the alphabet
of God's Language.
• This influence is generally considered to be that of the earth, but it may
also be that of the newly discovered planet. If indeed a new planet has been
found there is still doubt about it.
38
ARROWS OF LIGHT 39
On the other hand, the Numerology with which
most readers are familiar, is based upon the supposi-
tion that the letters arranged in the English alphabet
have certain numerical values expressed according to
the following table.
A B C D E F G H I
JKLMNOPQR
S TUVWXYZ
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
Special attention is paid to the numbers 11 and 22.
It is not our aim to criticize this system. Certain
persons can use it as others use coffee 'grounds or tea
leaves, as an aid to psychic insight. The values as-
signed to the letters are wholly arbitrary and not based
upon the vibratory quality of their sounds. For in-
stance, A, J and Sin Numerology are 1. In the Tarot
they are 1, 10 and 21. 1 being Unity, 10 Change,
and 21 Attainment. In Numerology B, K and T are
considered as 2. Their sound values are quite differ-
ent. In the Tarot, B equals 2 and its keyword is
Science, K is 11, Force, and T is 22 and indicates
Folly. The arrangement of the Hebrew Alphabet
which we have used as a basis for our study corre-
sponds perfectly with the Esoteric Philosophy of the
Tarot. Its order differs decidedly from the English
Alphabet. Numerology, as far as we can see, does not
coincide with Cosmic sequences. Whatever its virtues
may be, it is not the Tarot, and must not be con-
fused with it.
40 ARROWS OF LIGHT
INVOLUTION OF NUMBERS
This is commonly called "involving." The correct
technical term is "Theosophic involution." It is the
process of repeatedly adding numbers together cross-
wise, until a number less than 22 is reached. From
22 downward, numbers are not involved, except in
rare cases where ultimate Roots and Powers are sought
for highly philosophic purposes. But not until the
intuition has been trained and strengthened, should
the student attempt to draw conclusions from Roots
and Powers so obtained.
EVOLUTION OF NUMBERS
We have discussed Involution. As used in the
Tarot it is accomplished by repeatedly adding num-
bers crosswise. Evolution is accomplished by adding
9 or multiples of 9 to a given number and operating
on the Roots so found as if they were new Gross
Roots. From this it will be seen that the process is
different from Mathematical and Algebraic processes
similar in name. To illustrate:
If we desire to know the value of the number 6 on
the Emotional Plane, we evolve it to its second expres-
sion by adding 9. 6+9==15. 6 on the Emotional
Plane is Fatality. Temptation gone inward. If now
we wish to study its effect on the Mental Plane, its
third expression, we add 9 twice. 6+9+9==24, in-
volving to 6 with a Power of 19, and reads "Love
expressed in Happiness and Joy." Let us now raise
it to the 4th or Divine Plane. 6+9+9+9=33, in-
volving to 6, Power 4. "Love's Realization under
the government of enlightened Will.'' On the Deific
ARROWS OF LIGHT 41
Plane (5th) we add still another 9, giving us a G.R.
of 42, S.R. of 6, Power 5. "Love is God's Law."
Raising it to the 6th Plane, its Theosophic Square,
we have S.R. 6, Power 6, which the student will notice
has no Ruling Factor. 6 from 6 leaves 0. 0 being the
feminine side of God is that which includes All that is
within the One. It is the force of multiplication when
studied on the Deific Plane. The 7th expression is
Completeness, G.R. 60, S.R. 6, Power 7. It has the
Power of Victory. Creation took place in 7 days or
Cycles. The 7th expression of Love is the manifes-
tation of form. Behind all manifestation lie two forces.
The Positive and Negative action of God's Creative
Power. Raising Love (No. 6) to the 8th Plane of
expression we get a G.R. of 69, involving to 15 with
a Power of 7. Everything that is born into form must
submit to the Victory of Death. The 9th Plane gives
us a G.R. of 78, S.R. 15, Power 8. "Eternal Wis-
dom's judgment upon the process of Death," the last
enemy to be overcome. 9 the number of Divine Wis-
dom, through 8 the number of Judgment, exerts its
power on the Root of 15.
POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE
All odd numbers are positive-they carry a male
influence. They are radiant, dynamic, impinging, es-
pecially those below 10, called Units. In the tens the
odd numbers when added crosswise become even and
the even numbers become odd. The Psychic processes
indicated by the scale from 10 to 20 are negative to
those expressed by the Units, but remain essentially
positive in action. 11 is odd but 1 plus 1 equals 2
42 ARROWS OF LIGHT
which is even. 11 is the second Theosophic Power
of 2; it is composed of 2 plus 9. The Power of the
11 is positive on the negative or Astral Plane; all odd
numbers are positive.
Even numbers are negative. They are receptive,
assimilatin1
g, yielding, conservative, especially in the
Units. Above 10 the even numbers become odd when
involved, for instance, 12 is composed of 1 plus 2 and
becomes 3. 12 is the second Theosophic Power of 3,
being composed of 3 plus 9, typifying positive union
on the negative or Astral Plane. In our technical study
we have arranged the numbers in a table giving their
numerical values in harmony with this conception.
The male, or odd, leads in the positive, and the female
or even, leads in the negative. In arithmetic they are
called odd and even, in the Tarot they are called Giv-
ing and Receiving. All numbers are either male or
female. None are neutral.
THE LAW OF SIMILARS AND OPPOSITES
The Homeopathic system of Medicine is based upon
the thought expressed in the Latin phrase "Similia
similibus curantur," that is, "Like cures like." The
Homeopath gives a drug which if taken in large doses
will produce symptoms identical with those the small
dose is designed to cure. This idea was based upon the
well known acoustic law that if two sounds of ex-
actly the same pitch and volume meet, they produce
silence; and if two similar!y polarized beams of Hght
meet, they produce darkness. Homeopathic medica-
tion proceeds from the premise that the drug with the
similar wave length as typhoid will cure typhoid by
ARROWS OF LIGHT 43
neutralizing the typhoid energy. What Hahnemann,
the Father of Homeopathy, did with drugs early in
the nineteenth century, Albert Abrams tried to do with
electricity. Both experimenters met with considerable
success. The conception that like cures like is based
on Natural Law and in a lesser degree, but neverthe-
less accurately, the Allopathic formula of "Opposites
cure opposites" has its scientific basis. That is, the
Allopathic doctor gives a large dose of medicine to
cause symptoms diametrically opposed to those from
which the patient is suffering. He too has success. The
Tarot recognizes both systems as being of value to the
extent that they express Truth. Whenever a patient
is depleted in energy we are told that red gems and
the red color rays and the herbs ruled by Aries and
Scorpio (Mars Signs), and Thermotherapeutics are
the indicated remedies. One Mars vibration may be
silenced by another and if that is needed. similars are
applied, also when stimulation is needed we apply
similars-but when repression is desired, opposites are
brought into action.
Those of us who are familiar with Radio, know the
value of crystal detectors. A small crystal of Tour-
maline and a cat's whisker will pick up the energy of
radio stations 10 miles away. Every gem has the
power of absorbing energy and radiating it with
its own peculiar wave length. Herein lies the secret
of birthstones. Ruby, for instance, is the birthstone
of Leo. Great vitality is a Leonine characteristic but
too much vitality leads to high blood pressure or ex-
cessive pride, arrogance or conceit. Therefore, if Leo
is too Leonine, he should not intensify these qualities
by wearing Leonine gems. Instead of a ruby he should
44 ARROWS OF LIGHT
wear a sky blue sapphire. This gem vibrates to
Aquarius, Aquarius is opposite in the Zodiac to Leo
and tames the Lion. But, on the other hand, if Leo
does not function at its best, then the gem ruby should
be worn to attract his forces. As an example \Ve shall
use a young lady of our acquaintance who was born
when the Sun was in Leo and at the moment of her
birth the Sign Cancer was rising. She attracted a name
involving to the number 15. No. 15 being the Planet
Saturn, has no gem, as it vibrates to the metal Lead.
The power of her name is 19, which indicates the Sign
Leo. We find that Saturn has considerable power in
her life and at this writing, Saturn is in his Home Sign
and in conjunction with Mars. The Sun also is in
the same Sign, intensifying the action of Saturn and:
of Mars. Broken ribs, sluggish liver, cellulitis of the
nose and face, involvement of the Mars glands, all
attest the great power of the Root. The Root of the
name shows the obstacle that exists to the expression
of the Power. The inflammation of Mars being in
the Scorpio tissue of the nose, expressing in extreme
redness, must be neutralized with blue-green light, but
when we do so, the blue which is Saturn's ray produces
extreme dryness in the throat. By treating the in-
flammation we intensify the chronicity. This chro-
nicity had to be broken and this was accomplished by
using the green ray alone. Emerald stones are indi-
cated as they increase the fluids of the body. Rubies,
and orange light are not indicated for we find great
vitality. Red is the enemy of chronicity and is
Saturn's Allopathic medicine. 15 is cold, 16 hot. Th
Moon, 20, is the friend of Saturn and therefore hi
(
ARROWS OF LIGHT 45
Homeopathic medicine. She vibrates to green. She
is the Planet of growth and renewal of form. Thus,
in a complicated situation such as we have under con-
sideration, both the law of similars and opposites must
be kept in mind and wisely blended to get results.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
The Tarot being the Spiritual Science of the An-
cient World was derived from the mechanics of the
Cosmos. It is a complete system of Interrelations and
Correspondences, connecting everything in the Uni-
verse from the Minutest Spiritual Atom to the might-
iest Sun in Sidereal space. Its foundation is God, the
One Principle, and its pinnacle the triumphant Human
Will resting on Deity and cooperating with him in the
elaboration of the Universe.
The Ancients said "The Universe is a Temple not
made with hands, eternally in the Heavens." They
then told us that the Kingdom (the power) of Heaven
is within us, indicating that the building must be
erected by Mental rather than Physical force. They
disciplined the Human Will, or Spirit, to a point
where it could dominate the Animal Soul, using its
force to bring about changes desired in the Physical
Body and its environment. The first step in this work
is clear FORMULATION; the second, VITALIZA-
TION; the third. RECEPTION; and the fourth,
REALIZATION. We have indicated the essential
steps in our description of the Tarot Numbers. From
these the student may learn the principles underlying
the psychology of Healing and Regeneration.
46 ARROWS OF LIGHT
MUSICAL TONES AND SPECTRUM COLORS
(SEE FRONTISPIECE)
The Universe is a Phenomenon of vibration. All
vibration falls in groups of seven. Music is harmony
as expressed in sound. Light is vibration expressed in
color. All color is composed of one or more rates of
ether vibration producing color consciousness. All
music is a harmonious interblending of notes or tones
producing sound consciousness. In this Work, we
give the Tone and Color values associated with the va-
rious sounds, as expressed in the alphabet.
To illustrate:
Miss Elsa Halburton is sick, her Theosophical Gross
Root and B.P. is 176. The illness is at the present
day. The day root being 20, add 20 to 176 and we
find 196. To this we add the number descriptive of
the nature of the sickness which in this case is an ar-
thritis of the knees. The knees are ruled by Capricorn,
the Goat, No. 8, Letters H and CH, see Chart on Page
-. Add 8 to 196 to indicate the knees. Arthritis is
a very evil and chronic afllictiont therefore we add 15
to indicate this condition. Add 8+15=23 to the The-
osophic G.R., and we have 219 for the new Gross
Root. This gives a Super Root of 12 for the condition.
We now study Physiology as described under No.
12, Chapter XV, and find that it involves the feet and
lymphatic system. Subtracting the S.R. from new
G.R., we have 207 which we unlock by the Minor
Key of 7 to arrive at a Physical diagnosis. Our quo-
tient is 29 with a remainder of 2. 29 being more than
22, must be involved. For the time being, we ignore
ARROWS OF LIGHT 47
the remainder of 2, considering it later as a Sub Power.
The Sub Root is 11. 11 from 29 equals 18 as a S.P.
This gives us the following factors for the disease.
The S.R. indicates what the disease brings into the life.
12 is a foot condition, it is the chief factor, being the
S.R. 18 being the S.P., indicates what activates it.
18 is the next factor to be considered, and as it is fol-
lowed by the Sub Power of 2, the Sign Virgo, we are
justified in judging nervousness about the home or
mother, due to an exaggerated sense of duty, shown
by the Sub Root of 11. Making a synthesis of the
whole matter, we say: The Knees are chronically af-
fected, because of a strain on their membranes and lig-
aments, brought about by an overuse of naturally
weak feet and by suppressed emotional states resulting
from constant domestic strain. Probably maternal, as
18 is the S.P. and indicates domestic affairs through
the Sign Cancer.
We now inquire the remedy, and find it composed
of the following factors:
8. The Knees. Natural remedy, the Tone Low G
and the Color Dark Blue. 15. Is the number of crys-
tallization; it describes the affiiction. It calls for simi-
lars as its natural remedy. Hence we suggest the Tone
G and the Color Blue. 12 is the S.R. of the ensemble.
It indicates the feet and leads us to suspect a weakness
in those parts. The natural remedy is Dark Purple
Light, and the Musical Tone Low A, together with
the remedies discussed in Chapter XV.
Ignoring the Sub Roots and Powers, we next ob-
serve the S.P. 18 which calls for the Color Green and
the Musical Tone High F. Those who wish to apply
these remedies, should remember that lights and sounds
48 ARROWS OF LIGHT
should not be used at the same time, for the one will
neutralize the other. Eye-minded persons respond
best to color, and ear-minded to sound.
The Musical Tone is applied as a monotone, by
any instrumentality capable of giving it sustained tone
vibration. Such instruments are not yet on the mar-
ket. but the time is not far distant when the value of
musical monotones will be universally recognized.
The Light is administered by an instrumentality cap-
able of delivering a pure color. At present the Dinshah
Spectro-chrome is probably the best available method.
If it is suspected that Spiritual or Psychic factors
are involved, the New Gross Root must be unlocked
by the number 9. and the treatment applied accord-
ingly. In the Case before us:
N.G.R. 219:_.S.R. 12
-12
9 I 2ot·
·23
1
24 Sub Root 6
-6
·rs+1=19
The power of Entertainment as shown by 19 over-
done as shown by Sub Root 6, Temptation, weak-
ened not only the feet, 12, but also caused Sacrifice.
The remedies indicated by the Super Roots and
powers must be applied according to the requirements
of the case.
THE THEOSOPHIC POWER
The student is advised not to confuse our use of
the term "Theosophic" with the teaching of the The-
ARROWS OF LIGHT 49
osophical Society. It is entirely separate and apart
from that system of thought; it is Western, not
Oriental.
The word "Theosophy" is derived from the Greek
and means "Divine Wisdom." More accurately,
"God's Wisdom." It was so used and understood by
Plato and St. John. St. John was a Master of Num-
bers and a deep student of the Philosophy of Plato,
as his writings attest. As used in the Egyptian Tarot,
Theosophy means the wisdom underlying the Psychic
and Spiritual value expressed by numbers. Theosophic
INVOLUTION means the production of root values.
Theosophic EVOLUTION is the process of adding 9
or multiples of 9 to a given number in order to study
its higher meanings. For example: 3 is the number
of Marriage on the Physical Plane. We add 9 to 3
and have 12, the number of Sacrifice. Marriage, to
be successful, entails the Sacrifice of self interest; there-
fore, we see that the second Theosophic Power of 3
is Sacrifice. If we raise 3 to its Third Theosophic
Power, we learn that the Sacrifice of self interest even-
tuates in Spiritual Attainment, No. 21. If we go still
higher, adding 9 to 21 we have 30, the fourth Power,
which involves to 3 and is the same as the first Power.
But now we have a Simple or Sub Power to con-
sider, for 3 from 30 leaves 27 and 27 divided by 9
equals 3, plus 1 makes 4. The power of Marriage
is procreation of children on the Physical Plane, of
ideas on the Emotional Plane, and of ideals on the
Spiritual Plane.
4
50 ARROWS OF LIGHT
MASONIC SYMBOLISM
The Square and Compass is probably the most com-
mon emblem used in modern Freemasonry. Apart
from any special meaning which that Order may at-
tach to this emblem, it conveys the following meanings
to the Kabballist: The Compass is an instrument for
drawing circles, and as circles are endless things, they
are symbolic of eternity. In using the Compass, one
point remains stationary, while the other moves. In
that way, it symbolizes the male and female Ego in
their cyclic journey through the eons, and as the two
points are 60 degrees apart, they form the astrological
aspect of opportunity known as the sextile.
The Square is an implement for measuring solids,
and therefore typifies physical matter, or the physical
body. It is a right-angle and as such suggests obstacle,
a rather common phenomenon in this physical world.
It is the astrological aspect of the square, suggesting
hindrance and limitation.
The G between Square and Compass is the initial
letter of the word "Generation," suggesting that Man
is born of Spirit (Compass) and Matter (Square);
that he exists between Time and Eternity, and that his
business is to true the rough stone of Life into a finished
product. The Square and Compass suggesting the
Diamond.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 51
rhe Ancient Sages veiled their knowledge in Sym-
bols, Allegories and Rituals. These have come down
to us in Scripture, in the Kabballah and in the Ritual
and Dogmas of Masonry. We follow the Masonic
Ritual because it is a dramatization of the Tarot; a
pictorial presentation of the Ancient Science. It sets
forth in sublime symbolism the essentials of Man's
initiation into this world and .his conscious evolution
to higher planes.
The Rituals and practices of the Masonic Order
were originally a completely scientific course of train-
ing by which the Soul gained Mastery on the Physical,
Emotional and Spiritual Planes of Being. As God
built the Lodge of the Solar System, so the Mason en-
deavors to build the Temple of Human Life. Masonry
from a symbolic viewpoint, is the Divine Science of
Man's progress toward God. Every step in the Thirty-
three Degrees corresponds to the Thirty-two Paths of
Wisdom as sketched in the Kabballah of the Jews.
Masonry also corresponds to the thirty-three bones in
the Spine; to the rounds in Jacob's Ladder, the Sym..
pathetic Nervous System; and to the three great divi-
sions of the body, abdomen, chest and head. Ages ago
its Rituals and Symbols pictured what Medical Sci-
ence is only just now discovering concerning the Duct-
less Glands; and stated in unmistakable though
mystic terms, the facts now recognized as Psychology.
Masons who know what they are doing in their
Rituals, and apply the wisdom hidden in the symbols
to their daily lives, become Master Architects of Des-
tiny; Magi, Mahatmas and Sages. For that reason
we have taken the liberty of calling attention to their
ritual. These references must of necessity be brief.
52 ARROWS OF LIGHT
We have no desire to give away secrets, even if we
had them to give. We have said what we believe
everybody ought to know concerning the real inward
meaning of their Symbols and Allegories, the very
vitality of which is a living proof of their import in
our racial life, as well as of the vitality of the Tarot
upon whose Mystic Arcana Zain tells us the Masonic
ritual rests.
ASTRO-KABBALLISTIC CORRESPONDENCES
AFTER C. C. ZAIN
Num- H1br1111 English
b1r uttn L1t11r
Alepb A
Astrological
Correaponden" Color
Mercury Lisbt violet
Grm or
M1t11l
Quicksilver
Di11inator11
Signilkance
lntellisence
Will
----------------------------------------------~
Z Betb B Virso
3 Gimel G Libra
+ Dalecb D Scorpio
5 He E Jupiter
Ci Vaa U-V-W Venus
7 Zayin z Sa1ittarius
8 Cbet H-CH Capricorn
9 Tetb TH Aquarius
10 Joel 1-J-Y Uranus
JI Caph C-K Neptune
1Z Lamed L Piscet
13 Mem M Arit1
N Tauras
15 Samek x Sat11rn
16 Ayia 0 Man
Dark violet Jasper
Lisbt yellow Diamond
Dark red Topaz
Indigo Tin
Yellow Copper
Knowledse
Science
Action, Uaion,
Marriage
Realization
Law, Religion,
Emotion, Feelin1
Temptation
Lisbt purple Carbuncle Completion
(red 1arnet) Victory
Dark blue
Lisht blue
Dazzling
white
Onyz
Sapphire
(blue)
Radium
Justice
l:quilibrium
Wisdom,
Perfection,
Prudence
Cbaage of
Fortune
Cbaa1in1
iridescence
Molybden11m Force
Spiritual
Power
Dark purple Peridoc
Lisht red Amethyst
Dark yellow Agace
Blue Lead
Red Iroa
Sonow
Sacrifice
Transformation
Rr1eneration
Temperance
War
Fatality
Ener11
Accident
ARROWS OF LIGHT 53
Num- Hebrew English Asrrological Gtm or Divina1or11
ber Letter Letter Corrrspondentt Color Metal Significance
17 Pe F-P-PH Gemini Violet Beryl Truth, Hope.
Faith
18 Tzaddi SH-TS-TZ Cancer Liaht green Emerald Deception
False Friends
19 Quopb Q Leo Light orange Ruby Happiness, Joy
20 Resh R Moon Grrcn Silver Awakening
Resurrection
21 Shin s Sun Orange Gold Succcu
Attainment
22 Tau T Earth Black Cby Failure
Folly
Mistake
CHAPTER IV
No. l. LETTER A. PLANET MERCURY
Kabballistically expresses INTELLIGENCE
Astrologically expresses THOUGHT
Refers chiefly to mental and skilled workers.
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
(I) No. I is Unity. It indicates the inherent and absolute
Oneness of all Creation; the Omnipresence of Spirit;
the whole Truth expressed in the word GOD. It typi-
fies the Universe and all that is therein, as a Unity.
"THE REAL ONE."
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. I typifies consciousness as expressed in INTELLI-
GENCE, DEXTERITY. Restlessness expresses the
INTELLECTUAL URGE.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. I indicates quickness of response to stimuli. The
rapid delivery of appropriate material from the Subcon-
scious to the Conscious Mind, gives rise to WIT and
CLEVERNESS, also SPONTANEITY.
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 1 indicates the BRAIN and NERVOUS SYSTEM.
It refers specifically to the right side of the brain and to
the left side of the Central Nervous System, particularly
to the Cerebrum.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 1 indicates the POWER OF CLEAR FORMULA-
TION. That is, mental visualization of the object to
be attained by the Will directed by Intelligence. The
laying of one's plans in the Mental World. The Philos-
opher's Stone. Mental control over the secretory action
of the glands-self-directed body chemistry, for weal or
woe.
54
ARROWS OF LIGHT 55
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 1, in a question of disease, indicates NERVOUS
TROUBLESt such as conditions associated with NEU...
RITISt NEURALGIAt IRRITABILITY AND EX-
CITEMENT.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 1, representing Intelligence, responds to an appeal to
the rational faculty. It requires MENTAL TREAT-
MENTt "Come, let us reason together." VIOLET
LIGHT is effective, also the METAL MERCURY and
the MUSICAL TONE Bt flowers JASMINE and
HONEY SUCKLE. Advise concentration.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. I is the PLANET MERCURY, the winged-footed
messenger of the Gods. He is Ruler of the Signs Gemini
and Virgo, and the function of THOUGHT. Governs
WRITINGt TRAVEL, TALKING, CLERICAL
WORK, ACCOUNTANCY.
BIBLE
(9) No. I expressed in the Christian and Jewish Scriptures,
is found in Genesis 1:1. "In the beginning (which may
also be translated Wisdom) God created," etc. Reo. 22:
2. '~I am the Alpha and Omega, the Beginning and the
End, the First and the Last." We may also paraphrase
Scripture a little and say: "God is Spirit, and they who
worship (respond to) Him, must do so in Truth." That
is, in wholeness of purpose.
SYMBOLISM
(10) No. 1 indicates the ENTERED APPRENTICE in
MASONRY. More especially the Plumb, the Lambskin
Apron, the Square and Compass, but preeminently the
common GAVEL that, by its very form, suggests a body
directed by Intelligence, to be used on the Physical Plane
-the table. Officially, No. 1 and the Letter A signify
the Junior Warden who waits on the Master. He sits
56 ARROWS OF LIGHT
midway between the East and the West, to indicate his
convertible nature, and to the South to indicate the benef-
icence of Unity. Read Ps. 133.
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 1 belonging to the rational faculty, suggests the
SCIENCE OF PSYCHOLOGY. It covers those
branches of exoteric science that deal with the brain.
NUMERICAL
( 12) No 1 expresses the idea of Unity as being the source of
all things. It is infinite Potentiality. WHOLENESS.
MEDITATION
Man, like God, should act without ceasing. To
will and do nothing, is worse than to will and do ill.
THE MAGUS. NUMBER 1. LETTER A.
LIFE ANALYSIS
One of the most important things to remember
is that the Letter and Number that occur repeatedly
in the name and Birth Path, become dominant factors
in the life and character of the individual designated.
To Illustrate:
On January 10, 1811, there was born a Dutch
painter, sculptor, florist and boat builder, by the name
of Adolph Adriaan Aadelman. If we wish to know
just what powers and potencies are associated \Vith the
person carrying that name, we first count the letters in
it, without regard to their numerical value. We find
19 letters, which indicates that he has some of the char-
acteristics associated with number 19. These are Hap-
piness, Joy, Public Entertainment, the Theater, Love
Affairs, and Children. and one or more of these influ-
ARROWS OF LIGHT 57
ences will mark his life. Therefore, we designate No.
19 as VOLUME and put it in the column of Factors.
We next look for the most prominent letter, that is the
letter most often repeated, and here we find the Letter
A seven times. The Letter A signifies Intelligence, and
the number 7, Victory, showing that Mr. Aadelman
is mentally victorious. Next, write in the column,
under the word "Volume," the word "Quality" and
follow it by A, 7. D, 3. N, 2. L, 2.
This suggests that he has not only a Versatile
Intellect, but that he is active in working out the
Realization of his ideas, for 3 is Action and the Letter
D being 4, is Realization. As there are 2 Ls in the
name, his powers are limited. But this is true of all peo-
ple bearing this name. We are interested in one who
was an artist, and must read him as such. So the next
step is to add together the numbers representing his
birth path. January being the first month, is counted
as 1, and the 10th day is counted as 1, for the ciphers
in dates are not counted. Thus we have 1+1+1+
8+1+1 which equals 13. Write in the column "Birth
Path 13." After this, we write the name all in capi-
tals and under each letter or combination of letters
having one sound, place the corresponding number.
A D 0 L PH A D R I A A N A A D E L M A N.
1 4 16 12 17 1 4 20 10 I 1 14 1 1 4 5 12 13 1 14
1+4+16+12+17+1+4+20+10+1+1+14+ 1+1+4+
5+12+13+1+14=152
This final product is called the Gross Root (G.R.)
of the name, and to it is added the G.R. of the Birth
Path, in this case 13.
58 ARROWS OF LIGHT
152+13==165, which is the G.R. of the individual
at birth. This number being more than 22, must be
involved so as to give the Super Root. To involve,
we add crosswise, 1+6+5==12. 12 is the Super Root
(S.R.). It signifies what the man is inwardly, at the
very root of his nature. He is No. 12, meaning that
his life is beset by sacrifices, disappointments, and ex-
piation. Whether the world knows it or not, he lives
in a house of sorrow. He is inwardly credulous, mys-
tic, given to superstition; very conscious of the Inner
Planes. But the world as such, does not care what a
man is at heart-it takes him for what he appears to
be, so in order to learn what that appearance is, we
carry our work a step further, that is, find the Power
of his name plus the B.P.
The G.R. of the name is 165. Take away the S.R.
or 12, and 153 is left. We now divide 153 by 9 and
have 17, to which we add 1, which yields 18. 18 has
for its major Keyword, Deception and False Friends.
It is the Sign Cancer. Cancer rules the stomach, also
the home and the home environment, as well as all
forms of liquid. Liquid is ruled also by 12, which is
the Sign Pisces. Adolph Adriaan Aadelman died
alcoholic, disappointed in love. But what force com-
pelled such fate? To determine this, we find the
Ruling Factor of these influences. This is done by
subtracting the Power from the Super Root. If the
Power is higher than the S.R., we take the difference,
or the number minus.
To Illustrate:
His S.R. equals 12. His Power 18. Subtract 18
from 12, and the result is -6. The po\ver of tempta-
ARROWS OF LIGHT 59
tion was the Ruling Factor of his troubles. His de-
sires were faulty.
If we wish to determine to what object he was striv-
ing, we add the Super Power to the Super Root, and
find 18+12==30, which being more than 22, must be
involved, 3+0==3. 3 is Action, and marriage, also
.
open enemies.
Naturally, if the Root is greater than the Power,
the number of the Ruling Factor is positive and our
attitude will be positive in kind, and if the Ruling
Factor is negative or minus so will our attitude be. It
corresponds to the Ruling Planet in a Horoscope. It
indicates the pressure behind the Power with which
we handle our environmental factors.
CHAPTER V
No. 2. LETTER B. SIGN VIRGO. RULED BY
MERCURY
Mental typed head often associated with No. 2.
Kabballistically expresses SCIENCE
Astrologically expresses ANALYSIS
. Refers chiefly to critical, professional and business persons.
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
(I) No. 2 indicates that since Spirit, or I, is all in all, it can
move only within itself, that is, from a male (giving)
to a female (receiving) side of itself. The Image of God
is male and female. Matter reveals Deity through the
ACTION OF OPPOSITES, or No. 2. "Self-contem-
plation of Spirit"-Troward.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 2 typifies ATTENTION, which is a concentration
of the Mind (I) upon an object outside of itself for the
purpose of gathering Experience (2) which eventuates in
Science, that is. Classified Knowledge. Loves statistics,
facts, good public servant. Likes BUSINESS, cyid
BUSINESS METHODS. Is analytic. REPRESS
CRITICISM.
60
ARROWS OF LIGHT 61
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 2 indicates the harvest of EXPERIENCE stored in
the Subconscious, where it is classified and associated with
former experiences. that is. built into the mechanism of
Memory. ANALYTIC SERIES OF IMAGES.
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 2 indicates the BOWEL, which analyzes the food.
applying the good to the processes of Life and rejecting
the unusable elements as waste. It also indicates the
PORTAL VEIN, the SPLEEN, the WOMB, and all
organs of reception and the process of CHYLIFICA-
TION.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 2 indicates what is known as RECEPTION. This
is the opposite pole to Formulation (1) . It governs the
deposition of material in the body cells. after this ma-
terial has been selected from the food mass by the activity
of the lacteals.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 2, in questions of disease, indicates such conditions as
COLIC, CHOLERA, ENTERIC FEVER, ENTER-
ALGIA, FLATULENCE, CONSTIPATION, origi-
nating in Nervousness, ASSIMILATORY COM-
PLAINTS, TOXEMIA.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 2 representing the analytical and critical faculties and
expressing as it does through the functional activity of
the bowel, naturally responds to remedies that appeal to
these faculties. No. 2 patients must be SCIENTIFI-
CALLY TREATED. The question of DIET is at all
times important. No. 2 maladies respond to the action
of BARLEY, MILLET, OATS, ENDIVE, RYE, and
' WHEAT. DARK VIOLET COLORS, the GEM
JASPER and the MUSICAL TONE LOW B.
62 ARROWS OF LIGHT
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 2 being the SIGN VIRGO, clothed by the Sun
during the last 10 days of August and the first 20 of
September. It influences H.arvest and Harvest products.
BIBLE
(9) No. 2 governing the clothing of PRINCIPLE IN
FORM, the embodiment of Life, is referred to in Luke
1:28-35, also in Genesis 3: 1-6. She is the mother of
all living.
SYMBOLISM
( 10) No. 2 indicates the FELLOW CRAFT in MASONRY,
more particularly the Pillars of Jachin and Boaz. It is
also indicated by the word "Shibboleth" in its dual pro-
nunciation.
SCIENCE
( l l) No. 2 indicates the LAW OF VIBRATION, as illus-
trated in Radium and Radio. It indicates that all things
under the Sun respond to the vibrations set up by the
Planets in the Solar System. RADIO-ACTIVITY, its
reception and detection.
NUMERICAL
(12) No. 2 expresses the LAW OF POLARITY, that is, of
opposites, as Male and Female, Night and Day, Black
and White, Good and Evil, Up and Down, East and
West, North and South, Inflow and Outflow, Positive
and Negative, and all opposites generally. In one word,
POLARITY.
MEDITATION
The Mind is enlightened in seeking God with the
eyes of the Will. Keep silent regarding your inten-
tions, lest you be influenced by the contradictions of
Men.
THE VEILED ISIS. NUMBER 2. LETTER B.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 63
ABRAHAM LINCOLN
Abraham Lincoln's personality and tragic fate is
familiar to every American and his name is, therefore,
of special interest and merits the closest study.
ABRAHAM
1+1··+20+1+8+1+13+
LINCOLN
12+10+14+11+16+12+14==135
FEBRUARY, 12, 1809
2 + 3 + 18==23=5
When we consider this name by itself, without
reference to the Birth Path, we get what is true of
ANY Abraham Lincoln. The Gross Root of the name
is 135, its Super Root is 9. If we subtract 9 from
135 and divide the answer by 9, we get 14 to which
we add 1 making 15. The Root of the name Abra-
ham Lincoln is 9, and its Power 15. But at present
we are dealing with a definite Abraham Lincoln, a
historic character, an outstanding personality, and for
that reason we add the Birth Path.
Abraham Lincoln was born on February 12, 1809.
2+1+2+1 +8+0+9=23 which added to the G.R.
135, gives a new G.R. of 158, involving to a S.R.
of 14. 14 is the Sign Taurus, the Burden Bearer,
Kaballistically Temperance and Regeneration. Abra-
ham Lincoln bore great burdens, was temperate in all
things and instrumental in regenerating the country.
64 ARROWS OF LIGHT
We now subtract 14 from 158, and get 144.
14479=16+1==17. The name of Abraham Lincoln
has the Root of Regeneration and the Power of Faith.
The name by itself, without the B.P., has the Root
of Wisdom and the Po\ver of Fatality, from which it
is evident that he was not a common man. His work
and fate both are mirrored in his name. This is fre-
quently the case with historically prominent persons.
A careful study of the name reveals that the B.P. in-
volves to 5 with a Power of 18. 5 is the Law and 18
is False Friends. This indicates that the Law of Life
drew to him the power of False Friends, and it is a
historic fact that he was seriously opposed, even by
those who should have supported him most loyally.
But this is not all that the Tarot reveals. He was
assassinated on the night of April 14, 1865. 4+1+
4+1+8+6+5=29. By adding 29 to his G.R. of 158,
we have 187. 1+8+7==16. 16 is the number of fire
and :firearms, also of all violence and anger, as well as
accidents. For Abraham Lincoln, President of the
United States, this was a day of Catastrophe ( 16).
187-16=171+9==19+1==20. The Keyword for 20
is the Physical Body, so the Tarot clearly shows that
Destruction ( 16) was directed against his Body (20).
Abraham Lincoln died April 15. 1865. This gives
us a Gross Root of 188 to which we add the number
of Fatality (I 5). 188+15=203, S.R. 5. 203-5=
198+9=22. He died under Cosmic Law-it was his
fate. The Ruling Factor in his tragic death is marked
by No. 18, Deception, and the Object is indicated by
the number 9, with a Power of 3. 9 is Aquarius, and
typifies the People. 3 is Libra, the Sign of Open Ene-
mies. The genius of his enemies destroyed him.
'·
ARROWS OF LIGHT 65
BENJAMIN DISRAELI
Almost contemporary with Lincoln in the United
States, we find a similar Character in our brother Na-
tion, England. His name was Benjamin Disraeli,
literally, Benjamin of Israel. Lincoln unified a Na-
tion, and liberated its slaves. Disraeli unified an Em-
pire, and unconscious!y set the stage for a series of
world dramas and tragedies. Lincoln was born in
obscurity and poverty. Disraeli was born a Jew, in
a land which at that time, did not admit a Jew to
office. Lincoln was a great story teller; Disraeli was
a novelist. Both were poor. Lincoln was unkempt;
Disraeli was a dandy. Both men were osseous, both
were brunet. Both were keenly mental, but much
misunderstood. Both were unorthodox, although
Lincoln had perhaps a deeper veneration for religion.
Disraeli was born with the Sun in Sagittarius;
Lincoln, when that Sign was rising. Thus, it will
not be amiss to follow our brief analysis of Lincoln
with that of Disraeli.
BENJAMIN DISRAELI
2+s+14+10+1+13+1o+14+4+10+21+10+1 +s+
12+10=152
D E C E M B E R 21, 1804.
1+2+2+1+1+8+0+4=19
The Gross Root plus the Birth Path is 171. The
Super Root equals 9. 9 from 171 leaves 162 which
divided by 9 equals 18 plus 1 equals 19. Benjamin
Disraeli was a person who drew to himself Wisdom,
and he expressed himself in Happiness and Joy. His
love life was ideal. It was his Power. The number
5
66 ARROWS OF LIGHT
19 vibrates to the Sign Leo, the Home of the Sun, and
therefore associated with the work of government.
The Super Root of his name is 9. 9 is the Sign Aqua-
rius which has to do with the new order of things,
human betterment, greater vision, and it was to these
that Disraeli devoted his time and talents.
It is significant that he prepared England for her
great role in World History. His political genius was
used to outwit Russia, and secure for England a high-'
way to India via the Suez Canal. He died in the very
year that marked the opening of the Aquarian Age,
1881. In 1882, there was the first joint action of the
American and British fleets off the coast of Egypt.
American naval power assisting English naval power;
in the establishment of Saxon supremacy. From that1
time on, England and the United States have drawn!:
closer together. Today they are two brains w·ith but
a single thought-two hearts that beat as one. Read
"The Destiny of Britain and America,'' by The Road-
builder.
The Ruling Factor of Disraeli's life is determined
by subtracting the Super Power from the Super Root,
which gives us -10. Ten is the vibration of Uranus,
the Ruling Planet of Aquarius, and indicates Genius.
The Object of his life is found by adding the Super
Power to the Super Root. This gives us 28 which
being more than 22, must be involved and once more
the result is 10. The Object of his life was Individual-
ism and Originality. He was original and eccentric.
Disraeli did not meet the tragic fate of Abraham
Lincoln. If we add the numbers constituting the day,
month and year of his death, which occurred on April
19, 1881, we get a B.P. of 32. Adding this to the
ARROWS OF LIGHT 67
Gross Root of his name and Birth Path, we get a
G.R. for the day, of 203. This involves to 5, and
gives us a Super Power of 22. On that day, Cosmic
Law took Disraeli and his power failed. This is
exact!y as in the case of Lincoln.
GEORGE WASHINGTON
WASHINGTON MONUMENT,
Washington, D. C.
A stupendous shaft pat-
terned after the Egyptian
obelisks is built of granite,
555 feet 5Vs inches in
height. It is 55 feet square
at the base, 34 at the top,
and terminates in a pyramid
of pure aluminum. The
foundation of rock and ce-
ment is 36 feet deep, 126
feet square. The corner-
stone was laid in 1848, the
monument was finished in
Dec., 1884. It is the high-
est work of masonry in the
world.
Born February 22, 1732. Surveyor, soldier, states-
man, Mason. Died December 14, 1799, in his 67th
year. He is called the "Father of his Country," his
personality being intimately associated with the birth
of the Nation. Note the fact that the number value
of his name and Birth Path is 175. This Gross Root
by itself indicates Intelligence Victorious under Law.
The Super Root also is important. It is 13, which, as
we have said in our analysis of "The United States of
America, is a prominent number associated with the
origin of this Country as well as its symbolism. The
Super Power of his name is 19. The Key Word in
'"' ... r" -... ... "''1-""''"'u x .,, • ,.. "vv0>"' " c::i" uc;J: 1 v 1;u 11app111e:s:s a11u
68 ARROWS OF LIGHT
this case indicates power to govern, for No. 19 is the
home of the chief, the seat of government. It is more
~
70 ARROWS OF LIGHT
joy from his rather selfish inclination to kill large
game.
He died January 6, 1919. The Root of that day is
27. Add 27 to 230. We have 257, involving to 14.
The Ruling Factor of Roosevelt's life, on this date,
was the Root. 257 works out to a Power of 19, sug-
gesting both throat and heart. At first glance, this
does not indicate death. The Ruling Factor now is 5,
and the Object is 33. 33 involves to 6, and is the ,
thyroid gland. 33 also has a Power of 4, which rules
the House of Death, and indicates the Sun Sign of
Roosevelt's horoscope, which also rules death. He
had it in him to be a killer. 4 is the number of Death.
It killed him. Roosevelt, like Washington, died (4)
through the failure of the thyroid gland (6) to renew
the vital strength of the blood (5). The "Morbid
Action" of No. 14 will give the student further light
on the subject.
Roosevelt is supposed to have died as a result of
over-exercise. If we add 16 to 230, we have 246.
This involves to 12, with a Power of 19. Violent
exercise caused him to Sacrifice the power of his Heart.
The Object here is 12 plus 19, or 31, which involves
to 4.
WOODROW WILSON
Born December 28, 1856. Died February 3, 1924.
This gives him a Gross Root of 196, involving to 16,
with a Super Power of 21. He was a natural leader,
but drew to him the forces of Mars. He could not
keep us out of war.
If we involve the day of his death, and add it to his
name and Birth Path, we have a Gross Root for the
r
I
ARROWS OF LIGHT 65
BENJAMIN DISRAELI
Almost contemporary with Lincoln in the United
States, we find a similar Character in our brother Na-
tion, England. His name was Benjamin Disraeli,
literally, Benjamin of Israel. Lincoln unified a Na-
tion, and liberated its slaves. Disraeli unified an Em-
pire, and unconsciously set the stage for a series of
world dramas and tragedies. Lincoln was born in
obscurity and poverty. Disraeli was born a Jew, in
a land which at that time, did not admit a Jew to
office. Lincoln was a great story teller; Disraeli was
a novelist. Both were poor. Lincoln was unkempt;
Disraeli was a dandy. Both men were osseous, both
were brunet. Both were keenly mental, but much
misunderstood. Both were unorthodox, although
Lincoln had perhaps a deeper veneration for religion.
Disraeli was born with the Sun in Sagittarius;
Lincoln, when that Sign was rising. Thus, it will
not be amiss to follow our brief analysis of Lincoln
with that of Disraeli.
BENJAMIN DISRAELI
2+5+14+10+1+13+10+14+4+10+21+20+1+5+
12+10=152
D E C E M B E R 2L 1804.
1+2+2+1+1+s+o+4=19
The Gross Root plus the Birth Path is 171. The
Super Root equals 9. 9 from 171 leaves 162 which
divided by 9 equals 18 plus 1 equals 19. Benjamin
Disraeli was a person who drew to himself Wisdom,
and he expressed himself in Happiness and Joy. His
love life was ideal. It was his Power. The number
5
66 ARROWS OF LIGHT
19 vibrates to the Sign Leo, the Home of the Sun, and
therefore associated with the work of government.
The Super Root of his name is 9. 9 is the Sign Aqua-
rius which has to do with the new order of things,
human betterment, greater vision, and it was to these
that Disraeli devoted his time and talents.
It is significant that he prepared England for her
great role in World History. His political genius was
used to outwit Russia, and secure for England a high-
way to India via the Suez Canal. He died in the very
year that marked the opening of the Aquarian Age,
1881. In 1882, there was the first joint action of the
American and British fleets off the coast of Egypt.
American naval power assisting English naval power
in the establishment of Saxon supremacy. From that
time on, England and the United States have drawn
closer together. Today they are two brains 'vith but
a single thought-two hearts that beat as one. Read
"The Destiny of Britain and America,'' by The Road-
builder.
The Ruling Factor of Disraeli's life is determined
by subtracting the Super Power from the Super Root,
which gives us -10. Ten is the vibration of Uranus,
the Ruling Planet of Aquarius, and indicates Genius.
The Object of his life is found by adding the Super
Power to the Super Root. This gives us 28 which
being more than 22, must be involved and once more
the result is 10. The Object of his life was Individual-
ism and Originality. He was original and eccentric.
Disraeli did not meet the tragic fate of Abraham
Lincoln. If we add the numbers constituting the day,
month and year of his death, which occurred on April
19, 1881, we get a B.P. of 32. Adding this to the
ARROWS OF LIGHT 67
Gross Root of his name and Birth Path, we get a
G.R. for the day, of 203. This involves to 5, and
gives us a Super Power of 22. On that day, Cosmic
Law took Disraeli and his power failed. This is
exactly as in the case of Lincoln.
GEORGE WASHINGTON
WASHINGTON MONUMENT,
Washington, D. C.
A stupendous shaft pat·
terned after the Egyptian
obelisks is built of granite,
555 feet 5~ inches in
height. It is 55 feet square
at the base, 34 at the top,
and terminates in a pyramid
of pure aluminum. The
foundation of rock and ce·
ment is 36 feet deep, 126
feet square. The corner·
stone was laid in 1848, the
monument was finished in
Dec., 1884. It is the high·
est work of masonry in the
world.
Born February 22, 1732. Surveyor, soldier, states-
man, Mason. Died December 14, 1799, in his 67th
year. He is called the "Father of his Country," his
personality being intimately associated with the birth
of the Nation. Note the fact that the number value
of his name and Birth Path is 175. This Gross Root
by itself indicates Intelligence Victorious under Law.
The Super Root also is important. It is 13, which, as
we have said in our analysis of "The United States of
America, is a prominent number associated with the
origin of this Country as well as its symbolism. The
Super Power of his name is 19. The Key Word in
68 ARROWS OF LIGHT
this case indicates power to govern. for No. 19 is the
home of the chief. the seat of government. It is more
than a coincidence that the Capital of the Nation bears
the founder's name. The Ruling Factor in his life
was No. 6. Temptation. He. like C~sar, was tempted
to take a crown. The Object of his life has a G.R. of
32. which being more than 22, must be involved and
reduced. It involves to 5, another number very prom-
inent in the analysis of the Country, and it gives him
an Object Power of 4, indicating that he abundantly
realized his every ambition, and established his work
upon the Earth.
He died December 14, 1799. The Gross Root for
that day is 34. Add this to his G.R. and B.P. or 175,
and we have 209. This gives a S.R. of 11, and a S.P.
of 22. On that day, the Force of his life Failed. He
died.
The Ruling Factor in his death was 11, and the
Object was 33. 11 is always a number of Mystery,
unrevealed conditions. The fact is, he may have been
bled to death by his doctors. The Object, which may
also be called the causative factor, being 33, involves
to 6. No 6 rules the thyroid gland. The Sub Power
of 4 indicates Death. Therefore, from a Tarot view-
point. death was brought about by a failure of thy-
roid hormones to keep up the vital force.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT
Born October 27, 1858. Died January 6, 1919.
His Gross Root plus Birth Path is 230, suggesting
Scientific Action. The Super Root is 5. It attracted
him to the law, also to generosity and good fellow-
ship, which were a part of his nature under a warlike
ARROWS OF LIGHT 69
exterior. His S.P. is 19, giving him power to govern.
Roosevelt had the power to rule. The Ruling Factor
of his life was marked by 14. No. 14 is Regeneration.
Roosevelt was born a weakling. As a child, he was
asthmatic, but he regenerated himself through the fact
that his S.R. 5 placed him under beneficent influence,
and his S.P. 19 gave him a dominant will. These
two made the Ruling Factor operative, and brought
him good health. The Object of his life was marked
by 24, which involves to 6, with a Power of 19.
Rulership tempted him. His Bull Moose movement
is a pointed instance. When Taft refused to take ad-
vice from Teddy, Teddy was most unhappy. The
country knew President Roosevelt as "Teddy." Since
Lincoln, no President was so universally nicknamed.
Nicknames are no accident. Let us see what the num-
bers say about "Teddy." The word "Teddy" sums
up to 45, Realization of Law. It involves to 9, Wis-
dom and Prudence. It has the power of 5, Law, Re-
ligion and Abundance. "Teddy" sums up what the
Nation recognized in the man. The Ruling Factor of
Teddy is 4, the number of hunters, "Nimrod, the
mighty hunter before the Lord." The Object is 14,
and Teddy had a regenerating influence about his per-
sonality. He made things move.
He was a great hunter, a killer of large game. Large
game is ruled by 12, and shooting is ruled by 16. To-
gether they are 28. By adding 28 to 230, we have
258, involving to 15. We now subtract 15 from 258,
which equals 243. Divide this by 9, and we have 27,
to which must be added l, giving us 28 or a Sub Root
of 10. No. 10 is Eccentricity. 10 from 28 leaves 18.
18 plus 1 equals 19. Roosevelt derived happiness and
70 ARROWS OF LIGHT
joy from his rather selfish inclination to kill large
game.
He died January 6, 1919. The Root of that day is
27. Add 27 to 230. We have 257, involving to 14.
The Ruling Factor of Roosevelt's life, on this date,
was the Root. 257 works out to a Power of 19, sug-
gesting both throat and heart. At first glance, this
does not indicate death. The Ruling Factor now is 5,
and the Object is 33. 33 involves to 6, and is the
thyroid gland. 33 also has a Power of 4, which rules
the House of Death, and indicates the Sun Sign of
Roosevelt's horoscope, which also rules death. He
had it in him to be a killer. 4 is the number of Death.
It killed him. Roosevelt, like Washington, died (4)
through the failure of the thyroid gland (6) to renew
the vital strength of the blood (5). The "Morbid
Action" of No. 14 will give the student further light
on the subject.
Roosevelt is supposed to have died as a result of
over-exercise. If we add 16 to 230, we have 246.
This involves to 12, with a Power of 19. Violent
exercise caused him to Sacrifice the power of his Heart.
The Object here is 12 plus 19, or 31, which involves
to 4.
WOODROW WILSON
Born December 28, 1856. Died February 3, 1924.
This gives him a Gross Root of 196, involving to 16,
with a Super Power of 21. He was a natural leader,
but drew to him the forces of Mars. He could not
keep us out of war.
If we involve the day of his death, and add it to his
name and Birth Path, we have a Gross Root for the
ARROWS OF LIGHT 71
day of 217, involving to 10 with a Power of 19. It
was a day of an evil change, as far as he was concerned,
for the Ruling Factor is 8, typical of the grave, and
the Object was 29, involving to 11 with a Power of
4, signifying his disease, which was more or less mys-
terious in nature.
WILLIAM H. TAFT
Born September 15, 1857. Died March 9, 1930.
The Gross Root plus Birth Path, 170. Super Root
8, the number of Justice, involving to 19, the constant
of Presidents. He died March 9, 1930, involving to
25. Add this to his Gross Root, and we get the Super
Root 15, Fatality, with a Power of 21, indicating
Death Successful, through a failure of vitality (Rul-
ing Factor 6).
CHAPTER VI
Portrait of a German ar-
tist: note the great height
from the center of ear to the
top of the head. In this per-
son there is a great sense of
beauty and plenty of tem-
perament for all purposes.
No. 3. LETTER G. SIGN LIBRA, HOME OF VENUS
Kabballistically expresses ACTION
Astrologically expresses UNION
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
( I) No. 3 expresses the idea of UNION as the result of the
gathering together (2) of Spirit (1) which unites (3)
two bodies of opposite polarity. 3 is the coming forth
by day. NATURE IN GESTATION, ready to be de-
livered.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 3 in the Conscious Life of Man indicates that the
Mind has focused its attention upon outward phenomena
and now BALANCES Outward Stimuli against Inward
Knowledge, BRINGING FORTH UNION of purpose
which eventuates in ACTION. LOVES PERFEC-
TION and Beauty. Craves understanding, is affable.
Restrain desire for praise.
72
ARROWS OF LIGHT 73
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 3 indicates that the Memory Images have been asso-
ciated with others of like affinity, placed there by the
action of former experience, and which may be recalled
through the LAW OF ASSOCIATION. Acts through
the Equilibrum Series.
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 3 indicates the KIDNEYS which filter the urates
and other impurities from the blood. The work of the
Kidneys is to carry the waste of metabolism from the
body. They are two organs ending in one system of
elimination. Together they constitute an inverted tri-
angle. They typify the No. 3, two Kidneys and a
Bladder. The WORK OF PURIFICATION.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 3 indicates the process of VITALIZATION, which,
in the procedure of Mental Alchemy, is the next step
after FORMULATION (I) and precedes RECEP-
TION (2). These two are UNITED (3) by the act
of EMOTIONAL VITALIZATION, for Mental
Alchemy is the method by which Mind or Life organizes
substance into form.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 3 in questions of disease indicates such troubles as
RENAL ASTHMA, NEPHRITIS, UREMIA, SUP-
PRESSED KIDNEY ACTION when not due to Pros-
tate or Bladder troubles. It is also associated with rheu-
matic conditions.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 3 represents the Kidneys and as such, the auxiliary
organs of the skin. When either Kidneys or Skin are
afilicted, the burden of the one must be placed upon the
other. In insufficient skin action the kidneys must do
the work until the skin can be toned up, and when kidney
action is deficient, the sweat function of the Skin must be
74 ARROWS OF LIGHT
excited. As the Kidneys eliminate mostly protein waste,
the diet plays an important part. Protein should be re-
stricted in all cases where Kidneys are found to be in
misfunction. Such herbs as WHITE ROSE, STRAW-
BERRY, WATER CRESS, ASPARAGUS and FLAX
are indicated. YELLOW LIGHT. The MUSICAL
TONE HIGH E. THE GEM DIAMOND.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 3 vibrates to the SIGN LIBRA and indicates such
qualities as INDECISION, BALANCING, WEIGH-
ING, JOINING, UNITING, and the ACTION of
OPEN ENEMIES. Clothed by the Sun from Septem-
ber 21st to October 21st approximately.
BIBLE
(9) No. 3 is expressed in the loss of our power to outwardly
recognize the inward reality of Being. Genesis 3:23-24,
tells us that Man is driven from the Garden (Astral
Plane) to till, (figuratively to unite with his physical
body) the Earth. It also indicates the Triu.ne Nature of
Creative lntelligen<=e. Read Rev. 12.
SYMBOLISM
( 10) No. 3 indicates the LOST WORD, and therefore, the
MASTER MASON'S DEGREE. It means the 3 ruf-
fians who slew H. A.; the 3 Masons who found his
grave; also the 3 Gates of the Temple. The 3 Masons
needed to open a Master Mason's Lodge. The ritual of
this degree is pregnant with symbolic meaning. It
dramatizes the great battle between the Angel and the
beast that rages in each of us. It suggests that the old
Adam must die before the new Adam can be born.
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 3 indicates the Law of Periodicity; the SCIENCE
OF CYCLES. There is a time and season for all
things. Force (I) moves Substance (2). Flame, light
and heat (3).
ARROWS OF LIGHT 75
NUMERICAL
( 12) No. 3 expresses Union of Polar Opposites. The action
between them gives rise to phenomena. 3 typifies the
Universal Agent, or Form, in the process of becoming
Objective. It is pictured in the Bible as the woman
clothed with the Sun and the Moon under her feet. It
also illustrates the union between Body, Soul and Spirit.
MARRIAGE and REPRODUCTION on all Planes
of Being.
MEDITATION
To affirm what is true and will what is just, is al-
ready to create it. To do and will the contrary is to
vow one's self to destruction.
ISIS UNVEILED. NUMBER 3. LETTER G.
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
The Colonies which became the United States of
America, formally declared their Independence July 4,
1776. The real Birthday of the Nation, however,
took place when the first battle for freedom was fought
at Lexington on the 19th day of April, 1775. There-
fore, in our analysis of the name "The United States
of America," this date constitutes the Birth Path of
the Nation.
The name has 23 distinct sounds, called "places,"
the digraph "Th" being one sound. The number of
places in a name constitutes its volume, and whether
of a nation, person, or thing, the volume is a very
important factor.
23 involves to 5 with the Keywords Law, Religion,
Abundance, Wealth, and Benevolence. There ·are
also 5 words in the name. America is known for its
wealth of laws, as well as substance. Having analyzed
76 ARROWS OF LIGHT
the volume, we next find the outstanding character-
istics, by noting the letters that repeat. A occurs 3
times. No. 3 is Action, and A (No. I) expresses Dex-
terity and Intelligence. These are typical American
traits.
The Letter E (No. 5) is repeated 4 times, and T
(No. 22) 3 times. T is materialism, as well as Folly
and a foolish worship of the Concrete. They are big
factors in our National life. The Letter I (No. I0)
occurs twice. 2 is the number of Science, and I0 of
Invention. ·The United States leads in both these
fields. E (No. 5) occurs 4 times and indicates great
abundance. Perhaps the most unique feature about
our Country is that we legislate about everything, and
do as we please.
We find a Gross Root (G.R.) of 245 for the name,
and 33 for the Birth Path (B.P.). Add these together
and the result is 278, which involves to 17. Astrol-
ogers all agree that the United States is ruled by
Gemini. 17 being the Root, is the most important
number, it indicates what this Nation attracts. One
of the Keywords of Gemini, is Faith. On our money
we stamp "In God we trust." Money is No. 5 and
5 is the Volume of the name. The American feels
safe when his pocketbook is full, for, to him, money
is the symbol of power. Let us hope it is not the
God of his trust! No. 17 also rules the Third House
of the Horoscope, which is the House of Brethren and
Neighbors. The United States is a brother nation.
England calls him Brother Jonathan, and America
calls England Brother John. They had differences in
the days of their youth, but they are brothers just
the same.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 77
The Power of the name is No. 4. 4 is Realiza-
tion and indicates that the United States is a land
where brotherhood is based on the realization of Faith.
Subtracting the Power from the Root, 4 from 17,
gives us the Origin of the name, No. 13. The United
States began in 13 Colonies, had 13 stars on her orig-
inal flag, has 13 stripes on the present one, 13 bars on
her emblem, and was born in April, the time when the
Sun is in the Sign Aries which vibrates to the Letter M
and the No. 13. It has much of the quality of the
13th Degree of Masonry, for it cleared away the ruins
of the old temple of British rule, and started the new
government on British pattern. On the reverse side
of the Great Seal of America is a picture of a Pyramid
in 13 layers of stone. Thus we see that if we take the
Power from the Root, we find that the ruling factor in
America is the Energy of 13, April being the first
month of the Astrological year, and therefore the 13th
month of the old year.
Now we add the Power to the Root, 17 plus 4,
and find the Object, which equals 21. 21 is Success
and Attainment. As a Nation under God, we have
been successful. There is no Nation on earth which
lays more stress on success; the God of the people is
Success. Let us hope that the worship is not too
arduous.
Another step may be taken to obtain greater detail.
There are 23 places in the name. By placing the Root
before the first letter, and the Power after the last one,
we have 25 places in all. 25 being more than 22,
must be involved and ·gives us 7. 7 is Sagittarius, it
is devotional and ceremonially religious. These are
prominent characteristics of the Nation.
78 ARROWS OF LIGHT
Let us now look at a mere reading of the name,
having placed the Root before the "The" and the
Power behind "America." We have 17+9+5+6+
14+10+22+5+4+21+22+I+22+5+21+16+17+
1+13+5+20+1O+11+1+4. This is the picture of
the name as written. But, let us read the name to-
gether with its Root and Power. "Faith in Wisdom's
Law of Regenerated Love, Changes the Mistakes of
Desire and Attains Will-and Dexterity through Energy
Transforming Substance into Wisdom Realized.''
The student will be able to fit these words to the let-
ters, noticing that we do not refer again to a letter
once used. We give it significance only according to
the number of times it occurs. To illustrate: A oc-
curs 3 times, and refers to Skill. T occurs 3 times,
and refers to Mistakes. We use each only once, but
realize that they are active factors. In a similar way,
all other names, whether of people, countries, products
or principles, may be treated.
CHAPTER VII
No. 4. LETTER D. SIGN SCORPIO, HOUSE OF MARS
Kabballistically expresses REALIZATION
Astrologically expresses PHYSICAL DESIRE
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
( 1) No. 4 expresses the process of Exteriorization of Spirit
into Form; a REALIZATION that all potentialities
and powers are contained in ABSOLUTE BEING (1)
and that all manifestation is the result of the Polar (2)
Action (3) within the Infinite ( 1) . No action can take
place outside of all that is. This Realization is ex-
pressed by the No. 4 and the Letter D when applied to
the problems of the Universe. Action, no matter how
minute, must necessarily influence to some extent, the
entire Universe, for the Universe is without an outside.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 4 indicates the fact that the Ego (1) uses Experi-
ence (2) in order to arrive at Judgment (3) to solve its
problems, bringing the REALIZATION OF OBJEC-
TIVE TRUTH to the Consciousness of Man. The
Mind is RESOURCEFULt ENERGETIC and inclines
to express itself in cutting speech. Restrain troublesome-
ness, quarreling and kindred moods.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 4 indicates a Subconscious Realization of the natural
Response (1) existing in one person to the Magnetic
Energy of another. This, if sufficiently intense, rises be-
yond the plane of mere desire and reaches the point of
PASSION where the response may lead to destructive
action, bringing the REALIZATION OF DEATH.
Love and Death are akin to each other. Expresses
through the Desire Series.
79
80 ARROWS OF LIGHT
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 4 indicates the Physical Secretions functional in the
process of Generation (I) directs the body to Food (2)
which is purified (3) and stored for the REALIZA-
TION OF REPRODUCTIVE ACTIVITY. It in-
dicates the sperm. ovae, and milk, the phenomena of
Birth and Death. As Mars, it initiates and destroys
form.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 4 indicates the result of MENTAL FORMULA-
TION (1) in the formation of Astral or Subconscious
images (2) which are sufficiently vitalized (3) by the
Emotions to produce its Realization in Physical Form.
In the Mental World, No. 4 indicates also the result of
the Sublimation of the Physical into Creative Passion or
Genius. Acts born of the Will.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 4, in questions of disease, indicates what is com-
monly attributed to the Sign Scorpio, such as RUP-
TURES, GRAVEL, STRICTURES, URETHRITIS,
CATAMENIAL DISORDERS, GENITO - URI-
NARY DISEASES of all sorts, especially those rising
from Generative abuses. It indicates also INJURIES
AND OPERATIONS. GENERATIVE DISOR-
DERS AND INJURY. It is very evil in its morbid
action, inclining somewhat to fatality.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No.4. As No. 3 indicates the Kidneys in their func-
tional aspect of purifying the body, so No. 4 indicates the
need of the elimination of these impurities-a Realization
of the fact that Cleanliness must be from Within--Out-
ward, and as the Generative Secretions are the Physical
Substance resulting from purified food material, and are
in themselves the quintessence of Life and Vitality, the
remedy for No. 4 afflictions is the Realization of the value
of SELF-CONTROL in the GENERATIVE LIFE
and the use of such herbs as HEATHER, HORE-
ARROWS OF LIGHT 81
HOUND, BRAMBLE, BEAN, LEEK, WORM-
WOOD, AND BLACKTHORN. DARK RED
LIGHT; the gems TOPAZ and BLOODSTONE; and
the MUSICAL TONE LOW C also have an influence
on conditions indicated by No. 4.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 4 being the SIGN SCORPIO and the HOUSE OF
MARS, has rule over all matters of Physical Sex, Death,
Partner's Money, Legacies, Astral Matters such as
Dreams, Psychic Experiences and, to a certain degree,
Obsessions.
BIBLE
(9) No. 4. Genesis I :28: "To subdue the Earth (the
Flesh) , to have dominion over the Fish (the Animal
side of Emotion) and over the Beast of the Field (ag-
gressive Physical Passions) is the great work of Man
upon Earth." And Rev. 12:5 expresses the meaning of
No. 4 in the following words: "And she brought forth
a man child (Positive Will) who was to rule all the
Nations (cells of the body, with their associated desires)
with a Rod of Iron." Iron is the symbol of Determina-
tion and the Rod is the symbol of Rulership. "And her
child was caught up unto God (the Higher Mind) and
His Throne {the Brain)." For when the Generative
Passions are ruled (not suppressed) by an Iron Will,
their energy is expressed through the Creative centers of
the Brain and manifested in products of the Higher
Mind. ATTAINMENT.
SYMBOLISM
(10) No. 4 corresponds to the MARK MASTER DEGREE
in MASONRY, especially as expressed in the Heave-
Over Sign. It is symbolized by locking the fingers of
the right and left hand alongside of the right hip. The
right hand having five fingers typifies the Male, and the
left hand having five fingers typifies the Female side of
existence. The hands are thus united alongside of the
right hip, showing the right use of the Generative Func-
6
82 ARROWS OF LIGHT
tion, or No. 4. The hands are then rapidly brought to
the left side of the throat, as if to throw something over
the left shoulder. The throat contains the Thyroid
Gland. The Thyroid Gland is ruled by the Planet
Venus. Venus has for its Keyword, Temptation. The
Thyroid Gland excites the Will to Pleasure. The Heave-
Over, therefore, typifies the Secretions of Generation
thrown away to the Valley of Jehoshaphat (figuratively
Hell) because of Temptation to Pleasure. No. 4 refers
also to the Keystone that completes the Arch between
Man and Woman, and which is recovered in this Degree.
Ezekiel 44 :5.
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 4 indicates the possibility of the Transmutation of
Elements when the proper Periods, Cycles and Polarities
are understood. It typifies the Realization that the
Physical Universe is not a Thing but a Condition-a
particular mode of manifestation of Electrical Energy.
When we add the Number of Wisdom (9) to No. 4, we
get the No. 13 which indicates that when Science attains
Wisdom, it will have the power to transform one sub-
stance into another-TRANSMUTATION OF ELE-
MENTS.
NUMERICAL
( 12) No. 4 is the number that indicates Work under the direc-
tion of the Will ( 1) in harmony with Experience (2)
according to the Law of Action (3) and ends in the
Realization (4) of WORK ACCOMPLISHED.
MEDITATION
Nothing can resist the firm Will that has for its
object the knowledge of the true and just. To fall in
the Cause of Truth is to achieve Immortality. The
realization of your hopes must rest on "The Rock
that is higher than I."
THE SOVEREIGN. NUMBER 4. LETTER D.
I
ARROWS OF LIGHT
MAN manifests the action of Spirit in Matter. The Cubical
City becomes the Cross of Incarnation; see Rev. 21. The Cubical
City which unfolds itself into a Cross, is said to have 12 gates. It
typifies the Human Body which has 12 orifices or openings.
83
84 ARROWS OF LIGHT
THE CROSS
The Cross is preeminently the emblem of Chris-
tianity, although it was used in various forms in pre-
Christian days. The crux ansata which today is used
as the symbol of the Planet Venus, is a Cross sur-
mounted by a Circle. It was venerated in ancient
Egypt, from earliest times. As common!y understood,
the Cross refers to the instrument of Christ's death.
It was the common instrument of execution in His
time. Rome's way with the wicked.
But, to the student of the mysteries, it has quite a
different meaning. It is not only the emblem of death;
it typifies the physical body. It signifies Life un-
folded from Matter. If we make- a box and cover it
with a lid, so that it has the appearance of a cube, we
have the symbol of Matter-solid substance. If we
open a cube as in the illustration, we evolve a Cross.
The Church places on this Cross, the suffering Christ;
others have used a Rose in His stead. The symbols
are very similar. The rose is sacred to Venus. Venus
is sacred to love. Love is the cause of union. Union
brings forth Life in Matter. Mystically considered,
incarnation is crucifixion.
The Cross has four points, thereby typifying the
four seasons. A line drawn around the Cross, gives
it the semblance of an egg, signifying potentiality. Its
perpendicular Bar, or tree, represents the Sun at mid-
day-the Summer solstice, the Male Principle. Upon
this tree, an inscription was placed, with a dual mean-
ing. One, to indicate that all Nature is renewed
through fire, and that the Solar ray completes this
work each year when the Sun is in the Sign Leo-here
he is King of the Jews. Judah is equivalent to Leo.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 85
The other meaning announced Christ as the King of
the Jews. This inscription was written in three lan-
guages: Hebrew to denote Wisdom, Greek to denote
Beauty, and Latin to denote Strength. This corre-
sponds to the three pillars described on page 229.
The horizontal Bar indicates the equinoxes, the
division of the year into Summer and Winter; the
division of Man into Mental and Physical; the divi-
sion of Time into Night and Day; the Female Prin-
ciple, and the resistance that Earth gives to the fire of
the Sun. In the Christian system, the word ''Cross''
has become synonymous with affiiction, burdens, sac-
rifice, expiation, punishment, grief, sorrow, anguish,
and death, but above all with Ransom paid.
If now we take the words "The Cross," and give
each letter its appropriate value, we have 9+5+ 11 +
20+16+21+21, involving to 4 as its Super Root,
and giving a Super Power of 12. The Cross is the
Realization of Sacrifice. Its Ruling Factor is 8, Capri-
corn, the Home of Saturn or Satan whose selfish Ma-
terialism makes Sacrifice necessary. Its Object is 16,
that is, Mars the inflictor of Death.
If we wish to know the influence of the Cross on
the human race, we must add 9 to 103, for 9 is the
number of Humanity, especially the Humanity of the
present day. This gives us a Gross Root of 112, in-
volving to 4, Realization. Subtracting 4 from 112.
we have 108. Dividing this by 9, the result is 12
to which we add 1, bringing forth 13. 13 is Trans-
formation to a new Cycle, Birth on a Higher Plane.
The Sacrifice on the Cross made it possible for Hu-
manity to realize life on Higher Planes. It redeemed
the Soul from the bondage of Death.
86 ARROWS OF LIGHT
ROALD AMUNDSEN
Roald Amundsen, scientist and explorer of interna-
tional reputation, was born in Borge, Norway, on
June 16, 1872, and died in an effort to save his fel-
low scientist Nobile who in a measure was also his
enemy. His numbers, consequently, are of great in-
terest.
The Gross Root of Roald Amundsen is 131. The
G.R. of his Birth Path is 31. The two added together
give a G.R. of 162 with a Super Root of 9. 9 has
for its Keyword, Wisdom; it vibrates to the Sign
Aquarius. Aquarius rules the New Age, Science, In-
vention, and Discovery. Amundsen was an explorer,
a great traveler; in fact, he was born under the
Aquarius decanate of the Sign Gemini. This decanate
has for its Keyword, Fidelity, and it was character-
istic of Amundsen to be always faithful and humani-
tarian even to those who disa·greed with him.
Let us analyze the numbers of two of his character-
istic exploits. On May 11, 1926, he made a success-
ful :flight over the North Pole, in the dirigible Norge.
The G.R. of the day of the :flight is 25. 162+25=
187. The power he used was gas. Gas vibrates to
11, and as it is the most important element in dirigible
navigation, we add it to 187, giving a new root of
198. This involves to 18. 18 subtracted from 198=
180+9=20+1=21. He was Successful (21) at the
North Pole, but in the presence of bad feeling ( 18),
for when he arrived with his party at Seattle, they
were not on speaking terms. They had not spoken
for several days. It was Amundsen who broke the
silence, at the Hotel Seattle, by saying kindly words
about Nobile in a public speech.
i
..
/
I
'
ARROWS OF LIGHT 87
Two years later, Nobile was wrecked in the Arctic,
and Amundsen :flew to his rescue by aeroplane, and
lost his life in the attempt. He started on June 17,
1928, the day after bis birthday. The G.R. of the
fatal day is 34. 34+162=196. This gives a S.R.
of 16 the Keyword of which is Ruin, Catastrophe.
We now take 196 and add to it No. 10 which rules
aeroplanes. This gives 206 with a S.R. of 8, having
for its Keyword, Small Justice. 206-8=198+9=22.
For Roald Amundsen, this was a day of evil that
ended in Failure.
CHAPTER VIII
No. 5. LETTER E. PLANET JUPITER. RULES THE
SIGN SAGITTARIUS
Kabballistically expresses RELIGION and LAW
Astrologically expresses EXPANSION. BENEVOLENCE,
JOVIALITY
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
(1) No. 5 indicates the Truth expressed by Von Humboldt
when he said: "The Universe is governed by Law."
Hermetically it expresses the Truth that the One Prin-
ciple (I) can move only according to the Law of Polar-
ity (2) the Action (3) of which brings forth the One
Agent or form which gives us the Realization (4) of the
Universal Truth that all Reality of which we are cog-
nizant exists as the result of the One Principle or Spirit
working according to the LAW of its own Being, which
is Polarity, Opposites, or Sex.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 5 indicates the Consciousness on the part of Man
that there is an Eternal Interrelation between the Relative
88
ARROWS OF LIGHT 89
and the Absolute-between God or the One Spirit and
Man, hence the Key-Word of this division is RELI-
GION. LIBERTY WITHIN LAW. CONSCIOUS-
NESS OF SUPPLY. Seeks the PROFESSIONS.
LOVES DIGNITY. Inclines to POMP. Is jovial.
Hates restraint. Repress conceit.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 5 indicates MEMORIES, racial and individual,
STORED IN THE SUBCONSCIOUS MIND. It is
this great fund of Experience that we may use according
to the Law of Mentality to draw on the abundance of
Nature, with a feeling of absolute assurance that as long
as we work in Harmony with the Universal Law, there
will be no lack of supply.-Expresses the Religious
Urges.
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 5 in Human Physiology, represents what is Occultly
known as the ETHERIC BODY, and what is Scientifi-
cally known as Neuricity or NERVE FORCE. It indi-
cates also the Human Aura or Vital Radiation. It ex-
presses the Law that all Mental and Emotional Action
is the result of Sensation, either experienced or remem-
bered, and that all Sensation produces the secretion of
one or more HORMONES in the blood. In this sense
it also signifies the BLOOD which is the most abundant
tissue of Life.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 5 indicates the RENEWAL OF NERVE FORCE;
complete consecration of all our Mental and Emotional
faculties to the work of Regeneration. Our work should
harmonize with the Cosmic Work for which we were
designed by the Grand Architect of the Universe.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 5, in questions of disease, indicates all those condi-
tions resulting from over supply - PLETHORA,
GLUTTONY. All diseases of a moist and humid na-
ture, the natural results of too many pleasures.
90 ARROWS OF LIGHT
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 5 being the Planet Jupiter, the Natural Remedy is
quite evident. It is indicated by adding 9 to 5, which
gives us the Number 14 which has for one of its Key-
Words, Temperance. TEMPERANCE is the remedy
for Jupiterian disorders, also proper diet. THE INDIGO
RAY OF THE SPECTRUM; THE SALTS OF TIN,
and THE MUSICAL TONE A. Give DAHLIA
FLOWERS.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 5 being JUPITER, ruler of the SIGN SAGITTA-
RIUS (7) which governs Sports as well as Philosophy,
has some rulership over Sensuous Pleasures and the en-
joyment of delights in which Sensation plays an impor-
tant part. This makes Number 5 prodigal, oftentimes
overgenerous, leading to SACRIFICE OF VITALITY
FOR SENSATION. 5 plus 7 equals 12, and the Key-
Word for 12 is Sacrifice. Sacrifice is the essential element
in Religion, and the willingness to do so for the welfare
of others, is the glory of Jupiter (5) , Religion, and Man.
BIBLE
(9) No. 5 symbolizes the STAR OF BETHLEHEM, the
story of the three Wise Men who were guided to the
Birth of the CHRIST in Bethlehem (the Sign Pisces)
Number 12. Christ is said to have been born "in the
fullness of Time." Pisces is the end of the Astrological
Year and Christmas is at the end of the Modern Year.
Christ was not born, as far as we know, in March.
Pisces is called the House of Bread. Thirty degrees
(years) later, the Sun crosses the equinox and rises in
the northern hemisphere. He then leaves this House
(Sign) of Bread and enters the Summer months where
he replenishes the food that was sacrificed in Winter.
Number 5 does not mean Sacrifice; it represents the
LAW OF NECESSITY to which the Sacrifice must be
made. Number 5 is the CHIEF PRIEST. It has ref·
erence to the Gold, Frankincense and Myrrh which Wis-
ARROWS OF LIGHT 91
dom gave abundantly to the newborn Saviour. Gold
signifies Spirit; Frankincense, Emotion; and Myrrh, the
Physical Body. For the story of the Wise Men, see
Matthew 2:3-17.
SYMBOLISM
(10) No. 5 typifies the SIGN OF THE PENTAGRAM in
Masonry, by which the Candidate must quell the riot
which starts when he tries to preside over the Fifth De-
gree. It represents the rebellion of the Physical Cells
charged with Animal Race Memories, when they are
brought under subjection by the disciplined and evolved
Will of the Higher Self or Ego.
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 5 indicates the COEFFICIENT OF EXPANSION
and, therefore, is associated with Heat which increases
the molecular activity within the mass. It may be well
to call attention to the fact that Heat is the Principle of
Summer which evokes the ABUNDANCE of the Year.
NUMERICAL
( 12) No. 5 represents the individual man or woman and
symbolizes all the distinctly Human virtues such as DE-
VOTION, RELIGION, RELIGIOUS INSTITU-
TIONS devoted to CHARITY and BENEVOLENCE.
Composed of the following numbers it expresses:
1+4 Intelligence Realized.
2+3 Knowledge in Action.
MEDITATION
Before you say of a man, "He is fortunate, or un-
fortunate," you must first discover to what use he
has put his Will, for every man creates his Life in
the Image of his Work.
THE HIEROPHANT. NUMBER 5. LETTER E.
92 ARROWS OF LIGHT
SOME IMPORTANT NAME VALUES
Name G.R. S.R. S.P. R.F. Object
Solomon 104 5 12 7 17
Emmanuel 69 15 7 8 22
Samuel 58 13 6 7 19
Melchizedek 80 8 9 1 17
Michael 45 9 5 4 14
Gabriel 53 8 6 2 14
Jesus Christ 124 7 14 7 21
Moses 76 13 8 5 21
Judah 29 11 3 8 14
Adonai 46 10 4 6 14
Jehovah 54 9 6 3 15
NOTES
Solomon, King of Israel, and builder of the Temple,
lived approximately 1000 B. C. His name, however,
is only a late appearance of the same word which from
time immemorial, had been applied to great temple
builders. Motet tells us that it is derived from the
four symbols on the Capstone of the Great Pyramid,
neglecting only the last one which was El, making the
word "Solomon (el)." This word means "the spirit
behind the light of the world." That force which
constantly builds the temple of human life, without
the sound of hammers, driving everything into place
with wooden mauls. That is to say, the vegetable
matter of food. Hence, the word "Solomon" has for
its Gross Root, 104. 1 typifies Intelligence, and 4,
Realization. In the G.R. of the name ''Solomon,''
however, these words are separated by zero, kabbalis-
tically 22. There was a basic folly in the life of Solo-
mon, as there is in the lives of all of us. We are all
Solomon, the temple builder. The Super Root is 5.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 93
It drew to him Abundance. For his time, he was the
richest of kings. His trade is said to have extended
from England to South Africa. He had no lack of
wealth. But his Super Power is 12. He sacrificed his
life's blessings to Folly. His Ruling Factor, on the
other hand, was 7. The common Keyword for this
number, is Victory or Completeness. He completed
the temple. 7 also is the Sign Sagittarius, ruling the
House of Religion. This was a great factor in his life.
In his old age, he did not become an atheist. He went
after strange gods. This was due to his Super Power;
12 being twice 6, made him very emotional. He was
rather Piscean. The ladies attracted him strongly.
Read the 10th chapter of the First Book of Kings.
Also 1 Chronicles 9: 1-12. But the Object of Solo-
mon's existence was 17, Truth, Faith, and Hope. But
on the lower side of that number, we have fickleness,
uncertainty, and inconstancy. And so we read in 1
Kings 11, Verse 6: ''And Solomon did evil in the sight
of the Lord."
EMMANUEL
Emmanuel is the prophetic name for the Messiah.
Read Isaiah 7: 14 * * * ''Behold a virgin shall con-
ceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Em-
manuel." Also in Isaiah 9: 6 we read: "For unto us
a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the gov-
ernment shall be upon his shoulder: and his name
shall be called wonderful, (the same name is applied
to the bethel stone on which Jacob slept when he saw
the Vision of the Angels. This stone is now a part of
the throne of Great Britain. On it, all English Kings
have been crowned) Counsellor, the mighty God, the
94 ARROWS OF LIGHT
Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace." It is inter-
esting at this point, to note that the word "wonder-
ful" has a Gross Root of exactly I00, a Super Root
of l, and a Super Power of 12. This gives it a
Ruling Factor of 11, which is Spiritual Force, and an
Object of 13 which means a New Order, a Transfor-
mation. It is more descriptive than the name Em-
manuel, of the work of the Messiah. For the Gross
Root of this name is 69, which indicates Love and
Wisdom. Its Super Root is 15, to indicate that the
Messiah would draw Death to Himself. Its Super
Power is 7, to indicate His Complete Victory. 8 is its
Ruling Factor. His victory is over the grave-selfish-
ness and sin, while the Object of His incarnation was
to demonstrate the ultimate folly, 22, of all reliance
on material media. 22 may be called Matter, the
Earth. 8, the Grave, and 15, Hell. The three fac-
tors over which Emmanuel must be victorious. It is
this that makes his sacrifice wonderful.
We shall omit a discussion of Samuel, leaving it to
the student to study the character and apply the rules.
MELCHIZEDEI<
Melchizedek, King of Salem, is described in the Bible
in much the same way that Hermes Trismagistus is
described in Egyptian literature. Saint Paul says of
Christ that he is a High Priest of the Order of Mel-
chizedek, who was without father, without mother,
without generation, abides a priest forever. Astro-
logically, he is the Pole Star. See "The Mystic Key,"
by John H. Annis. The only point in the heavens,
that apparently does not change. It is eternally at
ARROWS OF LIGHT 95
rest, or at peace. It eternally shines in the North.
The North is the region of frozen water, even as the
body is the region of frozen Spirit. The Pole Star is
the light that shines in the dark, even as our conscious-
ness of God is with us in our most materialistic hours.
Mekhizedek is the priest, or witness, of the Most High
God, in our innermost self, to whom we must pay the
tithing of our material struggle. In this light, let us
consider his number values. His Gross Root is 80.
This indicates his material habitation. His Super
Root is 8. He draws to him a physical body. His
Super Power is 9. He rules it in Wisdom. His Rul-
ing Factor is 1, or Will and Intelligence. But the
Object of his existence is the same as that of Solomon;
it is 17. He served the Faith, in a dual capacity of
Priest and King.
MICHAEL
Michael. In Revelations of St. John, we read that
there was war in heaven. Michael and the Angels
strove against the Beast. The Apostle Jude refers to
him, quoting the Book of Enoch, in which he is men-
tioned repeatedly. He is also mentioned in the Proph-
ecies of Daniel. Astrologically, Michael is the Sun
Spirit who from his throne in Heaven, wars against
the Beast of crystallization. In this light, let us view
his numbers. His Gross Root is 45, meaning Realiza-
tion of the Law. All things must be done according
to law under the sun. His Super Root is 9. To realize
that all things are subject to law, is Wisdom. His
Super Power is 5, to indicate that Abundance comes
to us only by obedience to Law. His Ruling Factor
96 ARROWS OF LIGHT
is 4, the Realization of Acts from the Will. His Ob- I
ject is 14, all things are Regenerated by sunlight.
GABRIEL
Gabriel. He is the Moon Spirit, and hence the op-
posite of Michael. The old Hebrew fathers were evi-
dently a little against the ladies, even as are our modern
Masons, so they dramatized this Spirit as male. But
as the Moon, it would be better to call him lstar or
Luna, for the power is essentially female. He is the
Spirit which blows the trumpet to awaken the dead,
and is therefore exalted in Taurus, the latter part of
April and early part of May, when the magnetic action
of the Moon draws the fluids up from the earth, re-
generating the plant world, clothing the forest in green
leaves, even as the astral color of the Moon is green.
The Moon literally awakens the dead each year, as we
are told that Gabriel will awaken the dead at the end
of the age. Let us now consider his numbers. His
Gross Root is 53, the Law in Action. His Super Root
is 8: his Action is on Matter. His Super Power is 6;
his Action is Magnetic. His Ruling Factor is 2; he
gathers together. The Object of his existence is 14;
together with Michael, he Regenerates Nature. If
now, we add the Object of both Michael and Gabriel
together, we have 28. This involves to 10, and means
renewal.
JESUS CHRIST
Jesus Christ. The Gross Root is 124. This indi-
cates Intelligence and Knowledge Realized. The Super
Root is 7, Complete Victory through the Higher Mind.
1 ·
I
,.I
/
T rE ~~ lPllE 0 f S-
0 l 0 M0 N u 1~11 rE rJ())l Y- ;OF~~~ 0[=~ ES\
From Cono~•er_
l King 6:23 and subsequent verses describe the Holy of H e-dies in King Solomo n's Tem p le, also the cherubim and tbe
glory of rhe Shckinab, which is seen in rhc background of rhis picture. The numbers associated wi th this descrip -
tion become very in terest ing .-..vhen studied in the light of rho: Tarot Values.
\,
ARROWS OF LIGHT 97
The Super Power is 14, to indicate Regenerative work.
The Ruling Factor is 7, being the same as His Root,
both being expressed in the work of Redemption,
while the Object of His existence is expressed in the
number 21, Success and Attainment. The entire his-
tory of Christianity consists of peoples who have made
their object Success. We can not consider such names
as we have before us, merely as individuals. They
are in reality the names given to modes of motion in
the spiritual spheres, that work out in certain definite
ways in the material world.
Using these paragraphs as a guide, the student will
be enabled to draw his own conclusions from the
other names.
CHAPTER IX
No. 6. LETTERS U, V, W. PLANET VENUS, RULER
OF TAURUS AND LIBRA
Kabballistically expresses TEMPTATION
Astrologically expresses LOVE and AFFECTION
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
( 1) No. 6 indicates the LAW OF ACTION AND REAC-
TION, the continuous alternation between Cause and
Effect.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 6 indicates two divergent sets of desires presenting
themselves in Consciousness. causing TEMPTATION,
THE WARFARE BETWEEN DESIRE AND
DUTY; between HONOR AND INDULGENCE.
It indicates a tendency to take the EASY PATH, the
LINE OF LEAST RESISTANCE, to move in the di-
rection of APPARENTLY GREATEST PLEASURE.
Basically it is LOVE, AFFECTION, KINDNESS.
Restrain pliancy.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 6 indicates the Subconscious Mind, or rather, the
grade of substance in which the Subconscious Mind in-
heres. It is mystically considered as a body or form, and
it is known as the ASTRAL BODY, the DESIRE
BODY, and by various other names. It is the repository
of Memory, as well as of the Instincts and Propensities
developed in our pre-Human stages. It is the battle-
ground of Armageddon, where the Angel and the Beast
continually battle for supremacy.
98
,I
ARROWS OF LIGHT 99
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 6 indicates the SYMPATHETIC NERVOUS
SYSTEM and THE GANGLIA associated with it. It
has also rule over the THYROID GLAND and through
it, over the SKIN, HAIR AND NAILS.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 6 indicates the testing of the WILL under the in-
fluence of TEMPTATION. It indicates that our Powers
are being tested. Spontaneous emotions excite gland ac-
tion, bringing forth secretions of a constructive or de-
structive nature. The Tarot and its philosophy were
evolved to enable the student to voluntarily create within
himself such States of Emotion as will be Harmonious
with the scheme of Life. Naturally, this requires con-
centrated effort which tends to fatigue the Nerves ( 1) ,
to rob them of Substance (2), to make them relinquish
Action (3), bringing a Realization (4) of the Law of
Limitation (5) and establishes a Temptation (6) to let
things take their course spontaneously, that is, to sur-
render to circumstance.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 6 indicates a tendency to SKIN ERUPTION, when
combined with negative numbers or influences. It in-
clines also to CATARRHIC and EXHAUSTED CON-
DITIONS.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) As No. 6 is associated with the misfunction of the Thy-
roid Gland, the Natural Remedy is REST and RECRE-
ATION, iodine bearing food, and as a further consid-
eration, we here study the second Theosophic power of
6 which is the Number 15 the Natural Remedy of which
is NATUROPATHY. SALTS OF COPPER, YEL-
LOW RAY, THE MUSICAL TONE E, THE ROSE.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 6 being the PLANET VENUS, natural Ruler of
Taurus and Libra, associates in its influence with Throat
and Kidneys, or Intake and Output, giving an inclina-
100 ARROWS OF LIGHT
tion to take in more substance than the body can elimi-
nate. It is also powerfully bound up with the emotions
of LOVE and AFFECTION, and inclines the mind to
overvalue material possessions.
BIBLE
(9) No. 6 corresponds to the 27th Chapter of Genesi~, which
is the entire story of Isaac, Jacob, and Esau. Esau, in
his hunger, or TEMPTATION, sold his birthright for
a mess of pottage-he yielded to TEMPTATION. The
same thought is further elaborated in Matthew, Chapter
4: 8: "Again the Devil taketh him up into an exceeding
high mountain and sheweth him all the Kingdoms of the
World and the Glory of them and said unto him, 'All
these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and
worship me.' "
SYMBOLISM
(I 0) No. 6, in Masonry, typifies the Most Excellent Master.
In this Degree, the Brethren kneel around the Altar while
the Master reads: "He that hath clean hands and a pure
heart, who hath not lifted his soul up unto Vanity, nor
sworn deceitfully, he shall receive the blessings of the
Lord." The Brethren then Balance, holding right and
left hands, moving up and down while the Master counts
1-2-3, and again 1-2-3, meaning 6 in all, or the balanc-
ing of the Soul between WILL and TEMPTATION.
They then turn up their eyes in the attitude of astonish-
ment, to indicate the astonishment of the Ego or Divine
Self, at its frequent failures to dominate completely its
animal desires. The hands are then dropped to the sides,
as though lifeless, to typify the weakness of the fiesh
under the infiuence of TEMPTATION.
SCIENCE
( 11 ) No. 6 indicates the imperfect combinations of chemicals,
because of impurities. It also typifies the well-known
Law that every Action must be followed by an equal and
opposite Reaction.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 101
NUMERICAL
(12) Numerically, No. 6 composed of the following numbers
expresses:
5+I. Law of Intelligence.
4+2. Realization of Contrast.
3+3. Action and Reaction.
MEDITATION
For the common man, the allurement of Vice is
greater than the austere beauty of Virtue. Remem-
ber also, that indecision is worse than a bad choice.
THE TWO PATHS. NUMBER 6. LETTERS U, V, W.
MARY GARDEN
Mary Garden, born Aberdeen, Scotland, February
20, 1877.
The Volume of the name gives us 10. We find that
the letter A occurs twice, from which we judge keen
analytic intelligence. The letter R occurs twice, giv-
ing magnetic power, for R represents the Moon and
the Moon is the source of personal magnetism. It
attracts audiences of music lovers.
We now find the Gross Root and add to it the
Birth Path. We find that the G.R. of the name is 91
and the B.P. is 27, giving a complete G.R. of 118
involving to a Super Root of 10. This makes her
intensely individualistic. We subtract 10 from 118
and have 108, divided by 9=12+1==13.
Thus we read that she is a strong individuality
with a power to lead in her profession. Next we place
10 before the name, and 13 after it, from which we
judge that she not only starts with a strong person-
ality but continues leadership to the end.
102 ARROWS OF LIGHT
Miss Garden began her work in Paris, on April 13,
1900 (mark the 13), with abundant faith in her abil- ,
ities, April being the 4th month. This leadership was
in a place of public entertainment (note 1900). 19 is
the number of theaters. The Root for that day is 18,
and 18 is the Sign Cancer, Home of the Moon, and is
associated with music. We now add 18 to 118 and
find 136. This number has a Super Root of I0, the
same as her personal Root. I0 from 136==126 di-
vided by 9 equals 14 to which 1 is added to complete
the Power, and we have 15. Mary Garden achieved
her success by the Power of 15.
CHAPTER X
No. 7. LETTER Z. SIGN OF SAGITTARIUS. RULED
BY JUPITER
Kabballistically expresses VICTORY
Astrologically expresses COMPREHENSION
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
( 1) No. 7 indicates the Truth that all manifestation is the
result of the SEVENFOLD DOMINION OF SPIRIT
OVER MATTER.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 7 indicates the FORCE OF DECISION. The
CONQUEST OF TEMPTATION by the self-directed
action of the human Will; the complete comprehension
of all factors entering into the problems of Life. Loves
sports especially when associated with horses. Also the
LEGAL and ECCLESIASTICAL professions. Re-
strain sportiveness.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 7 expresses in the Subconscious Mind of Man. that
factor which Psycho-Analysts call THE CENSOR. It
indicates the subjection of the Feelings and Desires to the
rt')rce of the Will. Victory over Temptation. 1 over 6.
Expressions through comprehension.
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 7 indicates the PSYCHO-MOTOR SYSTEM OF
NERVES, more specifically the Sciatic and Crural Nerve
Supplies. The function of movement. the musculature
of the Thighs. the Femurs and the Femoral Marrow.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 7 indicates the quintessence resulting from a Union
(3) of Polarized (2) forces. The power of SUBLI-
103
104 ARROWS OF LIGHT
MATING THE PHYSICAL INTO MENTAL MA-
TERIAL, the raising of the vibration of the atoms
composing the cells of the body, to a condition of har-
mony with the higher Law.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 7, in questions of disease, inclines to SCIATICA,
COXALGIA, HIP DISLOCATIONS, and many proc-
esses associated with ACIDITY.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 7 being the Home of Jupiter, that is, the Sign Sagit-
tarius, and Jupiter being the Number 5, the Natural
Remedy for No. 7 afilictions is the same as for No. 5.
Sagittarius tends to overdo, so, REST AND PROPER
DIET are the indicated remedies. Adding 9, the num-
ber of Wisdom, to 7, we find that it is wisdom to use
heat for the Natural Remedy, for 16 is THERMO-
THERAPEUTICS, and PURPLE LIGHT. No. 7
vibrates to THE GEM CARBUNCLE and all stones of
a mixed red and green color, also to the MUSICAL
TONE HIGH A.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 7 is the SIGN SAGITTARIUS ruled by Jupiter
and inclines the Native to PHILOSOPHY AND RELI-
GION, also to long journeys and the STUDY OF LAW
and its Judicial administration.
BIBLE
(9) No. 7 in the Bible is referred to repeatedly in the story
of Joseph who was sold captive into the Land of Egypt.
This represents the Soul incarnated into a Physical Body,
having to endure its limitations, senses and desires. These
must be overcome if we are to rise to great power. Joseph
was a dreamer. This has referenee to the action of the
Higher Mind. He was tempted by Potiphar's wife but
he chose to suffer rather than yield. It refers also to the
seven fat and the seven lean Kine-the seven good years
ARROWS OF LIGHT 105
and the seven bad. Genesis 41 :41 shows Joseph as
ruler over all the land, symbolizing Victory over ob-
stacles and Temptation. Egypt represents the Physical
Plane, or Physical Body.
SYMBOLISM
(I 0) No. 7 typifies the ROYAL ARCH DEGREE OF MA-
SONRY, the Royal Arch symbolizes the completion of
Manhood. The rope is wound 7 times around the body
of each candidate, at least 3 of whom must be present.
The turns of the rope signify the 7 states of Conscious-
ness which the Initiate is supposed to attain on 3 Planes
of Being.
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 7 indicates the SEPTENARY LAW OF NATURE
as expressed in the Spectrum and the Octave; all existence
being the result of 3 Principles expressed in 4 Grades of
Matter.
NUMERICAL
( 12) No. 7 is the number of perfect form on the Physical
Plan.e; the Octave which completes the Perfect Gamut;
the number of Victory. In all things which are com-
plete, 7 is represented. Composed of the following num-
bers it expresses:
1+6. Will triumphant over Te.tllptation.
2+5. Knowledge of Law.
3+4. Action Realized.
MEDITATION
The Empire of the World belongs to them that
possess Sovereignty of Spirit. The Light which makes
clear the Mysteries of Life, radiates from that Sov-
ereignty. Break through your obstacles and you will
crush your enemies and realize your wishes if at all
times you are armed with the consciousness of Right.
THE CONQUEROR. NUMBER 7. LETTER Z.
106 ARROWS OF LIGHT
SOLOMON
Modern Freemasonry is built on the conception of
Solomon's Temple. This Temple was the House of
God. It was built to symbolize God's relation with
Man and Man's relation with God. Three Masters di-
rected its construction. Two Kings and a Craftsman.
They were Solomon, King of Israel, Hiram, King of
Tyre, and H.A., the Widow's Son. Esoterically con-
sidered, the tribes of Israel are the cells of the human 1
body. H.A. adorns them. H.K.T. supplies them.
and Solomon the King rules them with imperfect wis-
dom. I say "imperfect wisdom" to indicate that King
Solomon is the Human Ego gathering experience with
physical matter. If his wisdom were perfect, he would
not need the experience.
We are told that his weakness was women. He had
700 wives and 300 concubines. These numbers are
in themselves significant. Women are No. 2. They
are also indicated by zero. They typify the Negative,
or, form producing power. Man is 1, and when we
add zero to 1 we have 10. This is the number of man
and woman united, for both man and woman, con-
sidered as human beings, vibrate to 5. Zero indicates
also a Plane. It raises the vibration one Cycle.
Women are mothers, motherhood gives birth to form,
700 wives, therefore, indicates that Solomon's knowl-
edge was complete on three Planes of Being. He was
able to judge three Planes, and also to act on them, as
indicated by 300 concubines. Knowledge must pre-
cede action. Let us now look at the name Solomon.
1.!:2 ('r;dl' l (t;Oncf f1 (' · 1.1t. r~,._:1)0Ci
\\OJ)U Ol· Tl II:. Ti~ :.lPLE OF SOl.U.\lQ;:-.;
,.\ movement is under w3y in Jer usalem .rnd amo n g .Tews t hrou ghout the world Lo h.n·e 1hc temple which once
crowned .\1o unt Zion rchi..:ilt on the Jr.cienr plJn . D r. Sch ick, J GermJn .1rchitcc t. has spent fifty ycJrs se.ucb-
in g f0 r pLrns :ind dncumcnrs br .Hin~. ''n the suh jccr .ind has completed rhis mndd .1s a res ult of bis in v .:'sti~.itions.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 107
Its Volume is 7. Keywords, Victory, Completeness.
Nature. The letter o occurs 3 times. Energy on 3 Planes.
Character. S 0 L M N. The word Sol means the Sun.
Keywords, Power, Success. M is positive, and N is
negative. Solomon is a complete success, objectively
M and subjectively N. G.R. 108. S.R. 9.
In himself he is Perfect Wisdom, Perfect on the
Spiritual Plane. S.P. 12. The outer Solomon sacri-
ficed this wisdom, for we are told that alien women
turned his heart away from God. He failed in the
perfecting work, although he succeeded in its com-
pletion.
Letters are called places. Their number constitutes
the volume of the name. From it we read the environ-
mental factors. We now place the Super Root be-
fore the name, and the Super Power behind it. These
show that the name Solomon begins in Wisdom and
ends in Sacrifice. The Ego ultimately surrenders the
earth, the Physical Body with which it has gathered
Love and Wisdom on the Physical Plane.
As an illustration of the use of the Tarot, we may
ask the question: "What influence did his wives have
upon him?" Considering wives and concubines as one
in influence we have the number 1000. The G.R. of
Solomon is 108. Add 1000 and we have 1108. This
gives us a S.R. of 10. His wives made him eccentric.
They caused him to change his views and to commit
folly.
CHAPTER XI
No. 8. LETTERS H AND CH. SIGN CAPRICORN,
HOME OF SATURN
Kabballistically expresses HUMAN JUSTICE, EQUILIB-
RIUM
Astrologically expresses UTILITY, SELF-INTEREST, and
strangely contradictory as it may seem-IDEALISM.
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
( 1) No. 8 expresses the thought that the Cosmic Scheme is
based on ABSOLUTE JUSTICE; a tendency to strike
a balance between action and repose. It describes the
interaction between MATTER, FORCE, and CON-
SCIOUSNESS, as they express in the process of SOL-
IDIFICATION.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 8 indicates the weighing of contrary possibilities,
with the resultant tendency to inaction and stagnation;
the equilibrium which rests on the fulcrum of Self. It
may be summarized as COLD REASON, METHOD-
ICAL AMBITIONS, CONVENTIONAL, DIPLO-
MATIC, RESPONSIBLE, capable of good manage-
ment.-Restrain Deceit.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 8 indicates what psycho-analysts term FIXA-
TIONS. The persistence of such modes of feeling as
constitute the Safety Urge. No. 8 increases CAUTION,
FEAR, GREED, SECRETIVENESS, UNSOCIA-
BILITY, SOLITARINESS, INTROSPECTION,
SELF-PITY, in one word, it makes prominent all feel-
ings of self-interest, at the same time it is capable of the
highest idealism, but only when self-interest is identified
with public approval.-Expresses through the Utility
Series of Images.
108
ARROWS OF LIGHT 109
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 8 indicates the bony structure or rather the process
of BONE FORMATION. It has, therefore, some in·
fluence over the PARATHYROID GLANDS, the
FRONTAL PITUITARY, and the PANCREAS. Due
to the influence of Saturn, it is associated with liver func·
tion and with the power commonly known as "second
wind" (reserve supply) . Its specific influence is over the
knee joint and the Patella, also the Patellar Ligament.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 8 indicates the PROCESS OF CONGEALING,
which precedes crystallization. It is in congealing that
the impurities in a compound manifest themselves.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 8 inclines to ARTHRITIS, SKIN TROUBLE of
a dry and cold nature, SALT RHEUM, IMPETIGO,
AND PRURITIS.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 8 being the Sign of Capricorn, an earthly sign, is
slow of emotional response. The Natural Remedy must
be mechanical treatment; MECHANO-THERAPY,
MASSAGE, BLUE LIGHT. THE MUSICAL TONE
LOW G and the GEM ONYX.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 8 suggests the SIGN OF CAPRICORN RULED
BY SATURN, a mentally REFLECTIVE condition of
mind, a person naturally PRACTICAL.
BIBLE
(9) No. 8. "In the sweat of thy brow shalt thou eat bread,
till thou return to the ground, for out of it wast thou
taken and into it shalt thou return." Capricorn being
the home of Saturn, and Saturn being the Physical Body,
it is the Physical Body that is here referred to, for it is
built of earthly elements. Read Genesis 3: 19. Also
Genesis 19: 22. This is the story of Lot's wife who
turned to salt, symbolically Earth, because she looked
110 ARROWS OF LIGHT
back on Sodom, that is, focused her attention on the con-
fiagration of physical passion. The Dead Sea is the
lower end of Jordan. Jordan typifies the spinal fluid
that comes down from the brain and purifies the animal
nature. The Soul which centers itself in this region,
mingles with the Earth and loses its identity.
SYMBOLISM
(10) No. 8 corresponds to the ROYAL MASTER DEGREE
OF MASONRY. It signifies the union of soul mates on
three planes of being, or complete union as an essential
to Mastery. Hence, the Master who represents H. A.•
asks the candidate whether he knows about this, tapping
the fioor with his foot three times. The candidate an-
swers that he knows something about it and that some-
thing is the ALPHA and OMEGA; meaning that the
beginning and the end of life, is bound up with the union
of mind and soul. "When I die, they will bury it there."
This Degree refers to the mortality, not only of the
body, but of the soul as well, for it is CAPRICOR-
NIAN SELFISHNESS that may destroy the soul on
Three Planes of Being, hence the three taps of the Mas-
ter's foot.
SCIENCE
(11) No. 8 represents all the PROCESSES OF SOLIDIFI-
CATION. It represents the reduction of motion in the
ethers, which give rise to physical matter. It refers also
to the phenomenon of EQUILIBRIUM brought about
by the OTHOLITES (Ear Stones) .
NUMERICAL
(12) No. 8 represents BALANCE. Composed of the follow-
ing numbers it expresses:
7+1. Completed Intelligence.
6+2. Desire to Know.
5+3. Law of Union.
4+4. Equilibrium.
ARROWS OF LIGHT
MEDITATION
111
To be victorious over thyself and to dominate ob-
stacles, is but a part of thy task. To accomplish it
entirely thou must establish equilibrium between the
forces which thou hast set in motion. All action pro-
duces reaction, the Will should foresee the shock of
opposite forces so as to temper an annulment.
BLIND JUSTICE. NUMBER 8. H AND CH.
CHAPTER XII
No. 9. LETTER TH. SIGN AQUARIUS
Kabballistically expresses WISDOM and PRUDENCE
Astrologically expresses KNO\VLEDGE of HUMAN NA-
TURE
Associates with statesmen, lawyers, philanthropists. and with all
congregations of people. See Appendix.
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
(1) No. 9 expresses PERFECTION. It is PERFECT WIS-
DOM governing the Universe. Wisdom is perfect Ac-
tion (3) on 3 Planes of Being. 3X 3 equals 9.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 9 indicates the need of prudence, seeing that the
Mind of Man is inherently imperfect and unfolds only
through the painful process of trial and error. Wisdom
counsels PRUDENCE in all undertakings. Instinctive
CHARACTER ANALYST. Restrain Argumentation.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 9 indicates the degree of perfection existing in the
arrangement of memory images in the Subconscious, for
on it depend the factors of ORIGINALITY, SPON-
TANEITY, and INSPIRATION naturally associated
with this Sign and Number. Expresses through the
Knowledge Series.
PHYSIOLOGY
( 4) No. 9 being the numerical equivalent of the Sign Aqua-
rius, influences the LOWER LIMBSt LOCOMOTION
and the GREATER MOTOR NERVES. It deals with
the membranous investiture and white matter of Schwan,*
that covers the membrane. Hence, we find it associated
with NEURITIS and other conditions in which the
* After Theo. Schwan, noted German physiologist.
112
ARROWS OF LIGHT 113
nerves are denuded. No. 7 governs the Motor Nerves,
and No. 2 the assimilation of substance. 9, therefore,
indicates NERVE SUBSTANCE.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 9 indicates the need for care and patience in all
efforts to affect the physical chemistry of the body
through the direct energy of the Will. The very imper-
fection of the Conscious Mind makes all such efforts dan-
gerous unless the individual has drawn Wisdom from
Experience, and knows just what substances are required
and how to influence the desire, or emotional life, to
produce them. No. 9 warns the would-be healer not
to enter the Occult field without sufficient training.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 9, in questions of disease, may be used to test the
Wisdom of proposed treatment.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 9, in questions of therapy, suggests the use of BLUE
AND TURQUOISE COLORED LIGHT, perfect quiet
and a bland diet. It vibrates to the MUSICAL TONE
HIGH G, GEM SKYBLUE SAPPHIRE and to such
stones as OBSIDIAN and BLACK PEARL.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 9 being the SIGN AQUARIUS, corresponds to the
things belonging to the New Age. It talks CO-OPERA-
TION, ALTRUISM, AND BROTHERHOOD; in-
creases the knowledge of the masses concerning their place
and importance in the world, and awakens the classes
to the fact that poverty is a disgrace that must be over-
come by Wisdom.
BIBLE
(9) No. 9 is referred to in the Bible, story of the result
of the Temptation. Genesis 3:4 tells us: "And the
Serpent said to the Woman, 'ye shall not surely die, for
God doth know that in the day you eat thereof, then
your eyes shall be opened and you shall be as gods know-
8
114 ARROWS OF LIGHT
ing good and evil.' And the Woman saw that the Tree
was good for food, pleasant to the eyes and a Tree to be
desired to make one WISE/' No. 9 refers to the fact
of Incarnation and the work of perfecting itself which
the Soul must accomplish on this Plane of Existence.
WISDOM ENLIGHTENED BY LOVE. SOLO-
MON'S PRAYER.
SYMBOLISM
( 10) No. 9 represents the SELECT MASTER DEGREE OF
MASONRY. The 9th Arch of the Secret Vault of
King Solomon's Temple where are stored exact copies
of all that is contained in the Sanctum Sanctorum above.
The Sanctum Sanctorum is the Higher Mind where
MAN makes contact with the Universal or PERFECT
SPIRIT. It is an intellectual degree, signifying the low-
est degree of Adeptship on the Physical Plane, or that
form of Consciousness wherein Man recognizes the Cor-
respondences between himself and the Powers of the
Universe. This is also illustrated by the Three Trian-
gular Tables or 3X3, and the Triangular Plates of Gold
3X 3 on which are Candles to indicate that Success de-
pends on the Illumination and Purification of the Spirit
on Three Planes of Being. PERFECT PURIFICA-
TION.
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 9 deals with OCCULT PSYCHOLOGY, with
Subjective Methods of obtaining information from the
Inner Planes of Being. THE SACRED SLEEP OF
SIALAM; the Higher and Sacred Powers of the Soul.
NUMERICAL
(12) No. 9 is the Deific Number, being the Highest Digit and
possessing the peculiar property that no matter how
many times it is multiplied by itself, the gross product
of the number will always be 9. 9X9 is 81, and 8+
1=9. 8X9=72, and 7+2=9, and so on, no matter
how often the operation is repeated. It is the Number
by which the Ancients solved their Spiritual Cycles. As
ARROWS OF LIGHT 115
3X 3, it means Action on all Planes of Being. Composed
of the following numbers it expresses:
I+B. Wisdom demands that Will overcome Iner-
tia.
2+7. Science Completed.
3+6. Marriage overcomes Temptation.
4+5. Wisdom depends on the Realization that
all things are governed by Law.
MEDITATION
Prudence is the Armor of the Wise. Circumspec-
tion enables us to avoid snares and foresee treason.
Take these for your Guides in all your actions, even
to the least. Nothing is indifferent here below. A
pebble can upset the Chariot of a King. Remember
that Speech is Silver, but Silence is Gold.
ABSTRACT ANALYSIS
Not only may the Tarot be used in the study of
Names and Birth Paths but it is equally effective in
analyzing Things and Principles. For example, what
is the spiritual principle underlying the affection of a
dog for a man? We do not work with the word Man,
which is a generic term meaning Mankind, but we
write it ''a man,'' likewise, we do not use the word
"dog," which has the same value as "God," but in
reverse order, but we write "a dog." The Gross Root
of the words "a man" is 29, involving to 11. 11 is
the S.R. of "a man" and is the number of Spiritual
Force. 11 from 29=18 (which being less than 22
cannot be involved) plus 1 gives us the Power of 19.
The Keyword for 19 is Happiness and Joy. "A man"
is happy only in proportion to his Spiritual awaken-
116 ARROWS OF LIGHT
ing. We now analyze the term "a dog." 1+4+
16+3=24, involving to 6. 6 from 24=18+1=19.
Man and dog have the same Powers. Add the Powers
together. 19+19=38, involving to 11, the S.R. of
"a man." The affection between the two is based
upon a Spiritual kinship. Add the Super Roots to-
gether. 11+6=17. 17 is the Sign Gemini, the Twins,
ruling associates. Dog and man are therefore asso-
ciated because of a Spiritual kinship based on the
affection of the dog whose Root is 6, and the intuitive
recognition by the man of this relation, his Root be-
ing 11. Or, we may wish to find the physical effects
of this association between man and dog. Take the
same G.R.s, 29 for the man and 14 for the dog and
add them together. 29+14=43, a new G.R. which
involves to 7. 7 is the number of higher mind (See
appendix under 9th house). Subtract 7 from 43 and
we have 36, which we unlock by the Minor Key of 7
as we are dealing with only the physical aspect of the
matter. 36+7=5 and 1 over. Thus we have a S.R.
of 7 indicating completeness, the Power of 5 showing
abundance and the Sub Power of 1 indicating intelli-
gence. In the same way we can operate upon any
particular term we desire to investigate. Let us take
the word by which Christian, Jew and Mohammedan
conclude their prayers. AMEN, 1+13+5+14=33,
involving to 6. The Root of this word is affection
and its Power is 4, Realization. AMEN therefore has
for its Spiritual significance the Power to Realize Love.
Unlocking it by the Minor Key (7) we get the Power
of 3 and a Sub. P. of 6, which indicates Union in
Love.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 117
Let us find the. Spiritual quality of the word Star.
It has a G.R. of 64, S.R. 10, Power 7. Stars affect
us through the second or Astral Plane of substance;
they motivate from within. The Power of 7 indi-
cates that they are associated with the Higher Mind,
influencing our Subconscious Self. In blending Star
with Man (considered generically) we find his G.R.
to be 28, S.R. 10. Add the two G.R.s together and
we have a new G.R. of 92 involving to 11. Man is
spiritually related to Star. We now have a blended
Power of 10 and this relation works on the Inner
Plane. To find the Physical effect of Star on Man
divide 81 by 7=S.P. 11 and a Sub R. of 4. The outer
influence of Star is to force the mind to Realize the
Spiritual Principle underlying the Universe. Napoleon
said, ''Man can look upon the earth and doubt, but
who can look up to the Stars and say there is no God!''
Not to go from the sublime to the ridiculous, but
simply to illustrate the applicability of the system,
let us now take the words ''Fire'' and ''Wood'' and
blend them. Fire has a G.R. of 52, S.R. 7 and Wood
has a G.R. of 42, S.R. 6. Add the G.R.s together
and we have 94, giving us a blended S.R. of 13.
13 from 94=81+9=9+1=10. The blended Super
Power of Fire and Wood is Change ( 10) . The Root
being 13 and the Power 10 reads, ''A Transforming
Change,''-wood into ashes.
CHAPTER XIII
No. 10. LETTERS 1-J-Y. PLANET URANUS.
RULES AQUARIUS
Kabballistically expresses CHANGE of FORTUNE
Astrologically expresses SUDDENNESS, ECCENTRICITY
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
(I) No. 10 indicates a change to a higher form of expression.
The Cosmic causes underlying the Physical manifesta-
tion; the influences operating upon our lives and des-
ttmes. Conditions over which we have apparently no
volitional control. Those circumstances to which Ex-
press Companies refer as "Acts of God," causes which
we can not comprehend with our rational mind, but
which we may perceive by Intuition. No. 10 may be
summed up as Spirit in Action, expressing as FOR..
TUNE, either GOOD or EVIL.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 10 is associated with those states of Consciousness
wherein one feels impelled to suddenly reverse decisions
and purposes. It typifies REVERSAL, even as the
Moons of the Planet Uranus turn in a direction opposite
to that of the Moons of the other Planets. People who
have the number 10 very prominent in their names, have
extraordinarily keen INTUITION and pronounced in-
clination to ECCENTRICITY, UNCONVENTION..
ALITY, INVENTION, DISCOVERY. RESTRAIN
CRANKINESS.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 10 indicates sudden reversal of emotions. People
who laugh and cry alternately. REVERSAL OF FEEL..
ING, ECCENTRIC MOODS.
118
ARROWS OF LIGHT 119
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 10 has no Anatomical Correspondence as it deals
almost entirely with Intuitive and Subjective Processes.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 10 indicates an inclination to force the mental proc-
esses too arduously. This gives nature insufficient time to
reconstruct form, causing nervous and emotional explo-
sions which bring about DISCOURAGEMENT and
ABANDONMENT.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 10 indicates HYPERSENSITIVITY, NERVOUS
ECCENTRICITY, PHOBIAS AND APPREHEN-
SIONS.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 10 being affliction in the Subjective Processes, re-
sponds to MESMERISM. In the more Physical aspects,
ELECTRICAL TREATMENT. IN MUSIC, THE
ASTRAL CHIMES. Clover and Oxalis are the flowers.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 10 being the PLANET URANUS, is the Higher
Octave of Mercury, and rules the Sign Aquarius, the
natives of which have the highest INTUITIVE
KNOWLEDGE OF HUMAN NATURE. No. 10
is associated with Occult Study; with a mental consid-
eration of all new and higher things. It is intimately
associated with the Cycle of Seven, for it takes the Planet
7 years to cross one Sign. 7 plus 3 are 10, therefore,
No. 10 is the force behind the Septenary Law. The
Astrological Keywords for Uranus are: INDIVIDU-
ALITY and ECCENTRICITY. It corresponds to
dazzling white and its vibration is similar to that of
RADIUM and URANIUM.
BIBLE
(9) No. 10 corresponds to Ezekiel 1:15. Here is described
the Wheel of the Zodiac, also Ezekiel 1:13. Here is a
description of Electrical Fire. The Eccentricity of No.
10 is typified also by 1 Kings 2 :3. Here we are told
120 ARROWS OF LIGHT
that Solomon had 700 wives and 300 concubines and
that his wives turned away his heart.
SYMBOLISM
(10) No. 10 indicates the SUPER-EXCELLENT MASTER
DEGREE IN MASONRY, and has to do with the fate
of Zedekiah. He did evil in the sight of the Lord, and
as a consequence, experienced EXTREME CHANGE.
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 10 governs those SCIENCES that depend on the
ELECTRO-MAGNETIC FORCES. Radio, Teleph-
ony, Telegraphy, Electric Generation and transmission of
Power, Electro-therapeutic Appliances. ELECTRIC-
ITY.
NUMERICAL
( 12) No. I0 is the number beginning the new Cycle, the Num-
ber 1 of the I 0 or second Cycle. It is the Border Number
between the manifest and the unmanifested, and typifies
the Threshold that alternately lures and repels the
Neophyte. Its Keyword may well be given as NEW-
NESS. Composed of the following numbers, it expresses:
9+ J. Perfection of Will.
8+2. Fallibility of Objective Knowledge.
7+3. Victorious Action.
6+4. Temptation Realized.
5+5. Law of the Astral World.
MEDITATION
For Power, thou must Will. That is, Will strong-
ly. Thou must dare, and to dare with success, thou
shouldest know how to be silent until the moment
of action. Learn to Will persistently, but only for
that which is good and true. In order to maintain
thyself upon the heights of Life, thou must learn to
look without dizziness into the vastest depths.
THE WHEEL. NUMBER 10. LETTERS I, J, Y.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 121
PHILOSOPHY OF THE SECOND CYCLE
The student has now completed the First Cycle of
the Numbers, and opened the Second Cycle; the First
Cycle being from Zero to 9. Zero has the same value
as 22, it being impossible to go beyond the Perfect
Attainment typified by 21. The Numbers from Zero
to 9 deal with the Outward Cycle, with those things
that have immediate physical manifestation. Their
greatest power lies in the practical things of Life.
These things, however, are subject to the Law of
Change which lies behind the Physical forms. We
know what the world is today, but we do not know
what it will be tomorrow, next week, next month or
the next Century. Our practical Intellect can not
penetrate the Veil. Ordinary methods merely specu-
late about the Future and cannot really know what
it has in store for us. A little study of Astrology
will convince anyone with a modicum of intellectual
honesty that the general drift of Life may be charted
if we will but calculate the movement of the Celestial
bodies with reference to the Life of Men and Nations.
Experimentation with the Tarot will convince the
crustiest skeptic that great Truths are hidden in the
very names we give to persons and things.
No. I0 represents Occult Science. It is the First
Number of the numerals of the second cycle which
deals with the Astral or Subconscious World. It marks
the turning point from Material Intellectualism to the
Psycho-Intuitive or Subjective processes of arriving at
an understanding of our Inner Nature and Destiny.
The Numbers from 10 to 19 deal with the Inner
Forces and Powers. These produce change in the
122 ARROWS OF LIGHT
Outer World and it is these changes which affect us
for weal or woe; hence the common key phrasing of
Number I0 is "Change of Fortune for either good or
evil" depending on the powers and other factors in-
volved in the problem.
Change of fortune is frequently associated with
change of name. In more primitive days it was nearly
always necessary to change one's name with one's for-
tune. Among the American Indians, it is almost a
standing rule to change the name of the individual
after every great achievement. It was their innate
sense of the :fitness of things which urged them to co-
incide their names with their manifest character. In
the Bible, too, we have many instances. For example:
The change of name from Simon Peter to Cephas, the
name of the First Decanate of the Sign Pisces. Cephas
means a rock, and Christ says, "Upon this rock will
I build my church." The Christian Religion is the
religion of a Piscean Age, its key phrase is "I believe."
The Keyword for the First Decanate is Truth, and
Christ said. when He changed Peter's name. I will
build my church upon the rock of Faith in the Inward
Truth.
As Simon Peter was chosen for the central figure in
the outward form of this religion, his name was
changed from Petrus which means a Stone upon Earth,
to Cephas which means a Rock, but is pictured in the
sky by the figure of a King. The name, therefore, was
changed from an Outer to an Inner Meaning. A simi-
lar change of name is recorded when Abram achieved
religious illumination and entered into a covenant with
Deity, after which he was called Abraham. Letters
equivalent to Religion, or No. 5 and to Intelligence
ARROWS OF LIGHT 123
or No. 1, working this change. In the word Abraham
we have A recurring 3 times, signifying Intelligence
on 3 Planes of Being. It is the name of an Initiate-
an Adept. The letter B indicates the Sign Virgo, the
Woman of the Skies. His Adeptship depended, as we
know, on the cooperation of his mate Sarai, who al-
ready being old, nearly a hundred, had to be awak-
ened, signified by R. No. 20. This awakening had to
be by the power of religious Law (No. 5 which is
the Number of the Hebrew H vibrating to the Eng-
lish E), and resulted in Transformation-the letter M,
No. 13 ruling the house of birth and renewed life in
the Horoscope. For that reason his wife also had her
name changed from Sarai to Sarah, showing that she
too came under the higher law. The root of the word
Abram is 10 and its Power 4. Abram was capable of
realizing change and when the change came, letters
equivalent to Nos. 5 and 1 were added, which made
the Root of his name 7 and the Power 5, bringing him
under the Law of Victory.
We all know the fate of the late Czar of Russia.
We also know that he was not the first of the Czars
to meet that fate, for Czars have been targets for
Nihilists, Anarchists and Bolsheviki, for many decades.
Let us see why. The name is spelled in two ways,
Tzar and Czar. Both are corruptions of the name
C~sar. "Et tu, Brute, mihi filii." Now the name,
whether spelled Tzar which is equivalent to 18+1+
20, and equals 39 and involves to 12 with a root of
4, or whether it is spelled Czar, which is 11+7+1+
20, and equals 39, has no difference as far as Inner
meaning is concerned. Both names meaning Sacrifice
and Expiation Realized. The volume of Tzar is 3
124 ARROWS OF LIGHT
and the volume of Czar is 4. As Tzar he was Active,
and as Czar he realized Sacrifice of his life.
In reading a name of this nature, it is well to some-
times place the Power before the name and the Root
after it, which in this case gives Sacrifice as the initial
factor, and Realization as the :final factor of the name,
which is very significant. No. 12 is read as martyr-
dom, and in the name before us it gives us the follow-
ing reading: Martyrdom's ( 12) Force ( 11) Victori-
ous (7) through Intelligence ( 1) Awakened (20)
through the Realization of Death (4).
His capital was called St. Petersburg, with a Gross
Root of 164, a Root of 11 and a Power of 18, sig-
nifying Spiritual Force used to deceive-Rasputin.
The name of the City was changed to Petrograd with
a Gross Root of I08, involving to the Simple Root
of 9 with the Power of 12. In Petrograd, Wisdom
(9) was Sacri:fied ( 12). A revolution overthrew the
government and once more changed the name of the
City to Leningrad. Leningrad involves to 83 with a
Super Root of 11. 11 is the Planet Neptune, the
ruler of Pisces and indicates a Utopian Force. Ap-
plied by the Power of Human Wisdom. This is essen-
tially the object of the Soviet Government. The
leaders are endeavoring to materialize a dream.
CHAPTER XIV
No. 11. LETTERS C AND K. PLANET NEPTUNE.
RULER OF THE SIGN PISCES
Kabballistically expresses THE PRINCIPLE OF FORCE
Astrologically expresses IDEALISM and VAGUENESS
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
( 1) No. 11 expresses the principle of Force throughout all
realms of nature. It proves that what we call Force is
manifest in Matter and is in reality the result of impal-
pable substances pressing upon those more palpable. It
represents that particular Force which is initiated on the
Spiritual Plane and works outward through the Astral
into Physical life. Keywords: SPIRITUALITYt
FORCE.
CONSCIOUS
( 2) No. 11 typifies the power to receive impressions from
other minds, Carnate and Excarnate. TELEPATHY
and PSYCHISM. EXAGGERATIONt FRAUD,
LIES, PROMOTIONt IMAGINING.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 11 indicates the result of suggestion upon the Astral
Constitution of Man: the crowding of images into some
particular department of life, until it breaks forth in
SPONTANEOUS and UNREASONED action, like
many a Cult that is built upon the SUGGESTIVE
POWER of some FORCEFUL PERSONALITY. It
symbolizes also the Soul that needs awakening to the
truth of SPIRITUAL POWER. Expresses through the
Utopian Urges.
125
126 ARROWS OF LIGHT
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 11 having rule over the Subjective Powers, is asso-
I
I
I
I
ciated with the PINEAL GLAND, and consequently I
with the phenomena of ADOLESCENCE, and the Im- Ii
aginative faculty.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 11 is associated with Lymphatic action, being bound
up with the action of the Thymus gland and undergoing
similar changes. Its chemical action can not be deter-
mined as it is essentially the number of Mystery, show-
ing the presence of Hidden Forces which modify the usual
course of Chemical action in the body. Being associated
with the Imagination, it indicates a MENTAL OVER-
VALUATION OF SYMPTOMS.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 11 indicates HYPOCHONDRIASIS, HYSTERIA,
T RANCE , SOMNAMBULISM, HALLUCINA-
TION, VISIONS, and WEIRD SUBJECTIVE EX-
PERIENCES.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 11 responds to SPIRITUAL TREATMENT,
MAGNETIC ENERGY. It vibrates to the MUSIC
OF THE SPHERES and is sacred to the MINERAL
MOLYBDENUM. The flower is Arctotis.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 11 corresponds to the vibration set up by the planet
NEPTUNE, and as Neptune has rule over Pisces, and
Pisces rules the feet and toes, we frequently find it asso-
ciated with peculiarities in those parts of the body. It
also indicates the LYMPHATIC CIRCULATION, as
well as RIVERS and STREAMS in the world at large,
and has influence over SECRET ENEMIES, OIL and
GAS, and Imprisonment as a result of FALSE ACCU-
SATION. Practice SELF-DISCIPLINE.
I
ARROWS OF LIGHT 127
BIBLE
(9) In Judges 13:14 we read: "She may not eat anything
that cometh from the Vine" (Neptune rules wines and
strong drink) . ''Neither let her drink wine or strong
drink. nor eat any unclean thing." In Judges I6: 5 we
find that Delilah was offered I. I 00 pieces of silver, for
finding the secret of Samson's strength and betraying him
into the hands of the Philistines. Silver is sacred to the
Moon or No. 20. Delilah is the Moon aspect of Virgo.
No. 20 is the Second Power of I 1. and the number
therefore indicates the Mystery of a Woman's influence
over Man.
SYMBOLISM
(I 0) No. I I indicates that Masonic Degree known as the
HEROINE OF JERICHO, and has as its essential ele-
ment the Scarlet Line. The scarlet line of life is carried
on from generation to generation through the Menstrual
function of Woman. This is further indicated by the
red handkerchief used in making the Sign of the Degree.
Only through the higher use of the Creative Functions
can Man hope to escape from physical limitation. In this
Degree, Man and Woman are alluded to as spies in an
alien land. This means that the Physical Body is a
vehicle for, but not part of, the Soul.
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 11 indicates all processes that have to do with
SOPORIFICS, SEDATIVES, INTOXICANTS, AN-
ASTHETICS, GASES-their production. source, and
effect.
NUMERICAL
( 12) No. 1I indicates extremely feminine and Magnetic con-
ditions. Being the second power of 2. it indicates the
Wisdom of Non-resistance when in the presence of un-
reasoning forces. Woman (2) Virgo, awakens in Man
(9) Aquarius. a desire to fill out the ideal she has con-
128 ARROWS OF LIGHT
ceived for him. Composed of the following numbers, it
expresses:
1+10.
2+9.
3+8.
4+7.
5+6.
Intelligent Change.
Knowledge expressed in Wisdom.
Action overcoming Equilibrium.
Realization of Victory.
The Law underlying Temptation.
MEDITATION
For power, one must believe in one's own ability.
Advance with Faith. To become strong, impress
silence on the weakness of the heart. Study duty,
which is the Rule of Right. and practice Justice as
if you loved it.
THE ENCHANTRESS. NUMBER 11. LETTERS
C and K.
PHILOSOPHY OF ILLUSION AND DELUSION
The great Keyword for No. 10 is "Change." The
question naturally suggests itself "Change from
what?" In ordinary divination we usually say
"Change of fortune for either good or evil" but in a
more philosophic aspect we speak of it as a change in
mental approach. from a primary consideration of
Matter to that of Force. No. 11 is No. 1 on the sec-
ond plane. It is the Principle of Force. Force causes
Change in material forms. Force is energy, and all
energy is characterized by Intelligence or the lack of
it. No. 11 may also be read: "The Spirit of Force."
It is the second Theosophic power of 2. But No. 11
means more than that. It is Intelligence on the Inner
Planes. For that reason, the impressions which the
Conscious Mind receives from No. 11 vibrations are
ARROWS OF LIGHT 129
illusive. They are like gas. Gas is liquid distended
to a vapor or fog. The liquid from which the fog
ascends may itself be crystal clear, but its fog obscures
the vision. So it is with our feelings, typified by
water. Normally, we may rely upon them, but when
they come under the influence of 11, the water of our
emotion has a tendency to rise as a fog of illusion and
delusion. 11 is the number of phantasy, dreams,
Utopian and impractical visionings and in many cases
indicates narcotics, alcohol, poisons and drugs of all
kinds. It also has to do with sailing and navigating,
travel by sea generally, for astrologically it is Neptune,
the Intelligence which rises out of the sea of emotions
and drives the horses of his aspiration to the goal of
his dreams.
9
CHAPTER XV
No. 12. LETTER L. SIGN PISCES. RULED BY
NEPTUNE
Kabballistically expresses SACRIFICE and EXPIATION
Astrologically expresses BELIEF and SELF-UNDOING
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
(1) No. 12 expresses the truth that the more inward phases
of Man and Nature can not be comprehended or discov-
ered by the rational faculty, and must be REVEALED
to Man by intelligence on a higher plane. Therefore, he
who would receive such revelation, must learn to SAC-
RIFICE his Animal Nature so as to tune in with the
Higher Forces. REVEALED RELIGION.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 12 symbolizes an ABSOLUTE DEVOTION to
the cause of TRUTH and PROGRESSt and the SAC-
RIFICE needed to attain these ends. Under this number
the mind is PLASTIC-ever influenced by ENVI-
RONMENT. Very PSYCHIC AND EMOTIONAL.
Restrain WORRY.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 12 indicates the states of Feeling or Emotion, more
or less of Astral origin, which evolve the willingness of
Man or Woman to SACRIFICE their personal comfort
and pleasure on the Altar of DEVOTION to the Cause
which they esteem as TRUTH. TRUTH to them is
anything that gains their CREDENCE. TRUTH is
often a matter of BELIEF rather than Experiment, with
No. 12. They feel rather than know their ground. Ex-
presses through the Belief Series.
130
ARROWS OF LIGHT 131
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 12 represents the TOES, FEET, and LYMPH.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 12 indicates that the factor of Belief is sure to in-
fluence the emotions. "Faith is the Victory."
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 12, in questions of disease, indicates DROPSY,
ASCITIS, OEDEMA, PHLEBITIS, STATUS LYM-
PHATICUS, all diseases of FEET, TOES and
ARCHES.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 12 primarily calls for religious suggestion and
psychic aid. The awakening and strengthening of the
Belief in the Constructive Powers of Nature, removes the
Faith in Evil which is the bane of those who have this
number prominent in their Name or Birth. FAITH.
Also those herbs that grow in water; MOSSES, FERNS
and SEAWEED. It responds to PURPLE LIGHT, the
MUSICAL TONE LOW A and the glittering GEM
CHRYSOLITE and such stones as SAND, GRAVEL,
PUMICE, and CORAL, especially the Gem Peridot.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 12 is the SIGN PISCES ruled by Neptune. It is the
last sign of the Zodiac, ruled by the last or outermost
planet of the Solar System. It is the Sign which governs
the CHRISTIAN RELIGION. "They who do not
BELIEVE shall be damned." And redemption from
Sin (SELF-UNDOING) is made possible only by the
Sacrifice of Christ on the Cross. Good Friday is the end
of Pisces. Three crosses of 4 points each are a reverse
statement of 4 Seasons of 3 months each, wherein the
Sun SACRIFICES his energy between the EVIL Win-
ter and the REPENTANT Summer, both being
THIEVES of Time. Pisces rules Prisons, Hospitals, and
all places of Confinement, Sadness, Loss and Sorrow.
132 ARROWS OF LIGHT
BIBLE
(9) No. 12 has reference to the story of Judas who cast
thirty pieces of silver in the temple, and then went out
and hanged himself. Mat. 27:5. Also the fig tree which
was cursed because it bore no fruit. Also Mark 11 :20.
In Mythology, this number is Prometheus who was
bound to the Rock of Expiation, for stealing the Divine
Fire from Heaven. It also refers to the violent death
of the twelve Apostles. No. 12 is Sacrifice of the Physi-
cal self either in expiation of wrongdoing, or for the
attainment of the Higher Life.
SYMBOLISM
( 10) No. 12 in Masonry indicates the DEGREE OF THE
CHRISTIAN MARK. Here the Grand Ministers exe-
cute the JUDGMENT of the Lord (law) upon the
Candidate who bewails his fate because his lips are un-
clean. Before conferring the Mark, a live coal is taken
from the Altar and is touched to the Candidate's Lips,
to signify EXPIATION.
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 12 indicates PSYCHICAL RESEARCH, and the
DANGER OF OBSESSION, from the presence of Ele-
mentals who often drive the searcher to suicide, in a vain
effort to escape from the forces he has attracted to him-
self. More outwardly, No. 12 indicates one's power to
Burbank plants and animals.
NUMERICAL
(12) No. 12 as composed of the following numbers, expresses:
11+1. Spiritual Intelligence.
1o+2. A Change of Knowledge.
9+3. Wisdom in Action.
8+4. Injustice Realized.
7+5. Victory of the Law.
6+6. The Emotional result of Temptation.
ARROWS OF LIGHT
MEDITATION
133
Sacrifice is a dominant Law from which none are
exempt, but expect no gratitude from Man. Always
hold thy Soul in readiness to render its account to the
Eternal, for if the World attempts thy earthly life,
do not die without accepting with resignation this
decree of God, and pardon thy most cruel enemy. For
whomsoever does not forgive here below, will be con-
demned in the next life to solitude.
THE MARTYR. NUMBER 12. LETTER L.
PHILOSOPHY OF SACRIFICE
It is most difficult for man to ride two horses
at once. Christ said that a man could not serve two
masters, for if he does he will love one and hate
the other. When under the influence of No. 11 we
enter conscious!y on the Inner Plane. We find our-
selves at first in a Psychic Fog. In it things look
grotesque, weird, fantastic. But as we focus our in-
telligence upon these phenomena, we find that they
constitute a world in themselves; a domain to be con-
quered. It is this that brings No. 12 into action, for
12 is the second Theosophic power of 3. On the
Psychic Plane we must be armed with Wisdom. Wis-
dom shows us that all things in the concrete world
are evanescent. "Vanity of vanities," says Solomon.
To overvalue them is delusion. If we desire higher
attainment, we must learn to renounce them. That is
the significance of No. 12. It is the sacrifice of the
concrete for knowledge of the Spiritual. No. 12 being
the Sign Pisces signifies the Christian Church specif-
ically, and the Piscean Age generally. The Piscean
134 ARROWS OF LIGHT
Age was an Age of Faith rather than knowledge; of
feeling rather than thought. The Christian Religion
is based upon the sacrifice of Christ, and the tendency
of the Christian Religion is to advocate the sacrifice
of worldly pleasures. This is typically Piscean.
Pisces is a Watery Sign. Consequently, pleasures
derived from liquids are especially frowned upon. In-
stance, the Volstead Act. It was only after the
Aquarian Age opened in 1881, that bathtubs came to
be in universal favor in Christian lands. Houses that
were built during the seventies, no matter how lux-
uriously appointed, were deficient in bathtubs. Even
today, in very orthodox communities both here and
abroad, the "regular Saturday night bath" is frowned
upon by many a saintly soul, as worldly frivolity.
To the mind of the Piscean, Goodness and Misery
are twins.
When the writer was engaged in therapeutic work
in the city of Chicago, he was called to the homes of
some devout Polish people who sewed their children
in :flannels in December and did not change these
clothes until May. When he remarked upon the un-
cleanliness of this practice, he was told that if God
intended us to bathe in the winter, He would not
freeze the water. They sacrificed comfort and health
to an unreasoned belief in the danger of bathing.
~-···---
CHAPTER XVI
No. 13. LETTER M. SIGN ARIES, HOME OF MARS
Kabballistically expresses TRANSFORMATION
Astrologically expresses CONSCIOUSNESS
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
(1) No. 13 expresses PERPETUAL MOVEMENT, the
ETERNAL CYCLES of destruction and renewal. It is
the number of CREATIVE POWER. Being composed
of 1 and 3, it involves to 4 which is the Sign Scorpio, the
night sign of Mars. In this we find that Birth and Death
are associated, for No. 4 is the House of Sex, also of
Death, while No. 13 is the House of Birth and also of
Change. Scorpio is the dark water of the Red Sea, while
Aries is the rosy dawn of Spring. The Red Sea symbol-
izes PASSION, while the dawn symbolizes INSPIRA-
TION.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 13 typifies alertness, mental aggression and intoler-
ance of restraint. It may be summed up as the MAR-
TIAL CONSCIOUSNESS. The Will to War. Re-
strain Officiousness.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 13, in the Subconscious Mind of Man, motivates
all the urges and desires that give rise to AGGRESSIVE,
PUGNACIOUS, DARING, ADVENTUROUS AND
OFFICIOUS THOUGHTS, but it always leaves them
subject to the control of reason. No. 13 is a fighter who,
like his Cosmic prototpye the Ram, uses his head to butt
into new regions and, alas, sometimes into other people's
business. Expresses through the Egotistic Series.
135
138 ARROWS OF LIGHT
of the Israelites are Jews. Jews are the sons of Judah.
who was one of the twelve sons of Israel. The rest of
the tribes became the great pioneers of the world, under
the name Saxons. or sons of Isaac who was the Father
of Israel. Jacob adopted the two sons of Joseph. caus-
ing the number of Tribes to be 13, which became the
prototpye of the original 13 States of America. The
Israelites were wanderers and the word "Scot" means
"wanderer." The Israelites had a covenant with God,
and the word "British" is Hebrew for "Men of the
Covenant." The 13 Tribes of Israel have been and are
the pioneers in everything that is worth while in the
world. They are the children of the Sun and the Earth,
for the 3 syllables Is-ra-el come from the word "Isis,"
which is a personification of Nature; Ra, who was the
Sun God of Egypt; and EI, which is a word meaning
"God" or "Spirit." Israel. therefore, is the people who
dominate Matter and Force by the Intuition of Spirit.
These things are foreshadowed in Jacob's blessings to
his sons, as outlined in the 49th Chapter of Genesis and
in many other parts of the Bible. Five-sixths of the
Bible is written to Israel and One-sixth to Judah.
In the New Testament, No. 13 is typified by the
Lord's Supper. Christ with twelve disciples, makes 13.
It will pay anyone to study the painting of the Lord's
Supper and observe its symbolism. There are six disciples
on each side of the Saviour. The six on His right side,
are all in action, gesticulating in various ways; they
typify the Summer months. The six on the left side,
are all still. One holds on to a money bag, another
holds a knife against the heart of his neighbor, all the
faces but one, are severe, indicating five severe months of
Winter. The sixth Winter month is modified, as shown
by the relatively mild face of the disciple next to Christ.
In front of these six frigid disciples, is a platter with
three fish. Fish are the chief food of Winter, for they
live when the rest of Nature is asleep. Therefore, they
became the symbols of the Christian religion which was
CHAPTER XVI
No. 13. LETTER M. SIGN ARIES, HOME OF MARS
Kabballistically expresses TRANSFORMATION
Astrologically expresses CONSCIOUSNESS
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
(1) No. 13 expresses PERPETUAL MOVEMENT, the
ETERNAL CYCLES of destruction and renewal. It is
the number of CREATIVE POWER. Being composed
of 1 and 3, it involves to 4 which is the Sign Scorpio, the
night sign of Mars. In this we find that Birth and Death
are associated, for No. 4 is the House of Sex, also of
Death, while No. 13 is the House of Birth and also of
Change. Scorpio is the dark water of the Red Sea, while
Aries is the rosy dawn of Spring. The Red Sea symbol-
izes PASSIONt while the dawn symbolizes INSPIRA-
TION.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 13 typifies alertness, mental aggression and intoler-
ance of restraint. It may be summed up as the MAR-
TIAL CONSCIOUSNESS. The Will to War. Re-
strain Officiousness.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 13, in the Subconscious Mind of Man, motivates
all the urges and desires that give rise to AGGRESSIVE,
PUGNACIOUS, DARING, ADVENTUROUS AND
OFFICIOUS THOUGHTS, but it always leaves them
subject to the control of reason. No. 13 is a fighter who,
like his Cosmic prototpye the Ram, uses his head to butt
into new regions and, alas, sometimes into other people's
business. Expresses through the Egotistic Series.
135
136 ARROWS OF LIGHT
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 13 rules the skull and its contents, gives a moder-
ately tall body, generally lean and spare, large bones,
strong limbs, with an inclination to thick shoulders.
dusky brown or swarthy complexion. It has a strong
association with the ADRENAL GLANDS, some in-
fluence over the PITUITARY BODY, and through
these upon the mental and emotional states as they are
expressed in Physical action through the function of these
glands.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 13 indicates those powers which lie beyond the
physical. It deals with the Inward Forces which give
rise to Outward Manifestation. It indicates the ability
to separate the Astral Body from the Physical, at will.
Masons refer to this as "traveling in foreign countries."
This separation of the Astral from the Physical, may be
accomplished in various ways. The most common
method is the chanting of Mantrams, with rhythmic
breathing, while swaying the body in a spiral motion.
Such spiral movement raises the astral substance of the
body to the head, region of Aries or 13, whence it gradu-
ally leaves the physical by way of the Brahma Randra
or Door of Brahma, or, as the· Western Initiates call
it, "The Thura Iesous." In ordinary language, the
Pineal Gland and the Fontanelli, that is, the soft place
on a baby's head. The difference between Mediums and
Adepts is that a Medium passes from her body by way
of the Spleen, or in some cases, the Solar Plexus. She
has no control over her movements when she is out, and
but vaguely remembers her experience when she returns.
The Adept, on the other hand, passes from his body
through the Pineal and retains full conscious control of
his Soul Senses and Faculties while on the Astral Plane.
Beginners should never attempt to leave their body when
in a place where they might be disturbed. They should
not experiment with it unless they have the consent and
guidance of a Master. During the unguarded absence
ARROWS OF LIGHT 137
from the body, other entities may enter which they may
be unable to dislodge. Aside from this, any shock to the
Physical during the absence of the Astral, may sever the
Magnetic Cord and cause Death.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 13 indicates such diseases as GUM-BOILS, SWELL-
INGS, PIMPLES ON THE FACE, SMALLPOX,
HARELIP, POLYPUS, RINGWORMS, EPILEPSY,
APOPLEXY, MIGRAINES, TOOTHACHES,
HEADACHES, BALDNESS.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 13, in questions of disease, indicate HEMP, MUS-
TARD, BROOM, HOLLY, DOCK, THISTLE,
FERN, GARLIC, ONIONS, NETTLES, RAD-
ISHES, PEPPERS, and RHUBARD. They are fur-
ther influenced by the radio-activity of the GEM AME-
THYST and such stones as OCHRE, BRIMSTONE,
FIRESTONE, and other red stones in general; the RED
RAY of the Spectrum and the MUSICAL TONE
HIGH C.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 13 corresponds to ARIES, the first sign of the Zo-
diac, symbolized by a Ram. It is a movable Sign, very
active. Its nature is fiery, hot and dry. In its lower
expression, it inclines to intemperance, violence, boasting,
luxury and bestiality. In its higher expression, it in-
clines to pioneering, leadership, and self-assertion. It
indicates the East and the beginning of action on a new
Plane of Being. Kabballistically, it expresses Physical
Death, or rather the beginning of the state after Death.
BIBLE
(9) In the Bible, Jacob and his I2 sons typify No. 13. The
sons represent the twelve months of the year and Jacob
who was renamed Israel. indicates the Sun. The very
word "Israel" signifies the Solar symbolism attached to
this Father of our Race, for we must not forget that
while the Jews are Israelites, only a very small portion
138 ARROWS OF LIGHT
of the Israelites are Jews. Jews are the sons of Judah,
who was one of the twelve sons of Israel. The rest of
the tribes became the great pioneers of the world, under
the name Saxons, or sons of Isaac who was the Father
of Israel. Jacob adopted the two sons of Joseph, caus-
ing the number of Tribes to be 13, which became the
prototpye of the original 13 States of America. The
Israelites were wanderers and the word "Scot" means
"wanderer." The Israelites had a covenant with God,
and the word "British" is Hebrew for "Men of the
Covenant." The 13 Tribes of Israel have been and are
the pioneers in everything that is worth while in the
world. They are the children of the Sun and the Earth,
for the 3 syllables Is-ra-el come from the word "Isis,"
which is a personification of Nature; Ra, who was the
Sun God of Egypt; and El, which is a word meaning
"God" or "Spirit." Israel, therefore, is the people who
dominate Matter and Force by the Intuition of Spirit.
These things are foreshadowed in Jacob's blessings to
his sons, as outlined in the 49th Chapter of Genesis and
in many other parts of the Bible. Five-sixths of the
Bible is written to Israel and One-sixth to Judah.
In the New Testament, No. 13 is typified by the
Lord's Supper. Christ with twelve disciples, makes 13.
It will pay anyone to study the painting of the Lord's
Supper and observe its symbolism. There are six disciples
on each side of the Saviour. The six on His right side,
are all in action, gesticulating in various ways; they
typify the Summer months. The six on the left side,
are all still. One holds on to a money bag, another
holds a knife against the heart of his neighbor, all the
faces but one, are severe, indicating five severe months of
Winter. The sixth Winter month is modified, as shown
by the relatively mild face of the disciple next to Christ.
In front of these six frigid disciples, is a platter with
three fish. Fish are the chief food of Winter, for they
live when the rest of Nature is asleep. Therefore, they
became the symbols of the Christian religion which was
ARROWS OF LIGHT 139
the Spiritual food of Man during the Winter of the Dark
Ages. Christ. typifying the Sun. holds His right hand,
palm up, on the side of Summer months, and His left
hand, palm down, on the side of Winter. He is the
13th figure in the picture. and about to pass to another
life, that is. to be TRANSFORMED.
SYMBOLISM
(I 0) In Masonry, there are six DEGREES OF THE
CROSS. They all deal with No. 13. In these Degrees,
No. 3 and No. 13 are blended. No. 3 is the Sign Libra.
the Sign opposite to Aries. It is the Cross of Crucifixion.
or Death. The Sun dies into the Winter when he enters
Libra, and No. 13 is the Cross of Resurrection, for the
Sun rises into Summer when he enters the Sign Aries.
The Order of the Rosy Cross, refers to the peculiar red-
ness of the sky when the Sun rises. during the month of
April. Man is born upon the earth, through the avenue
of Union or No. 3, and he is born into the next world,
through Death or No. 13. Therefore, 13 is birth on a
higher plane. the Transformation of Animal Passion to
Divine Wisdom. Christ is called the Lamb that was
slain for the Sin of the World. The Sin of Nature is
Winter; the Sin of Man is Selfishness. The Redemption
of Nature is Summer; the Redemption of Man is Spiritu-
ality.
SCIENCE
( 11 ) No. 13 indicates that TRANSFORMATION in the
ELECTRICAL ARRANGEMENT of the ATOMS
OF MATTER, which will eventually enable us to turn
one element into another. In fact, this has already been
done in several instances.
NUMERICAL
(12) No. 13 is the second power of 4. That is, it is com-
posed of 4 plus 9. which gives it its second Theosophic
power. No. 4 is Realization, and No. 2 is Science.
Thus, No. 13 is the Realization of what we have done
with our lives. The nature of this Realization will de-
140 ARROWS OF LIGHT
pend entirely on the efforts we have made in the past.
Composed of the following numbers, it expresses:
1+12. Intelligent Sacrifice, giving up that which
is useless.
2+11. Science of Force, systematic use of Power.
3+ I0. Action of Change from one Plane to an-
other.
4+9. Realization of Wisdom.
5+8. Overcomes the Law of Equilibrium.
6+7. Temptation Victorious, or its reverse.
MEDITATION
Terrestrial things are of short duration, and the
highest powers are reaped like the grass of the field.
But do not dread the end of your Physical Life, for it
is but the birth into another. The Universe reabsorbs
all that springs from her bosom, that has not Spir-
itualized itself.
THE REAPER. NUMBER 13. LETTER M.
PHILOSOPHY OF SUPERSTITION
The Tarot is looked upon by Mr. Average Man as
superstition, a pastime for old women at tea. It is
beneath a real he-man to bother with such tomfoolery.
Some time ago, the writer was rebuked by a promi-
nent citizen of a small town. "Numbers," he sneered,
"why not use coffee grounds? It is all superstition."
Later it became necessary for this man to take a room
in a hotel, and it so happened that only No. 13 was
available. He asked the writer if he had any objec-
tion to changing rooms with him, as he disliked the
idea of sleeping behind a door so numbered. Mr.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 141
O'Connor was not superstitious! But, he had a whole-
some dread of that particular number. Why?
"Where and when did this superstition originate?"
The answer is that from time immemorial, 12 has been
associated with a finished cycle, and 13 is the number
opening a new order. Thus we have the Biblical story
of Jacob, who called his 12 Sons together, gave them
his blessing, then gathered his feet up on the bed, and
died. Christ was together with 12 Disciples at the
Last Supper, then went His way by the cross. It is
from these and similar illustrations that the idea of the
fatality of No. 13 has gone abroad. Really it is the
number of promotion.
But there is still another reason. The No. 12 con-
stitutes the 12th month of the year. It is the fulness
of the Cycle. Christ was born in the fulness of time.
13 marks the passing to a new Cycle. It is composed
of 10 plus 3, showing Action on a Higher Plane. As
we can act only on one plane at a time, this change
of action is from Earth to the Psychic realm. To the
Catholic, No. 13 would indicate Purgatory. At all
events, it is a complete change, a transformation, more
or less violent in nature. It does not refer particu-
lar!y to physical death, No. 4 bears that distinction,
and Nos. 15 and 22 are close seconds. No. 13 is the
Gate of Birth; the preparation for building the new
Temple as it is dramatized in the Masonic Ritual. It
is the number of T'ransformation and must be so
understood in Tarot practice. No. 10 may be read as
Change of Body. No. 13 as Change of Nature.
CHAPTER XVII
No. 14. LETTER N. SIGN TAURUS, NIGHT HOME
OF VENUS
Kabballistically expresses TEMPERANCE and REGENERA-
TION
Astrologically expresses POSSESSION and ACCUMULA-
TION
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
( 1) No. 14 expresses the UNIVERSALITY OF LIFE.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 14 expresses that particular mode of MENTAL
COMBINATION that gives rise to the moral life.
Avoid Obstinacy.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 14 indicates the final product of the emotions that
have been set in motion by the direction of the Will, for
the purpose of REGENERATION. Expresses through
the Passion Series.
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 14 indicates the force generated by the function of
the THYROID and PARATHYROID GLANDS. It
has dominion over the mechanism of vocalization and its
associated muscles.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 14 indicates the dissolving of the gold that typifies
the Will, and the silver that typifies the Intuition in the
Water of Life. It teaches that the mere transmutation of
the baser metals into gold or positive power, is of no
avail unless there be life to enjoy it, and that for life to
enjoy wisdom or power, it is necessary to blend it with
love and affection typified by silver. Gold is the symbol
of the Ego, and Silver is the symbol of the Divine Soul.
142
ARROWS OF LIGHT 143
No. 14. therefore. indicates the exaltation of physical
passion to the Divine Plane. It is the completion of the
great work on the Plane interior to the Physical. THE
SECOND VICTORY.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 14. in questions of disease. indicates ALL DIS-
EASES OF THROAT AND VOCAL MECHANISMt
also in a less degree. OBESITY, AMNESIAt AND
LOSS OF PERSONALITY.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 14 has for its natural remedies. such plants as
DAISIES, DANDELIONSt MYRTLEt FLAXt LIL-
IES, LARKSPURt SPINACH, AND MOSS. It re-
sponds also to the COLOR DARK YELLOWt THE
MUSICAL TONE LOW Et and to such stones as
WHITE CORAL AND ALABASTER, but preemi-
nently the GEM AGATE. It must be remembered,
however, that these gems attract diseases that vibrate to
No. 14, and intensify them when they are present in
persons whose super root does not vibrate to 14 or to
6. Birthstones strengthen the Astral force in the body
with which they are associated. It typifies CURE.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 14 indicates the SIGN TAURUSt the second Sign
of the Astrological Year. In it the Moon is said to be
exalted. It is a fixed, Earthy Sign predisposing some-
what to LAZINESS and a LOVE OF COMFORTt at
the same time to SE:LF-NEGLECTt as far as outward
needs of the body are concerned. It inclines somewhat
to STUBBORNESS, as well as to SLOW PLODDING
PERSISTENCE. It is symbolized in the Heavens by
the Bull Taurus, and is the natural ruler of the House of
Possession, giving a love of money and the ACCUMU-
LATION OF SUBSTANCE.
144 ARROWS OF LIGHT
BIBLE
(9) No. 14 is referred to in the Bible by the story of Joseph
and his dream interpretation; the seven fat kine and the
seven lean, as typical of the seven fruitful and seven bar-
ren years. Kine or cows are sacred to Taurus, and twice
seven is 14. The Sun is in Taurus during the early part
of May, and as the kine came up out of the river and the
river irrigated the land, the symbolism was naturally clear
to the trained intuition of the Seer. No. 14 is also re-
ferred to in Mat. 28: 2, where we are told that the angel
descended and rolled away the stone from the door of the
tomb. But it is most beautifully described in Genesis
29: 20, for here we are told that "Jacob served 7 years
for Rachel and they seemed to him but a few days, for the
love he had for her." However. he was deceived into
marrying Leah of the tender eyes. This typifies that
Victory on the physical plane does not satisfy the soul.
or bring regenerative power. Therefore, he served an-
other 7 years for Rachel. signifying the necessity not
only of generation. but of regeneration as well.
SYMBOLISM
(10) No. 14 indicates THE COMPASS taken alone. It is
also symbolized by the ROSY CROSS and by the
FIFTH LIBATION. No. 14 is the second Theosophic
power of 5, and as wine is the symbol of Spirit, this
ceremony indicates that Regeneration ( 14) must be
brought about by the observation of the Law (5) of
Wisdom (9). For that reason, the wine is drunk from
a skull, which act dramatizes Immortality as the result
of Regeneration.
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 14 typifies the fact that PHYSICAL PASSION is
the outward result of a STORM ON THE INNER
PLANE. This storm excites the Gonad glands and
charges the blood with their hormones. Both the hor-
mones and the blood are under the rulership of 5 which
is just one power below No. 14. Therefore, 14 is the
second power of 5 and indicates the Astral Phenomena
ARROWS OF LIGHT 145
that give rise to both the blood and the passion generat-
ing secretion. So we may consider this number under
the following keywords: ENTHUSIASM, ARDOR,
AFFECTION, in fact, under all terms that indicate
merely selfish animal desire raised to useful social action.
"Love lieth at the foundation."
NUMERICAL
(12) No. 14 composed of the following numbers expresses:
13+1. Renewal of Intelligence.
12+2. Sacrifice Applied.
11+3. Spirit in Action.
l 0+4. Change realized.
9+5. Wisdom's Law.
8+6. Limited Temptation.
7+7. Victory on the Inner Plane.
MEDITATION
Conserve your forces, do not recoil at your task.
Wear out all obstacles as drops of water wear the
hardest stone. Formulate your plans clearly and fol-
low them perseveringly and you shall attain the
heights.
THE ALCHEMIST. NUMBER 14. LETTER N.
PHILOSOPHY OF POLARITY OR SEX
When properly understood, and dissociated from
the vulgarity of lust and lewdness with which igno-
rance and selfishness have invested the idea, Sex is the
Law of Creative Force.
It is the Law of Polarity through which the ONE
Principle expresses itself in action.
There are three Planes whereon Man in his em-
bodied condition may contact and partially control
this basic Law of Creative Procedure. That is to
10
146 ARROWS OF LIGHT
say, he may act with the intensity of passion on the
Astral and Mental as well as on the Physical Plane.
To illustrate: Mental Power may be used to pre-
determine the vitality and constitution of an unborn
child, for we are told that the Father's love at concep-
tion determines the child's vitality, and that of the
Mother, its constitution. Father and Mother may
consciously and volitionally influence the Physical
health and fortune of their child. But this action is
not limited to the child alone. All Human work be-
comes glorious in proportion to the love and devotion
in which it is conceived; such love blends with the
Inner Nature so as to intensify the Creative Powers.
This is also true where the woman's endeavors are
concerned. It is not wisdom on the part of either to
withhold encouragement from the other lest it seem
like .Battery, for the intensity of one's admiration for
the other will, if wisely directed, intensify the Will
to become worthy of such admiration. Mutual en-
couragement, therefore, is an essential factor in all re-
generative work. Solitary regeneration is difficult, if
not impossible. "Love lieth at the foundation."
It was for the reason indicated above, that the An-
cients symbolized No. 14 by the picture of a Spirit
who poured the Water of Life from a gold into a
silver urn. This signifies that both the male and the
female love life must be manipulated by the Spirit of
Truth, if regeneration is to be accomplished.
The Sphinx has been called the Riddle of the Ages.
It is evident that it has more than ornamental signifi-
cance. It is a synthetic structure embodying the four
angles of the Zodiac known as the Fixed Cross. It
has the body of a bull to indicate the Sign Taurus,
--- ----- -- - ------ -·-·--·-----·-- ~--- -------
THE ~ P l- !IN X IN E1;y p r
J
\ char:i(ua anJl ysis 0f the h~ :1 d df tbc ~phin x hr( um-s .:xt rl'.mdy in tcrcs1-
ing J~ lhl'. hc;id . tho ugh ,~f a 11ur1ll co 11strncl1 o n . is uf qu1if' rn odi:rn c:ist.
yet '>Pmnvhat Fthcopi.rn .
ARROWS OF LIGHT 147
the exaltation of the Moon, the principle of Mother-
hood in action, hence it vibrates to the No. 14 and the
Letter N. N comes from the Hebrew letter Nun,
which means a fish, and refers to the fecundity of
Nature when the Sun clothes the Sign Taurus, at pres-
ent the last 10 days of April and the first 20 days of
May. Taurus is a beast of burden. The bull is used
in ploughing the earth that crops may grow and life
be sustained.
The Sphinx has the paws of a Lion, it is by the
Lion's Paw Grip that H.A. is raised. This leonine
feature of the ensemble signifies the Sign Leo, the Home
of the Sun during the last ten days of July and the
first twenty days of August. At this period crops are
ripened and made ready for the harvest. It is a time
for rejoicing for all those who have courageously
labored. Number 19 and the Letter Q express the
Fixed Fire of the Zodiac by which Nature prepares
the Earth for the dearth of Winter. There is also evi-
dence that the Sphinx has the wings of an eagle. The
eagle is the higher aspect of the Sign Scorpio. It loves
the Sun and soars toward its light. But, it is also a
bird of prey and as such inflicts death. It is the nat-
ural ruler of the House of Death, Death being the
apparent lot of Nature during the Winter months.
The head of the Sphinx is Human, highly evolved
in its proportions. It typifies the Sign Aquarius, the
Sign of Humanity, which must rise above the burdens
of Taurus, the pride of Leo and the hate of Scorpio
and crown the whole with wisdom and prudence,
No. 9, TH. If we add the numerical value of the
four Signs together, we have 14+19+4+9, or a total
of 46, involving to 10, which is the number of
148 ARROWS OF LIGHT
Uranus, the Planet of Change, and the Ruler of the
Aquarian Age. It is also the Key Number by which
the exoteric meaning of the Great Pyramid is unlocked.
10 also happens to be the number of Man and Woman
united, and the Super Power of 46 is 5, indicating
that the Sphinx, like the Great Pyramid, is a symbolic
picture prophetic of the Aquarian Age.
The Sphinx expresses the One Principle, through
the One Law, in the One Agent, to the One Truth.
CHAPTER XVIII
No. 15. LETTER X. PLANET SATURN, RULER OF
CAPRICORN
Kabballistically expresses FATALITY, EVIL, BLACK
MAGIC. ANNIHILATION
Astrologically expresses CRYSTALLIZATION, OSSIFICA-
TION. OLD AGE. STAGNATION AND DEATH
Business in concrete commodities, real estate, building material,
hardware.
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
(I) No. 15 indicates that everything in the Physical World
has a cause on the Inner Planes; that so-called CRYS-
TALLIZATION AND DEATH are but temporary
REST PERIODS in the Eternal pulsation of life.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 15 indicates a sense of MYSTERY, inability of
Comprehension. Inclines to deal in HARDWARE,
LUMBER, REAL ESTATE, MINES and all SOLID
and BONE-LIKE SUBSTANCES.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 15 indicates those memories that are recorded in the
Book of Pain, and the desires that flow from them. It
is the Will to keep others in bondage. The fear lest the
foreigner become enlightened and thereby as clever as
we imagine ourselves to be. It indicates the desire to be
CRAFTY, to formulate and propagandize false ideas.
It rules the SAFETY URGES. The Will to pervert
Truth for personal advantage, and all those impulses
that have for their object the placing of oneself above
the good of the herd.
149
150 ARROWS OF LIGHT
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 15 indicates the BONE, the LIVER, the CARTI-
LAGES, especially the KNEES, AND JOINTS OF
ALL KINDS.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 15 signifies the DROSS that hinders transmuta-
tion-the IMPURITIES that obstruct the fl.ow of the
elixir of life. It indicates the scum of existence, that
must be skimmed off and thrown away.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 15 indicates all CHRONIC, DRY, HARDENING,
DEFORMING, AND MOTION LIMITING DIS-
EASES.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 15 requires ALL NATURAL METHODS OF
TREATMENT. Every modality that has for its object
the loosening of deposits, the increase of circulation, and
the elimination of waste. THE MINERAL LEAD,
THE COLOR BLUE, THE MUSICAL TONE G,
THE FLOWER STATICE.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 15 typifies the PLANET SATURN. Saturn is a
compound of two words, Sat which means Soul, and
Urn which is a pot. No. 15, therefore, typifies the pot
of the Soul, or Physical Body. In Mythology we are
told that Saturn married Rhea, the Spirit of the Earth.
Thus he is SATAN THE GOD OF THIS WORLD.
He is called the Prince of Darkness, because he is the last
visible planet in the Solar System. That is, he is the
outermost planet visible to the naked eye. He is the God
of the outer darkness, of coldness, frigidity, crystalliza-
tion. His influence is said to cause the major portion of
this world's misery, for he is the author of selfishness
and selfishness brings isolation and isolation brings steril-
ity and sterility is death.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 151
BIBLE
(9) No. 15, of course, is typified in all reference to Satan.
Read Mat. 5:31. where the Elementals were cast into the
swine. Swine are symbols of greed, and greed is a con-
sciousness of weakness, and weakness is incident to old
age and old age is the portal of physical death. "Youth,
I do adore thee. Age, I do abhor thee." To return to
the story of the swine, we are told that when the ele-
mentals or devils entered them, they rushed over the
cliffs and into the sea, to perish. This shows that greed
leads to destruction. It engulfs the soul in the ocean of
sm. Read Revelation 8: 10. Here we find that the
waters symbolizing the emotions were made bitter as
wormwood, causing the death of many. No. 15 is also
the bottomless pit from which the smoke of lies, deceit
and religious imposture ascends in such clouds as to
obscure the sun of Spirituality, and to poison the air of
human aspirations.
SYMBOLISM
(10) No. 15 indicates the riot in the PAST MASTER'S
DEGREE IN MASONRY, in which the Candidate at-
tempts to preside over the lodge, and is dethroned. As
No. 14 indicates the Secret Master's Degree, so No. 15
corresponds to the Master Elect of Ffteen, and the capture
of the assassins of H. A. We are told that these ruffians
attempted to escape to Ethiopia, figuratively the outer
darkness or sphere of Saturn, where they thought to gain
safety.
SCIENCE
(11) No. 15 indicates all methods and processes of SOLIDI-
FICATION, CRYSTALLIZATION, PETRIFICA-
TION, OSSIFICATION, INFILTRATION, AG-
GLOMERATION AND STIFFENING.
NUMERICAL
( 12) No. 15 composed of the following numbers expresses:
1+14. Will to Amass.
2+13. Harvest of Death.
152
3+12.
4+11.
s+10.
6+9.
7+8.
ARROWS OF LIGHT
Acts of Sacrifice.
Realization of Force.
Law of Change.
Temptation of Wisdom.
Victory of Crystallization.
MEDITATION
The most unprofitable thing on Earth is selfishness.
Pride and rebellion enchain the soul, but trials and
misfortunes accepted with resignation are but steps
on the road to eternal progress. Do not rely on your
own power, but work in harmony with the Cosmic
Will if you would avert an evil fate.
THE BLACK MAGICIAN. NUMBER 15. LETTER X.
PHILOSOPHY OF EVIL
No. 15 is in some respects the most significant num-
ber with which the student of the Tarot has to deal.
Not that the number itself is evil, but because the
vibration on the Inner Planes to which it corresponds,
happens to be that mode of motion associated with
the work of crystallization on all Planes of Nature.
It is the power used chiefly by Black Magicians and,
therefore, indicates the work of Black Magic. It indi-
cates marauding bands of robbers; the chief of every
criminal gang; it is the Spirit of organization; segre-
gation, exclusiveness, cliques and denominations,
creeds and cults which have for their object, separation
from the herd and isolation from the stream of Life.
It is the chief of all infernal powers, being the force
of Obsession, Vampirism, and the Black Arts. It is
Atheism that robs man of his hope for Immortality.
It is Reincarnationism as taught by the devotees of
ARROWS OF LIGHT 153
some of the darker cults of India. It is the power of
the Abyss. It seeks to smother all Spirituality. It
fosters hopelessness, and discourages all spiritual in-
vestigation. Paul says in Eph. 6: 12: "For we wrestle
not against flesh and blood, but against principalities,
against powers, against rulers of the darkness of this
world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.''
No. 15 is the curse of the seance room where spiritual
truth is sold for money. It is the spirit of barter and
exchange and ·as such, draws literal clouds of elemen-
tals which interfere with true communication by creat-
ing a smoke of illusion and a fog of lies.
No. 15 indicates all methods by which profit is
gained from human ignorance, lust and weakness. It
is anti-Christ. It constitutes lies, deceit, and murder;
adultery and adulteration, pornography and all appeal
to looseness and degeneracy. It transforms Christ's
spirit of service and humility into churchly pomp and
authority. It transforms the doctrine of peace and
brotherhood·into that of the church militant and the
church triumphant. It transforms the doctrine of
redemption and atonement into the creeds that seek to
barter a few years of decency, for an eternity of bliss.
CHAPTER XIX
No. 16. LETTER 0. PLANET MARS, RULER OF
ARIES AND SCORPIO
Kabballistically expresses ACCIDENT, CATASTROPHE
Astrologically expresses DYNAMIC FORCE
Soldiers, surgeons, iron workers, nurses, musicians.
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
(1) The production of CHAOS. The DESTRUCTION
OF FORM.
CONSCIOUS
(2) SENSE OF POWER. Inclines the mind to MECHAN-
ICAL ACTION either constructive or destructive.
MILITARY professions, MECHANICAL a n d
STRUCTURAL ENGINEERING, Police Service.
Restrain all violent and destructive impulses.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) The AGGRESSION URGES. ANGER, RAGE,
HATE, MURDER, ASSAULT, DISRUPTION, and
all desires that have for their object the breaking of form
and the removal of obstruction. AGGRESSION
URGES.
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 16 indicates the ADRENAL CORTEX, the VOL-
UNTARY MUSCLE SYSTEM, the RED BLOOD,
and the right side of the body, and the left side of the
brain.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 16 indicates the TERRIFIC REACTION in ani-
mal nature that takes place when the Ego and the Divine
Soul take possession consciously of the Physical mechan-
-~ 154
ARROWS OF LIGHT 155
ism. If the animal nature has not been thoroughly pre-
pared for such an advent, it may be torn to pieces by the
ensuing conflict.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 16 indicates all INFLAMMATIONSt FEVERSt
CUTSt THE WOUNDS made by knives or firearms.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 16 responds to THERMO-THERAPEUTICS,
RED LIGHT, THE MINERAL IRON, AND THE
MUSICAL TONE C. FLOWER HOLLYHOCK.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 16 indicates the Planet Mars natural ruler over the
animal soul and all animal instincts. It gives vim, cour-
age of the animal kind, combativeness, aggression on the
physical plane. It aims to ADVANCE SELF RE-
GARDLESS OF THE FEELINGS OF OTHERS.
BIBLE
(9) No. 16 is referred to in the story of Elijah, where he
built an altar of 12 stones typifying the twelve angles
of the Pyramid or the house of Life. In 1 Kings 18: 38,
we read: "Then the fire of the Lord fell and consumed
the burnt sacrifice, and the wood and the stones and the
dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench."
No. 16 is the consuming fire. It is also associated with
what is termed SEX MAGIC and is referred to in the
Bible as "Mystery, Babylon the great, the mother of
harlots and the abominations of the earth."
SYMBOLISM
( 10) No. 16 indicates the MASTER ELECT OF NINE,
DEGREE IN MASONRY. Particularly that part of
the ritual wherein Joabert steals ahead of the others and
discovers one of the assassins of H. A., asleep. Mars-
like, he executes summary vengeance by stabbing the
sleeper in the head and heart.
156 ARROWS OF LIGHT
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 16 has reference to METEOROLOGY, especially as
weather conditions are affected by weather conditions.
It also deals with those phenomena such as EARTH..
QUAKES, VOLCANOS, EXPLOSIONS, ELECTRI..
CAL STORMS and every phase of nature associated with
GREAT VIOLENCE.
NUMERICAL
( 12) No. 16 composed of the following numbers expresses:
15+I. Selfishness Expressed.
14+2. Temperance Criticised.
13+3. Transformation in Action.
12+4. Sacrifice Realized.
11+5. Force Abundant.
I0+6. Eccentric Temptation.
9+7. Mental Force Victorious.
B+B. Redoubled Self-love.
MEDITATION
Only God is absolute. Avoid arrogance and pride.
THE LIGHTNING. NUMBER 16. LETTER O.
PHILOSOPHY OF FORCE
The student must remember that all numbers past
10, have special reference to the Inner Powers. They
have to do with those forces that are commonly called
Magic, that is, with the use of Occult Forces or at
least their control. Love and Sympathy are essen-
tially Human qualities. A high degree of Intellectu-
ality is no criterion of a man's Divinity. History
records many a genius who was worse than a brute
in his private life. Through rigid self-discipline and
an ascetic life wherein all the more tender emotions
are crushed out, man may develop terrific occult
ARROWS OF LIGHT 157
powers. That is, he may gain dominion over the
Elementals during his physical existence and direct
them to do his bidding. He may learn to control the
Low Astral Current and produce astounding external
phenomena. But the student is cautioned not to mis-
take the marvelous for the genuine; the phenomenal
for the real. There are many who have developed oc-
cult powers and used them for destructive purposes.
Their motive is self-aggrandizement and personal ad-
vantage. The Black Magician is 15, and his favorite
weapon is 16. 16 indicates those influences that lack
refinement, resent uplift, are intolerant of all softening
influences. They belong entirely to the Lower Astral
Realms and constitute the terror of the Earth-bound
Soul. No. 16 indicates also that aggressive type of
materialist who visualizes an unconscious Nirvana.
He will partially get his wish, for in his selfishness and
destructiveness, he has failed to nourish the feminine
portion of his nature which is the Divine Soul, caus-
ing it to depart from him. Consequently, when such
an individual enters the portals of death, he has only
the Animal Soul to sustain him and as this is a vehicle
created for the animal side of his nature, it soon
goes back into the group activity of the Animal Plane.
The Animal Soul perishes in the Astral. This is
called the Second Death.
If No. 16 is prominent in the reading of a name,
encourage the individual to practice mercy, kindness,
tenderness, sympathy, humility, forbearance and for-
giveness. Tell him to put up the sword and reach out
his hand in helpfulness. This attitude alone can over-
come the destructive animal propensities and insure the
Conscious Immortality of the Soul. Inspire him to
158 ARROWS OF LIGHT
pay his tithing to the Lord. This does not mean that
he should give one tenth of his possessions to some
priest, but that he should use one tenth of his time
in doing those kindly acts which develop the higher
nature. Christ Consciousness consists of using the
energy of the Animal in the service of the Divine Soul.
CHAPTER XX
No. 17. LETTERS F, P, PH. SIGN GEMINI, HOME
OF MERCURY
Kabballistically expresses TRUTH, FAITH, HOPE
Astrologically expresses THOUGHT on the EXTERIOR
PLANE
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
( 1) No. 17 indicates the SELF-CONTEMPLATION of
SPIRIT.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 17 indicates PERFECTION through SENSA-
TION. Inclines the thought toward all matters indi-
cated by the SIGN GEMINI and the THIRD HOUSE
of the horoscope. See Appendix under Gemini.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 17 indicates the INTELLECTUAL URGES, no-
tably CURIOSITY and the desire to travel in the pur-
suit of knowledge. It also indicates our relation with our
brethren and the degree of faith with which our per-
sonality asserts itself. It typifies the urges which motivate
the spontaneous reactions of our outer or Conscious
Mind. Expresses through the THOUGHT SERIES.
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 17 rules the LUNGS, SCAPULAE, COLLAR
BONES, ARMS, and secondarily over all TWIN OR-
GANS: EYES, EARS, NOSTRILS, KIDNEYS,
ADRENALS, GENERATIVE GLANDS, LIMBS
AND FEET. It is especially associated with the eyes
as they are the chief organs of perception, which is the
inward strength of 17.
159
160 ARROWS OF LIGHT
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 17 indicates the PHENOMENON of YOUTH, the
union of the Gold of Power with the Silver of Love when
both are the product of perfect transmutation and there·
fore greatly refined. It is said that this union of Gold
and Silver produces a crystalline fluid which constitutes
the Water of Life and which has the power to confer
immortality. No. I 7 may therefore be read as REJU...
VENATION.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 17 in questions of disease indicates the process or
underlying cause of all forms of lung disease rather than
the manifestation of it. It deals with factors which bring
on PNEUMONIA, BRONCHITIS, PLEURISY,
HYDRO-PNEUMO THORAX, PHTHISIS especially
Milliary TUBERCULOSIS (Galloping Consumption).
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 17 when considered remedially indicates the need of
such herbs as TANSY, VERVAIN, WOODBINE,
YARROW, DOG-GRASS and MEADOWSWEET.
These conditions also require light. VIOLET LIGHT
and the influence drawn by the STONE BERYL.
Special Breathing is frequently indicated when there is
no destruction of lung tissue or dangerous hemorrhage.
THE MUSICAL TONE HIGH B.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. I 7 indicates the influence of the Sign GEMINI, an
airy influence, hence associated with the lungs. It is the
motive power of intellectual force. It governs thought
and is the representative of Truth. Thought is Truth-
finding work. The Sign is pictured by Twins and has
influence over all DUALITY, even as the process of
thinking is dual, for all thinking is an effort to determine
whether a thing is or is not true, hence the keyword-
TRUTH.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 161
BIBLE
(9) No. 17 is referred to in Genesis 1:27. "So God created
man in His own image, in the image of God created He
them; male and female created He them.'' This passage
of Scripture indicates the recognition that all things are
dual, not only with God, but with Man, for God created
in His image. He and His Image being two, the Human
species as Male and Female, is also two. In John 8 :32
we read: ''And ye shall know the truth, and the truth
shall make you free.'' Freedom implies previous bondage.
This quotation has reference to the restrictions imposed
by material environment, the Soul incarnate is limited
by the senses of the physical body and by the fear of
Death. Truth reveals Immortality and the knowledge
of Immortality removes the fear of Death. No. 17 is also
referred to in Rev. 5: 1: ''And I saw in the right hand
of him that sat on the throne a book written within and
on the back side, sealed with seven seals." These are the
Seven Seals which keep us from conscious contact with
the Inner Plane. These must be broken if we are to
know the Truth at first hand. The Seals correspond to
the Seven Planets and also to the Seven Chakras or Nerve
Plexi along the spinal cord. No. 17 indicates the work
of breaking the Seals and freeing the Soul from the
limitation imposed by material existence enabling us
intuitively to perceive ultimate reality. We read in
the Bible: "Behold the Lion of the Tribe of Judah
the Root of David hath prevailed to open the book and
to loose the Seven Seals thereof.'' The Lion marks the
influence of the Sign Leo ruling the affections and emo-
tions of the heart, for it is only through the intensifica-
tion of love as expressed in service, but more in appre-
ciation, that this work can be accomplished without
danger to the individual. We next read that the Lamb
takes the Book, this is the Sign Aries and indicates that
the affections of Leo must be ruled by the brain, Aries
being the head. For the emotions so ruled become tri-
umphant in all domains of life, causing the person to
express himself as YOUTHFUL REGARDLESS OF
AGE.
11
162 ARROWS OF LIGHT
SYMBOLISM
( 10) No. 17 indicates the PROVOST AND JUDGE DE-
GREE IN MASONRY, also the key to the small ebony
box containing the plans for the building of the Temple,
and the key to the ivory box containing the Temple
keys. It illustrates that Truth can never be known by
either the intellect or the intuition acting alone. It re-
quires a male and a female element. Only as the two
work together can inner revelation be attained in purity.
SCIENCE
(11) No. 17 indicates the SCIENCE OF GENETHLIACAL
ASTROLOGY. This is the Science of Astro-In11uences
affecting the human individual. The sympathetic relation
between the soul of man and the Stars.
NUMERICAL
(12) No. 17 as composed of the following numbers expresses:
1+16. Intellect used to avoid Accident.
2+ 15. Mental Analysis of all forces of Selfishness.
3+14. Union for Regeneration.
4+13. Realization of Transformation.
5+12. Law of Sacrifice.
6+ 11. Temptation's Force.
7+10. Victorious Change.
8+9. Concreteness polarized in Wisdom.
MEDITATION
Hope is the sister of Faith. Shed thy passion and
errors and study the mysteries of true Science. The
Key will be given thee. A ray of Divine light will
break from your Inner Sanctuary, it will dissipate the
shadows and reveal the way to happiness.
THE STAR. NUMBER 17. LETTERS F, P, PH.
PHILOSOPHY OF FAITH
No. 17 probably comes closer to epitomizing that
which is essentially Human than any of the other
ARROWS OF LIGHT 163
numbers used in the Tarot. It is a dualistic number
for it pictures the wave length in the Astral substance
which is characteristic of the Sun in the Sign Gemini.
The Sign Gemini is pictured in the Heavens by the
Twins who symbolize duality and by its paranatel-
lons the Great Bear, the Great Dog and the Little Bear.
The Bears are restless creatures and as such symbolize
the mind. The dog is the symbol of faithfulness
by which the objective and subjective mind of man
can alone arrive at Truth. This Sign in Astrology
is the natural ruler of the Third House and as such
has an influence over reading and writing; the print-
ing and publishing of papers and small works; the
making of contracts; the nature of stocks and bonds;
also over brothers and sisters, neighbors and associates
and short journeys. It more specifically represents
our ordinary thinking processes,-the mind which
struggles to recognize Truth. Truth, as we all know,
can only be found by experimentation, that is, by the
process of trial and error. Trial and Error may be
called the Twins of the mind. They are the Simeon
and Levi of the Jacobic blessing. They are Romulus
and Remus who were suckled by the she-wolf. The
wolf is sacred to Aries as well as the Sheep. Aries
rules the head and being the home of Mars typifies
Energy. Energy is required in all processes of thought
therefore, Romulus and Remus, Trial and Error, are
nourished by the Animal Energy of the brain. They
themselves are human. To be human means to be
good, but to be good without energy makes one good
for nothing.
So the shepherd, which represents the higher side
of the Sign Aries, took the Twins away from their
164 ARROWS OF LIGHT
animal fostering and brought them under Human
training, from which they graduated to be the build-
ers of the City of Rome.
Deep down in all of us there is a feeling that our
greatest work can be done when we have perfect faith
(symbolized by the Great Dog which by the way is
an evolved wolf; Animal Nature brought closer to
the Human), that the things we hope for may really
be achieved. It is this which leads us to experiment,
predicating each new effort upon our past, or wolf,
experience. This gives rise to vivisection, in order to
discover ways and means of curing disease; strange
and unnatural punishments in an effort to stamp out
crime. It is no wonder that Jacob said: "Simeon and
Levi are brethren, instruments of cruelty are in their
habitation, 0 my soul, do not thou come into their
secret." Jacob had his name changed to Israel, he had
conquered the Lower Mind or No. 17, 17 being vic-
tory on the Second Plane 10. Simeon to his mind
represented the Animal Mentality, while Levi sym-
bolized the Higher Phase of Mentality, but both of
them belong to the Lower Mind which is essentially
Animal, therefore we are told that instruments of
cruelty are in their habitation and for this reason their
Father, typifying the Ego, calls upon his Divine Soul
not to enter into their processes. Still, it is through
faithful application of the Lower Mind to the Outer
Problem with the view to :finding a door to the Inner
World that the Hope of 17 may be realized.
CHAPTER XXI
No. 18. LETTERS SH, TS, TZ. SIGN CANCER.
RULED BY MOON
Kabballistically expresses SECRET ENEMIES, DECEPTION,
FALSE FRIENDS
Astrologically expresses FEELING and TOUCHINESS
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
( 1) No. 18 suggests the Infinite Abyss out of which arise all
humanly recognizable modes of manifestations and sug-
gests the presence of Powers beyond our recognition. The
INFINITE MYSTERY OF BEING.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 18 indicates UNCERTAINTY, HESITATION,
in mental processes. It indicates the shadow which en-
velops the Spirit when under the rule of the Instinct.
See Appendix under Cancer, for outstanding character-
istics.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 18 is associated with DOMESTIC URGES, also
the ACQUIRED MEMORY IMAGES which have been
EMOTIONALLY VITALIZED to a point where they
obscure the normal processes of Reason. It typifies that
condition wherein the Phenomena of the Conscious and
the Subconscious blend, so that the person lives simul-
taneously in two worlds, yet not perfectly in either-
hence deception. It is the Border Line between the
Physical and the Astral. People who have No. 18 for
a Root Number have the POWER OF MEDIUMSHIP.
They may live with the entities on the INNER
PLANES, White, Black or Indifferent. Expresses
through the FEELING SERIES.
165
166 ARROWS OF LIGHT
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. I8 indicates the stomach. The processes of diges~
tion, the Mammary secretions and the feelings which
intensify their action.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 18 represents the False Elixir of Life. It typifies the
delusion of the old man who imagines that association
with a young woman will restore his youth. Drunk on
Animal Magnetism, he fails to realize that he DE-
CEIVES HIMSELF. He is BLINDED to the ruin
which approaches him and his mate. No. 18 is indeed
DECEPTION on the Mental Plane, INDEFINITE-
NESS on the Emotional Plane, FALSE FRIENDS on
the Physical Plane, and in Mental Alchemy, IMPER-
FECT TRANSMUTATION, a placing of Physical
SENSATION above SPIRITUAL LIGHT.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 18 in questions of disease indicates GASTRITIS,
DYSPEPSIA, INDIGESTION, HYPER - CHLOR--
HYDRIA, WATER BRASH, STOMACH MALIG-
NANCY, all CANCERS especially of the Breasts, and
many diseases incident to Womanhood, which do not
fall under 20 and 4.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 18 indicates the use of LILIES, RUSHES, CU-
CUMBERS, SQUASHES, MEL 0 NS, WATER
CRESS, SEA LETTUCE, RICE SPROUTS, and all
plants rich in water, or that grow in water. Also
GREEN LIGHT, the GEM EMERALD and those
stones that are soft and white, as Selenite and Chalk.
THE MUSICAL TONE HIGH F.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 18 indicates the SIGN CANCER, or watery and
movable nature, hence associated with the emotions and
feelings, causing conditions whereby one is powerfully
affected by associations and environments. Like all
ARROWS OF LIGHT 167
watery signs it is mediumistic, domestic, alimentative:
inclines to things IN and UNDER the Earth, and to
worship them. It is therefore associated with MINES,
OIL WELLS, REAL ESTATE, HOUSES, and DO-
MESTIC FURNITURE. It inclines toward cupboards
and all places where foods are kept.
BIBLE
(9) No. 18 is shown in the story of the Witch of Endor in
1 Samuel 28: 8: "And he said, I pray thee, divine unto
me by the familiar spirit, and bring me up whom I shall
name unto thee." We also read in Mat. 10: 1 that the
Disciples were given power to cast out unclean spirits.
In 1 Timothy 4: 1 Paul says, "Now the spirit speaketh
expressly that in the later times some shall depart from
the Faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and the doc-
trines of Devils: speaking lies in hyprocrisy; having
their conscience seared with a hot iron; forbidding to
marry and commending to abstain from meat."
SYMBOLISM
(I 0) No. 18 indicates the INTIMATE SECRETARY DE-
GREE of Masonry. In this degree the lodge is hung
with black spangled with tears to represent the realm
of purification after death. The Master's apron is
adorned with a scroll and a golden triangle and has
the A. P. P. in its corners-A=Will, P Hope. In
its lower aspect it represents the spy who listens at
the Veil and is captured; condemned to die by Hiram.
King of Tyre; but freed through the intercession of
King Solomon. It also typifies John the Baptist to
whom the modern Mason dedicates his Lodge, for on
the 21st of June when the Sun enters the watery Sign
Cancer, he is said to be baptized with the Holy Ghost
for he has attained the highest point in the Heavens-
the longest day of the year. It therefore typifies Summer
and summer rain. The vegetable world is now mother-
ing the seed for the coming year. 18, therefore, typifies
gestation in a more inward way than No. 3, for 3 taken
168 ARROWS OF LIGHT
away from 18 leaves 15, the number of Death. 18
symbolizes Life's triumph over Death, or more correctly,
the DECEPTION OF DEATH by the CONSTANT
RENEWAL OF LIFE. Death has a thankless job for
he is always conquering but never victorious. Mother-
hood is his eternal foe. Add 3 to 18 and we have 21.
meaning that the ACTION OF MOTHERHOOD not
only DECEIVES Death, but insures Life. The seed
of the woman shall bruise the serpent's head and the
serpent shall bite the horse's heel. It is motherhood that
not only carries on Life but becomes the medium through
which fatherhood is attained, for No. 21 is not only suc-
cess and attainment but it typifies the Sun and the Sun
is the Symbol of the Universal Father. Death deceived
the woman, but in the end the woman shall conquer
Death. In fact, she is about a billion lives ahead of him
on this planet. No. 18 symbolizes the home and the
mother's place in the home. Here again the symbolism
is interesting; for a home is brought about by marriage
and marriage is No. 3. 3 from 18 equals 15, DEATH
THE DESTROYER. Marriage used negatively pro-
duces BLACK MAGIC, INFIDELITY, ADUL-
TERY, DECEPTION, JEALOUSY and MURDER.
But 3 added to 18 indicates MARRIAGE USED FOR
CONSTRUCTIVE PURPOSES, and then we have
NOBILITY, HONOR, PRIDE, SUCCESS, COUR-
AGE, GOLD, LIGHT, LOVE and POWER.
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 18 indicates the SCIENCE OF SUBJECTIVE
PSYCHOLOGY, the study and analysis of PSYCHIC
PHENOMENA, and reception and transmission of
Psychic Impressions, Apports and Rapports.
NUMERICAL
(12) No. 18 is the second power of 9, therefore we may read
it as 9 acting through 2, or WISDOM on the INTUI-
TIVE PLANE. Composed of the following numbers it
expresses:
/
ARROWS OF LIGHT
17+1. Hope based on Reason.
16+2. Energy Received.
15+3. Black Magic in Action.
14+4. Temperance Realized.
13+5. Transformation under the Law.
12+6. Sacrifice to Temptation.
11+7. Deceptive Feelings Victorious.
10+8. Eccentric Selfishness.
9+9. Wisdom locked in Balance.
MEDITATION
169
He who enters into the unknown does so at his
peril. The black dogs of the Nether World will sur-
round him; the ghosts of the unclean will ambush
him; servile minds will :flatter him; the treachery of
the Scorpion will be upon him. The lower Psychic
Realms are laden with those whose desires have not
been satisfied; these will seek to encompass his ruin.
In the presence of the Psychic be calm, observe, listen,
but be silent, for it is the realm of deception, false
friends and unseen foes.
THE MOON. NUMBER 18. LETTERS SH, TS, TZ.
PHILOSOPHY OF DECEPTION
One of the reasons that most people look upon
Spiritualism as fraud and deception is because it be-
longs to the series of 18; it is dependent upon Medi-
umship.
A little investigation will soon convince any honest
truth seeker that the great majority of people who
cry fraud and deception, are themselves habitual fre-
quenters of the seance room, the fortune teller and
the medium; which proves that they are activated by
the same series, being the deceptive and false friend of
170 ARROWS OF LIGHT
the very people and arts whom they clandestinely
patronize.
Saul had exterminated all the Psychics from the land
of Israel excepting the Witch of Endor, but when he
fell into serious trouble with the Philistines, he sought
out this lone medium and asked her to call up the
Ghost of Samuel. Those who persecute Psychics
really believe in Psychism. Psychic contacts often
reveal truth. The Bible does not say that Saul was
disappointed in his quest nor that the Spirit of
Samuel lied; on the contrary, he received the Truth.
"Tomorrow you shall be with me in the Kingdom of
the Dead." In Scripture, spirit communication is
taken for granted and obsession known to be a fact.
Elemental causes of disease were firmly believed in.
The spiritual evils of the atmosphere are deceptive in
nature; the unrecognized cause of many an ill. No.
18 deals with unrecognized causes; Astral conditions
working in and through the Subconscious Mind of
man. It vibrates almost entirely with Beings on the
Internal Plane, with those forms of existence which
are described as Astral Entities: Gnomes, Sylphs,
Salamanders, Undines, and their influence upon the
emotional currents generated in the Human Soul,
giving rise to their own peculiar modes of desire which
the victim cannot distinguish from his own. They
lead him into situations, conditions and actions ap-
parently with his own volition, making him account-
able for things which he had no innate desire to bring
about. In all questions wherein we find 18 as either
the Root or Power, Psychic influence plays a part.
It may almost seem like a contradiction that such
a number should be associated with the work of
ARROWS OF LIGHT 171
Motherhood, but it is. Those of us who have wan-
dered about the meadows in the Springtime have
noticed birds which were apparently injured and un-
able to fly. In reality they were deceiving the one who
had surprised them on their nest; they were using 18.
The cow on the range hides her calf and nonchalantly
walks off in the opposite direction; she too, is prac-
tising deception.
If we consider the matter still more intimately and
watch the emotion of mothers in the months prior to
birth, we will notice many deceptive states of thought
and feeling: false appetites, exaggerated joys and fears
as well as increased Psychic perception-to say noth-
ing of the whimsies which are the willies of the pro-
spective Father.
CHAPTER XXII
No. 19. LETTER Q. SIGN LEO, RULED BY THE SUN
Kabballistically expresses HAPPINESS and JOY, CONJU-
GALITY
Astrologically expresses WILL TO POWER, PLEASURE,
and CHILDREN.
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
( 1) No. 19 indicates HARMONY in the operation of all
powers and forces.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 19 indicates a CONSCIOUSNESS OF PLEAS-
URE of a constructive and building nature, that happi-
ness which comes from the completely harmonious
relation of the one man and the one woman in their nego-
tiations of the various problems of existence. See Ap-
pendix under Leo.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 19 indicates those urges and desires which spring
from the upwelling of PLEASURABLE IMAGES.
Expresses through the WILL SERIES.
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 19 governs the HEART, the UPPER BACK from
the lower Dorsal to the nape of the neck, the SOLAR
PLEXUS and to a certain extent the CIRCULATION
OF THE BLOOD as a whole.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 19 indicates the result of drinking the ELIXIR OF
LIFE, the fact that renewal is not instantaneous but
takes time and is proportionate to the work performed
in that direction.
172
/
/
I
/
ARROWS OF LIGHT 173
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 19 indicates HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE, NER-
VOUS DEBILITY, FAINTING, ENDOCARDITIS,
MYOCARDITIS, PERICARDITIS, MYTROLO-
SIS, all sorts of VALVULAR DEFICIENCIES, CAR-
DIAC HYPERTROPHY, ARTERIO-SCLEROSIS,
ANEURISMS, APOPLEXY, and all other Heart and
Circulatory affections and their sequel<E.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 19 in questions of illness suggests FENNEL, DILL,
EYEBRIGHT LAVENDER, POPPY, ST. JOHN'S
WORT, MISTLETOE, PIMPERNEL, PARSLEY,
and GARDEN MINT. It also suggests the use of
ORANGE LIGHT and the GEM RUBY and such
stones as Chrysolite and soft yellow minerals generally.
THE MUSICAL TONE HIGH D.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 19 indicates the SIGN LEO in the FIFTH HOUSE,
therefore associates with all forms of Pleasure. Happiness
and Joy, Love Affairs and Children. the Theater, Con-
cert Halls, Dramatic and Operatic Entertainment, ALL
FORMS OF AMUSEMENT whatsoever. provided
they are of an elevating and ennobling nature. This does
not mean that they meet the approval of Lizzie Prim.
It simply indicates that they must be nondestructive;
they must appeal to the heart and to the sympathetic
emotions. They indicate such Love as springs into ex-
istence as the result of a natural Harmony between two
individuals, rather than that which is supposed to exist
in artificial marriage. No. 19 indicates CHILDREN,
or the possibility of children. also the rights of children.
depending upon the question in consideration. It also
indicates INVESTMENTS and the result of invest-
ments.
BIBLE
(9) No. 19 is indicated in 2 Kings 4:6. "And it came to
pass. when the vessels were full that she said unto her
174 ARROWS OF LIGHT
son, 'Bring me yet a vessel!' " Here No. 19 is associated
with the law of Abundance. In 2 Kings 4: 17 its power
over the birth of children is indicated. In Mat. 5:9 its
nature is set forth in these words: "Blessed are the peace-
makers; for they shall be called the children of God,"
and in Rev. 22: 17 we read: "And the Spirit and the
bride say come come. And let him that heareth say
come; and let him that is athirst come; and whosoever
will, let him take the water of life freely." This last
statement sums up the inner meaning of 19.
SYMBOLISM
(10) No. 19 indicates the INTENDENT of the BUILDING
DEGREE in Masonry. In this Degree the vacancy left
by H. A. who typifies the lost Soulmate is :filled. The
Lion's paw grip by which the prostrate Candidate is
raised-that is, it typifies the love and a1fection with
which the Male and Female Ego will :finally be reunited
into one Celestial Being.
SCIENCE
(11) No. 19 indicates the work of Inorganic ALCHEMY;
the TRANSMUTING of baser metal into those of
greater value.
NUMERICAL
(12) No. 19 is the 3d power of I. that is, 1 plus 9 plus 9
equals 19 and as such it depicts the creative energy on the
Plane of Marriage, or Marriage guided by Intelligence for
the purpose of securing domestic bliss. As composed of
12 and 7 it denotes the sacrifice necessary to attain this
victory. No. 19 may or may not indicate the union of
Soulmates, but it always indicates the union of harmoni-
ous souls on all planes. It also indicates that such a union
will be fruitful of children, but beyond all this it indicates
Love as food for Spiritual growth. Composed of the
following numbers it expresses:
1+18. Intelligence penetrating Deception.
2+17. Knowledge of Faith.
3+16. Action of Energy.
'·~.
ARROWS OF LIGHT
4+15. Realization of the discord of Evil.
5+14. Law of Regeneration.
6+13. Love reborn.
7+12. Victorious Sacrifice.
s+11. Fear conquered by Spirituality.
9+10. Wisdom of the Occult Life.
MEDITATION
175
The Light of the Mysteries is a wonderful fluid.
Put by Nature at the service of the Will, she enlightens
those who know how to direct her; she strikes down
with her thunderbolt those who ignore her power or
abuse it. At all times guard the sacredness of the
sanctuary of the heart, be loyal one to the other not
only in outward form but in Spirit and in Truth as
well.
THE SUN. NUMBER 19. LETTER Q.
PHILOSOPHY OF Joy
Work with the Tarot is one of the best means for
strengthening the Intuition. At first the student will
naturally only use the general keywords, such as Intel-
ligence for I, Victory for 7, Evil for 15, and Happi-
ness for 19, but if he be a sincere seeker after Truth
and not a mere dabbler in oddities, he will soon dis-
cover that each number has a much wider range than
the keyword would indicate. He is then ready to
graduate out of the name analysis class. The pleasure
which he has derived so far from telling Jimmie Jones
and Lizzie Goof the character of their Inner and
Outermost Nature as these are expressed in the Root
and Power of their Name and Birth Path, he is now
ready to carry his investigations into greater detail.
He begins to use the numbers for more constructive
176 ARROWS OF LIGHT
purposes, he begins to apply them to the problems of
employment, business, profession. He begins to meas-
ure the probable chances of success or failure in given
lines of activity, in other words he will begin to use
these numbers to get an outward conception of the
Inner influences of everything with which he is sur-
rounded. He is graduating into that class of thinkers
which deal with the subjective dynamics, not only of
Man but of the Universe. He has a Key to the
storehouse of Power. What he does with this key is
his responsibility. It is like water, you may bathe in
it or drown in it. The power is there and the key
in hand.
Now let us consider Number 19 in some of its
more general applications, that is, let us read it not
as a beginner would read it, according to its major
keywords, Happiness and Joy, but as it might be read
by one who has had long experience in the use of the
Tarot as it is expressed in Numbers. To such a one
No. 19 suggests primarily that particular harmony of
Body, Soul and Spirit which may exist between a man
and a woman and which is commonly called Love.
It further suggests that this love naturally eventuates
in the establishment of a home, in contradistinction
to a house. It suggests the subjective power gener-
ated by the union of two such individuals which in
its very essence constitutes a defense against all forms
of subjective evil. It represents that pure radiation of
Spiritual Light which constitutes a perfect barrier to
all denizens of the dark Desire World. It typifies that
form of Energy which makes for contentment on the
Physical Plane, satisfaction on the Emotional Plane
ARROWS OF LIGHT 177
and Peace on the Spiritual Plane of Being. It typifies
the open gate to the Fields of Paradise.
No. 19 further indicates that type of Subjective
Energy associated with all creative endeavor; the
Happiness that is generated by the writing of a book;
the painting of a picture; the scaling of a mountain
or by the rearing of a child. The Joy of Creation
is 19. The Joy of Growth is 19, for the inventor not
only takes joy in invention but also in the growth that
his invention makes in public favor. The artist not
only finds joy in painting but also in the growth in
popularity of the work achieved. No. 19 is therefore
associated with all forms of growth and increase in
power, for in reality it vibrates to the Sign Leo which
is the home of the Sun and therefore the source of
power. Thus, the longer a person works with the
numbers the greater will be his knowledge of their
applicability and the stronger will be his Intuitive
Insight into the accurate interpretation of the number
into any condition which may confront him. The
Tarot is just as valuable as Arithmetic and in the
hands of one who has allowed his Intuition to grow,
it is the most practical Science for everyday use.
12
CHAPTER XXIII
No. 20. LETTER R. PLANET MOON, RULER OF
CANCER
Kabballistically expresses RESURRECTION, AWAKENING
Astrologically expresses PERIODICITY, GESTATION
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
( 1) No. 20 indicates the IMMORTALITY OF THE
SOUL.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 20 being the first number of the Third Cycle of
Numbers, naturally associates with the Spiritual aspect
of the Mental Process. From 1 to I 0 the Vibrations are
dominantly Physical, that is, they deal mostly with the
phenomena of the concrete. From 10 to 20 they deal
with the phenomena of the Subconscious or rather, the
Desire World, while from 20 to 22 they deal with the
Spiritual World. Mentally, therefore, No. 20 typifies
those flashes of INTUITION which transcend the ordi-
nary processes of thought and feeling. See Appendix
under Moon.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 20 indicates the transformation of thought into
feeling, the ebb and flow of the emotions. Expresses
through DOMESTIC URGES.
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 20 governs the PERIODICITY OF MENSTRU-
ATION and of GESTATION. The MOTHER
PRINCIPLE. The POSTERIOR PITUITARY
GLAND and its associated Chromaffin System and the
ADRENAL MEDULLA, and in a general way the
fluids secreted by the glands, especially the mother's milk.
It also has rulership over the LYMPH. Its influence is
178
ARROWS OF LIGHT 179
almost wholly MAGNETIC. No. 21 vitalizes and
stimulates. No. 20 conserves and nourishes.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 20 indicates REJUVENESSENCE. It betokens
the results of repeated magnetization, and as the Moon,
which corresponds to No. 20, raises the fiuids in the Sea
and in the Plant World. so it also has an influence over
Human EMOTIONS as they are affected by the SYM-
PATHETIC NERVOUS SYSTEM.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 20 indicates FANCIED DISEASES.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 20. HYDROTHERAPY. Fancies and imaginings
yield readily to a cold hose. THE MUSICAL TONE F.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 20 indicates the Planet MOON, satellite of the
Earth. has rulership over all the Life of the Earth as
it presents itself in Physical Bodies. She is Eve, the
"mother of all living." It typifies the Divine Soul: that
part of the Human Entity which is immortal and which
involves in matter to attain consciousness of its Immortal
Nature. To deny our Divine Nature is to miss SELF-
CONSCIOUS IMMORTALITY. This constitutes
the lost estate of the Soul.
BIBLE
(9) No. 20 is indirectly mentioned in John 21: 14 where we
read: "This is now the third time that Jesus shewed
himself to his disciples after he was risen from the dead."
The three times referred to the Ego. the Divine Soul and
the Spiritual Body which in their very essence are not
subject to death. They are raised from the tomb by the
trumpet blast of Gabriel. symbolically the Moon, or No.
20. The tomb referred to is the Physical Body from
which we ascend at Death clothed in the Animal
Soul and the Astral Body. leaving behind the Etheric
and Physical Bodies. The Animal Soul ultimately dies
180 ARROWS OF LIGHT
in the Astral World, a condition to which the Bible re-
fers as the SECOND DEATH. It is the Animal Soul
which sinneth against the Divine Nature. Therefore, is
not easily absorbed by it and hence we have the words:
"The Soul that sinneth shall die." In Luke 24:51 we
find another reference to No. 20 in these words: "And
it came to pass while he blessed them, he was parted
from them, and carried up into heaven.'' The Christ
Consciousness when once attained is eternal in nature and
belongs to the Heavens or Spiritual Spheres. "Blessed
and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection; on
such the second death hath no power." Those who have
attained actual adeptship have completed their earthly
mission and have evolved a Spiritual power which enables
them to voluntarily liberate themselves from their Physi-
cal Bodies without the usual process of Physical Death.
SYMBOLISM
( l 0) No. 20 indicates the PERFECT MASTER DEGREE
in Masonry; the SPRIG of CASSIA that was found on
the grave of Hiram. It also typifies the coffin with the
five-pointed star on its lid. In the Ritual it is indicative
of the raising of H. A. from his grave. The 3 efforts
which are made before the raising is finally successful
again refers to the Three-fold Entity on the Spiritual
Plane.
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 20 indicates the phenomena of MAGNETISM and
the Subjective Science of SPIRITUAL ALCHEMY.
NUMERICAL
( 12) No. 20 is the 3d Theosophic Power of 2, or the Power
of 2 operating on the Plane of 3. It therefore indicates
the OCCULT SIGNIFICANCE OF MARRIAGE. In
the King's Chamber of the Great Pyramid of Egypt is
found the lidless coffin symbolizing the Soul's flight from
the Body. But no such coffin is found in the Queen's
Chamber. The Ancient Initiates knew that Man and
Woman properly united were the two Immortal Portions
ARROWS OF LIGHT 181
of a single Eternal Self. Composed of the following
numbers it expresses:
19+I. Harmonizing Intellect.
18+2. Deception Analyzed.
I7+3. Faith in Works.
16+4. Energy Realized.
15+5. Fatality conquered by Law.
14+6. Regeneration through Love.
13+7. Spiritual Victory.
12+8. Devotion breaking Fatality.
11 +9. Force of Wisdom.
Io+I0. Change to the Third Plane.
MEDITATION
All fortune is changeable, even that which appears
to be the most stable. The ascension of the soul is
the fruit of many trials. Hope in suffering, but be
careful in prosperity. Do not surrender yourself to
the sleep of idleness or sink into forgetfulness, for you
have a mission which will be revealed to you when
you are ready to receive it.
THE SARCOPHAGUS. NUMBER 20. LETTER R.
COSMOLOGY OF PERIODICITY
Everything in the Universe is governed by Periods
and Cycles and No. 20, typifying the influence of the
Moon, is basically the Force of Periodicity. It has an
influence over all things that recur in Time, but
things do not recur on the same level. Their action is
spiral, from which we get the word "Spiritually"
which is another way of saying "Spirally" and gives
rise to the word "Aspiration" which is preeminently
a Spiritual quality. No. 20 therefore, deals with
182 ARROWS OF LIGHT
Cycles. Man has a sevenfold constitution and when
he makes contact with the Divine Will he has a nine-
fold power. In conjunction with his mate he becomes
the true image of God, Positive and Negative in the
Nine Steps of Creation. 9 is the Key Number which
unlocks the Spiritual Cycle.
ADAPTED FROM ··' n -IE Al'OCALYPSE UNSEi\LEU," BY .Ji\i\lES P!ZYSE
By Permission o( 1he Awhor
Tbis picture is designed to syrnbo liu the Somma H eii;ikon or solar
;is rhc perrn.1nently consciou s parr of the human entity is called.
n un1bcrs behind each word m;iy b<: trc:llcd :is (3.R.
body,
The
CHAPTER XXIV
No. 21. LETTER S. THE SUN, RULER OF LEO
Kabballistically expresses SUCCESS and ATTAINMENT
Astrologically expresses POWER, VITALITY, INDIVIDU-
ALITY
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
(I) No. 21 expresses the UNIVERSALITY OF POWER.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 21 expresses CONSCIOUSNESS ON THREE
PLANES OF BEING. See Appendix under Sun.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 21 expresses COMPLETE MEMORY OF ALL
EXPERIENCES, Individual, Racial and Cosmic.
POWER URGES.
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 21 indicates the HEART, SOLAR PLEXUS,
UPPER BACK, FRONTAL PITUITARY GLAND,
and in a secondary way, coordination of Form to Func-
tion, and Function to Will.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 21 symbolizes the completion of the GREAT
WORK. The Pure Gold resulting from Transmuting
Effort. Perpetual Youth realized through the ELIXIR
OF LIFE.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 21, in questions of disease, indicates those conditions
that arise from FAULTY HEART, PITUITARY or
SYMPATHETIC ACTION.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 21, where remedies are requisite, indicates Light and
Color treatment; chiefly ORANGE COLORED light
183
184 ARROWS OF LIGHT
applied to the upper back. Also the MUSICAL TONE
D, and the METAL GOLD, or its salts. FLOWER
HELIANTHUS.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 21 and the Letter S indicate the SUN, the center
of the SOLAR SYSTEM, the source of all LIGHT,
LIFE AND POWER. It is said to rule the Heart and
the Power Urges in Man. The Sun is surrounded by a
family of nine worlds called PLANETS. The Planets
are not in themselves sources of Power, but like a Prism,
they refract specific modes of Energy from the Sun. The
Sun is the great VITALIZER AND SUSTAINER,
the UNDEFEATED and ever TRIUMPHANT
FORCE that plays upon the Earth. It sends out Seven
visible and Two invisible Rays of Light. These cause
the modes of its Physical Power. But as there is a Spec-
trum of Physical Light, consisting of Nine Rays or
Transformations from Violet to Red, so there is also a
Spectrum of Astral Light not visible to the Physical eye,
but nevertheless actual. The colors seen in imagination
and dreams, are the result of this Astral stimulation. As
the Physical Light is refracted in the Nine colors of the
Rainbow and the Prism, so the Astral Light is reflected
from the nine Planets in the Chain. And as the Physical
Light affects the Physical eye and the Conscious Mind,
so the Astral Light strikes our Super-Physical organism
and the Subconscious Mind. The SUN, therefore, is the
GOLDEN KEY TO ASTROLOGY, and the SUN'S
Sign the most important Sign in anyone's horoscope.
BIBLE
(9) No. 21 in the Bible is typified by the Promised Land on
which Moses was permitted to look, but into which he
was unable to pass. In the Jewish Kabbala, we read
that he was able to pass forty-nine gates, but could not
pass the fiftieth, or the one of Jubliee. As there are
Fifty Degrees in the BROTHERHOOD OF LIGHT,
and as that venerated Order built the Great Pyramid of
ARROWS OF LIGHT 185
Egypt, which, as we know, is a complete dramatization
of the great essentials of sidereo-geologic, mathematic,
physical, psychologic, spiritual and historic wisdom,
and, as we are told that Moses was conversant with all
the wisdom of the Egyptians, we may well infer that he
was a Forty-ninth Degree Member of that Ancient Order,
when he died, if indeed he did. There is a way by which
mortal man may attain immortality without physical
dissolution.
In Genesis 5:22, we read: "And all the days of Enoch
were three hundred and sixty-five years; and Enoch
walked with God; and he was not, for God took him."
Three hundred and sixty-five years is a complete Cycle,
that is, we are told that Enoch lived until his Sun pro-
gressing one day for every year of life, had returned to
its natal place, or completed one Cycle in Astral Energy.
Having attained complete wisdom on three planes of be-
ing, it was unnecessary for him to taste Physical Death.
Enoch was a Perfected Adept. No. 21 is further men-
tioned in Genesis 3:22, where we read : "And the Lord
God said, Behold Man has become as one of us, to know
good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand and
take also of the Tree of Life and eat and live forever."
The text here is suddenly broken, as if the writer were
forbidden to say more, for if he had, he would have
spoken of that great work by which Death may be over-
come, and for which the great majority of mankind are
not morally or spiritually ready. That Death can be
conquered, is dramatized in the King's Chamber of the
Great Pyramid, and the Bible gives us the Life of Enoch,
Moses, Elijah, and Christ as examples. Mythology also
speaks of these translations from Flesh to Spirit. There
is a deep, subconscious feeling in the heart of many men
and women, that this transmutation or translation from
the physical to the spiritual, is a realizable fact. St.
Paul says that the last enemy to be overcome, is Death.
The conquest of Death is the final victory of the Human
Spirit, the ultimate success of human endeavor. That
186 ARROWS OF LIGHT
this final victory depends on the perfection of the love
life, may be gathered from the words found in Rev.
19:9: "Then he said unto me: Write, Blessed are they
which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb."
That No. 21 typifies the supreme activity of the human
entity as he functions through his mechanism of con-
sciousness, is expressed in Rev. 22:1: ''And he showed
me a pure river of the Water of Life, clear as crystal
(Spinal Fluid), proceeding out of the throne of God (the
Brain) and of the Lamb (Cavernosus associated with the
Pituitary Body). In the midst of the street of it (Pons
Varoli) and on either side (Cerebral Hemispheres) of the
river was the Tree of Life (Arbor Vit~) which bears
twelve manner of fruits (twelve sets of Cranial Nerves)
and yieldeth their fruit every month (affecting the parts
governed by the twelve Signs of the Zodiac) and the
leaves of the Tree (functions of the Nerves under the
impulse of consciousness) were for the healing of the
nations.'' Meaning, the somatic cells of the body.
SYMBOLISM
( 110) No. 21 indicates the DEGREE OF PERFECTION in
Masonry. I do not say that it is the twenty-first Degree.
It is symbolized by the TWO-HEADED EAGLE.
Probably the union of a pelican and an eagle, convention-
alized. An eagle typifies the spiritual aspect of sex, and
the two heads signify that male and female intelligence
must be united so as to occupy one spiritual body. For
that purpose, the emblem of the thirty-third Degree is a
perfect symbolic elaboration of what we have said con-
cerning No. 21. The Crown above the two-headed
eagle represents the Ego of both male and female entities,
which binds them into a perfect trinity. The Triangle
above the Cross shows that this trinity formed of united
man and woman, is a replica of the triune nature of
God. The Cross under the Triangle represents the four
quadrants of the angelic plane upon which the souls are
entering, when they emerge from the cycle of separate
existence, which is shown by the Belt hung below the
ARROWS OF LIGHT 187
Sword. When the lodge is at rest it is lighted by the
burning bush, but when at work it is lighted by 24
candles, 3 in the north to represent the 3 subhuman
kingdoms, 5 in the South, to indicate Man as the fruit
of material evolution. 7 in the West, symbolizing Man's
arriving at physical perfection through the application of
the subjective laws of union; and 9 in the East, to
represent Man's wisdom before he is permitted to enter
the 9th Arch. These 24 lights correspond to the 24
hours of the day, and symbolize the truth that Man
must gather experience with light and darkness, that is,
with good and evil. It is the power of the Sun, 21,
which sustains us under the Moon, 20, for the Moon
reflects the glory of the Sun.
SCIENCE
( 11 ) No. 21 refers to the powers of the Ego as they operate
from the SUPERCONSCIOUS MIND, and indicates
complete perfect, and unanswerable intuitive knowledge;
prophecy in fulfilment.
NUMERICAL
( 12) No. 21, numerically considered, is the third Theosophic
power of Three. It is uniting and completing action on
the Mental, Emotional and Physical Plane of Being.
Therefore, it typifies that which God has united-the
PERFECT MARRIAGE. No. 21 is Seven raised to
the Third Plane. Seven being Victory, No. 21 becomes
complete Victory and, therefore, SUCCESS. It repre-
sents the highest goal to be attained by the Human
Entity; the Power of being MASTER IN THREE
WORLDS. Composed of the following numbers it ex-
presses:
1+20.
2+19.
3+18.
4+17.
5+16.
6+15.
Intelligence Awakened.
Possession of Harmony.
Marriage triumphant over Vice.
Attainment of Hopes.
Law applied to Energy.
Love melts selfishness.
188 ARROWS OF LIGHT
7+14. Successful Regeneration.
8+13. Cautious venturing.
9+12. Wisdom of Self-sacrifice.
1o+11. Change of Force.
MEDITATION
The world belongs to the Empire of Light. This
empire is ruled from the throne of God and reserved
for those of dedicated Will. Be master of thyself and
approach the problems of the world without coveting.
For only by building up a consecrated Will, can you
compel obstacles to disappear from thy path.
THE ADEPT. NUMBER 21. LETTERS.
COSMOLOGY OF LIGHT, POWER AND VITALITY
Mystically considered, No. 21 is the deathless solar
body consciously functioning on the Spiritual Plane.
It is Adeptship; attainment of Initiation into the In-
ner Mysteries of Being. The SUPREME SUCCESS
of the Human Soul. The 21 vibrations of the Tarot
as pictured in sounds and numbers symbolize the
harvest of Love and Wisdom which eventuates in
Spiritual Attainment. No. 21 is the end of the Path
of Human endeavor; the union of Soul Mates on the
Plane of Spirituality.
No. 21, being the third Theosophic power of 3,
typifies the marriage of Love and Wisdom, Venus and
Adonis. We may say that all the numbers of the
Tarot converge into 21. These numbers have their
leaders. The leading numbers are l, 3, 6, 7, 9, 12,
and 18. The first requisite to the attainment typified
by 21, is a directed Will (I) ; the second, construe-
ARROWS OF LIGHT 189
tive Union (3), and the third, devoted Love (6).
The fourth, complete Consecration ( 7); the :fifth,
perfect Wisdom (9); the sixth, ability to Sacri-
fice ( 12) ; the seventh, the power to dispel Illu-
sion ( 18) ; which eventuates in the Spiritual Attain-
ment (21).
"It is not good for man to live alone." Num-
ber 3 indicates action; action must be taken before
attainment can be reached. This is true on the
Physical Plane. 3 plus 7 are 10. Victorious action
brings change of fortune. All things on the Phys-
ical Plane vibrate to 7. 7 is completeness on 1 Plane.
21, being 3 times 7, is completeness on 3 Planes.
But when we deal with Human Initiation into the
Mysteries of God's redemptive wisdom, we also start
with 3 and raise it to its second power which is 12.
All Spiritual work begins with sacrifice of self interest.
It is this sacrifice which makes No. 15 evil, for 15
lives on the dust of the Earth. In the natural man,
the force signified by No. 12 lies dormant in the Sacral
Ganglion at the base of the Spine. Before the action
of Wisdom has influenced the life, this Ganglion ex-
cites to action because of the urges of animal passion.
Normally, therefore, it is 3, but under the influence
of Wisdom, it becomes 12. A ganglion is a nucleus
or group of cells; the Orientals call it a Chakrum, to
the Greeks it was known as Speirema. If to the word
Speirema we append the Greek exoteric number value,
we get 444 which involves to 12. 12 is the begin-
ning of the great work which when completed, pro-
duces 21 and all that it entails.
No. 12 is the source of the Serpentine Fire, the coiled
Serpent. When aroused, it becomes a power which
190 ARROWS OF LIGHT
may send a person either to the highest heaven or drop
him to the lowest hell. Woe unto him who awakens
the Speirema for pleasure! For he will burn in a
hell of his own creation, and his victory will be sadly
delayed. Victory on the Spiritual Plane means sacri-
fice on the Emotional Plane: the Will supreme over
the Feeling.
In the Norse Mythology, we are told that Odin
sacrificed himself to himself by hanging on the Ygg-
drasil or Cosmic Tree, for 9 days. This tree had
snakes at its roots, suggestive of the Speirema. The
9 days, or Cycles, symbolize divine action. Odin sac-
rificed himself to attain Divine Perfection of God's
great Tree of Life. In Greek Mythology, the same
thought is presented in Prometheus bound to the rock,
with vultures devouring his liver, and in Christian
Symbolism, it becomes Christ's great sacrifice on Cal-
vary. The 3 crosses of the Crucifixion, typifying ac-
tion, their 4 points the 4 Seasons, and the 4 points
of each cross, the 12 months of the year wherein the
Sun God sacrifices his energy for the perpetuation of
life.
When under the influence of Wisdom teaching, the
Speirema starts from the Sacral Ganglion, and goes
upward to the Red Dragon. The Red Dragon sym-
bolizes the Epithumetic nature. It has no objective
existence. It is a Psychic creation seen on the Inner
Planes; a cross between a reptile and a mammal,
higher in evolution than the Snake, lower thari the
Beast. The Snake is the first terror of the Threshold,
as many who have taken liberties with the Volstead
Act can testify, and as many who have prematurely
ARROWS OF LIGHT 191
experimented with going out into the Astral, have
learned to their disgust, if not sorrow.
The Snake is the natural enemy of mankind. It is
closest to the Earth, and thus symbolizes a desire for
Earthiness. Read Genesis 3: 1-5.
The Dragon is the Greek Epithumia which has
an exoteric number value of 555 and sums up to 15.
In the Tarot, it is described as a hog with a crocodile's
head, standing upright like a man, holding in its front
paw asphodel flowers. It suggests greed, treachery
and cunning, and hard, cold selfishness. It is more
intelligent than the snake, and less merciful than a
brute. It is referred to in Revelations 12:9 and 20: 2
as Devil and Satan. We may call it the second terror
or Psychic resistance to be overcome. It typifies the
Kingdom of the Earthbound dead.
Above the Dragon and approaching the Human,
the Conquering Ego meets the Beast called He Phren,
with a Greek exoteric number value of 666. See Rev-
elations 13: 18. This number involves to 18. He
Phren is the conscious or lower mind. It inclines to
trust in appearances. It is devoid of intuition. Its
progress is by trial and error. It reasons like a beast.
It lacks Spiritual discernment. It is the grasp of Maya,
the Goddess of Delusion.
J]nder the influence of Initiatory Wisdom, the Con-
queror reaches the Cross, called in the Greek, Stauros,
with a number value of 777 involving to 21. Only
when the Mind is enabled to cross from the lower
beastlike materialistic attitude toward life, to habitual
God-like attitude, do we make a great attainment.
The Christian religion teaches that Jesus, the Spiritual
Mind, by His sacrifice, delivers us from the power of
- -
- - - -- -- - ~-- ~------ - -------- - -
202 ARROWS OF LIGHT
10. Super Power. Subtract the Super Root from
the G.R. and divide by the key chosen. The quotient 1
is the Super Power to which 1 is added only if the :
Major Key No. 9 is being used.
11. Quality. Place the S.R. before and the S.P.
back of the name so that they form additional places
and read all the places from Root to Power in a sen-
tence, using the Keywords of each number and con- 1
necting them with other words which the keys
naturally suggest. Do not consider numbers which
repeat more than once. If they repeat twice, give them
a comparative value, three times, a superlative value,
if more than that, then value them according to the 1
I
number of the repetition. I
12. Sub Root and Sub Power. Write them in, if
any.
13. Ruling Factor. Determine the Origin of the
Force inherent in the name and B.P. by subtracting
the Super Power from the Super Root.
14. Object. Add the Super Power to the Super
Root.
15. Synthesis of Character is effected by blending
all that has been found into a concise statement epito-
mizing the outstanding factors of the life as revealed :
by the Keywords.
16. Question Date. Find the G.R. of the desired
day, month and year and add this to the Theosophic
G.R. Involve to new Super Root and Power.
17. Question. Write down the number factors in-
herent in the question presented for solution and add :
them together. The sum total is the number value
of the question.
18. Add the number value of the question to the
ARROWS OF LIGHT 189
tive Union (3) , and the third, devoted Love (6) .
The fourth, complete Consecration ( 7); the fifth,
perfect Wisdom (9) ; the sixth, ability to Sacri-
fice ( 12) ; the seventh, the power to dispel Illu-
sion ( 18) ; which eventuates in the Spiritual Attain-
ment (21).
"It is not good for man to live alone." Num-
ber 3 indicates action; action must be taken before
attainment can be reached. This is true on the
Physical Plane. 3 plus 7 are 10. Victorious action
brings change of fortune. All things on the Phys-
ical Plane vibrate to 7. 7 is completeness on 1 Plane.
21, being 3 times 7, is completeness on 3 Planes.
But when we deal with Human Initiation into the
Mysteries of God's redemptive wisdom, we also start
with 3 and raise it to its second power which is 12.
All Spiritual work begins with sacrifice of self interest.
It is this sacrifice which makes No. 15 evil, for 15
lives on the dust of the Earth. In the natural man,
the force signified by No. 12 lies dormant in the Sacral
Ganglion at the base of the Spine. Before the action
of Wisdom has influenced the life, this Ganglion ex-
cites to action because of the urges of animal passion.
Normally, therefore, it is 3, but under the influence
of Wisdom, it becomes 12. A ganglion is a nucleus
or group of cells; the Orientals call it a Chakrum, to
the Greeks it was known as Speirema. If to the word
Speirema we append the Greek exoteric number value,
we get 444 which involves to 12. 12 is the begin-
ning of the great work which when completed, pro-
duces 21 and all that it entails.
No. 12 is the source of the Serpentine Fire, the coiled
Serpent. When aroused, it becomes a power which
190 ARROWS OF LIGHT
may send a person either to the highest heaven or drop
him to the lowest hell. Woe unto him who awakens
the Speirema for pleasure! For he will burn in a
hell of his own creation, and his victory will be sadly
delayed. Victory on the Spiritual Plane means sacri-
fice on the Emotional Plane: the Will supreme over
the Feeling.
In the Norse Mythology, we are told that Odin
sacrificed himself to himself by hanging on the Ygg-
drasil or Cosmic Tree, for 9 days. This tree had
snakes at its roots, suggestive of the Speirema. The
9 days, or Cycles, symbolize divine action. Odin sac-
rificed himself to attain Divine Perfection of God's
great Tree of Life. In Greek Mythology, the same
thought is presented in Prometheus bound to the rock,
with vultures devouring his liver, and in Christian
Symbolism, it becomes Christ's great sacrifice on Cal-
vary. The 3 crosses of the Crucifixion, typifying ac-
tion, their 4 points the 4 Seasons, and the 4 points
of each cross, the 12 months of the year wherein the
Sun God sacrifices his energy for the perpetuation of
life.
When under the influence of Wisdom teaching, the
Speirema starts from the Sacral Ganglion, and goes
upward to the Red Dragon. The Red Dragon sym-
bolizes the Epithumetic nature. It has no objective
existence. It is a Psychic creation seen on the Inner
Planes; a cross between a reptile and a mammal,
higher in evolution than the Snake, lower than the
Beast. The Snake is the first terror of the Threshold,
as many who have taken liberties with the Volstead
Act can testify, and as many who have prematurely
ARROWS OF LIGHT 191
experimented with going out into the Astral, have
learned to their disgust, if not sorrow.
The Snake is the natural enemy of mankind. It is
closest to the Earth, and thus symbolizes a desire for
Earthiness. Read Genesis 3: 1-5.
The Dragon is the Greek Epithumia which has
an exoteric number value of 555 and sums up to 15.
In the Tarot, it is described as a hog with a crocodile's
head, standing upright like a man, holding in its front
paw asphodel :flowers. It suggests greed, treachery
and cunning, and hard, cold selfishness. It is more
intelligent than the snake, and less merciful than a
brute. It is referred to in Revelations 12:9 and 20:2
as Devil and Satan. We may call it the second terror
or Psychic resistance to be overcome. It typifies the
Kingdom of the Earthbound dead.
Above the Dragon and approaching the Human,
the Conquering Ego meets the Beast called He Phren,
with a Greek exoteric number value of 666. See Rev-
elations 13: 18. This number involves to 18. He
Phren is the conscious or lower mind. It inclines to
trust in appearances. It is devoid of intuition. Its
progress is by trial and error. It reasons like a beast.
It lacks Spiritual discernment. It is the grasp of Maya,
the Goddess of Delusion.
J]nder the influence of Initiatory Wisdom, the Con-
queror reaches the Cross, called in the Greek, Stauros,
with a number value of 777 involving to 21. Only
when the Mind is enabled to cross from the lower
beastlike materialistic attitude toward life, to habitual
God-like attitude, do we make a great attainment.
The Christian religion teaches that Jesus, the Spiritual
Mind, by His sacrifice, delivers us from the power of
192 ARROWS OF LIGHT
the Snake which tempts to Physical pleasure which
ends in death, and from the Dragon which gorges the
body with physical matter causing pain, and from the
Beast with its cold materialism. causing doubt and
fear.
Beyond the Cross is Iesous, with a number value
of 888 involving to 24, which being more than 22,
must again be involved, giving us a root of 6 with a
simple power of 3, thereby signifying that the action
of Love is needed to attain the Victory of the
Cross, 21.
With Iesous or the higher mind awakened, Epis-
temon, the Light of Intuition, comes into action. It
has the number value of 999, involving to 27, and
this again involves to 9, indicating that Love's sac-
rifice through the crossing from outward to inward
Truth, will open to our minds the Spiritual realms
enabling us to contact wisdom without the laborious
process of trial and error.
All this work is accomplished by Ho Nikon the
Conqueror. He has a number value of I000, involv-
ing to 1. He ascends Jacob's Ladder to become the
Master Supreme in his own Temple, a conscious ruler
of the Three Worlds of Human Expression. This is
Attainment.
CHAPTER XXV
No. 22. LETTER T. PLANET EARTH
Kabballistically expresses FAILURE, FOLLY, MISTAKE
Astrologically has no correspondence
This gives us the following delineations:
UNIVERSAL
(1) No. 22 indicates NEGATION, NOTHINGNESS.
CONSCIOUS
(2) No. 22 indicates ABSTRACTION, BLANKNESS.
SUBCONSCIOUS
(3) No. 22 indicates the FAILURE TO RECALL memory
images.
PHYSIOLOGY
(4) No. 22 indicates FAILURE OF FUNCTION.
MENTAL ALCHEMY
(5) No. 22 indicates FAILURE IN TRANSMUTATION.
MORBID ACTION
(6) No. 22 indicates NECROSIS.
NATURAL REMEDY
(7) No. 22 indicates those conditions for which there is NO
REMEDY. It vibrates to BLACK. The TONE is
SILENCE.
ASTROLOGY
(8) No. 22 corresponds to the Earth.
BIBLE
(9) No. 22 is expressed in the following passages: "The fool
saith in his heart there is no God," and also, "For what
is a man profiteth if he gain the whole world and lose
his own soul," and, "But whosoever speaketh against the
Holy Ghost it shall not be forgiven him neither in this
world nor in the world to come." FAILURE TO AC-
CEPT ATONEMENT.
193
13
194 ARROWS OF LIGHT
SYMBOLISM
(10) No. 22 indicates the SUBLIME KNIGHT ELECTED
in Masonry. This degree dramatizes the misuse of Crea-
tive Force.
SCIENCE
( 11) No. 22 indicates MATERIALISTIC MONISM with
its soul-searing doctrine of material supremacy.
NUMERICAL
(12) No. 22 being the Third power of 4 represents sex use for
the GRATIFICATION OF PASSION, or for Magical
and selfish purposes. Composed of the following num-
bers it expresses:
21+1. Success Contemplated.
20+2. Awakening Criticised.
19+3. Harmony Balanced.
18+4. False friends Realized.
17+s. Truth Misjudged.
16+6. Destruction Courted.
15+7. Selfishness Victorious.
14+8. Regeneration Delayed.
13+9. Death of Wisdom.
12+I 0. Expiation of Eccentricity.
11+11. Forces Balanced, therefore inoperative.
MEDITATION
All things Physical pass away and before the Soul
can pass to higher realms, every debt to Nature must
be paid to the utmost farthing. If 22 becomes the
root of your name, imprudence threatens to encompass
your ruin. You will pay for your folly, change your
ways rather than your name.
THE FOOL. NUMBER 22. LETTER T.
COSMOLOGY OF NEGATION
No. 22 may well be read as zero and some writers
give it that designation. It is the last that ought to
ARROWS OF LIGHT 195
be first. The condition which precedes any and all
action. In Music it is Silence, its mineral is Earth.
In color it is negative, hence, black. It is not essen-
tially evil; it is negation. Its Root is 15 and Power
7-the Triumph of Annihilation; the Devil's work
complete. The reason it is at the end of the Tarot is
to warn the student of its danger. Let us now append
the Religious Doctrine of the Tarot as set forth by
Eliphas Levi. It is well for the student to memorize
it and meditate upon its meaning.
1. All things announce a conscious active cause,
2. Vivific oneness, based on Nature's Laws,
3. Who all containing is by naught confined,
4. And all preceding have no bound assigned.
5. This only Lord should Man adore alone,
6. Who doth true doctrine to pure hearts make known;
7. But acts of faith require a single chief-
8. Hence, we proclaim one altar, law, belief.
9. The changeless God will never change their base,
10. He rules our days and rules through every phase,
11. His mercy's wealth, which vice to naught would bring,
12. His people promises a future King.
13. The tomb's a path which to new worlds ascend,
And Life through all subsists, Death only ends.
Pure, sacred, steadfast truths we here repeat
The venerated numbers thus complete.
14. The angel blessed doth calm and moderate.
15. The evil is the friend of pride and hate.
16. God doth the lightning and fire subdue:
17. He rules the dewy eve and evening's dew.
18. The watchful Moon he sets to guard our heights,
19. His Sun's the source of life's renewed delights,
20. His breath revivifies the dust of graves
Where crowds descend who are of lust the slaves:
Or, the mercy seat he covers with his crown,
21. And on the cherubs pours His glory down.
196 ARROWS OF LIGHT
TOWER OF BABEL
As the Great Pyramid of Gizeh is a symbol of pre-
Coptic Egypt, so the Tower of Babel is the symbol
of Babylonia. Around it was evolved the art and
literature of that civilization which grew up on Shi-
nar's Plain. Its form became the inspiration for every
Mesopotamian temple. It has become a part of the
sacred art of that region, even as the clock tower has
become a part of the Christian Church. Its influence
has colored the literature of the entire Near East. It
is the motif of many legends; a favorite theme for
poets and artists. It has become a part of the Bible,
and plays a constant role in prophecy.
The narrative is as follows: "And they said to one
another, Go, let us make brick, and burn them thor-
oughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime for
mortar. (4) And they said, Go to, let us build a
city and a tower, whose top may reach the heaven;
and let us make us a name lest we be scattered abroad
upon the face of the whole earth. (5) And the Lord
came down to see the city and the Tower which the
children of men builded. (6) And the Lord said,
Behold the people is one, and they have all one lan-
guage; and they begin to do; and now nothing will
be restrained from them, which they have imagined to
do. (7) Go to, let us go down, and there confound
their language, that they may not understand one an-
other's speech. (8) So the Lord scattered them abroad
from thence upon the face of all the earth; and they
left off to build a city. (9) Therefore is the name of
it called Babel; because the Lord did there confound
the language of all the earth: And from thence did
ARROWS OF LIGHT 197
the Lord scatter them abroad upon the face of the
earth.'' Genesis 11, from 3 to 9.
Scofield points out that the word "Babel" means
confusion, and that throughout Scripture the tendency
is to apply that term to everything that is confused.
Hugo Gressman in his lecture on "The Tower of
Babel," comes to the conclusion that the wrath of the
gods was kindled not against the building of the
Tower, but rather against the city. He says: "It may
safely be said that the Temple Tower did not offend
the Lord: for in that case, it would have been stated
that He had obstructed its building or destroyed it.
Only when the Babylonians started to build the city,
was His fear awakened. It was not the city as such
that offended Him, but the city of all mankind. That
all mankind should want to dwell in one city, that
was the great danger which God had to prevent.
Mankind had one language and one spirit; having
one will, nothing was impossible to them. God knew
that the power of mankind depended upon their com-
mon language. A well organized state with a single
language of all citizens was indeed invincible."
But in such a state, there would be no progress, for
progress results from rivalry and diversity of interest.
Babel typified the earth spirit; human perfection with-
out divine illumination; intellect without soul; pride
instead of humility; self-sufficiency instead of depend-
ence on the Higher Law. This, God could not brook,
for Man is in the world to gather experience with both
love and wisdom, and what greater force for the at-
tainment of wisdom can there be than a constant
exercise of the soul in an effort to understand those
who do not understand us?
198 ARROWS OF LIGHT
But, in this work we are interested in the meaning
of names, so we apply the Tarot Key to the word
"Babel." We find B-A-B-E-L, 2+1+2+5+12=22,
the Keywords for which are Failure, Folly and Mis-
take, Materialism and Negation. 22 being equal to
zero in the Tarot, can not be involved. It has no
power. It lacks spirit. It is death completed, the dust
of the earth. The word begins with a negative Let-
ter, B, repeated twice. Babel is scientific. The first B
is followed by A, Intelligence. That is, Intelligence
subject to Science.
The Tower of Babel, in all probability, was de-
signed to be an observatory for making astronomical
and astrological calculations. The Babylonians were
famous astrologers. The statement that their tower
should reach heaven, refers to a desire to comprehend
the mechanism of the universe. For the Tower of
Babel and the Great Pyramid of Egypt belong to the
same early time, and the Pyramid proves that the
Ancients knew the distance from the Earth to the Sun.
They did not have the silly notion that a literal read-
ing of the text would imply. The Tarot gives us
the clue. Babel has 2 Bs followed by E and L. They
used their Intellect according to Law and realized
SACRIFICE and EXPIATION as the product of
their endeavor. That is what the word "Babel" con-
veys when analyzed by Tarot numbers, and it is in
strict harmony with the nature of the story as we
know it. Babel is a word picturing our feeling in
the matter of confusion.
A description of the Tower of Babel is found in
the reports of the joint expeditions of the British
Museum of London and the Museum of the Univer-
ARROWS OF LIGHT 199
sity of Pennsylvania, to the ancient city of Ur of the
Chaldees. They excavated the site of the tower called
El-Muqayyar, on the right bank of the Euphrates.
Ur was the home of Abram who was told by Jehovah
to leave the land of his fathers, symbolically, material-
ism and the worship of the concrete.
The remains of the ancient Temple of Ur, or Tower
of Babel, were visible before the excavation. These
ruins had weathered the storms of more than four
thousand years. The very sound values of "Ur" are
significant. 6 plus 20 equals 26. This involves to 8,
and 8 is the number of Fallibility, Self-Interest, and
material climbing. It is the number which responds
to the Sign Capricorn, the Goat. It is the nature of
the goat to climb on solid rock. This is also the na-
ture of materialism. The Super Power of 26 is 19,
so we find that the sin of Ur of the Chaldees, was
selfish pleasure. This, Abram was ordered to leave.
In the 12th chapter of Genesis, the 1st Verse, we read:
"Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out
of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy
father's house, unto the land that I will shew thee:
(2) And I will make thee a great nation, and I will
bless thee and make thy name great: and thou shalt
be a blessing: (3) And I will bless them that bless
thee, and curse him that curseth thee: And in thee
shall all the nations of the earth be blessed."
This is the fourth dispensation or promise. It
implies more than can possibly be taken up in a work
of this nature. We can do no more than indicate the
fact that Babel means confusion, and Ur materialism,
and that the word "Abram" starts with Intelligence
or A, followed by Science or B, and by Awakening, R,
200 ARROWS OF LIGHT
and that the Letter A appearing twice, gives it a crit-
ical power, followed by M, Transformation to a new
Plane of activity.
Abram differs from Babel, in that it doubles intel-
ligence for the use of science, to achieve a higher plane
of action, while Babel binds intelligence by scientific
formulre. There is much of Babel in modern educa-
tion. It would be well if there were a little more
Abram.
The word Abram sums up to 37, involving to 10,
indicating that he drew to him a basic Change. 10 is
the _Planet Uranus, the Ruler of Aquarius which is
the SIGN OF THE SON OF MAN. Abram's work
will be completed during the time when the Sun is in
that Sign, and the delusions of Babel have been wiped
from the human brain. During his life, his name was
changed to Abraham.
Dr. John Annis, in his book, "The Mystic Key,"
contends that Abram typifies the Planet Saturn, and
that as such he was ready to sacrifice his son, Saturn
being the Planet of Death. The town of Ur vibrates
to Capricorn, the Home of Saturn.
CHAPTER XXVI
RULES DETAILED
The following steps should be thoroughly memo-
rized and applied to every problem and name analyzed.
1. Name. Use the name of the individual as he
ordinarily signs it, or, as he thinks of himself.
2. Birth Da.te. Day, month and year. Add cross-
wise for G.R. of B.P.
3. Background. Example: A negro by the name
of George Washington, even if the Root of the Birth
Path is similar, may have few Washingtonian char-
acteristics. Read Washington as a statesman or sol-
dier, the negro according to his occupation, and if a
race horse or bull dog bear that name, the number
signifying horse or dog must be added as well as the
Birth Path.
4. Key. Determine the Key with which the prob-
lem is to be solved.
5. Volume. Count the number of letters called
places in the name.
6. Character. Note what letters repeat and how
often, giving to each one the value of the number of
times it repeats.
7. Nature. Read the symbolic meaning of the let-
ters, but use no letter that repeats more than once.
8. Theosophic Gross Root. Add the Gross Root
of the name and the Birth Path together.
9. Super Root. Involve the Theosophic Gross Root
(commonly called the Gross Root) to a number
below 23.
201
202 ARROWS OF LIGHT
10. Super Power. Subtract the Super Root from
the G.R. and divide by the key chosen. The quotient
is the Super Power to which 1 is added only if the
Major Key No. 9 is being used.
11. Quality. Place the S.R. before and the S.P.
back of the name so that they form additional places
and read all the places from Root to Power in a sen-
tence, using the Keywords of each number and con-
necting them with other words which the keys
naturally suggest. Do not consider numbers which
repeat more than once. If they repeat twice, give them
a comparative value, three times, a superlative value,
if more than that, then value them according to the
number of the repetition.
12. Sub Root and Sub Power. Write them in, if
any.
13. Ruling Factor. Determine the Origin of the
Force inherent in the name and B.P. by subtracting
the Super Power from the Super Root.
14. Object. Add the Super Power to the Super
Root.
15. Synthesis of Character is effected by blending
all that has been found into a concise statement epito-
mizing the outstanding factors of the life as revealed
by the Keywords.
16. Question Date. Find the G.R. of the desired
day, month and year and add this to the Theosophic
G.R. Involve to new Super Root and Power.
17. Question. Write down the number factors in-
herent in the question presented for solution and add
them together. The sum total is the number value
of the question.
18. Add the number value of the question to the
ARROWS OF LIGHT 203
Theosophic G.R. of name and B.P. and to the G.R.
of the question date. Find the new G.R. and unlock
it with the Key Number indicated by the nature of
the question, find the Super Root, Super Power, and
all Sub Roots and Sub Powers,_ Ruling Factor and
Object.
19. Solution of Question is effected by working
out all the factors to their Keywords and arranging
these so as to form a logical statement of the answer.
20. Final Synthesis of the whole is found by blend-
ing the solution of the question with the Synthesis of
the Character.
TAROT ANALYTICAL CHART
Name:
Birth Path: G.R. of B. P.:
Super Root: Keyword:
Background:
Major Key No. 9: Volume:
K.W.:
Character:
Nature:
Theosophic Gross Root: Super Root:
K.W.:
Theosophic Super Power: K.W.:
Quality:
Sub Root: K.W.:
Sub Power: K.W.:
Ruling Factor: K..W.:
Object: K.W.:
Synthesis of Character:
204 ARROWS OF LIGHT
Question Date G.R. : Super Root:
K.W.:
Question:
Number Value: Question Key:
New Gross Root: Super Root:
K.W.:
New Super Power: K.W.:
New Sub Root: K.W.:
New Sub Power: K.W.:
Solution of Question:
Final Synthesis:
TAROT ANALYTICAL CHART
Name: Sarah Bernhardt.
Birth Path: Oct. 22, 1844.
Super Root: 22
G.R. of B.P.: 22.
Keyword: Failure, Folly.
Background: Famous actress, artist, sculptress and writer.
Major Key No. 9: Volume: 14 K.W.: Burdens
Character: A3 R3 H2. Active mind, active vitality, chronic
ailments.
Nature: Successful cleverness in overcoming nateral limitations.
by perseverance, yet ending in realization of ultimate failure.
Theosophic Gross Root: 169. Super Root: 16.
K.W.: Energy, Accidents.
Theosophic Super Power: 18. K.W.: Mother fixed. Victim
of Deception.
Quality: Public success neutralized by domestic failure.
Sub Root: K.W.:
Sub Power: K.W.:
Ruling Factor: 2.
Object: 3.
K.W.: Negative in a business sense.
K.W.: Action in Art.
Synthesis of Character: Clever genius, mother fixed and mis-
erable. Failure through temperament and impulse.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 205
Question Date G.R.: 16. Super Root: 16. K.W.: Energy,
Accident.
Question: Why did she lose her limb?
Number Value: 16. Question Key: 7.
New Gross Root: 201. Super Root: 3. K.W.: Kidney
trouble.
New Super Power: 18. K.W. : Stomach derangement.
New Sub Root: JO. K.W.: Suddenness.
New Sub Power: 2. K.W.: Intestinal condition.
Solution of Question: Surgery as the result of an accident com-
plicated by faulty stomach, bowel and kidney action and
sudden depletion.
Final Synthesis: Sarah Bernhardt was highly energetic, artistic
and temperamental. Her life was beset by emotional and
physical violence and her last days were spent in financial
distress and disillusionment.
COMMENT
One of the unique features of this system is the fact
that whenever a problem presents itself for solution
the day, month and year added to the name invariably
give the answer. In the case above, the question, Why
did she lose her limb? occurred to us while writing the
book several years after her death, yet the answer as
indicated by the numbers appears to be historically
correct.
CHAPTER XXVII
THE SCIENCE OF CYCLES
There are two statements found in Metaphysical
literature, that fascinate me. The first is "God geom-
etrizes" and the second "Order is Heaven's First Law.u
These two statements are basic, and constitute the
groundwork of any intelligent approach to the under-
lying Reality. Geometry is the Science of Form and
Order, and may be called the Science of Arrangement.
All that we know of the Universe, is contained in
these two factors. Everything that exists, exists
within the One and is relative to something that
is like it or differs from it. All these things are ex-
pressed in number values, and these again fall in an
orderly arrangement. The most important numbers
with which we have to deal, are 1, which typifies
Wholeness, 2 Opposites, 3 Action, 7 Completion, and '
9 Perfection, while I0 completes the Cycle on the
Physical Plane and opens that of the Subconscious or
Astral Plane, and 20 that of the Spiritual Plane. This
should be kept constantly in mind, for we are not
dealing with arbitrary rules, but with the Subjective
Laws of Creation. When using the Tarot, we are
measuring the Dynamics of God.
God, considered as a Trinity, started the Creative
work and completed it in a week, or 7 days. 3 plus 7
are 10. This constitutes a complete Cycle or Circle.
The word "Day," of course, means One Cycle, for it
really is one rotation of the Earth upon its axis. Con-
sequently the 7 days of Creation, are 7 Cycles of
Condensation, reaching from God to Clod, from Spirit
206
ARROWS OF LIGHT 207
to Bone, from the Primal Essence to the hardest Stone.
The Ancients said that God the Father (the Cosmic
Ego) , for the Son (the Eternal Divine Substance) ,
through the Holy Spirit (Cosmic Mind or Under-
standing), created the Heaven and the Earth (Male
and Female Principle), and manifested them through
7 days of Creation. 7 is the number of Completion
in Form. That is the meaning of the 7 Seals on the
Book of Life; the 7 colors in the Rainbow; the 7
elements in the Periodic series; the 7 days of the week;
the 7 bones in the neck; the 7 visible Planets, and the
7 senses of Man.
Nature works through 7 in its Evolution and Ar-
rangement of Form, but through 9 in its Creation.
Therefore, 9 typifies the Form plus the Polar Action
of Spirit which brings it forth, and 10 includes the
One Supreme Will Whose Infinite Fiat compels the
Action of 9.
We may illustrate this Cosmic Power of numbers,
or rather of the forces indicated by the numbers,
with a Circle. A Circle is the symbol of Perfect
Completeness. It is a Cycle. It is divided in 360
Degrees. That number of Degrees has been used from
time immemorial. No one knows who originated the
idea. The Great Pyramid of Egypt was already an-
cient in the time of Herodotus the Father of History,
yet, the secrets of this building were discovered by the
modern mind primarily because an engineer noted the
fact that this building met all the requirements of the
squaring of the Circle. In prehistoric times, this world
had not only marvelous building engineers, but the
Pyramid shows that these engineers used almost the
same inch that we use today, and divided the Circle
208 ARROWS OF LIGHT
as we do at the present time, into 360 Degrees. Fur-
thermore, as every Astronomer knows, the 12 Con-
stellations of the Zodiac are Star groups that lie along
the path of the Sun, each group occupying a space of
30 Degrees, proving that the prehistoric Ancients ap-
plied this mathematical formula to the Heavens. They
considered all Circles as Cycles, and they symbolized
all Cycles by 10, which is the number of Transition
to a second Plane, for, as no two things can occupy the
same place at the same time they must be either above
or below each other; they must spiral. A Cycle or
Circle may be either Spiritual, Emotional, Temporal,
or Physical, but no matter in what domain it mani-
fests it is subject to the same numbers. For instance:
Take the Cycle of 1 day, which is one revolution of
the Earth. It is divided into light and dark portions
called night and day. This corresponds to Male and
Female, Summer and Winter, Youth and Age. It is
less obviously but not less actually divided into 4
quarters called morning, forenoon, afternoon and eve-
ning. Thus 2 and 4 are key numbers of the day cycle.
The four quarters of the day mentioned have 6 hours
each. 2 plus 4 equals 6. The 2 halves of the day
have 12 hours each. 1 plus 2 equals 3. Thus the
very quadrants and halves of the day have significant
numerical values.
The Moon makes a Cycle about the Earth in ap-
proximately 28 days. We all know that it has 4
phases, while the Sun makes a complete Circle in
365~ days, which are divided into Summer and Win-
ter and 4 Seasons. In fact all orbital motion no mat-
ter where found in Nature does divide itself into 4.
The Cross within the Circle illustrates this Principle
\
ARROWS OF LIGHT 209
and became the foundation idea for the Ancient Pyra-
mid builders. The Pyramid is a building which typi-
fies the Center of the Cross within the Circle raised
up in such a way that the Circle becomes the Square
base; it constitutes a dramatization of the Great
World Cycle, for one of the numerical values of its
base measurement exactly marks the number of years
in the Great Solar Year of 25,920 years. This Great
Solar Year, being divided into 12 Sub-Solar Cycles
of 2, 160 years each, these Cycles being perfect in their
own influence, both have the power of 9. These
powers are found in the regular way by adding the
numbers together repeatedly until the final digit is
found, which in both cases is 9.
This shows us that 1 is lacking to complete the
Cycle, or close it and that is the number of Cosmic
Intelligence; the Power of the All-Father who is above
and beyond, and encompasses all Cycles.
But to return to the Simple Circle. Its primary
number is 10 and its chief division is 4, as already
indicated. 4X 10 are 40 and from earliest history
No. 40 has indicated the work Completed. We read
that Moses was 40 years old when he completed his
education in Egypt, 80 years old when he returned,
and 120 years old when he died on the border of the
Holy Land. There were 3 great phases in his life
symbolized by 40 years each. There are many other
such references to 40 throughout Sacred Writ. 9
Cycles of 40 constitute 360, this symbolizes that
everything must be in itself complete, each on its own
plane.
In the year 1881 one of these Cycles known as the
Piscean Age ended and the Aquarian began. The age
14
210 ARROWS OF LIGHT
of Pisces was the Age of Faith. For 2, 160 years the
motive power of the world was Faith. During this
time no great advance was made in civilization any-
where in the world except under the influence of the
Christian Philosophy. All other systems went into
decadence. Christianity, however, was in attunement
with Piscean requirements as indicated by its Baptismal
rites and its repeated reference to the Waters of Life.
Its Shibboleth was "Have Faith and Believe" and
"He that believeth not shall be damned." This is
not superstition for the power of the Sun Spiritually
considered fell upon us through the watery influence
of Pisces. We saw everything "as through a glass,
darkly."
Beginning with the year 1881. I+8+8+1=18.
And 1+8=9 which is the number of the Sign Aqua-
rius and has for its Kabbalistic keyword "Wisdom,"
and for its astrological one, Knowledge. The Prophet
Daniel who forecasted the end of the Piscean
Age, said that Knowledge would be multiplied.
As a matter of fact, more than 40 books were
written on the Great Pyramid during the years 1880
and 1881 while the World saw more new inventions
and discoveries from the year 1880 to the present day
than had been brought to light during the entire
Piscean Age. Beginning with that year, Human rea-
son was clarified, the forces of Nature were conquered,
destroying the faith in authority and accentuating the
importance of reason. 33!4 years after the opening
of the Aquarian Age, Man was given his opportunity
to try the products of his intellect divorced from the
products of the heart, and the Great World War was
the result. 33 digits to 6 and 6 is Temptation. 1914
I
FR0\1 .. THE \VfTNI::SS OF THE STARS... BY E. \\'. BULLlNCJER . D .D.
The Constcll.:ition of Aquarius or the \Vatcr bearer rises w ith the Sun d uring the last 10 days o f January :rnd the first
20 d.1rs of February . This constellation is also called ·the sign of the Son of ;\/Ian.·
ARROWS OF LIGHT 211
digits to 15 and that is the Devil which, when digited
again, also becomes 6. Thus the World War was
Man's intellect tempted by the Devil, or 15, while the
ultimate digits added together constitute 12. When
dealing with Cosmic Cycles everything is reduced to
the first round, or the single digits. In dealing with
Human problems, numbers below 22 are not involved.
THE TAROT WHEEL
OR
ASTRO-KABBALLISTIC CHART
This chart greatly enlarged and hand-colored may be purchased from the
author. They may also be had plain. They are very essential to all
students of Astrological Correspondences.
212
CHAPTER XXVIII
THE TAROT WHEEL
OR
ASTRO-KABBALLISTIC CHART
Center Ring. The Ego
The Chart of the Tarot, page 212 of this book,
is a combination of Astrological and Tarot Symbol-
ism arranged in such a way that the one completely
complements the other, giving the student a wealth
of keywords indicative of the influences of both the
Tarot and Astrology as they apply to the different
departments of Man and the Universe. The Seven-
fold Constitution of Man and his objective and sub-
jective environment are configured by the center dot
and the succeeding 8 concentric rings to the outside
of the Chart. If this Chart were enlarged and colored
according to Astrological Correspondence, it would
constitute a Diagrammatic map of the Cosmos, chart-
ing the powers and potencies which play throughout
the Universe. Let us consider the various structures in
detail and supply the colors as we go, also the Letters
and Numbers.
We begin our reading with the Center Dot or Ring.
It typifies the Ego. The Ego is that which is Con-
scious, in contradistinction to that which may appear
in Consciousness. We are that which is Conscious.
That of which we are Conscious is not we. It con-
stitutes the material in which we are physically,
etherically, subconsciously, instinctively, mentally and
213
214 ARROWS OF LIGHT
aspirationally clothed. The Center Ring is we who
experience and work with these things, but not these
things themselves. The ultimate I, the real Inward
Self, is configured by the color orange and the metal
gold. It is of the same color as the background of the
Chart to indicate that it is of the same substance and
essence as the underlying Principle of the Universe;
essentially God. In this Center Ring we find the
Number 21, or 3 times 7. 7 is the Number of Com-
pletion and 3 is the Number of Action, while 21 is
the Number of Success, hence that which is 1 is in-
herently complete, but not perfect, for the Number
of Perfection is the Number 9. The Chart, therefore,
indicates that in his essential Nature Man is physically,
mentally and spiritually complete. But No. 21 is
also the 3d Power of 9 and this shows us that the
Ego has power of Action on all 3 Planes and that this
Action may be carried on to Perfection. 21 is the
Number of Success and Attainment, it typifies the
Sun, for what the Sun is to Nature the Ego is to Man
as he manifests in the .flesh.
The next thing we observe is the Letter S. It cor-
responds to No. 21 in sound value. It is an abbrevi-
ated picture of a snake, here used as the Symbol of
Wisdom, for Wisdom is the successful use of Knowl-
edge on successively higher Planes, that is, Spiral. The
snake by its Spiral position while at rest, symbolizes
Life aspiring upward from the ground to the head.
The Ego, therefore, becomes the Serpent of Wisdom
in contradistinction to the Serpent of Knowledge, or
rather, of Desire. 21, S and Ego are all indicative
of the Spiral ending in Consciousness, or, the head of
the Snake.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 215
This Spiral is also symbolized as a Pyramid and we
are told by some that the great Pyramid of Egypt was
never completed-the capstone was never put on it. It
was the stone by the builders rejected, they being un-
able to find a use for it for the reason that it was made
up of angles and curves, symbolically Male and Female
Principles. Hence, we are told that the Ego never
actually enters into Man except in the case of the
Highest Initiates. It overshadows him. On the re-
verse side of the great Seal of America is a picture of
the Pyramid with the capstone removed, but hovering
above it in the Sphere of Light, having within it the
All-Seeing Eye. This is a picture of the Ego as being
above and dominant over, but not actually at one with
the Human Entity. The Ego is the Master of the
Lodge who governs and directs the work of Life
through his emissaries, the Divine Soul and the Spir-
itual Body. For that reason Hiram Abiff is called the
Widow's Son; the Divine Soul being separated from
the Ego is called the Widow. The Center Ring, there-
fore is symbolically the 33d Degree of the Masonic
Order wherein the great work is perfected. The Ego
is typified by King Solomon, the builder of the
Temple.
Second Ring. The Divine Soul
The second ring from the Center outward holds
the Letter Rand the No. 20. It is of green color and
represents the Divine Soul, that which Plato calls the
Epistomonic Nature-the Christ Consciousness. It is
that quality within us which is intuitively wise and
is known in sober Science as the Superconscious Mind.
From it proceed Inspiration and Aspiration. It gives
216 ARROWS OF LIGHT
rise to that type of Wisdom which is expressed through
Love. It is the Life of the Spiritual Man. It is con-
scious of its own Immortality but has very little in-
fluence over the Lower Nature during the early stages
of Man's unfoldment. It wars with the instincts of
the Flesh and is not always successful. If it becomes
separated from what is called the Natural Man then
we are told that the Soul is lost. This, however, has
reference to the Animal Soul which must sustain the
Divine Soul in Physical Nature.
No. 20 being negative to No. 21 is said to be Silver
and, as such, sacred to the Moon, the widowed wife
of the Sun. The Moon is a barren world, ages ago
the Life Wave left her. The Sun no longer vitalizes
her body nor does the Ego of Ultimate Divine Self
enter into close union with the Outer Planes of Man.
But, as the Moon reflects the light of the Sun and
magnetically draws the fluids of the Earth, so the
Divine Soul reflects the Glory of God and attracts that
which is noble and good in the lower spheres of Man.
No. 20, therefore, is said to be the Senior Warden who
sits opposite the Master in the Lodge. He is given
the No. 20 because he is the gate to the Divine World,
20 being the opening of the Third Cycle of Numbers.
Third Ring. The Spiritual Body
The Third Ring from the Center is colored Violet
and symbolizes the Spiritual Body, or what is to us
the Conscious Mind. It is composed of Mental Sub-
stance in and through which the Divine Soul or No.
20 operates and through which our Instinctive Urges
and Desires, built up during Physical existence, make
ARROWS OF LIGHT 217
themselves known to us. It is the Ring of Thought
and Reflection; through it we experiment and direct
experimentation. It is the thinking part of ourselves;
the Borderland between the Animal and the God;
between that which is and that which is becoming.
It is the Planet Mercury, the wing-footed messenger
for through it the Higher Impulses from the Divine
Soul are carried outward to the Physical Nature, and
the ennobled impulses of our Physical Nature are car-
ried upward to the Divine Soul. This last is the real
inward meaning of Tithing, one tenth of all our every-
day activity should be dedicated to higher causes if
we are to live Consciously on the Inner Planes, or
Second Cycle of Evolution, as indicated by 10; in
this case 1 Plane above ordinary or Objective Intellect.
No. 1 is the Number of All-Inclusiveness (see
numbers). All that we know we know through Men-
tality. It is through the action of the Spiritual Body
in its Mental Phases that we learn to know the One-
ness of things. Shaped like a flame, the Letter A
illumines the outer darkness. As Consciousness it
encompasses that with which it comes in contact. A
also suggests a compass. As No. 1 it indicates the
beginning and signifies the Borderline where the Spir-
itual Wodd ends and the Astral Wodd begins. The
Spiritual Body is the Angel with the flaming sword
(sword, 1: Flame. A) that guards the gate to Paradise.
The Ego, 21, the Divine Soul, 20, and the Spiritual
Body, 1. constitute the Spiritual World of Man; his
true self. Add these numbers together and we have
42 which involves to the Number 6, the number of
Temptation and of Love. It is these 3 collectively
which are tempted (6) to involve in Matter. and now
218 ARROWS OF LIGHT
if we take 6 away from 42 we have 36 which, if we
divide by 9 in order to get the Power, gives us 4+1
which is 5 and indicates that this Temptation is ac-
cording to Divine Law.
Fourth Ring. The Animal Soul
Three Master Masons are required to open a Master
Mason's Lodge. A Lodge of Master Masons sym-
bolizes the Spiritual Plane whereon the Human Entity
functions in a vehicle composed of the Ego, Divine
Soul and Spiritual Body; symbolically King Solomon,
Hiram, King of Tyre and H.A., the widow's son.
This Trinity suggests that part of Man which is eter-
nal, indestructible, super-material, super-astral and
immortal; the high officers of the Microcosmic Lodge
called the Human Entity. These Masters must be
served by the Fe1low-Craft as represented by the Senior
and the Junior Warden. These two officers are sym-
bolic of the Astral World and of the antagonistically
complementary influence of the Planets Mars and
Venus, Nos. 16 and 6. 16 and 6 equals 22 which
indicates that our failures, follies and mistakes orig-
inate in our Lower Nature.
It requires five officers to open a Lodge of the Fel-
low-Craft Masons, thereby indicating that the Fellow-
Craft work is done on the Astral Plane where the
Physical and Etheric Bodies are not taken into con-
sideration. Thus, in the Fourth Ring, we are dealing
with the Senior Deacon, the officer who prepares can-
didates for initiation. The Senior Deacon is the War
God Mars, the inflictor of pain, he who battles for
existence; that factor of the Human Entity called the
Animal Soul. Birth is accompanied by blood, blood
!
ARROWS OF LIGHT 219
is red. Birth is also the result of the Human periodic
function with its blood-like fluid. Birth is associated
with pain and is the Objective cessation of Spiritual
Consciousness and the beginning of the struggle for
existence. The Animal Soul is symbolized in the
Hebrew Alphabet by the Letter Ayin which corre-
sponds to the English 0 and the Yiddish Oi. 0, is
the Universal exclamation of pain and surprise; even
as the Animal Soul leads the Human Entity through
the pains and surprises of Astral and Physical exist-
ence, to the Master in the East, in the Sanctum Sanc-
torum or Innermost Fane.
It is the Senior Deacon, No. 16, and the Sound 0
which constitutes the Astral wave length used by the
Ego, Divine Soul and Spiritual Body to gather ex-
perience in the lower spheres so that a perfected human
entity may be built. We have already discussed the
steps on which this experience is gathered. First of all
we have sensitiveness which is referred to in the Bible
by "Their eyes were opened," meanin·g that when the
Ego and Divine Soul (Adam and Eve) ate of the fruit
of the Tree of Good and Evil (Astral Plane) they
contacted its heritage of pleasure and pain. On the
Astral Plane form is created, and as all form is tem-
poral, whatever is built up on the Astral Plane must
die. Only Wisdom and Love survive as integral parts
of the more inward nature. The Animal Soul in
order to initiate the Neophyte, must have experience
with the requirements of the plane on which he initi-
ates him, and for that reason we find him associated
with sensation, perception, instincts, ideation, anger,
cunning, violence, suspicion, and many other factors
that have to do with that world wherein an individ-
220 ARROWS OF LIGHT
ual can survive only by the law of claw and fang.
It indicates our hereditary characteristics, that which
the Race has bequeathed to the form-building knowl-
edge of the Ego.
Fifth Ring. The Astral Body
Every power must manifest in substance. The Di-
vine Soul expresses itself in the Mental Substance con-
stituting the Spiritual Body. · The Animal Soul
inheres in Astral substance composing the Astral Body
or Subconscious Mind. Within the Animal Soul lie
the Race Memories which manifest as Instincts, and
in the Astral Body lie the Life Memories; the images
of all experience gathered in Human life. It is the
book of memory, and from it proceed feelings and
complexes. These modify or intensify our natural
instincts and propensities. Memories are of two char-
acters, pleasurable and painful. They produce the
often inexplicable conduct of Man. Psychoanalysis,
which deals with the tangles in our emotional nature,
differs from the Hermetic Sciences. The latter teaches
that man may influence his environment by directing
his Will to his Emotional life, while the former infers
that we are the victims of our complexes and fixations.
Number 6 is the Junior Deacon in the Masonic
Lodge. When the Master asks him to explain his place
and his business, the Junior Deacon answers among
other things, that his function is to wait on the Wor-
shipful Master and Wardens, to act as their Proxy in
the active duties of the Lodge and to take charge of
the door. The Junior Deacon or Number 6 consti-
tutes that phase of the Subconscious Mind interior.
which Freud calls the Censor. The Censor corresponds
ARROWS OF LIGHT 221
to the tyler of the Lodge. The real work of No. 6
or the Astral Body, is to select from the incoming
memories the proper substance for the nourishment of
the Spiritual Trinity .within.
Venus and Mars are natural lovers, the male and
female principle; or rather the Desire Power in which
these principles manifest. They constitute the Desire
Nature, that part of us which suffers and enjoys. The
very fact that we are conscious of pleasure and pain,
proves that the real Self is beyond them. They are
the necessary fruits of the Tree of Knowledge of Good
and Evil which the Higher Self must transmute into
Love and Wisdom. Our Spiritual Nature transmutes
the Temptation of 6 into Love, and the Passion of
16 into Wisdom. But 6 and 16 are not material.
They inhere in the Intra-Etheric world known as the
Astral, or Desire Plane. They have no Will-they
only Want; they can not make direct contact with the
substance of the Physical Plane, as their atoms are too
fine to be resisted by Matter. They can be influenced
only by a substance the texture of which is more like
their own. This substance is the Ether. Its vibration
produces Light and Nerve Force. This Nerve Force is
indicated by the Sixth Ring of the Wheel.
Sixth Ring. The Etheric Body
The Secretary, or Nerve Action, in the Microcosmic
Lodge, manifests in afferent and efferent currents. The
duty of the Secretary is to make a record and acquaint
the Consciousness with the laws and conditions of the
outer world and adjust the body to the requirements
of these laws.
222 ARROWS OF LIGHT
Nerve Force and the Human Aura are Etheric Phe-
nomena. No. 5 is the Ether, the finest substance
capable of impressing the Physical brain of Man. The
next substance above the Ether is the Astral wherein
the Ether currents impinge to create the images we call
memories. It is this memory engraving that consti-
tutes the secretarial work of the Nerve Force. The next
substance below the Ether is Magnetism, the mother
of Electricity. Electricity affects not only the senses,
but the chemistry of the Physical Body as well. The
Ether constitutes the Borderline between the Astral
and the Electro-Physical world. It acts as the Intel-
ligence Bearer from the Inner to the Outer Planes of
Being, and vice versa.
Seventh Ring. The Physical Body
It requires seven officers to open a Lodge of Entered
Apprentice Masons. Naturally this typifies the Seven-
fold constitution of Man; or, more accurately, the
opening of the Seven Seals on the ''Book that is writ-
ten within and on the back,'' as described in the Reve-
lations of St. John. This book is the Physical Body,
the writing on the back refers to the Conscious Mind.
It is that which is manifest to the world; it is not
sealed. That which is written within, refers to the
Sympathetic Nervous System and the Ganglia along
its path. These Ganglia hold the secrets of Evolution;
of the origin and Destiny of Man. They hide from
the conscious or outer mind of Man, all that is written
in the book of God's remembrance. The true work
of Masonry and Religion is to break the Seals and
introduce the Conscious Objective Man to his Lost
Estate. They both start their work on the supposi-
ARROWS OF LIGHT 223
tion that the natural uninitiated Man is both blind
and lost. He is. Blind to his Spiritual Nature and
lost from contact with the Wisdom of the Inner Plane.
He wanders aimlessly in the wilderness of Phenomena
beset by the dragons of doubt, the ravens of despair
and the vultures of fear, tO'gether with the. grotesque
Phantasmagoria of death. His Animal Soul battles
these conditions with the law of club and fang. It
wrestles with the shadows of the night. It deals with
the Physical World in physical ways to attain physical
pleasure even at the cost of physical pain. It does not
recognize the Inner Plane. It is only vaguely con-
scious of Immortality; its cry is, ''Give me the
money!!" or "One world at a time." It seeks its sal-
vation in the concrete because the ego evolved it to
gather experience in that realm. It lies between the
outer or present world, and the spiritual plane, to
which it renders the sacrifice of itself, and from which
it is urged to seek the Light, to desire to become an
Initiate in the sacred Lodge of Higher Truth. Man
gathering experience in the Physical World through
the medium of his Animal Soul, pays his tithing to
the Higher Law. The God within is calling him
upward. He starts on the road to the higher planes,
neither barefoot nor shod (with imperfect understand-
ing); neither naked nor clothed (imperfectly protect-
ed), and blindfolded to indicate his inability to see
the more Inward Way, while the cable tow around
him symbolizes his Matter-bound condition. The
Masonic Candidate pictures the condition of Man as
he is dominated by his Animal Nature-a stranger
to God and Truth. The Seventh Ring is called the
TREASURER. The Physical Body is the repository
224 ARROWS OF LIGHT
of Physical things of Life. The Treasurer sits on the
North side of the Lodge, in the region of coldness,
darkness and winter. The Physical Body itself is
cold, the cells that compose it are in darkness. For
that reason it is the No. 15 and the Letter X. X is
the Sign of multiplication, and the desire to accumu-
late the things of this World is based chiefly in an
overvaluation of our fleshy needs.
Eighth Ring. The Environment
The Eighth Ring symbolizes the World we live in,
our Environment. In it occur all changes in form.
The letters L J, and Y and the No. 10 are associated
with its activity, for the Keyword of No. I0 is Change
of Fortune. The things of the World are constantly
changing and we are forced to adapt ourselves to these
conditions. The student should carefully study the
words written in the Eighth Ring, as they are impor-
tant keys as to how these Environmental factors actu-
ally affect our lives.
Ninth Ring. Astral Environment
Environment is twofold, subjective and objective,
visible and invisible. Behind, and within, the ether
of science lies the Astral Substance which, like concrete
matter, is divided into four conditions or elements.
The outward or physical elements are earth, water,
air, and electricity. The Astral environment also has
four elements, named after the denizens which inhabit
them. These are the Gnomes, called earth spirits;
Undines, the water spirits; Sylphs, or air spirits, and
Salamanders, the fire spirits. These four belong to the
ARROWS OF LIGHT 225
four kingdoms of the Astral and are associated with
feelings of fear, passion, aspiration, and inspiration or
enthusiasm. Our feelings originate to a greater extent
than we realize, in the Astral forces we unwittingly
contact. It is commonly known as the Psychic World,
and it plays an immense part in all the phenomena
of Spiritualism, Mesmerism, Hypnotism, Apports,
Rapports and Obsessions, and is the Substance that
lends itself to the magician, be he White or Black.
This sums up the Rings. Beyond them lies the
Universe with all its Hierarchies, Powers, Principali-
ties, modes and manners of action and reaction. Be-
yond the Ninth Ring, we change from the natural to
the supernatural, from the human to the divine, from
the relative to the Cosmic; from the matterbound
psychic to the all-inclusive spiritu:il aspect of the ONE.
15
CHAPTER XXIX
THE SPOKES OF THE WHEEL
In the preceding chapter we have discussed the Rings
in the Wheel from center to circumference, the Seven-
fold nature of Man as he manifests in his Objective
and Subjective environment. Let us now consider the
12 Spokes of the Wheel called Gates, and the par-
ticular types of Energy they represent. They are the
Numerical equivalents of the Signs of the Zodiac.
The Wheel is essentially a Cross within a Circle,
See page 227. We begin the reading at the point cor-
responding to the eyebrows in Man and to the Eastern
Horizon in Nature. This is called the Gate of Being,
it signifies the Letter M and the No. 13. This Letter
and Number correspond to the Sign Aries, having rule
over the Energy of the Head, with a special influence
over that section which lies between the eyebrows and
the under lip. The 13th Gate is the Gate of Birth,
it being the first after the Number 12 or the opening
of Spring, the birth of Life, the initiation of new
undertakings, therefore leadership and pioneering, also
the result of Physical Death which is birth on another
Plane.
All Physical Energy in the Solar System originates
in the Sun; all Physical Energy in Man is directed
from the Medulla Oblongata. The Medulla is the Sun
of the Physical Body and around it the brain and skull
are built. It is situated approximately between the
ears. It is the head and the center of the Cross. The
Gate signified by No. 13 starts at its center and runs
226
COMBINATION CHART
-~\I/~
-
This Chart illustrates the Pillars of Wisdom and of Beauty. It also illus-
trates how the Houses of the Horoscope, with their ruling Signs, divide the
Body. On the Figure surrounding the Circle, are given pictorial representa·
tions of the 12 Signs and the regions over which they rule. Beginning with
the TOP of the HEAD of the outside Figure, or Eastern Horizon, and read-
ing downward to the LOWER JAW, is the dominion of the RAM. ARIES.
The Body from the LOWER JAW to the SEVENTH CERVICAL VER·
TEBRA at the ROOT of the NECK. is governed by the BULL. TAURUS.
ARMS. SHOULDERS and LUNGS are under the TWINS, GEMINI.
CANCER. the CRAB. rules the BREAST and STOMACH. LEO, the
LION, has sway over the SPINE and UPPER BACK. but more specifically
over the SOLAR PLEXUS and HEART. The ABDOMEN and its contents
yield allegiance to VIRGO. From the KIDNEYS to the SACRUM. is the
territory of THE SCALES. LIBRA. while the GENERATIVE ORGANS
and their immediate adnexa are under the scepter of SCORPIO. The
HIPS and THIGHS respond to SAGITTARIUS, and the KNEES with
their TENDONS and LIGAMENTS. defer to the GOAT. CAPRICORN.
The CALVES of the LEGS are ruled by AQUARIUS. the WATERMAN.
and the FEET and TOES are the domain of the FISH. PISCES.
227
228 ARROWS OF LIGHT
forward along the face of the brain to the eye. Direct!y
opposite it lies the Gate of Marriage and Action. This
runs backward to a point on the Occipital ridge. These
two Gates are the base line dividing the Mental from
the Physical mechanism in Man and Summer from
Winter and Heaven from Earth in religion. It sug-
gests the energy of Intellect as its opposite suggests
the binding power of Love. For that reason the An-
cients called this line the Pillar of Wisdom as these
Gates blend the capacity for Love and Reason accord-
ing to their respective strength.
If we consider the Gate of Being, or 13, as a Power
and the Gate of Action, No. 3, as a Root we get an
Origin or Ruling Number of 10 minus. 10 indicates
Change, 3 Action, and 13 Renewal or bringing forth.
The Action (3) of Intelligence (13) works Change
(10) in Human affairs. In Nature the binding Action
of 3, through the energy of 13 brings about Change
( 10) . If we now seek for the Object we find it to be
16 or Mars, the ruler of Aries, or 13, and we know
that all things result from Energy ( 16) applied ac-
cording to Intelligence ( 13).
If the student will now turn to page 227 he will
find two Charts or Diagrams, one having a profile of
a man's head in the center and the other a full face.
The width of the head corresponds to the Gate of
Action and constitutes the Pillar of Strength. It in-
dicates the power of persistence, of balance, of judg-
ment, of construction, of combat and destruction.
The next Gates of importance are the Gate of Fal-
libility marked No. 8, Letters H and CH, and the
Gate of Deception marked No. 18, Letters SH, TS
and TZ. They correspond to the 8th and 10th Houses
ARROWS OF LIGHT
PILLAR OF STRENGTH
229
The breadth of the head directly above the ears. and through the temples,
indicates the vitality, balance, judgment, and persistence of an individual.
The greater this development, the more these qualities will be manifest.
Strength is in proportion to purity, and physical purity is proportional to
kidney action. The kidneys are under the Sign Libra, the Letter G and
the Number 3.
of the Horoscope respectively, and cross the base line
in the Plane of the Medulla. From the center of the
Medulla upward to the Brahmarandra. This is called
the Pillar of Beauty. Its height signifies the capacity
for ideals and a sense of Beauty. Artists and Mystics
230 ARROWS OF LIGHT
have high heads. In Nature, when the Sun is in the
Mid-Heaven the beauties of Creation are most dearly
revealed and when there is a great height from the
base line to the top of the skull, the beauties of Nature
are greatly appreciated. No. 8 governs the House of
Use and Honor and Profession and all activities where-
in human fallibility may become manifest. It is the
10th House and indicates ideals. Its opposite is No.
18 and has for its Keyword, Deception. Honor fails,
friends betray and power vanishes, so we must balance
our ideals against our abilities to perform those things
which our ideals demand.
If now we take 8 as a Power and 18 as a Root we
again have a Ruling Factor of 10. The Great Pyramid
of Egypt was built to perpetuate this work. It is the
Tarot in stone, and in this connection it is interesting
to note that the word Pyramid comes from a Root
meaning "division of 1O."
All Gates represent positive or negative Energy and
accordingly must be considered as either Powers or
Roots. To illustrate: We take No. 13, keeper of the
first gate, as a power, it being positive, and its direct
opposite, 3, as a Root, it being opposite or negative to
No. 13. Thus 13, M is ruled by Aries, the house of
Mars and 3 G is ruled by Libra, the house of Venus.
Venus and Mars are natural lovers.
13 Power 3 Root -10 Ruling Factor Object 16
14 Root 4 Power+lO " " " 18
17 Power 7 Root -10 " " " 24= 6 Power 3
18 Root 8 Power+ I 0 " " " 26= 8 Power 3
19 Power 9 Root -10 " " " 28=10 Power 4
2 Root 12 Power+10 " " " 14
ARROWS OF LIGHT 231
The 1st Gate is the Letter Mand No. 13, through
it we come into Being as the result of the energy of
the 7th Gate which is Union, or Marriage, the Let-
ter G and the No. 3.
The 2d Gate is the Letter N, No. 14. It gives us
substance according to the strength of our Desire which
is the 8th Gate and corresponds to No. 4, Letter D.
The 3d Gate is represented by the Letters P, PH, F,
and the No. 17. It indicates the Power of Thought
by which we must gain Victory over our environ-
ment. Victory is the Keyword for the 9th Gate, Let-
ter Z and No. 7.
The 4th Gate corresponds to the Letters SH, TS,
TZ and the No. 18. It is the Gate of Feeling, always
deceptive and arises out of the use we make of Sub-
stance, as signified by the 10th Gate, Letters H, SH,
No. 8.
The 5th Gate is the Letter Q, No. 19. It is the
Gate of Happiness and Will and is polarized in Wis-
dom as signified by the 11th Gate, Letters TH and
No. 9.
The 6th Gate is Letter B, No. 2 and gives us the
Power of Analysis, by which we separate the wheat
from the chaff in order to avoid Loss as symbolized
by the 12th Gate, Letter L and No. 12.
THE GREAT PYRAMID OF EGYPT
C. C. Zain, exterior secretary of the Brotherhood
of Light, maintains that the Great Pyramid of Egypt
was built by that venerable order, more than 19,000
years ago. The proofs that he advances are too private
to be detailed here. The student is assured, however,
232 ARROWS OF LIGHT
THE PASSAGE SYSTEM OF THE GREAT PYRAMID OF GIZEH
Showing the solid rock foundation upon which the Pyramid stands, the
Subterranean Pit, the Descending Passage to the Pit. the Ascending Passage
to the Grand Gallery. the Well Shaft at the opening of the Horizontal
Passage, the Horizontal Passage and the Queen's Chamber so-called, the
Grand Gallery, the Great Step. the Ante-Chamber, the Granite Leafe, the
King's Chamber, the Coffer, the 5 Chambers of Construction, and the Courses
of Masonry up to 90, also the Air Passages to both the Queen's and the
King's Chamber.
that they are easily accessible to anyone who has the
patience and perseverance to take required Degrees.
The Pyramid was constructed under the direction
of the Sages who evolved the pictures that mark the
Constellations in the Heavens, and who gave us the
Alphabet, the Tarot, and the groundwork for the
Scriptural allegories, so rich in prophetic and symbolic
truth. It is small wonder, then, that the Great Pyra-
mid of Gizeh has been called the "Bible 1n stone."
ARROWS OF LIGHT 233
Ever since the year 1880, some of the cleverest minds
in the world have endeavored to decode its symbolism,
with startling conclusions and results. The Bible re-
fers to the Pyramid prophetically, suggesting that this
monument will yield its secrets at the close of the Pis-
cean Age. In Isaiah 19: 18-19 we read: "In that day
I will have an altar in the Land of Egypt and a Pillar
in the border thereof." See picture on page 232.
It is held by some to be of antediluvian origin. Its
top layers bear evidence of having been under water.
It is the largest building ever built by Man for the
purpose of recording the Will of God, the Wisdom of
the Ancients, and the prophecy of the ultimate re-
demption of the Human race from the bondage of
Ignorance and Death. It is thoroughly scientific. Not
an image is found in its passages, chambers and gal-
leries; not a word of written language upon its walls;
everything is expressed in measures. Its ancient Egyp-
tian name "KUHFU" meant "revelation measures"
(Davidson). The word "Pyramid" itself means the
''division of 10.'' Like the Bible, it is a sealed book
that may be unlocked only by those who have the
proper keys.
The exoteric or outer significance of the Pyramid
as its name indicates, is unlocked by the number 10.
Its esoteric meaning must therefore yield to the Major
Key of the Tarot.
The Pyramid is a World Horoscope progressed to
the Aquarian Age. The No. I0 indicates the vibra-
tion of the Planet Uranus, the ruler of the Sign Aqua-
rius which vibrates to 9. Aquarius is the Waterman,
symbolically John the Baptist who floods the Earth
with knowledge preparatory to the coming of the Mes-
234 ARROWS OF LIGHT
siah Kingdom. The monument is a stone chart mark-
ing the progress of the White Race through the Ages,
and symbolizing the Cosmic plan and purpose with
regard to the Sons of Man.
Theologians and engineers who have analyzed the
Pyramid measures by the use of the number 10, have
discovered the astounding fact that what we call Mod-
ern Science is but an echo of Ancient Wisdom. They
found that the Pyramid builders knew the distance of
the Earth from the Sun, the length of the Common
Year to the exact fraction, the length of the Lunar
Year, the length of the Sidereal Year, the position of
the Pole Star, the weight of the Earth, the length of
the Earth's axis, the parallels of latitude, and numer-
ous other scientifically known and demonstrable facts.
They discovered also that the internal passages re-
ferred to the progress of the Race at the rate of one
inch for a year; that the Pyramid indicates the great
divisions of History, marks the exact date of the be-
ginning and the end of the World War, and fore-
shadows future tribulation with ultimate victory and
peace.
Few if any have applied the Tarot Keys to unlock
the Inner meaning of this mighty monument. Let us
give a few examples: The vertical height of the Pyra-
mid is 5,813 inches. This involves to 17. Consider-
ing the height as the GROSS ROOT, we have a Super
Root of 17 with the Keywords of Truth and Faith,
and the Power of 8 with the Keyword of Justice. The
height of the Pyramid has a Theosophic Value of
Truth. It is Truth, from Capstone to Foundation.
Incidentally its Ruling Factor is 9, Wisdom, and its
object is indicated by a G.R. of 25, involving to S.R.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 235
of 7, or Completeness. The Pyramid is a complete
work.
At this point it is of interest to note that the 153
fish referred to by St. John in the twenty-first Chapter
and 11th Verse of his Gospel, is a number divisible
by 17 and it has a Super Root of 9. Christ is
said to be the Stone by the Builders rejected. The
Christian Church is ruled by the Sign of Fish, Pisces.
153 is an almost perfectly reverse statement of the
Pyramid truth, a fact that was not understood by the
material mind and led to the rejection of the Stone by
the builders of the Pyramid, and by the builders of
Judah.
The length of the Pyramid on one side of its per-
fectly square base, is 9, 131 inches, involving to the
number 14. Regeneration is .the evidence we have of
our basic truth. The angle of the Pyramid rises at
52 degrees. This involves to 7, the number of Vic-
tory. Incidentally, 52 marks the number of weeks in
the year, and its Super Root of 7 the number of days
in the week. Its Super Power is 6, and indicates that
Love lies at the Foundation, or that all work should
be carried out in a week of 6 days.
We shall give one more illustration to show how the
Tarot Keys unlock the Pyramid numbers to express
their spiritual truths. The number of courses of
masonry in the Great Pyramid is 212, involving to 5
which is both the number of Man and of Law. The
Pyramid was built for man, but the Super Power of
212 is 19, indicating that Man's power manifests
through the Law of Harmony between the sexes. The
Keywords for 19 being "Happiness and Joy." The
Ruling Factor in this case is 14. Regeneration, and its
236 ARROWS OF LIGHT
object is signified by the No. 24 involving to 6 with a
Super Power of 3, fro1n ·which we gather that the
Pyramid is a monument to the action of God's love.
Pyramid students and students of Scripture, as well
as students of Astrology and other Mystic Sciences,
will be well repaid when they use the Major Key to
unlock the meaning of the symbolic numbers found
in Ancient Literature.
THE EMERALD TABLET
We are seriously told by many writers, that the
Tarot originated with Hermes Trismagistus. The
Tarot, however, appeals to us as the work of an reon,
rather than of an individual. It has in it all the
majesty of a revelation, all the clarity of science. In
recent years, the symbols available to the public have
been modified, changed, readapted at the hands of
various authors. But the Tarot values are not in any
way affected by these changes. They are rooted in
the structure of the solar system. God speaks Crea-
tion into existence, and Man echoes God. Astrology
is the mother of the letter and sound values expressed
in the Tarot and the alphabet. Astrology is the
Mother of all science and philosophy. It is the rock
from which Theology has fallen, and to which it must
return, if it is to serve Man. The Priest must again
read the law as written in the heavens. He must learn
to commune with the stars. He must walk with God
in the Garden of His Universe. Astrology, misused
and abused as it is, nevertheless holds the key to the
Bible, to the traditions and to the understanding of
the majestic processes of our race. The Priest should
open his eyes to "The Sign of the Son of Man," which
ARROWS OF LIGHT 237
since the year 188L has been pouring the waters of
knowledge upon the Earth. This will make him a
power in the world. With the keys of astrology and
the Tarot, he will reveal to the Mind below, what is
in the Mind above. With it he will transcend politics.
He will cease being a business man, which inclines his
soul to Mammon, and away from God. He will be-
come independent from society's sentiments to which
at present he is only too frequently an abject slave, in
possession of the gold and silver key to the mysteries.
He will again be sought by the truth-hungry souls of
men and women, for they will know that he will feed
them with the bread of life, and not hurl at them the
stones of convention. He will include Hermes amongst
his prophets. He will place the caduceus amongst his
emblems, and he will place the Emerald Tablet upon
his altar. He will adorn his temple with the Signs of
the Zodiac; Sun, Moon and Planets will have their
place in his regalia. He will interpret the Scriptures
by the law of correspondence, and shed upon them the
glorious illumination of a trained intuition. We can
not do better than to close this book with the text of
the Emerald Tablet, as quoted in ''The Egyptian Re-
vival,'' by Frater Achad.
"True without error. certain and most true; that which is
above is as that which is below, and that which is below is that
which is above, for the performing of the miracle of the ONE
THING: and as all things were from One, by the mediation
of One, so all things arose from this ONE THING by adapta-
tion; the Father of it is the Sun, the Mother of it is the Moon;
the Wind carries it in its belly; the Nurse thereof is the Earth.
This is the Father of all perfection or consummation of the
whole world. The power of it is integral, if it be turned into
238 ARROWS OF LIGHT
earth. Thou shalt separate the earth from the fire, the subtle
from the gross, gently with much sagacity; it ascends from earth
to heaven, and again descends to earth; and receives the strength
of the superiors and of the inferiors-so thou hast the glory of
the whole world; therefore let all obscurity flee before thee.
This is the strong fortitude of all fortitude, overcoming every
subtle and penetrating every solid thing. So the world was
created. Hence were all wonderful adaptations of which this
is the manner. Therefore am I called thrice-great Hermes, hav-
ing the three parts of the philosophy of the whole world.
That which I have written is consummated concerning the
operation of the Sun."
FINIS
APPENDIX
ASTROLOGY AND THE HOROSCOPE
A BRIEF DISCUSSION OF THE SYMBOLISM USED
IN ALL STANDARD TEXTS
To the average person, a horoscope means little,
even when cast and explained by a competent astrol-
oger. He does not comprehend astral forces. His
ordinary schooling does not acquaint him with their
power. It rather belittles the idea. Yet, a little
honest study of the subject will convince anyone that
these forces are basic in the mechanism of the universe.
The truth is, the average person cannot appreciate the
work of the astrologer at anything near its value. He
has no personal knowledge of the energies charted by
the science, or how they operate upon his subcon-
scious mind. He does not realize that they incline
him to move in the direction of definite types of cir-
cumstances and events; that he too often mistakes
his wish for his wilt
The powers that the astrologer attributes to the
planets of the solar system, and to the signs in which
that solar system moves, are not the ordinary forces
recognized by modern science. They are not gravity,
magnetism, electricity, light or heat. They belong to
an entirely different category of energies that lie on a
plane interior to the ether of science. They are of the
same substance as that through which the subcon-
scious mind of man and of beast functions. This
substance is called the ASTRAL SUBSTANCE,
239
240 ARROWS OF LIGHT
sometimes referred to as astral fluid or light. Like the
ether of space, this substance is all pervading and lim-
itless, and responds to mind impulse as water responds
to wind.
This astral substance is the water of which we read
in the opening verses of the Book of Genesis. They
existed when ''the earth was \Vithout form and void
and darkness \Vas upon the face of the deep.'' It is
the fluid which is plastic to the breath of the gods
which, we are told, "moved upon the face of the
waters," before Creation began. Concentration of
these astral waters produced the ether, and the vibra-
tion of the ether became light. Thus "God said: 'Let
there be light, and there was light.' ·' Light is the re-
sult of God's action upon the astral waters. Physical
light acts upon our physical being. while astral light
acts upon our emotional or feeling nature. Physical
light causes a rearrangement in chemical clcn1ents:
astral light causes rearrangcn1cnt in emotional states.
Both working together help to express life in form.
and to adjust form to environment.
To understand a horoscope, therefore, we xnust
think of the planets, not as being so many good and
evil genii \vhich take us by the scruff of the neck and
throw us into fortune or misfortune, but as centers
of energy in the Heavens. that stir up corresponding
centers of energy in us. The sun, for instance, stirs
feelings of pride in so1nc persons, wbile in others it
activates conceit. Again. Mars excites muscular
energy that may be used in building a house, or
knocking down a neighbor. according to the quality
of the individual in question.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 241
It is the same with the energy from all the other
planets. They stir into action their corresponding
qualitiest but the manifestation of these qualities de-
pends to a great extent on the training and discipline
of the person. The way the energies of the planets as
expressed in Tarot values influence the mant depends
on the ruling planet of his horoscopet or the ruling
factor in his numbers. It depends also on the racial,
national. social and family background.
That the science of astrology was well understood
in ancient timest is evident from all the early texts.
We are told that Moses was instructed in the mysteries
by the priesthood on On. At that time, astrology
was the golden key to the arcane secrets of Nature. It
was a secret as well as a sacred science, used only by
the higher Initiates.
But Moses evidently did not impart to the priest-
hood of Israel all he had learned, for we read in the
Kabballa: "At the death of Moses, the Golden Key
was lost." Obviously, he taught the priests the tradi-
tions and allegories, but gave them insufficient instruc-
tion in the astronomical mathematics necessary for the
use of the Golden Key. Israel, therefore, had only the
oral law summed up in the Ten Commandments and
in the Ten Emanations of the Sephiroth. This law,
or Key, was embedded in the ancient alphabets. The
Egyptian, Hebrew, Chaldean, and Greek alphabets all
had triple meanings. They were symbols of sound
and number, and also of the signs and planets. In ad-
dition, they had an inner and an outer meaning with
which the deeper student of astrology had to familiar-
ize himself.
16
242 ARROWS OF LIGHT
Added to these 22 letters, they used the Ten Ema-
nations of the Sephiroth, together with the 32 Paths
of Wisdom, as described in the Sephir Yetzirah.
These books were part of the scriptures of the early
Jews. Eliphas Levi tells us that they cannot be under-
stood without a knowledge of astrology and the
Tarot.
In the older civilizations, religion and science con-
verged in astrology. The ancients realized that ''God
geometrizes," and that "Order is Heaven's first Law."
They knew that the masses are swayed by their emo-
tions; that the emotions are influenced by the astral
tides, and that these tides are strong or weak, hot or
cold, rough or smooth, in proportion to the position
of the planets in the solar system. They studied the
Heavens above in relation to the Man within, and
came to the conclusion that everything in the universe
is dependent on everything else, and that the great
work to be accomplished was to make a proper indi-
vidual adjustment to the cosmic forces.
Today, with the assistance of astronomy, physi-
ology, psychology, psycho-analysis, comparative my-
thology, comparative religion, and all other sciences
that bear on Man's relation to the universe, we are
again on the road to reestablishing this ancient science.
The use of the Tarot numbers, as set forth in this
work, is a very efficient substitute for the horoscope.
Furthermore, it is a mighty aid to the correct interpre-
tation of planetary positions in any birth chart.
The word "horoscope" means "hour-view." A
horoscope is a map of the solar system viewed from the
place and the hour of birth. This "hour-view" con-
stitutes the stamp that Nature places on our person-
ARROWS OF LIGHT 243
ality. It sketches in broad outline the nature of our
individual destiny. The horoscope charts the cur-
rents and eddies, the whirlpools and backwashes, as
well as the forward volume of the river of life. It is
a chart of our so-called normal destiny, unguided by
our intelligence and will. It maps possibilities and
dangers, rather than potentialities.
The solar system is a part of the universe. It is
composed of a family of worlds belonging to the sun.
The universe is a unity, from which it follows that
the movement of one body anywhere within this
unity must necessarily affect every other body, for all
movement is but a rearrangement of parts within a
whole.
The solar system consists of the following bodies:
l. THE SUN. This is the nucleus of the system. The
Giver of all light, heat, power, and energy. The source of vi-
tality. The stimulator of honor, pride, self-esteem. It may be
called the Father, and as such was anciently worshipped as the
symbol of God. Rules the metal gold, and orange light.
Twenty-first major arcanum of the Tarot, S. Attainment.
Malkuth at the foot of the Tree of Life.
2. MERCURY. The planet nearest the Sun. The Mes-
senger of the Gods. Symbol of Thought. Rules the nervous
system, especially the right side of the brain. Is associated with
lungs, shoulders and arms, organs of execution; also with the
bowel, through the Sign Virgo. Thought, through the brain,
discriminates between what is good and evil, and the bowel dis-
criminates between what is nutriment and what is waste, ap-
propriating the nutriment for the benefit of man, and expelling
the waste. Thus, brain and bowel are both organs of discrimi-
nation and, therefore, ruled by Mercury. ·Rules quicksilver, the
light violet ray of the spectrum, and the lst major arcanum, A.
It is associated with the frontal pituitary and thymus glands.
Dexterity. Hod, Knowledge.
244 ARROWS OF LIGHT
3. VENUS. The second planet from the Sun. The God-
dess of Love, who rose snow-white from the foam. Symbol of
the emotions of tenderness, a:ffection and the love of ease and
beauty. Inclines to laziness and pliancy; expressed in physical
life through the thyroid gland. Rules copper, and the yellow
ray of the spectrum. The 6th major arcanum, U, V, W.
Temptation. Tiphereth. Attraction, at the Center of the Tree
of Life.
4. THE MOON. Child of the Earth. The Mother of
physical nature upon the Earth. The Goddess Isis. Magnetic
formative power. Stimulator of digestion and assimilation.
Hence, rules the stomach, fluids, tides, growth; magnetic and
watery in influence. Minute hand on the clock of destiny.
Rules silver. The green ray of the spectrum. The 20th major
arcanum, R. Resurrection. Yesod, Formation.
5. MARS. The War God. Symbol of Energy, both con-
structive and destructive. Expresses through the adrenal cortex
and the voluntary muscular system. Rules iron, and the red
ray of the spectrum. The 16th major arcanum, 0. Accident,
catastrophe. operations, fights, quarrels, strife and disruptive
discord. all types of violent mechanical action. Netsach, Con-
flict.
6. JUPITER. The God Zeus, or Thor. The High Priest
of the solar system. The Expander. Symbol of Abundance.
Stimulator of procreative energies and their religious sublima-
tion. Rules tin. the indigo ray. Religion, law, mercy, gener-
osity, benevolence, and the offices of Judge and Priest. The
5th major arcanum, E. Chesed, Mercy.
7. SATURN. Father Time. Force of crystallization. Ex-
presses through the liver, spleen, para-thyroid and frontal pi-
tuitary gland. Inhibits, delays, gives rise to caution, fear, sel-
fishness and death. Rules lead, and the blue ray of the spectrum.
Sacred to the 15th major arcanum, X. Fatality. Black Magic.
Geburah, Severity.
8. URANUS. The Disrupter. The breaker of form. The
separator. Expresses through the para-thyroid glands and the
ARROWS OF LIGHT 245
central nervous system. Gives rise to strongly individual char-
acteristics. It may be either ideal or destructive, depending on
its position. Rules radium and the complete solar spectrum, or
dazzling white. Produces sudden changes of fortune, for either
good or evil. The 10th major arcanum, I. J. Y. Binah, Light,
Consciousness.
9. NEPTUNE. God of the Sea. Planet of Mystery. The
inflator. Governs dreams and visions, exaggeration, and on its
higher side, idealism and spirituality. Expresses through the
pineal gland. Inclines to drugs, drink, and all means that ex-
cite the imagination. Rules hidden causes and weird. unforsce-
able events. It rules molybdenum, and is of changing irides-
cence in color. Spiritual force, mysticism. The 11th major
arcanum, C, K. CK. Chocmah, Love in the Universal sense.
Planet X just recently discovered is too little known to be
discussed at this time.
Such in rough outline are the natures of the nine
planets. To which ·we have added nine of the ten
emanations of the Sephiroth. The one not men-
tioned corresponds to the planet just recently dis-
covered beyond the orbit of Neptune. This emana-
tion is called Kether-the crown-Cosmic intelligence.
In making an analysis. when we refer to the sun we
really refer to the power expressed by the sun. But
the sun shines twelve months in each year, and in
every month it clothes, or covers, a different Sign in
the Heavens. There are 12 of such spaces, named
after the 12 constellations that lie along the path of
the sun, called the elliptic. The symbols descriptive
of these spaces are given on page 22, together with
their names. The names of these spaces are the same
as the constellations associated with them, or at least
that were associated with them in ancient times. But
due to the procession of equinoxes, the constellations
246 ARROWS OF LIGH·r
and Signs no longer completely coincide. Still, their
influence is unchanged, proving that this influence is
not produced by the constellations, but belongs to defi-
nite regions of space.
The astrological year begins on the 21st day of
March, at the vernal equinox. That is, at the time
when the sun crosses the equator to the north. This
is the point where the Sun God ascends from the grave
of Winter. The sun, which was buried in the south,
now rises to vitalize the north. "All Nature is re-
newed through fire."
Let us now consider the 12 Signs:
1. Beginning March 2 lst and ending April 20th, the Sun
passes through the First Sign of the Zodiac, called:
ARIES, the bearer of the Golden Fleece. It is a movable,
fiery sign: first degree of emanation. Typifies consciousness of
being. When clothed with the Sun, it produces leadership, or
officiousness. Its key-phrase is, "I am." Inclines to produce
soldiers and pioneers. Self-assertive characters. They, how-
ever, fight like the ram, with their heads. When the Sun is in
Aries, it is said to be in its exaltation, that is, it initiates life's
activity in the seed germs that sleep in the earth. Physically
considered, the Sun is here the Lamb of God that takes away
the sin of Winter. It initiates life. Ruled by Mars. Thir-
teenth major arcanum, M. Expressed by the light red ray of
the spectrum, and the gem amethyst.
2. Beginning April 20th and ending May 21st, the Sun
passes through the Second Sign of the Zodiac. called:
TAURUS, the Bull. It is a fixed. earthy sign of first degree
emanation. It is ruled by Venus. and is the exaltation of the
Moon. In Aries the Sun quickens the germs through its elec-
tric action. In Taurus the Moon supplies the water and nutri-
ment, by its magnetic tidal action. Thus, the Sun is the giver
of life, and the Moon is the builder of form. The sign Taurus
rules the throat and thyroid gland. Expresses itself in a desire
(
ARROWS OF LIGHT 247
to possess, to gather, to build, to accumulate. When the Sun
is in Taurus, the constructive impulse is strong. It is the sign
of fecundity. Its key-phrase is "I have." Fourteenth major
arcanum, N. Expressed by the dark yellow ray of the spectrum,
and the gem agate. Regeneration.
3. Beginning May 21st and ending June 2lst, the Sun
covers:
GEMINI, the sign of the Twins. It is the home of the
planet Mercury, and the exaltation of the Dragon's Head. It
is an airy sign of first emanation and of mutable quality. In
this sign, the plant world comes up from the earth and literally
raises itself into the air. The sign Gemini is the first Human
sign. It typifies the uncertainty of mental processes. The
lower mind and the nervous system; also the lungs, arms and
shoulders. Inclines to literary ability and cleverness. also to in-
constancy and fickleness-two irons in the fire. Seventeenth
major arcanum, F, P, and PH. Expressed by the violet ray of
the spectrum, and the gem beryl. Its key-phrase is "I think."
4. From June 21st to July 23d, the Sun passes through the
Sign:
CANCER, the Crab. It is a movable, watery sign; first
degree of emanation. It is ruled by the Moon. The sign of
motherhood, having for a key-phrase, "I feel." Expresses
through the stomach and breast, that is, nourishment and the
giving of nourishment. It inclines to domestic pursuits, real
estate, mining, dealing in food supply. People born when the
Sun is in this sign, are tenacious of purpose and touchy of feel-
ing. The sign is expressed by the eighteenth major arcanum,
SH, TS, and TZ, the color light green, and the gem emerald.
It inclines somewhat toward deception and false friends.
5. From July 23d to August 23d, the Sun passes through
the Sign:
LEO, the Lion. It is a fixed, fiery sign, the home of the
Sun. Second degree of emanation. It rules the solar plexus,
the heart and the back. Its key-phrase is "I will." It inclines
to public office, state and government positions: positions of
248 ARROWS OF LIGHT
authority in general. It gives a love of rulership and sometimes
inclines to dictativeness. It is expressed by the nineteenth
major arcanum, Q, the light orange ray of the spectrum, and
the gem ruby. It inclines to Happiness, Joy, Harmony, Con-
jugal Felicity.
6. From August 23d to September 23d, the Sun covers:
VIRGO, the Virgin. It is an earthy sign, and, like Gemini.
the home of Mercury. It is the second degree of emanation, of
mutable quality; it rules the bowels. It is Mother Eve, the
bowel being the snake of temptation through which the body
derives the substance for its physical manifestation. Its func-
tion is to select the good and reject the waste, or evil. from the
nourishment which is supplied from the outer world. Its key-
phrase is "I analyze," for it is associated with the critical fac-
ulty of the mind. Virgo is a business sign. It inclines to
mathematics, analysis, chemistry. the technical arts in general.
Women born when this sign is on the ascendant, frequently
have Madonna-like features. There is much barrenness among
these people. Their best quality is their analytic faculty, and 1
their worst quality, criticism. Its nature is expressed by the
second major arcanum, B, the dark violet color of the spectrum,
and the gem jasper. This sign is frequently associated with a
fondness for science.
7. From September 23d to October 23d, the Sun passes
through the Sign :
LIBRA, the Scales. It is an airy sign. The home of Venus.
Second degree of emanation, of movable quality. It rules the
kidneys and the reins of the body. It is positive. Its key-
phrase is "I balance." It inclines to ease and artistic pursuits:
a love of beauty and sensitiveness; strongly inclined to pleas-
ure. Its best quality is affability, and its worst, a love for
approbation. The third major arcanum, G. Expressed by the
color light yellow, and the gem diamond. It is associated with
all action and marriage. The sign of union, action, open ene-
mies, war. marriage. and art.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 249
8. From October 23d to November 22d, the Sun passes
through the Sign :
SCORPIO, the Scorpion. It is a fixed, watery sign, of sec-
ond degree emanation. Rules the generative system. Its key-
phrase is "I desire." It inclines to martial pursuits, surgery.
police officials, surgical nursing. Its best quality is resource-
fulness; its worst, quarrelsomeness. It is an aggressive Martian
sign, natural ruler of the house of death. The fourth major
arcanum, D. Expressed by the dark red ray of the spectrum.
the gem topaz. It is associated with the power of realization.
It has within it the potentialities of construction and destruc-
tion.
9. From November 22d to December 22d, the Sun passes
through the Sign:
SAGITTARIUS. It is a fiery sign. third degree of emana-
tion. It rules the hips and thighs. the sciatic system. Its key-
phrase is "I comprehend." It inclines to travel; study of the
abstract sciences: sports; law and religion. I ts best quality is
loyalty; its worst quality, sportiveness. It is expressed by the
seventh major arcanum, Z, the color light purple, and the gem
carbuncle or red garnet. It is associated with the idea of Vic-
tory.
I0. From December 22d to January 20th the Sun passes
through the Sign:
CAPRICORN, the Goat. It is an earthy sign of movable
quality, third degree of emanation. It rules the knees; has
some influence over the bones in general; also over liver, pan-
creas. spleen. and kidneys. It inclines to self-interest: it has a
tendency to utilize everything and everybody. Its key-phrase
is "I use." It is a busin.ess sign. Its best quality is diplomacy.
of which the better type have plenty. Its worst quality is de-
ceitfulness, with which the lower types are generously endowed.
It is expressed by the eighth major arcanum. H. CH, the dark
blue ray of the spectrum, and the gem onyx. It is outwardly
associated with human justice. limited and fallible as it comes
from man.
250 ARROWS OF LIGHT
11. From January 20th to February 19th, the Sun passes
through the Sign :
AQUARIUS. It is an airy sign; third degree of emana-
tion; of fixed quality. It rules the lower limbs and has an
influence upon the general nervous system. It has something
to do with the distribution of lime in the body. Its key-phrase
is "I know." It inclines to statesmanship; all sorts of human-
itarian work; revolutions and rebellions; its best quality is
altruism and its worst is argumentation. It is expressed by the
ninth major arcanum, TH, the light blue spectrum ray, and the
gem sapphire. Is associated with all types of change, frequently
sudden in nature.
12. From February 19th to March 2lst, the Sun passes
through the Sign:
PISCES, the Fishes. It is a watery sign of mutable quality.
Third degree emanation. Rules the feet and fluidic system in
general. Its key-phrase is "I believe." It inclines to religion,
mysticism, monasticism, all sorts of secret occupations, work in
out-of-the-way places, imprisonment, self-undoing. It rules
the Christian religion. Its best quality is sympathy and its
worst, worry. It is expressed by the twelfth major arcanum,
L; the dark purple ray of the spectrum, and the gem peridot.
This sign is associated with the idea of sacrifice, expiation, re-
ligious emotions, creeds of faith, etc.
This will give the reader some insight into the
nature of the planets and the signs through which they
operate. The signs, roughly speaking, coincide with
the months of the year. They are alternately of posi-
tive and negative qualities. They naturally fall in
four groups of three signs each, called Triplicities.
These four Triplicities represent the four cardinal ele-
ments. The signs Aries, 13, Leo, 19, and Sagittarius,
7, are fiery. They constitute the fiery triplicity. They
~re very active, even as fire is active. There is an im-
pulsiveness about them. Aries tends to lead: Leo to
rule, and Sagittarius to teach.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 251
Those of the next group are called the earthy signs.
They are Taurus, Virgo and Capricorn. They have
to do with the practical, concrete and business side of
things. Taurus holds, Virgo analyzes, and Capri-
corn uses the things of life.
Those of the third group are called the airy signs.
They are Gemini, Libra and Aquarius. They have to
do with the intellectual, artistic and humanitarian side
of life. Gemini thinks and puzzles; Libra balances
and judges; Aquarius originates and defends.
The watery signs form the fourth group. They
are Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces. They have to do with
the desire and emotional side of existence. Cancer
feels rather than judges his way; Scorpio desires pas-
sionately the physical comforts and advantages of life,
while Pisces longs for and worries much about them.
These short delineations are very inadequate. They
must not be taken as detailed descriptions of the signs.
Whole books can be written on the influence of one
sign or planet. Astrology is not a parlor art to be
used for amusement. It is a deep, fundamental, cos-
mic and sacred science. It is the most basic method
.we have for interpreting God's plan and purpose to
Mankind. It charts the as yet unrecognized forces and
powers that play upon the subconscious mind of man,
and to a greater extent than he realizes, its forces de-
termine his daily conduct. They unconsciously in-
cline him to those events that make up his career.
Astrology shows the individual: what his character
is, and what he can make it in the course of life. Char-
acter is destiny, not the stars.
To continue: Having discussed the planets, signs
and triplicities, let us now view the Houses.
252 ARROWS OF LIGHT
As there are twelve signs of the Zodiac correspond-
ing with the 12 constellations we have named, so the.re
are 12 types of influence from each one of them, ex-
pressed upon the earth, giving two hours of time to
each house as it passes over the horizon. If a person
is at Greenwich, England, at noon on March 21st of
any year, he will see the sun at no degrees, Aries, on
the cusp of the tenth house, see page 212, which is the
point exactly in the mid-heaven. At I0 o'clock a. m.
the sun would be on the cusp of the eleventh house,
and at 8 o'clock in the morning it \Vould be on the
twelfth house. The twelfth house covers the first two
hours after sunrise. At 6 o'clock the sun would rise
on the cusp of the first house. At 4 o'clock it would
be on the second, and so on around the 12 houses.
Now, each of these houses has its own particular in-
fluence, which modifies the influence of the signs:
(a) The FIRST HOUSE has to do with the beginning of
things; the person who asks questions; the personality of the
one born; especially the characteristics of head and face. It is
the house of being.
(b) The SECOND HOUSE has to do with the throat and
the function of the thyroid gland: has an influence on the skin;
the hair and body weight. It has to do with external posses-
sions, money and goods, and all things directly associated with
the personality. It is the house of possession.
(c) The THIRD HOUSE has to do with the lower mind,
private studies. letter writing, literary effort of the lighter sort,
brethren, neighbors; it is the house of cxt~rnal environment
and our mental reactions to them. It is the house of written
instruments. It is associated with the arms and hands, shoul-
ders and lungs, the organs of execution and expression.
(d) The FOURTH HOUSE has to do with breasts and
stomach, also with the chylc and lymph. saliva and other body
ARROWS OF LIGHT 253
fluids apart from the blood. Governs the nutritive m:echanism;
the home; the father; real estate; mining; the end of things;
the grave. It is the house of feeling and domesticity.
(e) The FIFTH HOUSE governs the back, especially the
back of the neck, the solar plexus, the heart and has some influ-
ence over the arterial circulation. It is the house of pleasure;
amusement; gambling; investments; love affairs; children. It
seems to have a special significance for the theatrical profession
and for children.
(f) The SIXTH HOUSE has to do with the small bowel;
the assimilative organs; the abdomen as a whole. It is the place
of the snake at the foot of the tree of life, the small bowel be-
ing the snake of temptation which causes us to eat and build
this house of flesh, which in turn causes suffering. Therefore
the sixth house is called the house of labor, service and sickness.
It is the opposite to the twelfth house which is the house of
self-undoing. It rules gardens, small animals, business and pro-
fessional ventures on the side of service, that is, the servants
of the professions.
(g) The SEVENTH HOUSE governs the reins and kid-
neys; the lumbar region; governs the eliminative processes
through kidneys and skin ; governs marriage and all sorts of
partnerships; also open enemies and opponents; the general pub-
lic and the opposite sex in marriage; it lies opposite the :first
house and indicates how we balance our life against the world.
(h) The EIGHTH HOUSE rules the generative mechan-
ism; has to do with physical generation; with astral matters,
especially with death and the method of death; legacies and
partner's money. It lies opposite the second house and indi-
cates our desire strength in the :field of possession.
(i) The NINTH HOUSE rules the hips and thighs; has an
influence over the nervous system as a whole; indicates our high-
er understanding or lack of it; our capacity for philosophic,
religious and mystic thought, also the tendency to long jour-
neys. It lies opposite the third house and indicates the relation
that exists between our higher and lower self, or mind.
254 ARROWS OF LIGHT
(j) The TENTH HOUSE governs the knees; has an influ-
ence over the bony structure of the whole; also over the liver,
spleen and kidneys. It has to do with all professions, business
enterprises and all matters of personal honor and integrity. It
is associated with the mother. It lies opposite the fourth house,
the house of the home, for it is through the action of business
and the care of the mother that the home is sustained. It is
the house of utility.
(k) The ELEVENTH HOUSE has to do with the lower
limbs and has a secondary influence on the voluntary nervous
system; indicates the nature of one's friends; also his hopes and
wishes and inward ambitions. It lies opposite the fifth house
and indicates the relation between our hopes and pleasures, or
rather the relation between the desires of mind and heart.
(1) The TWELFTH HOUSE rules the feet; has to do with
hospitals; prisons: all sorts of secret occupations; limitations,
brought about by folly; illness or unforseen events; is called
the house of disappointment; limitation; self-undoing. Is a
strongly occult house; has to do with the entities of the inner
plane and the way they effect the life of the individual. It lies
opposite the sixth house and indicates how our service and labor
are limited in their scope and purpose. It is the house of re-
striction on the physical side of life and the house of perception
on the higher side of life.
The houses are considered under three divisions.
These divisions are called angular, succedent, and
cadent. The angular houses are the first, fourth,
seventh and tenth. Planets in these houses are very
pronounced in their influence upon the life. They ex-
teriorize forcibly, in the departments of life indicated
by these houses.
The succedent houses are relatively weaker in their
effect. Their influence works more subjectively, that
is, in the feelings and emotions when they are tenanted
ARROWS OF LIGHT 255
by one or more of the planets. They are the second,
:fifth, eighth and eleventh houses of the horoscope.
The cadent houses are the weakest. They express
more in the environment than in the individual. They
have a tendency to influence the abstract thought about
things rather than their physical manifestation. These
houses are the third, sixth and twelfth. It may be
said that these are houses of weakness, for the third
has to do with conscious thought and indecision, the
sixth with physical sickness, and the twelfth with
limitation and disappointment.
Next in importance after the planets, signs and
houses, we must consider the aspects. By aspects we
mean the angles at which the rays of the planets cross
each other upon the earth. Aspects are built upon the
triangle and the cross. They are ten in number and
divided into two classes, positive and negative, or,
better, fortunate and unfortunate. These qualities
are referred to in astrological literature as benefic and
adverse. The bene:fic aspects are those that are built
on the triangle. When two planets are in the same
degree of the Zodiac, they are said to be in conjunction.
A conjunction intensifies the energy of both planets.
If both planets are benefic, the conjunction is benefic.
If one is a malific and the other a benific, each modifies
the other. If both are malific the evil is thereby
doubled.
SEMISEXTILE: When planets are 30 degrees apart
they are said to be in semisextile; their rays flow to-
gether at a harmonious angle; mildly intensifying
their power, and because of the harmony of the blend,
a 30 degree aspect modifies the evil of malific planets
and intensifies the power of the benefic.
256 ARROWS OF LIGHT
SEMISQUARE: When planets are 45 degrees apart,
they are said to be in semisquare aspect. This is divi-
sion of the square angle and is mildly adverse. It
causes friction and irritation; makes for delay and an-
noyance. Psychologists call the influence of this
aspect a friction complex.
THE SEXTILE: When the rays of two planets meet
at a 60 degree angle they are said to be in sextile. This
is a very harmonious combination; brings out the
good qualities very prominently. It makes for oppor- I
tunity, which we may grasp or permit to pass by as
other factors incline. Psychologists call this an op-
portunity complex. It consists of a subconscious
movement of the personality in the direction of op-
portunities, signified by the nature of the planet mak-
ing the aspect.
THE SQUARE: The square aspect is formed when j
planets are 90 degrees apart. It is an adverse aspect.
1
,
It gives rise to the obstacle complex. It makes for
serious delays, obstacles, and hindrances in the depart-
ment of life signified by the nature and position of the
planets concerned.
THE TRINE: This is the most benific aspect pos-
sible. It is formed when the planets are 120 degrees
apart. It moves the subconscious mind of man in
such a way that the things signified by the position
and nature of the planets involved are apparently
thrust upon him. If the planets have to do with
wealth, wealth comes without any effort. He inherits
it, finds it, or it is given to him. If the planets have
to do with power, he makes a rapid advance in politics
or in the business world. Oftentimes with no marked
j
I
ARROWS OF LIGHT 257
ability. If they have to do with love and affection, he
will be a social success, and if one of the aspecting
planets is a decided malefic, he may be a social para-
site, but he will have luck even in that field. This
aspect may be called a luck complex.
THE INCONJUNCT ASPECT: This is an aspect
formed at 150 degrees. It is mildly malific. It makes
for expansion, that is, for a breaking of union. It is
like the expansion complex.
THE SESQUl-SQUARE: This aspect is formed when
the planets are 135 degrees apart. It causes agitation,
restlessness, uncertainty; psychologically the agitation
complex.
THE OPPOSITION ASPECT: This aspect is formed
when the planets are 180 degrees apart. It is a most
malefic aspect. It leads to separation between hus-
band and wife, parents and children, business partners.
Oftentimes to banishment, voluntary or enforced.
The department of life in which the separation will
occur is indicated by the nature and position of the
planets involved. It leads to the separation complex.
That is, it influences the subconscious mind in such a
way that the personality involves itself in situations
where separation becomes inevitable.
THE PARALLEL ASPECT: When planets are paral-
lel in the Zodiac, their action is intensified. It gives
rise to the intensity complex.
RULERS OF THE SIGNS: Each planet has a different
degree of power in the different signs. We may say,
that its energy is colored by the sign. To illustrate
what we mean, let us say that the earth is the floor of
the auditorium. The Heavens, the building overhead.
17
258 ARROWS OF LIGHT
The building is composed of 12 differently colored
glass panels, called the Signs. Aries is light red;
Taurus is dark yellow; Gemini is light violet; Can-
cer is light green; Leo is orange; Virgo is dark violet;
Libra is light yellow; Scorpio is dark red: Saggi-
tarius is light purple; Capricorn is dark blue: Aqua-
rius is light blue, and Pisces is dark purple. Beyond
these :figurative panes of glass shines the sun. Its
golden light is modified by the color of the glass, and
thus its in:fluence is dissimilar in different signs. The
first planet out from the sun is Mercury. Its ray is
light violet; its power meets with least resistance in
the sign Gemini, for it also is light violet, and its next
best place is in Virgo, which is dark violet. Mercury
is therefore said to be at home in Virgo and Gemini.
It is lord of these signs.
The next planet from the sun is Venus. Venus
shines with a yellow ray. Taurus and Libra are
yellow, and therefore Venus is lady of those signs.
Her power is least resisted when her ray falls upon the
earth through their medium.
The next planet to consider is the Moon. The
moon's astral ray is green and she rules the sign Can-
cer, which is light green.
The sign Leo is orange in color and so is the sun.
The sun is lord of Leo, symbolically, the lion of the
Tribe of Judah.
The sign Aries is light red, and the sign Scorpio
dark red. The planet Mars also is red. He is said to
be lord of those signs.
The sign Sagittarius is purple and so is the planet
Jupiter. Jupiter, therefore, is lord of Sagittarius.
ARROWS OF LIGHT 259
The sign Capricorn is dark blue, and so is the planet
Saturn. Saturn, therefore, rules Capricorn.
The sign Aquarius is light blue, and the planet
Uranus is dazzling white. Consequently, it meets
with its lowest resistance in Aquarius and is said to
rule Aquarius, although this rulership is disputed by
Saturn, whose blue ray has almost equal force in the
.
sign.
The sign Pisces is dark purple, and the planet Nep-
tune vibrates with a changing iridiscence. This visual
effect is intensified by purple, and so it is said that Nep-
tune rules Pisces, although this rulership is also dis-
puted by Jupiter, who shines with an indigo or purple
ray.
Rulership, therefore, means the greatest ease of ex-
pression for the ray of a planet in the sign that har-
monizes with its nature.
ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES: A planet is at home where
it works best. In its exaltation, in the sign where it
has its next greatest power. Then there are signs
where it is in its lowest power, called its detriment,
and in its next lowest power called its fall. These
conditions must all be borne in mind when we en-
deavor to make an interpretation of a horoscope.
PROGRESSION AND DIRECTION: Major directions
are calculated from the birth chart by adding the daily
motion of the sun through the signs at the rate of one
day for every year of life, and placing the planets so
found in the wheel of the horoscope. We place them
in red ink, so that they may be differentiated from
those in the birth horoscope. These directions show
what changes are taking place in the life of the indi-
260 ARROWS OF LIGHT
vidual in question. They are measured a day for ~
year; a month for :fifteen days; two hours for a
month, and four minutes for a day. This is the meas-
ure of the Solar Father, the initiating force in life. 1.
MINOR DIRECTIONS: As there is a measure of on~
day to the year for the sun, called major direction, s~[
there is a measure of one month to the year, called1
minor direction. These directions are taught by the
Brotherhood of Light and are counted by each return
of the moon to the place it occupied in the birth chart.
It does this 13 times a year. Thus, in one year the
moon measures out energy for 13 years of life, ap-
proximately. One-twelfth of a lunar month, there-
fore, is equal to one month of life, and appropriate
fractions therefore give us the days. These minor di-
rections are related to major directions as the moon is.I
related to the sun. They gather the forces radiated1
by the sun's energy, and give them form in time and
space. The sun is the hour hand on the clock of des-
tiny and the moon the minute hand. The forces of
the planets are always more or less closely associated
with the action of the sun and moon.
CONCLUSION: This little treatise is not intended
to be a course in Astrology. Its purpose is to give
those who are interested in the science of life and des-
tiny a sort of general survey of what Astrology really
is; the forces with which it deals, and the ends which
it aims to accomplish. The greatest service that As-
trology can render mankind is to give him a chart of
the sea of life, and the plan of the ship which he must
navigate upon that sea. His body, his personality, his
character, may be called the ship, its motive power and
its strength. Astrology charts the seas through which
I
ARROWS OF LIGHT 261
this ship must sail. It charts the rocks and reefs and
indicates the time and place of trade and variable
winds. Man may either be the navigator of his ship,
or a drifter upon the tide. Astrology helps him to
navigate consciously, and to avoid, if he will, the dan-
gers upon which many a ship has foundered before it
reaches its destined harbor. When the reader has mas-
tered what is herein set forth, he can then return to
his horoscope and study it more intelligently and derive
from it additional benefits. He will then probably feel
inclined to delve into the books, to learn more about
the signs, the planets, the aspects, progressions, direc-
tions, periods and cycles, for the study is an endless
one, not limited by either time or space. It has within
it all the fascination and mystery of the human soul.
Astrology is the Father science. The Tarot is the
Mother. Their joint action brings forth wisdom.
Either one is wonderful, but the two when used to-
gether are supreme in their power to point the way
to a greater and more complete life.
RBFBRBNCBS
1. The Bible.
2. Sundry Works on the Kabballa.
3. The Lesson Courses on the Tarot, Ancient Masonry and
kindred subjects, as issued by C. C. Zain, for the
Brotherhood of Light.
4. "Practical Astrology," Saint Germain.
5. "Occult Anatomy," Manly P. Hall.
6. "Symbolism," Manly P. Hall.
7. "Lost Keys of Masonry," Manly P. Hall.
8. "Melchizedek, and the Mystery of Fire," Manly P. Hall.
9. "Hermetic Mysteries," Atwood.
10. "First Principles of Occultism," C. C. Zain.
11. Zain's Courses on Natal Astrology.
12. Bhagavad Gita, Upanishads, and other Oriental works.
13. "Isis Unveiled," Blavatsky.
14. "Bible Mystery and Meaning," Troward.
15. "Edinburgh Lectures on Mental Science," Troward.
16. "Natural Law in the Spiritual World," Drummond.
17. "The Great Pyramid of Jeezeh," L. P. McCarty.
18. "Our Inheritance in the Great Pyramid," Piazzi Smythe.
19. "The Finished Mystery," Russell.
20. "The Great Pyramid: Its Divine Message," Davidson and
Aldersmith.
21. "Judah's Sceptre and Joseph's Birthright," J. H. Allen.
22. "The Destiny of Britain and America," Colonel McKen-
drick.
23. "The Truth about the Law," and other publications by
I. M. Haldeman.
24. "The Apocalypse Unsealed," Pryse.
25. "The Restored New Testament," Pryse.
26. "The Aquarian Gospel of Jesus the Christ," Levi.
27. "Transcendental Magic," Elephas Levi.
28. "Eulis," H. P. Randolph.
29. "Within the Sanctuary," Van der Nailen.
30. "Morals and Dogma of Masonry," Albert Pike.
262
i
,
ARROWS OF LIGHT 263
31. "Introduction to the Study of the Tarot." Paul Case.
32. "Tertium Organum," Ouspensky.
33. "Symbolism of the Tarot," Ouspensky.
34. "The Tarot of the Bohemians," Papus.
35. "Key to the Tarot," Waite.
36. "Numerology Made Plain.'' Ariel Yvonne Taylor.
37. "Numbers: Their Meaning and Magic," Isidore Kos-
minsky.
38. "Language of the Hand," Cheiro.
39. "The Story of the Human Aura," George Starr White.
40. "The Human Atmosphere," Walter Kilner.
41. ''The Coming Science,'' Hereward Carrington.
42. "Projection of the Astral Body," Hereward Carrington.
43. "Introduction to Psycho-Analysis," Freud.
44. "Our Neurotic Constitution," Adler.
45. "The Witness of the Stars," Bullinger.
46. "The Ten Lost Tribes," Joseph Wild.
47. Leo's Works on Astrology.
48. Sepharial's Works.
49. Raphael's Works.
50. "The Mystic Key," John H. Annis.
